L^5
PHIUP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!
PHILIP MORRIS offers the smoker an extra benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
.Yes! If every smoker knew what Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.

MA»Eixv.aA
S MPMORRIS

TRY A PACK
TODAY
LETTERS
GEORGE TIREBITER OF U.S.C.
Dear Editor:
It seems that here at U.S.C. they also have a canine mascot. He’s called “Tire-biter"—“George Tirebiter" to be exact —which name derives from his addiction to chasing automobiles on the local campus and trying to bite pieces out of tires during the pursuit. George Tirebiter is a big campus character—a real B.M.O.C. His picture is frequently on the front page of the school paper and he’s probably the most widely-known figure in the entire university. His raucous bark as he runs down University ®Ave. in pursuit of fresh conquests is the most familiar sound on campus. He even had a big act during half-time at last Saturday’s U.S.C.-U.C.L.A. game.
What could be more natural, then, than using the Clashmore Mike vs. George Tirebiter angle in publicity for the game?—“Tirebiter stands guard over the U.S.C. campus, waiting with drooling jaws for the coming of the Irish terrier. Will Clashmore be able to meet the test? Who’s the better man —Mike or George?” etc., etc.
Sincerely,
Dan Connell, Ex-Notre Dame, ’37-’38 and 46, Los Angeles, Calif.
GO WEST, YOUNG MEN
Dear Editor::
In your editorial entitled “Depriva-^tion” (Nov. 21 Scholastic) you stated that Notre Dame, by agreeing to the 1948 football game with Southern California in Los Angeles instead of South Bend was “carrying things too far.” Students about the campus complain that the sole reason for the game’s transfer was the possibility of making more money. . . .
One of Notre Dame’s post-war objectives is thought to be a yearly trip to the coast for its football team. Possibly the only way of arranging a western trip for the 1948 Notre Dame team was to move the U.S.C. game out to the coast. Washington University of Seattle has signed for a series . . . this makes possible a home-and-home arrangement with Southern Cal and the Huskies, a trip to the coast each year for our team, and a chance ... to see the traditional game with Southern Cal every other ^year.
At this early date, 1948’s home sched
ule looks as promising as this year’s turned out to be.
William Gibbons Cavanaugh Hall
WORD OF APPRECIATION
Dear Editor:
I wish to express to you and the faculty and the staff of Notre Dame my sincere appreciation for the warm and friendly way in which I have been greeted and welcomed since my arrival at the University. It is this spirit of the brotherhood of man made concrete and real that will make Notre Dame a University to be respected, remembered and glorified.
Lois G. Dozier,
Gift and Exchange Librarian.
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE
"SUSSEX"
Price $3.25 and up.
DO CLOTHES MAKE THE MAN? Send for your free copy of ’’The. What, When and Wear of Men’s Clothing”—a handy guide for men who want to dress wisely and well. Write to: College Dept., Cluett, Peabody' & Co., Inc., 10 East 49th Street, New York 16, N. Y.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES »»----------------------------------------- UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
-------------------------------------------;___
FOR NEBRASKANS ONLY
Dear Editor:
I am disappointed.
All my friends belong to campus clubs. I don’t. They think they are superior to me. But they aren’t.
To the west there is the Rocky Mountain Club. To the East we find an Iowa Club. South there is a Kansas Club. I have even heard rumors that there is a Dakota Club to the North. But there is no Nebraska Club. Why?
I have met many fellow Nebraskans here. There can be no lack of potential members.
I am sure that with the superior intelligence that comes from that great (Continued on Page 33)
...by Arrow
If you’re a gent who has a bent for a widespread collar.
Holler for an Arrow "Sussex,” the classic of the spread collars.
Comes in fine Oxfords, and broadcloths, whites, solid colors and stripes.
3
ducibility and storage stability. A significant Du Pont contribution to the production of vat dyes in optimum physical form is called "turbulent flow drowning.” In this procedure, the color is dissolved in strong H2SO4 and then diluted by a large volume of water in a constricted tube. High turbulence is maintained during dilution and produces uniform dye particles.
Development of dyes requires both physical and organic chemistry
In this development the work of physical chemists and physicists, aided by electron microscopy, ultra-centrifuging, infrared and ultra-violet spectrometry and other modem techniques, was of major importance.
The synthesis of a new dye in the laboratory or even the development of a manufacturing process from that synthesis may still be a long way from the realization of the full potentialities of the new compound as a coloring material. This is illustrated by the commercial history of the exceedingly fast bright blue dye indanthrone and its halogen derivatives.
Indanthrone was the first known anthraquinone vat dye and has led tonnage sales of vat dyes in the U.S. since its introduction, despite the commercial use of well over 200 types. In 1901, Bohn first synthesized indanthrone by KOH fusion of 2-aminoanthraquinone, but the yields obtained were in the range of only 25-30 per cent. Because of the industrial importance of indanthrone, and the low commercial yields obtained by the original fusion procedure, a great deal of research time has been spent in its study.
Several U.S. patents record the fact that Du Pont organic chemists have made outstanding contributions in this
field, particularly by developing the intercondensation of 2 moles of 1,3-di-bromo-2-aminoanthraquinone and replacing the bromine by chlorination to give 3:3'-dichloroindanthrone ("Pon-sol” Blue).
3:3T»dibrofnoiadanfhrofte
This fixes the chlorine in the desired positions to give a product with greater bleach-fastness than indanthrone and minimizes extraneous substitution that always accompanies direct chlorination of indanthrone. The commercial yields of 3:3'-dichloroindanthrone now being obtained by Du Pont are markedly greater than those obtained by Bohn and his workers.
It is just as important, however, that a water-soluble dye be made in a physical form that gives optimum shade and working qualities, such as perfect dispersion, freedom from specks, rapid re-
One of the three wings of the Jackson Laboratory, where a large portion of the basic research on dyes is carried on. The new $1,000,000 addition on the right is nearing completion.
The conversion of laboratory findings to a plant operation often presents unique and difficult problems that require unusual ingenuity on the part of chemists, chemical, mechanical and electrical engineers. The work on the indanthrones was no exception. The outstanding commercial success of "Ponsol” vat colors, typified by "Pon-sol” Blue is one example of the results achieved through cooperation of Du Pont scientists.
W. R. Remington, Hi.D., University of Chicago, 1944, and S. N. Boyd, Hi.D., University of Hliiiois, 1945, working on a dye research problem.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
WILL I GET LOST IN A BIG COMPANY?
The organization of Du Pont is unique in that each of its ten manufacturing departments and two technical staff departments is responsible for its own operation. Furthermore, new chemists and engineers work in small groups under experienced supervisors. Du Pont’s group system assures men of interesting and friendly working conditions plus the broad avenues of promotion that go with size. Write for the new booklet, "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,” 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
■EG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY .
4
TOP OF THE WEEK
Kevin O’Shea: ‘‘Have you forgotten that five dollars you owe me?”
THE WEAK ALL-AMERICAN TEAM
Now that millions of Americans have gone to thousands of football games and have gulped down millions of cups of hot beverages, there comes that tired ^after-feeling which prompts untold mil-"lions to pick All-American football teams. Already this year the great writers have picked their All-Opponent, All-Conference, All-State, All-County, All-City, All-Sidestreet, All-All teams. “The Week” tried to shake off the fever by taking a good tonic of sulphur and molasses but it didn’t work. We had to pick something. We tried to make up our team of Americans, but somehow a foreigner or two slipped in. Most of the football players have to disguise themselves as Russians and Yugoslavs and Arabians in order to play any way. Our selections were made on the point basis —10 points for every time the player’s name was mentioned in the nation’s newspapers. A player’s ability was measured by taking his head size on Monday morning. To the eleven men selected, we will award a free pass to the Ice Bowl game at Nome, Alaska, on ^New Year’s day. Here are our choices:
LEFT END: Prince Philip Mountbatten. Nickname: “Duke.” Made the best catch of the year. Put on a one-man show in Westminster two weeks ago. Wowed 1,000,000 fans— a record crowd.
LEFT TACKLE: Scholastic Moderator John Brennan. No one who has faced this man this season has been able to budge him measurably. Throws a block that is permanent. Alert, wary and immovable.
LEFT GUARD: Homicide Highway. Speed on the straightaway. Hits hard. Ball-carriers who have tried skirting this position have found the going rough. Deadly, ferocious tackling. A feared passage for all who desire to pass.
CENTER: Dorothy Dix. Nickname: “Dot.” Can handle any emergency. Popular performer among college men. ^Works well from the T-formation (triangle love affairs).
RIGHT GUARD: Jim Costin. Nickname: “Says.” Shades of the Gipper. Backs up his line as if it were a Vatican edict ex cathedra. Also does a bit of kicking on offense. Modest. Never reads his own press clippings. Passes them off on other people.
RIGHT TACKLE: General Meyers. Nickname: “Bugsy.” Slick performer. Had Army baffled by his line play. Deserves “special” commendation for his smooth contract backing. Will probably not be available to play professional ball.
RIGHT END: Mr. Ford. Nickname: “Beans.” Unanimous choice. On everyone’s list. This is his third year to make this team, probably will be on again next year. Not beefy, Ford is harder to get around on the line (chow) than a pack of man-eating lions. Dishes up the same brand of (meat) ball every Saturday afternoon. His favorite animals: sheep.
QUARTERBACK: John Lujack. Nickname: “Jawwny.” Habit forming, isn’t it?
LEFT HALFBACK: Joe Stalin. Nickname: “Red.” Not a team player, but always in the thick of it. Deceptive. Best faker on the team. Broke up every play of the United Nations this year. On offense is as hard to stop as a woman talking. A triple-threat who does his best running in a broken field.
RIGHT HALFBACK: Harry Truman. Nickname: (Republicans can’t seem to make up their minds on what to call him.) Surprised almost everyone this year, was “hamburger” team material last year. Had Henry Wallace sitting on the bench all season. Made it hot for all opponents. Should have another good year in ’48.
FULLBACK: James Petrillo. Nickname: “Little Caesar.” A plunger who goes all the way every time he gets his hands on the leather. Good enough to keep John L. Lewis on the second team. Will play pro ball, big money is sweet music to his ears.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Leo Barnhorst: “Not yet, give me time!”
WHETHER you play basketball or are one of its host of enthusiastic fans, you will enjoy the refreshing flavor of...
Beech-Nut Gum
Everywhere ft goer, the assurance of Beech-Nut for fine flavor goes with it.
5
Campus Clubs
By BOB CASURELLA
(This week's column was written by John Evans, subbing for Clubmaster Casurella, who was in Oak Park for the Thanksgiving week end.)
AROUND THE CIRCUIT
News in the sports’ world made real progress during the past two weeks. Sam Breadon delivered the Cardinal farm system to the now retired Postmaster General Hannegan. The St. Louis Browns, Chicago Blackhawks, and Cleveland Indians likewise came through with important bits of sports gossip. The sporting clubs throughout the nation must have eyed the changes in club rosters and club contracts with great anxiety. And it was with great amazement also that we watched the moves of many of the campus clubs this past week. Here are the standings:
GOPHER A-SCENT
The Minnesota Club has been reor-ganized under the publicity prowess of Bill Casey. At their first meeting on November 12, the club pushed through four super- officers. They are President Johnny Sullivan from St. Paul; Vice-President Paul Kennedy from Minneapolis; Secretary Pat Dougherty and Treasurer Bob Kane, both from St. Paul. The club should be a first-division member before long, and is now making plans for club get-togethers. There are some Gopher boys still missing from the lineup, and they are asked to watch for club notices around the campus. The officers and charter members are anxious to get their activities rolling with full support from the homestate boys.
OKIE OUTFIT
The Oklahoma Club as always is a tough outfit to beat. The club has come out with great plans for its annual Christmas Dance. The dance is to be held in conjunction with the Alumni Club of eastern Oklahoma and is to be formal. Date: Saturday, December 27; place: beautiful Crystal Ballroom of the
6
Mayo Hotel in Tulsa; and Joe Linde’s fine orchestra is hocked for the engagement. Each member of the campus club will be allowed five guests at a total cost of five dollars. What a lineup! This should be one of ths best holiday attractions sponsored by a campus club.
FELLERS FROM CLEVELAND
The Cleveland Club is on ths move again. Wednesday they had a steak dinner at the Ramble Inn. Club business was handled after the dinner—first motion, no extra innings along the business line. Round trip transportation was gratis. Next the club will have an old fashioned barn dancs at the Geisler Farm, January 17. Full details are not available just yet, but all profits will be turned over to the Notre Dame relief drive for European students. Dress for the occasion will be blue jeans and plaid shirts . . . refreshments will be served and the price of admission includes bus transportation to and from the campus. And of course the club has plans for informal parties during the Christmas season—no umpires will be on hand.-
CALUMET COMBINE
The Calumet Club will have a full schedule during the holiday season. The club will hold a Christmas dance in Hotel Gary’s Crystal Ballroom in Gary. Bill Funkey and his orchestra will play. Jack McDonough is chairman of the semiformal affair. A big feature of the evening will be the raffling off of a white autographed football for the benefit of the Student Relief in Europe. Tickets for the dance may be obtained at 202 Cavanaugh or 282 Dillon. A get-together with St. Mary’s gals from the Calumet district is also planned.
WAYNE-ING
The Fort Wayne Area Club has elected its club officials. They are President Tike Hartman, Vice-President Paul Schier-meyer, Secretary Lob Luther, and
(Continued on Page 34)
Sc&m&lL Seat®
tup foe Wdcwc
ON MODERN ART
When I was in Chicago for the Northwestern game, I had about three quarters of an hour to kill so I dropped in to see an “abstract and modern art” exhibit in the Chicago Museum of Art. Abstract it was; modern, it may have been, but art, it was not. It appears that '? a modern painter can throw a bucket of paint at a canvas, call it “Splash,” : and win $500. Some of the pictures shown were of the Dali-nightmare variety, wherein bedraggled, dripping watches, saucepans, fountain pens, and ' hog troughs drip over bannisters and £ sombre women with worms crawling out^. f of their eyes. Perhaps Freud could ex-”’(, plain this, but it’s all beyond me. Others & were of the geometric type. One of this variety, in particular, made one stop to if think whether he was in an art museum or a wall-paper store. This thing was & square with a perfectly straight yellow 5 nothing more nor less than a black ■ line running down one side of it.	I
For one dollar, those in charge would 1 sell you a book with the titles of the pic- > tures in it. I did not buy the book, since, having' seen that type of thing before, I knew that the titles had no connection sp with the subject matter (If you are g; smart enough to determine just what the & subject matter is). I remember once see- p ing a Dali atrocity entitled “Wrecked Automobile Giving Birth To A Blind Horse Biting A Telephone.” Even if the ® picture had had anything to do with the title, there would have been no excuse E for it. It was supposed to symbolizd^)fe something; what, Dali knows. Most of the creations, in the Chicago exhibit were ft on the same order: that is, a muchness cf nothing. For much less than a dollar I can lock myself in a closet and see ® nothing—in fact, I can see it for free. ®
Such things as modern art are a mani-festation of the peculiar type of snobbery afflicting our modern mores. It is mani-fested by writing or painting something that means nothing, so that everyone who is impressed by profundity will think that you are very profound and ® make a great fuss over you. The place ® for modern art to hang is in the Rogue’s ffi Gallery.	gl
LA DONNA MAY BE MOBILE,	H
BUT WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?	®
Another form of snobbery, prevalent solely in America, is the habit of sing-0^ ing operas in foreign languages. Th|^w Metropolitan Opera program of a SatSggB (Continued on Page 30) HHa
; tThe Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victums Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
■■■iiitiiiiiiiiittiniiiiitiiliittiiiiiiitiiiiHiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitttiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiti
FRANCIS J. KEENAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN A. O'CONNOR Associate	Editor
EDWARD J. SNYDER Associate	Editor
JOSEPH WILCOX Feature	Editor
PETER BROWN-----------------------------------Sports	Editor
SHAUN McDERMOTT  News	Editor
ROBERT STOCK —---------------------- Associate News Editor
JAMES FERSTEL ------------------------- Photographic	Editor
DONALD BIRREN Art	Editor
E- A. CORDESMAN  Art	Editor
WILLIAM GORMAN  Librarian ROBERT KOPF ----------------------------------- Circulation
JOHN CLARK______________________ Circulation M. E. VARGA_____________________------ Advertising Manager
JOHN S. BRENNAN----------------------Faculty Moderator

Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
MEET THE EDITOR
John Thomas Clark, 21, from Ottawa, HL, worked his " way up from Scholastic delivery man to campus circula-
His job is to see that the 4000 copies of the
tion manager.
Scholastic consigned to the Notre Dame campus get slapped down in front of the proper doors. To aid him in this chore is a corps of 14 newsboys.
John is a junior in the College of Commerce, majoring in Bizz-Ad. He figures on going into the small loan and finance business after graduation.
He served with the 731st Engineers in both the European and Pacific Theatres during the war.
As Scholastic’s local Circulation Manager, Jack faces his heaviest task next week, when the bulk of the
jnhn dark	12,500 copies of the Football
Issue will roll off the presses into his hands. This elephantine edition of 76 pages will
weigh nearly three times as much as an ordinary Scholastic.
CALENDAR
Dec. 5 OLIVER, The Yearling. It’s been in town before, but even now, in its reappearance, it’s the best show in town.
WND, campus radio station, is on the air for the first time tonight. Tune in at 630 kilocycles, 5 to 7 p. m.
Dec. 6 NOTRE DAME versus SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA. The mild climate should take the kinks out of Leahy’s hard-hitting lads. The Trojans will find themselves up against the fightin-est team on their schedule. After us Michigan will be a breeze. The Irish by 20 points.
JOHN ADAMS AUDITORIUM, The Boston Symphony. Generally regarded as the finest symphony orchestra in the world, the orchestra will offer a pleasing, vai-ied program of evening’s entertainment. Richard Burgin will tap for attention at 8:15.
BASKETBALL: NOTRE DAME versus INDIANA STATE, in the fieldhouse. Come early for a seat.
Dec. 8 FEAST of the Immaculate Conception. Holyday of obligation. No classes.
The Joyous Season. Philip Barry’s three-act play about a nun who succeeds in reforming her Back Bay family during the Christmas season. Cast includes N.D. students, profs, wives of profs. Presented by new Catholic Theatre Guild at St. Patrick’s School Hall, 308 South Scott Street. Curtain at 8:30. Closes Wednesday.
NOTRE DAME vs. ILLINOIS, at Urbana. The second basketball game of the season. The Ulini should miss the Whiz Kids, but forecasts say they won’t need them.
Dec. 10 WASHINGTON HALL, Knights of Columbus Vodvil Shozv. Once again the annual amateur circus sponsored by the political-minded K. of C.’s. Some good talent crops out of these bufoonerous evenings. Try and make it.
HEISMAN TROPHY presentation to our own JOHN LUJACK in New York. The most coveted of all honors awarded to American college athletes goes to a great football player, a fine gentleman, and .a true Notre Dame man.
NATURAL LAW INSTITUTE, at the Law Auditorium, sponsored by the College of Law. Every big-shot in U. S. jurisprudence has been invited.. Number One speaker will be Dr. Mortimer Adler.
Dec. 12 Scholastc Football Issue. Hang on to your copy; they’ll be rare items. Complete resume of the season with ace reporting covering the game as it’s played at Notre Dame. Issue hits the streets at about 4 p. m.
Dec. 13 NOTRE DAME vs. NORTHWESTERN, basketball, at Chicago Stadium.
Dec. 19 CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY begins. Let’s all join with Tiny Tim and say “God bless everyone,” and mean it. Even for some of those mark-stingy, Scrooge-souled profs.
7

Ignoring Parliamentary Procedure
According to reports—too many and too reliable to ignore —seeping out from within the walls of the Student Council chambers, Council meetings this semester have been marked primarily by hectic confusion. Parliamentary procedure, vitally necessary for the successful functioning of such an organization as the Council, is almost completely ignored. In such a situation it is not difficult to understand why so little constructive work has been accomplished this year.
What is difficult to understand, however, is why something has not been done to correct the situation. The Student Council, composed as it is of representatives of all major groups in the University, should set a high example in the efficient conduct of its meetings. Its members, in turn, should be thoroughly equipped to return to their respective constituents and lead in the conduct of similar parliamentary sessions. Such, unfortunately, is all too obviously not the case at present.
In the immediate future, however, Scholastic hopes to see the Council remedy its present plight. The cure is simple, brief and extremely effective. A two or three hour session in parliamentary procedure, to be taught by any one of a dozen well-qualified faculty members, would aid immeasurably in bringing order out of the currently reigning chaos. Further study, individually, on the part of Council members and the firm conduct of Council meetings along strict parliamentary lines would soon boost Notre Dame’s Student Council to a position where smoothly-functioning machinery could aid in the development of an effective and systematic program of action. The latter, however, depends on the ability, good judgment and selfless ambition of the Student Council members.
Pity Poor Eliza
It’s a lucky thing for Eliza that she only had to cross an ice-encrusted river- and not Homicide Highway. Faced with Homicide Highway on a wintry night or a pack of hungry bloodhounds, she well might have chosen surrender to the hounds. In either case Harriet Beecher Stowe would have lost a principal character in her Uncle Toni’s Cabin far before she expected to.
Winter’s first snow fell last week end at St. Mary’s crossing on the highway. It blanketed the lines on the pavement (which hadn’t been painted), blacked out the floodlights (which hadn’t been erected), and completely deluged the warning signs (which hadn’t been constructed).
Over a month of bickering and haggling had passed since the disastrous accident of the Iowa week end and nothing in the way of safety measures had been taken at one of the most dangerous, accident-ridden crossings in Indiana. Promises had fallen as thick as the snow, but action was harder to find than a pair of reasonably-priced Southern Cal tickets. Someone was winning his monogram for 60-minute play in that grand old game of passing the buck.
According to reports, the University,was continuing its pressure for safety measures. It looked as if the state were acting as the stop-gap. Perhaps someone was waiting for things to cool off—waiting until everyone forgot about Joseph Hailer and Marie Despres.
This is to inform those watchful waiters that the Scholastic refuses to forget. Scholastic will continue to harp and haggle until adequate safety measures are taken. If every highway official, state legislator, and ward heeler from Roseland to Evansville must be contacted before action is
8
taken, they will be contacted. And if all persist in passing the buck, then the matter will be thrown at congressmen, who seem more district-minded in election years, one of which is just around the corner.
To aid this cause Scholastic asks members of the student body to have their parents write to the Director of Student Activities demanding that precautionary measures be taken immediately. The letters will aid his efforts. When faced by a drift of letters, the state will be less prone to pigeon-hole the matter.
If you’d rather not ask your parents to write—at least ask them to pay up your insurance. They may need it to bury you!
Don't Wheeze — Cough Up!
With the department store windows cheerily trumpeting the coming holidays, and the Gospels of the season of Advent heralding the approaching feast of the Nativity, it is in this spirit of the season that Notre Dame men are approached in the present Christmas seal drive.
Like their fellow workers throughout the country the members of the St. Joseph County Tuberculosis League are energetically striving to raise funds to combat the sinister disease. They need youi- help. You may need theirs.
Early tuberculosis usually has no symptoms, gives no danger signals. Such symptoms as a cough that hangs on, persistent chest pains, and blood or blood-stained sputum are incorrectly associated with the early stages of the disease. They are really indications that tuberculosis has been present a long time, or has progressed rapidly.
The surest way to detect early tuberculosis is by X-ray. Early diagnosis is vital. Tuberculosis can nearly always be treated successfully in its earliest stages.
That’s why the local league is driving now to weed out the carriers. You can help them by purchasing Christmas
I
a
seals. Use them on your mail. War on tuberculosis is just and necessary war. Back it.
Christmas Seals
USA
MERRY CHRISTMAS
1947
. • • Your Protection Against Tuberculosis
'The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89. NO. 10
DECEMBER 5, 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Mardi Gras Carnival Planned as Climax of Student Relief Drive
Latest money-raising project for Notre Dame’s Foreign Student Relief Campaign to be announced is a Mardi Gras Carnival planned for the Drill Hall next February 9 and 10. All campus clubs are expected to participate in the Carnival, which will be climaxed by the grand drawing for the two automobiles being given away by the Lou Burns’ Student Relief Committee.
Already in full swing is a personal subscription drive, launched last night. Directed by Cliff Blum, the drive seeks the contribution of a dollar from every student on campus.
The campaign for needy foreign students is rolling into high gear. Proceeds from the Tulane victory dance and the football auction are in, as well as the returns from the subscription drive.
Donations on the 1947 Chryslei- “Town and Country” convertible which has had the students wide-eyed for the last two weeks, can now be made. Some books have already been distributed and ths rest will be issued next week. The 1947
Plymouth club coupe is the car that every student plans to drive home at Easter. This is the bonus attraction
(Continued on Page 16)
LEN BOYKIN AND CHRYSLER Wide-eyed students
CLEMENS, CRONAN AND AIDE A new trail
Station WND Hits Air Waves at 5 Tonight
A new trail in the history of Notre Dame will be blazed tonight when the campus radio station WND takes to the air lanes. Completely under the supervision of students, it will begin its daily two hour program at 5 p. m. this evening at 630 kilocycles.
The station has been built and is under the direction of Frank Cronan, a junior mechanical engineering student from Waterbuiy, Connecticut. It has been under construction since soon after the start of this semester and was designed by John “Ace” Clemens, an Evansville, Ohio, senior. John Jones, a freshman, assisted Cronan in setting up the station, which was made possible by the $300 appropriation of the University Student Activities Committee.
It has a carrier current transmitter with a power output of approximately 60 watts. The modulated signal is taken from the transmitter and carried over twin lead 300 ohm television wire and sent into each hall. It requires no li-
(Continued on Page 16)
Birder and Savoyards Score a Hit With ’Pirates of Penzance’
In short, in matters vegetable, animal, and mineral, I am the very model of a modern Major General.
—from Pirates of Penzance
If they give Prof. Cecil Birder something vegetable, something animal, and something mineral, plus a Gilbert and Sullivan libretto, and Ralph Thorson as the major general he’ll turn up with a pretty good show.
With those last two factors and his Savoyards, he’s done even better as Pirates of Penzance, currently occupying the stage of the local orpheum, will testify. In fact, grey, old Washington Hall, scapegoat of the antiquated cinema, hasn’t seen a production better rounded and more colorful than the Pirates in many a moon. Even the ghost is clapping by the final curtain.
Pirates' plot is about as thick as a Dining Hall steak. It concerns a youthful pirate, Frederic (Bob Ruetz), on the eve of his 21st birthday, who is planning to pursue a more venerable vocation since his tenure as buccaneer ends when he reaches majority. His (Continued on Page 32)
LAST-MINUTE PREPARATIONS
Prof. Cedi Birder, center, director of “The Pirates of Penzance," check* the script with Felida Schroeder and Ralph Thorson, who play leading role* in the production.
K. of C. Vodvillers, Eager for Easy Earnings, To Hit Washington Hall Planks Next Week
By GREG HALPIN
The Ghost of Washington Hall may not know it but he’s in for a double dose of nightmares himself next week. With local talent running amuck under the beneficence of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus, the ancient spook is in for two interesting, if not terrifying, evenings. The campus Knights have hired the hall for Wednesday and Thursday, the 10th and 11th, for their annual Vodvil Show and are guaranteeing to load its stage with an unusual collection of humanity who are expected to knock what little plaster there is off the walls and make all sorts of weird noises for the entertainment of the native citizenry.
Two Knights from New York, Jack Noonan and Ed McEneaney should know better, but are in charge of the whole affair and they report a great turnout of those eager to prove themselves funny, tragic, inspiring or what have you to the great Notre Dame public. Tryouts have been held for the past two weeks and on Tuesday, the 9th, the committees will make their final selection of those to go before the howling mob the following night.
As yet the judges, to be three in number, have not been announced. The search for brave souls who have an aptitude for distinguishing the psychos from those artistic and who can give out ten dollar bills without persuasion and with justice is still on. When finally chosen, the judges will make their three awards on the night of the 11th. To the act they consider most rewarding will go thirty good dollars followed by §20 to the runner-up and $10 for show dough.
Two deep secrets shroud the show. The first concerns the selection of a master of ceremonies. The hand of doom has yet to.fall on a stalwart shoulder that will bear the brunt of classifying and bringing before the world the various species in this talent menagerie. The committee has three students in mind at present, all of whom have appeared on local stage, platform or balcony and survived the ordeal. One of these will preside over affairs come Tuesday and Wednesday.
The second secret is a deeply guarded one concerning a backdrop for the performances. Set chairman Ted Mansour is busy painting and building and keeping quiet, but reports from backstage insiders indicate a campus motif. What
ever Mr. Mansour conjures up from the paint box, it will be original to Washington Hall stage and audience.
Although tickets were required for ad-
mission to last year’s show, the com- . mittee is trying to avoid that inconvenience next week. If all goes as planned, the doors of Washington Hall will be > open wide for one and all lovers of the arts on both nights, with neither ID cards or other identification required to prove you a virtuous or solid citizen worthy of the occasion.
While the stream of talent flowing / into Walsh Hall basement has been ( steady, there is still room for a few more trickles. Anyone who wants to j get in the scramble for cash can do so by applying at the basement of Walsh I Hall between 3 and 5 p. m.
QUARTET IN 1946 VODVIL The ghost is in for nightmares
The committee emphasized the fact that, although the awards will be given on Thursday, the complete show will be given twice, once on the 10th and again on the 11th. There will be no difference ~ t between the two unless Mr. Petrillo steps in between performances. Down in the orchestra pit Bill Cullen and com-pany will be giving musical support to what goes on above them.	?-
Said Co-Chairman Noonan in sum-ming up preparations: “Major Bowes never had it so good.”
GUILD TO PRESENT
Notre Dame personnel will have prominent roles in “The Joyous Season,” three-act Christmas play by Philip Barry, to be presented by the new Catholic Theatre Guild of the St. Joseph Valley, opening Monday, at St. Patrick’s School Hall, 308 South Scott Street.
Faculty members, students and alumni are invited to attend “The Joyous Season,” which will be the Guild’s first public play. The production will have a three day run, December 8, 9 and 10, starting at 8:30 p. m. Tickets priced at ninety cents for reserved seats and sixty cents for general admission are on sale at the Notre Dame Book Store.
Mrs. C. Robert Egry, wife of Professor Egry of the College of Engineering, has the lead role. She is supported by a cast which includes Mrs. James A. McCarthy, wife of Professor McCarthy of the College of Engineering; John McKeon, a senior from River Forest, Ill.; Mrs. Wilbur Miller, wife of a Notre Dame student; Edward Jordanich of South Bend; and Robert Connolly of Appleton. Wis.
Others from Notre Dame connected with the production are Professor Robert Homann of the Department of English; Mrs. Edward Krause, wife of Coach Krause; Dale Francis, a teaching fellow in the Graduate School; John V. Hinkel, Director of Public Information; Mrs.
Frederick Wilhelmson, wife of a gradu-
'JOYOUS SEASON' l
r ate student; and Donald Hickey and Bur- f nett Bauer, local alumni.	L
The play is directed by Mrs. Isabel M. J Doyle, formerly of the Catholic Univer- f sity Players and the Blackfriars Guild. She is the wife of Vincent T. Doyle of | the Department of Physical Education at	|
Notre Dame.	B
New Library Reading Room	J
Eases Rules on Periodicals	f
The University Library has recently	B
opened a new Current Periodical Read-	g
ing Room which is located in the Main B Library, Ground Floor, North Room. All ft the periodicals currently received by the K Library, with the exception of some	®
technical titles on file in the depart-	&
mental libraries, are displayed here on R open shelves. They are arranged al- E phabetically by their titles for conveni- & ence. This arrangement affords brows- 8 ing and self-service, two new features O which should attract students who have ® limited time for such reading.	S
y An attendant is in charge at all times O ‘‘during thg.j-egular Main Library hours. aS There is also ^'seating space for about ||| thirty persons. AllXjhose wishing to take periodicals from' t]ie reading room |||| may do so under a liberal removal pol-,^HK icy backed up with the necessary penal-ties for abuse of these privileges.	HRH
_..John H. Jankowski	HHI
10
>2-Day National Meet To Stress Natural Law
The Natural Law will be emphasized as the basis of the American Court system and legal practices at a Natural Law Institute to be held at Notre Dame on December 12 and 13, it was announced yesterday by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Hundreds of judges, lawyers, clergymen, educators and other interested persons have been invited to attend the Institute. The Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Bishop of Buffalo, N. Y., and former president of Notre Dame, will be the Honorary Chairman, while Father Cavanaugh will act as chairman of the meeting. Dr. Clarence -E. Man-_ ion, Dean of the Notre Dame College of " Law, is in charge of arrangements.
. Speakers will include Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, of the University of Chicago, who will speak on “The Philosophy of the Natural Law”; Harold R. McKinnon, prominent San Francisco, Cal., attorney, on “The Natural Law and the Positive Law”; Professor Ben W. Palmer of the University of Minnesota, on “The Natural Law and Pragmatism”; the Rev. William J. Doheny, C.S.C., of the University of Notre Dame, noted authority on Canon Law, on “The Eternal Law Background of the Natural Law,” and Dean Manion on “The Natural Law Philosophy of the Founding Fathers.”
Among those invited to attend the Institute are all bishops of the Catholic Church in the United States, deans of
all law schools in the nation, officers of the American Bai- Association, all Notre Dame lawyers, Indiana state and federal judges, officers of the Illinois Bar Association, officers of the Chicago Bar Association, officers of the Catholic Lawyers Guild of Chicago, members of state, federal and municipal courts of Chicago, members of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University, members of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering, and all state governors and city chairmen of the Notre Dame Foundation.
N.D. Ups Research Outlay; Now Almost Half Million
The University of Notre Dame almost quadrupled its expenditures for basic research this year, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, reported to the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering last week.
Father Cavanaugh revealed that the school has increased its research expenditures for science and engineering from $120,000 to almost a half million dollars. He emphasized that one of the principal purposes of the newly-organized Notre Dame Foundation is to raise badly needed funds to expand still further important research now being conducted here.
Notre Dame’s extensive program was described by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School. Members of the Council inspected the chemical laboratories and were addressed by Dr. Charles Price, head of the Chemistry Department.
Latest Catholic Books Sold by B-X for Xmas
A new service ■will be offered students beginning Monday when the Student Book-Exchange in the Main Building opens a Christmas sale of the latest in Catholic fiction and non-fiction.
Offered for sale as Christmas gifts are works by Bernanos, Sheed, Bloy, Dever, Walsh, Peguy, Vann, Maritain, Mauriac, Waugh, Powers, Magner, Houselander, v Knox, Michaels, Noyes, and dozens ,of others.
The sale will be conducted in co-operation with the Aquinas Library and Book Shop, non-profit Catholic book store in South Bend. Students and professors who drop in to buy or browse will v,ew a newly decorated B-X. Work was done by YCS men who operate the B-X, and use the rear of the room as YCS headquarters.
Also included in the sale will be books by several Notre Dame professors. Among those represented will be Yves Simon, Willis Nutting, Leo R. Ward, and the Rev. John A. O’Brien.
Student Hugh Lane, who manages the B-X, reported recently that the exchange served over 1,000 students at the beginning of the current semester, and hopes to take care of the used book needs of twice that number in January. The Christmas sale will be held Monday to Friday from 1:30 to 4 p. m. and all day from Dec. 17 to 19.
LEGAL EAGLES WALTZ ALONG -
While the cotillion crowd cavorted at the Palais Royale, some 150 neophyte lawyers attended the Law Club's annual ball at the Indiana Club. Above are the chairmen and their wives: Mr. and Mrs. Tom Tierney, at left, and Mr. and Mrs. Donald Hummer. Mrs. Hummer was queen of the hop.
TOAST OF THE COTILLION
Over 800 couples jammed every inch of space at'the recent Sophomore Cotillion to hear the brassy, tom-tom music of Bay McKinley's Orchestra. Pictured above is the dance royalty. (Left to right): Class President Bob Lanz, Cotillion Queen Barbara McFarland, Maid of Honor Barbara Bale, and Class Vice-President Jim Reis-
Il
FRESHMAN OFFICERS
Left to right: Vice-President Eemie Lavins, President Tom Carroll, Secretary Bill Whiteside, and Treasurer Joe Moschella.
Frosh Elect Carroll To Class Presidency
All the hoopla and enthusiasm that is associated with a country embracing democracy for the first time, was evident on the campus last week when the Freshmen held their class elections. Tom Carroll, a philosophy major from Long Beach, California, was elected president, with a 40-vote margin over Marty Galvin.
Eleven tickets were in the running and 371 Frosh out of a class of approximately 500 cast their ballots. Bernie Lavins, an engineering student from Washington, D. C., was chosen for the vice-presidential post. Bill Whiteside, a Philadelphia Spanish major, eked through to win the secretary position by five votes over Paul Pfieffer. Joe Moschella, a Phy. Ed. major from Staten Island, N. Y., was elected treasurer.
The newly-elected leaders announced several plans for the coming year. Among them are several social functions whose purpose will be the solidification of the class and organizational plans for next year’s Soph Cotillion will also be started.
A two-week campaign preceded the election, with innumerable signs, placards, and throwaways splattered across the campus. One party even went on the local airways for an hour to further their ticket’s cause.
Ken Thoren
12	'
Council Picks Fafiga+i, Guion, Harrigan For New Offices Amidst Usual Confusion
The Student Council threw parliamentary procedure to the winds in its past two meetings and out of something less than utter confusion decided upon:
A new constitutional amendment about succession of officers, a new vicepresident and secretary; the correct procedure for car awards; the council’s contribution to the Student Relief Drive; a date for the Junior Prom.
In addition the council heard: more unofficial reports on safety measures at Homicide Highway; a request that it send a good luck telegram to the football team at Los Angeles.
The proposed amendment to the constitution concerning the succession of officers drew little debate and was ratified by a top-heavy majority. In accordance with the new legislation, President Ralph Thorson opened nominations for the offices of vice-president and secretary. The names of Len Boykin and Ivo Fatigati were put forward for the former position, and Jack Guion and Jack Donahue were named secretarial nominees. Fatigati and Guion were elected as vice-president and secretary, respectively.
Still another election was necessary for the post of junior representative in the Executive Council. Kevin Harrigan and Jack Donahue were nominated and Harrigan was elected.
The forthcoming automobile award for the Student Relief Drive evoked a stonn of discussion before it was moved that one of the two cars to be awarded, the Plymouth, be won through extra drawings if necessary by a Notre Dame student. It was further moved that other schools where donations are being made be taxed in order to pay for the Chrysler prize-car. The council passed the motion unanimously.
The suggestion that the proceeds from the Tulane game Victory Dance be presented to the Student Relief Drive Committee was approved. Treasurer Hugh Glasheen reported that the Committee would receive §540.40 from the Council as profits from the Dance.
Once more the subject of Homicide Highway came up. Thorson announced that Father Barry had unofficially stated that floodlights, lines on the pavement, and adequate signs will be installed at St. Mary’s crossing, and that the University is seriously considering the installation of a manually operated traffic signal at that point.
Bob Uhl asked that the Council send a telegram to the football team in Los Angeles, wishing it the best of luck on behalf of the student body in its game
with the University of Southern California tomorrow.
There was discussion as to the date for the Junior Prom. This matter had to be settled by the Council since the Junior class is without officers. It was finally decided that the event be held April 9.	—Bill Bradley
Opportunity Knocks; Sign Up for Contests!
Several opportunities for fellowships, i contest prizes and study in industry ? were announced last week in publicity I blurbs received by the Scholastic. Q ,
Five fellowships of approximately §2,400 each will be made available to unmarried students for post-graduate work at Oxford and Cambridge Universities during the 1948-49 academic year, under the Charles and Julia Henry Fund. Each candidate must submit evidence of outstanding ability in some recognized branch of learning and must also present a definite scheme of study to be carried out. Applications must be submitted by February 6, 1948, to the Office of the Secretary of Yale University, New Haven, Conn., or to the Office of the Secretary of the Corporation of Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
The Dramatists’ Alliance of Stanford University announced the following contests, which are open to all persons, whatever their training or experience: for verse drama of full length or one act, §100; for full length comedies or tragedies dealing with domestic life in the western hemisphere, §100; for radio drama of 20 minutes’ length, either serious or comic, §50; for clear-cut discussion of theatrical topics in any period, §75. For information and application purposes, write to Dramatists’ Alliance, Box 200 Z, Stanford University, California.
The American Friends Service Committee is sponsoring an Interne-in-Industry project in Philadelphia, which combines work in an industrial plant with study, informal discussions and cooperative group living. Purpose of this program is to develop intelligent leadership in the field of industrial relations. This project is year-round, and internees g may join at any time for as long as they desire. Further details may be obtained m from Interne-in-Industry, American O Friends Service Committee, 20 South 12th St., Philadelphia 7, Pa.	W
VA Sets Dec. 31 Deadline • For Insurance Reinstatement
According to its Indiana regional office, the Veterans Administration has set December 31 as the deadline for reinstatement of national service life insurance without taking a physical examination.
Veterans can renew their government insurance on or before that date by signing an application stating that their health is as good as when the policy was lapsed and paying two monthly premiums, one for the month it lapsed and one for the present month. Applications for reinstatement are available at any VA office.
The VA points out that of some 14,-000,000 servicemen of World War II, more than half that number have al-% lowed their insurance to lapse. In Indiana alone, some 175,000 veterans of the state’s 325,000 have not reinstated their insurance.
Tom Broden Elected
Top Man by K. of C.
Tom Broden, a junior from Indianapolis, was elected grand knight at the last meeting of Council 1477 of the Knights of Columbus. His opponents were John McCormick and Pat Trixler. McCormick resigned from his position as deputy grand knight in order to run in the election.
Broden was chairman of the athletic committee for the local council last year. When asked about plans for future activities, Broden replied that he will carry out the policies drawn up by the officers at the beginning of the school year.
DOME CLUB PICTURES
There will be no DOME pictures taken Monday, Dec. 8, as originally scheduled. The revised schedule follows:
Dec. 9—12:30—Jersey Club
12:40—Connecticut Club
12:50—Minnesota Club
Dec. 10—12:30—Milwaukee Club 12:40—West Virginia Club 12:50—Fort Wayne Club
Dec. 11—12:30—Cleveland Club
12:40—Anthracite Club
12:50—Rhode Island Club
Dec. 12—12:30—Youngstown Club 12:40—Indianapolis Club 12:50—New Jersey Club
Pictures are taken rain or shine at the Rockne Memorial. A dollar fee is required, payable at the time the picture is taken, or in advance.
SENIOR OFFICERS BURNS, McCAFFREY, SULLIVAN AND RYAN "Senior Week" was due for a comeback
Committees Named by Senior President To Plan Midyear Graduates Party, Senior Ball
By HARRY MONAHAN
Senior Class President George A. Sullivan has announced the appointment of committees to prepare plans for the January graduates’ party and the Senior Ball. At the present time a survey is being conducted among the members of the class to be used by the latter committee in arranging the details of the top senior affair of the year.
Tom Ferriter, Dave Murphy and Dick Burns will direct the planning for the party for the January graduates. Neither the date nor place for this event is definite yet, but the Indiana Club is being considered as the possible locale. This affair will be in the form of a stag testimonial dinner for the members of the Class of 1948 who will complete their studies at the end of this semester.
The three class officers who will serve as co-chairmen for the Senior Ball are: Tom McCaffrey, vice-president; Francis Ryan, secretary; George Burns, treasurer. The committee is considering two plans for the senior social extravaganza. One plan would follow last year’s program and the senior week-end would be scheduled to include the Old Timers Game, the finale to spring football practice. This would set the date of the ball at May 14.
An attempt to revive the traditional
“Senior Week” is the main feature of the alternate plan. If the committee can secure class and administrative approval for this plan, the Senior Ball would not be held until the week immediately preceding graduation. President Sullivan cited the elimination of Hie necessity for the dates of the seniors to make two trips to the campus to attend both the Ball and the graduation exercises as the advantage of tliis latter proposal.
The Senior Ball Committee is at present surveying the members of the class in an effort to consolidate the ideas of the majority in their schedule. A form has been circulated on which the seniors are asked to express their opinions on such questions as maximum cost, selection of a “name” band, and the informal activities to complete the week-end program.
“The forms are to gather the opinions of the class in an effort to present a senior weekend that has an appeal to all—one that will be a fond memory for the class,” is President Sullivan's summary concerning the present planning work of his committee.
Those being graduated in June 1948, August 1948 and January 1949 are eligible to attend the Senior Ball.
13
os ary
LEFT: Rosemary Duncan... English major... 21 years old and a senior ... hails from Creston, Iowa . . . spends her spare time in music and art.
ABOVE: Pat Gallagher... 21-year-old junior from Waseca, Minn.... plays the violin and majors in music . . . spends her spare time with art and record collecting... and Marjorie Gibson... 20-year-old sociology major from Oshkosh, Wis.... looks forward to graduate work at St. Louis . . . works for the Rosarian.
LEFT: Mary Pat Mangan . . . 19-year-old sophomore from Springfield, Ill. . . . plans to major in sociology... vice-president of swimming club ... headed Red Cross drive
junior class... majors in economics...
related to John Donne, the poet... likes golf, bowling, riding and swimming... ABOVE LEFT: JoAnn Comer ... 18 years old, from Chicago . . . sophomore who plans to major in psychology... likes riding, swimming and art... and Margaret Papin . . . senior from Ironwood, Mich. ... 21 years old and an English major . . . wants to do post-grad work at Wisconsin or St. Louis . . . edits Rosarian . . . chairmanned last winter's Rosary-Notre Dame glee club concert ...	.
. . . and Grace Wright . . . 21-year-old English major ... is a senior from Chicago . . . works on the Rosarian and in college nursery .. .
Denise DeLano . . . 21-year-old senior from Oak Park . . . majoring in English ...a distant relative of FDR...plans to do graduate work at Illinois, Wisconsin or St. Louis . . . sings in the glee club.
14
College
Rosary Enters 25th Year in River Forest with Record Enrollment and Proof That Its Aims Have Been Met
Ten miles from Chicago’s hustling, bustling Loop in serene, wooded River Forest there’s a Catholic woman’s college whose bulletin claims its aim to be “the education of Catholic young women who will be efficient members and leaders of society.”
To the skeptic’s jaundiced eye such a statement would be classed as hot air for consumption by gullible parents. Yet, such is the avowed purpose of Rosary College. An impressive list of distinguished alumnae which includes a doctor, two lawyers, a composer, a magazine editor and novelist, innumerable college instructors and Catholic lay leaders attest to its validity.
If there is any weakness in the Rosary program it certainly is not along intellectual or spiritual lines. Along social lines there is a somewhat different story because of the enrollment situation.
Of Rosary’s record enrollment of 730 students, 510 are non-residents, fully capable of providing their own extracurricular activities. Yet the Dominican nuns, who run Rosary, do not cast a wary eye at social life by handcuffing residents with unreasonable week end hours. Saturday night dates rate a 12:30 permission. Scholastically proficient upperclassmen find week end permissions easily obtainable.
Chicago with its boundless entertainment and cultural resources provides the places to go. It takes a little- less than an hour to reach the Loop by combined bus and elevated.
The manpower situation, however, is not the best. Chief outlets of Catholic college men (co-ed DePaul and Loyola, a neighbor to rival Mundelein) are located far up on the North Side. Chicago University, also co-ed, is the nearest source; Northwestern, in Evanston, the farthest.
Though far off the beaten path, Notre Dame seems to stand in high repute. This is in spite of a poem printed in last year’s Eagle (Rosary’s literary mag). It related the plight of a Rosary girl harassed by dates from Loyola and N.D. at the end of which the N.D. man loses out. Nevertheless, a representative group of Notre Darners turns up at Rosary’s periodic formal functions.
Last winter the combined Rosary and Notre Dame glee clubs staged a concert. It was climaxed with a buffet supper and dance for the visitors, most of whom returned to South Bend acclaiming the
plenitude of pulchritude at the River Forest school.
But it’s Rosary’s aim to fit its students for a place of leadership in the world., not a seat at some bridge table or tea party. If any department suffers in the process it’s social life.
On the educational side Rosary offers A.B. and B.S. degrees in 18 majors as well as in Music, Music Education, Library Science and Home Economics. According to recent statistics on U. S. women’s colleges, it stands at the head of the pack scholastically.
A foreign study plan, inaugurated in 1917, enables upperclassmen to spend a year at the Villa des Fougeres in Fribourg, Switzerland for study at the University of Fribourg and travel in Europe. Myron Taylor, U. S. envoy to the Vatican, enhanced the program in 1941 by presenting his home in Florence to the college. This past September seven students sailed for the Villa with tours of England, France, Holland, Christmas vacation in the Alps and spring vacation in Italy scheduled.
Students enforce school regulations adopted by the senate of the Student Government Association. These duties even include switching off the lights at night (seniors have all night lights; underclassmen are blacked out in order of class rating).
On the extracurricular side there are
WINTER SCENE AT ROSARY COLLEGE IN RIVER FOREST Not at bridge tables or tea parties
outlets for every interest ranging from writing and foreign languages through dramatics and athletics. The college is affiiliated with the NFCCS and is an active member of CISCA (Chicago InterStudent Catholic Action). Through the Rosary College Guild a helping hand is given to charity. A recent Guild-sponsored dance netted over S500 for charity.
Rosary had its beginning back in 1901 as Saint Clara College in Sinsinawa, Wisconsin. At the invitation of George Cardinal Mundelein, late archbishop of Chicago, the college was transferred to River Forest. In October, 1922, as Chicago sought ways to abridge its Evanston neighbors’ newly-entrenched prohibition, while eradicating myriad mobs of trigger-happy thugs, Rosary began its first scholastic year under a new name in a sprawling network of gothic buildings located on a 33-acre tract.
Last spring the college polled a crosssection of its alumnae. The results showed that half had done graduate work; a quarter had helped bring others into the Church; almost all had served in the Red Cross, USO, armed services or UNRRA during the war; a representative group were active as Catholic lay leaders.
Perhaps the most interesting point of the survey was the fact that almost all
(Continued on Page 32)
15
Station WND
(Continued from Page 9) cense since the signal is confined to the campus and does not radiate.
When the University electricians set their price for installing the station at a high §200, the students decided thar they would have to tackle the job themselves. The chief Notre Dame electrician paid an invaluable service to the new station with his advice. The problem of setting the studio up in the basement of Washington Hall was fairly easy compared to the task of running each hall line through the various steam tunnels. In charge of this part of the project was Pete Reiner, a junior industrial engineer from Montreal, Canada.
REINER AT WORK Tunnel to tunnel hook-up
An impressive opening program schedule has been announced with a dedication to inaugurate the station at 5 p. m. A musical 15 minutes will follow, with sentimental ballads featured. A running commentary of the musical comedy “Showboat” will be heard for the first two nights from 5:30 to 6. The songs of this famous musical will be interspersed with the reading of the story. “Carmen” will follow the completion of Ferber’s classic with other operas and operettas looming in the future.
Five minutes of news, supplied by the Scholastic, will open the second hour of the evening. The What Four Quartet? will complete the remaining ten minutes of this quarter hour. On future shows, this space will be .filled by other speciality acts. Disc jockey Al Foster, of Wilkes-Barre, Pa., will take over until 6:30 when fifteen minutes of Bing Crosby melodies come on. The last quarterhour will high-light Christmas Carols.
—Ken Thoren
WND Radio Log
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5
5:00 Dedication Ceremonies
5:15 Crosby Cavalcade
5:30 Moonlight Serenade
6:00 Newscast
6:05 Moonlight Serenade
6:15 Christmas Carols
6:30 Winter Theater
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 6
5:00 Surprise Party
5:15 Crosby Cavalcade
5:30 Moonlight Serenade
6:00 Newscast
6:05 Concert Hall
6:15 Christmas Carols
6:30 Winter Theater
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 7
5:00 Scholastic Symphony Hour
5:30 Moonlight Serenade
6:00 Newscast
6:05 Concert Hall
6:15 Christmas Carols
6:30 Winter Theater
MONDAY, DECEMBER 8
5:00 Jump Time
5:15 Crosby Records
5:30 Moonlight Serenade
6:00 Newscast
6:05 Praise to Mary, Notre Dame
6:15 Christmas Carols
6:30 Winter Theater
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9
5:00 Needle Works
5:15 Crosby Cavalcade
5:30 Moonlight Serenade
6:00 Newscast
6:05 Glee Club
6:15 Christmas Carols
6:30 Winter Theater
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10
5:00 Needle Works
5:15 Crosby Cavalcade
5:30 Moonlight Serenade
6:00 Newscast
6:05 Variety Program
6:15 Christmas Carols
6:30 Winter Theater
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11
5:00 Needle Works
5:15 Crosby Cavalcade
5:30 Moonlight Serenade
6:00 Newscast
6:05 Variety Program
6:15 Christmas Carols
6:30 Winter Theater
Mardi Gras	*
(Continued from Page 9) awarded to the student here at Notre Dame who receives the winning donation.
The dollar donation from each student is the closest thing to personal charity that the Relief Campaign has inaugurated. One hundred per cent cooperation in this subscription drive means that nearly 14 per cent of the §35,000 goal will already have been realized. As yet the returns are not available. This amount, with approximately §600.00 received from the dance and the football raffle indicates that Notre Dame is definitely behind one of the most praiseworthy drives in her history.
Bill Duggan, chairman of the Mardi Gras committee has hopes of inserting the feminine touch in that affair. He is soliciting the help of St. Mary’s girls in * the decorating of the booths. Their presence and aid will be greatly appreciated in adding life to the carnival.
Information on the raffle, along with illustrated material on the grand prize will be issued with the chance books.
—Lawrence S. Connor
Militant Catholics Demanded By Scott in Wash. Hall Talk
The Honorable Joseph Scott, honorary Notre Dame alumnus, Laetare Medalist, and prominent Los Angeles attorney, called on the students to be militant Catholics in his address last week in Washington Hall.
In essence, he told the students that they are the most fortunate college students in the world, because they live under the care of Our Lady and because they are taught that economic se-curity is not the sole end of their college -education. “There is real freedom only when a man can call his soul his own,” he said.
Mr. Scott, who is an elderly gentleman, though by no means on the downgrade, stressed the fact that he always looks forward to coming to Notre Dame because looking at all the clean-cut students gives him a lot of added vitality and makes him more proud of the fact that he is a Notre Dame man, by adoption at least.
The Department of English second general examination in the Essentials of English Composition will be given Thursday. December 11. at 7 p. m. in various rooms on the second and the third floors of the Main Building.
All first semester freshmen who did not pass the first "Essentials" examination are required to take the December 11 examination.
16
DRILL HALL'S TIME-SAVING REGISTRATION Pay in advance for the privilege
Either Pay Up Early Or Suffer Long Lines
A student can save himself time and simplify his registration by paying his account in advance, according to Edward J. Murray, director of students’ accounts. Statements for the second semester will be mailed to home addresses toward the end of December.
Room certification for the campus resident who pays in advance will be sent to the residence hall rector who will give the student immediate access to a room. The room reservation will be cancelled for any student who did not preregister with his dean for the second semester.
Registration for all other services can be completed at one station in the Navy Drill Hall. This will save the student from standing in lines to pay his account, receive class cards, dining hall tickets, etc.
To get the benefits of this procedure, accounts must be paid on or before Monday, January 12, This advance notice is given because the interval between the mailing date of the statement and the advance payment date is shorter than usual.
Toledoans Plan Breakfast, Holiday Dance and Smoker
Three important coming events were announced this week for Notre Dame men from Toledo by John Malone, president of the Alumni Club of Toledo, and Mike Hoeflinger, president of the campus club.
A Communion Breakfast will be held after the 8:30 mass at Rosary Cathedral this Sunday, December 7, for all members of the Toledo Club, grads and under-grads.
Alumni and student members of the club will hold their annual Christmas dance in the Crystal Room of the Com
modore Perry hotel in Toledo, December 26, from 9 to 1.
In response to many requests made after last year’s dance the affair this year will be semi-formal. Bids, at $5.00, may be purchased at 204 Dillon hall.
The N. D. Toledo Club will play host to vacationing Toledoans from the University of Detroit, John Carroll, Dayton, and the Newman Club of Toledo University with a smoker at the K. of C. clubhouse, Jefferson Avenue, in Toledo on January 2.
I.A.S. Plans Semester Banquet; Visits Bendix
Final plans for the semester banquet of the Notre Dame student branch of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences were laid last week at the local chapter’s fifth meeting. Thomas J. Neff was appointed to head the affair which is to be held Monday, December 15, at the D.A.V. Club in South Bend.
The first inspection tour sponsored by the IAS this semester was arranged by vice-president Marut. The Bendix Products Division, Bendix Aviation Corporation, was host to seventeen members on November 25 at then- South Bend plant, and 22 students were present when the second group toured the same buildings on December 2. Mr. Stanley B. Smith, Bendix Project Engineer, conducted both trips through the brake and landing gear sections and through the engineering department of the plant.
Waiting Impatiently
One of the most prominent features in the Notre Dame Foundation program is the already planned Union building. As presently designed, the Union will contain numerous lounges where students may entertain their parents or friends while visiting the campus. Restaurants and snack bars, guest-rooms for visitors, and recreational activities such as bowling, ping-pong, and billiards, will be provided for those who take advantage of the Union building.
"Truths Men Live By"
Placed in First Ten
Another best-seller has been added to the ever-growing list, but this unique book does not present life in its more vulgar form. Instead, Rev. Dr. John A. O’Brien of the University of Notre Dame has succeeded in compiling the basic truth of Christian philosophy of life into his latest work, Truths Men Live By, and done it so well that America recently called it one of the ten classics on religion of permanent value.
The Brooklyn Committee in charge of the Catholic Book Week observance has named Father O’Brien’s composition as • one of the eight most important books published in recent years. To secure the widest circulation of the volume, the Brooklyn-Long Island unit of the Catholic Library Association issued 25,000 book marks listing the eight selections and passed them among the Catholic reading public.
Our Sunday Visitor Press and the Ave Maria Press have secured imprinted editions of the book and are promoting its circulation among all their readers. With publicity like that, Truths Men Live By should be placed on outside reading lists by next semester.
Verne F. Kelley
Berth in College Tourney Awaits Best Bridge Teams
Under the sponsorship of the Student Council a campus-wide bridge tournament got under way this week, with 52 teams competing. Upon completion of the tourney eight teams will be selected to enter the intercollegiate tournament.
According to the system set up, the winner will play six matches, with the winner determined by the highest number of points, rather than the most rubbers won.
Among the contestants from last year, Thomas Look of Lyons Hall displayed his enthusiasm by turning in his application at 6 a. m. the first day that the entries were open.
It has been requested that all teams that have not paid their entrance fee of 30 cents do so as soon as possible.
THIS WEEK'S COVER
This week's cover shot is by Jim FersteL The last two cover shots were by Paul Jackson, who portrays the arm of the law in this week's cover. Other pictures—Interhall football, racers, billiard team. Cotillion, Law BalL and Rosary (except for shot of Miss Donne by Chicago Sun and studio shot of school) are by FersteL Freshman officers and car are by Jackson. Radio, bowling, and Pirates shots are by Gene Reynolds.
17
Names Make News, but Sometimes They Also Make Confusion and Embarrassment
By JOHN LANGLOIS
Vast amounts of difficulty have been created by the sloppy, haphazard formation of surnames down through the ages. Students with names that are too long, too short, too involved, or too unpronounceable deserve heartfelt sympathy.
A typical difficulty presented itself the other day when I brought my laundry into a downtown shop.
‘‘Name?”
“Langwah.”
“Langwell?”
“No, Langwah.” “Langworth?” “No ...”
“Langley . . . Languish . . . Landward?”
“No, No, No.”
“Langluss” (hopefully).
“That’ll do. That’s close enough.”
Later, I delved into the question and some of the findings are as follows:
The practice of adopting surnames seems to have developed in Roman times. Prior to this, neither the Hebrews, Egyptians, Assyrians, Babylonians, Persians 'nor Greeks had them.
The Romans went overboard for names, using a praenomen, nomen, cognomen and sometimes an agnomen. It was horrible. Nicknames were foreign to Romans and as a result very few were known as “Hank” or “Schmoe.”
But the Greeks had a word for most everything and this showed up in their choice of names. Witness Naso (long-nosed), Paulus (little) and Crassus (fat). Besides these, many surnames developed through patronymics—a good word—and we get Jameson, Johnson, Robertson, etc. Similar names in other languages are characterized by the Gaelic prefix Mac, the Irish O’, the Norman French Fitz, the German affix -shon or -son and the Russian -vitch.
Then came mass migration to this hemisphere—people of every race and from every land bringing their customs and names with them. Then the scramble began.
Some people who don’t like their surname or encounter difficulties with it have it changed. You may remember the story about a man named James George Twistleton - Billyard - Gambleton who petitioned for a change. After months of passing through intricate legal channels, the name change was approved. He was a proud man from 18
that day forward. The name was no longer James George Twistleton-Bil-lyard-Gambleton. From thenceforth it was James FRANCIS Twistleton-Bil-lyard-Gambleton.
In 1941, a Chicago butcher petitioned the court to change his name, Louis Harris, back to Elias Haralampopoulas. He was Greek and his customers were Greeks and had trouble with the assumed name.
Then, you may have chuckled over Drummond’s French-Canadian dialect poem in which Jean Baptiste Trudeau strikes out for the U. S. where he becomes prosperous — and his name becomes John B. Waterhole. Or perhaps you know that the father of the evangelist Billy Sunday was a German immigrant named Sonntag.
But whatever the percentage of name changing, whatever the embarrassment or difficulties, most people cherish their surname with reverence and wouldn’t change it for the world.
Trib's Campus Youth Photos On Display 'Til December 15
Thirty-eight outstanding pictures from the campuses of American colleges and universities went on display at the Architecture Building this week it was announced by the Department of Public Information at Notre Dame.
The exhibit, which will continue through Dec. 15, is made up of representative pictures selected from the hundreds which have been taken during the last seven years for the Chicago Tribune’s weekly rotogravure feature titled “Youth on the Campus.” A number of pictures taken on the Notre Dame campus will be included in the display.
Since the Tribune began publishing its weekly photographic report of student life on American campuses on Oct. G, 1940, Andrew Pavlin, the photographer who handles the series, and Eleanor Nan-gle, Tribune editor who gathers and writes data about each campus and about the pictures published, have visited more than 150 colleges and universities from coast to coast. They have traveled more than 100,000 miles in all 48 states.
Pictures from the Notre Dame campus have been published seven times in the series on March 16, 1941; August 23, 1942; October 11, 1942; December 27, 1942; February 21, 1943; June 18, 1944; June 8, 1947; and November 30, 1947.
George Gallup was not needed to poll and then tell everyone that the most popular person on the campus, after the Iowa pep rally, was one Homer Corn-well. This personage, with his witty quips and friendly banter, brought more good will to Notre Dame than a million
MARTY GALVIN
As Cadet Bresiing
cornhuskers could have ever accomplished. Oddly enough, it was another pep rally luminary who would have been unanimously acclaimed for the same honor after the Army whoop-la. This time it was Cadet Robert Bresiing.
And now it is time for the cat to come crawling out of the bag. As a few might already know, Homer- Cornwell and Cadet Bresiing were one and the same person, both answering to the legal monicker of Marty Galvin. The characterizations were products of this freshman’s clever and ingenious sense of humor.
Working with the Blue Circle, Galvin not only invented these two pseudonyms, but also the Admiral who saved the Navy rally from becoming a complete fiasco. Along with Frank Venner, this whiz from Toledo writes and produces the Notre Dame Dedicates radio program which hits the air lanes every Tuesday at 4:45	;
p. m. He is an A.B. student and has j his sights set on studying pre-law. If j he retains his flair for comedy then they’ll probably sell tickets when he ap-pears in court.—Ken Thoren	I
RMHI
•SCHOLASTIC SPOETJ
UNDEFEATED IRISH CLASH WITH U.S.C.; NATIONAL TITLE AT STAKE BEFORE 100,000
More than 100,000 sun-drenched spectators will fill the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum to its concrete brim tomorrow afternoon to watch undefeated, untied Notre Dame smash up against the big red team of Southern California. And while these lucky thousands watch, a nation listens.
The Fighting Irish will come out of their corn-country bailiwick’ to defend their claim to the national championship. The mighty Trojans, West Coast Rose Bowl representatives, are confidently entrenched in their own back yard as proponents of the superiority of Pacific slope football. It will be the meeting of America’s No. 1 and No. 3 teams. Only the absence of Irish-shy, schedule-wise Michigan keeps it from taking on the aspects of a clash of worlds.
Southern California, its impressive season’s record blemished only by a stubborn 7-7 tie with Rice Institute, is probably the toughest team to face Notre Dame this fall. They are stacked high with reserves, have a corps of fleet ends, boast a Stuka-geared passing attack, and have flashy backs aplenty.
Notre Dame men who watched the Trojans go down before McGee & Co. W here last year- saw that the men of Troy had the makings if only they could get together. The outstanding performers of. 1946 are back. Ferraro, McCardle, McCormick, Lillywhite, et al. Let’s have a look at the squad, easily as deep in respective reserves as are the Irish.
Paul Cleary, Trojan flanker, has already been mentioned on several AllAmerica teams. Frank Leahy, upon witnessing the speedy picket-man perform recently against the hapless UCLA Bruins, sounded a note of praise on Cleary’s cautious defensive work and his agility at shaking off defenders on going down under a pass. He’s teamed with Ernie Tolman, former high school scourge from Los Angeles, who weighs over 200 and takes off like an N. D. bus when you’re trying to catch it on the run.
End reserves include Linehan and So-A lata, and Dave Lloyd, formerly of Notre Dame, who has been injured most of this season.
At the tackle position Coach Jeff Cravath beams cheerily, for rooted there are two of the biggest things outside the Sequoia National forest. John Ferraro, war-time All-American, and All-Coast again this year- plugs up the slot on the left side of the line. His uncaged mate has been six-foot, eight-inch Bob Hendren, until last week’s mess, when the towering hulk tried to take out one of the Coliseum pillars on a cross-over block and proceeded to break his jaw. Tough! In his stead will probably be J ay Perrin, who pads around in his moccasins at a porky 300 pounds. Other tackles of merit include White, Bird, Schutte and Swope.
Clark and McCall will probably start at guard for the home team. Bastian and Rea are the most likely substitutes.
At center is Walt McCormick, who played a whale of a game against Leahy’s lads last year, and aims to do it again. He’s backed by Busch and Davis.
Now we come to the backs. Here the Cardinal & Gold excels. Looking over their list of scat-backs is like peering over the rail down at Calumet Farms. Speed and grace all over the place.
George Murphy is the Trojans’ No. 1 T-fonnation general. Frank Leahy compared him to Angelo Bertelli upon recent observation of the Irish lad’s jetarmed passing. But hero to the Los Angeles fans is relief hurler Jim Powers, who pitched the winning tally against UCLA. Back of both of these capable boys is the wow of the ’46 frosh, the Trobabe terror, Wilbur Robertson. They call him another Ratterman.
Twin starters at half are McCardle and Doll. McCardle is the West Coast counterpart of Zalejski, but like all highly-trumpeted potentials, ran into injury trouble every so often during his career. This should be his last year. Doll is good enough to beat out Gordon Gray, the power back, so that makes him a threat.
Get a load of the other stellars who champ at the bit for a chance to run against the Irish: Al Cantor, from a long line of L. A. high school stars; Jack Kirby, who pulled down the win-
(Continued on Page 32)
X-Country Coaches Pick Handy as Head
The only Notre Dame winner in the national cross country championship was Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy who was elected president of the national collegiate cross country coaches. This is the second honor Coach Handy has received this year, having previously been named head of the Central Collegiate Track association.	'
Handy is now in his sixth season as head track coach at Notre Dame. He first came to Notre Dame in 1931, and
COACH HANDY AND PROTEGE Most successful season in history
served as assistant track coach from that time until 1942. “Doc” received his bachelor’s degree in physical education at the University of Iowa in 1926. He returned there in 1930 for his masters and in 1937 was awarded a doctor of philosophy degree from the same school.
Before coming to N. D., Handy was coach of all sports at Centennial High in Pueblo, Colorado. He succeeded Bill Mahoney, as coach of track in 1942. This year’s cross country squad had the most successful season of any harrier group in the school’s history. Last spring, the Handymen were nosed out for the Indiana state title, and took fourth in the Central Collegiates.
Handy is a professor in the department of physical education in addition to his coaching duties. He is married and the father of four children.
Jim Howard
19
INIEIFALl FOOTFALL
Cavanaugh’s championship football team again topped the campus residence halls by placing three of its squad on the Scholastic’s all-campus eleven. Lyons Hall, runner-up for the interhall title, has two spots in the line-up, as does Zahm. Rounding out the first team are one each from Dillon, Walsh, Farley and Badin.
Tom Muscatello of Lyons, a unanimous choice, and rangy Jim Fitzgerald of Dillon were given the nod at the end positions. Muscatello played brilliantly throughout the entire season, leading Coach Ray Chamberland’s Lyonites in scoring and consistently bottling up the opposition with his deadly tackling. Fitzgerald was awarded the honor as a result of his steady work, both on offense and defense, which was invaluable to Dillon. Dick Moons, of Lyons, and Cavanaugh’s Jack Saunders, who both played a large part in the success of their respective teams this season, hold berths on the second team.
Hard-charging Bob Turvey, of Walsh, and Joe Bidwill, of Zahm, were both thorns in their opponents’ sides during the season. Turvey was the sparkplug of the stubborn Walsh line which, in several games, was practically impossible to pierce. Bidwill was one of the most versatile linemen of the season, performing equally well on offense and defense. Lyons’ Bob Singer and Morrissey’s Jim Ford were chosen above a host of othei' contenders for the second team tackle posts.
Jerry Guiltinan’s work at guard was one of the chief factors for the overwhelming success of the Cavanaugh squad. His blocking during the crucial Zahm tilt was largely responsible for a Cavanaugh victory, while his defensive efforts bogged down many Lyons runners headed for the center of the Cavanaugh line during the championship
SCHOLASTIC ALL-CAMPUS TEAM
FIRST TEAM	SECOND TEAM
Name	Hall Pos. Name	Hall
Jim Fitzgerald .....   Dillon	LE	Dick Moons............... Lyons
Bob Turvey...............Walsh	LT	Bob Singer ............  Lyons
Jerry Guiltinan ...Cavanaugh	LG	Ray Loy......—.........   Zahm
Joe Moschella ........Farley	C	Maurice Tessin ......... Walsh
Hank DiGirolamo ....... Badin	RG	Jack Fanning ........... Lyons
Joe Bidwill............. Zahm	RT Jim Ford —..........-... Morrissey
Tom Muscatello .......  Lyons	RE	Jack Saunders ...... Cavanaugh
Bob Barrett ...........  Zahm	QB	Bernie Powers ...... Cavanaugh
Paul Lane ............. Lyons	LH Lanny Dickman -.......... St.	Ed’s
Dennis Higgins.......Cavanaugh	RH	Frank Harrison..........Dillon
Jim Presley ....... Cavanaugh	FB	Tom Moorman..............Farley
fray in the Stadium. Badin’s Hank DiGirolamo, who was outstanding in the strong Badin line, holds down the other guard position. He was invaluable, both offensively and defensively, to the dangerous Badinites throughout the season. Ray Loy, who played sensationally against Cavanaugh, and bruising “Boo” Fanning, who played both at tackle and guard for the Lyons crew, won second team berths.
“Jarring Joe” Moschella was awarded the center position because of his rugged line play on offense and deadly tackling in backing up the line for far-away Farley. Maurice “Moe” Tessin, of Walsh, was chosen for the second team position.
The quarterback position was a neartoss-up between Jack Hoey of Walsh, Jack McMahon of Dillon, Don Buseck of Lyons, Bernie Powers of Cavanaugh, and Bob Barrett of Zahm. The latter was finally given the nod. Barrett led the Zahm backfield with exceptional calmness and smoothness, and was largely responsible for Zahm’s late-sea-son success. Powers was equally as calm as Barrett, and his deadly passing played a large part in Cavanaugh’s 7-6 triumph over Lyons for the campus championship.
Choosing the remainder of the back-field presented few problems, if any. Paul “Zeke” Lane, Lyons’ triple-threat star, and Dennis Higgins, high-stepping Cavanaugh back, were chosen for the first team halfback combination. Lanny Dickman, fleet-footed St. Ed’s seatback, and Dillon’s Frank Harrison, a steady performer on both offense and defense, were chosen for the second team posts.
Hard-driving Jim Presley, who was the sparkplug and high scorer of the Cavanaugh powerhouse, was a unanimous choice for the fullback position, and Tom Moorman, versatile Farley back, rounded out the team.
Over the Goalposts
With PETE BROWN
Every year the All-American situation
gets more amusing. This year the pickers have gone overboard in making
fools of themselves. Here at Notre Dame we have two tackles who could play on any team, any time, any place. We know it and so do a lot of the experts. But it isn’t kosher to name both tackles on an All-A m e r i can first team from the same school. So
as each new team is made public the problem of which of the two is the better gets more involved. Some of the teams have George Connor on the first
team and Ziggy Czarobski on the second or on the honorable mention list, while others are just the reverse. Still others mention one and exclude the other.
This example is not an isolated one. The same situation exists in regard to the backfields with the prime example being Bob Chappius and Bump Elliot of Michigan. Conerly of Mississippi State, Layne of Texas, Walker of Southern Methodist, Minisi of Pennsylvania have been kicked around like no football ever thought of being. According to the press releases and the words of those who have seen these backs, they are all good men. But All-American teams only have a four-man backfield. So the boys have to take turns having their names mentioned on the various first
elevens.
So far very few of the teams have had a fullback; in fact, one of the teams had three quarterbacks and a passing wing-back. There is no future playing fullback unless you can complete at least 50 passes a year. Naderny of Yale and Rowan of Army are supposed to be exceptional at their chosen positions. We had the luck to see Rowan and know what his capabilities are.
All the teams provide is a good basis for year-long arguments. Everyone waits on the edge of his seat until the long string of perfect teams is made public. Then, as soon as the foolish groups become known, everybody knows a mistake was made because the guards are no good, the halfback didn’t play the whole season and the center couldn’t block his way out of a paper bag. And | so on into the long, cold winter ... I
20
•Basketball Replaces Football In Sports Scene As Irish Cagers Open Up With Indiana State
SPLINTERS
Basketball, winter king of Hoosier-dom, replaces football, Mr. Big of Notre Dame, as the Indiana State Sycamores open the local cage season tomorrow night in the Fieldhouse. Tom Brennan, assistant coach, will direct the team in the absence of Coach Moose Krause who will be in Los Angeles with the football team.
Brennan’s starting lineup should look something like this: At forwards will be Leo Barnhorst and Buster Hiller or perhaps Jimmy O’Halloran, at center John Brennan, and Paul Gordon and Kev O’Shea at the guards.
A	Nine South Benders
Though Indiana State and Notre Dame have never met on the basketball court before, Coach Johnny Wooden and his band of basketeers are no strangers to this town. Wooden and eight members of his squad are South Benders. A former All - American basketball player at Purdue, Wooden later coached South Bend Central before moving on to Terre Haute. Dan Dimich, Bill Jagodzinski, Don Kozoroski, Jim Powers, and Lenny Rzeszewski could very well give the Sycamores an all-local team. But the star of stars is Dick Kleuh, who last year broke the all-time Indiana State scoring record. In his first outing this year Kleuh poured in 24 points in just 19 minutes of playing time, indicating thar he is the man to watch come Saturday.
Notre Dame steps out into the Big Nine for their next games, playing II-linois at Champaign on Monday night and in the Chicago Stadium against Northwestern on Saturday, December 13. The Illini have lost the Whiz Kids but have ten lettermen back including Dike Eddleman who was the top high school flash a few years back, Bob Doster, a small but mighty forward, and big Fred Green, one of the better centers in college basketball.
All-Student Crowd
Coach Harry Coombes, the new coach at Illinois, moved up the street from Champaign High school when Doug Mills desired to give full time to his job as Director of Athletics. The Illini will be playing before an all-student crowd in the rather small (7,500) George Huff Memorial gymnasium.
The Stadium in Chicago has always been the scene of some red hot Irish cage battles, and the Wildcats of Northwes-^tern are expected to give the Krausemen a rough evening. If the teams take up where they left off last March we can
expect another thriller for then Kev O’Shea potted a one-hander in the final minute to give the Irish a 55-53 victoi-y. Northwestern have eight lettermen back, among them “Chuck” Tourek and Chet Strumillo, veteran guards who played together with Morton of Cicero, Illinois state champions in 1941. Bill Sticklen, a forward and a fine scorer, has also returned to the Wildcat squad giving Coach Dutch Lonborg three sturdy veterans as a nucleus of an otherwise rebuilt group.
INDIANA STATE S KLEUH In 19 minutes — 24 points
Coach Brennan has had his troubles trying to get his charges in shape for the opener. The football team was forced indoors by inclement weather and the cagers had to relinquish the fieldhouse during the late afternoon hours. Kevin O’Shea has been behind in his conditioning because of knee trouble. But Brennan has been able to get in several evening scrimmages. Paul Gordon has looked impressive on defense, and O’Shea despite knee trouble is still one of the country’s outstanding stars.
Some of the lesser lights, the Sobeks, Foley, Goonen, Kluck, Kaufmann, and Stevenson have also shown that they will be ready for plenty of relief duty when called on.
The opener this year will be Notre Dame’s 790th basketball game and the Irish will be trying to add to a 33-game home winning streak which dates back to December 4,1943 when Western Michigan came from behind to win 46-42. The next home game will not be until January 5.
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
For the third time in his five year tenure as head* football coach at Notre Dame, Frank Leahy has molded a team which is threatening to become Notre Dame’s first undefeated, untied eleven since the 1930 national champions of Knute Rockne.
of Cartier Field, he
In 1941, the smiling Irishman’s first season as the boss piloted the Irish to an undefeated season which was marred only by a a scoreless tie with Army.
Again in 1943 the Fighting Irish ran wild through their opposition until the final game with Great Lakes. After coming from behind in the final two minutes to score and
take at 13-12 lead, the Irish saw their perfect season smashed when the Sailors scored with 30 seconds to play. Notre Dame still was voted the national title, but they had missed their other goal, an unblemished season.
Last season the Irish once more copped top honors in the nation, Leahy’s second in two years. They walloped eight teams without being forced once. But once more it was Army who ruined the perfect season dream by holding the Blue and Gold to a scoreless tie.
This year can see the fulfillment of Notre Dame’s and Leahy’s dream. Only tomorrows climactic battle with the Trojans of Southern California stands in the way of the pupil breaking the myth of invincibility which has shrouded the teacher’s greatest season.
MEET THE TEAM
The Blue Circle is pointing for a "full house" at the New York Central depot Wednesday afternoon at 3:40 when the team arrives from Los Angeles. Details of the "Meet the Team" program will be posted on all bulletin boards. The Blue Circle conducted a send-off Wednesday afternoon at the circle.
21
Coffee Cup Seers See Troy Trampled
This week the Irish are taking Horace Greeley seriously. They are headed toward sunny California in quest of another national championship.
It will be a red hot eleven that meets Southern California Saturday afternoon, and student opinion does not think the Trojans are the team to cool them off.
The coffee cup crystal gazers that one bumps into on entering the caf foresee nothing but a modern version of the old Trojan Horse. As Troy fell some umpteen years BC, so will the Trojans of USC next Saturday.
Jack Michand, Litchfield, Minn., Off Campus—ND, 21; USC, 14.
‘‘The luck of the Irish should spell a one-touchdown margin.”
Bob Marquardt, Tarrytown, N. Y., Dillon Hall—ND, 79; USC, 0.
“This game won’t be as easy as most people think.”
Frank Cavanaugh, St. Paul, Minn., Dillon Hall—ND, 13; USC, 0.
“Two great defensive teams will fight it out Saturday. The change in weather may be a factor in keeping our score low.”
Jim Resting, Toledo, Ohio, Lyons Hall —ND, 12; USC, 0.
“I don’t think we can run up a score against a team like USC.”
George Larson, Indianapolis, Ind., Breen-Phillips—ND, 27; USC, 6.
“N. D. will play their best game this week in hopes of clinching the National Championship.”
Dillon Fetes Gridders As Interhall Season Ends
Coach Jack Nusskern and Assistant Coach Jack McMahon were guests of honor at the Dillon Hall football team dinner which was held last week at the Ramble Inn.
Present were backfield men Leo Eik-meyer, Jim Fitzsimmons, John Hudac-sek, Roland Russell, Ed Senyczko, and Lauren Bullock as well as linemen Jack Hoeck, Jack Reed, Jim Sennott, Tom McNally, Tom Feeney and Jim Fitzgerald. Unable to attend were Bill Lyden, Ed Kane, Dick Gorman, Frank Harrison, Jim Patterson, Jim Schuster and Dan Reardon. Entertainment was furnished by comedian Sam Solomon.
Dillon lost its chance for the campus title by losing a hard-fought 6-0 contest to Lyons Hall in the climactic game of the season. Previously they had lost to Badin, tied Alumni, and beaten Morrissey and Walsh.
22
Okaites
By JOE CHENEY
By JOE CHENEY
I don’t believe the Irish are too worried about tomorrow’s encounter with the Trojans of Southern California. The land of the sunshine boys have practically the same team that came to Notre Dame Stadium last year only to lose 26 to 6. Southern Cal hasn’t improved too much since then as the Rice t i e indicated earlier in the season. Two weeks ago U. C. L. A. who was beaten by Northwestern proved a stubborn foe to Jeff Cra vat h’s eleven, before losing 6 to 0.
If the Irish get by Southern Cal, it will mark the first unblemished season for Notre Dame since 1930, Rockne’s last year. Notre Dame won ten games that year and was voted National Champions for the second consecutive year. Coach Leahy has a chance to duplicate Rockne’s record providing the Irish win by a good margin. Plenty of those Associated Press voters would jump at the chance to give their nod to Michigan.
10 GAMES NEXT SEASON
Looking over next season’s schedule it appears that Notre Dame might in all probability cash in ten more wins. Iowa and Army are off next fall’s list and Michigan State, Indiana and the University of Washington have been added to this season’s opponents, giving Leahy’s Lads ten “T” parties come leafturning time.
Purdue will probably rank as the number one game since Stu Holcombe has proved that he knows how to make the Boilermakers boil. Navy ■will be the big traditional game and Northwestern •will no doubt be the dark horse. The rest of the teams, outside of Southern Cal, haven’t shown much this year.
The others include the pitiful Panthers of Pitt, the unfed Cornhuskers of Nebraska, the black and blue Hawkeyes of Iowa, the hapless Hoosiers of Indiana, the hankerin’ Huskies of Washington, and the sparkless Spartans
of Michigan State. Kind of looks like another undefeated season, huh?
ALL-AMERICANS AGAIN
Hate to bring up All-American selections again but it seems to me that the majority of the selectors either picked up an August magazine with a list of potential All-Americans and played blind man’s bluff, or watched the games on television sets while lapping up too many brews.
BASKETBALL GAME TOMORROW NIGHT
Notre Dame opens up its basketball season tomorrow night playing host to Indiana State. The basketball boys will be happy to see the football season come to a close because they were told that they would not have a training table in the dining hall until the gridiron season ended. The basketball players . have been running up and down the court for the last few weeks knocking themselves out and deserved a better deal.
Assistant Coach Tom Brennan will be in charge in the absence of Head Coach Krause. Might be a good idea while you’re in the chapel tomorrow saying a few prayers for the football team to also include a few for Kev O’Shea’s wobbly knees.
EARLEY RECEIVED BID
Fred Earley received an invitation to play in the North-South game at Montgomery, Alabama, from head coach Bo McMillin of Indiana last week. Earley hasn’t decided as yet whether he will accept. He wants to spend all the time he can with his gal in Parkersburg, West Virginia, during the holiday recess. Tsk! Tsk!
ARE BOWL GAMES NECESSARY??? '
It seems to me that the football season is long enough without lengthening it to January 1. What is gained, outside of the small monetary slice guaranteed, by the schools selected? If the first four teams of the country could meet in a championship tournament immediately following the last game of the season, something worthwhile might be gained. But bowl games don’t shape up that way. They are strictly rackets run to make the rich richer and the injury lists longer.
Sure, we’ll all listen to them on New Year’s. They will help kill the afternoon for us. But after they’re over, what have the teams accomplished? Notre Dame will still hold the National Championship title which the bowl winners would give their slice of the bowl melon for.
PREDICTION:
Notre Dame by five touchdowns. •
BILLIARD TEAM CLOSES IN ON CUE BALL Scores were sent by telephone
FARLEY MECHANICS "JUICE UP" THEIR RACERS The winner traveled 44 m.pJu
Farleyi+es Thrill To Jet Speedway
The engineering efforts of a number of attic occupants of Farley Hall recently culminated in a speed-trial competition for jet-propelled miniature racing cars, and a number of mathematical miracles for Don Sasseen and Tom Leonard who operated the intricate timing device borrowed from the Physics Lab. The cars on display were models averaging seven inches in length and hand turned from balsa blocks purchased in South Bend.
For a week or more prior to the “field day” meeting, the Farley Hall fourth floorites pared, painted, tested and readjusted their delicate speedsters in preparedness for the main event. Wheels finally were running smoothly, and the light models fairly, rose from the ground in flight. A hundred-foot length of cord was run down the corridor on the big night and the cars were fastened to this by two tiny eyelets. Power was supplied by a cartridge of compressed carbon dioxide which, when punctured by a sharp firing pin, sent the models hurtling over the course toward the finish line. There a pillow withstood the shock of impact.
Lou Reich’s winner, a three-wheeled unconventional model, hand-cut from ordinary pine wood, flashed the distance at the phenomenal speed of approximately 44 m.p.h. His was followed by the jet-powered cars of Ray Strebb and Jack Wilkinson, with 43.5 and 41.5 m.p.h. respectively.
* The big crowd on the floor the night of the speed trials witnessed all the thrills of a big track — wheels flying
loose and hurtling wide across the track, cars cracking up along the course, and the disappointment of a misfire start. Cars painted in every conceivable color, and shaped into forms and designs futuristic artists have not yet created, made the evening a great success for those who entered into the spirit of rivalry.	Dave Yerex
Cue Men Are Twelfth In Billiard Tourney
Twenty-nine universities telephoned results of their pocket-billiard tournaments into Chicago last week when the Inter-Collegiate Pocket Billiard tourney was staged under the sponsorship of the Association of College Unions and the Billiard Association of America. Jack Shine, manager of the Notre Dame team, and Father Sheedy, referee for the evening, were called by the control unit in Chicago at 7:30 p. m. on Wednesday, and the team of five began play immediately.
At the end of the time allowed all participants were again called in on a general network and scores received. The universities were divided into four groups, and in the second, where the highest scoring was recorded, Notre Dame was placed sixth with 319 points out of possible 500.
Notre Dame was represented by John Martino, Phil Blum, Joe McGonigle, Matt Romano, John Cowley and reserves Tom Royer, Pete Murphy and Al Hopper. John Cowley, with 87 points from a possible century was highest scorer for the home team and took eighth position among all participants for highest scores.
Notre Dame was singularly unfortun
ate in meeting some of the best universities in the country in its group and, although only sixth in that class, was placed twelfth in the country. Georgia, with a total of 420, was top of the second group and highest in the tournament. The next three places in the second group were filled by Florida, Kentucky and Purdue universities, and these four will compete in the pocket-billiard finals on February 18.
There are, in effect, three divisions to the tournament which began with this competition. The straight-rail and three cushion contests have yet to take place, and Notre Dame is forming a team to partcipate in the latter on December 12. Phil Blum, Joe Mclnery, Bob Wink, Richard Madden, William McMahn and Tommy Simon have come forward to take a place on the team, but Jack Shine, manager of Brownson Recreational Hall, is hopeful of receiving further entries at his desk so that he will be able to present a full complement of eight players on December 12, and perhaps, when the finals are played off on March 10.
In last week’s competition Notre Dame was opposed in Group 2 by Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Kentucky State Teachers, Purdue, Indiana and Indiana State Teachers. Each contestant shot ten innings, each with a possible score of ten. Players in the three-cushion tournament will each have fifteen innings to shoot.
At the end of the complete tournament next year trophies will be awarded to winners of the three divisions by Gene Tunney, Nobel Kizer and Gar Wood, each of whom donated one of the prizes.
—Dave Yerex
23
Harriers Close N.D.'s Most Successful Season, Marred Only by National Meet Misfortunes
By JIM HOWARD
Despite the fact that the national cross country championships brought misfortunes of all types, the Notre Dame harrier team finished the most successful cross country season in the history of Irish track teams. Biding into the nationals on a six-meet winning streak, the local distance men crawled out with ninth place.
Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy emphasized the fact that there would be no excuses for the showing in the national contest at East Lansing. However, a review of the facts seems necessary to explain what happened. Jim Murphy, leading runner and sparkplug of the squad, collapsed at the two-mile mark and had to be taken to the hospital for immediate treatment. At the time of his sudden attack, Murphy was among the first ten runners. The fact that the other Irish harriers had to pass the unconscious star did not have a beneficial effect on their performances. Then too, Cornie Styers, who has pressed Murphy all season, developed a stitch and finished far back.
Five teams previously whipped by N. D. this year finished ahead of the Irish in the national event. Jim Kittell was the first Irish runner to finish. He took 20th place. Jim Kelly and Bill Leonard won 33rd and 35th places respectively.
The Irish opened their season with a decisive 17 to 37 win over Purdue, who captured fourth in the nationals. The
second week a strong Wisconsin group fell 23 to 34. Don Gehrman, Big Nine ace, led the Badger team. In the third week of competition, Michigan State and Iowa were vanquished in a dual battle. In this fray, Jack Dianetti, the star Spartan distance man, finished 12th, behind all five of N.D.’s scorers. The following week, the local harriers reached their peak, winning the Loyola' invitational cross country title and administering Drake its first defeat in four years. Up to and’ including this contest, all five of the Notre Dame scorers had been among the first eight finishers.
The Indiana state individual and team crowns came to the Irish the week of November 7 when Jim Murphy finished first at Bloomington. A train wreck prevented the Irish from competing in the Central Collegiates, and Drake won in their absence.
In addition to the five leading point getters, the other two members of the squad, Lou Tracy and Bob Mitchell played an important role in the scoring. Others on the team were Tom Maguire, Merle Fleming and Leo Paradise.
The group should be strong again-next season. Leonard and Styers may be lost through graduation, but Coach Handy has two promising runners in freshmen Tony DaDamio and Lou Lep-ry. The national contest marked the end of the reign of manager Ray Srsic who cared for the team since the indoor season last year.
Cavanaugh's 7-6 Victory Cracks Lyons Supremacy
Cavanaugh Hall’s bruising football team brought Lyons’ interhall supremacy to a convincing finish in the stadium a couple of weeks ago when it dropped Ray Chamberland’s west side champions, 7-6.
Cavanaugh, east side titlist, employed the passing of quarterback Bernie Powers and the running of fullback Jim Presley to drive 65 yards for its touchdown in the third period. Presley . -scored from the eight-inch line on a sweep around right end, after Lyons had held for three downs inside its two. His place-kick for the extra point was perfect.
Lyons made a valiant bid to tie it up in the last quarter. End Dick Moons and tackle Tom Hanifin (the Seno-S lastic’s music critic) collaborated to snatch the ball from Powers’ hands as he attempted to pass from his own four. Bob Cianchetti took it over from there, but a pass for the extra point missed fire. Lyons’ only consolation lay in the fact that it was the first and only team to score on Cavanaugh this year.
FOOTBALL ISSUE NEXT
Next Friday is D-Day (Distribution Day) for the largest football issue ever published by the SCHOLASTIC. This year's 76-page extravaganza includes biographies of players and coaches, stories and pictures of the games, innumerable other pictures and features on football at Notre Dame. The Christmas issue of the magazine will be distributed Thursday, Dec. 18.
KAMPUS KEGLERS BEGIN PIN-BUSTING SCHOLASTIC Columnist Bob "The Week" Vierhile, left, selects his weapon as League President Ernie Huffman warns him to take it easy on the pin boy. At right Vierhile lets fly the first strike of the Kampus Kegler's season, which will end March 31. Over 120 bowlers from 24 campus dubs competed in Sunday's opener. (See story on page 25).
CAVANAUGH WINS INTERHALL CHAMPIONSHIP
Cavanaugh's Fred Bruno is pulled down after a short gain in the recent interhall title game. Jim Presley accounted for the victors' touchdown and vital extra point in the third quarter. Bob Cianchetti tallied Lyons' touchdown in the final stanza, f* marking the first time during the season that Cavanaugh was scored upon.
24
•INTRODUCING ...
By TOM McNALLY
When the football dike at Notre Dame begins to sag and leak, a hurried call is usually sent out for Martin Peter Wendell to do another excellent reinforcing job with his 200 pounds of cement. In fact, his latest craftsmanship, at guard, has placed him on a par with another jack-of-all trades, Bernie Criminins, who won letters at right half, fullback and guard in his four years. Marty already wears monograms for work at fullback and center. With an award for his play at guard this season already insured, he still has next year to salt away another.
A
w Under Coach Max Burnell, at St. George High in Chicago, there were no odd-job tactics. Wendell was fitted into a fullback slot as a sophomore and there he stayed for the following three seasons. He received all-section honorable mention as a junior and then racked up all-city and all-state honors in his last year.
St. George had a great team his senior year, winning the Catholic title and the Kelly Bowl game between the public and Catholic school champs. The winning public school stars had a back named Buddy Young that year but even the tremendous Young couldn’t save his comrades from a 19-12 defeat. Marty considers that game the greatest thrill in his football career. Then St. George met the New York City champions, Mt. St. Michaels, a game Wendell will re-W member for two reasons. First, St. George won a thrilling 25-20 contest after trailing by two touchdowns at the half. Secondly, the game was Marty’s introduction to Bill O’Connor who now rooms with him in Howard Hall. The meeting was not a pleasant one. Marty had forgotten to down an end-zone kickoff and Bill, who was playing end for Mt. St. Michaels, fell on it for a touchdown.
Marty came to Notre Dame in July, 1944, as a Navy trainee and promptly went about earning his first letter, at fullback. Primarily he was a defensive back and rated with “Boley” Dancewicz and Frank Szymanski as the hardest tackling line backers on campus, a reputation which he still possesses.
Two weeks before the start of the ^,1945 season, Marty was transferred to ^Great Lakes and to another phase of his career. Coach Paul Brown had

rounded up choice morsels from the college ranks and he had a big Negro fullback named Marion Motley, now siege gun of Brown’s own Cleveland team.
MARTY WENDELL
When the dike begins to leak
Motley was injured for the first two weeks and Marty started at fullback but when Marion returned, Wendell was instructed to try the center slot. Coach Brown never regretted the move.
However, despite the latent talent, the squad emerged from its first four games with a woeful record of three losses and one tie before coming to life with a five-game victory burst. One game remained, Notre Dame, and Marty found himself playing against his own ex-mates as Emil Sitko and Jim Mello had done before him. Wendell’s play was outstanding that day and a bedraggled Irish team collapsed, 39-7, in a startling upset.
Last spring, Coach Leahy decided that two years at one position was quite enough for such a versatile lad. Besides, guards Mastrangelo and Rovai were gone and the guard section was badly in need of reinforcements. Despite injuries and assorted bad luck he has proved himself a top-notch offensive guard and brilliant backer-up in the customary 5-3-2-1 defense.
In short, Wendell has done it again. In the day -of the football specialist Marty has proved he specializes in almost anything!
INDIANA STATE GAME
The Varsity basketball team meets Indiana State in Notre Dame gym December 6 at 7:30 p. m. Students will be admitted on athletic books at all entrances. Doors will open at 6:45 p. m.
Married students are reminded that athletic books issued to wives were valid for football only and WILL NOT BE HONORED FOR BASKETBALL.
General admission for seats not occupied by the student body will be sold at the box office at game Hmo at the price of $1.00.
TICKET MANAGER
Foot Pounders Prep for Time and Space Assaults
Indoor track practice has officially opened according to an announcement by Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy and his assistant Bob Lawrence. The coaches will welcome candidates for any event, and are especially seeking some strong contestants for the field events.
The cinder squad gives promise of a good season this year with several of last year’s stars returning. John Smith, the crack hurdler; Bill Leonard, the miler; Jim Murphy, the two-miler, and Ernie McCullough, ace quarter-miler, are expected to form the nucleus of the team. McCullough is captain of this year’s thinliclads.
In addition there are several other monogram winners returning. They include Larry Keenan, John Johnson, Bob McDavid, Steve Provost, Bob Smith, Ray Sobota, Gerry Johnson, Ray Struble and George Sullivan.—Jim Howard
Columnist's Heave Opens Kampus Keslers League
Bob “The Week” Vierhile, Scholastic columnist, pitched the first cannon ball down a Bowlmor alley Sunday afternoon to start the proverbial ball rolling for the newly-formed Kampus Keglers bowling league.
League President Ernie Huffman was on hand for the ceremonies and sent over 20 bowlers from 24 campus clubs to the foul line following Vierhile’s opening heave. The Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., Director of Student Activities, awarded crisp five dollar bills to Tom Simon of the Syrian-Lebanese- Club who was the high individual performer, and to the Detroit Club (composed of Bair-ley, Kane, Janssen, Krass and Stock-man), top team pin-topplers.
The league, formed to stimulate activity by city clubs, will keep rolling each Sunday until March 31.
25
NOTRE DftME NAMES MAKE NEWS®
Plaques
On November 20, the United States Navy, represented by Rear Admiral J. Cary Jones, USN, Commandant of the Ninth Naval District, presented a bronze plaque to the University of Notre Dame with a citation, the following part of which is an excerpt:
“The efficiency, patriotism and cooperative spirit demonstrated by the University of Notre Dame in training NROTC, Navy V-12 and USNR Midshipmen units has been recognized by the entire nation. The men you provided have served their country in keeping with the best traditions of the naval service.”
ADM. JONES AND FATHER CAVANAUGH For service rendered
In accepting the plaque, the Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of the University urged that the United States must be strong both spiritually and materially, and in advocating national preparedness, he declared that it should be undertaken not only in a military way, but pointed out that the preparedness of minds and souls and bodies is also one of the means of preserving peace for our country. . . .
Plans
Last Monday, at the weekly meeting of the South Bend Association of Commerce, FATHER CAVANAUGH, speak
ing on “Notre Dame Plans for the Future,” told the members that Notre Dame faces three major challenges in this, the postwar period — enrollment, expansion of the research facilities, and lastly a moral challenge. In conclusion, Father Cavanaugh declared that the newly established Notre Dame Foundation has three principal objectives. First, to enhance the prestige of the University; secondly, to encourage the highest types of boys in the United States to enter Notre Dame; and thirdly, to build a large endowment. . . .
Plans for increasing the finances of the University of Notre Dame through the new Notre Dame Foundation were discussed here on the campus last week at a meeting of seventy-seven presidents of Notre Dame alumni clubs from all sections of the United States. The need for the Foundation and the method of its organization were explained to the group by the Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, president of the University; Rev. JOHN H. MURPHY, c.s.c., vice - president; Rev. ROBERT H. SWEENEY, C.S.C, executive assistant to the president; and HARRY G. HOGAN, president of the Alumni Association and chairman of the Foundation. During the two-day sessions, other types of information relative to the Foundation were pointed out by Rev. LOUIS J. THORNTON, C.S.C.; registrar, Rev. JOHN J. LANE, C.S.C., chairman of the committee on scholarships and prizes; HERBERT E. JONES, business manager of athletics; and JOHN V. HINKEL, director of public information. . . .
Plaudits
Priest - artist - sculptor, Rev. ANTHONY LAUCK, C.S.C., has been awarded honors for a sculpture and a drawing in the second annual exhibition at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D. C. Father Lauck, a native of Indianapolis, Ind., and a 1942 graduate of the University of Notre Dame, was the only artist in the prize winning group to receive two awards for work on exhibit. He is currently doing advanced work with Heinz Warneke, internationally known sculptor and animalier, in Washington. . . .
“Social Justice in the Modern World,’’ an 84-page booklet prepared by Dr. FRANCIS J. BROWN, Professor of Economics at the University of Notre Dame, is believed to be setting a precedent, in
that it is the first time a Papal Encyclical has ever been completely indexed. The booklet, on Pope Pius Xi’s renowned encyclical, “Quadragesimo Anno,” was released last week by the Outline Press. . . .
Famed Army chaplain Rev. MAURICE E. POWERS, C.S.C., who was formerly a faculty member at Notre Dame, has been returned to the United States for reassignment, it was learned here recently. Father Powers, a Major in the Army, was with New York’s famous 101st Mechanized Cavalry; the 12th Armored Division during some of the heav-^ iest fighting in the war; and he was later appointed as chaplain of the Berlin Command, from which post he was just relieved. Father Powers was graduated from Notre Dame in 1933. . . .
A remarkable turnout at the Vetville polls ultimately resulted in the election of VICTOR GULYASSY, of Cleveland, Ohio, as the new mayor of that thriving community. Vic, a law student who re-sdies in Apartment 18B in Vetville, was victorious over his only opponent, JOE WURZLER, by a considerable margin. He succeeds PAT HAGGERTY, of Toledo, last year’s mayor, who is retiring. . . .
Rev. B. H. B. LANGE, c.s.c., Litt.B., A.M., B.S., Ph.D., has a scientific-toned article in this month’s chesty issue of Strength and Health, the bar-bell enthusiast’s bible. Father Lange stresses the role played by weight-lifting in^
EX-MAYOR HAGGERTY and GULYASSY For a growing conununity
26
FATHER LANGE AND WEIGHT LIFTERS For round-shouldered asthenics
building America’s round - shouldered little asthenics into boulder-biceped athletics. The series is to be continued for the next two months.
And Positions
CLYDE A. LEWIS, an alumnus of 'the University of Notre Dame and a hero of World War II, recently was elected junior vice-commander-in-chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. He is in line for election as National Commander of the VFW in 1949.
JOHN N. CACKLEY, Jr., of Charleston, W. Va., former Treasury Department and United States Foreign Service official, has been appointed Executive Secretary of the newly-created Notre Dame Foundation, it was announced yesterday (Dec. 4) by James E. Armstrong, Secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Foundation.
EDGAR KOBAK, of New York City, President of the Mutual Broadcasting System, has been elected chairman of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at the University of Notre J)ame, it was announced yesterday by *he Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
COLLEGE PARADE
By JOHNNY ARMSTRONG AND JIM O'RIELEY
HIGH COMPRESSION SALESMANSHIP ...
The Michigan State News reports that the sky’s the limit with M.S.C. students in their 'efforts toward higher education. In a recent English class the students were assigned to present sales talks which were to be supplemented by visual aids. Not to be outdone by his talented classmates, sophomore Jerry Gilbert delivered an astounding sales sermon. It was unanimously declared the most forceful speech of the day. The visual aid? This enterprising native pi the Motor City came careening into the building astride a roaring, smoking tractor!
ALL COLLEGE PRESIDENTS, ATTENTION!
A current issue of the Daily Northwestern reports that President Snyder of that university was a recent victim of burglary. It seems that a suspicious character was arrested in a Chicago pawn shop several weeks ago while pawning ten suits, (seven hundred dollars worth of clothes) which were discovered to belong to Northwestern’s prexy.
FOWL PLAY AFOOT ...
Several stalwarts from Indiana U. were recently “given the bird,” reports the Indiana Daily Student. It seems that a cross country run was staged among university dormitory residents last week. Two fifteen-pound turkeys were awarded as first and second prizes. Third prize was a goose; fourth a duck, and fifth a chicken. The real contest of the morning proved to be the mad scramble for last place — the prize being an egg! A twenty-five piece pep band was at the finish line to cheer the harriers on. (Also present was an impressive array of stretchers and attendants.)
They laughed when I stood up to sing — How did I know I was under the table?	—The Spartan
THE EYES OF TEXAS ARE UPON HER .. .
The recent wedding of Princess Elizabeth in London must indeed have been a gala affair for, according to the SMU Campus, Texas A. & M. college sent a reporter to cover the proceedings on behalf of Texas and her forty-seven satellites.
From the Southern Cal Daily Trojan comes this bit of enlightening informa
tion. A fonner female editor of the DT has become editor of a Los Angeles paper, the Torch. Of course we know that the DT stands for Daily Trojan, but we do wonder if the Torch burns alcohol as fuel.
OH! THOSE FRENCHMEN!
According to the Daily Northwestern, a suave young Frenchman with a heavy accent has pulled a few fast ones on gullible coeds at that school. It seems that he starts out by making dinner dates with the gals, and he does show up. In fact he even buys the dinner, but then, when the girls are beginning to think he’s a wonderful fellow, he just happens to lose his wallet. Not wanting a beautiful evening to be spoiled, the girls fork over their own savings to aid the poor, unfortunate Frenchman. Naturally, he disappears.
Up at Michigan State, a fellow tried to pull a fast one on his prof, but we are sorry to say he failed miserably. After examining the impossible questions found in so many of today’s textbooks, he thought he’d try the professor. He figured that even the Brain wouldn’t be able to answer the ones he picked. He was, however, very discouraged when the prof rattled them off almost word for word. Some friends finally told him — it was the prof who had written the text.
THINGS KNOWN AND UNKNOWN
We feel this next article to be of extreme interest and importance, and sincerely hope it will be published in pamphlet form sometime soon for fur-thei* distribution. It is an editorial from the Butler Collegian, which, if given in its entirety, would make sense. Therefore we will merely quote a few lines at random. To begin with, the headline reads: “Harry Truman is President.” How many of our readers knew that? Then they proceed to tell us that a candidate must be widely known in order to win a direct primary. How many of our readers could figure that one out for themselves? We find the answer to all these explanatory declarations in the final line which reads, “Surely, every Butler student knows that Harry Truman is our chief executive.” Surely, someone must know that?
Many a fork in the road has been used for a spoon.
27
The 1947 Notre Dame Basketball Team
TOP MEN IN NOTRE DAME'S 1947-48 CAGE PLANS — Above: Forward Jim O'Halloran. Top left: Center John Brennan. Center left: Guard Paul Gordon. Bottom left: Forward John Hiller. Top right:	Coach	Moose	Krause.	Center
right:	Guard	Kevin	O'Shea.	Bottom
right:	Forward Leo Barnhorst.	Tomor-
row night's starting lineup will have O'Shea and	Gordon	at the	guards,
Brennan at center, with Barnhorst and O'Halloran or Hiller at the forwards.
28
MUS'C * Books » Radio
Ever since Bing Crosby vacated the Kraft Music Hall, the sponsors have vainly tried to fill the vacuum created. Recently they succeeded. They contracted two old-time music-making cronies of the late George Gershwin—Al Jolson and Oscar Levant.
Jolson, famous reinhabitant at 61, was made known to the younger generation through the “Jolson Story,” a glorified $kepic of “show business.” Now, as the ^Music Hall’s protagonist, the ancient volume of forgotten lore is earning a salary of $7,500 a week for doing much the same as always. He’s singing low-down Southern tunes to Northerners, and even without Larry Park, his screen impersonator, he’s capturing the younger generation. He still manages to sell himself as one of the best showmen in the business.
Gathering Hooper points between the Southern lyrics is Oscar Levant, the musically talented wit and pundit. Levant is noted principally for his composer-like performance of Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue.” He has played it so many times that a critic once wrote “Again, the Rhapsody! But Levant does it beautifully!”
Of course, Levant has also proved himself in other fields. He established ^himself as a writer, wit, and authority on music by his book A Smattering of Ignorance. Later, he became the suave “walking encyclopedia of music” on fellow know-it-all John Kieran’s program, Information Please.
Now, as Jolson’s collaborator, he helps the program immensely by tossing sarcastic witticisms whenever’ he pleases.
The unkind have posed the argument that Levant is intensely pleased with himself. At any rate, he no longer pulls his old gag about Gershwin: “Tell me George, if you had it all to do over again, would you fall in love with yourself?”
Together, Levant and Jolson make a pretty good team, if you can take Jolson’s mooing. There are some very good gags to be heard on the show, and so, if you’ve time for laughter along about 8 pm on Thursday next, twist the dial
NBC (clearest local outlet, WMAQ, Chicago) and the Kraft Music Hall.
—Jack Hummel
AMERICAN CONSTITUTIONAL GOVERNMENT*
“The American Constitution is the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man.” Although this observation must be attributed to the late British Prime Minister, William Gladstone, it is no less true that Notre Dame’s Professor of Political Science, Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, is an equally devoted exponent of this school of thought. One of the nation’s foremost authorities on the American system of government as it functions under the Constitution, Dr. Bartholomew has combined a deep understanding of the subject with exhaustive research and genuine scholarship to produce his latest work entitled, American Government Under the Constitution.
Published in convenient hand-book form, this volume is a detailed presentation of governmental organization and procedure as it has developed under the Constitution. Such a complete picture of American government does it give, so compactly and logically arranged, and so thoroughly indexed is it, that this book unquestionably belongs on the reference shelf of every college student. For the problem, as Professor Bartholomew notes in his preface, is a basic and serious one: that of arousing Americans to a realization and an appreciation of what we have here in the Constitution, and to do it by education. Publication of American Government Under the Constitution is certainly a lengthy stride toward the solution of this problem.
The introductory chapters of this book cover the major points of historical background, the fundamental principles of the Constitution, and political parties. In the second part Dr. Bartholomew deals with the Constitution clause by clause, combining interpretation and commentary with a detailed discussion of the development of governmental organization and procedure.
Particularly worthy of note in this section is the chapter dealing with the Judiciary. Here the author’s specialization in Constitutional Law is evident and here, too, he emphasizes his concept of
* Paul C. Bartholomew, Ph.D.. American. Government Under The Constitution, Dubuque, Iowa: Wm. C. Brown Co., 1947. 309 pp. vi, $3.00.
the function of the Supreme Court as a “legalistic” body—bound only to determine “legalistically” whether- an action is permitted under the Constitution. “It is not the function of the Court to decide whether a certain action is good or bad for us, whether we need it or not. Its proper function is to decide whether an action that has been taken is or is not permitted or authorized under the Constitution.”
The third part of Dr. Bartholomew’s treatise on American government covers the subject matter of state and local government in the United States. In addition the book includes charts outlining graphically the governmental system of the United States and of the House of Representatives and the Senate, floor plans of the Capitol Building, charts of the progress of a bill through a state general assembly, diagrams outlining the systems of the mayor-council city plans and commission plans, and the complete texts of the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation, and the Constitution of the United States.—FJK
Some Go Up, Some Down In Main Building Renovation
The renovating of the Main Building has brought about the change in location of many of the offices. The west wing of the first floor, formerly the Carroll Hall study hall, now houses the Alumni Foundation, the Alumni Association, and the Department of Public Information.
The Carroll Hall wash and locker rooms are now the offices of the Veterans Administration. The Office of the Registrar will occupy the space vacated by the Veterans Administration. The Prefect of Discipline’s office will be moved up to the first floor. The present discipline office ■will be used as a conference room for the director of studies.
Work is also being done to enlarge the office of the Purchasing Department.
N.D. Sends Eight Delegates To NFCCS Regional Meet
Eight delegates were selected at the NFCCS Local Council meeting last week to represent the University at the Fort Wayne Regional Council meeting to be held next week at St. Mary-of-the-Woods College, near Terre Haute, Indiana. The principal business of this meeting will be to draw up the plans for the annual regional congress.
The delegates will be Lou Burns, senior delegate; B. J. Bedard, junior delegate; Tom McCaffrey, regional commission chairman; Tom Murray, regional recording secretary, and observers Frank Keenan, Dan Norander, Robert Brzezinski and Robert McLaughlin.
29
The Scorner’s Seat
(Continued from Page 6) urday afternoon is the best bargain on the air, but it would be a better bargain still if they would condescend to sing it in English. In England, English seems to do well enough, but perhaps, having-had it longer, they are more familiar with it. The Metropolitan Opera Company may consider it only a passing fancy.
In Italy, Germany, and France, you never hear the opera sung except in the language of the respective country where it is seen. But here, we keepers-of-Amer-ican-ingenuity not only sing most operas in their original languages, but we proceed to take a Russian opera, Borsi Gzc-donoff, and twitter it in a mellifluous Italian. It cught not to take too much exertion on the part of the Met to find an able poet who could translate the operas into good, idiomatic English. People simply cannot understand what goes on when all the actors are speaking and singing in a foreign tongue. Even Americans who, in a haphazard way, can speak and understand French, German, or Italian are at sea when those languages are sung.
The only reason that operas continue to be sung in foreign language is that opera fans have not raised their voices and made a loud, long lament. It is just about time that they did. I begin: Consider this as a long, loud lament.
WHOSE BASKETBALL TEAM IS THIS?
One look at Notre Dame’s 1947-48 bas-
interested in
music?
... in jazz? — light opera? — symphonic?. .. every issue of PIC carries the latest record news and reviews.
Sports • Apparel • Fiction • Careers
In the December issue on all newsstands. • .25c.
JOHN DEFANT, Campus Representative
ketball schedule which has arranged for games to be played everywhere but at Notre Dame, leads an observer to the conclusion that the team must have been sold, when we were not looking, to the Rotary International. They rotate all around the country and come to roost but infrequently. To add to the woe of the student body,- with only eight games scheduled for the gym to begin with, two of these games have been slated for holiday periods. I hope they edify South Bend. One of these is with Kentucky, perhaps the best team in the country. After a meagre schedule of four home football games, this coup de grace is too much. If seating capacity is all that counts, I suggest that all the games be played in the Hollywood Bowl. Otherwise, Notre Dame students ought to get a chance to see a fair share of their teams’ games.
TO EE HANGED AT THE NEXT ASSIZES:
The individual who chirps inanities on the “Kreamo” bread radio ads. If I were starving in the jungle, I would starve a while longer before I ate “Kreamo’” bread. I hope it all gets moldy.
REGISTRAR'S OFFICE MOVES
The Registrar’s Office has been moved from its former location adjoining the Office of the Director of Studies and is now located in remodeled offices, formerly occupied by the Veteran's Administration.
Be sure to read:
OF MIKE AND MEN an article about RED BARBER MEMORY IS A I R I C « by Leonard Reed
PRESIDENTIAL POSSIBILITY No. 4 Harold Stassen
PIC
THE MAGAZINE
FOR YOUNG MEN
Entertainment Features r Architect's Club Party
Approximately 87 pencil-and-crayon boys, members of the Architect’s Club, gathered in the Danish Hall last week where George Lee, as chairman of the committee responsible for the affair, set the big party in motion. In addition 'co numerous bottles, the hall was decorated with comic posters and caricatures, the work of the party participants themselves. Pat Weishapl was awarded first prize for his entry in this field.
The main attraction was a series of impersonations by club members of various instructors supposedly conducting an architectural judgment. Charles Blomfield directed the act, which featured Louis Moossy, Pat Gallagher, Earl Carlsen, John Chopas, Ross Dugan-, and Don Rigoni. Blomfield also enter^ tained with a humorous solo. A short melodrama concluded the entertainment for- the night.	Jim Nachtegall
WANT TO EARN $9000 A TEAR?
Would you like to be your own boss . . . with professional standing in your community? Then you’ll be interested in the opportunities offered by a career in life insurance selling for The Mutual Life. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
If you can qualify, we offer a 3-year on-the-job training course, plus a 2-year compensation plan to provide an income while you are learning. After that, the Mutual Lifetime Plan provides an opportunity for earnings limited only .by your own efforts . . . plus a liberal retirement income at 65. Send for Aptitude Test Today! Address Room 1100.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
34 Nassau Street RBr Alexander E. Patterson Hew York 5, N.Y. W	President
30
%N.D., St. Mary's Send Delegates to Meet
Thirty Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students will travel together to Milwaukee this Sunday to attend the two-day Fourth Annual Congress in observance of the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe, being held at Marquette University and Cardinal Stritch College. This event is one of the two congresses held each year by the Tri-Regional Commission on Inter-American Action of the National Federation of Catholic College Students (NFCCS), the other one being in observance of Pan American Day in April.
“Apostolic Work in Latin America” will be the theme of the Congress, and each of the fifteen participating colleges j^will hold a sectional meeting dealing ™'with a specific phase of this subject. German Rojas, a Chilean student, will lead Notre Dame’s meeting, which is entitled “Activities of the Church in Chile,” while the St. Mary’s delegation will busy themselves with “Missionary Activities in Mexico and Central America.”
The program for the first cay, which will be held at Cardinal Stritch College, will begin with an address by Reverend John F. Bannon of St. Louis University to the general session in the auditorium. Following this will be the more sociable aspects of the Congress: dinner, the all-school get-together in the college lounge, and the dance in the gymnasium.
Holy Mass in Marquette’s Gesu Church will start off the program for the second day, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. After breakfast will come the very interesting sectional meetings, which, because of their small size, usually develop into heated discussions with everyone present taking part. The results of these sessions will then be hashed over at the general meeting immediately following.
After lunch and the officers’ pow-wow, the local group will head for home, a much more educated body in many respects.
NOTE. If there are any vacant bus seats at time of publication anyone interested in making the trip may do so by depositing the $6.00 fare in Room 108, Law Building.—Tom Murray
ing there will be shown a color film entitled “Glass for Science.” The film was released by the Corning Glass Works of Corning, New York. A representative of the company will accompany the film and will give a brief talk on the manufacturing of glass.
Students who are interested in this subject and who are not members of either of these two clubs are invited to attend. The time of the meeting will be announced later. It will be held in
BUS TRAVEL MADE MORE REFRESHING BY STOP FOR COKE
■either the Engineering auditorium or the Biology auditorium.
Pre-medical students who intend to enter medical school in September of 1948 are required to take a Professional Aptitude Test which will be given February 2, 1948, for those who have not already taken the test. The registration will be open until December 15 in Room 202 of the Chemistry building.
Mxirray Powers
Two Clubs Will Pool Meeting To See New Film on "Glass"
Aesculapians and members of the .Science Club will hold a combined meeting Monday, Dec. 15, Dean Lawrence Baldinger has announced. At this meet-
BOTTLED UNDHt AU1HOMTY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND.
© 1947, The Coca-Cola Caapaay
31
Student Vets Warned by VA Of Reentrance Requirements
Student-veterans who drop out of schools and colleges before completing their course were cautioned today by Veterans Administration that they will have to comply with more strict requirements to get a VA certificate to reenter training under the G-I Bill.
VA explained that veterans must have a supplemental certificate of eligibility when they change from one school or training establishment to another.
A veteran, who of his own volition interrupts his training at a time other than at the end of a term, semester or training period, will not be issued such a certificate until he establishes satisfactory evidence that:
(a)	His interruption resulted from good cause, i.e., illness, economic conditions, or other circumstances beyond his control.
(b)	The institution or establishment in which he was training is willing to reaccept him as a student or trainee.
The New Jersey Club
Invites All
NOTRE DAME MEN
to
NOTRE DAME NIGHT
-	at
Rank Dailey's Meadowbrook Route 23, Cedar Grove, New Jersey
DECEMBER 26, 1947 ★ .
Tickets Aren't Necessary — Bring Your Date and Enjoy the Music of
STAN KENTON
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Coast~to-Coast Broadcast That Night
'Pirates of Penzance'
(Continued from Page 9) plundering pals and their swashbuckling king (Roy O’Neil) hate to see him leave as does his girl friend Ruth (Elaine Bruck), who at the tender age of 47 still manages to throw the sergeant of police for a stage-shaking pratfall at the end of the second act.
As the witching hour nears, Freddie bids his comrades adieu by decrying their merciful attitude toward orphans. (It seems that every ship they board is manned by foundlings, whom they pity not plunder). Shaking off Ruth, however, isn’t so easy. She almost buffaloes him into taking her along when 20 daughters of the Major General (Thorson) and Mabel (Felicia Schroeder) in particular, wander over the hill into the pirates’ lair. The city gals completely overshadow Ruth and give Freddie an idea of what he’s been missing as a buccaneer. The rest of the mob think they’re pretty sharp too and all goes well until their papa slips in on the scene. Not desirous of pirate sons-in-law he reclaims his army-sized family by falsely disclosing that he too is an orphan. Unfortunately he is one major general whom lies torment.
By the second act he possesses a thoroughly nagging conscience and, fearing pirate revenge, he calls for a squad of bobbies to liquidate the mob. In rapid succession Freddie discovers he was born on leap year day, thus won’t reach his 21st birthday for 63 more years and is stuck •with the pirate trade; the pirates descend upon the general’s castle overwhelming the cops; the cops turn around and subdue the pirates in the name of the queen only to be told they are renegade peers. By final curtain all’s well with the pirates turning peers, the general giving them his daughters’ hands in marriage, and Freddie, finally free, able to marry Mabel.
Thorson handles his role with his usual zest as do O’Neil, Reutz, Miss Bruck and Miss Schroeder. John Com- • merford scores as the pirate king’s aide and Bill Mills brings down the house as a heavily-accented sergeant of police. Frances Hansen, Petrina Mitchell and Peg Gardner handle the other speaking roles quite capably.
The girls’ chorus includes Elaine Korth, Geraldine Posvic, Nancy Shanahan, Betty Nolan, Marie Nussbaum, Pat Moran, Marilyn Brennan, Rosemarie Nemeth, Gretchen McCaffrey, Rosemond Feltes, Sophie Karras, Marian Whee-land, Bernadette Lang, Mary Caryl Dale, Geneal Kramer and Mary Fleming.
Cast as pirates and policemen are
Lou Almasi, Larry Metcalf, Harry _ Reich, Dave Schoen, Victor Smith, Bob* Hochman, Dudley Birder, Norv Geier, Howard Hornung, Richard Finnegan, Don Curran, Bill Danzi, Bob Schlosser, John Laughlin, Bob Duffy, Bud Marshall and George Jones.
The show is produced by the University Theatre, whose head is the Rev. Matthew Coyle, c.s.C. Prof. Birder handles both the direction of the cast and the orchestra.
Pirates of Penzance continues tonight, Sunday night, and closes Monday night. Gilbert and Sullivan fans in particular, and for that matter anyone who likes a colorful musical, expertly cast and directed shouldn’t miss seeing it.
—Ed Snyder
Rosary College
(Continued from Page 15) would send theii- daughters to Rosary. Such news is encouraging to the Sisters of St. Dominic of Sinsinawa whose tireless labors have built Rosary College into one of the leading women’s colleges in the country.
Rosary can look with pride upon a steadily growing student body which can hold its own socially and intellectually with the best, plus an ever-strengthening alumnae association which should make the college’s next 25 years in River Forest as successful as its first.
Southern California
(Continued from Page 19)
ning TD pass that put S. C. in the Bowl over the Westwood Bruins; Ted Tanne-^f hill, All-Coast last year, and all-bench this year; Jay Roundy, Frosh star who’s already broken into the spot on several occasions this season.
At full the Trojans will probably start Lillywhite, although Betz has earned the position previously this fall. Outstanding among the reserves are Newell Oestreich (pronounced Ay-strike) , whom N. D. men will remember for his rocket-propelled punts, and Bill Martin, only 5-8, but squat and tough at 195.
All told the Pacific Coast Conference champs provide a solid and respected opponent for the invading Notre Darners. The series between the two schools has seen before a visiting Irish favorite leave on the short end of an upset score.
It’s going to be the best ball game of the year for the Irish. Already Leahy has said Notre Dame will beat the Bi^.~ Red team in the final quarter. We ll see. ' Broadcast time is 4 p. m. (CST).
32
state, a superior Nebraska Club could Rae formed.
Does anyone share my opinion?
Jim Carrig, 323 Breen-Phillips.
HONEST MEN DEPT.
Dear Editor:
Is there a Santa Claus? Since yesterday I’m not so sure. Someone put a wristwatch in the pocket of my overcoat. Could it have been Santa?
It might have been planted on me by members of an international spy ring, who are after my secret formula for beating the parlays. Then again it might have been put there by mistake. Not wishing to take any chances, I have turned it in to the P.D.’s office. If the owner can guess a number between one and ten, he can pick it up there.
Any reward that might be forthcoming will be gratefully accepted by,
John Commerford, 22 Lyons Hall.
Bravo—Editor.
THE WILCOX-BAITERS LEAGUE
Dear Editor:
Again and again, J. Wilcox misrepresents the facts. This time, he says that Pegler has condemned the Catholic Church for voicing its opinion on economics. This is a lie! J. Wilcox also claims that Pegler tiraded against the N.C.C.M. for their condemnation of the Taft-Hartley Bill. This is also a lie. J. Wilcox has tried to-draw an analogy between the thinking of the Catholic Church and the N.C.C.M., which is fallacious since the N.C.C.M. doesn’t represent the Catholic Church and therefore anyone including Catholics (which, by ©the way, Pegler is) may disagree with the N.C.C.M. . . .
J. B. McCarthy, South Bend, Ind.
Dear Editor:
It seems that Mr. Wilcox and Mr. Cunningham have classed me as an unchristian trust and monopoly supporter. I resent their “holier than thou’’ attitude toward both J. B. McCarthy and myself. . . .
My original letter implied that Mr. Wilcox had intentionally evaded the purpose of the Chicago Tribune’s expose of Communist filth in textbooks. Never once did he use the words Communism or Red, but conveyed the idea that the whole expose was against the British character. . . .
Contrary to what one would gather from the utterings of both Cunningham and Wilcox, I did not take any issue on ^^aganism, materialism, monopolies, or ’trusts. I merely stated that Mr. Wilcox was wrong when he ignored the expose.
Mr. Wilcox and Mr. Cunningham know this (or should). That is why they write of paganism, materialism, monopolies, and trusts. . . .
Just for the record and just to make
these two gentlemen (and the editor with his small contribution) happy, I do like capitalism and deplore socialism. . . .
I do expect fairness, and neither Mr.
My demands are a two-hour week on my homework—and a pack and a half of Dentyne Chewing Gum for overtime.
“Fact is, Pop, it’ll even be a treat to study overtime—for a bonus of swell, nifty-tasting Dentyne Chewing Gum! And don’t forget, Dentyne helps keep my teeth white, too.”
Dentyne Gum —Made Only By Adams
THE MAGAZINE
COLLEGE MEN
HAVE BEEN
WAITING FOR
IN THE DECEMBER ISSUE 25c AT YOUR BOOKSTORE
BASKETBALL PREVIEW COLLEGE LIFE IN BRITAIN BULL SESSIONS AT AMHERST QUEENS ON CAMPUS
VARSITY VISITS THE U. OF MICHIGAN
plus leads of
SPORTS e STORIES • PHOTOS PIN-UPS e GAGS • HUMOR DATE CLINIC
SPEC.Al
S1 for 6 BIG ISSUES
VARSITY's the new word for o college man's reading pleasure. All over the country, "Big Men an Campus" ore singing its praises and, NO WONDER I Every issue is tailor-made to meet the tastes, needs and interests of college men.
There's top-notch sports, fast-moving fiction, rib-tickling humor, eye-catching pin-ups, hard-hitting tips on careers, dating, grooming, records, movies and everything else that's important to YOU.
There's no other magazine quite like VARSITY. It speaks YOUR language — It's the magazine YOU have been waiting far!
MAIL THIS COUPON T O D A T
VARSITY,	C-l
2M Fourth Ave., New York 10, N. Y.
Count me in an your introductory offer to VARSITY! Here's $1 for 6 issues.
NAME__________________________________
ADDRESS.
CITY____
I I I I
I
■ZONE_____STATE.
.1
Wilcox nor Mr. Cunningham showed any moderate degree of it last week when they so completely confused and evaded the issue at hand.
S. A. M.
(Name withheld)
Scholastic regrets it must end verbal tussle between Messrs. McCarthy, S. A. M. and Columnist Wilcox. Suggest further baiting and debating be carried on in some auditorium. It should drarv a full house.—Editor.
ULTIMATUM AT WASHINGTON HALL
Dear Editor:
An incident occurred last Saturday evening which surprised me only insofar as it had not occurred sooner. I refer to the ultimatum offered to the men (children would be more appropriate) in the Washington Hall movie who persisted in rendering their ‘‘‘cat-calls,” jeers, and sometimes, lewd remarks, especially when a female (any female) appeared on the screen. Whether the majority of these rowdies were freshmen, sophomores, juniors or seniors remains to be seen; but I think most of us have a good idea who they were. Regardless, the fact that nuns and female guests of other students were present, or simply that Notre Dame men should have more sense, did not seem to control their actions. It was for this very reason that many students were reluctant to attend the movie on campus, and sought entertainment elsewhere.
Orchids to Father Kehoe for delivering his ultimatum to the boys, and onions to those sarcastic individuals who continued to hiss during the movie. Wise up fellows, you’ve seen women before.
Stephen J. Galla, Jr., 10 Morrissey Hall
And a fervent “Amen” to Reader Galla from Scholastic, which long has lamented the situation and editorially tried to correct it.—E4. .
Cavanaugh Concerts
TUESDAY, DEC. 9
Swan Lake Ballet._Tschaikowsky Selections from Madame Butterfly
-------------------Puccini
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 10
Symphony No. 1 in F Major._
............... Shostakovitch
Under the Spreading Chestnut
Tree..............................................Weinberger Warsaw Concerto ................Addinsell Malaguena .................  Lecuona
FRIDAY, DEC. 12
Concerto in A Minor.............. Grieg
Symphony Espagnola .............. Lalo
Campus Clubs
(Continued from Page 6)
Treasurer Joe Tremper. In addition to the election of officials, arrangements for a holiday dance were handled. The dance, with Bill Berber as chairman, will be held at the Fort Wayne Country Club on December 27. (No spoons, but a lot of drive-ers are backing this affair) Herman Binkley’s Orchestra will handle the music. In the future, the club is having a steak dinner at the Ramble Inn, and most important, the members will have a memorial Mass said for Brother Justin, who was principal of Central Catholic High School in Fort Wayne in 1939.
You re the man
most likely to succeed!
Van Hensen shirts
Masterpieces of sewmanship—they make you the picture of masculine . smartness. You’ll like the low-set collar models, the action-tailoring, figure-fit. Sanforized fabrics, laboratory-tested 1500 times a month. Get your money’s worth—always say Fan Hensen Shirts. $3.25, $3.95, $4.50. Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
SPARE SPREE
The Kampus Keglers got under wayT-Sunday. Twenty-four teams are scheduled to split the maples at the local alleys, and the first season should be very successful. The league will bowl on Sunday afternoons at the Bowl-Mor alleys. The prizes offered to the teams and team members will provide much incentive, and high strings should be a common occurrence. Engineers will be on hand to count the “logs,” and A.B. students will maintain a “psychological” balance among the bowlers during what should be a striking season.
- (Send all club news to 251 Cavanagh Hall. News wanted in any special issue must be turned in eight days in advance.)

34
Business, too,
must have expert navigation
IN the telephone business, much of the knowledge of "where we are” and guidance as to "where we are headed” comes from the analysis of statistics.
Telephone statisticians and engineers are constantly studying trends and figures. They assemble the facts, analyze them, correlate them, discover their significance, draw guidance from them. .
The work of these men is vital to our never-ending task of improvingtelephone service. In such work many college-trained men have found satisfying and rewarding careers.
And this is but one of the many interesting phases of the telephone business.
There’s opportunity and adventure in telephony.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
T:i- u:<ivsasi

* 1 Lil BRARY LIBRARY-
CHESTERFIELDS OF COURSE-
DAZE
local
THERE’S LOTS MORE SMOKING PLEASURE TO THEM
Copyright 1947, Liggett & Myebs Tobacco Co.