
SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 
• • • •, •• • ••• ..• _,-. ,.•,,;:r. 

2001 & 2002 Indiana Collegiate Press SCHOLaSTIC 
Association News Magazine of the Year 
INFORMED. INTELLIGENT. OUT OF THE ORDINARY. 
~Iv,)

l0 ISSUES ~ DOL_LARS 
,-----------I 
1 PLEASE PLACE ME .ON YOUR ~ll;li]l@/fLIST. . SEND THIS-FORM AND 1· $35.00 PAYMENT TO: 
! NAME:---------------SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE I 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. I
! 

NOTRE DAME, IN 46556I ADDRESS: -------------­
I 1 I -I I­
r 

~~··" COVER ILLUSTRATION TABLE OF CONTENTS PHOTO PA2GE tl.i ERIC I RYAN MIKE . . V 3 /·"'· . .··· DOVERSBERGER GREENBERG 
-

THE ELEVENTH OF APRIL · 

TABI...E OF CONIT""ENTS · . · ­
» Into the Sunset by Sarah Childress 07 » Building up the Prestige by Carolyn LaFave 08 » The Write Stuff byStephanie Rubino 22 » Golden Anniversary by Mary Morgan 24 » Playfng Out History by Sheila Flynn 32 
Shattered Security 
1O· 

by Christopher Kelly _ . · · Notre Dame's security and police say that vehici.Jlarvandalism is oil the rise; What are · . they doing about it, and wha~ can students do to protect_ their cars? · · 
·sarcastic 2002 ·. · -.1·:-3· 
··j;yScholastic staff ·... ·. . 
·CQVER: Eight pages to ridicule the al­.· 6ohoi policy and everything el.se. Bet you didn't see that c8ming. Send all hate 
mail to scholast@nd.edu: . .. · 
·:i:1~ady and WiHi~gha.~;:.':::'::t· 
2a·· 
. by.Gerard Meskill: · . . . . , ... . .. · · . . . . . . .. . · . · The footbaH t~ani_: look~ to· riiak~-~ tr.~s~ ·· ~tart wi_th coach. Tyr9ne V\fillihgham's, ··: . 

revamped offense. · ·· · •. · .. · · 
:. .~ •. . ­
From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds ND Notebook 4 Week in Distortion Campus Watch 21 Calendar Splinters 25 Final Word 
31 34 35 36 


\-.____;__··-----~-~~-------~-·-R_Es_P_o_N_D_To_:_·_sc~H-I_LD_RE@ND.EDU 

Gotcha!

It was abusy day at the newsroom, and as a summerintern, I was even busier. My phone rang and I snatched it up. "Sarah? This is RickWalker from 98 FM-KCQ, how are you today?" He said that he had read my article about a school-board election squabble and wanted to talk about one of the key players -on the air. "So you'll do it? We're on in five seconds," Rick said, without giving me a chance to speak. He let the Dixie Chicks fade out and started firing questions at me. "So a lot of us are serious fans of this guy," Rick says. ''What do you think about him?" ''Well, I don't really know hi-'' "Well, yeah but didn't you two used to date awhile back?" The man was 50 years old. ''What? No, we never dated-'' ''Evergo to amovie? Sharepopcorn with the guy?" I tried to laugh offthe questions, but they became increasingly crude. I cringed, my face reddened. I was about to protest when Rick burst outlaughing. "You've just been scammed!" Iheard laughter in the background as my friend came on the line and explained that he and his co-worker had conspired to trick me. Neither could believe I answered those questions "on the air." Luckily for my look for friend, I didn't get mad. I was a little.chagrined, sure, but I laughed·with him. I had to 

ISSUE 12 
admit, it was pretty funny.
on 

APRIL25 In a similar spirit, I present "Sarcastic;" eight pages that I hope you'll find as entertain­ing, if not less cringe-worthy. We point and laugh at everybody: administrators, students, that one campus newspaper-and ofcourse, the new alcohol policy. Ifyou find anything too outrageous, let us know, but remember, it's meant as ajoke. And, we hope, a joke well played. 
Four Cheers 

Last weekend, Scholastic was named News Magazine of the Year for the second year in a row by the 2002 Indiana Collegiate Press Association. Several senior staff members received awards: AdamAroian, Kat Corte, Katie Freddoso and Jacki Kiefer, as well as the last two editors in chief, Jim Pastore and Michael Griffin. Current staff members Jessica Daues, Cristin Fenzel and Gerry Meskill also won awards, as well as former News Editor Matthew Ziegler and photographer Kate Foster. The Juggler once again won Literary Magazine of the Year. The Dome and The Observer won second and third places, respectively. Congratulations to all the winners. 
Good Morrow and Good Luck 
This is the first issue in four years for which Michael Griffin did not sacrifice his sleep and sanity. He and the other graduating seniors invested an incredible amount oftime and energy in the magazine. At the same time, I know the young and talented staff that has stepped up to take theirplace will certainly follow in their footsteps -thanks in part to the seniors' guidance. Good luck next year; we will miss you all. 
&{~
Sarah Childress, Editor 
Vol. 142, No. 11 • 11 APRIL2002 




SCHOLaSTIC 
Editor in Chief Sarah Childress 
Managing Editor Jessica L. Daues 
Executive Editor Cristin E. Fenzel 
News Mike BorgiaiChristopher Kelly Annie Robinson 
I 
Campus Life Sean Dudley, editor Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant 
Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor Jimmy Atkinson, assistant David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment Carrie E. Sweeney, editor Tracy Evans, assistant Matt Killen, assistant 
Departments Jennifer Osterhage, editor Meghan Gowan, assistant 
Design 
Eric Doversberger, editor Ryan Greenberg, assistant The Milchael Patrick Griffin Matthew Barr Nick Dailey Crissy Manary 
Photography 
Mike McNary, editor Liesl Marx, assistant 
Graphic Arts 
Maryn Necel, editor Michael M. delaRosa 
Copy 
Cecilla Hadley, chief Sequel Harding 
Distribution 
Mike McNary, manager 
Business 
Jessica B. Polish, manager 
Online Jamie L. Moran, manager 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine Is Copyright© 2001. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either In whole or In part, may be reproduced In any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Three words: I'll break you. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the Issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain Instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate Is $35 per year. Available back Issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Coples of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student 
body. 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 


lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/,...vocation 

art of balancing isn't easy, she points out, especially during the height of the season. The Irish players "take pride in their accom­plishments in the classroom." 
As if this wasn't enough to brag about, a comparison with competing schools gives Domers another reason to hold their heads a little higher. Compare the student-athlete graduation rate of ND to that of the "real" championship game. Imagine the head-to­head battle of Maryland's 19 percent ver­sus Indiana's 43 percent. How about Arizona's 13 percent? Or throw in Cincinnati's eight-that's right, eight ­percent. 
So while Notre Dame.men's basketball continues to aim for a coveted spot in fu­ture Final Four competition, they claim achievements to their name that are above and beyond anything accomplished on the r; court. More importantly, these NCAA sta­
r 
i
tistics demonstrate what should truly be .. taken into account when assessing the over­i ,. all success of any collegiate athletic pro­gram. Take that, Terps. D 

ANNIEROBINSON 
So Notre Dame didn't make it to the Fi­nal Four in Atlanta. Instead, after los­ing a nail-biter to Duke in the second round, the Irish exited the tournament without shame, leaving Irish hoops fans to ponder what might:have been, · But take heart, Domers. Notre Dame would be a shoo-in to compete in another, far more intellectual Final Four competi­tion. According to the Bloomberg News Ser­vice, an "Academic Final Four" would wel­come Notre Dame, Stanford, St. John's and Xavier. Throw win-loss records, free-throw percentages, and team dynamics out the window -this Final Four is based on per­formance in the classroom. Recent graduation statistics from the NCAA indicate the men's basketball pro­grams from these four schools all boast the top scholarship-athlete graduation rates in their divisions. With a graduation rate of 77 percent, Notre Dame would face 70-per­cent Xavier in a semifinal match-up. Stanford, with its 100 percent rate, would crush St. John's 80 percent rate, and move on to win the finals. 

If Notre 

Dame took on Duke in the classroom, even timeouts and three­point plays couldn't save the Blue Dev­ils. Duke's men's basket­ball gradua­tion rate was 
73 percent, which would allow Notre Dame to claim the Southern division title. 
"I think it says a lot that athletes here are able to be good students in the classroom and can balance the academics," says Bernadette Cafarelli, associate director of· Notre Dame's Sports Information. And the 
What is it like working with some of Hollywood's heavyweights, like Ben 
Affleck? 
I'mfromasmall town, so out here [inLA] Igo out to the bars and I'll see like five famous people-it's just like that all the time-you just say what up. 
Who was your favorite person to work with? 
Will Farrell, off the top of my head. He's a really sweet guy and also a really funny dude, even when he's not doing dialogue. · 
In the movie Clerks, we watched the action through the eyes of a surveillance camera. What would we 
see if we placed a camera in your 

"SnootchieBootchieNootchies!" lfthisdoesn 't ring a bell in your mindless movie dialogue memory, maybeyourememberthatlong-haired dude who recently hosted this year's NAZZ Familiarly known as Silent Bob's sidekick, Jay, Jason Mewes has kept us laughing (ifnot a bit perplexed) inplenty ofKevin Smith's cult films. Butwhatis the realJay like?After giving him a call Scholasticfound there's not much 
ofa difference between the two. 
So, Jay, I mean Jason ... everyone refers to you by your character. Are you a lot like that in real life? 
When I was 14 or 15, that's exactly how I was -100 percent. Now it's like 60 percent. When I was younger, I didn't care what I said to people. Now I know my boundaries. 

~-~~--~-H~-Y_O_UI -~ :,~~tJ!!lilfullmj{bi ~~,f©lliT!S ·.,. ··. · · , . . ~
~::~W!fi.~;©f~~~J~(iJ_@~l~j:::. :\·. . . . 
-: ' -:-::,.. ·.-...· ,. 
"Screw class'." . . .· . . .. . 
-psychology professor, still in his office ahalf­
···>•. . · hour into class 
·-: -·-. 

"I saw my date for the SYR. -she's very average, so I'm thinking I got achance at her:" · · · · · ·~ overheard.student 

"This is more food coloring than salad dressing." -student; on the red dining-hall salad dressing 
'Cuz if . 
. ·. ·.. . 

-overhead student 
-Dining-hall worker 
home? 
All you would see is my white ass ... No, I'm kidding. Well, it's me kickin' it at home, watching Matlock and Murder She Wrote. Sometimes, I'll go with a friend to an audi­tion and harass some cute girls. 
Alanis Morrissette ... as God? Your 
movie Dogma had an interesting spin on religion. How do you see God? 
I was ·a1ways brought up with that picture your grandparents have on the wall ... with brown hair and abeard. I wouldn't think God's a female, but I guess it's possible. Do you see yourself as a god? 
What would we find in your CD player on a typical day? 

Poor Righteous Teachers (a hip-hop reggae band) ... some DRE and Snoop ... I like a bunch of different stuff, back and forth. Hole's new CD; Celebrity Skin -I can listen to the whole thing over and over. 
Is it strange to see yourself on the big screen? 
They have dailies where everyone watches the tapes from the day before ... but _I don't enjoy seeing myself. I like to go more to see What other people are doing. 
If you could design the ideal movie to act in, what would it be like? 
Maybe karate ... like a Jackie Chan movie with some sword fighting scenes. Or some­thing real 1ark, like with Hannibal Lecter. 
I82 Years Ago Shopping phobia 
In the Nov. 13, 1920 issue of The Notre Dame Scholastic, a reporter comments on males and the art of shopping. 
A man ... enters a store at random....he makes a selection with the speed ofan Olym­pic hurdle,; and beats a swift retreat . ... But what does the gentleman do when a gannent is absolutely unacceptable? Does he at once resort to that privilege which is thejoy ofthe lady shopper, namely the exchange system? Unless he is ofan unusually intrepid nature, he does not. One ordeal has been sufficient without returning forfurther tolture. He de­termines to bear this loss and never to enter in the future the store responsible for the out­rage . ... The terrible ordeal, va,ying only in circumstances, is repeated many times in the course of a lifetime. But the. end seems al­ways to find the same vacillating, cowardly shopper that existed in youth. Some day per­haps man may asse,t himselfand the old or­der will change. 
I'll believe that one when I see it! 
-Jennifer Osterhage 

Do you have anything in the works for us to look forward to in the future? 
A sci-fi movie ... I'll be playing a totally different character this time. I'm also shoot­ing a few scenes in Jersey Girl this July. Kevin wrote and directed that one. · 
How about a little ND trivia ... what do you think of when I say the word 'parietals'? They are like curfews, with gender restrictions. 
Uh, never heard of it ... but you're allowed to stay up as late as you want? Hm, I think it's a little silly. It sucks for you guys, but I guess if you got to study it's a good thing. I think weekends should be all-nighters, though. 
-Tracy Evans 
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 




I Judgment Calls 
II Opinions and observations 
... RING BY SPRING Time's running out for the seniors. But if you haven't met the love of your life yet, take heart -there's always reunions. Or the priest­·hood. 
DINING-HALL TURKEY 
TETRAZZINI 
Sure, it's good the first night. But by day three, it's just not appetiz­ing anymore. Maybe it has something to do with its slightly greenish tint. 
POST-EASTER SNOW 
The only good thing about the white stuff in April is spring skiing, and there sure isn't spring skiing in South Be0nd. 
DAYLIGHT SAVINGS 
If South Bend is immune to a time change, why is Friends now on at 
7:00? 
ALUMNI WAKE 
t 
Live it up dawgs -there won't be another one like it ever again. 
FINDIT
t Blazing-fast and loaded, this ND­based file-sharing engine lets users download audio, movies, and software better than any Napster clone. 

ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLY 
.Television Graveyard·. ] 
Low ratings might spell doom for some 
JJ 

struggling shows by-
I

Network executives are grinding their axes. As another television season winds down, they're gearing up to announce their new fall schedules at the end of May. With dozens of new projects in develop­ment, networks hack excess material from their schedules. This year, low ratings mean that several quality shows won't make it to the 2002­2003 slate. Already confirmed dead are critical hits Once 
& Again and Roswell. Once & Again, now in its third season at ailing ABC, has seen several dif­ferent time slots since its premiere. ABC never kept it on a single night for very long, meaning that its fan base never grew be­yond its small, yet loyal audience. Roswell followed Buffy to UPN but couldn't muster the ratings that the vampire slayer com-. mantled. 
The future of Denis Leary's sharply writ­ten cop sitcom The Job isn't looking too promising, either. Another victim ofABC's scheduling game of hot potato, The Job originally aired last year, only to be held off until March as a midseason replacement. Putting it up against NBC's ratings power­house The West Wing didn't help, and the show has (yet again) been taken off the air. The chances of its return look slim. 
A similar fate likely awaits several FOX shows as well. Undeclared, which was praised for its hilarious and merciless look at college life, couldn't muster the numbers 

Matt Killen to keep it on the schedule. Though FOX has made no decision on the show, its absence will spell doom for its future. 
FOX also has halted production on Futurama, the animated sci-fi comedy from the creators of The Simpsons. Constantly preempted this year by NFL Sunday foot­ball games, FOX still claims that it plans to run the dozens of episodes it has left next sea­
son, though their commitment to this show seems tenuous. Despite this, some of Futurama's small yet in­tensely loyal fan base have started Web-based petitions to keep the show going, though their chances of success are next to zero. 
24, one of the best new dramas of the season, might not make it, either. This high-paced action-oriented drama was lauded by critics. FOX, however, placed it in the most competitive time slots (9:00 p.m.) on the most competi­tive night of television (Tuesday). The show's popularity amongst the critics was enough to convince FOX to keep the show on the air for the full season run, but it might not be enough to gar­ner a second season next year. 
Unfortunately, if the television net­works keep cutting back, they may leave unrealized potential on the chop­ping block. D 

"This year, low ratings mean that several quality shows won't' make it to the 2002-2003 slate." 
IDomelights COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE Source: Lieutenant Jeff Korros, NDSP 
Having wheels on campus is definitely a plus, whether you're making a late-night run to Meijer or a two-minute race to that 
8:30 a.m. class, and the majority of students have some form of transportation on campus. Take a look at the stats. 
T_otal parking spaces for faculty, staff and students: 7,200 Number of students with registered vehicles: approximately 5,700 Number of bicycles registered each year: 500-600 Number of bicycles on file: 3,300 
6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 

SARAHCHILDRESS 

Professor Yusaku Furuhashi still talces off his shoes before he en ters his third floor office in the Mendoza College of Business. He flashes a shy smile when you notice. ''That's the Japanese in me," he says. ''There's nothing special about it. That's the way I am." Furuhashi has a reputation among his colleagues for humility. He doesn't like to brag about his involvement in the identity-shaping changes he has helped bring to the university, often even downplaying his role -but his contributions are no less significant. This spring, after 41 years of academic and administrative service, the man who brought Japan to Notre Dame will retire. Furuhashi grew up a self-declared "country boy" in a tiny Japa­nese village about 20'yards from the Pacific Ocean. For many people he knew, coming to the U~ited States was merely a distant dream. Nevertheless, 10 years after World War Il, Furuhashi left Japan to finish his higher education in the United States. After earning his doctorate, Furuhashi planned to return to Japan and teach -until he got a call from Notre Dame. He was attracted by the university's new international vision. The "world outside" -which, in Japan, meant the US and now included the rest of the world -had always fascinated him. Now, he could participate in it. -By the time Furuhashi arrived, the university's "bubble" already had begun to expand. _"International" was the buzzword in academia, replacing the out-of-date concept of "foreign." Changing the word, Furuhashi explains, alters students' mentalities. Business strategies focused on a global, not local, community. Excited by the possibili­ties the.new ideas presented, Furuhashi says he just jumped in and started teaching, making his mark on the university on a professional and personal level. "Everybody knows Yu," says former president the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, CSC. "He's a wonderful guy ... He's become an integral part of the place." Furuhashi had a big hand in sculpting the original curriculum for the master's in business administration (MBA) as well as several degree and non-degree programs. He also served as the dean of the business school. Furuhashi saw many changes to the university at large: the admis­
. :· . . ' ,·,\.__ ;.,•.-.· 
>> After 41 years, the university~!; "living bridge" to Japan retires 
sion of women, the reduction of parking spaces, and the enhance­ment of the university's reputation, which shifted from football to­wards a prominent national and international institution. 
Perhaps Furuhashi's greatest influence, however, lies in his work expanding the international aspect of Notre Dame. The university had started to expand its community in Europe, but no programs ex­isted in Asia. Furuhashi seemed the perfect choice to help develop a study abroad program at Sophia University, the Catholic institution where he began studying English so many years ago. "He's been the living bridge between us and Japan," Hesburgh says. 
The program attracted a few students, but the university offered no Japanese classes upon their return. So, on top of his business classes, Furuhashi taught his native language -on the condition that the university hire language professors. "I taught as a stop gap," he says. The program now draws about 10 students to Japan each year, and four professors offer classes in the language. 
Furuhashi also helped to expand the business school internation­ally, helping to found the Center for U.S.-Japanese Business Studies, which he directs. The center sends American graduate students to Japan each summer and brings Japanese students to the US for three weeks for the groups to learn about cultural differences in business. 
"When students see a broader world, a larger world, beyond US shores ... they live in a globalized world in which lives are intercon­nected," Furuhashi says. "In a real sense, the globe is getting smaller." 
Perhaps most importantly, Furuhashi feels a part of the Notre Dame family. Both his wife and daughter are ND alumnae, and the country he planned only to visit for a year has become home. The university at which he planned to teach for two years has consumed his life. And, although he has little interest in sports, Furuhashi even goes to home football games -"When the we!lther is good." 
That's why retiring, for Furuhashi, doesn't mean that he' 11 just hang up his hat. "What do you mean by retire?" he asks. Furuhashi will continue working at the center, and spend more time reading, study­ing and visiting Jack, his two-and-a-half year old 'joy" of a grand­son, in Washington, D.C. Furuhashi also plans to keep up his twice­yearly visits to Japan. .. 
Still, of his accomplishments, Furuhashi doesn't have much to say. "I taught at Notre Dame. I came here to teach and I taught at Notre Dame." That, and a few other things. But that's just the way .Ile is. D 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 


71 
l 
-1 
·1 


I . 
Plans to expand the law school will boost its reputation and give students more space 
CAROLYNLAFAVE
"
It's like you're waiting in line to go to class," Jason Linster says as he de­scribes some of his frustrations with 
the university's law school. 
Linster is a first-year law student who remained at Notre Dame for graduate school because he liked the community and the high quality ofthe professors. But with 89 fellow first-years in his core classes, Linster says he has little room to 
maneuver in hallways already packed 
with second-and third-year students. "The library is spread out all over the building. As a first-year trying to find my way around, it kind of makes you not want to find books -it's intimidating. It should be accessible and in one area." Fortunately for Linster, plans are in place to help remedy the situation. 
The law school plans to expand in 2004, adding a second building and an 
adjoining three-story archway. While the 
current building already has been ex­panded twice -in 1972 and 1987 -it contains limited offices and classrooms for the 550 law students. 
The two new structures will house ad­ditional classrooms, student space and offices for faculty and administra,tion. With th~ expansion, the law school will extend toward the south, in place of the 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

-~ -. ----• 

knowledges the need for space and im­provements. "We are excited that [the ex­pansion] will double our space and be de­signed to give a cohesive environment." 
Indeed, the plans will greatly increase space for students and faculty alike. With the exception of the main reading room, the in­side ofthe current building will be completely redone in order to house a new law library. 
While benefits for the law community are impor­tant, the school's national rankings also could profit by the changes. The uni­versity currently ranks at number 24, according to 

ELBOW ROOM Law schoool student complaints of cramped 
the recent U.S. News and 

hallways and a confusing library system have resulted in 
World Report. Sitting just

finalized plans to exparid and redesign the·existing facilities. 
inside the top 25, the law 
school has plenty of room 
to improve. 

der to grow and to expand, it needs to ex­
Although the expansion could place pand as well. It's an old building -like 
Notre Dame higher on national scales, going to class in O'Shaughnessy. It's very 
O'Hara says rankings have not played a small and it needs space. Its technology is 
significant part in the expansion plans. good now, but it needs to be developed." "[We] began studying space problems in Law school dean Patricia O'Hara ac­
1997," she says. "So tqey are completely separate issues." 


Students seem to have mixed feelings about the role ofrankings in the new build­ings. Darrell Taylor is a second-year law 
student who came to Notre Dame because of the combination of faith and law that is incorporated into the curriculum. He be­lieves the changes are necessary in order to improve the rankings. "Having been to other facilities, to be in the top echelon of law schools, they really need expanded fa­cilities and updated technologies," Taylor says. "All incoming students have to look at is rankings when making their deci­sion." 
Adds Linster: "I think everyone realizes [the expansion] is something that needs to be done." 
Trenda disagrees. "More people look to­ward a particular area of law or job place­ment, and Notre Dame excels at that," she says. 

Law students will have to wait awhile before the project is complete. After 24 to 30 months ofconstruction, the project will not reach completion until sometime in 
2006. Of 
course, this "The law school here has an is a costly project as
excellent tradition but it needs to be 
well, totaling developed." $56 million. O'Hara says
-Carolyn Trenda, third-year law student 
that the 

Law School Expansion At a Glance· 

When: 2004-2006 
How Much: $56 million 
Where: Site of current post office and existing facilities ­
What Will Change: 
• 
three-story archway 

• 
more classrooms 

• 
new law library 

• 
added faculty and administrative offices 

• 
increased student space 



What Won't Change: 
• class enrollment size 

funds are not entirely accounted for yet, but university benefactors should provide the main source of income. 
There also are no plans to increase en­rollment, despite the new space. Instead, the law school hopes to improve the fac­ulty-student ratio, which the law school currently reports at 20 to 1. This year, the school added three new faculty members, and hopes to continue the trend in the near future. More professors will mean smaller course loads and class sizes, as well as more time for faculty research. Until the project reaches completion and the new rankings are in print, law students will continue to be pressed for space, profes­sors pressed for time, and the law school pressed for a competitive edge. . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 

Even parked on campus, student cars might not be safe 
CHRISTOPHERKELLY
Walking to her car on a normal Sat­urday afternoon this February, sophomore Felisia Johns noticed nothing out of the ordinary. But when she spotted her '96 Mazda Protege in D6, the parking lot that serves South Quad, she no­ticed that her car was not in the same condi­tion as it was when she last drove it to the Keenan Revue. Her windshield was smashed. Glass was sprawled across the front and back seats. The faceplate of her stereo was lying near the gearshift. The ste­reo speakers were missing. Five CDs and a pair of sunglasses were gone. Felisia Johns had been robbed. But Johns was more discouraged by the treatment she received from the Notre Dame Security/Police department, than the theft it­self. She had parked her car in clear view of the NDSP building in the hopes of discour­aging would-be thieves. When she reported the break-in, Felisia says no one in the se­curity building acted surprised or sympa­

thetic. The officer who inspected the vehicle 
initially refused to take the time to finger­print it, and only did so after excessive prod­ding by Johns' friends. The officer did pro­vide a piece of plastic to cover the broken windshield and advice on how to contact the insurance company. An official report was 
filed within an hour. Despite the assistance, 
Johns says, "It was very annoying, especially since I was parked pretty close to the secu­rity building. It seems like security do~s nothing. They just fill out paperwork. They might as well be secretaries." 
(Director Rex Rakow says the department's standard procedure is to dust for fingerprints, if possible, and check for matches in the NDSP database and those of 
surrounding agencies. While he declined to 
comment on Johns' case, Rakow says the decision to fingerprint is left to the individual 
officer's discretion, adding that in most cases, fingerprint evidence can't be obtained 
due to moisture or variation of the surface texture.) 
Even after this incident, however, Johns still was not immune to vandalism. A few weeks after the break-in, her car and many others in D6 had their tires slashed. 
Take the case of junior Lindsay Charles. She also had her stereo stolen -twice. While she was staying on campus last year for a summer program, Charles regularly parked her car in D2, on the northeast end of campus. One day, after leaving her car unchecked for about a week, she discovered that her new stereo was gone, along with the CDs she kept in her car. "What's so frus­trating, is that was the first time I didn't take off the panel," she says. 
But for Charles, D2 was not the only spot for bad luck. As a resident of McGlinn Hall during the school year, Charles parks in D6. Early one weekday morning last September, about a week after last using her car, Charles again was confronted with the all-too-famil­iar scene: Another stereo gone, another un­solved crime. 
Rakow says there have been 16 car break­
10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 


ins since January. There were 49 incidents involving vehicles in 2001. Rakow says car thefts occur in a cyclical pattern. "We're at the upswing of the cycle right now, and it's not just on campus. Malls, church services and other locations with many cars have also been hit hard recently." Car theft will climb gradually around the South Bend commu­nity until the NDSP or another agency makes an arrest. Then, crime will then die down for a short period oftime before starting back up again. 
When investigating car break-ins, Rakow believes that his department operates on ex­cellent relationships with surrounding agen­cies, such as the South Bend Police Depart­ment. "'We often collaborate with other agen­cies to compare cases in the hope that to­gether we can make an apprehension. Some-· times we're able to match cases up." 
Rakow can name many reasons to explain why car thieves spend so much time at ND. "Our campus has acres and acres of cars, many of which are a cut above the average vehicle." Also, many students leave their cars unchecked for days, sometimes weeks, and this prevents the NDSP from setting a parameter of time to investigate. Without having any reasonable estimate of when a crime took place, police struggle • to find any suspects. Further­more, Rakow adds "vehicles' se­curity systems don't help, be­cause society has become im­mune to car alarms." 
Another obstacle facing the NDSP is the fact that it's hard to watch for a typical break-in. A few years ago, Jeep Cherokees were involved in a high percentage of theft, but currently no vehicle model is being specifically tar­geted. "Obviously, convertibles are easier to hit than hardtops, but in general the crimes are fairly ran­dom," Rakow says. Recently, crimi-.· 
.. 
nals have dropped the old instru-· ment of mischief -the "slim jim" that slides down windows to pick locks -for a new tool that Rakow describes as "a screwdriver-type instrument that car thieves pop in the keyway to twist it off. This type of damage to a car is much harder for ourpatrol men to see." With all ofthese fac­tors working against them, it appears that the NDSP will forever be fighting an uphill battle against car theft. 

So why haven't surveillance measures been improved? Grace Hall does have long­distance security cameras to watch over the D2 lot. "We don't have anybody sitting and watching the cameras, but we can go back and look at the tape to try to get suspects," says Rakow. Despite the cameras, he main­tains that D2 is not any safer than D6. 
Another tool that the police employ is the presence of students in the parking lots. Be­lieving that attentive car owners can help prevent car theft, the NDSP encourages stu­dents to take action upon viewing a suspi­cious person in one of the lots. Rakow ad­vises, "If you are doubtful about a person's behavior, report it to one ofthe gates, or call the police from one of the security phones around campus." 
Contrary to many students' opm1ons, Rakow is confident in the ability of his de­partment to deter potential thieves. "We do a lot of patrolling in the parking lots, and we always have sufficient people around," he says. Johns disagrees, complaining that she periodically sees officers spending their time issuing tickets in Main Circle to ille­gally parked cars. "Ifthey are so strict about that, why can't they be more concerned about our cars and patrol D6?" 
Rakow concedes that his department can only do so much, explaining that car theft is a crime of opportunity. "Criminals look for cars with not much foot traffic around them, and they wait for a time ofday when no one is around. So we are always trying to adjust schedules and surveillance times." He says that during periods of increased crime, the department steps up communication be-. tween other agencies and warns officers to stay on alert. 
With criminals putting so much prepara­tion into their operations, it might seem dif-
RIPPED OUT When sophomore Felisia Johns opened her car in February, she found that thieves had stolen not only her stereo (below) but also her CDs and sunglasses as well. 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 














CAR SAFETY OUTSIDE OF THE BUBBLE 
With the safety of cars parked on campus in question, what can off-campus car-owners expect? Are stu­dents placing their cars and valuables at greater risk away from NDSP cameras and personnel? · According to Sergeants Wayne Boocher and James Cauffman, heads of the South Bend Police Department's Investigative Division of Auto Theft, apartment complexes such as Turtle Creek, Lafayette and College Park are easy and popular targets for thieves and vandals, primarily be­cause they house such large student populations. "The main problem that [off-campus] students experience with their cars is larceny," Boocher says. 'Thieves want expensive stereo equipment and popular CDs ... items that are common in student cars," adds Cauffman. "All student housing complexes are at high risk." Although Eddy Vulin, a senior living at Turtle Creek, has not personally experienced any vehicular vandalism or theft, he relayed information about a recent incident that affected his neighbors and friends. "Last Friday, 12 resi­dents had their tires slashed. Occasionally, some hood­lums will throw a beverage or food on random cars," he says; Vulin, however, reported no knowledge of any break­ins or thefts. Nor did Lafayette resident Christopher McBride. But the senior did know of an isolated incident of vandalism between students. Overall, McBride describes the.incidence of car-theft and vandalism at Lafayette as "low to moderate ... as long as you are smart about things." According to Boocher and Cauffman, most off-campus students would benefitfrom increased awareness. "A high . 
~ 
. 0 
. ., :,:; ;~?i?-t")f,;fi(~i~
·· ,.,., .. , ,.;••,~ •·1· , I II1 
· • :..i 1'7'-i ~1~ Id 11} ·
·:.•·,=:•~;-r : 

majority of the cases that we receive concerning auto theft 
at the apartments in question actually involve students leav­
ing their keys in the car with the doors unlocked," Cauffman 
says. "It doesn't matter what year, make or model you drive. 
·1f the keys are just sitting there, a car thief is going to go 
right for your vehicle.I' · 
Another major concern for off-campus students is the 
quality of the security forces hired by the apartment com­
plexes. "[The owners of Turtle Creek Apartments] tell us 
they have a security guard, but no one I know has ever 
seen him around," Vulin says. "At Notre Dame I have a 
much greater sense of security than at Turtle Creek. ND 
has security working around the clock and there is a greater 
threat of getting caught in the act [of auto theft or vandal­
ization]. After 4 a.m. at TC, anything goes. Nobody is pa­
trolling the area." Despite these complaints, neither senior 
views car safety as an issue that would prevent ND stu­
dents from moving off-campus. 
So what's the best way to stay safe? 
"Lock your car and never leave your keys in the vehicle," 
advises Boocher. "Don't even leave your car unattended if 
you let it warm up in the morning." Cauffman adds that 
students "should not leavevaluable items in the car in plain · view ifit can be avoided." 
These recent developments leave ND car owners with 
few options. If your car isn't safe parked next to theNDSP 
building, and it isn't any more secure infront Qf your own 
apartment, then what is a Notre Danie student to do? 
-Mike Borgia 

I . I 
' 
I 
ficult to improve the present state of secu­rity on campus. Students have several sug­gestions, however. Charles calls for "little guardhouses in the parking lots." She says, "Security guards don't even let ND kids on campus, so why don't they put more energy into patrolling the parking lots?" Johns adds, "They could raise the parking fee ... to hire more people, more security guards, some­one to patrol the lots. They should definitely step up measures." 
Most on-campus residents have fairly high expectations for the safety of their vehicles, especially if they park a few feet from the security headquarters'. But as most car theft victims agree, relying on a false sense of security could prove dan­gerous. 0 
-With reporting byAnnie Robinson 

12 SCHOLASTICNEWS 


-~· 
'i 

I . 
'.'"



J~~ . 
·•. ....~: .. 
""':, :,, 
l' ·-,.,.,: -\\. . , WOL,17.,_ 

; "".x:Jt, ',~

i\~/;~ --i~.-'. '.' 

---~~-l 
~1 A--PFt-.~002 . _1: ... ··-"'i\. f ~' 
I . 
,A,;· :'•;-;~ 'r· ,,i·f'1·•,;, ~·,~i
•._ '-ts .i~,-C l,'.. -'t-~ \ .. ':' •
~-_ ..,,_.. :
~ 
,'i,$jfr_.r.,,t: . . • 
f.'-l ~:. ,.,, 
·'·. -;.. ·• /. ("i;•,··'· 

PARODY 
'.I 
. ' 
\ 

I: 

SKYESMIRNOFF 
"Theyjust kicked me out," sobs junior Jim 
Beam, fighting back tears. "I mean, I cel­
ebrated my 19th birthday there last year, and 
I've been a regular since freshman year, but 
now I can't even get past the bouncer. I heard 
they can't accommodate the underage stu­
dents any more because of fire codes." 
Such has been the lament of many under­
age students since the recent change in al­
cohol policy has driven droves of students 
out of their dorms to party. According to 
Boat Club owner Ima Lush, "The Boat Club 
does not serve underage students now, nor 
have we ever. We have noticed a significant 
increase in the number of student custom­
ers recently, but we attribute this to the fact 
that we've started clearing the inch-thick 
beer sludge off the floor every six months." 
Many underage students are on the verge 
of quitting school now that the Boat Club is 
turning them away. "I have a $50 ID wast­
ing away in my wallet," says freshman Jack 


Eleven Questions 
with a complete stranger ... 


Daniels. "I believe that I committed to com­ing to Notre Dame under false pretenses. My older brother told me that I could always get into a bar somewhere, but now I have noth­ing to do on weekends besides drink Natty Light and attend Flip Side events." 
Students who legally can drink aren't too thrilled with the situation, either. One 21­year-old student says, "I swore I wouldn't set foot in Boat Club ever again after I turned 21, but what choice do I have now? Since Fr. Coorsman prohibited hard alcohol on campus I once again have had to seek out entertainment in the deepest darkest circle of hell, The Boat Club." 
Beam accuses The Boat Club of collabo­rating with the administration to change the alcohol policy. He points out that "not only have they seen an increase in business, but local law enforcement agencies will also stop bothering the nightspot about carding." 
But fear not, underagers. Rumors of re­bellious students organizing speak-easies have sprung up all over campus. Says one 
It's well known that the hallmarks of a good story are who, what, when, why and where, and here at Sarcastic, we do our best to observe those tenets ofjournalism. So we thought that this week we'dfind out those things for you that you really want to know after last Saturday night. Using a savvy combination of journalistic skill and acting ability, Sarcastic took on your first person point-of-view to learn the truth. Listen up, because we've got the hook-up ... 
Why don't you give me your narrative of the evening's events? 
Well, it was kind ofdark, and we kind of just ... kept falling, er, bumping into each other. Then I think we were dancing or student, "Acousticafe will never be the same." 

Another student who asked to remain anonymous told Sarcastic that each week he and a group of his friends congregate on the lawn of Moreau Seminary to imbibe hard alcohol under the assumption that "no one will look there." Unfortunately, it seems that 
· this student ~as not very bright as they will most likely start looking there much more often -especially since this article has been printed. 0 

just maybe pressing our bodies closer than the Holy Ghost might have wanted us to, and someone kissed my neck. Sure, I mean, maybe it wasn't necessar­ily you, but it might have been, so ... we hooked up. 
How was my breath? 
The sweet, sweet smell of Bud Light was what I was really hoping for, but I've devel­oped a fondness, or at least tolerance for the Natty Light as well. ­

Was I a good kisser? 
I don't see why not. 
What's your feeling on making out in front of other people? Are you ever em­

14 SARCASTICNOTEBOOK 


PARODY 



£1BOOS & MOOS
I Liquor and Cows 
t 
t 
COACH O'LIARY 
He's probably better off going pro, anyway. 

WOODTYPE ORNAMENTS 
+ililc"'-:,'tf~-~ il-->-,,q~'<n·->:,'tf­Your professor will never know how much your paper sucks, and this font lengthens papers more effectively than Courier New. 

SMC CHICKS WHO WRITE LETTERS TO SARCASTIC 
Well, at least they can write. 

FRIDAY CROSSWORD 
PUZZLES 
The Observer shouldn't make 
me feel ... whatever a 15-letter 
word for stupid is. 

TAKING THINGS FOR 
GRANITE 
It's better than printing obsid­ians or drinking quartz of liquor. 
116 years ago Men of the Year Just 16 years ago, Mike Switek and Don 
Montanaro granted Sarcastic an exclu­sive interview after the magazine named them Men of the Year. This title was be­stowed after the pair managed to pull off "the upset of the year" in the student body elections on a platform promoting crayons and macaroni. Here's what they had to say: 
Sarcastic: What will be the first thing you do when you walk into your offices on the morning ofApri/2? Don: Turn on the lights, I guess. 
S: How do you think that the student body will react to your crayon expenditures? 
D: So far all crayon funds have come strictly out ofour own pockets. Mike: Also, we want to continue to stress that STUDENTGOVERNMENTISNOLONGER A PRIVATE CLUB, ourcrayons are available for student use at any time. 
S: Mike, you 're the first student body president in Notre Dame history to sport a dangling crucifix earring as part ofyour normal attire. You said at the debate that you wear the earring in hopes ofsecuring the support ofthe 


®1lliliilW!rir,ir
lli!Ufo©~lf@i®r 

i ,--:---. 
r : • . 
C • 

l --­
;< .-... ·.I :.'/ 
f~·cc·:.,,··""_ 
,' ;·~'.-. '--·~ 

• .._---\~_.·.·.. ·_::~_-_--:~_> __ .__ _ 
' .,/:\:: ·. 
>. 

surprisingly large Catholic block on this camptts. Do you think this strategy played a large role in your victory? 
M: Political analysts sometimes forget that there are indee4._quite afew Catholics here on campus, and in a close election their votes can make the difference. Ofcourse, we don't get the religion break-down of the votes -so we'll never know for sure.· 
S: Are there any individuals that you specifically would like to have in your cabinet? 
M: We have only named one cabinet position thus far: Bruce Lohman will be playing the role ofDr. Spock. · 
S: What sort of relationship with the Adminsitration do you think you'll have next year? 
D: Purely platonic. This is ourfinal decision. 
Obviously, the current student government has a lot to learn. -Master Splinter 
barrassed afterwards? 
Only if the person I hook up with is excessively unattractive. 
So when we pass on the quad, will you say hello to me, nod your head in recog­nition of our shared-saliva histo_ry or just run like hell the other way? 
Hey, I'm a nice person. Plus, I do a great nod of recognition. 
Did I mean anything to you? Not that you meant anything to me, of course! I mean, I just wanted to know, do you usually hook up with a lot of people? 
My friends and I are trying to get all the 50 states down by the end of the year, but so far my only contributions are Indiana and Arkansas, the two crappiest states in the Union. Then again, I don't think we got to discuss our respective home states, so maybe I finally got someone cool, like Hawaii. 
So what do you think about the new· alcohol policy? 
My sex life is going to take a beating, that's for sure. 
Sex? Students at Notre Dame have sex? 
Oh, you know what I mean. All the things I do instead of sex, so I can say that I'm still a virgin. 
Silence ofthe Lambs: Good or bad hook­up movie? 
Are you some kind ofsicko? What kind of perverts do you have working on your maga­zine? 

Hey! We're supposed to be pretending that I'm the person you hooked up with, remember? You're totally ruining the effect, especially since I haven't actu­ally hooked up since that one time at band camp! Try to forget that I work for Sarcastic, will you? Iam the last person you hooked up with. 
Oh, sorry. 
Okay, let's try to wrap this up. Did alco­hol have anything at all to do with us hooking up? 
Um, yes. -Wonder _Woman 
SARCASTICNOTEBOOK 15 


PARODY 
,--------------,,------,----,-----,---,-,-,--~------,-,----,----,------,-,-,~~
........~ 

I t;;;,>W~§L \V"v/g'@1'2 !lit,~U@~ii~'rccr1,;tT'fr©fUJ .···. ·· ·1 
• -~ 
i ~






Despite All Their Rage ... .., t 
~ 

Students find they are still just rats in a cage when it comes to the Ban on Hard Classes I 
SAMADAMS 
To the chant of "Save our seminars," hun­dreds ofundergraduates stood outside the Main Building clutching textbooks, course packets and calculators. Several students burned DART books while others hurled pen­cils and computer disks at the Main Building, calling to Fr. Darth Coorsman to come down and give them a say in the recent change to academic policy which includes a ban on hard classes, sets new regulations on outside-of­class lectures and threatens the take-home exam as we know it. The only response was the appearance of NDSP, who quickly broke up the protest. The uproar among the student body started on March 18 with an e-mail from Coorsman, the Vice Head Honcho of Student Affairs, which informed students that, after a two-year study of the effects academics has on Notre 

Dame student life, administrators had decided to change ND's academic policy. The focus was on the heavy workload ofthe student body and the perception that ND was a serious aca­demic institution. "The picture that has emerged ... is both encouraging and alarm­ing," the letter read. "A significant number of students either do not go to class or make the responsible decision of taking the classes in moderate amounts by sleeping through parts of each. However, our study also confirmed the perception that a significant percentage of students engage in high-stress classes and abusive studying behavior." Coorsman added that the academic policy, which has not been 
16 SARCASTICNOTEBOOK 

revised since 1842, was ready for some major changes. 'This university needs to get with the times, really," he said. 
The most significant change is a ban on all hard classes regardless of major and grade level. The e-mail stated: "While one obviously may become stressed out with any class, we heard credible evidence that the most serious incidents ofstressed behavior occur when stu­dents take hard classes. Because of the high homework content in relation to time, the abuse of hard classes is particularly danger­ous. In general, the students involved in the most serious incidents of abusive studying seemed to fall into two categories: those who tried a hard class with no prior experience and those who deliberately took large quantities of hard classes and studied in short time frames, a behavior known as 'cramming."' The policy will take affect in September, but the revi­sions to DART have already been made. 
Destroying a Tradition 

In typical Domer fashion, stu­dents unwilling to devote much effort to finding an effective so­lution to the problem were out­spoken in whining about the policy change. The day after re­ceiving Coorsman's e-mail, stu­dents gathered at Stonehenge to bum the DART book and talk trash about the administrators. Students protested their lack of involvement in the policy change, though there is no precedent for student participation in decisions 
of this nature, and many expressed concern that the elimination of take-home exams and relegation oflectures to the Holiday Inn would ruin the highly academic culture unique to Notre Dame residence halls. Many said they would probably move off campus for more intellectual stimulation. 
Several students took the stage to speak out, among them Shmo Someone-press-mute-o, president of some nerdy guys' dorm whose main extracun-icular activity is Tetris. Some­one-press-mute-o led off with an articulate dis­course, informing Coorsman that his policy is "F**ing bulls***." He continued to taunt Coorsman, saying, "If the administration 
s 
i 
3 

wants to take my engineering book away, f ~ they'll have to pry it from my cold dead: hands!" He also accused the administration ( of being out of touch with reality. "I'm not going to let a bunch of old, white, celibate men tell me what to do." When pressed, how­ever, Someone-press-mute-o, whose room­mates call him "Vanilla Ice," admitted that he hasn't had so much as a study date in his en­tire three years at this university. 
It's all about the Benjamins 
True to form, the administration is not budg­ing from their position on hard classes, regard­less of student reaction. Sarcastic caught up with Coorsman at Senior Bar for an exclu­sive interview about the policy. He empha­sized the extensive research that the adminis­tration conducted over the last two years in which the university gathered focus groups comprised of bartenders, Burger King man­agers, grad students, athletes and their deal­ers, and even a chimp. "We wanted the focus groups to be representative of the entire stu­dent body," he explained. 
When asked about the accusations by stu­dents that the administrators were just doing it for the money, Coorsman said "Damn right. The standards at this university are simply too high. With hard classes gone, we can take anyone regardless of their IQ and SAT scores. We want a National Championship .... For­get U.S. News -it's all about the BCS." 
Coorsman realizes the need to find a re-. placement for hard classes. The administra­tion is planning on establishing several other bars on campus. Prospective locations include LaFortune and Fitzpatrick. He notes, however, that the latter may be unnecessary when plans to replace the College ofEngineering with the College of Sports Broadcasting go through. "Doesn't everyone want to be Dick Vitale?" 
Coorsman is optimistic about the future of the policy. 'This is only the first step," he says. "We fully intend to replace all the books in the Library with color-by-number workbooks and Dr. Suess. Then we will force Admissions to stop worrying about SAT scores and require only a picture essay in the application pro­cess. Eventually, we hope to eliminate classes all together and get students out there havirig good, irresponsible fun." &l 

by Vanilla Ice

Reality Comes to the Bubble 
MTV Chooses Notre Dame as the Real World's newest Location 
"Thisis the story of seven strangers picked to live in two separate 
dorms and have their lives taped to find out what happens when 

people stop being polite and start getting real. The Real World: Notre 
Dame." 
Seven ND students were hand-picked by the MTV network to be 
filmed for this summer's season. As a reward for agreeing to hav­
ing their privacy completely invaded they received free room and 
board as well as enlarged dorm rooms -created when the show 
took over blocks of rooms in Zahm and Cavanaugh. "We didn't 
want to put them too far apart from each other," says show creator Iwan Cash as he explained his choice of dorms. "But, don't worry we will restore both dorms to their delapidated glory once we are finished filming." 
So why did they pick ND? "We always put the innocent virgin characters into environments in which they must struggle to defend their beliefs -think Julie in New Orleans -this time we're turn­ing the tables," says a publicist for the network. "Also this is the only school where we found a disabled orangutan, and we wanted to take on the issues involved in being a student of a different spe­cies AND battling a physical disability-talk about diversity!" 


Kristen -freshman Previous residence: Home Originally from: Mexico, IN Major: Chemical engineering (but will be marketing by the end of the year) Two words that describe you: ideal­istic & enthusiastic Likes: *Nsync, stuffed animals, cheerleading Dislikes: Men who disrespect women, loners, sex Lola -sophomore Previous residence: Farley Originally from: Chicago, IL Major: Finance Two words that best describe you: laid-back & amicable Likes: people, Marlboro Lights, foun­tain Coke Dislikes: chicken-in-the-pot soup, neat-freaks 


Miguel -junior Previous residence: Keough Originally from: Rialto, CA Major: ALPP & Spanish Two words that best describe you: quiet, studious Likes: long walks on the beach with HTH, volunteering at El Buen Vecino Dislikes: loud music and people who abuse their bodies, messy people Natasha -sophomore Previous residence: studying abroad at ND. Originally from: Estonia Major: Gender Studies Two words that best describe you: moody & apathetic Likes: Hard alcohol and heroin Dislikes: Virgins, jocks Steve -junior Previous residence: Zahm Originally from: San Francisco, CA Major: Civil Engineering Two words that describe you: caring and happy Likes: track lighting, *Nsync Dislikes: closed-minded people, squirrels 



J. -51h year student 

Previous residence: Stanford Originally from: Plano, TX Major: FTT and Art Two words that describe you: F*** off. Likes: soldering metal, graffiti art Dislikes: perky people and monkeys Dunsten -senior Previous residence: Potawatami Zoo Originally from: Jungle Major: Anthropology Two words that best describe you: opposable thumbs Likes: Being God's gift to females Dislikes: Angry homo sapiens, din­ing hall Nazis who only allow him one banana 

SARCASTICNOTEBOOK 17 




Partly Crappy 
Administrator caught tailgatin! 
Excise Police mistakenly anested a senior admini: 
Today's weather -how 
official after he was spotted in the student section 
useful at dinnertime! Look 
a beer can he claimed he had confiscated from a s
out the damn window. 


CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS 
New Academic Standards: The Ad­missions Office has increased the num­ber of ways applicants can qualify for special-interest status when applying to the university, effective with next year's freshman class. Siblings ofCUITent and former students, as well as grandchil­dren ofalumni, will not have the same "flexible" academic standards currently enjoyed by athletes, minorities, and children of alumni, staff, benefactors, and faculty. In addition, applicants of Irish descent willbe consideredminorites. An official in the Admissions Office said the changes will mean 80 per cent offirst­year students will now be in the spe­cial-interest category, requiring the re­maining 20 per cent who have no spe­cial status to score approximately 1580 or higher on their SAT tests. 
Communion Restrictions: Notre Dame students under the age of2 l will no longer be permitted to receive wine during Holy Communion as the result ofthe rules issued this week by the of­fice of Campus Ministry. Underage studnts will still be permitted to receive a host made of either leavened or unleav­ened bread, but wine will be restricted 
to.those students.who ze c-~1. • 
A New, Safer Grotto: The flickering light ofthe Grotto will become more ofa steady glow next fall, when renovations to the cherished Notre Dame meditation spot are completed. The candles, which have symbolized the prayers, hopes and dreams ofgenerations ofstudents, staff and alumni, will be replaced with tiny electric lights, each controlled by a small switch. The change was prompted by the university's Office ofRisk Man­agement, which cited a recent fire at the Grotto that blackened several stones and required several man-hours to clean. Risk Management first gained notori­ety several years ago when it ordered an end to AnTosta! tug-o-wars and other events requiring physical exertion, and more recently when it allowed the Fisher Regatta to proceed only when or­ganizers promised that the boats would 
not actually be placed in the water. 




Squirrels run for office: seriously 
ByBYEIQUIT 
NuwsWriter 
In a surprising move, two squiITels have entered the race for student body presi­dent and vice-president. Rikki McQuad tantto tli and Slick Williams hope to bring a new names. attitude to student government. Perha 

When asked why she was running, squirrel': Presidential candidate McQuad replied: orthodm "because I'm nuts about students." She commur later offered a witty and original follow­rels will up, saying, "Besides, it's a race, silly." McQu 
Opposition Presidential candidate and these ter current student body Vice-PresidentTry'n So beini: ToCon Ya was practically speechless. we'd gc 
"Envision the possibilities," he said. strategy. "Squinels running the student govern­Studer ment! It's eye-popping to think about." theideao 
When asked to comment, opposition ing. 
Vice-Presidential candidate Axle Foley, "Wow standing five feet taller .fffan 'his 'riiiiliirig said a St mate Lippy Pushup, tripped. I'm the 1 
Ye 01' Pervert vaguely remembers an for the sc e-mail endorsing yet another candidate Yet po pair, but in reality they are so unimpor-as adum 



University 
ByBOREEN "Assistant" to the Editor in Chief Tuition will once again b academic year, University E Some-Call-Me-Tim Scamr conference yesterday. In a t although students will contim this increase is 2/7 of a perce "You see, we are helping save them less more this year than proclaimed. He says that this represen1 comparison with the 700 perc 

Possible Murders at Keough Hall Onl: Tom, 
writin 
when 
home 

* This time rooms 100, 543, 545, 567, 582 and 513 should be persecuted 
ByMCGRUFF 
The entire Saint Mary's freshman class may possibly have ingested some kinds of poisonous drugs. According to an alleged crime report from St. Mary's Security, they might have been murdered. 
"We really don't know anything about what's going on," a representative of St. Mary's Security said. "All we know are the room numbers." 
The alleged murders occured in rooms 100,543,545,567,582, and 513 Keough Hall. ' 
When asked by phone whether or not they had commited any offenses, residents 
i.n rooms 100, 543 and 567 declined to 
comment. Residents in rooms 545 and 582 did not 
return repeated phone calls. They were most likely busy silencing witnesses. But residents in 513 seemed intimidated by our questions. 
Observer: "Did you murder anyone?" 
513: "No." 
Observer: "Ifyou don 't say '.ves ', I'll print your room number in the newspaper tomorrow." 
513: (silence) 
Observer: ''I'm serious. I have no jour­nalistic integrity at all. I'm evil. I will do it. " 
513: (dial tone) 
On a related note, a member of the Ob­server staff heard vulgar words coming from room 513 Keough last night. Some­one within the room took the Lord's n.ame in vain, and then commented on what a wonderful time he had at the Vagina Monolgues. 
(Viewpoint letters are now being ac­cepted on the subject.) 



No dancing, no singing, no women!

~ 

Thursday

,tration 
Taliban consultant streamlines duLac. 

APRIL 11,

h.olding 
News • page 0.5 

tudent. 
2002 


fJame and Saint Marys Press Releases 


Arafat backs students 

Leader puts alcohol before people 

te race iliat we've forgotten their 
ps more surprising than the s entry into the race is their un­' campaign strategy. Instead of ticating with students, the squir­
distribute baseball cards. tad explained the campaign in ms: "You see, we're squirrels. i irrational animals, we figured 1with an irrational campaign 
,, 
its around campus are excited at fthisfresh approach to campaign­
, I hope I can collect them all," 1per Dope. "'And I get a prize if first to do it? Wow! I'm voting 1uirrels! " 1litical analysts see the strategy tb move. Only time will tell. 
ASSOCIATED PRESS -Of Course 
RAMALLAH 
Palestinian leader Y assir Arafat, speaking over satellite telephone from his besieged headquarters, has expressed his "deepest, most sincere sympathy" for all the students that have been affected by the new alcohol policy changes. The Palestinians, thousands ofwhomhave lostfamilymembers and are in desperate need of food during the bitter struggle with Israel, have still found time to reach out to the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame in whatever ways they can, offering public consolations and prayers for the victims. Said one spectator at a massive pro-hard-liquor rally in Bethlehem, "There is a tank where my kitchen used to be. The soldiers spit on my daughters. But how can I complain when people across the ocean from us have hadtheir rights so ruthlessly taken from them?" 
Tensions Mounting in West Quad 
Meanwhile, at the university, the climate has taken a turn for the worse. Campus police has placed an order for a fleet ofnew Durangos, citing their excellent ability to drive on sidewalks. Experts estimate that as many as four drunken students have passed out on the front steps of the main building in protest against the changes. One ofthem, according to witness reports, was so upset that he defecated in his pants. 
The Rev. Mark Boreman is standing firm, however; he sees the changes as the only way to curb what he calls "student happiness." He has repeatedly rejected Secretazy of State Colin Powell's 
requests fora meetingwith StudentBodyPresidentLibbyBishop, who remains isolated wl.ttrfier75o'dyguards---one of whom is· reported to have been injured by a large granite ball-in the Coleman-Morse Center. "Bush doesn't grasp the situation onthis campus. Only people who have donated enough to benamed to the Board ofTrustees can really understand how this should work." 

e raised for the 2002.:.2003 xecutive Vice President Fr. ny announced at a press 
•rief statement, he said that 1e to "pay through the nose," :nt less than last year's hike. : students money by charging last year," Scammy gleefully 
'f 4 Inches 
,tells students to bend over 
1960 and 2000. "This year, we're only raising it by I 0 percent!" he beamed. In addition, he pointed out that the University has given 2.3 percent more in financial aid to students this year than in past years. "And when I say 'financial aid,' I mean 'federal pound-me-in~the-ass loans."' 
Scammy called accusations that the University is bleeding the student body dry in order to fund its quest for top ten in 
U.S. News and World Report's annual poll "preposterous." "We know we don't have a snowball's chance in hell at getting into the top ten on the U.S. News poll," he said. "But our desire for excellence is such that we are willing to 

:s "a dramatic downturn" in cripple students financially for the better part oftheir young :ent tuition increase between lives just to have the number one bathroom in the country!" 

Tom Kelly 

how do you keep ,g such funny comics you have so much work?  Sometimes I cheat. For example, I could make an entire strip using the same drawing. n, "'a .l  Wow. So you're pretty lazy after all.  

Be sure to buy 'The Best of 4th and Inches" by Tom Keeley 



Survey indicates that students ignore duLac regulations 
Empty condom packages were discovered in a North quad dorm bathroom garbage bin yesterday. University officials were surprised to learn that not all students follow their regulations. Now the cam­pus must deal with the shocking news that students in many university dorms really do have sex with real live girls. 

PARODY 
BUY YOUR 








INDULGENCES 
TODAY! 
''University of'Notre 'Dame I-~::·_--: · 
presents this 
Certificate of Salvation 
to 

[Your Name Here!] 
in recognition of the recipient's high level of piety and willingness to donate large sums of money to our poverty-stricken school. 
~-~
~J,•&&-:_,p <l<Y ___) 


Ronald Res19an Extra Rev. Edward Malloy Development Office Pope 
Have you been sinning recently? 
• 
stealing from the Huddle mart? 

• 
picking tulips on God Quad? 


• raiding the basement keg-erator on Sundays? 
• making the sign of the cross backwards? 
• homosexual? 

Now, you can secure your space in Heaven! 
Salvation, as guaranteed by a monotone priest, costs only $50 million and comes with your very own Certificate of Salvation. For just a bit more, we'll name a building after you, assuring that students will come up with all sorts of lame abbreviations for your name for years to come. All this and more, available at the jewelry counter at the Hammes Notre Damned Bookstore, next to the rack of $75 ND Bibles. 
Think graduation means the end of your dining-hall days? 


THINK AGAIN! 
Now you can learn to recreate the magic of the dining hall in your own kitchen! ND Food Services' own ChefBoyardee will teach you all the tricks, from how to save money by utilizing every part ofthe chicken ( even the beak!) to gettingjust the right consistency for your brown sauce. 
You also will learn how to prepare these delicacies to serve at your own Candlelight Dinner. 
• 
Poop-on potatoes 

• 
Cauliflower au Gratin 


• 
Buffalo Chicken Lasagna (Also included in this lesson -how to raise your own buffalo chickens.) 


"IF YOU CRAVE VARIETY, THE DINING HALLS HAVE IT ALL!" 
'SHROOMS ADDED TO CRAP 'N' GO! 
After enjoying your healthy dining-hall lunch in the privacy of your own room, snack on some 'shrooms for dessert to get ready for a psychedelic study session. Counts as an entree or two sides. 

; I 

Howdy, Gipplings. For the last three weeks, the Gipper has been lan­guishing away by his computer, 
waiting on a response from the Good Rev­erend. Apparently, Fr. Poorman saw no good reason to write in and correct any of the Gipp's assumptions. Nor did any other ad­ministrator. 
Which means, dear Gipplings, that this, our campus, is going dry. Completely dry. The Gipp's sources have said as much before, but the Gipp thought it only proper to make sure. Times are changing, friends. Chances are, you'll all be able to make it out of here before they ban mouthwash, but you better warn your little brothers and sisters. 
Nutty Danish 

Before getting into the regular tips, the Gipper would like to respond to a most peculiar e-mail he received from Denmark. This is not made up. It went: 
"Hi Mister Gipper ;) 
I tried to find ·a page on how to pronounce "Sheik" and your page was google's first hit. It stroke me that my favorite band's name, "Eaten By Sheiks" was often pronounced "sheeks" instead of "shakes" as I knew to be correct and is stated on your page as well. 
Looking further I found http:// www.bartleby.com/68/35/5435. html 
where they say "sheek" is the American -pronounciation, "shake" rather Brithish, wheras the latter is rather spelled "sheikh". 
Regard 
Ralf' 
Thanks for the tip, Ralf, it was truly stroking. 
Get Your Shots in While You Can 

A Breen-Phillips resident, characteristically eager to put things down her pants, smuggled a bottle of gin from Fisher Hall in her corduroys last weekend, according to a tipster of high repute. That isn't the funny part, although you could have been forgiven for thinking it was, had you seen her sauntering down South Quad with a foot-long bulge down one leg. 
The funny part is that she decided to set up shop in front of the Fr. Sorin statue on God Quad, offering shots of the previously 


pants-ed punch to passers-byers for 25 cents apiece. She stood out there for over an hour and -surprisingly -made few sales. The aspiring bartendress later sold the remainder of the bottle to an unnamed woman at Denny's. 
When hard liquor is gone, how will the university continue to encourage such entrepreneurship? 

Sailing Too Close to the Wind 

A young woman of the Pasquerillas was returning from a night out at So'uth Bend's exclusive marina not too long ago, filled with delicious Keystone Light, in a cab filled to capacity. While the driver was busy collecting money from the six dozen or so other occupants, she decided to take the car for a test drive around Main Circle. So she popped it into gear and took off, doors wide open, back-seat passengers scrambling to stay inside, and cabbie staring in shock. 
When she returned, our friend handed the driver her money and walked off, as though nothing had happened. 

Tsk, Tsk, Dear Gipp 

Thus began a letter that the Gipper received this week from an upset student. She claimed that there is plenty to do besides drink, and that the Gipp simply wasn't putting enough faith in the student body's creative powers when he said that there was too little to do. "In the same March edition of the Scholastic," she wrote, "there was a five-page spread about all of the arts events going on on campus, and numerous articles on multiple sports venues, concerts and lectures which were available for students to attend." 
Sadly, dear respondent, the five-page spread was about the art department, not "art events." And, as much as the Gipp loves lectures, he gets enough of those during the week. 
However, your point is appreciated. Maybe the Gipper isjustjaded by campus events after accidentally stumbling in on an SR-71 concert last semester. 
Before parting, the Gipper would like to offer a salute to all the alums who, through an untiring devotion to the university, continue to write letters to The Observer explaining student life to a naive-but­grateful student body well into their fifties. Thanks for reminding us, as you so graciously do, that alcohol is not a right, and that we are ungrateful. Seeing our own graduates of decades past spending their days reading and responding to Viewpoint not only reminds us how great this place is, but what promise there is for our own futures. 
Well, that's it ladies and gentlemen. Next issue is this Gipper's last, so help him make it a memorable one, and get your best tips Ill. 0 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 21 


The Write Stuff 
PHom~:sv LESHA z1EL1NS1<1


>> The Writing Center might not help you pen the next Great American novel, but they can 
assist you with that pesky philo paper 
STEPHANIERUBINO 
Remember those "Breakfast at the Writing Center" flyers and e-mails floating around last year? Some of you probably said to yourselves, "Mmm ... donuts." Most of you were probably thinking, "Breakfast? Who gets up for breakfast? Anyway, I was accepted to this presti­gious university for my exceptional in­telligence and stellar application essays. I already know how to write." You might want to reconsider that no­tion. The University Writing Center, now op­erating out of the Coleman-Morse Center, offers help to any student on campus, re­gardless of skill or class level. "We can help students of any ability have more success with essays, papers, applications or even personal writing," says senior Ryan Chasey, a third-year tu­tor. Those who frequent the center range from students studying English as a sec­ond language (ESL), to those applying to graduate school. During the fall of 2000, only about 300 people visited the writing center. By the following fall semester, however, the cen­ter saw a 350 percent increase in attendance, which peaked at nearly 1,400 students. The rising popularity of the center may be attributed to its new home in the Coleman-Morse study haven -the center formerly worked out of the basements of DeBartolo Hall and several dorms -but much of the attraction may be due in part due to their students' increasing success. 
Many First Year Composition profes­sors often require students to visit the writ­ing center. Those who go once often head back when they see their grades improve. "Students realize the value of the Writing Center and return for work that is not un­der the direction of their professors," says Director John Duffy. 
Now in his fourth year with the center, Duffy, also an English professor, feels that such interaction is only one of the aspects that makes the writing center the most exciting place at the university. "Learning to write is like a central cur­rency," he says. "Writing is the lifeblood of the university, and we hope to teach students to think and behave like writers." 
Students who have used the center agree that after working with tutors, they have more success writing papers on their own. The tutors try to teach general writ­ing principles for every step of the pro­cess -from understanding the topic and forming ideas to organization and stylis­tic tips -while still addressing specific problems individual students may hav.e. By covering a variety of important tex­tual issues, students can take what they've learned and apply it to any paper in any genre of writing. 
Students may come in with assignments in any stage of the writing process. Some arrive with finished essays, while others simply bring a paper topic or assignment. 
Tutors usually begin by asking the stu­dents to identify any major problems they want to address. Students then typically are asked to read their paper aloud to spot higher-level issues, such as structure and organization. And, the tutors are quick to emphasize that they are not editors ­grammar and syntax problems are the last hurdle, not the only hurdle. 
Freshman Melissa Galindo has used the center twice. She says that although many professors suggest peer revision, the pro­cess offers ·only limited feedback on her compositions. "It's nice to get an outside point of view about my writing," says Galindo. "If someone outside of class can understand what I've written, then I know I've said what I want to and said it clearly." 
Although· there has been nearly four­fold increase in the center's activity, there still are thousands of students who have never attended a tutoring session for help with their writing. 
"I usually end up starting my papers right before they're due," says sophomore Natalie Ladine, who has never used the cen­ter. Many students agree that although ad­vice on the work might be helpful, they sim­ply don't begin early enough to really reap 
22 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
.. 
-the benefits of the tutoring center. 
"When you have so many things going on at once, it's easy for a long-term as­signment to get away from you," says sophomore Brittany Becker. "The advis­ing is probably constructive, but I've never really made the effort to get help." 
The center employs more than 30 uni­versity undergraduate students as tutors. The tutors must undergo a significant amount of training -12 hours over two weeks -and attend continuing educa­tion meetings. These sessions teach the tutors to communicate more effectively with the students seeking help, some of whom come from different language backgrounds. Most of the student tutors were recommended by professors of First Year Composition or literature classes to undergo the training, and they boast a wide variety of interests and back­grounds. They all are fully capable of as­sisting students on many different levels of writing, from FYC papers to law school applications and Fulbright Schol­arship essays. 
Senior Kristen Schank stresses the im­portance of including students of all ma­jors as tutors. "It's nice to have tutors with a lot of different interests. Ifsomeone comes in with a government paper, it's more help­ful to have a tutor who has had government classes and knows what to include." 
Andy Larson, a senior and three-year veteran tutor at the center, estimates that are opportunities for all students to uti­roughly one out of every seven to 10 stu­lize their specific talents and interests; as dents who seek help at the center has a a marketing major, Chasey helped design first language other than English. "Part the events surrounding the opening cel­of our training is ebration of the oriented directly to­center's new home wards helping stu­in the Coleman­dents who don't Morse building speak English as a last spring. first language," he Chasey truly explains. "We learn finds his work as a to address their con­tutor a gratifying cerns as opposed to experience. a native [English] "It combines in­speaker." For ex­teraction with other ample, he says that students in a help­a student of Asian ful way," he says, background who "and [it allows me has studied English to] make a differ­might be extremely ence, even in a proficient in gram­small way, for stu­matical rules, but he dents." or she may require Ultimately, in 


extra assistance in organizing and structuring the flow of a pa­per. Most ESL students have similar diffi­culties adjusting to writing in English, and the tutors are prepared to help out. "Inevi­tably, we end up dealing with a lot of gram­matical and word selection issues," Larson says. 
Chasey appreciates the great deal of in­put students and tutors have to continu­ally change and improve the center. There 
conjunction with tutors, Duffy endeavors to change stu­dents' views and approaches toward writ­ing. "Students need to eliminate the idea that once you have completed a piece of writing, it's finished. Good writers know that the secret is to talk about your writ­ing, ask questions and continue to revise. I want to teach students to express them­selves. If you can express your ideas, you can do well." D 
ii 

A COZY CORNER Since the writing center moved from the Debartolo basement to the new, roomy Coleman~Morse Center in 2001, student use has more than doubled. Students who come to the center for help with one paper often come back again. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 23 


,­ - .  -~  - - .  '  - .  . =  ,..'  ~  '  . ""  
-CA_MPU~ LIFE  ·._.  . .  . .  ·  • - ·_ :.  :  _  :_  - .  :· ·_  - :, ,-.._(.. :.  ·  > : >·-:  ·  ·..,· :, 0.,:.  .  
Golden Anniversar  


Brother Louis Hurcik, CSC, celebrates 50 years as a brother by remaining as active as ever 
] I 
i 
MARYMORGAN 


Holy Cross brothers have no priestly duties. They don't celebrate Mass, hear confessions or preside at confirmations. So, how do they keep busy? Brother Louis Hurcik, CSC, hasn't had a problem find­ing things to do during his 50 years as a Holy Cross brother: He uses the time to serve the community. Throughout his career, Hurcik has gone out of his way to help others, donating his time to groups all over cam­pus and the South Bend area. But around Notre Dame's campus, 68-year-old Hurcik is best known as the guard­ian of the Rock. Hurcikjoined the Rockne Memorial staff and the Notre Dame physical education staff in 1970. Now, more than 30 years later, he still works for these two departments. He acts as director of the Rock and continues to teach a variety ofgym classes, such as swimming, lifeguard train­ing, first aid and American Red Cross CPR, as an associ­ate professional specialist in the Physical Education De­partment. How well does Hurcik know the Rock? "Oh, I'd say I know it pretty well," he says jokingly. But Hurcik's work is not confined to inside the Rock. He is a member of numerous committees at Notre Dame, including the Board of Directors and the Technology Committee. When off campus, Hurcik is an EMT and vol­unteers every Friday at St. Joseph Medical Center, and is a member of the National Ski Patrol at Swiss Valley. Bill Drew, the Rock's building supervisor, can attest to Hurcik's essential role in the community. He says that Hurcik sometimes works from 8:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. "It seems like he is just about everywhere," Drew says. "He is a good man, with a good heart." Hurcik's drive and inspiration for his work over the years have to a great extent arisen from his faith life. "I 
like what I was told by someone: 'Get up in the morning, say a prayer -tell God that you are up and reporting for duty -and see what opportunities and challenges come up that day,"' he says. "And following Nike's advice ­'Just do it."' 
Hurcik began to consider joining the religious life while in high school in Chicago. "I was invited to visit Notre Dame at the home of the mission band, which is now Old College," Hurcik says. "After meeting the priests and brothers at Notre Dame, I had decided to join Holy Cross and to serve by becoming a Holy Cross Brother." He took 
¦ 

• LIFETIME TEACHER Brother Louis Hurcik has spent a Ii over 30 years_ of his life working at the Rock, both supervising and teaching students subjects such as lifeguarding, first aid and CPR. • 
final vows in 1952 and was assigned to Sacred Heart Church, Little Flower Parish. He also worked for the Catholic Boy and Miss magazines for two decades. 
Hurcik looks fondly upon his 50 years in the religious life. "I'm thankful that I've been able, as a brother in Holy Cross for these years; to be able to know and work with so many great people and works," he says. 
Over the years, Hurcik has seen the university undergo many changes, both positive and negative. "[The univer­sity] has grown tremendously, not just in buildings, but also in what it has been able to accomplish both here and internationally," he says. But he mentions with some regret that the Holy Cross presence on campus has diminished in the past 50 years: "Naturally, there are fewer [priests and brothers] now than when I came," he says. "I wish there were more [religious vocations] nowadays, but we also have many more lay persons involved very closely in the works of 
the Church and Catholic education." · 
Despite changes in.university size, influence and per-­sonnel, Notre Dame has maintaln_ed its commitme~t, Hurcik says, "to education in the Catholic tradition arid to service of the Church and the cominunity." 
Although Hurcik could brag about all he has done for the university in the past 50 years, he·expresses 
only gratitude for his time here. "It'~ ni<;:e know­ing I have been able to be a part of something that has done so many great things for the Church, community and its students," he says.. 


24 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSLIFE 
,, 


. . . 
~. --' :. "' . , -" . . . 
.· << '. >;;
:-,' ' ' ' -.' ~ . . 
. . . 
r •. ~ : ~; .• ~ 
IRISH 





EYES 
ON 

This year Senior track sprinter Liz Grow fin­ished fourth nationally in the indoor 400 meter, 
· earning All-American honors in the event for the second straight year. She holds school records in the indoor 200 and 400-meter runs and the outdoor 400-meter run, placing her among the top female track sprinters in Notre Dame history. 

My role models are: my teammates. I'm at practice everyday with them and they really motivate me. 
My best track experience was: this past year's NCAA indoors. I placed fourth in the 400 meters, and justmaking it to the NCAAs with my 4x400 team was a thrill for me. 
My worst track experience was: freshman year nationals. I lost because I didn't know what I was doing. But I like to take things from those losses. I remember the races that I lose much more vividly than those that I win. I learn from my mistakes so I can never make the same ones twice. 
What I still have left to accomplish: I 
would like to take my 4x400 outdoors team to nationals. Taking a relay team there is an amazing accomplishment. And I enjoy winning the relay events more than the individual events, because it'sso much better when you have three girls to celebrate with. 
My plans after I graduate this May: I am taking a year off and getting married in January. Then I am off to law school in fall 2003. As far as running, I would like to some day compete for the Italian national team. I'm already running times that would spark interest in Italy. 
IfI could play any other sport, it would be: diving. I've never done it. It looks hard, butit's cool and you can impress your friends at pool parties. 
What I will miss most about Notre Dame after I graduate: my teammates and my coach. 
My favorite class I have taken at Notre Dame is: poetry writing. 
My favorite place in the world is: Paris, because that's where my fiance proposed. 
My favorite dining hall dish is: rotisserie chicken. 

If I could be any animal, I would be: a 
mermaid. I used to pretend that when I was little. It would be fun swimming around uninhibited and being able to breathe underwater and on land. 
-Jimmy Atkinson 

Jimbo's Jabber 
Last Saturday the Irish football team practiced for the first time under new head football coach Tyrone Willingham. The football squad will practice a total of 15 times this spring and culminate the workouts in the Blue-Gold Game on April 27 .... The Irish baseball team, down 3-4 against Western Michigan with one out in the bottom of the ninth, rallied to win 5-4 at home on Tuesday. 38 Andrew Bushey ignited the rally with a base hit. SS Javier Sanchez and DH Matt Bok then drove in the tying and winning runs, respectively. This was the squad's ninth win in the last 1 O games, bringing their overall record to 18-11 . . .. On Monday, junior 1 B Lisa Mattison was named Big East softball player of the week. On Tuesday, the softball team (18-12} won its 1 oth consecutive game, defeating Valparaiso 4-0 and 8-0 in a doubleheader. Freshman RHPs Steffany Stenglein and Carrie Wisen combined for a no­hitter in the first game. Junior SS Andria Bledsoe homered in game one to drive in three runs.... The ninth-ranked women's lacrosse team lost at 15th­ranked Ohio State on Tuesday, 12-11, to drop to 8-2. M Danielle Shearer led the offense with four goals. Both defeats on the season, each one-goal margins, have been suffered at the hands of ranked teams.... The women's rowing team finished fifth in the grand final of the Jessop-Whittier Cup at the San Diego Crew Classic on Sunday.... Freshman F Jacqueline Batteast and junior G Alicia Ratay were named co­recipients of the Notre Dame National Monogram Club MVP Award on Monday night. O 
SCHOLASTICSPLINTERS 25 

J 



;fiii!ilt~f:i"i~ 


Spring has sprung, and hockey season is winding down. Now that the NHL has played under several new rules for three years, it's time to evaluate whether these rule changes actually have made a positive difference in standings and the excitement value of games. 


Sunday marks the end of the NHL's regular season. As the playoff races wind down, it's hard for a sports fan not to get into the playoff spirit, which in­cludes nightly monitoring ofthe NHL stand­ings. However, if you look closely at those standings, you 'II notice a few things that are terribly wrong. One need only look at the top four teams in the Eastern Conference to see something' s a little screwy. I'll outline it for you, in case you haven't memorized the standings yet: 1. 
SPORT: .WOMEN'S LACROSSE OPPONENT:DUKE WHERE: NOTRE DAME WHEN: FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 4:00 PM 

Boston (99 points); 2. Philadelphia (95); 3. Carolina (86); and 4. Toronto (94). Carolina is ranked third in the conference, even though it has tallied significantly fewer points than fourth-place Toronto. This is because when the NHL divided a few years ago into two conferences of three divisions each, they decided that the top finishers in each division should be ranked in the top-three spots in the conference. 
While in theory this seems like a noble idea, the absurdity of it quickly is shown when Carolina is compared to eighth-place Montreal. The Canadiens have amassed 87 points, which would actually place them one point ahead of the Hurricanes, if Carolina weren't currently leading the Southeast Di­vision. In essence, this system rewards the Hurricanes -who played majority of their games against teams in the worst division in hockey -by giving them home ice advan­tage for at least the first round ofthe playoffs: Once you get over the position of the Hurri­canes, glance down the rest ofthe conference standings. In addition to noting how ridicu­lous it looks to have four columns now that overtime losses are counted, one can't help but notice that there are an awful lot ofties in hockey. 
Ironically, this is why, following.the 1998­99 season, the NHL decided to assign a value of one point to overtime losses. The way the NHL saw it, teams often played conserva­tively in overtime to make sure they got at least one point. By making the overtime losses worth one point, they figured that teams would play harder in overtime, know­ing that they would get one point even ifthey lose. They also reduced the skaters on the ice from five-on-five to four-on-four. NHL offi­cials hoped that these changes would reduce the amount of ties. 
To a degree, they were correct. In the last season of the old system, NHL teams tied in 324 of their 2,214 games, or 14.6 percent of the time. Teams in 2001-02 tied 282 times in 2356 games, or 12.0 percent. While this is an improvement, it is not a very large one, especially when 13 of the 30 NHL teams have at least 10 ties this season. If the NHL wants to fix the tie situation, it needs to do more than just reduce the number of dead­locks; it needs to make them an infrequent occurrence. 
To do this, it must do a few things. First, the NHL must scrap its overtime loss policy. It looks stupid when you list a team's record and it looks stupid in the standings. It is true that the number of ties has been reduced since its inception, but one cannot solely credit that to the scoring change. It is just as likely that the change was caused by the reduction in the number of skaters. A loss is a loss. Teams should not be rewarded for losing, even if the loss takes almost five minutes longer than usual. 
After the overtime-loss scoring policy is abolished, the NHL should consider length­ening overtime to either 10 or 20 minutes. Hockey does not have the time problem that baseball currently is experiencing, and so a longer overtime would be more exciting for fans. Perhaps even more importantly, a longer overtime wpuld result in more scoring op­portunities, which would lead to more sud­den-death goals and fewer ties. This would offer a solution that rewards the fans, ben­efits the sport and doesn't even require a goofy new column in the standings. 
If that change doesn't sufficiently solve 

. the problem, the NHL also can remove the rule against two-line passes in overtime. Two-line passes are legal in Olympic hockey. The "Olympians," who also happen to double as the NHL personnel, demonstrated the value of the two-line pass, proving that they made the game faster paced and more offen­sive. The same could be true in overtime games. By eliminating the ban on two-line passes in the extra period, the chances for breakaways and quick offensive attacks would be increa~_ed dramatically, leading to more overtime goals and fewer ties. Until then, a loss still will be as good as a tie. . 
After losing a tough game After having a four-game Duke, coming off a to Ohio State, the ninth­winning streak snapped c"rushing 18-6 loss to ranked women's lacrosse with a one-goal loss for the Virginia, will not be able to team looks to rebound second time this season, get back on track against against Duke on Friday. the Irish have returned the· Irish. ND bounces back Danielle Shearer leads the home with a vengeance. from a close loss at Ohio offensive frenzy, scoring 4 They will take care of .State and beats Duke at goals in a 12-6 rout of the Duke on Friday, 10-7. . home by a touchdown, 14­Blue Devils. 7, 
-Gerard Meskill -David Murray -Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Editor Assistant Sports Editor · Assistan_t Sports Editor 
26 SCHOLASTICSPLINTERS 

~•-·:".:...
,:•·.·-·-•.·•,•~--------------~;,•
. \:\.ft-/:..,:./:·-_.··-·: 
·:·.,··::,.'.~·-.: '.. ·,-,_;: ..~ :, <" . _: :: 

· · Officer ·Position availcible for 2002-2003 school year: treasurer 
contact ALSAC at: ALSAC@nd.ed 

Please ioin the National Bone Marrow Registry 
Tuesdav,April 16th, from 9am-4pm LaFonune Ballroom. 
Please sign up at 
www.nd.edu/~c.lasso2/donor/index2.html 
I
Or walk-inS W&lcomel I 


::•:,;·.· '-··. ·:'.•.·•,,:--..
~~ili~~f....,U,/.>p.,''.,,;..llfaff~rj;i;f;-~Ji-~JflR'lliJ:~l~·;::..,,~,,...,.~~ 
New coach Tyrone Willingham is ready to unleash a new brand of Notre Dame football this season 

GERARDMESKILL 

Four months ago, Notre Dame foot­ball was in shambles. On Sunday, December 2, 2001, Bob Davie an­nounced that he had been fired as the head football coach ofthe Fighting Irish. Athletic Director Kevin White left campus immedi­ately to find Davie's successor, and exactly one week later, he returned seemingly tri­umphant with Georgia Tech's George O'Leary. However, O'Leary was exposed five days later for lying about his football playing days and for claiming to have received a master's degree from NYU._Less than a week after taking the job, he resigned, leaving Notre Dame with a mammoth black eye and a very large hole to fill. Quickly. White spent the rest of the month search­ing for a new head coach for the second time in the same offseason. On January 1, he an­nounced a hiring that made many of the Irish faithful forget O'Leary ever received the honor of being called Notre Dame football coach. Tyrone Willingham, Stanford's highly successful coach who reportedly had . turned down offers from the NFL to leave the Cardinal," made.the traJisition from Palo ­Alto to South Bend, scoring a lllajor coup for ND's embattled athletic director. "First of all, I never confirm or deny ariy of those alieged offers [concerning offers 
28 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 

from the NFL]," says Willingham. "What made Notre Dame a great opportunity for TyroneWillinghamisthatitisthemostpres­tigious football program in the country. It has a record that matches the tradition and the expectation of excellence." 
To meet the expectations of excellence that Willingham openly embraces, he intends to institute some major changes in Notre Dame's football strategy, including a com­plete overhaul of the offense. This transi­tion begins with an all-new coaching staff, comprised almost entirely of his assistants from Stanford. Stanford's coaches likely brought the passing-oriented "West Coast offense" with them on their trip east, which is expected to replace Notre Dame's slower, ground-based attack. 
Possibly the biggest concern for such a change lies in Notre Dame's quarterback quandry. Over the past two seasons, none of the Irish's signal callers have demonstrated a passing capacity necessary to lead an air­based offensive scheme. Over the 12-game schedule, the Irish completed just 109 passes on 218 attempts, averaging just 9.1 comple­tions per-game. The average yardage per pass was just 5.l yards. Meanwhile, Notre -Dame was intercepted 11 times, a rise from just four picks in 2000. Perhaps most alarm­ingly, the Irish completed just four touch­down passes in 2001, a letdown from 2000. 
However, freshman quarterback Carlyle Holiday, who showed his prowess as an op­tion quarterback in 2001, doesn't seem con­cerned by the change in offensive style. 
"I think [the new system] will work fine," said Holiday. "For me it will be fun. I don't think it will be a major adjustment from what I'm doing. We were all recruited here be­cause we can throw the ball, and I think we'll ·get the opportunity to do that now with this new offense." 
Holiday's enthusiasm gives merit to the speculation that the lack of passing oppor­tunity in Davie's restrictive option offense might have stunted the quarterbacks' pass­ing potential. However, Willingham is not ready to point a finger at any specific expla­nation. 
"Well I don't know whether to label it 

because of a restriction, or whatever," 
Willingham says: "Other people can do that. 
But I think we can honestly say [Notre 
Dame's quarterbacks] have not reached their 
passing potential. ... And really what I 
would say is, I'm not interested in them 
reaching their potential. I'm interested in 
them exceeding their potential." 
Willingham does not intend to platoon quarterbacks, which means that one player must be selected from the quarterback pool to lead the Irish in2002. In 2000, that player was Matt Lo Vecchio, who responded to be­ing selected by finishing the regular season ,_7-0. But his performance in the Fiesta Bowl 


began a series of bad appearances for the young quarterback, and he lost the starting job to Holiday early in the 2001 campaign. Holiday didn't play much better, leading the mediocre Irish offense for much of the 5-6 season. 
The past failures of these two quarterbacks leaves Willingham with the difficult task of choosing a starter from a pool that includes Lo Vecchio, Holiday, Jared Clark, incoming freshman Chris Olsen and possibly Arnaz Battle. 
Davie moved Battle from quarterback to flanker after the signal caller broke his wrist during a contest against top-ranked Ne­braska in 2000. During the 2001 season, Battle performed reasonably well in his new position, but like other receivers in Davie's offense, he saw few passes. With blue-chip freshmen wide receivers Rhema McKnight and Maurice Stovall arriving on campus in the fall, Battle might no longer have a place as a receiver and might once again find him­self in the quarterback pool. But Willingham insists he will not initiate any such move. 
"I don't like moving guys around too much," says Willingham. "I think it's im­portant that a young man find a home, and we've got to find the right home for [Battle]. So, number one, I will not initiate a move [back to quarterback], but we'll see what happens, I guess is the best way to say it." 
While Willingham has ensured that he will bring a more complete scheme to the previ­ously one-dimensional Notre Dame offense, he has been unwilling to completely discard the option attack. 
"An option game, run well, is still a very powerful attack. That's the truth. Anything executed well can win," says Willingham. "It forces people to balance up and make sure that they take their responsibilities se­riously. So there's always a place for the option, and a smart coach will probably make .sure that he has some option some­where in his package." 
But this is not to say that the Irish offen­sive scheme will be anywhere near similar to Davie's rushing style, since Willingham intends only to use the option as a check on the opposing defense in specific situations. 
"The option is an equalizer in terms of defensive schemes," Willingham says. "Ifyou're do­ing a whole lot of zone blitz, that's not exactly designed to be effective versus the option, if you can get it to the right side." 
"Ifyou know people put nine, eight people in the box, well if you've got that safety in the box, then who [ on the opposing defense] is going to compensate for that option re­sponsibility of taking either the quarterback or the pitch on the perimeter? So the option has a place, because it is an equalizer," he says. 
With the option reduced from Notre Dame's primary attack to a strategy meant to throw opposing defenses off guard, Notre Dame's entire offense must be overhauled. While selecting the starting quarterback is crucial toward achieving that goal, there still are many other issues that Willingham must address to prepare for 2002. Second only to the quarterback situation in importance. is establishing the role of the runningbacks in the new scheme. 
Since Notre Dame's current offensive players were recruited by Davie for a rush­ing attack, Willingham faces the dilemma of working these players into his scheme. Notre Dame's most consistent runningback in 2001 was senior Tony Fisher (4.9 yards per carry), but he will graduate in May. Senior Terrance Howard 
(3.3) also is graduating, leav­ing junior Julius Jones, {t'.. sophomore Ryan Grant and /.)f' incoming freshman Nate /if;~ Schiccatano as the viable ;Jf candidates for the posi-· tion. 
Jones had majority of Notre Dame's car­ries in 2001, netting 718 yards on 168 at­tempts, an average of 
4.3 yards per carry. However, Davie em­ployed a platoon sys-tern, with Howard and Fisher combining for another 126 carries. Part of the reason Davie used this strategy was because all three play­ers were upperclassmen and veterans. 
This is not the case with the 2002 Irish, as only Jones has significant experience. How­ever, former Irish runningback Tony Fisher does not believe that experience will be a factor because of the new offensive style. 
"Coach Willingham is coming from the West Coast and so he's going to bring a West Coast offense, so I feel that it won't matter how much experience they have," said Fisher. "With the offense so wide open, ev­eryone will have an equal opportunity when it comes to running the ball. I think all of the runningbacks will need to be ready." 
In a system where 
runningbacks will see 
less carries, 
Willingham has to 
decide whether it 
will be favorable to 
rely on one starter 
to handle most of 

GREASED LIGHTNING Under Willingham's new "West Coast"-style offense, speed will be the name of the game. Receivers will be a more integral part of the offense, and quarterbacks, once evaluated by their ability to run the option, will be judged by the strength of their passing. 
low a platoon system similar to Davie's. However, he insists that that decision ulti­mately will be made by the players. 
"In terms of a runningback, you let your team tell you what to do as a coach," says Willingham. "Ifwe have one young man that just proves beyond the shadow of any doubt that he is absolutely the back that should be out there 35, 40, 50, 60, 70 plays, then a smart coach is going to keep him out there 60, 70 plays. And if not, then you balance off his strengths and his weaknesses with the next guy." 
But he would prefer to use all three play­ers. 
"As a football rule, if you can have more guys participate in the actual game, you be­come a stronger football team, because then everyone has a vested interested in what's taking place," he says. "So that doesn't just apply to runningbacks. That applies to all the positions. 
"If you can have a lot of guys play, then it makes yo:u stronger, because that player 
30 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 

will always be able to give absolutely his best effort, because he is fresh from a physi­cal standpoint," he adds. "And from a team standpoint, it means that everyone has, again, a vested interest in what's taking place, and it's not just a guy standing on the sideline, hoping the team does well." 
One offensive position that seems to be solid heading into the summer is wide re­ceiver. Among the 18 players headed to South Bend in the fall are receivers Stovall and McKnight. Both men almost unani­mously were labeled by recruiting experts as among the top-five wide receiver recruits in the nation. However, since they both will be true freshmen in August, one must won­der how. soon they will be ready to play. With Notre Dame opening the season in Giants Stadium against Orange Bowl loser Maryland, their inexperience will be an early concern for Willingham. 
While Willingham does not know if he will start the freshmen against the Terrapins, he is determined to work them into his sys-tern as soon as possible. 
"My approach has always been to favor 

the best player," says Willingham. "If you 
put the best players on the field-it doesn't 
matter whether they're high school seniors, 
freshmen, sophomores, juniors, seniors, 
fifth-year seniors, it doesn't make a differ­Ience -if you play the best players, it's go­ling to give your team the best chance to win. And that's all we want to do is win." 
In addition to using wide receivers more 

often, Willingham hints that he will utilize 
tight ends as receivers more often than 
Davie did, an action that would-answer one 
ofthe most popular criticisms of the former 
coach. 
"Ifyou're going to utilize a tight end, you 

want a guy that is amazingly big, amazingly 
agile and plays some portion of the game 
like an offensive tackle, some portion ofthe 
game he plays like a wide receiver," says 
Willingham. "If we have someone that can 
do all of those things, then you'll see him 
go for deep patterns, you'll see him run in­
termediate patterns, you' 11 see him run short 
patterns, you'll see him also be a major in­
gredient in our run game, in terms of the 
blocking and the schemes_ we use from that 
standpoint." 
The ultimate goal of all of these changes is to revitalize an offense that showed ma­jor weaknesses in scoring touchdowns, · reaching the end zone on offense just 20 times in 2001. One ofthe glaring weaknesses that contributed to this failure was Notre · Dame's lack of proficiency in the red zone. Willingham believes that his offensive changes, combined with the proper attitude, will result in the necessary changes in of­
fensive performance. 
"The real goal is not to get in the red zone. 

There are some people that just want to get 
to the red zone," said Willingham. " ... We 
want to score touchdowns in the red zone. 
We want to be crystal clear on what our goal 
is." 
While the goal sounds simple enough, the Irish must address issues at the quarterback, runningback and wide receiver positions to be prepared to score touchdowns. In that regard, it appears that time, not talent or at­titude, will be Notre Dame's greatest enemy in 2002. If Willingham can sort out his of­fense quickly enough to survive tough early contests against Maryland, Purdue and Michigan; th,en h~ just might have a chance . to bring Notre Dame back to prominence 
immediately. Only time will tell. 



! 

i 
l 
I 
Scam-O-Rama 
008 returns from break with an empty wallet and a sore backside · 
Ijust got back from spending my spring break in Italy, Land ofMissing Toilet Seats, where everyone speaks English until you ask for the price. Don't get me wrong -it was burst­ing at the seams with culture and history, and I had a lovely time. Oh, except for the part that I spent teetering on the ice­cold, millimeter-wide edge of the typical Italian toilet. And the part that I spent being ridiculously overcharged for every­thing. Once I was actually ridiculously overcharged to use a toilet. When it was all over, my travelling companion, Stephanie, and I agreed: We had been hosed at least 20 times. I should mention that prices in Italy are in euros, and the fig­ures I'm about to relate would be slightly less in dollars. This some­how fails to ease the pain. Case in point: Venice, where tourist hosing reaches theme-park 
0 

I couldn't stop laughing, because while giving us his shpeal, the salesman butchered every idiomatic expression that passed his lips. While pointing out that some of the etchings on the glass were diamond-cut, he reminded us that "Diamonds are the best girlfriend." When Steph finally caved and bought a glass necklace, he asked her, "Am I taking your shirt off?" (He meant "Am I taking the shirt off your back?" but this was only discerned after several somewhat unnerving silences.) I bought a picture frame for my parents and was finally released. About three steps from the factory, I found the same frame for half ofwhat I gave Idiom Man. By the end ofthe day, I was definitely tired and 
sick ofpaying through the toes. 
The next day we traveled to 
Florence, where we weren't even 
trying to buy anything, and we 
still got hosed. See, the churches 


proportions. The first day, I paid 11 and piazzas in Florence -and euros for a stick ofalmond brittle and Italy in general -used to be full 50 euros for a half-hour gondola ride. of breathtaking art you could see Then we paid 16 euros each to see an for free. Now they are full of "opera" performed in a "theatre" that copies. They've removed all the bore a striking resemblance to South real art in order to "preserve it." Dining Hall. You couldn't use the Thatmeans you go to the museum bathroom until 10 minutes before the behind the church or piazza and · performance because it doubled as a pay eight euros to see half the dressing room. It, of course, stuff they ripped out. The other contained a toilet with a wafer-thin half is, of course, in the museum edge. During the show, I tuned out down the street. the "singers" by pondering questions I returned to London with an 
like: "Why have a toilet bowl at all then, really? Ate you supposed to even try to sit down? If so, how do really fat people keep from getting their butts stuck in there?" I never did find out, by the way. And _if I had, it probably would have cost three trillion euros to get the explanation in English. 
The hosing reached its pinnacle during our visit to the nearby island of Murano, where they make Venetian glass and they don't let you leave until you buy some. The seemingly nice folks who ran our hotel said the people from the factory would pick us up and give us a tour for free, and that "if you purchase something, they're happy." What they left out was "if you don't, they will fire you, sculpt you with metal tongs, and drown you in the Adriatic.,..We were locked in upon arrival and relentlessly pursued by a slick, Armani-clad salesman who stalked us, salivating for a sale. I was actually scared ofhim, but empty wallet and a newfound 
appreciation for how expensive it is to live here. Sure, you still pay through the toes, but at least no one tricks you into doing so. Plus all the museums are free. The other day I went to the Tate Modern, a giant modern and contemporary art gallery. This place is so switched on it has T­shirts with nipple tassels on them in its gift shop, and admission is free! Incidentally, the Tate houses a minimalist piece by Marcel Duchamp called Fountain, which is simply a toilet, large cushy seat included. Hey Italy! This stuff is art! Put seats on your toilets and double your museum ticket prices! 
Oh no, I'm not bitter at all. I'lljusteat nothing but cereal until I can bear to look at my checking account balance without blushing. I really did lose quite an embarrassing sum ofmoney. How much, you ask? 
Mi dispiace, non parlo inglese. D 

SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 31 

. I 
-• ' ----L-......~-~-~------------------~--­
--~~ ---------­


I 
I 

>>Notre Dame thespians collaborate with professionals to bring the life of Galileo 

to the stage 
SHEILAFLYNN 
Not every college can boast that 
people from all over the world 

flock to its campus to see stu­dents perform. Nor can most colleges claim that tlieir theatrical productions are directed by renowned Europeans and in­clude professional stage actors in their casts. But Notre Dame is one university that can. 
On April 17, an international audience will gather in Washington Hall for the first Notre Dame performance of The Life of Galileo. Written by celebrated German playwright Bertolt Brecht, the work was translated into English by British play­wright David Hare. Notre Dame's produc­tion of the show, sponsored by the De­partment of Film, Television and Theatre, will be directed by Holger Teschke of the famed Berliner Ensemble, a theater troupe and playhouse founded by Brecht and his wife in I 949. Teshke, the recipient of sev­eral awards in the United States and Ger­many, brings to the production an under­standing of both US audiences and the German culture of the original playwright, Brecht. 
Those who only know of Galileo from lyrics of Queen's song "Bohemian Rhap­sody," might be surprised by the play. The show reveals a man whose life is filled with discovery, defiance, conflict and emotion. Galileo, after developing a tele­scope allowing increased observation of the heavens, refutes the traditional belief. that the Earth is the center.of the universe. This support of a Copernican, or sun-cen­tered, universe sparks a feud with the Catholic Church, which refuses to accept the information as true and bans Galileo's writings. Subsequently 'reduced from a brilliant and outspoken scientific hero to a crushed and controlled recluse, the eld­erly Galileo appears completely defeated until he engineers a final subtle and inge­nious act of defiance. 
32 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
The cast of The Life of Galileo seems adequately suited to portraying such com­plex, significant characters and historical figures. The 26-member cast is headed by Tony Lawton, who will play Galileo. A 1989 graduate of Notre Dame and a 10­year veteran of the Philadelphia stage, Lawton has spent the last two years teach­ing acting at the university as a visiting professor. He has been preparing the role of Galileo for almost a year. 
"Playing Galileo is hard because he is so huge," s.~YS Lawton. "He is so much bigger than me and his ideas are so much bigger than mine." 
But Lawton's efforts to invest the char­acter with appropriate dynamism and enormity are more than successful. Galileo's brilliance and mischievousness leap out to the audience from the stage, enhanced by Lawton's extensive comedic developments and passionate conveyance of intense emotion. And the portrayal of Galileo's daughter, Virginia, played by Notre Dame sophomore Katy Kertez, is equally impressive. Kertez captures the fierce loyalty, concern and pain that Vir­ginia must survive as she witnesses her father's battle and persecution -making it nearly impossible to guess that this is Kertez's first role on the main stage. A double major in English and FIT, Kertez 
. eschews the traditional presentation of 
i Virginia as a passive watcher, depicting her instead as highly involved in her father's life. 
"She's the only person who remains faithful to him throughout the entire or­deal," says Kertez. But Kertez, while ex­cited about performing such a challeng­ing and prestigious role, also is consider­ably nervous about opening night -a typical emotion of lead actors that is par­ticularly intensified in Kertez's case. 
In addition to suffering from typical pre-show jitters, Kertez is anxious be­cause her audience will include Regine 
. STAR GAZING !3al\leo (Tony Lawton ND '89) reflects on aca"reergcne awry, ·as his daughter, Virginia (Katy. Kertez· ND '04) looks on. _. . 


PRO MEETS NOVICE The cast of The Life of 
Galileo is an impressive mix of 26 actors, bringing together Notre Dame students and professional stage actors. The performance will be in coordination wth an on-campus conference, "Galileo and.the Catholic . Church." 
Lutz, the German actress who originally debuted the role of Virginia for Brecht at the Berliner Ensemble in 1956. 
"I'm very nervous to talk to her," says Kertez. "Meeting the woman who origi­nated the role is a really intimidating thing." 
Lutz is not involved in the production solely as a spectator, however. She played a significant role in advising Teschke in his preparation of the play and will con­duct an acting workshop for Notre Dame theater students during her time on cam­pus. Galileo expert Dava Sobel also made considerable contributions to the FTT pro­duction, and she, too, will attend the play. The author of the book Galileo's Daugh­ter, Sobel gave Teshke two letters writ­ten by Virginia for use in the play. These invaluable firsthand sources allow further insight into the relationship between Galileo and Virginia, as well as between Virginia and the Catholic Church. Teschke cites the letters and Sobel's book as the sources which truly revealed to him the significance of Virginia's character, both in history and in the play. 
"I believe historically Virginia was por­trayed as very timid," says Teschke. "She was really very educated and smart and actually read her father's books, although they presented problems for her as a nun." 
This emphasis on problems and contra­diction, especially between religion and science, is one of the main points of Teschke's interpretation of the play. In contrast, Brecht's original version focused on exploring neither contradictory mat­ters nor Virginia's role. 
"What we tried to do was to find out the complexity beyond what Brecht tries to express in the play," says Teschke. 
The play was scheduled this weekend to coincide with "Galileo and the Catho­lic Church," a conference of renowned Galileo scholars from around the world. The conference will examine the Church's react_ion to Galileo's discoveries and its treatment of his scientific work. The Life ofGalileo will be a major highlight of the event. The conference will feature vari­ous lectures and discussions. Participants include philosophers, theologians, histo­

rians, writers and impeccable caliber of the 
astronomers from countries and insti­tutes of higher edu­cation all over the world. 
The four perfor­mances of the play will be followed by analytical discus­sions. Sobel and Lawton will each lead one of these post-performance discussions, and 
"Playing Galileo is hard because his ideas are so much bigger than me." 

-Tony Lawton 
play is undeniable. The high quality of the acting and directing extends to the scenery and cos­tumes -members of the FTT faculty supervised both aspects. Bruce Auerbach, associate chair of the department, designed and built the set, and Rick Donnelly, associate professional specialist, oversaw the actors' wardrobes. These 

Lutz and Teschke will together lead an­other session. The complex theatrical pro­duction of the play easily paves the way for profound discussions and debates about Galileo's life and role in history, and the goals of the performance are high -and nearly indescribable, ·says Teschke. 
"If I could say what my goals are in three or four sentences, then I would write a poem about it," laughs Teschke. "But I can't." 
But despite the fact that the goals and lessons of the play may be intangible, the 
detailed facets of the show enhance the  
production by offsetting theatrical bril­ 
liance with memorable visual impres­ 
sions, drawing the audience into the world  
of ancient Italy in a time of intellectual  
turmoil.  
The Life of Galileo offers an entertain­ 
ing ride through theological and scientific  
history, throwing in humor, emotion and  
vivid character development. You  can  
laugh while you learn and question while  
you cry, and you might just end up know­ 
ing more about Galileo than you did from  
a  Queen  song.  D  
ii  
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT  33  'i  




' -· · · ··-. ;.,:~-~.-··, ·,.',·; · "'•· ,:.•.' • -. ·. -:~ .<·:_.:'./,t-\ ~-c··; :·\ ·.:-., i;·,. ·'":.;~:? ~:~!-?~:-::.'•//~~-:..-:_:_._ ···;·. 

1;~c~~:~_~\-::~,--•_··••:~~-;;)'.::~.:;ff}c:?:c{'.W:;>I:'_•• 


A Farewell to Dreams and Cereal 
I might never be the Leprechaun, but I can still eat like one 
SEANDUDLEY

Ispent most of this year telling friends and random strangers that I was going to be the Leprechaun next year. So why 
am I not trying out? I can't grow a beard. My 16-year-old brother has more hair than ldo. 
I'm also a little too tall to be the Lepre­chaun. Although I'm a bit upset about it, it's a huge relief to be 
too tall for something other than the ball pit at McDonald's. I stopped playing bas­ketball my junior year of high school when I realized I had been five-foot-10­inches since seventh grade. Here at ND, I have to wake up ev­ery morning and face the fact that I'll never be an Irish Guard in a kilt nor a basketball guard in a jersey. My only memory of Ce­dar Point is standing on my tippy-toes try­ing to convince the 
carnies I was tall enough to ride the Magnum. Two ofthe four girls I . dated in high school were taller than me and loved rubbing it in by wearing high heels anyway. 

Furthermore, I am not buff enough to be the Leprechaun. I refuse to be a mediocre mascot who secretly hopes the Irish won't score for a while so I don't have to turn blue in the face doing more push-ups. If I ever do manage to don the green outfit, I will be a monster who· can flip like a mad­man, throw cheerleaders like a pro, and dance like Usher rather than Urra. (My less­than-thigh-tliick neck just isn't cut out for all that head-banging.) 
Speaking of leprechauns, I'm ecstatic that Lucky Charms will be returning to the dining halls next year. If hearts, moons, horseshoes, diamonds, stars, rainbows, pots of gold and clovers don't belong on this campus, I don't know what does. 

On a downer, though, how did Cocoa Krispies not make the cut on the cereal sur­vey? Have we lost our awe at the cereal's ability to change what once was ordinary rriilk into chocolate greatness? Before Notre Dame, when I didn't have the op­portunity to drink chocolate milk at every meal, Cocoa Krispies was the only source available. I vividly remember all those times I would -and still do -pick up the bowl and hastily down the bottom third of it, including the three or four stupid 
Krispies that I could never get with my 
spoon. 
Although I'm not lucky enough to see Cocoa Krispies come back next year, nor to be the Leprechaun and pretend it's actu­ally me whose Lucky Charms they're al­ways after, I have had my fair share ofluck this year. Sure, I knew what a bike-time commitment it would be when I found out last summer that I was going to live in Carroll. Butit turns out I was dealt the per­fect cards, especially when two ofmy three roommates moved out halfway through the year, leaving me with only one roommate in a gigantic, one-room quad. 
You should see what we've done with the room. I think the interior decorator deep inside all of us surfaced a little in me as I rearranged the room three times at the be­ginning of this semester. I even bought a wicker couch to blend in with Carroll's wood paneling and rustic ambiance. Sure, I took a lot offlack for it-I guess wicker is not very dorm-esque -but you know what? Someday that couch is going to be _in my bedroom, and my wife and I are go­ing to sit on it and watch TV together, dammit, and I'll be glad I bought it! 
Then again, being a guy who is great at ·scoring negative points with girls, I'm starting to wonder ifI'll ever convince someone to marry me. I'm a master of poor timing, excessive flirtation and typical male oblivious-ness (I like to call it "self-transcendence"). I'm about as good at reading signs from women as I am at sight-reading Braille. 
At least being pitiful with women will always provide me· with ample song material when I'm a famous pop star. I al­ready have four songs from my high school experience with being dumped: "In­decision," "Burned," "Cruel Reality" and "Better Off." Watch for my CD some­time within the next five years; I'll be a hit -they don'_t have a facial hair re­quirement for pop stars. . 

Submit an 800-word essay for Week in Distortion. E-mail us a! scholast@nd.edu. 
34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 




.. j COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE 
THE WEEKENDER What: South Bend Symphony Orchestra's Masterwork's Seri~s: 19th Century Revolutionaries (featuring Beethoven, Wagner and Liszt) When: Saturday, April 13 at 8:00 PM Where: Morris Performing Arts Center Cost: $5 for students For Tickets: call 1-800-537-6415 or visit www.morriscenter.org 
Post your even in Scholastic's Coming Distractions. 
Get the recognition your event deserves. E-mail your submissions to Jennifer Osterhage at josterha@nd.edu. 
•All submissions are subject to Scholastic approval. 
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 35 

EDITOR'S CHOICE 
Where's the Sun? 
There's a month of school left and we still haven't seen much spring weather. I left budding trees, blooming flowers, and 70-degree weather in St. Louis on the Car­dinals' opening day. Once we got half-way up the state ofIllinois, we were driving in 30 degree temperatures, seeing snow-covered fields, and being pelted by hail. If you're anticipating warmer weather as much as I am, dig out your grass skirt and head to the Hawai'i Club Lu'au this Saturday. There will be Hawaiian food, entertainment and student singers and dancers. The baseball and softball seasons are in full swing. Go and cheer on our teams to get yourself in summer mode. On another note, SUB is bringing Harry Potter to campus this weekend. Go and watch it again. Ifyou haven't seen it, you're really missing out. 
-Jennifer Osterhage 

SPORTS 
• Fri 12 Softball: ND vs. Connecticut, 
4:00 PM, Ivy Field: 
• 
Fri 12 Baseball: ND vs. Virginia Tech, 5:05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium. 

• 
Sun 14 Softball: ND vs. Syracuse, 


11 :00 AM, Ivy Field. 
• 
Sun 14 Lacrosse: ND Women vs. Yale, 2:00 PM, Moose Krause Field. 

• 
Mon 15 Baseball: ND vs. Central Michigan, 6:05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium. 

• 
Tue 16 Baseball: ND vs. Ball State, 


6:05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium. 
• Wed 17 Softball: ND vs. Indiana State, 4:00 PM, Ivy Field. 


• Sat 20 Softball: ND vs. Virginia Tech, 
11 :00 AM, Ivy Field. 
• 
Sat 20 and Sun 21 Golf: ND Men Big East Championship, All day, Warren Golf Course. 

• 
Sun 21 Lacrosse: ND Men vs. Fairfield, 1 :00 PM, Moose Krause Field. 

• 
Tue 23 Baseball: ND vs. Chicago State, 6:05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium. 

• 
Wed 24 Baseball: ND vs. Bowling Green, 6:05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium. 



STUDENT LIFE 
• Sat 13 2002 Hawai'i Club Lu'au: Holoholo Kakou, 6:30 PM, LaFortune Ballroom. 

LECTURES 
• 
Fri 12 Mary Trotter, "The Woman on the Road: Invasion, Eviction and the Homeless Woman in Modern Irish Drama," 3:00 PM, 1125 Flanner Hall. 

• 
Fri 12 and Sat 13 "In Multiple Voices: Challenges and Prospects for Islamic Peachebuilding After September 11," Fri -3:00 PM, Sat ­


8:30 AM, C-100 Hesburgh Center. 
• Fri 19 Vincent Cornell, "What is Authentic Islam? Debating Diversity and Extremism," 4:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

CINEMA 
• 
Thu 11 Christine Swanson, FTT Alumni Filmmakers Series, AllAbout You, 7:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

• 
Thu 11, Fri 12 and Sat 13 Harry Potter and Dark Side of the Rainbow, Thu -10:00 PM, Fri and Sat -7:30 PM and 10:00 PM, DeBartolo 101 and 155. 

• 
Thu 18, Fri 19 and Sat 20 Black Hawk Down and Lady and the Tramp, Thu -10:00 PM, Fri and Sat -7:30 PM and 10:00 PM, DeBartolo 101 and 155. 

• 
Tue 23 International Film Series: Tito and Me (Yugoslavia), 7:00 PM and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. 



THE ARTS 
• 
Mon 15 Womyn With Wings Actors, 7:00 PM, LaFortune Student Center. 

• 
Sun 21 ND Jazz Bands Spring Swing, 3:00 PM, Band Building. 




., 
by Matt Vereecke 





The Priest Crisis 
Wednesday nights usually find me with a load ofhomework in my backpack, camped out at a table in the upper levels of the 
library. I read, study, outline and highlight for two or three hours after dinner, reveling in the silence and prayingforabreak.At9:45,nomatterwhatl'mdoing, I close the books, packup my bag and travel to O'Neill Hall. 
Wednesday nights are Father John Herman's ice cream nights. Six or seven students get together, cel­ebrate Mass, and then join Father John for ice cream and conversation. The world isn't a scary place inside that chapel or within his room. During that brief hour when our group gathers every week, all wars cease, the news disappears and problems no longer exist. 
After an hour of laughter and fellowship, good-na­tured ribbing and ice cream, I head home across South Quad. It is always very dark by this time, and I can always see the Dome just before I round the comer to get back to Old College. And it is at that moment, ev­ery week, that I cannot help but feel absolutely privi­leged to be a seminarian in the Congregation of Holy Cross. And then a month ago, I heard about Boston. 
The news media has labeled the situation in Boston a "crisis" in the Church, and they may be right in do­ing so. I find no reason to defend what has happened there. Part of me wants to find anything to _say that
_________,_________ _ 
might make the Church

"It is sickening to think of someone in 
look better, but a larger part 

such a trusted position taking . 
thinks that what happened advantage of young people.at such an in Boston is despicable. It 
innocent age. And it can sometimes be is sickening to think of 
someone in such a trusted

worse to think that I am putting myself 
position taking advantage

into a position to be associated with 
of young people at such an 

more than once what I think about the situation. Each time, I try to give an answer that I feel is a little less human. A basic part of me wants to defend what happened, because the perpetrator is somehow con­nected to me. But I can't defend him or what he did, and instead I choose to agree with the ques­tioners. Yes, it is a horrible tragedy. Yes, the Church should do something about that. Yes, I hate what he did as well. 
But despite all of these thoughts that go running through my head, I arrive right back at the place where I started: a sense of sickness at the fact that things like this happen in the first place. And this sense of sickness is compounded because the very type of person who is supposed to heal situations like this is the one ,who caused it. 
For a short time, I thought the· Church was going to have to change everything. Psychological test­ing would have to be done each year. Hotlines would have to be created in order to prevent and monitor future abuse. Whatever it took, and whatever in­convenience or mistrust these actions caused would be irrelevant. What would be important is that it never could happen again. 
Last week I was walking home from Father John's room, feeling discouraged and lost about the whole affair. It had been mentioned in passing that night, and once again, no real conclusions had been reached. I walked around the comer to Old College, and I saw the Dome. I expected to feel the same taste ofrevul­sion in my mouth that I got whenever I thought about the scandal. But I didn't. Instead, I felt absolutely privileged to be a seminarian in the Congregation of Holy Cross. It was then I realized that the Church is not in crisis. The Church is stronger than ever. 
For every unbalanced person out there who has stumbled into this ministry, there are a hundred oth­ers like Father John who live out the Church's com­mands inways that inspire the rest ofus to live holy lives. And for every hundred priests like Father John, there are a thousand other young people who want to be like them, who want to join them, who want to give back what they've learned from them. 
Notre Dame has some of the most dynamic, like­able priests that the Church has to offer. They can't undo what has been done, and a thousand good ac­tions on their part are not going to change the lives of those who suffered. Despjte this, it is their guid­ance, their love and their dedication that will keep the Church alive. This is not a crisis for the Church, because it did not bring to light a corruption that makes everything else look dim. Instead, it brought to light a corruption that makes everything else look that much brighter. 0 
someone like that." 
Matt Vereecke is a sophomore in Old College majoring in English. He is from Grand Rapids, Mich. 

innocent age. And it can sometimes be worse to think that I am putting myself into a position to be associated with someone like that. Someday, I may be putting on a Roman collar, and perhaps I'll even walk down the same streets he did, seeing the same people. And maybe instead of seeing me, they'll see him all over again. 
During freshman orientation I met a couple of girls who had never heard of Old College before. I began to explain the dynamics ofan undergraduate seminary when one of the girls mentioned that the priest at her parish got caught molesting children, and they didn't do anything about it. Then she asked me if I thought that was OK. At the time, I let this insult pass. I moved on, ignored the conversation. In my mind, it was com­pletely unnecessary, because things like that don't hap­pen in the real world. And then all of a sudden you wake up, and they do. 
Since the breaking of the scandal, I've been asked .. 
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 

,~·~;:~•.· ,, ' ..,,
. ;. . 
.... -t 

· opening act 
..,,,, '"(·'1 
/·;•-:,_.,,) 
--~:.{•'ji., _{ 








