RASMUSSEN
MEN'S
SHOP
THAT CERTAIN PARTY. “We’ll give ’em bigger and better dances, more student smokers, and good clean government.” So say these four Senior Class officer candidates, getting set for the campus elections May 10. Left to right: Kevin O’Shea (for president); Tom “Bob” Farley (for treasurer); Bud Romano (for secretary); Verne Kelley (for vice-president). Here’s the strongest plank in their platform: DO YOUR SPRING SHOPPING AT RASMUSSEN’S. Come in and see the latest in technicolored men’s fashions. Shirts, socks, shorts, ties, t-shirts, and pajamas in these flower-show shades —peach, pink, yellow, lavender, rose, grey, and green. See the cool Wilson Brothers “Sparklers,” the shorts that will “blind yuh” ($1.95). Get on the Color bandwagon. Vote the straight Rasmussen ticket!
for
“Campus Clothes’
TWO ENTRANCES: MAIN AND WASHINGTON
106-108 MAIN	13 0 -13 2 WASHINGTON
2
The Scholastic
Restaurants Refuse Negroes
Editor:
One evening this past week two of my friends and myself were refused admittance to two restaurants in South Bend. Why? Because one of my friends was colored.
This friend of mine is also a student at Notre Dame and a Catholic. There seems to be something markedly incongruous about the affair since I believe the owners and managers of both restaurants also to be Catholics.
The managers of both restaurants gave us the same story, that they themselves would gladly admit Negroes but for the fact that their public, their paying public, would not eat in the same establishment with Negroes.
Now I have no reason to doubt the sincerity of these men, and I fully sympathize with their desire to make a living. . . . But I believe these two men are laboring under a delusion, a delusion with terrible effects. I believe that not only would the population of South Bend and of Notre Dame rather eat in a restaurant that served Negroes, but would rather not patronize a restaurant that refused Negroes. My two friends and myself easily gained admission to Clark’s Restaurant, and I have observed other Negroes in Clark’s. And I haven’t noticed Clark’s making any less money because of this fact.
Therefore, with the sole desire of correcting a delusion held by many establishments in South Bend, and with no intent at malice, for I believe the explanations given by the managers to be sincere, I hereby ask that the students of Notre Dame inform these two restaurants verbally and via letter that they request the admission of Negroes, and they will refuse further patronage until Negroes are admitted.
William O. Ward 215 Badin
We can’t print the names of these restaurants, but we’re sure most students know of such places. Their policies may be backed by good reasons, but it takes considerable argument to remove the smell from something like this.—Editor
Constructive Criticism
Editor:
Coach Leahy took time out from his regular duties to write an article for Sport magazine. Why not ask our esteemed coach to write an article for the Scholastic giving good reasons why the students are not allowed to watch foot-
Two tilings every college man should know I ji&i
This is a judge. Cold-hearted, bench warmer. Known as Jine man in a pinch. Would cell you up the river, but sojtens at the sight of a "Manhattan” shirt.
Summons lady witnesses. Extreme tvidespread collar. Stays keep points in perfect shape. Size-Fixt (fabric residual shrinkage 1% or less).
CAMPUS FAVORITE
April 29, 1949
3
ball practice (especially during spring practice)? If the head coach condescends, how about letting some fair-minded student (maybe Harry Monahan) give a rebuttal?
I write this letter because I am concerned over the constant refusal of the football coaches to allow the students to watch their team. Time and again I, like all other Notre Dame students, am asked by my friends or relatives about the famous Notre Dame team. I have to admit that I see the team five times a year in action (the four home games and the Old Timers’ Game). I don’t think this is fair to a student body who would like to call the team their own.
Here is some constructive criticism. How about having students present their I.D. cards to enter practice. During the season when closed practices • might be justifiable, set aside one or two days when the students might also be admitted in the same manner mentioned above. I don’t want to be an alarmist but in the last three years I have seen a decline of student interest in the football team. There were pep rallies last year with only five or six hundred students present. Mr. Leahy, I hope you have a good reason for it. . . .
210 Alumni	Dominic Giancola
See page 12.—Editor.
Attention. ND Foundation!
Editor:
Warning to library-goers of the University of Notre Dame? An unenlightened gentleman down the hall signed out a two-hour reference book and kept it for two weeks. The fine for keeping such a book longer than two hours is, “10c the first hour or fraction thereof, 15c the second hour, 20c the third hour, etc.” Shmo-head now owes the University the startling sum of $2847.60!!!
What is to be done???
Ernie Franzgrote 202 Zahm
Only a College Girl
Editor:
Reading the Scholastic of April 8, I came across the letter to you about a certain Fletcher Daniels. I had that March 25 issue, too, and I think he is a discrase (sic) to the South. Just print a picture of George McCullough (Yo-YoBaby), and you will have a swell representation of the true Westerner.
What a stance, what a build, look at that hat. He got that coat from Tilbets or Filbets (I don’t know what store it was) but he said it was expensive.
I am only a college girl, but one who would like to see more men like him.
Kay O’Hara Northwestern University
This is undoubtedly a phoney. ... A sweeping economy move makes it impossible for us to print the picture enclosed, but we can report that George is indeed a fine looking young man.— Editor.
Who Won?
Editor:
Will you please mention the fine game that Leo Barnhorst and Jim O’Halloran played in the All-Star game against the Globe Trotters? I’m especially interested in the number of points that each player scored.
Edward Lanshe 135 Farley Hall	.
HELP WANTED
The general committee of the NFCCS convention to be held in Chicago next week has broadcast a call for typists and clerks to handle the paper work of the four-day session. Anyone interested and able to go to Chicago any day. May 5 through May 8. will receive meals and transportation, in addition to being paid for their services.
For further information contact Lou Burns, Room 337 Dillon Hall.
SPECIAL PURCHASE!
GABARDINE SLACKS ...
7.95
Tailored of fine wool-and-rayon blended, crease-resisting gabardine that will stand up under all kinds of wear. Come in and see them . . . Feel the smooth, silky gabardine fabric ... try on a pair . . . You’ll see it’s the biggest $7.95 worth of slacks you’ve ever seen. Eight popular colors.
• Airforce Blue
• Luggage Tan
• Sea Green
• Navy Blue
• Slate Grey
• Natural
• Teal Green
• Buckskin Brown
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
4
The Scholastic
The Week
By Bob Vierhile
Notes and Comment
On May 10 sophomores, juniors, and seniors go to the polls to choose their 1949-50 class officers. Not since the 1936 Republican campaign when Alf Landon rode his elephant back to the jungles of Kansas has there been so much political buffoonery. The only real issues involved concern which candidates’ dates will reign as queens at next year’s Junior Prom and Senior Ball.
Campus architects got their first look at the completed children’s hospital last week. The addition of the glass doors was, to us, like putting windows in a casket. We go along with the comment of a friend who, as he drove up Angela Boulevard, saw the structure for the first time and gasped: “What an odd looking drive-in.”
Championship Golf
Yesterday was an inspiring day for us. We watched Walter Garrity play a cool, courageous game of golf, lowering his 18-hole record by one stroke. He turned in a brilliant 129 over the difficult Burke course.
There is only one word to describe Garrity’s play: “guts.” Needing an eighteen to break his record 130 on the 18th hole, Garrity kept hundreds of spectators under the spell of his masterful performance.
After sending his tee shot into a gopher hole far to the right, Garrity drew upon his tremendous experience. The nerve of this man made itself felt, and the select gallery gasped as he pulled a brassie from his bag. His swing was perfect. Unfortunately, due to a conformation of the ground, he was unable to move the ball.
Instead of lifting a two-iron shot into the wind, Garrity played a “run” shot, hitting over the ball to give it top-spin. The third of these regrettably rolled into a brook, a hazard which Mr. Garrity will ask the greens committee to fill in.
At the edge of the green, Garrity again became the complete master of his
game. He cleverly chipped the ball into a sand trap; here he could pitch to the cup without the risk of over-running the green. Lamentably, the ball rested in a heel-print of some boor, forcing Garrity to hit into the trap on the other side with the hope of finding a better lie.
On the green in 12 strokes, Garrity, always a deadly putter, prudently decided against slamming the ball. Instead, he nursed it along the green with a series of beautifully executed strokes.
Finally with the hole two inches away, Garrity putted boldly. His shot went true and dropped for an 18 — and a record 129.
The Fun Side of College
A letter from Miss Jan Weyl, writing under the letterhead of the Ladies’ Home Journal, plopped into our hands over the vacation. Miss Weyl told us she is making a survey of college magazines and is interested in collecting some information on the “fun side of college” for a forthcoming Journal feature. Here are our answers to Miss Weyl’s questions :
How do you spend your time when you’re not in classes? Lounging in the library reading rooms.
How many students go steady? Many stagger. Is it the general rule or the exception? General rule.
Do you date on week nights? Ho\y often? What do you do? Ha!
What is the dating deadline? 50 years. What happens if you don’t get in on time? The torture chamber.
Does this happen often — and what has happened to someone who stayed out later? We would rather not talk about them.
What kind of punishment does your school mete out to delinquents? Pillory.
How would you define “making love” as it is meant at your school? It loses so much in the translation.
Does a girl have to make love to be popular? Almost always.
Does a man? Duz can’t do everything.
What do you talk about in bull sessions? Heifers.
Going To The Danee
Logans
INSIST ON PURE WOOL GABARDINE COATS IN WHITE OR POWDER BLUE
Look Better—fit Better — Feel Better
SPECIAL STUDENT BATES
LOGAN
107 North Main Street Oliver Hotel
South Bend, Indiana
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
April 29, 1949
5
Entertainment
APRIL 29
COLFAX (through May 4)—Family Honeymoon. Fred MacMurray marries widow Claudette Colbert only to discover that he has to take her three kids along on the honeymoon. The obvious didos that arise are hilarious but wear thin near the end of this feather-tickling comedy.
PALACE (through May 1)—Red Pony and Fighting Fools. The feature attraction is a technicolored picturization of John Steinbeck’s fine original. Some of the book’s best parts, however, have been omitted from the film. Myrna Loy seems a bit out of place in calico, but Robert Mitchum and especially a young lad by the name of Peter Miles are excellent. Louis Calhern also adds a memorable characterization.
GRANADA (through April 30) — Siren of Atlantis and Brothers in the Saddle. Pierre Aumont and Maria Montez are starred in the feature. Its release date was postponed nearly a year. It should have been postponed a decade.
APRIL 30
WASHINGTON HALL—Call of the Wild. No positive proof that this is the old Jack London flicker starring Clark Gable and Loretta Young, but if it is, then run to Washington Hall and get a seat before ND’s Sam Spade kicks you out of the aisles. Buck, the St. Bernard, is also in this saga of Alaska.
MAY 1
GRANADA (through May 4)—He Walked by Night and Shamrock Hills. Following the current documentary thriller trend, the feature is out of the top drawer. Filmed in Los Angeles, the picture’s climax, which takes place in the city’s huge underground flood drains, will have your palms sweating. Richard Basehart, a comparative newcomer from Broadway, is terrific as the fugitive.
STATE (through May 4)—Jacare and India Speaks. This bill will most likely attract a limited audience from South Bend’s elephant farms.
MAY 2
PALACE—Desi Arnez (in person) and I Cheated the Law. The La Raza Club will form at the circle at one and march South en masse. Sociology majors will follow them for the movie.
MAY 3
PALACE (through May 5—The Boy With Green Hair and Tucson. Pat O’Brien and Dean Stockwell co-star in this technicolored plea for tolerance. All that can be said for it is that it could have been better. The Nature Boy theme that runs through it doesn’t help any.
MAY 5
COLFAX (through May 11)—Whispering Smith. Alan Ladd changes his trench coat and his Lueger for levis, a sombrero and a six-shooter in his western debut. Coated with technicolor and featuring Brenda Marshall, Robert Preston and Donald Crisp in the cast, it’s nothing but a souped-up version of the good man who comes to town and cleans it up beyond recognition.
STATE (through May 17)—One Sunday Afternoon and Flaxy Martin. Two re-runs that weren’t world-shakers when they played their first visit and which, unlike hooch, don’t improve with age.
WANT TO EARN $9000 A TEAR?
A career in life insurance selling can be both profitable and satisfying . . . with your income limited only by your own efforts. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
To find out more about the opportunities offered to you in a life insurance selling career, sr d for our free booklet, “The Career For Me?” which includes a preliminary test to help determine your aptitude. If your score is favorable, our Manager in or near your community will explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual LifetimeCompensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial retirement income at 65.
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
34 Nassau Street	NewYorkS. N.Y.
FIRST IN	AMERICA
FOR FREE BOOKLET—“THE CAREER FOR ME?"—ADDRESS DEPT. 7.
NAME_____________________________AGE_______
An.'.RESS_________________________________
CITY______________________________________
^HERN WILDERNESS CO^
In Superior Wilderness Quetico Lake Region Complete outfitting service S3.50 a day with Grumman aluminum canoes. Food, vour choice—extra.
Border. Main Lo and 20 log cabins. Modern bath room facilities. American Plan rates £8.00 and wp.
WERNESS
B.Y. MINNESOTA KM
6
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 April 29. 1949 No. 24
Scholastic Opinion
What the Professors Think About Student Activity
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
The editor of the Scholastic, along with a dozen or so other midwestern college editors, was invited to the national Conference on Higher Education in Chicago early this month. The idea behind the invitation was to acquaint the editors with some of the current trends in
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor ROBERT T. STOCK
Associate Editors
JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR News JOSEPH DUKERT Assistant News W. GREGORY HALPIN ______________Features
HARRY MONAHAN Sports RALPH H. WRIGHT._________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER _____________  Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN _______________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER ____________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE__________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL__________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN._Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Texas-born, doggie-chasing Pat Kelly is here caught hard at work prepping for a position on the ND varsity bowling team which will compete in the Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling tournament to be held at the Bowl-Mor alleys this week-end. Mr. Kelly’s confusion is understandable; the tenpins and the bowling ball are a long way from the ropin’ and the ridin’ for which Texans, suh, have a powerful yearnin’. Despite weeks of strenuous road work and many hours of practice on the hardwoods, Texan Kelly — friend of the pin boys — will roll his usual fine game from the stands.
—Photos by Bruce Harlan
higher education. The Scholastic editor sat in on several sessions of a study group considering the problems of student activities. Included in the group were teachers and administrators from Wayne, Georgia Tech, Washington U., and six or seven other places. Some interesting ideas came out of those sessions.
One was this: both students and faculty members very often fail to realize the value of student activities. The group agreed that activities make a definite contribution to the educational process and should be so recognized. Among other things, they develop initiative, responsibility, and leadership. To use the language of the groups report, activities help provide “social adjustment, the development of cooperative techniques, group enterprise, and group life, the expression of student needs and interests, and vocational effectiveness.” On a less theoretical plane, a dean from Georgia Tech pointed out that nearly all personnel directors first consider a prospect’s activity record and then look at his academic standing — if at all. Employers have found that students who have taken part in a few extra-curriculars are generally better people to have. Their activity record usually shows up in greater energy, initiative, and adaptability on the job.
Of course, as one of the conferees pointed out, that doesn’t mean that every student should race out and join six or eight clubs. Some students don’t need extra-curricular activity and wouldn’t profit much from it. But most would.
Another point made was that considerable harm can be done when a college fails to define clearly and finally just how much say students are to have in administration. The group recommended establishing three levels of operation: “1) the widest possible autonomy for students in handling student enterprise; 2) joint student-faculty operation in certain areas of policy formation; and 3) a technique for reflecting student opinion and concern on matters . . . wherein students cannot justifiably participate actively.”
The idea behind that third level is this: if you make a major decision affecting the students without discussing it with some of them first, the students will immediately see all the bad parts without seeing any of the good. (Notre Dame’s football schedule is a case in point here.) But if you talk to them first and give them reasons for your action — perhaps by way of an interview in the school paper — they’ll see your side of the question, too. And if they won’t agree with you, at least they won’t feel something’s being put over on them. The whole thing boils down to a simple matter of cooperation; if the students and the administration work together, there might be a lot more harmony and a lot less griping. . . . Or so the educators thought at Chicago.
We think it might be well for Notre Dame’s student body and administration to consider some of these ideas in deciding just what the future of student government and student activity at Notre Dame is going to be.
April 29, 1949
7
For graduate
Mount Holyoke 49
Daughter of M r. and /Wrr. Alva B. Morgan of Darien, Conn., Eleanor is the fa m i If s second Mount Holyoke graduate.
The genius of America to wear on your wrist
ELIMINATES
Lord and Lady Elgins are priced from $67.50 to $5,000. Elgin De Luxe from $47.50 to $67.50. Other Elgins as low as $29.75. All prices include Federal Tax.
SO ItEAITIFlUY STYEEO.99 says her MOTHER. "Actually, the most beautiful of the many Elgin Watches owned in our family is the model we’ve chosen for Eleanor. ”
"THAT HUH A POWER MAIN-SPRAArG MEAN'S RETTER PERFORMANCE.99 says her FA THER. "She won’the bothered with mainspring repairs in that ivatch.”
^2 ( JEWELS
19 JEWELS
There’s an extra thrill in owning a beautiful star-timed Elgin .Watch! For beneath its beauty is Elgin’s exclusive DuraPower Mainspring that eliminates 99% of all repairs due to steel mainspring failures.
Suggest to those planning a graduation watch for you that you’ll be happier with an Elgin ... an Elgin Watch with the DuraPower symbol c^on the
■ I Cl I N
■M	■ ■ w	*!*atent pending. Made of “Elgiloy” metal.
8
The Scholastic

SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 24
APRIL 29, 1949
Campus Elections Slated for May 10
MAESTRO FREDDY MARTIN Tschaikovsky for the masses
BANDMASTER GEORGE OLSEN
Sweet schmaltz for Juniors' Candy Carnival
Senior Plans Progress For Big May 20 Ball
Senior Ball bids, retailing at $9.00, go on sale Monday, May 2, in the basement of the Dining Hall and in eight residence halls. Then on Friday, May 20, Freddy Martin and his orchestra will blow their versatile music into the Drill Hall ozone for four full hours, 10 ’til 2.
On Saturday afternoon, May 21, the festivities will continue at the Indiana club, with a local orchestra providing the music for the tea-dancery from 4 ’til 7. After- that, the seniors will be on their own.
Although the Navy Drill Hall seems large enough to house the Army-Navy war games, the dance has been limited to 500 couples. This has been done to give the decorations committee a chance to get rid of the building’s hangar-like atmosphere.
The Drill Hall, if you’ll take the word of the engineers and architects who are working on it, -will be transformed into a cozy little dance nook. A low, crepepaper ceiling will be used to cut the (Continued on Page 32)
George Olsen Set for Junior Prom in Rock
After lengthy deliberation members of the junior prom committees decided this week to hire George Olsen and his band to give forth with the sweet music come this May 6.
The Olsen aggregation will be remembered for its long stay at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago. Its popularity as a “danceable” band influenced the committee in their favor.
Guests of Co-chairmen Russ Skall and Jim Holway will reign as queens of the Friday night festivities. Miss Theo Paltzer of Appleton, Wisconsin will take over her regal duties escorted by Mr. Skall. Miss Joanne Megan of nearby Roseland, Indiana 'will be Holway’s date.
Activities will begin Friday evening with the prom in the Rockne Memorial. The theme of the dance will be “Candy Carnival” and appropriate decorations have been planned. Several national candy concerns have promised samples. Late permissions have been granted and
(Continued on Page 33)
Officers to be Named For Three Top Classes
By VIC DORR
With big-colorful posters broadcasting fat campaign promises throughout the campus this week, election time had come to Notre Dame. In an announcement from the Student Council yesterday it was learned that sophomore, junior and senior class officers for 1950 will be named this year on May 10.
As in the past, the Student Council will have supervision over the election proceedings. Pete Brown is chairman of the Council’s election committee and his group, with the aid of the Blue Circle, will have the task of conducting the affair.
Balloting will take place on May 10 (Tuesday) in the basement of the Dining Hall. Polls will be open from 11 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. only, and votes will be cast on mimeographed slips rather than
from the voting machines used last year. Regulations say the ballots will have the candidates’ names listed according to . their party. Separate ballot slips are being prepared for each class, and students may use their own discretion in voting for individuals or a straight ticket.
Eligibility Checked
During the elections the Student Directory will be used to establish a voter’s eligibility. His name will be checked against his class standing in the book, and he must likewise present his ID card to identify himself.
While the Council has been pondering the mechanics of the election, names for prospective class officers have been pouring in. Nominations, which opened April 12 and which closed officially yesterday, had turned up names of some thirty aspiring students by Wednesday morning. Among them were two full slates for senior class officers, three for juniors, and one for next year’s sophomores. Three men were running independently.
For the seniors, “That Certain Party” (Continued on Page 32)
April 29, 1949
9
Attorney General Clark To Address Law Banquet
Tom C. Clark, attorney general of the United States, will be the principal speaker at the Hoynes Law Banquet May 13, it was announced yesterday by Dr. Clarence Manion, dean of the College of Law. On the same day, a Practicing Law Institute for attorneys in Northern Indiana will begin here under the joint sponsorship of ND and the Indiana State Bar Association.
The banquet, sponsored annually by the Law Club for graduating law sen-
ATTORNEY-GENERAL TOM CLARK A few words for the local barristers
iors, is named for the late Col. William Hoynes, first dean of the University’s law school.
The Law Institute, actually a two-day affair, will consist of three sessions designed to aid practicing lawyers. Speakers will include Don C. Flanagan, former judge of the Indiana Appellate Court; Judge Luther M. Swygert, of the Northern Indiana Federal District Court; and Professors William D. Roili-son and Jack R. Miller, of the Notre Dame law faculty.
’Use Your Library*
Use Your Library, the 20-page booklet guide to the resources and services of the ND library, has been listed in the Vertical File Service Catalog of the Wilson Company. Copies have also been sent to almost 175 institutions and libraries who requested the booklet, which was published last semester.
Spotlight On Science As Campus and Country Mark Universal Notre Dame Night Celebration
By JOE DUKERT
Programs on two coast-to-coast radio networks, two local broadcasts over South Bend stations, and individual meetings in 105 communities all over the world turned the spotlight on ND science this week in the 26th annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Night.
The two-day campus celebration was highlighted by a half-hour broadcast beamed over- the Mutual Broadcasting System Tuesday night from Washington Hall. A student cast, from the University Theatre group, appeared on the program, which dramatized outstanding scientific achievements at the University, both past and present.
In Baltimore, Md., the livewire alumni group of that city secured time over the American Broadcasting hook-up to pay a special tribute to research and discovery at Notre Dame. Tighe E. Woods, Federal Housing Expediter, delivered the principal address.
Sunday afternoon, alumni George Koch, ’25, and Peter Nemeth, ’44, took part in a background broadcast over WHOT, outlining the origins and high points of chemical, biological and electronic research at the University. Dale Francis, graduate student in political science, supplied the running commentary in another “roving microphone” program aired Monday night over WSBT. This radio peek at ND science labs featured wire-recorded interviews with Mr. Robert Ervin, of LOBUND, Dr. Charles Price, Head of the Department of Chemistry, and Dr. Edward Coomes, of the Department of Physics.
Also included in the campus festivities Monday evening was a banquet in the Faculty Dining Hall sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley. The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of Notre Dame, and Dr. Price were the principal speakers at the affair.
In summing up this year’s salute to Notre Dame’s role in scientific research, Father Cavanaugh pointed out, in the MBC broadcast, that science is “the area of most urgent demand and most immediate promise on the campus.
“In Notre Dame’s laboratories eminent scientists are busy during the day and well into the night working with the young men who tomorrow must take the lead,” he continued. “In the sciences as in the arts, tomorrow’s leadership is
today's challenge. In accepting the challenge, Notre Dame is determined to give the best in the sciences in a moral and religious atmosphere, so that the trustworthy, responsible scientists, using the vast resources at their command, will work for the benefit of mankind and help stabilize order and true peace in the years ahead.”
Elsewhere in the United States, Francis Wallace, national president of the ND Alumni Association, William R. Dooley, Assistant Alumni Secretary, Athletic Director Edward (Moose) Krause, and more than a score of faculty members from the University took part in local observances of Universal Notre Dame Night. In all, upwards of 20,000 alumni and friends of Notre Dame joined in the international salute, which included fetes from New York to California and in six foreign countries.
N .D. Orchestra
Plans Concert May 5
The Notre Dame Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Charles A. Biondo, is polishing the finer points as their forthcoming concert date draws near. At 8:15 p.m. on May 5 in Washington Hall, the Orchestra ■will present four compositions. Featured soloist of the evening -will be Andrew Fairlie, with his rendition of Mozart’s Bassoon Concerto, K 186 E.
Fairlie, who served in the Navy for two years, is now a junior "in Chemical Engineering. He has been playing the bassoon for eight years, and has recently studied under Sherman Walt, first bassoonist of the Chicago Symphony. He hails from Atlanta, Ga., where he was a member of the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra for five years. He has to his credit several medals for solo and group work, including two superior ratings in the National Instrumental Contest of 1941.
The remainder of the program will consist of Schubert’s Rosemunde Overture, Beethoven’s First Symphony, and Sibelius’ Finlandia.
The Concert Orchestra as such completed its first year in February. Mr. Biondo pointed out that it is primarily a student organization, begun for the benefit of those in the university who want to play orchestra music.
10
The Scholastic
Dunlevy Named to Head Staff of WND Next Year
The student voice of Notre Dame will have a new head man next year. The new general manager is to be Jack Dunlevy, a sophomore, from Grand Forks, N. D. He will succeed Frank Cronan who is graduating in June. Jack became head of WND’s production staff last year when the station was organized and this year served in the capacity of assistant station master.
WND'S JACK DUNLEVY New manager for the campus wireless
Jack is a product of the Academy of St. James in Grand Forks and while in high school did some amateur radio work. At Notre Dame Jack is a marketing major in the College of Commerce and also a member of the NROTC. He has no definite plans after graduation.
Monogram Club Slates Dance in Rock Gym May 7
Under the auspices of the Monogram Club, the annual Sports Dance will be presented next Saturday night in the Rock gym. Bill Cullen and his band will serve up tunes from 9 to 12.
Bids for the informal affair have been set at $1.50. As the Monogram Club is acting in cooperation with the junior class, tickets will be on sale along with those to the Junior Prom in the Dining Hall basement. The dance is open to the entire student body.
Acting as co-chairmen for the dance are Leo Barnhorst, the club’s President, Jim Murphy, Vice-President, and George Stuhr, Secretary-Treasurer. There is strong hope for extended residence hours as well as intermission entertainment.
Pan-Am. Group Meets On Campus Tomorrow
The fifth annual congress of the NFCCS Tri-Regional Commission on Inter-American action will be held here tomorrow and Sunday with prospects of an activity-packed weekend. The theme of the congress, sponsored by the InterAmerican Affairs club and the La Raza club of Notre Dame and the St. Theresa club of St. Mary’s college, will be “The Development of Real Inter-Americanism in North America.”
About twenty midwestem colleges and universities ■will send a total of 200 delegates, mostly girls, to the congress. Outstanding extra-curricular activity is a dance scheduled for the Drill Hall Saturday night to the music of Gene Hull and his band. All students are invited, with or- without dates, at fifty cents per person.
Combining the inter-American meeting with a May Day observance, the program will begin in the Law building at 3 p.m., opening with a talk by Brothel- Luis Galvez, F.c.s., Notre Dame graduate student from Quito, Ecuador, on “True Catholic Inter-Americanism.”
Following the session, the visiting representatives will be treated to tours of the campus, and later to the Washington Hall thriller, “Call of the Yukon.” Following this will be the dance and special busses back to town.
Sunday’s activities will begin with Mass and Communion in Alumni Hall chapel at 8:30. Father James D’Autre-mont, C.S.C., will give a sermon on “Our Lady of Guadalupe.”
At 10:30, following breakfast in the cafeteria, a series of four panels will be held simultaneously in four rooms of the Law Building. Delegates from St. Xavier College in Chicago will act as chairmen for the discussion on Canada. St. Francis College of Fort Wayne will take care of the discussion on Hawaii and Alaska, Rosary College of Chicago will preside over the panel on U. S. dependencies, and Cardinal Stritch College of Milwaukee will be in charge of the panel on North American -dependencies.
The afternoon will open with a faculty counselors and student representative meeting, followed by a general session at 2:30. The conclusions of the earlier panels will be read and further discussion will be held.
The congress will close its session with an assembly at the Grotto. Father Louis Putz, C.S.C., will lead the Rosary, and Father William MacAuliffe, C.S.C., will speak on “Our Lady of Fatima.”
First Winner
ANGELO TURKO, the first winner of WND's new give-away contest, and his date. Miss Irma Weber, using up one of his many prizes, a dance at the Palais Roy-ale. Turko, who picked up his winning ticket at Smith's Camera Shop, received a complete evening out, with dinner, candy and flowers for the girl of his choice.
Dr. Gurian Edits New Book
On Soviet Satellite Nations
Soviet Satellites, a study of politics in Eastern Europe, has been published by the Review of Politics, under the editorship of Dr. Waldemar Gurian, of the Department of Political Science. Excerpts from its feature articles, submitted by experts in various phases of world affairs, have also been published in the April issue of the quarterly Review.	'
The introduction of the new book, which retails at one dollar, was written by Dr. Andrew Gyorgy, of Yale University. One of its articles, by Stephen Kertesz, of the Yale University Law School and former Hungarian Minister to Italy, analyzes the background of the recent trial of Cardinal Mindszenty as part of an old battle between Church, and State.	’ .
Other subjects treated include- “U. S_ Foreign Policy and the Satellites of the USSR,” by Robert G. Neumann, of UCLA; “Constitutional Trends in Eastern Europe, 1945-48,” by Cyril E. Black, of Princeton University; and “Soviet Concept of - Satellite States,” by- Sergius Yakobson, of the Library of Congress.
April 29, 1949
’Concord' Offers School News Service
The editors of Concord, the national Y.C.S. magazine, have announced the inauguration of a new international student news service, Press Information, which will be conducted as an international wire service with central offices in Paris, France. Former Notre Dame student Claude Julien will be manager of the Central Bureau and John Meany, graduate student at Notre Dame, will be general manager of the service. Press Information will probably be distributed monthly, at first, and will carry straight news, feature articles and book reviews by various students in Europe and America.
Bob Reynolds, of 431 Cavanaugh and present editor of Concord, also an-
CHANGE OF ADDRESS
According to an announcement from Brother Marcellinus, C.S.C., Postmaster at Notre Dame, small card notices are being inserted in all newspapers and publications received at the Post Office. These may be used to notify the publisher for discontinuation or change of address. The Post Office warns that it takes about three weeks for such a change to become effective and urges that the cards be mailed promptly.
nounced that the magazine’s headquarters will be moved from Notre Dame to Chicago, Ill., after this semester. One more edition of Concord will appear this spring, the May-June issue. The magazine has been edited and published, up to the present time, on the Notre Dame campus; it is printed by the Ave Maria Press.
Notre Dame student Vince Giese will take over the editorial reins of Concord in a full-time capacity next fall. The publication is now represented in approximately one hundred schools and colleges throughout the United States. The ■editors hope to raise the number of subscribers considerably with a nation-wide publicity campaign starting this month. Vince said, “The big job now is to raise some money to stabilize the financial situation of the magazine.”
Although Concord has had a predominantly Catholic staff, Bob Reynolds pointed out that it is not confined to Catholic writers or colleges. “We’ve tried to get all viewpoints on any subject in the magazine,” claimed Bob, “and we’ll print any article that has something, regardless of the opinions expressed.”
Leahy's Our Lad
Here's Coach Leahy's ansiver to the letter-to-the-editor starting on page 3. We think it’s important enough to rate special position.
Editor:
Thank you for giving us an opportunity to express our views regarding Notre Dame students witnessing spring practice.
It has long been our opinion that because the majority of this period is spent drilling our squad members on the fundamentals of the game it would be very uninteresting for any spectators. Also, we believe that the students at Notre Dame would derive more enjoyment from getting out and actively participating in some form of sport than they would from standing around and watching the football squad.
Needless to say, we were happy to learn that many students have expressed a desire to watch practice this spring. In view of this we shall be happy to welcome them on Cartier Field from now until the Old Timer’s game on May 14.
In closing I should like, on behalf of our squad and the coaching staff, to profoundly thank the student body for their splendid support and cooperation. Without the aforementioned assistance I’m sure we would not be entering our fourth consecutive year without defeat. The service you gentlemen have rendered our team will long be remembered and appreciated by all the members of the squad and the coaching staff.
Sincerely,
Frank Leahy
Scholastic extends its thanks to Mr. Leahy. His decision is a wise one and should settle an old, old problem — particularly if it still holds next Fall.— Editor.
Chemists Plan Banquet
At its most recent meeting, the student chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers drew up plans for its annual spring banquet to be held in honor of graduating Chemical Engineers. Bob Grady was placed in charge of arrangements. Shown at the meeting was “The Inside Story of Gasoline,” a movie explaining the production of gasoline. Also shown was “Clean Water,” a film citing the need for clean water and depicting sewage treatment. Jim Eck-enrode and Ray Rusek were recently elected to fill vacancies in offices.
’Spring Tonic1 Flavors Freshman Dance in May
The Freshman Class comes through with its only social event of the year by sponsoring an informal spring dance to be held at the Navy Drill Hall on May 14 from 8:30 to 12.
Chairman Ed Vasta announces the signing of Tony Papa and his orchestra for the occasion. Tickets, selling for $2.50 are currently on sale, being available through floor representatives.
As an appropriate theme, “Spring Tonic” has been decided upon and the decorations committee under George Sweet and the publicity committee, composed of Jim Kelleher, Roger Vorce and Jack Ward are conducting preliminary campaigns according to this theme.
The special arrangements committee, including a date bureau, is composed of Claude Zwebber, Pete Brennan, Jim Garvin, Bill Riley, Ed Noonan, Jack Ross, Frank Zappalla, Frank Marzalf and Cliff Heonie.—Ray Doherty
Mary Spalding, Harpist, To Perform Monday Night
Next Monday night Washington Hall will house an unusual soloist sponsored by the Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series. Miss Mary Spalding, an accomplished harpist from Indianapolis, Ind., will present a concert at 8 p. m.
Miss Spalding will play a number of light classical harp solos including Sara-bande by Couperin, Handel’s Concerto in B flat, and Pierne’s Impromptu- Caprice. Also in her program are La Source by Hasselmans, En Bateau, by the father of the moderns, Claude Debussy; and four compositions by Sal-zedo: Faricheur, Waltz and Tango (1945), Chanson Dans la Nuit, and Lon-derry Air.
Affairs Club Hears Adams
Mr. Alton Adams addressed the InterAmerican Affairs Club last Tuesday night on the Virgin Islands. The meeting was held in the Audio-Visual room and a short movie on the Virgin Islands followed.
The last speaker of the year, Mr. Adams is a resident of the territory which he discussed. The Conference that will be held tomorrow and Sunday was reviewed briefly. The Club’s treasury was also discussed. The next meeting, to be announced soon, will be the last of the year at which time elections for officers will be held.
12
The Scholastic
Barristers in the Attic
Low in Subscription, High in Quality, ‘Lawyer’ Ranks Near Top of its Field
By BO CONNOR
In Philadelphia nearly everybody reads The Bulletin. In Louisville nearly everybody reads the Courier-Journal. At Notre Dame almost nobody reads the Lawyer. If readership means anything, the NROTC newspaper qualifies as a major publication in comparison with this quarterly law journal. Most ventures would fold after two issues with the ice-water reception it gets, but not the Lawyer. Next Fall it will be 25 years old.
The students who put it out each year know that their Lawyer is no competition for the newsstand magazines, but they don’t- mind. They have several hundred names on their mailing list and they are happy. They haven’t any plans for a big subscription drive in the future. Here at Notre Dame some of the law students and a handful of professors are the only consistent readers. What
THE “LAWYER" STAFF—Seated, Editor Joe Wilcox; standing, left to right: John O'Hara, associate editor; William V. Phelan, book review editor; John Bodie, note editor; James W. Oberfell, secretary; and E. A. Steffen, Jr., case editor.
incentives, then, drive the staff to go on putting this thing out?
Part of the answer lies in who the subscribers are. They are, you see, a special but important group. They are the U. S. Supreme Court, something like 20 state supreme courts, numerous lawyers, universities, libraries, and other law journals. Actually, then, the quality of readers makes the circulation something to be reckoned with.
Aims Justify Existence
The aims of the Lawyer answer the rest of the questions. Basically it tries to throw a Christian light on all phases of the law. The students have two practical ends in view when they go to work on it: They get invaluable research experience, and they usually get better jobs when they graduate for having worked on it. Not incidentally, too,
Notre Dame basks in the prestige that this worthwhile journal brings to the school.
The subscribers and the aims of the Lawyer justify its existence, but they hardly offer an- incentive to the average person to read it. Unless you’re connected with the law in some way, the Lawyer will probably prove to be pretty dull stuff for you. Its steady readers look over it piecemeal, picking out here and there what they can use or what interests them at the moment. Even so, they recognize that any- issue of the Lawyer ranks with the best reviews in the country—The Harvard Latu Review, The Yale Law Journal, and The Columbia Law Review, to name a few.
But prestige is nothing new for the Lawyer. With the exception of those years during the war, it has garnered respect ever since its inception in 1924. Much of the present credit goes to Bill Ball, last year’s editor. He brought the Lawyer out of the doldrums that had sapped its strength during the war. This year’s editor, Joe Wilcox, has followed Bill’s example and kept it on a high level. No task seems too big for this dynamic law student from Hastings, Michigan. Reading and writing copy, editing, doing make-up work, and demanding high-grade material—he takes all difficult assignments in his short stride.
Alfred Scanlan, the voluble professor of law, is the faculty moderator, and he gives Joe and the rest of the staff his time, aid and wit. Jack O’Hara from Indianapolis is the associate editor. Her and the Lawyer’s secretary, Jim Oberfell of South Bend, are the handy men on the staff. They supervise in editing, write a good bit themselves, and help in. training the new men.
Office in Law Building
Joe arid his crew of assistants work in an office in the Law Building that the Lawyer took over last year. It’s a unique spot. To get to it you have to trudge up a set of old iron stairs (not more than two feet wide) that are tucked away in a corner of the second
(Continued on Page 28)
April 29, 1949
13
BILL BROWN CAN DO ANYTHING!
Blond-Haired Hero Romps to ND Glory On Action-Filled 'Catholic Comic Pages
By GREG HALPIN
Pittsburgh’s Panthers are pawing dirt on the Notre Dame two-yard line. It’s late in the first half; the Irish are behind 7-0. The skies over northern Indiana are black. Pittsburgh breaks from its huddle, snarls up to the line of scrimmage. The play breaks and it’s a pass! Into the end zone for —
Ah! but wait just a moment. Just sit back, relax, and wait. Because standing in that end zone just as determined as
JIM BUTZ
He Started It
you please, jaw muscles tense and eyes Blazing pure blue flames, is William Brown of Notre Dame. William sees the pass. In fact, two drum yells ago he had perceived that the enemy was up to just such low tactics, and he is ready. William reaches, William grabs. William races 100 yards for a touchdown and the ball game is all tied up. After that it’s all an anti-climax. The Irish, fired by the good, clean, inspired play of Brown go in to win 35-7.
Incredible? Not for Bill Brown. He does it every month between the brightly colored covers of Catholic Comics, and he does it all for the glory of Notre Dame.
Brown is a blond-haired, fresh looking individual who plays every sport invented by man and is amazingly proficient at all of them. Some of his athletic activities include football, basketball, baseball, track, soccer, swimming, boxing, wrestling, and badminton. Once Catholic Comics wanted him to go out for the varsity lacrosse team, but the writers decided they’d better wait until Notre Dame got a lacrosse team.
Bill is kind to all sorts of animals, human and otherwise, and has yet to flunk a quiz or test at ND or even come close. He is the creation of the editorial board of Catholic Comics, Derby, Conn., and has been nursed through his early years by three Notre Dame students.
Jim Butz started it all off and you’d never know it to look at him. Jim is a quiet, highly industrious journalism major from Ohio and Badin Hall. Things like the Brown script don’t come into his life every day. When Bill did walk, shoulders back and firm, chiseled jaw thrust forward, right into the Breen-Phillips sports publicity office where Butz works, it was the turning point in an otherwise calm career.
Puzzled at First
“I didn’t know quite what to do with him when I first got him,” confessed Butz. But then again, who would? Who would know what to do with a 46-letter man who never drinks, smokes or plays cards and whose allegiance to Notre Dame ranks second only to Clashmore Mike I?
Butz decided to use the facts presented him by the publicity office files and work the Brown character into factual situations. This, it turned out, was just what the editors wanted.
Jim sent along pictures of the campus for the artists and background material for the editors and started a frantic creative spree, turning out one situation after another. At first he did the thing brown by sending along dialog, picture suggestions and everything but the staples to bind the magazine with. The
people back in Derby were overwhelmed but not happy. They just wanted the situations, not the blurbs for conversation and picture lay-out. They’d take care of that themselves—and they have, right up until this very day.
Butz stopped producing after 15 episodes, the first of which appeared in the fall of 1946. He was succeeded by Dan Gentile whose Brown had been playing the CC circuit until its last issue when Bill Leeds took over.
Leeds, who hides from the world in Cavanaugh Hall and employs himself during daylight hours in the Department of Public Information, takes Brown in great big strides.
“There’s really nothing to it. You write the stuff five months ahead so their artists can get to work. It only takes 45 minutes to knock out a situation.”
Leeds’ formula for application during those 45 minutes is more refined and even simpler than pioneer Jim Butz’s was. Leeds makes no bones about draping each story around a certain ND athlete. His first story, for instance, was
(Continued on Page 32)
CATHOLIC COMICS' BILL LEEDS Bill Brown Knows No Fear
14
The Scholastic
Names Make News
Professor ALFRED LONG SCANLAN of the College of Law addressed a membership appeal to a meeting of the local branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People at the First Methodist Episcopal Church in Mishawaka recently. In his talk Professor Scanlan recalled the achievements of the NAACP over the past forty years and looked ahead to the time when the combined efforts of all races will “have achieved the great ideal of the equality of human dignity in America.”
In one of a series of monthly lectures sponsored by the Aquinas Library and Bookshop,-Rev. BERNARD MULLAHY, c.s.c., of Moreau Seminary, reviewed and compared Peace of Soul by Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, and Peace of Mind, by Joshua Liebman, last Monday.
EUGENE KORMENDI, artist in residence at Notre Dame, designed and executed a 22-foot bronze statue of “Christ, the Light of the World” which now occupies an eight-story facade in the newly built National Catholic Welfare Conference building in Washington, D. C. This figure was first proposed ten years ago by the Catholic Weekly publication, Our Sunday Visitor. Money to undertake the project was contributed by readers of the paper.
Model for statue of Christ carved by ND's Eugene Kormendi for the NCWC
The statue stands in a pure white facade and has a granite, altar-like pedestal. Work on the figure was delayed during the war by the shortage of bronze. Kormendi is an Hungarian artist known throughout Europe. He was selected by a Committee of Bishops from the best sculptors in the United States.
Professor KENNETH N. CAMPBELL, of the Notre Dame Chemistry Department, attended the meeting of the National Cancer Society in Detroit April 15 through 17.
Notre Dame has held a research grant from the National Cancer Institute for two years to carry out research in the chemotherapy of cancer.
Rev. AZTRIK L. GABRIEL, of the Medieval Institute of Notre Dame, was recently invited by Rev. L. Regis, O.P., Director of the Mediaeval Institute at the University of Montreal, to deliver a series of lectures on “The History of Universities.” Interviews were published in Le Devoir, Montreal paper, and The Globe and Mail, a Toronto daily, mentioning the scientific activities which Father Gabriel is pursuing at Notre Dame.
W. D. DRINKWATER, assistant professor of aeronautical engineering at Notre Dame, is commanding officer of the Voluntary Aviation unit 9-13, activated at Notre Dame in November, 1948, to train guided missile specialists. This unit is the first of its kind in the Ninth Naval district and one of the pioneer units in the country in the field of guided missiles. Activity with the unit gives full credit toward naval reserve nondisability retirement with annual training duty available to members of the unit.
Skimpiness of funds allotted for fundamental basic research in psychiatry in the nation and especially in Indiana was deplored by two ND educators in a recent interview as guests of the South Bend public library on its “Readers’ Review” program over WSBT. Dr. DANIEL O’GRADY, professor of philosophy, and Dr. WALTER L. WILKINS, professor of psychology at Notre Dame, who were interviewed by Mrs. Helen E. Spears, of the library staff, agreed that there is little understanding of mental hygiene in the country and more money ought to be spent for maintenance of mental health.
Major BLAS ALEJANDRE of the Philippine Army, a graduate student at Notre Dame was presented with the Silver Star and the Purple Heart, which were posthumously awarded his brother, Captain Antonio Alejandre, last month. Presentation was made by Majoi* General Bryant E. Moore, Superintendent of West Point, at a regimental revue of
Major Blas Alejandre, ND grad student, receives Silver Star posthumously awarded his brother. Captain Antonio Alejandre.
the 1802 special regiment held on Cavalry Plain.
Major Alejandre fought with the Philippine Army in World War II, in which his brothel’ died.
Social Notes:
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Wolfberg, of South Bend, have announced the engagement of their daughter, Eleanor, to LOREN I. SMITH, of St. Louis, Mo. Smith attended the University of Illinois and was graduated from Notre Dame. He served as a marine lieutenant overseas during the war.
Miss Vivian Marie Page and DONALD WILLIAM FISHER were married in St. Patrick’s Church last Saturday. The bride is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. George Rudolph Page of South Bend, and Fisher is the son of Mr. and Mrs. William E. Fisher of Utica, N. Y. Fisher is a graduate of Notre Dame.
From San Diego, California, comes the announcement of the engagement of Miss Gerry Cassutt to HARRY MONAHAN, Scholastic sports editor. Miss Cassutt is a graduate of Mt. St. Mary’s college, Los Angeles, and is now teaching at Regina Coeli Academy in San Diego.
16
The Scholastic
The Bulletin Board
Next Week
French Movie
The immortal music of Franz Schubert, rendered by the orchestra of the Paris Opera Company, provides the
background for Schubert's Serenade, next Friday’s offering in the Department of Modem Languages’ foreign film series. Louis Jouvet plays the lead role, and English subtitles ■will render the French dialogue intelligible to the unlearned masses. But you gotta have a ticket!
Spotlight on Movieland
William H. Mooring, prominent British film critic, will put “Hollywood in Focus” for the Aquinas Lecture Series audience next Friday night at 8:15 at Central High School Auditorium. The reviewer, who is familiar with both English and American movie-making techniques, writes syndicated columns for British and U. S. newspapers.
Gurian on Marxism
Dr. Waldemar Gurian will analyze traditional and modern Marxism Thursday evening at 7:45 in a discussion sponsored by the Department of History. Professor M. A. Fitzsimons, of the
VA LEAVE PAY
The P.L. 346 veteran is normally granted 15 days of leave at the end of the school year and his time entitlement is charged for it. If you do not want leave pay and have not so notified the Veterans Administration, you must do so by submitting VA Form 1908 now. Forms are available at the Office of Student Accounts and must be filed before May 3.
Any subsistence allowance due veterans for the month of June (payable on or about July 1) will be sent to your present address unless you file a Change of Address Form. These forms are also available at the Office of Student Accounts. Students who will attend Summer School under PX. 346 need not file a Change of Address now.
Department of History, will direct questions and comments on Dr. Gurian’s paper in the forum, slated for Room 101 of the Law Building. The Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., of the Department of Political Science, will act as chairman.
Graduate Record Exam
The Graduate Record Examination will be given next Monday and Tuesday to those students who have applied and paid their testing fee to Dr. Leo F. Kuntz, institutional examiner at Notre Dame.
Cavanaugh Concert Program
The Cavanaugh Record Concerts will continue next week, from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. each day. The program for the concerts, which are open to all, includes: Monday—Rachmaninov’s Piano Concerto No. 2 and Addinsell’s Warsaw; Concerto; Tuesday—Tschaikowsky Piano Concerto No. 1, and selections from Rossini’s Bar-biere di Siviglis and Donizetti’s Lucia de Lamamor; Wednesday — The Heart of La Boheme, by Puccini, and Weinberg’s Schzvanda Polka and Fugue; Thursday —Beethoven’s Fifth Concerto, and Gaite Parisienne, by Offenbach.
Chemistry Talks
“Modem Concepts of Valence” will be the topic of lectures next Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 8 p.m. by Dr. George Kimball, of Columbia University, in the Biology Auditorium.
Also . . .
The Hoynes Law Banquet, the Monogram Club Dance, the NFCCS Tri-Regional Congress to be held here, and the performance of Mary Spalding, harpist, in Washington Hall. For details of these, see the news pages of the Scholastic.
Opportunity
Need a Job?
Job prospects, requirements and opportunities in fields ranging from glassblowing to radio announcing are compiled in a new 454-page illustrated book prepared by the U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Entitled the Occupational Outlook Handbook, it is available to the
KXIUCffiK.
public, at §1.75, from the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C.
Attention, Writers!
Compass Review, an intercollegiate literary magazine, has issued a call for student fiction, poetry and reviews.
Manuscripts should be submitted, with stamped, self addressed envelopes, to: Editor, Campass Revieiv, 51 West Fourth Street, New York City, N. Y. They should also be accompanied by a short biographical statement about the author.
$100,000 Contest
College song and fiction writers get an even break with the pros in the §100,000 National Five Arts Awards Contest now being conducted. Entries will be received until July 31 at: National Five Arts Award, 715 Fifth Avenue, New York 22, N. Y. Application blanks and full details can be obtained by writing the same address.
Vet News
Insurance May Lapse
A large number of veterans are running the risk of allowing their National Service Life Insurance to lapse because of improper payment checks, according to an announcement from Veterans Administration. VA notes that checks, money orders or postal notes should be made payable to the Treasurer of the United States. And checks are supposed to be signed, too!
GI's! CXonVA!
Contrary to an announcement from the Veterans Administration Office reported in the last edition of “Bulletin Board,” certificates of eligibility for summer school are not available at the Registrar’s Office. They can be obtained, instead, from the Office of Students’ Accounts, on the first floor of the Main Building.
April 29, 1949
17
Prestige, Enrollment, Endowment
A Look at the Alumni Association by its Journalist - President, Francis E. Wallace
Francis Wallace, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association here puts down on scholastic’s pages his basic feelings on the organization he heads. Mr. Wallace, a former SCHOLAS-lastic editor, is known throughout the country as one of its leading football experts, is a frequent contributor to the “Saturday Evening Post” (which features his “Pigskin Review” every fall), and ivill soon publish a book about Notre Dame.
Scholastic has long felt that the Notre Dame student should know more about his alumni association. To that end we asked Mr. Wallace to answer some questions concerning the present state of the association. The article below is Mr. Wallace’s answer.—Editor.
So you want to know what the Alumni Association is up to, if anything? You want to get into the act? Okay—you’re in. And welcome, too. I will answer your questions frankly as you asked them and insert other ideas of my own.
At present there are 14,500 on the mailing list of the ALUMNUS, about fifteen per cent of whom are non-gradu-ate former students. There are probably 7,500 more in the same category who will be elected to the Association when and if they make application.
A Definite Upswing
The upswing is definite. Notre Dame’s first class over 100 was in 1917. More than three-fourths of the membership are graduates since 1930. We now have 105 clubs in the United States and six foreign. Many are small but the size of the club is no accurate indication of strength.
What is the AA as a whole now. doing? That covers a lot of ground. The broad and overall program includes (a) prestige, (b) enrollment, (c) endowment. There are routine functions such as Supervision of Clubs, Fund-raising
and Job Placement. Fund-raising has now been turned over to the Foundation which is an Association project now rolling on its own.
From this time on, we will be able to give our time to the normal activities; and there is much ground to be made up because the last two years were devoted almost entirely to the foundation.
We have in mind a prestige program designed to counteract the Football Factory idea; to make plain to outsiders what we know to be true; that our football excellence merely reflects the excellence of the University in all of its departments; that we cannot help having good football squads, too. This is just taking shape but it should be of definite interest to undergraduates. The suggested moves are:
1.	Individual alumni to take active and aggressive part in civic, cultural, and intellectual activities of the local communities. This movement should begin on the campus, perhaps with a special course that would develop speakers.
2.	Make use of the great pool of talent on the faculty by bringing specialists in different fields to the communities as speakers.
Scholarships in Operation
Scholarships are in some phase of operation in 12 local clubs. Because a scholarship benefits the student, but does not solve the University’s urgent problems, scholarships are advocated as supplementary, local programs but not as sole objectives for the clubs.
The club activities during the year are pretty much what the members want them to be. There are, however, two major projects, Universal Notre Dame Night on the Monday after Easter Monday of each year; and Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, on the Sunday nearest the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. These have become the rallying events of the year.
Plan in January
The larger clubs, such as the very tightly organized New York Club, lay out a program for the entire year in, January. Club activity depends on the initiative, of the officers. Some clubs are more active in summer—a time when New York, for instance, is dormant. I would say that the important thing for
ALUMNI PRESIDENT FRANCIS WALLACE
Where do we go from here?
any club to do is to meet; and to provide programs of whatever nature which will make the members want to attend. This is where young alumni can take hold at once. They usually have more enthusiasm and energy. They can provide necessary attendance as well as take over some of the burden of the work under which the old-timers frequently grow tired.
I would say that the attitude of new alumni towards the local clubs should be the same as toward any other group into which they enter as new members. It is usually a good idea to keep the eyes and ears open for a while to see what goes on; where present leadership is good, the young men should supplement it; where leadership is bad or entirely lacking, they should take it to task or provide the leadership. Usually, as long as a young man is not brash or offensive, the older fellows will be very happy to see him want to take active part.
You should understand that clubs are not always outstanding or efficient because of the wide differences in age, profession, business, social and financial status, and other such things. The common denominator is the feeling for Notre Dame. Some of you young fellows may graduate in a cynical mood; but I can almost guarantee that as you grow older, you will develop the same romantic rheumatism that the rest of us have felt. There are certain things
18
The Scholastic
about Notre Dame — vitality, honesty, spirituality, democracy — that are not consistently met in the world; and when you find those things in people or institutions, you find yourself following. This attachment of alumni toward each other and toward the University is a really fine thing but it will probably take most of you a few years to appreciate it. I hope you all do.
Job Placement
Job placement naturally interests you. This requires efficient cooperation among undergraduates, faculty, and Notre Dame Clubs. As economic conditions change, the alumni board is giving more attention to this problem. We hope to find a man who will supervise, from our angle, the coordination of all the agencies involved.
How much alumni groups participate in parish and church activities again depends on the local conditions and leadership. Certainly, the club should participate and all of them do, to some extent, in the annual Communion Sunday; club retreats, and in some places, the Cana Conference. More significant and more generally advocated is the leadership of individual alumni in Catholic parish groups; and again, I repeat, such leadership and activity should extend into the general community organizations.
Because of the differences in membership, including political affiliations, the club is not by nature an agent of civic strength unless in a controversy involving religion or morality; but it is important that we begin to get our men into the local civic groups, particularly as speakers. This is an age of successful and sometimes dangerous propaganda. If, as we believe, we are taught sound philosophy at Notre Dame, we certainly should want to pass this on, particularly as an antidote to dangerous doctrine. No too long ago, Westbrook Pegler, in this case a friendly critic, pointed to the fact that Notre Dame should have men in positions of national leadership who could do the same job there that our football teams do. I wrote him that our men were on the way; that some of the Eastern schools had a couple hundred years start on us but that Notre Dame men would soon make their influence felt.
It is my own feeling that we are going through a modern Tower-of-Babel confusion; that never has there been so much foolish talk and downright bad thinking on the part of people in power; that just a routine application of sound Notre Dame logic and common sense will shine out almost anywhere it is applied today.
Why are alumni club-campus club relations so poor? This was news to me. But the national secretary of the Alumni Association has the answers from his long experience: The campus clubs make more of the social programs of the holidays and “too often expect an enthusiasm and a financial support from alumni which is not forthcoming.” This sounds to me very much like the discussion between a father and son or arguments about the family car. The same remedy is suggested—frank discussion, tolerance, and good humor. If there is, as you say, “apathy on the part of the students or alumni groups,” I think that is a very normal reaction. Here, again, we have the problem which you will meet in the alumni clubs themselves—the wide differences in age, conditions, and perspectives. Any gap in generation is always a gap.
Future Plans for Alumni
The future plans of the AA? Well, there is nothing particularly new because they have all been included within the general objectives of (a) prestige, (b) enrollment, (c) endowment; but we all want to enter the Kingdom of Heaven too and perhaps pick up a million bucks on the way. There are a lot of things we must do to achieve either or both. The present board is trying to do the things that seem right and promising at this time. You must remember that nothing much could be done during the War, that we. gave two years to the Foundation. But we have a strong board. They are from all sections of the country and all are vigorously successful in their own fields. I think we are moving very fast and will continue to move into new ground.
I don’t know whether I have given you the capsule aneswers to your questions or not; but I am sure you would be bored if I tried to give you a digest
Nostalgia-filled Alumni at reunion banquet
of the entire book. Let me say that you have already contributed a very definite thing to the Association by merely calling attention to the fact that there was. a gap between alumni and undergraduates.
A Student Invitation
I think that the Board should definitely give considerable thought to closing this gap. I hereby invite the students to pick a man to sit in with us at our meeting next fall; and to speak his mind—if he can break in, which is sometimes tough for even the presiding officer. This is another case where the boy is the father of the man. You youngsters will have to take over our jobs just as you will, in some cases, take over your family business; become the heads of families, and of your own professional offices. The sooner you get thinking along these lines, the better. Again, I would like to emphasize that the older men will be only too happy to turn things over to you as soon as you are ready.
We are all part of a very fine thing. I believe that Notre Dame has made the grade in record time; that it is on its way to becoming one of the greatest universities of the country and before too long; that it may one day be the great American university because it includes within itself all the parts of the complete American. Using the football analogy: Every good team must have size, speed, and mentality. Everything else being equal, as these things frequently are, among major teams, the squad with the best spirit usually wins.
That is the Notre Dame advantage. I am not now referring to a temporary emotion whipped up by an inspirational coach but to a spirituality which is the ultimate fundamental of all Notre Dame education.
April 29, 1949
Id
Columnist Herb Graffis Tops Press Club Dinner
Herb Graffis, columnist for the Chicago Sun-Times, will be guest speaker at the Press Club dinner at 6:30 p.m. Monday, May 2, in Ramble Inn.
An announcement will be made at that time of the winners of the five $20 awards for outstanding work on The Journalist, student experimental newspaper.
Donor of the awards, F. A. Miller, president and editor' of The South Bend Tribune, has been invited to attend the dinner. Invitations have also been sent to Franklin D. Schurz, secretary-treasurer of the Tribune, and to the three contest judges: Robert Walton, managing editor; George Scheuer, copy editor, and Thomas Philipson, copy editor, all of the Tribune staff.
Guth Gets Faculty Award From Chicago Alumni Club
Dr. Eugene Guth, director of the high polymer physics laboratory here at the University, has been named this year’s recipient of the Faculty Award presented annually by the ND Alumni Club of Chicago on Universal Notre Dame night. The award was made to Dr. Guth by John L. Buckley, president of the Chicago group, in ceremonies at the Drake Hotel.
Widely noted as an authority on synthetic rubber and cellulose products, Dr. Guth came to Notre Dame in 1937 from the University of Vienna. His laboratory, the first of its kind in this country, chiefly studies the physical properties of rubber and plastics.
Shopping Center Designs Win Awards for ND Men
Four Notre Dame architecture students have received recognition for their entries in a national contest sponsored by the Kawneer Co. of Niles, Michigan.
Bernard J. Mayotte, of Jackson, Michigan, was awarded first mention for his drawing. Smith A. Funk, Chicago, Illinois; Richard S. Kirk, Schenectady, New York; and Norbert Schaff, Jasper, Indiana, received honorable mentions for their efforts.
The contest considered designs of shopping center with all stores under one roof, plus parking facilities and arrangements suitable for a suburban area. Prizes were awarded by the Kawneer Co., which arranged for display and judging of the 350 entries. Notre Dame submitted 8 drawings.
Mr. Francis W. Kervick, Head of the ND Department of Architecture attended the judging ceremonies held in Chicago.
AfiWtwluead
Golf Driving Range
and Archery
FREE INSTRUCTION GIVEN ON THE TEE
Three blocks south of the State Line on U. S. 31
Sur A Notre	iny Italy Dame Tradition "Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food. SUNNY ITALY CAFE 501 NORTH NILES
	■ , ■ - ■ .... _ ,.
For Appointment Phone 3-0678
5 Barbers Manicurist
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
“South Bend's Leading Barber Shop"
SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT
W. E. Cyr, Prop.
100-102 South Main Street
Chair No. 5
20
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Irish Nine Faces Illinois Batters Today
Contingent Of Top Irish Trackmen Journeys To Des Moines For Opening Of Drake Relays
Diamond Crew Ready For Roughest Week
By RAY FITZGERALD
The Drake Relays, annual outdoor track and field spectacle, will be the scene of participation for 15 or 20 top flight Notre Dame performers today and tomorrow. The Des Moines track carnival will draw stars from over 100 schools, and will offer the first test of relay strength for many midwest track teams.
Pacing the Irish attack will be Bill Fleming, of Providence, R. I., one of the nation’s leading hurdlers. Bill is hampered by a left leg injury at the present time, but Coach “Doc” Handy has expressed hope that he will be in shape for the test this weekend.
Other individual performers slated to carry Notre Dame hopes are John Helwig, shot putter, and Jim Miller, pole vaulter. Most of the remainder of the Notre Dame cindermen ■will engage in the numerous relays billed for the Drake battle.
Captain Bill Leonard will carry a major share of the relay load as usual by running in the mile group, and the distance medley combo. Others in the mile foursome are Paul Schwetschenau, Ray Sobota and either Pat Kenny, Bob Smith or Bob Boyne. The distance medley combination will feature Gerry Johnson, Jim Murphy, Jim Kittell, and possibly Steve Provost.
Notre Dame will also field a top flight 880 quartet composed of John Worthington, Provost, Sobota, and Schwetschenau. The Irish two-mile relay will run Jim Bollas, Sobota, Leonard, and Kenny.
There is a possibility that a shuttlehurdle relay team of Bob McDavid, John Worthington, Frank Entriken, and Fleming will compete. McDavid is also listed as a possible entry in the 400-meter obstacle race. Filling out the Notre Dame roster for the encounter will be Jack Murphy, promising sophomore javelin star, who is threatening to add another event to the list of records broken by the ’49 Irish tracksters.
Following the Drake classic, Notre Dame will meet Pittsburgh in the only home dual, meet of the season.
JACK MURPHY Javelin Records May Fall
Five Navy Sharpshooters To Get Hearst Awards
Five members of the Naval ROTC rifle team will receive medals symbolic of their- national championship tomorrow morning during special ceremonies which will include a parade and review in front of the Rockne Memorial. Presenting the awards, won recently in the annual William Randolph Hearst Rifle Tournament, will be a representative of the Chicago Herald-American.
Donal J. Murphy, who led the ND sharpshooters with a record individual score, will also receive a gold watch and gold belt buckle as top scorer in the event, which brought together squads from 52 colleges and universities.
Other deadeyes slated for honors in tomorrow’s presentation are James W. Hartman, Frank G. Brickson, Edward J. Walsh, and Oscar F. Beumel. The entire NROTC group will be reviewed by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, president of Notre Dame, Captain Anthony L. Danis, commandant of the ND unit, and the Hearst papers representative.
Big Nine’s baseball king for the past two years, Illinois, becomes the target for Coach Jake Kline’s hustling bombers today and Saturday. The Illini got off to their usual fast start this year, taking four conference games before dropping one to speedbailer Jack Bruner and. his Iowa teammates, 3-1. Stan Feldman, ace Illinois chucker, lost this game though he gave up only one base blow. Four walks and a wild pitch cost Feldman the game.
The Illini, winners of the 4th district NCAA playoffs last year, have four returning regulars. Besides Feldman,, they have second baseman Herb Plews, batting champion of the Big Nine with a .404 mark; footballer Russ Steger, an outfielder with an average of .278, and. Capt. Johnny Gugala, a hustling catcher whose ability is not measured by last year’s .224 batting average. The two-most noticeable absentees from the Illinois roster are southpaw pitcher Marv Rotblatt and third sacker Bob Wakefield. Both have gone the way of all good baseball flesh — professional balL
ND has shown lots of good baseball in the past two weeks and lots of bad stuff, too. Pitching, considered their number one asset, has faltered, and it has taken seven or eight runs to win most of the ball games. With the warmer weather, though, the chuckers should begin to loosen up. They’ll have to, because, starting with the Purdue game last Tuesday, the schedule is much, rougher. It was Michigan away on Wednesday, and then the Illinois series this week-end.
Next Wednesday Jake’s lads take on the always powerful Michigan State Spartans in East Lansing. Coach John Kobs, bothered by erratic pitching last year, seems to have solved that problem. Chief gloom-buster has been the showing of right-handed sophomore “Buzz” Bowers. Bowers, a Massachusetts boy, sbowed class throughout the Southern trip, and last week set down Northwestern with four hits. Other standouts on the Spartan club are catcher Frank Bagdon, Captain and third baseman Danny Urbanik.
April 29, 1949
21
Racqueteers Open Season At Purdue
Notre Dame’s tennis squad will open its 27th season of competition today when it goes against Purdue at Lafayette. Tomorrow North western’s Big Nine champions will help the Irish open their home season. Next Thursday, May 5, the netmen will play host to Western Michigan.
Bob David, a Chicago lad, and Jim Rodgers, who hails from Youngstown, Ohio, have been elected co-captains for the ’49 season. David and Rodgers will hold down the No. 1 and 3 spots respectively, while the No. 2 position has been captured by Gene Biittner.
The remaining team seeding will be determined by round robin play among Bart O’Brien (a returning letterman), Herb Hoene, Ralph Witucki, Pat Tonti, Jim Hennessy, Bob Hensler and Ray Keyes.
Against the Boilermakers this afternoon the netmen hope to prolong their jinx over the men from Lafayette who have, in five meets, failed to gain a victory.
But when the Northwestern Wildcats come roaring onto the campus tomorrow, after a warmup against Beloit, the situation will be somewhat different. The Wildcats, seeking their third consecutive Big Nine title, have been a constant thorn in the side of the Irish. In a rivalry that dates back to 1923, Northwestern holds a decided 13-7 margin. The only loss inflicted upon the Irish in the last two seasons was a 7-2 trouncing by Northwestern.
Coach Langford says nothing short of a minor miracle will enable the Irish to overcome the Wildcats. If past performances mean anything at all Langford has sufficient reason to be pessimistic. Still around is Captain Ted Petersen, Big Nine singles champion in ’47. Also on hand is Grant Golden who helped snare a Big Nine doubles title last year and won the conference No. 4 -singles crown.
Ted Hainline, a sharp doubles partner for Peterson, is also ready to go. Northwestern will field a trio of promising sophomores, Curt Morsell, Scott Peters, and Curtis Beusman.
The match with Western Michigan -figures to be a tossup. This series has a strange sequence. Up to 1941 the Northerners smashed out 10 straight wins. Since then Langford’s racqueteers liave garnered 19 consecutive victories.
Kentucky will be unable to play their scheduled match with the Irish. A tentative match has been arranged with Western Reserve, to be played in Cleveland on May 16.—Rudy Unger
.22
CO-CAPTAIN DAVID, COACH LANGFORD, GENE BIITTNER: Tough Campaign Ahead
Defensive Units Tighten, Freshmen Perk Up As Gridders Grind Through Long Scrimmage
By RALPH WRIGHT
Some of the glory went to the defense for a change last Saturday as Notre Dame’s gridders labored through another two and a half hour scrimmage to conclude their fourth week of spring practice.
The ability of the defense to hold down the scoring a little was not exactly a surprise. Switched over against the offensive unit Coach Frank Leahy had such prominent play-wreckers as Jim Martin, Bob Toneff, Paul Burns and Jerry Groom. In the backfield, freshmen John Petitbon and Dave Flood repeatedly moved up fast to nail the ball carriers before they could shake loose. On one occasion, Petitbon overhauled Billy Barrett after the fleet-footed little Chicagoan had speared a pass and shot through the secondary.
The green-jacketed linemen menaced varsity quarterback Bob Williams by breaking through and rushing his passes. Bob was dumped for several losses, but still managed to complete better than half of his attempts. Bob also proved again that he is quite a runner. He made the first score after faking a pass and streaking 25 yards. Later, Bob went for 45 yards when he found all receivers covered. Upon that exhi
bition of speedy ball-toting, Coach Leahy came through with one of the cleverest remarks of the spring. Bob had his helmet knocked off his head and back onto his shoulders as he started his gallop; said the coach: “Williams, you’re running so fast your hat is flying off.”
As usual, another- freshman popped out from the realm of the comparatively unknowi. This time it was Jack Bush, a big (6’1” 190 pounds) fullback from Davenport, Iowa. Bush hits like a Mack truck, spins away from tacklers beautifully and has lots of speed. He barreled across the goal line five times, twice from far out.
Other long runs were contributed by Frank Spaniel, a consistent star in the scrimmages, Leo McKillip and Petitbon. Though Flood and Petitbon helped to keep Barrett well throttled, Billy did scoot over on a play close to the goal. Touchdown passes were from Williams to Spaniel and from Tom O’Connell to Chet Ostrowski.
The first team on offense went like this: ends, Bill Flynn and Doug Way-bright; tackles, Ralph McGehee and John Zancha (a stubby, 195-pound
(Continued on Page 29)
The Scholastic
Students Get Priority On Football Tickets
Notre Dame students will receive a priority for tickets to all football games next fall. Ticket Manager Bob Cahill and Business Manager Herb Jones announced a new policy this week that will put current juniors, sophomores and freshmen on the advance sale list with the alumni.
In the past, ND students have been able to send in ticket applications with the general public on August 1. The change in policy gives students a chance to order their ducats between July 1 and July 25, before the big sale begins. Some restrictions that accompany the new deal are: (1) parental signature will be required on some applications, (2) in case of oversubscription before the 25th, alumni get preference, and (3) student priority concerns distribution but not seat location.
As usual, request cards will be mailed to students this spring. Those desiring application blanks should fill in their JUNE address on the forms and send them to the Ticket Office, Breen-Phillips Hall by May 31. January, June and August graduates of 1949 may not use student forms; it is recommended that they check with the Office of the Alumni to ensure proper address and a briefing on alumni privileges.
This new privilege is primarily for the personal use of the tickets by parents. Ticket officials emphasize that the new set-up requires complete cooperation and can be ruined by a few inconsiderate students.
Indiana Track Meet Scene Switched to Irish Campus
Notre Dame track fans will have a bonus attraction this year. The annual Indiana State Collegiate meet will be held at Notre Dame on May 28. The contest was originally scheduled for Purdue, but the Boilermakers are resodding their field and will not be able to handle the affair.
Coach “Doc” Handy sought the track classic when he learned of the difficulties facing Purdue officials. The track meet is divided into two classes with Purdue, Indiana and Notre Dame clashing in the Big State division, and about 14 colleges competing in the Little State group.
This will give Notre Dame two home encounters. They meet Pittsburgh here on May 7 in a dual battle. Handy indicated that the remainder of the outdoor track season will conform to the official schedule.
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box by Harry Monahan
If This Be Treason —
We never fail to be amazed at the lengths to which some people will go to criticize Notre Dame. Thanks to an ominous letter from Saginaw, Michigan, and the cooperation of Jim Kelly, sports editor of the Denver Register, we now have a copy of a letter attacking Notre Dame for using the term “Irish” which is being circulated to 100 publications. This is not a new angle of attack and we think the Scholastic editorial for December 11, 1948, adequately explained the background for the nickname and in fact was used by Jim Schlemmer, sports editor of the Akron Beacon-Journal, to refute one such critic in his area.
The novel twist to the bombastic braying of the Michigan pseudo-intellectual is that he poses as a friend of the University and actually believes that the term “Irish” is detrimental to Notre Dame. He imagines that Notre Dame is being used “as a mere facet in a general program of collective ancestral autolat-ry” by “treasonable ethnic mongers” suffering from a “hei’ronvolk complex.” Does the reasoning sound familiar? Remember when the Catholics were going to move the Pope into the White House? This has that same strange alarmist odor.
Our critic fails to recognize the peculiar context of the nickname in language. “Irish” as used at Notre Dame does not have the narrow racial connotation to which he objects. Czarobski and Mastrangelo are as much “Fighting Irishmen” as any Murphy or O’Brien on campus. If you called someone a gopher he would rightly be incensed at the personal insult implied. If he were a student from the University of Minnesota he would accept the nickname “Gopher” without feeling insulted. He is a “Gopher”—and probably proud of the fact.
The “Wolverine” from Michigan and the “Horned Frog” from Texas Christian are just as proud. Maybe it is the spelling that confuses these critics. They can see the difference between gopher and “Gopher”—with the capital G—or between tiger and “Tiger.” But when you write Irish, meaning the nationality, it looks the same as “Irish,” the nickname—but a difference does exist, as
between bear and ’’Bear.” The Michigan critic has fused the two connotations and envisioned Notre Dame student minorities seething under the oppression of Gaelic “race deists.”
If we were to accept his interpretation of college nicknames what a riot there would be if the Fighting Irish of Notie Dame would meet the (you should pardon the expression) Orangemen of Syracuse! Fantastic? Certainly. But the deduction follows too neatly from this critic’s warped reasoning.
But of course he would disqualify us from making any refutation. With a name like Monahan vre might well be a member of this “unAmerican, undemocratic, parasitical, inequitable, unjust, discriminatory, inquiline, un-Christian, unethical, unsportsmanlike, and plain boorish” group attempting to “promote spurious ethnic superiority” and subordinating “the unqualified American status of our citizens to the despicable servility of hyphenation.” Remember the IJR.A. meets tomorrow night in the Corby sub!
Musings at Halftime
Bengal Bout chairman Christy Walsh, Jr., has announced that the 1949 tourney netted close to $7,500 for the Bengal missions. . . . Memo to anyone concerned: With the changed date for the Old Timers’ game our plan for a free Saturday to enjoy the full athletic program should be changed to May 14. A baseball game with Chicago, a golf match with St. Ambrose, a tennis match with Michigan State and the football game provide a heavy schedule for one day and should be arranged so that the students get the full benefits.
The Handymen were victims of a peculiar technical foul at the Southern Relays in Birmingham. Due to an error the lane they used in the 880 was 20 yards longer than the other 880 lanes. Despite the handicap they still took second place. The same error in the sprint medley dropped them -to fifth. Coach Handy received a letter of apology from C. E. McCarver, president of the affair, and praised the sportsmanship of the Irish tracksters when the error was discovered.
April 29, 1949
23
With Strikes to Spare
Huffiiian^s KaiiipusKeglersBring Big-Time Bowling to Notre Dame
By RALPH WRIGHT
Photos by BRUCE HARLAN
For the Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame tomorrow afternoon should bring what might be called the climax of their two seasons of bowling. And the climax of nearly two years of service “beyond the call of duty” by Ernie Huffman. Tomorrow Ernie and the Keglers welcome DePaul, Loyola and Valparaiso to South Bend and the Bowl-Mor alleys for the first annual Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference tournament.
After a drawing to determine opponents, the first round of the tourney begins at 1 p.m.; at 4:30 p.m. the two winners roll for the title and the losers meet in a consolation match. When it’s all over, members of the four squads have a banquet slated for the LaSalle Hotel at 7:30 p.m. There, the trophies will be awarded for both league and tournament play.
Sports-minded Notre Dame has always had more than its share of bowling addicts. But, until Huffman came along, things as big and complicated as a bowling league seemed out of the question.
Bom in '47
In the fall of 1947, two Scholastic columnists, Bob Vierhile and Bob Cas-
VARSITY BOWLING SQUAD—Left to right B. Gorman, R. Zasada, B. Bairley. C. Derrico, E. Huffman, P. Pukish. L. Simon.
urella, suggested the formation of an intramural bowling league. At a subsequent meeting, Ernie came out as president of the embryo organization to be known as the Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame. Ernie drew up a club constitution and, both literally and figuratively, started the ball rolling.
The first year of the campus club league was a huge success with 24 teams competing. At season’s end, the Keglers had a banquet and presented many team and individual awards. Now, 36 clubs (239 bowlers) are in the loop; only the lack of enough alleys keeps the league from expanding even more. And the Keglers plan to top the 1949 season with an even bigger and better banquet at the Mayfair Hotel in Mishawaka.
Surprisingly, the two squads that met in the playoff in 1948 were composed of off-campus residents. The Villagers Club whipped Vetville to win the championship. This season’s play has been so close in both divisions (there are Blue and Gold divisions) that the playoff teams are far from being determined.
One not familiar with the local bowling set-up might wonder why the championship races have been so close. The
ERNIE HUFFMAN HOPES . . .
secret is the elaborate handicap system that is worked out for each player according to his league average. Each week the Kegler “executives” post mimeographed sheets giving the league standings plus each bowler’s average and handicap. It means a lot of extra work, but Ernie Huffman has never been, one to dodge a tough job.
Former Duckpin Addict
When Ernie came to ND, he had never bowled tenpins. In his home town, Braddock, Pa., duckpins were the thing. Ernie liked bowling though, whether it was with duckpins or tenpins; his election to the presidency was a break for local bowlers and a break for collegiate bowling in general. Now 25 years old, the ex-infantryman is serving his second season as president of the Keglers, is vice-president of the MIBC and manager of the Kegler entry in the conference. In his spare time, he also helped the St. Mary’s girls form a bowling league. Ernie won an award as a Notre Dame “Man of the Year” in 1948; he looks like a sure repeater for 1949. He’s also listed in the “Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.”
Last year, Ernie took the top keglers of the club league into competition with all-star squads from other schools. The eventual result was the first intercollegiate bowling conference composed of schools from different states. Last summer, Ernie, Rudy Dittrich of Valparaiso and Jim Shelley of St. Joseph College, Collegeville, Ind., started plans for the intercollegiate league. On October 23, at a large meeting in Valparaiso, a schedule was drawn up and a set of conference rules were adopted. The MIBC became an actuality.
Since Notre Dame officials prefer to
24
The Scholastic
steer clear of conference tie-ups, the administration couldn’t sanction an Irish bowling team. However, it did approve of ND boys competing in the conference, so the Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame became the local representatives with Ernie in charge. Positions on the team were decided by averages in tryouts that were open to the whole student body. Seven players emerged as the best on campus and participated in the league play just completed.
Loyola’s Eamblers won the title followed in order by Valparaiso, Notre Dame and DePaul. But the Irish did much better than their record indicates; they defeated every team that beat them. They really showed the “old college try” after a poor start in the conference. Loyola and Valpo both blanked the Keglers, 5-0; then, they lost to the Blue Demons, 3-2. After that, it was a different story as the Keglers won their last three matches against the same three squads and took 12 of their last 20 games.
Simon Is Big Thunder
Chunky Tom Simon has been the big thunder in ND’s first year in the MIBC. Leading man in the club league, the Uniontown, Pa., lad paced the Keglers, too; his 179.2 average put him fourth in the conference individual averages.
Tom perfects his bowling foim at basketball and baseball games by deftly firing peanut bags to the top of the bleachers.
Blond Bob Bairley of Caseville, Mich., was ninth in the conference, but he had the third best five-game series—a 945. Other team members are Bill Gorman . of Meadville, Pa., second best in the club league to date; Ray Zasada, a smooth lefty from Schenectady, N. Y.; Charlie Derrico, who comes from the Bronx, N. Y., and won high honors in the 1948 club league; Paul Pukish, stocky, consistent ace and captain of the Rochester, N. Y., Club; and slender Jim Jennewein of St. Louis. Jennewein, a big prize winner last season, has been on the inside of Kegler activities all the way. He’s a likely successor to take over the president’s job for the Keglers when Ernie graduates in June.
Ernie likes to talk about the spirit of the Keglers; it takes cooperation and zeal to form the most efficiently-operated campus activity. A good example of the spirit of the Keglers came in the second game of the match with DePaul at Chicago. Behind 80 pins in the fifth frame, they came back to win by five when Bairley struck out to finish a 225 game.
April 29, 1949
The Keglers have shown a willingness to foot their own bills too — if they have to. The trips have cost them quite a bit, but the Student Council did kick in with conference fees plus some money for last Saturday’s trip to Champaign where they rolled against Illinois (the Illini come here May 14).
Besides the completing of the league schedule, Ernie also has to worry about a doubles tournament he has lined up. It began last Sunday and finishes up May 15. All men in the Kegler loop were allowed to enter the doubles competition.
A doubles tourney, a conference, a club league and matches with outsiders; Ernie Huffman and his Kampus Keglers may not have an official sanction for some of their activities, but they surely have an unofficial one from the student body.
Plaques to Be Presented
The Chicago Club of Notre Dame will present plaques to members of the Kampus Kegler team. They’ve already won recognition in the South Bend papers and in the National Bowling Journal and Billiard Review. There’s also an article about Ernie coming up in the American Bowling Congress publication. Recently, the Keglers received a letter from Western Reserve University in Cleveland asking for a match.
The fame of the Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame is spreading. They could add to it by winning the MIBC joust tomorrow. Their late season form, the now-familiar Bowl-Mor alleys and that knack to accomplish what they set out to do may turn the trick.
KEGLER TOM SIMON Alley Ace
; . . A STRIKE IS COMING UP
Golfers Travel South For Indiana Match
Tomorrow the Notre Dame golf team travels to Bloomington, where it will take on the Indiana University golf team in a dual match. It will be the fourth match of the season for the undefeated Irish.
This year’s golf team started the season down in St. Louis on April 18 by defeating Washington university, 20-7. The match was played at the Crystal Lake Country Club under the worst possible conditions. The thermometer hovered around 35 degrees all day and a high wind didn’t help matters any. George Stuhr was the medalist for the day with a 72.
After doing away with Washington, the golf team downed Wisconsin’s Badgers, 17%-9%, on their home course. Bill Breen was low for the day with a par 71.
Last Monday on the Notre Dame golf course the Irish proved their mettle by defeating Purdue, the best in the Big Ten and one of the best in the country. As in the two previous matches, Notre Dame swept the best ball match and the singles. George Stuhr was low for the match with a 145 for 36 holes. The singles match between Stuhr and Wampler, the Big Ten singles champ, was outstanding and attracted a large gallery. Each won three holes on the front nine and were even all the way on the back nine.—Bill Delaney
Nine-Year Win Streak
Even Rockne and Leahy never compiled a record as formidable as that of the old Notre Dame debating team at the turn of the century. The Irish word-jugglers went undefeated in intercollegiate competition from 1899 to 1908!
25
Michigan State Tops Windswept Tracksters
“Mild” breezes sweeping along at velocities up to 47 miles per hour cut down the times and the distances, but the form charts still held true last Saturday and Notre Dame’s trackmen ended up on the short end of an 85-56 score, losing to Michigan State, a team that most track observers rate number one in the nation.
Two weeks earlier, the shoe was on the other foot at the Southern Relays. The good folk of Birmingham, Ala., must have been reminded of those other Irish Yankees who came down in ’65 and took everything. Handy’s handymen ended up with five firsts, four seconds, two thirds and a fourth to score in each of the twelve events.
A new star was unveiled when Sophomore javelin thrower Jack Murphy, a wee broth of a lad at 6’5”, won each of his first two meets with winning tosses of 193 feet at Birmingham and 183 feet at Michigan State. Jim Miller, highest pole vaulter in Notre Dame history, not only won that event at East Lansing, but also managed to take second place in the javelin throw. Bob Charters completed the sweep of the javelin event with a third place heave that was only four feet short of Murphy’s winning toss.
Tied for team high scoring honors at East Lansing were Miller, Bob Smith, and Johnny Helwig. Smith took a first in the 220 and a second in the 100 while Johnny Helwig won the shot put and came in second in the discus to exactly duplicate his performance at the Southern Relays. Johnny’s brother, Joe, took third place in the shot put against the Spartans.
Another excellent performance was turned in by Pat Kenny, who won the 440 in 50.1 and then anchored the winning mile relay squad. Bill Leonard followed Kenny in third place. In the relay, Bob Boyne, Paul Schwetschenau and Ray Sobota collaborated with Pat.
Bill Fleming copped second place in the high jump and the high hurdles. A leg injury kept him out of his other specialty, the low hurdles. Jimmy Murphy, the Rhode Island redhead, finished up the day’s scoring against the Spartans with a close second in the two-mile run.
Fleming featured the team’s showing at the Southern Relays. In winning the 120-yard high hurdles in 14.2 seconds, Bill got a clear title to the school record which he formerly held jointly with John Smith at 14.4.
Other winners at the Southern meet were Jim Miller in the pole vault and the two-mile relay team composed of Jim Bollas, Ray Sobota, Bill Leonard and Pat Kenny.—Ted Prahinski
Irish Sailing Team Opens In Dual Drill at Michigan
The campus sailing club inaugurates its second season of activity in a dual drill meet with Michigan at Ann Arbor on April 30 and May 1. The squad, one of eighteen in the midwest area, fared no worse than fourth in the six regattas last year.
Twenty men, split into two-man teams, will set sail in ten ships in an attempt to defeat Michigan, something which thus far they have failed to accomplish. There will be thirty races conducted over the mile course during the two-day competition.
In addition to Fred Joyce, commodore of the sailing club, the following members will make the trip to Ann Arbor: Jim Crowe, Charles Burke, Loren Bullock, Jim Martin, Dick Prendergast, Bob Kraemer, Jim Fitzsimmons, Bob Edmondson, Marsh Tobin, Dick Brother-son, Tom Starshak, Dan Dutton, Charles Reynolds, Joe Schrank.
Keglers Fall to Illinois; Campus Play Closes Sunday
A little off after a long trek to Champaign, Ernie Huffman’s Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame lost to the University of Illinois in their first independent bowling match of the season last Saturday. The Illini took all five games and had an overall margin of 245 pins.
Charlie Derrico did his best to offset the red hot home team; Charlie’s 222 single game and 908 five-game marks were the best for the Irish. He averaged 182. Still, the top man at upsetting the maples was Frank Kurz of Illinois. Frank had 953 for five, a 218 single game and a 191 average.
The club league prepared for its final day of rolling after some thrilling matches last Sunday. The Italian Club got a big scare before squeezing past the Met Club by 27 pins. They lead the Chemists by two points in the Gold section. In the Blue League, the Buffalo Club maintained its three-point lead and should hold it through the final day. The-Italian Club and the Chemists are heav^ ily favored to defeat the Architects and Prop and Wing, respectively, this Sunday. Tom Simon and Bill Gorman continue to pace the individual standings.
Batsmen Bounce Back After Shaky Openers
By JACK MEANEY
Notre Dame opened its 1949 baseball season by dropping an 8-7 decision to Indiana University at Bloomington on April 8. After scoring four runs in the first inning, the Klinemen led all the way until the last of the ninth when the Hoosiers tallied twice to send the game into extra innings. In the last of the tenth, a walk by reliefer Jack Campbell, Notre Dame’s sixth error of the contest and a single produced the winning run.
Indiana swept the two-game series by pushing across a pair of markers in the eighth inning to break a five-all tie and r ............. 1
JOHN CAMPBELL "Soup" Wins Three-Hitter
win, 7-5. Dick Smullen started on the mound for the Irish and gave way in the fifth to Tony Lipton, who was charged with the loss.
Irish hopes for a victory over Iowa in their Cartier field debut were thwarted by southpaw Dick Orth, who scattered three bingles in the 8-1 Hawkeye triumph.
Tony Lipton became the first Notre Dame flinger* to rack up a win and also the first to go the distance as the Irish squeezed by Iowa in the second game of the series, 4-3. A bases-loaded single by- Gene Lavery in the last of the ninth rescued Lipton from third base and broke the 3-3 deadlock.
Sophomore Bob Nemes limited Cincinnati to five scattered hits in his first starting appearance to give the locals their second straight win, 9-4. Gene Lavery, Tom Boland and Dick Giedlin led the nine-hit attack with two safe-
26
The Scholastic
ties apiece, the big blow being Giedlin’s home run blast to deep right field.
Ohio State and its ace pitcher, Pete Perini, became Notre Dame’s third consecutive victim by succumbing to Irish, power, 4-1, on the Buckeye diamond April 14. Walt Mahannah pitched scoreless ball until the eighth when he tired and was relieved by Tony Lipton. In the top of the ninth the Irish countered seven times, but rain washed the inning out of the record books.
Spilled by Pros
Professional competition proved to be too strong for the Irish as they bowed to the Terre Haute Phillies of the Three-I League, 5-3, in Terre Haute on April 19. Portsider Roger May held the Klinemen hitless until the eighth, when he retired from the mound, although the Irish had managed to garner an unearned run in the third.
Returning home to Cartier field, the Irish got back on the victory trail as they outlasted Wisconsin’s Badgers in a free swinging contest, 11-7. Dick Gied-lin, with a round tripper and double, Ray Petrzelka and Bob Machado paced the Irish batters.
Notre Dame made it two in a row over the Badgers but they had to play 11 innings to do it. Although the Irish pounded out a total of 14 hits to Wisconsin’s eight, the scoreboard showed six-all at the end of nine innings. In the eleventh, two hits, a walk and a fielder’s choice gave Fireman Bob Nemes a well-pitched 7-6 victory.
Victory number six came easy to Notre Dame as they were presented ■with a seven-run inning to bowl over the Gophers of Minnesota, 8-6. Although outhit 11-7, the Irish made the most of six free passes. A grand slam home run by Gene Lavery featured the Irish’s seven-run second frame.
LOST
St. Andrews daily missal, with a separate leather cover. My name is on an Infant of Prague holy card. Reward.
KARL ACKERMAN
104 Sorin Hall
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
Jack Campbell allowed three hits as he blanked the Gophers in the second game of the series, 4-0. The husky Bay Stater was in superb form, fanning seven, giving up one walk and also picking two Minnesota baserunners off the initial sack.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
April 29—TENNIS at Purdue
29-30—BASEBALL at Illinois TRACK. Drake Relays at Des Moines
30—GOLF at Indiana
TENNIS. Northwestern here SAILING at Michigan
May 4—BASEBALL at Mich. State TENNIS. W. Michigan here 7—TRACK, Pittsburgh here BASEBALL at Chicago GOLF at Northwestern TENNIS. Detroit here SAILING, M.C.C. Eliminations at Wisconsin
BASEBALL STATISTICS
(Eleven Games)
	AB H	Pct.	AB H	Pct.
Maher 		12 5	.417	Mahannah _ 11 2	.182
Smullen 		5 2	.400	Boland 	22 4	.182
Lavery		45 16	.356	Gillis 	39 7	.179
Grieve 		5 I	.333	Presley 		 7 1	.143
Giedlin		44 14	.318	Campbell 	 9 1	.111
Petrzelka 		39 11	.282	Lipton	 9 1	.111
Martin		22 6	.264	Nemes 	— 6 0	.000
Garofalo 		8 2	.250	Sjoberg 	 2 0	.000
McHale 		9 2	.222	Wolfe 	 1 0	.000
Kozlik 		32 7	.219	Kreis	 3 0	.000
Machado		15 3	.200	Judge 	 4 0	.000
Koblosh 		37 7	.189	Totals	384 92	.240
MOW WE
GOTtA JUMP
TH' NET/
We WENT An' won/
sets the pace in sports
Rawhide reinforcements at the shoulders of SPALDING and WRIGHT & DITSON Rackets keep strings tighter longer . . . and “FIBRE WELDING” and “FIBRE SEALING” give extra strength.
A SEMI-FINAL MATCH IN THE BEVERLY H1HS TOURNEY WENT ID 102 GAMES....AND LASTED4 HOURS AND45 MINUTES . ..THEYMADID FINISH UNDER
THE LIGHTS /
SULL. IH TUHE AFTER
All that TOUGH PLAY/
April 29, 1949
27
Barristers in the Attic
(Continued from Page 13)
floor. Joe said they had to take the six desks apart to get them up there when they moved. Before they took it over, the room was a storehouse for all the odds and ends that accumulate in any attic.
If this office appears depressing to an outsider, it doesn’t bother the Lawyer’s industrious staff. There they spend a lot of valuable time assembling and reading the material that goes into their select brain child. The lead articles don’t tax the student editors because the people who write them—leading, nationally known authorities like Senatoi- Pat McCarren—have been working on law journals for a long time. The book reviews (written about any book that may help a lawyer) are done by authorities. Bill Phelan of Iowa Falls, Iowa, is the editor of this section, and he checks all of the manuscripts that are sent in.
Of the four parts that make up an issue, the Recent Decisions and the “Notes” sections are handled solely by the students. Each represents a lot of intelligent and difficult work. “Recent Decisions” is a thorough study of cases that have been tried recently. The research work (looking up other decisions and correlating them) alone generally takes a couple of weeks. Bud Steffen, also of Indianapolis, assigns and edits these cases, that are done either by staff members or students in the in-training group.
Clarify Points of Law
The students in the in-training group also help in checking over the notes that come in, although they don’t write them up. The Note department tackles any phase of the law that needs clarification. John Bodie of Mishawaka, the note editor, may get an idea that there is some point in, say, labor law, that isn’t quite clear. He, or a member of the staff, begin digging up data on it, and when he gets the solution, he writes it up. A note is really just an essay.
When Chief Justice Vinson mulls over a Recent Decision or a Note he recognizes that they represent a lot of effort. The research involved makes a sociology term paper look like a letter-to-the-edi-tor in the Youngstown Vindicator. There is also the business of conforming to the Harvard Citation Manual—a bible for all law reviews. This manual lays down the rules of style and form that are to be followed in writing up articles for any law review. The content doesn’t mean a thing if it isn’t according to Harvard. Still, the editors conform (usually begrudgingly) to this bulky book if
28
they want their journal recognized by the leading authorities. They do and it is.
These authorities are the ones who have declared the Lawyer to be one of the consistently best reviews in the country. The staff would be taking a chance on losing the prestige if it streamlined it to win over some of the mass readers. Anyhow, Joe got a request a few weeks ago from Monrovia, Liberia, for a reprint of a recent lead article. With a little prodding the gentleman may turn up on the subscription list one of these days.
K. OF C. INFORMAL
Due to a conflict in the University social calendar, the Knights of Columbus spring informal dance, scheduled to be held tonight at Erskine country club, has been cancelled.
Knights and students who purchased bids for the dance will be repaid immediately. For the refund, return the unused tickets to Chairman Tony Ray, 318 Dillon.
6+h NFCCS Congress Convenes In Chicago
“The Catholic College Student—A Call . to the Lay Apostolate.” With this as their theme, delegates to the Sixth National Congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students plan to open their sixth year of activities when they meet in Chicago next Wednesday.
Delegates from 180 Catholic colleges will attend the NFCCS conference which meets for the first time in this area. Delegates from Notre Dame will include Lou Burns who will give a report on the progress of the Student Relief Campaign and four' others to be selected by the Student Council.
Attendance at the Congress is not limited to assigned delegates. Any interested student of a Catholic college may sit in on all sessions. Programs have been planned for those interested in any field of activities from liturgy and student government to the press and international relations.
“We strongly urge all interested students to make plans to attend one of the meetings,” urged Lou Burns. “Campus clubs interested in any of these topics will probably not receive another opportunity to discuss them with Catholic students.”
Anyone interested in attending the Congress should see Lou Burns in Room 100 of the Law Building Monday evening after the Student Council meeting.
—Dick Rosengarten
Glee Club Completes Lengthy Eastern Tour
The Glee Club returned home Monday after a two-week tour of the East which Director Daniel H. Pedtke termed “one of the most successful trips the boys have ever made.” The 42-student group sang in seven towns, three of which carried the concert on radio, and a quartet from the club appeared on a New York television show.	;
The group sang in Canton, Poughkeepsie, New York City, Scranton, Pittsburgh, Steubenville, and Fremont, to audiences which averaged about 1200 music lovers for each concert. Tickets -
for the Pittsburgh perfoi-mance were sold out five weeks in advance.
Fremont, Canton, and Scranton broadcast the concert on theii' local radio stations. The quartet of Mike Kelly, Joe Harrison, Jack Powell, and George Bariscillo were guest artists on the Ed Sullivan Variety Show over television during the New York visit. -
Greatest applause from the different ■ audiences came for selections from Lo- ~ hengrin, and for the popular songs “All ' the Things You Are” and “In the Still -of the Night.” As usual, the school songs were everywhere greeted with en- = thusiastic applause.	?
Greatest cause of consternation on J the trip came when baritone Jerry < Boyle, junior from Raton, N. M., fainted L in his room in Pittsburgh last Friday / from a severe boil on his neck. He was ■ rushed to Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh .. where he was given emergency treatment. He recovered from the attack 1 but had to remain in the hospital for -L four days.
Father Joseph Barry, C.S.C., chaplain :-.f on the trip, remained with Boyle when ;; the band left Pittsburgh, and the two f‘,_ were expected to return to Notre Dame last Tuesday.	f
The motto of the showman, “the show must go on,” was evidenced when the V-singers returned at 4 a.m. Monday, tired and ready for a long rest. A rush call came in from the Alumni Association in Chicago for Notre Dame singers to help celebrate Notre Dame night at a banquet in the Drake Hotel that night. Sixteen jg tired-eyed troupers caught the 4:15 p.m. train to Chicago.—Ray Doherty	f;
PHOTO CREDITS
Page 11, Fitzgerald (left) and Munger; 15, copyright page courtesy of "Catholic Comics"; 16, Fer-stel (left) and U. S. Army; 18, "The Alumnus"; 19. "The Alumnus"; 21, Kunkle; 30, Conerty.

The Scholastic
Football
(Continued from Page 22) frosh); guards, Fred Wallner and Rod Johnson; center, Walt Grothaus; quarterback, Williams; halfbacks, Spaniel and Barrett; fullback, Ernie Zalejski.
Still slowed down by his old and famous knee injury, Zalejski has been picking up a little every week. The South Bend boy may get rolling yet. Bill Wightkin’s bad foot was good enough to enable him to get in a little contact work for the first time last week. Emil Sitko was back in uniform after* his tonsilectomy, but the redheaded All-American has been kept out of the rough work. Some of those out for at least a few days because of injuries included Del Gander, Ed Hudak, Bill Gay, Jack Landry, Mike Swisto-wicz, Leon Hart, Bob Lally, Ray Es-penan, Jim Hambry and Sam Abbott.
Meanwhile, the Old Timers who meet the varsity on May 14 have been keeping their personnel a secret. It has been rumored that they have everyone from Gus Dorais to Johnny Lu jack. Other current rumors have the game being switched from the Stadium to either School Field in South Bend or to Cartier Field. The Stadium turf is now undergoing a face-lifting.
Advertisement
For the Sharpest Spring Suit
"Watch the Birdie, Please!"
Parker-Winterrowd, South Bend’s oldest custom tailors, has just completed the installation of equipment for Photo-Fitted clothes.
The Photo-Fitted method combines the perfected art of photography with the skill of fine tailoring. Now, when Parker-Winterrowd tailors a suit for you, four photographs are taken of you — front, back, and two side views. Your posture and proportions are recorded against an accurately calibrated background to insure perfect contour corrections before cutting the cloth.
The entire process is as simple as the click of the shutter. Just a few minutes with the tape measure and it’s lights . . . action . . . camera! Your individual needs are permanently recorded
This new photographic method of fitting has helped thousands of people all over the country buy the best fitting suit of clothes they’ve ever had.
When you go to Parker-Winterrowd to select your next suit, you will find over 7-50 beautiful fabrics to choose from. Fabrics of every description are there for your selection — gabardines, tweeds, worsteds, sharkskins, and many other beautiful patterns.
Photo-Fitted suits can be yours for as low as §50.00. Drop in at Parker-Winterrowd’s today (115% North Main, just a couple of doors from the Oliver or Lido.) Inspect this newest, most modem method of individually tailoring your suit . . . the photographic way.
The Newest in Tailorins Methods
_o _
Let Parker-Winterrowd Fit Your Next Suit
Photographically!
Parker-Winterrowd adds a new, proven method to its many years of tailoring experience. PHOTOFIT is the perfected method in which your exact proportions and posture are specially photographed! Our tailors are given a set of human blueprints, of you. . .. This completely eliminates guess work, saves time, and guarantees absolute perfect fit of your suit. Have your*next suit fitted by PHOTOGRAPHY! Come in for a demonstration of this new method. You select your own style and fabric.
PARKER - WINTERROWD, Inc.
115^2 NORTH MAIN ST.
Second Floor — Upstairs
“South Bend’s Oldest Custom-Tailors”
April 29, 1949
29
Clubs
There's Real Fish in There
Economics at Rosary
Members of the Economic Round Table recently attended a meeting at Rosary College together with several delegates of various Chicago universities. The topic of the afternoon’s discussion was “The Housing Problem.” The discussion was followed by a buffet supper and dancing.
The last meeting of the club was devoted to several administrative problems which have arisen in the recent past. Papers for the next two meetings will be entitled “How Necessary Is Free Competition” and “The Theories of John Maynard Keynes.” As usual, these papers will be followed by a discussion of the specific problems presented in the papers.
Wranglers Open Membership
The Wranglers, who next year will observe their silver anniversary as an intellectual force at Notre Dame, are now accepting applications for membership. Opportunities for new members are now exceptionally good because the present membership has become heavily encumbered with upperclassmen and graduating seniors will leave a number of vacancies. Letters of application should be sent to: The Chairman, Membership Committee, 123 Walsh Hall, and should be sent as soon as possible.
Clevelanders Elect
At its annual election of officers, held before the Easter vacation, the Cleveland Club named Dick Maier president for the coming year. Assisting him will be Bob Lally, vice-president; Ray Miller, treasurer; Bill Eggers, secretary; and Jack Wenning, public relations. Bob Lally was also voted to receive the $50 Student Prize, given each year by the Cleveland Alumni. Lally has been an active member of the club for the past three years and is now serving his second term as vice-president.
Farms and Food
The first activity of the recently reorganized Rural Life Club was an afternoon visit to the Juniper Road homestead of Professor Willis D. Nutting, club moderator. Since most of the club members plan to establish similar semisubsistent suburban homes in the future, Professor Nutting’s description of his own efforts was both enlightening and encouraging. Luncheon was served to the group by Mrs, Nutting,
30
THE LAW CLUB's Spring Social held last week in South Bend's Progress Club brought together students and faculty of the Law School for a pleasant evening of dancing. Left to right are Mr. and Mrs. Vincent Scully, who handled the garden-type decorations for the affair. Miss Florence Mickley of South Bend and her escort, Ed Caparo. Frank Col-lopy and Dan Long were co-chairmen of the dance, which was dedicated to Robert Bums of the Class of 1949 in view of "the great service he has rendered by his devotion and loyalty to the school and students."
Debaters Cop Honors In West Point Finale
The National West Point Debate Tournament brought to a close another successful season for Notre Dame. Frank Finn and Bill Carey composing the Notre Dame team, advanced successfully through eight preliminary rounds to the quarter finals.
At that time Notre Dame was seeded as second. However, a seventh ranking Baylor team which Notre Dame had previously defeated in the second round upset the Irish, eliminating them.
When the final statistics were released, Notre Dame was placed fifth among the five hundred universities active in debate in the United States, first in the Midwest, first among Catholic universities and second in speaking ability among those participatng in .the meet. Thirty-four colleges are annually chosen for national competition.
In the rounds besides Baylor, Notre Dame met Army, Stanford, Alabama, Kansas, Louisiana, Montana and Pep-perdine.—Frank Haendler
Fr. O'Brien's Marriage Book
Tells Whys and Wherefores |
The Rev. John A. O’Brien, pro- ~ fessor of Religion at Notre Dame, has outlined the whys and wherefores of a ft-happy and successful marriage in a new a book, entitled Courtship and Marriage. f Just off the rollers of the St. Anthony S Guild Press, in Paterson, N. J., the book comes down to cases in presenting the forthright Catholic stand on mixed mar- fl riage, birth control, divorce and abor-ti°n.
Besides treating such topics as “choos- it ing a partner,” “safeguarding chastity jv during courtship” and “harmony in married life,” the new work discusses details of impediments, dispensations, regulations and procedures in matri- g mony. According to Father O’Brien,	f
Courtship and Marriage is designed for |; a number of types of individuals —	| $
young people contemplating marriage, | j older married couples, pastors instruct- ’ | ing engaged couples, and all who need	j
guidance in marital problems.	f
The Scholastic	;
Juggler, Spring, Vol. 3, Number 3, .50, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Spring issue of Juggler is, in a very large sense, the fulfillment of a promise. It is also the finest post-war effort the Juggler has produced. There have been many waiting for an issue such as this. We were one of them. We feel rather happy about the whole thing.
This green and white Spring edition is, first of all, loaded with fiction. There are eight short stories, five sketches and also six poems. This in itself is an accomplishment of great proportion. But what gives even sounder basis for applause is the fact that this mass of writing is good writing— honest, intense, polished writing. The short stories are some of the best efforts of that type which we have seen turned out by Notre Dame students. The sketches are weaker but still above average and there is a purpose, even anger in some of the poetry.
Essay on Chaucer
Editor Dick Schaeffer has pared the essays down to one in number- and that, “They Foughte Al Day” by Fallon Evans, is a cleanly written sober approach to Chaucer and art. A piece easily readable, with something to say about the problem of evil in art.	’
Of the short stories, we were most impressed by three in particular and all in general. Michael Greene’s “How Alexander Died” has a freshness which, although unevenly distributed, gives a rich life to some oddities of modern civilization which are both human and not
so. “The Swagger’s Tale” spoke exceptionally well for its New Zealand-bred
RARE OPPORTUNITY!
Study ... Travel
in SPAIN
BARCELONA GROUP 65 Days
June 29, 1949
MALAGA GROUP 65 Days July 2, 1949
Sponsored by: UNIVERSITY OF MADRID
For Information Write
Spanish Student Tours
500 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 18, N. Y.
author, Dave Yerex, who writes about some very real people in a very real way. And finally, “The Stars Still Move” by William Pfaff presented to us some of the cleanest, most forceful writing of this or any Juggler, even though we were asked to muddle around in a now stagnant framework of modern form.
There was powerful anger in George Murphy’s hard-hitting poem “South.” And “A Candle” sketch by Walter- Clements had beauty in its tragic reality.
Intent Reviews
There was the usual collection of usual reviews, all intently written. JUGGLER staffers sink their teeth into such works as: Mann’s Dr. Faustus, Greene’s Nineteen Short Stories, Roosevelt and Hopkins and Pulitzer Prize winner, Tales of the South Pacific, among others.
Perhaps it will be charged that we have been carried away by Juggler in its spring form. We have. We have hoped for long months that Juggler could produce something like this and now that we have it, we see no reason to restrain ourselves.
There are faults certainly. Contributors are still overly self-conscious about conforming to the manner in which a serious writer, college grade, should write. They have still to get well enough acquainted with the richness of experience to suit this reviewer. We could, too, ask for more humor. But we feel too good about what we have just read to let this bother us. We feel you will think the same way after you’ve read this Juggler.—Greg Halpin
Joijn’g Hmtersitp of Kato
Approved by the American Bar Association; Member of the Association of American Law Schools.
Three-year day and four-year evening courses leading to degree LL.B. (Summer Sessions conducted).
Students are admitted to the School of Law in September and February. Law School Admission Test dates for September, 1949 classes: February 19th, May 7th, August 6th.
Application to take examination must be filed ten days in advance with the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N. J.
REGISTRAR: 96 Schermerhorn St.
Brooklyn 2. New York
Perfect for
The Golf Course!
Notre Dame
JACKETS
J The heavy-duty “Cham* pion” is made of sturdy rayon, water-proofed for .. all - round wear. Notre Dame monogram - styled letters oh the back. Selection of these smooth satins in blues, golds, and greens. All sizes.
$9.75
2 The light-weight all-pur" pose “Gadabout” jacket
is just the thing for spring showers. It’s the perfect thing for the golf course. Zelan coated, this jacket has a “UND” stitched above the left pocket. Choice of green, blue, gold, or clay. All sizes.
$6«
Notre Dame
BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame, Indiana
April 29, 1949
31
Class Elections
(Continued from Page 9) came to the fore first with largest posters and the biggest platform promises. Its candidates are: Kevin O’Shea for president; Verne Kelley, vice-president; Bud Romano, secretary; and Tom Farley for treasurer. The other senior slate, “The Premium Party,” consists of Jack Thornton, Bob Schlosser, Jack F. Connor and Bill Shanahan in the logical descending order.
For the juniors, the “Four-For-You-Party” offers Ward McCabe for president, Bill Anhut for vice-president, Tom Carroll for secretary, and Jim Poat for treasurer. Other Junior candidates turned in a full slate without a painty name. They were Bill Kirschner, Bernie Lavins, Bob Klingenberger, and Hank Madden on one ticket; and Ray Yanics, Mike Jacobs, Joe Shelley and Dick McDonald on the other.
One Full Soph Ticket
Sophomore candidates had but one full ticket by Wednesday morning: Ed Vasta for president, Jim Kelleher for vice-president, Bill Dempsey for secretary and Frank Zappela for treasurer. Other second year nominees found Donald S. Carillo running for president independently and Bob Peckels and John Harrington running for president and vice-president together.
Council members said the names of the winners would be ascertained Tuesday night after the balloting and that they would be announced in an official . communique from the Office of Student Welfare on May 11.	,
The Council also issued a sharp directive to parties and individual candidates for office; this year no illegal electioneering or campaigning is to be tolerated. On election day no posters, placards, handbills, sandwich-men or good will politicians will be allowed within twenty feet of the Dining Hall. Penalty for not complying with this regulation means the disqualification of the party or the individual candidate.
Vote for Constitution
One big addition will be added to this spring’s elections — the much-talked-about constitution of the Student Senate. The newly-devised document for student government will finally come up for ratification by referendum at the time the regular elections are held. The constitution as it now stands has been OK’ed by the administration and passed by the Student Council. It provides for sixteen regular Senate members to hold office for a year.
The president and vice-president of each class automatically become mem
bers of the Senate when they are elected to their class offices. Other membership consists of four members of the Stay Council, and four elected members of the senior class (two members at large, and one man each from the law school and off-campus).
Senate representatives will be elected after the new constitution has been ratified, for they are not provided for until the document is recognized law for student government. Freshman class officers will be elected in November.
Bill Brown
(Continued from Page 14)
built around the dashing ND fencer, Lou Burns. It hit the newsstands last week.
There have been some horrible mistakes made in the process. Most of them resulted from the fact that the New York artists who turn out the strip have never seen ND and have to go by the pictures sent them. As a result
Gee, and I thought the Luj was good!
such things as a double-decker Cartier Field — with lights — have appeared. ND football players have worn Mars-like helmets and red jerseys. And then too, there was the subtle touch of sending William and associates down to Sweeney’s for a soda after a tough game in the stadium.
But, all in all, Bill is kept pretty close to Notre Dame life. He is a glorified version, to be sure, but to the 500,000-odd who read him avidly every month there is no thrill quite so vivid as Bill Brown of Notre Dame intercepting a pass in his end zone and racing 100 yards to score for Notre Dame.
25 Years After...
Thumbing through the yellowed pages of the long-defunct Notre Dame Daily, one student noticed this editorial demand in the May 20, 1924, issue:
“A union building as soon as possible.”
Senior Ball
(Continued from Page 9)
building down to size. And the NROTC’s shore batteries will be decently disguised as hat racks and check rooms. Also, tables will be added on both sides of the dance area, a position in which the refreshments and chit-chat can be consumed.
Rooms for the out-of-towners have been reserved in the Hoffmann (80 singles and doubles) and LaSalle (100 singles and doubles) hotels. Students requiring these facilities for their dates will be advised of the reservation procedure when they purchase their bids. Do not barrage the local hotels with individual requests, please!
Pat Costello, senioi* class president, and his committees have made quite a fuss to make this year’s Ball one of those cherished-memory affairs. In bringing Freddy Martin and his orchestra to the campus, they believe they’re providing danceable music plus a reasonable amount of showmanship.
Martin, who plays what he calls a “singing saxophone,” has achieved unusual popularity in the ballroom category. For the past eight winters he has held down the featured spot in the Ambassador Hotel’s Cocoanut Grove in Los Angeles.
The most unusual thing about the Martin orchestra is the fact that it does not feature a female vocalist. Practically all of the vocal chores go to Merve Griffin, a 22-year-old brownhaired, blue-eyed baritone who joined the Martin orchestra last year.
The Martinmen, a trio composed of Stan Wild, Andy Kostelas, and Rex Dennis, fill the bill on the frilly novelty tunes and ballads.
Those eligible to purchase bids for the Senior Ball include all June, August, and January (1950) graduates.
—Bob Vierhile
Professor Chroust Receives Two Honorary Appointments
Dr. Anton-Hermann Chroust, associate professor of history and law, has just been notified of his appointment to the National Council on Jurisprudence of the Association of American Law Schools.
Coupled with this new dignity came his election as an honorary corresponding member of the Institute de Filosofia Juridica y Social, of Argentina. Announcement of Professor Chroust’s ascendancy to this honorary post was made by Carlos Cossio, acting president of the organization’s headquarters in Buenos Aires.
32
The Scholastic
Junior Prom
(Continued from Page 9) prom-goers will not be expected to check in until 2:30 a.m. Car permissions will be in effect from noon Friday to noon Sunday.
On Saturday afternoon juniors can take their dates to several scheduled sports events. The track and tennis teams have scheduled meets and permission has been obtained to let visitors observe football scrimmage on Cartier Field. Saturday evening an ROTC ball and a Monogram club dance will round out the evening.
A High Mass in Sacred Heart Church will be celebrated at 9 Sunday morning for those attending the prom only.
Bids for the prom have been priced at $6.00. They will be on sale in the basement of the caf until Tuesday evening, May 3. Included in the price of the bid are refreshments and a favor. Arrangements for hotel reservations, flowers, and a tux may be made at the same time bids are purchased. A printed invitation will be given for each bid sold.
The management of the LaSalle and Hoffmann hotels have announced that their dining rooms ■will remain open until 2:30 Saturday morning for the convenience of prom-goers.
Committee chairmen are: John Whalen and Ken Lisy, refreshments; Jim Curran and Jim Conway, decorations; Jack Donnelly, favors; Bob Schlosser and Jack Finnegan, arrangements; Bill Shanahan, tickets, and Bill Bradley and Bob Slocum, publicity. Jack Thornton is business manager, and Bob Lally is coordinator of committee activity.
—Dick Rosengarten
First Natural Law Institute Proceedings Published Here
Addresses delivered here at the first annual Natural Law Institute in December, 1947, have been published in Volume One of The Natural Law Institute Proceedings. Publication of Volume Two, covering last December’s meetings, is now in process.
Included in the book are addresses by Dr. Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the ND College of Law, on “The Natural Philosophy of the Founding Fathers”; Ben W. Palmer, prominent Minneapolis attorney, on “The Natural Law and Pragmatism”; Dr. Mortimer Adler, Professor of the Philosophy of Law at the University of Chicago, on “The Doctrine of Natural Law Philosophy”; Harold R. McKinnon, San Francisco attorney, on “Natural Law and Positive Law”; and the Rt. Rev. William J. Doheny, now an Associate Justice of the Tribunal of the Sacred Rota, on “The Eternal Backgrounds of Natural Law.”
Dual
Van
the shirt that knows how to relax!
First, it’s a regular shirt—as dressy, as collar-right as any shirt you ever wore. (Naturally—it’s a Van Heusen!) But here’s the difference: take off your tie and presto— you’re leisure-right. For this dual-personality shirt is made to be worn and look correct, either way. That means you can wear it anywhere—any time! See Van Dual at your dealer’s, in whites and colors, §3.95.
Other Van Heusen shirts §2.95 and up.
A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size
"* :j & J..
shirts
the world’s smartest
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
0 Van Hensen
Look to
GILBERT'S
for VAN HEUSEN
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
April 29, 1949
33
“It's almost human the way Linkman’s Pipe-Smoking
RROWSER’S
Column by Max An Browser
S]50 . $200 • $350 • $5°°
Fashioned by Linkman uDr. Grabow Pipe Co. Inc, Chicago m. Ill
An Amazing Offer by
HOLIDAY
Pipe Mixture
The pipe that every smoker wants—DANA, the modem pipe, with brightly polished alumi~ num shank and genuine imported briar bowl?
$m 12 IBUDAY writers Gel your DANA PIPE Send to
UUUY. Dot Cl, lidmN.Tiriiiii Offer Limited to USA—'Expires Jane 30.1949
50*
with inside wrappers from 12 pocket tins of HOLIDAY PIPE MIXTUBE
Ar Adventure in Good Smoking
Dr. Ralph A. Berman DENTIST
Mon. 9-12; Thurs. 9-12, 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
408 Platt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
Signs of Spring
Like magnolias or fat-breasted robins, class campaign posters are a Notre Dame sign of spring. And like spring, they point to things to come.
We have seen some pretty silly posters of this variety during our stay here. We expect to see some pretty silly posters in the next few weeks. And from looking at posters and watching and reporting elections and their aftermath we have learned a lesson about campus politics, such as they are, that we thought appropriate to pass along about this time.
We have learned this great truth: Vote for the men, not the promises. We realize that this two cents worth is unnecessary in most cases. The majority oi the minority who vote here, do vote for individuals. But there may be some who have been brought up in an atmosphere thick with the cigar smoke of party politics. To them the warning: All the wonderful promises about bigger and better class picnics are nonsense unless the man behind them can produce a bigger and better picnic. Which leads us to the interesting point of what kind of a man he is who can produce anything at all around here. In other words, what kind of a man is he who can really do a good job for you as your class officer?
We would put forth these warning signs with no personal reference or malice intended:
1.	Beware the “loaded” ticket. In othei- words stay away from the parties who are running the “greatest collection of student ‘leaders’ ever assembled.” Look for one candidate on the ballot you have never heard of before. You can be almost sure he’s running the show, has put the “names” up as a front.
2.	Beware the big time athlete. He is often also a front man. Someone is behind him, using the name he has made to get himself a “position.” The athlete usually is much too busy being same or acting like same to officer a class, and he is usually well out of contact with class affairs.
3.	Beware the group that offers a “big deal” or centers all its campaign promises on “bigger- and better” proms. These are of the type who consider one affair their sole concern once in office and while they’ll get you the New York Philharmonic for a Tea Dance, they won’t represent you or your class when it really counts.
Having swept out the refuse, what’s left?
There is the fairly popular, serious, hard-working guy who has his hand in campus activities but not his arm up to the shoulder. The guy who knows what’s going on in the school, how the students, Council and administration feel on everything. Who really wants to be a good class officer. Who will work on it and constantly look for more things he can do for you and your class. Who isn’t just a dance chairman. He’s your man. There are some around here. Look for them. Vote for them.
Here and There
We have heard no word of having Senior exams moved up a week, so we must suppose the idea died dead right on the Scholastic’s back page where we find ourselves every week ... it is a fine idea, and we suggest it for next year. . . .
We have been too occupied with other things for too long a time to congratulate the University Theatre on its progressive activity. . . . May it live and flourish. . . . And while we are in the mood — some more applause . . . First for the Concert and Lecture Series program which has been the finest we have yet experienced here, and secondly to the Juggler for its finest issue in two years. . . .
Rochester Club moves again with its golf tournament worth $50 in prizes . . . the prizes, incidentally, submitted by local Rochester merchants . . . other clubs please note. ., .
And Student Senate . . . please note remark made in this Scholastic by Francis Wallace in his Alumni Association article where he invites an ND student to sit in on future AA meetings , . . Follow it up and you will improve student-AA relations 50%. . . .
34
The Scholastic
Noted Experts to Address Foreign Trade Conference
The second annual Foreign Trade Conference will be held May 5 on the Notre Dame campus under the auspices of the College of Commerce. Nine prominent experts in world marketing have agreed to speak at the all-day session.
According to Professor Wesley Bender, chairman of the Conference, the program will begin with a series of round table discussions. The topics of the meetings will be: “Traffic and Freight Forwarding,” “Advertising and Sales Promotion,” “Finance and Credit” and “Export Management.”
After a luncheon session, at which George Quisenberry, Vice-President of McGraw Hill International, will speak, the afternoon will be occupied by a panel discussion featuring the morning’s discussion leaders. A dinner meeting highlighted by an address by John Langum, Vice-President of the Chicago Federal Reserve Bank, will close the Conference.
Primary aims of the Conference are to stimulate interest in foreign marketing, discuss current problems facing world traders, and to effect an exchange of ideas between business men and educators.
Look to
Gilbert’s
for
ARROW
Alberts
813-817 S. Michigan Street
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
1 V FOX? MEN AND A V/OtWG MEN MAIN AT COLFAX
VMTMWWAWAWAVWiWWA
S A clever magician named Blue,
Whose shorts always sawed him m two.
* Arrows no-center-seam
■Heard his better haff scream
If your shorts are the saw-tooth variety or the creeping Indian variety—switch to Arrow shorts and you won't have one squirm per term!
Arrow shorts come in white, solid colors, and stripes with gripper fasteners and the "Sanforized" label.
5 Means much greater comfort
> -for you!*	No chafing
/	center seam
ARROW
■:	SHIRTS and TIES	£
> UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS <
April 29, 1949
35
Copyright 1949, Liggett It Mnu Tobacco Co.