2
Letters
Editor:
Let’s see what can be done to improve the manners of the ambitious Hogans and Sneads out on the Notre Dame golf course. After last week’s firing I felt lucky to be alive, since golf balls were zooming, booming and ricocheting dangerously near me without a word of warning, despite the fact that I managed to stay on the right fairway most of the time.
Perhaps a manual on golf etiquette could be distributed to all the fellows who are out for the first time. Tempers would be saved and skulls would be safe if more of the fellows would cooperate and learn a bit of the traditional etiquette of this old Scottish game.
Foot-long divots, deep as wagon tracks, were in evidence after last Saturday’s rounds. If they would be replaced by thoughtful golfers, the course could be kept in good shape.
Bernie Luthman
St. Edward’s Hall
Editor:
On behalf of the committee of the Bengal Bouts and the Knights of Columbus council on campus, we would like to publicly thank all of those who contributed to the success of this, the 19th exhibition of the bouts. Obviously, without the cooperation of the Scholastic, the Dome, the students and the administration, our efforts would have been futile.
Robert J. Savage
Richard D. Cullen
Co-promoters, Bengal Bouts
work of art by Van Heusen BonSaga
Van Heusen goes Van Gogh one better with BonSaga rayon broadcloth sport shirts. Such feeling ... such softness . . . such deft handling of the needle ... BonSaga is truly a masterpiece of luxury. Completely washable ... in many color-fast shades. Short-sleeve pullover model, §3.95. Famous California Lo-No, with two-way collar, short sleeve, §3.95 ... long, §4.95.
j Van Heusen M .
"the world's smartest” OU.1.1 I/O
J	PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N.Y.

Sociology Clubs Meet
Thirty members of the Mundelein College Sociology Club will discuss “The Family Allowance System: Should United States Adopt It?” with the Notre Dame Sociology Club, Thursday at 4 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. Thomas W. Tearney, president of the ND Sociology Club, will preside.
Three members of each club will present a brief panel discussion of family allowances, a system which provides state subsidies to families with children, before the general, discussion. Patrick D. O’Connor, Thomas Saggau, and Raymond F. Fagan will represent Notre Dame in the panel.
Although the Sociology Club-is made up of Sociology majors, students from other departments are invited to the discussion.
The Place to Go
for the Names You Know
^GILBERT'S
for VANHAUSEN
The Scholastic
THE WEEK

by flack McGoldrick
Top of the Week
A prof is considered rare when he comes into class more than ten min-
liable to wake up some morning and find a new Student Union building or something out there.”
ADDRESS CHANGES
In view of the approaching end of the school term, the Postmaster of the University advises all students receiving periodicals through the mails to notify their publishers about change of address for the summer. The time required to effect such a change is about five weeks.
utes late . . .
Life at Notre Dame
Last week the annual Junior Prom brightened up the campus considerably. For their big week-end, the third year men’s theme was “April Showers,” good weather on Friday and Saturday, a good crowd, good dance-band, and a special scrimmage staged for them in the stadium, where Frank Leahy’s gridders banged heads for an hour or so.
Oswald Osbft, prominent prom-goer, had his own time love out from the home town. Today he received his first post-dance correspondence from her:
Dear Oswald:
Meant to write sooner, but I’ve been pretty busy since I got back from ND. Remember that big fellow sitting across the aisle from me when you put me on the train? Well, he turned out to be real nice. He goes to State U., and he invited me up to his formal next weekend. I’m so excited making preparations.
I had a swell time at your Prom though, Oswald. I’m glad you introduced me to your roommate. He was real sweet — I could hardly tear myself away from him.
This fellow from State — his name is Tom — says they’re having Vaughn Monroe for their dance. I just love Vaughn Monroe.
I was thinking about you last night when I was out with Joe. Tell your roommate I got his nice letter, but that I don’t think I’ll be able to make it.
So long for now — see you in June when you come home.
Lovingly,
Gertrude
Said Oswald: “hmmpf.”
Signs of Spring, II
Badin Bog softball enthusiasts have taken advantage of the temporary dry spell, and the informal twilight league has swung into action again. As Big Jack Wheeler, philosopher of the Commerce school and Branch Rickey of Bog baseball put it: “with the new building program underway, if you don’t get out there and use the diamond, you’re
'April 28, 1950
One important improvement made in the playing area during the winter was the removal of the large tree from left field. Pete Stack, Sorin slugger from Escanaba, says that this was done at his request so he could aim his drives at the second floor of Dillon Hall, but more likely it was taken down so that Bog outfielders wouldn’t keep running into it head-first — a la Pete Reiser. Or maybe they’re clearing ground for a new Student Union.
Question of the Week
Will the new $750,000 Fisher Hall be equipped with a Cadillac for each room?
Scholastic Fiction
This spring marks the tenth anniversary of busses in South Bend. Among the present student body, only a few ancient graduate students (and Fred Tracy, who’s been here since the turn of the century) can remember the jolly days of the street car on Notre Dame Avenue.
Back in the good old days, when the Walgreen cowboys had to catch the 11:30 trolley to get back by curfew time, there’s a legend concerning a student rite known as the Notre Dame Avenue litany, dealing with the saintly-named streets running east and west of the road to the Dome. As the car
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
creaked to a stop at each corner, the motorman would call out “St. Louis”— to which the passengers replied ora pro nobis. Then came “St. Vincent”— ora pro nobis, etc. etc. When the car reached the end of the line, and the conductor shouted “Notre Dame,” as the students piled out, they chanted libera nos Doming.
Bottom of the Week
. . . because then he’s in a class by himself.
GOLF SPECIAL
5 IRONS, chrome shafts
3 WOODS, chrome shafts STAY BAG
$39.95
Golf Balls, 39c to 95c Shoes and Accessories
SONNEBORN’S
SPORT SHOP
121 W. COLFAX AVE
South Bend, Ind. Phone 3-3702
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 NORTH NILES
4
Entertainment
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY Joe the Jeweler
104 N. Main St.
J.M.S. Bldg.
APRIL 28
ERSKINE COUNTRY CLUB—The Knights of Columbus will strut their stuff tonight at their annual Spring Formal Dance. Gene Hull and his orchestra will keep the dancers satisfied from 9 until 1. Knights can stay out until 2. Wow!
COLFAX (through April 29)—Cheaper by the Dozen (Legion of Decency Rating A-l) is kept in town for a few days’ holdover. You needn’t worry about rolling in the aisles with the popcorn — the picture isn’t that funny. It’s just a mild, good-natured comedy with a fine cast: Clifton Webb, Jeanne Crain, Myrna Loy and Barbara Bates, a real charmer.
PALACE—Alan Ladd is back sleuthing again in Captain Carey, USA (A-2), a film not quite as bad as the title suggests. Ladd returns to a town he fought in in Italy. His old sweetie, Wanda Hendrix, is married now. Things get pretty involved, and pretty improbable near the end, but leave it to Ladd to come out on top. The Rugged. O’Riordans (A-2) is an interesting co-pic. It was filmed in Australia and has to do with the pioneering days down under.
GRANADA—Gene Kelly hangs up his dancing shoes to take a fling at straight stuff in Black Hand (A-2). J. Carroll Naish helps him in this taut, .excellent film about the early Italian immigrants in New York and the Maifa’s attempted control over them.
AVON (through May 2)—Blossoms in the Dust is an MGM technicolor re-release starring the couple of the screen — Greer Garson and Walter Pidgeon.
APRIL 30
WASHINGTON HALL—The Sophomore Class will present their long-anticipated Talent Show at 8 p.m. Admission is free. Contestants will be vying for cash awards.
LAW AUDITORIUM—The highly-praised Mexican film biography St. Francis of Assisi will have two showings at 7:30 and 9:30.
COLFAX—Bing Crosby hasn’t had such a suitable vehicle as Riding High (B) in a long time. The story is centered around racing and Crosby’s efforts to get his thoroughbred in a big-stakes race. The music, Frank Capra’s direction and a gallery of supporting players all help put High into the winner’s circle. Colleen Gray, William Demerest, Charles Bickford, Raymond Walburn, Percy Kilbride and Oliver Hardy give the Bingle terrific support.
MAY 1	'
CAMPUS—A special May Day Liturgical Celebration will be held to begin the Month of May, a month of devotions and prayer to be offered for the conversion of Russia. A special Mass will be held in Sacred Heart Church in the morning and outdoor services will be held at the Grotto in the evening.
GOLF COURSE—Loyola University’s golf team meets Father Holderith’s men on the Burke Course.
MAY 3
CARTIER FIELD—ND versus Northwestern at 2:30.
WASHINGTON HALL—Charles Fl Fleming, Secretary of State of Indiana, under the auspices of the Concert and (Continued on Page 33)
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID Study and Travel
A rare opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to Spanish Student Tours 500 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
Quetico - Superior Wilderness Complete outfitting service $3.50 a day with Grumman aluminum canoes. Food, your choice—extra.
50-page Canoe Country picture booklet mailed postpaid anywhere for $1.00
"BASSWOOD LAKE LODGE' on Minn.-Canadian border. Main Lodge and 20 log cabins, sr Modern bathroom facil- /NL ities. American Plan rates $8.00 and up. Also housekeeping cabins,
fllLDFRNESS
ELY. MINNESOTA MMBmi
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 April 28, 1950 No. 23
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors
KENNETH A. THOREN WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI________________News
JOHN J. POWERS________Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE _______ Features
JOHN F. MEANEY Sports
JACK R. VARLEY  Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN.__________Photography
LEON GARDNER_______________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER__________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO Advertising EDMOND FOLEY Circulation ROBERT WILDEMAN ________ Circulation
DALE FRANCIS________Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Rod Belcher. Frank Blanch, Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, Bob Butler, Don Carbone, Jim Carrig, Jim Clark, Joe Conerty. Jay Conlon, John Corrigan,--Frank Cotter. Bryan Coughlin, Dave Driscoll, Charley Dullea, Carl Eiberger. Bob Finney, Tom Foote, Bill Gorman, David Hayes, Jerry Howell, Tom Kelley, John Kelly, Rik Klein, Joe Lang, Lou Meece, Don Mulvihill, Jim Murphy, R. O. Murphy. Tom Murphy. Jim O’Brien, John Quetsch, Tom Reedy, Neal Scarlett, George Schwartz, Roger Vorce.
SPORTS: Jim Brislin, Joe Deiss, Bill Delaney, Ray Dittrich. Jack Economou, Jack Keane, Joe Moresco, Ted Prahinski, Bill Reidy. Frank Ronnenberg. Bob Rubery, Joe Straub, Rudy Unger.
FEATURES: Jim Carroll, Jim Kingsley, Larry McDermott, Robert Romaker, Jack Ward, Bill Weir.
Member of the Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. Printed at Ave Maria Press.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: “In the Spring, a young man’s fancy lightly turns etcetera” is the way the saying goes. And Notre Dame is no exception to the rule, Dick Fitzgibbons, a 'Senior from Dillon Hall and Detroit, Mich., lies by the lake and considers plucking a daisy to discover the state of his romantic life. We hope everything turned out right.
—Photo by Jim McLaughlin
From the Editor’s Desk..
Prayer or War!
On Monday. May 1, in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, one of the two strongest armies in the worid will parade its might through the streets of Moscow before Joseph Stalin.
On Monday. May 1, in the United States of America, Catholics the country over will open a month of prayer in honor of Our Blessed Mother for the conversion of Russia and peace in the world, with a nationwide observance of the first day of May.
These two observances of the beginning of May epitomize and bring into sharp focus the struggle that is coming to a head on .our shrunken globe between two powerful forces—the forces of evil and oppression, and the forces of good and freedom. Up to now, it has been the first of these forces that has been making the most intense drive. Let’s look at the record for the past week.
This week in the American zone of occupied Berlin, German police were practicing anti-riot maneuvers with a wary eye toward a promised Communist threat to push the American occupation forces out of their zone and take over the whole of that city. This threat said that the coup would take place during the month of May.
This week the Russians charged American troops at Trieste with occupying that city illegally and demanded their withdrawal.
This week in China, the Chinese Nationalist forces surrendered to the Communist forces at Hainan Island. The Communists are expected to' be in complete control of the island before the end of next week.
This week in Japan, certain powers nominally opposed to Communism but allied with them in a spirit of materialism and rapacious gain forced General Douglas MacArthur to accept “Neo-Malthusianism” for occupied Japan. The population problem is being by-passed in favor of artificial birth control.
This week the world over the forces of secularism and materialism have been on the move. The forces of Catholicism have been, apparently, complacent.
It seems improbable that any thinking person can fail to see the sig-nigficance of these moves. It is assumed that all Catholics would like to do something about them. There is. and can be, onlv one answer.
O	j	J	4
Praver!
Two means of effecting this answer are available to the Notre Dame student. On Monday a Mass will be celebrated in the Sacred Heart Church in the morning as a part of the National May Day observancein the evening, rosary and a renewal of Baptismal vows will be led at the Grotto.
A week from tomorrow is the First Saturday of the month. At Fatima, Our Lady promised peace and the conversion of Russia if Catholics would unite in prayer—wholeheartedly.
The decision seems clear—prayer or ultimate war.
April 28, 1950
7

JffiMRB THEM AU!
Philip moppis u ■■ *^^^*^***
'•-■ns
In Just ONE MINUTE...you can prove to yourself PHILIP MORRIS is definitely less irritating—therefore MORE ENJOYABLE—than the brand you're now smoking “
r1
IK ri
/>-
■ ... light up a PHILIP MORRIS. THEN, just take a puff—DON'T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn't it?
And NOW . ..


jKl... light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
MAKE NO MISTAKE . . . Only ONE cigarette is recognized by eminent medical authorities as definitely less irritating. That cigarette is PHILIP MORRIS? _
L.. J
!ry
CIGARETTE HANGOVER i MORE smoking pleasure.
u,..
tl
r-«*» x.
V^PMOIMS
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
* VOLUME 91, NUMBER 23
APRIL 28, 1950
E. M. Morris, South Bend Executive, Donates Funds for Construction of Campus Guest Inn
By J. K. O’BRIEN
The generosity of Ernest M. Morris of South Bend will make possible the construction of the Notre Dame Inn, which is one of the four buildings to be erected on the campus in the next two years. At a recent banquet on campus of the Greater Notre Dame Campaign committee, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, revealed that the heretofore anonymous donor of the Inn is the well-known local business executive. In honor of the benefactor the new building will be known as the Morris Inn.
In announcing the identity of Mr. Morris, Father Cavanaugh said: “The Morris Inn, which our beloved trustee and alumnus, Mr. E. M. Morris, is making available to the University manifests, not only his extraordinary generosity to Notre Dame, but also his insight into the needs of the University. Parents of the students, alumni, and all visitors who would like to enjoy the campus atmosphere will be most welcome to the Morris Inn and shall ever hold Mr. Morris in deepest gratitude for the wonderful benefaction.”
As soon as preliminary plans are completed, construction of the Inn will begin at the main entrance of the campus, overlooking the University’s golf course. Cost of the 100-room building will amount to §1,000,000. Of this amount, §200,000 will be used to furnish the building.
The architectural design will conform to the Collegiate Gothic style prevalent on the campus, with ultramodern adaptations. The main wing of the Inn, with a lobby on the first floor and guest rooms on the second and third floors, will be flanked by two other wings. The first floor of one of these wings will contain a large dining room, several private dining rooms and kitchen facilities. The second and third floors will contain guest rooms. All three floors on the other wing will contain more of the 100 guest rooms.
April 28, 1950
Morris Inn will make available living accommodations and dining facilities to all persons having occasion to visit the University. Father Cavanaugh said that it would be especially convenient for members of learned societies attending conventions at Notre Dame, parents of students visiting their sons
Father Cavanaugh and Mr. E. M. Morris
and alumni returning to the campus.
Mr. Morris, donor of the Inn, is. a member of the Associated Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame. He formerly served as president and vice-president of the board. Mr. Morris was President of the Associates Investment Company from 1918 to 1946. He has been chairman of the Board of the company since 1946.
Born near Teegarden, Ind., Mr. Morris has been President of the Emmco Insurance Company since 1936, of the Emmco Casualty Insurance Company since 1939, and of the Associates Building Company since 1932. He was President of the First Bank and Trust Company of South Bend from 1931 to 1936, and has been Chairman of the
May Day Celebration On Campus Monday
Next Monday will bring with the first day of May the 1950 May Day Liturgical Celebration at Notre Dame, inaugurating the devotions for the month and praying for the conversion of Russia.
In the morning a solemn high Mass will be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church. The student body and the Moreau Seminary Choir will sing.
At 6:45 p.m. at the Grotto the Rosary will be recited by the students. This will be followed by a sermon by Rev. William Robinson, C.S.C., the renewal of Baptismal promises, the consecration to the Immaculate Heart of Mary, and Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. In the event of rain, the evening services will be held in Sacred Heart Church.
This campus observance of May Day coincides with activities of a similar nature being celebrated the world over by the members of the Catholic Church.
The campus ceremonies are originating from the student body as a cooperative activity of the Student Council, the Knights of Columbus, and YCS, the Liturgical Life, and the Third Order of St. Francis.
Board of the same bank since 1936.
Mr. Morris also is Chairman of the Board of the Durham Manufacturing Corporation, and is a director of the Clark Equipment Company. He was President of the National Association of Finance Companies from 1926 to 1930.
He formerly was President of the Board of Public Works in South Bend (1914-18), President of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce (1929-30), and Chairman of the St. Joseph Chapter of the American Red Cross (1926-31). Mr. Morris was President of the American Finance Conference in 19.44-45. He is now a director of the organization.
In the early 1900’s Mr. Morris tor-rowed §100 so that he could enter the College of Law at Notre Dame. In 1906 he graduated with his law degree and practiced for ten years before entering the financial business.
9
Mr. A. E. Albini
World Trade Confab Schedules Announced
The final schedule has been announced for the third annual World Trade Conference in the College of Commerce on May 11.
The roundtable discussions will be held in various classrooms in the College of Commerce from 10:30 until noon. After the luncheon in the faculty dining room, the panel discussion will be conducted in the auditorium of the Engineering Building from 2:30 to 4:30 and the reception will follow in the Rockne Memorial from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m.
As previously announced, Mr. Denis A. H. Wright will give the principal address of the day at the dinner at 6. The subject of his talk will be “The Dollar Gap — The Problem of Britain’s Foreign Trade.”
There has been one change in the list of speakers that was announced for the afternoon panel discussion. Mr. E. L. Davidson, Chief of the World Trade Division, Chicago Regional Office, U. S. Department of Commerce, has been called out of the country and will not be able to attend. His replacement has not yet been announced.
The rooms where the morning round-table discussions will be held are as follows: Traffic and Freight Forwarding—A. J. Kelley, leader, Rm. 204; Advertising and Sales Promotion— A. E. Albini, leader, Rm. 202; Finance and Credit—Clarence Ruethling, leader, Rm. 102; Export Management—Fitzhugh Granger, leader, Rm. 103.
Anyone interested in any of these discussions or in the afternoon panel discussion is invited to visit the proceedings during their free periods.
10
Mr. Denis A. H. Wright
Wightman Galleries Director Subject of 'Coronet' Article
Dr. Maurice H. Goldblatt, director of the Wightman Memorial Art Galleries at the University of Notre Dame, is the central figure of a feature story which appears in the May issue of Coronet magazine, now on sale.
Entiled “Sherlock Holmes of the Art Gallery,” the story relates a number of instances in which Dr. Goldblatt has used scientific tests to determine the authenticity of old paintings. At one time, Dr. Goldblatt’s painstaking scrutiny ended a worldwide controversy by proving that the Mona Lisa now on exhibit at the Louvre was actually the priceless original.
Goldblatt’s discoveries have been both popular and unpopular to his clients. Once he established the fact that a portrait purchased for $127.50 was actually a Trumbull painting worth nearly $100,000. But on another occasion, he demonstrated that a canvas just purchased for $30,000 was a worthless fake.
Dr. Goldblatt has been director of the Notre Dame Galleries since December, 1932. Before that he was associated with a number of art recovery projects here and abroad.
Christopher Film Shown By Audio-Visual Center
The Department of Audio-Visual Aids, under the direction of Orville R. Foster, resumed its noon showings of educational films for the faculty and the student body this past week by presenting You Can Change the World.
The film ran for three days in the Audio-Visual Center. You Can Change the World is the first Christopher mo
tion picture and starred Jack Benny, Eddie “Rochester” Anderson, Ann Blyth, Bing Crosby, Loretta Young, Paul Douglas, Irene Dunne, William Holden and Bob Hope.
The film was produced to (1) “alert” people in all walks of life to the fact that the great fundamental truth of belief in God is slowly but surely disappearing not only from the American scene but all over the world as well, and (2) to “spark” as many as possible to do something about it.
Safety to Be Topic Of Indiana Official
The University Concert and Lecture Series has announced a heavy program of activities for the coming week. On three successive evenings, Wednesday through Friday, Washington Hall will be the scene of Series presentations.
On Wednesday evening, May 3, the Series will present Mr. Charles F. Fleming, Secretary of State of Indiana, in a lecture on “Safety.” Mr. Fleming’s lecture will be concerned primarily with the promotion of safety on the highways, and methods of reducing the heavy annual toll of automobile accidents.	_
The following evening, the noted © American ballad recitalist, Earle Spicer, will make an appearance in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. Baritone Spicer will offer a carefully selected program of traditional English ballads, American ballads, folk songs, and tunes from Gilbert and Sullivan operettas.
On next Friday evening at 8 p.m. Prof. Mortimer J. Adler, of the University of Chicago, will return for a lecture on “Character and Intelligence.” G Professor- Adler, it may be recalled, lectured at Notre Dame twice last year, and is the author of such works as “Art and Prudence,” “What Man Has Made of Man,” “St. Thomas and the Gentiles,” and “How to Read a Book.”
Lawyers Hear Talks
Last week Mr. James E. Keating, Assistant U. S. District Attorney, of South Bend, Ind., concluded his series of three lectures before the students of the College of Law. Mr. Keating’s lectures were entitled “Your Role as a
Defense Attorney in a Criminal Case.”
Also in the College of Law last week Mr. Harvey G. Foster, Special Agent in Charge in Indiana for the Federal Bureau of Investigation gave a talk to students and faculty members in the Law Auditorium.
The Scholastic
I
When Is a Poet a Poet?
Most Poets Aren’t the Esoteric People Others Think —At Least Notre Dame’s John Frederick Nims Isn’t
Mark Van Doren says people have got poets all wrong. They picture poets as pale, lost men, with long soft hair, delicate tapering fingers, and an expression of shy pain. They believe poets exude beautiful expressions all day long, lack any interest in money, and are dreamy misfits in a cold, cruel world.
If Van Doren needs examples to prove the point that poets are people, he might use John Frederick Nims, associate professor of English at Notre Dame. For Mr. Nims, a widely published poet, is one of the many who prove that people have this poetry business all wrong.
Here, for example, is how his life thumbs its nose at the popular misconception: Although he had a 98 average as a high school freshman, his chief interest was tennis. The average got less impressive each year as the tennis got better and better, until, as a senior, the city champion told him that he had the best backhand in Chicago. As a ranking Junior in the midwest, he won the DePaul University championship in his freshman year with a 6-0, 6-1 victory in the finals. He has played only a few times since.
Trades Colt for a Niblick
A more recent interest was pistol shooting. But last fall he traded his Colt Woodsman and .38-Super for a set of matched woods and irons — this he considers the first symptom of senility.
But senility is still a good many years oft', for Nims is only 36. He was born in Muskegon, Mich., and attended grammar school there. He prepped at Leo high school, Chicago, and put in two years at DePaul before coming to Notre Dame where he received his Bachelor of Arts in 1937. He got his M.A. at Notre Dame and his Ph.D. in Comparative Literature at the University of Chicago for work in Greek, Latin, French and English tragedy.
Nims and his wife live in a ranchtype red brick house on the edge of Niles, Mich., a 15-minute drive from the Notre Dame campus. Mrs. Nims, the former Bonnie Larkin, graduated from St. Mary’s in 1943. She is, perhaps, the only girl in the history of the school who was class president three
April 28, 1950
By ROBERT BRANDT
Brickson
John Frederick Nims
out of four years. For a couple of years she was fashion copywriter for a national advertising agency in Chicago. In 1947 she gave up the Wrigley Building and the Pump Boom for her present edge-of-campus existence. Her only comment on the change: “Well, it’s di 5er ent.”
Dogs are an interest the Nims’ have in common. Last year they had two Irish setters named (for famous whiskeys) Bushmill and Jamieson. When the setters proved too long-range for the city, the Nims’ gave both to Father Leo L. Ward: one is now chasing rabbits on the Wards’ Otterbein, Ind., farm and the other is getting a good deal of attention at Moreau Seminary. Now the Nims have a dog that’s more likely to stay put: a handsome Hamlet-like collie named Apple. Strictly a two-man dog, Apple is gloomy with guests and shows an embarrassing amount of delight when they get up to go.
But to get back to John Nims as a poet. He does not know why or how he started to write; he says it started away back. Anyway, his work has appeared in Poetry, Partisan Review, Harper’s, Commonweal, America, Kenyon Review, Saturday Review of Literature, and Accent. He is intermit-
tently an editor of Poetry, a magazine of verse.
Work Wins Many Prizes
His work has won several prizes. Before he received his degree at Chicago, he won the Billings Prize for poetry. He has won three other poetry prizes: The Harriet Monroe Award in 1942; The Guarantor’s Prize in 1943, and The Levinson Prize in 1944.
Also in 1944 his works were included in Five Young American Poets, an anthology published by New Directions. It featured the work of Nims, -Tennessee Williams, Eve Merriam, Jean Garrigue, and Alejandro Carrion of Ecuador.
The Iron Pastoral, a book of poetry, followed in 1947.
Two months ago, Nims’ latest book of poems, A Fountain in Kentucky, was published by William Sloane Associates in New York.
Though it is still early for much critical comment, A Fountain in Kentucky has been receiving favorable attention.
Wrote I. L. Saloman in the Saturday Review of Literature: “The academicians will be outraged by the nimble Mr. Nims, who as an associate professor of English at Notre Dame, writes in a language that sounds magnificently new. A Catholic poet he is not pietis-tic; a student of the classics, he is not a prissy stuffed-shirt.”
The Chicago Sun has compared Nims to Carl Sandburg, the great Chicago poet. “Nims is a poet who sees the .complexity of modern urban-industrial civilization more clearly than the earlier Chicago poet ever did and expresses his vision in a more orderly, eloquent manner.”
Not all praise came from reviewers alone. For example, Father Donald Temple of Chicago said that he would base his Christmas sermon on “Christmas,” a poem included in A Fountain in Kentucky. And A. I. Hayakawa, author of the best-selling Language in Action, read some of the poems in a lecture on semantics.
A large selection of Nims’ work, with prose commentary, is in the recently published Mid-Century American Poets, edited by John Ciardi. The book was: (Continued on Page 30)
IL
Senior Ball Features Charlie Ventura Band
Climaxing a weekend of anxiety and frequent guessing by seniors, it was disclosed over station WND on a Name the Band program sponsored by the Senior Class that Charlie Ventura and his new, 16-piece orchestra will supply the music for the Senior Ball.
Approximately 30 seniors were queried on tape-recording by announcer Joe Shelly, and although seven guessed correctly, only the first one, Ron Myrter of Dillon Hall and a saxophonist himself, was awarded the first prize—a free bid.
Bands mentioned ranged from Stan Kenton (along with a hope it wasn’t) to Spike Jones, and the Caf, where the interviews were held, was a noisy, crowded studio, made so by seniors trying to learn the “inside dope.”
The tape-recording was played later on the Senior program (WND) at 8:30 Monday night. Also on the show were recent records by Charlie Ventura, called by the music craft’s magazines, Down Beat and Metronome, America’s Number One Saxophonist. Formerly leader of a top-notch small combo, Ventura now has switched to slow, danceable music.
Co-chairmen Jack Thornton and Verne
Brickson
Senior Ball committee puts on coats and ties for posterity before getting down to business. First row (l-r): R. Fitzgibbons, V. Kelley, J. Thornton, L. Louro and W. Shanahan; second row (l-r): E. Foley, R. Brodeur, W. Eggers, R. Rohling, D. Romano; third row (l-r): J. Whalen, C. Mouch, J. Ferry, J. Donnelly and R. Porter; fourth row (l-r): R. Willenbrink and J. Herrington. The Ball is set' for May 12.
Kelley expressed happiness over the outcome of the stunt, plus confidence in the outcome of the Ball, to be held May 12 in the Navy Drill Hall. While promotional plans were being run and being devised, the rest of the committee (some 20 seniors) was quietly engaged in completing the enormous proposals gathered for the super weekend.
Ticket chairman Bill Shanahan has promised that sales will open next Monday, with headquarters in the lobby of the Dining Hall. However, bids will also be sold by representatives in the Senior halls. At the time of bid purchase, rooms may be reserved in South Bend hotels for* Ball dates. Favors, which received much favorable comment last year, will again be exquisite jewel boxes with the Notre Dame emblem on top.
Andy McCormack, chairman of the Saturday committee, expects an informal buffet-dance to be held after the Old Timers game, with probable times, 5-7 p.m. A buffet dinner will be served and a six-piece combo will provide music for what dancing the seniors may want.
Decoration chairmen, Ed Denning and Vin DeCrane (Architectural Design), and Bob Rohling and John Ferry (Production), are working on the huge job which the.Drill Hall presents. They contend that the Hall will be turned into a beautiful ballroom that night, however.
Theme for the dance is “Dancing in the Dark,” and posters put up this week advertise it as “the night of the year.” Times of the Ball are 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. with 3 a.m. residence. Car permissions will be granted for the weekend.
University Press Publishes Writings of Albert F. Zahm
A detailed new account of pioneer aviation in the United States was made available this week with the publication of The Aeronautical Papers of Albert F. Zahm by the University of Notre Dame Press.
Composed of articles written by Dr. Zahm between 1885 and 1945, the two-volume, 1000-page journal is expected to be an important contribution to the history of early aeronautical discoveries. Its assembly and publication were timed by the University to coincide with the nationwide celebration of a half century of air progress.
Dr. Zahm, who conducted his first experiments at the University of Notre Dame well before the turn of the century, is considered one of the outstanding living authorities on the development of powered aircraft. As early as 1889, he made tests at Notre Dame on fullscale gliders, airplane motors, rocket propulsion for airplanes, and airscrews. Dr. Zahm retired in 1946 after sixteen years as Chief of the Aeronautical Division of the Library of Congress.
While still a Notre Dame student, Dr. Zahm invented the first wind tunnel. His early papers on the significance of wind currents were later used by the Wright Brothers in their tests and flights.
Additional evidence in the old controversy over whether credit should go to Samuel Langley oi' the Wright Brothers for developing the first airplane is also included in the collected papers. Dr. Zahm contends that the major honor for the discovery should go to Langley.
The new Collection of Zahm’s papers will sell for §7.50 a volume, §15.00 for the set. It is one of the first books to be published by the University of Notre Dame Press.
Student Council Suspends $ Activities ot Chicago Club
The Student Council has announced that it has suspended all operations of the Chicago Club of Notre Dame because it has no constitution on file for that organization. Until a constitution has been ratified by the temporarily defunct Club, and approved and filed by the Student Council, the Club will not be allowed to carry on elections or other operations. /
The Scholastic 0^
12
FROM THE BALCONY RAIL
'The Gentleman From Athens' Production Excellent; Play, Itself, Is Poor Selection
By KEN THOREN
The University Theatre ended its second season of rejuvenation last Wednesday night with the final performance of Emmett Lavery’s The Gentleman From Athens. The cast, the direction, the lighting, the entire production — everything was fine. The only fault with the presentation was the play itself.
An adult story of politics, it had a thin coating of comedy that tried in vain to hide its didacticism. Stephen Socrates Christopher, heretofore a shady character who preferred his fists over his brains, gets elected to Congress. The plot is about his efforts to go straight, but he soon finds out “it takes practice to be an honest man.” The author’s main thesis was a hopeful plea for peace; a plea for world union. As fine as that might be it wasn’t an ingredient for good entertainment. Too much moralizing, too much instructing added up to disappointing theater fare.
Although handicapped by Lavery’s play, the cast did admirably well. Lou Garippo was excellent in the title role. It was a long, exacting part but he projected every nuance of the transforming personality. At the exposition he was tough, unpolished, practically an uncouth thug. His sincere desire to go straight and really do something for his people was felt. Garippo was in con
trol of Sock every inch of the way.
Unusually strong for University Theatre productions were the women. Virginia White as the aunt, Ann. Gullie as the gushie Congresswoman, and Phoebe Stapleton as the pessimistic leading lady handled their roles convincingly.
Doug Robertson, as Congressman Hamell, was outstanding in the men’s supporting cast. His talents should be put to featured use next year. Larry McDermott, Alfred Wood, John Schneller, Mickey Carroll and the rest of the cast were adequate.
Director Francis J. Hanley kept the play moving, which was no small task because it was a basically static drama. Ceaseless, and at many times, very dull talk caused the play to drag. The last act, in particular, fell to pieces in a blaze of speech-making. All someone needed to do was to wave a flag and the. evening would have been complete.
In summing up, The Gentleman From Athens was undoubtedly one of the best, if not the best production the University Theatre has presented during the past two years. But, it was also one of the worst selections. Not until plays are chosen to fit more closely the actors’ potentialities will the group hit its mark. As was said, the cast was fine,
Murphy
Socrates Christopher and Washington
but how far superior it could have been with parts more within its reach. That doesn’t mean, however, that the group should pick only light, frothy plays of nonsense.
But it should choose something more allied to the actors’ talents and also something less didactic. Lessons and morals can be garnered from classrooms. When an "ND student goes to see a University Theatre production he goes to be entertained; not to be preached to. Not always, of course, but that is the case generally.
The campus dramatic group has come a long way in regard to acting and productional assets. They are good. A better selection of plays would improve them that much more.
Murphy-
Four members of Congress do some quick planning to stop their fellow-member, Christopher, who tries to rush through a bill.
•	13
Murphy
'The Gentleman From Athens' tells two Virginia M'ams, a Red buddy, and another Congressman how a good world should work.
April 28, 1950
Brickson
Jim Garvin, Ray Yanics and Frank Regan are on newly-formed Charity Committee,
Council Establishes Campus Charity Fund
Last Monday the Student Council established the Campus Charity Chest, a fund to be managed by a committee of three Council members appointed by the Student Council president and regulated by rules attached to the council by-laws.
The purpose of the Charity Chest is to coordinate all donations to charitable institutions by the student body. All donations and all requests for donations will be handled through the Chest committee. The Council will act on the committee’s recommendations.
All requests for donations will be investigated as to worthiness, benefit from contributions, needs involved and funds available, and the charity’s relation to Catholicism. All requests must be formally submitted to the committee giving facts as to the amount of contribution, purpose of contribution, and the nature of organization requesting it.
Already the Campus Charity Chest contains §5,000 which was raised from this year’s Nardi Gras Carnival. The new committee will handle next year’s Carnival, the normal fund-raising activity of the student body.
Ray Yanics, president of the Junior class, was appointed chairman of the Chest committee. Jim Garvin, Sophomore class prexy, and Frank Regan, Student Council member, will assist Yanics.
14
Legal Institute Meets Here Friday, Saturday
Next Friday and Saturday the College of Law and the Indiana State Bar Association will sponsor the second annual Legal Institute. The gathering will feature leaders in various fields of law giving addresses and conducting round table discussions.
Senator Herbert R. O’Conor of Maryland will speak at a banquet honoring the departing law school seniors at 6:30 p.m. on Friday evening, in the Oliver Hotel. James Wetzel is Student Chairman of the Institute. Program Chairman is Donald Buseck and Bill Huston has charge of decorations. Henry Shine will be Toastmaster for the banquet; Robert Boyd will be Junior Speaker and Thomas Nelson, Senior Speaker.
At 9:30 a.m., the group will register. Mr. Carl Gray of Petersburg, Ind., will lead a discussion on “Defense of a Negligence Action” at 10 o’clock. “Public Relations and the Bar” will be the topic for the 2 o’clock discussion, led by Mr. Richard P. Tinkham of Hammond. A discussion will take place at 2:30 p.m. on “Modern Title Examination” under the direction of Mr. Robert D. Coleman of Indianapolis.
“Income Taxes and Corporate Dissolutions” will be led by Professor Roger P. Peters of the law faculty at 9:30 a.m. on Saturday. Mr. Turner L. Smith, Assistant Attorney General of
Frosh Dance-Goers Await Gala Weekend
Those who attend the Freshman Dance on May 5 at the Palais Royale can look forward to a busy week end. According to the dance committee, a football scrimmage and a Saturday night dance are also planned.
Additional entertainment at the Friday night semi-formal, “Some Enchanted Evening,” will be provided by a quartet of Notre Dame Glee Clubbers and soloist Roy J. O’Neill. While Chuck Granger and his orchestra and vocalist Peggy Cummins take a breather, O’Neill and the quartet will sing several popular tunes and some selections from the hit musical South Pacific.
By permission of Athletic Director1 Ed Krause, the Frosh and their dates may attend a varsity scrimmage beginning at 2 o’clock Saturday afternoon.
Then that evening, the Student Council will sponsor another of its dances at the Palais Royale. Freshmen who attend their dance will be granted an extra “midnight.” They have 2 o’clock permission for the semi-formal affair and must be in by 12:30 a.m. after the informal dance Saturday.
On Sunday morning, a special section will be reserved for the Frosh and their dates at the 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart church. As usual, the Freshmen will spend much of their spare time guiding the girls on a tour of the campus.
Permission has been granted not only for ears but for a car-rental service as well. This will be handled by Honest Jim Blackburn, who may be reached at 423 Farley.
Other services include hotel accommodations for out-of-town girls and a date bureau for “unattached” fellows. Today is the last opportunity to reserve a room at reduced rates in the LaSalle or Hoffmann Hotels. Bill Dargan of Farley is the man to see. Zahm’s Jerry Kelley, date bureau manager, boasts of “a good supply to choose from.”
Bids for the Freshman Dance, priced at §3, can be purchased at the dining Hall or from various hall representatives.
“Some Enchanted Evening,” with its tropical setting, will begin at 9 p.m. and become a pleasant memory four hours later. To ease Frosh financial worries, corsages will be taboo.


the United States and Chief of the Justice Department’s Criminal Tax Section, will lead a discussion on “Criminal Evasion of Income Tax Law.”
The Scholastic
J ■
Working for Knowledge
Local Army of 755 Hustlers Helps Pay Way By Working at Multitude of University Jobs
“The Lord helps them who help themselves” is an old, old saying and, if it be true, then Notre Dame’s army of student employees are destined for great things. These 755 hustlers, scattered across the campus from the Golf Shop to the Biology Building, are not only giving themselves a healthy hoist through school, but they are also performing some of the not-so-routine chores that keep things running smoothly about the Dome.
f 1
Headquarters for this spirited army is the Department of Student Employment, whose name printed across the bottom of an employment credit slip has kept many an Irishman’s college career from falling into receivership. The top brass of the Department is Mrs. Glenn Van Scoick.
Came in 1938
Born in a windblown corner of Illinois, Mrs. Van Scoick was graduated from Manchester College in Indiana, married shortly thereafter and widowed 12 years later. She came to Notre Dame in 1938 as secretary to Mr. Frank Lloyd, then Comptroller and Business Manager of the University, in whose office the student employment work was handled.
Capable, friendly and sympathetic, “Mrs. Van” easily drifted into student work. At this time the Department was fruitfully .enjoying the benefits of the National Youth Association, a New Deal educational aid program that had its origin in the depression. This organization paid the checks of 600 or so job holders who ordinarily would have been on Student Employment payrolls.
In 1942 things began to happen thick and fast. Mr. E. J. Murray, then head of Student Employment and now Director' of Student Accounts, went off to war and Mrs. Van Scoick was duly promoted to his campus job. At the same time the U. S. Navy captured Notre Dame “for the duration” and Congress decided to cut off all NYA appropriations. Since the boys in blue were not allowed to hold these jobs, “Mrs. Van” had to practically beg some of the few remaining civilian students to take two or three jobs.
Supply Equal to Demand
But supply has finally caught up with demand and the situation in more recent years has presented the Department with the increasingly difficult problem of how to allocate the rela-
(Continued on Page 31)
Don Lansing is on 55-man Library staff
Ornithologist Al Gavin classifies birds
Foundation workers Beargie and Soisson search through Alumni office cabinets.
15
Concert Band Ends 3500-Mile Western Tour, Twelve-Day Trek Includes 16 Performances
By WALT COLLINS
At 3:45 p.m. on the afternoon of April 20, two chartered buses pulled into Notre Dame and stopped. The doors opened and 53 tired looking “good will ambassadors” filed out, carrying suitcases and packages, and scattered in the direction of the various residence halls.
These men were the 53 members of the Notre Dame Concert Band and they had just completed a 3,500-mile tour of the West which consumed 12 days, a good deal of it in those buses. It also included 16 concerts in 10 cities, a stay at the Broadmoor Hotel in Colorado Springs — America’s “number one vacation spot” — a “chuck wagon” supper of buffalo meat and the witnessing of . Indian dancing in Wyoming, a lot of fun, a lot of laughs and a lot of work.
The Concert Band left the campus after lunch on Easter Sunday. They played their first concert that evening at Sterling, Ill., in the middle of an ice storm which caused a power failure in the auditorium in which they were performing. Undaunted by nature’s pranks, the Band played right through the failure.
The following day, Monday, the Band played a concert in Effingham, Ill., for the Effingham Hospital Fund. They left that city after the concert and rode all night to their next destination, which was Kansas City, Kan. Here they performed twice, in the afternoon at the Kansas City High school, and in the evening at the huge new Municipal Music Hall.
Command Performance
The next day, Wednesday, the rested entourage climbed aboard the buses and headed for Fort Riley, Kan., where they put on a command performance at the 1-equest of the General at that post. Thursday saw them in McPherson, Kan., for two concerts. A reception party at the church was held after the evening concert and the band members spent the night in the homes of hosiptable McPherson families.
Friday meant more bus riding and Norton, Kan., where two concerts were presented at the high school. It was here that the Band drew their most widely scattered crowd, some people driving as much as 130 miles to hear their performance. Here again, they spent the • night in the homes of generous Norton townspeople.
Heading out of the Sunflower State
into the domain pf the Cornhuskers, the Band presented two concerts on Saturday in North Platte, Neb. In their “spare time” they went through the home of Buffalo Bill Cody, legendary western hero. Staying in North Platte homes Saturday night, the Band went
Knights Hold Annual Spring Dance Tonight
Featuring the music of Gene Hull and his orchestra, the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus will present their 1950 Spring Formal this evening, from nine p.m. until one a.m. The site of the Knights’ biggest spring affair will be the Erskine Park Country Club.
Miss Ella Benitz
Chairman Jim Slattery expects an attendance of 100 couples.
Due to space limitations, bids have been extended to Knights only. Transportation has been provided and busses will leave the circle for St. Mary’s at 8:15 p.m. and again at 8:30. Slattery was assisted by Tom Carroll, arrangements chairman, and Tom Feeny, bids chairman.
During the evening Miss Ella Benitz, Chairman Slattery’s date, will be crowned queen of the affair. She is a Sophomore at St. Mary’s and hails from Bayshore, N. Y. Two o’clock permissions have been secured for’ all Notre Dame dance-goers.
4
to Mass in that city Sunday morning J and left for Cheyenne, Wyo. Arriving the same day, they presented two concerts in the Cheyenne high school and spent the night in the Plains hotel.
It was in Cheyenne that the band members were treated to a “chuck wagon” supper, the main dish being barbecued buffalo meat. After this, the Boy Scouts of America organization of Cheyenne put on a show for the NDers which included professional square dancing and dances by “in the flesh” Indians. It was also in Cheyenne that a number of the musicians came into possession of western style ten-gallon hats, which were extremely popular during the rest of the tour.
Only Day Off
Monday was the only day off for the “ambassadors,” and they took a leisure- $ ly trip to Colorado Springs, lunching in Denver on the way. They picked up a police escort in Colorado Springs and roared into the Broadmoor hotel in public official style. The rest of the day was theirs to do with as they pleased and activities were centered at the hotel which is situated in the foothills of the Rocky Mountains and is billed as “America’s number one resort.”
Tuesday morning was spent on a tour through the Seven Falls area, in-eluding a stop at the world-famed Garden of the Gods. This tour was conducted, unfortunately, in a heavy snow storm. After lunch the buses pulled out of the Broadmoor and it was back to work for the musicians. Two concerts in Colorado Springs were given and a hard two-day grind began with a 600-mile overnight trip to Topeka, Kan.
Two concerts in Topeka on Wednesday finished the scheduled program for _ the travelers. Here a professional re- _ corder made discs of the performances and promised that these would soon be played over the local radio station (in Topeka) in place of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. The men reboarded the buses immediately after the second concert and made a 16-hour trip of over’ 700 miles which landed them back on the Notre Dame campus at 3:15 Thursday afternoon. They were a tired crew as they sought their halls and sacks, but they were Notre Dame’s “good will ambassadors.”
Commenting on the success of the trip, Band President Bill MacMillan said that the concerts were well received and the audiences impressed by the quality of the performances. Said MacMillan: “Most of the people came to see us with interest and expectation. Most of them went away with a good impression of the cultural side of Notre Dame.”
The Scholastic
16
Junior Class proxy Ray Yanics crowns queen Miss Kathleen Gill while Mike Jacobs and co-queen Miss Joe Anne Cummings watch.
Some 300 Juniors and Their Dates Relax
After Their Activity-Packed Prom Weekend
April 28, 1950
Last Friday, Saturday and Sunday was the big weekend of the year for around 300 Juniors and their dates. Beginning with the Prom on Friday night, activities didn’t stop until late Sunday, when the out-of-town dates had been put on trains.
The Prom itself was highlighted by -the music of Jimmy Palmer, but the decorations were probably the best thing about the dance. Using an “April Showers” theme, the Juniors transformed the Palais Royale as much as possible. The girls received unusual though attractive favors: gold collapsible, cigarette holders.
Dance co-chairmen Mike Jacobs and Tom Meyer had a lot of other things on tap to complete the memorable weekend. Saturday afternoon, those couples who didn’t have picnics or something else planned saw Frank Leahy and the football team in action in the Notre Dame stadium.
That night, the Prom-goers ie:urncd to the Palais Royale for the Student Council’s Monogram informal. The “April Showers” theme was a little more correct this time. Just as many couples were leaving, a heavy April shower came down. The revelers’ spirit wasn’t dampened, though, and they scurried off to places like Clarke’s for a last minute bite to eat.
High Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday ended the planned activities, but most Juniors and their dates found time that afternoon to do more. By Sunday night most of the girls had gone, and the students were back in their rooms, trying to figure out how they were going to catch up on their sleep and manage to get that term paper in by Tuesday. It was a difficult problem, but most of them believed that the weekend was worth it.
For a complete picture coverage of all the weekend’s activities, see this and the
next two pages.	Soph Bill Doyle and Miss Mary Struett
17
Al Laporte tells Miss Katherine Connolly 'what's up' in intra-squad football game
Evidently enjoying themselves are (l-r) Bill Gallagher, Miss Katherine Nancy Hausmann, Miss Mika Donavan and Dick Hausmann. Nearly 300 couples attended Prom.
That's the Golden Dome—Dave O'Leary and Ted Twardzik poin t out sights to Miss Barbara Bendow and Miss Joyce Tubble.
Talent Show Ready For Sunday Showing
After six weeks of hard work and many setbacks, the campus Amateur Talent Show, sponsored by the Sophomore class, is ready and will be presented Sunday night at 8:15 in 'Washington Hall.
Under the direction of co-chairmen Bill Toohey and Gene Hull, many hours have been spent putting together a tight-knit, compact show, which is expected to rival the Horace Heidt show in entertainment value. Assisting the chairmen in the production are Hank McCormick and Jack Moran, arrangements; and George Sweet and Jack Powers, publicity.
The winner will be decided from seven finalists, chosen from twenty-five contestants, by the audience, by means of an electric applause meter. Judges Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Mr. William Eisen, head of the Department of Speech, and Russell Skall will read the electric applause meter and determine the winner. Prizes totaling $100, including a $50 first prize, will be awarded.
Gene Hull and Bill Toohey will be joint masters of ceremonies, and Gene Hull’s band will play a few numbers and also the background music for the contestants.
Admission will be free and on a first come, first served basis, with no tickets and no reserved seats. Doors will be opened at 7:30. Says Gene Hull, “There is plenty of talent on this show, and it promises to be one of the entertainment highlights of the year.”
The contestants:
The Trumpeteers, a trumnet trio, composed of Charles McCabe, Bill Graham, and Bill Arzbaecher, who are featured performers with the Notre Dame Concert Band, will play The Trumpeteers by Agositini.
Bill Murphy, a powerful baritone soloist with the Notre Dame Glee Club, will sing Jonah in the Whale.
Bud Powers, a Junior commerce student. whose tap dancing has been the highlight of many USO shows and benefit performances throughout the nation.
Dick Casper, one of the finest pianists to come to the music school here. He is only a Freshman and has already won acclaim for his works both as composer and pianist. Dick will be heard in the Rondo Capricioso by Mendelssohn.
Chuck Perrin, popular emcee, imitator, and entertainer' who will draw a thousand laughs.
Joe Desautels, a Freshman with tremendous talent as a tenor. Joe has been singing with dance bands for six
years. He will sing Through a Long and Sleepless Night.
Bill MacMillan, an outstanding marimba soloist with the ND Concert Band for the past three years, and also has played on the Horace Heidt show. He will play the ever-popular Fiddle Fuddle by Anderson.—Bob Finney
Lectures to Review Industrial Relations
On next Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Engineering auditorium, the first of three forums on Industrial- Relations will begin, as part of the University Lecture Program, under auspices of the Department of Economics, featuring
Mr. Justin McAghon
speakers representative of government, labor and management.
First speaker is Mr. Justin McAghon, Federal Commissioner of Mediation and Conciliation, of Washington, D. C., and Roselle, N. J. His talk on “Christian Ethics and Industrial Relations” will be followed by a question and comment period in which everyone is invited to participate.
Mr. McAghon has had long experience as an employer in the construction field and as an employer association representative prior to becoming a mediator. He has served as president of the National Catholic Evidence Committee and as a member of the original faculty of the Crown Heights Labor School. Last March he received the second annual award of the Rerum Novarum medal, presented by St. Peter’s College in recognition of his forty years’ efforts for improving industrial relations.
Representing labor, on Tuesday, May
9, will be Mr. Nicholas M. DiPietro. This talk will also be in Engineering auditorium, at 8 p.m. For several years Mr. DiPietro was executive secretary of the Chicago Printing Trade Unions. During World War II he acted as a member of the labor panel of the National War Labor Board, Chicago area. Since 1949 he has been employee representative of the Illinois Industrial Commission.
Representing management in the forum series will be Mr. William E. Brown, attorney for Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Corporation, Milwaukee, Wis. Brown, who will speak at 8 p.m. Thursday, May 11, was graduated from Notre Dame in 1928 and for twenty years has been a member of Allis-Chalmers legal staff. In addition, he has been active in the affairs of the Catholic Conference on Industrial Problems, the Catholic Economic Association, the American Management Association, and in Catholic Action and Noire Dame alumni activities.
Student Council OK's Dancers, Ball, Phone
A group of Hungarian students will visit the campus and present a program of native folk dances and folk songs. The Student Council, in approving the pro-duction, expressed the hope that such intermingling of students would bring about greater understanding between peoples of different lands.
The Senior Ball’s budget, providing for $3,205 in expenditures on Friday night, was approved by the Council. A motion was also passed calling for the body to receive 75% of any profits over-$250.
In addition to calling for a poll of the student body’s preferences, a tentative motion to make the student trip to New Orleans received the Council’s okay.
The InterAmerican Affairs and La Raza Clubs will send.two representatives each to a meeting at Aquinas College, a request for funds having been granted. The convocation will feature panel discussions and speeches on nationalization in Argentina, Brazil, and Chile.
May 6 is to be the date of the next Student Council dance. Held in coopera -	W
tion with the Sophomore class, it will probably be of the “barn” variety with dress optional.
In consideration of the organization’s many services, an appropriation was tendered the Blue Circle for awards to Senior members graduating in June.
Better relations with the student body are aimed at by the installation of a phone in the Council office, just approved.
20
The Scholastic
9
Scholastic Sports
Irish Nine to Battle Wildcats Tuesday
Kinville
Blockers pave the way on an end sweep as ND Varsity bears down in preparation for their big meeting with power-laden Old-Timers. Game is set for Saturday, May 13.
Weekend Guests See Football Team Workout; Defensive Team Shines in Rough Scrimmage
By JACK VARLEY
Frank Leahy showed off his 1950 grid machine to some 2000 Notre Dame students and their guests last Saturday in the Notre Dame Stadium, but this team was a far cry from the sleek outfit which quit the brick oval last November with a 32-0 win over Southern Cal. The first eleven had posses-V sion of the ball throughout the two-hour scrimmage with the usual procedure of starting from the fifty-yard line after each touchdown or whenever the offensive team failed to make a first down. Although fullback Jack Landry scored five times, the blue-shirted defense played the bettei- game. The ball carriers churned their way through the line time aftei- time only to be stopped by the hard charging line backers and secondary. Only one real
long run was seen all afternoon — that by Del Gander for 60' yards. This jaunt by Gander was the only time that the downfield blocking resembled that of Leahy-coached teams. More times than not the secondary was left standing to plague the ball carrier. Many times the defensive linemen broke through to spill Quarterback John Mazur, taking the place of the absent Bob Williams. Twice End Bill Benson broke through to block point after touchdown tries. However, Leahy’s defensive lads were weak in the pass defense department, especially after Dave Flood was injured. Mazui- threw several good passes and most of them got to theii- intended receiver.
Another thing for Leahy to worry (Continued on Page 24)
Gridiron Stars Lead Northwestern Squad
By JACK ECONOMOU
The Notre Dame nine, having earned an even split in its first four games, will engage Freddie Lindstrom’s all veteran Northwestern diamondeers next Tuesday afternoon on Cartier Field. Fresh from a successful southern jaunt during which they copped six consecutive games and compiled 'a lusty .347 batting average, the Wildcats will send fifteen monogram men against the Irish.
A quartet which stars on the gridiron as well as on the diamond, will lead the Evanston offense. Don Burson, a 24-year-old senior, combines both fielding and hitting ability to rank as one of the Western Conference’s top shortstops. Two years ago he led all other shortstops in batting. PeeWee Day and Fatso Day, identical twins from Mason City, Iowa, will patrol left field and light field respectively. Sandwiched between these two is Ray Wietecha, an East Chicago lad who completes the outfield.
Wilbur Tucker, a 21-year-old junior, will team with Burson to form the keystone combination. A 6’5” basketball center w-ho faced the Irish eagers twice this past season is firmly entrenched at first base. Don Blasius is a 20-year-old junior from Forest Park, Ill., who was the regular first sacker last year. Lloyd Kawkinson, who led the team in batting on the southern trip, will cover third base. Besides the’ ordinary hitting power to be found in the outfield, Coach Lindstrom can depend on steady safeties from his hit-conscious infield.
An overabundance of catching material has presented a problem to the Purple coaching staff. Henry Schill-moeller, a junior, is the leading candidate but his supremacy is threatened by Vera Kachoks, a veteran of two seasons, and by a pair of sophomore sensations in Joe Axelson and Larry Jonesi.
The starting pitcher will be chosen from a quartet of first-rate hurlers. Buster Carlson, a right-handed sophomore from Chicago’s Amundsen High, is at present the ace of the staff. The
• April 28, 1950
21
parade of portsiders is headed by Jack Ogle from Washington, D. C. Behind these two stand Doug Bielenberg and Allen Broff, both righties, and relief hurlers Jerry Olsen and John Witous, a pair of rookie lefthanders.
Last year the Wildcats shared the Big Ten cellar with Wisconsin, each team copping but three conference victories against nine setbacks. The 15 returnees plus the fact that the coaching staff has been somewhat stabilized indicates a better season for the North Shore school. Two weeks after visiting South Bend, Northwestern will play host to the Irish at Evanston.
On Tuesday, May 2, the Klinemen will visit Lafayette to engage Purdue’s Boilermakers. The downstaters will field 12 monogram winners and six other sophomores who earned freshman numerals. Of special interest to local fans will be the performance of Robert Whitmer, a 23-year-old senior, who went to Purdue via South Bend Riley. The veteran rightie is one of two returning regulars. Norbert Adams, the gridiron star, -will flash his speedy 195-pound frame while patrolling left field. Occasionally, he is given a pitching assignment.
After the Northwestern meeting the Klinemen will journey to the upper midwest for a five-game, two-week trip. After a visit to Chicago University on May 6, the Martin-led South Benders meet the Wisconsin Badgers on May 10 and 11 in Madison, and the Minnesota Gophers on the two following days. Starting with Tuesday’s game at Purdue, the local nine will play 14 consecutive games with Big Ten schools during the month of May.
ND NROTC Rifle Team Second to Fordham, Tops Duquesne Seeking Defense Trophy
After completing a highly successful season, the Notre Dame NROTC rifle team clashed with Fordham and Duquesne in an attempt to bring the first William Randolph Hearst Department of Defense trophy back to school with them. The Rams from New York prevailed, however, and the Irish had to settle for a comfortable second place spot over the Dukes. This is the first Department of Defense trophy offered •to the various ROTC units. Unification of the armed forces brought the award about.
The Irish sharpshooters earned the right to compete in the championships when they beat all comers in the recent naval division shooting spree. Fordham’s squad topped all the air force teams in the country, while Dusquene was sensational in taking the army championship. Their 971 in the division-als topped Fordham’s winning mark in the finals by 20 points. Notre Dame scored an excellent 939 to 928 for the Dukes.
The star of the meet, as far as individual honors were concerned, was Donal Murphy of Notre Dame. Murphy started “slowly” with 46 for 50 prone, improved to 48 for 50 sitting, and was unbeatable kneeling and standing, scoring 50 for 50 in each. He was the only man competing to get a perfect score more than once.
The university’s “civilian” rifle team has also had a very successful season. As they await the next meet on May
6, they can look back on a very commendable 18-1 record. The one setback, at the hands of Dayton University, was avenged at a later tete-a-tete between the two teams.
Captain Daly, who coaches both _ teams, believes Notre Dame will have 'W another outstanding squad next year. Only one man out of fifteen will be lost from this year’s competent aggregation and he hopes that Francis “Bugs” Beumel will take up that slack. “Bugs” weilded a mighty weapon on last year’s championship squad, but an overdose of classes in this, his sophomore year, has limited his shooting. The Captain said the team will be sent to National Collegiate matches more often, and invites all interested to try out for next year’s squad, which he hopes to be the best ever.—Joe Straub
Interhall Baseball, Softball Leagues Open Brief Season
For the past few weeks, Mr. Frank Maxwell and Mr. Ernie Szekely have been working to make up a satisfactory ; set of rules and schedule for the forthcoming softball and baseball leagues. The leagues are sponsored annually by the Department of Interhall Athletics, for the benefit of the students not engaged in varsity baseball or league softball. Both leagues are now finally under way. However, due to the shortness of time left in the school year and the inclement weather so far, the
Kinville
Defense charges up to stop white-shirted ball carrier during last Saturday's intra-squad scrimmage held in Notre Dame stadium.
The Scholastic &
W leagues will be forced to rush the games.
The baseball league will be composed of eight teams, all of which represent residence halls.
In the softball league, there are eleven teams entered by campus clubs and sixteen teams from the residence halls. A final play-off game between the first place teams in the hall divi-A sion and the club division will deter-mine the campus champion.
At the time this issue went to press the schedules were not as yet drawn up, but the games in both leagues were slated to start definitely this week and should be by now well under way. All games will be played on the fields south of the tennis courts starting at 3:30 p.m.—Bill Reidy
Q Whole Tole Bucket Prize To Go to Loser in Fleet Race
This weekend, Notre Dame’s sailing team heads into its annual dual meet with Michigan at Ann Arbor with the Whole Tole Bucket at stake. The traditional meet with the Maize and Blue will be the third outing of the Spring season for the Irish skippers. Last weekend the sailors placed third in an eight team invitational tournament at — Ann Arbor, finishing behind Michigan W and Depuaw. On April 1, the Irish placed second in the annual Indiana state meet which was captured by Purdue.
This week’s dual meet with the Wolverines continues one of the foremost sailing rivalries in the Midwest. The unique feature of this race is that the loser wins the prize, the Whole Tole Bucket, and tradition has it that at the next meet, the loser must return the bucket filled with beer, to the victor and must continue to do so as long as they continue to lose. Last year Michigan won and the Irish must do the honors at this weekend’s meet.
In coming weeks the Irish will compete against other Midwestern squads in the regional elimination meet to be held at Chicago, with Northwestern as the host team. The squads which win, place, and show in this meet usually go on to compete for the All-Midwest A trophy at Ohio State. This year, however, the title race will be held at Sandusky instead of at Columbus.
This year’s squad is the same as last Fall’s, with the exception of the Head Commodore, and consequently figures to be stronger. The boys have high hopes of going on to the finals at Sandusky after the Chicago meet.
Skippers of the Irish navy are Bob Edmondson, Jim Amy, Bill Jonak and Joe Schrank.—Rudy Unger
• April 28, 1950
Brickson
1950 ND tennis team, kneeling (i-r): Heone, McDonald, O'Connor, Massicotte, Overholser. Standing: Mgr. Hafner, Tuite, David, Biitter, Hennessy, Coach Langford.
Tennis Team Blasts 9-1 Victory Over Wayne, Sweeps Singles Matches in Season's Opener
By JOE MORESCO
Last Saturday, in their initial match of the 1950 season, the Notre Dame tennis team defeated Wayne University by a 9-1 total. With Captain Gene Biittner garnering the first point after 35 minutes of play, he and his teammates swept on to the decisive victory.
The Irish racqueteers did a very workmanlike job in winning all the singles matches. Bob David defeated Leroy Graves 6-4, 6-2. Captain Biitt-nei- beat Bartos of Wayne, 6-2, 6-0. Matt Tuite, after a tedious first set, defeated Jim Sayres by 10-12, 8-6, 6-0. Other singles victories were achieved by Tom Overholser, Jim Hennessy, Herb Hoene and Pat Tonti.
It was in the doubles that the Detroiters scored their sole victory of the afternoon, when Mikus and Messink defeated Bill O’Connor and John Massicotte by scores of 6-4, 6-3. The Irish went on though to take the remaining doubles matches. Bob David and Matt Tuite teamed up to win in three sets, 6-2, 3-6, 6-3; Gene Biittner and Jim Hennessy also joined forces to score a 6-1, 6-3 victory.
Next Saturday, at 1:30 p.m. Coach Langford will lead his Irish charges
against a formidable Wisconsin team. Although Wisconsin has never beaten Notre Dame on the courts, they have always provided stiff opposition. In a tremendous match last year, our men upset a fine Badger team by a 5-4 count. However, this year, the Irish, with only three monogram men remaining and with a lack of practice due to bad weather conditions, will have a job on their hands in keeping their slate clean. Nevertheless, Coach Langford is anticipating a close, hard-fought match Saturday and hopes that the tuneup victory over Wayne University last week will set a precedent for the rest of the season.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS Apr. 29—BASEBALL at Great Lakes TRACK, Drake Relays at Des Moines
TENNIS, Wisconsin, here May 1—GOLF, Loyola, here 3—BASEBALL at Purdue
TENNIS at Mich. State 3—BASEBALL, Northwestern here
5—TENNIS at W. Michigan
23
Brickson
Coach Doc Handy and crew shove off for Drake Relays. Left to right: Coach Handy, Jack Murphy, John Helwig, Jim Miller, Bob Smith, Bill Fleming, John Worthington.
Trackmen at Drake For Two-Day Relays
This afternoon and tomorrow the Irish trackmen get a rugged workout at the Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa. As per usual, hurdler Bill Fleming should be the top performer, but the half mile relay squad might steal some of the spotlight from him.
Last Saturday in the Kansas Relays, Fleming tested his injured ankle and it gave him no trouble, though the long layoff had removed some of his edge. Bill took third there, losing by about a yard in what for him was slow time. By tomorrow Bill may be able to duplicate his winning performances of the early indoor season.
Time trials on Cartier Field last Saturday showed that Doc Handy might have a pretty fair half mile relay squad. In the 220 tryouts Soph Bucky Ewing did 21.8 and Bob Boyne and Paul Schwetschenau were right behind him. Doc plans to use these three and Captain Bob Smith on the 880 team. Smith ran at Kansas in the 100-yard dash and looked very good even though he failed to place.
It’s not certain whether Jack Murphy will compete in the javelin tomorrow at Drake. Last week at Kansas he took fourth with 199 feet, 114 inches — an exceptional heave — since it was his first competition in nearly a year. He
only missed first by six feet. However he felt a little twinge in his arm so Coach Handy may elect to rest him tomorrow.
Johnny Helwig made the best showing last week at Kansas when he took second in the shot put. Jim Miller got a fourth place tie out of the pole vault while John Worthington was fifth in the broad jump. All three of these men will be competing in their favorite events tomorrow.
Another possibility for this weekend’s Drake Relays is a sprint medley relay team. This event consists of a 440, two 220’s, and an 880. Boyne or Schwetschenau will ran the 440 leg, Ewing and Smith will take the 220’s, while Jim Kittell, who is just coming back after dislocating his shoulder, will probably anchor the squad.—Ted Prahinski
Klinemen Split Pair During Week’s Play
Notre Dame’s diamondmen continued to play .500 ball this past week as they picked up a win over the University of Chicago on Cartier Field and then lost to Western Michigan up in Kalamazoo. Scheduled games with Indiana and Michigan were called off because of rain, but both may be played at a later date.
The Irish doubled their hit total at the expense of the University of Chi
cago and picked up their second win of 9 the season, 6-2. Tony Lipton, in his first start of the season, pitched and batted his way to a comparatively easy victory. Tony was touched for seven hits, three of them for extra bases, but he had it when it counted and a couple of double plays helped him out of the tight spots.
Chicago jumped off to an early lead in the first when Rowland followed up Govorchin’s single and steal of second " with a run-producing double. Just as quickly, in the bottom of the first, the Irish went to work and scored twice. Three walks, a single and a double produced the runs, and when the inning ended, the bases were bulging. Tony Lipton led off with a home ran clout to left center, and Dick Giedlin singled to score another Irishman during the action.
Chicago put on a mild threat in the 9 sixth when a double and triple had Lipton groggy, but only one ran was scored and Notre Dame came back with two markers in their half to end the scoring for the day.
Last Saturday, the Irish traveled to Kalamazoo, only to lose to the Western Michigan Broncos, 8-1. The Bronco’s coach, Charley Maher, is the father of Irish catcher Dick Maher, and father’s team won over son’s team.
Lack of hitting was the biggest reason for the loss. Kline’s nine was only able to collect four hits, while Western Michigan rocked three local hurlers for 13 blows.
Dick Giedlin batted in the only Irish score in the first inning with a double. After that, Western just kept pecking away at Jack Hilbrich, Mike McGrath and Charlie DePreckel. Meanwhile, Jerry Hogan effectively silenced the Notre Dame bats.
The small matter of six errors in the field didn’t aid the Irish cause a bit.
—Bill Delaneif
Football
(Continued from Page 21) about are the injuries that continue to harass his lads. Added to the injury list last Saturday besides Flood was Vince Moschievitz, sophomore end who suffered a leg injury. Capt. Jerry Groom called defensive signals, but he did not play because of an ailing knee which hasn’t sufficiently recovered from an operation last winter. Bill Whiteside, who has been doing a good job as defensive safety man, was out of the scrimmage with a shoulder separation. Also Guard Fred Wallner will miss practice for a week to have his tonsils removed.
24
The Scholastic
ND Golfers Win One, Lose Two in Week
Last Thursday the ND golf team took on the Intercollegiate golf champions from North Texas College. Father Hol-derith’s men were defeated 18-9 by the superior team. January and Crannel of North Texas took medalist honors with 0 71’s, while Tom Veech led the Irish with 72.
Scoring: Best ball matches—Veech-Klett dropped three points to Maxwell-January; Marzolf-White beat Conrad-Crannel, 2-1; Hudaks-Rolfs won three points from Triggs-Turner—score ND 5-North Texas 4.
Individuals — Veech (72) split three points with Maxwell (72) ; White (74)
Big Tom Veech tees off against Indiana
lost three to Conrad (72) ; Klett (73) dropped three to Crannel (71); Rolfs (76) gained % point to 2% for January (72) ; Capt. Hudak scored a 2-1 win over Turner with a 78 to his opponents 82; Marzolf (78) lost three to Triggs (75) ; Final score ND 9, North Texas 18.
Last Saturday the golf team scored its first win of the current campaign by dumping Indiana 14%-12% in a tight match on the University links. Tom Veech won the medalist honors with a 69 in the morning round, and followed it up with a one over par 72 in the afternoon.
Scoring: Best Ball Matches — Veech-Klctt defeated Cleveland-Lear 2%-%; White-Hudak scored a 2%-% win over Griffith-Hancock; and Rolfs-Murphy lost three points to Walker-Bryan; Score ND 5, Ind. 4. Singles—Veech (72) Cleveland (75), Veech winning 2 points to one for Cleveland; White lost three to Griffith; Klett (73) dropped Hancock (76) for all three points; Capt. Hudak (78)
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box
by flack Meaney \ -
End of an Era
It was late summer of 1946. The war had been history for a year and the nation was beginning to show the first real signs of the peace that had been signed on the decks of the Missouri 12 months before. Price controls were being lifted. People were back into the old habit of taking rides in the family car on Sunday afternoons. Major league baseball was in its first big season since pre-war days and the Boston Red Sox were driving for the dag. Back to college campuses throughout the country came the GI’s to pick up the broken threads of education, their numbers swollen by the GI Bill.
This was the year sport fans had been waiting for. Football coaches blinked their eyes and pinched themselves. Here was foui' years of talent all rolled up into one formidable package. Sure, some of the backs had slowed down a bit, but there were others just as fast. And look at that line. Four deep at every position. This was the year Notre Dame had been waiting for.
Back came Frank Leahy, Lujack, Connor, Czarobski, Livingstone. Out of high school and the service came Hart, Martin, Coutre, Wightkin, Spaniel, Grothaus. This was to be the big year.
In 1946 the Irish were National Champions and the string of Army disasters was halted. College football everywhere enjoyed one of its greatest seasons. The same was true in 1947 when tha Irish were again acclaimed National Champions. Army had been beaten and the Williams Trophy was retired by the Irish. The influence of tha old players on football squads during this time was tremendous. Teams played the same way on the field that they had been figured to play on paper. Sure there were some upsets but hardly enough to get excited
gained one of three points from Lear (75); Marzolf split with Walker; and Murphy (73) took Bryan (75) 2-1. Score ND 14%, Indiana 12%.
Monday Father- Holderith’s men ran up against a very well balanced Purdue sextet and were badly beaten, 24-3. A downpour of rain in the morning pre-(Continued on Page 28)
about. Most teams were running true to form. Came 1948 and the average age of college athletes was dropping as more and more vets pocketed their diplomas. The line was getting thinner but high school graduates were taking up the slack. Notre Dame was again undefeated in 1948 but finished up in second place. 1949 and, the last year for the old men. Notre Dame had lost most of its older players as had all. the other colleges in the country. Now the high schools instead of the armed forces was looked upon as the chief source of material. There were going to be plenty of upsets this year said the experts and they were right: Tennessee over North Carolina, Army and Northwestern over Michigan, Indiana over Pitt, Pitt over Northwestern, and on down the line.
What was the reason for the up and down football season? Coaches and fans alike agreed that it was the lack of older, more experienced players that had made the bulk of football rosters since the postwar period. You can never tell how a young team is going to react when it gets out there on the football field. Indiana is a prime example. They played the Irish on even terms throughout the first half last fall but folded in the last two periods. A couple of weeks later they went out and dropped unbeaten Pitt by a one-sided score.
Notre Dame and a few other schools were lucky last year—they had steadying influences like Martin, Sitko, and Wightkin around when the going got tough. But this year it will be a different story; “the honeymoon is over.” Upsets will occur more often this year- than in any since the war.
But what about Notre Dame? Just like every other coach in the country, Frank Leahy has run out of the old reliables and will field a young team. (Average age of lettermen—20 years). At this stage of Spring practice, the Irish don’t look like the team of last year. But then, last Fall’s outfit wasn’t exactly a worldbeater in spring practice a year ago either. The Old Timers, with Hart, Martin, Sitko and company, will probably be the toughest team the Irish will run up against all season. They’ll go some to come out on top. But don’t sell them short. They could do it.
April 28, 1950
25
MIDNIGHT SNACKS WITHOUT COOKING
Delicious Scandinavian delicacies that make wonderful hor d'oeuvres, perfect between-meal fillers! For yourself, your friends or a delightful gift for the folks back home.
The VIKING
Norwegian Kippered Herrings — Herring Tidbits in Wine Sauce — Lingonberry Preserves, imported — Norwegian Snacks, fillets — Ry-King, Swedish Crisp Bread — Brisling Sardines in Sild Oil — Swedish Fish Balls, Haddock in Lobster Sauce — Karvi Cheese, Caraway spiced — Anchovies, Sprats Paste.
Send for FREE Catalogue showing beautiful Scandinavian gift items. Money back if not delighted.
No C. O. D.s please.
ALL FOR $3.50 P. P. PAID
SPECIAL—The NORSEMAN assortment has every’ item in the VIKING assortment plus nine different delicious items—Twice as much—for only $5.95 p. p. paid
NORSE SPECIALTIES. Inc
Highland Hills, N. Y.
Dept. ND-1
QUIET.—BUT TnssEwa«i*nE GOLFER AT THE LAKE. RUDOLF COUNTRY" CLUB ONTHE.Z1XZOF
THE JUNGLE IN NORTH AFRICA.
In the New SPALDING CLUBS ...you can get the correct head weight and shaft flexibility for your build and style. Yes, a "Custom-Fit” set that gives more power and control to your game.
...Aid THERE ARK SO MANYGOATS another, ball AvrrBEDRopreo tthhott penalty IFOMETC , SWALLOWED-
sers ths fines @ & sfiotrs
blokes
IF XXI
SHUT UP/
DOWN Wit
CAMT>OUe£E
ThS IS 4 TOUGH
Religion Department Offers Summer Liturgy Program
An academic program in the liturgy of the Catholic Church will be conducted from June 19 to August 11 by the Department of Religion at the University of Notre Dame.
Planned on both graduate and undergraduate levels, the program is designed to prepare the student “intellectually, spiritually and musically” to take his part in the Church’s communal worship and to explain liturgical functions to others as part of priestly or teaching-duties. Graduate students may earn a Master’s Degree in Liturgy by completing four summer sessions and writing a dissertation.
All students in the program will take part in daily choir practice of the Gregorian Chant, and the singing of a Alissa Cantata. Among the other undergraduate subjects are courses in “’the Liturgical Life of the Church” and the study of Gregorian notation.
Application for admission to either branch of the Liturgy Program should be made to the Registrar, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Both sections will be under the direction of the Rev. Michael A. Mathis, c.s.c.
Glee Club Journeys To Detroit Tomorrow
OUTANDBMSKAX PLAYERS OK THE

—A STROLLING LEOPARD MIGHT RXP UFA rODRSOME..
CANPZAV ikooucK
After completing their Easter tour of the East, the Notre Dame Glee Club appeared last week in Gary, Ind., for a concert and reception and will leave the campus tomorrow to sing in Detroit and Monroe, Mich.
The forty voice ensemble, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, will travel via chartered bus to “The Motor City” where a radio broadcast and formal concert are on tap for Saturday. After a Sunday night formal concert in Monroe, Mich., the songsters will drive back to ND.
GULP } \\ ''
Final reports on the Easter tour have recently come in and once more the Irish singers have proven themselves topnotch entertainers. The appearance on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town” Video show, the formal concert in Town Hall, and the reception at the Biltmore Hotel were the highlights of their New York City stay. After Gotham, the concerts in North Arlington, N. J., Buffalo, N. Y.,
f
and Toledo, Ohio, were packed with ceptive audiences.
The Glee Club is also rehearsing their annual joint ocncert with the Mary5s Glee Club early in May.
re-
for St.
26
The Scholastic
The Third Degree
By ED MERTZ
This is the time of the semester when an unhappy fraction of the lowly grads tries to crawl even lower into its aca-I demic holes, grows pale and wan, develops a marked disposition to gibber idiotically, and recalls with pleasure (Incredible thought!), the days of courses and finals. For these hapless ones are those who face a collective onslaught of doctoral candidacies and various exams, written and oral, beside which the legendary horrors of the Tor-quemada fade into insignificance. To these, we send only our sympathy and our prayers.
However, for the benefit of their more fortunate brethren who have already braved the sacrificial fire, or those who are as yet untroubled by such considerations, there is a full program on tap.
The Grad Association will stage its final business meeting of the semester on May 8, to tie up the loose ends, line up things for the fall, and enjoy a few hours of fraternal relaxation afterwards. Place—Vet Rec Hall. Time— 8:00 p.m. Be there and speak your piece, or just sit in dignified silence, take it all in, and save yourself for the post-meeting proceedings, but be there!
*♦*—
The final fiesta of the social season for grads was erroneously reported to be a banquet, in last week’s column. Co-chairmen Simmons and Wilmouth have assured me that entertainment of a more relaxed character will be the order of the day. Tentatively slated for May 13 or 20, it will consist of a dinner' served pot-luck style and an evening of fun thereafter, with dancing, cards, or just plain after-dinner cigar-smoking optional. Wives and dates (for those happy ones who can get them), are invited but are by no means required. Start planning now to wind up the semester right.
The square dance staged by the Grad Association on April 15 in the Rec Hall seems to have provided enough exercise and entertainment to satisfy all comers. Too bad there was a shortage of the latter, but technical problems regarding the arrangements prevented the publicity from getting out on time, and resulted in a smaller turnout than was expected. Be that as it may, it seems that the intricacies of the dosey-doe, and the violent gyrations of the squares were good for a full quota of kicks to the
April 28, 1950
evening’s hillbillies, and Joe Mountain, the factotum of the country carnival, deserves a big meaty hand of applause and a few rustic huzzahs for his efforts.
With the reappearance of the long-lost Spring sun, and the mercury’s de
z Tw» things every college man should know!
This is a Campus Queen. Her face is her fortune... runs into nice little figure. Koted girl most likely to. Thinks her exams come back covered with kiss-marks.
Sweet enough to eat. Eats plenty. Says ”Manhattan'' sportshirts are real beauties.
This is a "Manhattan” Sportshirt.
Reigning favorite throughout the land.
Brilliant colors, exotic designs, luxurious rayon ... Polynesian Print Sportshirts by "Manhattan.” Youll want to own 'em all.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
parture from its cave at the bottom of the thermometer, let’s close with another reminder of the Grad Softball League. Sign up quick before Spring fever sets in. El Wolicki is the man. Physics Bldg, is the place. The sore arm is yours.
27
Hungarian Diplomat Will Join ND Faculty
A veteran European diplomat will join the faculty of the University in September as Associate Professor of Political Science. The appointment of Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz, former Hungarian Minister to Italy, was officially announced this week by Rev. Howard C. Kenna, C.S.C., Vice-President in charge of Academic Affairs.
Dr. Kertesz, who is now in voluntary exile from his native land, Communist-dominated Hungary, will teach two regular courses in the Department of Political Science, 'ihe first will deal with the development and structure of the United Nations Organization. His other course is entitled “American and Soviet Politics in Eastern Europe.”
Prior to the outbreak of World War II, he held a number of important diplomatic posts in the Hungarian government. When the Nazis overran that nation Dr. Kertesz was imprisoned in a concentration camp and remained there until his liberation in 1945. He joined the new democratic Hungarian government shortly afterward.
As general secretary of the Hungarian delegation, the veteran diplomat palyed a part in the 1946 peace conference. He later served as chief of the International Relations Division in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then as Minister to Italy. Shortly after he arrived in Italy, Dr. Kertesz renounced the Communist puppet regime and asked for sanctuary in the United States.
Since then, he has been Visiting Lecturer in Law at Yale University. Although his appointment as a permanent Notre Dame faculty member is not effective until the September semester, Dr. Kertesz will teach two courses during the Summer Session. These will treat “The United Nations” and “Vatican-Russian Relations.”
Dr. Kertesz has been a visiting lecturer at Notre Dame for the past two summers. A frequent contributor to American magazines, his experience and knowledge qualify his exposition of the intricate aims and methods of Soviet diplomacy. Earlier this year he took part in a Symposium on the Soviet Union sponsored by the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame.
Art Department Profs Win Prizes in Michiana Exhibit
Among the prize winner’s in the First Annual Michiana Regional Art Exhibition, now being held at the South Bend Art Association Galleries were two members of the Department of Art,
Prof. Stanley S. Sessler, head, and Prof. Frederick S. Beckman.
Second prize of $35 in oil painting went to Professor Sessler for a figure painting called “Trout Fisherman” and Professor Beckman won First Honorable Mention in the same class for his landscape called “The New Preacher.”
Two former students in the department, Paul Godollei and Harry S. Brown, Jr., were each represented in the show by watercolors. Mr. Brown won a third prize of $10 for a gouache painting called “The Winds Blew and the Rains Came.”
Golfers Win One
(Continued from Page 25)
vented the Irish from doing any practice on the strange course and the meet was agreed to be decided by one 18-hole round. The Boilermakers then proceeded to fashion scores ranging from 70-75 while the Irish troubled by the new course found their scores between 75-80.
Scoring: Best Ball Matches—Veech-
Murphy aims one at cup in Hoosier meet
Rolfs dropped three points to Wampler and Laflin; Hudak-White picked up % point to 2% for Hare-Dunlap; Klett-Murphy garnered one of three points from Marsea-Thomas. Score ND 1%, Purdue 7%.
Singles — Veech (78) lost three to Wampler (70); Laflin defeated Rolfs of ND 3-0; Capt. Hudak gained % point from Hare (73); White (79) also took % point from Dunlap (75); Klett (75) scored % point on Marsee; Murphy (76) lost all three to Thomas (72). Score: ND 3, Purdue 24.
This week the golf team has one match with Loyola of Chicago on April 29, at ND, and will be trying to make their record a little more respectable than the present 1-3.—Bob Rubery
Fa+her Fi+zgerald Asks Health Insurance Trial
A greater trial fox’ the voluntary plan of health insurance to be tried before adoption of the administration plan was advocated Tuesday night by Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, c.s.c., professor of economics at the University of Notre Dame, at the weekly Aquinas forum meeting. -
“Perhaps the final answer will be a more widespread use of group prepayment medical service under private auspices and use of public insurance to protect against the risk of catastrophic illness,” Father Fitzgerald said.
“The plan for public coverage for catastrophic illness,” he explained, “might be carried on as proposed in the Bosone plan before Congress in which public health insurance would be financed by a • payroll tax but only for medical bills over $50 and dental bills over $25.”
The NCWC Bureau of Health and Hospitals, the National Conference of Catholic Charities and the Catholic Hospital Association have gone on record in favor of a voluntary approach with government assistance rather than government control, he said.
Father Fitzgerald said that the administration plan does attempt to safeguard against the danger of federal control by a decentralized administration and a *-committee representing the public, the doctors, and the hospitals, which would be established in every locality to work with the medical and financial officials there. The Administration bill, he said, forbids federal supervision or control over participating state, city or private hospitals.
However, Father Fitzgerald cited as a reason in favor of the voluntary plan the “sound principle that a public body should not take over a function if it can be performed adequately by a private agency.”
He cited several of the voluntary proposals before Congress, one of which is the Ives-Flanders bill. This Republican proposal advocates voluntary non-profit health insurance plans in each community aided by federal loans.
Language Profs fo Attend + Central States Meeting "
Representatives of the Department of Modern Languages will attend the 33rd annual meeting of the Central States Modern Language Teachers Association tomorrow, in Indianapolis.
Mr. Paul F. Bosco, Associate Professor of Spanish, will be the secretary to the meeting of the Italian section of the modern languages.
Miss Eva Maria Jung, member of the _
The Scholastic
28
library staff for the Medieval Institute, will read a paper- entitled: “Vittoria Colonna — Between Reformation and Counter-Reformation.”
The theme of the conference is: “New Frontiers for Modern Languages,” and the purposes of these annual meetings is to provide teachers of modern languages with the opportunity of associating with one another and exchanging ideas and also to read and discuss research papers and advances completed by the members of the association.

Audio-Visual Sponsors "St. Francis of Assisi'
Saint Francis of Assisi, a motion picture that was highly praised by New York film critics, will be presented at ^7:30 and 9:30 Sunday evenings in the Law Building auditorium.
The Audio-Visual Department of the University will sponsor the showing of this Spanish language film. Two showings have been arranged, Orville Foster, head of the department, announced so that the men who attend the amateur show will have an opportunity to see the film, too. The picture has English titles.
Saint Francis of Assisi was made in Mexico, and stars almost the same cast that appeared in The Virgin of Guada-hipe, another Catholic film that received high praise.
Faculty members and friends of the students are invited to attend the Sunday night showings of the film.
Historian Analyzes Russian Issue in 'Review of Politics'
The current crisis between Russia and the Western world would be inev-V itable even if the Soviet Union were not a Communist dictatorship, according to English historian Herbert Butterfield in the April issue of The Review of Politics.
According to Professor Butterfield, the potential conflict is based on old problems which have little or nothing to do with differences in ideology. The most important diplomatic issue, he says, is “whether Russia should dominate those countries of central and " eastern Europe which run from Poland, through Czechoslovakia and Hungary to what we now call Yugoslavia and the Balkans.
Professor Butterfield proposes a return to “the older methods of diplomacy, which will recognize the persistent tragic fact in all human relations— the inevitable conflict of human wills.” Our only hope for peace, he says, lies in an objective “historian’s view” of _ international disagreements. • W April 28, 1950
^Uswariij’s
HERE IT IS! ARROW'S NEW LOW-SLOPE COLLAR!
Arrow
Contour” 'H

$3.95
r
IPs
easy to see why everybody likes
Arrow’s new shirt with the low slope (Aroslope) collar! It’s so comfortable —so smartly styled! Typical of all Arrow shirts, the Contour is meticulously tailored, Mitoga cut for better fit. Sanforized (shrinkage less than 1%). Come for yours NOW!
Men's Shop . . . Main Floor
IT’S NOT TOO LATE!
You Can Still Make That Summer Trip to Europe With International Youth PARIS by AIR $360 Round Trip
Flights to LONDON and ROME
Write or Phone INTERNATIONAL YOUTH, Inc.
150 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
COrtland 7-0362	To assure passage write immediately
29
When is a Poet a Poet?
(Continued from Page 11) published partly as a text anthology for classes in contemporary poetry.
Nims is teaching contemporary poetry at present, along with Shakespeare, and comparative tragedy. His students say that humor brightens his classes, nothing slapstick or hilarious, but humor full of meaning. Few students fall asleep in those classes. As Nims said, “only 4.8%. The rest whose eyes are closed and shaded are sunk in a contemplation so profound it is frequently almost impossible to distract them.”
Nims will teach a class in poetry writing in the fall semester, the first time in years one has been offered at
COMFORT WHERE COMFORT COUNTS!
• NO ANNOYING CENTER SEAM ARROW SHORTS shorts $1*25 up t-shirts $1 up
Yes—you can count on Arrow shorts for deep-seated comfort! No center seam—so there's no binding. They're designed to keep you comfortable! Sanforized (shrinkage less than 1%). Pick up a supply of Arrow shorts and T-shirts NOW!
|{0RERTS0V S
of SPouMiSiend
"	FOR ARROW UNIVERSITY STYLES
Notre Dame. He has also been named to direct the poetry work shop for the second annual Writers’ Conference at Notre Dame next summer. This will be his fourth workshop; he has been a staff member of conferences at Illinois Wesleyan and the Universities of Kansas and Indiana.
Shakespeare Profs Panel Study
Crowded as his schedule is with lectures, papers, poems, dogs, and now divots, Nims takes time off to do minor work around the house. Whether it is setting up a cedar post or putting a hinge back on a battered storm door, he shows some modest talent with gadgets other than a typewriter. He and Norbert Engels, professor in Shakespeare at Notre Dame and author of Man About the House, paneled the
poet’s .entire study shortly after he moved to Niles.
Poems grow out of living a normal life, not from fleeing it, Nims will tell you. He points out that T. S. Eliot and Wallace Stevens have insisted lately that a poet cannot be poet alone.
In Five Young American Poets, Nims wrote: “Poetry is, I suppose, essentially wonder. A prodding ‘Why?’^ is the poet’s angel; he collects meaning as the tyrant collects bombers or the rich man chips of money. More than others, he is a spectator in the stadium of being, sometimes cheers and sometimes curses at the brilliant, cruel and lovely game he never quite can fathom.”
Nims believes that the human situation is far more interesting than poetry, over which he rarely finds himself brooding. He never resolves to write — any particular poem, but he finds some W aspect of reality so exciting that he can hardly keep from expressing it. Most of his poems were written when his mind was quite far from thoughts of poetry. As for subject matter, he believes that poetry may comment on anything, with its limits the limits of life itself. Any aspect of reality whether it be the poolroom, or a plane crash, or a day at the beach is sufficient for poetry.
Structurally, Nims said, poetry is girded with logic; the diction is simple and intense; it is concrete; it has a definite and Mozartean structure — “Something stronger and shapelier than the Debussy twinkle and Wagnerian yowl to which the freer forms of poetry incline.”
These opinions were expressed six or seven years ago. “I might put things differently now,” he admits, “in fact, I think I did put them differently in Mid- £ Century American Poets. But what is quoted above is probably as accurate as ■writers are likely to be about their own work.”
As writer and editor, Nims has met many poets. So he should be able to answer* the question: “What about the ‘pale lost man’ Van Doren mentions? Is that the typical poet?”
“Well,” says Nims, “I’ve met poets who looked like (and were) tail gun-ners from the South Pacific; poets who e looked like (and were) insurance men who might be Men of Distinction; poets who looked like (and were) girls in blue jeans from Bennington or Sarah Lawrence; poets who looked like (and were) unshaven drunks in a Third Avenue bar.- There are as many kinds of poets (naturally) as^there are kinds of people. There may even be that ‘pale lost man . . . with an expression of shy pain.’ But I can’t say I’ve ever met him.”
30
The Scholastic
I
*
Working for Knowledge
(Continued from Page 15)
tively few jobs with a relatively large number of aspirants. At the present time the 755 student employees are doing everything from pulling sputtering “sinkers” out of the Rock pool to jerking wires in the ND switchboard, with a pay scale ranging from 60 cents to $1 per hour.
Some of the better-known positions are those in the chow hall, where 125 men are employed, student watchmen and librarians, secretaries, typists and correctors. In the “semi-skilled” class are listed the Infirmary assistants, lab assistants, LOBUND technicians, student photographers, public information assistants and sports publicity writers.
Some of the “unknowns” are Hughie Buras’ two assistant trainers, the Sacred Heart Church organist, stage manager in Washington Hall, Grotto attendant, and the student caretakers who live in the Engineering, Law, Social Science and Library Buildings.
Work Hours Limited
Except for the Dining Hall jobs, the Department tries to limit the working hours to 12 per week per student. This policy has been set for two reasons: this is about all the average student can carry comfortably and still manage his studies and secondly, there just aren’t enough jobs to go around and the available ones have to be spread out. Financial need is the first and foremost criterion for awarding these precious jobs.
Mrs. Van Scoick has high praise for “her boys.” “I think that our employed students are a really fine group and, although each boy must maintain a 77 pel’ cent scholastic average to keep his job, many of these students have some of the finest averages in the University. Almost always they have turned out to be good workers, have still had time for normal studies and I don’t think any of them missed out too much on extra-curricular- life, either,” said the “general.”
Mrs. Van Scoick also maintains a huge personal file on each and every student who has ever held a job at the University, and keeps this file up-to-date by careful checking and editing. Her files have served as excellent references for many men after graduation in the open-market job-hunting.
“Mrs. Van” spends much of her summer vacation writing letters of recommendation for those who have been fortunate enough to be called her boys.
April 28, 1950
ARROW is your ticket to
shorts $1.25 up t-shirts $1.00 up
One way to be sure of complete comfort below decks is to buy ARROW shorts! Made without creeping center seam, they’re full cut—plenty roomy! Ideal teamed with Arrow T-shirts!
। I l
ARROWshirts & TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
The Place to Go for the Names You Know
GILBERT'S
for ARROW
Friendly Bill Zerbe Dies After Illness
At 2:30 p.m. last Saturday, one- of Notre Dame’s most colorful and friendly personages, “Bill, the Watchman,” died in South Bend’s St. Joseph Hospital after several weeks illness.
For 16 years William E. Zerbe had been a University policeman and during that time had a cheerful “hello” for every person he came in contact with.
Bill was born in Harrisburg, Pa., on Oct. 26, 1881, and spent his early life in the coal-fields of Pennsylvania. He toured the country as a vaudeville entertainer in the pretalkie days. Bill served on the Logansport, Ind., police force for a time and was also sheriff of Cass county for two terms.
He is survived by his wife, Grace, two sons, Orville Platt of South Bend, Ind., and Lieut. Lester Platt, US.N., of Jacksonville, Fla., and four grandchildren.
Funeral services were held Tuesday in Sacred Heart Church on campus. Rev. Edward J. Finnegan, C.S.C., sang the solemn requiem Mass. Bill was buried in St. Joseph Memorial park.
Politicians Preparing For Campus Elections
Campus politicians and aspiring officeholders are out in force once again as the Notre Dame student body prepares to go to the polls on election Tuesday, May ninth, and name their class officers for the 1950-51 school year. Despite last year’s relatively light turnout of voters, there is no dearth of candidates or parties.
Next year’s Seniors will choose from two party slates and three other independent candidates. Jim Hennessey of Alumni Hall leads the Foursight Party as its presidential nominee. Running with him are Ray Miller of Alumni f or vice-president; Don Sondag, Alumni, for secretary; and John Worthington of Badin for treasurer. The High Life Party is entering Bill Whiteside of Alumni for president; Hank Madden of Alumni for vice-president; Bob Klingen-berger, Alumni, for secretary; and Howard’s Randy McNally for treasurer. Bob Auld of Dillon is running independently for Senior Class secretary.
Foursight’s candidates for Student Council representatives are Phil Schwarz of Badin and Tom Wolff of Alumni. The High Life Party has nominated Jack Broderick of Badin and Bill Carey of Alumni. Al Bailey of Alumni and Dick Herrle, Badin, are running independently for the same offices.
32
Five parties have entered the race for the Junior Class offices. For president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer, respectively, the Harmony Party is running George Sweet of Cavanaugh; Dave Lajoie, Lyons; Wally Purcell, Cavanaugh; and Jack Moran of Morrissey. The One Way Ticket consists of Hank McCormack, Cavanaugh; Jack Hynes, Lyons; Don Fager of Cavanaugh; and Jack Daut of Morrissey for the same offices respectively.
Sal Fiorella of Cavananugh heads the Pacemaker slate as presidential candidate. Running with him are Joe Straub of Morrissey, Gene Lasmez of Morrissey, and Ed Waters of Lyons. The Poll-Toppers feature Jim Mannion of Lyons for president, with Jay Fox, Morrissey; Chet Ostrowski, Morrissey; and Phil Everist of Cavanaugh as running mates. Walt Wolff of Lyons, running as the nominee of Your Party, is accompanied by a supporting slate of Tony Critelli of Lyons, Dan Caulfield of Morrissey and Tex Carubbi of Cavanaugh.
The campaign for Soph berths will be just as lively, with four parties looking

HAVE MORE FUN...BE MORE POPULAR!
. Special Zoanniversary Kates Now in Effect
At Arthur Murray's * and you're cordially invited
t
You’ll have more fun than ever learning to dance at Arthur Murray’s. That’s because he is celebrating his 36th anniversary with extra special parties plus special rates. Learning is easier and quicker at Arthur Murray’s thanks to his wonderful discovery, “The First Step to Popularity.” You will be amazed and thrilled at your dancing skill even after only one lesson. So come in or phone now and join the fun. Here’s a grand opportunity to learn to dance and save, too!
for the Freshman vote. The ABC Party names a ticket of Joe Moresco of Zahm, John Porta of Breen-Phillips, Frank Blanch of Zahm and Ed Raque of B-P. John O’Connell of Zahm heads the Four for You Party; his running mates are Tom Reedy of Farley, Dan Collins of B-P and Gerry Marshall of St. Edward’s. The Soph Quartet features George Pearce of Breen-Phillips, Rod Belcher of B-P, Joe Durkin of St. Ed’s and Farley’s Dan Spika. Heading the Unity Party is Mike Downey of Farley, running with a supporting slate of Al DeCrane of Zahm, Dave Fox of St. Ed’s and Bob Niquette of Farley.
Californians Meet
At a meeting last Monday the California Club elected officers for the ’50-’51 year. John Helwig was chosen as president. Tom Carroll received the vice-president’s post and Jerry Wewan was elected secretary. Joe Scott will be the new treasurer for the club.
The Californians will meet next Monday night to discuss special business.
ARTHUR MURRAY 120 E. Wayne 2-3339
FREE CLUB DANCE Every Thursday
The Scholastic
Entertainment
(Continued from Page 6)
Lecture Series, will present a talk on Safety at 8 p.m.
AVON (through May 12) — Mrs. Mike (A-2), a popular best-seller a few years back, has been brought to the screen with Dick Powell and Evelyn _ Keyes playing the Northwest Mounted W' Police couple who find life as newlyweds in the wilderness anything but dull.
MAY 4
WASHINGTON HALL — Earle Spicer, well-known baritone whose recital was postponed in March, returns with his program of American and English ballads, folk songs and selections from Gilbert and Sullivan. Time: 8 p.m. Fee: nothing.
♦	MAY 5
WASHINGTON HALL—Mortimer J. Adler, no stranger hereabouts, will deliver a lecture at 8 p.m. on Character and Intelligence.
PALAIS ROYALE — The Freshman Class makes its social debut with its dance entitled Some Enchanting Evening. Chuck Granger, an import, will provide the music from 9 until 1. Dancers have an hour to get back to campus after that. Bids are selling at $3 per — no corsages ■will be allowed . . . neither » will Seniors, Juniors or Sophomores.
MAY 6
PALAIS ROYALE — That spirited Sophomore Class will sponsor the final Student Council Saturday night informal dance of the year. This last dance of the year for all students will be a barn dance. The fact that it is out of season won’t lessen the fun. Tickets are going at $1.50 and hours will be a from 8 to 11.
Council Names Three Student Trip Choices
Three plans for next Fall’s student trip have been made public by the Student Council. Possible trips and approximate prices have been announced and the three plans have been submitted to student poll for decision.
The first plan would be a one-day trip to Cleveland for the Navy game. Students making the trip would leave the campus at 1 a.m. Saturday morning and leave Cleveland at midnight Saturday night. The estimated cost of the trip would be $17.00.
The second proposed trip would also be to Cleveland for the Navy fray. This trip would extend over two days, departure time being the same, 1 a.m. Saturday morning, but trippers would not leave Cleveland until midnight Sunday
April 28, 1950
night. Estimated cost for this trip is $22.50.
The third trip contemplated by the Council would be to New Orleans for the Tulane battle. This journey would begin at 4 p.m. on Thursday and New Orleans would be reached at 1 p.m. Friday. Coming home, the trains would leave the Southland at noon on Sunday and arrive in South Bend at 7 a.m. on Monday. The price for this trip has been tentatively set at $55. At least 600 men would have to make the trip in order to make it feasible.
The Council will decide the actual destination of the trip on the basis of a student poll conducted in the halls last night. All prices quoted at this time are estimates and subject to revision before final plans are made.
Dr. Ladner Is Awarded Guggenheim Fellowship
Dr. Gerhart B. Ladner, associate professor of History, has been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship to assist him in his work of preparing a book on Christian reform during the Middle Ages.
Dr. Ladner, who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1946, is now on leave of absence at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, N. J. At Princeton, under a special grant, he has already begun work on his new work, which will trace and integrate the effects of reform in Christian society from St. Augustine to about 1500 A.D.
Before coming to Notre Dame, Professor- Ladner served on the staff of the
University of Toronto. He previously had been a member of the faculty of the Monumenta Germaniae Historica in Berlin and Munich, a research fellow for the Austrian Historical Institute in Rome, and a lecturer at the University of Vienna until the arrival of the Nazis in 1938.
The Guggenheim awards, granted this year to 158 outstanding scholars in various fields, are presented by the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, of New York City. They carry a monetary value averaging over- $3,000 each.
Blue Circle Accepting New Members for Fall
c The Blue Circle is opening its nominations to the student body to complete its membership for the fall semester. All applicants must be in at least their second semester at the University, have a scholastic average of 80%, a clean disciplinary record and all must show a genuine interest in school spirit and a willingness to work for its promotion.
Qualified students are urged to apply in letter form, before Friday, May 5, to the Membership Committee in care of Ward McCabe, 160 Alumni. All applications will be acknowledged and applicants will be notified as to the time of their interview.
PROM PICTURES
All persons who had their pictures taken at the Junior Prom may pick up the pics in Room 231 Alumni Hall, preferably after supper.
33
Roughly Speaking
by Ken Xkoren
One Down . . .
Even though the Fall has the football weekends, it is during the Spring that social life at ND really discards its wraps. There’s the Junior Prom, the Freshman Dance, and the Senior Ball. Right now it’s one down and two to go.
If the two forthcoming dances stack up to last week’s affair then they should be unqualified successes. Troubles, troubles, and more troubles plagued the Juniors, but, as usual, they pulled through, and what do they have to show for- it? A dance that will be long remembered by everyone who attended it.
Anyone who has ever helped decorate the barnish Palais will tell you what a job it is. The Junior decorators deserve a big hand for transforming the dance hall the way they did. Rain, clouds, gardens and trees — to think there was wrestling there two nights before!!
Everyone connected with putting on the dance should feel mighty pleased. Co-chairman Mike Jacobs and Tom Meyers and all the men who worked under them have a right to gloat — theirs was a job well done.
Country Club
One of the best things about dance weekends at ND is that the fun doesn’t stop when the band plays Good Night Ladies. A lot of it is just beginning. On Saturday, for instance, there was a debate whether to go to the game or else go on a picnic. Majority ruled. Picnic it was.
Close to 50 couples headed for South Bend’s park of parks — Rum Village.
What a life! Two sports even brought their ukes. Mr. Pedtke would have cringed at the wails made by the singers.
Before heading out there a stop was necessary at St. Mary’s to pick up some dates. Now that was really something to see! Cadillacs, Packards, convertibles of every hue — the crowds around each one made it look like the playground of the Midwest. Some little foreign import from Chicago gasped, turned to her date and said: “Why Joe, I thought you told me it was rough down here. Notre Dame Country Club — that’s what you should call it.”
If she only knew. Once, maybe twice a year. Country Club? What a joke!
Even though it’s hard to find a recipient, some word of appreciation should be bestowed upon the weather. It couldn’t have been better. In fact, the whole weekend couldn’t have been better. At this point, the only thing left to say is — Brother, can you spare a dime?
Just One Gripe
Only one thing caused the Promgoers to become irritated. And that had to do with the Sorin Hall wiseacres who all played comedians before and after Sunday’s 9 o’clock Mass. Some of their remarks were more suitable for Walgreen’s corner, coming from high school kids.
You can bet if any of the Sorin Hall mob had had dates they wouldn’t have liked the clever quips. If a fellow thinks enough of a girl to bring her here for a weekend, you can be sure he doesn’t want to embarrass her. Let’s only hope the Senior Ball dates won’t have to run the gauntlet like last weekend’s dates.
Short Insert
Who was at Benediction last Sunday night during the lightning storm, when the lights failed? The Church, resounding with Tantum Ergo and with just the altar lights lit, provided a memorable scene.
Apology
This week’s column is noticeably short for just one reason — the effects of the weekend have not yet worn off. Staying up until two ayem — practically dawn for those who hit the sack at 11 o’clock every night — and then being on the go for three days straight wears one down a bit.
MEXICO SUMMER SESSION
All persons interested in the 1950 Notre Dame Summer Session in Mexico arc urged to meet in Room 250 of the Main Building on Monday, May 1, at 4 p.m. for an explanation and discussion of all phases of the trip. Those interested but unable to attend this meeting should see Mr. Walter M. Langford in Room 231 of the Main Building as soon as is convenient.
Senior Ball
LOGAN’S
SPECIAL STUDENT »
RATES
SUMMER FORMALS
Smarter style!
Lighter weight!
Cooler comfort!
Choice of white or pastel colors.
White Gabardine Jackets, Midnight Blue Trousers—$7.50	£
Accessories—Shirts, Ties and
Jewelry—$1.00
NO DEPOSITS for
Students or Faculty
Also SPECIAL RATES on Tuxedos
Insist on pure wool Gabardine.
Place orders early.
All Sizes — Free Alterations
LOGAN’S
107 N. Main St.
South Bend	Oliver Hotel
HEALTH SPOT
VON MEN WOMEN AND CNIUMEN
209 W. Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen. Mgr.
34
The Scholastic
»________________________________
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, April 29—red—Double —St. Peter of Verona, Martyr; 2nd Coll, for the octave, 3rd Against the Persecutors; Credo.
Sunday, April 30 — white—Third Sunday after Easter; 2nd Coll. Comm, of St. Catharine, 3rd for the V octave, 4th Against the Pers.; Credo;
Preface for Easter.
Monday, May 1—red—Double of Second Class—SS Philip and James, Apostles; Credo; Preface of the Apostles.
Tuesday, May 2—white—Double —St. Athanasius, Bishop, Confessor, and Doctor; 2nd Coll, for the octave, 3rd Against the Persecutors; Credo.
Wednesday, May 3—red—Double of Second Class—The Finding of the Holy Cross; 2nd Coll, for the octave, 3rd Comm. SS. Alexander I and Evcntius and Thcodulus, Martyrs, 4th Against the Persecutors; Credo: Pref, of the Cross.
Thursday, May 4—white—Double —St. Monica, Widow; 2nd. Coll. Against the Persecutors.
Friday, May 5—white—Double— St. Pius V, Pope and Confessor; 2nd or 3rd Coll. Against the Persecutors; Preface of the Apostles.
Debaters Take Fourth In Texas Invitational
Minn., are the members of the first team.
Thirty-two schools are chosen to participate in the debate from a field of 1200. This will be the fourth year in a row that Notre Dame will be among the 32 finalists.
Advertisers to Dine
The Advertising Club will hold its second dinner meeting in the faculty dining room next Tuesday evening. Two short talks are scheduled to follow the dinner.
Mr. Bowman Kreer, head of the Copyrighting department of J. Walter Thompson Co., Chicago, Ill., and Mr. Robert McShane of the firm’s Public Relations department will be the principal speakers. Both men will remain after their talks for an unlimited question period.
Bengal Bouters Feted At Ramble In Banquet
Boxers, promoters, and. chairmen of this year’s Bengal Bouts were feted at a steak dinner in the Shadow Room of the Ramble In the evening of April 19. The banquet, held by the Knights of Columbus, had for guest after-dinner speaker Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran, c.s.c., past state chaplain of the order, and Mr. Dominic Napolitano, trainer of the Bengal Bout fighters.
Father Corcoran told of the appreciation of the Holy Cross Fathers
Reservations and further information may be obtained from Roy Porter, 242 Dillon hall.
May Adoration to Take Form of Daily Holy Hour
Instead of the customary daily adoration of the Blessed Sacrament during May, a holy hour will be held Monday through Friday in Sacred Heart church. This will be in effect every week day throughout “The Month of Our Lady.”
The first half of the hour, beginning at 4:30 p.m., will be devoted to private prayer and adoration; the second half will consist of the rosary, the litany of the Blessed Virgin and benediction.
Previously, the students were asked to devote one-half hour a week during the month, as part of the perpetual adoration from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.
abroad for the generosity of those who helped raise funds for the missions. Mr. Napolitano expressed his belief that this year’s boxers composed one of the.finest groups with which he has ever worked.
Notable among those attending the event were Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., and Rev. Edmund J. Murray, c.s c., present trustees of the order, and Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., present chaplain of the K. of C.
The University of Notre Dame Debate team, competing for the first time in the University of Texas Invitational Tournament, placed fourth in the event behind Marquette, Oklahoma, end Kansas respectively. Twenty-four colleges and universities made up the field of competition for the contest which was held April 13, 14 and 15 in Austin, Texas.
Jumping off to an impressive start, the Notre Dame second team, comprised of brothers Thomas and Peter- Ninne-man of Tomah, Wis., won its first three encounters, finishing the tournament with a record of five victories and four defeats. The brother-duo further distinguished themselves by defeating Saint Edward’s University of Austin, Texas, in an exhibition match.
The reason the first team did not make the Texas trip, stated Coach Leonard F. Sommer of the Department of Speech, was the intense preparations they have underway for the Fourth Annual West Point National Invitational Tournament to be held this week-end at the U. S. Military Academy. William Carey, Pittsburgh, Pa., and William Dempsey, New Ulm,
April 28, 1950
Boxing coach Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano is surrounded by autograph hunters at banquet tendered by Knights of Columbus for all who took part in *50 Bengal Bouts.
35