--·-·---• 
I . TOUCHED BY, A·MULE:' JAM ·sAN·o TA.,K_ES THE. STATE~ . ' . . . BOWLERS RALLY IN THE ALLEY 
f \ # • • -• .._ • • • :, •;, " • I,. • ,/ --• •, • • -, • I • 



» Presidential Endorsement by Scholastic Staff 18 
» Methods for March Madness by David Murray 24 

» Bowling for Domers by Peter Keefe 25 
From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 27 ND Notebook 6 Week in Distortion 30 Campus Watch 19 Calendar 31 Splinters 22 Final Word 32 

,>· 
·-"~: ._'., ·.,_ ._ -,~::-·__ 
"" 

look for 
ISSUE 10 
on 

FEB 20 


I Have a Plan! 
We've been electing student body presidents and vice presidents since we were, what, nine years old? You remember those grade-school contests. Parents designed the best posters. Billy traded you his sour cream and onion chips for three Oreos and your support on election day. If your best friend heard you weren't going to vote for her, she waited on the playground to change your mind ... with a fistful of sand. From all ofthis, we learned an important lesson: A poli­tician without a strategy is like the child who walks up to the cool kids' table with a lunch box instead of a lunch bag. Can you say "reject," Thermos Girl? In fourth grade, convinced that I had the savvy to make it in the world of el­ementary-school politics, I ran for student body treasurer. I lost. Later that year, I created a potential mascot for my class. I presented it. And lost. The next year, in a display of Susan Lucci-esque endurance, I ran for homeroom representative. I was elected -the alternate. Alternates do not get to sit at the aforementioned Table ofCoolness with the other student council types. But I was patient. And one sweet, sweet spring afternoon, when our regular rep was out sick, I helped choose the waterpark for fifth grade Splish-Splash Day. It was a proud moment. "Biding one's time" is a popular political strategy, and most of the candidates Scholastic interviewed for this issue plan to employ it if elected. They know they will have to work long and hard to get the university to even begin to consider their proposed changes. This reality also inspires voters to engage in some strategizing of their own: They abstain from voting to protest the actions of an administration that is more responsive to rich alumni than it is to students. I, however, have a different plan for election day. I will vote for the candidates that best represent my views. And I will vow that ifthe university doesn't give the winners' proposed changes fair and reasonable consideration, it won't get a penny from me after I graduate. My boycott will continue until the administration begins to take student opinion seriously. Employ this strategy yourself, and you will be­come one of the founding members of a coalition between current students and alumni who care about more than the prestige of having their names on a donor list. You might think my strategy is too idealistic, and that this kind of cooperation will never occur. I respect your opinion and probably will let you escape sand-free next time I see you on the playground. But you still should check out our election coverage, which begins on page 9. All the cool kids are reading it. 

Cristin Fenzel, Executive Editor 
Vol. 144, No. 09 • 06 FEB 2003 

SCHOLaSTIC 
Editor in Chief Sarah Childress 
Managing Editor 
~ 
Jessica L. Daues 
: Executive Editor 1 ; Cristin E. Fenzel 
f '. Assistant Managing Editor_ [ : Annie Robinson 
1 iNews 
! Mike Borgia : Christopher Kelly Jim Ryan 
' Campus Life iSean Dudley, editoriNick Kolman-Mandie, assistant 
'Sports i Jimmy Atkinson, editor i Gerard J. Meskill, editor j David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment Carrie E. Sweeney, editor : Tracy Evans, assistant Matt Killen, assistant 
Departments Jennifer Osterhage, editor ' Meghan Gowan, assistant 
Design Ryan Greenberg, editor 
Eric Doversberger, creative director 
David Redenbaugh Tekla Sauter 
Photography Mike McNary, editor Liesl Marx, assistant 
Graphic Design Maryn Necel, editor 
-Copy Cecilia Hadley, chief Kelly Faehnle, assistant Jen Belliveau Mo Ertel Claire Hadley 
' DistrfbulioniMike McNary, manager 
-
~eut;i~:s;_ Polish, manager Mary Ursu, manager 
Onflne
!
. Chad Sharon, manager 
Adviser Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
-·: Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame : and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, i46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is !Copyright© 2003. All rights reserved. No contents of 
this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. I've got a cane and I'm not afraid to poke you with it. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic 
: magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN ; 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must ibe received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All , letters must include the writer's name, address and : phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will -be withheld upon request in certain instances. ; Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. 
-i Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after 
' publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or. the student body. 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
06 FEBRUARY 2003 

7,500 copies of Scholastic distributed twice a month: 7,500 chances to make a difference 
-


I­<( 
_J 
I 


p Applications are due February 13th. Pick up. yours by the Scholastic office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. .·  
Editor in Chief Managing Editor Executive Editor Assistant Managing Editor News Staff Campus Life Editor Assistant Campus Life Editor Sports Editor Assistant Sports Editor Entertainment Editor Assistant Entertainment Editor Depart~ents Editor Assistant Departments Editor Design Editor Creative Director Design Staff Photography Editor Assistant Photography Editor Graphic Design Editor Copy Chief Assistant Copy Chief Distribution Manager Business Manager Online Manager  -For more info e-mail: scholast@nd.edu or call: 1-7569  
/ -­" '  


It's hard to put a price on good taste. How does $2.99 sound? 
The Bacon Cheeseburger Value Meal. 


............................................... 
. . 
. 



University Resources • ••• for Gay, Lesbian, ~ 
Bisexual Students 

THE STANDING COMMfrT.EE ON GAY AND LE'.SBIAN 5TUDE~T NEEDS 
., 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidentialjnfonnation, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student 
members (see web site for student contact info.) 


Office of Campus Ministry· 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students · and their friends; pertinent library resources in ..• 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3l@nd.edu 

University Counseling Center 
•• ••• •• ••••••• • •• •· 
(Individual counseling) 

Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen 
Lafferty at Lafferty.3@ng.edu 

1. 
;• . For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/---scglsn/

:: .. 
• .•· 
-

.. ,..................:.......................................... 


:ffl No Extra Dollars for D6fl Administration shelves plan to charge students and employees more for parking 

COLLEENGANEY 

Thanks to budget concerns plaguing the university; Notre Dame students still will have to shell out only $89 for a campus parking decal. The university recently tabled plans to raise the decal price to $100 for students. Students aren't the only drivers who would have felt their pockets getting lighter: The plan also proposed to charges employees a parking decal fee of$25. This would have marked the first time in university history that employees would pay for parking. Under the plan, employees also could spend between $250 to $350 to reserve spaces in more convenient lots, such as Al and Bl6. The $25 fee could be paid as a lump sum or in 50-cent weekly installments for those employees who, like the university, have felt the claws of economic downturn scratching at their pockets. The university planned to use the difference in price to fund longterm plans to construct parking lots near Ave Maria Press on Douglas Road behind campus and in the radio tower lot near Notre Dame Stadium, which currently serves as the student tailgating area. Shuttle services also would have been expanded to accommodate students. 
"The administration realizes that [the policy] was not particularly popular," says Matt Storin, vice 
president for news and information. But he says plans were scrapped primarily because of concerns over the university budget problems, not public outcry. 
In fact, the policy was proposed to recover maintenance costs, not make a profit. Because of the recent decrease in its endowment and incoming donations, Notre Dame no longer has the same amount of funds to devote to plowing and salting campus parking lots. 
Storin says that the proposal has not been rejected, but merely filed away until Notre Dame has more financial flexibility. "[The administration] will wait until the cost-cutting is complete," Storin says. At the earliest, this parking policy will be · reconsidered at the beginning of the 2003­2004 academic year. D 


Ten Questions 
with the owner of Fiddler's Hearth ... 


CAROL MEEHAN 
Fiddler's Hearth quickly has grown in popularityfor its combination ofCelticfood and drink with a cozy atmosphere. The restaurant and pub, open since October ofthis year, has become a favorite for those who prefer a more relaxed evening with friends, or the opportunity to take in some authentic Celtic tunes entertainment. Scholastic was able to steal owner Carol Meehan away from serving up another Guinness to hear her philosophy on service Irish-style. 
Why did you choose an Irish Pub as the theme? 
My husband is Irish and I'm Scottish...my son started playing bagpipes when he was 12 and has been to the world championships in Glasgow. It's really more ofa personal thing, and having Notre Dame here is convenient, but coincidental. 
How did you select the name 'Fiddler's Hearth'? 
I wanted it to sound warm and very clearly a place ofmusic. The one instrument that seems to be common to all ofthe Celtic nations is the fiddle, so we liked that idea. 
Where did you get your inspiration for the more authentic menu items, and what's the favorite choice so far? 
We got a lot of it from our own visits to Scotland and Ireland, and other pubs in the Midwest that we frequent. The favorite is fish 'n' chips, withaclosesecondbeingshepherd's pie. 
How authentic is your Irish 


"I know people in theology always feel they need to start off with how much they love Jesus.'' > -theology professor, on writing 
papers 

"When grandma spills red wine on the white.tablecloth, you say, 'Good job.'·" · 
-overheard student on table etiquette 
"There are people who read Plato and there are people 
who go to Corby's and act like swine." 

> 
-philosophy professor 
> 
"One of them is hot; the other one I could be friends with." -overheard student, talking about ·· his study-group prospects 
happenings from around the nation. The . September 8, 1994 issue ofScholastic tells · of Oak Grove International, a company that specialized in caskets decorated with the colors ofthe "user's" alma mater. 
Oak Grove decided to "capitalize on the casketmarket"withthis innovativeproduct. The company's Web site reveals that these "alumni caskets" still are available. The article urges anyone who is a true Notre Dame fan to investin a blue and gold, fight­song playing casket with the leprechaun etched on top. 
Both the article and Web site fail to mention the prices of these fine products,skirtingthefact thatthe additional features make them much more expensive than standard caskets. Why anyone would want to spend that much money on something that goes in the ground never to be seen again is beyond me. Besides, the true Notre Dame:lover would know the university would rather see that money in the fonn ofa donation. 
-Jennifer Osterhage 

Day this year? Monday will be our big day ofcelebration .._. and the one thing that we will have that will be special will be corned beef and cabbage. We don't have it on our menu because it's actually not Irish; it's a concoction of the New Englanders. 
Many people have praised the mood of Fiddler's as a pleasant alternative to the more hyperactive and crowded dance clubs. Do you agree? 
Yes.... We've laid in a supply ofbooks and games, and we encourage people to pull tables together to play the games. And they do that. ... Weneverevenhadtotell them! We want to make it a place that everyone cangather, not just 21 and older. 
-Tracy Evans 

There are several focal bands that play traditional Celtic music. .. . We have entertainment Friday _and Saturday, and Wednesdays we have open-mike night. 
What is your reaction to the recent underage bust of Boat Club? 
I can sympathize with [the bar owners] but you have to be willing to give up revenue to gain control. We've just recently seen a lot of students hitting us late in the evening. We now are shutting things down at 10:00 at the door and controlling how many people are in here. 
What is your policy then for underage patrons? Are you implementing a 21 and older policy on the weekends? 
It doesn't mean that [ underage patrons] don't [ever] getin. Itmeans thatwe are checkingIDs at the door [on crowded nights] because we have so many people in here that it's hard for the servers and bartender. 
Are you tolerant of underage kids patronizing your pub? 
If we feel that we have a problem, [like] if it's too full or ifwe have a large bar crowd here that we don't thinkwe can manage, [then no]. 
How big is your restaurant business? 
The majority of our revenue comes from the food because that's the only way we can maintainthe atmosphere as a public house and not a bar. 
What are your plans for St. Patrick's 
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 7 

\!i 

I' 
•~i_
ii 
I 1I 
! 
IJudgment Calls Opinions and observations 

3/4=28% 
Instead of spending $10,000 on 
feel-good stats, Student Activities 
could have sponsored a non­
alcoholic activity for those three­
quarters -one that doesn't 
involve needlepoint. But they 
didn't. Go figure. 
t 
KEENAN REVUE 
We expected a few low blows, especially at St. Mary's students, but did they have to slam Christo­pher Reeves? 

NEW RECKERS SAND­
WICHES 
I go in, hungry for a turkey and cheese deli sandwich. What do I get? A pita-like bread pocket filled with giant chunks of chicken. Maybe I'll run for student-body president on the platform to bring back the old sandwich. Hey, I bet if I bug the administration about it every day, they'll recognize that the real power is in the students' hands. 
... VALENTINE'S DAY A holiday glorifying the beauty of inter-gender relationships has no place being celebrated at Notre Dame. 
t 
STONEHENGE LIBERATION 
Finally, our favorite war memorial is freed from the clutches of construction workers and their scary cranes. 

_.___________________________________________________ 
IDomelights COMPILED BY MEGHAN GOWAN 


NOTEBOOK 
ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLY 


A new movie reminds viewers just how contrived the new wave of reality really is 
IMATTKILLEN 
certainly is ironic that the weekIt 
Confessions ofa Dangerous Mind, the 
biopic of television producer Chuck Barris' bizarre life, debuted in theaters nationwide, television's top shows included The Bachelorette, Joe Millionaire and American Idol. 
Barris pioneered reality television as the mind behind The Dating Game and The Newlywed Game, the first shows to exploit romantic relationships in front ofa national television audience. 
worst amateur performers in the ago. nation. 
Decades later, these themes still are the center of many television programs. The Bachelorette and Joe Millionaire push the simpleDating Game concept to an extreme. Contestants ofthe old show competed for a date or trip, but these shows feature people looking to bag a spouse -preferably a rich one. Competitors are eliminated through elaborate rose-and-necklace ceremonies where the tears flow and the losers are as shallow as kiddie pools. 
The film Confessions is based on Barris' own 'unauthorized autobiography,' a book in which Barris claims to have been a game show producer by day, CIA assassin by night. The film has a surreal quality to it, painting Barris' life/fantasy in the same absurd yet fascinatill'g reality that characterized the shows he produced. 

Source: Bill Thistlethwaite, Landscape Services 
I 
JJ: 


That same dye is cast in the modem-day, super-sized successors to Barris's shows. American Idol takes The Gong Show idea of amateur performance on a public stage and sets itinacompetition for money and national recognition. Instead ofbeing gonged offthe stage by B-list celebrities, however, Idol contestants are lazily derided by a panel of bored judges. 
But a different quality in these modem shows make them distinct from Barris' breed. Battis, his life and his 

Hewasthecreatorand The Bachelorette, Joe shows, all had only a host of The Gong Millionaire and American Idol semi-serious attitude Show, a memorable lack the light-hearted fun and aboutthem.Attheirheart, showcase for the best craziness that characterized they were comedic game and entertainingly their predecessors 30 years shows that never took 
themselves all that seriously. 
The Bachelorette, Joe MillionaireandAmericanidollackthelight­
hearted fun and craziness that characterized their predecessors 30 years ago. Instead, they feature hyper-dramatic elimination 

. rounds, strung out for the greatest possible manipulative effect. Confessions has fun with Barris's life in the same way that Barris seemed to have fun with his game shows -by understanding that what was 'real' was nothing more than entertainment. The-current successors ofthose lighter shows don't grasp this concept, and the result is a series ofdisturbing melodramas drained of any real fun. So while tears are shed over the rose petals of rejection, in Confessions, Barris spends his free time on covert assignments for the CIA. What could be more real than that? D 
No one likes to have their sweet slumber disturbed by grinding, blowing, scraping snowplows at 3 a.m. However, most students do enjoy de-iced slush-free sidewalks to ameliorate their early morning navigation through the tundra from cozy dorm room to DeBartolo. Who is responsible for the 3 
a.m. clatter? The men and women of Landscape Services. 
After a snowfall, time the de-slushing process begins: about Grinding, blowing, scraping equipment: four brooms, five pick-up 
1:30 a.m. trucks, five dump trucks, and three loa.ders. Time snow removal complete: 7 a.m. Amount of liquid de-icer dumped on sidewalks: 1,000 gallons. Approximate number of men that work night shift: 21. Amount of snow removed after an average snowfall: 15 tons. 






i~----------------------------------------.­
8 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 



It's time again to elect the heads of next year's student government. Scholastic sat down with the six pairs -and one triumvirate ­running for student-body president and vice president. To help sort out what's what and who's who, we gave the candidates 40 minutes each to talk about their platforms and favorite dining-hall item. Read on to see what they said. And when it come_s time to vote on Feb. 10, choose wisely. 

MIKEBOTT 

MIKEKIRSH 
page 10 

CHARLIEEBERSOL LAURENMEAGHER 
page 11 

RYANGAGNET JOHNMcCARTHY 
page 12 



PATHALLAHAN JEREMYLAO 
page 13 

-JOEMUTO MIMIMATKOWSKI 
page 14 


MATTPADBERG DAVIDRAIL 
page 15 
DREWUPDIKE ER1cTARNOWSKI 
page 16 
OURENDORSEMENT ra PASTYEAR page 17 page 
}i?:;·.)/'.::~ 

:_ iboutan;on~campus issue that's largely ignored. ,!i:fli"kt (Hallahan/Lao) 
. benefit< J"ieredsystem for Res life--'-' Having separate ~?tnei/ \_ ooatds of review for different levels of Reslife (\-} / .-yi6lat.fo11.s is pract.ic:al andfairfor astudent body ' }? forced into a ..flawed blanket system. (Muto/ 
_ryiatko_w~ki) · · 
·-J\nl"ostidin,prov~ments­lt's fhespringtime tradition thati'~s~!d-;; many dcrn't, even recognize 
'ntaf[m·•-~-ernsC.-aiiy111ore: Are_vamp would get ­p~ople 9utpfthe dorms after a "/:t~ilL: I phg>, 'iin.te r ,', hibernati On. (Llpdike/r arn,owski)-­
'rli~/fyrail'lid ----Replacing Stepfmn Cent~r with a massive . :/eplica of· one· of-_the Giza 


11J~ii1~ii~fitf(ti:!iit:tI!:e:%
'ne~r;F ,en;lave ;Donny Osmond and 
·.,.; ·, ,·,_, ; . ·f·. , ..... , . ~-.. . . ' ­
We asked the candidates to use "defenestration" in a sentence without giving them the definition. What would you have said? 
defenestration: (de-fen'e-stra'shen) noun. 

Dick Clark to build them. (The Triumverate) 
National newspapers in the DH -Fox "News" Channel in Lafortune just doesn'_t cut it. The university should put papers like The New York Times and The Washington Post in the dining· halis as a public service. (Ebersol/Meagher) 
06 FEBRUARY 2003 SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 



I. 
"Realistic ideas, Immediate action." 

though he served as Alumni Hall 
president this year,junior Mike Bott 
on-siders himself an outsider to stu­dent government. And that isn't a bad thing, he insists. Bott and his running mate, sopho­more Mike Kirsh, believe that their relative inexperience with student government has al­lowed them to keep in touch with what the students desire. "We are normal students, not in student government," Bott says. Both work as campus DJs and participate in campus ser­vice. 
Much of their platform revolves around drawing students back to on-campus events. "The administration is pushing people away from campus," Bott says, and the need exists for alternatives to SUB-and Flipside-spon­sored events. 
In order to spice up the campus social scene, the pair would tum to improving LaFortune Student Center. Though they admit they need to conduct more research on many of their proposals for LaFortune, Bott and Kirsh want to give students more reasons to hang out on campus: Namely, they want more restaurants, a bowling alley and a dance club in LaF ortune. They do not see this future establishment in­fringing on Legends, the renovated Alumni­Senior Bar which will break ground this sum­mer and open next fall. Though these plans do not appear immediately feasible, the pair says these are their most important planks. 
Bott and Kirsh propose alternatives to the possible Flex IO plan. Although they have not spoken with Food Services about their pro­posals, the pair believes giving students more dining flexibility is necessary. Some of their ideas include a "block meal option," similar to off-campus students' plans, and turning unused meals into Flex points at the end of every week. 
The ticket views the current structure ofstu­dent government as a failure, pointing out that the student body is not adequately represented. Bott and Kirsh believe the Campus Life Coun­cil needs increased student representation. They also promise to push for the return of signature dorm events, such as the Alumni Wake and O'Neill's Mardi Gras. The pair says the dorms deserve more funds and better ven­ues for such events. They plan to work with administrators on a campus-wide dance for the end of the school year that could help bring back social life to campus. 

Bott and K.irsh's Career Mentoring and Networking Program stresses capitalizing on alumni connections. The program would begin when students are freshmen, pairing them with upperclassmen who have the same major or career goals. Bott and Kirsh believe this pairing would simplify the class registration process for new students. The second tier of the program would rely heavily on contacts through Notre Dame alumni clubs. Bott and Kirsh believe that increasing alumni club involvement would assist students in finding internships and post-graduate work. 
Although Bott and Kirsh believe TCE re­sults should be published, they expressed concern over the benefits of such a move. Both said they believe students are too harsh. in their feedback, and that the suggestions represent the "extreme opinions" of a few students. 
Bott and Kirsh propose several ideas that differ from other platforms. The two want to move the ROTC Pass and Review military ceremony from Loftus to South Quad and would allow potential protestors, such as Pax Christi, a sectioneq-off area to demonstrate. They envision bleachers running down both sides ofthe quad to encourage the public to view the ceremony and support the 15 per­cent of Notre Dame students involved in ROTC. 
The two also propose that Food Services create a Hot Grab 'n' Go option, allowing stu­dents to take a to-go container through the dining hall and select a certain number ofhot items. 
Making sure every dorm is outfitted with printers is really a "convenience issue," says the pair. Kirsh points out that this would alle­viate congestion in campus computer clusters at peak times. 
Bott and Kirsh see the need for a shuttle to off-campus apartments as the least feasible option given the university's current budget crisis. Still, the two would like to see the shuttle run every hour to Tu~le Creek, Castle 
. . 
·Mi.ke Bott 
iJriior . . .· 
&1arketing · Alumni Hall,· 


~·:~,?PRES-IDE NT

,,,,,J!s~~~o~:~. . 
,aj9rfFinance/History '·:,•~'-··,-:it.10t:~i-•·Ha_ll 
PNALITY 
JenE:!s~ration" in a 
';. , . 
•e. 
· ·tore team's name is rition?>·... d)o ~at ~·ne dining-hall the rest of your life, uld it be? 
ii' <~~ib.ee.r floa~. ''I'll throw in here ifyou'H allow it." 
.iritchi~ With: rainbow r.. Js}iThat'i your dairy lftu'~rtt. Ifyot,1 get a cone, you '•·,,i1:;~.the.~rain/' 
~.::·;· 
,,~~~~~t . . 
)(renovations 
-:portant. 'i(shuttle to accomodate .-s::~t~dent~ . 
•\::/:,,:.::.····. -_: ·-'· '· ~­


:,(:_ 
r~al stud~nts looking to -·• ~• s of real students." 
·:--:· . 

Point, College Park and Lafayette in order to provide upperclassmen with a safe and inex­pensive mode oftransportation. 
Kirsh says that, with the possible exception ofexpanding LaFortune, ''we are not asking for things that can't be done." The pair be­lieves all ofits planks can be achieved simply by re-allocating existing student government funds. "We· are just real students looking out for the needs ofother real students," Bott says. 
-Annie Robinson

.• 

]!I,~----------------------------------------------------­
10 SCHOLASTICNEWS

;. MELECTION 2003 
"Make the choice. See the change."
Charlie Ebersol and Lauren Meagher hope to bring fresh ideas and an en­thusiastic spirit to the Office ofthe 
President. 
Although neither has served in student government, they both believe they have solid leadership experience. Presidential candidate Ebersol has co-founded and led two companies, including the Changing Times Foundation, a non-profit organization started by Notre Dame students. Ebersol also is no stranger to the administration and ath­letic department, as he worked closely with them this past football season to implement his idea for the green shamrock posters that were displayed by fans during the games. 
Vice-presidential candidate Lauren Meagher has served as a board member and project leader for the Student International Business Council, worked as a student tutor and been involved with the Investment Club and campus service group Circle K. 
"I feel that as part ofstudent government, I should work to improve the extracunicu­lar, the things outside the classroom," Meagher says. This view is evident in the pair's various plans to improve social life and foster a campus community. 
One of Ebersol and Meagher's most am­

, bitious planks is to bring high-profile enter­tainment and events to campus. Popular bands, comedians and nationally-televised "town hall" meetings, where s·tudents would discuss cunent events with politicians, ac­tivists and actors, are all part oftheir plans for improving student life. Some might ques­tion the feasibility of such a plank, but Ebersol sees this plan as well within the university's ability and budget, citing its name recognition, national identity and cor­porate connections. For example, the two say that they have already spoken with the presi­dent ofNBC and believe that the televised town halls could occur as early as next fall. 
The two also hope to get the students themselves involved in rejuvenating student social events. Their plans include a monthly dinner theater, opening and closing ceremo­nies for Bookstore Basketball and improved pep rallies through increased student input via an online poll. They incorporate Leg­ends, formerly Alumni-Senior Club, into their approach for improving student life by planning to use it as a venue to hold a variety of social events. 
Ebersol and Meagher's platform also tack­les the problems that dorms have experi­enced in planning and financing hall dances. They promise to work closely with the newly-created Total Dance Resources orga­nization (TDR) which, according to Ebersol, combines all the possible resources for dances, such as possible venues, and cater­ing prices, and organizes them so as to al­low dorms to pay discounted rates. Also, TDR will alleviate pressure on hall presi­dents and dance commissioners by helping to plan events and find necessary funds. 
Although Ebersol and Meagher do not know where they ultimately will stand on the return ofin-hall dances, they hope to dis­cuss the issue further with administrators and students and believe that their plan will ef­fectively represent student opinion. "TDR is a direct channel to the administration," Meagher says. "It's a way to let the admin­istration know that SYRs are still an impor­tant tradition," Ebersol says. "Students want hall dances to be an important part of[ cam­pus life] and we do too." 
Other essential planks of their platform include various improvements to the First Year of Studies program and the institution of an improved student advising system. They believe the cunent system in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters is inadequate and hope to begin laying the groundwork for a new program modeled after the one used by the College of Business, which offers pro­fessionals employed solely for advising. 
Also in the academic plank, the two plan to work with OIT and the registrar to im­prove the system for class registration, to distribute national newspapers in the dining hall in order to heighten awareness of na­tional and global issues, to create new op­tions for the math and science requirements and to work with the theology department to increase the number of available theol­ogy electives. They also would propose the administration ofteacher-course evaluations (TCEs) in the middle ofthe semester as well as at the end, allowing professors to make 
ENT 
Jri11=: Charlie Ebersol · l;iss:S6phomore \ijoi-: Film, Television & Theatre· d'rm: Keough Hall 
:;-;::·:· • •• _-, <" 
f~f{~(C E PRES I D E N T 
,/i'\Narrie: Lauren Meagher 



J:!lt~~t/~t~~ce
/;{qSi-m: Turtle Creek 


,,,~,::ttt~ir:e~•tee~~t~!;o:" in a 
ji[~~nJ¢nce. 
:1;%:rt:1§s,.tPr~sidential candidates are >;t§A:Wefence, but we're ~~1f~n<:stration." 
}:iI[y~u:tlad to eat one dining-hall 1::it~m for the rest of your lite, tftiit'wo1ld it be? 
·irs()I; Waffles. "So Ican stare at f'Notr~Dame emblem." '~'agher: Chicken fingers. 

§:k:·s ••.~--­
'·~§t ln1portant . Jva:rripiligacademic advising ~ist.Jtnportant · _ 
§Juhtary,swipe cards around the 
".~fi:iadded security 
'f-·:";,·· '' . ' 
.'c>TE. . 
uhpl~tform is] reasonable and 
'le/'. · 

adjustments while their classes are still meet­ing. 
With enthusiasm and a well-organized platform, Ebersol and Meagher are certain to make a serious run forthe Office of the President this year. "We're about improv­ing student life immediately through reason­able and feasible means," Ebersol says. "We've already started working on many of our ideas and we want to create an atmo­sphere that everyone can get excited about." 
-Mike Borgia 

06 FEBRUARY 2003 SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 

"B. L.A. H. (Basically Lacking All Hope)"
"
It's hard to understand our vision," says 
the Triumvirate. "Sometimes we don't 
understand it at times." The Triumvirate's vision is mysterious at the very least. Refusing to refer to themselves by their real names throughout the inter­view, the candidates also protected their anonymity by donning red and blue ski masks. 
Aside from participating in dorm events and knowing their hall senators, the Tri­umvirate has little student council expe­rience, though it says that it "ran the elec­tions" last year. It was during those elec­tions that the Triumvirate became con­cerned about students who feel disenfran­chised by a lack of options. "There are a lot of students on this campus who don't want to vote for a serious candidate," the Triumvirate says. "We are running to give them a choice." 
The Triumvirate's dire campaign slo­gan, an acronym for "Basically Lacking All Hope," has not stopped it from mount­ing an ambitious and detailed platform. Tired of the many points that candidates typically include in their platforms, the Triumvirate has narrowed its focus to five planks: campus transportation, campus beautification, academic life, rule en­forcement and spiritual life. 
The focal point ofthe Triumvirate's cam­paign is its new campus transportation plan for a massive network ofunderground tun­nels inspired by the Chunnel connecting England and France. Students would travel to various campus locations by pumping handcarts on a single rail. To finance the expedition, cameras situated at the many blind turns throughout the network would videotape crashes. The tapes would then be sent to America's Funniest Home Videos, where they would be expected to win the show's weekly prize money. When asked about liability issues that might stem from such a system, the Triumvirate says, "The university has insurance." It says students would sign waivers before traveling through the tunnels. 
The Triumvirate's campus beautifica­tion plan includes removing "the disgusting golfball building" known as Stepan Center and replacing it with an exact replica of a pyramid at Giza. In the warmer months, students could enjoy a waterslide that would run down one face ofthe pyramid, while in the winter months it would serve as a slope for sledding. In an effort to defray costs and maintain its Egyptian authenticity, the pyramid would be constructed entirely by slave labor or a work-study program. The size of the structure is not a concern for the Trium­virate, which says, "If we have to close Juniper, we have to close Juniper." 

Disgusted by the university's selective enforcement of DuLac, the Triumvirate promises increased efforts in rule enforce­ment. They aim to focus on the little-known rule requiring students to carry their uni­versity ID at all times. The Triumvirate plans to establish military checkpoints across campus to be manned by "Navy SEAL-caliber personnel." "It will piss a lot of people off," says the Triumvirate, but it claims that this system will ensure that no student is caught without identification. The Triumvirate also promises to place machine­gun nests above every dorm to punish stu­dents who violate parietals. 
The Triumvirate's stance on spiritual life is very simplistic. "We like God," it says, "and the point is that we want everyone else to like God as well." The Triumvirate is open to deities other than the Christian God, though it says in regard to atheists, "We may try to pound this into [their] heads." The Triumvirate, however, asserts that admira­tion ofGod is "just a suggestion," not some­thing that could be enforced. 
The Triumvirate has chosen not to fo­cus on one of this election's most popu­lar issues. "We don't care about the alco­hol policy much," it says. "People are still having a good time, still drinking." It ac­knowledges that the policy must be do­ing some good: "Hospital visits are down." The Triumvirate has, however, formulated an aggressive plan to bring back SYRs. It calls for a siege ofthe Main 
m:.ESIDENT 
.!t~lwi}t~lnr Gagnet 
~il~r: l"lath/Classical Civilizations ' ';~&,:.Stanford Hall 
rF9E PRE s Io ENT 
;Jf!:le:.J{)hn McCarthy tla'.s~:,Junior · ,,c#i9r:·ft..~counting 
<~~~: Keough Hall 
«~' T~J)~d~fenestration" in a 
'.f}s~~(ence. . 
J~'@Ul1achine~gun nests are a .
~{rrlary source of defenestration." 
J;•y~,u ,hadto eat one dining-hall tliih;l.'\for the rest of your life, '~tl'Would it be?
"-·::•:,,r:\:-:~·>:?.'·'.. :::·::_.,_ ·.:.·.. ]kci~t:.y?w-fat ranch dressing. ·• gE~r,thy:The nasty goop by the t~i2~f1food. 



,}-Wfrtant 
, '·e.;Ji:hun11el · 
:lf Important 
~d1ng,s,tudents


t~~;~.,$i .·• . 
~F\'Yer:erunning tor ,iB{gpyernment, we would jf!:fo'.ypll.''. (The Simpsons)
·.:;_,;:,::t.·-;,. ·,_-.:. 

Building, claiming that ifthe student body can starve the administration, the admin­istration would have no choice but to al­low SYRs. When asked about the feasi­bility of such a siege, the Triumvirate says, "We haven't thought about that." 
The Triumvirate implores the indifferent student to vote for them. After all, the Trium­virate says, borrowing a line from The Simpsons, "If you were running for student government, we would vote for you." 
-Jim Ryan 


12 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

ief ELECTION 2003 

"Students first."
W ith a combined five years of experience in student govern ment, Pat Hallahan and Jer­
emy Lao have seen firsthand what is required to lead the student body. As current chief of staff to President Libby Bishop, Hallahan has coordinated with Bishop and Vice Presi­dent Trip Foley on a number of issues, in­cluding the revised alcohol and in-hall dance policies. Together with his running mate, sophomore class president Jeremy Lao, the two are running a campaign based on mu­tual experience. Says Lao, "We've gotten to know how the system works. We know who to talk to." 
The pair's platform is organized into six categories which address both student needs and bettering the university on the whole. 
Part of a plan to improve student life, Hallahan and Lao consider the fight for the return of SYRs to the dorms an extremely important part of their campaign. In contrast to Bishop and Foley's current method ofusing the Board of Trustees report to inform the trustees about the dances, Lao and Hallahan would directly recommend to the administration that the dances be reinstated. "It was a real slap in the face to have the dances taken 
· away when the university promotes dorm life so heavily," Hallahan says. The two contend that, especially with the revocation of hard alcohol, students are mature enough to handle dances in the halls. "Wewould work with the university to address concerns with the old in-hall dance setup, but be unyielding on the point that we want these dances back in the hall," Hallahan says_. The candidates also would push for the publication ofteacher course evaluations. "Teachers not only need to see where they're going wrong, they need to be held accountable," Hallahan says. He hopes the growing number of peer institutions that release evaluations will help convince the university to publish its TCEs. Hallahan and Lao also hope to make students' course selections more flexible for freshmen and to provide better advising in all areas. The candidates will work at 
both the college and departmental level to provide more personalized advising. College advisors would be more proactive in updating students on requirements and letting them know what track the students need to follow in order to graduate. At the departmental level, advisors would help students determine post-graduation plans. 
Looking beyond life at ND, all students would have the opportunity to meet with an alumni mentor in the student's field who could offer them relevant advice. The pair also plan to provide programs that would help ease the transition out of college by teaching students basic life skills, such as avoiding bankruptcy and maintaining proper business etiquette. 
Hallahan and Lao also have broader objectives. They propose several discussion-centered, one-credit courses to increase recognition of diversity issues. These courses, along with more open coffeehouse-style dialogues, would expand students' awareness of different cultures. 
The two say they are committed to making changes not only within the university but for the larger community as well. According to U.S. News and World Report, Notre Dame ranks No. 6 among national universities in service. 
Hallahan and Lao hope to boost this rating to No. 1 over the next few years. They would do so in part by asking local groups, such as the Kiwanis Club, to help subsidize the transportation costs of service programs which have had trouble in the past year defraying the increased cost of renting the Center for Social Concerns vans used to shuttle students to off-campus projects. 
They also are taking steps to further publicize the actions of student government by releasing its financial records. "We want to show you how your money is being spent and create a new avenue ofconstructive criticism for what we do. These are our books. We create our own budget. Getting it out will not be difficult," Lao says. 
"We tried to find a balance between ·1'ri1~: PatHallahan 
J~ls:Jullior :ajor:Political ·science ~rm.: Sorin Hall 
/fr-.-~-:-·.-· 
ICE PRESIDENT 
;'1@~: J~remy Lao .•.J~s{.sophomore _ttla'j91-:'Fin~nce/Chinese
,i~f~: Stanford Hall 
;it~RSO N AL I TY 
·•·•· J~ ''defenestration" in a 
,,,;,-.·.:.,,._..._ 

,.:di~~e,~!ence.. 
,.,;;,,,,{~_ast:vyeek, !signed up for a :~~f1,fo§stration class at the Rock." 
u:y:ouhad to eat one dining­H~1JJtE!m for the rest of your i_iif;)vhat would it be? 
~llahantA hamburger. "The 

~isic'..·· 
'.q:\Sti~fry. "Beef with red .~P·er-s.; some onions, Szezchuan tlce:,.rc()uld have it every day." 
r.:tr·.;·:_:-.: 
.As. ·.· 

tlrnportant 
\6tNoti-e Dame no. I in





i.~e_)C· .. 

t Important 
in}the·cHning halls 
.• ,.-. -•·· ·~ • 
.:,..1: 
Y¥§µIdH.ke to maximize the 
tiaf.ofthe students of this -~~ity..bY ~hallenging both the ht~ and the administration to &~~for each other and the 
--~--~/;.:::,-::\</:_'._, ·: ' , 
;:.~//i"/'/. 

ambition and providing the little things," 
,\

Lao says of the campaign. The two say they realize they cannot 
accomplish everything in one year, but 
they want to lay the foundation oflasting 
changes, making their administration, in 
the words of Lao, "far-reaching." -Eileen Varga 
06 FEBRUARY 2003 SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 
"No slogans. No schmoozing. No bull." 
Lastyear, whenpeopletoldJoeMuto to run for student body president, he thought they were crazy. The junior from O'Neill was a vocal leader against the changes to the alcohol policy last spring, but never pictured himself as the head ofstudent government. But Muto, who served as dorm president last year, gave more consideration to the idea this year. He eventually decided to team up with Lyons Hall president Mimi Matkowski to make a serious push for the coveted Lafortune office. Two of the most important planks in the Muto-Matkowski platform are a call for the return of SYRs and a reversal of last year's alcohol policy. "I think th_e administration acted in haste, especially on the SYRs -banning them out of nowhere," Muto says. Matkowski says that as hall presidents, both she and Muto saw firsthand the effects of new dance policies and therefore know how to fight for a change. "I think they made a judgement without asking the people right at the core," she says. Muto says that they will ask for a probationary year in which the students would have the chance to prove that they are mature enough for in-dorm dances. ·concerning the alcohol policy, Muto says that the administration's course of action last year was the "lazy solution," because it did not address the root of the problem. "I don't feel that it has made Notre Dame a safer place," he says. Muto looks to amend the university's stance on hard liquor. "If a student is 21, he should be able to drink whatever he wants in his room," says Muto. Muto and Matkowski also say they have many creative ideas designed to brighten the Notre Dame social life. One ofthese is "Summer Send-Off," an all-day concert on South Quad at the end of the school year. Another idea is to host "Our Lady's Cup," a BillyMadison-inspired knowledge bowl for charity between the females of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. "There's been an unspoken rivalry [between ND and SMC girls], so why not turn it into something people can benefit from?" Matkowski asks. The duo also is planning a campus-wide Halloween costume contest. 


Matkowski wants to push for a type of food service in DeBartolo Hall, such as a "DeBart Bagel Cart." And to further students' food options on campus, Muto thinks the Senate should ask for more than just a "Flex 1O" meal plan: he wants even fewer meals and more Flex points. 
Addressing the issue of the growing number ofstudents moving off-campus, Muto and Matkowski want to set up an off-campus resource center which they say would serve as an "off-campus stall notes." 
A few ofthe pair's ideas are related to the Office of Residence Life and Housing. "ResLife doesn't even pretend to be fair anymore," Muto says. To combat this, the two aim to add at least one ot two students to the ResLife panel to give a student perspective to any incident at trial. They also want to establish a lower court in the ResLife system to handle less serious infractions. 
Related to these goals is the pair's desire to establish a representative for students who claim mistreatment at the hands of their hall staff. This representative would act as a liaison between the administration and students who believe they have been treated unfairly by an RA or rector. 
To many students, the most eye­catching aspect ofMuto's campaign will be his call for "an end to parietals in our time." He says everyone knows that parietals cannot be eliminated in one year. But with a lot ofwork, says Muto, "the class of 2006 should be able to graduate in a parietals-free environment." The ticket also is intent on providing a sibling exception to parietals. 
:dc.ietvluto
,~:~\RIT'.'felevlslon & :·,:;cO:Neill Hall · 
,••,·•' . ' 
·:E:'iP RESlD ENT 
..ii;J~~it}••~atk6\Y~ki 
~~(Marketing/Anthropology
'hi{'tip~s. Hall 




(R~,tii~i L I Ty .
!~}{f[!tri~~tration" in a 
!fWas ~11iu~lyscene as the victim 
-,. "i!~~!!rn:;-1lration hit _the 
-~ ,9_ij!ljij~Jc(eatone dining-hall ;;~m:rdl-the<rest of your life, h'aiw.ould it be? 1 
' 
it\~!\~f~)t nuggets: "Why ··_·9w~ki;\ld:1dedbaked potato: "I

fif;~~~9e_s:;, · 
~~-!~;
"'"'1'1ciw~~ri: co~tume contest 


·>>~~~~~:<::: . 
se.EfaJotof flaws in the ,·:ti'Y:fJ;;;'here to shake things 

Muto and Matkowski also want to develop a policy of "total transparency" with student government. "Student government in the past has been too much behind closed doors," says Muto. 
Dances and alcohol policies might fuel their campaign, but Muto and Matkowski won't stop there. They say they want to form interesting new traditions which will, in the words ofMatkowski, "help everyone just have more fun." , 
-Christopher Kelly 


14 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

ii'ELECTION 2003 

"More Flex points."
"Talkis cheap, and the Huddle is ex­
pensive. Let's have less talk and 

more Flex points," proclaims vice­presidential candidate David Rail, summing up the campaign of Rail and his running mate, presidential hopeful Matt Padberg. Padberg and Rail's platform is based on a single issue: Students need $20 to $30 more in Flex points each semester. 
After doing some research online, Padberg deduced that the Flex 14 plan, which gives students $230 in Flex points, amounts only to about two to three dol­lars per meal. He says that the amount is not enough for students to pay for meals at on-campus eating establishments. 
"With the addition of Subway, Sbarro and Starbucks at the Huddle, a student can go in there and easily drop five to six dol­lars on a small meal," Padberg says. "An addition of$30 might mean an additional six to seven meals per semester for a stu­dent." 
The pair plans to speak with Dave Pretkowski, director of Food Services, about the feasibility oftheir platform this week. 
Padberg recognizes that the university recently increased students' Flex points under the Flex 14 plan to $230 from $210. However, he does not consider it an un­realistic goal to have the administration raise it again, despite the university's widespread budget cuts planned for next year. 
Students pay more each year for tuition, he says, so it is within reason to ask the university to add more_ Flex points each year to a student's meal plan. 
"The bottom line is, students are here, and that's why the university exists," he says. "The most important thing is stu­dents because eventually we'll be alumni and donating to the endowment fund." 
In terms ofthe newly proposed Flex 10 plan, Padberg believes that the plan will only cost the university more money, and that it is largely unnecessary, because Flex 14 works well for most students. The problem with Flex 14, he says, is that stu­dents don't get enough Flex points to make up for their lost meals. His proposed increase will solve this problem. 
"Or maybe [the administration] could cut back Huddle prices," he says. "That could make a difference, too." 
The pair plans to accomplish their goal by going to different levels of the admin­istration and constantly reminding them of students' desires. 
"The administration wants to listen to students," he says. "They just need better student representation." 
Though neither Padberg nor Rail have any experience in student government, Padberg says he is very active in his dorm, Zahm Hall, and he doesn't foresee the pair's lack of experience to be a problem. · "You just have to be willing to do a lot of work," Padberg says. "And I know I already do that. And I definitely like to work with people." 
The pair plans to keep in touch with their fellow students by dropping by dorm rooms and getting residents' opinions firsthand. "I know students are busy with class and don't have time to go find the student body president, whoever it is, to talk about issues," Padberg says. "So I'll take time and go to them." 
Although the two have no planks be­sides the increase in Flex points, they see this singular focus as the strength oftheir campaign. 
"We noticed for awhile that when stu­dents are campaigning, they make lots of promises," Padberg says. "And only about halfofthem get done, maybe because they don't have time to get them all done, or they only try for half ofthem. We want to promise only one thing: More Flex points." 
"I'm not saying we're not going to do anything else," he adds. 
Padberg has only opinions, not planks, on other campus issues, such as return­ing SYRs to the dorm and publishing TCEs. "It's not about what I think; it's what the students think," he says. 
--_ · ENT 
f _f"latt Padberg _ 
?Sophomore 
r: Environmental Geosciences .?Za.hrn Hall 
·<;::-: 
rltiPR E s I o E N T 
ithe:•Pavid"Rail 
,,_ iais: Freshman 
:;::,17.;-:,_.::~~;;:.,::1-·:-<:_,· .:._ . . ' 
'.;:)]N:lajor: First Year of Studies 
-]~';'~':i,.•J<'.!;...·:'.·,: .;":"_:·,. :. ·. '.. ' -. . . .. ,
:&tQorm:ZahmHall


~Jf\., ..__--__ 
.. ,.,,,,,_jl:Jts.o NA L I Ty 
7f{(i~-e/'defenestration'' in a 
§~1g~ht:~fi~.~~---· 
. '~fe,hestration can be defined by "f,~n#j~g the student body in the a2~'6fthe administration."
li1~~ijfo~dtci eat~ne dining hall l~m)cfth"e rest.of your life, .CHat\vouid it be? -· _ 
l~15~rg: C:ra5l<lin Oat Bran. "You }9,g'.t~o'1a,ve it with milk: It's tasty. 1,yJc(f;~<l:Ye sqme banana on it ]?;::qr:would that be taking it too 
J/t(i&i'.h~akes'.· "You can eat )irkakes for dinner, but you can't ,;t}j~t::et~er things for . ­
···s·-•·---­
:Offop<{rt~nt ­oiht increase 
\li-nporj:ant 
plrcable 





~fo~.---·... · 
ecflex points.''
~-:t('.::--:"):(,,>-'.·::;'· _,-, ' 

If elected, the two plan to focus their attention on his Flex point plan because that is clearly what is foremost in stu­dents' minds. "Ifstudents care about Flex points, then they'll vote for us," Padberg says. "If you don't feel this is a worth­while issue, I'm not twisting your arm to vote for us." 
-Jessica Daues 

06 FEBRUARY 2003 SCHOLASTICNEWS 15 
"Don't fake the funk.'~ 
"Ithink we're a bit cooler than some of the other candidates," sophomore Drew Updike says about his campaign with 
fellow sophomore Eric Tarnowski. 
Instead ofattempting a broad platform with a multitude of planks, Updike and Tarnowski have limited their campaign to four goals. 
At the top of their platform is a plan to resuscitate the springtime tradition of 
AnTosta!. Updike says that while AnTostal 
used to be a major week-long campus event, the beleaguered tradition has died away in recent years. "Frankly, I think it's embarrassing," Updike says. The pair hope to distribute money for more inter­esting events during the week. 
"Instead ofgiving all this money to rep­tile shows and tie-dye demonstrations out on the quad, you go and give money to dorms and tell them that they need to do something that week that's going to be fun," Updike says. He plans to allow dorms to work together on events, such 
as mud volleyball tournaments. "Why 

don't we do something cool, where people get to touch each other? Why don't we lighten up and have a little freaking fun?" Updike says. "You can't run a campaign on a mud volleyball tournament, but it's that kind of bulls-that people want to do around campus." 
They also plan to address the types of meal plans offered by the university. "It's really unfair to charge the students more than you're expecting them to use," Tarnowski says. In response, Updike and 
Tarnowski would create a meal exchange 
plan. Under their plan, students would be able to convert unused meals each week into Flex points. While the current Flex 
14 plan theoretically equates each meal 
to $1.60, their plan would call for $5 worth of Flex points for each unused meal. The switch plan would be viable for up to four meals per week per student, a figure that adds up to approximately $570 per semester. "This plan sounds a little 
optimistic, doesn't it?" Updike says. The 
candidates plan to use this plan as a bar­gaining position. "They might agree to some middle ground, so you shoot a little bit higher than what you can," Updike says. "You're playing a game with them." 

The platform also includes improving the student seating in the JACC for bas­ketball games. Updike says that students aren't getting their money's worth with the current seating arrangement. Instead, Tarnowski says they would return to a style that was used 20 years ago, which that allows for more students to be closer to the court. 
Financial disclosure rounds out their campaign. They feel that student govern­ment ought to make its records open to the student body. Though they would push for financial disclosure, the pair admits· that most of the student body probably does not care about the issue. 
Their platform consists ofthese four is­sues and does not address any other spe­cific problems faced by the student body. 
Updike says that it simply was the idea of running that appealed to the pair ini­tially. "We just wanted to run, get the ex­perience of running for an office at school," Updike says. "But we started looking at some ofthe things student gov­ernment was doing here at the school, and we looked at our own stances on the is­sues." 
Though neither candidate has held an office in student government, both feel an outside perspective would be a key ad­vantage. "We're people who've been ac­tive on campus, but never on the student government side of things," Tarnowski says. Both candidates have served ,as so­cial commissioners for Zahm Hall. 
Updike says that this involvement gives them a fresh perspective. "We've put on some interesting social events," Updike says. They are co-founders of the Lepre­chaun Legion, a student spirit group that supports the basketball team during home games. "I go to campus events. I partici­pate in events around campus, feeling dif­ferent things out," Updike says. 
i1 Updike· 
·omore ~tA6ttfropology
H'-i\Half . 
·, ,, 
RESIDENT 
Tir~owski omore tJng. ·.·.·· 
ITY 
nestfation" in a 
::--:.)./\~·-.·: .. 
•:··· :.·.·.·.. 
~r' ~o BP the other night, ctress gave me 
titii?!:··.. ··• ,<'f6 eat one dining-hall hci r~s~ of yourlife,






'-~1•:~tbo. 
··. '· : " st so I would 
rtant · 
•. :pi-Jvements


o'rti}it 
~cia/records public 
:<=·::··,.:i:·::._..__ :.. 
, 
\~. •;:..-:· 
-~·-=.·:·. --­
-·--;_ ·: 
s done more for me : · · ·1cohol." 

However, Updike says that flexibility is an important characteristic ofany presiden­tial candidate. "You have an agenda, but as stuff comes up you're able to address it as ifit had been on your agenda," Updike says. 
For now, their agenda is limited to spe­cific ways to increase student activity at AnTostal and benefit students through Flex points and basketball games. "Ifwe won,:' Tarnowski says, "I think there are some re­ally cool things we could do." 
-Matt Killen 
16 SCHOLASTICNEWS 


MELECTION 2003 


Last spring, Libby Bishop and Trip Foley prepared to take office as the newly elected student body presi­dent and vice president, with a focus on improving communication with students and bringing variation to the meal plans. On March 18, however, less than two weeks before student government turned over, an e-mail from the administration to the entire student community set the stage for a continuing debate that thrust Bishop and Foley to the front lines of the argument. The change in the alcohol policy and the abolition of in-dorm dances quickly grabbed the attention ofstudents. Accord­ing to Bishop, it became a new major is­sue that she and Foley found especially frustrating. Bishop says that it has been tough to know "how to make the administration open to listening to students," especially in the case of the new alcohol policy. "I think the biggest thing we've done is really try to stand up and fight for stu­dents," Foley says. "That was something we had talked a lot about last year, that we were going to represent them, in tail­gating for example, and that was some­thing we worked on all during the sum­mer." Both are proud of their upcoming pre­sentation to the Board of Trustees-con­cerning the improvement of residential life on campus, includ~ng plans and ideas for new dorms and living options. While their administration has been dedicated over the past year to voicing student opinions on the new alcohol policy, they have not ignored their previ­ous priorities. Foley feels that communication be­tween the students and student govern­ment definitely has improved. "The [stu­dent] senators have_ been very helpful in letting us know what goes on," he says. "I think there has been an improvement there, trying to find out what students want and bringing that up to the right people." 
Throughout the year, the two visited every dorm on campus, talk­ing and listening to its residents. Bishop and Foley hoped to gain insight into the true concerns of Notre Dame's students. That endeavor, they believe, was very suc­cessful. "Basically, I let them complain to me," Bishop says, "and I learned a lot." 
-----------------------=--------=­
"We wanted to tell students everything. The tough part of that is that it takes up a lot of time, and after the first few months, we let com­munications slip." 
-Student Body President Libby Bishop 

week plus more Flex points than the $230 included in the Flex 14 plan. Late in Janu­ary 2003, Food Services was pessimistic about a Flex 10 plan, saying that it was not practical economically and that the university would like to keep dining halls at the center of students' eating lives. 
Bishop and Foley describe Food Ser­vices' reaction as disappointing, espe­cially because their proposal was a top priority. "We think it's important to the students," says Bishop. 
Adds Foley: "We tried to work with Food Services to try and be open about their budgeting issues and ways we could cut costs, and we've had a little difficulty there.... We're still going to keep fight­ing for it." 
With two months left in office -offi­cial administration change will take place April 1 -continuing negotiations on meal plans is only one issue that Bishop and Foley plan to tackle. In the works is a comprehensive.:_Online calendar which 
would let students know all the campus events to take place on any given date. 
~~~~~~~~""""'--The two also are working with the col­
Bishop's predecessor, Brooke Norton, had been criticized in the 2001-2002 aca­demic year for not fostering communica­tion between her office and the commu­nity. Bishop sought to change that, and while she does feel that the student gov­ernment office has better related their daily routine to students, she admits that the whole process could have been more creative. 
"We had such high hopes," she says, "We wanted to tell students everything. The tough part ofthat is that it takes up a lot oftime, and after the first few months, we let communications slip." 
Meal plan variety was another of Bishop and Foley's top priorities, both on the campaign trail and while in office. Both believe that a good amount of stu­dents would support a Flex 10 meal op­tion, providing 10 dining hall meals per lege deans on starting the Notre Dame Lecture Series, an endowed, student-run program to bring in famous speakers. They plan to let their work pass into the hands ofnext year's administration to see the projects through. 
Bishop and Foley also plan to work on the publication of TCEs, sponsor Black History Month events and hold focus groups for improving next year's pep ral­lies. They also will continue to put pres­sure on the topic of tailgating, hard alco­hol in dorms and the ever-pressing issue of in-dorm dances. 
Bishop and Foley are optimistic about making progress in their final months. "See­ing government input having an impact ... is very rewarding," says Bishop, "There are little rewards every day, the things that keep you going, and I think that has made the entire effort worthwhile." 
-Nick Kolman-lvfandle 

06 FEBRUARY 2003 SCHOLASTICNEWS 17 

!
i' I 



VOTE HALLAHAN / LAO 
The only ticket with the experience, energy and determination to get the job done 
Te student body's apathy finally has 
pread to student government. One 
week from the election, the only indi­cation there's going to be one is a few cam­paign posters taped up in donn bathrooms. Most ofthe candidates talk about the admin­istration as an automatic veto machine -or a deaf ear -when it comes to discussing their platforms. This year's candidates talk ofgetting something -anything-done. 
This year, vote for a candidate who not only wants to make changes, but knows how to do so. Someone who has watched the admin­istration stamp out proposals but still can for­mulate a new plan ofattack, and knows that real changes take longer than a single term to implement. 
This year, the only ticket that meets those standards is junior Pat Hallahan and sopho­more Jeremy Lao. 
Hallahan, chief of staff for Student Body President Libby Bishop, has a wealth ofex­perience from his work with the current stu­dent government administration. He's had the opportunity to see what works and what doesn't-especially in terms of the in-hall dance policy. Lao, as freshman class vice president and sophomore class president, also has experience battling red tape. Both have forged relationships with administrators key to the decision-making process. 
The pair's combined experience has al­lowed them to put together a thoughtful, well­researched platform, in which almost every proposal has been scrutinized for feasibility. The candidates would work with currently available resources, such as NDbay.com, to better student life rather than spend time and scant funding forming other committees.· 
Hallahan and Lao won't limit themselves to conventional dorm visits to gather student opinion. They plan to initiate petitions and e­mails asking for student support on issues. 
The candidates also emphasize account­ability. They want to publish student government's financial records because, they say, students should know what's going on. The candidates also advocate publishing teacher-course evaluations to encourage fac­ulty to focus more on students. 
Funding, especially in light ofrecent bud­get cuts, remains a problem for student gov­ernment. Hallahan and Lao would collabo­rate with student groups to streamline fund­ing, preventing costly overlap and combin­ing funds to sponsor better events. They also would appeal to donors and businesses for endowments to help service groups that can no longer afford to rent CSC vans for trans­portation to off-campus events. 

Perhaps as important as having a feasible platform is a realistic attitude. Hallahan and Lao recognize from experience that many ideas won't be accomplished this year. Plans to improve Lafortune and publish TCEs, for example, will take time to implement. Un­like the other candidates, this pair knows that they will be laying groundwork for many fu­ture changes -and they know how to do it. 
Charlie Ebersol and Lauren Meagher are brimming with optimism, but lack the experience to pull off the big changes they hope to see. Although they have held leader­ship positions in on-and off-campus groups, neither has student government experience. 
Perhaps their most ambitious plank con­cerns bringing high-profile entertainment to· campus by relying on the university's na­tional identity and corporate connections. But Notre Dame long has had a national identity and still can't hook big names: What student groups have consistently lacked is sufficient funds, which still aren't available. 
Unlike Hallahan and Lao, Ebersol and Meagher aren't sure where they stand on the in-hall dance policy, although they ultimately plan to represent student opinion. The pair 
says it wants to work with the administra­tion, but last year proved that the adminis­tration isn't interested in working with stu­dents. In the meantime, the pair would es­tablish a quick-fix committee to direct dance planners to already available resources, such as a Web site with dance venues and prices. The last thing students need is more bureau­cracy to plow through. 
Ebersol and Meagher want to publish TCEs, but don't seem to be aware ofthe time required to implement such a controversial change. They also would establish mid-se­mester reviews to keep professors improv­ing their courses along the way. 
The pair isn't in touch with student gov­ernment the way Hallahan and Lao are, and with Meagher already living off campus, it seems they'Il have an even greater challenge staying in touch with student needs and their office's obligations. 
Joe Muto and Mimi Matkowski are full ofcreative ideas to improve student life, but they lack the experience to represent student opinion to the administration. Unresearched ideas won't yield many positive results, es­pecially with their more radical proposals such as abolishing parietals. 
Junior Mike Bott and sophomore Mike Kirsh want to spice up the campus social scene, but many of their planks are poorly researched. The ticket's main plank would add a bar-restaurant to Lafortune Student Center much like Legends, the renovated Alumni-Senior Club due to open next faII. Perhaps the greatest wealmess of this ticket is that they believe they can accomplish all the ideas on their platform. 
Juniors Drew Updike and Eric Tarnowski narrowed their platform to four planks, in­cluding a creative revival of AnTostal. But their plans, too, are unresearched, and al­though the candidates crunched some num­bers to come up with a student-friendly meal plan, it's doubtful the administration would be interested in forking over the required cash. 
Sophomore Matt Padberg and freshman David Rail are running on a single plank: more Flex points. But they haven't consid­ered the pending Flex 10 proposal or re­searched past initiatives to see what worked. Even ifthe pair had a feasible, well researched proposal to give students more Flex points, Padberg and Rail wouldn't have the experi­ence to wade through the red tape. 
The Triumvirate ofRyan Gagnet and John McCarthy would establish machine-gun nests to snag parietals-violators and distribute helper monkeys to each student. Sure, they're funny, but at a time when apathy is high, do we need a student body president whose slo­gan is "Basically Lacking All Hope"? 
The only candidates with enough experi­ence, energy and detennination to get the job done are Hallahan and Lao. Vote for them on Feb. 10. . 
18 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
06 FEBRUARX2003 


Welcome back, Gipplings. A new Gipper's in town, here to extend a very-belated "Happy New Year" to all. As for our old Gipp-he's pur­suing a life abroad, apparently under the im­pression that lessons can actually be learned outside of our protective bubble ...sucker. While a little disappointed with the defi­ciency of tips about adventures in winter break wonderland, the Gipper will, as al­ways, find a few things to rant. 
In Memoriam 

First up, the surprise we've all seen com­ing for years -the downfall of the Boat Club, our favorite freshman stomping ground. The owners of the bar, who were shocked to learn that three-fourths ofNotre Dame students are actually not 24-year-olds from New Jersey, will most likely be levied with back-breaking fines. Two hundred and thirteen underage students were given cita­tions in the foray, 
The Gipp has heard various entertaining stories regarding why that number should have been higher, ·but doesn't want to in­dulge in them for two reasons. First, the Gipp assumes the student body will not be com­forted by the f8;ct that heavily intoxicated teenagers can so easily outsmart those trained to protect us. And second, the Gipp doesn't want to slander our local municipal police departme_nt. Why? Well, the Gipp fully respects the NDSP's claim on the title of "laughing stock security force of the greater South Bend area," and does not to release stories that would tip the scales of incompetence toward another organization. But after hearing about this next tip, even yours truly must give into temptation. 
House Arrest 

Last semester, some students were host­ing a few out-of-town guests. They showed them some South Bend fun by taking them binging at classy local watering holes. Then the group "decided to beat the hell out of a four foot plastic Santa Claus atTurtle Creek" Hmm ... who needs nightclubs, anyway? The fun then continued with their weekly "bush­jumping" activities. (Don't worry, feminists, that's not some dirty euphemism.) The sight of grown men engaging in shrubbery wres­tling must have intrigued local police who were nearby. According to our tipster, "Upon arrival, the cops got to talking about how they are corrupt and that certain athletes get away with anything, and proceeded to ask ifwe had any porn to watch at our party we were hav­
. ing." Sure enough, a Girls Gone Wild video­tape was lying around. "The South Bend Po­lice asked to join the party, inserted the video and watched gleefully for nearly an hour;' says our source. Before leaving, the students gave the cops a "homer hankey," which, to the Gipp's relief, was nothing more than a piece ofMinnesota Twins memorabilia. 
Raindrops Keep Falling on My Head 

During a Gator Bowl vacation, a group of Notre Dame students realized the fiscal beauty of splitting one hotel room eight ways. Problem was, that left two beds and one floor for eight people. The story goes that after a night of "heavy" fluid intake, one fellow woke up asking, "Is it raining?" The Gipp will let you use your imagination to figure out what actually was trickling down onto another passed-out student that night. But thanks to our old pal alcohol, the recipient of the unholy water didn't wake 
· up during the downpour, and supposedly was nearly convinced that he caused the flood himself. Since nothing tickles the Gipp's fancy like underthought puns, we'll let our sources finish this tip: "I am happy to see that the friend who was urinated on is no longer 'pissed off' at our other friend, but I was more than happy to 'leak' this story to the Gipp." 
Goodbye for now, faithful readers. Try not to cry a river for your sunken boat. And don't worry, that loud~ringing sound you hear is only the cash register at the suddenly happy­go-1ucky biblioteca. . 

06 FEBRUARY 2003 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 19 

SEANDUDLEY 

I 1975, 200 Secret Service agents
! 
In swarmed The Morris Inn, Notre Dame's 
on-campus hotel. The hotel wasn't be­ing infiltrated in a government siege. The agents were there as part of then-President Gerald Ford's personal entourage. The ho­tel quickly was made fit for the leader ofthe free world. The agents installed a red "hot line" phone near the lobby in case ofa world catastrophe. When an open Ming vase in a private dining room was deemed a prime hiding spot for a bomb, the Secret Service demanded that hotel staff seal it. 
Although Ford is the only U.S. president to have slept at The Morris Inn, the seem­ingly sleepy hotel is no stranger to hosting high-profile celebrities and politicians dur­ing its five decades on campus. In fact, the inn has been visited by several of the past 10 presidents, according to veteran Rooms Manager Sherri Tubinis. 
Last spring, The Morris Inn celebrated its 50th anniversary; it is the only South Bend hotel to offer continuous service for that many years, says Tubinis, who has worked at The Morris Inn since 1967. Plans for a new hotel, The Notre Dame Inn, to replace

i 
I The Morris Inn have stalled, so the staff and 
i] 20 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSLIFE ii 
JI 
management ofthe Morris aren't sure how many years their hotel has left. "The futury is today," says Hotel Director Bill Beirne. He says some of the longtime staff mem­bers ofThe Morris Inn are planning to re­tire when the new hotel eventually is built. 
In many ways, walking into The Morris Inn is taking a step back in time. The dark wood furnishings ofthe lobby are reminis­cent of an old gentlemen's club, and to the right of the front desk are two large, fully­functional, antique wooden phone booths with glass doors. 
The walls of the Inn pay tribute to the history and beauty of Notre Dame. The lobby and rooms feature paintings of cam­pus locations which were donated by two local painters. Along the hallways hang framed maps and paintings of each of Ireland's counties. "So one ofthe questions at the front desk is, 'Where is County [such and such]?"' says Beirne. "And we tell them to go look around." 
Ofthe inn's 92 guest rooms, 27 have two twin beds separated by a nightstand, much like the 1950s bedrooms only now seen on Nick at Nite sitcom reruns. Beirne says The Morris Inn is one ofvery few hotels, ifnot the only hotel, in America that still has any such rooms with two separate, twin-size beds. They work well, he says, for hosting spo1ts teams whose players like their own beds, and many older guests appreciate the 1950s throwback. 
The inn's rooms are designed with the pri­vacy of individual guests in mind. While most modem hotels emphasize spaciousness, rooms at Morris Inn are each equipped with a dressing room that connects the bedroom area to the restroom. The two areas are sepa­rated by a door that ensures privacy while changing clothes. "At the time when this hotel was built, privacy was a little bit, I think, more popular then," Tubinis says. A few decades later, management proposed removing the door between the two rooms to make the bedroom seem larger. Com­plaints poured in, Tubinis says, from guests who staunchly supported the privacy of the dressing room. The doors quickly were re­installed and remain to this day. 
Other attempts at modernizing the hotel have been more successful, but change al­ways has been slow in coming, as the hotel strives to maintain its nostalgic atmosphere. When the hotel opened in 1952, each room had a radio, but the management didn't add televisions for another decade. It was only three years ago, according to Tubinis, that the front desk computerized their reservation 
06 FEBRUARY 2003 

system. Until then, all reservations still were recorded and kept by hand. And it was only two years ago that The Morris Inn removed all the key holes from guestroom doors and changed to electronic room keys. "We were prob­ably the last hotel in the United States that I can think ofthat actually had hard keys," Beirne says. 
The most recent additions to the ho­tel have been free high-speed Internet access and mini-bar refreshment cen­ters in every guest room. "We have all these different amenity-type things that people look for," says Beirne. "We're either equal to or have more than any hotel in town." 
In 2000, Beirne decided it was time to put The Morris Inn on the map, and he focused on the dining room and cocktail lounge. He wanted each to have its own identity, and the management decided to revamp the 
dining room into a fancy restaurant called Sorin's. Working with the vet­eran executive chefDonald Miller-who has been at the hotel for 16 years -they overhauled the menu, and now the restau­rant specializes in healthy, seasonal dishes. Winter dinner entrees range in price from $17.25 to $25.25. Beirne calls Sorin's "the best restaurant in South Bend." One wall ofSorin's is painted with three murals representing the center of campus as it appl;lared in 1844, 1859, and 1890. 
For the restaurant's other walls and for all the private dining rooms, Beirne went to the University Archives to find and frame pictures and-paraphernalia from Notre Dame's-past. One small dining room features an· old photogi:aph of a beardless Fr. Sorin, the original signed contract to build the first Main Building and samples of Nc,tre Dame's own offi­cial currency from the 1860s. 
The staff added Notre Dame sports memorabilia and new furniture to the cock­tail lounge, naming it Leahy's. It serves bev­erages to hotel guests and the public Mon­day through Saturday. 
Beirne says the hotel is unique in its em­phasis on food service. Between Sorin's, Leahy's, the hotel's private dining rooms, and conferences, "We actually do more food business here than we do rooms business," he says, "which is a little unusual in the ho­tel industry." 
The distinguished dining only is one of the Inn's many attractions. Famous Notre 
06 FEBRUARY 2003 
_· The Morris Inn's thriving:food .. : business includes Sorin1s,)he \hotel restaurant, and conference 
catering at the Center for 
Continuing Education. 

Dame alumni are known to frequent the Inn, especially during the Irish football season. A guest might seepast ReismanTrophy win­ners eating in Sorin's or mingling in the lobby on a football Saturday, Beirne says. 
Weekends always are busy at The Morris Inn. "We do a better weekend business than we do during the week,"Tubinis says, thanks to tourists and parents visiting and social events like on-campus weddings. "Weekends are stronger here, which is not usually the norm in the [hotel] business," Beirne says. 
In addition to Notre Dame sports legends, a number of celebrities have stayed at The Morris Inn. Ann Landers was often a guest at the hotel, as was Perry Como, for whom rooms 109-111 are nicknamedbecause ofhis frequent visits. Paul Newman and Howard Cosell have stayed at The Morris Inn, and Tubinis says Tom Jones kissed all the wait­resses when he ate in the dining room (now the present location of Sorin's). More re­cently, Regis Philbin and Sydney Pollack, a new addition to the Notre Dame Performing Arts Advisory Council, have stayed in the hotel. 
Most guests ofthe Inn, however, are people with a direct tie to the univer­sity. Trustees, parents of students, ad­visory council members, guest lectur­ers and professors fill most rooms on any given day. Many are on campus for the numerous conferences at the Cen­ter for Continuing Education (CCE) in McKenna Hall or at the Mendoza Col­lege ofBusiness. The Morris Inn is re­sponsible for catering all CCE confer­ences and most attendees stay at the hotel, so there is a broad tunnel beneath Notre Dame Avenue connecting the hotel to McKenna Hall. The walls of this concourse are, not surprisingly, adorned with more photographs and paintings from the university's past. 
The university owns The Morris Inn and buys all the rooms every home foot­ball weekend for university trustees or advisory council members, whose au­tumn meetings are normally scheduled 

around home games. It is impossible to re­serve a room at The Morris Inn on those weekends, says Tubinis. "We actually don't even sell the rooms to the public," says Beirne. "The university assigns rooms, and then we're told by way ofa rooming list." 
The Inn is named for Ernest M. Morris, who graduated from Notre Dame's Law School in 1906. He became a wealthy busi­nessman and founded what is now the As­sociates Corporation of North America, a financial services organization. As a univer­sity trustee, he donated one million dollars to the university for a hotel, which opened April 21, 1952,just under a year after Mor­ris died. It was the first, and remains the only, hotel on campus. 
"He thought that a hotel would be a win­dow on the university," says Tubinis, "for guests to come from all over the world ... and have an opportunity to experience Notre Dame and be right on the campus." . 
~w,Zr_ _ CJppositerpage: ::The{Morris: lph's lobby _ featµres antique furniture
•' ··_ and a portrait of Ernest. Mor'ris, the hotelbenefactor;" .._ This page:·_ --.... · 
-The hotel's facade isa true -·_ 'rrionument_tc:fttie 1950s.··· 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUSLIFE 21 



.t Those guys who insist figure skating and NASCAR aren't sports are right 
by Gerard Meskill -respond to the king of sports at gmeskill@nd.edu 

out a number of types of events, including speed events such as track, motor sports, swim­ming, cross country, skiing and rowing. 
In each ofthe above events, the competitors are unable directly and legally to prohibit their competitors from performing. In a track race, for example, one runner can influence indi­rectly how another might run, by trying to pass him, but he is unable to inhibitthe otherrunner' s performance. His real competition is the clock, which is used to compare the two perfor­mances. All events that use a clock as the medium for determining success should be defined as "races." 
tics, diving and boxing. In each of these events, some or all of the results are deter­mined by an arbitrator who declares one side a victor based on subjective observa­tions. In fact, the only event listed above that does not determine all of its matches subjectively is boxing but, because boxing sometimes resorts to judges, it cannot be considered a sport. Instead, these events are "competitions." 
So what does that leave? Sports are football, soccer, basketball, baseball, fencing, wres­tling and any other event that meets the definition's criteria. 
Sports are football, soccer, basketball, baseball, ( fencing, wrestling and any other event that meets ~-f.i

the definition's criteria. 

To a similar degree, this parameter also rules out golf and field events in track and fiela. Golfers compete directly with the golfcourse, not each other. No one golfer can dictate how another strokes the ball. Instead, he only can try to master the course more soundly than his competition by taking fewer strokes to put his ball in each ofthe 18 cups. As in races, golfers compete against an intermediate entity, and their individual performances against that me­dium are compared subsequently to determine a winner. Any event that uses a medium other than time to determine its winner should be labeled a "contest." 
Finally, the second sentence ofthe definition insists that the outcome ofan event be deter­mined objectively to be deemed a sport. This parameter rules out figure skating, gymnas­
-· = 

Someniightquestion this conclusion, citing that these "sports" still rely on subjective mediators who make rulings throughout the matches. The difference is that referees of football and other sports are ruling on specific instances ofa game, bu1:an objective factor, in this case points, finally determines the match. In a boxing decision, the judges determine which fighter wins each round based upon a variety offactors, and there is no set system dictating which factors should be considered most heavily. Football's rulebook explains that certain grasps constitute holding. In con­trast, there is no equivalent manual in boxing to explain, for instance, that three landed jabs are worth more than one landed hook. Even though both calls require some subjective analysis, one is defined and the other is not. 0 
FOOTBALL: Notre Dame signed one ofthe top 10 recruiting classes in the nation Wednesday. Notable incoming freshmen include QB Brady Quinn and TE Greg Olsen, brother of red-shirt freshman quarterback Chris Olsen. MEN'S BASKETBALL: After squandering a 15-point lead, the No. 10 ·Irish (6-1, 18-3 overall) rallied in double overtime to defeat Georgetown 93-92 last Saturday atthe Joyce Center. Senior G Matt Carroll finished with 36 points and was named the Big East Co-Player of the Week. WOMEN'S BASKETBALL: Senior G Alicia Ratay and sophomore F Jacqueline Batteast each scored 21 points, leading the Irish to a 69-64 win over West Virginia last Saturday to snap a four-game home losing streak. Sophomore F Kelsey Wicks has decided to leave the team for personal reasons. 
06 FEBRUARY 2003 


Senior guard MattCarroll, from Horsham, Penn., is one of three captains of the men's basketball team this season. After playing in · the shadow of current NBA players Troy Murphy and Ryan Humphrey during his first three years at Notre Dame, Carroll (6-6, 212}h_as emerged as a team leader orJ and off the court. He leads the team in scorjng with just over 20 points per game, is ~eg9ncl'. on the teamin steals and thir,d ont~e_.te,c1rn_ in rebounds and assists. One of the best 3~ 
· point shooters in the country,··-qarroU i9 lighting itup from the arcat an impressiye· 3§ percent. · · · ··· 
()ne <>f the. most memorable games of my Notre'Da.me career ..wa~: th~ Qeorgetown game at Georgetown last year.: Tobe part of histofyTnthe Big East, the l~ngestga.me inBig East histoty,the highe~tpoint total in Big East history ;just to win after we played 60 minutes ofbasketballwas amazing: 
Despitethe"addedresponsibility that com.es-with .._beirig one of.the team captainsdlis seas~n: lreaUy haven.'t felt too much added pressure. _I justtryto stay),eyel:headed.1 dqn't get too high with t_he highs ortoo low~withthe lows. · I sta~ted playing basketball: wheri I was very young,: J\1y grandfather was. a . high-'schciol basketball coach. I remember justgoing to his game~ and trying toget the ban into the basket when I probably couldn't reach it One oLthe toughest arenas.that I've had .. t9' play _·in: js prob.ably the Carrie{,·. Dome.I don't think we've .~on at Syracuse since· I've beei1 here:rrsiJough.· atmosphere: It's "ery: big;Jtis actually a footbµll arena. It's ncit im easy place to 
~~ . ... . ­
-

IfJ could driyeariy car righ,t now:.I might tglceaHmnllierlI2 beGausethey;re ·. pretty sweet, especially up. here inthe snow,. Maybe riot in' the summeitime, but in the wintertime I coi1lduse one of those up .liere: ', : ·:: .....·. __ .. · _ .. 
·Myfavorite movie is: the GodfatherPar~II. Jt11irikthat' sprobablyoneofthe best 
movies of alltime. . . ,;, .,' '. , ·· ,;. · · . · Myfavorite pro.fessio.nal ·basketball·.playeris::ra_rryBird:_l've 11lway1,beeria•···· big fan ofthe Cehics;· and J think:thit he was m1e: of the besfplayers ofall time..... 
The song thafJ ~ave been.Hste'ning to before each game is: Emine111;/;L'ose . Yourself." That's beer{ iliy songJhe fast coupl,e_ofgames. ,'., ...•_.·. ..· > : , t, '.....·..· Wh_en 1 am pr¢paring for. ·a -giine:}ji1st like tq,hang ouL .we go througlf pur .·· • reg41~rro,utin~-ivecy.game,we:Jiayf*·Pre-garrie111eaL·'Sw11efii11esweha-ve)vlass ·-._. eith~rthe night~efore or,th~t dhy:•'fJuststartthiiiki_ng po~itiyely. My 1·obhµnate •·_• .. actually gives me a ver~e in tlie13ible eacfrgarfie to tlunkabout,just to kind()ftry >: to get some' strengthTrom Gog anci'just keep Hoin)imy thi11g. ~~ DaviclA!u;,\z/.i. 
., . ' " ., .·,.. -·"·~; . :,:"'. ..~· 
FENCING: The second-ranked men's team TRACK AND FIELD: Both the men's and upset top-ranked Penn State 15-12 at the women's teams defeated Michigan State Notre Dame collegiate duels Saturday at the last Saturday. Senior Jaime Volkmer set a Joyce Center. On Sunday, the Irish school record in pole vault by clearing 3.9 completed the weekend undefeated and meters. She also won the triple jump with a moved to 14-0. Senior foilist Ozren Debic 12.06-meter measurement. finished the weekend 15-1, bringing his MEN'S TENN IS: Notre Dame ( 1-4) secured season record to 27-1, tops on the squad. its first win of the season, shutting out The women's team, also ranked second in Wisconsin 7-0. Ben Hatten and Nicolas the nation, moved to 12-2. Lopez-Acevedo improved to 3-1 as a 
.Our Calls
I



Men's Basketball 
OPPONENT: PITTSBURGH 
WHERE: NOTRE DAME, IND. 
WHEN: SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 9TH, 
3:30 PM 
> 
In last month's contest, Pittsburgh exploited the inside to pound home baskets against the Irish. Prepared 
and enjoying the home-court advantage, ND shuts down the Panthers' inside game as the Irish defeat the nation's No. 4 team 83-71. 
GERARDMESKILL 
SPORTS EDITOR 

The Irish will come out and play with
>great intensity and focus in an attempt to make up for their earlier loss to the Panthers and will retain the top spot in the Big East West Division. In a defensive battle, Notre Dame remains undefeated at home by knocking off Pittsburgh 62-56. DAVIDMURRAY ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 
> 
Matt Carroll drains seven shots from behind the arc and finishes with 35 points to lead Notre Dame-with a bit 
of help from the Legion -to an 80-77 win over Pittsburgh, avenging an earlier loss to the Panthers. 
JIMMYATKINSON ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 
I 

> 
OUR CALLS RECORDS DAVIDMURRAY: 4-2 
JIMMYATKINSON: 4-2 
GERARDMESKILL: 4-2 

doubles team, winning 8-3. WOMEN'S TENNIS: Despite winning the doubles competition, the 21st-ranked Irish lost five of the six singles matches against fifth-ranked North Carolina and suffered a 5-2 defeat Saturday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly earned the only singles point for Notre Dame by winning her match 7-5, 7-6 (7-5). 
-Jimmy Atkinson 

06 FEBRUARY 2003 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 



Methods for March Madness 
The Irish must improve in three ways if they are going to make it to the Final Four 


.~ 
DAVIDMURRAY 
Coach Mike Brey has a blank NCAA Tournament bracket framed on the wall in his office. When he was first brought in to coach the Irish in 2000, his goal was to be able to write his team into one ofthe 64 first-round slots at the end of the regular season. While he certainly would like to do that again this season, his sights are undoubtedly set higher. According to senior guard and tri­captain Matt Carroll, the team's perspective on the NCAA Tournament has changed 
drastically from what it was when Brey first arrived. "The difference is that [in previous years] we hopedto get to the tournament," Carroll says. "Now, we expect to get to the tournament. That's how this program has changed. We start the season with the goal of going to the tournament, but we expectto be there every year." 
So far this season, the Irish have beennothingshortofremarkable. The thrilling double-overtime victory over Georgetown on Saturday improved them to 18-3 overall, the team's best start in over 20 years. The Irish are also 6-1 in conference play, best in the Big East West Division. Their sixth­ranked Ratings Percentage Index (RPI) rating and 19th-ranked strength ofschedule are further evidence ofthe success they have had against a very challenging set ofopponents. 
WhileNotreDamealreadyis a lock for an NCAA Tournament berth, it has deviated from some of the good habits which helped it beat top teams like Maryland and Texas early in the season. Here are a few improvements that the Irish must make in the next month in order to play deep into the NCAA Tournament. 
Balance the scoring. The victory over Georgetown marked the 12th consecutivegamein which either Matt· Carroll or sophomore guard Chris Thomas has led the team in scoring, indicating a tendency for Notre Dame to rely too much on those two. The Irish have other capable scorers, most notably senior guard and forward Dan Miller and freshman forward Torin Francis, whose production has tapered off after a strong start. As the postseason draws near, teams will place greater focus on defending Carroll and Thomas, meaning that other Irish players will need to put points on the board. Bench contributions from junior guard TorrianJones and frehsman guard Chris Quinn will play an important role as well. 

Defend the paint. The Irish have played 

three 30-point plus games already this season. 
pretty good defense -one of Brey's trademarks -all year, but they frequently have been burned by big interior players. Georgetown's Mike Sweetney scored 38 points, Boston College's Craig Sinith had 24 and the Kentucky and Pittsburgh front lines attacked the basket at will. Notre Dame has had success against opposing big men when they mix defensive sets and double-team the low post. The Irish must be willing to concede the outside shot in orderto prevent easy baskets inside as well as foul trouble for Francis, sophomore forward Jordan Cornette and junior center Tom Timmermans. 
Avoid droughts. This is the most important piece of the puzzle. The Irish took themselves completely out ofthePittsburghandKentucky games because of long scoring droughts. They are an outside shooting team, and they run into trouble when their jump shots are well-defended or simplynotfalling. Carroll normally is good at driving to the basket in these situations, and either creating an easy shot or getting to the freethrow line in order to end a dry spell; others must follow his lead and become more assertive. Thomas must continue to use his explosive quickness to penetrate because doing sooften leads to · open looks for teammates who could not otherwise create their own shot. Carroll also points out that the Irishmuststartstrongatthebeginning ofevery half. "Ifwe come out and try to set the tone and play our tempo basketball at the start, we will prevent [droughts]," he says. 
Does Carroll think· the Irish can play past the second round this year? "I think we can because we have experience," he says. "I've played twice to the second round and lost both times, and lthink we're ready to take the next step to go to the Sweet Sixteen. A lot of that depends on seeding, and it's hard to tell now, but I think this program is ready to go to 

· the next round." D 
24 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
06 FEBRUARY 2003 





Bowling for Domers 
Notre Dame's bowling team hosts nation's top college tournament 
PETERKEEFE
Bowling isn't usually thought of as a violent sport. But at all students. this year's Blue and Gold Classic, a college bowl­The biggest tournament for the Irish this semester was January's ing tournament held annually at South Bend's Beacon Blue and Gold Classic. The tournament, in its sixth year, drew 58 Bowl, one bowler became so -frustrated by his play that he kicked teams (33 men's teams and 25 women's teams) from as far away as the ball return and broke it. It wasn't first time that a bowler at the Arizona {Mesa Community College) and Florida (Florida State). tournament had taken out Morehead State, the No. 1 team in some anger on the equipment: the nation, took home first place for Last year, in a fit of Bobby the men, while Central State won Knight-esqe rage, another the women's bracket for the second bowler broke a bowling ball straight year, edging out Nebraska in half when he threw it at a by only six pins. chair. The tournament has grown in its Held on January 25 and 26 six years. It started as a small, 20­and hosted by Notre Dame's team competition; next year, the own bowling team, the Blue club expects between 80 and 100 and Gold Classic featured teams. "It's one of the top three some of the best -and most tournaments in the country," says passionate -college bowlers Nagel. in the world. Though ND The success of the Classic has bowlers usually save their ire gone a long way toward establishing for kick-boxing class or Vice Notre Dame as a legitimate program. City on PlayStatioJ]., they are Gonzalez strikes while the alley's hot at a tournament in St Louis. Still, Notte Dame does not have a 
no less excited about the sport than their counterparts at other stellar reputation in the bowling schools. :-------world and it is hard for the team to compete with top programs. 
Founded in 19~?_,__t_l!~Nottename"oowling team is a club sport "Nobody goes to ND to bowl," says junior Michael Failor, the run almost entirely by students. Some money for the club comes current treasurer and a three-year from RecSports, Student Activities and their football concession member of the team. "We have to stand, but members also:must sup1;2l~-~~E_t these funds with money lookaroundforpeoplewho bowled fromtheir own pockets. Th~ tefilll--practicestwice a week at the local in high school and convince them 52-lane Beacon Bowl. SI~cethe students bowl there so often and to come out" use their own equipment, the manager, Jon Backstrom, cuts them But Nagel is confident in the a deal: only 50 cents per game:--The.clu.b covers half of that, and future ofthe team. individual bowlers must coughiup th(qth~a-lcents; "We have quite a bit oftalent," 
The team has no coach to oyersee its activities, but local pro he says. "It's just a matter of bowler Ray Szajko, a former Notre Dame baseball player, voluntarily refining it. We could become, comes to practices to give the team pointer~:~.11 in all, there are 15 eventually, over the next couple of guys and five girls who practice regtllai"ly with7lie:=_team.--Notre years, one ofthe better teams. It's Dame incorporated women's bowling ~s-aitof:ficial club sport just just a matter of getting our act last year; though women have been practicing with the men's team together." When Nagel started out for a few years, this is their fir~t_fuU season. with the team his freshman year, 
Both teams travel to three or foU:r-fourna!,_1_1_ents,.-mostly in the he would just go and bowl for fun. Midwest, each semester. Last-serriester,the teams traveled to Eventually, he worked at his game Beaver Creek, Ohio and St. Louis, and then to Las Vegas for a and started competing in national tournament over Christmas break. Five people play in each tournaments. game, and Notre Dame generally brings.ab.o!!,t six people for each "We're open to pretty much tournament. Most tournaments·allowspac; for only one team per anybodywhowantstobowl,whether school, but some let schools bring a B team. it be just for fun, orifyou'relooking 
B teams exist to help younger and inexperienced bowlers perfect to be competitive," says N age 1. "We their skills. "B teams-are-wonderful because it allows guys who have no requirements for coming to aren't at the top ~ctdoil'.t0 haveth?ciiance to compete normally to practice or anything. Anybody who get excited about it," says club co-president Phil Nagel. Because the wants to come out, Ray is perfectly
• 
team is a club sport, there are no cuts and the practices are open to willing to help them." . 



06 FEBRUARY 2003 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 
'.
i. 
t 
I! 
Ii 
11· 
II 
I 
,, 


Dan Parrish, C.S.C. and Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. 
Ordination Class of 2004 

Discover .You Notre Dame 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 

Fun, But In No Way Civilized 
Because before a Mogwai was a band, it shot flaming arrows at things 
Well, the spring semester has arrived, and despite the predictions of certain ResLife directors, I've man­aged to arrive back in the Bend along with it. And 
maybe it's just me, but I've noticed that there seems to be a lot ofsnow around here. Perhaps I should comment on it in comic strips. Constantly. At great length. Whether others want me to or not. Yeah, a couple of cartoons about ice and snow could really spice up the old newspaper. Yes, indeed. 
Winter weather advisories aside, spring semester always has a slightly different vibe than the first: Freshman SCPPers run screaming in the direction of COBA, pre­tentious London students trot around think­ing they've genuinely experienced another culture, and the seniors mist up at every­thing from a Basilica mass to a toothless 'Backer townie. Perhaps the most impor­tant change, however, is the fact that ev­erybody is strutting around with their re­spective Christmas/Hanukkah/Kwanzaa presents like they'rethe Pope ofGreenwich Village. _While my friends cashed in with their various Xboxes and PS2s, I netted the ultimate gift: a little film by the unassum­ing name of Gremlins 2: The New Batch. 
While Gremlins 2 has been called every­thing from "harmless fluff" to "something akin to the breaking ofthe Second Seal," I believe that this unnoticed classic has everything a successful movie needs these days: drama, romance, pathos and Christopher Lee. An_d while those ofus who hadHBO in the early '9ps likely saw the film so many times we can recite its dialogue from memory, I will present a brief plot synopsis for those few who remain ignorant ofits brilliance. 
Proving to us that racism can be funny, the first movie intro­duced us to a Chinese man named Mr. Wing who ran an Orien­tal curiosity shop fueled only by the power of his Fu Manchu mustache, fortune cookies and opium pipe. When he introduces a strange creature called a Mogwai to hapless chump Billy Peltzer, the town immediately is assailed by demons with huge eyes and ears who would, in a different Christopher Lee movie, repeatedly be whining the phrase, "They stoles it, my precious." Mogwai, you see, have very specific rules regarding their care. Get them wet, they multiply. Expose them to direct sunlight, they congeal into a rather unappetizing photochemical goo. Perhaps most importantly, any food after midnight causes them to mutate into the aforesaid little green monsters and generally· cause hilarious havoc on a Stitch-like level. While the first film confined their destruction to the small town of Kingston Falls, the second strives to put to rest the burning questions the first left unanswered, like, "Wouldn't it be sort offunny ifthey were somehow in New York? And looked weird? Oooh, and could talk really intelligently?" 

Answering all these questions with hilarious results, the second movie places our gods and monsters in the Clamp building, a state­of-the-art office complex with everything from a hip TCBY to a genetic engineering firm. Unlike our good friends the Raelians, 
however, this firm fails to take into account what would happen ifgremlins got a hold of its technology. By drinking various test tubes, the gremlins are transformed into ( among other things) fruit, a she-gremlin, a sun-resistant bat, a spider and a hyper-intelligent gremlin capable ofrational discourse and pure electricity. Why a lab would keep around a vial that turns things into beings of energy is anyone's guess, but my money's on the endless comedy potential in Christopher Lee shooting at said things be­fore collapsing in an electrocuted heap. 
Of course, Gremlins 2 succeeds not only because it features a proto-Gollum creature with a dentist drill, but also because it provides scathing commentary on the level our society 
has reached. The fully-automated Clamp Center eerily echoes Zager and Evans' prophetic In the Year 2525, while the destruction cre­ated by the genetics lab poses the question, "What price technol­ogy?" years before Gattaca showed us that Jude Law looks hot even in a wheelchair. Finally, the most valuable lesson taught by the movie comes when sadistic gremlins destroy the projector in an attempt to render the rest ofthe film unwatchable. Rising from his seat, Hulk Hogan threatens the gremlins with all manner of bodily harm, until the movie resumes without further incident. Brief though the scene might be, the message still resonates today: You as an individual can do a lot ofthings, but pissing offthe Hulkster is definitely not one ofthem. Come on, he has shirts that he tears off his body, for God's sake. 
Pick it up on DVD and hear hilarious commentary, such as ''In this scene, I was being chased by gremlins." It might be sort ofkitschy, but that's part ofits charm. And remember, praise is always in good taste: Leonard Maltin panned the first film, and in the second one the grem­lins clawed himgood. He ain't pretty no more. Not that he was all that pretty in the first place, but you understand. . 

. 
06 FEBRUARY 2003 SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 27 
1() <,)~ 
GovernmffMule b;ings a taste of old-school rock to the Bend 
TRACYEVANS
Abluesy organ-and-bass combina­tion wails throughout Gov­ernment Mule's song "What is Hip." The drum-driven tune packs a punch with each beat as the vocals come in: What is hip? /Tell me, tell me/If you think you know/What is hip?/If you're really hip/The passing years will show. The song, featured on the album The Deep End Vol. 2, reflects the band's phi­losophy about making music: Ifyou want to stay hip, play some good, old-fashioned jams. "We've always maintained that-it's best to aspire to making timeless music rather than timely music," says lead guitarist and songwriter Warren Haynes. "If you play what's in your heart and let your audience come to you, you stand a better chance of 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 

longevity, and we're in it for the long haul." 
The band's sound defies classification. "Our fan base goes from young to old ... it's all over the map," Haynes says. "Our music reaches into a lot of different ar­eas. It's a nice feeling to know that people from all walks of life are digging what you're doing." 
Their songs' chugging rhythms recall the carefree attitude of the movie Dazed and Confused and perhaps those college days your parents never told you about. The long intervals of guitar jams conjure images from The Grateful Dead or Phish shows, inviting trance-like meditation on a message that balances universality with intimacy. 
South Bend will get its own taste ofthe rock tradition on February 11, when Gov­ernment Mule performs at The State The­
atre. "It's new territory to us ... it'll be a 
lot ofnew faces," Haynes says. "In really 
small theaters, you get enough ofa crowd 
for a big ball of energy, but it's intimate 
enough that you can still reach them." 
Haynes's talent for the guitar and his love of soul music were developed fully by age 14. He has been touring since he was 17, either in small nightclubs or as part of an opening act. His musical suc­cess has depended upon seizing opportu­nities -and a little help from his friends. When the Allman Brothers Band reunited in 1989, founders Dickie Betts and Gregg Allman immediately thought of asking their old friend Haynes to join. They had met years before when Haynes opened for the original Allman Brothers Band. The reunion brought Haynes on board for good as the band's singer, songwriter and ·lead guitarist. Haynes then developed a 
06 FEBRUARY 2003 

close relationship with Allen Woody, the band's bassist. The two began toying with the idea ofcreating an improvisational trio as a side project. With the addition of drummer Matt Abts, the duo became a trio, and Government Mule was born. Haynes knew they had something worth continuing: "It really exceeded all of our expectations.'' 
The band firmly established itself in 1995 with a self-titled debut album. It per­fected a sound that built upon a deep tra­dition, traced back to Sly and The Family Stone and Eric Clapton's 
from the music world, including Flea of Red Hot Chili Peppers, Stephan Lessard of Dave Matthews Band, David Schools of Widespread Panic, John Entwistle of The Who, Phil Lesh ofThe Grateful Dead and Mike Gordon of Phish. The collec­tion celebrated the band's conscious de­cision to play on and showed how many artists have been influenced by Govern­ment Mule. 
The Deep End stands apart from most tribute albums in that it features only new songs and Haynes's previously unre­
fore a crowd still remains the band's num­ber one priority. "It's kinda the lifeblood 
of our band," Haynes says. "There's 
something that happens, that you really 
can't express, that pushes the band to new heights." 
The atmosphere of a particular venue and the experience of playing live are so vital to the band that they usually create set lists for each performance between sound check and the actual show. That's the way Haynes likes it. "We vary from the set list a lot based on the energy from 
the crowd," he says. "Our 

former band Cream, two 
main concern, though, is of Haynes's greatest in­that every night is differ­fluences. In 1997, ent than the night b.e­Woody and Haynes left fore.'' the Allman Brothers Government Mule re­Band to devote their ef­cently wrapped up a sold­forts to touring full time. out series of East Coast They produced two shows and plans to ap­more albums and a live pear at the renowned an­recording. But in August nual New Orleans Jazz 2000, the band's success Festival this year. Later was brought to a stand­this spring, the band will still. Woody, Haynes 's join Dave Matthews equal both on stage and Band for aWest Coast off, died suddenly from concert crawl. Haynes a heart attack. Govern­hinted at plans for a sum­ment Mule contem­mer package tour with plated its end, but the Moe. Even without the encouragement of tour, Haynes has a full friends, including mem­schedule. He is a continu­bers of Blues Traveler, ing member of Phil Lesh The Grateful Dead, and Friends, a spin-off Metallica and, ofcourse, project spearheaded by the Allman Brothers the former Dead member. Band, convinced Haynes He also is touring and co­and Abts not to give up;­producing a new album 
It wasn't long before Haynes's creative energies led the band in a new direction. 
The question of who would play bass on their next album 'remained, however. Haynes and Abts thought the search for a bassist would be particularly difficult be­cause the diverse songs on the new album demanded a highly versatile musician. Yet the problem almost solved itself. By this point, Government Mule was no small name in the jam rock world. Phone calls came pouring in from numerous bassists offering to play on the album that would become a tribute Allen Woody. 
The result was a compilation album that snowballed into a powerful two-volume set: The Deep End Vol. I, released in 2001, followed by the second volume in 2002. The album boasts an all-star lineup 
06 FEBRUARY 2003 
corded creations. Many of the lyrics re­flect the mood of the title song, "Banks of the Deep End," a distinctly personal reflection on life and loss. Haynes wrote "Soulshine," one of the singles released from Vol. I, in 1988. It was a favorite closer in live shows with the Allman Brothers Band. Its organ-infused tone and hopeful lyrics (Hey now people don't mind/We all get this way sometimes/Got to let your soul shine/Shine till the break of day) echo the classic crescendo-style Bruce Springsteen brought to his newest work, "The Rising." The Deep End. con­sistently provides blues without cliche, rock without apathy and consistent l).ead­bobbing rhythms. 
Despite the efforts Government Mule has put into its albums, performing be-with the Allmans. Later 
this year, he will release a solo acoustic 
live record. 
Through it all, Haynes has stayed true to the style that shaped Government Mule. "Music comes in waves and cycles as far as trends," he says. "There are so many young bands that are more concerned with being famous than being good ... ifyou're 
true to your heart, then your time will 
come back.'' It seems Government Mule has known the meaning of"hip" all along. D 
Tickets to Government Mule :S-Februa,y 
11 show at the State Theater are $21, and 
can be purchased from the Morris Per­forming Arts Center Box Office. Call 
(574) 235-9190 or go to 
www.morriscente1:com. 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 


Lend Him an Ear, and He'll Give a Mouthful 
After a career of head trauma, who better than Tyson to speak at commencement? 
GERARDMESKILL 
ver the course ofthis past century, 
the University ofNotre Dame has 

established a tradition offeaturing some of the world's most important figures as keynote speakers at the yearly commence­ment exercises. Over the past three years, Notre Dame has been honored by the pres­ence of several world leaders, namely Kofi Annan, George W. Bush and Tim Russert. 
While the mere presence of leaders like Russert strikes fear into the hearts ofgradu­ates, it fails to inspire these young men and women the way only a true man of stature can. Father Edward Sorin understood this when he invited General William Tecumseh Sherman to speak before the graduating Class of 1865. For those unfamiliar with Sherman's work, he led the most controver­sial campaign of the Civil War, an assault on the South affectionately known as "Sherman's March to the Sea." On this march, Sherman's army burned every struc­ture within 60 miles as it traveled from At­lanta to Charleston, S.C. 
It's time once again to invite commence­ment speakers whose powerful words are matched only by a more powerful force. It's time for the university's graduating class to embrace the wisdom of a man who has paved his way to success with his own un­stoppable strength and devastating right hook. The time has come for Mike Tyson to visit the Joyce Center. 
I know what you're thinking: He's not the champion anymore. ·He's not tall enough. However, he proved his merit in a recent ass­whooping at the hands ofLennox Lewis. No normal man could fight that poorly and then still stand such abuse, butTyson demonstrated his phenomenally large heart and dense head as he valiantly got the snot knocked out of him. Who betteris there to prepare tomorrow's leaders for the incessant beating that the real world holds in store for them? 
"I'm just a dark guy from a den of iniq­uity. A dark shadowy figure from the bow­els of iniquity. I wish I could be Mike who 
0 
gets an endorsement deal. But you can't make a lie and a truth go together. This coun­try wasn't built on moral fiber. This country was built on rape, slavery, murder, degrada­tion and affiliation with crime," the former heavyweight champion might tell the class of 2003, just as he declared during a press conference before his bout with Lewis. Such a message would be valuable, indeed, com­ing from a man who grew up in a New York City ghetto. The world can be a tough place, 

and Tyson's experience and elegance with words make his message powerful. 
His speech continues: "The one thing I know, everyone respects the true person and everyone's not true with themselves. All of these people who are heroes, these guys who have been lily-white and clean all their lives, if they went through what I went through, they would commit suicide. They don't have the heart that I have. I've lived places they can't defecate in." While Notre Dame's graduates prepare to enjoy fabulous wealth, Tyson responsibly reminds them to have compassion for their fellow Americans, many of whom still live in poverty. 
"I want to rip out [Lennox Lewis'] heart and feed it to him," he says. "I want to kill people. I want to rip their stomachs out and eat their children." Human injustice can cause great pain to the oppressed. When Lewis defeated Tyson for the heavyweight championship, Mike felt like his world was collapsing. During his speech, he might re­flect this experience ofpersonal anguish and anger to warn the Notre Dame graduates about how deep-seated ire might drive a person to seek violence as a solution. 
Knowing that Notre Dame is a Catholic school, Tyson might conclude with a message concerning Jesus, specifically addressing the current tension between different faiths. 
"Everybody says they believe in God but they don't do God's work," he says. "Ev­erybody counteracts what God is really about. IfJesus was here, do you think Jesus would show me any love? Do you think Jesus would love me? I'm a Muslim, but do you think Jesus would love me? I think Jesus would have a drink with me and discuss, 'Why you acting like that?' 
''Now, he would he cool. He would talk to me. No Christian ever did that and said in the name ofJesus even. They'd throw me in jail and write bad articles about me and then go to church on Sunday and say Jesus is a wonderful man and he's coming back to save us. But they don't understand that when he comes back, that these crazy greedy capi­talistic men are gonna kill him again." 
Tyson would remind the Notre Dame graduates thatJesus.encourages tolerance of all faiths, and that intolerance led to Jesus' crucifixion. With such a Christian message already prepared, who better to speak at Notre Dame's next commencement exer­cise? 0 
Note: The quotes contained in this article are genuine Mike Ij,son quotes, not some twisted, sick concoction· ofthe writer. 
r 
,• 

Submit an 800-word essay for Week in Distortion. E-mail us.'.3-tscholast@nd.edu. 
30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 
06 FEBRUARY 2003 


The following calendar events are best suited for a sad, suffering student who has little desire to leave campus or spend time out of doors in this rather blah weather -all events listed are on campus and inside. Disappointed with this bi-weekly offering? Focus that sadness by voting in the election for Student Body President on February 10. Don't forget to submit your events to scholast@nd.edu. (All 
submissions are subject to Scholastic approval.) 
Events are rated in "socks" accord­ing to the amount of exertion re­quired. 
~ =!fr ~;fl
...FrYf th.·.o·.riw.,gh..ly....s·J·1_,ak.ee.odJ1cks·.•. ·.·· .·.··.. ·.·.·
j.s·p,

What:,,.La®r T ..l <//! .. ··• 
~en:'Saturd~ruaty 8, 7 p. ~ 1 a.m. Where: Stepan Center How Much: $5 for the night Why: Finally, the Stepan Center will host an activity suited to its outward appear­ance -Laser Tag -on one of the most technologically advanced sets in the na­tion (according to the Flipside Web site). This is a stellar opportunity to alleviate aggression in a legal, safe and mildly controlled manner. 


· Four sweaty sks. ~. gf. ~ 
What: La!e ;u~ht;?J,y1.]1p1ci~,}{JIId)m When: FnG.ay;Feomary 7Q,,,,p.m. =4-a.m. Where: Sports facilities across campus How Much: Ice-skating = $1 donation + $2 skate rental. For the less-than-athletic, raffle tickets are two for $1. Why: Participate in sports such as broomball, kickball, ice­skating and volleyball in the all-nighter of "sports, fun and fundraising" to benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olym­pics. No other university-sponsored event provides for late, sweaty nights with members ofthe opposite sex. 
ThKi~••~••lweaty socks. 
W_ha:t: B~ltngfii;,, olumbine When: Thursday, February 13, 7 p.m. Where: Library Auditorium How Much: Free Why: Michael Moore's award-winning documentary is neither boring nor about bowling, two assumptions that might be made based on the title of this flick. Rather, Bowlingfor Columbine explores violence in America from different perspectives, including that of Charlton Heston, James Nichols and a few Canadians while maintaining a delicate balance between earnestness and hilarity. 

06 FEBRUARY 2003 
One Jflilllly moist sock. 
l·"'j

W!!,.a~The Last Lecture Series: Al Tillery, "Black Exceptionalism: Why Reparations for Slavery are both Just and Good Public Policy" When: Tuesday, February 18, 8 p.m. Where: O'Neill Hall 24-Hour Social Space Why: In celebration ofBlack History Month, the African and African­American Studies departments have organized a series ofinteractive work­shops and lectures on traditional cul­ture, food, film­making and public policy. For infor­mation about other activities, contact the African-Ameri­can Studies Pro­gram at 631-5628. 

Twos~tysojfs. 

W~;_JE~cal Col'npany ~oduc­tion of Into the Woods 
· When: Thursday, Friday and Satur­day, February 6 -8, 
7:30 p.m. Where: Washington Hall How much: $6 students, $8 adults Why: Join Cinderella, Jack (ofthe beanstalk), the Baker and his Wife, and Little Red Ridinghood in their titillating quest for the elusive "happilly ever after." Just watch out for fairy-eating giants, the big bad wolf, and scantily-clad Little Red. 
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 31 

The Life-Consuming Obsessions 
by Joe Garden 

of an Onion Writer 
Obviously, when one is paid to crack wise on a regular and prolific basis, the line between life and art (or craft), is blurred immensely, and our obsessic;ms bleed through into the paper. 
Joe Garden is the editor ofthe satirical newspaper, The Onion. He will speak at the Sophomore Literary Festival on Thursday, Februa,y 9th. 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 

In order to give this self-indulgent bit oftripe a greater sense ofpurpose, both for purposes of reading and for writing, I would like to 
· make a sweeping statement. Here goes. Comedy writers are driven by neuroses and obsessions, and even when they sate one, the other is left unsatisfied. Please just take that at face value, because under scrutiny, that statement will collapse under its own pretentiousness. Besides, the same statement could be applied about math teachers, paleontologists, cashiers, donut makers, assembly-line workers, Gap models, gap-tooth clowns and so on. I'm not writing about them, though. I'm writing about me, or rather, the flashier more self-indulgent "me!" So please, accept that and move on. 
As a writer for The Onion, I am expected to come up with either 25 or 75 headline ideas a week, plus one or two full stories. Obviously, 
when one is paid to crack wise on a regular and 
prolific basis, the line between life and art (or 
craft), is blurred immensely, and our obsessions 
bleed through into. the 
paper. Writer Chris 
Karwowski is obsessed 
with cooking and food, 
and, for some reason, the 
Supreme Court, inedible 
though it is. Maria 
Schneider is obsessed with 
her cats and 1920s 

nostalgia. Todd Hanson is obsessed with himself 
and being cool. Onion fans, try and guess which 
articles each ofthose writers created. But back to 
me me me. I have to give thanks for my obsessions, because, without them, I would never be able to write a word. And I'd love to set this up more eloquently, but I am brimming over with self­indulgence, so I'm going to let it fly with no further explanations or mea culpas. 
Monkey movies: Can't get enough of them. Why? There is no better foil to expose the tragicomedy of man than a chimp. Watch The 
Barefoot Executive (the apex of actor Kurt 
Russell's career, I might add) and try to disagree. You can't. At least, I won't listen to you ifyou try to do so. Kurt Russell climbs to the top ofthe rat 
race when a chimpanzee helps him pick the 
winning shows at a television network.-Genius! I think I can safely say that I have one of the nation's largest private collections of primate­related films and videos. This is an easy boast, because there are few others that share my enthusiasm for simian cinema. I even joined a Yahoo news group called Simian Fiction, but it turns out they are more interested in discussing Planet ofthe Apes and Congo. Their loss. 
Zombies: Mainly, it's zombie movies and video games. In zombie films, the zombie is a counterpoint to the humans who invariably fall apart by their own devices rather than at the hands ofthe zombies. With zombie video games, I just like shooting zombies. Or stabbing them. I am currently kicking around an idea for my own zombie movie, which can be summed up with the three-word pitch "Zombie sex island." So far, I have no buyers. I'm not terribly interested in reading zombie novels, although Brand New Cher,y Flavor by Todd Grimson qualifies as a good zombie genre work. 
Animal Crossing: This is a relatively new obsession for me. The Nintendo GameCube is the first new gaming system I have owned since our family had an Atari four years after the fact. I picked up some games that I could play with .my fiancee, but I had more time to play and would mop the floor with her. This is not a good way to augment a harmonious relationship, but then neither is the introduction ofa video game · system. I got her Animal Crossing, a Sims-like game where you live in a town full of cute clothed animals, and you must live in harmony with them by pulling weeds, writing them letters and running errands. And you have to pay offa mortgage on your virtual house. On the plus side, she loves it. On the minus side, I do too. If I spent the time pursuing free~lance opportunities that I spend playing that game, I would be able to pay offthe mortgage ofa real house. In fact, I had to check out my virtual town this morning 
when I should have been typing this article. 
Music: It used to be a much l~ger part of my 
life. All of my spare income would go to CDs. 
After a certain point, though, you realize that you 
can't keep up with current music. It's impossible. 
You can have favorites, but you can't listen to the 
radio, or hang out inrecord shops with the frequency 
you once did. Now I buy less frequently, and I DJ 
on occasion to justify ·all my past and present 
expenses. And I've gotten into Ray Conniff, 
because you can find Ray Conniff albums at any 
thrift store for a dollar or less. 
All others: Sex, sleep, eBay.Not in that order. 
I am a pathetic human being. ; . 
06 FEBRUARY 2003 


These guys may not be Irish fons, but they wish they were this v,eek with oll 1he events happening oroung campus... 
CELEBRATEvtlHE POWER OF THE WRITTEN WORD AT WORDFEST MOVIE: RED DRAGON SPONSORED BY THE SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL feb 6·8 FEBRUARY · 5-13 1) t, r, MOVIES; THE RING, and ANlMAL HOUSE• 
~ ,:,\J, ,

~~!~))':'.·:·:}'.t;"'~ l .,. ·>i',~~'\. feb 13-15 ,.~~-~rl.101, thurs 10 pm~ft[~J~;~t ~ & 10:30 pm Thursday, Feb 6 Sister and Daughters of Nocre ':'i:•XJ~~\ $2, dbrt 155 
Dame: Jt Memoir of Notre se featuring Harmonia ,· 
7:30 pm, LaFortune Ball '~~ • lj 
i' 
Yi~,

Saturday, Feb 8 ~iikki ­and Love Poems, introdu 
7:30 pm,Jordan Auditoriu 
dti. ' 

Sunday, Feb 9 StudentlSla~.;Q '1: 30 pm Washington Ha~ ,'\: * 
' .;,,... 

ND UNDERGROUND
Monday, Feb 10 Joe Gardert,;,,~~
. . . ..,,..., 
up and coming

7 : 3 O pm t•,asm.ngton Hall ){,~,•,. 
emmeline schoen frlday feb 7
Tuesday, Feb 11 Kevin Coyne 
lafortune,Ballroom"
7 : JO pm washingron Hall 
Wednesday, Feb 12 John 
7:30 pm. Washington Hall 
'l'hursday, Feb 13 ND ill-J 9 pm -l am LaFortune ';,t 
... OM DELUCA, hypnotist,;,;;;,~;z friday f eb 14th --.<' ..time/location tba 











