Volume 73
April 26. 1940
Number 23
FIFTY MEN of the Music Week Notre Dame glee club Opens Monday officially open Music Week for 1940 on Monday evening at 8 o’clock, when they make their third appearance of the year in Washington Hall. “Men of Notre Dame,” a new choral number built around the Victory March will be heard on the program.	• (See page 5)
SENIOR Ball tickets Ball Tickets	will be sold Monday
Go on. Sale	through Thursday in
the Dining Hall basement. The price of tickets, $10, will include admission to the Ball, the Tea Dance and a tentative candlelight supper preceding the Ball.' (See page 5)
❖ r
THE HEAVIEST bal-Law College	loting in history by
Picks Bowers	law students, Tuesday,
elected Raymond Bowers, of Brook, Ind., as representative to the Student Council. Representatives of the Colleges of Science and Engineering are undetermined.	(See page 6)
❖
“THE MARCH is on!” Varsity,Old.	Tomorrow, the familiar
Timers Battle battle cry of the Fighting Irish will resound through the stands once more when Coach Elmer Layden wheels his 1940 Notre Dame football team onto the stadium turf to do battle with “eleven old men.”	(See page 14)
T*eligib,e herself a he H ”• Could she con-^s?Wh° S
A hllFricanC was raging on the Florida Keys. The ship Jubilee was in the grip of the deadly reefs. A whole town echoed to the cry, “Wreck a-sho-o-re!” And aboard was one man destined to play a strange part in the life of Loxi Claiborne... Here is a novel seething with drama and danger and the romance of Loxi, whose flashing charm brought to her feet two men from opposite ends of the world. First of six installments this week.
A new novel of wreckers and romance on
the Florida Kens
I HAD HOT
HIM LOVE ME.”
by THELMA STRABEL bgms in this weeks Post
I SAW POLAND PLUNDERED. Families snatched from their beds in the dead of night. Driven off without their belongings. Herded into freight cars, concentration camps... A Polish high official describes the greatest human upheaval in history, the deportation of more than 1,200,000 men, women and children to give the Nazis lebensraum, “room to live.” Read Woe to the Vanquished, by Stefan De Ropp.
WHAT DOES A PRIZE FIGHTER THINK ABOUT?
“I never kissed a pretty girl until I was thirty-two. Wonder what Margie sees in me. Margie won’t be at the fight tonight. But Joe—the Brown Bomber—is here. Stabbing me with that left. Getting my brains messed up”... A drama of a fighter’s thoughts in the sweat of battle. “Hello, Joe," by William Fay.
ALEXANDER BOTTS JOINS THE LIARS CLUB. When Botts modestly reported he had rescued an Earthworm Tractor that had fallen into the Grand Canyon—in the dark of night, single-handed—w-e-1-1, the President wanted more explanation... Read Grand. Canyon Brain Storm, by William Hazlett Upson. On page 14 of your Post today.
HOW THEY ARE LICKING UNEMPLOYMENT. Here's Yankee ingenuity! Jobs for 4,000 unemployed produced in one town of only 50,000. In another, WPA rolls, cut nearly in half! Read the reports of this spreading movement in... They Build Men Into Jobs, by Stanley High.
I. A. R. WYLIE . . . brings you the story of a family that tried to live on hate in “Land's Sake." Also a new yarn by M. G. Chute, Pony-Express Boy ...Last, chapters in Philip Wylie’s Hollywood novel, Salt Water Daffy... Short stories, articles, editorials, cartoons, poems and Post Scripts. All in this week’s Saturday Evening Post—now on sale.
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST Q
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE By JACK WILLMANN
It Came This Way
A parade of young Catholic militants found their way into the Great Hall, and stragglers were milling around various foyers, lobbies, hallways, and exhibit rooms. Official rumor had it that there were many others than local confreres in the aggregation, but unofficial rumor had the alleged cream down town or some equally remote place. Dancing there was to convince skeptics that this was not a confraternity in the strict Webster sense of the word. A gathering of men, eh? Why we distinctly saw four young ladies—three of whom were carrying typewriters. The third was laffing at the lad "who was carrying an “Information” sign pinned to his coat-tail.
Old Dominion Doings
Class rules at the U. of Virginia are similar to those at most colleges, but there came the day when a certain professor appeared fifteen minutes late to find an empty class-room of English lit students. Next class he rebuked the flightful students for not waiting for him as he had left his hat on his desk to show that he was present. At the next session the prof arrived on time to find an empty class-room, but a hat on every desk.
"For Immediate Release"
Now we intercepted some mail intended for the Editor, but it turned out of the envelope to be a publicity release from the United Student Peace Committee. They have a New York City address, and a slogan that reads, “We of the 1940 generation proclaim our intention to live.” That’s as fine an ideal as we’ve ever run across in a press release, and the idea gets some background when you read that some 500 campuses are using the USCP call. Activities are on the roll at Brown, Harvard, Wisconsin, U.C.L.A., and many Southern schools. There’s the story for what you would have it worth.
Indian Misgivings
Much does the columnist talk about himself, but this story is about another fellow who writes an exchange column in a Midwest paper. This lad as befits his craft was short of funds, but long on ideas. He wanted to see “Gone With the Wind” for reasons some English profs couldn’t understand, so he put a sign on his chest saying, “Fund to see
G W T W.” In one trip across the campus he had enough to take himself and date to the cinema. If we wouldn’t, our editor would, note that a campaign to send some columnists home or further would meet an even more generous response on this campus.
What's Your College, Bud?
A college student is of a strange species Whose characteristics are subject for theses:
For a definition of the average type
We include the one who smokes a pipe;
Who is forever going to a fraternity meeting
And who has an aversion to others cheating;
Who owns a dozen Arrow shirts
And goes to class in fits and spurts; Who wears a shabby reversible coat And cannot wait until he’s able to vote; Who is ready for vacation at the end of September
And who wears white shoes in midDecember.
’ —The Old .Maid
Personal, Not Propaganda
That’s the keynote of the Student Counsel Bureau at the U. of Detroit where any student is invited to visit the Bureau if he has some- problem, academic, financial, or vocational. The idea of the interviewer is to get the student
“. . . But I forgot what I came to' forget!”
to talk about himself and eventually to think out his own problem. After confidence is mutually established, the counsellor can aid the puzzled student to see his vocational problem in a new and clearer light. Detroit feels that too many college failures are traceable to the student who did not know what he wanted out of college, and hence he did not get what he wanted out of life.
❖
Across the Fence
Friend—“I just saw a young man trying to kiss your daughter.”
Mother Moderne—“Did he succeed?”
Friend—“No.”
Mother—“Then it wasn’t my daughter.”—Showme
4
Off the Elbow
This matter of tradition arises again. At Indiana U. only seniors are permitted to wear corduroy pants—a reward for surviving the fittest. Law students at the same institution are carriers of canes—a mark of distinction—so that their eccentricities can be excused. — There is a light over the door to the Cornell Civil Engineering building, and when and if the janitor forgets to light it, a coed can assure herself of wedding bells by going in and turning on the light.... Senior possessors of clay pipes at Dartmouth pick a day every spring to dash their weed-burners against a stump dedicated to the custom. Circling the lake at Mount Holyoke is certain to get a proposal from the accompanying male at the end of the third round.
Class Prayer
Now I lay me down to sleep; My notes, I pray, my friends will keep.
If I’m called on ’fore I wake. Poke my ribs for pity’s sake!
—The Boulder
♦
Artie Lets His Hair Grow
After listening to one of the new Artie Shaw records, strictly on the classical Mexican side, one U. of Illinois student expresses his opinion that if the band is going to play that type of music they should record under the name of Arthur Shaw and Orchestra. The same student might want to change some other nomenclature — Count Basie, Duke Ellington.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WEEK By FRANK WEMHOFF
Top of the Week
A word to the wise... - seeing the chef come to work last week with a lunch pail under his arm.
Dear Eddie,
Your just an ole sweet thing to ask me to your Senior Ball (No, I don’t mind going dutch). That is a chance that most girls would give a buck tooth fur. I jist know that I’ve heard of that Larry Clinton before—his great unck opened up a canal back here in the good old days that daddy is always drinking about. Mother says that I ken cum if I git my homework finished in time to hitch a ride on one a them beer trucks that are always agoin by. You remember that I came to the Prom last year by train and I want you to know that them things are scary. I guess I musta bin pretty green then but I know now what I didn’t know then. Besides, how was I to know they was wearin those long dresses agin. Ya know, Wesfield doesn’t always get the news hot off the hand press. The mayor hasn’t passed out Tuesday’s newspaper yet, and his housekeeper always gets it before the othei’ 20 of us do. That just goes to show what a totalitearyun state we liv in. When I come are ya goin to give me one a them dizzy lookin bowkays like last year? I remember last year I put the perpul flour in a vace but it didn’t fit rite so I ground up the leaves for lav-vunder parslee. I been edjicatin myself in the nisatees of behavior and I know now it was a mistake to holler “Gad, lookut the men” when I got off the train. I never will forgit how them coilitch girlies on the same train kept lookin at me like I didn’t have all my marbles or sumpin. And when I heard one of um say “Her face looks like ‘Tobacco Road’ on a rainy night” I almost felt like bein histarical. I admit I ain’t no Queen of the Nile but I shure do hold my own on them hayrides. Things have really bin poppin at home. Our milkman was caught the other morning givin short measure on the qt. Daddy has been actin awful queer lately too. Only last night I heard him talking to a strange man down in our basement and daddy said, “Let’s kill the other two, George.” So I spose I’ll meet you on May 3 if I’m still
livin. How about a rondavoo near the junction of truck route No. 14?
Flutteringly, Sneeky-Sneeky.
P.S. I’ve given up cigars because I’ve finally got enuff wrappers for a par-cheesy bord.
Speculations
At the K.C. Formal a best friend finally came through and told in a lefthanded manner.... someone slipped a bottle of Listerine in Bob Bischoff’s corsage box.... pass it around.... The latest classwork for the Criminology class is to solve the Ellery Queen chiller.... Robert Speaight took a chicken that was green not from envy over to the dining hall to have it preserved in the icebox .... instead of asking them to keep it for him he should have used “from”.... Mr. O’Malley goes athletic with the purchase of a complete riding outfit....
A Short One ...
To the man who isn’t running in somebody’s elections.
❖
Supply and Demand
If all those who applaud New York news reels and hiss Chicago news reels were inversely proportionate to those who boo New York news reels and cheer Chicago news reels, and they aft were barred from theaters, it would still be a small world.
Purty Purtry
Mary was a little vamp.
Of this there was no doubt
Cause everywhere that Mary went,
The freshman class, half the sophomores,'
twenty-seven juniors, and six seniors, as well as two post-grads who were working for their master’s degrees, were sure to go.
❖
Addition to Erudition
A vacuum has been defined as a conversation between a bridge fiend who does not play golf and a golf fiend who does not play bridge.
CAMPUS OPINION
❖
Question of the Week: Do you think Notre Dame should observe Daylight Saving Time when South Bend changes?
Dillon—Mario Pottetti: “For several reasons I think Notre Dame should change its time when South Bend does. From a purely social standpoint, the students would get 12:00 o’clock leaves instead of 11:15. Secondly, the fellows would enjoy more daylight on Daylight Saving time. If we stayed on Central time, it would just cut an hour off the amount of light we have after we get up in the morning. Finally, we fellows who are student pilots would have more time to fly, as we’re not allowed to fly after sunset.”
Alumni — Bill O’Brien: “The main function of Daylight Saving time is to help industrial employees, and not in any way to benefit the students. On the other hand, though, I think we should continue getting 12:00 o’clock permissions instead of cutting them down to 11:15.”
Cavanaugh—John Doerr: “I think the school ought to change times. The difference in times will result in a lot of complications. Students who are downtown are apt to forget about the difference in time and miss a few classes as a result. Then too, if the times were different it would mean the shortening of night leaves.”
Zahm—Louis G. Rodriquez: “If the night leaves were shortened, as would be the case if Notre Dame remained on Central time, we wouldn’t have enc'agh time to even go down to a show at night without rushing. I think we should change'to Daylight Saving time when South Bend does.”
Howard—Charles Lattimer: “If the school changed time it would be more convenient for professors and other .employees of the University. As far as students go, it wouldn’t affect them except for midnight permissions. If we stay on Central time I think the students should be allowed midnight leaves anyway.”
Morrissey—Harry Flanagan: “Since the school has no connection with South Bend I don’t think we should change our time. When students are in town, it is simple enough to remember the difference between town time and school time. If the school had a' good reason to change it would have been done long ago.”—Ray Donovan
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 191S.
Z 18S
Volume 73
April 26, 1940
Number 23
UNIVERSITY SYMPHONY OFFERS STUDENT
ARRANGEMENTS OF CLASSICS, TUESDAY
i
I	---------
FIFTY men of the Notre Dame glee club officially open Music Week for 1940 on Monday evening at 8 o’clock, when they make their third appearance of the year in Washington Hall. Selections from Gilbert and Sullivan light operas, a Fred Waring arrangement of “Liebestraum,” and “Men of Notre Dame,” a new choral number built around the Victory March, will compose I a large part of the program. Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, glee club conductor, arranged the new “Men of Notre Dame” selection.
On Tuesday evening the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra, also conducted by Mr. Pedtke, will appear in Washington Hall. The program of classical music will be arranged by students in orchestration classes of the University. The present symphony orchestra was organized three years ago; it is now composed of 27 musicians. Tuesday evening’s performance marks the final appearance in this orchestra of two members of this year’s senior class: Frank Miltner, president of the orchestra and first violinist, and Henry Halpin, flutist.
There will be no program on the campus Wednesday evening, but members
FIFTH MUSIC WEEK OPENS MONDAY
EVENING
❖
of all University music organizations will have an opportunity to hear and see the great Metropolitan Opera basso, Ezio Pinza. Mr. Pinza’s recital in the auditorium of the South Bend Central High school, is sponsored by the Civic Music Association of South Bend.
The Notre Dame concert band, directed by Professor Joe Casasanta, and composed of 45 members chosen from the 100-piece marching band, will be heard in Washington Hall on Thursday evening.
Albert Spalding and the South Bend Symphony orchestra will close the Music Week program with their appearance in the field house on the campus Friday evening. No charge is to be made to students of the University for the Spalding concert. Mr. Spalding will play three violin solos: “La Fontaine D’Arethusa,” by Fzymanowski; “En Bateau,” by Debussey; and “I Phalipti," by Paganini. Mr. Spalding’s accompanist is Andre
Benist, who will play one selection, Bruch’s G. Minor Concerto, with the ac-' companiment by the Symphony orchestra. Mr. Spalding was guest soloist this week on the Ford Sunday Evening Hour, famous radio program.
This year’s Music Week program is being sponsored jointly by the University and the Symphony Association of South Bend. Mr. Frank Lloyd, comptroller of the University, and Prof. Pedtke, head of the department of music, have been in charge of arrangements for this annual music observance.
—John Casey
Senior Ball Ticket Sale
Opens In Caf, Monday
Senior Ball tickets will be sold Monday through Thursday in the Dining Hall basement, according to an announcement by Chairman Walton Wueb-bold. The price of tickets, §10, will include admission to the Ball on Friday night, the Tea Dance Saturday afternoon and a tentative candlelight supper proceeding the Ball. This latter innovation to the senior’s social week-end is scheduled for 7:30 o’clock Friday night..
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BALL ETIQUETTE
the committee in charge has secured Dick Anderson and his orchestra. This dance will be held at the Chain o’ Lakes Country Club from two o’clock till five.
Once again the Ball will be held in the Rockne Memorial. This year the Memorial has had another face lifting. A patio in Havana with decorative balconies and a surrounding palm grove will greet seniors and guests Friday night. A sandy beach and a blue sea will set off the patio and supply Signor Larry Clinton with a bandstand.
Larry Clinton is now arranging “Midnight Stars,” Bill Mooney’s official Senior Ball song. The number was selected by a committee composed of Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and Professors Norbert Engels and Daniel Pedtke.
—Harry Penrose
Politicians Pass Cigars As Class Elections Near
Campus politicians were busy this week fishing out stogies, distributing blotters and otherwise occupying themselves in the distribution of party propaganda. The reason? Primaries, for the general class elections will be held next Monday for Sophomores, and on Wednesday for Juniors, in the basement of the Dining Hall. The senior primary, scheduled for Tuesday, was canceled because of a lack of parties.
Junior competition will be particularly keen with no less than four parties registered. The men run individually, how
ever, and the finals may find two or more parties forming a “trust” in an effort to assure their candidates victory.
Thus far, the campaigns have been unusually quiet and it is expected that within the next few days that a lot of pent up steam will be loosed. The Junior candidates, according to parties, are: Paul Patton, president; Andrew Cher-ney, vice-president; Steve Graliker, secretary; Bob Kehoe, treasurer. Gene Schumaker, president; Ted McDonald, vice-president; Jim Brutz, secretary; Bob O’Hara, treasurer. Thomas J. Walker, president; Thomas E. Reilly, vice-president; Matthew Byrne, secretary; Howard petschel, treasurer. Stanley V. Litizzette, president; Robert W. Hargraves, vice-president; Peter V. Moulder, secretary; G. J. Killigrew, treasurer.
Three Sophomore parties are battling for supremacy in their class, plus two independent candidates for secretary and treasurer. The candidates are John McHale, president; Owen McGoldrick, vice-president; Paul Malloy, secretary; Sam McQuaid, treasurer. Bud Dudley, president; Thomas Miller, vice-president; Charles Butler, secretary; Neil Green, treasurer. Lou Rymkus, president; John Henry, vice-president; Bob Owens, secretary; Albert Muench, treasurer. Howard Hawks, secretary; Tom Mooney, treasurer.—Conway McDevitt
Heavy Law Vote Sends Ray Bowers To Council
The heaviest balloting in history by law students, Tuesday, elected Raymond Bowers, of Brook, Ind., as representative to the Student Council.... but extremely light voting by undergraduates of the University left representatives of the Colleges of Science and Engineering still undetermined.
Bowers received 30 votes in the Law School returns, a nine-vote margin over Ronald Regent, runner-up. John Lynch ran third, polling 16 votes. Only two eligible voters in this school failed to cast their votes.
Ball Preview — a likely acene, one week from tonight
In the College of Arts and Letters, John E. Burke, of Sioux Falls, S. Dak., triumphed over Harold J. Barnes by the narrow margin of one vote, 35 to 34. Commerce men favored Robert Jehring, of Muskatine, Iowa, as their representative by a margin of 29 votes, the count being 69 to 40. These men, along with the president-elects of the three classes, will comprise the Student Council until next fall when hall elections will augment the group.
I--
New York Racket-Buster
Will Speak Here Monday
A veritable “Dick Tracy” in the flesh will appear on the Washington Hall stage Monday night at 8 o’clock. He is Capt. Michael Fiaschetti, one of America’s foremost criminal detectives, and he will speak on “Criminals: Their Crimes and Detection.” Crime-beaters call him “the Italian Sherlock Holmes”; gangsters have referred to him as “the man they couldn’t escape”; men’s clubs all over the country credit him with being “the most dynamic and intriguing speaker that ever held an audience glued to their seats.”
In his earlier years of war against the underworld, Captain Fiaschetti led the forces of law in the final struggle which broke up the infamous organization known as the Black Hand. Later, as head of the Italian Squad of the New York Police Department, he commanded a group that dealt with the murder situation in the underworld of New York’s East Side. His most recent achievement is the work he accomplished in breaking up the “protection” racket, as deputy commissioner of public markets. After fulfilling this office under Mayor La Guardia, Fiaschetti retired to head his own private detective agency.
The burly, racket-busting police captain has gained a spectacular reputation for hammering crooks with a heavy hand and using the gangster’s own methods to stamp them out. But now the big
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
and jovial Fiaschetti is thrilling American lecture audiences with his startling and hair-raising experiences. Living his stories, as the bom story-teller does, he abandons all lecturing conventionalities aand delivers his gripping tales with dramatic effect.
Captain Fiaschetti’s intimate knowledge of crime and crime solution will be fully revealed, because he breaks the ordinary reticences of detectives and gives the inside dramatic story behind the crime.—Ed Butler
Senor Bunge, Economist, To Give Lecture Series
Senor Alejandro E. Bunge, world-renowned statistical economist, will deliver a series of talks on current economic and social problems as a special lecturer in the College of Commerce.
The first lecture will be given in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering, Friday morning, May 3, at 10 o’clock. Others will take place every day at the same hour beginning May 6 and continuing through May 10. Attendance is mandatory for juniors and seniors in the College of Commerce and optional for all other students and faculty members.
Mr. Bunge was scheduled to have lectured here earlier in the year but current international unrest prevented him from doing so. The present series of talks is made possible by his assignment as an official delegate to the Pan-American Scientific Congress which will be held in Washington, D.C., May 10-18.
The lectures will treat two phases of present economic and social conditions, one dealing with “Splendour and Decline of the White Race,” a statistical study of economic and social factors affecting the Caucasian supremacy in world affairs, and the other presenting South America as it is today with particular emphasis on the progress in the Argentine during the past two decades.
Mr. Bunge’s qualifications as an expert on economic matters may be gleaned from a few of his governmental, industrial and academic assignments during the last quarter of a century. In 1914 he was entrusted by President Saenz with the organization of the National Department of Labor Statistics. From 1916 to 1920 he served as director general of the national census and was reappointed to the same post, 1922-1924. The Argentine economist was a delegate to both the 2nd and 5th Pan-American Financial Conferences in 1922 and 1925.
Mr. Bunge became professor of statistics on the faculty of economic sciences at the University of Buenos Aires in 1914, and later was chosen a member of the academic council.
There's a Story Behind 95.97 Percent
Valedictorian John Meaney Likes Maritain, Fishing, and Sailing — Nearly to Mexico
Texas; eldest son
John Meaney
John William Meaney AB 4; bom in his present home town of Corpus Christi, in a family of four boys and one girl; celebrated his 22nd birthday last Monday; scholastically prepared by the Benedictines at Corpus Christi Academy; quiet, unassuming scholar; lover of outdoor life; hunter, fisher, sailor, rider; Texan winner of the Meehan Scholarship; present editor of Scrip; now, the highest scholastic honor; valedic
torian of the Notre Dame graduating class of 1940 with a 95.97% average; and then?
“I really haven’t made definite plans for the future,” replied Meaney. “I want to come back here to study for a master’s degree in philosophy and then possibly continue my studies in graduate work. After that—who knows? Maybe— and just a possible maybe—it will be the teaching profession.”
Meaney is an English major. Avoiding the “pinkies” by a wide margin and editing Scrip pushes the clock hand around fast enough. But there comes a time in every man’s life when he puts the clock under the pillow. Such a time finds a space in the Meany bookshelf. His favorite authors are Jacques Maritain and D. H. Lawrence. John’s thesis this year examined the religious attitude of the latter writer.
Notre Dame was a logical collegiate choice for the Meaney’s eldest son. John wanted to go to a Catholic university; his father was an enthusiastic member of our vast synthetic alumni; and the Academy teachers encouraged the step north. So the application was filled out and the family grips were dusted off. But before the first bag was packed a telegram informed the potentiial freshman that he had been awarded the Texan share of the Meehan Scholarship fund.
“That announcement was a happy surprise,” said Meaney. “I hadn’t applied for the scholarship at all and was really thrilled.”
Four years have passed and soon .the
bags will be taken down from the top of the locker in 126 Alumni Hall to be dusted off again. This time they will be accompanied by a very imposing scroll and a thousand memories. A particular impression that he received here caused him to express a commendation:
“The recent philosophy symposia that have brought men like Maritain to our campus have been the most inspiring and significant events that I have enjoyed here. These symposia were significant because their subjects were of immediate importance.”
But it is difficult for a man to talk about himself—especially this man. His modesty and distaste for pedantry naturally checked the possibility of. learning what makes a valedictorian tick. But his brother James, a junior in Arts and Letters, helped along with the story:
“John was always a serious and avid student. He became interested in art when he was younger, and did some good work too. The house is still cluttered with the remnants of his discarded hobby. But he .gave it up a few years ago. We never knew why. We probably never asked.”
Jim claims only one real victory of any kind over his big brother. It happened one night in that long ago age that we refer to around here as boyhood. The Meaney boys had been tucked into their respective beds,- but an August restlessness wouldn’t let them stay there. Jim suggested a friendly little wrestling match. John was willing. Three minutes and 45 seconds later John was picking up a broken arm.	•
“There isn’t any secret formula to John’s scholastic success here,” said Jim. “He has always diligently applied himself, that’s all. Of course he has a natural alertness too. He has never had to drudge for things the way I do.” (A slight cough and a bit of an ahem).
Last summer the Meaney brothers planned a trip through Mexico but a slight matter of ingenuity stopped them. John decided he wanted to build a sailboat. He started the project in June and finally got the thing to float in August. Meantime, Jim sat on a barrel, handing nails to John and dreaming of castanets and senoritas.	,
“But we’re going to get there this summer,” insists Jim. “That is, of course, unless John reads another one of those make-it-yourself advertisements.
—Ed Butler.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE STUDENT FORUM
The World Is Market-Minded
By James E. Barrett
Not so many years ago industry was necessarily production-minded. Today it is market-minded. As a result of these new conditions, industries as well as individual manufacturers must cultivate old markets and find new markets, new uses for the product, new improvements. The industry must promote and advertise
James E. Barrett ^-s product;} while the companies within the industry must market their personalities, superior services and individual products or brands. The search for outlets cannot stop. Manufacturers can and must actually create new markets. They must create tastes and desires that have never existed except potentially. They must teach people that the use of the product will increase their standard of living, culture and comfort. This education of the buying public is achieved best by the medium of advertising.
From small and spasmodic beginnings, advertising has developed into the great and business like profession of today. One billion dollars annually represents approximately the financial outlay for this means of selling. Despite the great emphasis placed upon advertising, it is neither dark magic, a panacea, nor a substitute for intelligence and good management. Advertising cannot make successful a product or an organization ■which is not fundamentally sound regardless of advertising. It is not a force which can be profitably applied suddenly or intermittently.
Markets are neither abstract nor inanimate. They are very real and very much alive, changing constantly in the same community and differing at the moment from city to city and section to section. Consumer markets and humanity are one and the same. Dealing with markets is dealing with averages of human nature. And today, when we speak, nf‘human nature’ in the marketing field, we immediately think of the vital connection existing between that human nature and advertising.
Advertising discovers new wants and develops old ones. Today, thanks to its power, there are more things that the consumer thinks he wants, more things
than his purchasing power will permit. This situation intensifies the rivalry of advertisers in going after the buyer’s dollar. There is an incessant psychological bombardment of the consumer to make him spend. The strongest rivalry between some competitors is in advertising—in trying to make the greatest psychological appeal.
These assaults upon the consumer have tended to put him on the defensive. By his assumption of a waiting, hesitating attitutde he has become passive, instead of active. He has been shown more ways to spend his money and therefore has more unsatisfied wants. Consequently there is greater contest for the consumer’s dollar, with the result that the ‘pushing’ of an advertised product and, therefore, the realization of sales from an expensive campaign, is receiving more and more emphasis.
The purpose of advertising is to keep the name of the institution or product before the public, to justify a policy or practice likely to be misunderstood, to increase prices of securities, to expose unfair business practices, to educate the public as to the real advantages offered by a product or service, to suggest new uses, to win new customers or hold on to old customers, to increase the size of individual sales, to introduce a new product in a line, to pave the way for salesmen, to secure distribution, to find new markets, to actually make the sale or perform many other duties or combinations of duties. The type of advertising, the size of the appropriation and the immediate or long-time returns are all dependent upon the purpose assigned to advertising. In the formation of the background of any advertising plan, the general classification of the product and its market should be kept constantly in mind. Necessities, comforts, and luxuries appeal to different instincts or buying motives, and generally require different types of presentation to the public.
When we stop to consider the part which advertising plays in the modern life of production and trade we see that basically it is that of education. It informs its public of the existence and nature of commodities by explaining the advantages to be derived from their use and creates for them a wider demand. It makes new thoughts, new desires, and new actions. By changing the attitude of
mind it changes the material condition of the people.
Somewhere there has been ascribed to Abraham Lincoln the statement that: “In this and like communities public sentiment is everything. With public sentiment nothing can fail; without it nothing can succeed; consequently, he who moulds public sentiment goes deeper than he who enacts statutes or pronounces decisions. He makes statutes and decisions possible or impossible to be executed.”
Advertising creates and changes this foundation of all popular action, public sentiment or public opinion. It is the most potent influence in adopting and changing the habits and modes of life, affecting what we eat, what we wear and the work and play of the whole nation. Formerly, it was an axiom that competition was the life of trade. Under the methods of the present day it would seem to be more appropriate to say that advertising is the life of trade.
A great power has been placed in the hands of those who direct the advertising policies of our country, and power is always coupled -with responsibilities. No occupation is charged with greater obligations than that which partakes of the nature of education. Those engaged in that effort are changing the trend of thought. They are moulding the human mind. Those who write upon the tablet write for all eternity. There can be no permanent basis for advertising except a representation of the exact truth. Whenever deception, falsehood and fraud creep in, they undermine the whole structure. They damage the whole art.
In building the character of the American people, advertising is also establishing our faith in the future of America. Our economic well-being depends on our integrity, our honor and our conscience. It is through these qualities that the profession of advertising and marketing makes its special appeal. Advertising ministers to the spiritual side of trade. It is a great power that has been entrusted to the advertisers which charges them with the high responsibility of inspiring and ennobling the commercial world. It is all part of the greater work of the regeneration and redemption of mankind.
Frosh Oratory Finals
Scheduled For Monday
The finals of the Freshman Oratorical Contest will be held Monday afternoon in the auditorium of the Law Building, beginning at four o’clock. Professor William Coyne, who is in charge of the contest, stated that the winner would receive a prize of ten dollars.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
25 N. D. Candidates To
Become Knights, Sunday
Twenty-five Knights of Columbus candidates from the Notre Dame council will take their first degree initiations at LaPorte on Sunday. The class of about seventy, named in honor of the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy, will include candidates from the first and second districts of Indiana. Buses transporting the Notre Dame contingent will leave the circle at 12:30 that afternoon.
George J. O’Brien, past state deputy and master of the fourth degree of the Northern Ohio Province, will be the principal speaker at the banquet in honor of the newly initiated members, staged by the LaPorte council, as host council. Short talks will be given by State Deputy Gilbert E. Powell and Grand Knight Timothy R. King, of the Notre Dame council, who will welcome new initiates.
"Nurse Edith Cavell"
Is Campus Screen Fare
A timely picture that deals with the German invasion of Belgium during the World War, will come to the Washington Hall screen tomorrow night. “Nurse Edith Cavell,” starring Anna Neagle, May Robson, Zasu Pitts and Jimmy Butler, is the screenized story of the war’s greatest heroine.
At the time when the Germans crossed the Belgian border in August, 1914, Edith Cavell was conducting a nursing home in Brussels. Her devotion to the healing of the sick and her courageous mil to help wounded soldiers led her to establish a secret nursing post in the cellar of her home. Espionage finally resulted in her arrest and trial. Nearly every major power in the world attempted to intervene to prevent the nurse’s execution, but to no avail. By consummating the case in this manner, Germany preserved her strict military discipline but brought upon herself a barrage of propaganda that raised anti-German feeling in this country.
Miss Neagle gives an admirable portrayal of the heroic war nurse. This foreign musical comedy star assumed a difficult role in reverting from light dance to heavy drama, but she succeeds in creating a ' vivid, grim, determined Edith Cavell. Zasu Pitts successfully turns to her first serious portrayal as the friendly tugboat proprietress who aided Miss Cavell in transporting the wounded soldiers to France. May Robson and the talented young Jimmy Butler are convincing in supporting roles.
—Ed Butler
KNIGHTS IN — AWAIT 25 MORE, F.O.B. LA PORTE
Final Plans Are Made
For Criminology Clinic
Final arrangements for the observation trip to the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City are now being made by co-chairmen, Henry J. Caudill and Hawley Van Swall. Reservations should be made as soon as possible and Saturday noon, April 27th, has been set as the tentative deadline for registration. It is necessary to know the exact number who are going in order to make arrangements for transportation and lunch. The co-chairmen announce that students will not be permitted to make individual arrangements for transportation and registration will close as soon as the number reaches 40.
French War Posters Are
In Library Art Display
On the third floor of the library, in the Bendix Foundation showrooms, is an interesting display of many French war posters. Decidedly anti-German is one poster which is a map of the world with the joint possessions of the Allies, Britain and France, colored in a bright red, while Germany and her recently won protectorates, Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Austria are in black. The lifelines of the Allies are shown in another poster. More practical are others which warn the populace against the dangers of air raids, and instruct them as to what to do in the event of a bombing. These show the latest bomb shelters and trenches, and how to make them in ten difficult operations. One huge poster shows the face of a French poilu superimposed over the face of an English soldier.
New books recently added include a startling expose of Communistic activities in the United States, called I Confess, by Bernard Gitlow; a book of biographical nature, Journal as Ambassador to Great Britain, by Charles G. Dawes; two books of a historical nature, Carl Carmet’s The Hudson, of the Rivers of America series; and Detroit, Dynamic City, by Arthur Pound.
—John Powers
Cronin Named Program
Chairman of Conference
Professor John J. Cronin, supervisor of field work in the social work program, has been named by Judge Dan Pyle, of the St. Joseph County Circuit Court, as program chairman of the North Central Indiana ’ Conference on Social Work, which will be held next Friday at the Oliver Hotel in South Bend. The theme of the conference will be “Social Justice and Social Work.”
Professor Cronin has announced that the following University faculty members will participate in the program either as sectional chairmen or divisional leaders: Professor Frank T. Flynn, head of the department of social work, who will be chairmen of the Delinquency Division; Professor Maurice L. Pettit of the department of politics and director of the St. Joseph County Department of Public Welfare will head the Children’s Division; Loren J. Hess of the sociology department will present a paper, “Case Work with Adult Delinquents”; and Professor Raymond A. Hoyer will preside at a divisional meeting devoted to a discussion of leisure-time problems.
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank W’emhoff, Literary Editor
Bernard Longo Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Adress manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:80 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Music Week
EACH YEAR since 1936 the University has sponsored an observance of National Music Week here on the campus. The purpose of this annual event is to bring to the Notre Dame student body some of the world’s greatest music as interpreted by some of the true music artists of the world. Lawrence Tibbett, Percy Grainger and Richard Crooks have presented their musical talents in the past; this year the guest artist is Albert Spalding, the American violinist.
These men have been and are appreciated by the great majority of the students on the campus, but does this same majority appreciate the talents of and the efforts made by musical organizations of a local nature? By these are meant, of course, the band, symphony orchestra and glee club.
Under the leadership of Professors Daniel F. Pedtke and Joseph Casasanta these groups have, in recent years, come to be recognized the country over for their musical artistry. During the Easter vacation the University band made an extensive tour through the East receiving very favorable press notices in all the cities in which concerts were given. The symphony orchestra, only within the past three years organized in its present full status, has made many local appearances and is vrorthy of commendation for the quality of music it presents. The glee club is undoubtedly one of the most popular of the campus concert groups, and it always appears before large audiences—that is, so long as the concert is not given here on our own campus.
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
John Patterson Promotion
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
For some unexplainable reason, the Notre Dame student does not respond to the appearance of these groups made up of fellow students. Is it that the music is not worthy of the student at Notre Dame? That hardly can be the case when one considers the enthusiastic receptions given the band and glee club when they appear someplace other than the local campus. Perhaps this apathetical attitude is the result of familiarity with the personnel of the groups, but one should think that a natural curiosity as to the ability of these friends would be shown.
This week one will have ample opportunity to see and hear these organizations right here on the campus. All three groups will appear in Washington Hall during the music week program. Why not attend all three concerts and see just what your friends are capable of doing? Certainly the higher form of music will do no harm to anyone, and a little encouragement to the boys in the band, symphony orchestra and glee club is always welcome to them.—John Casey
❖
The Classics Do Pay
MORALISTS in general are always ready to condemn the offerings of the present day American stage. Producers on the other hand are just as ready to offer the public what the public will pay to see—and what will the American public pay to see? Are the classic plays a “flop” when they are presented to the theater-going public?
We think not. Compare the reviews written by well-known critics, of some of
the current hits, revues, extravaganzas, “scandals” and what-have-you with the solid plays that have stood the test of years. Modem though the theater trend and the attitude of the critics, influenced by the flood of inferior contemporary plays, may be, an observance of the reviews of an older, well established play will show a new enthusiasm that is lacking in review of one of the run of the mine plays that tour the country.
It would seem that the theater-going public also is aware of this attitude. The favored few who enjoy theafer boxes are supposed to be the cultured class who find their amusement in the finer things and always see fresh beauty in the classics. The common conception is that those roosting in the highest gallery are heroic young couples, who find that each other plus the immortals do not make a crowd. The galleries too hold persons from the last generation who, recalling the days when the classics were not “dead,” try to point out to their children the lasting beauties and truths they hold.
Producers cannot say that the public does not pay for higher class stage entertainment. It is seldom that one of the older masterpieces fails to attract a paying audience. Several years ago Leslie Howard presented an excellent rendition of “Hamlet” in Chicago which ran for several weeks. John Gielgud, another Englishman, was scheduled to follow Howard’s company with the same play in the same city, which under ordinary circumstances would seem a rather unbusinesslike thing to do. As it was, however, Mr. Gielgud did not carry out his plans; he was held over too long in New York!
While it is not one of the classics, Clarence Day’s “Life With Father” has merited praise from both critics and audiences alike. There is no sensational portrayal of moral irregularities; it is merely the story of an average American family skillfully and appealingly told, a play with a meaning and memory that will linger pleasantly in the minds of those who have seen it.
The WPA theaters did not restrict their efforts wholly to the “Hot Mikado” but also ventured into Shakespeare with most pleasing results. Real lovers of drama might even go to a Greek play, those dramas about which we hear but so rarely see. These plays are appealing even to modern audiences and might attract paying customers, first from curiosity and then appreciation.
Experience has shown that the public will attend the better stage productions. Why are producers so shy about presenting them?—Jack Binges
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
TRILOGY ON WAR
Episode
i.
The pressure of the soft damp earth against his legs chilled him. He moved ’ away from the banking again and brushed the dirt off his trousers. He looked down the length of the trench 1 to make sure the sergeant was still asleep and then rested his gun against the water barrel. The cigarette that he slipped out of his pocket was damp and flat from the long hours of leaning, and he rolled it between his fingertips before he put it into his mouth.
Frank and Renrik were still standing in the same stiff position staring through । the vision boxes. He knew they weren’t seeing anything. They had learned to sleep and dream with their eyes open. He had often tried to do it but couldn’t. Just as soon as he began to daze about Fred and Karl and Schneider his eyes ; would become heavy and dull and he •	would have to shake himself and forget
|	them.
(	The sky was brightening and he
watched the flushed sun edge up over’ i the banking. The big splotches of orange I reminded him of the salmon in Herr I Schlentzler’s market, and his gummy mouth creased into a smile as he remem-■ bered the morning Schintzer chased the marketman’s black cat across the sidewalk stand and upset the old man’s veg-
’ etable display.
He hadn’t meant to be rude by laughing. But it was the dumbfounded expression on Schintzer’ long face and the way little Karl had screamed his vengeance on the poor brute. Karl had such a big temper for such a tiny body. But — then again, it wasn’t funny. He’d have to watch the boy from now on. The boy was growing and he’d have to learn not to be quite so stormy. Where the little tyke ever got such a temper he couldn’t imagine. Freda was so gentle and kind with him, and he certainly had never exploded before the lad. Well, he’d have to learn — that was all.
He could feel the warmth of the sun on the back of his neck and he loosened the neck-button on his shirt. The air was sharp and fresh, and he climbed up on the cartridge boxes so he could feel the sun all over his face. He breathed deeply and rolled his tongue along his lips to feel the hard crisp air in his
mouth. Shreds of barbed-wire straggled across the ground where the raiding party had cut them the week before. The mist had cleared away and he looked across to the other side. He could see the mat of bloomers that they had raised on a makeshift flagpole.
He thought of Freda and how soft and febrile she had been as she clutched him through the last few hours before he had left her in Kirscher. He wondered if Freda was awake yet and if
Fragments from the Greek
I am the ocean
Moaning on the shore
And murmuring in the dark.
Older than man—
Huge, like an over groivn child
I lie on the land and play with mountains
Children ask—zuho made me?
I am blue,
And deep as the infinity of a question In a child’s eyes.
—Samuel Rowbottom
. . . just a quick shrill whirring noise and then the hot searing pain — his face struck a piece of the wire where he fell and tore the edge of his nose — his head was light and hot and wet — he couldn’t breathe any more — he tried to raise his hand but it was numb — the salmonlike sky was gone and he was falling and he screamed but he couldn’t hear . . . “mein Gott — mein Jesus — mein Christus.”—Leonard Ramsey
❖
A Game of Solitaire
ii.
The room was long, white and quiet. Hospital wards are all the same. There is a row of beds against one wall, and the patients can look out the windows in the opposite wall. The atmosphere is sterile, the furniture is metal, the nurses are bossy, and doctors bring in their friends, pull down the covers and say, “Now here’s something interesting.”
The man on the end was playing soli
taire on his swing-over tray. It was hard to lift the cards. The nurses had cut his fingernails that morning, so they were too short now. He was irritated, because it would be a couple of days before they grew to proper length. It was tedious for him to play at all.
Each time he lifted his arm from the tray, it was a slow, deliberate movement. Occasionally he sank back against the pollow and waited with eyes closed for the strength to return to his muscles. Now he studied the cards carefully, and finally let a few dispirited obscenities trickle from his lips.
The man in the next bed became interested. “What’s the matter, stuck again?” After all the times you’ve played that game you ought to do a lot better.”
“Ah, it’s all in the cards. Law of averages, you know.”
The other was persistent. “Well, you’ve played an awful lot of games. As long as I can remember you were playing. Have you any idea just how many times you’ve played?”
The man on the end was becoming more annoyed. “No,” he said shortly. “I guess I’ve averaged two games a day for the last twenty-two years.”
“Buddy, that’s an awful lot of games. Say, did you ever keep track of how many times you lost, and how many times it worked out?”
“No,” said the man on the end wearily.
“Well, you should have. Then you could tell everybody how many times they could expect to win, and how many times they could expect to lose.” He chuckled. “You could have written a book on it even.”
“Oh shut up, darn you. Shut up and leave me alone.” The man in the last bed turned his face away with the twist of the neck that is characteristic of the bedridden. He lay still, listening to the clock measuring off what was left of his life.
Snow flakes slipped by the windows, unnoticed by men lying awake with their eyes closed. A train whistle sounded from this distance, and the men stirred
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
unconsciously. War dead are not always buried.—Thomas McManus
To Benefit the Land
in.
He was an humble sort of man. His only possessions were a wife, a farm, two oxen. He could neither read nor write but the velvet soil which nurtured his crops gave him happiness; a real happiness which only the meek can enjoy.
But one day a handsome stranger with a black mustache came up to the door dressed in a khaki uniform. He had a paper and said it was signed by the Government. He talked too fast for the man and his wife to understand, but they learned that the Government was in trouble and needed his help. So he
left his plow and went away with the stranger. Soon they met other men like himself and they all rode on a train till they got to a camp with thousands of tents and thousands of men. He thought that all the men looked very much like himself.
Three days later he was given a uniform and a gun. They taught him how to shoot and how to kill. They gave him a bayonet and told him how to leer and thrust and twist and pull. After two weeks, they told him that he was • going to the front. He was happy then because they said that if he fought hard the war would soon be over.
And he did fight hard, and he killed like the others. He used his bayonet the way he was taught. Through the sights of his rifle he saw men gasp and fall. He watched men blown to hits in front of him. His hobnailed shoes bit into the
flesh of dead enemies. He cursed the whining shells and vomited with the stench of rotting bodies.
One night the command was given to charge. The Government said forward so he ran. He heard men screaming, laughing, groaning, and he wondered if they, too, had once been happy and were dying because someone wanted land or money.
Suddenly his stomach went cold, then hot. He staggered forward, fell. His hand groped for his wound but sank into a tangled mass around his belt. His face sunk into the mud and his hand convulsively crushed a clump of dirt. He smiled for the earth felt good and rich. It was much richer than his land at home. And as the blood trickled between his teeth he knew the reason why.
—Ray Williams
TOWARD WASHINGTON
Breathless, crashing in the dark, The man reached the hill. He had rushed from the town, The glow of fire on the road before him. Behind him at the ancient city's heart The church was blazing like a box, Its fire falling through the town. In the square before it, in the bloody light, Men in dark uniforms were fighting,. With rifle butts and bayonets they shocked; Chin to chin they strained, blades at throats And thumb nails seeking out the socket of an eye. In the city from the hill he saw it— Brother strangle brother in the bright red light, And slash away his uniform.
All was fierce with fury and with fighting, While above the lightning crackled in the blackened air. Across the night he saw the burning smoke of other fires twisting, He heard the dry grass rattle, And in his face he felt the strong hot wind.
Thunder tumbled, but no rain fell; The earth shook from under ground. Flaming'buildings in the town collapsed, And honored symbols crashed— The sky —rained sparks upon the hill. Then reddened darkness stormed him, and he fled, Fled the fiery town, the screaming men, Ran with dry green lightning at his back, Ran until the leaping light grew dim, Ran into his father's house, Unto his father's knee, And clinging to him, To the eagle face, The stern and quiet eye, The American confessed his fear.
ROBERT W. BLAKE
।
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
Annual Law Banquet To Honor Hoynes, Monday
The Notre Dame Law Club pays its tribute to an almost legendary figure when law students, lawyers, and townsfolk meet in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel La Salle, Monday evening, April 29, for the annual Hoynes Testimonial Banquet.
Each year men of Notre Dame honor the memory of the late Colonel William
Speakers: W. Mahoney, J. Deane
James Hoynes, whose labors of a lifetime were devoted to the development of the Notre Dame College of Law and to the education of hundreds of students who brought a bit of Notre Dame to the legal profession.
William Francis Clarke, professor of law and dean of the De Paul University Law School, will be the principal speaker, it was announced today by Charles S. Sheridan, general chairman from South Bend, Indiana. Brief remarks are also to be made by Dean Thomas F. Konop, Professor Clarence E. Manion, and John J. Deane, president of the Notre Dame law club from Milwaukee, Wis.
Toastmaster for the evening will be William P. Mahoney, senior law student from Phoenix, Ariz. Committee chairmen are: Eugene Zinn, tickets; Louis DaPra, publicity; John Donnelly, patrons; Timothy King, reception; Leon Lancaster, an-angements; Joseph Nigro, programs; Edward Grogan, speakers.
Theatre Group Pleases With Goldsmith Comedy
Oliver Goldsmith’s 18th Century comedy, “She Stoops to Conquer,” was presented by the University Theatre group to 20th Century audiences in Washington Hall on Sunday and Monday evenings.
The play was directed by the Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C. The clowning of Joseph Slattery, in the role of “Tony Lumpkin,” was well received by the audience. The bashful yet bold young lover, “Marlow,” was played by William Mulvey, and the scene where he first
meets “Kate Hardcastle,” played by Miss Helene Cryan, was the best scene of the show. Jack Boyce gave a good performance as an 18th Century “parlor sophisticate.” Miss Jayne Bunch, Miss Dorothy Taffee, George York and William Hickey added well-played parts.
Behind the scenes Richard Ames was stage manager, Brother Benitus, C.S.C., make-up artist, Walter Brennan, costume manager; and Frederick Hoover handled the stage properties, Thomas Door the lights, and Mrs. Julia E. Holmes the objects of art.
6th Annual Oratorical
Contest Here Tomorrow
The preliminaries of the Sixth Annual Notre Dame Oratorical Contest will be held in the auditorium of the Law Building tomorrow afternoon at 1:30. The finals are scheduled at 1:30 Sunday in the Engineering Building. The contest — open to all Catholic high schools in the Midwest — will have representatives of more than 20 schools competing for the trophies and medals. One trophy will be awarded to the school whose speaker wins first place in the finals; another trophy is given to the highest ranking orator from Indiana.
The competition, begun by the Wranglers Society in 1935, each year has added more and more schools. This year, for the first time, a Wisconsin school is sending a representative. Seven orators from Chicago are participating and will attempt to retain the crown won last year by James Hartney of Leo High. Wilmot Kerr, of Central Catholic High School, Fort Wayne, was the Hoosier victor last year.
The oration may be on any subject, not less than ten nor more than twelve minutes, and does not necessarily have to be original. Contestants will be judged according to platform appearance, voice, enthusiasm or interest; the introduction, organization, and originality of the speech; the mastery of the subject, ability to accomplish their purpose and ability to arouse and hold the interest of the audience.
Preliminary judges will be one expresident of the Wranglers who is a graduate of Notre Dame, one member of the faculty, and one member of the Wranglers Society. The judges, for the finals are: Professor William J. Coyne; another member of the faculty; and Albert P. Funk, president of the Wranglers.*
Tomorrow night a testimonial banquet will be given for all contestants, the
members of the Wranglers Society, and honorary guests. Tom Tearney and Jerry O’Dowd, who won the contest two and four years ago, respectively, are now students at Notre Dame.
O'Dowd, Hogan Receive Cash Contest Awards
The National Federation of Catholic College Students announced that Jerome O’Dowd, freshman lawyer of Notre Dame, was awarded first prize in its recent essay contest. He receives a cash award of twenty-five dollars and will have his essay, “We Struck at Print with Print,” published in the June issue of The Sign.
O’Dowd explained the work of the Committee on Decent Literature which .published “No Smut” last spring. The embryonic development of the pamphlet, the cross section of student opinion represented, and its immediate success evidenced by the distribution of 125,000 copies, were discussed in O’Dowd’s essay.
Gerald Hogan, senior English major, was awarded the first prize of one hundred dollars in the annual Goodrich-Cavanaugh Oratorical Contest last Friday. John Hennessy received second prize, and Milton Williams, third prize. The title of Hogan’s oration was “The Constitution—‘All Sail, No Anchor?’ ” His main consideration was the misuse
Winners: G. Hogan, J. A. O’Dowd
of the terms, “liberty,” “freedom,” and “democracy” by those who have little appreciation of their meaning and true worth as found in the Constitution.
The Goodrich - Cavanaugh Oratorical Award is given annually to three undergraduates to further the development of campus oratory. The presentation must deal with some fundamental institution of American government. Contestants spoke before a committee consisting of Prof. Frank Kelly, of the speech department, and other faculty members selected by the president of the University.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
1940 Irish Varsity Gets First Test Against /zEleven Old Men Tomorrow
FINAL KICKOFF—THE ‘
Kelley, Piepul to Lead
Teams In Annual Game
“The march is on.”. .. tomorrow, the familiar battle cry of the Fighting Irish Avill resound through the stands once more, when Coach Elmer Layden wheels his 1940 Notre Dame football team onto the stadium turf, to do battle with the “eleven old men,” and sundry other seniors who wore the Blue and Gold for the last time against Southern California last fall.
That this game will be a good one, and that both teams want to win, can be proved by the fact that both coaches will lead with their aces. Elmer Layden will field George Rassas and Johnny O’Brien at ends; Jim Brutz and Paul Lillis at tackles; Pete Kelly and John Gubanich at guards; with Bob Osterman at the pivot-post. The backfield will find Bob Hargrave at quarter; “Slug” Mc-Gannon at left-half; Steve Juzwik at right; and Captain-elect “Big Moose” Peipul at fullback.
The “oldtimers,” who have been conditioning for the past two weeks -will go to bat with virtually the same outfit that started against the Southern Cal. Trojans last fall: All American “Bud” Kerr and retiring captain, Johnny Kelley at the flanks; “Boodie” Albert and Tad Harvey at tackles; “Chuck” Riffle and Joe DeFranco at guards; Al Mooney, center. Running behind this highly talented forward wall, will be a backfield composed of Steve Sitko at quarter; Harry Stevenson and Lou Zontini at the halves; and Joe Thesing at full.
Pre-game interviews with both coaches find the rival camps optimistic to the last degree. Said Coach Layden; “It will be a great game.____We have a pretty good ball team._____the “Oldtimers” are tough and experienced, and can be expected to give a good account of themselves. ... We’ll start our experienced men, but six or seven teams will pop into the lineup before the game is over. _____________________The idea of this game is to get a look at our boys under fire; to see what we have to work with next fall.... No, positions won’t be decided until next fall; the race is still wide open.... We don’t care about the score of this game; it’s the scores in the fall that we like.... We’ll be out to win though.”
“Over in the “Oldtimers” camp, where the players coach themselves, the attitude was no different: “Through, are we,” they chorused, “We’ll show ’em on Saturday.... we don’t know how bad we’ll beat ’em, but beat ’em we will!”
Not only will the game serve as a preview for the 1940 gridiron machine, but it will also mark the end of the six weeks spring practice grind, for after the smoke has cleared and the last man has left the field, the boys wlil hang up their moleskins until the fall.
Although the game is strictly a family affair, it will have all the pomp and ceremony of a major attraction, in as much as four officials from our local high schools, will be on hand to take charge of the festivities. Rain, snow, or what have you, the teams will take the field at two o’clock, and for two hours at least, the war in Europe, will be shifted right into our own back yard!
—Jim Clemens
Joe Thesing	Ben Shei
Fullback	Left H<
Golfers Prepare For
Marquette and Wildcats
“Phil Donahue and Sammy Neild are just about on a par for their battle as No. 1 on the team, Bill Schaller and Captain Walt Hagen, Jr., can play either No. 3 or 4 while Willie Wilson is holding down the No. 5 spot with ease,” the Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., University golf coach, stated after his team lost to Michigan, last Tuesday 18% to 8%.
“Our boys played just about as well as Michigan — except on the greens. There we learned a lesson. In the singles Neild, Donahue and Wilson were all 2-up going into the 10th. Neild and Donahue lost their matches on the 18th hole when their opponents bagged birdies.”
Notre Dame was scheduled to meet Illinois today and next Thursday Marquette invades the local course. On Friday Northwestern is the foe. Bland and Fannon are highly rated performers for the Wildcats.
Father Holderith has a wide open race on his hands for the No. 6 position. George Schreiber, Milo Wolf, John Carney and Tom Walsh are setting the'pace. Wolf recorded a 68 earlier this week.
—John E. Lewis
Steve Sitko	Jack McI
Quarterback	Cente
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
HE OLD FAMILIAR FACES
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESSBOX
By FRANK AUBREY
v Sheridan
LOU ZONTINI
>eft Halfback
Right Halfback
RTING LINEUPS
.L.E. .L.T. .L.G.
.R.G. .R.T. R.E. Q.B. .L.H. .R.H. .F.B.
Old-Timers ... Kerr ... Albert
DeFranco .. Mooney .. Riffle .... Harvey .. J. Kelley .. Sitko
Stevenson ..... Zontini .... Thesing
iotre Dame Stadium.
Bob Jones; Linesman, Forrest Wood; Field
I
k McIntyre	Harry Stevenson
Center	Left Halfback
Last week at this time, we expected to write a column on — ‘what happens when you take a girl to a ball game.’ But due to conditions beyond our control we missed that little experience. Sade to relate — Western State had to be viewed continuously from start to finish, without even one little episode of looking for the lady’s dropped glove or explaining why pitcher Nowicki batted for himself in a pinch. Ah yes, — instead of the diversion of a feminine mind that wants to know all the whys and what-fors — we had to focus our entire attention on the dire spectacle taking place on the field, — yes, and keep a box-score of the proceedings. What mental anguish to mark up the fourth straight hit for Mr. Cuckovich when he doubled with two men on base! One consolation is — we didn’t have to explain to feminine ears why he wasn’t passed.
Yes, there were a lot of moments in last Saturday’s game when we’d have been glad of an excuse to look elsewhere. Mr. Ledden has already chastised Roy Pinelli, and if Norv Hunthausen is doing any worrying, let him recall what happened to Bob Feller himself on his second trip to the mound. In case nobody noticed it, the wind was doing things to fly balls last Saturday. Blowing from left to right field, it might have caused Mr. Pinelli to think that soft fly balls would be blown over his head — and so, he played deep, — and no cracks about ‘asleep in the deep.’ Anyway, let’s all kneel and give thanks for the safe return to the fold of Red Oberbruner.
Chet Sullivan’s solid walloping took first place in people’s attention —- that is, when Western State wasn’t doing the walloping. But Chet has made his mark; he’s more or less expected to hit. What a lot of you guys missed was the raw dramer of last Saturday’s epic. Holding down left field was Hymie Crane, shuttled out there because George Sobek was reckoned the better second baseman of the two — especially because of his hitting. Yet Mr. Sobek was soft-pickings for Western’s Lefty Overmire, fanning thrice and winding up with one for five. Meanwhile Hymie was performing at the plate as though the proceedings had been already set aside as ‘Crane Day.’ Up to the 9th Crane had three hits and a walk to his credit. By that time most of the crowd had trooped over to Layden’s Mammoth Shows, Inc., and Hymie, disgusted at this lack of appreciation of his prowess, carelessly popped out. But we were there, and we have noted for posterity this day of all days. It was like a page from the books of Horatio Alger, only, if what Horatio wrote is true, we must expect to see Hymie back on second base again.
Tomorrow, as faithful readers of THE SCHOLASTIC already know, eleven old men will battle eleven burly, well-conditioned athletes before the lackadaisical glance of those members of the student body who have sacrificed their golf, their shows, and their root-beer to be on hand. The burly, well-conditioned athletes will be trying to display to the best advantage what a few years of Saturday night steak, plenty of Irish spuds, and the Rockne football system has done for them. The eleven old men will be in there doing what they can — despite what four years of Notre Dame steaks, endless mashed potatoes, and the Rockne football system has done to them. The languid and self-sacrificing golfers and movie habitues will be there to see what St. Mary’s has to offer in the line of spring styles and more or less to see if the guy across the hall manages to get in the game.
After it’s all over you will not have seen the last of the old men — no, they’ll be kicking around here for another month yet. You will not know who is going to start against College of the Pacific next fall — no, only Elmer and his lieutenants will know that, and they’re not talking. However, if you go over and spread yourself in the sun, you will have a pretty good time — even, if the spring styles are disappointing and the guy across the hall remains on the bench. We’ll be over there — if only to hear that announcer intone ‘varrrrrsity’ over the loud-speaker system. Should the ‘varrrrrsity’ lose, we doubt that the result would plunge the whole campus into mourning, but it would be a tremendous blow to the forces exhorting hard work, rigorous conditioning, and strict attention to the fundamentals of football — the coaching staff. For, as everyone knows, the old-timers will be laboring in a flabby condition left over from the winter, will have had only a week of easy limbering up, and will be using some new plays borrowed from Pacific. Thus, for the sake of future football discipline, good clean living, and the Salvation Army — we hope the ‘varrrrrsity’ manages to get a touchdown.
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
INTRODUCING By PETE SHEEHAN
In most sports, teamwork is taken for granted! When .we read about a sensational ball carrier we are quite certain that there are one or two expert blockers hiding in the shadows of his greatness. When we learn of a high scoring forward we are sure that he has four teammates. But most of us believe that this spirit of self-sacrifice is not necessary in track. To most of us, this sport is based on individual performances. How
ever, on our own campus we
have a man who sacrificed a great possibility of individual stardom in order that his team would not be weak in a certain department.
When Bob Lawrence came to Notre Dame he held the National Interscholastic record in the high hurdles. After the late Coach Nicholson had trained Bob for a year he told him that he could never be a great college hurdler because he lacked the initial sprint which is so vital in this event. However, his coach believed that he would make a great middle distance runner.
Bob returned to school as a sophomore determined to be a successful half miler. But he found that the team was weak in one department and if this weakness were not corrected a well-balanced squad would be impossible. There were several good sprinters, distance men, pole
vaulters, and weight stars
but good hurdlers were scarce. So Bob
decided that he would stick to his hurdles so the Fighting Irish would be stronger as a unit.
Throughout his sophomore season he scored in every meet and easily earned his monogram. Last year he did very well during the indoor season but pulled a muscle in his leg shortly after going out on the cinder track and was unable to compete in the hurdles events during the remainder of the season. However, he was able to run with the mile relay team during the month of May and score enough points to win his second monogram.
Tomorrow at the Drake Relays Bob will compete in the 400 meter hurdles for the first time and, since his leg has
begun to feel right, he should finish near the front.
Back in Wichita, Kansas, Bob was a three-sports star. He played end and halfback on the grid squad and made the All - Arkansas Valley Conference team two years in succession. He played guard on the basketball team and won all-conference honors as a senior. Besides breaking the National Interscholastic record in the high hurdles he also
won the state title in ’36.
Bob says his greatest thrill was experienced during his junior year in high school when he caught a touchdown pass with ten seconds to go to give North high school a victory over East and thereby gain undisputed claim to the mythical state championship.
His summertime jobs have included those of life guard and camp instructor in Wichita, Kansas. During his spare time he plays sandlot baseball.
Statistics: Robert Howard Lawrence. Born on Sept. 3, 1917 at Anardarko, Oklahoma. Now lives in Wichita, Kansas. Height 6 ft. 2 ins., weight 170 lbs. He will receive his degree in Physical Education and hopes to enter Government Social Work.
Klinemen Seek Second
Win Over Northwestern
Northwestern’s Wildcats, the Boilermakers of Purdue and Michigan’s Wolverines will seek respective conquest over the Irish baseball squad during the coming week, and from all indications Jake Kline’s boys will have their hands full.
Tomorrow the Irish will be in Evanston for a return tangle with the Wildcats. Norval Hunthausen will do the mound work for Notre Dame and will attempt to duplicate the 6-1 shellacking he handed Northwestern two weeks ago.
Monday, a crew of Purdue Boilermakers will engage the Irish here and seek their first win over Notre Dame since 1936. The game count for the past rivalry between Purdue and Notre Dame stands at 34 wins for the Irish, 12 for the Boilermakers and two ties. The Irish also hold the edge with 474 total points scored as against Purdue’s 229 tallies.
However, disregarding the past and considering present lineups, the boys from Lafayette seem well fortified for. a Boilermaker blitzkrieg. Breaking even in their Big Ten game count, Purdue, coached by Coach Bill “Dutch” Fehring, sports a 1940 edition that is typical of Boilermaker power. Co-captain and third baseman, Felix Mackiewicz, led the Big 10 in total bases with a .368 batting average. Bob Bailey who held the second best earned run average in the Big 10 last year leads a host of reliable pitchers. Frank Danowski, switched from first base and Don Blainken of Purdue basketball fame stand out as excellent relief material.
Against this veteran squad, Coach Kline will pin Irish hopes on Rex Ellis with possible relief in Sebastian Nowicki, sophomore prospect.
Wednesday the Irish will start on a succession of nine “away” games by journeying first to Ann Arbor to meet the powerful Wolverines. Weighing past and present events, the Irish seem to be headed for a hectic afternoon. In their baseball rivalry with Michigan, Notre Dame has only 11 out of 37 games. The Wolverines hold the edge in tallies too, as the record shows 206 runs for Michigan as against 145 for Notre Dame. From the year 1916 to 1924 Michigan won all their games with the Klinemen. In 1924 baseball relations between the two schools were broken and a reunion was affected in 1938. Since the resumption of this competition, the Irish have shared a 50% average with the Ann Arbor teams.
This year the Wolverines and Coach Ray Fisher, a former New York Yankee ball player boast a squad that is worried about its hitting but relieved of this worry with thoughts of good fielding and
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
pitching. Recently returned from a successful southern tour, the Wolverine squad includes such stars as: Captain Charley Pink, varsity basketball player who batted .377 last season, and has made only two errors in the last two years and has 15 stolen bases to his credit; Howard “Hank” Greenberg, who is almost as aggressive at the plate and sack as his namesake.—Tom Powers
Managers' Banquet
Student managers took a night off last Wednesday evening as the Athletic Association played host to them at the annual Managers’ Banquet. With a goodly number of their subordinates in attendance, retiring senior managers Neil Geary, Joe O’Connell, Joe Hart, Tom Duifey, John Hussey, Gordie Whiteman, and Kenny Warburton turned over their duties to the 1941 organization.
“The MEN’S Store”
A New Store with All New Stocks
Invites You to See the 1940
PALM BEACH SUITS $16-75
Hot weather will soon be with us. Get the evidence today by viewing our display of the 1940 Palm Beach Suits in this entirely new store.
See what one short year has accomplished in modem tailoring — in new weaves with friendlier, softer, lighter feel.
You’ll enjoy buying at this store where everything is new. Colors, whites, Tuxedos, Slacks — all are here. .
MAIN AT COLFAX
Mile Quartet Hopes for Drake Relay Record
The Drake Relays, established 31 years ago this spring by Major John L. Griffith, Western Conference Athletic commissioner, attracts Notre Dame’s outstanding track and field athletes to Des Moines, Iowa today and tomorrow.
George Schiewe, Ken Collins, Joe Halpin and Ray Roy form the Irish one-mile relay quartet which is expected to provide the outstanding feature of Notre Dame’s appearance at the Relays. That unit just missed the all-time Notre Dame indoor record of 3:23 during the regular indoor season, and then shattered it by beating Michigan, Indiana and Illinois in the Hoosier Relays at Bloomington last Saturday. The new time is 3:20.5. The 1940 quartet smashed the mark set in 1931 by Charley Kelley, Fred MacBeth, John Scanlon and Alex Wilson.
The same unit will seek a new outdoor mark, better than that of 3:17.5 set by Bill Mahoney, John Francis, Joe Halpin and Pete Sheehan, set m finishing second in the 1938 Drake Relays. Halpin is back in the same unit while Mahoney is now handling coaching duties for the Irish since the death of John P. Nicholson, former head track coach.
Bob Saggau, native son of Denison, la., returns to his home state seeking the 100-yard dash title. Dave Reidy will perform in the hurdles; Captain Ted Leonas in the high jump; John Dean in the pole vault; Cliff Brosey in shot put and discus; and Tom Perry in the javelin.
Reidy, Frank Sheets, Bill Buenger and Saggau make up 440 and 880-yard relay units. Roy, Saggau, Reidy and Curtis Hester will run with the sprint medley while the two-mile event entertains Roy, John Mack, Joe Olbrys and Hester.—Bill Scanlan
Fennists Seek Third
Win at Western State
With two victorious matches behind them, the Notre Dame tennis team heads north tomorrow to meet Western State. They will then devote a week to intense practice in preparation for matches here with a greatly heralded Northwestern team next Friday.
So far the local racquet men have fulfilled all pre-season expectations and have showed up as one of the strongest tennis squads to represent Notre Dame since the inauguration of the sport eight years ago.
After a 6 to 1 victory at Wabash, Coach Langford was eager to see the boys go against more formidable play.
- Consequently, he was particularly pleased when his men broke through with a win over Kentucky last Monday for their first victory over the southerners in five meets. The score was 6 to 1.
Particularly pleasing has been the play of Jack Joyce, who last year was hampered with an injured hand. The first three men — Captain Bill Fay, Dan Canale, and Joyce — are almost equally strong and present a powerful front. Harold Bowler, Jack Walsh, Norm Heck-
NOW at f Notre Dame^
A FAMOUS SOFT DRINK WITH A DISTINCTIVE
FLAVOR
•	DR. PEPPER is a pure and wholesome beverage, with a unique and distinctive flavor that is delightfully pleasing to the taste.
•	DR. PEPPER is a food in . liquid form. DR. PEPPER supplies a small amount of energy which aids in relieving the feeling of fatigue that comes with regularity between meals. This is the scientific reason for our famous slogan: "Drink a Bite to Eat at 10, 2 and 4 o'clock." Although DR. PEPPER is especially satisfying and helpful at these times, it is just as good at other hours.
•	Ask for DR. PEPPER the next time you buy a soft drink.
THE HUDDLE AND GOLF SHOP HAVE IT!
DR. PEPPER BOTTLING CO. SOUTH BEND, IND.
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
let, Joseph Garvey and Fritz Nagel are improving fast. The doubles teams seem well established with Joyce and Canale taking the first spot, and Bowler and Fay as the number two team.
The Western State team, headed by a flashy sophomore, Gene Russell, will be favorites tomorrow, judging from the past four meetings of the two squads. This year’s Kazoo team showed plenty of strength recently in losing to Chicago, Big Ten champions.
Said Coach Langford: “As I see it, we’re going to have to win tomorrow to be assured of a winning season. The team is coming along fine. It is definitely a better-than-average team. We may be able to take them.”
Next Friday Northwestern wall offer some of the best tennis the Blue and Gold will encounter this year. Led by lanky Seymour Greenberg, No. 1 ranking Western Junior star and No. 6 nationally, the Wildcats are expected to end the domination of Big Ten tennis by Chicago.
Russell Tops Swimmers
In Interhall Carnival
Although winning but one first place in individual events, Bob Russell off-campus student, was consistent enough to take high scoring honors in the interhall swimming meet held last week at the Rockne Memorial.
Trailing Russell, who scored 24 points, were Bill Cotter, of Dillon with 21 points, and Lee Hastings and Bob Lever-nier of Morrissey with 20 and 15 points respectively.
The 35 points of the latter two were enough to win the team championship for Morrissey hall. The Morrissey entries collected 40 points, followed by Off-campus swimmers with 33 tallies and Dillon with 24.
Indicative of the improvement of the natators is the fact that records were set in every event but one and that was tied.
Morrissey swimmers took first place in both relays. Their 100-yard relay team, composed of Tad Harvey, Tom Reilly, Bob Finneron, and Mike Vonesh, broke the existing record by 5.6 seconds. The new mark is 1:46.2. Levetiier and Hastings combined with Frank Pollnow in.the 150 yd. medley to crack Lyon’s record by 2.3 seconds. The new record is 1:29.
Off-campus, with George Bartuska, Tom Hoyer, John Cissne and Russell in the 100-yard relay and the last three in the 150 yd. medley finished second in both events.
Cotter took first in the 50-yard breast stroke event, with Pollnow second, and Larry Donovan, of Lyons, third, tieing his own record of 31.9.
Russell, John Dorr, of Cavanaugh, and John Lanahan were the victorious in the 220-yard free style. Levenier set the pace in the 50-yard back stroke, finishing two seconds under the old record which was 30.6. In second and third place were Dorr and John Griffin of Badin.
Hastings, Tom Miller, of Cavanaugh, and Vonesh finished in that order in the 50-yard free style race, setting the new record of 25.3. Hastings likewise took his specialty, the 100-yard free style event, in 57.1, followed by the reliables, Russell and Dillon.
Cotter’s score in the high diving was 181.4 and 207.4 in the low board event. George Bartuska and Joe Giedemann were second and third in the former, and Hoyer and Bartuska, in the latter.
—John E. Lewis
CUSTOM TAILORED TO MEASURE . . . .
Individually styled and tailored to YOUR measure . . . selection of over four hundred patterns . . . imported materials ... in shetlands, tweeds,	$ 4 E
worsteds, flannels and gabardines_______________0
PARKER-WINTERROWD (Upstairs Shop) 115# - 117}£ N. Main Street
A BARGAIN CATCH!
BASEBALL
Special Gloves, $5.00 value at $3.45
TENNIS
Spalding & Hall tennis racquet frames— $6 to $10
GOLF
Spalding & MacGregor golf clubs—5 Irons $10.00 and up
Special Jimmy Thompson woods—set of 3—$17.85
Golf Bags—$1.25 up
Golf Balls, 75c value, now 59c—$6 doz.
Special Spalding racquet (laminated frame), $5.00 value—$3.95
We restring your old frames.
Tennis balls—25c up
(Formerly Mike Kelly’s)
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP 121 W. COLFAX AVENUE
1941 Fencing Captain Elected In Lucky Toss
Although the fencing season is definitely over and the Notre Dame fencing team has ended a successful year, the Irish blade wielders met with new difficulties last week.
In the elections held at the recent team banquet, John Gaither of Louisville, Ky, and Russell Harris of Little Rock, Ark., were elected co-captains for next year’s squad. However, when the election pitch had subsided, some industrious chap looked into the athletic rules of the school and found that there could be no co-captains in any sport at Notre Dame. So the choice was decided by the flip of a coin and luck fell on the side of Gaither.
However, it was more than mere luck that brought the Irish fencers their successful season this year. They developed steadily after a shaky start to win five of nine matches.—Joe Palmer.
FEATURES
Cool Sport Shirts—98c
N. D. Pillows—$1.50
Crew Caps (white) $ 1.00
(blue) 1.25
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
STEAKS — CHOPS FRIED CHICKEN
SPAGHETTI DINNERS
FRESH LAKE FISH
Sandwiches Sodas Sundaes
Wilson-Slazenger
WRIGHT & DITSON Frames & Racquets in stock Restringing....$1.75 to $8.50 All makes canned Tennis
Balls.......3	for $1.19
INTERHALL BASEBALL TOURNAMENT
After a five-year sleep, interhall baseball will again take the spotlight as a campus activity. Athletic Director Elmer Layden’s office will cooperate with the Physical Education department in reestablishing hall rivalry on the diamond.
Plans are now being completed with reference to rules, the appointment of umpires, and the bracketing of teams. Baseball diamonds are being hoed and raked into condition for the inaugural meeting between two campus teams.
It is suggested now that those diamond stars who have ambitions to compete in the tournament begin to toss the rawhide around Badin Bog or any other available location. Practical preparation with the willow, bunting, long distance clouting, are also necessary requisites of a good ball player.
Announcements will be made in the near future as to the pairings, dates, and grounds.
Social Work Students
Visit Chicago Clinics
All graduate social work students were guests Wednesday, of Doctor Philip M. Law, lecturer on Psychiatric Information in the department of sociology, on a visit to several Chicago clinics. Among the agencies visited were the Adult Psychiatric Clinic of the Loyola University College of Medicine of which Doctor Law is acting director, Cook County Psychiatric Hospital, and a Catholic school for the feeble-minded. At each agency demonstrations were arranged for the students, bringing out the practical aspects of the mental hygiene problems treated in Doctor Law’s class lectures.
On Thursday the students attended meetings of the Central States Probation and Parole Conference including the luncheon at which Doctor Edwin H. Sutherland addressed the assembly on “The White-Collared Criminal.”
A second trip is planned for the near future during which the courts and correctional agencies of the Chicago area will be observed.
We can show you the finest selection of Golf Clubs in South Bend— Let us show you.
Wilson Pinehurst Irons....—$2.39 each Wilson Pinehurst Woods..$2.75 each Kroydon Irons and Woods......$5.00 up Moccasin Golf Shoes..........$4.50 to $9.95 Wilson and Par Oval Golf Bags $1.19 up Standard Golf Balls..........$2.50 doz. up
RECO SPORTING GOODS
113 N. Main	Phone 4-6731
“LOOK FOR THE LOG FRONT”
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St.
South Bend, Ind.
“SCHOLASTIC” SOFTBALL TOURNEY
Campus clubs attention! The Scholastic has planned its first softball tournament exclusively for clubs. Any organization from the Met Club to the La Raza group is eligible to enter.
The Scholastic hopes that this first attempt at spring promotion will be successful enough to warrant a continuance of the tournament. In this, the initial year of activity, winning teams can receive for an award the honor of being Scholastic softball champions. However, with an encouraging entry list, future tournament winners will receive a trophy.
Before pairings can be made, it is necessary that entry blanks be submitted. Each team may have on its roster 15 players. All names must appear on the entry blank. Mail or deliver the blanks to John Patterson, 204 Howard Hall as soon as possible. As the old saying goes, if no one is in, slide them under the door. We will notify you when you are to play.
Meanwhile — practice.
Headquarters far
PALM BEACH SUITS
for College Mee
Max ADLER
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The week before us is full of wonder. The theme of the Sunday Mass is prayer and its fruits as taught by Christ himself. The three days that follow witness the procession and Mass of the Rogations which ask specifically for earthly blessings. The prayer of the Church encompasses the whole man. Ascension Day, heaven stands open forevermore.
After the singing of the Gospel at the High Mass of the Ascension, an attendant extinguishes the Paschal Candle which has symbolized Christ’s stay on earth after the Resurrection. As the wisp of smoke curls upward, the eyes of faith recapture the vivid scene, Christ ascending in triumph with the company of the blessed. We are one with the disciples and hear the angel say: “Men of Galilee, why stand you here in wonder, looking up to heaven?” (Acts 1:11)
Wonder, and consternation, too. His presence filled their hearts with burning but their thoughts were still of petty gain and an earthly kingdom. Not until Pentecost would they know the difference between Christ with them and Christ in them. When the realization did come they went forth to conquer themselves and the world.
Mass Calendar: April 28 - May 4
Sunday, 28—Fifth after Easter. 2d prayer, St. Paul of the Cross, Confessor, 3d St. Vital, Martyr, 4th, against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday, 29—St. Peter, Martyr. Mass: Protexisti (Common of Martyrs in paschal time) Prayer proper. 2d, Rogations (proper of the time) 3d, against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday, 30—St. Catherine of Siena, Virgin. Mass: Dilexisti (Common) Prayer proper. 2d, Rogations, 3d, against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, May 1—Sts. Philip and James, Apostles. 2d prayer, Vigil of Ascension, 3d, Rogations.
Thursday, 2—The Ascension of Our Lord Jesus Christ. (Holyday) Preface and Communicantes (in Canon) proper.
Friday, 3—The Finding of the Holy Cross. 2d prayer, Octave of Ascension, 3d, St. Alexander and Companions, Martyrs. Preface of the Cross.
Saturday, 4—St. Monica, Widow. (Mother of St. Augustine) 2d prayer, Octave of Ascension. -	.
*4USE THAT REFRESHES
Bolded under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
THE BOOK SHOP
Notre Dame Headquarters for
Books Stationery Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
• 130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
COME
DOWN C. O. D.
and look over our large, complete selection of all that's new in
PALM BEACH
suits
slacks
formal jackets
Just take a cab and we will pay on arrival for any Notre Dame student — from school to GILBERT'S store. All other accessories to complete your outfit for any hour of the day — or night.
TRE MODERN GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
Chevrolet President
Speaks on Unemployment
“Industry and Unemployment” was the title of an address delivered by Mr. Marvin E. Coyle, president and general manager of the Chevrolet division of Rag” is pretty well submerged by riffs, ington Hall on Tuesday morning. Mr. Coyle was introduced by the Eev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Mr. Coyle’s address was built around the theory that large industries, if not too heavily taxed or subjected to excessive government regulation, would be better able to help the world unemployment situation. He showed how a hypothetical city, composed entirely of employees of the General Motors corporation, would have the potential power to support many thousands of additional people supplying it with necessities.
After the address a brief period was devoted to open discussion between students in the audience and the speaker. In answer to one question Mr. Coyle made the observation that ambitious young men of today have a greater chance- for advancement in industry than the young men of his generation. The speaker attributed this condition to a lesser desire for advancement found in the typical young employee in large industry today.
Later Mr. Coyle was guest of Father O’Donnell, and the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, at a luncheon in the trustee’s room of the dining hall.
a presentation made by Bengal coach, Dominick Napolitano, and Bengal promoter, Louis DaPra.
In winning the award Brownson scored 43 points and was assured victory
Does Your HAT-I-TUDEt date back to
1936
Today, with wide, he-man brims, and rakish, low crowns, you’d be surprised how the narrow brims and high crowns of a few years ago date you!
Then Change Now to a Smart, New LEE Water-Bloc* Hat
Commerce Forum
The Commerce Forum will hold a Communion-Breakfast this Sunday, President Herb Connelly announced. The Mass, to be celebrated by Rev. James A. Fogarty, C.S.C., Forum chaplain, is scheduled for Dillon chapel at 8:30. Tickets may be purchased from any officer of the Forum.
The Forum made their last industrial tour of the year yesterday when, at the invitation of Mr. Richard A. Smith, general manager, they were shown through the Wilson Bros, haberdashery in South Bend. Forum activities for this year will conclude on May 13, with the annual banquet.
A survey of N.Y.A. students in Indiana colleges and universities shows 64 per cent have above average grades.
THE CHECKER
The style leader on the campus right now . .. with its popularity rapidly spreading throughout the country. Has youthful semi-telescopic crease, and brim snap-ped ’way back........ &
Brownson Wins Trophy
Brownson hall edged out Dillon hall to win the Reco Hall trophy, awarded by the Recreation Equipment Company of South Bend to the resident hall garnering most points during the running of the ninth annual Bengal Bouts.
Sam Meyer, 135 lb. champion, received the trophy for Brownson hall in .
THE FRANK H. LEE CO.
358 Fifth Ave., New York
t«R«g. U.S. Pat.Off.
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ARTISTS
AND
MODELS
We’re artists in summer clothing—and our new models for 1940 are masterpieces of color, coolness and design. There’s an exhibition at your favorite clothier—each a genuine original signed
PALM BEACH
Included are whites and summery Airtone Suits for campus and all-round wear at $16.75...Evening Formats for proms at $18.50 (coat and trousers)—and slacks for sports at $5. Goodall Company, Cincinnati.
/Pim Ti^iich
Always look Jor this label
when big Lou Rymkus won over Bob Dowd of Dillon. Other scores: Dillon 35, Zahm 31, Badin 30, Howard 28, Morrissey 26, St. Edward’s 26, Carroll 19, Cavanaugh 16, Sorin 14, Off-Campus 12, Walsh 4, Lyons 4, and Breen Phillips 4.	.
DISC-CUSSION
Among the more pretentious releases of the last few weeks is Decca’s two albums of George Gershwin’s music. With such songs as “Mine,” “Someone to Watch Over Me,” “Soon,” “The Man I Love,” “Song of the Flame,” and others distinctly Gershwin; and such artists as Francis Langford, Judy Garland, Ann Jamison, Shirley Ross, Tony Martin, and the Foursome, supported by Victor Young’s orchestra, one would expect quite a lot. Although I can’t put my finger on anything poor, I was just a bit disappointed in the finished product. It’s a good release, but I can’t help thinking that it could have been better.
Some time ago, Bobby Hackett—you saw him with Horace Heidt’s band—got together a longer than usual swing recording group to do a couple of numbers that are about as old as Bobby: “Dardanella” and “Bugle Call Rag.” The band is pretty fair, but in spots it sounds as though the members had rehearsed in different rooms. “Bugle Call Rag” is pretty well submerged by riffs, runs, and Hackett, but “Dardanella” is more recognizable. If you like your music on the Dixieland side, this is for you.
Two of the better songs you’re hearing these days are “Let There Be Love,” and “Fools Rush In.” The first is a semi-beguine with Cafe Society lyrics; in this case, excellent combinations. Kay Kyser features Harry Babbitt on the lyrics, and, as usual, Harry holds up his part. Ginny Sims does the more conventional ballad, “Fools Rush In,” in a not too conventional style. Kay Kyser’s music “may not send you out of this world” in the jitterbug’s sense, but he and his vocalists rank with the best at making his romantically inclined listener “wonder who’s kissing her now.”
Hoagy Carmichael’s “Star Dust” is with us again. I’ve liked it by Whiteman, Crosby, Goodman, Dorsey, Gray, and Edgar Hayes, but Glenn Miller’s is my favorite version. His saxes have what Ann Sheridan claims; his arrangement is in good taste. Paired with Ernie Burnett’s torchy “Melancholy Baby” this record has everything you want in dance music these spring nites. Keep this up, Glenn, please!—Bill Geddes
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
MUSIC NOTES
The Gladys Swarthout concert was a thoroughly satisfying musical experi. ence. The evening can be summarized in a few words. Miss Swarthout has never been referred to as the greatest mezzosoprano, but her professional ease and
WILL CONSIST OF
a few CUTTING REMARKS
The smartest looking fabric in the world doesn't make a style-right shirt unless it's cut right. That's why Manhattan exercises minute care in laying out patterns and plying shears.
Manhattan Shirts are streamlined for youth...shaped to body lines. Collars are cut with careful balance. Colored or white. Manhattans are right.
If any Manhattan Shirt ever shrinks below the indicated size, we will give you a new shirt. Tested and approved by tho American IntiiMo of Laundoring.
graceful charm more than compensated for any vocal limitation. She completely controlled the huge audience—her eyes, hands, shoulders, every fibre of her body cooperated with the viola-like quality of her voice to win complete approval of the audience.
+ * *
Song writing is a tough business. For an unknown songwriter to be recognized
is almost impossible, because he is the victim of a vicious circle. In order to have a song backed by a well-known band, it is usually necessary to have it published, and publishers are reluctant to accept a song that hasn’t the support of a well-known band. Here is an exceptional case. A song entitled “I’ll Never Smile Again” was written by Ruth Lowe, well-known in South Bend. The story is that she wrote the song shortly after the death of her husband and that the tune and lyric which came out of her extreme sadness were picked up by an enterprising publisher and pushed into the limelight. Glenn Miller has recently recorded it and it seems to be gaining popularity.
.	—William C. Mooney
SHIRTS • PAJAMAS • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTSWEAR
• College men go for these smart, medium high, medium spread collar-attached shirts. And only at Spiro's in South Bend can you see them; in a galaxy of fine fabrics, patterns and silky whites. Manflair and many other perfect fitting collar styles on Manhattan Shirts, are.......
SAM'L
SPIRO and CO.
24
The Notre Dame Scholastic
YOUR RELIGION
This is one of those statements that may be true or false, depending upon interpretation. If you say that history is the record of man’s past experience, then, since even the happy man has experience, he also has a history. But one frequently says one thing and means something else. It is not easy at any
NOTICE
Effective Sunday, April 28
SOUTH SHORE TRAINS
WILL LEAVE SOUTH BEND
30 MINUTES PAhou™E
from 7:30 A. M. to 11:30 P. M.
The two earliest morning-trains leave at 6:00 A. M.
and 6:50 A. M.
IMPORTANT!
Departures fom Chicago remain unchanged.
Daylight Saving Time
All South Shore trains, to and from Chicago, will operate on Daylight Saving Time beginning Sunday, April 28th.
For complete information on hew schedules or new fares, phone Ticket Agent 3-3111
time to say at once fully and briefly what one has in mind. Long talk is wearisome and, anyhow, cryptic speech is a delight to the mind. The implied compliment arouses pleasant feeling, and the puzzling expression provides agreeable novelty for thought.
Assuming then that a happy man really has a history, why should his happiness so cancel it out that it is spoken of as though it had never been? Perhaps it is because the good that he does is simply taken for granted, and looked upon as so commonplace that it never arrests attention and so never deserves to get into the record. Well-doing seems to have little or no news value. Twenty years of quiet, uneventful, orderly living leaves the chronicler cold. Six months of super-gangsterism assures one of a prominent place in the spot light of history. There are copious historical records of Jesse James and already a life of Al Capone. But there is neither* record nor life of hundreds of thousands of noble souls whose only bid for notoriety consisted in their constant fidelity to the connnonplace duties of their station, in life. Saints are extraordinary persons, to be sure, but for one saint that has a biography—a personal history—there are ever so many of whom no single line has been or ever will be written—happy men, none will deny, but without a history.
One does not worry about his inability to define happiness. It is made up largely of two other indefinables, pleasure and pain. It is enjoyed in indefinable time, and it leads, if it is not spurious or counterfeit, to the Indefinable Good. It is not so much an affair of logic as of love, not the necessary fruit of genius, but of goodness. And it does strange things to those who possess it. A happy man, as everyone knows, lives in the present. As no vain regrets draw his thoughts toward the past, so no idle fears direct his attention toward the future. There is, in real truth, something timeless about his existence. For he either lives habitually in the presence of God, who is wholly independent of time, or in the peace of God, which is ever forgetful of it. What has one enjoying a foretaste of Heaven to do with the backward look which is history?
Again, happiness tends to make a man rationally inefficient. No go-getter is ever happy. He has none of the inward tranquility of mind, nor any of the outward serenity of countenance, none of the gentleness of manner, nor any of the lightsome leisure which characterize the happy man. For him, business, if not the business of sane living, is too grim an enterprise to permit of finding a little time in which to do nothing, or rather, to do very much, as Mary did, by just
listening. No, the go-getter is a slave of time and of circumstance, and slavery is not a particularly felicitous state. For him, the efficient person, every occasion is a time to be furiously busy about ihany things, because for him, only things matter. And so he builds great factories, or great railroads, or great steamships, and accumulates collosal fortunes or collects enormous armies and carries on world wars. He makes history. Meanwhile, some undistinguished dreamer loving inefficiency, as Saint Francis did the Lady Poverty, sits by the river in the shade of a tree, and happiness sits by his side.
Happiness, I think, would never lie at the end of a rainbow, even though one could find there the fabled pots of gold, or thrones of power, or laurels of learning, or the rich raiment of glory—the things over which men fight and make history. Happiness is too plain and homely to feel at ease in such glittering company. It loves rather to follow the hidden byways of life, to dwell with those of simple and single-eyed ambition, who love God and then, observing a wise enconomy, which the idolaters of action call inefficiency, work restfully for little things and peace. And that, I think, is why happy men have no history.
—Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
Relax, Men!
Make this summer your best dressed and most comfortable.
Just Arrived! New
ARROW Sportswear
at
ARROW Headquarters
Arrow Shirts, too!
M'X
ADLER
Michigan at Washington
The Notre Dame Scholastic
25
RADIO LOG
Tonight at 9:00 Radio Stage presents its first comedy! Written by John Coppinger, “Strangers in Paris” is a rollicking tale of the adventures of two newsreel men sent to France to cover the War. Parts have already been assigned to Coppinger, Jean Chambers who scored such a hit in “Revenge in Corsica,” the last Radio Stage production, and Mario Potetti. Casting the romantic lead has been somewhat of a problem to L. J. Ronder who is directing this week’s production. Already 14 different men have tried out for the part and at the time this was written no definite choice had
The best way to set off a coat of tan
ARROW SPORT shirts are actually tailored •AX like a coat. Their easy drape allows plenty of elbow room and adds loads of smartness to your summer get-up.
Casually correct and conservative, these sensibly cut and sewn Arrow sports shirts are free from doodads, gadgets or wild patterns.
They’re color fast and washable... Sanforized-Shrunk, fabric shrinkage less than 1%. Your local Arrow dealer has a big stock. $2 up.
ARROW SHIRTS
been made. But whoever gets the part will have to be good because such lovers as Jack White, Bill Foley, Vail Pishke, Jack Morrison, and Bill Mulvey of “She Stoops to Conquer” fame are working to get that part.
What looks to be one of the show’s high spots is the work of John Thomas Kelly as Paquin, a French inebriate. Johnny, in our opinion, has more natural comic ability than anyone on the entire campus. In very formal, sober parts, it is an evening’s entertainment to listen to him and to watch him. What he will do in a comic part written especially for him is just a matter of conjecture. However we have marked 9:00 Friday on our desk pad because we don’t want to miss a line of the debut into comedy.
Tuesday, 7:00—Music of the Masters.
Wednesday, 7:45—Sportscast.
Wednesday, 9:00—Faculty Talk.
Thursday, 4:00—Periscope.
Friday, 9:00—Radio Stage.
—Ray Kelly
"Midnight Stars" Is
Named Senior Ball Song
William B. Mooney, of the Class of '40, will get a thrill that comes but once in a life time on May 3. On that evening Dipsy-Doodler Larry Clinton will play Mooney’s official ball song, “Midnight Stars,” to the Senior Ball-goers. Mooney’s song was selected for the honor by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Professors Daniel Pedtke and Norbert Engels.
- -------------
AN ARROW ESCAPE FROM THE HEAT
Under the sun wear the new Arrow sports shirts and slax. Functional in design—they’recool and comfortable. Complementary and contrasting colors — washable and Sanforized-shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than l%).Drop in todayfor your summer’s supply.
W®
__
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CLUB NEWS
Cleveland
The Cleveland Club is sponsoring a roller-skating party at Playland Roller Rink on Wednesday. Tickets are being sold by club members for 35 cents each. Anyone can attend the dance. Saint Mary’s College girls will be allowed to attend.
Buffalo
At the Buffalo Club elections held on April 17, Richard Ball was elected president; Vincent Daigler, vice-president; Robert Nenno, secretary; and John Doerr, treasurer. At the same meeting plans were made for a summer dance to be held at the end of the school year.
Metropolitan
The members of the Metropolitan Club gathered in the Law auditorium for their mid-semester meeting on April 18. The meeting was opened by Joseph Mangano, who read letters of thanks from the Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., for contributions to the Religious Library fund, and from a Catholic Negro mission in Harlem, N. Y., for charities received. Arrangements were made for Ball guests of the members, coming from New York City, to meet in Grand Central station and. take a special train to South Bend.
It was announced that club elections would follow the Senior Ball. All candidates should submit their names to President Doug Bangert at least ten days before the elections. Plans for a picnic to be held the second week of May, following the ball, were announced. Also
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SUCCESSOR TO
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St Phone 4-8251
HEADSUP! GET UNDER A NEW STETSON!
Balance up your good appearance by choosing America's smartest hat buy . . . Smart heads favor them.
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
YOU'LL WIN YOUR LETTER
...for good taste in this smooth Stetson. It’s styled to make you look as though your Dad owned Hollywood...yet its price tag makes allowances for moderate allowances! The Stetson Special is $5.
STETSON HAT
FIVE DOLLARS AND VP
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
27
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Dr. 0. ^rundy Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend
Office Phone 3-2574	■
^^a=^==== '	m=^===
DR. H..R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
Rhone 4-esea	south bend. Indiana
Qtlllliamimafimimmmm...
OFFICE 4-5661
RES. 3-4080
Dr. (R. & £ucas DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J. M.S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND

lUOtXJOCXaCXXXJUOUUUUOOUUOCXXXgX Drs. Drobst and Sinyler DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend Phone 3-1254
4-—-------------------------
i	i
’	SOUTH BEND	?
1 X-RAY LABORATORY |
1	825 SHERLAND BUILDING 1
1 L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON. I
| M.D.	M.O.	I
4..-————-------————— 4
ose an<
ose
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
tentative plans were laid for a summer dance to be held June 14 at a Long Island Country club.
Detroit
Raymond J. Kelly, politics major from Detroit, Mich., will head the Detroit Club as president for the 1940-41 scholastic year. The selection followed the organization’s annual Communion-breakfast last Sunday. Approximately 60 members attended the special Mass in the Howard Hall chapel and the breakfast in the Faculty Dining Hall.
The other officers who will assist Kelly in leading the Ford City organization are: Vice-president Lawrence A. Burns, Grosse Pointe; Secretary James W. Armitage, Detroit; Treasurer Gerald A. Currier, Detroit.
Retiring President James T. Moore presided at the breakfast and conducted the elections.
Realists
The Realists, campus sociology club, will hold a dinner meeting during the second week of May as the final meeting of the year. At a meeting in the faculty lounge Monday night Daniel Dahill was selected as general chairman of the event, and he has announced that tickets will be available in the near future for undergraduate sociology majors, graduate social work students, and those who are pre-registered for the sociology major. An invitation has been extended to a prominent out-of-town speaker and full details will be available within a week.
VICTOR Records 75c
(LET THERE BE LOVE
(THE PEASANT SERENADE
—Swing and Sway with Sammy Kaye
[Believing
(They Ought to Write a Book About You
—Hal Kemp and his Orchestra
[Don’t Fall Asleep
(Gloomy Sunday
—Artie Shaw and his Orchestra
[Loca Ilusion (Pa-Ran-Pan-Pan	_
—Xavier Cugat and his Waldorf-Astoria Orchestra
ALBUM P-20—Ballad for Americans (John La Touche-Earl Robinson)—Price $2.00
—Paul Robeson, Basso—American People’s Chorus directed by Earl Robinson—Victor Symphony Orchestra conducted by Nathaniel Shilkret
BLUEBIRD Popular Records — 35c
(Say It—-Vocadance
(Imagination—Vocadance
—Dinah Shore with Orchestra conducted by Paul Wetstein
[Where Was I?
(’Deed I Do	_
—Charlie Barnet and his Orchestra
Editor Carty Says Dome
To Be Ready by May 16
“Copies of the Dome, University yearbook, will be distributed to the student body not later than May 16,” Thomas F. Carty, editor-in-chief announced early this week.
“Nineteen of the 20 forms are already on the presses and the remaining form will be sent immediately after the events of the Senior Ball are recorded and photographed,” he added.
The cover of the new Dome follows the general pattern of last year’s issue, except that it is composed of padded white leather with a gold whirlpool design. A large, minutely-embossed, golden dome reaches around the binding. On the front cover elongated golden letters announce: “The 1940 Dome.”
[Cecilia	.
(Day Dreams Come True at Night
—Shep Fields and his Rippling Rhythm
[Gabriel Meets the Duke
(Whispering Grass
—Erskine Hawkins (Twentieth Century Gabriel) and his Orchestra
[Sing a Spell ■
(Take Your Girlie to the Movies
—Music of Yesterday and Today Styled the Blue Barron Way
I The Rhumba Jumps!
11’11 Never Smile Again
—Glenn Miller and his Orchestra
[Boogie Woogie on SL Louis Blues (Number 19
—Earl Hines and his Orchestra
[Kalua Skies
(Hano Hano Hanalei
'	—Johnny Kaonohi Pinapple
and his Native Islanders
[I Was a Fool to Let You Go
(Bullfrog and the Toad	'
—Deep River Boys
RODINS
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184 Needles and Record Accessories
There is a glacier in Greenland named after Cornell University.
Open Tues.. Thurs. and Sat. Evenings
iK ,D
Kiest \ai
ifitown
Smokers are buying ’em two packs at a time” because Chesterfields are DEFINITELY MILDER, COOLER-SMOKING and BETTER-TASTING.
Chesterfields are made from the world’s finest cigarette tobaccos and they’re made right. In size, in shape, in the way they burn ... everything about Chesterfield is just right for your smoking pleasure.