HOW THE STARS GOT STARTED
Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey say: “Our Dad led the brass band in our home town. He started us on our way tooting in the band when
we were eight years old. We watched and studied successful musicians as much as we could, worked real hard and, little
;	by little, began to get there.”
THE FABULOUS
AM 67
FOR MILDNESS AND FLAVOR
SINCE I DISCOVERED
FLAVOR AND
I STARTED
THE GUYS WHO ENJOYED
SMOKING MOST WERE
GUYS WHO SMOKED
5
S
DORSEYS
CAMBS15-20 YEARS.2
CAMELS SWELL
WONDERFUL MILDNESS
SMOKING CAMELS
LONG AGO. I WATCHED, ANO
CAMELS. THERES NOTHING
LIKE CAMELS FLAVOR
START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette. See how mild and flavorful a cigarette can be!
amels
agree with more people
THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!

Scholastic
Vol. 95 March 5, 1954 No. 17
Founded 1867
Entered ai lecond class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of pottage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER .................Features
FRED C. ECKART.............. .....News
PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ....Assistant News JOHN A. ADAMS ....................Copy
ROBERT B. FROLICHER ........Sports JERRY D. BAIER ...............Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL ..........Circulation BOB FOWLER------------------Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE.--------------Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Dave Cohen, John Cusack, George Dailey. Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Gerry Gates. Jim Gibbons, Jerrold Hilton, Robert Kaufman, John Kelly, Eugene Les-mez, James Mason, James McIntosh. Charles McKendrick, Jack Mullin, Francis Newman, Dick Norton. Jim O’Brien, Henry O'Bryan. Tom Quinn. Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Norman Wendrowski.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Kit Eckl, Gary Gates, John Guegen, Dave Kilkeary, Jack Kirby, Ray Lescher. , Dick Mannion, Jim Morris, John Phelan, Bob Ruhl.
LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Member’ of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: We’re sure our readers will enjoy reading the story of Radio Station WNDU’s spectacular rise to popularity as told by Feature Editor Paul Fullmer on pages 17-19 of this issue. The station found a brand new home in the Tower of the O’Shaughnessy Building on Feb. 22, after starting under Frank Cronan in Walsh Hall over seven years ago. Did you know that the station has the largest classical record library in the South Bend area? You’ll find other interesting facts about WNDU in this week’s issue.
March 5, 1954
.. ;
■' i
Parker-Wintenwd
Inc.
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to - wear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Miitenwd
Ine.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
1151/2-1171/2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
A Presidential Challenge
Editor:
I read the “Back Page’’ in the Feb. 19th Scholastic with considerable interest. In some cases. Mr. Bergquist’s criticisms of the Student Senate were well taken. However, I feel that in at least three instances he has failed to give his readers the facts:
1.	At no point in our first semester balance sheet is there indicated an $80 profit from any activity.
2.	The Blue Circle is not another “independent organization”; it is an executive arm of the student government.
3.	The Senate’s Academic Program will receive almost $900 in the coming semester, not $290 as was implied by the article.
In addition it is my personal opinion that:
1.	The inter-campus relations appropriations is far from being a means for “perpetuating the ruling class.” This appropriation is of concrete benefit to every student.
2.	The rejection of the minor sports clubs requests was a necessity at the time when the budget was drawn up. It is also my opinion that these requests are far larger in relation to our total budget than Mr. Bergquist implies they are.
3.	Our* support of the science seminar and the technical contest is clearly in line with our policy of supporting only those projects which will benefit the student body as a whole.
I would be happy to debate any or all of these points with Mr. Bergquist either in print or on the air.
Best regards,	•
Tom Field, President, Student Senate
Something’s ‘Budding’ on Campus?
Editor:
Have you noticed how professional-like our campus radio station has become? It seems we have a budding CBS on our hands.
They’ve got to be careful, you know, about mentioning competitors’ names on the air. They have to say “another network.” “Another” means that there is one in the first place, doesn’t it?
And all the disc jockeys are personable, chummy fellows, forever flaunting their ability to ad lib. That’s very nice, (Continued on Page 33)
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
Italian Home Cooking Five Minutes from the Campus Pizza Spaghetti
Ravioli	Chicken
Chops Steaks
Open on Sunday Nights
You’re always welcome at . . .
ROCCO'S
537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
STUDENT TOUR
Make incredibly beautiful, historic Spain your summer classroom! The University of Madrid, in cooperation with “The HISPANIC Institute,” offers special curriculum of courses accredited by American universities and Veterans Administration.
Undergraduate classes in Elementary and Advanced Spanish. Graduate courses in Contemporary Spain, Spanish Art, Literature, History.
38 DAYS—$345.00 From July 1 to August 7, ’54 Cost includes University of Madrid tuition and accommodations, continental breakfasts. All meals and accommodations while on tour to El Escorial, Granada, Cadiz, Sevilla, Cordoba, famous Arabic university city, and many other points of interest. Also, all Madrid sightseeing and deluxe MELIA Motor Coach transportation within Spain.
ASK FOR FOLDER with full details MELIA toMA, inc.
336 Park Ave., N. Y. 22, N. Y. Tel: MU 8-7992
The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the WEEK
Three days of the Lenten season have gone by . . .
The Lyons Lion
Much as it pains us to tell you this, dear readers, the contest has met an untimely death. The culprit is Al Parille of Lyons Hall and New Haven, Conn. We received a dissertation from Al on Feb. 19 which read:
“The player to whom you are referring is Jack Dittmer, second-baseman of the Milwaukee Braves.”
You are 99 and 44/100% keerect, Al. Dittmer played end for Iowa in 1949.
Upon being pressed for further info on how he had come' up with the answer, Al explained:
“Awww, it wasn’t nothin’. You see, I’m one of 13 kids.” We nodded appreciatively. “Cheaper by the dozen, you know.”
“But that’s a baker’s dozen,” we interjected wittily. “Yeah,” he continued seriously, “they live next dooi- to us.”
“Oh,” we grunted. “They’re friends of Dittmer’s or something, hah?”
“Nooo,” he went on meditatively, “that’s the funny part of it. They don’t have anything to do with it.”
“Oh,” we proposed, “that explains it?”
“Yeah,” he yeahed excitedly. “From there it was easy.”
We didn’t quite get it, but nodded knowingly anyway.
“You see,” he continued, “I figured it must be somebody in the National League since all those guys in the American League are interested in is baseball. Well,” (there will be a slight pause while Al catches his breath), “since the only team in the National
League that’s worth a gosh darn is the
Braves, I figured it must be one of those guys. From there it was just a question of figuring out who was the only guy on the team crazy enough to play against the Notre Dame football team.”
“He is sort of a crazy, mixed up kid,” we said.
“Yeah. Hah! hah! Ya know, that’s pretty good,” Al hah hahed. “You should be writing some sort of a humor column or something.”
“Yeah,” we agreed, “we should be. Oh! about the prize—the Huskies we had hired to pull your dog sled across the Bog got fed up with this Indiana winter and went back to the Aleutians.”
Al looked at us unhappily. “How-, ever,” we continued hurriedly, “as an alternate prize we’ll take you down to Joer’s sometime and introduce you to the bartender.”
It was plain to see that words couldn’t express his gratitude as a wee tear came into his baby-blues and he shook our hand warmly. Then we left, feeling sort of good all over, and Al went back to his crossword puzzle.
Here’s Another One, Al
The local static-box, apparently fresh out of any constructive ideas of .its own, has borrowed a line or two from THE WEEK and “initiated” a contest of its own. In this one, the problem is to give the new studios a name. We thought up a couple of pretty good ones right off the bat, but the man with the blue pencil censored them right out of the column. .
The Blue-Blood Register
Ever since our illustrious predecessor started the nonsense last year, a few people have been hounding us to have their names put in the Scholastic. We fought them off as long as our finances held out, but finally had to give in. Here goes:
Herkimer Jones, Jesse James, George Shmaltz, Mickey Spillane, Georgi Mal-enknink, Forrest Evashevski, Ben Gur-fie, Paul Bunyan, the Gray Ghost, Lily Sincere, Umbriago, Little Joe, Bathless Groggins, Sophie Klutch, Yogi Berra, and Mrs. Kalibash (wherever she is).
So there, Mort, I hope you’re satisfied. Incidentally, how’re things, kid? Your sentence must be just about up, isn’t it?	'
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . which means it’s about time to start your resolutions all over again.
DRRWTURB0W
\OPTOMETRIST
— OPTICAL REPAIRS — Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Piece/* — EYES EXAMINED —
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
CHuCKtE.’?-SHEU. NEVER I DR/ UP, I JAM TOO A FIRE- LOVE YOU WITH THAT I FLAT-HYDRANT—A GAY, MESS'/ HAIRff—GET J] COOT" ROMANTIC ONE— \WILDROOT CREAM-QIL, II / AND I LOVE\ CHARLIE??- WITH A FREE	k 1
PLASTIC DISPENSER.*J \ ,
•er FREE | PLASTIC I DISPENSER, *'|TH
GlRL»
W-A SMART HYDRANT
WOUID RELIEVE DRYNESS with WILDROOT CREAM-
GET THIS FREE PLASTIC DlSPENSERf WIOMW SOC) WHEN YOU BUY WILDROOT CREAM-OIL. A*LEY
ALCOHOLIC TONICS DRYING OUT YOUR SCALP?	GET NON-ALCOHOLIC-.# WILDROOT CREAM-OIL, CHARLIE
March 5, 1954
AAARCH 5
AVON (ends tomorrow)—A colorful documentary show, The Sea Around I's (A-l) and Louisiana Territory (A-l). Both are brilliant, interesting pictures, and as second attraction, would bolster any box office. On the same bill, however, their appeal is not so great.
STUDENT CENTER (7:30 to 10 p.m.)—A freshman party, reserved strictly for the young’uns and their contemporaries from SMC and St. Joe’s.
PALACE (through March 10)—Bad Man Bogart teams with Jennifer Jones and Gina Lollabrigida in Beat the Devil, a tongue-in-cheek adventure story about greed. The second pic, O.K. Nero (B) is a zany take-off on Quo Vadis. Adding nothing to it is the fact that it is an Italian film with English subtitles.
COLFAX (through March 17)—The Glenn Miller Story (A-l) is probably the best picture to hit town this school year. Everything in it is first-rate, from the production treatment to the late Maestro’s smooth orchestral arrangements. Jimmy Stewart and June Allyson do fine jobs in the lead roles.
GRANADA (two weeks)—Another sure hit at the box office, Neiv Faces, with Eartha “Santa Baby” Kitt. The thin plot serves as an adequate bridge for the many well-done production numbers. There are also plenty of laughs.
MARCH 6
FIELDHOUSE (1:30 and 7:30 p.m.)—The annual CCC track meet bringing together some of the best cindermen in the area. The trials will be held in the afternoon, the finals at night.
WASHINGTON HAUL (1:30, 3:20, 6:40 and 8:30 p.m.)—An English movie, Lavender Hill Mob, starring Alec Guiness, has more than the usual amount of dry British humor, plus an interesting and somewhat plausible story.
WNDU (8 p.m.)—The campus station brings you the Notre Dame-Marquette game from Milwaukee. Joe Daley will handle the play-by-play.
MARClj 7
AVON (three days)—Keenan Wynn plays a fight manager of somewhat dubious morals in Tennessee Champ. The story, which has a religious touch, is pretty good, even though it jerks a few too many tears along the way. Shelly Winters takes care of the feminine side of things.
STUDENT CENTER (3 p.m. to 5 p.m.)—Another party. This one’s open to the masses.
MARCH 9
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUiM (7:30 p.m.)—Mr. and Mrs. Strubbe of Chicago speak on Male and Female Psychological factors at the third session of the Marriage Institute.
FORT WAYNE COLISEUM (8 p.m.)—Little Loyola of the South poses the first problem for the Jordanmen in the NCAA tournament. On a comparison of records, it looks easy for the Irish, but underdog’ teams have a habit of rising to the occasion. Toledo faces Penn State in the other game.
MARCH 10
127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE (7:30 p.m.)—Father Mullahy speaks on the Priesthood in the States of Life series.
AVON (a week)—Walt Disney presents the Scottish version of Robin Hood, Rob Roy, the Highland Rogue. The scenery might be worth seeing.
MARCH 11
PALACE (a week)—Shelly Winters makes her second appearance in town this week in Saskatchewan. Adventurous Alan the Ladd has the male lead, which means action if nothing else. The second feature is another one of those Italian jobs with English sub-titles, Three Girls From Rome (A-2).
STATE (through March 13)—Lusty Men AND the one you’ve all been waiting for—Six-Gun Gold!
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
WE ARE NEW
“THE TWINS RESTAURANTS”
Prop, by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our “Pizza and Spaghetti” The Real Italian Way
We Also Have Home-Made Chili Just the Way You Like It!
713 E. LASALLE
GLASSES FITTED
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Auooiates
228 So. Michigan St.
RESTRING
WITH
J
A 0/0^
STANDS OUT in play
•	Harder Smashes
•	Better Cut and Spin
STANDS UP in your racket
• Moisture Immune • Lasting Liveliness
COSTS LESS
than gut
APPROX. STRINGING COST:
Pro-Fected Braid....$6.00
Multi-Ply Braid.$5.00
At tennis shops and sporting goods stores.
A

ASHAWAY BRAIDED RACKET STRING Choice of The Champions
6
The Scholastic

“What happened to the lights?”

THE "FIRESIDE CHAT” which Father Hesburgh and vice-presidents of the administration recently had with the Student Senate and members of other campus organizations did much to help explain the “whats” and “whys” of the university’s policies on students’ welfare.
In effect, the meeting accomplished this: It drew assurances from Father Hesburgh that legitimate objections—if they were adjudged as worthy of consideration—would be studied to determine whether or not the particular situation could be improved; it offered frank explanations for those situations which Father Hesburgh described as “presently unchangeable” because of administration policy.
The immediate problem of midnight lights for Seniors was one of the issues which Father McCarragher, Prefect of Discipline, handled in an honest, straight-from-the-shoulder manner. He explained that, since underclassmen have—within the past couple of years—received a good number of fringe benefits which formerly were reserved for Seniors, the midnight lights were actually a “bonus” to restore some of these traditional privileges.
Reports which have been submitted so far, however, indicate that the idea of the extra hour’s lights in Senior halls isn’t being received as favorably by students and rectors as had been expected. The main objection. Father McCarragher said, was that the noise which students make when they come in at night now takes place at midnight instead of at 11 o’clock. The students who regularly retire at 11 are therefore kept awake an extra hour. Another important point many of the reports make is that most Seniors don’t use the extra hour for studying anyway; and consequently the bull sessions are merely prolonged for an extra hour, thus needlessly depriving that many more students of an hour’s sleep per night. Although there are no exact figures on the difference in the number of Seniors attending daily Mass, Scholastic will publish the results of a survey on the subject next week.
Despite the fact that midnight lights were granted as a “bonus” for Seniors, the original argument used in obtaining them was that Seniors needed the extra hour primarily for study. This argument, if proven valid, is still enough to convince the administration that midnight lights should be retained.
Seniors, therefore, should keep these facts in mind unless they want to sec the 11 o’clock curfew return. If the blackout does come, the administration will naturally be less considerate when requests of a similar nature are made in the future. ’Nuff said.
WNDU’S SWITCH to its new studios atop the O’Shaughnessy Tower has caused serious repercussions in the Scholastic’s editorial offices. We have mixed emotions.
First of all: The exquisite layout of studios and the modem furnishings made us green with envy. We wish we had the same.
Secondly: Despite the fact that we reluctantly entered the recent war of personalities as a necessary fulfillment of our obligations, we don’t carry a grudge. We must admit, franklv, that the station deserves its new facili- • ties. Congratulations to Director Tom Knott and his entire staff.
March 5, 1954
7
Opportunity...Ceiling Unlimited!
Engineering Graduates!
Representatives of CURTISS-WRIGHT CORPORATION
WRIGHT AERONAUTICAL DIVISION
Will Be On the Campus March 9
To Interview Graduates About Exceptional Employment
Opportunities — Check With Your Placement Bureau!
JOBS ARE WAITING FOR ENGINEERS IN THESE FIELDS:
MECHANICAL AERONAUTICAL METALLURGY
At Wright Aeronautical Division of Curtiss-Wright Corporation, young engineers have a broad field in which to develop their talents and win good career jobs. Here is a permanent center of research and development — an essential part of America’s industrial and defense structure.
We are concerned primarily with development and production of reciprocating and jet engines and development of turboprops and ramjets. But the vast pool of engineering specialists who work on these long-term projects is engaged in activities in many fields other than aviation.
There is a continuing search for new materials, new techniques and processes, new products ... even some consumer goods.
We have many career opportunities for ambitious young men. There’s room here to advance and win recognition and rewards. Our “on the job” training will put you on the right road to success.
WRIGHT AERONAUTICAL DIVISION
CURTISS-WRIGHT
CORPORATION • WO 0 0 - R I 0 6 E, N. J.
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 17
Notre Dome, Indiana
March 5, 1954
UNHERALDED LOYOLA MEETS ND FIVE
Senate Shelves Taxing Plan Temporarily;
Blue Circle Will Clean Up Center Basement
The .Student Senate at its meeting last Monday shelved a very touchy problem regarding the proposed Senate tax policy for all Notre Dame students.
President Tom Field had presented a proposal calling for all students to either pay the tax at registration or sign a statement requesting exemption from payment.
Under this system all students filing exemption statements would be subject to investigation by the Senate and if the claims were found to be fraudulent, these students would be subject to prosecution by the Student Activities Court.
The Senate rejected this proposal and Field appointed a committee to study the tax problem and report with a possible solution next week.
Renovate Center Basement
President Field turned over to the Blue Circle the problem of supervising renovation of the Student Center basement at a meeting last week. Blue Circle Chairman Gene Howley appointed Duke Rank to head this committee and Circlemen Bill Byrne, Jim Price, and George Krembs will aid him. The Circle, in acting on this subject, will work with the Vice-President of Student Affairs, Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., in forming plans, purchasing equipment, and supervising the remodeling.
The plans for this renovation, long under consideration, were given the final greenlight when a recent social survey found that a majority of students thought that the University lacked adequate recreation rooms.
Present plans call for the complete remodeling of the Center Basement at an approximate cost of $15,000. The work will entail a great deal of plastering and painting and false ceilings will be added in many rooms. The work is expected to be done by private contractors.
The basement is already divided into five large rooms which will be retained
and used for ping pong, shuffleboard, and smaller games. At least six ping pong tables are to be installed. Some of the smaller rooms which exist in the basement will be used as offices and one will house a coffee bar.
The project will be financed by the majority of the proceeds from the Mardi Gras. The work is not expected to be finished until June.
CAPS AND GOWNS
All June undergraduates, graduates, and faculty who plan to rent caps and gowns for commencement, June 6, 1954 will be measured for their apparel tomorrow from 1 to 5 p.m., and next Saturday, March 13, from 1 to 5 p.m. in the Vet Rec Hall.
Terms are strictly cash. Rates are:
Bachelor Gown....... $2.85
Master Gown ......... 3.35
Doctor Gown ........  3.85
Saturday, March 13, is definitely the last date for measurements.
WNDU Head Picks Beeman As New Assistant Manager
Tom Knott, station manager of WNDU, has announced the appointment of Dick Beeman to the post of assistant station manager. Beeman had been sales manager for the past year. His vacancy was filled by Ray Kennedy, who has been on the sales and announcer’s staff for two years.
Also announced was the appointment of Larry Buckley to the post of continuity director. The creation of this position signals a rejuvenation of the ad-writing department which has been missing from the station for several years.
NCAA Regionals Open At Ft. Wayne Tuesday
Notre Dame’s mighty basketball team moves into the Fort Wayne Coliseum Tuesday night to battle unheralded Loyola of the South in the opening game of the NCAA tournament. The Irish, rated fifth in the nation, will he heavy favorites to whip the New Orleans five, and thereby earn, the right to meet the champion of the Big Ten next Friday in Iowa City.
Both Notre Dame and Loyola were named to compete in the NCAA tourney as “at large” representatives for this district. The Irish-Wolfpack game will begin at 8 p.m. CST. Penn State, another “at large” team, will face Toledo, champions of the Mid-American Conference, in the second game.
Loyola has completed their regular season with a 15-8 record. Included among their victims are Dayton, Xavier, Detroit and Mississippi Southern. The Wolf pack beat Dayton, 78-68; Xavier, 50-49 (at Xavier); Detroit, 79-63; and Mississippi Southern, 78-76.
Other top teams that Loyola has played are Louisiana State (18-2), and Louisville (21-6). They lost to LSU, 69-65 and to the Cardinals, 94-77.
The Wolf pack put on one of their best exhibitions of the season against Louisiana State on the latter’s home court. Loyola held Bob Pettit to 15 points. Pettit averages 33 a game.
Other Loyola losses were to Northeastern Louisiana, 75-73; Spring Hill twice, 84-82 and 65-64; Mississippi Southern, 98-86; Dayton, 78-70 at Dayton; and Xavier, 67-57 at New Orleans.
The coach of the Wolfpack is Jim McCafferty/ McCafferty replaced the veteran Tom Haggerty in mid-season. Haggerty, who led Loyola of Chicago to phenomenal basketball success in the late forties, was forced to retire because of ill health.
Coach McCafferty has a big problem on his hands in preparing for the Irish. According to the University’s student weekly, the Loyola Maroon, five of Loyola’s players are ineligible to play under
(Continued on Page 29)
March 5, 1954
Chinese Priests Seek
Six ND Students Attend Regional NS A Meet; Vote For Tax Deduction of Schooling Expenses
“Pray for China!”
That is the plea of three young Chinese priests, refugees from their Red-ruled homeland, who recently enrolled in the University’s Graduate School. They are Fathers Anthony Chen, Peter Keng and Paulinus Sun. They were ordained at Vigan on Luzon in the Philippines in 1952 after fleeing China in 1949, a step ahead of the advancing Communist forces.
“Pray for those we left behind. That’s about all we can do for now,” Father Chen says. After completing their studies at Notre Dame, the three priests hope to go to Formosa and eventually to the Chinese mainland.
Often seen together on the campus and in nearby South Bend, the three priests were students in the Catholic seminary there when the Communists began their march of conquest through China. Their superiors sent them to the Philippines to complete their studies for the priesthood.
None of the three has heard anything of their families in three years.
REFUGEES FROM RED CHINA (L-R) Fathers Keng, Chen, and Sun
They fear for the safety of their loved ones as word reaches them of increasing persecution of Christians under the Red regime.
Because the Communists claim a “people’s” government, the Christians, the businessmen and the educated people of China are not supposedly persecuted
A strong plea for support of the proposed Multer Bill highlighted the Spring convention of the Ohio-Indiana region of the National Student Association. The bill, presented before Congress by Rep. Abraham Multer of Ohio, would allow parents to deduct the educational expenses of each child from income tax payments.
Ninety-two delegates, including six from Notre Dame, represented the student governments of 19 schools in the two states that attended the convention held this year at Ohio State University in Columbus. The representatives were divided into three committees: student affairs, international affairs, and educational affairs.
The student affairs committee discussed student government leadership, the varied problems affecting student governments, and communications between the governing body of the school and the students. Also the student affairs committee held discussions on the question of tax policies, currently a vital issue here. Frank Tonini and Mike Regan represented Notre Dame on this committee.
The international affairs committee discussed the part that the World University Service plays in the life of the foreign student at an American university. The World University Service functions as a means of aiding foreign students to feel at home in the United States and of helping them to see and understand more of America.
The international affairs committee made no motions, but rendered several suggestions, namely that exchange students be allowed two years of study in the United States in place of the present one yeai’ and that foreign students be encouraged to join debate teams and other extra-curricular organizations which travel about the nation. Travel programs, slides and educational lectures, will be offered to foreign students to enable them to learn more of our country. Tom Field, president of the Student Senate here, and Ray Long represented Notre Dame on this committee.
The educational affairs committee dis-
because of their religion or background, Father Keng explains. Instead, he says, they are accused of spying and treason.
All China expects Nationalist forces to return to the mainland and liberate the country, the priests say. Meantime, the three priests study and pray for the oppressed people whom they will serve in the land they love and long for.
cussed the curricula at the member universities, the student voice in administrative' policies, the best methods of orientation, the new Korean GI Bill, and the admission requirements and academic standards at NS A universities.
The adoption of a faculty evaluation program was advocated. In such a system the student would render a criticism of his course and instructor at the end of the semester. The committee also recommended that the NSA determine the various scholarships offered in the Ohio-Indiana region and publish them for the benefit of high school students and member schools.
Three motions were adopted by this committee. All three were presented by Notre Dame representatives.
Joe Daley moved that the USNSA conduct a questionnaire concerning the policies of admission and academic standards of the member schools. In connection with the Multer Bill for educational expense exemptions, Tom Crehan moved that the Ohio-Indiana region of the NSA ■write to the senators and representatives of Ohio and Indiana urging them to support the bill, and also write the other regional NSA’s, asking them to do the same in their localities. Crehan also moved that both member and non-mem-ber schools be requested to support the Multei- Bill by the best means possible.
The whole assembly discussed the regional Spring convention for next year and the national NSA convention to be held this Summer.
Saenz' Winning Home Design May Be Used in Home Show
Jaime Saenz, senior architecture student who recently won the Indianapolis Home Show architectural competition, was invited to Indianapolis on Thursday to inspect the site on which his house may be built next year.
Saenz’s design for a split-level home and garage was awarded first prize in competition which included entries from 24 colleges as well as from 40 professional architects. There is a good chance that the design will be used for the model home that will be the central attraction of the Home Show for 1955.
Students in the Department of Architecture are currently working on the Whitney Warren competition sponsored by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design in New York. The contest offers prizes of $50 and $25.
10
The Scholastic
Joint Panel to Discuss Educational Freedom
The Philosophy Club of Notre Dame and the Thomist Club of St. Mary’s in honor of the feast of St. Thomas Aquinas, will jointly present a discussion on “Academic Freedom,” at 2:30 p.m. Sunday, in the Law Auditorium. It will consist of a panel discussion under the leadership of Dr. Vincent Smith who is editor of Nezc Scholasticism and a member of the philosophy faculty here at the University.
Members of the panel from St. Mary’s are Jo Anne Tharpe, Martha Beikes, Frances Clohessy. The Notre Dame panel members are Roman Gerber, Bert Metzger, and Frank Tonini. Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., will preside as moderator and Tom James will act as chairman.
Some of the questions to be discussed will include: What is Academic Freedom and can it be justified? Is Academic Freedom absolute or is it subject to control? Is Academic Freedom different for the tax supported school and the Catholic school?
“The topic is one of great interest today and has caused quite a bit of controversy as to its meaning and whether or not it involves a threat to democracy. We, as students, should be greatly concerned with this problem since it centers about our rights to an education and the extent of freedom of education,” Tonini says.
“It is also fitting that such a topic of discussion should be presented on the feast of St. Thomas since he is regarded as the Church’s greatest teacher. He realized the extent to which education was free, but he was also aware that a certain amount of authority is needed since the problem of education or academic freedom involves both the practical and theoretical orders,” he added.
Following the discussion there will be solemn vespers in Sacred Heart Church at 4:30, and at 8:30 a.m. on Monday, there will be a Solemn High Mass in honor of St. Thomas, also in Sacred Heart Church.
This is probably the first time that such an affair has been held between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, Toni stated. Both students and faculty are invited.
GRADE REPORTS
,	Off-campus students	may pick	up
|	their grade reports	for last	ser	mester at the office	of Academic
'	Affairs in the Main	Building.
INTER-SCHOOL FEAST DAY CELEBRATION
For St. Thomas Aquinas, A Panel Discussion Sunday
Cast Turns on Heat Rehearsing For Opening Of The Lady's Not For Burning' March 18
With two weeks remaining before the opening performance of The Lady’s Not For Burning the cast and crew are now in the midst of extensive rehearsals for the opening on March 18.
The play, a poetic comedy, was written by Christopher Fry and recounts the chain of events which follow the disappearance of a rag man in a 15th century English town. Starring John Gielgud and Pamela Brown, the show ran on Broadway during the 1950 season.
The cast, although small in number with only eleven members, has much talent and experience. Eugene Gorski will portray the male lead of Thomas Menlip. Gorski is the baritone soloist for the Glee Club and can be remembered for his part as Petruchio in Kiss Me, Kate. Miss Eleanor Kaskey will play opposite him as Jennet Jourdemayne, the lady who is to be burned. Miss Kaskey is from St. Mary’s and has worked with the University Theater previously in Vile Bodies and The Cocktail Party.
In the supporting roles are Miss Rody Oppenheim, as Alison Eliot, and Richard Robison, as Tyson, the mayor of the town. Miss Oppenheim, also a St. Mary’s
student, appeared in Three Men On A Horse last October, while Robison, a ’ junior, performed in Kiss Me, Kate.
Jerry Godwin and John Nolan have the roles of Nicholas and Skips. Both are veteran performers for the theater group. Another veteran, Miss Nancy Irgang of St. Mary’s portrays Margret. The newcomers making their first appearance in a Washington Hall production are Sophomores William Bellis and Leland Croghan and Freshmen George O’Donnell and Philip Donahue. Donahue and O’Donnell will play Tap-percoom and Humphrey, while Bellis and Croghan are cast in the roles of Richard and the chaplain.	-
Professor Tumpane of the Department of Speech is the director of the show. Assisting him as technical director is John Kirby, who also has charge of designing the sets. Dave Friske is stage manager, and Stephen Steckbeck will supervise set construction.
Ticket sales are t.o be handled by Ray Galvin. Opening night for The Lady’s: Not For Burning is Thursday, March 18. The other performance dates are March 19, 20, and 21. On Sunday, March 21 there will be a matinee and an evening show.
March 5, 1954
11
Irish Pugilists Pound Partners For 23rd Year To Provide Financial Purse For Bengal Missions
By JOHN ADAMS
For the past quarter of a century 18 Irishmen of various sizes and shapes have been trooping over to the Fieldhouse on St. Patrick’s night, trailing a large number of rooters, and there have fought tooth and nail for the possession of a little gold boxing glove.
A gang fight? Not at all. The University looks with pride upon this yearly event which, in addition to providing an outlet for the more pugilistic of the Notre Dame student body, has the more important function of providing a source of income for a rapidly growing mission field in Bengal, East Pakistan.
The event? The Bengal Bouts. Sponsored by the Knights of Columbus, the Bengal Bouts are now entering their 23rd season.
“Nappy” Tutors 75
.Seventy-five intent young men have entered into training under the tutelage of Mr. Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano; only nine will emerge unbeaten. These nine men will represent the weight classes into which the Bouts have been divided. Theoretically, one of them could fight any man on campus, on equal terms, and win.
Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., will again be on hand as general chairman of the Bouts. He has become a tradition at ringside during the Bouts, rendering well-founded advice to the combatants, praising the winner, cheering the loser.
Overseeing this year’s version of the
Bouts, which will begin Thursday .with the preliminaries, will be John Snakard, the 1954 “promoter.” To him has fallen the task of making the ’54 Bengal Bouts, not only an entertaining and sportive success, but a financial triumph.
Every dollar cleared on the Bouts is turned over to the some 24 mission stations, three hospitals, five orphanages, five high schools, and ten colleges now thriving in Bengal. This network of Christianity has grown from the relatively insignificant beginning of one mission more than a hundred years ago located in Bengal, from which the Notre Dame Bouts have derived their name.
Bengal A Fertile Field
Recognized as one of the most fertile fields of missionary endeavor in the world, Bengal alone has a population exceeding 42 millions, ci’ammed into an area about the size of Michigan. Of these millions only a little more than 40,000 are Catholic. The misery that pervades its sister country, India, also reigns in Pakistan.
Priests laboring in Bengal and its neighboring provinces write home that much is being done to alleviate this suffering, but their work is much limited by lack of funds.
It is to this task of securing funds for these brave missionaries that the Bengal Bouts have been dedicated.
For $2 Irishmen can view all five nights of the bouts, while the final
rounds alone will cost $2. Two dollars in the United States is magnified a dozen times in Bengal.
In past years, the Bengal Bouts have realized an ever increasing rate of profit. Jerome Smith, the student Grand Knight, is confident that this year’s results will better the record amount of last year’s contributions—“If every Student buys a season ticket, we can make this the most successful Bengal Bouts ever.”
Vocation Institute
Slated For July 15-18
Most Rev. Paul Schulte, archbishop of Indianapolis, will deliver the keynote address at the eighth annual Vocation Institute to be held here July 15-18, it was announced today by Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., director of the Institute. The speaker at the final session will be Most Rev. William T. Mulloy, bishop of Covington, Ky., Father Wilson said.
More than 200 priests, Brothers, Sisters and laymen representing many religious communities and dioceses are expected to attend the Institute. The annual meeting has become a center for the exchange of information on the fostering and guidance of vocations to the priesthood and religious life.	T
“The Psychology of Vocation” will be the general theme of this year’s sessions. Rev. Charles J. D. Corcoran, O.P., of the Dominican House of Studies, River Forest, Ill., will discuss “Temperament and Vocation.” Rev. Charles Harris, C.S.C., of Notre Dame will present a papei- on “Development of Per- y sonality in the Religious Life.”
MEN BEHIND THE APPROACHING BENGAL BOUTS
Leather Will Start to Fly in Fieldhouse Ring—Thursday
Registration Opens July 15
“Testing and Screening” for the priesthood and religious life will be the panel discussion subject of Sister M. Digna, O.S.B., of the College of St. Scholastica, Duluth, Minn., and Edward R. Quinn, director of Testing and Guidance here. Quinn has administered personality, aptitude and intelligence tests to thousands < of Notre Dame students including novitiate and major seminary candidates.
Registration for the Institute will open July 15 with the first formal session scheduled for the morning of July 16. The Institute will close with a Holy Hour in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday afternoon, July 18. Further information may be obtained.from Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Scholastic
12
S+rubbes to Headline Institute Talk Tuesday
Local NSA Symposium Defines Administration, Outlines Functions of Various Senate Branches
The Marriage Institute will present Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe of Chicago at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday in the Engineering Auditorium. They will discuss “Male and Female Psychology.”
Mr. and Mrs. Strubbe are parishioners at St. Thomas More Parish. At present, Mr. Strubbe is vice-president of St. Xavier College and a member of the Serra Club, a Catholic businessman’s organization.
Mrs. Strubbe, a graduate of St. Xavier- College, has been active for many years in the Third Order of St. Francis and has written for many publications.
Literature on the subject will be available to the students. The Institute will present three door prizes, a book on the marital subject, at each of these lectures.
On March 16 Rev. F. Nealy, O.P., will speak on “The Canon Law on Marriage” while Dr. John J. Kane will point out “The Tensions of Mixed Marriages.” March 23, “The Doctor’s Point of View” will be discussed by Robert McCready, M.D. and Rev. F. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. March 30, Rev. T. McDonaugh will speak on “Spirituality in Marriage.” The series will conclude on April 6 with the discussion on “The Success in Marriage” by Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Burke, followed by a movie on reproduction.
Tickets for the entire series of the separate lectures may be purchased at the door on each of the evenings.
ND's Invitational Tournament Tests Debaters March 19, 20
The Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament will be held this year March 19 and 20 according to Professor Leonard Sommer, director of forensics.
The meet, which was originated last year, draws entries from the country’s most active forensics teams, including such universities as Dartmouth, Wake Forest, Pittsburgh, Miami (Fla.), and the service academies, West Point and Annapolis.
The tournament will consist of six preliminary rounds of debate on the question: Resolved: The United States should adopt a policy of free trade.
The top four teams at the end of these rounds will meet in the semifinals and the winner, named aftei- a final round, will receive possession of the rotating trophy.
Permanent plaques will be awarded all four finalists and the meet’s top debater. The trophy is currently held by Dartmouth.
The campus NSA group conducted a symposium on “Student Government” yesterday afternoon in the Engineering Auditorium.
The program was introduced by chairman-moderator, Ray Long. “The United States National Student Association,” he said, “is a confederation of student governments. Here at Notre Dame it is a committee appointed by the Senate to keep it informed on the activities of other student governments throughout the world.”
He introduced Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., Tom Field, and Frank Tonini, who spoke on the role of the “Administration in student government,” “the functions and duties of the Senate,” and “the aims of student government stressing the importance of participation and cooperation by all students,” respectively.
Define’s “Administration”
Father Norton began by defining Administration. It is “those officers of the University . . . charged with the responsibility of administering the affairs . . . to insure that the school will fulfill its mission. . .” He stressed that “The administration is not something or someone apart from Notre Dame.”
“The student should be trained in leadership in the student-community and learn to participate in the responsibilities of government and leadership.” Father Norton added: “the Administration does not want to dominate the Senate or use it as a tool. But at the same time it must also be made clear that the authority of student government
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ON THE STAND
Administration and Student Body Wield the Stick
as a delegated authority is a grant, temporary and contingent, by the University,” he concluded.’ Father Norton considered the Administration as the manager of student government.
Tom Field then outlined the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of our student government. These are the Student Senate, the Blue Circle, and the Student Activities Court.
Warns Against Over-organizing
Field warned that “The Notre Dame student government is at present in some danger of becoming over-organized. The student body would do well to keep a close check on the student government so that its organization will not act as a brake on its services.” He pointed out that the “Blue Circle is solely an executive group, and the Student Activities Court a judge of violations of Senate laws, and the validity of the laws themselves.”
He divided their duties thus: “The primary duty of all members of a stu- -dent government is to think creatively about the deep problems which affect students and the student world. The members of a student government must be ‘thinkers’ first and ‘doers’ afterwards.' A secondary duty is the execution of such projects as dances, lectures, orientation program, and such.”
Frank Tonini, the third speaker, emphasized the dual responsibility of all students. “Oui- present vocation in life,” said Frank, “is that of a student. Actually we are preparing for the future. What kind of citizens we will later be is determined here and now.”
March 5, 1954
13
Players, Inc., Braves Rain, Shellfire and Mud In Presenting 'Love's Labour Lost* in Korea
By FRANK NEWMAN
‘‘Halt!” rang out a voice in the darkness.
The two actresses looked at each other in surprise. They were on their way to their tents after a performance of Love’s Labour Lost before an over-flow audience of marines somewhere in the Korean hills.
“Friend or foe?” snapped the unseen sentry.
“Oh, friend!” said one of the girls quickly.
“Definitely,” said the other.
“Garfield!” was the only reply the sentry made and then waited for the girls to give the rest of the password. They were panic stricken. A young officer had told them the answer before the show, but they hadn’t thought he was serious. The invisible sentry, however, sounded very serious.
“Garfield.” He said it louder this time. The girls thought frantically but nothing came. The soft click of the rifle bolt being drawn was the only sound to break the silence of the night. The tension was too much for the actresses and they began to giggle hysterically. Apparently this unnerved the sentry a bit too; he didn’t shoot. A moment latex- the captain, who had been assigned to escort the girls, arrived and gave the password.
Many Unusual Incidents
That was only one unusual incident in what was certainly one of the oddest Shakespearean tours in theatrical history. It occurred last May when Players, Inc., was touring the Korean war front with Love’s Labour Lost. The troupe, which recently staged Moliere’s The Miser and Shakespeare’s Othello in Washington Hall, was the first company ■ to present classic drama in the war zone.
• . Carrying full scenery and costumes, and travelling in every kind of vehicle from bombex- to jeep and from motorcycle to helicopter, Players, Inc., spent eight weeks overseas at the invitation of the Department of Defense. Averaging about one performance a day, the actors performed in northern and central Japan as well as in Korea.
The conditions under which the troupe had to perform would have brought a Broadway producer to the brink of insanity. For example, one performance—atBulldozer Bowl, about two miles from the frofit linds-^Ayas played under a blazing noonday < sun -because
the area was blacked out at night. The actors had to be very careful of their enunciation because of the artillery barrage that kept up during the entire show.
During another performance, about half the audience got up midway in the show and walked out. The discouraged actors concluded that it was not Shakespeare’s day, only to be told after the performance that the men had been alerted due to a threatened Communist attack.
Another spot the troupe recalls with mixed emotions is the camp where reveille consisted not only of a bugle call, but of the explosion of a few pounds of TNT.
The outstanding feature of the trip for the players was not the difficulties, but the enthusiastic reception that Shakespeare received everywhere they went. Whether the audience was a selection of diplomats at Tokyo’s swank Imperial Hotel or a bunch of muddy G. I.’s at Bulldozer Bowl, the play was always well received. In fact, Players, Inc. consistently drew bigger- crowds and warmer ovations than Betty Hutton who was touring the same circuit just a few days ahead.
Sign Scares Troupe
At the beginning of the trip, the actors had their doubts as to whether the soldiers would like Shakespeare. They were a little worried on opening night in Seoul, their first stop in Korea. When they arrived that afternoon at the auditorium, they found two big posters outside the door. One was an ad for theii- show. The other read laconically in big, black letters, “CLEAN WEAPONS BEFORE ENTERING.”
The actors think that the highest compliment paid thein in Korea came from a tall Texan of the First Marine Division. During one performance, a heavy rain began early in the second act and continued until the end of the show. But since the soldiers showed no signs of leaving, the actors kept going and finished the performance.
Afterwards a marine approached one of the actresses to tell her how much he had enjoyed the show. He was soaked. Looking down at himself, he laughed and said, “Mah parka’s wet, mah underwear’s wet, mah socks are wet, ah’m .wet—but it was worth it.”
He paused, looked her straight in the eye and paid the highest compliment a marine could give, “Lady, ah even let mah RIFLE git wet.”
FATHER MULLAHY The Priesthood: “Misunderstood"
Third Vocation Forum To Discuss Priesthood
What is the real purpose of a priest? Just what does the priesthood entail?
What that vocation means to priests and its relation to the student will be discussed in the next session of Forums -A on the States in Life.
The topic for the third forum in the series will be “The Catholic Priesthood,” and will be presented by Rev. Bernard -Mullahy, C.S.C., at 7:30 p.m. Thursday, in Room 127, Nieuwland Science Hall.
Father Mullahy is assistant provincial ; for the Indiana province of the Congre- V gation of Holy Cross, and is also head I of the Department of Philosophy.	I
Father- Mullahy will discuss the nature of the priesthood, its important i-ole in modern life, and the steps in preparation for the priesthood.	,
“There is a good deal of misunderstanding about the role of the priest in •* the modern world, even among Catholics,” said Rev. Joseph Haley, C.S.C.,	'
director of the forums. “It is very important fox- the Catholic layman to understand the position of the priest in daily life, so that he may be better-aware of his own duties.”
“In the Middle Ages,” he continued, “the role of the priest was well understood by the people. Due to the rise of rationalistic thinking, and the Protestant reformation, this idea was lost and < it has not been fully regained today.
For those who wish to know their duties 1 as true Christians, this forum is a must.”
14
The Scholastic

Italian Duo Displays First 1:100 Scale Replica Of St. Peter's Basilica in O'Shaughnessy Hall
Five hundred years after the first stone was laid for St. Peter’s Basilica in Rome, two Italians—father and son —constructed the first accurate model of the seat of Christianity. This replica, made by Attilio Savoia, a Roman model maker, and his architect son, Lucio, is now on display in the foyer of the O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts.
Built to the scale of 1:100, the model is 15 feet long, nine feet wide and eight feet high. It is complete' in such details as bubbling fountains, ticking clocks, and imperfect centering of the obelisk in the square. The same metals used in the original St. Peter’s were put into the Savoia reproduction. Among these are bronze fountains, brass lights, and lead shields for the main dome.
Measure Church With Yardstick
But this dream of the two Romans took five years to materialize. When the elder Savoia and his son began searching for plans of the Basilica, they found that none had ever been made. Any of the sketches in existence were inaccurate. Before any work could be done on the model, the father-and-son team had to spend three years clambering over every part of the church with camera and yardstick to measure every square inch of the structure. The subsequent set of blueprints is the only true one in existence today.
Then came the task of carving, out of birch, beech and cirmolo wood, the 400,000 pieces used in the replica. These woods were used to simulate the colors of the marble and stone in the original. Even the marks of 500 years of Roman weather are reproduced in the model. This phase of the project took two years to complete.
Hope to Leave Model in U. S.
On Sept. 2, 1950, the Holy Year, Pope Pius XII blessed the model and the end of the job was in sight for the Savoias. They put the replica on display in Italy for a year and then brought it to the United States, where it has toured over 40 cities.
Attilio and Lucio Savoia produced their model for the purpose of giving as many people as possible the opportunity of seeing St. Peter’s Basilica, even if only as a model. The two artists hope to leave the replica somewhere in the United States, where architects, artists,
and laymen can see and examine the miniature Mother Church of Christianity.
The structure will be on exhibit at Notre Dame for approximately one more week. The Liberal Arts building will be open Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., and Saturday and Sunday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The accuracy of the model is acknowledged by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the university, who has seen the original St. Peter’s. “I spent considerable time in and around St. Peter’s in Rome,” he said. “This is a most faithful reproduction. Like any other great piece of art it gives one the shadow of the real thing and makes one want to see more.”
St. Peter’s Basilica was first conceived by Pope Nicola V in 1453. It was not until 1847 that the church was finally completed. Twenty-two popes
reigned during its construction. The men who worked on the church tried to make it a fitting place for the home of Christianity. An example of this is the imperfect window, designed in 1610 by Maderna, who thought that only God is perfect and so no human work should be so.
Professor Frank Montana, head of the Department of Architecture, emphasized the value of the model for those interested in architectural design. “The church itself is a good example of Renaissance architecture. I certainly recommend the study of the model to anyone interested in architecture because it is perfect.”
In transit through the United States, the dome of the model has been cracked twice. Both times, however, the damage has been repairable. The model is shipped in seven large crates.
Lucio Savoia is an architect by trade, and his father specializes in making architects’ models of large structures. Although both men wish to leave the replica in the United States, they have not yet chosen a site.
(Right) Birds-eye view of Basilica replica gives closeup of realistic tower and rooftops.
(Bottom) Tiny lamp-posts light up the courtyard of the Savoia-constructed 400,000 piece model of St. Peter’s Basilica.
March 5, 1954
IS 7
Ralph Flanagan Signs Junior Prom Contract
Ralph Flanagan, the nation’s top band according to Billboard, will provide the music for the Junior Prom, Dance Chairman Don Yeckel announced recently.
This will mark the first time that Flanagan has appeared at a Notre Dame function.
Flanagan’s signing has met with enthusiasm among Junior Class members who voted him their number one choice in a band poll by a big margin. His tremendous popularity might well be attributed to the fact that his arrangements consistently feature a strong dance beat and display a definite flair for giving the students the kind of musical enjoyment they really want.
The records show that Flanagan launched his band when the ballroom business was at its lowest ebb, yet he has consistently drawn capacity crowds. His secret—“I have none. The public wants music they can listen and dance to. I give it to them, with no gimmicks attached.” A true illustration of Flanagan’s amazing success can be found in the 1950 edition of Billboard, that contained the publication’s annual discjockey poll results. He headed the list by being named the top band of the year and then captured three other firsts and one second. No other band has ever equalled or approached this achievement.
A dinner dance Saturday night, with Don Gels taking over the bandstand, and the traditional Communion Breakfast will top off the big weekend.
Tickets will go on sale on April 7 and 8 in the basement of the Dining Hall. Juniors will receive further Prom information this week through mimeographed literature that will be distributed in the halls.
MAESTRO FLANAGAN
After Strong, Palmer—A Big One
Pep Meetings, Pop Concerts, and Road Tours Spotlight Year-Round Job of ND Bandsmen
The University bands are among the most active and colorful student organizations on the campus. During the regular academic year, these bands invite participation by students with. a wide range of musical ability and interests. On the many occasions on which they play, there is gratifying evidence that the student body, the faculty, the administration, and the public are equally proud of them.
Nevertheless, despite these facts, there are very few Notre Dame students who realize how these organizations function.
The University Bands are comprised of the Marching Band, the Concert Band, and the Varsity Band. Their members are selected on the basis of interviews and auditions with Mr. Robert O’Brien, Director of Bands. Approximately 125 men participate actively in these organizations each year.
During the first semester, the Marching Band, composed of approximately 110 members, presents an elaborate program of music and maneuvers at each home football game and usually accompanies the team on at least one extended trip away from home during the season. In addition to the presentation of spectacular pre-game and half-time ceremonies, this group plays for pep rallies and parades.
As soon as the football season is over, the process of reorganizing the Marching Band into a concert organization is begun. With the beginning of the second semester, approximately 52 of the most skilled players are designated for the Concert Band. The instrumentation is carefully selected to provide a well balanced group.
The Concert Band devotes its time to the study and performance of concert literature of the highest quality. During the Easter season, the band tours various parts of the country presenting an extremely high caliber repertoire.
It is estimated that the four year concert band member travels at least 10,000 miles, giving ample- evidence why the University Concert Band is the most travelled non-professional band in the U. S. and possibly in the world.
The Varsity Band is open to students who, because of instrumentation dr scheduling difficulties, cannot play in the Concert Band. It makes several public appearances on the campus in providing music for the basketball games, giving a light concert, and serving other University functions.
Members of all three bands volunteer to serve in the Pep Band which plays for rallies and other informal occasions.
The University Bands is a bi-function-al organization, both student and academic, under the direct supervision of Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vjce-presi-dent in charge of student affairs, and Mr. Daniel Pedtke, dean of the Music Department. However, less than 20% of the band members are music majors.
Jewish Council Seeks ND Men to Lead Rec Programs
The Jewish Community Council of St. Joseph County is interested in employing three or four Notre Dame students to help conduct a weekly recreational program for the children of South Bend.
The council wants mature young men who are interested in working with children. Mr. Norman Edell, executive director, stated, “Experience in recreational programs or in camp counselor positions would be an advantage but is not a requisite. Salary will be based on qualifications and experience. The time involved is Sunday from 2 to 4:30 p.m. and the program will ran through to the end of May.”
Appointments for interviews can be made by calling Irving Mortin, youth activities director, or Mr. Edell at 3-1164.
Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., assist- . ant to the vice-president in charge of academic affairs, said, “It is a tribute to Notre Dame that the Jewish community in town is interested in having some Notre Dame students help them out in their youth program. There is no religious content in this recreational program.”
Fort Wayne Trip Planned For Loyola Tilt Tuesday
A contingent of Irish rooters will be on hand to boost the fortunes of the basketball squad in its game against -Loyola of New Orleans next Tuesday night in Fort Wayne. The contest is billed as an NCAA elimination game.
A cordon of buses will leave the Circle at 4:30 p.m., bound for the Allen County , Memorial Coliseum, site of the tilt.
Game time is set for 8 p.m. Following ** the Notre Dame-Loyola battle, Penn State will meet Toledo in the' nightcap of the cage doubleheader.
The buses will return after the second game, arriving back on campus about 2 a.m. No classes will be cancelled for the trip, but late' permissions h have been granted to those making the jaunt.
16
The Scholastic
WNDU:
NOW HIGH
IN THE SKY
By PAUL FULLMER
“We’re only scratching the surface of what we can do. We’re trying to push ahead as fast as we can but there is a lot of groundwork to be done on everything.”
These are the words of Frank Cronan, “The Father of Radio Notre Dame,” after the first few months of broadcasting in 1948, and not of Tom Knott, current station manager of WNDU.
In the Fall of 1952 the University offered WNDU office and studio space in the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts and Station Director Bill
Ryan snatched the bid. The executive offices were moved last November and the final transfei- of station facilities -took place over Washington’s birthday. Programming from the “Tower” began on Feb. 22 as the disk jockeys carted the final record into the fourth floor studios from the old studios in the Fieldhouse.
The new studios are divided into two floors. The two studios, the control room, the record library, and the news machine occupy the first floor of the new layout. Studio A, the largest room, is designed for the production of “live”
shows, while the smaller Studio B con-» tains the equipment for the record shows Originating, from the station. The control panel and the console—the equips ’ ment for actual broadcasting—are in the control room, along with the tape-record- -ers and turn-tables.
The general offices and the technical ' repair room are on the second floor. The equipment is the newest that could, be -found and is of commercial standard.
Where Was It Born?
Many halls claim the birthplace of
March 5, 1954
17
Staff announcer Pat McCartan goes
on the air; technician at control panel keeps broadcast from going snafu.
Station Manager Tom Knott speaks first words from the station’s new studios.
WNDU and as yet none has proven its claim. Alumni, Dillon, Sorin, and Walsh are all mentioned in various accounts of the early days of the Student Voice. In the year 1947 formal operations began, but some grads still claim that the “home-made” station first came through the sets back in 1945.
Cronan, an electrical engineer from Waterbury, Conn., batted the idea of a campus station around until he decided to take the step and actually began broadcasting from his own room in Walsh. He was a member of the inactive Radio Club that still had a few dollars in the treasury. He used this money, and along with the other interested members, purchased a power transmitter and started sending out programs.
The nightly programs were quickly picked up by an increasing number of student sets . . . and University officials’ radios. The station was popular for the simple reason that it played the music that the fellows wanted to hear and played it with little interruption . . . the same principle followed by the present regime.
Station Succumbs to Razor
The greatest interference didn’t come from the University, South Bend radio stations, or the Federal Communications Commission. It came from the electric razors of the listeners and there was nothing that could stop the “little monsters.”
Early in 1948 the University realized that the station was holding its own
18
The Scholastic
McCartan gets news hot off the teletype
under the same unfavorable conditions that had put its predecessors out of business. Cronan managed to convince himself, his newly-recruited staff, and the University that South Bend businessmen would buy time on the station because it was their best channel to the Notre Dame student.
A box-like studio in the band room in the rear of Washington Hall gave Cronan and WND new life. The first night’s schedule on “The 630 spot on your radio dial” featured the ever-popular “Re-questfully Yours,” the oldest program on WNDU. He moved the records and the turntables to Washington Hall and before the dust had settled, WND lost its “lease” and was again apartmenthunting.
The new home was not spacious, not comfortable, and not convenient. It was a cubby-hole in the press box high on top of the Stadium.
Establish Studios in Fieldhouse
Just when the staff, and even Cronan, was becoming disheartened, the University stepped in with a $300 grant and promise of permanent studios in the Fieldhouse. This was “just what the doctor ordered” for WND and it began full-scale operations immediately.
Acoustic panelling attempted to muffle the shuffling feet of the not-too-artis-tic Bengal bouters. Chief Engineer Cronan installed a master control board, turntables, and other miscellaneous equipment and the station again hit the air waves. WSBT helped the station along with an old remote unit that it no longer had use for, and WND quickly
installed it as the “beautiful new” master control board.
By March 1951 the studio was rolling along with increased programming . . . increased staff . . . and more importantly—increased sales. Cronan decided to switch from the 630 spot to the 1230 spot that housed the “Voice” until 1953. This move was made to secure a position on the dial that was free from outside interference and would allow better transmission of the programs over the shaky wiring and battered transmitter.
Hawley Hall, Cronan’s successor, and Ted Byrne, technical director, began construction of a new control console and completed a revamping of the transmitter that was faltering.
Chazz and Jack!
From this foundation, WND started the buildup of its record collection and personalities soon blossomed forth on the Student Voice.
Chazz Schubert and Jack Hynes decided that the famous “ND gentleman” needed more than the gentle urging of the hall bells to get him out of bed. So they dragged themselves over to the “Old Fortress” at 7:30 each a.m. and conducted the now legendary “Out of the Sack with Chazz and.Jack.” By 8 a.m. they had rooted out even the Commercemen who previously hadn’t made it before the 10 o’clock class.
Their success was so phenomenal that they took over a nightly comedy program in 1952 and had the campus in hysterics with their half-hour episodes of “Randy Cornball, Space Cadet.”
Jack Mahar and Bob Preckles served
“Guts” of the station—WNDU’s new master control board.
as station manager before Bill Ryan, the person who led the station from its old, crowded space into the lush surroundings in the Liberal Arts Building, took over.
Tom Knott now holds the reins of the nation’s fastest growing station. Both he and Ryan have been active in South Bend radio and TV along with such past notables as Jim Gannon, Al Wood, and Joe Shelly.
Since the formal University sanction in 1948, Prof. Jerome A. Fallon of the Department of Speech has served as faculty moderator and Director of Radio at Notre Dame. Ryan, once Prof. Fallon’s pupil here, directed his former teacher’s first educational TV program yesterday over WSBT.
“Requestfully Yours” is still among the top programs on WNDU as the DJ’s continue to hold sway as the most popular. “Penthouse Pops” commands the most listeners and sponsors since it holds the choice evening spot.
According to a national survey, the average college station is on the air for only 4.7 hours a day, while WNDU broadcasts an average of almost 12.
Largest Record Collection
This increased activity is due partly to the facilities now available to the station. The record library contains over 8,000 popular selections, while the classical selections, the largest collection in South Bend, number over 750. The station is also a subscriber to the RCA Victor Thesaurus transcription service.
The staff of 70—divided into program-(Continued on Page 32)
March 5, 1954
19
Couple munch on cookies by flickering candle between dances.
Leftovers from Mardi Gras can-can?
The Science Ball picked up where the action-packed Mardi Gras left off with a gay “Winter Fantasy” last weekend. Set in this motif by the science decorators, the dance-goers were first treated to the intriguing sight of a highway marker indicating departure from South Bend and entrance into a Southern fairy-land of leisure and play.
Other decorations throughout the Student Center followed the theme of “getting away from it all.” The ballroom of the Center was bedecked with posters of tropical resorts, making an ideal “Winter Fantasy” to bid good-by to this year’s cold.
The music of Dick Carlton and his orchestra provided the melodies for the final pre-lenten social affair. A Glee Club octet provided intermission entertainment with numbers carolled while they strolled among the dancers. They later led the tired dancers in a community sing.
High spirits ran rampant throughout the evening as the students and their teachers frolicked before heading back to the slide rules and test tubes.
Science
Shindig
Gay ball-goers relax for a few moments in a corner of the luxurious Center.
20
The Scholastic
Ninety Social, Academic, Territorial Clubs Provide Varied On-Off Campus Activities
There are approximately 90 campus clubs registered with the Student Senate this year. Although fraternities have never been part of the Notre Dame scene, outlets for every type of extracurricular activity can be found among the student groups. Seventeen social organizations, nine academic groups and 47 hometown clubs make up the bulk of campus organizations. Their interests range from the Glider Club to the Academy of Political Science and from the Chess Club to the Kampus Keglers.
The Chicago Club is the largest campus organization consisting of over 500 members. The second largest is the Met Club, followed by the Irish Club. The Wranglers, a serious discussion group, is believed to be the oldest existing club.
Three Types on Campus
There are three classes of campus clubs. The geographical clubs are primarily social clubs which have meetings on campus and activities on and off campus. The three leading geographical clubs, according to members are the Chicago, Met, and Indianapolis Clubs.
The academic clubs make up the second type of clubs. These clubs promote the student’s interest in certain academic fields. Examples of these clubs are the Academy of Political Science, which is known for its sponsorship of the Notre Dame mock political conventions; the Bookmen, a literary discussion group; the Aesculapians, comprised of pre-medical students.
The third group is called the miscellaneous group. Included in this class are the nationality clubs like the Irish and Italian Clubs. The religious and fraternal clubs are also in this group. The Young Christian Students and the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine are other examples.
Clubs Offer Sporting Activities
The student looking for healthful exercise and fun can join the many organizations devoted to boxing, wrestling, gymnastics, bowling, and other non-var-sity sports.
National, scientific and engineering societies also have active organizations on the campus. Some of these are the American Chemical Society, the American Institute of Electrical Engineering, and the Institute of Aeronautical Science. These clubs bring to the campus famous speakers whose lectures supplement the student’s classroom and laboratory work.
Most of the clubs have four officers, elected each spring. Then- constitution is filed in the Student Senate office. The Campus Club Board of Advisors is the
chief connection with the Student Senate. Joe Daley is the Student Senate chairman in the meetings with the Campus Clubs. Nine men compose the Campus Club Board of Advisors, four from the geographical clubs, four from the academic clubs and one representative from the miscellaneous clubs. The board is made up of the following: John Andreas of the Chicago Club, Ron Mealey of the Met Club, Charles Wagner of the Indianapolis Club and John Donaher of the Pittsburgh Club. The academic clubs are represented by Jack Nashert of the Engineering Advisory Board, Bruce Fox of the Commerce Forum, Jim Norton of the Aesculapians, and George Welsh of the Academy of Political Science. Ned Griffin of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine is the sole representative from the miscellaneous group. The board meets every week with the Student Senate.
Raqo Heads Summer Writers1 Conference
Workshops in poetry, fiction and the teaching of creative writing will compose the sixth annual Writers’ Conference here June 28-July 3, it was announced here recently by Prof. Louis Hasley, conference director.
Henry Bago, noted poet, critic, lecturer and associate professor of the humanities at the University of Chicago, will direct this years’ poetry workshop. Richard Sullivan and John T. Frederick, of the Department of English faculty, again will be in charge of the fiction and teaching of creative writing workshops respectively, Hasley said.
Rago’s first book of poems, The Travelers, was published in 1949. A second volume, The Temple and Other Poems, will be published later this year. Admitted to the Illinois bar in 1937, Rago returned to academic life at Notre Dame where he received his Ph.D. in philosophy in 1941. He has contributed poems, criticism, translations and articles to such publications as Poetry, The New Yorker, and the Sewanee, Hudson and Kenyon reviews.
Richard Sullivan’s latest novel is 311 Congress Court. He is author of five novels, a volume of short stories and a personalized history of his alma mater, Notre Dame. Frederick founded the Midland magazine and for many years conducted the CBS program, “Of Men and Books.” He has written two novels, several books on writing and has edited three anthologies.
LOBUND's Reyniers Wins Pasteur Award
Notre Dame’s LOBUND added another feather to its cap last week as the the Society of Illinois Bacteriologists named Prof. James A. Reyniers as the recipient of its Pasteur Award for 1954. Reyniers, who is founder and director of LOBUND, was selected “for his pioneering work in germ-free research,” according to Dr. J. C. McCaffrey, award committee chairman.
Professor Reyniers will formally re-, ceive the Pasteur Award in the form of an engraved scroll at a dinner meeting of the society in May, McCaffrey-said. Reyniers will report the results^ of his research to fellow-scientists then.
An annual award to an outstandingmidwest bacteriologist, the Pasteur-Award was established in 1948. Previous award recipients have included Dr. Forest Huddleson, Michigan State College; Dr. Stewart A. Koser, Univer-
PROFESSOR REYNIERS
LOBUND Pioneer Wins Annual Award
sity of Chicago; the late Dr. J. Bronfeh-brenner, Washington University; Dr. C. H. Werkman, Iowa State College; Dr. S. E. Luria, University of Illinois; and Dr. Howard J. Shaughnessy, Illinois State -Public Health Department.
Under Professor Reyniers’ leadership, LOBUND has developed the germ-free animal as a unique tool in medical and biological research. Reyniers and his associates have designed and built equipment and developed techniques which make it possible for animals to be born, live a normal life span and die without ever coming into contact with a single germ. Using these living test-tubes, the Notre Dame scientists recently proved that germs in the mouth were necessary to produce tooth decay. Other research projects underway include studies of radiation sickness, cancer, liver necrosis, antibiotics and growth.
March 5, 1954
21
II MII Mike Chatter
Fr. Wilcock Initiates Aquinas Series Sunday; Two ND Profs Listed on Five-Talk Program
Well, we’ve finally made it back in the Scholastic. After being away for so long, we’re glad to be back.
There’s been a lot of things going on up in the tower of O’Shaughnessy, but there’s no sense in telling you about them here. We’ve finally moved, and the complete story is someplace in the pages of this magazine.
We think the Scholastic did a fine job covering our opening, and we want to compliment them for it.
We suppose a lot of people will be surprised at the amount of coverage we did get. Most everybody thinks there’s a lot of animosity between the magazine and ourselves.
And we suppose there has been.
It all started with a few individuals from each side taking a few digs at each other. Then came the Senate and their dollar, and one of our boys even made the editorial page.
Things are pretty quiet now, but some say that it’s just a lull before another storm.
Let’s hope not.
Both the station and the magazine are grown up now, and they’re both doing pretty good jobs. The Scholastic won an All-American award for their last semester’s work, and WNDU has the finest carrier-current station in the country.
After you’ve reached a point in your life, you stop making silly wise cracks about people, which you think are funny and really aren’t. That is, if you grow up. If you don’t, and keep up the wise cracks, you just become obnoxious.
A couple of our disk jockeys made a few of those wise cracks about last week’s Scholastic. To say the least, they weren’t too funny. A DJ’s job is to entertain his audience, not educate it about the quality of local journalism.
Calling WNDU the “Student Whisper” is a rather poor joke. Let’s face it boys, if you can’t get the station on your radio, it’s not our fault. If it was up to us, we’d make our signal as loud as possible. But it just isn’t possible. The FCC has laid down certain rules for carrier-current stations which we’ve got to follow, and until somebody feels like donating a radio tower, we’re going to obey them.
We would again like to compliment the Scholastic on their article. We feel that the write-up is a compliment to us. Let’s keep the relationship on that plane. —John Slavish.
22
Five outstanding speakers will be presented in the ninth annual Aquinas Lecture Series to be held at 8 p*.m. every Sunday of Lent, beginning March 7 at the Progress Club, 601 West Colfax Ave. The lectures are sponsored by the Aquinas Library and Book Store of South Bend.
Tickets for the series are now on sale at the Student Center or may be purchased at the Progress Club on the night of each lecture. The price is $2.50 for the series or $1 for individual lectures.
Two Notre Dame professors, Dr. A. Robert Caponigri and Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., are among the speakers.
The first lecture will be given by Rev. Frederick Wilcock, S.J., of the Russian Center, Fordham University, on “Russia and the Catholic Church.”
Father Wilcock, a native of Lanca-
LIFE SAVING COURSE
A Senior Life Saving course will be offered free of charge beginning March 11 in the Rockne Memorial Building. The course will be open to any student, and only a basic knowledge of swimming is required. Passing of the Freshman Phy. Ed. swimming test satisfies the requirements. A Junior Life Saving certificate is not required.
A minimum of 19 hours is required by the course in order for the student to acquire the Red Cross Certificate in Senior Life Saving.
Anyone interested must attend the first meeting in Room I of the Rock on March 11 at 6:30 p.m., when a time schedule for remaining classes will be formulated. A Standard Red Cross Life Saving test must also be purchased (60 cents) at the first meeting.
St. THOMAS LECTURE
Students of the Old College on campus are sponsoring a philosophic lecture entitled “The Intellectual Life” by Dr. Vincent E. Smith this coming Monday night at 7:45 in the auditorium of the new Science Building.
The St. Thomas Lecture will be open to the public.
shire, England, studied at the Jesuit College at Stonyhurst. He was ordained in the Russian Rite at Rome and remained there for a year as Minister of the Russian College.
While pastor of a Russian parish in Shanghai, China he was interned by the Japanese in a prison camp from 1942 to 1945. He later aided in the evacuation of internees to the Philippines.
In 1950 Father Wilcox was recalled to Rome and was sent to the United States to open the Russian Center at Fordham. He is the superior of the Russian community, a group of Jesuits who are ordained in the Byzantine-Slavonic Rite and who live at Fordham.
On March 14, Dr. A. Robert Caponigri of the Department of Philosophy will speak on “Italy and the Free World.”
Dr. Caponigri has twice visited Italy for yearly stays. His first visit was in 1950 when he studied on a Fulbright Research grant at the Universities of Naples and Rome. He returned in 1952 on an award from the Rockefeller Foundation.
His first book, Time and Idea, was a study of the historical thought of Gi-amattista Vico. His second book, History and Liberty will appear in the Fall.
“The Holiness of Marriage” will be discussed by Rev. Godfrey Diekmann, O.S.B., of St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn., on March 21.
Fr. Diekmann is an experienced speaker and retreat master. He has been editor of the liturgical magazine, Worship, since 1938.
On March 28, Dr. Patrick Casey of the Department of English at Loyola University, will discuss “Sense in Censorship.”
A native of Limerick, Ireland, Dr. Casey received his doctorate from the National University of Ireland. He has also been a member of the Irish Bar Association and an editor of an Irish daily, The Irish Independent.
Father Lauck of the Department of Art will conclude the series with a talk entitled, “Beauty Excommunicate” on April 4.
Father- Lauck is a prominent American sculptor. His work has been widely exhibited. Earlier this year his “Monk at Prayer” was shown at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Art.
The Scholastic
Draine Takes First
In 80th State Oratory
Freshman Frank Draine of Chicago, representing Notre Dame, took first honors in the 80th Annual Indiana State Oratorical Contest, held last Friday at North Manchester. DePauw University took second place.
Draine’s oration, entitled “Perpetual Peace,” dealt with the problems of the international scene. He has had a good deal of experience in speech activities, last year placing second in the National Oratory Contest’s high school division. Since coming to Notre Dame, he won a top position on the debate team.
Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, who coached Draine for the contest commented, “He is an excellent speaker. Not many can be named best in the state in their freshman year. We’re looking forward to his winning many more such victories.”
Professor Sommer has announced the preliminaries of the Hearst Tournament of Orators to be held March 8. This year’s topics for the seven minute orations must deal with Abraham Lincoln.
The contest is open to all undergraduate students who have not yet reached their 26th birthday.
Those interested in entering the contest are urged to contact Professor Sommer immediately in the Department of Speech office, third floor O’Shaughnessy Hall.
Walker to Pilot 'Showboat' For April 30 Frosh Frolic
The annual Freshman Frolic has been scheduled for Friday, April 30, in the Student Center. Terry Conway, class president, has named Bob Miller chairman of the dance.
Bill Walker, currently playing in the Pump Room of Chicago’s Ambassador East hotel, will supply the music. The theme for the 1954 edition of the Frolic will be the perennial hit “Showboat.”
Chuck Grace has been chosen business manager of the dance while Tom Doyle has been selected head of the decorations committee. The tickets will be handled by Jack Moynahan and Marty Murphy. Jack Casey is in charge of publicity, with John O’Drobanik taking care of the refreshments.
Jerry Garvey and Butch Hickman have been named to the entertainment committee and Don Stuhldreher and Jack Maloney will top the accommodation and transportation committees, respectively.	=
The Communion breakfast will be held on Sunday, May 2, at the Morris Inn.
March 5, 1954
Sir Winston And The Second World War
It appears that Sir Winston Churchill has recently come into his own around here—not only did he win the Nobel Prize for Literature with “The Second World War,” but the Book-of-the-Month Club seems to have succeeded Sam Goody in whipping up the enthusiasm of quite a few people on campus, this time the erstwhile history scholars for the Churchill epic.
This is quite an accomplishment, we think, for the Book-of-the-Month Club. Of course in this case “something for nothing” was substituted for “30% off,” all six books in the set being given away free for the purchase of six of the regular club selections in a year.
But anyway, the opinion here is that anybody who goes through the 5,000 pages of Churchill in one semester deserves three credits for ambition. And for those who can’t see buying six books in a year for it—it’ll undoubtedly be down at Ford Hopkins one of these days, right alongside of Mickey Spillane.
“The Second World War” is divided into the above-mentioned six books, beginning with “The Gathering Storm,” written in 1948, and ending with “Triumph and Tragedy,” published just last Fall. Needless to say, the writing is superb. And the opinions expressed in the work are tjrpical Churchillian opinions. The moral of the entire work is: “In War, Resolution; In Defeat, Defiance; In Victory, Magnanimity; In Peace, Good Will.”
Chance For New Music Lovers
This column isn’t always going to be finding fault (and we do like the Churchill epic)—we’re going to take mostly the “arty” things we like, such as books, plays, music, and just dwell on them a bit. And if there’s anything connected with them that we don’t like, then we’ll pass word of that along too. For instance, we like the idea of WNDU’s classical music hour every day, and we think that everybody should listen to it, at least every so often. Hope that the new equipment in the O’Shaughnessy Building will help, because a few more of the music lovers within the carrier current range might start listening to it. Might even create a few more music lovers—it should.
‘Hi-Fi's’ The Closest Thing to Perfection
While we’re on the subject of music, and, more specifically, “hi-fi” (high fidelity) music—a few hi-fi sets have been observed around, and it’s our pleasure to report that they are the thing if you like your music approaching perfection.	•
The ads for high-fidelity sets and records claim that it’s just like being in a concert hall—and while your room might look like anything but a concert hall, by gosh it does sound like one! Very definitely a must for those who like their music, all “50 to 15,000 cycles of stereofonic.realism” of it. Even if you’re a little deaf and can’t hear 15,000 cycles. We took a nice little record, Percy Faith’s “Song from Moulin Rouge.” Played it on our OLD-STYLE attachment, then played it on hi-fi. Just like a concert hall.
Audrey Hepburn’s 'Roman Holiday’
There’s one more subject that deserves some attention, and that’s our girl friend from “Roman Holiday,” Audrey Hepburn.
A new play opened on Broadway on Feb. 18—“Ondine,” by Jean Girau-doux, in which Audrey is co-starred with Mel Ferrer. We were in New York at the time and tried to get an SRO for it, but there was a line of about 250 people at the 46th Street Theatre who had also read the reviews.
Never saw such a line at a playhouse—and never have read so many completely praising reviews of an actress. (“It is a beautiful and astonishingly intelligent piece of work, and I don’t believe there is an actress in our theatre physically or mentally equipped to duplicate it.”—Wolcott Gibbs, The New Yorker.—Bruce Harrison
23
-Nine January
Fk$ Senier-s iscsra Awar<fc jtam .AH^TC
Mine seniors in the Air Force P.OTC. who received their graduate degrees in January, have obtained theii commission.- /runi the Air Foice while five Ail Science Id" students received awaids recently as distinguished AEROTC students
.The nine seniors received their commissions nom C-d. ddelie J. .Coutiee for hat in- completed the AF.ROTC pipgram heie at A’otte 'Dame. They received the commissions in the ROTO Building on Jan. 2;h when they also iece.ived "their Lgeespom the University. The men ere: Vjnet:>t Raymond from .Detroit -in tile vembinauon AB-Law school; AViUiam riick num Arlingioif. Tex., engineering graduate: TfJliam McFadden in the combination AB-Law program arid from I’Htsnurgh: Louis Basso from Jjet.roh and in the AB-Law school; Donald Rel-hus. Commeice graduate whose home mwr, is Chicago: Wilfred Rice from
Ehnlrprst. Ill., a -Coinmerce _gra(duate; AV alter/Grugej in tim.Sei.ence-La.w ..school ■from [Poland, Ohio: .William slarkomis. ' ' / • - . ,	■ ' ■ • ‘ ‘ * - *• * --* «• 1
engineering .graduate from (Gary, dnd.; and [Harrison Travis from .Liberty (Center, Ajhio, a graduate of -the .College -of Engineering.
,Colonel -Cputlee .congratulated AVpllmni Jackomis .upon .the .reception -of :the Notre [Dame Trophy for -the jHigbest Combined Alerit of Scholarship qn the Air Force ROTC.’ ' '	‘	‘
-The five -Cadets who received awards for [being designated as pjsrtinguished Air Fpi;ce ROT.C Students aye: .Cadet Majors .Lionel V. Baldwin, yViljliam J, Hank, Robert L. Reitz, Kenneth A. .Sylrwartz, and Brian H. •Wjhiayns.
Awards Presented at Drill
‘ . ) 'J ?	1 < L ? _ ' ‘	.	•-	‘ »
-The awards wer.e i.e.c.ently given at tlje AFROTC drill assembly at a formal
■.review -.where The penlire icaklet c corps [-passed j in , review.
■jThe ..-cadets received rthese .awards if or Jravir-g r-completed Air ^Science Illi with uan ^academic .^stamiijig yim>mg ithe upper •Third ,-pf ^srprJents -.enrolled Jin -.the .-Air Science jU. coy ise; ifor]having.an..aecunTU-.larive academic .-standing lamong tihe .upper -tlrird r.of .ail .-students in tihe filni--versily put^uing -.the -same .academic .major .and -scheduled to .graduate line ^anie -school year; for possessing ihigh jmoral .chayacter :and definite .aptitude -for service .in the .Air Force: for having distinguished .themsriives ,by -demonstrative jleadeyship, .particularly ’by parsici-pation ,in recognized .extra-eiuxieTilar actiyities ,and -while in uttandance .ar Apr Fgrce iROTC Training .kui;).; .and
■hA'Allg .rsevived .a favpralble -ppiman J-heir -facutty advisor or -dean m .the .appojiismemt.
rDomsf Editors Predict L^te May Distribution
YOU m Ho Mm
FOR BARCE LESSONS AT
6 You actually save money, because you team tUe’hew dances'm a' fraction of the1 usual' tiined ’ '	’ ’• '■
: - ■ •	v.—-.
Dance After Only 1 Lesson
v^rte /-me”	= '.esses.i
Arthur Murray's amazing, new dis-ernnty—“ThtiEirstSleA
lafity-rus tile shbrtc'uCtd all dance steps. With it, hisjtalente<i*'experts.' can-qhickly make yoga sought-after parthe’Hdyes^ and: in objy.T lesson. Tfje'whole secret’s in his'bdsiAnew' methody'15' 'cv 5 ’•'■ ......s-'- • e'
■'So/saye time, money and. disap-pointmenC Learn to; dancethenew. Ar^ur^urray wavi ’Comef in to the sCidioAr ‘phone

Ai ^ywajsky, ediwr of the Dowie, annoiinpefl ihis y/ezik that the yearbook pphligatipn will he distributed earlier than usual this year, probably a few flays before final exams.
Progress of the Dfnmi has been satisfactory, said Suwalsky. “When you’re putting out a yearbook you learn quickly io expect, a lot of difficulties. We haven’t had any more than usual and I think that in many respects things are easier- this year,”
The yearbook will look quite different this year-, stated Suwalsky. A greater part of the space will be filled with pictures apd tfie amount of text will be p,p,tabjy reduced.
The 1^-54 Dowb& will have eight see-tipps.. The Srst and longest division is th,e iiTtipdu.etory- section^ followed by a sec^Qft tbP each of the- five colleges of thg.	a sports seccioru and
an activities, section.. Seniors-, professors^ related club.%. a-jid all JJertinenr activities are. being- included: iir each, college- sec-Wm.
As; announced; by.- the cover;, tire- theme-willi c^nj^y on- Nijure- Dame’s achieve— mpnfe during,- the- current^ schoolyearEditor • Sujvalsky,- said;, “The-book; willl nor; pla.ee. it& main) emphasis on; rite- past.. Its: purjjio^ is; simply,- tftj provide- a. pictorial record} off 1 .Qa'li’’'
The, assistant; editoi^ off the.- Dom& are:; Bud; Baltpudeg associate^ editor:: Rpm Mazzoli;, managing- editor:: Nedi Griffin,, b.usinpgss nia.nag^n;: Dick: Wilk lijuuss? ^gt-iyiti e>> edit on;: Bobo ObMailey.. sphorts5 editpjg; Joe.- Baumie,-. science.' andl epgipeej-ing.-edi.tori;: Garina Ki ngy.laavandl cPRyy editor;;: Frank; Burke,-, coimnerce editor. Ijadjgpd$e iss ajs.oo editing: the; Artsg ajxdfi IMterss seciioiii.
TJtee Siliolasiicc
Scholastic Sports
IRISH GO AFTER SIXTEENTH STRAIGHT WIN
(L. to R.) Junior Stephens, John Fannon, Capt. Dick Rosenthal, Joe Bertrand, Bill Sullivan.
Irish Starting Five Which Seeks First Tournament Win Tuesday Against Loyola of the South.
Thinclads Host CCC; Gain First Indoor Win
Notre Dame’s much-improved track squad plays host to the closed Central Collegiate Conference meet tomorrow in the fieldhouse with a sure field of seven participating.
Marquette’s Hilltoppers won the meet last year while the Irish finished far behind in second. The entered colleges include: defending champion Marquette, Drake, Western Michigan, Michigan Normal, Bradley, Wheaton and Wayne.
Last Saturday the Irish found little trouble in downing Marquette, 66-38, for their first indoor dual win of the’ season. Irish hurdler Harvey Newquist turned in the most spectacular performance of the day to become the only double winner, capturing the high and low hurdles.
Hilltopper John Bennett, NCAA outdoor broad jump champion, leaped 23 feet, 1% inches to set the only record. Irish Captain Joe Springer didn’t quite equal some of his past performances, but tied the 13-foot record in the pole vault.
Sophomore miler Bill Squire's was never pressed by his competition and loped across the finish line, arm in arm, with teammate Al Schoenig in 4:27.8.
Other Irish victors were Jack Alexander in the half-mile; AleX Pestrichella in the 60-yard dash; Ben Zajeski in the shot put, Bernie Allard in the high (Continued on Page 28)
March 5, 1954
NCAA-Bound Jordanmen Invade Milwaukee For Season's Final Contest With HHHoppers
By DAVE KILKEARY
Notre Dame’s NCAA tourney bound eagers will close their regular season tomorrow when they travel to Milwaukee for a return engagement against the Marquette Hilltoppers in the Milwaukee arena.
The Irish are riding high and mighty on a fifteen game victory streak and an overall slate of 19 wins in 21 games. Marquette, with a season’s mark of 10-14, hasn’t too much to lose in this contest, but can salvage what otherwise will go down as a dismal season by knocking off the tournament bound Irish.
Marquette coach Jack Nagle, in his first year at the helm, will be relying on front court height to stop the win streak of the Irish. Russ Wittberger, Terry Rand and Rube Schulz will give Marquette an average height of six feet six inches under the boards. Rand, at center, is 6-9. Forwards Schulz and Wittberger are 6-6 and 6-7 respectively.
Rand, the high school All-American, dunked in 21 points against the Irish in their first meeting, although he sat out much of the second half. Nagle will be depending on Rand to hold down the hooks of Rosenthal who garnered 29 points in the last Hilltoppei' game. Rand is currently sporting an average of 15.1 points per game.
Wittberger, who was shuttled to forward this year to make room for Rand, averaged 19 points a game last campaign and currently is holding a 13.3 average, which is a little below par for the big rebounder. Against the Irish last week Wittberger banged in- 15 points. Schulz, the starting forward, is just behind Wittberger in the averages with 11.5 in the first 22 games.
• Nagle’s starting guards are speedy Bob Van Vooren and Pat O’Keefe. Van Vooren is one of the best defensive men on the squad, while O’Keefe is noted for his deadly shooting from the outside. Ralph Wilson is cat-like on defense and one of the fastest men of the Hilltopper squad.
The all-time series stands at 43 wins for Notre Dame and 14 for Marquette.
Sophomore John Fannon provided the spark that ignited the Irish on their second and final swing of the season through the east as they rolled over Navy, 84-72 and Pennsylvania, 62-47.
Fannon dropped in 12 field goals for a total of 24 points against Navy. Eighteen of his points came in a first half that was marked by the almost faultless play of the Irish. The Irish defensive attack succeeded in holding the Midshipmen’s high-scoring combination of forward
25
John Clune and center Don Lange below their average performance.
Before a hometown crowd in Philadelphia, Fannon was again the key man in the Irish attack as he dropped in 18 points. The contest was a slow affair, as the Quakers failed to move in on the Irish. After the game senior forward Ed McGinn, also a native Philadelphian, was presented with the game-winning ball.
Captain Dick Rosenthal added 29 points to his all-time Notre Dame scoring record last week, as the Irish easily took Marquette into camp, 79-66. The Hilltoppers, superior front court height didn’t seem to bother the Irish, as ND pulled away from Marquette in the fourth quarter.
It was all Rosenthal again last Saturday night as “Rosie” accounted for 27 points to lead the Irish to -win number 19, a 71-65 victory over a stubborn Loyola team.
The improved Rambler squad held a 27-19 first quarter lead, but the Irish closed the gap and led 39-36 at the half. Loyola threatened again in the third quarter and the lead changed hands several times, but “Rosie’s” seven straight points in the last quarter put the game away for the Jordanmen. Rosenthal’s 27 points raised his season’s mark to 410 points, a new ND record.
With only one regular season contest remaining, captain Dick Rosenthal became the first player in Irish cage history to score 400 points or better in a single season. “Rosie’s” 27 point splurge against Loyola last Saturday soared him to a total of 410 points and a 19.5 average. His .763 free throw percentage is also tops among his mates.
Forward Joe Bertrand is second in scoring with a 17 point everage and 358
TERRY RAND
Height Big Help To Hilltoppers
points. Bertrand is hitting at a .432 clip to lead the team in that department and also is the third highest scorer in Irish history with 998 points for his collegiate career.
Completing the “300” circle for the Jordanmen is guard “Junior” Stephens, whose 352 points give him a respectable 16.8 average. He has committed the fewest personal fouls, having been penalized 50 times for infractions.
Sophomore John Fannon’s eastern scoring spree against Navy and Penn raised his season’s total to 192 points. Bill Sullivan, the remaining member of the starting five has poured in 138 points in the past 21 games.
Another noteworthy point is the overall scoring for the Irish and their opponents. Notre Dame has averaged 76.6 points a game, while their opponents have scored 61.9 points a game. This 16 points spread is one of the best ever compiled by a Notre Dame cage team.
IRISH DOWN MARQUETTE, 79-66
Weiman Tips As ND Controls Boards
Open Annual Handball Meet; Finals Scheduled For April 5
The annual singles handball tournament, the second of its kind this year, is now taking place in the “Rock” and will continue until the finals on April 5. The tourney is under the direction of Mr. Ernie Szekely of the Physical Education Department.
At present about 65 candidates have entered the field for the coveted medals to be awarded to the finalists and to the winner of the semi-final match.
Last year’s champion, Don Turk, is now in graduate school and unable to compete in further competition. In the tournament held last semester, John
JOHN PUK
Flashy Marquette Forward
■<
Stoddard won in a great match beating Don Donius. From all indications, these two have the inside positions in the tourney.

Swim Meet Slated March 10; Dillon Cops Novelty Tourney
The regular interhall swimming meet will be held next Wednesday in the Rockne pool according to Gil Burdick, director of the meet.
The events comprising the meet will include: 150-yard medley, three men, 50-yard back stroke, 50-yard breast and remainder crawl; three free style events, 200 yards, 100 yards, and one 50 yards. There will also be a 50-yard backstroke and four-man 300-yard relay. There will be seven diving events, four required and three optional.
Mr. Burdick announced that the rosters must be in by Tuesday at the latest. The contestants are free to enter any three events but must be members of the halls for which they swim.
Dillon won the interhall relay novelty swimming meet held on Feb. 17. The Dillonites swam their way to a 56-point total for the victoi-y, Walsh close behind with 52.
Of the nine halls entered, only eight places were awarded. Alumni was disqualified at the 38-point mark. The other six places were: Breen-Phillips, 48; Zahm, 38; Cavanaugh, 34; Howard, 18, and Farley with 8.
A i
26
The Scholastic
Gavilan Honorary Referee For Bengal Finals; Preliminaries Open Thursday in ND Fieldhouse
The first round of the 1954 Bengal Bouts gets underway next Thursday in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. Kid Gavilan world welterweight champion, has been selected as honorary referee for the Bouts, promoter John Snakard recently released.
Only one fighter will be putting his title on the line when the boxers start trading punches. Bob Joseph, last year’s 165 lb. crown holder, is the only returning champion. Although Ed Sarna, light heavyweight title-holder is again in the bouts, he has changed to the middleweight class. This leaves the 175 lb. crown “unattached.”
According to D. J. Napolitano, director of the bouts, the light-heavy division will provide the most excitement and flying leather. With last year’s runner-up, Jerry Boyd, back to see of -he can gain the vacated crown, and fellows like Walt O’Hara and Larry Ash shaping up well in training, this class promises to be tough.
Ash lost in 1952 to Joe Brown, one of the best boxers Notre Dame has ever produced. Lee Getschow, a strong contender from two years ago, is returning after’ a year lay-off to make another stab at the coveted title.
Returning heavyweight Jim Walsh is the only veteran in the “big” division. Joe Bush, who had high hopes of the title, is now out with a broken thumb. Walt Cabral along with Jimmy Smith have showed well in practice. Cabral is the Novice heavy-weight champ. Bob Kelly, a sophomore, is considered the possible “dark horse” of the fights. Kelly has shown great promise, but is still bothered by an old football injury to his knee.
Two other Novice title holders have entered the Bengal ranks, Harry Higa, 126 lb. champ and Artie Nakamoru, 135 lb. titleist. This is the first time either of these fellows has put on the gloves in the higher ranks.
With Higa in the bantam-weight is freshman John Palumbo. Nakamoru has a little more competition in the lightweights. Tom Magill is back this year for the title, along with Jim Connelly, and Marty Mullarkey.
Jack Mulvaney, Bob Taylor, Chuck Mears, and John Mooney are the most promising men in the 155 pound class.
Back again for another try is Pat Cannon. Cannon is a middleweight and last year’s winner of the Father Ryan Trophy.
Gavilan has been chosen to receive the Bengal award made annually to the boxer who has done “the most for boxing
in the last year.” The Cuban is the welterweight-holder and current aspirant to the middleweight crown.
He has been a world champion since 1951 and is now on his way to Chicago for his April title shot against the present 160 lb. king, Bobo Olson. Gavilan will take time out from his training schedule to appear at the finals on St.
KID GAVILAN
Welter King Wins Bengal Award
Patrick’s Day, March 17, to receive his award and referee the welterweight title match.
Gavilan has currently been campaigning in the middleweight division and hopes to follow in the footsteps of Robinson who also was welter champ and then moved up to the middleweight championship. He defeated Johnny Bratton in 1951 to take the welter crown. Previously he had met and lost to Ray Robinson in two close encounters.
He is the first champion out of Cuba since Kid Chocolate held the New York featherweight championship. Now Gavilan is a national hero in his native country. After winning from Bratton in ’51, his countrymen stormed the ring and hoisted the Cuban flag in midring to celebrate the “Keed’s” triumph.
Gavilan caught the public’s eye with his sensational victory over the TV idol and last year’s Bengal award winner, Chuck Davey. He easily handled Davey and then followed with a bruising win over Carmen Basilio in Syracuse. Gavilan retained his title and prestige with a one-sided return victory over Bratton in Chicago Stadium, the site of his April battle with Olson.
Besides the trophy that Gavilan will
Finney Leads Fencers; Irish Halt Illinois Skein
The Notre Dame fencing team added five victories to their list in the past two weeks of action to run their record for the season to eight and one. Four of these victories came in two triangular meets last Friday and Saturday.
On Friday the boys of Walter Langford whipped Michigan State, 17-10, and Wayne, 19-8. The Irish then followed these up with wins over Northwestern, 18-9, and Ohio State, 16-11, Saturday. Wayne carried an 8-0 record going into their meet with the Irish, and Ohio State is considered one of the better squads in the Big Ten. Only the Buckeyes, however, pressed the Irish to any extent. OSU pulled up to 11-13 toward the end of the meet, but ND sophomore John Malfa won all three of his epee bouts to clinch it.
In the two triangular meets Gerry Finney racked up ten victories without a loss in the sabre to stretch his record to 21-1 over the year. Other big winners are Capt. Rod Duff, who leads the epee division, 19-3; Dick Hull’s 18-4 in the foil, and John McGinn 15-6 in the epee.
The Irish scored their biggest win of the year and ended the longest winning streak in collegiate fencing by upsetting Illinois, 15-12, at Champaign Feb. 20. Notre' Dame thus gained revenge for their only defeat of last year. Going into last year’s match, ND had won 17 straight and the Illini 27 in a row. The Notre Dame victory this year stopped, an Illinois string of 36 wins in a row over a period of four years.
Gerry Finney, in the sabre, was the Irish hero against Illinois. He was the meet’s only three-bout winner, and his triumph in the 14th bout clinched matters for Notre Dame. Finney also gained revenge for a bad night against Illinois last year.
Only two more matches, both triangular, remain on the Irish schedule. On March 13, they face Chicago and Lawrence Tech in Chicago, and on March 20 they travel to Cincinnati to meet Cincy and Kentucky.
receive, each class winner will receive a trophy for his efforts. The annual sportsmanship trophy, donated by the Huddle, will be given to the pugilist who displays the most sportsman-like conduct during the bouts. The boxer who puts on the best performance up to the semifinals will be awarded the “Father John Ryan” trophy in honor of the late Notre Dame priest.
27
March 5, 1954
by Bob Frolicher
JOHN FANNON
Rough Off The Boards
Just The Added Punch Needed
At the present time the Notre Dame basketball team is sporting the best record attained since Jordan took over in the 1951-52 season. With the Irish record now standing at 19 wins and two losses, the percentage is just a shade over that set by the late George Keogan during the 1942-43 season. If the Jordanmen come out on top in the season’s last tilt tomorrow with Marquette the Irish will finish with the best mark since the 19-1 season in 1926-27, again under Keogan.
Many reasons can be given for the great and steady improvement of the Irish during this season, an improvement which has ranked them in the nation’s top ten most of the season. But perhaps one of the biggest reasons is the outstanding showing maintained by the Irish’s sensational sophomore forward John Fannon. High hopes fell on Fannon’s shoulders at the start of the current campaign, but the important question was whether Fannon could fulfill the anticipated gap.
Thus far no one will doubt his ability to fulfill this hope. The “300 club” has almost completely overshadowed the work of Fannon and Irish guard Bill Sullivan most of this year.
However, if the big three failed to continue their torrid pace, Fannon has always been there to pick up the slack. The second and final eastern swing of the season is a good example. The Navy defense concentrated on stopping the Rosenthal, Bertrand and Stephens combination. The Irish forward pumped 18 points through the hoop in the first half and added six more in the final two quarters to capture the day’s scoring honors.
The following night Fannon again grabbed the scoring honors as the Jordanmen downed Penn, 62-47 in a slow moving contest, this time hitting for 18 points. This performance was before a home town audience. So far this season Fannon has scored 198 points. His ability as an all-around player has been shown both by his scoring and his power as a rebounder. Fannon isn’t exceptionally heavy for his height but has mixed it up with the best of them and usually comes out on top. Together with the rest of the starting five, they form one of the most potent rebounding combinations in the country.
A Fitting Tribute
During the introductory ceremonies before the Marquette game last Thursday, it was announced that Irish coach Johnny Jordan had been voted “Coach of the Year” by the New York Basketball Writers’ Association. The award was a fitting tribute to a man who has raised Notre Dame to the heights in national basketball ratings. Since he has taken over the Irish reins, Notre Dame has won 54 contests and dropped 17. For two successive years now the Jordanmen have been picked as a midwestern member-at-large for the NCAA tournament.
More, More, More
Putting on a 56-point scoring spree in the last two games, Irish captain Dick Rosenthal became the first eager in Notre Dame history to score more than 400 points in one season. With one game still remaining on the Irish schedule, “Rosie” has already accounted for 410 points. He could very well increase this margin, depending on how far the Jordanmen travel in the NCAA. Rosenthal has not limited himself strictly to scoring because his defensive work has also been an important factor. He has outscored every topnotch center he has faced this season. He has proven himself one of the Notre Dame greats.
Indoor Track
(Continued from Page 25) jump, and the mile relay quartet of Dennis Malec, Bill Copeland, Dick O’Keefe and Schoenig.
On Feb. 20 Notre Dame broke two meet records and one fieldhouse and indoor record, but lost to Indiana in the process, 66%-37%. The Hoosiers, not to be outdone, also smashed three marks while copping seven of twelve events.
Fleet Irish sophomore Bill Squires won both the mile and 880-yard run, breaking Greg Rice’s old fieldhouse and indooi' record of 4:16.2 with a fast 4:13.2. Notre Dame’s other double winner, Bernie Allard, took both the broad jump and the 60-yard high hurdles. Allard set a new mark in the hurdles with a time of :07.9.
Another first for the Irish was turned in by Captain Joe Springer who pole vaulted 13 feet 5% inches to top the mark posted last season by teammate Jim Harrington.
However, with all the individual Notre Dame marks, Hoosier supremacy could not be denied. Indiana captured first place in the shot put, 60-yard dash, two-mile run and all three places in the 440. In the high jump Indiana netted first and third. Their new records came in the high jump with Boyd jumping 6 feet 5% inches, the' 60-yard low hurdles when Bob Williamson was clocked at :07.1 and in the mile relay with a time of 3:19.
Aquilla Rolls High Series As Ramblers Topple Irish
Notre Dame’s bowling team travelled to Chicago last Saturday but lost to Loyola, dropping three out of five games to the Ramblers. This was the third time in four matches that the Irish have lost by this score.
John Aquilla was the big man for Notre Dame with a 935 series and 200 and 203 single games. Jack Batell had the highest single game of the day, 204, and finished second to Aquilla with an 879 series.
In the Kampus Kegler bowling league, Jim Haering of the AIEE club rolled a 601 series last Sunday for a new high of the season. Buz Velotta of the Cleveland club hit a 571 series for the day’s second best effort.
The Cleveland team held their first place lead over the Met club by taking three points from the AIEE club. The first place team now holds a six-point lead with less than half of the season remaining.
Aquilla, Haering and Velotta, who have had the top three individual averages nearly all year, are still running one-two-three.
The Scholastic
Kentucky, W.Va. Gain Interhall Cage Finals
Eleven interhall cage teams emerged victorious in regular season’s competition to gain berths in the championship series that began last Sunday in the ND fieldhouse.
From these eleven teams, West Virginia and Kentucky proved to be tops, and the two teams met in the finals still to be played when the issue went to press.
In the opening round game Dillon overcame a first quartei' deficit to gain a 36-29 decision over Toledo. Dillon, paced by Dick Szymanski, Dick Frasor, Cy Daleiden and Tim Norton, widened a 26-24 third quarter lead in the final frame to edge the Ohioans. Tom McHugh and John Sullivan were the mainstays of the Toledo aggregation.
After capturing a 31-29 decision in the second encounter, Morrissey was forced to forfeit the game to Breen-Phillips after the B-P boys protested the participation of a Morrissey player using an assumed name. B-P starters included: Dick Walsh, Mike Catanzaro, John Quinn, Mike Boyle, and Pete Boll.
The Cincinnati Club eagers staged a determined uphill drive to edge out a spirited Minnesota Club five in the third game, 44-43. The Ohioans trailed 10-20 at the end of the first quarter, 26-29 at halftime, and knotted the count at 32-all going into the final frame. The victors were paced by Phil McHugh, Dick Col-loton, Paul Kelley, Paul Schramm and Ron Smith. Minnesota starters were: Elmer Kohorst, Jim Eusterman, “Dogie” McGowan, Greg McGraw, and John Kennedy.
In Sunday’s nightcap Kentucky overpowered Old College by a 48-32 margin. The Kentuckians, led by Jim Paxton, Paul Hornung, and Sherrill Sipes had little trouble taming theii- opponents and led all the way. The duo of Jim Walden and'Pat Hart again headed Old College.
Monday’s slate got off to a thrilling start as Walsh Hall trimmed the rival Badin eagers, 40-38. The Badinites of Ralph Ciszewski and Mike Regan, pushed the juniors to a 28-25 margin at halftime. However, defending champ Walsh led by Jack Dwyer, Wally Cashman and Paul Forsman along with teammates Charlie Gallagher, Bob Chickey and Jim Terry, succeeded in scoring the victory for Walsh in the last half.
The West Virginia Club, holder of a first round bye, got its campaign launched successfully in the second round by dumping B-P, 39-21. The victors built up a 21-11 first half lead and •widened the gap as the game pro
gressed. Lou Tabit, Charlie Hanley and Sam Tiano sparked the West Virginia attack.
Kentucky captured its second tourney win in the other second round tilt by outpointing Cincinnati, 35-28. The victors, paced again by Paxton, Hornung, and Sipes, with the assistance of Carl Bratton and Bill Ryan built up a margin too wide for Cincy to overcome. Smith and McHugh starred for the losers.
In the semi-finals action Tuesday night West Virginia edged Dillon by a 36-32 margin, and Kentucky topped Walsh, 52-36 to advance to the finals.
OSU Weighlifters Down ND; Dulion, Campbell Pace Irish
Pete George, Olympic middleweight weight-lifting champion, and his Ohio State mates proved too much for the ND weightlifting club, as the Irish dropped a close 27-22 decision to the Buckeyes last Sunday at Notre Dame. George led his team by winning the 165-pound class with a total of 825 pounds in the press, snatch, and the clean and jerk.
In the 132-pound division Dick Gio-vanetti of Ohio State topped John Strickroot of Notre Dame, and Ted Weed of football fame edged Notre Dame’s Mike McCarthy in the 148-pound division. State also captured the heavyweight division as Vic Pavolinac downed Walt Bernard.
The Irish’s only two wins of the afternoon came with captain Leon Dulion totaling 685 pounds in the 181 division to easily defeat J. McNally, and Dick Campbell of Notre Dame won the 198-pound class by piling up 665 pounds.
PETE GEORGE
Olympic Star Shows Winning Form
NCAA
(Continued from Page 9)
NCAA rules. These five are all seniors and have already played the three-year limit imposed by the NCAA.
Of the five players, only two, Gus Reynoir and Bobby Hanberg are regulars. Reynoir, a 6’5” forward, was the team’s number two scorer and a good rebounder. Hanberg, a 6’3” guard with an effective one-hander, served mostly as the sixth man this past season.
The other players who will be unable to face the Irish are Ralph Barnett, a guard, and forwards Ernie Smith and Don Rodriguez. Barnett and Smith saw considerable action as spot players this season.
The big gun of the Loyola team is 6’5” Eddie Galvin. A junior and one of the eight Chicagoans on the team, Galvin has scored 407 points this season from his center position. He averages 18 per game.
The second most important man the Irish must reckon with is Bob O’Donnell, a 6’1” sophomore guard from Brooklyn. O’Donnell is a solid outside man and a constant scoring threat with his deadly one-hand jump shot.
At the other guard post will be Bob Conrad, a six-foot junior from Chicago. Conrad, who played basketball with John Lattner at Fenwick, tallied 273 points this season.
. A certain starter at one forward is Ronnie Reynoir. A 6’4” junior, Reynoir is a hard-driving ball player with a variety of twisting lay-ups.
The other forward slot is a question mark due to Gus Reynoir’s ineligibility. The starting assignment will probably fall to Matt Baer, Bill Calkins or Jim Stack. All are juniors, all are Chicagoans. Baer at 6’5” is the tallest and therefore might get the nod. Calkins, 6’2”, and Stack, 6’1”, played with ND’s Bill Sullivan at St. 'Ignatius High. Another possibility is Tom Rouzan who has been injured.
Other Loyola players that might see action are Ed Touhy, Dick Vavnick, Don Drez, Charlie Gallman and .Bill Schweiberger. Touhy played for St. Phillips High in Chicago.
In the second game of the Fort Wayne doubleheader, Penn State, with 12 wins in its first 17 games takes on Toledo which has won 13 and lost 9. The star of the Nittany Lions is Jesse Arnelle, who holds all Penn State scoring records.
For Toledo, coached by Jerry Bush, the men to watch are 6’3” Phil Martin, the team’s high scorer and playmaker, John Pazdzior.
The winner of this game will play the Southeastern conference champ (either Kentucky or LSU) at Iowa City next, Friday.
March 5, 1954
29
Top Level Concerns on Placement Roster
CAMERAS
FOUNTAIN PENS
128 W. Washington
More than 200 companies, constituting a veritable “Who’s Who” of American business and industry, will send representatives to the Notre Dame campus to interview seniors and graduate students during the Spring semester, according to W. R. Dooley, University placement director.
“Although our interviewing season is just getting underway, we have already noticed that the seniors’ interest in post-college employment is markedly greater than it has been for the past several years,” Dooley said. “Even students who are going into the armed forces soon after graduation are thinking more and more about what they are going to do when they get out of uni
Kecently a young mid-westerner enrolled at a university as a Logic major. His father had told him, with some understatement, that he was illogical. He refused to squire a pretty girl to a dance because her name was June Betz and he was against gambling.
He wouldn’t eat avocados because they were also called “alligator pears” and he didn’t like alligators.
In addition, he was a slob. .
Some of the men in his dorm tried to talk to him.
“Look at that shirt,” they said. “The material’s cheesy.
Why don’t you hop down and get a Van Heusen Oxfordian... it’s soft, fine oxford cloth.”
“I’m not attending Oxford. I’m attending Old Siwash,” answered our boy.
“But, look, Buster. This oxford cloth is woven tighter so it’ll last longer. It’s a smart investment.
And it only costs S4.50.”
“So who needs it? I might get hit by a truck. Then what good would it be?” quoth Buster.
“What about your collar? Flat as a pancake! Don’t you want a good-looking button-down with that famous Van Heusen relaxed-roll?” one asked.
“I got nothing against pancakes. I hate rolls.”
Note: Our man flunked Logic post haste, and was drafted.
The Army has him classified under “Secret Weapons.”
form.”
The leveling off in business conditions has undoubtedly contributed to this change of attitude, Dooley observed. He noted that the large number of 1951 and 1952 college graduates currently being discharged from the service are competing with present students for employers’ attention.
An average of six employers from all over the country will be interviewing Notre Dame students each day in the coming weeks, Dooley said. But, reflecting a changing balance in supply and demand, the campus recruiters this year “are more selective in their choice of men,” he added.
Graduating seniors with technical training are being offered starting sal
aries averaging §355 a month, Dooley reported, while non-technical students are being offered jobs paying about §315 per month on the average. In hiring college men, Dooley said that companies look for good grades, character, a record of extra-curricular activities and campus leadership, and summer work experience.
Summer Term Offers New Culture Courses
A new sequence of graduate and undergraduate courses concerned with the educational and cultural problems brought about by the development of modern science will be taught during the University’s Summer Session, June 18-Aug. 3, according to Rev. Bernard I. Mullahy, C.S.C., head of the Department of Philosophy.
“The meaning of modern science is one of the basic intellectual problems of modern history,” Father Mullahy said. The new sequence of studies, he explained, is intended primarily for present and prospective teachers of philosophy and science in liberal arts colleges. It evolved in part, he said, from a recent self-study of Notre Dame’s liberal education curriculum.
Five courses making up the program will compare various views, ancient and modern, about the physical universe. They are cosmology, the study of nature, the philosophy of science, the logic of science, and seminar on science and philosophy.
Study of nature, to be taught by Dr. Smith, will discuss the methods and results of the ancient approach to the physical universe in terms of the philosophy of Aristotle. The seminar will study original sources in modem science with a view toward establishing the validity and scope of the modern approach to nature.
The Scholastic
Fr. Lauck's Sculpture Showing in Art Exhibit
Two pieces of sculpture by Eev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., of the Department of Art are included in two current large national art exhibitions in the East.
Father Lauck’s wood carving entitled “Scotland Yard” is on view in the Audubon Artists show which opened Jan. 21 at the National Academy of Design in New York City. The same carving was shown at Notre Dame’s Festival of the Arts last October. Father Lauck was the first priest invited to membership in the Audubon Artists, a society of leading contemporary painters and sculptors.
“The Visitation,” a new sculpture in terra cotta by the Holy Cross priest, is on exhibit in the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts at Philadelphia since Jan. 24. Last year Father Lauck won the Academy’s Widener Gold Medal for the most meritorious work of sculpture by an American.
A group of Father Lauck’s Notre Dame sculpture students has an exhibit of their work at the University Library during the month of February. Included in the student show are works done in terra cotta, majolica, plaster, wood and wire. The wire sculpture is expected to attract special attention. Using a fairly stiff wire, the student was asked to design some bird form. Limited by his material and working with line alone, he has brought movement, rhythm and character into his bird motifs.
Room Pre-registration Opens Up March 23
Scholastic averages will assume a leading role later this month as the annual dash for rooms—Spring pre-registration for rooms—gets underway at the Office of Students’ Accounts from Tuesday afternoon, March 23, to Friday, April 2. Campus and off-campus students, except those who will be in graduate school, must pre-register if they wish to continue at Notre Dame this Fall.
As usual, all students will register according to scholastic averages. Students will be called to the office in order of class rating as of June or Summer Session, 1953, or as of January for those who entered in September, 1953.
A notice will be sent to each student stating the date and time to pre-register. The reports will be issued approximately two weeks before registration to give the student an opportunity to decide upon a room. No accommodations
can be reserved for a student who does not register at the designated time. If a student does have a class, an excused cut will be issued by the Committee on Absences. There will also be a $10.00 fine for pre-registration at a time other than that assigned.
A bulletin will be issued by the Prefect of Discipline allocating residence halls to the four classes and stating requirements for campus and off-campus residence.
In order to insure goodwill on the student’s part concerning registration for next semester, a $50.00 deposit must be paid at the assigned time. The deposit may be credited to the student’s account or refunded 30 days after the opening of the semester to the student who enrolls in September.
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquete and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays 610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
BELL SYSTEM OPPORTUNITIES
ALSO
SANDIA CORPORATION
(operated by Western Electric Co. for Atomic Energy Commission) Applied research, development and design on ordnance phases of atomic weapons.
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS
For openings in various positions in all parts . of the country for Seniors and graduate students in
Engineering, Physics, Science, and Mathematics Also for Seniors in Liberal Arts and Business Administration
REGISTER. NOW at the Placement Office
On the main floor • Administration Building INTERVIEWS on MARCH 15-16
March 5, 1954
3
WNDU
(Continued from Page 19)
ming, engineering, and business departments—compares favorably with the 12-man staff of the largest South Bend outlet.
The engineering department has always experienced the greatest difficulty because of the antique wiring and equipment. The carrier-current system runs through wires installed in the heat tunnels. The station changed back to 640 on the dial in 1952 for greater ease in transmission and also added another letter to its call letters, becoming WNDU.
Remote programming now forms an integral part of the daily programming. The remote system, installed by the telephone company, carries the broadcast to St. Mary’s and enables the public service broadcasts of important basketball games.
WNDU is now affiliated with Eastern States Radio Corp, and College Radio Corp. They contact national sponsors for the station. WNDU now has three of the top five cigarettes under contract.
The Student Voice operates on a strict budget and advertising from South Bend, Chicago, and New York has carried the station over the rough spots. Since the new equipment cost nearly ■$5,000 the station will run into the red this year for the first time in its history.
The special transmission lines of the station run to each residence hall. The underground “moles” of Byrne’s crew installed all of the new equipment on their free time and with this job •completed, they are now in the midst of riming the boosters in each hall for maximum power.
From the room in Walsh Hall to the "“Tower,” WNDU has “arrived” and more than “scratched the surface.”
Alumni Plan Annual Senior Communion Breakfast Sunday
The Notre Dame Alumni Association will hold its second annual Communion Breakfast for seniors in the Colleges of Science and Engineering this Sunday. Mass will be celebrated in Dillon Chapel at 8 a.m. followed by breakfast in the Morris Inn at 9.
Featured speaker at the breakfast will be Mr. John W. Brennan, vice-president in charge of engineering of the American Blower Corp., Detroit, Mich. The topic of his talk is the place of the Notre Dame alumnus in science and engineering.
Mr. Brennan, a graduate in mechanical engineering in 1927, was named Man of the Year in 1953 by the Notre Dame Club of Detroit for his civic and religious leadership.
Big Rush On For New Arrows As Color "Clicks” with Coeds
Survey shows that gals favor men wearing Arrow Shirts in stripes, checks and solids
Collegians throughout the country are showing their colors — in new check, plaid, solid tone Arrow shirts. Reported favorites for their dashing good taste, they have the latest collar styles.
ARROW ► TRADE ® MARK
-- SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTSWEAR -
Make GILBERTS
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
32
The Scholastic
Letters
(Continued from Page 4)
except that you’ve got to change the station if you ever want to hear some music.
Big-time is really the word between 5:00 and 5:15 p.m. over “Radio Notre Dame." There we run up against what ► ' is apparently Ed Murrow’s twin brother. I wonder when he’s going to install a section called “the word for today.” Already he’s handing us a crisp “Tomorrow at five” to close his program.
Okay, I’ll say it: WOW!
Or isn’t that the reaction they’re try-ing to get out of us?
Jim Sieger 233 Dillon
) , / / Onions for Bergquist
* Editor:

I am in hearty accord with your editorial of Feb. 19 condemning those in the student body who “pop off” without knowing whereof they speak. This is especially true of those whose opinions are exhibited to the whole campus. In particular- I have in mind Gordon Bergquist’s article in the Feb. 19 issue.
Bergquist deplores the fact that there is no money given to the minor sports club, while $150 is given to the Blue Circle, an “independent organization.” Mr. Bergquist’s analogy is not only weak, but also shows ignorance of facts printed, a mortal sin among newsmen I am told.
The worthiness of the sports clubs is not questioned here, but I would like to point out that the $150 is spent on such activities as campus elections, Freshman orientation and the pep rallies. As can be seen the money is spent for the benefit of the student body in general and not for an “independent organization.”
About the “independent organization” concept, if Mr. Bergquist will look at Article 3, Sec. 1-b, Sub. Sec. 3 of the Student Senate Constitution he will see this: “The Student Senate through the Blue Circle shall have power to execute and enforce legislation.” This should show that the argument used was based on misinformation.
Yours truly,
John L. Rosshirt 354 Alumni
V* Editor:
Many sincere congratulations on your “Leahy Era” story. As an old timer of Dome and Scholastic era (1914-1921) I really enjoyed the story thoroughly. Had a fine day with Frank in Seattle. I will take him salmon fishing in late r May near Vancouver, B. C. Long live the Brennan era!!!
“Morrie” Starrett, ’21.
WANTED
BRAIN SURGEONS

FOR GUIDED MISSILES
• ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS
• MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
• AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERS
• PHYSICISTS
• MATHEMATICIANS
Contact your Placement Director to arrange for an appointment on...
March 11 and 12
CORPORATION
Fundamentally, guided missilesafe planes without pilots or "pilotless” aircraft. To enable the missile to fulfill its mission, a substitute is needed for the human element.
Our "brain surgeons”...scientists and engineers of Bell Aircraft’s electronics and servomechanisms departments...supply this substitute.
Complex electronics systems are the brains of a missile. Servomechanisms provide the "muscles.” Engineers ate needed to develop these important "brain-musde” systems. You can’t possibly find a more challenging or satisfactory assignment!
F
or write to
ENGINEERING PERSONNEL
D
P.O. Box 1 Buffalo 5, N.Y
March 5, 1954
33
by Gordon Bergquist
There he stands! Look at him! Six feet one; 180 pounds; tall; square-shouldered. He stands erect with his chest out, his honest blue eyes looking squarely ahead, fearlessly at the world from under close-cropped blond hair.
What is thia? you ask. Simple: This is the All-American Boy. But wait, someone in the rear shouts, “You’ve forgotten something.” And he’s right; we have omitted the most essential feature of the All-American Boy—Character.
Yes, to make this description complete we need to add something like “honest character,” “noble character,” “true
character,” “good character.” In fact, these days in America, we cannot describe a person, much less praise him unless we mention or attribute to him a character of some degree of excellence. It has come to the pass that it makes no difference whether a man be a good engineer or a good doctor or a good ditchdigger; the only thing that is important is that he have or develop a good character.

We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen's
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
‘Unholy Emphasis' In Culture
This unholy emphasis on character seems to be a strong point in the American culture of today. I do not know what the roots of it may be; perhaps it is an out-growth of a leftover from the dignity and decorum of the turn of the century, but it seems to have been prevalent even before this era. Many of the “robber barons” of America’s industrial boom were to be excused because' they were really “Good” men or because they gave to worthy causes as an evidence of their “nobleness of soul.” Politicians were (and are) damned as politicians because their characters were not what some of the whited sepulchres would have. But whatever the character ideal’s roots, the ideal itself is dominant in our life today.
Sports for ‘Fun, Relaxation’
It has always seemed to me that sports and recreation were for the primary purpose of fun and relaxation. Not so any longer. Young children are told to play baseball with the neighborhood team. “It’ll teach you to build a good character.” Boys go out for football— admittedly a game of hard knocks—no longer to have fun but to develop character. The recent controversy over the rules in college football brought out the rather ridiculous assertion that the single-platoon was better because it enabled the boy to develop his character more fully.
Maybe it can all be summed up in the trite saying, “It isn’t whether you won or lost, but how you played the game.” This little epigram—dinned into the ears of high school athletes at every sports banquet for the last 25 years— seems palpably false. Apart from the obvious fact that it does make a difference whether you won or lost, the im
portant thing is whether you had fun. If you don’t enjoy a sport, get out of it!
More Than Facts, Dates, Theories
For the same reasons as those given above, many students are sent to college. Now it is obvious that the purpose of a university is to educate. It should also be obvious that this education is more than facts and dates and theories. It is the developing of the “rounded man.” A.nd the idea of a rounded man is quite distant from that of “building character.” '
As the new freshman is put on the train for school by, his fond parents, often the final admonition, is, “Remember, college will do you good.” Sure it will do you good! It will give you an education, which it is supposed to do. But no university in the country gives degrees in character-building. No university in the country will guarantee to turn out, at the end of foui* years, a student with a “good character.”
And again, how many times has the college graduate heard from relatives and friends, when he is about to enter business or the professions, “It is good to start at the bottom of the ladder; build up your character.”
Don’t Get ‘Carried Away’
Now I do not want to give the wrong impression. I’ve got nothing against character; I think it’s a very fine thing —everybody should have one. But let’s not get carried away over the whole thing. Athletics may very well develop character; in fact, taken in the propel* spirit—as fun—they probably will. A university education may well indeed build character but that is not its purpose. “Starting at the bottom of the ladder” can easily build character, (though sometimes I have my doubts) but let’s be realistic. Persons start at the bottom of the ladder because that’s the only place that they can start! I feel that most persons, given the choice of starting out in business as a typo salesman or a vice-president, would choose the latter, character or no character.
In short, character is beginning to run many phases of our life today. The small boy is refrained from tantrums because they are a sign of a bad or weak character. The grown man is consoled for some defeat or disappointment by the fact that he will be a better man for it. If this last be true, just think of all the character that’s been going to waste in Germany in the last 100 years!
34
The Scholastic
A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY
Bob Wilson works on a ‘‘breadboard” circuit, studying the electrical properties of a carrier system.
Fresh out of school, Bob Wilson, ’53, was put to work on a Transistor project at Bell Laboratories. He explains why he never had time to be awed.
(Reading Time: 39 seconds)
“In some ways it was hard to believe. I had received my B.E.E. at the University of Delaware in June, 1953, and a week later I was working in the world-famous Bell Laboratories.
“But I didn’t have time to be awed because they put me right to work. They gave me responsibility fast.
“My group was working on the experimental application of transistors to carrier systems. My assignment was the electrical design of a variolosser for the compressor and for the expandor to be located in the terminals.
“The supervision I received and the equipment I had were tops. I quickly discovered that I had to rely on my ingenuity as much as on the college courses I had taken. Perhaps that’s one reason for the
great new discoveries continually turned out by the Labs.
“Now, I’m in the Communication Development Training Program, continuing my technical education and learning what all the Laboratories sections do and how their work is integrated.
“In a year I’ll be back working with the group with which I started.”
• • •
Assuming responsibility fast is a common experience among the engineering, physical science, arts and social science, and business administration graduates who join the Bell System. Bob Wilson went with Bell Laboratories. There also are job opportunities with the operating telephone companies, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Copyright 1954, Liggett A Mrus. Tobacco Co.
on
,BPCCOC°
igGEH E
Like I tell you
by the thousands
now changing to
Chesterfield®
... enjoying the one cigarette that s
highest in quality—low in nicotine.
And remember, only our Chesterfields
have this proven record with smokers.
No adverse effects to the nose, throat and
sinuses from smoking1 Chesterfield. Both
these statements are a matter of record.



f'r^
JJF: c- 'Z
CHESTERFIELD
BESTEOR YOU