Enjoy spring and summer more than ever before . . . come to the Campus Shop and see our selection of famous Palm Beach clothes for dress and casual wear. Enjoy the expert tailoring of these famous clothes .. . that keep their shape ... resist wrinkles... are color-keyed to go with everything in your wardrobe. See them soon!
PALM BEACH WASH AND WEAR SUITS .... 39.95 and 4540CBS
PALM BEACH BATAYA WEAVE SPORT COATS ..... 29.95
PALM BEACH RESORTWEAVE SPORT COATS . .... . 39.95
On Cantus
W&iman
{Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, ‘‘The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
A ROBE BY ANY OTHER NAME
As Commencement Day draws near, the question on everyone’s lips is: “How did the different disciplines come to be marked by academic robes with hoods of different colors?” Everybody—but everybody—is asking it. I mean I haven’t been able to walk ten feet on any campus in America without somebody grabs my elbow and says, “How did the different disciplines come to be marked by academic robes with hoods of different colors, hey?”
This, I must say, is not the usual question asked by collegians who grab my elbow. Usually they say, “Hey, Shorty, got a Marlboro?” And this is right and proper. After all, are they not collegians, and, therefore, the nation’s leaders in intelligence and discernment? And do not intelligence and discernment demand the tastiest in tobacco flavor and smoking pleasure? And does not Marlboro deliver a flavor that is uniquely mellow, a selectrate filter that is easy drawing, a pack that is soft, a box that is hard? You know it!
But I digress. Back to the colored hoods of academic robes. A doctor of philosophy wears blue, a doctor of medicine wears green, a master of arts wears white, a doctor of humanities wears crimson, a master of library science wears lemon yellow. Why? Why, for example, should a master of library science wear lemon yellow?
Well sir, to answer this vexing question, we must go back to March 29,1844. On that date the first public library in the United States was established by Ulric Sigafoos. All of Mr. Sigafoos’s neighbors were of course wildly grateful —all, that is, except Wrex Todhunter.
Mr. Todhunter had hated Mr. Sigafoos since 1822 when both men had wooed the beauteous Melanie Zitt and Melanie had chosen Mr. Sigafoos because she was mad for dancing and Mr. Sigafoos knew all the latest steps, like the Missouri Compromise Mambo, the Shay’s Rebellion Schottische, and the James K. Polk
* * *
And today Californians, happy among their Guernseys and Holsteins, are discovering a great new cigarette—the unfiltered, king-size Philip Morris Commander—and so are Americans in all fifty states. Welcome aboard!.
4
Polka, while Mr. Todhunter, alas, could not dance at all owing to a wound he had received at the Battle of New Orleans. (He was struck by a falling praline.)
Consumed with jealousy at the success of Mr. Sigafoos’s library, Mr. Todhunter resolved to open a competing library. This he did, but he lured not a single patron away from Mr. Sigafoos. “What has Mr. Sigafoos got that I haven’t got?” Mr. Todhunter kept asking himself, and finally the answer came to him: books.
So Mr. Todhunter stocked his library with lots of dandy books and soon he was doing more business than his hated rival. But Mr. Sigafoos struck back. To regain his clientele, he began serving tea free of charge at his library every afternoon. Thereupon, Mr. Todhunter, not to be outdone, began serving tea with sugar. Thereupon, Mr. Sigafoos began serving tea with sugar and cream. Thereupon, Mr. Todhunter began serving tea with sugar and cream and lemon.
This, of course, clinched the victory for Mr. Todhunter because he had the only lemon tree in town—in fact, in the entire state of North Dakota—and since that day lemon yellow has of course been the color of the academic robes of library science.
(Incidentally, the defeated Mr. Sigafoos packed up his library and moved to California wThere, alas, he failed once more. There wrere, to be sure, plenty of lemons to serve with his tea, but, alas, there wTas no cream because the cow wras not introduced to California until 1931 by John Wayne.) © 1961 Max Shulman
i
A PROTEST j Editors:	!
In last week’s Senate column I was referred to in the following manner: “Ollie Williams suggested that the administration’s real reason for revising I the Scholastic is to eliminate student opinion.”	~
At the Senate meeting I did not elaborate on the specific reasons on which I based this statement, because these reasons were just previously stated by Mr. Rieck in his address to the Senate. My judgment was based solely on the Editor’s testimony to the Senate. It seems unfair to print my judgments without the facts on which I based this judgment. I have nothing but respect for the administration of our Universitv and I dislike seeing anyone making rasll-statements concerning them. I consider the statement attributed to me in the Scholastic rash, unless it is accompanied by the facts with which I made that judgment.
From a tape recording of the meeting, I would like to present the facts as presented to the senate by Mr. Rieck. The editor said: 1) Proposals for a substitute for the Scholastic made by an^ administration member were: (a) th<_ complete abolition of the present magazine in favor of an expanded information calendar, and (b) the conversion of the present weekly into a triweekly or monthly periodical which one administration member suggested would contain such articles as “An Opening Day at School.” 2) Informal discussions concerning the future of the Scholastic indicated that: (a) certain members of~ the administration felt that opinion reg-~ istered by a student is of its nature of a very poor quality, and (b) certain members of the administration felt that one of the causes of reader apathy is the presence of student opinion.
I had no reason to doubt the veracity of Mr. Rieck’s statements when he presented them, and now it is the general (Continued on page 24)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class ■ ; mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special “ postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC, is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185,. Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLAR 11C.
The Scholastic'
The Notre Dame
At


4
Vol. 102 No. 21
April 28, 1961

Founded 1867
editor-in-chief:
CHARLES RIECK
associate editor
ROY RUBELI
news editor ~ ' THOMAS WEISS John McCabe
features editor . '	<
THOMAS SULLIVAN Thomas Hopbier < • -
sports editor
JAMES KILROY William Cary John Bechtold
copy editor v,	••
THOMAS MARCINIAK , Philip Larrabee ?
art editor . THOMAS HANSEN
photographer	.
. WALTER DALY, Jr
business manager s V JOSEPH FINNIGAN
Robert Buckley ; J
circulation manager ] _ >
JAMES HICKEY
moderator ?\'
REV. GEORGE BERNARD
news staff	\ y\'
r;;"J Joseph Caspar ;
Frank Cuiffo Lawrence Kavanaugh
■: j:thom^
V fSteye’;;Stu<^^
Robert Chiappindli


a

4
1

CONSERVATIVES: Once again this week we publish an article on conservatives by a conservative, opening ourselves again to the charge of being conservatives. This we deny. Most campus activities are staffed and controlled by students who are closer to liberalism than conservatism. Engaged as they are in the vast amount of work that these activities entail, this segment, which is the majority, does not have the interest to present a rebuttal. Consequently, the field is left open to a small, but highly vocal and articulate group of conservatives who give a false impression of size and influence. And until the liberals begin to realize that numbers alone are not enough and that the conservatives deserve and demand an answer, the present situation will continue to exist on college campuses.
Much has already been said in opposition to the Birch Society. Much of what we have said about “Operation Abolition” applies equally well to this group. There is no room in the fight against Communism for extreme and irresponsible creeds. In this category we would include the Society’s desire to abolish Chief Justice Earl Warren, the United Nations, and the Income Tax. Another disturbing aspect of the Society is its policy of maintaining membership secrecy to prevent reprisals against individual members. While this policy may have some validity, it is open to abuse for it allows members to infiltrate organizations and governments before others know their true beliefs. But most disturbing of all is the vigilante aspect the Society assumes when it speaks of watching teachers in order to ferret out Communists. A zealous approach to this self-appointed mission could lead to the trampling of freedom of speech, censorship of education and character- assassination.
Criticism of the Birch Society must continue, if for no other reason than to prevent the excesses to which they are so prone.
TOGETHERNESS: Once again the question of residence hall policy is called, and once again the answer coming from a Senate committee is aimed at a major shift from the present plan. Within the memory of the juniors, a similar reaction was shown from a student committee. Under last year’s Student Government administration, however, the project lapsed into oblivion, though the majority of students indicated their approval of the suggestions.
This year’s committee focuses its attention upon the two most important aspects of the problem. How can the university expose underclassmen to the most responsible elements of the student body, and how can an atmosphere be created which would promote self-disciplining in the halls, eliminating the need for the priests’ “warden” status? The answer to both problems seems to be precisely what the committee has seen as necessary, interclass residence halls for non-freshman on a semi-permanent basis.
That this approach would eliminate the first problem is obvious. In view of the crisis that the present disciplinary system has been led to, the second problem merits the greater consideration. The proposal would allow a natural hierarchy in the residence hall that would insure the mature leadership that a new look in discipline, i.e., self-discipline, seems to demand. The natural authority of the upperclassmen could lend i-eal purpose and function to the hall government; for it could at last act as a group to preserve the order suitable for study conditions.
Most of the students that disapprove of the proposal will agree with its substance, but find certain overriding disadvantages. The specter of fraternities and cliques will arise; however, the machinery in the present proposal allows for complete flexibility at the turn of each semester. Of course, the process will be more complicated than at present. But any system that must adapt a generations long tradition of strong community life to five thousand contemporary students is to expect such “red tape.”
Further, the argument that three years with the same rector would prove unbearable is met by considering that the rector’s role in the discipline will significantly diminish, eliminating much of the irritable friction. And the disparity between senior and underclass regulations would most likely be alleviated by liberalization of the external disciplining agents, a step that would be justified by a more mature community attitude.
BIG BASH: Kudos to the Collegiate Jazz Festival Committee for the excellent show presented last weekend. The selecting of entrants, judges, and prizes plus the thousand details that go with it was well justified by this year’s CJF competition. Our compliments to Dave Sommers and his staff.
— R&R
Why are some girls prouder of their rings than others ?
You see it in her eyes—but the reasons aren’t all romantic ones. Her diamond ring is an Artcarved. This means it meets rigid standards of excellence in cut, carat weight, color and clarity.
Nor is this simply a verbal promise. Artcarved’s written guarantee explains how the exclusive Permanent Value Plan lets you apply the full current retail price toward the purchase of a larger Artcarved anytime, at any Artcarved jeweler throughout the country. You will be proud, too, of Artcarved’s award-winning styling, like the Evening Star shown here. To be sure it’s an Artcarved: Look for the name inside the ring, and ask for your written Artcarved guarantee.
Of course, being engaged is wonderful, but sealing the engagement with an Artcarved ring makes it more wonderful than ever—forever!
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc., Dept SP-11 216 E. 45th St, New York 17, N. Y.
Please send me more facts about diamond rings and "Wedding Guide for Bride and Groom". Also name of nearest (or hometown) Artcarved Jeweler. I am enclosing 10P to cover handling and postage.
Name	T
Address____________________________
City__________County or Zone
State
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
lop
Evening Star Engagement Ring $475.00
Bride’s Circlet ............... $ 60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $225.00
Bride’s Circlet................ $ 30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond
Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for $) diamond quality and Permanent Value.	■
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311
Anthorine -Artcarved
■a
6
The Scholastic
BUCKLEY VOTED STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT
Students Pick Slate Of NewClass Officers
Carried to victory by a virtual landslide of votes, Chris Buckley nailed down the post of Student Body President for 1961-62 by defeating Tom Colleton 2081 votes to 803 in balloting Tuesday.
Interest in the SBP campaign ran high in the past few weeks, culminating in a “Great Debate” election eve over WSND when Buckley, present Junior Class president, and Colleton, outgoing AB Senator, exchanged views in a final vote-garnering effort.
£ Buckley, generally conceded to have waged the more intense campaign of the two, based his platform on a plan for stepping up Student Government activity, more student referenda, and improving publicity to bring about greater student awareness. Colleton, on the other hand, appealed for more of a soft sell approach to Student Government, advocating an expanded program of services but calling for fewer Senate meetings and ^referenda, with less overt publicity on ^Student Government itself. Buckley won every hall.
Pretending . . . The newly elected SBP is a history major from Scarsdale, N. Y., and has a Dean’s List average. As a freshman he was vice-president of Breen-Phillips hall, and last year was vice-president of the Sophomore Class. This year as Junior Class president Buckley served as chairman of the Junior ^Parent Weekend, chairman of the Student Welfare Committee, and was a member of various other Senate committees. In addition, he has been a Notre Dame delegate for NS A and NFCCS conventions.
SBP-ELECT CHRIS BUCKLEY
Junior prexy wins by two-and-a-half to one.
In the race for Senior Class president, Earl Linehan drew a third-place ballot victory in a field of five, edging out Mike Hartnett in the final tally. Mark Marquardt easily bested two opponents for the position of Senior veep.
Terry McCarthy closely edged Hayes Kavanaugh, whose humorous and satirical campaign for Senior secretary attracted much attention in the week before elections. In another close contest, Tom Quinn bested three rivals for the Senior treasurer post.
Next year’s Junior Class president will be Kevin Hart, who bested his closest opponent by a comfortable margin. Taking the positions of vice-president and secretary, respectively, were John Hildebrand and Ronald Saldino. Victor in the competition for Junior treasurer was Bill Rogers.
Winning sophs. In the Sophomore Class of next year, the President’s job was secured by Dave Ellis. Paul Tierney and Paul Creelan bested all comers for the respective positions of vice-president and secretary of the Sophomore Class, and in a contest ultimately decided by fourth-place ballots, Bruce Tuthill won the Sophomore treasurer position.
Three sophomores and one junior took the college senatorial contests. Sophomore Bob McNeil piled up better than a four to one margin over his junior opponent in the race for AB Senator. Dave Castaldi, a junior, won a decisive victory for the position of Commerce Senator, while Sophomore John Walker secured the Science Senator spot. Finally, Tim Haidinger defeated sentimental favorite Jim Pottmyer for Engineering Senator.
The election was supervised by the Blue Circle’s election committee under the chah-manship of Tom Ryan.
Hold Law Symposium On Legal Extensions
Five leadei-s of the legal profession will participate in the University of Notre Dame symposium on “Next Steps to Extend the Rule of Law” tomorrow, ■April 29.
They are Charles S. Rhyne, Washington, D.C., former president of the American Bar Association and chairman of its Committee on World Peace Through Law; Prof. Arthur Holcombe^ chairman of the Commission to Study the Organization of Peace, New York, N. Y.; Dean Louis Mayo of the Graduate School of Public Law, The George Washington University, Washington, D. C.; Prof. Stanley D. Metzger of the Georgetown University Law Center, Washington, D.C.; and Prof. Wallace McClure, consulting director of the World Rule of Law Center, Duke University, Durham, N.C.
Notre Dame law dean Joseph O’Meara, in announcing the symposium, noted the continuing debate about “how to preserve mankind from self-extinction. Whatever the institutions are which we finally succeed in achieving to keep the peace, they will be the product of an evolutionary development, no blueprint of which is possible in advance. Hence the greatest contribution we can make,” in O’Meara’s view, “is always to press on with the next steps.”
“What are now the next steps? The purpose of our symposium is to explore and, if possible, to illuminate that problem,” he said.
Symposium sessions will be held in the Law Auditorium on the campus at 9 a.m. and 1:30 pan.
Police, Circle to Sponsor Student Auto Spot Check
As part of South Bend’s participation in the National Safety Council’s annual traffic safety contest, the Blue Circle, with the cooperation of the South Bend police, will conduct a spot check on all autos entering and leaving the campus area from 12 noon to 6 p.m. on Wednesday, May 3. The statistics gleaned from this ten-point check will be used by the police for research into the cause of accidents.
Sergeant Pasalich of the city police, will aid the five members of the student Safety Check Committee. Their investigation will be voluntary and short. No fines or tickets will be given to those whose vehicles fail the test, but a small tag will be attached to the car.
Television coverage will be given the first few cars checked, and “Miss Safety Check” will be on hand to add flavor to the otherwise dreary task. This is South Bend’s first year in the large city class, though they have won awards in the small city competition.
7
April 28, 1961
Engineers Unwrap Three-Day Exhibit Today; Displays Stress Alias, Technical Achievement
Atlas, the United States’ most successful rocket, is the theme of the Engineering Open House which begins this afternoon at 2 and concludes at 5 on Sunday.
Aeronautical, chemical, civil, electrical, mechanical and metallurgical engineering students and also architecture and engineering science students have designed and constructed numerous exhibits and displays to show some of each field’s vital contributions to the Atlas’s development.
NASA exec speaks. Friday at 2 p.m. Dr. Robert Seamans, Jr., Associate Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration since Sept. 1, 1960, will open the engineering show in the Engineering Auditorium. He will talk on future developments and projects in space exploration. Dr. Seamans is responsible for general management of NASA’s operation which includes laboratories, research centers, rocket testing and launching facilities and a world network of tracking stations. He received his Ph.D. from MIT in 1951.
There will be an auto show in the Drill Hall from 2:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. and all exhibits may be viewed in the Engineering Building and departments also from 2:30 until 5.
The auto show, which includes competition, experimental, sports, and production automobiles, will continue on Saturday in the Drill Hall from 10 to 5. All engineering displays have the same hours. Sunday the exhibits and auto show will be open from 12 until 5.
Aero’s exhibit in the Aero Building considers the exit, orbiting, and reentry studies of missiles. It illustrates
JAMES KAVAL, BILL LONG, DENNIS McMAHON Readying “Atlas” for blastoff.
various modes of propulsion and factors affecting missile control and stability.
Concerned with rocket fuel studies, chemical engineering students have a model liquid propellant rocket motor which actually burns fuel fed it by the laboratory distillation column in the chem engineering building.
A future dome. On the first floor of the Engineering Building civil engineers display futuristic concrete domes and stress analysis studies of various materials subjected to the postulated forces of outer space.
Electrical engineering students demonstrated means of communication available for transmitting signals from outei' space and have a telemetering system on display.
In mechanical engineering the designpower option group uses a cutaway Atlas engine to explain the problems in the pumping systems of liquid-fueled missiles. Industrial option discusses the problems of missile production. Nuclear option will present a cutaway nuclear rocket engine and show its operation.
Metallurgical students treat the selection of metals for space vehicles and their tests and analyses. The architects have built a model of a missile station in space in the Architecture Building. Engineering science students have built a model to show the effects of the earth’s gravitational field on a missile leaving the earth’s atmosphere.
Open House General Chairman James Kaval is assisted by: Tom Jordan, coordinator; Bill Long, publicity; Luino Delloso, displays; Dennis McMahon, auto shows; and Joseph Bendick, program.
£'
JEC Names Winners | Of Engineering Prize!
Junior Carl Houck and sophomore | Robert Rowe have been designated win- 6 ners of the “Outstanding Engineer | Award” for 1961 by the Awards Com- I mittee of the Joint Engineering Coun- | cil. Runner-up citations were given ; William Keenan and Edward Barton o^ the junior and sophomore levels re- i spectively.	I
Houck was the runner-up for the I sophomore award last year. He holds f a 5.2 average and has been on the | Dean’s List for three years. He is the F president of ASCE and a membei’ of the £ Blue Circle. He is a NROTC regular and has received a number of naval | awards. He has been a member of the Navy Council for two years and is cur-J rently the treasurer of that organizaA tion. He was co-chairman of the Civil f Engineering Division of the Engineer- B ing Open House.	|
Sophomore winner Rowe also boasts ? an average over 5. He received a Gen- I-eral Motors scholarship to study chemi- f cal engineering here. He also was one j. of the leaders of the Engineering Open | House. He is a member of A.I.Ch. E. h and the astronomy club.	r
Keenan, junior second place winner,( is a member of Tau Beta Pi, the f Knights of Columbus, and the Ski Club. ■ While keeping a 5 average he has con- > tributed to the Tech Review and been I a member of the American Institute of £ Electrical Engineers and the Institute >. of Radio Engineers. Sophomore second p place award winner, Barton, is a Naval t Regular who hopes to be accepted by ; Admiral Rickover’s engineering corps. | He was General Chairman of the Fresh-^' man Formal and Master of Ceremonies of the Sophomore Cotillion. He is a I member of the American Institute of | Chemical Engineers and on the varsity V fencing team.
Appoint Dr. Carmichael To Lay Trustee Board J
University of Notre Dame’s Associate^ Board of Lay Trustees received its £ twenty-ninth member recently when Rev. L Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., appointed Oliver C. Carmichael, Jr. to this post. | Composed of alumni and non-alumni, g the Board is primarily responsible for | holding, investing and administering the | endowment funds of the University. i
Dr. Carmichael attended Notre Dame I in the Midshipmen Training School dur- I ing World War II. In 1956 he resigned I his position as executive director of theG ; Vanderbilt University Foundation and I dean of students at Vanderbilt and as- I sumed the presidency of Converse Col- j lege, Spartanburg, S. C.	i
Holding a Bachelor of Arts degree I from Vanderbilt, a law degree from | Duke University, and a master’s degree $ and doctorate in public law and govern- । ment from Columbia, Dr. Carmichael has a firm foundation and background ? in higher education.
The Scholastic
Debate Team Elects Next Season's Officers; Group Chooses Lane, Meece as Top Leaders
While approaching the close of another highly successful debating season, the varsity debate team recently elected its officers for the 1961-1962 school year. £ Chris Lane, a sophomore in the general program, was elected president. Lane who in his high school days was regarded as one of the finest debaters in the New York area, has devoted most of his extracurricular time to debate since coming to Notre Dame. He has been on the varsity since his freshman year, and this year attended several major debates, including those at the Air Force Academy, the University of Kentucky and Harvard University. He is also the ^vice-president of the Notre Dame chapter of Tau Kappa Alpha, the national debating fraternity.
Forensic veep. The newly-elected vice-president, Dick Meece, a junior in Commerce, served as director of this year’s Notre Dame Invitational Tournament, considered to be one of the top debating tourneys in the country. He has been a varsity debater for three years, and has organized exhibition debates at •Chicago and Pittsburgh. He is president of Tau Kappa Alpha, feature editor of The Dome and secretary of the junior class.
The director of next year’s Invitational Tournament will be Ray Kelly, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, who was in charge of printing and distributing for this year’s tournament. Kelley, in addition to his debating work, is a member of the Wranglers, Oand serves on the staff of The Juggler.
The debate team has been moderated by Professor Leonard Sommer for 17 years, during which time it has won nearly three-fourths of the debates in which it has participated. This year the
DICK MEECE, CHRIS LANE, JAY WHITNEY Outlook: another winning season.
team, under the leadership of Jay Whitney, who has spoken in more intercollegiate debates than any other debater in Notre Dame history, travelled thousands of miles, winning tournaments at the University of Maryland, Bradley University and Purdue.
Season’s comers. Next year, the candidates for the varsity team, in addition to Lane, Meece and Kelly, will be seniors, Maurice O’Sullivan, Bill Beaver, Chuck Wasoff and Fred Fitzsimmons; juniors Jim Murray, Ray Kelly and Gorden Martin; and promising sophomores John McGrath, Dick Franch, Jim Haddad, and Dick Jaskunas.
'Babes1 Ducats Available At Washington Hall Office
Tickets for the 1961 University Theater production of Rodgers and Hart’s Babes In Arms go on sale next Tuesday night. Box office hours will be from 4 until 9 p.m. nightly and seats will be available up to curtain time for most performances.
Student prices for the spring musical are $1.50 for center balcony and orchestra and $1.00 for the side balconies. Prices for the general public are $2.00 and $1.50.
Babes in Arms, which opens next Thursday night, will be presented May 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, and 13. Under the direction of Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., the cast leads are Joe Harrington as Vai, and Myrna Walker as Susie.
Against the backdrop of a low-rated summer stock company in the South during the 1930’s, Babes in Arms in the lightly dramatic struggle of young col-
(Continued on page 24)
THERESA CROSINA Finally a profit.
Los Angeles Girl Will Reign as Prom Queen
Ralph Marterie and his Marlboro Men will play tonight at the Junior Prom, “Vereda Tropical,” in a South American Paradise from 9:30 to 1:30 a.m. A record 552 couples will attend in the North Dining Hall.
Queen of the Prom is Miss Theresa Marie Crosina of Los Angeles, California. She graduated with honors in home economics last year from St. Mary’s. While attending St. Mary’s she had parts in Oklahoma, Plain and Fancy, and Most Happy Fella. Also, she worked on choreography in several drama productions on the SMC campus. Presently she is a nutritionist with the Beech-Nut Baby Food Co. in Los Angeles.
Ralph Marterie organized his present group about 10 years ago. His early records for Mercury became very popular almost overnight. Winner of Down-beat and Cashbox awards, his current records include “Music for a Private Eye,” which consists of arrangements of themes from popular TV “whodunits.”
Danny Thomas is tentatively scheduled to speak at the Communion Breakfast following the 9 o’clock Mass Sun-day morning. Because of his recent illness these plans are not definite.
Mark Marquardt has arranged a dinner dance Saturday night at the new Moose Lodge on Lincolnway West. Buffet dinner will be served with continuous dancing starting at 8 p.m. All available tickets have been sold.
General chairman Greg Weismantel is assisted by the following chairmen: Al Sell, business manager; Paul Butrus, executive chairman; Pete Jarema, decorations; Phil Yawman, tickets; Mark Marquardt, dinner dance; Jim Flynn, y assistant dinner dance; Joe Bracco, Communion breakfast; Tom Sleeper, publicity; Ron Vannuki, IBM; and Greg Premo, accommodations.
9
April 28, 1961
North Texas Takes Top CJF Band Prizes Again; ND Soph Wins Award Michigan U. Trio Wins Award as Best Combo For Best Short Story
Once again the North Texas State College Lab Band has captured top honors in the annual Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival. Repeating last year’s success in the competition, the band received both the “Finest Jazz Group” and the “Best Big Band” awards. A third group prize was given to the Omar Clay Trio of the University of Michigan as the “Best Combo.”
For sax, trombone and drum. Judges Johnny Richards, Charles Suber, Robert Share and George Russell deemed Don Menza of the State University of New York band the “Outstanding Instrumentalist.” Along with this distinction he will receive an Associated Booking Corporation Scholarship and a tape recorder. Also on the individual level Bob Pierson, tenor saxophone, Omar Clay, drums, Jim DiPasquale, tenor saxophone, Loren Binford, trombone, and Morgan Powell, trombone, were singled out as the “Most Promising Soloists” and recipients of BMI Scholarships to the National Band Camp. Jim DiPasquale was “Most Promising Arranger,” and Steve Willis was “Most Promising Leader.” “Festival Suite” by John Mason and Earle Dhus of Michigan State University gained recognition has the “Outstanding Original Composition.”
Other “Outstanding Soloist Awards” went to Tom Wirtel, North Texas State, on trumpet; Dee Barton, North Texas State, on trombone; Gary Grey, Indiana University, on alto saxophone; Don Menza, State University of New York, on tenor saxophone; Les Rout, Chicago Area College, on baritone saxophone; Toby Guynn, North Texas State, on bass; David Lahm, Amherst College, on piano; Don Gillilland, North Texas State, on guitar; and Paul Guerrero, North Texas State, on drums. Each of these men was given new instruments
Eminent Violinist Laredo To Play at Concert Here
Violinist Jaime Laredo, winner of the 1959 Queen Elizabeth Prize, will present a concert of works by Mozart, Bach, Stravinsky and Mendelssohn in the Morris Civic Auditorium Sunday, April 30, at 4 p.m.
Eighteen-year-old Laredo was catapulted to international prominence when he won the award judged by a distinguished panel of 14 violinists including Zino Francescatti, Arthur Grumiaux, Yeliudi Menuhin, and David Oistrakh.
This is the annual South Bend Sym-phony-Notre Dame Concert which was formerly held in the Drill Hall. Notre Dame students will be admitted free upon presentation of I.D. cards. Tickets for guests will be available at the box office from noon until concert time on Sunday.
10
in his respective field as a result of these awards.
Special commendation was given the College Jazz Workshop from the State University of New York.
Off to the half note. North Texas State by virtue of its sweep has been offered an appearance at the Indiana Jazz Festival in Evansville on June 23 to 25. The Omar Clay Trio has received an engagement at the Half Note in New York City between June 13 and 18. In all about $6,500 in prize money and instruments was dispersed among 26 bands.
Contract Bridge Players Vie Again For Trophies Sunday
The first session of the annual pairs championship in contract bridge was held at the Student Center Sunday, April 23, with ten tables in play. At stake is the Gerity Trophy, donated by Mr. and Mrs. James Gerity, of Adrian, Mich. Individual trophies will also be awarded to winning contestants, as well as master points by the American Contract Bridge League.
The second session will be held in the Student Center on Sunday, April 30, at 1:30 p.m. Additional entries will be taken for fractional awards for the session. A special trophy will be awarded to the pair making the best come-back in the second session.
Results of the first day’s play follow:
NORTH-SOUTH: 1—George Mack-Brian Brady, .597: 2—Tony Astrologes-Joe McDonald, 585; 3— Dave Joyce-Paul Donis, 576; 4—Mike Wade-Fred Francl, .525; 5—Frank Christopher-Jim Mark, .493; 6—Ed Arnold-Tony Carpenter. .479; 7—Bob Peters-Wally Guillaume, .470; 8—Mike Doran-John Wolf, .454; 9—Ted Witt-Ron Dvorak, .426; 10—Dennis O’Brien-Jamie Schwartz, .400.
EAST-WEST: 1—Jack Hynds-Chas. Sacher, .634: 2—Chas. Wong-Ed Delahanty, .606; 3—John Scheu-Paul K. Boyd, .544; 4—Dan Allen-Bob Harvey, .509: 5—John Wiseman-Tom McMahon, .502; 6—Dick Watson-John Saunders, .463 ; 8—Tom Foster-Ross Peterson, .446; 9—Sheila Barton-Mike Maher, .434; 10—Bill Stone-Bill Rogers, .428.
Recreation Room Added To Facilities of Stanford
Stanford Hall completed work on a Rathskeller over the Easter vacation. Work had begun on the project last year. The room was converted from the hall trunk room.
It is primarily a recreation room with such facilities as a piano, dart board, ping pong table, card tables and chess and checker boards. These provide a place within the hall for students to “blow off steam,” especially during the evening study period, rather than disturbing others and probably getting themselves thrown out of the hall for the night.
It can also be used as a lecture room or a room for movies and hall meetings. The room holds up to 100 students.
John Reishman, a sophomore at the University of Notre Dame, has been named winner of a $1,000 short story contest sponsored jointly by the Thomas More Association and the McGeary Foundation.	(*
Reishman’s story, “Man of God,” was judged the best of 311 entries received in a competition for the best short story by an undergraduate student enrolled in a Catholic university or college in the United States. The winning story will
JOHN REISHMAN	,
Best of 311.	'
be published in the October issue of The Critic, a Catholic review of books and the arts published by the Thomas More Association. Reishman will receive a i cash award of $1,000, and the University will be awarded the McGeary Foundation Gold Medal.
Reishman, 19, is a native of Charles-C ton, W. Va., and a graduate of Holy Cross Preparatory Seminary at Notre Dame. He is enrolled in Notre Dame’s English program and has been writing under the direction of author Richard Sullivan and Professor Frank O’Malley, both of the University’s Department of English. His only previously published short story appeared last fall in the Notre Dame’s student literary publication, the Juggler.
“The contest was planned not only toG measure the current level of creative writing in Catholic colleges,” says Paul ’ Cuneo, editor of The Critic, “but to ; stimulate and encourage it. We were very heartened by the volume and • quality of the response. At a time when so many critics are deploring the j dearth of Catholic creative writers in I this country, we found reason in these , stories for viewing the future with opti- I mism.”
The Scholastic j
SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNTS
Classified Advertising
EARN $85 PER WEEK during summer aboard Passenger Ships as waiter, pool attendant, clerk, etc.
MUST BE U.S. CITIZEN OVER 18. Complete details send $1. Lansing Information Service. Dept. E-17. Box 74, New York 61. N.Y.
Your Assurance of Satisfactory Fit
FORMAL WEAR IS OUR BUSINESS, NOT A SIDELINE
•	No Deposit for ND Students
•	See our New Colored Coats
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
CANOE TRIPS
into Minnesota-Quetico wilderness area. Adventure, thrills, fine fishing. Easy access to remote wilderness. Located on the Canadian border. Friendly, personal help for beginners and experts. Special group rates for organizations.	Cost: $6 per day.
GUNFLINT NORTHWOODS OUTFITTERS GRAND MARAIS 69, MINNESOTA
April 28, 1961
11

challenge of the open house
i
by JAMES KAVAL
With the purpose of conveying an idea, with theme aimed at destroying a misconception and with goals designed to fulfill a challenge, the 1961 Engineering Open House commenced today.
The IDEA—that an engineer can be fully competent, and still be a man.
The MISCONCEPTION—that because engineering is narrow, a man devoted to it must be narrow.
The CHALLENGE—that we, as engineers, promulgate the IDEA and dispell this MISCONCEPTION.
These are some of the high powered implications to be drawn from a show of technical exhibits. These claims are to be investigated not only in relation to this exhibit, but also as applicable to all engineering. Also to be probed are the reasons why, at least ostensibly, engineers do not resemble this type of person. Also what other means besides an Engineering Open House can aid in developing men of this stature? Lastly, are men of this caliber really needed? These are the considerations of this article.
This year, unlike the years past, a single engineering achievement, the Atlas missile, is being exhibited. Instead of an assemblance of somewhat unrelated displays united only superficially in a quite nebulous theme, the 1961 departmental displays demonstrate how an engineer in that particular field either helped make the present Atlas a reality, or will use this present knowledge as a basis for future space exploration.
The image which the public receives from this type of tangible unity is of an engineer who perceives and understands his part in contributing to the total project. They see each type of engineer (mechanical, chemical, etc.,) and how his unique area of specialization is integrally and vitally enmeshed in making the one achievement possible.
Contrast this with the impression garnered where every display is a project in itself. Here you assume that engineers remain riveted to their com-putor, their distillation tower, or their stress gauges and have no conception of why or what they contribute to the finished product, no matter if it be a washing machine or an Atlas.
Granted in both these cases efficient or deficient personal presentations might alter the aforementioned impressions. But if these exteriors are considered equal, then it is rather obvious that the desired unity of engineering, thought,
12
and design is much easier to comprehend in the former situation. Even if only a parting impression is attained, it would be of the whole versus unrelated parts.
As such, engineering is the study of all the mass and energy relations, not just a few or part of them. Thus, the truly professional engineer, while only knowing his speciality in great depth, must appreciate the relation of his concentration with those of other engineers.
But how does this answer the objector who claims a competent engineer can’t be a competent man, because he doesn’t know how to deal with the activity of the humanities, that is, living. This, of course, assumes that the common sense type of knowledge is not sufficient to properly fulfill a college-educated man’s capacity. This problem can be met through an analogy to engineering and by using the ideas expressed above concerning the perception of a competent engineer.
Within the field of engineering itself there is the person who in a certain specialty is unsurpassable, yet his talents cannot be used unless he relates them to the other exacting talents in the different engineering fields. Analogously, we find the engineer, thoroughly gifted in the entire field (as explained above), but still having a difficulty in relating this specific knowledge to other disciplines of society, civic and domestic in nature.
THE PROBLEM . . .
These are areas of study which men in the humanities deal with as course material, thus receiving a formal insight into the problems involved. Because engineers do not continually speak in these terms and also because common sense knowledge is not sufficient, some common ground between engineering and life itself must be attained to aid the engineer in attuning his profession to the somewhat removed study of the humanities.
Returning again to the analogy, it is seen that the common ground in the framework of engineering is the mass and energy relations inherent in each different phase of engineering. Within the framework of life such an all pervading similarity is not readily apparent. But when you think that the process by which a competent .engineer learns to be
come a competent man (this does not , imply that one proceeds from the other j or that the reverse is true) is first by ! pondering this man-engineer connection, secondly, by arriving at his own self-de-_ termination of this relation, and lastly be* attempting with his greatest fervor to fulfill these concepts, then the similitude of one idea does stand out. This idea, very simply is this man’s ability to think. This gave him the curiosity to find that ; an engineer could be a man; it was the power by which he determined his method J of approaching manliness, and it is the enforcer of the self-discipline needed to carry out these plans. Thus, for this type of perception, a thinking imagina-C tive mind is the answer.
Exteriorly, however, the engineer who uses a mind like this is not a common occurrence. Actually, all engineers who want to become men do Reason and know in this manner. Apparently the causes : for not having this outlook can be at- i tributed to the nature of their curriculum.
Engineers in college are caught between the somewhat opposing choices of J either furthering their liberal pursuits in order to better understand their thinking process or of maintaining a scholastic average under the burden of excessive credit hours. Invariably most engineers feel that in the areas of the liberal arts they are deficient. Armed with this feeling they continually want to do more outside reading, take more outside courses, if possible attend more lectures. -Competing with this desire to expand* education is that always present blanket of credits which is so vital to graduation, that it usually suppresses in varying degrees the desire for humanities.
Only the exceptional person has the , time to permit formal study in this area. Others are not capable and are forced to make a decision either to tend towards being narrow and not becoming fully a man, or to approach manliness, while expeering to keep up the average engineer’s i failure rate of two to three courses ® during his four year stay.	:
A graduating engineer is expected to ■ have over 150 credits, while his counter- ; parts in liberal arts, commerce and j science need about 130. The difference i is about a semester of work. Secondly, ; 150 credits, combined with the many two ’ credit hour courses saddle the engineer with many more tests. If it is to be assumed that all students keep up with their daily work, this second item holds $
The Scholastic
little weight, as only a brief review would be necessary. But in reality students don’t or can’t keep up, and an increased load of tests merely makes the students gnore grade centered. This fact was born out in the Engineering Evaluation Com-mitee’s report.
If this present situation exists and the student doesn’t have enough time to pursue liberal disciplines, what can be done? Two of the possible and more widely mentioned solutions are first to extend the course to five years, or second to revamp the present curriculum and insert more Liberal arts courses.
. . AND SOME SOLUTIONS
, A five-year program would permit a spreading out of the present load, and also an addition of several hours of : electives, hopefully in fields not directly i allied to engineering. This extra year of breathing space, so to speak, could definitely remove part of this massive cloak of courses. The disadvantages would of ' bourse be the cost of the added schooling, $2,000 plus, and also the loss of the year to student. Both of these negative aspects are reflected directly on the student or his parents.
The second approach has been tried many times. In 1956 Notre Dame undertook such a study and although a total revamping was initiated, the same weighty amount of credit hours exist : ^and no appreciable increase in liberal ^rts hours was realized. This type of revamping, a sort of inner college shakeup, is always valid, but as mentioned before, it does not allow the average engineer any more opportunity to shake ! the continuity of his engineering work or the rapid onslaught of those tests.
, This approach under a somewhat dif-. ferent philosophy, however, might prove | successful. This different method is best j described by quoting a report issued by ( W^he Problems and Policies Committee of ™he American Council on Education of ; which our own President, the Reverend j Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., is a ! member. "A great waste in higher edu-I cation comes from the unnecessary dupli-t cation of programs, both among and : within institutions.”
To deny that there is much duplication in the engineering curriculum would indeed be presumptuous. As a matter of fact it appears that concerning many ; a (Continued on page 17)
DARKNESS VISIBLE, by Norman Lewis, 265 pp., Pantheon Books Inc., $3.50.
In this novel the author, Norman Lewis, paints a picture of the intense drama that daily takes place in strifetom Algeria. The story centers around a single, complex incident in the apparently endless conflict between the French and the Algerians.
As the story opens a European and American oil company has just struck oil on the outskirts of the small, Algerian town of El Milia after five years of frustration and toil. The firm’s jubilation is quickly dispelled when the keeper- of the local brothel, his wife, and one of the prostitutes are brutally hatcheted to death, supposedly by the local nationalists, the fellaghas. The brothel keeper is a member of the criminal underground and his fellow gangsters stir up the neighboring European populace into forming a mob and taking vengeance. The gangster-led mob diverts the French authorities in El Milia and set the Arab town on fire. The mob then turns on the oil camp in an effort to murder the native work force. They are repelled by, among other things, dynamite sticks converted into land mines and a home-made, grapeshot-hurling duck cannon. These events completely shatter a truce in the area that had been painstakingly engineered to that point by a dedicated French army officer. Before peace again settles uneasily on the area, the shocking facts behind the bloodshed and intrigue of the past weeks have been revealed.
Author Lewis combines all the suspense of a mystery novel with poignant descriptions of the social evils and abject poverty that exist in present day Algeria. He clearly illustrates the social, political, and racial background of his characters and his ability to evoke mood and local color in the briefest form enhances the authenticity with which the entire book is written.
Lewis’ descriptions are accurate and piercing and contribute immensely to the success of this book. He seems to know personally the types of people he is writing about and he conjures up before the reader a precise image of them
14
and of their surroundings. Most of the descriptions, from the mutilated, artificial face of the French army officer whose battle-torn face had been reconstructed into a permanent half smile by some surgeon to the filthy, muck-covered Arabs wallowing in the slime trying to find any charred remains of their meager belongings after the fire had destroyed their homes are clear and powerful. Although the main body of these descriptions are clear and precise in several instances his familiarity with the background and customs of Algeria leads Lewis to presuppose a knowledge of these same things on the part of his readers and consequently he sometimes gives too few details and leaves the reader unclear.
This book is a fine commentary on the racial prejudice, bigotry, high level politics, nationalism and crime which all combine to produce the present day Algerian crisis.
—Ivan Volkov
THE FOUNDATION OF JACQUES MARITAIN’S POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY. By Hwa Yol Jung. Gainsville, Florida: University of Florida Press, 1960 (University of Florida Monographs, Social Sciences, No. 7, Summer, 1960). 65 pp. $2.00.
To a series of six historical works, the “University of Florida Monographs in the Social Sciences” has added a Study on Maritain’s political philosophy. The investigation is divided into five parts: prologue (setting up the problems), epilogue (containing the author’s conclusions and criticisms), and three chapters — “Introduction to Maritain’s Philosophical System,” “The Speculative Order,” “The Practical Order.” Appendices contain three diagrams from Maritain’s works, on the hierarchy of knowledges.
Obviously a thesis (a “disguised” thesis is almost a contradiction in terms), Mr. Jung’s work is a “prime analogate” of its kind. His aim is clear, and clearly stated: “the author has undertaken the task of inquiring into the epistemological and metaphysical foundation of Maritain’s political philosophy.” (p. 4) But his exposition is via juxtaposition and his criticism is via
eclecticism (and both are, on occasion^ rather careless: exemplum gratia, on p. 10 Mr. Jung uses a definition of subalternation taken from the glossary found in An Essay on Christian Philosophy, a glossary composed by the translator, not by Professor Maritain). Un- , fortunately neither of these viae is phil- ; osophical, nor, of themselves, the meth- ; od proper to the history of philosophy (or of a philosopher).
Occasionally one finds a work which is significant in spite of itself rather thaiC because of itself. This is precisely the situation of Mr. Jung’s effort — it is a paradox: a revelation and a disappointment, indeed a revelation in its disappointment. It is no surprise that such a study be done, nor that such a study ! be done at a Catholic center of learning, but that it emanate from a secular (not in the pejorative sense) university, and one not particularly inclined to the philosophical (like Indiana, Yale, Harvard^ etc.) — a fair omen of good things, to say the least.
Yet, alas, at the outset Mr. Jung is on the outside; and the results are almost inevitably unhappy, both factually (historically) and philosophically. As to the first, our author does accurately locate Maritain in the Aristotelian-Thomist tradition, but he “knows not whereof he speaks,” the significance of* this frame of reference. Mr. Jung is* not in this tradition and many “commonplaces” (such as subalternation, the hierarchy of knowledge, natural law, the natural and supernatural virtues, etc.) are consequently confusing to 'him and confused by him. With respect to the second, we are confronted with a much , more important influence: Mr. Jung’s attitude towards philosophy. From the beginning, he accepts Leo Strauss’ de- ! scription of philosophy — “Philosophy isuj essentially not possession of truth, hurt quest for truth.” (p. 3). And “to be essentially not something” is a far cry from “not to be essentially something.” I As a result his study abounds in “seeking” but “finding” is rare.
In these disappointments does the revelation of the work really come to light. At one and the same time we see how the inside appears to the outside (where perhaps there should be neither inside nor outside) and the treatment^
The Scholastic

each always (or ut in pluribus) re-• ceives at the hands of the other.
Good intentions never excuse error — even, or perhaps especially, factual error: but they do (oftimes) excuse he who errs. We can only applaud the attempt of a non-Thomist, indeed a nonScholastic, who would fain understand a philosopher who has written “Woe is me should I not Thomisticize.” (p. 7, note 3). But it falls short of its mark, and on almost every point. Maritain re-W mains his own best interpreter; but, after all, as Etienne Gilson remarked apropos St. Thomas, this is a characteristic of all great thinkers in the history of philosophy.
In a day and age when the book business discourages book buying, at least on the part of students, $2.00 is not a terrible lot to pay for a little Maritain. Reminder: Man and the State costs $1.25.
£	—Wilfred Quinn
CUBA, ANATOMY OF A REVOLUTION, by Leo Huberman and Paul M. Sweezy, Monthly Review Press, New York, 1960. 176 pages, $3.50.
When a pail* of socialists write a book, with a definite axe to grind, and > a conservative reviews the book, you might expect sparks to start flying. It is a sadder, and perhaps wiser conservative though, who applauds this proCastro manifest. Leo Huberman and Paul Sweezy have written what has been accepted as a most accurate fact sheet of the Cuban Revolution. Disagreement can only come in interpretation of the various events.
The style of the book is straight-forward, but by no means textbookish. Arguments for the Revolution are constructed with excellent logic and grand ^rhetoric. The slant is painfully obvious. For example, let us look at some of the chapter headings: “Rich Land,” “Poor People,” “Foreign Domination.” In describing one of Castro’s speeches, the authors seem to go a bit overboard. They call him:
as eloquent as only a dedicated person burning with a vision of glory for his country could be. It was one
April 28, 1961
of the greatest speeches in the history of the fight for freedom anywhere in the world.
Well, maybe he was eloquent. . . .
On the other hand they bring out points which are a real revelation to the average American. “For Cuba, in respect to unemployment, every year was like the worst year of our worst depression.” We can’t argue with this. The country had a “normal” unemployment rate of twenty-five per cent. This must color all of our thinking on the economic reasons for the revolt. We can’t quibble about this first phase of the book. It may be overblown in places, but factually, it is excellent.
Before we treat the authors’ final analysis and prognostications, we ought more fully examine who they are. Leo Huberman and Paul Sweezy are the editors of the “Monthly Review.” It is a magazine which is described in the endpapers as “America’s leading socialist magazine.” Each of the authors has written several works on socialism and on social theory.
It is in their final statement of the Castro regime, and their predictions for it, that most fault can be found. This is largely a question of the political leanings of the reader, but the authors present the most damning argument themselves. They mention and document the arguments against a final just and healthy solution to Cuba’s problem, with Castro at the helm. They fully state and accept a pro Castro position, yet fail to justify it.
To illustrate the position of the writers, here are some of their statements. “The new Cuba is a socialist Cuba,” “We base our view that Cuba is and will remain a socialist society on forces at work in Cuba today which are tending rapidly to reduce the relative importance of the private sector.” Messrs. Huberman and Sweezy also tell us of the role of Communists in Cuba.
They have traditionally been strong in trade unions, and in recent months Fidel himself, doubtless feeling that the Communists are more reliable collaborators than other available leadership material in the labor movement, has actually helped them to
positions of greater trade union power.
They speak of “. . . the cause of the Revolution, which of course is also their (the communist’s) cause.” (page 153)
To the reviewer these words are an indictment of the Cuban Revolution, which is hardly deflected by the author’s rationalization, that it had to be that way.
In conclusion, I think that any reader can get much interesting information from this thoughtfully written work. For many it shows the other side of things, the side we don’t see in the Chicago Tribune. The United States’ treatment of Cuba has not been all that true Americans would want it to have been. Taken for what it is, CUBA, can provide a good balance to our opinions and fact-sheet for our knowledge.
—Charles W. Berberich
BOOKS RECEIVED
SCRIBNER’S
The Short Novels of Thomas Wolfe, edited, with an introduction and notes, by C. Hugh Holman, fiction, 323 pp., $4.50.
The Heartless Light, by Gerald Green, fiction, 438 pp., $4.95.
REGNERY
Power and Responsibility, by Romano Guardini, social commentary, 104 pp., $3.00.
FIDES PUBLISHERS
Two Centuries of Ecumenism, by George H. Tavard, translated by . Royce W. Hughes, religious history, : 239 pp., $4.95.
DODD, MEAD
The Supreme Court, by Patricia C. Acheson, history, 270 pp., $3.50, illustrated.	. <
Listing in the Books Received section does not preclude the possibility of a . later review.
. 1? J
discrimination
Two Notre Dame seniors have been refused service at four local taverns in the last two weeks. They were of legal age; they were dressed casually but tastefully; they conducted themselves inoffensively. But one of them was a Negro. The four taverns are Woodward’s, Cecil’s, Otto’s, and Thilman’s.
When the students entered the first tavern they walked to a booth, sat down, and waited. Finally the bartender motioned the white student over and explained why he was not being served — “the colored boy.” The bartender went on to explain that he would like to serve the colored boy, but he couldn’t without losing his business: “My white customers won’t stand for it,” he said. When questioned further, he replied, “We stick together on this. We don’t serve colored folks except for carry-outs.” One of the taverns, Cecil’s, had served Negroes in the past, but apparently had been forced to discriminate, because of this “stick-together” policy, in order to compete. The encounters at the other three taverns were similar.
The problem encountered here is one that can be found in most large Northern cities. The arguments given by the proprietors of such establishments are usually the same. First of all, they go to great lengths to show that they have nothing personal against the Negro. In fact they know several who are very fine people. But if they were to serve one Negro, they say, they would automatically be flooded with Negroes of the worst type. They maintain that the white customers would not put up with this, and would go somewhere else. These arguments seem reasonable, but let’s examine them in the present situation:
Frankie’s has been serving Negro students for many years, yet the “flood” has failed to materialize. Cecil’s did serve Negro students up until a month ago and experienced no “flood.” This same argument was used by the better restaurants in South Bend until about a year ago, when they began serving Negro students. As yet there has been no “flood.” Thus this “flood” argument is convincing only until it is tested.
We need only point to Frankie’s, Joer’s, the Volcano, Chester’s, and even Cecil’s to discredit the argument that the white customers will not patronize restaurants and taverns which serve Negroes. None of these places has gone out of business and there has been no indication of any large decline in patronage because they serve Negroes.
It is important to point out that in the general area of the Notre Dame campus, and of the taverns and restaurants frequented by students, only these four have been found to discriminate.
On Monday of this week, the Committee on Race Relations of the Student Senate visited all four of these establishments, and talked with the owner or manager, asking him to change this policy of discrimination. In order to (Continued on page 17)
16
At the Theaters
Just got back from Washington Hall (Inherit the Wind) and am happy to suppose the quality of the movie kept the troops quiet. True, there were a couple of doubtful moments, but in general the atmosphere was endurable.
Apparently, the Colfax has every reason to suppose Cry for Happy will make enough money, since they’re holding it over for a second week. The fact that they really shouldn’t, in the interest of finer things, has nothing to do with it. So you can go see Glenn Ford, Donald O’Connor, Miyoshi Umeki, and Miiko Taka make ;
absolute fools of themselves while trying to be funny.
At the Granada, it’s All in a Night's Work. Hard put to follow their splendid
double bill of last week, the management decided on this gem. If you think the title is suggestive, wait till you see the movie. It doesn’t suggest — it spells it out. Shirley MacLaine has her funniest and raciest (literally) moments with a towel wrapped around her and little else but make-up. Dean Martin also scurries along in his whiskey-mellowed voice making no sense at all. Also joining in the unrestricted bacchanals are Charlie Ruggles and Cliff Robertson. That’s it.
The State is taking turns with the Granada in faking us out, when they opened The Absent-Minded Professor last week. They decided to hold it over, just in case any of you would care to go see it. Fred MacMurray is much too old to be doing all this nonsensical stuff, and Nancy Olson has been in a rut all her life. The father-son twosome of Keenan and Ed Wynn are so stupid it’s unbelievable, and so on. Walt Disney put this one together, and the mental level of his audiences must be steadily and rapidly decreasing. Oh, well, I guess it takes all kinds.
In the future, maybe not too near, there are a couple of bright stars. One is the re-issue of that classic which reached its majority of age: Gone with the Wind. The other one is Don Murray’s production of The Hoodlum Priest. So, you see, things can get better.
The Oscarcast was a fiasco according to my predictions in this column. Bob Hope actually looked a little bored towards the end, and a couple of things went wrong. I’m still rooting for Spencer Tracy, even though he picked Burt Lancaster; and everyone knows by now Liz Taylor got her Oscar exactly one year late. This straightens things out for Liz, but leaves Greer Garson as the not-too-confident winner of The Golden Shaft. The only on-camera breakdown (Jimmy Stewart’s) could be justified in view of Gary Cooper’s health.
Of the major nominations, I at least got these right: best motion picture, best performance by a supporting actor, best direction, best original screenplay, best art direction (black and white, and color), and best scoring for a drama or comedy.
Another thing that has me worried is two people who were left out of the nominations: Jean Simmons for Elmer Gantry and Fredric March for Inherit the Wind. Never could figure out how come. Offhand it would be hard to replace any of the five nominees for best actor with March, but Liz herself would not have been surprised to see Miss Simmons’ name on the list instead of her own.
I’m already impregnating the last issue’s paper with extremely salty tears. That one will come just three weeks from today, and on it I will be saying my sincere farewell (there’s sheepskin waiting). Many of you will be relieved at this piece of news. Cest la vie.	—Tony Wong
The Scholastic
'Challenge1
(Continued from page 13)
subjects taught to engineers, many departments feel that in and only in their department can it be treated in the proper manner. It is now seen what occurs if several departments feel this way about only two or three specific subject ^natters.
This duplication, if investigated properly, could conceivably be just the evil which, if eliminated, could alleviate the engineers from their overloaded burden. The main problem here, and it is not certain that it would occur, is the natural possession and pride the various departments have in their method of teaching certain subject matter.
However, the solution to the above problems, would be left to the investiga-Rcion of more competent people in education.
In all of the discussion above, it has been assumed that it was only proper that men in engineering expand their horizons. But no defense of this position has been taken. Not that there need be i a defense, but before this subject is ended, there are a few considerations which seem to make this maturing of the engineer not only the appropriate thing but £an essential factor for the community.
Besides the engineer’s God given right as a man to pursue whatever phase of knowledge he is capable of attaining, he, if properly motivated, can be a leading force in attacking the problems of our society in the area he is most familiar with the material. Materialism, secularism, call it what you wish, it has been through the advance of engineering as a profession that these words or ^ideologies have touched each person in our country.
Presently material wealth, material advancement, or material wonder are status symbols to be attained, no matter if it extends from a new car every year to a new pair of shoe laces every week. The conformity and mass thinking exhibited in production lines and perfected in automation are definite evils to a so-_ciety based on free thought. Technical "wonders in space, chemicals or electronics are most times held in unjustifiable awe by people who are overly impressed by their externals.
These are just a few of the problems confronting modem man. Surely it is a fast changing world, but who, if not the engineer exemplified above, would best deal with these crises in this materially orientated world. Just as men of this type are needed, people with specialties in the liberal arts or business, but who Wean place their credentials in the proper perspective with technology, are also essential. Each has his cooperative duty to perform.
Then the IDEA and MISCONCEPTION are readily clear to anyone who cares to ponder them. However, the CHALLENGE, while being apparent to all, must be taken up by only technically orientated people. For these men, engineers, are the only ones who have the fright to this responsibility. ,
April 28, 1961
'Discrimination1
(Continued from page 16) avoid hurting.one tavern’s business only to the gain of others that discriminate, the Committee suggested that the owners meet together to serve Negro students. One of the taverns was open to this suggestion, but the other three completely refused to discuss the matter with the Committee.
Continued action is necessary in order to bring a just solution to this problem. The Student Government will continue to apply pressure and attempt to negotiate further with the owners. The Committee on Race Relations is planning to conduct a suiwey of the customers in these four establishments to determine whether or not they would continue to patronize that place if it served Negroes. The results of this survey will be made known to the students as soon as possible.
In the meantime, the Committee on Race Relations asks that all students refrain from patronizing these four taverns until such time as they indicate a willingness to end their policy of discrimination.
FEATURES STAFF
staff members for
next year’s scholastic features staff are being interviewed now. Bring application to scholastic office
between 7 and 9 p.m. on sunday nights.
AHTCAHVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING BINGS ... JEWELBY
J. TRETHEWEY
For: Hamilton - Elgin Balova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
JOE, THE JEWELER IM N. Main St.	J.MS. Bldg.
PAPERBACKS
LITURGICAL PRESS SERIES
NEW TESTAMENT READING GUIDE SERIES
14 paperback editions
o
SIGNET
NUREMBERG DIARY Gilbert
CASE AGAINST ADOLPH EICHMANN
Zeiger
DOCTOR ZHIWAGO Pasternak
e
PRENTICE-HALL
THE SECRETARY OF STATE American Assembly
e
POPULAR
MR. CITIZEN Harry S Truman
PUUTZER PRIZE READER Volpe (editor)
COURTROOM Quentin Reynolds
e
HILLMAN
VOICE OF THE CONSERVATIVE Goldwater
Noire Deme Bookstore
on - the - campus
17
Complete Optical Service . .
• EYES EXAMINED • GLASSES FITTED
Broken Glasses Repaired
Fast Service—“Bring the Pieces'
ARMY-NAVY
AIR FORCE
0
N ABICHT CAFETERIA
1415 Lincolnway West
AAA Approved Cafeteria
BII D If E OPTOMETRIST U K R E 228 S. Michigan
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
GENDEL'S SURPLUS SALES
SPECIAL—A Used Alpacca Lined Parka—Only $7.95
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
FREE PARKING
0
Refreshing antiseptic action heals razor nicks, helps keep your skin in top condition. 1.00 plus tax
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
er
SHULTON New York • Toronto
O
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
18
The Scholastic
DICK MUSIAL Down and ready Cindermen at Drake Relays; Finish Seventh in Ohio Meet
Notre Dame’s track and field team got a sampling of the kind of competition they’ll face all spring as the ^Irish took a seventh place in a field of raver twenty teams in the Ohio relays last Saturday. Placing in a total of eight events, but getting no better than a third in any one of them, the Irish picked up 16 points in the unofficial team score to finish behind Michigan’s winning tally of 38.
Alex Wilson’s squad continues the relay circuit this weekend with an appearance in Drake University’s relay raarnival, the top meet of the year in •the Midwest. Drake is a two-day affair featuring trial and quarter-final heats today,- semis and finals follow tomorrow.
Carver is third. At Columbus good times were at a minimum due to a continual rain and slow track. The only new mark was Michigan State’s Jerry Young’s 9:30.6 in the 3000-meter steeplechase. Frank Carver, Notre ©Dame’s only freshman entry, placed a respectable third in this event against a field of mostly veteran AAU athletes.
Also turning in a good performance for ND was Jerry Fitzpatrick who registered a 9.9 clocking in the 100, fast enough to nab a fifth place behind Ira Murchison who is still able to turn the century dast in 9.7 after seven years of competition. The team of Fitzpatrick, Dick Musial, Joe Balistrieri and Lou Lucas pulled down a second place in ©the 440-yard relay. Irish distance medley and 880-yard relay teams took fourth and fifth place, respectively, in their races. Co-captain Fitzpatrick had a hand in more scoring by reason of his 22'2%" broad jump which took a fifth.
Final ND scores. Bounding out Notre Dame’s scoring were Mike Giacinto (fifth in the discus), Carl Ludecki (fourth in the shot put) and John Mulrooney (fifth in the 120-yard high hurdles.	—J. C. Higgins
April 28, 1961
IRISH NINE FACES WESTERN MICHIGAN; SOPHS PACE BOWLING GREEN VICTORY
This afternoon Notre Dame’s baseball nine visits Western Michigan University in the first game of a home and home series to be completed tomorrow.
Attempting to shake his forces out of a prolonged slump, both in the field and at the plate, Coach Jake Kline has almost completely revamped his starting lineup, having inserted six sophs in the batting order in last Saturday’s victory over Bowling Green.
Opposing this youthful aggregation from Notre Dame will be Charlie Maher’s veteran Western Michigan team, undefeated thus far in the MidAmerican Conference.
BRONCO HITTING POWER
The Broncos will probably draw most of their hitting power from outfielders Ken Scodellery and Mike Gatza, presently slugging the ball at .364 and .333 clips respectively. Aiding them considerably will be first baseman Bill Ihne, .313, and catcher Bud Dodge, .286.
Featured twirlers on the Western Michigan squad are right-hander Ken Larsen, possessor of a 0.54 earned ran average and Lefty Bill Ortlieb, boasting a .500 batting average in addition to his 1.17 earned ran average and 3-0 record.
This Tuesday, Northwestern’s sophomore-studded squad opposes the Irish at Cartier Field. The Wildcats, who unexpectedly lost six key players from last year’s squad, have eleven sophomores on their roster.
Mike Stock, the hard working Wildcat fullback, is one of departed regulars,
having decided to forego his final season in order to concentrate on the teaching profession. Stock was expected to hold down the catching position.
Outfielder Sonny Lundgren, a .378 swatter last year, signed a professional baseball contract, leaving Coach Fred Lindstrom, a former big leaguer, with only one experienced outfielder, letterman John Schwann. The infield appears set with Don Weaver at first, Bill Walberg at second, Jim Nelson (also an outfielder) at short and Hal Niemer on third.
Coach Lindstrom is counting heavily on sophomore pitchers, especially 6-2 Jim Humay, along with letterman lefty Tom Meyer.
The following Thursday, May 4, Michigan State’s high flying Spartans will be hosted by the Irish. Before a double-header loss to NCAA champion Minnesota last Saturday, the invaders had been coasting along with a sparkling 12-2 record. John Kobs, for 35 years the head coach at East Lansing, has a deep pitching staff headed by hard-throwing Mickey Sinks, 3-1, Bob Boss, 2-0, Jack Nutter, 2-0, and Gary Bonberg, 3-0.
Captain Bill Schudich, Wade Cartwright, Wayne Fontes and Pat Sartorius have handled the offensive chores quite well thus far. Schudich leads the team in hitting with a .383 mark. Sartorius, the Spartan’s power hitter, follows with a .345 average. Another starter for the Spartans is football fullback Carl Charon. .
In the two games played last Friday and Saturday against Bowling Green (Continued on page 22)
ODDS and ENDS
Carl Yastrzemski, the highly-touted Red Sox rookie having troubles with his bat this spring, is the 52nd Notre Dame product to play in the major leagues. The first Irish contribution was the legendary Adrian (Cap) Anson, now a member of Baseball’s Hall of Fame. . . .
Duffy has another innovation at Michigan State grid practices this spring. It’s called “daily free period.” During the afternoon, the athletes call their own shots — guards take off and catch passes, tackles run like halfbacks and even the ends do some passing. What is the purpose? Primarily, it relieves the players from the drudgery of everyday practice. And then, old Duf might have some hidden talent up his sleeve that hasn’t been discovered. . . .
When the Detroit Pistons signed unknown rookie George Finley of Tennessee A & I, it only further emphasized the fact that the eleven-foot basket, proposed by California’s Pete Newell, is very necessary. Finley, a small 7-1, is just another in the long line who drops the ball down (not up) through the hoops at the ten-foot mark, certainly not interesting from the spectator point of view. . . .
THE MIGHTY MICK: Big No. 7 in the gray traveling uniform settled easily in the batter’s box. He waved the bat across the plate in die traditional practice swing of all hitters. The count went to 3 and 1 and then it happened. No. 7 found the pitch he was waiting for and soon the ball was disappearing among die fan clientele in the right field sector of Baltimore’s Municipal Stadium.
It was the fifth ball Mickey Mantle had “orbited” in the young season. This one had traveled over 400 feet, which for the muscular, multi-talented Mande is a routine four bagger. (For the benefit of the White Sox fans in the audience, Mande is off to his fastest start in recent years.)
While this is comforting, no doubt, to rookie Yankee manager Ralph Houk, it is also a valid reason for rival managers to lose sleep at night. This is the eleventh major league season for the lad who put Commerce, Okla, on the map and it may be his best. . . .
Ara Paraseghian may not have both his Kimbrough twins back next fall (Big E is graduating), but he has another set supposedly just as good. The new Wildcat threat is the Tuerk twosome, Ed and Fred. Ed handles the center duties while Fred is a guard. Both Tuerks were All-State selections at Peoria Spalding High School. . . .
20
JIM STAHL
Senior golf star
Golfers Face Hard Tests Against Big Ten Teams
Notre Dame’s golf team, still unengaged in intercollegiate competition, hosts Western Illinois and Iowa in a triangular meet tomorrow on the Burke Memorial links. On Monday the Irish journey to Madison, Wis., to face three of the toughest Big Ten teams: Michigan State, Northwestern and host Wisconsin.
These two meets should have great bearing on the kind of season the Irish linksmen will have. Due to the rainy weather, the golfers have not had many practice rounds. Rain also forced the cancellation of the season opener last weekend at Louisville, Ky.
Iowa will bring one of the finest teams in the Big Ten to Notre Dame. The Hawkeyes are led by two transfer students from golf-power Houston: Jackie Rule and Bill Hurd. Not much is known about the Western Illinois squad but they always field a tough golfing representative.
Monday’s meet will pit the Irish " against three of the finest teams in the Midwest. Michigan State has lost most of last year’s powerful squad but a promising group of sophomores again make the Spartans a highly-rated outfit. Wisconsin and Northwestern annually produce some of top golfers in the nation.
If the Irish can get past these early meets, another outstanding year can be predicted. Returning from last season’s powerful team is captain and two-year letterman Ray Patak. Junior Tom Grace returns with the best average score of last year’s squad. Grace tied for second in the Indiana Intercollegiate tournament last year. Other returning monogram winners include basketballer Eddie Schnurr, Bruce Odlaug, Jim Stahl and Phil Schuster.
Irish Netters at Iowa] For Four Team Meet
This weekend the Notre Dame tennis ( team is at Iowa for a quadrangular I meet. Besides the Irish and Iowa, other । teams entered are Purdue and Minnesota. Coach Tom Fallon rates Iowa “strong team with no outstanding player but with excellent depth.” Purdue : was hurt by graduation and Fallon ■ describes them as being “a year away.” Minnesota is playing the Irish for the > fii-st time in many years and Fallon : knows little of them.
Graduation losses. On Tuesday, the netters visit Toledo for a match wit^| the host club. Like Purdue, Toledo has been hit hard by graduation and this is a rebuilding year for them. Material is so weak for the Toledo team that in a recent meet with the freshmen they were unceremoniously walloped.
The Fallonmen entertained Western Michigan at home last Tuesday but the Scholastic went to press before th^ results of the match were in.	w
Last weekend the Irish toured the fair state of Michigan and totaled one win, one loss and one washout for their journey. The loss came on Friday to Michigan State, 6-3. The Spartans had too much depth for the home forces. Don Ralph and Bill Heibecker won singles matches for the Irish but this duo was defeated in doubles competition for the first time this season. As a team, the netters won three of the six^> singles matches while dropping all three of the doubles matches.
The match with Big Ten power Michigan was rained out on Saturday. Detroit offered no effective resistance on Sunday as the Irish waltzed to an easy 9-0 shutout win. This victory gave Notre Dame a season record of six wins and two losses. In addition to the defeat by Michigan State, the netters also^) lost to Duke, 5-4, during the recent Eastern tour.
Lose Doyle. The team has lost Don Doyle for the season. Doyle has been sidelined with a shoulder injury. He sustained the injury the first time he served during the eastern excursion. Doyle will undergo surgery this summer to correct the ailment which has been diagnosed as calcium deposits in the shoulder socket.	£)
The team has been beset with another problem greater than the loss of Doyle: the weather. The weather has not been a good friend, and the Irish have had to transfer operations from outdoors to the fieldhouse more frequently than is desirable. The two playing surfaces are entirely different, with a high, fast bounce coming off the fieldhouse surface and a hard, squirming bounce off the rough outdoor court.
The Scholastic
spring practice:
scrimmage
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
A full-scale, game-condition scrimmage tomorrow afternoon will mark the A.’st real test given the Irish gridders This spring.
The first nine practice sessions, with last Saturday the notable exception, have been devoted to routine blocking and tackling drills, ball-exchange drills for the backs, timing drills and running through plays, and the running of pass patterns.
Last Saturday Head Coach Joe Kuharich and his assistants saw four offensive units g,un against the reserves. Daryle Lamonica quarterbacked1 the first offensive unit of ends Powers and Traver, tackles Carollo and Bill, guards Roy and Buoniconti, center Burke, and halfbacks Rutkowski and Dabiero, along with fullback Ahem. First team scoring came on passes of 20 and 25 yards from Lamonica to Traver and Dabiero.
Highest scoring of the four units was the second, with fullback Jim Snowden Scoring four touchdowns, the last on a | jaunt of 50 yards. Norb Rascher quarterbacked the second team, which had Lind and Phillips at the halfbacks, Boulac and Murphy at ends, Williams and Wilke at tackles, Grau and Lehmann at guards, and Hecomovich at center.
Tomorrow’s afternoon scrimmage will have the first units performing under game conditions, and on both offense and , defense. It should provide the first significant test of the spring for all concerned.
Comments on spring practice:
ANGELO DABIERO: “Practice is a lot tougher this year. There’s a lot more hitting, the linemen are coming down under punts, and we’re doing a lot more blocking. We really have to hustle be-g^ween drills, and everybody’s in much better shape than last year; everybody’s doing the exercises right! Even so, we’re still having bad luck with injuries: Barber, Meyer, Augustine, and Candido are all out with knee injuries.”
BRIAN BOULAC: “Practice is a lot i more fun this spring, a lot more interesting. We feel like we’re really getting something done. We’ve got better team spirit this year, but we’ve got I lot more competitive spirit, too. Every-•body has to fight for his position, and you can’t let down or somebody will take your job away.
TOM HECOMOVICH: “Practice is a lot better than last year. Morale’s a lot higher, and practice really seems easier. As far as injuries are concerned, you’ve just got to expect some. Tomorrow’s scrimmage will be tough, because we’ll have to play defense, too. But the real ^test will come in the Old Timers’ Game.” April 28, 1961
TIME OUT
Yes, it’s that time of the year. Once more, the rain-splattered confines of Cartier Field are hidden from the observer’s eye and canvas covers the wire fences. Jake Kline’s baseball team has witnessed the new intruder; so has the track team (and any others who might have passed through the gates with a “good” reason). The new addition to Cartier Field, of course^ is Notre Dame’s 1961 football team, 100 strong. Under the tutelage of Coach Joe Kuharich and his assistants, this year’s group is hard at work preparing for the May 13 encounter with the Old Timers (and next fall’s schedule).
The onlookers point out that it’s a giant squad this year; especially noteworthy, they say, is the backfield. First mentioned is Jim Snowden, the 6-4, 230-pound freshman from Youngstown, O., who was shifted from end to fullback. Then mentioned is another freshman, Paul Costa, also 6-4, 230-pounds and a powerful halfback at that. Placed in the same backfield with these men are lettermen Daryle Lamonica and Ed Rutkowski. The average weight for this proposed first unit: 215 pounds. Yes, this is quite impressive but something has been forgotten; namely, such persons as Angelo Dabiero, Mike Lind, George Sefcik, Dennis Phillips, Bill Ahern and many others of tested ability. The battle for positions is not won; it has hardly begun. All, linemen and backs, are well aware of this.
THE OLD TIMERS
And what have the Old Timers to offer as competition for the 1961 Irish?
Paul Hornung
, The list of men who are returning is impressive, indeed outstanding. Leading the group for the fourteenth consecutive year is Bill Early, current Secretary-Treasurer for the St. Joseph’s Valley Alumni Club and a great Irish halfback in the early 40’s. Early . began coaching the Old Timers during his tenure here as head football coach (1946-1954) and he is just as fiery now.
There are many fine players who have already announced their intentions of participat-J ing in this 31st Old Timers contest. One of the first to assure Coach Early that he would make the May 13 scene was the popular Gus Cifelli, captain of last year’s Old Timers and a participant for eleven consecutive years. Green Bay’s scoring leader, Paul Hornung, has also penned his letter of acceptance; surely, he is one of the great drawing powers for thia traditional contest. In last year’s game, it
was Hornung who provided the most exciting play of the game when, on a fourth down situation, he faked a punt and then carried the ball for more than fifty yards.
Leon Hart, Chet Ostrowski, Bob Wetoska and Don Lawrence are pro grid stars who have replied affirmatively to the invitation; so have Dick Royer, Jim Just, Jim Colosimo, Pat Doyle and many other Notre Dame stars of recent years. It is likely that many of the starters in this 1961 Old Timers game will come from the present senior class. Men such as Myron Pottios, Red Mack, John Linehan and Jack Castin will want to prove that they are still in good shape. Yes, the Old Timers should once again prove a most worthy opponent for the varsity of Coach Joe Kuharich.
GnsOfclIi
NOTRE DAME GOLF COACH
It’s the 29th year for the Reverend George Holderith, C.S.C., as he leads his hopeful golfers into another campaign. And, if this year follows the pattern of the 28 previous campaigns that Father Holderith has served as coach, it will be a successful one, probably very successful. Since taking over as head coach in 1933, Father Holderith has witnessed his Irish golf teams build one of the most impressive records of any college team. The record: a sensational .735 winning percentage with 200 victories, only 72 losses and eleven ties.	—Jay KHroy


ND Sailing Team Awaits Midwest District Finals
This afternoon the Sailing Team left for its most important regatta to date this spring. Seven hand-picked team members will sail Saturday and Sunday in the Area “C” eliminations for the Midwest Intercollegiate Sailing Championship.
The eliminations are being held at Lake Mendota, home waters of the University of Wisconsin. Six schools are competing, with the top three going to the Champs, also at Wisconsin, on May 20-21. Along with Notre Dame, Wisconsin, Marquette, Purdue, Beloit and De Pauw are trying to qualify.
Last weekend, the Sailing Club held its Spring Intraclub Regatta. Twelve
skippers competed on Saturday, sailing a total of ten races. After the first four qualifying races, a six-race round robin was sailed in very light air to determine the winner. The novice skippers and crews performed very well despite their inexperience and showed that the team’s future members have good potential.
The first six places were: Tom Fox, 38; Hank Chamberlin, 31; Marty Meyer, 24; Jay Mulhern, 20; Louie Lange, 18; and Bob Singewald, 14. A total of 42 points was possible.
ATTENTION SPORTS WRITERS
All wishing to join the Scholastic sports staff for next year, see Jay Kilroy in 240 Alumni.
Baseball
(Continued from page 27) the Irish came through with a draw, losing the first game, 9-6, and winning the second one 9-4. The two games stretched the team’s won and lost record to 6-12.
THE TURNABOUT
In Fi-iday’s game, Bowling GreeA^ mixed four unearned runs with eleven hits for their winning formula. Bowling Green, equally as gracious as theii* hosts, also allowed four unearned tallies. Dave Hanson and Bill Brutvan had two hits apiece for losers.
The following day a new-face lineup including six sophomores raced to a 9-4 win. Hanson and Jim Woolwine rapped out three hits each.
—Bob Chiappinelli

When it’s time to remember
Memorable gift-pens by PaperbMate
([!»
(D
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
fl
22
The Scholastic
on tour
with crosby
by JOHN BECHTOLD
“A wonderful experience” was the way Bill Crosby summed up his crosscountry tour as a member of the College
All-Americans, competing against the Harlem Globetrotters. Crosby, this past season’s Irish basketball captain, played in thirteen games for the All-Americans over the Easter vacation.
Crosby’s team-Ghates included most
of the top senior Bill Crosby stars in the nation:
DePaul’s little demon Howie Carl, Johnny Egan of Providence, Indiana’s stratospheric Walt Bellamy, sharpshooting Tom Stith of St. Bonaventure, York Larese of North Carolina and
Louisville’s John Turner.
HOW IT BEGAN
a Crosby started the tour on April 2 in vhicago. In the next two weeks, the All-Americans toured the entire country,
A man with Alopecia Universalis
SPRAY
meninein
doesn’t need this deodorant
He could use a woman's roll-on with impunity. Mennen Spray was made for the man who wants a deodorant he knows will get through to the skin ... where perspiration starts.
Mennen Spray Deodorant does just that. It gets through to the skin. And it works. All day. More men use Mennen Spray than any other deodorant. Have you tried it yet? 640 and $1.00 plus tax
•Complete lack of body hair, including that of the scalp, legs, armpits, face, etc.
playing in New York, North Carolina, the Middle West, the Northwest, California and finishing in the Southwest.
In the thirteen games Crosby played in, the All-Americans won six. Considering the Globetrotters have an all-time winning percentage of over .900, this record is impressive. Crosby feels the All-Americans would have had an even more impressive record had there been time to organize:
“We were very unorganized during the first few games and the Trotters took advantage of it. It was also hard to get used to the fast ‘give-and-go’ style of game played.”
There was much more body contact in these games than in college ball, according to Crosby. “The rules were a combination of college and pro rules. The pro six foul limit produced a much more free-wheeling game.”
THE CLOWNS
Because of the tougher competition the Globetrotters didn’t clown as much as usual. However, the relaxed manner of the Trotters’ play affected the performance of the All-Americans: “It was much harder to get up for these games than college games. The competitive spirit was not the same.”
The biggest thrill of the tour for Crosby was visiting California. Seeing San Francisco was the highlight of the trip for the Notre Dame senior.
KEGLERS' KORNER
In the 1961 National Collegiate Bowling Championships held last weekend in Chicago, Notre Dame had the proud distinction of placing two men in the top twelve of the Western Division finals. The 1961 victor was Jim Nixon of Minnesota, matching his top-flight performance of last year. Nixon, averaging 202 for the tourney, will meet the victor of the Eastern Division for the United States college title on April 29.
The two Irish stars who starred in the tourney were sophomores Tom Schroeder of Chicago and Bill Lieber of Gary, Ind. Schroeder finished 11th in the finals after a ninth-place finish in the semi-finals. Lieber, a participant in last year’s tourney, took the 12th position in this premier college bowling championship.
The Matches consisted of a qualified round of eight games, followed by a semi-final round of eight also. The finals featured a gruelling sixteen-game set.
Schroeder and Lieber both complimented the Collegiate Championships, saying that the tourney was well-run and featured fine talent from many schools.
The Notre Dame bowling team won the Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference championship in the 1961 season by nosing out second place Loyola, 66-65. Illinois Institute of Technology finished third with 62, with St. Joseph’s of Rensselaer fourth, DePaul fifth and Valparaiso sixth. The race for the top spot was one of the closest in years with the Irish leading all the way.
The Notre Dame team lost its final match to St. Joseph’s at Rensselaer. The defeat supposedly cost the Irish the title. The bowling team was snowed in overnight at Rensselaer- thinking that they had lost the conference lead. But Loyola failed to defeat Valparaiso by the necessary margin which would have given them the crown. Notre Dame was thus able to edge them out.
CANOE TRIPS
into the Quetico-Superior Wilderness. For individuals or groups. Write Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Ely, Minnesota.
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
GLASSES FITTED
212 S. Michigan
CE 4-4874
April 28, 1961
21
You're a natural wonder in
THIS NATURAL-LOOK SIU SUIT
Our jaunty-camerateer is sporting a •cool doud of a suit, cut on flattering lines to improve any man’s natural resources. The slim, 3-button jacket is easy on your shoulders; the trousers .are reed-narrow, pleatless Post-Grads, in perfect focus for the new, natural H-I-S look.
At your favorite campus store; in a wide and wonderful selection of washable all-cotton fabrics and automatic wash-and-wear Dacron polyester
Letters
(Continued from page 4) consensus of opinion that these statements represent the official view of the administration. Father Bernard, Vice President of Student Affairs, did not contradict any of Mr. Rieck’s statements which I have mentioned when he spoke to the senate concerning this matter.
Considering these facts, I believe my statement to the Student Senate is seen to be more meaningful and relevent than Mr. Graham’s column indicated.
Ollie Williams Engineering Senator
HYPOCRISY
Editor:
Preposition: If the Committee on Race Relations intends a survey to prove that customers of four South Bend taverns do not mind being served along with Negroes, with emphasis being placed on toleration of Negroes, then their survey is hypocritical. The principle involved is not a rise or decline of business in taverns who serve Negroes. Rather, the principle involved is the rights and equality of all i-aces, regardless of race color or creed. Also, I would certainly take issue with the author of the “Report on Racial Discrimination in
'John Birch'
(Continued from page 26) Ginder of the Sunday Visitor, Dean Clarence Manion, former Dean of the Notre Dame Law School, and Richard Cardinal Cushing of Boston. Cardinal Cushing recently advised, “I do not know of any more dedicated anti-communist in the country than Robert Welch. I unhesitatingly recommend him to you and endorse his John Birch Society.” The Most Rev. Mark Carroll, Bishop of Wichita has stated that “the general philosophy of the Society is nothing more than the Ten Commandments of God in modern language.”
Due to two factors: the gigantic growth of the society (the home office has been deluged with applications in recent weeks) and its tremendous effectiveness in fighting Communism, the Society’s destruction has been given top priority on the Red agenda for 1961. Leading off with a gross smear in the “People’s World,” a west coast mouth piece of the Communist party, their efforts have become wild and grotesque as they seek to turn patriotic Americans away from the Society by lies, deceit and smears. But I predict that these efforts will be in vain and the Society will make good its intention to enlist one million dedicated Americans to fight Communism on all fronts. For only in this way will tnith once again be enthroned. Wrong must be squarely faced and fought, no matter how regal its trappings nor how powerful and cunning its agents have become. To carry the banner wisely but fearlessly in that fight is the hope, the duty, and the privilege of the John Birch Society.
Taverns” about the arguments of the tavern owners being either “reasonable” or “convincing.” There is nothing “reasonable” or “convincing” about the flood arguments whether they are put to a test or not. This type of argumentation is hypocritical. How can anyone be convinced that business owners of any type have the right to discriminate against another race? Negroes are first class citizens, every bit the equal of an^ white. They are not to be tolerated but to be accepted as anyone else would be.
David A. Offutt 127 Sorin
WRONG DIRECTION Editor:
President Hesburgh says “I have no wish to be a medieval man.” Anyone reading the speech you reprinted last week will know that he is not.
Through the eyes of Aristotle’s physicsft the medieval man was able to see features of the world of nature the knowledge of which made transcendent metaphysics possible. The Middle Ages did not exclude Christianity from the realm of the intellect and confine it to “a moral dimension.” And the “exalted work” of medieval times was not “mediation” but the ordering of all knowledge by, and the subordination of all knowledge to, theology, Queen of theft Sciences.
When a human being is confronted with a problem, it is insanity to rush about grasping for solutions before he has gained an understanding of the nature and implications of the issues in- ; volved. Father Hesburgh wants Notre Dame to contribute to the solution of many practical problems facing the nation and the world today. Let us hope that in carrying out his wishes, he doefft not forget to leave room for the purely speculative activity in philosophy and theology which is necessary before these problems can even be recognized for what they are.
Jack Cahalan
316 Walsh
'Babes in Arms'
(Continued from page 9) lege actors and actresses to have their own musical revue staged instead of the ridiculous melodrama insisted on by their boss. As you might guess, there’s more to it all than work; soon an em-barassing little triangle develops between Susie the young actress, Vai, the young actor, and Jeniffer, the would-be star, as played by Sally O’Brien.
The Musical score for Babes in Arms includes the well-known numbers :^t “Where or When,” “Poor Johnny One Note,” “My Funny Valentine,” “The Lady is a Tramp” and many others.
Students will have an early, advance opportunity to purchase tickets Sunday evening, April 30, when a hall to hall . canvass will be made.
In past years the University Theater has . presented Oklahoma, The Boy Friend, Good News, and last year, Frank Loesser’s Most Happy Fella.	r
The Scholastic
24
Publish New Volume Of Father Zahm's Life
The life and work of one of the most celebrated figures in the history of Notre Dame and the Congregation of Holy Cross are described in Notre Dame’s John Zahm, just published by the University of Notre Dame Press.
W Penned by Ralph Weber, registrar, director of admissions and assistant professor of history at Marquette University, the book traces Father Zahm’s life and sketches the development of scientific studies at Notre Dame over a period of nearly 50 years.
Father Zahm served as head of Notre Dame’s science school, vice-president of the University and provincial superior of the Congregation of Holy Cross ^jn the United States. Concerned about wthe relationship of religion and science, he became “the most widely known American Catholic priest engaged in investigating the theology of evolution.”
His Evolution and Dogma was the most controversial of more than 50 books and articles. His versatility is indicated by Sound and Music, a physics text dealing with acoustics; Science and the Church; From Berlin to Bagdad ^ind Babylon, a travel volume; and "‘Theodore Roosevelt as a Hunter-Naturalist,” an article describing a South American expedition in which the former President and Father Zahm explored remote jungle and mountain areas.
Present 23 NSF Grants For Advanced Research
Undergraduate and graduate research igrants from the National Science Foundation have been awarded this week to twenty-three University of Notre Dame students in the department of geology, chemical engineering, physics and math. A total of $6,570 in undergraduate aid under established scientists has been of-ferred for summer and winter research.
The depar-tment of geology has been appropriated $4,155 for field work this summer in two separate areas. Two undergraduates will begin ten weeks of work on June 10 at the University of Indiana’s Summer* Institute in Field Geology in Cardwell, Montana. Another is to accompany a geologist to Maryland to investigate soapstone formations.
In the graduate program ten students have been picked for the NSF fellowship grants. Under the Cooperative Graduate Fellowship Program for the fiscal year of 1961 seven students have been offered stipends to continue in their espective fields. These are: Michael J. Brienza, physics; Anthony M. Cowley, engineering; Gerard P. Lietz, physics; Theodore Madey, physics; John Misner, mathematics; James F. Slifker, mathematics and Donald R. Weidman, mathematics. For summer teaching fellowship grants the following three have been chosen: Jean M. Beaudoin, chemi-j cal engineering; William E. Doren; busch, physics and Donald L. Malaker, physics.
April 28, 1961
SH ELLEY
So sweet, the
on Life Savers:
sense faints picturing them!”
from Ode to the West Wind, line 35
RAH! RAH!
ALBRIGHTS
O
For all details see your campus Raleigh dealer.
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka
Telephone BL 5-8988
Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over 5’9" specify 23’ frames. Men under 5’9" specify 21" frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — You’ll feel better for it — Raleigh you will!!
MODEL 22AW
john birch* a defense
This article is the first in a pro-con series on the highly controversial John Birch Society.
It would have to be unanimously agreed that we are losing, rapidly losing a war in which our freedom, our country, and our very existence is at stake. Since V-J Day the free world has seen a rapid succession of countries fall before the advance of international communism until now, the Red monster is poised on the very doorstep of our country. But even at this late date the war is not totally lost. There is still one thing that the Communists fear today. It is, that despite their influence in our government and over the means of mass communication, the American people will wake up too soon to what has really been happening, and what is now happening, right under their noses.
THE AWFUL QUESTION
There is no need to dwell on the extent to which we have now reached one of the nadirs in the sine carve of our civilization. The awful question still remains — how can we halt the spread of this cancer which seeks to enslave mankind and to utterly destroy the last vestiges of Christian morality? For whether you believe it or not, we are far along in a gathering crisis that is going to make us search deeply into our beliefs. This is a world-wide battle between freedom and slavery, between the spirit of Christianity and the spirit of anti-Christ, for the souls and bodies of men. Let us be determined to win this battle by alertness, by determination and by courage. It is our belief that only united action by an alert group of informed citizens, armed with a deep faith in God and the courage of their convictions, can hope to turn the tide in this battle against Communism. It was with this thought in mind that the John Birch Society was founded.
It is common knowledge to a student of history that the Communist conspiracy has followed without deviation the strategy for world conquest laid down by Lenin. This plan for Communist conquest in America involves the gradual surrender of our freedoms by a process so gradual and so insidious that Soviet
26
rule will slip upon us before we can wake up and resist. A part of this plan, Lenin foresaw, was to induce the gradual surrender of American sovereignty, piece by piece and step by step, to various international organizations — of which the United Nations is the most outstanding (but far from the only) example — while the Communists are simultaneously and equally gradually getting complete working control of such organizations.
But another part of that plan is the conversion of the United States into a socialist nation, quite similar to Russia itself. Lenin saw the need to get us used to the idea of socialism by gradual steps until that day, when both plans are realized and we are, in fact, a part of the Soviet sphere.
As I said previously, we are losing this war, mainly because we are suffering under delusions of what the nature of our enemy is. Communism is not a political party, nor a military organization, nor an ideology. It is wholly a conspiracy, a gigantic conspiracy to enslave mankind, controlled by determined, cunning and utterly ruthless international gangsters, willing to use any means to achieve its end. One means, of course, is to make socialism sound appealing, and above all, to make it seem inevitable.
Far from being an abstract idea, this master plan of Lenin’s is actually taking place before our eyes, and yet for the most part, few dare to challenge this Communist Manifesto. J. Edgar Hoover warns, “We are at war with the Communists and the sooner each red-blooded American realizes that, the better and safer we will be.”
The John Birch Society accepts this warning, and has taken up the weapons of truth and courage to fight our Communist enemies sp that Lenin’s prophecies will not come to be and thus the death knell of our civilization.
The John Birch Society is a group composed of patriotic Americans of all races and creeds united in one cause: dedication to the destruction of the Communist conspiracy. The guiding principle for action, covering the fight against collectivism by way of creeping socialism can be expressed by these words: more personal responsibility, less government for a better world.
In seeking the first two of these objectives, more personal responsibility and less government, the Society makes^< use of educational action on the political front, accomplished by realizing that truth is the big weapon in the fight against collectivism. It thus concentrates on a broad plan of education by maintaining lending libraries containing the latest books, phamphlets and magazines dealing with the menace of socialism (and its ultimate end — Communism). These are kept in constant circulation. Among them are Hoover’s^, Masters of Deceit, Goldwater’s Consci-“ ence of a Conservative, and Buckley’s Up From Liberalism. It makes generous use of F.B.I. publications, the releases of the House Committee on ‘UnAmerican Activities and those of the i Senate Internal Security Committee. The public showings of such movies as “Operation Abolition,” which details the extent to which the communist conspiracy has infiltrated education, and _ the film “Communism on the Map,”$1 tracing the spread of Communism right to our doorstep, are powerful eye-openers to the apathetic public. A fight for conservative anti-communist principles is further carried out in extensive letter writing campaigns, to principal opinion , makers such as congressmen, editors and radio-television commentators. Members of the Society become active in government at all levels, in P.T.A.’s and^4 other local organizations, so that conservative principles might obtain an ever increasing voice in the destiny of our country. Another area of society activity is the support of conservative radio programs such as the Manion Forum and Fulton Lewis Jr., through. financial and moral support. Every Society member in these actions is always an ambassador for freedom, sounding the alarm to the danger which is already among us.	q
ORGANIZING FOR FREEDOM
Starting from a small group two years ago in Indianapolis, the Society has grown to a nationwide organization. Among the council members and supporters of the society, which is fifty per cent Catholic, are the Rev. Richard (Concluded on page 24)
The Scholastic
t
AN UNPAID TESTIMONIAL
• Richard the Lion-Hearted says:
1 would neuer haue surrendered England
• ...if I'd had
Jockeu
<§) BMHO U
support
C’mon, Dick! You’re rationalizing. Jockey support1 might never have secured you against the Emperor2. But it certainly would have provided snug protection against the physical stresses and strains of your active life. Your armorer never tailored a coat of mail more knowingly than Jockey tailors a brief—from 13 separate, body-conforming pieces.
1. Other "imitation" briefs (copies of the original Jockey brand) have no more Jockey support than a limp loin cloth.
2. Richard the Lion-Hearted, 1157-99, surrendered England and a huge ransom to secure his release from Henry VI.
Get the real thing. Look for
the name JOCkeu on the waist band
Other shoes may look like Keds, but only U. S. Keds® can give you "that great feeling.” Because Keds have a patented shockproofed arch cushion and cushioned inner sole. And because Keds
are built over tested, scientific lasts, to fit all feet perfectly, even narrow ones. Keds are right for class, gym, tennis court or dorm. Machine-washable (and they even look good clean). His: Keds “Court King.” Hers: Keds "Champion.” Get your U.S. Keds at good shoe or department stores.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL*
*both U. S. Keds and the blue label are registered trademarks of
United States Rubber
ROCKEFELLER CENTER, NEW YORK 20, NEW YORK