Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturns.
Vol. XVI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 3, 1883.	No. 21.
A Violet.
A little sunbeam kissed a drop Of pearly, sparkling dew, And from the passion of the kiss
A star-eyed violet grew.
The winter came, and bleak, its cold Benumbed the little gem;
But with the summer’s warmth ’twas found In nature’s diadem.
A fair young lass, with golden hair, Plucked the violet blue,
And wore it on her snowy breast, The sunbeam’s child of dew.
A stout heart came from o’er the sea, Who woo’d and won the maid;
But in her hair, mids’t orange blooms, The star-eyed gem was laid.
And when, in after years, the life So pure and chaste did close, The little violet on that breast
In death did e’en repose.
William H. Arnold, ’83.
Colorado.*
(Continued.)
• Although known by many as a mining State, Colorado can boast of other industries that will surprise those who have not kept themselves posted regarding the State’s rapid progress, particularly within the last few years.
’ Next, after mining, agriculture is the chief industry of the State. To those who still regard Colorado as a part of the “ Great American Desert,” as it was marked on the maps, not many years ago, this will come as a revelation. But the fact still remains that some of the best farming lands in the country are to be found along the fertile valleys that in every direction intersect the State. Cereals, of every kind, grow well, and yield as well as when sown in the rich acres of Wisconsin or Minnesota. Corn, however, from the- great altitude of the tillable parts of the State, and the cold nights that always obtain, does not do so well, and, as a con-
♦ A Lecture delivered before-the Faculty and students by Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. G., Prof. of Physical Science.
sequence, except in a few places, is little cultivated.
The farmer here has an advantage that his eastern confrere has not. Owing to the system of irrigation, so • extensively introduced—annually- receiving more attention—he can, at will, supply his fields with all the water they may need. By means of the numerous canals, that bring water wherever it is wanted, he is rendered independent of the rain that may not come, and need not fear the drought that is ever threatening those who cannot possess the advantages of irrigation. Millions of dollars have already been invested in constructing canals and channels for purposes of irrigation, and some of the richest stock companies in the State are those that are identified with the promotion of an enterprise that is unknown in sections farther east, and yet of the utmost importance to the agricultural interests of a country like Colorado.	• -
As it is not known as a- farming country, so neither would Colorado be considered a good fruit-growing State, and yet some of the finest fruits I ' have ever seen were produced within its borders/ In Canon City, I went through an orchard that . was not inferior in the quality of its fruit—apples, pears, peaches, plums, grapes, etc.—to any I have ever seen elsewhere. But it is only within the last few years, owing to the fact that previously every other interest was absorbed by the mines, that any attention has been given to horticulture. Those, however, who have been wise enough to engage . in this pursuit have been well repaid, as they can always find a ready and profitable market for all they can raise. From the great—I may say unexpected—success that has been met with In this direction within the very few years that fruitgrowing has been attempted, we can easily see that it is now only a question of time until horticulture will occupy a prominent place among the great industries of the State.
Like all the country west of the one hundredth meridian, Colorado is well adapted for grazing-. On the plains and in the parks nutritious grasses are found in abundance, and, unlike grasses that we are acquainted with in this section of the country, they possess the remarkable property of curing without being cut, and of thus affording food during the winter to the numerous herds and flocks that are found in every section of the State. In parts of the country devoted to stock-raising, brie will behold herds and flocks of such numbers that
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
those who have never seen them can scarcely realize how great thev are. Some of the' “ cattle kings” of Colorado count as many as' 20.000 heads on their extensive ranches, and have accumulated independent fortunes within a few years’ time.
So much for the economical characteristics of Colorado. I wish to speak of the attractions it offers to the scientist and the artist, the tourist and the sportsman, the invalid in quest of health, or, in fine, to anyone in search of rest and recreation.
To the scientist, the geologist, the mineralogist, the civil and mining engineer, Colorado offers perhaps more features of interest than any other State in the Union.
The geologist will find formations of every kind from the azoic to the quaternary, and often
, And when he comes to examine more closely the i formations of the more recent periods, especially J from the cretaceous down to the quaternary, he s will find- remains of a fauna and of a flora that I are simply startling in their revelations. He may ; travel over every field of geological exploration i in either the Old or the New World, and no-! where will he find a country superior, in the ntim-■ her, variety and novelty of well-preserved animal ;' and vegetable forms, to the rich fossilliferous strata j of Colorado. He will discover representatives of • a fauna, almost as comprehensive as the present ! fauna of the two hemispheres taken together. J He will find the remains of animals allied to the ; sloths, ant-eaters, tapirs and armedillos of Mexico I and South America; the preserved skeletons of lions ! and tigers, camels and elephants, hyenas and rhinoc-’
Manitou.
on a scale that is simply colossal. The wonder- ; ful canons, which have made Colorado famous the ’ world over, the lofty peaks that proudly hold | their heads above the clouds, and the magnificent 1 parks—the admiration of all who visit them— offer fields for study that can be surpassed nowhere else in the known world. He will everywhere find the most striking illustration of the effects of erosion and denudation, of upheaval and subsidence. Here, rocks conformable with the horizon, there, others folded and tilted in every conceivable manner and direction. At one time he will find sandstones of various colors fashioned into the most cuiious and fantastic forms, as if the work of a race of pre-historic Titans; at another time, he will come across masses of granite and quartzite that seem to defy the combined power, although acting for untold reasons, of all the elements together.
eroses, lamas, monkeys, and ostriches that were as large and even larger than any now found on the Eastern Continent. He will learn that horses existed of forms, sizes and varieties that an account of them would almost stagger the belief of any-one other than a person of the habits and thoughts of a trained paleontologist. He can, from evidence that no one can gainsay, picture to himself fertile plains over which once roamed Lilliputian steeds—Eohipptis and Orohippus—no larger than a fox, and alongside them Brobdignagian pachyderms, of elephantine size. He can see, in the marshes and lakes and inland seas, turtles, measuring fifteen feet from flipper to flipper; monstrous reptiles, fifty to seventy-five feet in length, and feeding on the rank but luxuriant vegetation of the period; he may view, at his leisure, the largest and most bulky land animal of which science has
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
323
yet given us any knowledge, the colossal cama rasziras sufrcmus^ declared by Hayden to have been fully roo feet long, and which, Prof. Marsh says, could stand on its hind leers like a kangaroo
and browse oIT of the leaves of trees seventv and ’ extraordinary things to show.
•	I	w
eighty feet high. J’his may seem an exaggeration, as something more unlikely than the wildest fan- i
cies of oriental fable (as something to be classed with the roc of Arabian story, or the sea serpent of imaginative mariners), but vet it is. no more than a simple statement of fact. Those who have seen the gigantic vertebrae, and crania, and ribs and thigh-bones collected by Profs. Marsh and Cope, and Hayden, and now on exhibition in the museums of the Smithsonian Institution, the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences, and the Peabodv Museum of Yale College, will tell you that I have not even given you an inkling of what might be told of the variety and magnitude of the extraordinary fauna that long ages, even before the advent of the Aztecs, had its habitation in and adjoining that part of the world we now know as Colorado.
To the mineralogist, too, Colorado has been, for the past twenty years, headquarters for supplying some of the rarest and most beautiful minerals that he ever met with. No cabinet is complete without a contribution from the Centennial State, and there is not now a museum of any magnitude, in this country or Europe, that is not indebted to the mines and quarries of Colorado for some of its choicest and most showy specimens. The largest and most beautiful crystals of Amazon stone—and who has not seen and admired some specimens of this lovely variety of feldspar?—that the mineralogist knows of, come from the neighborhood of Pike’s Peak. In the same locality are found the largest and most perfect crystals of smoky quartz to be obtained in America; and pclucid crystals of the same mineral that are equalled only by the truly magnificent specimens that are found at and around the Plot Springs of Arkansas.
In the carbonate camp of Leadville are to be found beautiful crystallization of that rare mineral, silver chlorobromide, such as has never been produced by the only mines in which they have ever existed in any quantity—those of Old Mexico. Then, too, the rarer and much-prized ores of gold and silver, notably the tellurides, crystallized and massive, are seen here as in other known locality of the eastern and western continent. As some of you may have observed, many of the largest as well as the most valuable and interesting specimens that now grace the shelves of our museum are those contributed by the celebrated lodes and deposits of Colorado.
Being' of such interest to the geologist and mineralogist, as we have seen that it is, Colorado must possess special attractions for the mining engineer and metallurgist. Here he will find problems to solve that a graduate of the Freiburg school of mines would nevei* dream of; he will meet with phenomena in connection with the mode of occurrence of fisheries and deposits that are totally unlike anything to be seen elsewhere,
; and will see processes and methods adopted and j applied that only the peculiar conditions incident ; to Colorado mining could ever have suggested.
To the civil engineer, Colorado has even more Pier railroads, pass
ing through canons, thousands of feet deep, or over mountain passes above the clouds, are acknowledged by all who have ever seen them to be triumphs of engineering skill that have not only never been equalled, but have never even been approached. For sharp curves and steep grades, without which a road over the mountains would i be impossible, the Denver and Rio Grande railway is one of the wonders of the world. A few i years ago it would have been considered mad-{ ness to attempt what its daring engineers have ac-j complished, not in an isolated instance only, but in ! a score of cases where the topography of the conn- . try seemed to defy further advance. I need mention only a few instances, such as Fremont’s pass, Marshall pass, and Tennessee pass, where the iron horse mounts to an altitude of over 10,000 feet; the Royal gorge of the Arkansas, where the channel is so narrow and the river so rapid that genius resorted to the expedient of suspending a bridge from truss-work fastened in the walls' of the canon; and Toltec gorge, where, after passing through a tunnel bored through the solid rock, the train moves along the brink of a chasm 1,200 feet above Los Pinos creek below. But more wonderful still is the pass of La Veta, where, after making the shortest curve on any railway in the world, the train ascends the mountain side on a grade from 211 to 217 feet per mile. The celebrated Plorse Shoe Bend—with which many of you are acquainted—sinks almost into insignificance when compared with the wonderful Mule Shoe (named from its form, as the Pennsylvania curve also was) of Veta pass. While the Plorse Shoe Bend has a curve of only 90 of 637 feet radius, the famous Mule Shoe has the extraordinary* curve of 300 of 193 feet radius. Even the much talked-of road over Argentine pass, in the Peruvian Andes, has only a curve of 140 of 410 feet radius. Truly, the Denver and Rio Grande railroad is not only what it claims to be—“ The Scenic Line of America”—but also the line of engineering yvonders. Along its path one can see more, not only of beautv and grandeur, but also more striking examples of engineering skill than can be viewed along any other road in existence. It is ordinarily said "that in order to see the most interesting features of a country, one should keep ayvay from the line of railroads; in Colorado one can see its magnificent scenery to no better advantage than yvhen he travels along the path opened by the enterprising and indomitable Denver and Rio Grande road.
But I must not pass on yvithout at least a mention of yvhat I have seen along the Denver and South Park road, recently opened to Gunnison, and, by reason of its being but lately built, comparatively unknown. It, too, has startling curves and grades, and ascends to heights that, in one instance, at least, surpasses even the greatest altitudes crossed by the rails of the Denver and Rio Grande. I
324
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
allude to the great Alpine pass, where a tunnel is bored through the backbone of the continent at an altitude of 11,500 feet above sea level. This is the second hightest point reached by any railroad in the world, surpassed only by the road over Argentine pass, in Peru, South America, where the track (I speak from memory) is said to ascend to an altitude of over 13,000 feet.
Papal Influence and Popular Liberty.
As this is the time when the wealth of eulogy is about to be laid on the tomb of the greatest patriot to popular- liberty, I am incidentally led to write of an institution that for centuries has had opponents such as Washington’s, and yet has ever maintained the principles for which Washington contended.
Popular liberty consists in those measures which ensure moral liberty. Attested by the writings of St. Thomas Aquinas and other philosophers and theologians, this is the teaching of Catholicity. The question then is, “ Has the Catholic Church been faithful to these teachings or not?” “Have the Popes been tyrannical, or dilatory in their defence of the oppressed ? ” I claim that the Church has ever been the friend of the poor, the weak, and the down-trodden; that, true to her mission and her teachings, she has always placed herself as a shield between tyrannical ruler and plundering noble and their subjects; and that, by the judgments and decisions of her Councils, general and particular, she has laid the foundations of that system of jurisprudence that underlies free government. History confirms this statement. Lingard says that the Anglo-Saxons based their legislation on the principle that every man should have a superior, whom he must obey. The same author says that, up to the eleventh century, England, to a great extent, was still sunk in a kind of slavery, while other nations, that had long before been converted to the faith, were advancing rapidly in the knowledge of personal liberty. Therefore ifwas not until the introduction of Christianity that the Saxons obtained any idea of liberty. On the same island it was that an apostle of Christianity, Germanus of Auxerre, sent to England by Pope Celestine, led the natives against the besieging Picts and Scots. Voltaire says that Pope Alexander III merits the highest praise for his actions during the Middle Ages. What did this Pope do? He chastised Henry II for the murder of St. Thomas of Canterbury, who fell a victim to the king’s fury because of his opposition to the encroachments of despotic power. Before Pope Alexander’s day, the distinctions of caste divided men from -their fellow-men: the Pope used every means to level the distinction and bring about an equality of rights. He it was, also, who stood as a bulwark of popular rights against Frederick Barbarossa.	-	-
Popular liberty was so much prized by the Church, that a Bull was issued, by Gregory XII against1 trade in slaves. In France, the demon
Nogaret, the officer of Philip the Fair, with clenched fist struck the face of Boniface VIII, because he dared raise his voice against the oppression of Philip’s subjects by their ruler. This Pontiff was seized and thrown into prison, suffering such harsh treatment that it caused his death. The same country we see, later on, placed under an edict by Innocent HI, until liberty was restored.
Louis XII, also, was made to feel the strength of the Vatican. In Spain,- Peter III, King of Ar-ragon, is another example of the conflict between the crown and tiara, because of the latter’s advocacy of the God-given right of justice from rulers to their people. Every student of history is familiar with the actions of the Popes in the days of feudalism and in the struggles between the Guelphs and Ghibellines. The Popes were the protectors' of the Free Cities of Germany and Italy. Vienna was saved from the Turks in 1683 by Pope Innocent XI. The majority of the martyrs to popular liberty in Ireland, Scotland, Poland and Switzerland were of Catholic faith, and our own history bears the names of De Kalb, Kosciusko, Pulaski, Lafayette, and Carroll, of Carrollton. Not only in the State, but in its very foundation, the family, the assistance of the pontiffs was invoked. Passing by that demon, Henry VIII, whose tender (?) conscience troubled him regarding poor Catharine of Arragon, and who would not obey the Pope, I would cite the case of Robert of France, who wished to abandon his lawful wife;— Louis VII, whose penance was to embark in one of the crusades;—Louis II, of Bavaria; to the oppressed Queen Ingelburga, who appealed to Rome to shield her from her proud husband; and to Philip, Count of Hesse, who, because he could not have two wives with the consent of the Church, betook himself to the accommodating counsels of Luther.
Because of this barrier to kingly usurpation, it is no wonder that the Church has been persecuted by crowned heads; such persecution is her inheritance. From the days of the ruler of Judea to those of William of Germany there have ever been cowardly Pilates who betrayed, and ironhanded Bismarcks who sought the destruction of Christ’s' anointed Vicar—of that bulwark of morality and guardian of the oppressed, the Papacy.
The Catholic Church began its warfare when the smoke of sacrifice arose in clouds as a tribute to crime and vice; when human beings were worshipped, and Bacchanalian revellers were deified. The Church’s unlettered fishermen, the Apostles of her divine Founder, entered the temples of Paganism and converted the devotees.
The spirit of the Gospel had a telling effect on the pool’ and the oppressed. A system of religion teaching the true equality of man was not pleasing to the ears of Caesar. All the might of the powers of earth was exercised for the destruction of the empire of the Nazarene, and the replacement of the worship of Bacchus, Jupiter, and human creatures. Nerd began the first, of the ten great persecutions, arid in his w^ke followed- in quick succession Do-fhitiari, Trajan, Aurelius, Severus, Maximin, Dd-
1

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
325
cius, Valerian, Aurelian and Diocletian, with the cry of “Death to the Christian!” and with but little intermission the contest raged until Constantine adopted the Cross as his emblem and standard. Yet from Constantine himself Christianity suffered more or less; though a professed friend of Christianity, he led the life of a pagan. He was susceptible to the flattery of the Arian party. His participation in spiritual matters was injurious to Church discipline, and was taken advantage of by the deniers of the divinity of Christ, the crafty and deceitful Arians. His presence at the Council of Nice, convened for the settlement of this question between the orthodox and the heretic, was a constraint upon the actions of that body.
Though the Arians were condemned, Constantine favored them by the banishment of Eustathius, the Bishop of Antioch, and the saintly patriarch Athanasius. His son and successor Constantius was worse than his father. Neo-Plat-onism, with the assistance of Jamblichus, was encouraged and preached by brilliant orators. Pope Liberius was banished to Bercea, and the Arians, by the aid of the secular arm, placed the anti-pope Felix in the chair of St. Peter. Constantius was succeeded by Julian the Apostate, who completed the trio. Influenced by his early tutor Mardonius, and the Pagan rhetorician Libanius, Julian, in the words of Cyril of Alexandria, instead of aiding the service of God, entered the ministry of Satan. He openly favored paganism; he abrogated all clerical immunities; he forbade the Christians to have schools; he exhumed the body of Bishop Babylus because it was interred too close to the temple of Apollo, and attempted to prove that the prophet Daniel was a liar regarding the rebuilding of the temple of Jerusalem. The preaching of St. John Chrysostom against ■the crime and vice practised in the city of Constantinople. caused him to be exiled, and the murderers of his disciples to be rewarded by the fiendish Queen Eudoxia. At the Ecumenical Council of Ephesus, A. D. 431, we find military power supporting the heretics, and St. Cyril with his followers treated with brutal violence. Theodosius II arrogated to himself the authority of presiding at the Council of Ephesus. He ratified the decrees of this irregular gathering, which were at once declared invalid by“Pope Leo. The Emperor Zeno, 479-491, assumed the right to publish three thesis to the clergy, and, without warrant, styled himself teacher and legislator in matters purely ecclesiastical. The comedian Queen Theodora, wife of Justinian, noted for the code which bears his name, had Pope Silverius banished to the Island of Palmaria, where -he died of starvation, while the anti-pope Vigilius was proclaimed in his stead. Because Pope Martin I refused to ratify the edict of Constans II, called the Type, he was imprisoned, then banished to the Chersonesus, where he died of privation. Isaurian and his successors did everything in their power to despoil and destroy the Church. Michael, surnamed the Prunkard, exiled Ignatius, and substituted Pho-
tius, the author of the schism that to-day separates the Greek and Latin churches.
We read of attempts to depose Stephen V, because on his election he did not ask the approbation of the secular power. The Visigoth King Enrich sent numbers of Catholic bishops into exile, and prohibited the election of others. So violent was the Emperor Leovigild against the Church that on Easter Sunday, A. D. 585, he put to death his own son for embracing the faith. Attila was only stayed in his career of blood by Pope Leo, and by two bishops in France, St. Aignan of Orleans and St. Lupes of Troyes. When the Lombards, under Kings Luitprand and Rachis, Threatened to sack Rome it was saved by Pope Zachary. Tharasamund—A. D. 496-523—forbade the consecration of Catholic bishops. The persecution under Genseric surpassed in cruelty that of Diocletian.	‘
Thus we see the Church attacked on all sides— her pontiffs as well as her laity, the seeds of heresy sown broadcast, licentiousness on the increase. A deliverer was necessary'—one that would grapple with and evercome the evils that menaced Church and State;'and with that deliverer, Hildebrand, we pass from the East to the West. The debauchee Henry. IV was ruling Germany, and, at the same time, plundering churches, bestowing ecclesiastical dignities on unworthy persons, etc. He was capricious, doublefaced, and trifling; and although in penitential garb he knocked at the gates of the Church to have the anathemas removed, he still .continued setting the commands of the Pope and the laws of the Church at defiance. Hildebrand could tolerate it no longer; he pulled from the face of Henry' the mask that he had so long worn, and interposed his authority. Henry called a synod at Brixen in Tyrol, where charges of the most ridiculous nature were brought against the Pope; Gregory was deposed, and the anti-pope Gui-bert, under the name of Clement III, was placed in the pontifical chair. Henry thought this act would force Gregory to yield; but the answer was, “ I have no fear of the threats of wicked men, and am prepared to die rather than consent to what my conscience connot approve.” The “Hero of the Middle Ages” continued his persecution; Gregory was finally liberated by Robert Guiscard, but died in exile at Salerno. His last words were, “I have loved righteousness and hated iniquity, therefore I die in exile,”—words which can, in a measure, be applied to the Church-of which he was the visible head. She has loved justice, defended right against might, therefore she is persecuted.
The right of investiture by the crozier and ring was not claimed by Henry alone, but by many kings of France and England. Louis of Bavaria visited Rome and displaced Pope John XXHI, installing an anti-pope in his stead. The- Council of Basle, which ended in a schism, was advocated by kingly power.
It was to divert the nobles from oppressing their dependants that the Popes urged their going to the deliverance of the Holy Land. The reigns
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of Louis XIV, Philip II,’Henry VIII, and Napoleon I were times of oppressive taxation, during which the Popes labored ardently for the administration of justice.	•
I asserted that Catholicity has contributed much to that system of jurisprudence that forms the foundation of good government. Historv is again my witness. We note that the Roman missionaries improved and formulated the Saxon laws. Ethelbert III; pupil of St. Augustine, published that Saxon code which is the basis of English jurisprudence. King Edward, as a law-giver, need onlj* be named. It was he who abolished the Danegelt. The Kentish army, led on by Archbishop Stigand, forced William the Conqueror to re-establish the ancient laws and liberties. Blackstone, a Protestant, fails to credit commentators among the clergy before his day; he speaks ill of them, but says nothing about the saying, Nitlltis curious nisi causidicus. The best authority on the common law is the De Legibus Anglice, by the Dean of Barnstable. I will not dwell upon the effect of Christian principles on the laws of France, of Austria, and of Germany,—I need only-ref er to a single article, which says that “No freeman shall be seized or imprisoned or dispossessed, or in any way destroyed; nor will we condemn him, nor will we commit him to prison, except by the legal judgment of his peers, or by the laws of the land,”—words of Langton, Archbishop of Canterbury, expressed in the Magna Charta wrung from King John by the Bishops and people.
• Those laws that elevate woman, and make the wife, not the husband’s slave, but his equal and helpmate, emanated from Christian equity, which works where the unbinding law will not,—and equity is the result of the labors of Catholic clergymen. The Lord Chancellors of England, from the days of Augmendus, in the seventh century, to the so-called Reformation in the sixteenth, were, . with but few exceptions, clergymen. In the litany of our saints we have the name of St. Swithin, once Lord Chancellor Swithin. St. Thomas a Becket is another illustrious example. Wolsey, with all his errors, was just and fearless. Among Catholic lay chancellors was Sir Thomas More, whose name-is now at Rome for canonization'.
International law, too, dates its birth from the settlement of disputes between kings and rulers, deferred to the Popes. The oldest recorded treaty between two nations is one drawn up by Pope John XV, in the eleventh century. So the common law of England is formed from the judgment and decisions of Catholic, clergymen. This same, common law our forefathers brought over with them, and it forms-the basis of. our Constitution. Justice Story, in-his commentary on our Consti-- tiition, says: “The -whole structure of-our jurisprudence stands, upon the original foundation of - the common law.” Hence we see that upon Catholic-enactments rest the foundation of good gov; ernment. :	_ . .
■ , It is unnecessary to calFyour attention to the - Catholic Republics of San Marino, Genoa, Venice, Pisa, Florence, Milan, Bologna, arid. Andorra; I
will only ask you to look at the state of Europe to-day—at the millions groaning under oppressive taxation; at the mighty kneeling and kissing the feet of the god Success. Only one man is erect and strikes the blow; and he, Leo in name,.and lionic in courage, exclaims: Fiat jus,ne ^ereat mundus 1 G. E. Clarke.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—Gustave Dore, the famous French painter and designer, died at Paris, last week.	'
—Mrs. Oliphant has just finished a life of Sheridan for the English Men of Letters series.
—Edwin Booth is meeting with splendid success in his Shakesperian representations in Germany.
—Only the MS. of the first volume of Thurlow Weed’s autobigraphy is complete; the rest of it is a collection of fragments.
—Dr. O. W. Holmes will begin literary work anew this winter, and will contribute a series of articles to. the Atlantic Monthly.
—A translation of Lecky’s “ History of England in the Eighteenth Century,”, by Dr. Ferdinand Lowe, is appearing at Leipsic.
—Gounod’s “Faust” has been lately translated into Russian and given in that language at the National Opera of St. Petersburg with great success.
—The collection of violins and bows which belonged to the late Henri Vieuxtcmps has been purchased by the Duke of Campo-Medina, for the sum of 50,000 francs.
—In France, Charles Reade is ranked almost as high as a novelist as he is in America. ITis own countrymen undervalue his dramatic style, which requires the aid of a reader’s imagination.
—Mr. Caton Woodville, who is in Egypt making studies for battle-pictures, has received a commission by telegraph from Queen Victoria, to paint the storming of Tel-el-Kebir for the royal collection. •	■
—The Pennsylvania University Magazine states that Herbert Welsh, a graduate of ’71, and son of the Hon. John Welsh, ex-Minister at the Court of St. James, is gaining great distinction as an artist.
—-A sequel to Sir Charles Gavan Duffy’s “ Young • Ireland,” which aroused some interest, when published a year or so ago, will be brought out shortly under the title of “Four Years of Irish Historv, i845-’9.” .
.. —Mr. Nugent Robinson’s story, ‘f Father Tom,” now running through. the. pages of The Ave Maria, is. by all odds the best story that has ever .appeared in a Catholic magazine in this country. It is true—and it is a great deal to say—that nothing better has ever come from the pen of Mr. Robinson.
—-Miss C. F. Gordon Cumming is an indefatigable traveller, arid has visited many remote countries of .the world. ..Her latest work, the “Fire Mountains,” is an account of the kingdom of Hawaii, its5 volcanoes, and the history of its missions.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	’ 327
It is fully illustrated, and keeps to the form of a |	-diary.
I	—The magnificent sarcophagus of the Duke of
I	Wellington, in the crypt of St. Paul, is one huge
7	boulder of porphyry, weighing over seventy tons.
L	Nearly the whole of it has been standing above
i	ground for ages in the parish of Luxuilion, Corn-
<	wall, and it is the actual fact that before it was
f	selected the Continent had been searched in vain
'	for such a monolith.
I	—A statue of Robert Burns is to be erected on
J	the Victoria Embankment in London, by Mr.
i	Crawford, a retired Glasgow merchant." The
;	work will be entrusted to Sir John Steel, the sculp-
1	tor of the Burns statues recently erected in Dun-
i	dee and New York. The London effigy of the
\	Scottish poet will be of bronze, the pedestal being
•	'	of polished granite. The entire monument will
j	stand sixteen feet high.	_
i	—“Ice-Pack and Tundra” is the title of Mr.
|	W. H. Gilder’s forthcoming book, which will con-
£	tain an account of the loss of the Jeannette, the
•	'	burning of the Rodgers, and the author’s sledge-
•	journey across Siberia, with the news of the latter
t	disaster. Mr. Gilder accompanied the Rodgers
;	expedition as a correspondent of the Herald, and
•	was the only member of the party who visited the
|	Lena delta after the fate of De Long was made
|	known.
|	—Mudie’s famous circulating library in London
|	occupies eight adjoining houses, and gives employ-
5	ment to eighty persons. Its importance to the
;	reading Englishman is shown by the fact that it
|	circulated 2,400 copies of Macaulay’s History of
f	England, 2,000 of Livingstone’s Travels in Africa,
[	2,500 of “ Enoch Arden,” and 1,500 of “ Lothair”;
i	and that it circulates 6,000 copies of the Edinburg
I	and Quarterly Reviews, and 100 copies of the
|	Revue des Deux Mondes.
|	—Arrangements have been completed for the
|	publication of Science, a new educational and scien-
|	tific periodical, under the editorial management of
|	Samuel H. Scudder, late of the Harvard Library,
I	and the first number is promised soon. A great
I	deal of attention has been drawn to the new pa-
Iper. As an educational journal, it promises to be entirely independent of the school-book publishing trade, and as a scientific paper it will have
1	monthly correspondence from all the European
I	centres of scientific intelligence.
|	-	—The Oxford Magazine is the title of a new
journal to be issued on the 24th inst., and to be continued weekly during term time. It will be
i	conducted by members of the University, both
graduates and under-graduates. The periodical is intended to “ represent every side of Oxford life,”
5	and is to be established “ as a real and worthy organ
|	of University opinion.” It will contain, in addition
5	to numerous general articles, reports of the chief
-	clubs and societies of the University, important
;	Oxford sermons, and all University intelligence.—
’	London Athenceiim. '
|	—The American Art Journal, of New York,
1	January 6th, in an article entitled “ An American
!	Cornet Manufactory” gives a long and glowing |
description of Mr. G. C. Conn’s factory, at .Elkhart. All that is said therein in praise of Mr. Conn and his work, we can subscribe to. Many of the instruments of oui- Band, here at Notre	-
Dame, notably a fine large E^ Tuba, give unmistak-	•
able ^evidence of the skill and perfection of Mr. Conn’s workmen. Since the foregoing lines were written, this celebrated, manufactory was totally destroyed by fire, causing a loss of over $50,000,	.
and, at least temporarily, throwing one hundred .
skilled workmen out of employment. We are glad to know that Mr. Conn has taken measures to rebuild, on a larger scale than before, and will, in the meantime, provide employment for his workmen.
—The editor of The American Ari Journal -says: “We have sent our friend Dan. Beatty a novel Christmas present, which will, no doubt, be ' ’ heralded throughout the length and breadth of this land during the coming year. It consists of the scheme of an organ which contains 75 sets of imaginary reeds, ninety-nine stops that can actually be drawn out, although it makes no difference, with . a patent duplex expansive bellows that will hold sufficient 1 wind,’ provided it is blown by Daniel himself, to supply the organ for ten years without pumping, and can be sold for $39.92 for a whole year, divided into ‘ten-day’ offers, if the cash be	■
forwarded in advance.” The latter clause is rather vague; one hardly knows whether it is the bellows dr the organ that is meant. Perhaps it does : not matter which! Mr. Beatty’s advertisements say that he is now running his factory day and. night— flooding the country with cheap music—what will * hedo whenhisnew75-reed,99-stoporganisstarted? .	-	.
The Art Journal evidently has a poor opinion of Beatty and his organs,—as poor as that of O Jornal	.
de Noticias of the Mendelssohn Organ Co., New’ .	•
York.	’
—The Franklin collection of Mr. Henry Ste- .	’
vens, which has been purchased by the United States Government, embraces sixty volumes of . manuscripts, mostly large folios and about 300 voltimes of printed books. In printed matter the collection can boast of Franklin’s chapter additional to ’ Genesis, his supplement to the Boston Chronicle, : twenty-seven numbers of “ Poor Richard’s Almanack,” a complete set of his “Pocket Almanack,” eight -years of the Pennsylvania Gazette -and Franklin’s first work on “ Liberty and Neces-	.
sity,” of which the author printed only one huh- ,. -dred copies, gave three or four away, and de-stroved all the rest except one copy annotated-by Lvon. Among the numerous MSS. are the cele- . brated letter to Mr. Strahan and the duplicate copy of the last petition of Congress to the King, signed by Washington and all the members of the . Continental Congress. The volumes of manu-	J
scripts are carefully bound, and Mr.' Stevens has	j
hot only compiled an elaborate slip index, but has - .	j
prefixed to each document a slip showing the na-	.	. j
ture of it and stating whether it has been printed,	j
etc. The manuscripts are, by the terms of the Act	j
of Congress, to be deposited in the Hall of Records	j
in the State Department at Washington, and . the	.	1
printed books in the Library of Congress.	/ j
-	~	5
. s -	-	4
. _ 1 _	•*	J
- -	1
■	1
3 28
THE. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, February 3, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth vear of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Note Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the sue-, cess of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by theii" excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.jo per. Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly • he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—A former editor of. the Scholastic once wrote: “Rally around the flag, boys! Rally once again, and keep on rallying until the winter of our discontent is made glorious summer by the sun of June.” That means, write for the Scholastic—just what we want to say.
—On last Tuesday evening, the students were assembled in the Rotunda, “waitins' for the verdiet,” in other words, to hear the reports of the examination. Rev. President Walsh read the “percentages,” and expressed himself as well satisfied with the general result. The excellent averages O'	.	,	O
obtained by so large a number, which are published elsewhere, show to parents and friends that the general disposition among the students of the past session was one of earnestness of purpose and a determination to profit by the opportunities afforded. There is every reason to believe that the same spirit- will continue to prevail during the session upon which we have just entered, and that, from now until the end of the year, every effort will be. made to supply for any deficiency this.examination. may have revealed. .	...
—The absence of those “popular” lectures with Physical and Chemical illustrations was indeed a “want very much felt” during the past session. This defect was, in a great measure, owing to inability to heat “ Science Hall.” The steam-pipes, for some reason or other, thus far unexplained, hadw been removed, and other heating apparatus could not ■ be conveniently jjrocured. We are glad to learn that this defect will soon be remedied, and, at an early day, these lectures will be resumed.
In addition to this, among the other good things promised for the ensuing session is the inauguration of a new course of lectures on subjects pertaining to Philosophy, Law, History, and Literature. The lecturers have already been engaged, and early in the month the first of the course will be delivered.
Apart from these lectures, there will, of course, be the regular entertainments literary, musical, and dramatic; so that, all-in-all, no means of instruction and amusement shall be left unprovided.
—The recent movement in the’ senate of the University of Toronto, for the abolition of the University Residence for students, has stirred up such a strong feeling of opposition on the part of the residents, and many graduates who had been residents, that it is probable the benefits and disadvantages of college residence will be thoroughly sifted before action is taken. When it became known that Mr. Houston presented a resolution for the abolition of the residence, the alarm was immediately given. Being about the time of the Christmas holidays, the college paper, The ’ Varsity, would not under ordinary circumstances have appeared; but as it was, the editors at once set to work on an issue that was taken up chiefly with strong protests against Mr. Houston’s 'measure. The question at issue was examined on its merits. The reason given for Mr. Houston’s resolution is that residence is a financial drag on the college, the room rents, etc., not paying expenses; but other and stronger reasons for abolition are alleged, namely that the moral influence there is so bad that it practically means moral ruin for a young man to be sent there. The Prince’s Prizeman publishes a communication in favor of the residence on the ground of benefits derived from it and the affection that residents naturally bear the college in after years. He says: “To my mind the advantages of a life in college residence simply cannot be tfwr-estimated. The practical benefit derived from, association with, one’s fellows—the hard common sense pounded into a man, the knowledge of the world and the ability to' take care of one’s self in it—that nothing but a few years of life as one’s own master can give—the judgment that comes only from experience—all .these are to be had by the student who makes the residence • his home, to a fuller extent in three months of life there than in as'many years of existence in some carefully selected boarding-house.” As to. the evil influences in the Toronto College residence—it. is alleged -that residents are quite as
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
329
- good as the average outsiders of the same class; and that for the measure of evil existing in resit dence, under restraint, there is a still greater measure of evil, without any restraint, in boardinghouses outside. The subject is one that applies to many other colleges as well as that at Toronto, and is likely- to attract no little share of public attention. '
—There must be danger in “ a little learning,” otherwise it would not so completely turn the heads of so many people as it does. The effect of increased knowledge ought to be, and it invariably is with superior minds, to enlarge the mental vision and make one realize what a modicum of information he possesses, or can ever possess, in comparison with what still remains to be acquired, and the many different branches of science which no life is long enough and no brain powerful enough to compass. - Great minds are commonly humble ones, and in; proportion as they amass knowledge, they become sensible of their deficiencies. It is only to narrow minds that learning can be said to be dangerous.
People are accustomed to hear others converse on topics of which their knowledge is next to nothing; it is common enough to meet with articles in newspapers and magazines which are evidently written to fill space; stupid books, on every conceivable subject, from theology to hen-fever, teem from the press, and everyone seems to imagine that it is indispensable to be “ read up ” in new publications. The men of one book—devoted to one art or science have almost disappeared; and this explains why there are so few real savants. No one is content nowadays to confine himself to one kind of study. The scientist would be a theologian, the musician essays to become a poet, and so on. This is. bearable, though, because if scientists could be induced to study theology seriously they would not so frequently stultify themselves; and if all musicians could successfully woo the muses, it would perfect their art. But it exasperates sensible people to hear those who do not know a brush from a pallet passing judgment on paintings, discoursing on art; to listen to organ-blowers conversing .on harmony and music; to be exorcised with harangues on philosophy by stone-cutters; —to be made the unwilling spectators every day of exhibitions of downright conceit and illiteracy.
“Stick to your last,” is a good old adage, and ought to beiposted up conspicuously in all public thoroughfares. When will some people come to understand That they are not expected to be deeply versed in every branchy of science, to be ready to pass criticism on whatever they behold, or to talk learnedly on all subjects! A knowledge of one thing does not suppose or demand a knowledge of everything else. One may be an excellent performer on the violin, know a little French or German, without being skilled in ancient dialects, or versed in astronomy; and there is no reason for being ashamed of the avowal. Dr. Tanner maintained that he could fast longer than any man liv
ing, but he was never so foolish as to assert that he could eat most quail. .	-
When vou hear a sweet song, view a grand painting, or read a book of unusual merit, don’t resolve to give up everything else and turn vocalist, artist or'author. It is foolish to sow wishes in other peoples’ gardens, but wise to “ stick to your last.”	.	-
Personal. .
—Tom H. Quinn, of ’76, has been called to an important position in Philadelphia.	:
—M. Fowler (Com’l), of ’77, is playing “mine host” in a fine hotel at Danville; Ill.
—H. Matthews (Com’l), of ’73, is an energetic clerk at Jansen & McClurg’s, Chicago, Ill. ..
—W. Nelson (Com’l), of ’75, -holds a prominentposition with one of the leading Chicago firms.'
—G. Donnelly (Com’l), of ’78, holds a lucrative position in the employ of the Jackson Railway Co., New Orleans, La.
—Thomas Monahan (Com’l), of ’75, is the assistant secretary of the Pullman Car Manufacturing Co., at Pullman, Ill. '
—Frank Bloom, ’81, is to become a legal luminary at Vincennes, Ind. Frank was one of the famous “Staves” of ’80.
—B. John De Matha, well and favorably known to many of Notre Dame’s old students, is now an esteemed member of the Faculty of St. Isidore’s Institution, New Orleans, La.
.—We are happy to announce that Bro. Vincent, -one of the old pioneers of Notre Dame; is rapidly recovering from his late serious illness. • May.he be spared many years to witness the glorious results of his early labors! .	•
—The Rev.J. H. Guendling, of Lafayette, Indiana, visited the College this week. The Rev. gentleman’s many friends here were glad to see him, and much pleased to learn that he had completely recovered his health, which had not been good for some time.	-
—Mr. W. H. Welch, of Des Moines, Iowa, ~ and President of the Western Newspaper Union, was here this week, on a visit to his son. Mr. Welch was accompanied by Mr. W. A. Bunker, manager of the Southwestern branch of the W. N. U., at Kansas City, Mo., who lately placed a son at school here, and who seems much pleased with the arrangements for health and comfort. Among other places visited was the printing-office, where the Scholastic goes through its weekly 4 “grind.” Messrs. Welch and Bunker’s Company ‘ have a net-work of auxiliary papers that cover five States and go into five hundred thousand homes in the West every week. They do an immense business as advertisers, and are gentlemen with whom it must be pleasant, as well as profitable, to have business relations. They have ah Eastern office under the management of Mr. A. F. Richardson, in the Tribzme building, New York.

33°
THE. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., for many years President of Notre Dame, and now Rector of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis., has displayed in his new sphere of action that administrative ability'which is characteristic of him, and which was employed with such good results while directing our University. When Father Corby assumed charge of the parish at Watertown, the total debt upon the church was $21,497.54. ~The Watertown Gazette says:
“ Notwithstanding'this large figure, besides the heavy expenses of the past 16 months, the current expenses have all been paid and the debt reduced $7,801.87, leaving the entire debt, Jan. 15th, 1883, at the comparatively low figure of $12,297.05. Aside irom the debt being so largely decreased, it is very gratifying to know that the large amount of interest which the congregation has had to pay annually for years past, will, as a result of this decrease, be considerably less in the future. By the payment of a $7,000.00 mortgage note drawing 8 per cent., and also the payment of other notes with similar interest, the interest for the future will not be more than half -what it has been the pastfewyears. Thus it will be seen that during Father Corby’s 16 months’ administration at St. Bernard’s he has succeeded in reducing the church debt to the extent of thousands of dollars. To accomplish such a work in the city of Watertown in so short a time is indeed wonderful, and for so doing the worthy pastor is deserving of the highest commendation, not only from the members of his own flock, but from our citizens, in general. To know that we have such a grand edifice as St. Bernard’s Church in our midst, so free from debt, is in itself a pleasure, and to Father Corby, more than any other person, is the credit of this due.”	'
Local Items.
—Rain.	.
—Snow.
—Big wind! •
—AU three this week.
.	—Examinations are over.
—Ask him about the capital Ts.
—What percentage did you get? ’
—Now! Forward! On to June!
—See great Julius Casar on the 22d.
—The “King of Spain” has abdicated.
—When shall we have the next soiree?
—Another cold spell is predicted for the 20th inst.
—“Oh! my moustache is a little premature, that’s all.”
—There were several new arrivals during the past week.
—Some of them “ failed to materialize,” on Mon-.day morning.
'—A public “ disputation ” will soon be held by the Philosophs.	'
.. —The Thespians are preparing to get right down to business.,
.. —The Societies are holding the semi-annual elections of officers! . - :	7	.
—There is a “boss” story in this week’s issue of The “ Maria? . -
—The examination of the Philosophy Class was -unusually interesting and exciting.
—Read Bishop Ryan’s Lecture on “ Some of the causes of Modern Skepticism.” •
—Did the ground-hog see his shadow, yesterday? Guess not. What’s coming?	"
—A select Dancing Class will soon be started, under the direction of Mr. Marlette.
—“Well, I should prognosticate,” is the way the average Minim answers a query.
—A grand oyster supper was given last Tuesday night, to wind up the examinations.
—The Director of Studies has been busy during the past week in the distribution of classes. •
—Cecil says it is his good exainination that will secure the oranges to the whole Minim department.
—Very Rev. Father General will celebrate the 70th anniversary of his birthday on Tuesday the 6th.
—Prof. Hoynes will lecture during the coming week on “ The Relation Between Canon and Civil
—The sleighing was non est, last Tuesday. Buggies, carriages, and the like, were the order of the day.	’ .
—Masters J. Hetz and C. Cavaroc have the thanks of the Director of the Junior reading-room for donations.
—Great loads of brick and timber are being hauled every day. There will be lively times when spring opens.
—Owing to the unexpected absence of Mr. Larkin, of the law, the Moot Court has been postponed until next week.
—Our “ nimrods ” should be looking after their fowling pieces. They will soon meet “ foemen worthy of their steel.”
—Our friend John is a heavy stepper. We would suggest a substitution of “ dem golden slippers ” for the Brogans.
—Where are oui Walpolians? Not a single specimen of the “ finny-tribe ” has been angled for through the ice this ■winter.
—Rev. Father Ford, the genial Director of the “ Old Mens’ Home,” has, we are glad to. say, fully recovered from his recent indisposition.	.
—The St. Cecilians,.Thespians, Columbians and Philopatrians are doing as well as might be ex- . pected. Full reports of meetings'in our next. .
'	—Write, boys, write with' care, r	'
- " Write in the presence of the prefect there.
.	:	(To be continued.)
—The Orchestra, under the able direction of Prof. Paul, has attained a high standard of excellence. We hope to have the pleasure of hearing it often.
—The.Minims had the “boss” Board of Examiners. The “ Ex.”-editor of the Scholastic is an ex-ojfficio member, but he was unable to attend.

,1	----
J
'	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	331
—The famous drama, “If I were a King,” so often and so well presented by the St. Cecilians, is now published in pamphlet form. Copies may ■be had on application to Prof. Lyons.
—The usual mid-winter Thomas concerts .have been heard by a privileged few. -'-Judging from • the testimonials which we have seen, a catastrophe must have been eagerly sought after.
—Prof. Edwards returns thanks tb Master A. Schillo, for fine busts of Mars and Minerva, and to Rev. Father Hudson for an autograph letter of Card. Newman—donations to the Cabinet of Curiosities.
—Last Tuesday afternoon, Father General and President Walsh, with a select party of prominent men of South Bend, were entertained by Mr. J. M. Studebaker at his residence, Sunnyside, near the citv.
—This is to be the year of the “big wind.” Official notification has been sent to the Government at Washington that the “ great squall ” will
. come in March. Let our Meteorological Bureau see to it.
—The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association have ordered for their society-room three fulllength portraits of the Right Rev. Bishop Dwen-ger, Very Rev. Father Granger, and Rev. President Walsh.
—Our astrologer’s predictions for the month of January were all fully verified. The Scholastic Annual will henceforth be the book of consultation for all weather-prophets. While we are at it, we might as well say, too, that application for copies of the Annual have been received from all parts of the globe.	'
—To-morrow, Quinquagesima Sunday, the Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament for the Forty Hours’ Devotion will begin. Missa. Regia will be sung. Vespers, p. 52. Next Wednesday (Ash-Wednesday), the blessing and distribution of the ashes will take place at 10 o’clock, followed -by High Mass. AZAra Parvulorum will be sung.
—Students and others who travel by the L. S.
& M. S. R. R. speak in terms of the greatest praise of the Managers, Superintendents, and gentlemanly conductors. It is what might be expected under the efficient management of Mr. Charles P. Newell, so well and favorably known to the travelling public. Persons travelling bv this line mav be assured of every courtesy and convenience.
. —On Friday, the Feast of the Purification, solemn services were held, beginning with the blessing of the Candles and Procession. High Mass was sung by Very Rev. A. Granger, with Rev. T. McNamara as deacon and Rev. P. Franciscus as subdeacon. Mr. J. Sullivan acted as Master of Ceremonies. An eloquent sermon on the Festival of. the day and the ceremonies was preached by Rev. Father Hudson. -	/	'
—One of the most welcome of our annual vis-‘ itors is. the Scholastic Annual, edited by Prof.
J. A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame,
Notre Dame, Indiana. The Annual contains the usual astrological predictions and astronomical calculations which has, in past years, helped, in a great measure, to secure for the little work the popularity, which it now possesses. The book is an ecclesiastical and secular, almanac combined, and the bulk of the interesting readingrmatter is taken from the pages of our esteemed college.contemporary, the Notre Dame Scholastic. (University of Notre Dame:'Notre Dame, Ind.’'Price-twenty-five cents).—Boston Pilot. { .-	.
—Members of the Faculty and the Directors of the Lemonnier Library Association visited St. Mary’s Academy last Thursday afternoon to attend the regular Semi-Annual Entertainment. They, and indeed everyone present, speak in terms of unqualified praise of the marked proficiency -displayed by the young ladies. They declare they never attended -so agreeable and instructive a Literary aind Musical Entertainment as was this. The essays were above criticism, and the music, instrumental and vocal, was superb. The piano solos displayed a power and skill in technique and phrasing that was marvellous. Altogether,’every visitor pronounced the entertainment a complete success in every particular. St. Mary’s Academy has always been justly celebrated for its music,, but never did the young ladies display their rare accomplishments to better advantage than on Feb. 1st. We reiterate our congratulations, and cannot help thinking that if all academies and colleges had such singers and musicians as St. Mary’s can boast of, the States would not be behind any of the European nations. We congratulate the good Sisters on the success of their pupils.
—Father General did the Minims the honor of presiding at their examination. The board of examiners consisted of Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Fathers Granger, Franciscus, McNamara and Irmen, C. S. C., Mr. Burke, C. S. C.; Bros. Philip Neri and Emmanuel, C. S. C. Messrs. Castanedo, of New Orleans, La., and W. H. Welch, of Des Moines, Iowa, who were visiting their sons, were also present. The examiners say that the Minims acquitted themselves at the examination in a most creditable manner. The visitors remarked that they showed a great deal of coolness and intelligence in their answers to questions which might have staggered older students; they also remarked that Father General in no way embarrassed them, on the contrary, his presence only made them more self-reliant. After the Rev. President had tested them in decimals, compound numbers, etc., and given them questions in mental arithmetic with a lightning speed that almost-took away their breath, Father General ingenuously made out a problem of the Florida oranges, which refreshed and prepared them for the thorough examination of Grammar which followed. . The Minims have a right to be proud of their examination; they-feel that they have not'only fully satisfied the.expectations of Father General, the Rev. President, tjieir venerable “Uncle,” and the examiners generally, but also secured the Florida oranges. <	-
332
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Examination Averages.
[No Average under 60 is published.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. C. Armijo, 79; T. Ashford, 90; R. M. Anderson, 100; W. H. Arnold, 95; L. Austin, 84; E. Bailey, 85; W. Bowers, 70; J. Brady, 79; M.- Burns, 85; E.^ Blackman, 73; V. Burke, 8S; N. Comerford, 90; G. Castanedo, 67; E. Cavanaugh, 72; A. Coll, 77; J. T. Carroll, 73; C. Carroll, 89; T. Carroll, 78; W. Cleary, 88; T. Clarke, 93; G. Clarke, 96; A. Coghlin, 76 yj. Conway, 96; W. Campbell, 86; G. Clements, 87; G. Craig, 85; S. Crawford, 72; D. Claffey, 79; A. Cole, 80; M. Donahue, 100; H. Drover, 87; H. Delgado, 93; J. Deinhart, 79; S. Dickerson, 73; P. Donahue, 62; J. Eisenhauer, 81; B. Eaton, 83; N. Ewing, 98; W. Fogarty, 82; T. Flynn, 90; T. Fenlon, 89; R. Fleming, 99; H. Fitzgerald, 76; R. Fitzgerrell, 68; J. Far-rel, 94; F. Freeze, 78; J. Fenton, 82; E. Gall, 82; W. Gray, 59; J. Grever, 96; A. Golonski, 83; W. Grange, 86; Jno. Gallagher, 67; J. Guthrie, 89; F. Godfrey, 80; A. Grout, 86; W. Hofstetter, 71; Jno. Heffernan, 79; Jas. Heffernan, 91; C. Hausberg, 93; E. Harris, 82; W. Johnston, 93; J. Kleiber, 91; T. kane, 85; G. Kipper, '72; J. Keller, 92; C. Kolars, 96; G. Kimmell, S3; A. Koehler, 73; F. Kuhn, 99; L. Kavanaugh, 87; W. Keegan, 88; T. Lally, 86; W. Lally, 74; J- Murphy, 67; J. Mulloy, 96; F. Monahan, 61; G- McErlain, 93; J. Marlett, 90; W. Muhlke, 86; S. Murdock, 85; C. Murdock, 69; J. McIntyre, 97; W. Magoffin, 89; H. Morse, 95; T. McNamara, 79; J. McNamara, 86; W Martin^ 73; P. Nelson, 86; H. Noble, 88; J. Neeson, 73; T. Noonan, 67; M. O’Dea, 87; W. Orchard, 76; W. J. O’Connor, 87; J. P- O’Neill, 99; E. A. Otis, 100; J. O’Reilly, 92; J. O’Brien, 87; H. Porter, 86; F. Paquette, 80; L. Pour, 82; R. Parrott, 83; S. Pillars, 67; A. Peery, 93; J. Peters, 70: T. Peifer, 79; F. Quinn, 99; Jas. Reid, 81; W. Ratterman, 82; J. Rogers, 85; W. Ruger, 89; W. Ryan, 83; T. Ryan, 82; J. Sturfa, 85; C. Stull, 71; T. Steele, 97; B. Scholfield, 75; O. Spencer, 84; C. L. Smith, 70; J. Solon, 90; D. Saviers, 97; C. Tinley, 93; M. Thompson, 60; F. Terrazas, 89; J. Twohig, 75; W. Whalen. 90; E. Witwer, 93; H. Whitman, 72; J. Warner, 67; W. Warren, 77; F. Wheatley, 63; A. Wendel, 78; E. Yrisarri, 94; J. Zaehnle, 84-	*	.
'	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
D. Armijo, 69; C. Ackhoff, 93; F. Brice, 90; A. Browne, 77; W. Berthelet. 77: W. Bacon, 83; J. Bush, 67; A. Brewster, 82; W. Braunsdorf, 70; F. Curtis, 88; J. Crawford, 78; W. Coover, 90; T. Cassily, 81; C. Cavaroc, 89; Jos. Courtney, 97; Jas. Courtney, 75; L. Cain, 84; A. Chirhart, 79;' C. Droste, 76; F. Danielson, 71; C. Dupke, 80; R- Devereux, 65; M. Dolan. 91; J. Dorenberg, 84; E. Dillon, 92; G- De Haven, 86; H. Dunne, 72; J. Dwenger, 80; J- Duffin, 79; J. Devine, 74; C. Darling, Si; E. Eisenhauer, 75; M. Foote, 82; H. Foote, 76; F. Fehr, 69; Jno. Fendrich, 71; F. Fishel, 91; J. Fogarty, 68; C. Foster, 84; H: Goldsmith, 87; L. Gibert, 74; J. Grothaus, 90; E.. Gerlach, 85; J- Hagerty, 95; H. Hibbler, 79; J. Henry, S3; W-Henry, 94; C. Hornaday, 60; H. Hess, 88; J. Halligan, 88; W. Hanavin, 80; E. Holbrook, 94; P. Hagan. S3; F. Ha-genbarth, 83; H. Hickey, 84; A. Howard, 88; W. Hetz, 76; F. Johnson, 63; W. Jeannot, 88; J. Kahman, 80; C. Kerndt, 85; H. Kengel, 89; J. Keegan, 89; J. Kelly, 88 f J. Livingston, 79; C. Lund, 89; R. Leffingwell, 76; C. Ludwig, 86; F. Morton, 79; W. Mug, 98; C. Mason, 84; H. Metz, 92; W. Murphy, 86; W. Mulkern, 83: A. Major, 79; D. McCawley, 84; J- McGordon, 80; J. McDonnell, 75; T. McGrath, 80; J. McGrath, 72; J. McCartney, 77;*’ B. McCartney, 76; /. Nester, 60; D. O’Connor, 88; M. O’Connor, -75; J. O’Donnell, 73; V. ©’Donnell, 93; S. Peery, . 72; C. Porter, 76;. C. Robb, 88; J. Ropper, 61; J. Rhodus, 72;B. Rothschild, 82; J. Ruppe, 76; J. Reach, 88; F. Ryan, '84; J. Ryan, 79; W. Schott, 86; A. Schilio, 89; J. _ Smith, 93; G. Smeeth, 86; F. Sanford, 70; J. Seegers, 91; H. Sells, 76; L. Shannon, 50; B. Stark. 78; T. Talbot, 86; A. Taggart, 72; D-Tajdor, 81; A: Terrazas, 80; H. Tur-nockj 65; J. Violette, 78; A. Warner, 83; M. White, 70; W’«w6fcester, 81; J. Wagoner, 76pE. Wile,189; A. Wil--kinsdri, 90; W. Wright, 89; T. Walsh,74; R. Wallace, 88; F. Weber, 84; S.Waixel, 88; ^-P/Ynsam, .73; C. Zeigler, , 92; G. Schaeffer, 94.	. '
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
H. Ackerman, 90; E. Adams, 86;XJ. Beall, 89; J. Bunker, 85; J. Chaves, 87; G. Costigan, 98; E. Costigan, 95; F. Coad, 85; C. Cain, 78; W. Colwell, 75; E. Chirhart, So; J. Devereux, 75; W. Devine, 95; A. Devine, So; H. Dirks-meyer, S9; H. Doherty, 75; C. Fix, 70; J. Hopkins. 98; G. Huestis, 79; C. Harris, 95; C. Metz, 70; F. P. Nester, 92; F. Noonan, 56; R. Papin,’90; W. Prindiville, 85; D. Prih-diville, So; C. Quinlin, 82; A. Roberts, 95; V. Rebori, 90; T. Roper, 50; C. Spencer, So; W. Stange, 90; H. Schmitz, 87; O. Sommer, 75; J. M. Studebaker, 76; F. Stamm, 85; G. Stamm, 80; E. Schmauss, 76; J. Shicker, 74; A. Stewart, 60; P. Johnson, 97; A. J. Kelly, 90; J. krause, 92; F. Kellner, 75; G. Lare, 76; G. Landenwich, 75; B. Lindsey, 98; C. Lindsey, 75; J. J. McGrath, 96; J. McGrath, 90; E. McGrath, 92; W. McNaughton, 70; C. McGordon, 90; W. McPhee, 92; W. McGuire, 69; R. Morrison, 91; W. R. Moss, 95; W. Masi, So; E. Thomas, 76; F. Whitney, 90; J. Warner, 70; W. Walsh, 92; W. Welch, 97; J. Wright, 80; L. Young. 56; C. Young, 50.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
Messrs. Armijo, Ashford, Anderson, 'Arnold, Austin, Black, W. Bailey, Bowers Brady,. Burns, Bolton, E. Burke, Comerford, Cavanagh, Coll,* Cleary, T. Clarke, G. Clarke, A. Coghlin, W. Coghlin, Conway, Celia, Campbell, Clements, Chelini, Cole, M. Donohue, Delgado, Eaton, T. Fenlon, T. Flynn, Fleming,' Fitzgerald, Farrell, Gall, Grever, Golonski, Grange, Gallagher, Garrett, Guthrie, Godfroy, Gooley, Grout, Harris, Jones," Kleiber, Kane, Keller, Kolars, Kimmell, Koehler, kuhn, Kavanagh, Kelly, Murphy, Molloy, W. J. McCarthy, W. H. McCarthy, McErlaine, Muhlke, Mullen, S." Murdock, C. Murdock, McIntyre, Morse, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, Morris, Martin, Nelson, Noble, Neeson, O’Dea, Orchard, O’Connor, O’Neill, Otis, O’Reilly, O’Brien, H. Porter, Pour, Parrott, Pillars, Peery, Peters, Peifer, Quinn, Ratterman, Rodgers, Ruger, W. Ryan, Stull, C. Smith, Solon, Saviers,' G- Smith, Tinley, Twohig, Veale, Walsh, Whalen* Warner, Wheatley, Wendel, Yrisairi, Zahm, Zahnle.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
.	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Armijo, Ackhoff, Brice, Browne, Berthelet, Bacon, Bush, Brewster, Braunsdorf, Curtis, Coover, Cassily, Cayeroc, Jos. Courtney, Cain, Chirhart, Dupke, Devereux, Dolan, Dorenberg, Dillon, De Haven, Dwenger, Duffin; Devine, Dunn, Eisenhauer, M. Foote, Fendrich, Fishel, Foster, Goldsmith, Grothaus, Hagerty, Hibbeler, W. Henry Hess, Halligan, Hannavin, Hollbrook, Hagen. Howard, Jeannot, Kahman, Kerndt, Kengel, J. Kelly, ' Livingston; Lund,. Mug, Mason, Metz, Mulkern, Major, McCawley, McDonnell, J. McCartney, Nester, M. O’Connor, Peery, Porter, Roper, Rhodus, Reach, J. Ryan, Schott, Schilio, Smith. Seegers, Stark, Talbot Taylor, Taggart, Terrazas, Violette, Wilkinson, Wright, Wallace, Weber, Yrisairi, Zeigler, Schaeffer, Ohnick, Waixel, Arnold, T. Ryan, Rothschild.
,	MINIM DEPARTMENT. ■
Masters Ackermann, Adams, Beall, Bunker, Chaves, Colwell, Cummings, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Coad, Chirhart, Dirksmeyer, Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Doherty, Fix, Hopkins, Huestis, Harris, Hewitt, Johnson, A. Kelly, Krause, Kellner, Kane, Keeffe, Luther, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, McNaughton, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McGordon, McPhee, Morrison, Masi, Metz, Nester, Noonan, B. Otis, F. Otis, Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Roberts, Rebori, Roper, Spencer, Stange, Schmitz, Studebaker, Smith, F.. Stamm, G. Stamm, • Schmauss, Shicker, Ste.wart, Thomas, Whitney, W. Walsh, Wright, Welch, L. Young.' "T
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
333
Saint fflary's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Several new pupils have arrived, both for the Academic Department and the Conservatory of Music.
—A full account will appeal? next_ week of the Academic Examination, commenced on the 25th, and finished on the 30th.
—In passing the Laboratory, at two o’clock, one may remark the Chemistry Class at their experiments. Their evident interest and spirit of emulation is a faithful mirror of their progress.
—The Fancy-work room attracted much attention, arid elicited great praise from visitors, who inspected the beautiful specimens of original designs in embroidery, and every kind of needlework.
—On Thursday, the Art Gallery was thrown open to visitors, filled with paintings in oil, watercolors, and crayon. A detailed account of the Art School, one of the rriost important departments of the Academy, will also be deferred to the next issue of the Scholastic, it being impossible, in these limits, to do full justice to .the progress of the pupils, or to speak of the many advantages added to those already possessed.
Semi-Annual Examination of Instrumental and. Vocal Music.
Very Rev. Father SuperioivGeneral, Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier, C. S. C., and ladies visiting the institution from various parts of the country, honored the pupils by their presence. The examiners were thecorps of music teachers, presided by the Prefect of Studies. Two hours, during nine days, were given to the examination, from the tenth class up to the first, beginning at the lower classes, where notation, time and touch formed the main subject of scrutiny. Ascending through the grades—five-finger exercises, scales, studies and pieces of music containing the same work, were carefully noted, faults pointed out, and progress received due commendation. In the more advanced classes, a graceful and easy manner is rigidly required, technical skill, expression, and correct phrasing were watched by eyes and ears accustomed to catch the slightest defect. On the Bulletins sent to parents and guardians, the exact standing in class of every pupil is marked. Some, having been promoted in September, must reach the standard of their class, before passing to higher. ’ Music cannot be measured, nor acquired by going over a certain number'of pages, or pieces; talent, good will, patient and faithful practice must also be taken into account.
We are happy to state most of the vocal and instrumental pupils realized the expectations of their teachers, and the work of the last five months proves that there is, plenty, of talent to be developed. The June examination will show with what result.
The reorganization of classes, and promotions for.
the next session are given below: o	__
Advanced Course—Miss Laura Fendrich, Grad
uate of ’82.
To Graduate in the First Course in June—Misses Mary Campbell, Maude Wiley and Caroline Sullivan. Promoted to 1st Class—Miss Jane Reilly.
2d Division of 1st Class—Miss Martha Beal.
2d Class—Misses Isabella Gove, and Catharine Donnelly. Promoted to this Glass—Misses- Virginia Barlow and Mary A. Ryari. ■	..
2d Division—Misses Harriet Hunt, Mary English, Elma Wallace. Promoted- to this Division —Misses Elizabeth Kirkham, Henrietta Keenan, and Catharine Fenlon.
3d Class—Misses Linda Fox, Annie Leydon, and Fanny Unger. Promoted to this. Class— Misses Ada Shephard, and Eva Bathrick.
• 2d Division—Misses Agnes Dillon, Harriet Van Patten, Lulu Wood, Elizabeth Shickey, and Gertrude Durphy. Promoted to this Division—Miss Clara Ginz.
4th Class—Misses Mary Walsh, Catharine Lancaster, Emily Mohl, Marion Morgan. Promoted to this Class—Misses Lucy Crawford, May Adderly, Estelle Todd, Mary Dillon and Emma Slattery.
2d Division—Misses Frances Schmauss, Mary Spears, Alida Rulison, Louisa English, Rose Pick, Mary Feehan and Alice. Gavan. Promoted to this Division—Misses Mary Henneberry, Lily Van Horn, Catharine Fehr, Hepsey Ramsey, and Estelle Laffer.
5th Class—Misses Veronica Reilly, Mabel Newton, Mary H. Ryan, Alice Dolan, Catharine Ducey, Matilda Grist, Anna Murphy. Promoted ‘to this Class—Misses Ada’Babcock, Isabel Snowhook, Edith Wallace, Martha Munger, Ada Mal.boeuf and Frances Hibbins.
2dDivision—Misses Mary Clarke, Minnie Hawkins, Loro Williams, AdaDuffield, Mary Chirhart, Jessie Duffield, Josephine Spengler, Bertha King, Grace Taylor, Minnie Fisk. Promoted to this Division—Misses • Catharine. Morrison, Henrietta Call, Winifred Moshier, Teresa Slattery, May. Stacked, Margaret Coogan, Helen McCauley, and Mary Knott.
6th Class—Misses Sarah Dunne, Effie Johnston, Bertha English, Maude Richardson, May Neyius, Genevieve King, Manuelita Chaves, Daisy Myers.
. Promoted to tnis Class—Misses Catharine McKenna, Henetta Danforth, Mary Comerford, Mary-Coyne, Mary Schmidt, Maude Dickson, and Frances Keifer.
2d Division—Misses Agnes Gallagher, Lucy Heneberry, Ellen O’Connell, Charlotte Alexander, Anna Adams, Margaret Rodgers, Mary Hetz, Bridget Haney, Clara Richmond, Anna Heckard, Margurita Otero, and Julia Hagan. Promoted to this Division—Misses Isabel Johnson, Augusta Legnard, Ella Harris, Ellen Donnelly, Mary Otis, Mabel Barry, Ellen O’Brien, Alida Madole, Alice Sawyer. Classed—Miss Billing.and Martha Hawkins.	; : •
334
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
7th Class—Misses Bowman, Honora Brown, Clara Sawyer, Jane Schull, Harriet Eldridge, Lena Spotwood, Catharine Harrigan, Ellen Quinlan, Bessie Halsey, Ellen Lape, and Mary King. Promoted to this Class—Miss Agnes English.
8th Class—Miss Dora Best. Promoted to this Class—Miss Jessie English. -	t
9th Class—Misses Belle Prescott and Margaret Ducey. Promoted to this Class—Miss Mary Sullivan.	■
10th Class—Misses Sarah Campau, Martha Otis, Edna Buftis, Alice Schmauss, Lilian Robinson, Gertrude Wallace, Alice Naylor.
Harp—Promoted to 4th Class—MiSs Mary Dillon.
Guitar—6th Class—Miss Catharine Ducey.
Organ—Miss Jane- Schull.
Violin—Miss Minnie Hawkins.
The Music Examination closed on February 1st, with an Entertainment given by the Graduat-ins" and First Classes of Instrumental and Vocal o	.	a
Music, interspersed with essays, according to the following programme:
Chorus—“To Earth May Winds are Blowing” R. Schumann Vocal Class.
Valse from Faust...................Gounod-Liszt
-	Miss Caroline Sullivan.
Essay—“Die Nothwendigkeit Religioser Bildung” Miss Agnes Dillon.
Vocal Duett—“When the Wind Blows in From the Sea ” H. Smart..............Misses Reilly and Fendrich Perpetual Movement...Von	JVeber
Miss Maude Wiley.
Recitation—“Bernardo del Carpio”....Mrs. Hernans
Miss Anna Murphy.	'
Song—“ I Know That My Redeemer Liveth.....Handel ■	Miss Lena Elma Wallace.
Valse Impromptu (Allegro con Fuoco).A’ Scharwenka Miss Mary Campbell.
Essai—“ L’Amitie Veritable est le.Chemin du Cceur ” Miss Catharine Lancaster.
Vocal Trio—Barcarole...................Gordigiani
Misses Wallace, Reilly and Hinz.
Essay—“ Sedes Sapientiae ”......Miss Mary Clarke
Song—“ With Verdure Clad ”...............Hayden
Miss Jennie Reilly.-
Fantasie, Andante, Veloce, Allegro...Dreyschock
.	■ Miss Laura Fendrich.
Gipsey Chorus........................R.	Schumann
Vocal Class
Ancient Greek Music.
This music has long been a subject of deep research, but, at this late day, and in our trust of the tempered modern scientific scale, we can scarcely .appreciate at its full value the importance of the role which Plato, Aristotle, Plutarch, and Aris-toxines bore in the educational systems of music attributed to them.	- -	' - *
To us, the attention of the musical world, at present, is interesting; for the Church, like those outside, has never lost the clue to the ancient chant, but has ever kept those modes and strains, mixed with the temple traditional music, in her plain chant. .	■ .	. .. .
Our modern composers frequently have recourse to the Greek modes, as well as “their chromatic
scale, when they need a greater melodic power in their descriptive tones; for, according to M. Le-veque, Greek modes had superiorities*of expression which are wanting in our own. It derived its power from melodic simplicity, and its merit lay in not pretending to give more various and diverse ' interpretations of the sentiments of the soul than the means at its disposal permitted. It was at first only the auxilliary ;of poetry, and poetry was the centre of gravity of Greek music. Its many moods were rich in tones, and made more so by its varied rhythms.
M. M. Ducoudray and Gervert also discussed the idea of bringing back the ancient modes to modern science, in order, as they assert, to rejuvenate it, fatigued, as they declare, by an excessive development of its major and minor. M. Westphal gave his opinion to the French Academy of Science, saying that it had become a necessity to return to ancient art. Some people imagine he troubled himself without cause, for the so-called composers of the future will, doubtless, soon line the theatre with trumpeters, and depend on the audience for the chorus, unless good taste resumes her empire.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMI ABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
J SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Adams, Adderly, Beal, Clarke, M. Campbell, Clifford, Chirhart, Dillon, Donnelly, Dunn, Daily, Dickson. Feehan, Fox, Fenlon, Gove, Ginz, Heck-ard, Harrigan, M. Hawkins, M. Heneberry, L. Heneberrv, Johnson, Keenan, Knott, M. King, B.King, Kirkham, Lancaster, Lape, Mohl, Munger, C. McKenna, McCarten, J. Owens, O’Connell, O’Brien, Quinlan, A. Ryan, M. H. Ryan, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Rulison, Ramsey, Sullivan, Shickey, E. Slattery, Sawyer, Stackerl, Todd, Taylor, Van Patten, Wiley, Wright, Walsh, Wood, Williams. 2d Tablet— Misses Black,. Comerford, C. Campbell, Danforth, Dolan, L. English, B. English, Eldridge, Fendrich, Gavan, Hagan, Hunt, Laffer, L. Hawkins, Legnard, Madole, Newton, M. A. Ryan, B. Semmes, Schmauss, T. Slattery, Unger, L. Wallace.	'	.	- .	*
A Boston preacher says that nothing gives such a complete index to the character of man as the substance he spreads upon the icy side-walk in . front of his house. He who uses sifted ashes is a strict utilitarian, precise and hard in his ideas, without much sentiment, and prone to look to the end to be gained, without much thought of the gracefulness or beauty of the means employed. He . who takes ashes, half-burned coal, and incumbus-tible slag out of his.grate and pitches the whole promiscuously over his side-walk, is a man who really cares nothing for the safety of other people’s limbs. He who covers slippery places with sawdust, which seems to'afford a footing, but does not, is cynical and malevolent. He who strews . the glassy pave with sand so judiciously heated that it sticks to the ice without melting it, is refined and nice in his tastes, sympathetic in his disposition, and bulging with philanthropy. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	335
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited’ to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care-of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—§125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.	,
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
’	Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
NEW PLAYS.
FOR MALE CHARACTERS ONLY.
IF I WERE A KING, a Drama in Four (4) Acts. Postage free. Price.......$050
LE BOURGEOIS GENTSLHOMME, or The Upstarta A Comedy in Three (3) Acts, adapted from the French of Moliere. Postage free. Price...................... 25
‘THE RECOGNITION,” or The Triumph Of Justice. A Drama of the 15th
Century, in Four (4) Acts. Postage free. Price,. 50 ' "■ Several other Dramas are in course of preparation, and will be issued at an early day.
The above dramas are written for the purpose of drawing out the elocutionary ability of the participants.
Address, ■
JOSEPH A. LYONS, Publisher, Notre Dame, Indiana.
A Most Attractive Book for the Holidays.
The Household Library
• OF
CATHOLIC POETS
FROM
• CHAUCER TO THE PRESENT DAY.
The Only Work of its Kind in the Language 1!!
Price: Subscription Edition, fvith an
. . ■ adntirable portrait of Chaucer,) - - Sj 00 Cheap Edition, post free, - - -	- 2 00
Address
JOSEPH A. LYONS, Publisher,
'	Notre Dame, Indiana.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
By MAURICE F. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame o University. -
Price, postpaid, -	-	-	-	§1.00^
Address	'	-	~	-
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, Philadelphia, Pa.
G. K NEVIUS,
dentist.
Office—101 Michigan, cor. of Washington St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
' In order to prevent irregular dentition and premature decay of Children’s Teeth, frequent examinations are indispensable. The Doctor will make no charge to Parents who desire to know the condition'of their children’s teeth.
Wabash, St Louis & Pacific Rwy.
Phe Popular Passenger Route <f America I
Smooth Track, Steel Rails, and Elegant Equipment serve to make a
TRIP OVER THE WABASH
Safe, Rapid, and Pleasant !! ’
*** Special Tickets Sold to Students attending Notre Dame University.
Tourist Tickets to all Summer Resorts throughout the Country, at Greatly Reduced Rates, for Sale by all Agents of the Great Wabash Route.	-	*
Special inducements offered to Colonist,- LandSeeking, and Emigrant Parties.
IF YOU ARE CONTEMPLATING .
A JOURNEY IN ANY DIRECTION you should apply either in person or by letter to the nearest Agent of	•
The Great Wabash Route
and obtain full information, Tickets, etc.
Rates always as Low as other Lines, and facilities for’ ease and comfort far superior.
F. A. Palmer, Pass, and Ticket Agent, Indianapolis;
40 W. Washington St.	.
] no. C. Gault, 2d Vice-Prest., St. Louis, Mo.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
' The'UxiVERSiTY affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS, MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE,
LAW, MEDICINE, MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.	s
-	THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
- In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President.
. For further particulars, or Catalogue, address	‘
.	Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
St. Mary’s Academy,
. - CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course-is thorough m the Preparatory, Academic and Classical mad»-s.
* Tne institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus choice and extensive, herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes
No ex>ra chaiges for German or French, as these languages enter into’ the । < gular course of academic stuti ies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge, of a complete corns of teachers, eleven in number. Tt comprises a laige Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harp«. pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory.and practice.
Esthetics and Composition —A lanre Musical Library in French German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture. Chorus Singing and Hamony
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE
Is modelled on the great Art cchno)sof Europe, drawing and paint-ingfrom life and the antique. A choice Library of the. Fine Arts in Eng’ish. French. Gei man Italian. a»d Spanish is connected with the School of Design Graduating pupils who have passed credit-ablv through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating" Gold Medal of the Department.
’ Graduating Meo-Ms aie awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art De-paitment.	_ —	.....
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
‘ Tull particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address	•	-
............:	. .MOTHER SUPERIOR,. "
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0.* Ind.
L. 8. & 1.8. Railway.
On and after Monday, Jan. i, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
,	GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; .Buffalo, 8.05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.ni.; Buffalo, 4 aun.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
6.35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives 2t Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a.m. ■
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m.
Chicago, 6.10 a.m.	c
4-35 a-m- Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m.
Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
8,02 a.m Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a.m; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.30 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.15 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m.; Chicago, 5.oo,p.m.
4.35 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5:18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8-p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt.,-South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
. J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago. * W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
- - - P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
• JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.