*   t ~m~	II I- I ~O~V-riLn —kJ
DAILY SCHOLASTIC
’ b 15CE- 9^1 • §t^efl’	• CI?.^OfVT^^? //
Vol. I. <	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, Wednesday, June 15, 1898. ..	’ / J■ <;
Old Glory In Cuba.
Rt. Rev. Bishop Burke will address the Graduates tonight.
Closing- Exercises at St. Edward’s
•' < Hall. ?	: /■’ ■ i
, Insurgents Will Co-Operate.
The Scholastic's Dispatch Column.
Washington, June 15.— The minister at Washington for Argen-tine Republic has written letters reflecting on ,the United States government. They haye found way. into print in Argentine’s
The
Boat Races.
The races . 11 o’clock.
started promptly at A stiff wind was
The closing- exercises of St. • Edward’s Hall were held this afternoon at three o’clock. The.
newspapers. The matter will be • investigated. •
Key West, June 15.—British steamer Twickenham, captured off Kingston by Auxiliary Cruser
program was varied, consisting of, blowing down the lake at the be- selections on the piano, guitar and ginning of the races and prevent- mandolin as well as recitations. ed fast time. The .Sorin crew and chorus singing,: and? we can . ’ started from the south fla^, while say in all sincerity that The .sue-,/ the Brownson crew, had the lucky ceSs of the entertainment was.
north course. Sorin and Brown- nothing short of remarkable. In son first crews got away on even elocution, Masters Weber .and J. terms, but Sorin soon gained a Abercrombie,-and in music;/E.
length which it lost on the turn. O’Connor deserve special/meh-. On. the last two lengths Sorin tion, as, indeed, does everyone charge rize crew	gained and won by two and one- on the program, for they all bore;
c ai^e prize crew.	half, lengths in 4.15, which is very 'themselves with the:ease /and
Tampa, June 15.—Colonel Her- fast under the circumstances, grace-of gentlemen and performed-Brownson rowed a very plucky their parts in a manner worthy,;of. race. A mistake was made in-the much older amateurs. The?exceLj '	C.	'	.	-	-	- . y '	. ■	--I
St? Louis, arrived, here today in
nandez of Cuban army brought let-
ter to Gen. Miles,. announcing Garcia, with 9,000 men taken possession of points near Santiago and ready to co-operate in. attack upon city.	•	’
Madrid, June 15.—Spain thinks
arrangement of the crews in last lence of the entertainment;. was-evening’s Scholastic.Edward' proof—were proof, needed—of Rahe, stroke of the Sorin crew, is the. patient and thorough instruc-also captain.	• tion given .the. students of St.
Brownson second Won the next Edward’s Hall, for-it Js.W6.Wasy;’ she sees a ray ?of hope in the race by a half length in 4:33 4-5. .task to fit boys of their aged to
possible intervention of Germany The race was one of the prettiest give an entertainment suchkas-in the Philliphines. The politi- of the day.	...	that of this afternoon ;■ and it- must;
cians want to make the conces- In the third race the crews were be a source of great pleasure, to/ sions to Germany announced this, on even terms until the last, hun- their parents To see .the progress-morning, and they-seem confident dred yards. At this point Brownson their sons havemade; and;akho;wfc' that the Kaizen will dome to their -forged ahead and won by-a length. edge of how.Well, they are-cared’ aid?. No word is known to have Time; 4:42. During the last race for and instructed must b'eWpm^ been received from Germany, and the wind died down and the boys pensation., for the few month’s; there is very little danger that made nearly their best time.. By deprivation of .their ' companyW Wilhelm will take any hand in,the mistake the name of T. Hoban Rt. Rev. Bishop RademacherWho; HispandkAmerican difficulties. was -printed in place of ; F. . J. .preJded-the "exercise .	t>t	/_\ . Thacker Who was coxswain of The; St; Edward’s Hall
Brownson. /Miss Dreyer .pinned? school for boys in the countiyw^d-. the medals upon’ the/jerseys of. certainly Jf ,t^
' the winners. r ' . /	/ / /. .z bn/the -lines JaidW^^
Auditorium ■tow-er,/Chicago.—	Mr. Francis Earle Hering acted.theyr shouldYd^^^	culA
’.'Weather forecastjbr twelve. hours:/ as ‘starter. ..The judges were^Br94/iured,-C^
’ Indiana.—generally. fair - and- Leander; Ho^	k /The exercises-Today mark
cooler tonight; northwest winds Col. ,W. E. Hoynes. .	close of a very successful year.
Weather Indications?
:• r
u
i «
I
io
Chief Justice Howard Honored.
At 2 o’clock this afternoon the President, faculty and guests of the University assembled in the St. Cecilian lecture room for the formal presentation of the Laetare Medal to Hon. Timothy E. How-
, ard, chief justice of the court of Indiana.
The Laetare Medal significance is familiar
supreme
and its to our
readers and it is unnecessary to comment bn the fitness and wisdom of the selection of Justice . Howard as this year’s recipient.
A cut of the presentation address appears in another page of this issue.
The Rev. President Morrissey, in the name of the University made the formal ’ presentation in a few well chosen and appropriate remarks. Judge Howard in ac. cepting this, his Alma Mater's . highest honor spoke as follows:
When I consider the many eminent men and women to whom the Lsetare . Medal has been awarded—poets, artists, orators, warriors and statesmen; , men of science, literature and- philosophy; when I consider, too, that the custom of giving this medal is an American adaptation of
THE DAILY SCHOLASTIC.
with them in the toils and trials which have under providence brought about so miraculous a growth; and now on my unworthy head this dear Alma Mater wishes to place this mark of her affection that I may before the world represent the many modest, untiring and devoted men, living and dead, who have here wrought so well and brought this to pass, that the tender plant that was set here in the wilderness in 1842 has developed into the magnificent tree of 1898 under whose branches so great a multitude of Amer-. ican youth has sought shelter. As representing those holy workers who have sought no honor for themselves, I accept this .Lastare Medal and will wear it for them before the world.
May the great University of the West go from year to year, still doing the good work appointed to her from the beginning, sending forth her crowds of generous and trained Christian youth; that our beloved America may more and more be blessed in the higher, brighter and purer life of her citizenship, by the quiet studies and noble teachings of Notre Dame.
At the conclusion of the Judge’s words his many friends gathered about to offer their congratulations.
The Scholastic joins in offering congratulations to Judge Howard upon this honor, and to Alma
Mater upon having a son
worthy of her proudest crown.
the example of the August Father of ’
SO
The New Gymnasium.
The fall term of ’98 will witness the opening of the new gymnasium. The building has been modelled after the plans of the most modern college and athletic club gymnasiums, and in its adaptability and equipment for all kinds of sports will be second to none.
The gymnasium proper has 100x35 feet fl°or space, and the gymnastic furnishings are new and modern in every sense. The students will exercise under the supervision of an instructor.
The most important feature of the gymnasium is the athletic room on the first floor. This is the largest room—unobstructed by pillars and devoted entirely to athletics—of any gymnasium in the country. The room is 100x165 feet; the walls are 25 feet high and without windows, the light coming through skylights in the roof. This roof is circular and is supported by arches that span from wall to wall. The floor is ground, and the room is bounded by a running track which has eleven laps to the mile. The size of the room, it being much larger

'■z
Christendom in bestowing the golden ■	.
rose annually upon some noble lady who	e last meeting of the ex-	_	.
. has deserved well of the Church'and of ecutive committee of the Athletic than a-baseball diamond, will per-
mit of basket-ball, tennis, baseball,
society; so that the recipients of the Association, Mr. Paul J. Ragan,	.	.
golden rose. and the L^tare Medal are was elected to the office of hand-ball and track athletics, associated as kindred bands of superior aianager of the base ball' team A part of -the building is used
. men and women, set apart as marked by high attainments in Christian excellence;
for the season of ’99.
The
for a locker room, where each stu-
and when I realize.that I have been in- office was tendered to
Mr. dent may keep his gymnasium
vitedby my Alma Mater to take my O’Shaughnessy, who in the work equipment. There are also bath
place as a member of so distinguished a of the season, has been most suc-company, I can but feel how great is the
rooms, half a dozen shower baths,
,	,	,	,	. . cessful in managing the Varsity of dressing booths and rooms devoted
honor conferred and how unworthy the , .	-	,	,	. . r ,
.	. .	this year, out he declined to ac- to the necessities of the different
Ever partial to whatever I have tried cept, on the plea that he would kinds of athletics. All athletic . .	.	: not be able to give the necessary work will be done, under the im-
Mr. Eugene mediate; care of the physical direc-
! p recipient.
£

to do, since the first day I entered these
- • . - - . * <->
sacred precincts, now nearly forty years time to the work
ago, Notre Dame has added to all her A n 1	r ,	—11 ~ 7 l • • -n
favors this crown of honors. - < - A. Delaney was elected manager,tor. The college physician will
-■ One reason only ran I find why I °f the basket-ball team for ’98 and examine all students, to determine
7	should be so selected for this distinction. ’99. Mr. J. J. Crowley, 1900,was their fitness for physical work, and
Ihaveseen this nobler University grow chosen as alternate. .	. the exercise.'permitted will be in
.. from a struggling but.ambitious academy •	The accounts for. the full season? accordance .with this examination,
as dear friends all the~ devoted ;men Of not yet been balanced; but . . During recent years careful at- . God who havewrought the. great work; indications, are that, the year, has.-.tention has been given to all. forms
. ithasbeen my great privilege to partake been a successful One in' finances.-of- outdoor/sport, with - the object
I
►
THE DAILY SCHOLASTIC.
ii
of individual development rather . than athletic prestige. ^The personnel of the teams is composed solely of students, and every position on the teams is secured by competition.	.
The football teams have’all the necessary accoutrements for the
s'
games,-in addition to a coach, men and football teams have for train-

to train and keep the players in proper physical condition, and training tables. Most of the games are played at Notre Dame, but several trips are allowed to other ■ colleges and Universities.
The baseball teams have all the advantages of the football teams.
ing, vaulting and hurdling. The resent the student body as here-	1
new gymnasium was built with a tofore. The Faculty board will	j
special view to this branch o f determine the amateur standing	|
sport, and the track room is so of the members of the athletic	]
large that all track events can be teams, and apportion the finances. . '
acco.mmodated, including bicycle racing and putting the shot-. All the facilities which the baseball
ing are shared by the students interested in track athletics. The
University team is a member of dent only. By this means indis-
several - associations- among the colleges, and the rivalry of these meets, keep alive an intense interest among the students.
St. Joseph’s Lake permits of
The President of the University, who is chairman of the Faculty board, will keep in close touch with all departments of athletics through the physical director, who shall be responsible to the Presi-
creet and unconsidered actions of the students will be checked, and athletics will thereby be. put. on an equal footing with those of other western universities.
At Hotel d’Haney.
On Sunday afternoon the Var- ", sity wended its way toward Hotel
Equipment is furnished for those safe boating, and the boats of the who desire to play, and inter-hall University and seats in the crews teams provide amusement for the are open to all students. The students, and keep alive a healthy coaching of a well-known oars-rivalry.	man has been enjoyed, and much
d’Haney. The occasion > was a. \ -
Basket-ball furnishes sport for progress made in the technical banquet which was tendered them . a winter’s evening; The games knowledge of the sport. . by Professor Edwards in the south -are played in the athletic room, All athletics will be governed , dining room of the hotel, and it ~-which has a gallery overlooking by a Faculty board , of control rin was given because of the victory' -it,-able to seat 1000 persons. The conjunction with the students’ over. Stagg’s men. There were y
best- teams • from the Chicago committee'. The.President of the toasts, of course, and there was branches of the Y. M. C. A. insure University and members of the singing, too,—not artistic singing, ’ = . close contests. \	’ Faculty will compose the admin- but noise enough to show that ,
Many of- the students devote istrative board, and reserve‘ the everyone was happy. Prof. Ed-their recreation hours to track'right of a final determination of . wards lias the sincere Thanks of athletics which include running, all questions concerning athletics, all for his “spread” and also for . jumping, walking, weight throw- The students’committee will rep- Sunday evening’s entertainment;., 4
12
THE DAILY SCHOLASTIC.
THE DAILY SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame. Wednesday, June 15, 1S9S.
Published daily during Commencement Week.
Entered as second-class matter at the Pos Office, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Board of Editors.
J
J
J. MURPHY, ’97;
’97; THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98; ’98; RAY'MOND O’MALLEY,’98; ’9S; FRANKW. O’MALLEY-,'99; '9S; JOHN F. FENNESSEY’, '99; ’99; FRANK J. F. CONFER, ’97;
5

ELMER
PAUL J. RAGAN, FRANK E. HERING. WILLIAM SHEEHAN, EDWARD J. MINGE Y, JOHN J. DOWD,
louis c. m. reed.	[ Reporters
FRANCIS O’SHAUGHNESSY', j
The Scholastic wishes to congratulate Judge Howard upon receiving- the Lanare Medal of ’98, and the regents of the University oh their excellent selection of a candidate-for the highest honor in the power of the University to confer.
biographical notes, however brief. The volume will not be published until the close of the War.
The illuminated address presented with the Lmtare Medal, a representation of which we give on the opposite page, was the work of the artists of St. Mary’s Academy upon whom it reflects the highest credit. The design is o	o
of great beauty and every detail is worked out with exquisite care and skill. It is not too much to say of the coloring that it recalls the best specimens of illuminating. To present the Laetare Medal with an address like this must enhance its value in the eyes of the recipient.
tainly a great need at Notre Dame, where an invaluable collection of books, MSS., and literary material of all kinds has long existed. Professor Edwards has been an indefatigable collector, and has gathered a wondrous amount of the most precious material bearing upon the history of the New World. The library will absorb numerous private collections of books, etc., which have long been awaiting a permanent and safe abode. Here is a golden opportunity for some public-spirited man to distinguish himself and at the .same time confer a lasting benefit on Notre Dame and the country at large.

A Curiosity.
9
d
A reliable weather prophet submits the following predictions for the next twelve hours.- He lives oh the spot, and he thinks he ought to know the atmospheric mutations here better than they do in Chicago. Occasional
q
showers shine, morning.
with alternate moon-A cool breeze toward
Of recently published poems one of the most noteworthy, we think, is “The Blessed Christ,” which appears in the current number of the Ave Maria. It is from the pen of Mrs. Mary E. Mannix, who takes for her text two lines of a widely copied poem by Israel Zangwill. The dexterity with which his hollow latitu-
a The Rev. D. Frederic George “a	;	0
S Lee, the distinguished Anglican S - divine of London, has presented g an exceedingly rare and valuable || work to the -University library. It deals with the history and antiq-uities of Thame Church, Oxford, a and consumed twenty years of g labor. Only 210 copies were
dinarianism is hit off will by every reader/
O blessed Christ, to die for dreams, Nor know that dreams would die!
be
Niles, Mich., June 14.—A meteor fell at Awntonio, Ohio last night, demolishing the residence of Mr. Mungo Pryor and causing the wildest excitement among the colored population of the place. The entire police force was called out- to restore order. The estimated weight of the meteor was thirty tons.
This dispatch is a veritable curiosity. Deception could not possibly go further. We are in a position to deny every statement
made. In the first place, if a
s’
printed and there is only-other in the United States.
one
—Zangwill.
0 Blessed Christ, who conquered Death,
Whose three and thirty years
Have taught us Life’s supremest breath Is drawn through toils and tears!
Brighter the rays above Thee shine
As centuries go by;
Slain not for dreams, but Truth Divine— The Truth that can not die!

A - complete list of all
the
Probably the next building to be erected at Notre Danie.will be

Notre Dame boys in the Army and Navy is being compiled. There^the new fire-proof library. Every is a goodly number in each branch . one is so deeply interested in this of the service. Information con- structure that it would be no.sur-

cerning them will be gratefully prise to see. ground broken for it received by Rev. Father Moloney any day. The best planswill be
meteor were to strike Awntonio, there would be nothing left of it. Mr. Pryor himself happens to be the only colored resident of- the town, and he was never known to disturb its serenity in the slightest way. In fact, the peace of Awntonio was never disturbed but once, and that was when Coxey’s army passed in the far vicinity. The entire police force of the place consists of only one man,and he is seldom on duty, though always in readiness. There have been no arrests in Awntonio for forty years.. Things have come to g sorry pass when unscrupulous press agents can find nothing to lie about but
I
1
1

received by Rev. Father Moloney any day. The best planswill be Awntonio. The dispatch we have who is-collecting-zZ/zZtz for a memo- adopted and every detail of the . commented upon is a curiosity, rial volume. He is particularly structure carefully supervised. A and its author , we brand as a rare desirous to have photographs and fife-proof, library building is cep specimen, of brazen mendacity.
I

14
THE DAILY SCHOLASTIC.
.	and wife, Miss Ella Crowley, Mrs. E. S.
The Coming of the Chicago Dreyer, Miss M. Tuly, Miss Francis Alumni.	Burdick, K. G. Schmitt, Miss Kellner,
either a Doctor of Divinity or a trage dian,” sighed Maud,, somewhat disappointed. '
...“Tell..us,” ventured I, “ What Earle
' -	.	, Mrs. J. Keley, Miss Anna Schoenrhacher,
' The, Notre Dame Association /	wife, M; J BrodofielS,; Hering^omes to.”
.	Patrick H. Fleming, Wm. E. Fleming, “No bad end, I hope, laughed Grace,
of Chicago is represented at the	'
Commencement by a large delega-
,)



s
I g
I
St
P. J: Kasper, John Fitzgerald, and wife “Frank”—she always speaks of him as W. M. Devine, Rev. J. F. Clancy, Mrs. Frank—“ is the poet laureate of America.
tion. Chicago is a stronghold of Geo. Schoonover, Miss M. A& McShane, His stirring poems during the late.His-Notre Dame men and all of them Otto C. Eigholz, Dr.’ J. A. Hunsteger, pano-American war brought him quickly that ran cret awav visit- Alma J-F-Kennedy, J. S. Hummer, J. M. Burns, and permanently to the front and, Con®	J	'Arthur Koup-hie. H. V. Haves. M. M. o-rrss rprncrniypd his sprvires bv rrpatino-
Arthur Koughie, H. N. Hayes, M. M. gress recognized his services by creating .	Foote. Hugh O’Neill, P. T. O’Sullivan, a new office for him, which he fills with
This’ year’s delegation is large David OLenry, Judge Gibbons, Harry all his simplicity—his 'real greatness— ' and it’ is very welcome.	The Fitzgibbons, L. P. Devine, J.-J. Healy, and his .wonderful gifts of inspiration
* Chas. T. Cavanagh, Fred While, JHugh- and expression.” -
Mater at Commencement
time.
members left Chicago this morn	-	-
.	. .	.	, • R.-Mason, Jeremiah Spilhard, Daniel ,P.
.mg on a specral train on the . Murphy
Lake Shore road, and arriving at South Bend at ten o’clock they repaired in a body to the College. At the entrance to the grounds
they were met by the President;
The Veil of the Future Lifted.
We all laughed at Nadine’s enthu- ■* siasm, but she seemed hurt thereby and ■ murmured as though to herself:
_ “ But there lies in the evening- sky— -	'
\ • The evening sky that bounds my life—
' . A fairy face that guides my life,
. That,waits'for me eternally.” _•
This is very interesting,” remarked students and University Band, and Dear Editors of the Scholastic: 'Blanche; “won’t you cast Edward '	All the girls are considerably worked Mingey’s horoscope ufor [us? I’m- dying
up about a remarkable' dream Nadine to know how. he fared, amid- so inuch .
were given a rousing reception.
[A Communication^
--The Kne of mar<*.-^taken up	; .
to "the lake where the regattas spiritual of all your admirers, and’ever . “Mr.Mingey,’’continued Nadine,—and ■ were witnessed, and at their con-	.....	....	.
elusion the members of the .deletion circulated among their friends and talked of bygone days, at Notre Dame and of the University’s future. .	_
* Among those of the delegation ‘ were:
since she saw your-photographs in the Easter number she has dwelt long and lovingly on thoughts of you, so that I . am inclined to put more faith in her . dream than any of the other girls. As
for Nadine herself, she .relies absolutely
we all bent eagerly forward to hear the
verdict,:" Mr. Mingey is the Union Traction Co. of Philadelphia. He is a multi-millionaire with a.large family of daughters and three dukes for prospec-
....	,	; tive sons-in-law.” For the first time since
on the truth of what she calls her vision, the recital began Nadine’s eyes sparkled . The others—well, they are amused at with mirth, but-the rest of us were dis-
Nadine’s seriousness, all except my sister, pleased. .. ' ‘
who thinks there is something in it. The ‘.‘And Jonh Fennessey,” Nadine went
J. T. Healy, Miss Mary. Fearon M. gjrJs met at our house last night and we on, is a soldier, a brigadier-general in Fleischer, Mrs. Patrick . Monahan, Jerry discussed your future: Renee asked with .the army. * He is brave, and fearless, and Gordon, Mrs. S. H. Regensburg, Clement a smj]e:	.	’	in the war he fought like Sheridan at
- Gordon, Miss . Lizzie Padden, Miss E.	wbat form did Elmer Murphy the head of his soldiers by whom he was
Grady, CharlesE..Ray,Miss Lucy Grady, appear to you?” -	'	adored. I am proud of him.” We all
■ Joseph Ray. Mrs. M. J. Shipley, Mr. ;R. - “He seemed careworn and sad and expressed our satisfaction.	,
Powers, M.Naughton,Mrs. M. McGeeney, old/ His remarkable, success for thirty Lydia, who is quite taken with John Mrs. C. H. Bohanon Mrs. Jas. H.; Ward, years as dramatic critic for The Chicago. Dowd’s stories, wondered what fortune Mrs. J. M. Dowling, Miss Nora Dowling, Leader had not dimmed his eyes to the should' bring her/hero, and .Nadine Miss Eveline Dowling, Mrs. W. S.' Fow- _	■	. . _	1 .	.	_	. ...
ler. Miss M. J. O’Connor’ Miss . Katherine
O’Gara, Miss Rose Hynes, Mrs, D. Lyhs,
Miss Lucy Conway, Miss Alice Krause,
- Rev. C.:J. Eschmanri/Cairo, Ul./Brother;
thought that ‘he had wilfully neglected, answered-that Professor Dowd still con- -poetry for a minor part in literature. I .tinued to write;stories, it. was true; but encouraged hini and pointed with admi- hisjchief work consisted in . unearthing ration to the stage, which he. had found/ old Indian legends.-. His “The Sagamore . corrupt, and which how, through/hisand,pother Tales/and “Legends of,the almost, unaided efforts, had become' theSix Nations,” beautifully illustrated by
_	..... .	, . .glory- of twentieth;century’" civilization/^ Wsird O’Malfoy, received’great .
bie, Thos. Scanlan, N. D. Laughlin, Jerry .but he shook his head sadly.” • And'Na/ praise;from most of the archaeologists.. Hart, David J.Wile, Mrs.'J;S.Hummer;/Jine’s large, blue eyes looked contern^ “Francis O’Malley,’’ she continued “is pres. Geo., S. Crilly; Frank W. Ingnsoll. tive.? ? ;/; / / / r /■ .	'y.vfounder of ; a:-new.?sch^	/
, Miss Maud Garrity, Miss . Nora?Laugh--; /“ Go/on/whaLQf PauLRagan?” .^	ad-
lin,Miss Anna Carney, MissAgnesBurns,--gested^ Alice? T /■ '/;/-./;/'"?'' //?/	. 3 -	..	...
Mrs. E. J. McCarthy,- Rev. J..F. Cal- ~ “ Paul Ragan//a justice of the Supreme laghan, P. Phillip,, Mrs. N. ’Hunti Miss Bench of. Ohio, later, and Attdrhey-Gen-Anna Hunt, Frank Savage, Miss; G. W. eral in ’President Sheehan’s, cabinet.^ A handsome, gray-bearded,;hearty old. gen--tleman, somewhat of a dandy and very
Pius, A Hanagan, J. F. Kennedy', T.. M, Keough, Charles Kearney, J. J? Abercrom-
| .. Foley, M. F. Raftfee,. Miss Ruth /Blair,
Mrs. M. M. Keef, Miss Lilian Keef, F. M.
gnxio. ju. axvvi, xvxAoa x-riAia.ilan,; somewnai oi a aai
I Kehoe, E. J. Howard, Dr.- Richard J./particular- about formality.
I - Tivnen, EdM. Schaak, A t Garnty;D; J.
| _ Conway, J. Robbins; and wife; J/Crowley) ;
'paired? /He writesclever stories, too, in the/veinof ?Mr. Kipling.” Grace was visibly affected,	.
< /‘O i;what~ about R	asked
Renee_breathlessly^/	, /
?L“He<embraced a .religious,: life, and ____j. ...	. _ finds;, the happiness of the blessed' in?
.///Fresideht:Sheehan! Good; but;■ IJal-/comforting the unhappy and praying/for ways ' thought that William .w'ould be ;his vain and worldly classmates.” ; J -
i
i
%
s
*

>

!
fl
' 8
r
i.
1

. I
1
If

THE DAILY SCHOLASTIC.
15
“Do you know? I always thought so,” volunteered my sister, “and I’m glad Raymond’s ideal was so high.”
“Thomas Medley is a leading lawyer in Kentucky. During a term as circuit judge, he risked his life on more than one occasion by his fearlessness in denoun. cing and stamping out the ancient feuds ' of his native state. He is still, I am glad to say, hale and hearty and generally beloved. There is some talk among the party leaders to proposing him as successor of President Sheehan'.”
"The strangest thing of all.” continued she, “is that I conld not see Mr. Confer in my vision. I tried hard to find him, but he eluded me.”	.
“Oh! we’ll make Mr. Confer minister to Spain,” ventured Madeleine.
“No,” objected Blanche, “he has a heavenly voice, and I think we ought to make him a singer.”	‘
The successor of Jean de Reske,” we ' all shouted in chorus. And that does not ’ -finish our observations about you, dear editors, but it is all I can possibly tell you of. I am sure we are very grateful to you and we are proud that you are all intended for such glorious careers.
. Good-bye,
One of the Bachelor Sisters.
March .Concert.
There was a new departure in the manner of conducting Notre Dame band concerts last evening. The Band marched from the band-
— Miss Katharine Powers, of Chicago, with her brother, Master room and played several stirring John Powers, a former student of marches before the different build- Carroll Hall, came to Notre Dame
ings about the campus. .
The novelty of the concert was thoroughly enjoyed last evening, and so long as the march concerts are few and far between they will . be successful.. The concert. this
evening- will be given on the and ent commencement.
the following selections will be	—Mr. Edward Hentges (student,
played:	. ’94J95)> of Sioux City, Iowa, will,
■ c	be at Notre Dame until Commence- . „ r .	.	T
March-"Belle of Season. ,	Hentges will be' Th>s afternoon IB the parlor
remembered by the older students Mr. John Hummer presented Jo ie’ ...  res	on as the short-stop on the’95 Varsity, the University a Memorial in be-
' “ Poet and. Peasant,”.. March—“Golden Dome,
Wartz—“Angel’s Dream ”... JCauptmann
■ “Stars an Stripes Forever”..Sousa	—1 he Abbe Hogan, whose ser-mur or mc-niuuiuL lucmemoiidi
Inflamatus—-“Stabat Mater.” a vices Dr.- Zahm has secured for the' is. beautifully decorated and pis "March of the -Marines,?’-Hall annual retreat of the community, intended to commemoratethe
PThiLDaily Scholastic-congra-J^	most emiheirt mem^	jn which the late Very-
tulates Professor Preston and his u-rs 0 e ocietyo t. u pice. Rev. , William Corby- was ,held.-..	;	. ,	, . ,,	, His reputation for; learning and t- a ,,r	-	• a AxiA
^musician. A hearty“goodbye and ;piety' is widespread: ‘ A- Father^.Morrissey ; accepted ■ the, r God-speed’’ are .the’parting words '- —Mr.'Wm. E. Barrett of Grand. M	appropriate;
. of-all at Notre1 Dame. \ Rapids, Michl, is visiting his; sbny w^	. *	. “A
Our Guests.
—Miss Agnes Curtis of Chicago is visiting'her brother Of Carroll Hall. .	.
—Mrs. .M. A. Swan and Miss Edna Shea of Elkhart were callers yesterday..	'
—Mr. A. J. Waggenman of St Louis is the guest of his son' Mr. Eugene Waggenman of Brownson Hall. .	.	‘
Mrs. Brown of South Bend, and Miss Brown and Miss Schoolcraft of St. Mary’s Academy attended the band concert last evening.
—The pleasure of a visit frorh Charles Warren Stoddard may be expected during the summer. We hope to see Dr. Egan also.
—Messrs. George and Albert Rahe and John Luffy, all of Pittsburg, are spending the week with Mr. Henry Rahe of Sorin Hall.
—The Hon. William P. Breen, (A. B. ’77) of Ft. Wayne, Ind., is one of our most welcome guests. Mr. Breen Will remain during the Commencement
—Mr. William Wilkins (student Cloud, Minn., Editor of the Times ’94-95) of Bay City, Mich., was of that city, and commander of the welcomed by his old Notre Dame P -	- -	- -	-	-
friends yesterday. Mr. Wilkins is accompanied by his brother, Mr. Fred Wilkins.
yesterday to attend the. closing ex-student, managed to getawayexercises. -	- from his business for a week= and.''
—Mrs. James Marriman, her he will also remain until Thursday. . daughter, Miss Marguerite, Mrs. Mr. Dukette and Mr. Rauch were . Francis Budde and Mrs. E. Falvey prominent in all the musical or-are among the representatives ganizationsof the University while: from St. Joseph, Mo., at the pres7 , here.
—The Abbe Hogan, whose ser- half of the Alumni.' The Memorial;
Mr. Glenn Barrett of Carroll HalL l j
—Mr;John Eggeman of Sorin Hall is entertaining Mr. Al Schoen-bein (student ’95-96) of Fort Wayne.	:	• . -
—Miss Gray of Chicago, a member of the Class of’96 of St. Mary’s, was a welcome visitor yesterday afternoon. '	'
—Mr. Charles Sullivan (student : ’87-90) has returned to his home . in South Bend, after an absence of two years in Toledo, Ohio, ; where he was interested in the ' Standard Oil Company. Mr;Sul- A livan attended the concert last ' night.	.* '
—Mr. Charles W. Mercer, Traveling Passenger Agent of the Michigan Central, accompanied by Mr. . Walter M. Weld, the South Bend ~ passenger agent, visited Notre Dame friends yesterday afternoon.
—Mr. M. W. Dyer and Mrs. Dyer of Chicago with their daugh- j ter and son Miss Estelle Dyer and Mr. C. W. Dyer are spending the week with their Master Grant; ■ -Dyer of St. Edward’s Hall.
—-Mr. C. F. MacDonald, of St.; p

St. Cloud Grand Army Post, is. a . visitor at the University. Mf. MacDonald hopes to enter his son here next year.	. . ' .
—Mr. Frank Dukette, of Men- ? ~ don, Mich., has returned for the Commencement exercises. Mr. E. Rauch, of Indianapolis, another ~
Presentation of Memorial.



3
1
i
8
16
THE DAILY SCHOLASTIC
i
RAILROAD GUIDE.
. Within the - Gates
Congratulations. ~
J
No. 2.
“ 6.
“ 10.
“ 14.
“ :2S.
. LAKE SHORE
' GOING EAS r.
-Day Express : . - -	. .
■Ei nited Fast M til. ’.
1
10:00, a. in.
10:19 a’ in.
-Chic N. Y. and Bo.-ton Spec , i:oa p,jn
-East-rn Exprt s~,	.	’6:iS .hi
-N. Y. and y oston Express,
“ 44.—Speci il Mai1,	>
-	. • ’ GOING WEST.
Hurrah for the St. foe, Mis- L?; C - if , ’'X .■ souri, delegation!	s:	1 hare musi^
’	;T all’- •" number of. The Daily Scholastic,
. “Our little friend Joe^Abbott is. anjj hasten to?offer you. my heartiest? V.ery popular, among the Carrohtes. congratulations^ It."reflects credit oh all 14-43a. in -—The first to subscribe for.The ‘concerned in its production.^ Considering
° Daily Scholastic was dur old?that it is the first daily paper ever pub- . 4:17a. m. friend John. :	;	. lished-at a Catholic college, and that it
7:ffia?m.' —The Gym will be completed is the : forerunner of a Catholic. daily .
before September,—also the roof, newspaper, bfeel proud of Notre Dame, of the kitchen	, *	- and rejoice that this honor belongs,to her.
Yu 1	u c /•	11 How it would have7 delighted Father ,
.— 1 he .playgrounds of Carroll	TA r j .u
- j •	-t-* j - j, tt 11 • i_ ’ t_ - ** ~ ~ Walsh and Prof. Lyons and many another
and St. Edward s Halls have been f	.	•>' *- j r '
,, .	\	of the old-time presidents and professors
notably enlarged and unproved.
' -There is..absolutely nothing j, far an(j wide, and let.it reach every old the matter, with Captain. Greene student of Notre Dame. It will revive . and the military company. They happymemories in them as it does imine, are “ all right.’ .'	-	•??/.. Again I congratulate you, and wishing.
—-The prevailing weather ;of the you ahd your.'paper and Notre Dame the past-week was much . appreciated, ..fullest measure of success, I remain, . at least by the fethered denizens ? • : Very truly yours, : of the upper lake. ..	.. . .. ?.At	. .. - An Old-Liner.
. —The.burning of the old ice >	- .... .---	.- . :	.
house..was not an.unmixed evil. ?It ST. MARY’S ACADEMY, is to be. replaced by an improved system of cold, storage.	. ?	: ~
, .. y	—Our publisher desires to slate .
- No. 21.—To Terre Haute,-daily ex. sum,-445 a.m. that advertisements f or The Daily. -'? '3—L“ ; ? . ?- -	”*-55a-,u- Scholastic must be sent, in- not
“ 15.—Ex. Sun., for. Logansport, - . 645 p. m. . , , .. . .... k	; -
.	, •- ~	; ?:‘- _ •	' later than four o clock, r. Al. . .
? Y \ GRAND TRUNK.	—Make the acquisition of a copy ?
■	. . . going east. ?	; of “Thoughts .of a Recluse,”, and
3^2*. m. . 11:52 p. in.; mo pi m.,	6:15 p. m when you have read if you will sayL
'	? going west.. " x-.1,	: that you never invested half a .
.: 10:50^. m.,.?235p. m., 5:55p. m. dollar to better purpose;. ; ?YY.-:	: : ~ ................. —The	evening walks around the;
picturesque St. Joseph’s Lake, and the, delightfuEb^	will.- be long
remembered bv the Carroll Hall
. N0.-37.—Pacific Express, . ; - ' ?-“	3 —Fast Mail. Eimited,-.. .	’
.	175.—Elkhart and Chicago Accom.
. • .	, 15 —N. Y.,-Bosion and Chic. Spec., 12:33 P- ln-
‘U y.—Day Express,	. . - 34S P-m
: ,	■• 23.—Westein Express.’	. . .. 6:10 p.m.
- '•-. 35.—Spe ial Limited Mail,. ..	• 9:14 p. m.
- r' Special Coaches on Trains No. 15,7 and 23, June 16,1S98. Tickets to AIT Points. East and-West, '. Can be Procured ou the Grounds, or at the Ticket - Office.. Baggage Checked through to Destination.

MICHIGAN CENTRAL
■■■	.> - GOING NORTH.
Leave’Soutu Bend ~	- .	.
Eeave Notre Danie, '	.
:	- GOING SOUTH.
~ Arrive South Bend, .	.
9:20 ,a. m. 4:50.11.1111 9:29 a. in 4:55 p’m.
S40 a. in.
4:20 p. m.
vandalia; railway
" < J -	, -GOING NO -.TH. '
No. 6.—Ex. Sunday. f'-r St? Joseph. 14:—“ '	“	‘‘ ‘ -
. ** - 8.—To South Bend only, •: -.
‘	GOING SOUTH.. . ;
- 12:53 p. in. 8:20 a. m.
: (One mile we=t of Notre Danie University.)
A SELECT SCHOOL FOR YOUNG LADIES

3:02 a. hl
INDIANA, ILLINOIS & IOWA
Depart, No.: 1.—Mail and Express;
.	" -“-- .p.^—Eocal, Ex. Sunday,
■	-??--1 ’3—Fast Frei ht,.
- . Arrive,' . “lUal—jMail and Express,' . -	Local, Exi Sunday,
. 7:00 a. in.
' 745 a- in.
5:5op-.n>. 12:05 a. mi . 5:3°7P th.
ALFRED; KLINGS
<	123 West Washington Street, ’ L
Y, South Bend, Indiana.
Baker’s Shoe Store
108 S. flich. St., ' SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
J. A. STOECKLEY, M;
1,1 1 West Was h i ngton Street, Y" Y;SO.C/T-H\BE^
KLLLYBROTHLgSi|
. , ? ■ : \ spiro, . -	,
CLOTHIER and FURNISHER,
■ . . . : 121 S. Mich. ST., \ -A SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. -

Cl^THIERA^
107-109 S. Mich St ; 108 AV. Wash. St. :
MOSES;	.
^t^LQT^^
& i 12 ' North;Michigan; Street, , i SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. ' '</ '
' 1

\bbj^???-YYYLL^ ? .’-V s“'Y’u/iLu? Y
.-^Orders ?fo
ibookjm^	at.the. Studdnts’u?/
:Office, where' it will -. be on’ sale^ LY 'yitiih. a few days. I>.	McllONAl.D
'LfeThehextregular;issud of?•;mc^-^T- -cor. wa:net ; .
? - w. - i . ■ -	_	~
i^^^^c^weekiy^itw	MiundryL
,wijl?cbiifa^^^^	g Jefferson St.
INDIANA ? i -
annuaucatalogue???.?^	:;7.< .	’•■?.,

I
B
It
2
•;ih>3£col.prMo^arffi6^	& st. mart’s bus;x£ke,
lajn.ds ca]5e^at;§th ejpr.^
TJiScohlitfuifWdflm^
;isxnox:'longer-7ais.tur.bea£by^aosent^^	. ■
itoarSsJand^rp^
;o ri$.th islincio£i ngS
;flankeBbwa'Hilabr^^^^	BEND, INDIANA. Ui?
-;?	C X.'. -	--

J




