

'1 
Football Review Editor 
Tom Westphal 
Scholastic Editor 
Dave Satterfield . 
Managing Editor .,.. 
I• 
Bob Southard ·· 

Art Director 
Jim Hofman 

Production Manager 
Theresa Rebeck , 

News Editor · 
Lisa _Hartenberger 
Fiction Editor 
Tom Balcerek 

Culture Editor 
Greg Solman 
St. Mary's Editor 
Kari Meyer · 

Layout Editor · 
Clay Malaker 

Photography Editor. 
Ken McAlpine 

Business Manager 
Pahl Davis -'1 

Advertisement•• Manager·. 
Kevin Murphy ­

Distribution Manager 
Jerry Murphy ·· 
Staff . 
John Maddog Muldoon, Don Schmid; Ch~is Stewart, Mary Leavitt,· Donna· Teevan,. Cathy Wisniewski, .Pat-Worklan, Jim Sommers, Michael Diaz,. Ken Scarbrnugh, Marye((en Bradley, Chuck Wood; . David 
N. Randall, Keith Caughlin,' Steve. Burkart, Rick Keppel, Brendan . Brown; ,D9dee. Car­ney,. Michael ·Meisch; Ed Wimmer, Rich Marcello, Tim . Tedrik, Lee Smolen, Tom · Krueger, Ann Bridget Clarke, Cecelia .. Susan · Labriola, . Betsy· Spinelli, , Tom O'Toole, Phyllis· Washington,· Kevin Paul­son, Bill Ryan, Mike Trausch, Mike Sullivan, Mick McGoldrick · . . . ­


Credits 
'Photographs: Greg Maurer, 2;. Brendan Brown,· 24,' 28, ·29, 38, 41, 45: ·Ken Mc­Alpine, 11, 12, 16, 17,. 20, 21, 44; Pete Romzick, 4, 5, 14, 24, 25, 26, 27,-34, 35, 36; Chris. Barloc, 7, 24; Keith Caughlin, 13, 14, ·_15, . 33; Theresa Rebeck, 15; _Rosie Laurence; 24; John Calcutt, 18; Information Services, 30, 31; Mike Rietz,. 25, 37, 41; Tim McKeogh, 25; Mary-Ann Vine, 39; 
. Scholastic· Archives, 46; Mark Guyols, 25, 40, 41; Bobby Leopold, 24, 25; Art: Jim Hofman, 9, 47; Front _and Back Covers: Ken McAlpine -.• 

Advisory Board 
Jim 0 Winters, Mario. Pedi; Edward Fischer. 
FEBRUARY 8; 1980 

SCMOL/\STC 
Vol. 121, No. 6, February 8, 1980 · Notre Dame, Indiana 
CONTENTS 

·2 The First Word 3 Wherefore Art Thou, Fan? 
·4 · The Male Man Delivers 6 Herrmann's Boilers Stew Irish 8 Injuries: They Can Hurt The Heart, Too 
·11 We/come Home 13 Player Reflections 16 '(agas Rambles Over Tech 18 Soaring Above the Rockies 20 Sweet_ Revenge 
23 Gallery· 26 Yet Another Miracle Finish 28 Defense Employs Naval Blockade 30 Words,From The Wise 
.32 D~~wned in a Sea of Orange ·33 Smiling Coach Boulac 34 
Stalled by: Tiger Paws 37 ·_ Mud_dy Mirage Massacre· 39 Band Jams in Japan 42 Final Stats 43 The Enemy's Best 45 Entering the New Decade 
Tom Westphal Greg Solman Frank LaGrotta Michael Ortman Lou Pagley Skip Desjardin Anthony Walton Ken Valdiserri Paul Stauder Tom Westphal 
Craig Chval 
· Mark Perry Tom Westphal .Paul Mullaney Frank LaGrotta 
Bill Ryan_ . John Heisler Greg Papiernik 
Jeff Jeffers Shawn M. Collins 

The opinions ~xpressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do_ not necessarily represent the 9pinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or 'the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or' the student
bod~ . . . . . . .. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising . Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation andexamination periods, Scholastic.is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00. ·a year and back issues are available from Scholastic; Please address all manuscripts fo Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. · · copyright © 1979 Scholastic'/ all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. . · ·· 

The First Word 

by Tom Westphal• 
I must confess that I've never been the biggest Notre Dame football fan. Never would I be accused (is that the right word?) of being a rah-rah that went crazy during the games and chattered incessantly about every individual play in postgame celebration. In fact, I think I perhaps followed Irish football more when I was a youngster in the suburbs of Peoria. 
When I entered Notre Dame four years ago, I was surrounded, as most newcomers are, by the fabled Notre Dame mystique. But although that mystique favorably affected some parts of my life, it never carried over to that most revered of ND traditions­the "football weekend." 
Sure, I went to a pep rally or two (God, those places were HOT!) and partied hearty the day of the game. But I never really sat in those stands in a spirited frenzy like some have. I cite a few reasons for that: · 
First of all, I consider myself sort of a "football purist." I enjoy going to a game simply for the pleasure of watching a good game. For me, viewing the execu~ tion .of a perfect trap block is far preferable to the exultation after. a touchdown. 
Secondly, I have an inherent quality that drives me to cheer for the unaerdog. Notre Dame does not carry that label into too many ball games. I guess it all goes back to my desire to see a close, hard-fought; downato­the-wire contest. 
Thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, is the common experience at this school where the student. lives so close to the enchanting and exciting nature of Notre Dame football, that he becomes immune to the electricity generated by it. He, in essence, loses the forest while standing among the trees. I think this is evidenced clearly in many students' attitudes now (see Greg Solman's feature) and substantiated by the alumni's never-ending pilgrimages back to Du Lac for the "football weekend." 
With these thoughts jelling in my mind, and still a 
•Notre Dame fan (believe it or not!) I assumed the position of Scholastic Sports Editor, realizing that the Football Review would be my major undertaking. This responsibility sparked my interest in the coming season which appeared both interesting•and difficult. 
The Irish began the season in Ann Arbor. and I was very pleased to witness, in my first "away" game, one of the most exciting ND wins of all time, a 12-10 thriller over Michigan. A damned good start for my 
. Review, too, I thought. Mark Herrmann and Purdue topped the Irish, but a big win over Michigan State kept the season's hopes alive. The NCAA's most difficult· schedule abated a bit as Georgia Tech and Air Force bit the dust but USC loomed large. Boy, what a game! Forty-four points in thirteen second-half minutes. A disappointing outcome but a great offensive spectacle. A high point for the season occurred in a dramatic 18-17 Rusty Lisch-led comeback win over. South Carolina. The shutout over Navy prefaced a couple of lackluster performances in losses to Tennessee and Clemson that cost Notre Dame any major bowl in­. vitations. •victory in the finale over Miami in the Mirage Bowl lifted Irish spirits. Students and alumni were disgruntled with the 7-4 season but there were explanations (not excuses). A rash of preseason · injuries was critical as highly regarded players, including Dave Waymer, Dave Mitchell and Mark Czaja, were sidelined. Freshman play was admirable but inexperience hurts · when facing the hardest schedule in the country. One must look on the bright side before making any premature condemnations. Vagas Ferguson emerged as one of the premier runners in Notre Dame history. The senior gridders proved to be one of the outstanding classes as they captured a National Cham­pionship in 1977, won two classic Cotton Bowls over Texas and Houston, and finished with a combined 36-11 record over four years. · · So there is no need for wailing and gnashing of teeth. Enough of that.occurred in the preparation of this Review. · No, actually it was a very worthwhile experience, from both a literary and an athletic stand­point. . I think that the finished product is of exceptional quality-an accurate reflection of the work and effort put in by the writers and staffers involved.· Enjoy the game-by-game stories and the special features which separate the Football .Review from other ·droll sports publications. · ' Admittedly, it was not the finest Notre Dame foot­ball season on record: But the Review puts it all in perspective.· As you look back over the years, I h_ope that this Review will provoke fond memories of ·the 
.last ~eason in a triumphal decade of Irish football. D 

'1siJherefore c:7lrt ~hou, flan?· 
A train laden with saddened football players rumbles slowly to a halt at. South Bend Station. It's 1927; Notre Dame has -just lost to Army, 18-0, and the beaten team, led by the seldom-beaten Knute W. Rockne, expects at best a few well~wishers to be await­ing their less than triumphal return... . 
But no ... Hark! In the air! Is it ... no, it can't be . . . · it. is! It's the marching band playing the "greatest of all fight songs, the Notre Dame Victory March." Why, there're throngs of well-wishers ... why, almost the whole student body showed up to cheer a losing team. The "Rock" and team are touched ... inspired tears flow, and fans and players embrace, as they gape awestruck at the mere suggestion of that magnificently glittering gilded Gothic edifice known as the Golden Dome, gleaming in God's radiant sun like frothy firmament in rory-cum-tory chichi; like kaleidoscopically coruscating candescence. . . . 
Well, let's not get carried away, lest we make a "schlocky" scene from "Knute Rockne: All American" even "schlockier" (and if an admitted Notre Dame rah-rah notes its schlock-like quality, can you imagine what the rest of the country thinks of that movie?). However, there is a method behind" this madness: we fans have come a long way; baby ... and where we are now-to quote the authority-ain't so great. 
What I mean to say is that the football fan may be dying at Notre Dame. · Not that he· will ever stop showing up at the games, or at least sell his ticket for cash and watch it on TV, but I mean in a deeper sense. The football fan, as he was in the· beginning, is not now, and never shall be again, ·game without end, may be dying. 
"It's true," remarks sports columnist and football pundit Frank LaGrotta. "Even in the four years that we as seniors have been here, you can see how the fan support of the team has steadily deteriorated." 
Al McGuire, were he here, would put it more suc­cinctly. "It's Taps City." 
Has winning become important? It's everything.. That is, unless it has nothing to do with our ranking which leads the students to their Holy of Holies, the coveted Holy Grail, the National Championship. Nir­vana itself. Heaven on earth. Pie in the sky. 
It's lucky that the NCAA plays "see no evil" to all that goes on here.... I have a feeling that if there _were officially no postseason play due to a violation, there would. officially be no fan support to speak of. As it is now, no student since 1971 has failed to see a National Championship (though rumor has it that the Class of '82 will break the streak) and it just may be that we're getting a little spoiled around here. 
Is that too harsh? Telling a Notre Dame crowd this is somewhat akin to Jimmy Carter telling America that there's a "crisis of confidence." As true as it is, people would much rather listen to the Republicans who tell them that it's all Carter's fault,· not theirs. 
by Greg Solman 

But,·for what they're worth, here are my observa­tions on the state of fandom at Notre Dame today: 
(1.) He is unchristian.. About the only biblical act students perform in the stands now is weep, wail, gnash their teeth and rend their garments. He (using the neuter to denote both sexes) also uses naughty words, and, on occasion, "boos" his own players (wit­ness Dick Boushka) when they don't rise to his some­times unreal expectations of him. "Hey, nice try guys," is a rarely heard maxim that has not, in recent years, woken up the echoes. 
(2.) He is ex post facto: The modern :r,fotre Dame fan is happy to cheer loudly-after a drive has started, a point scored or when the defense has stopped · a big play. But in the last four years, there has been a noticeable decline in our cheering at all other times. Any one of the cheerleaders will confirm that (they've been doing some heavy "scowling with dismay" at the "too cool to cheer" crowd who have not been cooperating lately). Sometimes the silence is so deaf­ening it's embarrassing. 
(3.) He really doesn't appreciate football as a game. This fickle animal was probably-born . before our time, but still, it is multiplying in great numbers of late; A win is a good game . . . and a loss is a bad game. Automatically. No questions asked. But Notre Dame has lost many good football games over the last four years. Few fans seem to appreciate that in other places with much worse football, students are making a lot more noise than we (i.e., in the South) and that we at Notre Dame are treated to· fairly consistent quality on the field. Want to find out how lucky you are? . Go back East for the annual Tufts-Amherst "battle" (annually one of the biggest on their sched­ule) . . . shades of the old high school days. 
There may be reasons for this attitude. Some students are frustrated not because the team is losing per se, but because under Dan Devine, they don't feel that the team is living up to its potential. Others claim that rising female enrollment has hurt. Still others have proclaimed "increasing academic pressure" 
(which is becoming a buzzword for a plethora of woes) the demon of the fans' demise. 
In this case, the causes are not as important as the effect. A truly good football fan should be able to rise above the aforementioned problems, and treat football as it should be treated. Not as the most important thing in the world, worthy of our anguish and swearing, but as healthy . entertainment, as a very uplifting re­lease from our day-to-day drudgery of schoolwork. We. would appreciate the quality of football that we regu­larly are treated to here, and know that as much as we all like to win, the football team itself, and Coach Devine, want to win even more. 
Only then will we be able to convert "taps" to "reveille." 

Michigan 


The Male Man Delivers 
Notre Dame at Michigan. . . 
It was supposed to be a big game; one the fans, television people and ticket scalpers would remember for a long time. And it was. 
Officials expected a crowd well in excess of the 101,000 people that the stadium officially seats. And it was. 
Sportswriters familiar with both teams predicted• an easy Wolverine win.. . 
But it wasn't. · 
In fact, it was quite the contrary, for on , this opening day of Notre Dame's ·91st football season, the Irish emerged with a 12-10 win that de­lighted· their fans, confused their critics and plastered an ear-to-ear grin on the face of head coach Dan Devine. · 
"This is the biggest thrill of my coaching career," exclaimed an emo­tionally drained · Devine · in the winners locker room. "The coaches kept their cool, the players kept their cool and not one person on the team gave up. 
"I'm very proud of every one of them.'' · 

And he had good reason· to be­. especially the ones on defense. After a weak first half where they allowed 
· Michigan 212 yards and 12 first downs, the Irish defenders buckled down and held their opponents to only 94 yards and four first downs in the last two quarters. 
Unfortunately, the offensive column didn't look any better on Notre Dame's side of the book., On the day, the Irish could only muster 
· '179 total yards and four Chuck Male field goals. The senior placekicker from · Cincinnati, OH, converted kicks of 40, 44, 22 and 39 yards to account for all of Notre Dame's points and his performance estab­lished a · record for the most field goals made in a single game. After­wards; Devine awarded Male .the game ball for his efforts. "Chuck really came through for us today," the coach smiled. "He's always done a great job because he's a great competitor with tremendous talent'. Today's · performance•. just illustrated that fact." . . .. · · But Malewas not a one-man show. 
by 'Frank LaGrotta 
· Number 32, halfback Vagas Fer­
guson was the one most responsible 
for getting the ball· in Male's· range, 
carrying 35 times for 118 yards. 
After the game, he leaned back 
against the wall and talked about 
the game. · 
"We just wanted it more than they 
did," a tired Ferguson pointed. out. 
"Michigan has a real good football 
team and an excellent defense. You 
just have to give our team credit for 
playing a great game." 
But while Male and Ferguson 
played "Dynamic Duo" for the Irish 
offense, the Notre Dame defense gave 
a clinic on teamwork.· After allowing 
Michigan 10 first-half points, Dave 
Waymer, Scott Zettek and _Co. shut 
them out in the second stanza-much 
the same way Notre Dame had been 
shut out in the second half the pre­
vious year after holding the halftime 
advantage. . . · 
·Within· that· sophomore~dominated 
defensive crew, the most . encourag­
ing feature was the play .of .· the 
line. Along with Zettek, who hadn't 
played ·the Michigan game 


of a year_ ago because of knee 
injuries, Mark Czaja also returned 
after a two-year absence due to a 
wrist injury, to answer many of 
the pregame questions about the 
strength of the Irish front four. They 
combined with ends John Hankerd 
and Joe Gramke and tackles Kevin 
Griffith, Don Kidd and Pat Kramer 
to keep the Wolverines out of Notre 
Dame territory on all but four occa­
sions in the second half. 
If there was a standout on this 
young defensive unit, it was sopho­
more -middle linebacker· Bob· Crable. 
Racking up 10 solo tackles and two 
assists, it was Crable who got in the 
way of Bryan Virgil's 42-yard field 
goal attempt _with only six seconds 
left in the game. If good, it would 
have given the Wolves a 13-12 win 
but it was · not . to ' be, thanks to 
Crable's perfectly timed high jump. 
"When they snapped the-ball, I 
just jumped over, the center and tried 
to get as high as I could," Crable said 
later. "I felt the ball hit right on my -left hip." 
The start · was nothing like the 
finish as 'coach Bo Schembechler's 
squad jumped out to a 3-0 lead on a 
30-yard field goal that capped an 
opening 10-play, 84-yard drive. Male 
answered with a 40-yard three­
pointer _·after · ·-Anthony Carter 
fumbled a Dick Boushka punt. · ­
But it didn't, take long for the 
Wolverines _t<> breakthe· deadlock as 
quarterback B. J. Dickey engineered 
an' 80-yard drive that ended iri a one:­
yard Stanley Edwards burst around 
left end for thetouchdown. The con­
version was perfect and Michigan
led, 10-3. --_ _ -. __ . _ : _ . , _ Notre Dame closed the gap' to four 
c;; 
I 
·­
..........,-':··~, 


'Notre Dame ­......,.0........•............... : ..: ....... , ........ :  6 •  o-·12  
Michigan · .... -............. · .: :·............... : ........ .... : -.  0 - 0--'10  
Scoring:·  
UM -Virgil, 30-yard field goal  
• ND . ..:C...Male, 40-yard field goal  .  
· UM-Edwards, 1.-yard run  (Virgil kick)  
ND _: Male, 44-yard field goal  - 
ND--'Male, 22-yard field goal  
-ND .::C. Male,' 39~yard _field_ goal  
 

on a 39-y~rd field goal with 4:48 to 
go in the second quarter and the half 
ended 10-6 in favor ·of Michigan. 
-Whatever Devine told his team at halftime must have hit home as the Irish came out _like gangbusters in the third _quarter, forcing Michigan to punt and .then driving 65 yards for another Chuck Male field goat Four ·and one half minutes later, Male' did it aga'iri, this time from 39 yards out, and the Irish were in front to stay. _ _ _ _ _ 
But while there was no more scor­ing, there was a lot more football.:___ hard-nosed defensive. football-the kind Notre Dame and Michigan are known for; Michigan;s Ali Haji­Sheikh attem'pted a 50-yard field goal with 11:14'.reniaining but the kick­liooked wide. -The game then became a, punter's _-dual unUl, with a little less· than five minutes remaining, Irish _quarterback Mike_ Courey, _re­placing injured starter, Rusty Lisch, threw the ball right into the_ waiting arms oL All-Big· Ten ,cornerback, Mike· Jolly. · Schembechler replaced Dickey, his starting signalcaller with senior Johri Wangler _who passed on six ofeight plays en route to leading Michigan on a 48-yard drive that ended with the blocked field goal. 
It was an important win for Notre Dame who entered the season ranked ninth in-the _nation. Important for all the obvious reasons but also be~ cause it gave the Irish squad : the needed confidence to face what the NCAA officially rated the toughest schedule in the land. And they would need all they could· get to· play the tough Purdue Boilermakers at West Lafayette the riext -week. ­


Purdue 
Herrmann's Boilers Stew Irish 
It was a game full· of little sur­prises. 
Purdue boasted one of .the finest passing games in the country, and Notre Dame was without its num­ber-one quarterback, Rusty Lisch, injured a week earlier. Nonetheless, the Irish outpassed the Boiler­makers by over 40 yards. 
Surprise. , 

Irish placekicker Chuck Male lined up for a first-quarter field goal attempt, but holder Greg Knafelc, also the fourth-string quarterback, took the snap, rolled right and hit tight end Dean Masztak with a 17­yard touchdown strike. 
Surprise. 
Boilermaker running backs John Macon and . Wally Jones both racked up more running yards (86 and 85 yards, respectively) than Irish star Vagas Ferguson, who finished with 79 yards on 25 car­ries, stifled by an inspired Purdue 
defense. · · 
Surprise. 
One big thing wasn't so surpris­ing. The final score: Purdue 28 and Notre Dame 22. Although the Irish were ranked fifth in the nation and the Boilers · 17th, host Purdue was a one-and-one-half-point favorite. 
It might have been an entirely different story had the injury­riddled Irish been able to field a reasonably healthy lineup. "We have 19 players on full scholarship out for the year (with injuries)," as­serted Irish coach Dan Devine. "That's not an. excuse. We just have to play over them." 
That total of 19 did-not include the absence of Lisch; out with a sprained ankle suffered against Michigan, or cornerback Dave Way­mer who missed the entire · second half with a knee injury. "With the injuries," said Devine, "we just can't play the football that we'd like to." 

The Irish -limped into Ross-Ade Stadium with hopes of extending their winning streak against Big Ten foes to four straight. The visi­tors got on the board .first as Devine pulled some razzle-dazzle out of the play book with the fake field goal, 
6 

111
II
~1 
as Knafelc connected with Masztak, the first touchdown pass of the sophomore's college career. 
But Purdue came roaring back on the next series to tie the score on a 15-yard pass from All-Big Ten 
• quarterback Mark Herrmann to junior tight end Dave Young. The score climaxed a perfect 12-play, 78-yard drive on which the Boilers could do little wrong, picking up six, seven, eight· yards almost at will. The first quarter was not yet over, but Purdue had already made one thing. quite clear. The Boiler offense intended to run the ball, using its potent passing attack as a secondary weapon. "We weren't prepared for them to run that much," admitted Irish line­backer Bobby Leopold after the game. Of Purdue's 75 offensive plays of the afternoon, .55 were on the ground, netting 169 yards. "Not to take anything away from Herrmann," said Devine, "but they beat us with their running game. They were certainly more physical than we were." A pair of second-quarter field goals ran Male's streak to · six straight three-pointers and gave the Irish a misleading 13-7 halftime lead. Notre Dame had controlled the Purdue scoring helped largely by a Dave Waymer interception at the Irish nine, the play on· which Way­mer suffered the crippling knee in­jury that would sideline the senior captain for the next three games: Devine· once again reached · into his bag of tricks with just over two minutes left in the first half and pulled out a pass play which helped set up Male's. 32-yarder. Ferguson took the handoff and then gave the ball to flanker Pete Holohan on the reverse who . proceeded to pass to freshman speedster Tony Hunter at the Purdue 31-yard line for. a 34­yard gain. Although the gadget plays were effective, Purdue clearly dominated · the line of scrimmage throughout 
· most of the game. "You·_don't win -big football games by fooling peo­
ple,11 Devine admitted later. "Re­
by Michael Ortman 
verse passes and fake field goals 
aren't what:win football games. You 
need to play strong defense and run 
well, overpower 'em. Obviously, we 
didn't." . 
The Boilermakers took the kickoff 
to open the second half to their 22 
but were frustrated by Irish defen­
sive end John Hankerd who dumped 
Herrmann for a. 13-yard loss on a 
third-and-five situation. The ensuing 
punt, however, would be Purdue's 
last. 
Notre Dame built its lead to 20-7 
on the next possession, moving 62 
yards on just eight plays, · high­
lighted by· a fine quarterbacking dis­
play by junior Tim Koegel.-The Cin­
cinnati, Ohio, native. completed both 
of his pass attempts covering 33 
yards including a. four-yard scoring 
strike to tight end Nick ·Vehr. 
The scoring drive marked the only 
time that an Irish quarterback was 
able to settle into a groove and move 
the club. With Lisch sidelined, De­
vine had opted to juggle Koegel and 
Mike Courey throughout the game. 
Neither Koegel, a drop back passer, 
nor Courey, a roll-out quarterback, 
knew which would be in the game 
or when. More often than not, the 
strategy backfired. Koegel finished 
with just six completions, .good for 
81 yards, in 18 attempts plus a cost­
ly interception. Courey hit on three 
of his four attempts for 67 yards. 
.· "I didn't like to substitute as we 
did today," admitted Devine. "We 
have to settle down and go with one 
guy next week." 
FoHowing the Notre Dame touch­down, Male boomed the kickqff out_ of the end zone, and the Boilers took over at their · own 20. Herrmann then directed a. textbook drive, marching his team 80 yards on 14 plays. Another in a .great line. of Purdue quarterbacks, including Len Dawson, Bob Griese, Mike Phipps, 1 and Gary . Danielson, Herrmann looked more like Roger Staubach, pulling the trigger of Purdue's rare 
but effective shotgun formation. _ 
On one key third-and-seven situa­
tion, Herrmann lined up five yards 
behind his center, took the snap and 
SCHOLASTIC 

hit Bart Burrell, good for 11 yards to keep the drive going. During the 5: 32 trek, the . Boilermakers were . four-of-four on third-down conver­sions including a third-and-one scor­
ing blast by tailback Jones. 
The tide was clearly turning in 
the favor of the home team. A 
crowd of 70,567, the largestever to 
see a football game in the state of · 
Indiana, roared its ,approval of the 
score .and continued to inspire the 
defense which performed .heroically 
down the stretch. 
The Irish took over at their own 
27, · but offensively, nothing would 
:work. "It was going to be a play­
action pass," said Koegel of the first 
play, "and we had a man (Ty Dick­
erson) downfield about 25 or 30 
yards. He was open." Koegel also 
was open, and tackle Calvin Clark 
and nose guard Ken Loushin smoth­
ered him for a·nine-yard loss. . 
On third-and-twenty, Koegel 
aimed for Hunter at the Irish 35-. 
yard line, but sophomore free safe­
ty Marcus McKinnie ca~ed himself 
a big slice of stardom, · picking off 
the pass and returning it to the Irish 
eight. 
At that point there was no stop­
ping them..Three Jones runs were, 
all the Boilers needed. to take a 21­
20 lead, the score coming from two .· 
yards out, Jones' second in less than 
three minutes. · 
Purdue started the fourth quarter 
by silencing. the Notre-Dame of­
fense without a first down. The Irish . 
picked up only four first downs in 
the second half compared to 11 for· 
the Boilermakers. 
Herrmann and company then em-. barked on another long drive, this: one . covering 63 yards on just ten plays with Herrmann· connecting on 

yards, the final one being a six-yard · touchdown pass to Burrell who had beaten Dick Boushka, in the end 
zone. 
· Waymer's absence did not go un­
noticed by anyone. ''When Waymer · 
went out," said Herrmann,·. "we 
started throwing at . his replace­
ment (Boushka) and were success­
ful." 
''Waymer's injury hurt, us," ad• mitted Devine, "but you can't blame :the loss on the backup people." 
Yet with Waymer out, Herrmann · 
threw considerablyy· more than in 
the first half. During the two,· long; 
second-half scoring drives, Herr­
mann was eight-of-eleven for 103 
yards. He finished the game 14-of-20 
Courey trotted onto the field to try to get the Irish rolling and started off in grand fashion. Yet after. a 43-yard bomb to Dickerson down the right sideline, Courey was pulled in favor of Koegel. The new quarterback was then sacked on first down, threw incomplete to Hunter on second, and was sacked 
. again on third down.. · . Freshman Dave Duerson replaced Boushka in. the Notre .Dame sec~· ondary and offered a glimmer of hope to the Irish faithful. On a key third-down play, the rookie dumped Jones behind the line, forcing Pur­due to punt. But sophomore punter Joe Lin­ville gobbled up a bad snap from center, and calmly fell on the ball, • taking the safety.rather than a pos­sible touchdown. 
When asked about key plays in the game, Purdue coach Jim Young singled out Linville's alert play over McKinnie's interception. "There 
all four of his pass attempts for 41 . · were many key plays, as there usu­
ally are in a game ,like this," he said, l'but the big play in my estima­tion, was Linville taking the safety ins_tead of getting a kick blocked or trying to run it out of the end zone." 
Now trailing by six, the Irish _had one last opportunity to pull· it ·out but were stopped cold at the Purdue 
44. With just 3:13 remaining and a fourth-and-eight situation staring him in the face, Devine elected to punt, hoping his defense could. stop the Boilers quickly. 
"We thought about going for it;" 
. said Devine, "but we weren't having much success at moving the ball. Yes, we thought. about it.. We thought about a. lot of things...." ­
. ' . . 
Two first downs later, Herrmann 
. fell on the.ball to seal Purdue's first win at home over Notre Dame since i969.. 
"The whole team just put it t~ gether in the second half," said Pur­due's Tom Kingsbury. The junior defensive end led the Boilers with 14 tackles, eight· unassisted, "The · of­fense gave us the lift we needed, then our emotions took over." . 
"Anytime you beat Notre Dame," said Young, "you know you've beat­. en the best." 
Notre Dame's coach wasn't quite as enthusiastic. "I'm not surprised at anything anymore." 

Notre Dame ......... : ......................................... . 7 6 7 2-22 Purdue ........................0 7 0 14 7~28 
Scoring: 

ND-Masztak, 17-yard pass from Knafelc (Male kick) 
PU·-'-Young, 15-yard pass from Herrmann (Seibel kick) · ND -Male, 40-yard field. goal 
ND -Male, 32-yard field goal 
ND -Vehr, 4-yal'.d pass from Koegel (Male kick) 
PU -Jones, 1-yard run (Seibel kick) 
PU -Jones, 2-yard· run (Seibel kick) 
PU -Burrell, 6-yard pass from Herrmann (Seibel kick) . ND..;,_ Safety. High snap into endzone on punt attempt 


INJURIES: THEY-CAN HURT THE HEART, TOO 
The Saturday afternoon clash on the gridiron is 
something that collegiate football fans have enjoyed 
for many years. They cheer their heroes, root for the 
home team, and scream for the referee's head on a 
platter. But these confrontations witnessed by millions 
weekly are only a portion of what goes into the game 
of college football. 

·Long hours of practice and more hours of strategy 
meetings are an indispensable part ·of the game. -The 
average college football player puts in 10 to 15 hours 
of practice each week, and during that time there 
occurs, on more than a few occasions, the most feared 
element in the game: _that is, the injury. 
In a sport ofthis natu're, there is a definite possibil­ity of an injury; it is somewhat an accepted part of the game, but nonetheless, difficult to take; especially for · the immediate victim. An injury is more than a physi­cal hurt; it can be a crushing blow to the psyche of the individual. The· injured player is not only set back physically, but also must use the time in which he would ordinarily be gaining experience for recuperative training. Oftentimes, when the player returns· to 'the lineup he is a step slower or a bit weaker than he was prior to the injury. This; too, hinders his progress. In . some less frequent situations, the injury. may leave the · :victim permanently damaged. . . 
. There is a· handful of graduating seniors here at 
Notre Dame whose careers have been ended by injury. 
Four years ·ago, these young men were hopeful of a 
prosperous football career at the most renowned uni­
versity in the country, the name in college football. 
Their names may not be as famHiar as Vagas Ferguson,· 
Tim Foley, or Dave Waymer, but they may well have 
been, if Lady Luck had been in their corner.· . _·. . 
These men are now full~time students and have tried to put football aside, even though it had gotten to be a way of life. ·Pat Boggs, a Columbus; · Ohio, product out of Upper Arlington High School, and Dave ­Mitchell, from St; Mary's Higq in Phoenix, Arizona, are two such men; and the list continues with names like Ron Merriweather (San Marcos, Texas), Chris Muhlen-· kamp (Ansonia, Ohio), Tom Vandenburg-(Merrillville, · Indiana), Jim Morse (Muskegon, Michigan), and K. C. Ryan (Birmingham, Michigan) .. 
The realization -that a dream has come to an end is a difficult thing for a young man to accept, and when the factor thatended it is beyond his control, it makes it even tougher. 
· Pat Boggs was one of several linebacking prospects "brought in" by the Notre Dame coaching staffin 1976. He won acclaim as one of. the fine prep linebackers in the country, and certainly in the state of . Ohio. The • 6'2", 215-lb. Boggs did not, however, get the opportuni~ ty to prove himself due to an injured left knee sustained only a few days after the start of fall· practice.. Boggs 
.would later discover that 1976 would not be the only •· 
year in which injury would affect him. He found it.to 
be a haunting recurrence which would ultimately force.··· 
hilll out of football for good. 
8 
•by Lou Pagley 

. Boggs remembers his first injury (torn· ligaments on the inside of his left kriee) as something' he really couldn't believe: "I was completely unprepared. It all happened so fast. ·My first thought was that it was merely a sprain, mostly due to the ·fact that there wasn't much pain. But as the doctor. examined it, I could tell it was more serious, and when he said, 'It's gone,' my heart dropped to my stomach. 
"It was especially · difficult for me because I had never been injured before in all my previous years of football, so adapting to a situation of-this nature was 
trying." · · · Boggs was in a leg cast for six weeks while his knee healed, so this gave him the opportunity to think about his future at Notre Dame. · "I wasn't sure I wanted to play again, whether it was worth the pain and suffering of rehabilitation 
training. But I made· my decision to return while at­tending a pep rally a· few weeks after the injury occurred." 
Boggs had the option of whether to continue playing ··. or simply remaining at Notre Dame as a student. He 
would remain on football scholarship, but would not be an active member of the team. This idea did not sit too well with him and he was soon· going through the rigorous training involved in recovering·from an injury
of that-nature.. . . · ... "My knee had healed better than 100%, and the -doctor said that mine was one of the fastest recoveries he'd seen. That gave me a great deal of hope for the future." · · · In the spring of his freshman year, Boggs was back · on the field, but soon after, lightning struck again. A broken hand was his undoing this time and'it kept him ·. out of the spring game, which he'd really hoped to play in.·· · · "The broken hand made me more angry than de­-pressed. It-was the type of injury that I really could ·have played:with, since it was more of a 'nagger'. than an 'immobilizer.' It was a blow to me emotionally · rather than physically. That made it hard.to swallow." After recovering and finally getting in the "swing of things" as a sophomore lin-ebacker, Boggs,was start­. ing to feel good about his future as a Notre'Dame grid­. der. Then, the roof fell in. . . · In the spring of 1978, Pat Boggs sustained torn liga­ments in his right knee; This. time it.was the outside ·of the knee and.much more serious. "The pain was excruciating and I knew immediately that itwould have to be cut (operated on).· I was angry ·' and upset, with the world and even with God. I 'felt that .it was unfair and .that I: had been let down. realized that my football career was probably. over and again I was uncertain about whether I even:ivanted fo play. again." ' After undergoing surgery, Boggs found .himself in . a cast again, this time·for . seven weeks/ His knee was still not yet at full strength when fall practice rolled · around, so he sat out and watched still another season 
go by~ .. . 

:., . 

Boggs' determination and perseverence once again forbade his "retirement" from the game which had recently been so cruel to him. This recuperation was tougher than the previous ones because of the serious­ness of the injury as well as the emotional strain that this recurring "nightmare'' had put on his brain. 
Boggs' off-season work went for naught due to a technical mixup in the training room. Four days before he was to take the field for spring practice of his junior year he was informed that he must wear a brace on his knee for additional support. The brace could .not be delivered for four weeks, and so, Pat Boggs was once again watching from the sidelines due to circumstances beyond his control. 
After discussing with his coaches his plans to return in his senior campaign,· Boggs worked diligently · for what was perhaps his final shot. Upon his return to school at the beginning of the 1979 fall practice, Boggs . was hit with the most discouraging and disheartening news of his football career. · ' 
"The day after I returned to fall practice, I was called into Coach Devine's office. In five short minutes, all my dreams were shattered and I realized that all the work I had done over the summer was in vain.· Coach· Devine said that since I was susceptible· to further in-. jury, he couldn't allow me to play; I feel, however, that anyone who puts on the pads is susceptible to injury; that's something you have to accept when you decide to play football.. I was given the okay· to play· by my doctor back home, so I felt I deserved the opportunity, and I am somewhat bitter about the situation. My bit­terness, however, stems from th·e way ·the situation was handled, not the situation itself. If I was told at. the beginning of the summer that I wasn't going to be allowed to play, I wouldn't be nearly as bitter. But I felt that I was led on, and then· dropped like I wasn't even a person; but like I was a number instead. I be­lieve that there was no intention of letting me play be­cause of the NCAA scholarship player limitation (only 95 scholarship players are permitted to be active mem­bers in any one season). I wasn't told man to-man of the situtation, and I was instead treated as· an expend­able item on a roster." · 
David Mitchell was a star fullback on the St. Mary's . football squad in Phoenix, Arizona. But unlike Pat Boggs, he was no stranger to injury .when ·he enrolled· at Notre Dame in the fall of 1976. After gaining an incredible 1900 yards as a high school junior, Dave missed about half his senior year with a strained knee. 
Mitchell entered Notre Dame healthy, however, and began demonstrating his running talents early as a Junior Varsity fullback. ·In the third JV game of his· .. 
that year although he was slowed by a dislocated shoul­der suffered in the Georgia Tech game. While practicing at the Cotton Bowl prior to Notre Dame's 38-10 victory over Texas, Mitchell reinjured his already-tender shoulder and watched the Cotton Bowl Classic from _ the sidelines. In February of 1978, he underwent sur­gery to strengthen and solidify the injured joint. He · underwent surgery later that year (in May) to remove the pin which was used in the process. Mitchell then began to think of his future as he missed spring ball of his sophomore year: 
"I thought that if I got hurt again, my career would be in serious jeopardy, and I wondered how I could possibly withstand another surgery." 
Mitchellwas ready when fall practice began in-1978, and was to play quite a bit of ball after starting six games and scoring Notre Dame's first touchd_own in -the 49-19 rout of Southern Cal the year before. But 1978 was to be the season ofthe "nagging" injury for · David Mitchell. He suffered a sprained left knee a few .weeks before the Missouri game, which-opened the 1978 season. Mitchell, therefore, saw limited action. in the 
-. first half of the season; and when he sprained his ankle. "in the Tennessee game, he was again forced to _watch the action as one of the "Walking Wounded." . 
"I began to feel that it was somewhat unfair, and I 
.· would ask God why this happened to me. I felt that I was a good person and perhaps deserved a better fate. But I really believe that it made me a better person." It ·certainly made me a more·religious person, and made me realize that football was ·not ·the most important thing in the world." · 
Mitchell went into spring practice of his junior year as the starting fullback and remained #1 for the Blue:..Gold game, which closed out spring practice. But 
·the spring game would prove to be Dave Mitchell's last, at least as a Notre Dame football player. This time it was Mitchell's right knee in which he tore ligaments. He spent seven weeks with his leg in a cast, ·and the thought of playing again seemed like just a dream. 
"As soon as it happened, I knew it wouldn't be ready·· right away, because it was pretty much the sam.e feel­
. ing as I had when !"injured ·the other one. It was· then that I felt sure my career was over. But there was a flicker ofhope; I guess the~ almost always is. I really believed· that God puts pressure 011 · those who He knows can handle it the best. This is the way I felt, and I had hope (little as it was) for the future." But it .wasn't to be for Dave Mitchell. The knee did 
. not heal fast enough, and he was forcecl"to give up the ·garrie which he·1oved·"because he could·exert himself in the pursuit of a goal." After deciding' that four opera­tions were._enough, Mitchell limited himself as a "coach" for the freshman running backs, and tried to put the idea of playing again out of his mind. "I'm.ready to face life now with my Notre Dame degree, and I don't regret coming here or playing foot­
freshman year, however, Mitchell was stricken much · · ball for a second. It has made me a better individual the same way Pat Boggs had been a few short months · and helped me put things in perspective. -I'll just go earlier. He sustained torn ligaments on the inside of · out and face· the world; I'll face it with a :few more 
his left knee, and was in a cast for six weeks. Mitchell ·_ .. opted to forego spring practice that year in order to . let his knee be at full strength for fall practice of 1977. 
This proved to be a wise decision as Mitchell was more than ready to • step iri at fullback for the Irish. He saw his first substantial amount of action in the Purdue game, which Irish fans will remember as the 
. turning point of what became a National Champion­ship season. Mitchell not only contributed but scored the winning touchdown that day. He played regularly hurts and bruises than a lot of people, but that's life.''. 
Both Pat Boggs and Dave Mitchell were finally forced to succumb to the power greater.-than anyone. There was certainly no lack of effort or fortitude on their part, but still they are left with the scars that accompany a situation. such as the one ·they lived through. It is a difficult thing to overcome, as they have discovered. · Pat Boggs and -Dave Mitchell know firsthand that football injuries can hurt the heart, too. 
SCHOLASTiC 


Michigan State 
to work immediately. Vagas sand-: 
wiched seven rushes around a 15­


Welcome Home 
by Skip Desjardin 

Coming home. 
The whole Notre Dame football 
season seemed to rest on this game. 
Since classes had begun in August, 
everyone had been saying that the 
1979 season could possibly be de­
cided by the end of the third game. 
The Irish opened the season with 
three of the preseason's Top Twenty 
teams. As if the away games at 
Michigan and Purdue· weren't 
enough, Notre Dame had to open its 
home · season against the 1978 Big 
Ten Co-champions, the Michigan 
State Spartans. Only NCAA proba­
tion had kept them out of the 1979 
Rose Bowl. 
In August, the fans had the sea­
son figured out, or so they thought. 
Everyone had an opinion: 
"If we win the first three, we're talking national championship." · 
"If we drop the first two, we-can kiss the bowl games good-bye." · "All we need is a split in the first two away games, because after that 
·we come home!" 
Coming home. __ -The Irish had pulled a dramatic upset in Ann Arbor to insure the split on the road. Then they had met up with a red-hot Mark Herrmann and the Boilermakers. Things hadn.'t gone as w,ell. But now ~hey were 
FEBRUARY ·8, 1980 
· home. The. last of the .three-game series with the cream of the Big .Ten crop had arrived. This was the game that would turn the tide one way or the other. This MSU. team was not one to be taken lightly. They came into this Saturday undefeated and ranked seventh in the nation. Sure, they had lost Ed Smith, one of the top passers in Big Ten history, to grad­uation; but Bert Vaughn was no shabby passer himself. His day · looked like it would be an even brighter one after· the Irish had lost co-captain Dave Waymer with an injury during the Purdue game, but freshman Dave Duerson was ready to step in to fill those shoes. Duerson, along with freshman standouts John Sweeney· and Tony Hunter, would all be starting their first home games. All three agreed that it. was going to.be the thrill. of their athletic lives. 
It was a beautiful day for a foot­ball game. The crowd was ready.for ·. its first game in ten months, the weather was near-perfect, the field . conditions were near-perfect, and 
so, it turned out, were the Irish. 
For the third week in. a row, the Irish won the toss, and for the third week in .i ro\V, YB:gas ~erguson went yard Rusty Lisch to Pete Holohan pass and the Irish were driving. The drive ended abruptly, however, when Ferguson fumbled the ball and MSU recovered on its own 25-yard line. 
Vaughn attempted three straight pass plays and the Spartans were forced to punt. Ty Dickerson dropped back and took the kick for the first return of his career. When he was finally knocked out of bounds, Dickerson had himself a 51-yard return, and the Irish had the ball on the MSU five-yard line! Two Vagas Ferguson runs and a quarterback sneak left the ball on the one-foot line. All over the sta­dium, words like "Missouri," "last year," and "remember" were mum­bled. ·Murmurs turned to. cries _of dismay a few minutes later, as Rusty Lisch failed to get in. on a · keeper. Nightmares of the ·3-0 loss to the. Missouri. Tigers_ in the swel­tering heat of a year ago returned to thousands of minds. Fumbles and failed "fourth-and-shorts" had stifled three drives. that day. We couldn't· possibly be in for a repeat. Could we? 
Not hardly. 
Again Michigan State was· forced· to punt from deep in its -own ter­ritory, and again the Irish offense went to work. Moments later, the freshman, Hunter, caught the first of many collegiate . touchdown passes and Notre Dame was_ on the scoreboard. The fans, breathed a collective sigh of relief. 
The Spartans had plenty of life left in them, as they showed on the next series. MSU _had good -field po­sition after a 45-yard kick-off return by Hughes.· A 27-yard run by Smith didn't hurt. matters either.. Before most people realized it, the Spar­
.. tans had the ball on the Notre Dame · 11-yard line, and they were knock­ing at the door. · 
. Vaughn dropped back to pass on third and seven, but he threw the ball right into the_ hands of ;Irish defensive back Tom Gibbons. Gib­bons: grabbed the ball at the Notre Dame one-yard line and took off up field. Spartan wide receiver Eugene Byrd was -the only man with a chance to catch him;·which he did, but not• until 'Gibbons had carried the ball 51 yards to the MSU 48­yard· line. It proved to be a very costly play·. for the Spartans, as. 

quarterback Bert Vaughn was shaken up after a hit from ND line­man John Hankerd. Vaughn would not return for the rest of the game. 
Once again, Vagas Ferguson went· to work. ·He carried the ball seven times for 31 yards and, along with runs _· by Lisch and Barber, brought the·ball to the Michigan State one­foot line. All through the 1978 sea­son, the Irish seemed to have had problems ·getting the ball in from close. The Missouri and USC games attest to that. The trend . certainly appeared to be continuing today. For the .third time, Notre Dame could not score at the end of a big drive. This time it was a Ferguson drive that fell short on fourth down, and once again the Spartans took over deep in their own end. Stacho­wicz was forced to punt out of his end_· zone again, · after · MSU could manage to gain only three yards in three plays. · · · 
After an incomplete pass to Hunt­er, Notre Dame had the ball, second down and 10 yards to go at its own 41. Lisch threw a· screen pass to Barber, and he raced to the MSU 23, a pick-up of 36. Two plays later, however, a 15-yard holding penalty took the wind out of the Irish sails, a_nd they had to settle for a 49-yard field goal from Chuck Male. With just over seven minutes to go in the half, the Irish led, 10-0; 
·Once again, the Michigan State Spartans took over, and once again,· an extremely tough Irish defense forced them to punt. This time, how­ever, the snap was low, and Stacho.;. wicz · could only manage to shank a six-yard punt! Notre Dame had the ball in good field position. · · 
Three straight runs by Bernie Adell, one of them · a 34-yarder, brought the ball to the Spartan 19. From there Chuck Male hit his sec­ond field goal of the day. That made the score 13-0 in favor of Notre 
Danie. , · With oniy 2:38 to go in the half, it looked like the Irish would keep that rn~point lead going into the locker room. But the Spartans had · been battling all day, and they con­tinued to do so. Runs by Reeves and Smith, and a Clark pass ·to Middle­ton got MSU to the ND 36.-With no time left ·on. the clock;. Morten· An­derson came in and hit a 53-yard field goal. It was the longest ever kicked against Notre Danie, and tied a rec-. ord as the longest field goal in the history of Notre Dame Stadium. So the· Spartans had a big emotional lift at_ the end ofthe half. 
But the field goal to end the half must also have fired up the Notre Dame defensive unit, because they came flying out to· start the second half. With MSU in possession of the ball, third and three, on its own 48-yard line, John Hankerd busted through, forcing a fumble that the Spartans recovered. The bad news came for Spartan fans when Clark, who had replaced the injured Bert Vaughn in. the first quarter, was unable to get up. He too would be lost for the afternoon. 
After Stachowicz, who would later come in as -the third MSU quarterback, punted, the Irish had the ball on its own 13-yard line. As he had been all afternoon, Vagas· Ferguson was again the workhorse for the Irish. He carried the ball on eight of the next 12 Notre Dame plays, including gains of eight and· 10 yards. He capped the drive off with a touchdown, going 24 yards, untouched, for the score. With 5:32 to go in the third quarter, the Irish, following Chuck Male's point-after, were on top by 17, 20-3. 
The defense continued to shine, stopping the Spartans •·-again on three plays. A busy Stachowicz punted. from his own 13, and the Irish . were in great field -position again. Barber ran for eight, then Adell and Ferguson · combined to. 
pick up a yard on two plays. Notre Dame had the ball, third and inches, when Rusty Lisch pitched out to Vagas. The senior co-captain walked a tight rope down the sidelines for a beautiful 48-yard touchdown run. 
.That put the score at 27-3 in favor of the Irish. 
That's the way it would stay, as the Irish took a very impressive victory. They had come home in grand style. The team had showed 
·some flashes of offensive brilliance, · and an "awesome defense. Although eight games remained, all _the f~ns were relieved that these first three games were over. The "easy" part of the schedule was coming up. It's not that USC, Georgia . Tech and · Tennessee were . pushovers, but these first three games· seemed to be _the key to a -successful season. They had come away from the Big Ten matchups a very · respectable 
"two and one, and emotions, .as well as expectations for the future, .were running high. · 
-. On this sunny September Satur­day, the Fightin' Irish ·of Notre Dame served notice that they were not to be counted out of the picture, for bowl games or for more. 
Notre Dame had come home, and proved that this year's club, too, was for real. · 


· Michigan State ..... , ... : ...... : ... : ..... : ............. , ....... · 0 .3 :-:0: .. 0-3 7 ·; · 6· ·14 0-27
. Notre Dame ····"··'·························: ........... : .... ,: 
Scoring: ND -Hunter, 14-yard passfrom Lisch (Male kick) · · ND -Male, 49-yard field goal ND -Male, 36-yard field goal . MSU-'-'-Andersen, 53-yard field' goal ··ND-Ferguson, 24-yard run (Male kick): ND -Ferguson, 48-yard run (Male kick) 


:,-, 
9ridiron 




9leflections 
by Anthony Walton 

The campus was disappointed at the \Vay the sea,:. son turned out. Did you expect a better season at the ~eginning? . 
Ferguson:._Any time -you start out anything ·you're doing you want to do well_at it; Especially as a senior I wanted to have a: good season, both personally and teamwise. I've been playing with some of these guys for a long time.and I wanted to go out a winner: , We did in a sense. ­
·-1 . . . . • .. 
. Were you sa~sfied-with your personal season? 
. -. 

As_ far as records and things, it•was good. -Now I'm looking back on it, of course, because during the season it didn't really mean that much to me. It's a team thing during the season, but it's nice to have. things-to look back _on, and in the future ! __think.it will be something nice. 
.. :. ,· . . .
~ 

Were you disappointed in the way the Reisman 
turned out? 

Fei-~son-'-Not really. Again, that's an individual award. During the season I don't really get in'.° volved with all that stuff, and now it doesn't really mean that much. -Whatever happened, happened. I ·wasn't real(y hoping to win it; if I pid, good, if _i didn't, well, that's okay, too. The most iril-:­portant ·award to me was the MVP .award from our teant:·That was much more of an·honor than the:.Heisman because it was chosen by'.·people I play\vith and people that know me personally. · 
. : ~.:. ', . . ,.: . 
· Wliat•s· in tlie future for you? · · , · • ' ·': ' :_:~~-~~~-~;'";:;.. : ,•'-:.' •:,<· 
·Fergw;on~r.°think. I· have -an option; r_have· a chance to play_:pro football if I want "to/:and I . ·don't -have to· ifT don't want to.. Financially,, it would be something· good, as far as getting ahead, that's always :good. I 'feei like I can always 'do something' el5.e.-:Right now I'm<·working with 

Vagas ·Ferguson 

computers, and that's what I really want_ to do. If I get' drafted, I'll go that ·way. If not, I have -· som~thin~ else ( can d?. ­
1s··your attitude ·toward the pros shaped.by what happened to Jerome Heavens? 
Ferguson~Pretty much, you' know ifsho~s. you that nothing is guaranteed. He went to a team that could .use a fullback of his caliber; plus a ba·ckfield coach -who. coached him .for two years was -there~so you-think, hey;,he'll make it, our old coach will take care of him. But he didn't. It didn't come_ through. So it tells me that nothingis-guar_anteed: · -· · 
If you had it to do over again, would you ·come 
here? 
Ferguson-As far as what I've _accomplished here, on the field and ·in the classroom, there's nothing that could match that. I've·won on the field and academically .. I've won .the. national championship and I'm. graduating; ·so that's the most important thing. Especially that I'm·going to graduate. That's, something. that:·no -one can ever take away from me. They can always take football away from me, but that degree and the knowledge that I have now, they can never take that-away from me:; That's· the most_.important thing. -That's:why I came here. ·:, · 
If you··don't make pro ball, are your football days! . over? You ,von't coach or anything? -.. 
Ferguson__;_.:_Right now·r·'don't think··that I would gc> irito• coaching. If pro ball doesn'f work out, I think that's it. · . . . . 
~s th~re an~t~ing else that you ,vould: like·to·say? 
Fergus_on-Yes. rve . enj~yed myself. .... here: .. 





ij;~~r.t: 
,.....,.._..., 

i~Il 
:t 

.•;•:•;,.':;'.::.:.:.:':,:,:,;.;.:;:.a.,:.:.-:.\\\: 
Dave Waymer 

I know the team didn't have as good a season as you had anticipated, but I was wondering, what were your goals? 
Waymer-Well, every year, because Notre Dame is not in a conference or anything and we can't play for a conference championship, we hav,e to play for the national championship every year. That's a goal we set every year here, and this year was no different. We set our goals very early, like last spring, and things just didn't fall in the right place. We had a lot of injuries, people not being able to play and it really told_ during the year. 
Was the season something of a disappointment, personally? I mean considering your injury and having to miss part of the season. 
Waymer-Well, I got through the season being able· to walk off the field and that's something I wanted to do. I was pretty disappointed that I missed three games after getting hurt· in the Purdue game but it's just one of those things; It was the first time that I ever had to miss a foot­ball game, you know sitting on the sidelines was strange to me. I had a string of interceptions going, until the knee thing, but it worked out and there's nothing wrong now and I'm thankful to God for that. 
What's in the future for you, ·do you hope to turn pro? 
Waymer-Well, I'm going to play pro ball for a while, you know, to financially get on my feet and· that's a good step that could help me and I'm also doing interviews through the placement bureau and on my own; I'm really looking forward to getting out and onto my next step of life. · 
What would you-say was the biggest thrill that you had at Notre Dame? 
Waymer-,-! would say winning the national cham­pionship. That was one of the goals I set over the course of my career. I always wanted that. It was a dream come true for a lot of people and it's nice to be able to say that you achieved a goal like that that you set out to do. I think that's one I'll never forget. 

Tim Foley 

I'm sure you expected to do better this year as a team and I'm sure that this season was something of a disappointment to yo1L I was wondering if you had any reflections on that. 
Foley-Well, any time a Notre Dame team goes 7-4 there is a feeling of disappointment on campus. However, for the injuries we had and the schedule we had I think we did a fine job. A lot of young people matured. we· didn't get the big play as we had in previous years but at.a lot of schools a 7-4 season would be a great accom­plishment. But, since in my four years here the previo~s three had been such glorious years there was a feeling of disappointment. · 
How do you feel about your personal accom­plishments? 
Foley-Everyone's goal, teamwise, going into the season is to be national·champs; That we accom­plished my sophomore year here. Personally, I thought I played well this year, and our team was gifted with a great runner like Vagas Fer­guson which makes blocking easy. Playing for a school like Notre Dame, which means that you're in the national picture quite a bit;· really helps as far as national publicity. and All-American exposure. ­
What was your biggest thrill at Notre__Dame? 
Foley-,-! would say. two thrills. The first ·was coming out in the .green jerseys arid .beating Southern Cal here at home and that sarpe year beating Texas for the national championship; 
If you had · your four years to do over again would you come back here? 
-!­

Foley-Oh, definitely. I have no regrets coming here. I have met some great people, not only,on the football team, for example, all my roommates are .nonfootball players, I'm graduating on time, I'll-have a degree, I've won a national champion­ship,. three bowl victories. Personally, things have worked. out very well for me. It's. just. a class institution and it's an experience I wish .every young man coming out of high school could enjoy. 
.._ .. 
,~, 
. .. so that eventually it will be there. 
···': ·= :-..•. ! .· ·, • ' •.• 

Rusty Lisch 

Two years ago, Joe l\lonta.na replaced you. Do 
you think that you vindicated yourself? 
Lisch-I don'tlook at it as a matter of vindication or anything. 'it was simply a matter of the best person who showed through, and that was Joe Montana. He came in and did a real good job. I certainly had to wait and learn, but in the process of watching and learning you grow a little bit the whole way around. I think it did help for when I actually did get to play. 
\Vere you satisfied with you.~ personal season? 
.. Lisch-Well, certainly I had a lot of fun, and I enjoyed playing with the teammates that we had, 
.they're a great . bunch of ,'guys. I'm not dis­appointed about anything. I believe that you do it all for the glory of God and if you do that and · you do it to the fullest, there's nothing more you 
.· can ask for. There were a lot of different develop­
. ments, but overall I think that it was a lot of fun. 
. Do· you-. think that your religious beiiefs have sustained you through the. difficulties of your 
career? 

'',Lisch...:..'...I believe so, and I think that these diffi­culties strengthen your religious convictions and vice versa. I have a belief that if it was my own personal wants and ambitions. that I probably wouldn't have made it, I ·probably wouldn't have ' stayed here. Now· I realize that it was the.will 
:· of God. You have to make the best of the situ­. ation presented and it's not always going to turn. 'out happy. Sometimes it may seem. that some­
thing is wrong; but it's. not if you .look at it 
. correctly. · . . ·. . . ··. ·. . . . . 
;\Vb.at° does the future ·hold for you?. 
: _Lisch-As far aS:pros, I have~'t even determin~d . ·.-yet :whether I'm ·going to be drafted, but if I'm .·-.· drafted· I think I will try. ~ut._ • Also I'm looking _for__ ari apprenticeship in architect_ure. I hope to .·· do _that six months and play football.the.other ... six months.· But I plan on continuing architecture . 
· · · · 


Bob Crable 

Do you have any reflections on the season, now that it's over? 
Crable-I am disappointed. with our record. I ­think that-we should be able to do a lot better next year. As for reflections, I think the 7-4 record tells most of the story. We'll be out there next year giving it everything we've got. 
How does it feel to be an underclass captain at Notre Dame? · · 
Crable-It's a great honor; I'in proud to be a captain next year. I hope I can do as well this year as I did last year and try to inspire everyone 
. a little bit. · ·· · 
.. Do you· feel that. you had. a successful season personally? 
Crable-Personally, ·I was somewhat satisfied. I ·-wasn't totally satisfied.. A lot of my personal goals are based around the team. If the team· has 
• a good year you feel like you had a lot better year, no matter what kind of a year you had. When you lose a few games it just doesn't feel as good. 
What ·do you look for next year, as far as the team goes? 
·. Crable-I look for a lot more enthusiasm; If we 
can really_ get inspired for a few games, if we can ·.. start at the beginning and hold it, we're going to . have a good year. I'm•really; really lookingifor­. · ward to next year. · 
Is . there ~nything. else . that . yo~ . wouid.like . . to add? 
. ~ . . . . 

. Crabl~The only thing _that I wouid like to add 
is that I've talked to most of_ thej>layers on the ·.. ;teani and we're real ·excited about _next year. I ·•·hope the student body is _behind us. I hope they 
· can come through ·for ·the Michigan. game and I hope they can be up for the small games as_ much as_ they are for the bigger gam~ becaus_e we are . 
· really looking forward .. to it~· . . 
,.. . . 


Georgia Tech 
Vagas Rambles Over Tech 
by Ken Valdiserri_ 


Playing in a steady downpour of rain. for most of the contest, the Fighting Irish, led by the star run­ning of senior tailback Vagas Fer­guson and the play of freshman cornerback Dave Duerson held off a tough Georgia Tech football team 21-13. The rain-splashed victory bet­tered ·. the Irish record to 3-1. · Tech, which battled the Irish to a 14-13 deficit after three quarters, finally succumbed after a contra­versial fumble ruling and the deter­mined dashes of Vagas Ferguson. Ferguson, who carried for a record-breaking 39 times, gained 177 yards and scored a pair of touchdowns. 
. "Hey, if I don't see someone com-. 
ing in for me, I'm not coming out. 
If I have to carry 39 times to help·· 
us win, I'll do it," said Ferguson 
after the game. Ferguson's last ·and 
deciding touchdown jaunt came In 
the fourth quarter after a pass from 
Tech quarterback. Mike Kelley to 
there it t·ook two Ferguson rushes to score the insurance touchdown. On the first rush, Ferguson slashed for five yards to the 17-yard line and then took a Rusty Lisch handoff and found daylight down the right side­line for his second touchdown of the day. There was 12:17 left when Chuck Male kicked the final point. 
It was the final game for Fergu­son against the Yellow Jackets and their crafty coach Pepper Rodgers. In his three years against Tech, Vagas carried the ball a total of 80 times amassing 548 yards and scor­ing five touchdowns. "If Ferguson's not an All-American," added the 
·Georgia Tech coach, "then I. don't know. who is. He's' great!. He operates well in any weather." But Vagas' performance was· even more impressive than: his .career high· 255 yards in:last year's 38-21 victory in: Atlanta. Because this time, the Irish needed every yard. After the Irish 
mage for most of the afternoon, led the surefooted Ferguson out. of jeo­partly. Finally, with 1 :01 left in the game, Vagas slammed out from the five-yard line with a first down and the Irish were able to rim out the dock. ''Vagas' performance today ·just reaffirmed how valuable he is to· us," said· Coach Devine. "Whenever a player can run on a wet field the 
: way he did, he . deserves a lot of credit." · 
But it was not just the heroics· of_ Ferguson and the rest of theirish_of­fense that won the game. In fact the offense scored . only when i_t had great. field position. ·The Irish de­. fense, playing without. the services . of senior co-captain Dave Waymer arid safety Tom Gibbons, set up all . three Notre Dame scores. The. young · defense, playing . with five··· sopho­mores and a freshman, came up with . some key plays that· gave·the Irish offense great field position. In the 

flanker Leon· Chadwick ·wa;s dropped.· . took· the· 31~13 -lead, Georgia ·Tech.· ·first . period freshman · cornerback .• 
and ruled a fumbled lateral.,. ''I couldn't see the' play fronf the' field, but mipeople. in the' pres·s box sa_id. it was , batted by." a lineman;''. ex-. plained. Tech coach Pepper Rodgers. Aftef Notre Dame's"·linebackel'. Bob Crable jumped on the loose ball,. Notre Dame took possession on the ~~~gia 'l'ech.: ~2~yard. _lin~'..: Fro~ ··. 
mounted three threatening drives that were ultimately stalled. As the downpour. continued, Tech's punter Gary Lanier put the Irish . in poor field position with three punts in· succession that were downed inside the Irish five-yard line. Neverthe~; less, the. Irish offensive line, man-· ag~d-to· control the -line of scrim-
Dave . Duerson . intercepted· a· Mike Kelley pass and returned it 33 yards .. to the Tech eight-ya"rd ._line and 'set . up Ferguson's first touchdown.' After· the . Irish took . possession;: Vagas 
· slashed ·for. three; . then ; two and finally outside the.·leffend.for,"the. score. And when chuck Male kicked:. 
·-~ll~ extra poi~t,: ~h.~·ga.~~ _\Va.~ .?nJY, 
• . SCHOLASTIC 

6:04 old, and at the time, it looked like the Yellow Jackets were in for a long afternoon. 
But Tech then shocked the Irish on their first possession when passer Mike Kelley picked up a bobbled snap and lofted a short pass to flanker Leon Chadwick who sped 80 yards down the sideline for the tying -touchdown. "I saw the quar­terback fumble the snap and I came up to cover in case he decided to run," Duerson explained. "The flank­er just got behind us and caught the ball." After Tech got the ball back, Kelley·handed off to freshman Ron­ny Cone who fumbled at _the -Tech 17-yard line after being hit by Notre Dame's _defensive tackle Scott Zet­tek. The ball bounded along the side­line to the 28-yard line where Duer­son, the freshman from Muncie, Indiana, recovered to set -up Notre Dame's second score of the after­noon. "Dave showed me a lot today," said the head coach of the _Irish. '.'Considering he's: only six months out of high sG_hool, I'd have to say he did a fantastic job out there to­day under the conditions that were less than ideal. He displayed heads­up thinking· to come up with those two turnovers and, besides, it's never easy to replace someone like Dave Waymer." After the Irish took possession, Ferguson again carried the load.· Vagas slammed for five, then 12 and: seven yards to the Tech f01.ir-yard line. -And then Notre Dame fullback Ty Barber zipped ·it across and Male made:it'14-7. But Tech fought back. Eady in the sec­ond •·period; · after_-· Dick -Boushka punted . to -the Tech -7, Kelley marched his team downfield hitting his flanker, Chadwick, with 22-= and eight-yard· passes' that advanced the 
.. Yellow Jackets to the Irish 23-yard line. On fourth down, Tech _.sent in placekicker Johnny -'Smith· who booted a 41-yard field goal to· nar­row,the Irish lead to 14-10, 6:51 be­fore halftime.' As the half came to a close the Irish• mounted a scoring threat-as Lisch hit freshman split 
. end_ Tony 'Hunter· for 18-and 24­yard passes. Six seconds before half.: time, -field goal kicker Chuck Male, who had been perfect on his first 
_'"'eight; attempts, ·was sent)n to at­tempt a 57-yarder. The kick was a little short and to the left as the half 
' ended with the Irish'holding on to a sliiU.14-10 lead. ''I thought I could 
, make it,"-Male' said after the garne. "If I didn't,Twould never have gone out on _the field. In fact, Twas hoping Coach Devine would letme-try it" " 'After the halftime rains had com­pletely drenched the field and the 
FEBRUARY 8, 1980 
. 59,075 spectators, Jim Stone took the second half kickoff and returned it 48 yards to the Georgia_ 45-yard line. But the Irish weren't able to take advantage of good field posi­tion as I:Jsch dropped the wet ball on a snap from center John Scully. Tech linebacker Bill Haley recovered at the Tech 17-yard line. From there Tech drove to the Irish six-yard line with the aid of a 24-yard pass inter­ference call and a face mask penalty against the Irish. On fourth down, -Pepper Rodgers sent in placekicker Smith who connected on a· 22-yard field goal ·to cut the Irish lead to 14-13. . 
For a while, it looked _as if the 
· rain, wet ball and · offensive ineffi­ciency of both teams were going to conspire ·to prevent scoring. But then came the fumbled lateral re­
covered by linebacker Crable which 
-set up Notre Dame's clinching touchdown. In addition to Crable's crucial fumble recovery, he led the defense in tackles, with 13 stops as well ·as two passes broken up. "I don't .-think we were as intense as we were against Michigan State but I can tell you we were ready to play a good football team," Crable said. "Georgia Tech is strong and quick and they came right at us. Give credit to our secondary for doing a great job . despite plenty of in­juries." For the Irish it was a tough, touch-and-go victory against a long­
-time opponent, and one assured by the brilliance of Ferguson's running and the tough Irish defense led by the play of freshman cornerback Dave Duerson. 

Georgia Tech .................... :............................. .7 3 3 · o_:_13 Notre Dame .................................................... 14 -0 0 7-21 
Scoring: 

ND -Ferguson, 3-yard run (Male kick) GT-Chadwick, 80-yard pass from Kelley (Smith kick) ND -Barber, 3-yard run· (Male kick) GT-Smith, 41-yard field goal · ­GT-Smith, 22-yard field goal ND-:--Ferguson, 17~yard run (Male kick) 

Air Force 
. . -. . . -_ ­

Soaring Above the. Rockies 

~ 
. II 
I 
Notre Dame's Fighting Irish traveled to Colorado Springs with hopes of coordinating.their sporadic offense against the one team that could _be considered. a ·"breather" on an otherwise hectic schedule, the Falcons .of the United States. Air Force Academy. The Irish.had ob­viously.· had their problems against Georgia ·. Tech .the · previous week, winning 21-13 in ilie rain at South Bend; but instead of sputtering as it had against the Yellow Jackets the week before, the Irish offense exploded in the first half of the Air . Force game. 
Notre Dame scored, on its first three possessions of the game, and Air Force was unable to come back against an· injury-riddled Irish de­fense. After Air Force took the opening kickoff but failed to sustain a drive past midfield, Ty Barber and Vagas Ferguson combined to move the Irish .from-their own 22 to the Falcon ·21. Barber started .the drive with a 23-yard burst off left guard, and Ferguson carried the ball four times for 22 yards before ·quarter­back Rusty Lisch hit Pete Holohan at the Air Force five for a 22-yard gain. On first and goal from the five, Ferguson slanted off .left tackle for the touchdown and: with . Chuck Male's conversion, Notre Dame led · 
•7.:0. . On the second play following Notre Dame's kickoff, Cadet quarter­back Dave Ziebart had his passinto the right flat · picked off by. Irish linebacker Bobby Leopold, and the senior from Port Arthur, Texas, re­turned the ball to· the Air Force nine. A clipping penalty on the run­back moved the ball back to·the 32, however, and after the drive stalled, Male booted a. 43-yard · field goal to make it Notre Dame-10, Air Force · -0 with 6:34 to go in the quarter. .Irish · defender Scott Zettek was. injured on Leopold's runback, and Air Force· began to move the ball on the ground with him out ofthe lineup. Cadet Mike Fortson carried 
for a first down on the Notre Dame . 40,. but.·. Ziebart misfired • ori three straight passes and the drive ended 
when Jim Sturch's 57-yard field­goal attempt into .the wind. fell far short of its mark. . 
. by Paul Stauder 
. .-. . 
•·· 
Notre Dame•then embarked on a 61-yard, ten-play drive to put, the Cadets in a hole for the remainder of the afternoon. Ferguson. took a draw play handoff at his own 42 and toted into Air Force territory to the 
45. Bernie Adell _came into the game and .. carried.·to the. 42 · before Lisch hit freshman Tony Hunter. in the right flat. Hunter -leaped pigh to gather in. the aerial,.then moved to. the Falcon 28 for a 14-yard · gain. Llsch went:to' the air again two plays . later. ancl. rifled a pass to tight · end Nick , V ehr crossing near . the goal Jine. Vehr was tackled_ on the Falcon three after. a . gain· of 25. A pair of Ferguson runs sandwiched. a procedure. penalty. against the Irish, and. the· quarter··.ended .with Notre Dame facing a third and goal on the one. On the. first play of the second quarter, Llsch snuck in-for the score and Male hit the conversion to up Notre Dame's·leadto17-0. ·.. . .. 
Air Force finally untracked its offense against Notre Daine defense that -was .missing three:.defensive backs, John . Krimm, Tom· Gibbons, and Dave , Waymer, ·starting.•line~ backer Mike· Whittington, and Zet­tek with his knee sprain sustained in the first period. After an ex­change of punts (a 56-yarder by Cadet Scott Schafer and a 33-yarder by Notre Dame's Dick Boushka), the Falcons moved to the Irish 22. A face-mask penalty furthered the Air Force drive to the 11, and Fortson carried to the one to make it first and goal, Air Force. Two plays later, George James got in to make it 17-7 Irish after Sturch's con­version. 

Air Force coach Ken Hatfield felt that this touchdown was the first step in bringing the Cadets back into the game, but that it would not be enough by itself. He said after the game that, "When it got to be 17-7 . . . we felt like we needed to do something right then to get our­selves back into it." 
It was the Irish, instead of the Cadets, who were next to "do some­thing." On its··· next series, Notre Dame moved the ball 80 yards in 
. jus·t eight plays to erase the Falcon touchdown. The key play in the drive occurred on a second and six from the Irish 24 when Lisch hit Holohan in. the right flat. The junior . wide-out got behind the secondary .. and raced 59 yards to the Falcon 18. · A pass to Vehr moved the ball to the five, but Air Force stiffened and Notre Dame had to go for the score on ,fourth and. goal from· the two. Lisch flipped to Vehr, who made a nifty diving catch on the goal line and fell in for the six­pointer. Male's conversion made it 24-7 Notre Dame with 4:08 to go in the half. ' 
An Air ·Force turnover • on the ensuing· kickoff .·helped Notre Dame pour it on: Fortson fielded Male's kickoff and returned it to his own 23-yard line before coughing up the ball.. Notre Dame's Dan Stone pounced on the fumble. On the next play; Ferguson darted off left tackle, cut outside, .and glided untouched into the end zone..With .Male's con­version, Notre Daine went in at half­time with a commanding 31-7 lead. The Irish controlled the ball . for over 17 minutes of the half, with 
\ Lisch engineering scoring drives of 77, ~2, 61, 80, and 23 yards. · At the beginning, of the second half, itseemed as if the Irish offense would continue to roll up the score. Lisch .hit Hunter. on the first · play from scrimmage.in the _second half, and the Cincinnati, Ohio, native out­ran' everybody en route to. an ap-· parent 80~yard touchdown. An of­fensive interference call on Nick Vehr ·brought the play back, how­
.FEBRUARY -8, 1980 
ever, and Air Force had a temporary reprieve. 
The Falcons moved the ball better on the Irish defense in the second half, but people like freshman line­backer M&rk Zavagnin kept the Cadets from pay dirt until late in the third quarter. In fact, Zavagnin led the Irish defense in stops for the entire afternoon with nine. Rod Bone filled in admirably at corner­back in his first career-starting as­signment as well. 
Air Force was able to move 71 yards _to its second touchdown, largely due to the leadership of Zie­bart, and his passing game. Ziebart, who broke the total-offense record at the Academy in this game, hit his· tight end Scott Schafer for a 29­yard gain from his own 29 to the Notre Dame 42, then hit Bob Bueh~ ler at the 30. After an incomplete pass, the crafty Ziebart scrambled out of the . pocket to the 10, then handed to Fortson who carried down to the · one. Ron Merrix was hit for a loss by Bone but, after a time­out, Ziebart hit Schafer in the end zone for the touchdown. The try for a two-point conversion failed, and the score stood at Notre Dame 31, Air Force 13. . 
The last score of the day proved to be the most electrifying of the year. for Irish fans. On third and 
·eight from his own. 25, Llsch hit Hunter on .the sideline, and what followed was a virtual carbon copy of the first play of the half. Hunter again raced the Falcon secondary the length of the field for the goal line, and again he won. This time there were no flags in sight, and the touchdown stood. Male hit the con­version to finish off the scoring for the ·afternoon. Notre· Dame walked off with an impressive 38-13 victory. 
After the game, Lisch, who. fin­ished 10 of 14 for 227 yards and two touchdowns, gave credit to his coaches and.teammates for the awe­some offensive display. "All I do is run the plays," the senior signal caller stressed. "We come into th_e game with great 'game plans _every week and every player on the team is well prepared. We always know what we can and can't do." 
Devine was well pleased with Lisch and his entire offense's per­formance: "We played very well of­fensively, and a large part of the credit should go · to Rusty. Every week he gets better and he has al­ready more than justified the con­fidence we have in him." Devine also elected to give Vagas Ferguson a much-needed rest in the second half. Vagas had been averaging bet­ter than 31 carries per . game, and with Southern Cal .coming in next week, Devine's reasoning was "ob­vious," or was it? "I gave him a rest 
· because I didn't want to run up the score. Vagas could have had 300 yards had he played the whole game," the coach revealed in the locker room after the game. Still, Ferguson finished with 85 yards in 15 carries, including two touch­downs, in less than half a day's work. 
Air Force's Hatfield summed up the afternoon: "They did some things early that got things going their way right off the bat. By half­time, we had done the complete op­posite of what our game plan said. Notre Dame did a super job of tak­ing advantage of some mismatches out there. Tony Hunter is a good­example of someone who simply has more God-given ability than the 
. people we had trying to stop him. We knew that we couldn't line up and knock 'em out of the park," Hat­field confided. "We needed some help from them in the form of mistakes and turnovers, and that just never happened." · More than anything else, the Irish victory served as a tune-up for the Trojans of Southern Cal.· Tricaptain and self-appointed team spokesman Dave Waymer who had sat out Notre Dame's past three' games, in­cluding this one, explained, "Wheth­er I'm ready (to play) or not, we'll beready." 

Notre Dame .................................................... 10 21 Air Force ........................................................ O 7 
Scoring: . ND-:--Ferguson, 5-yard run . (Male kick) ND -Male, 43-yard · field goal ND -Lisch, 1-yard run -(Male kick) AF -James, 1-yard run (Sturch kick) ND -Vehr, 2-yard pass from Lisch (Male kick) ND -Ferguson, 23-yard run (Male kick) . . AF -Schafer, 2-yard pass from Ziebart (run failed) ND-:--Hunter, 75-yard passfrom Lisch (Male kick) 
0 -7-38 · 6 0-13 
'19 
USC 

. . . 

Sweet Revenge 

Before the season even began, Irish enthusiasts had been looking forward to this game. No, the team wouldn't allow that, nor the coaches, ·but the students sure did. USC, ranked ·#1 in preseason polls, rumored to be able to handle itself· quite capably in· the NFL, was scheduled to invade Notre Dame Stadium · on October 20 and they were itching to revenge 1977's famous "green-jersey" 49-19 Irish 
._romp. But a couple of fairly unexpected 
:events preceded the fall battle in South Bend, . Indiana. The Fighting. :Irish trimmed Michigan in its opener 12-10 in a real nail-biter and crushed =the Spartans of Michigan State in ;its home opener 27-3, but could not ;escape the fierce Big Ten trio un­scathed· as Mark Herrmann led Pur­; due to a 28-22 victory ·sandwiched ~between the Irish wins. So.the Irish : were 4-1 on the season and still re­
spectable in the pqlls. 
Ty Barber hits the gap.· 
Taking a little inore lustre off the oncoming clash was a pitiful second half by Southern Cal the week before against Stanford, resulting in a 21­21 tie. The Trojans dropped to fifth in the . ratings, but were still un­defeated and breathing fire as they prepared to·meet,the Irish. 
What occurred that Saturday was one of the most .exciting,. wide-open games ever witnessed at du Lac. The Southern California Trojans rolled up 591 total yards, 6 touchdowns and a convincing 42-23 win . over the Fighting :Irish. · ·"They are the. best offensive team I've ever seen," com­mented an awed Dan Devine · in a subdued Irish locker room after the game. 
Paul McDonald and Charles White were the· major ·heroes of the day as the lefty. quarterback threw for a career-high 311 yards on _21-32 pin­point passing that left many Irish rooters breathless.: -=·white,=.' the 
by Tom Westphal · 
talented tailback, danced in, around and through the bewildered Notre Dame defenders for 261 yards on a record-breaking 44 · carries. ."White takes the . pressure.' off. me,,, noted McDonald in a postgarrie interview. "The defense must stop him first" 
--Notre Dame's performance was nothing to scoff at either: 535 total yards fairly evenly .divided between the_ pass and the rush.. Vagas Fer­guson rushed for . 185 hard-earned yards on 825 carries; Rusty Lisch completed 14-32 ·passes ;for 286 yards, most of which occured in a frantic fourth quarter=-comeback attempt. "Ferguson is one ·of the best I've played ·• against," remarked USC nose guard Ty Sperling; "I never hit him the whole day!" . · · 
-USC won the toss of the coin to begin the game and curious1y·e1ect'ed to defend the. south goal. ; The Irish began their first possession at their own 12-yard line_andyroceeded up-· 
.. SCHOLAST!C 

field, aided initially by. a 17-yard A certain tension hung in the air Lisch-Tony Hunter aerial that gave during the halftime show. Just how them reasonable1 field position. A long could Notre Dame hold this Trojan penalty on an ensuing Notre high-powered Trojan offense in Dame punt left the Irish on the 44 check? Something had to explode. yard line, and after Lisch's exciting ·. After seven minutes of the third 8-yard scramble/they were poised to period, it did. strike upon their first entrance into ..Notre Dame wasted a superior 37­Trojan territory. But misfortune yard punt return by Ty Dickerson greeted the. Irish early as safety and punted the ball to the USC 20. Dennis Smith intercepted a deflected For the next 20 minutes of football, pass and carried it to his. own 37. it was all ofjense. White for 13. 
Achieving only one first down on White for 18. McDonald to wide re­its initial possession, USC punted to ceiver Raymond Butler for 11 and 9 . the Irish 13 where center John Scully yards. A 26-yard toss. to Garcia set called his team to huddle; up White's ·3-yard touchdown run 
On the second play from scrim-. ·and USC led 14-7. 
mage, Vagas Ferguson burst through a tremendous hole off left tackle Rob l\fartinovich and scampered 79 yards down the left sideline, becoming Notre Dame's all-time leading rusher· on the play. He was hauled down on the USC 9. Then; in one of the major Irish miscues of the day, they failed to capitalize on this golden oppor­tunity. On fou_rth and one, Ferguson was· hit while attempting a Garo Yepremian-like desperation· pass. 
. 

USC promptly embarked on a 13-· -snagged a 20-yard McDonald aerial, 
A crucial turnover on its next possession forced the Irish into 
. catch-up ball for the rest of the day. Lisch performed another of his masterful scrambles to the ND 47 and Ferguson followed with a 1~­yard spurt behind right tackle Tim Foley. But the. Irish signal caller consequently fumbled and USC was on the march again. 
Dan Garcia beat cornerback Dave Duerson on a deep route for a 33­
yard gain and three plays later 
play, 99-yard scoring drive staking itself to a 7-0 lead. Charles White unveiled his tremendous talent by
rushing for 42 yards on the· drive. Paul McDonald hit wide receiver Dan Garcia for the 12-yard scoring pass. 
Hunter · brought Irish fans to life with a spectacular 32-yard reception on the next play from scrimmage. But tackle Dennis· Edwards (who, along with linebacker Dennis John­son, was on Lisch's tail all after-' noon) came up with a key sack at the USC 47 to end:the Irish hopes. 
The Trojans could not get in gear and were forced to punt. from their own 24. Lisch connected with tight end Dean Masztak for a clutch 27­yard gain to put Notre Dame into scoring position at the Trojan 25. Ferguson . teased the USC defense on runs of 14·and 7 yards and Jim Stone 
· carried to the one. Capping an 8-play 56-yard drive, Ferguson dove into Jhe end zone over right guard Tim 
. 'Huffman and Chuck Male 'tied thr, score at 7. Spearheaded by crazed middle .. linebacker Bob Crable, .the Irish _de­fense stopped. White, McDonald & Co. for the remainder .of the first half. But Notre Dame could not get
untracked offensively, either, and th·e 
first 30 minutes ended in a tenuous 7-7 tie. 
taking USC to the ND · 4. White . bolted .up the middle for the final . yard and Southern Cal led 21-7. 
· ii -:-• .--,-..,_ 
· ·-I'.\ 
· 

1 
--.!-.~r.:aJt .... ~,­
But the Irish were not about to roll over and die. Lisch fourid Pete Holohan on a 31-yard bomb and Ty Barber on an 11-yard flare. Scooting down the sidelines, Ferguson used a crushing block by John Sweeney to lead him on a 21-yard scoring burst and the Irish were back in the game, trailing only 21-14 as the third period ended. 
The seesaw battle continued. as Southern Cal drove 78 yards in 7 plays .(and only 1 minute 41 sec­onds!) with the lefty-McDonald fir­ing his second TD pass, this. time to speedy Kevin Williams. ·The . same combination had struck earlier for a big 41 yard gain. _ 
Down 28-14, Rusty Lisch would simply not give up: He nailed Hunter for 22 yards over the middle and two plays later found the same target on a 44-yard deflected pass, and Notre Dame was knocking on the door. Stone scored from. the 2 and Chuck Male missed his first extra point in 
29 tries. USC 28, ND 20. , . . . . 
The · ball in the Trojans' court again, they were·not tobe outdone. Williams slipped behind ·the Irish secondary and gathered in a 46-yard McDonald bomb down to the ND 2 in one of the key plays of the con­test. White slipped into the end zone 

.Things got w~rse far the l~ish. 
.. . ' . . . 

and the Californians had maintained 
their two-touchdown advantage. 

Stone dazzled the already awed crowd with a 39-yard kickoff return to the USC 49. Lisch followed with a 22-yard completion to Dickerson but two incompletions later, the Irish had to settle for a field goal-a 42­yarder by Male that made the score 35-23. 
At this point, the offenses decided 
that they had had -enough and de­
fense dominated the remainder of 
the game. Jeff· Fisher intercepted a 
Lisch pass to seal things for South­
ern Cal; Notre Dame could not 
produce any more points. Reisman 
candidate White put the icing on the 
cake for the visitors with his fourth 
touchdown-a one-yardplunge in the 
final minute. · 

"The key to the game," commented an exuberant yet drained USC Coach John Robinson,' "was our abHity to mix the pass and the run. Last week we depended too much on our run­ning game. This week we were able to mix it up and_ we -gained nearly 600 yards." · · 
Quarterback McDonald echoed his mentor's remarks: "We needed a balance between the pass and the run. Our offensive line was the key today. They played a great game and opened holes so.we could take it to thein." 
The Trojans were gracious in vic­tory, however,' and praised the game Irish ball club. · "I've got to credit Notre Dame," said Robinson. "Each time we scored, it seemed like it would take about eight seconds and they would score. You get a team like Notre Dame down and it seems to stimulate them." · 
Over in the Irish locker room the mood was a bit more serene, but heads were held high. "We played a good, hard football game," noted the workhorse ·Ferguson.· _"We have nothing to be ashamed of." 
Lisch fires out of own _endzone "We needed to play a perfect game with a lot ofemotion," insisted Coach Devine. "We played with emotion 
Southern California ..................................... . . 0 . ":'7 14 21...:.:42­but we.had a:few breakdowns." .. 
·_ Notre Dame ................................................... . 0 i-> 7_. 9..;...·23: Itwas clear fo the fans filing out of the stadium that .they had seen 
.Scoring: _ .. . , . . .... one of the inost impressive offensive 
USC-Garcia, 12-yard pass from McDonald .(Hipp ,_kick) _shows in a long, -long time. Southern 
.. ND_;_;,; Ferguson, 1-yard run (Male kick) · · · · ·· Cal, "":ith this victory raising its 
·· USC -White, 3~yard ·run· (Hipp kick) . record to 6-0-1, had a determined 
USC~ White, l~yard run . (Hipp kick) . . . _ . 
. purpose-going into the contest.. ''The ..... 
ND-Ferguson, 21-yard,run (Male kick)'..·.'.. . <" : 
last ..time We . played . here," said 
USC-Williams/12-yard pass:from McDonald (Hipp ·kick)' ·_:' White, "we were · humiliated; w_e 
ND -Stone, 2-yard ruri' (kick failed) ·, , · . ·_ : ·. . . _· · · · · had to· prove that we could play·in 
USC -White, 1-yard run (Hipp kick) . . . . . . ' . ·. ·. '' . Notre Dame Stadium." There was 
ND:....:... Male, 42-yard field goallittle doubt in anyone's . mind 'that 
:USC.:.:_ Wh~te, 1-yard run. (Hipp kick) ... they had accomplished their goal. 
22 . ' .SCHOLASTIC 

·1 
I 
i 
i I 
C C C 



Ken McA/pine 

: 
i 
I 
I, 
;: 
Pete Romzick 
23

·i 


Bobby Leopold 

Pete Romzick · 


Chris Bar/oc. Pete Romzick Tim McKeogh 



South Carolina 


Yet Another Miracle Finish 

On an· overcast Saturday after-of Notre Dame's starting quarter­evitable was just that. noon in late October, Rusty Lisch back. It happens every year, that Notre served notice that Notre Dame's · , Lisch had to perform a miracle: Dame is caught off guard, and this sometimes overzealous football fans a heart-stopping comeback a la seemed as good a .time as any. The would have to find another scape-Joe Montana. And he did, passing Irish were coming off a tough loss goat for the team's disappointing for 336 yards to lead Notre Dame .· to USC the previous week, and had 1979 season. to an 18-17 victory over South Caros been -on midsemester break, prac­
Actually, Lisch had been proving iina in the game's final minute. · · ticing aU week on a deserted his point all season-leading a grit-As they did for the better part of campus.. ty, if not pretty, upset victory over the second half of the season, the And sure enough, it happened. Michigan in the season opener; sit-Irish played uninspired football. · On South Carolina's first three ting on the sidelines with an ankle Despite 11 first downs and 248 yards . possessions of the second half, the sprain the following week while of total offense, Notre Dame led only . Gamecocks scored 17 points, stun­Purdue beat. the Irish· and their 3-0 at the half. ning both the Irish players and the musical quarterbacks; and then The defense, though, had played Notre Dame Stadium crowd. · passing for 286 yards in a futile respectably enough, limiting· the Coach Jim Carlen's team made if attempt to derail Southern Cal's · · Gamecocks to just one first-half look easy, scoring on a 62-yard pass Trojans. · pass · completion and 124 yards of from. Garry Harper to . Zion McKin­
But the fifth-year senior had to total offense .. ney, and a 49-yard run by Spencer borrow a page from the mari who Still, Notre Danie's unemotional Clark to take a 14-3 lead. Eddie beat him out of his job two autumns performance and the slim halftime · Leopard added a 39-yard field goal 
earlier to finally prove that he was ... lead had most of the 59,075 people to put Notre Dame down by 14 worthy of _the title he carried-that in the stands thinking that the. in-points. 

\V!len Vagas Ferguson sprinted 26 yards for a touchdown with 17 seconds remaining in the third quar­ter, though, it appeared as though the Irish once again had things in hand. The 73-yard scoring drive brought· the Irish back to within a touchdown, 17-10,' entering · the final 15 · minutes. 
But Chuck Male missed a· 34-yard chip shot on Notre Dame's initial fourth-quarter possession, and the Gamecocks reasserted control. 
Although unable ·to pad its lead, South Carolina held. the ball for al­most nine arid one-half of the next 11 minutes, ·finally' punting ·the ball to Notre Dame on the Irish 20 with just 1:36 to play. 
In the next 54 seconds, Rusty Lisch · accomplished ·what · he · couldn;t do in four and one-half years-in the eyes of even the most cynical fan~Rusty Lisch became a Notre. Dame quarterback. 
He took a team that· had done its 

South Carolina .......................................·........ 0 0 . 17 0-17 Notre Dame .................................................... 3 0 7 8-18 
. Scoring: . 

ND---, Male, 40-yard field goal SC ---'McKinney, 62-yard pass from Harper (Leopard kick).· SC -Clark, 49-yard run (Leopard kick) SC -Leopard, 33-yard field goal .. 
ND -Ferguson, 26-yard run (Male kick) ND -Masztak, 14-yard pass from Lisch (Holohan pass from Lisch) 
damnedest to lose, and he wouldn't let it. He took an offense that was its own worst enemy, and force­fed it eighty yards into the South Carolina end zone to make the score 17-16. And tben he threw for three more yards for the two-point con­version that gave Notre Dame its 18-17 victory. 
Lisch passed to junior flanker Pete Holohan; he passed · to junior split end Ty Dickerson and to senior tailback Vagas Ferguson. He even passed to himself, grabbing a de­flected pass in midair and advancing the ball three yards. 
And finally, he passed to sopho­more tight end Dean Masztak on · a semi-audible, a third-and-seven im­provisation good for 14 yards and six points. 
"Rusty told Dean to hook at the goal line and we sent both of our tailbacks out to control the line­backers," explained Irish head coach Dan Devine. "That helped Dean get open." 
According· to Masztak, Lisch mod­ified the play on his own. "Rusty called the play in the huddle, but then gave me different instructions. He told me to hook up in the end zone and the ball would be there." 
Lisch was good as his word, and the ball was indeed there. But the 80-yard drive wouldn't have meant a thing without the two-point con­version. _ 
"I've . never gone for a tie in my life and I never will," said Devine after the game. "I didn't come to Notre Dame to tie." 
So it was up to Lisch and com­pany to keep Devine ·from losing, and they did. Lisch found Holohan near the left sideline,. and the 6-4 junior from Liverpool, N.Y., juggled the ball momentarily before latching onto it just inbounds.· 
It was, as many observed, one of Notre Dame's great. comebacks, but it was an even greater comeback for Rusty. Lisch. · · 
':.:"; --~~-~... ~, 
_i,',._ 
'·t, 
j 

,,_;~_'.' 
:• 
. , ' 
._ ,4;.. 


Navy 



Defense Employs Naval Blockade 
by Mark Perry 
Notre Dame celebrated the 50th anniversary of the dedication of its football stadium o~ .Nov. 3, and the Irish did .their part by defeating Navy, 14-0. But the Middie defense made sure that the task was not an easy one. 
"Navy has a fine defensive team,'' remarked Irish coach Dan Devine. "Every year they have one of the top-ranked defensive teams in the nation, and this team was surely a good defensive unit." · 
"They had a lot of guys hurt, but they were still quick up front," added offensive tackle Tim Foley. "Navy is a well-coached team. Their linemen are .well-coordinated and they use good pass rushing techniques. They don't have tremendous size, but they use their .linebackers very well to compensate." · 
Vagas Ferguson, continuing his assault on the Notre Dame record books, was the key factor in the game, gaining 155 yards ori 34 carries· and scoring the · final Irish touchdown. With those totals the 
. senior· • tailback . became . the first Notre Dame player to rush for over 1,000 yards in two seasons. It was also the 11th 100-yard game of his career, a new Irish record.­
"They were tough . yards, every one of them," Ferguson admitted. "Navy's defense was big, tough and quick. I've got to give credit to the offensive line for opening .the holes 
. against such a tough defense." 
Ferguson went into the game with a sore shoulder, but the close score gave Devine little opportunity to rest his running star. • -"I don't know if it's good for Vagas to rest," Devine noted. ''Most I-formation tailbacks seem to play better late in the game. I'm proud 
. of Vagas, and if I had rested him it would have been a mistake." 
"Winning always feels good, but I'll be · sore tomorrow,'' Ferguson confessed. "The shoulder wasn't a big factor. Whatever it takes to win the game, I want to do' it. You just gotta say to yourself 'It hurts'. and then go out there and do your job." 
It seemed like the Irish would have 
· ample opportunity to rest Ferguson after their early play, as they marched to a touchdown on their very first possession. Quarterback 
.. Rusty Lisch capped a 16-play, 73­. yard drive .with a .one-yard plunge 
• for the touchdown. 
.. SCHOLASTIC 

And wheri linebacker Bob Crable Irish drive down to the Navy 6 with really nothing new. You saw it last blocked .a Navy punt after their first 30 yards on five carries. But flanker week (against South Carolina) in the possession, it looked like Notre Dame' Pete Holohan was called for pass first half: I guess it's just a matter might be heading towards a rout. interference in the end zone trying of concentration." But the Irish drive stalled at the to break up a Navy interception Despite the Irish mistakes, the Navy six, and Chuck Male missed a attempt, · and the Middies were Middies were still impressed with the 23-yard field goal attempt· awarded possession on the touch-play of Notre Dame. 
For the rest of the first half the back. . "Notre Dame did nothing that sur-Navy defense took control, as the "Navy probably has more quality prised us," said coach Welsh. "How­Irish could not get any closer than depth and experience than any team ever they are better defensively than the Middies' . 26, .where an inter-we have played this year, including I had thought. I can't understand ception by Mike Kronzer halted the Southern · Cal," Devine praised. how USC came in here and had over drive. · "While; we had to replace (corner-500 yards of offense and scored 42 
.In the meantime Navy found a back) John Krimm with a freshman points." spark for its injury-riddled. offense. when he was injured, Navy was able Meyers, who ended up .with 99 When tailback Duane Flowers went to substitute with more experienced yards on 17 carries in his first game out with an injm;y in the second players and· upperclassmen. as a regular, was the biggest surprise quarter, Middie coach George Welsh · · "They have done an excellent job of the day. "The line was making turned to his fourth-stringer, Eddie. of recruiting. I've never seen a pro-some holes today, and I just found Meyers. (Navy's·· top two tailbacks gram develop over the past five or them," he said. "Notre Dame's de­were injured earlier in the season.) six years more than Navy has. They fense showed us what we expected: 
·The 5-9 sophomore responded by ·· now have been able to recruit players Our line blocked well, and we played gaining 53 yards on seven carries in who are just as big and physical as a better ball game than we did last the first half, although Navy could the players we recruit. weekend against Pitt. I don't think not get into .scoring position. · "I'm never satisfied when we make Pitt was as good as Notre Dame." · Then·· after Notre Dame's punt errors," Devine said in evaluation of Still the Middies were thinking early in· the first half, Meyers helped Notre Dame;s performance. "We had about what might have been. "Notre put Na.vy in position. to score the some players that played _well and. Dame's offensive Jine was big, and tying touchdown. The Middies drove • some that made mistakes. And when .· we gave up a lot of yards; but that down to the Irish 12. But Irish . you make mistakes, you're going to . was only because they had·a: couple safety J'om Gibbons made a saving· ·struggle and ·have problems." of big breaks,'' noted Navy line­tackle on an attempted draw by Lisch ·thought that this . .was. a backer Ted Dumbauld..."Without Meyers, and a 26-yard field goal major problem with the Notre Dame those• breaks it might have been a attempt by Dave Guin feH wide to offense, which had trouble solving different game... · . . . . the right. the tough. Navy defense all day. "It "Our. only.· problem was .putting 
"Is that their tailback's name?" was a combination of mistakes and points .on the board. We get .close, remarked Crable when asked about other· factors/' Lisch , noted. "It's but we can't convert.,, . . Myers. "That kid ran hard. He was an excellent back, and it took two or three guys. to bring him down. 
"If that was their fourth-string guy, I sure don't want to see their top three." 
"He's got a lot of ability," Welsh said. "He's strong and he may be our fastest back." 
Although Meyers rejuvenated the sagging Navy offense, it · was his turnover that . helped to seal the game for the Irish. Sweeping around his right end, Meyers was hit by Notre Dame defensive· tackle John· Hankerd, · arid his subsequent fumble was recovered· by Gibbons at the Navy 30-yard line: 
From there Ferguson carried the · ban six straight · times, scoring the· · final Irish touchdown of the day on 
1_:; .. :r 

a three-yard run. 
Scoring: 

Notre Dame had another oppor­
ND -Lisch, 1-yard run (Male kick) 
tunity· to· score late in. the 'game,· as 
ND -Ferguson, 3-yard run. (Male kick)
junior· tailback Jim Stone helped the..• · 
'--------------------------'--------' 

fact that our academic requirements are higher than most schools does not eliminate the fact that there 
'1Vords From 
Th.e '1\'ise 

by Tom Westphal 
As . America turris the corner on a new decade so does a major part of the American way of life that has remained a significant force for many decades-coHege football. And when the mere subject of college foot­ball is mentioned, the words Notre Dame are inevitably two of the first uttered. What·cari we expect of Notre Dame football in the future? What kind of trends have been forming on the national collegiate football scene? There were no better people to ask these ·and other related questions than Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, Executive Vice President and Chairman, Faculty Board in Control of Athletics and Edward W. (Moose) Krause, Athletic Director. Both men have served in their respective posts for over 25 years arid are certainly well qualified to evaluate Notre Dame, its football program and the future of collegiate football. · . . 
. For as long as most people can remember, Notre Dame has had an outstanding reputation as a football power. But has this lofty athletic image detracted at all from the academic focus of the University? Fr. Joyce responded: "We have been very proud· of our football record over the years because we've managed to do this without cheating, without cutting corners. We have without any question of a doubt the very best record of any university in the country to . football players being boria fide studerits-99.9% of them grad~ uate. Football has not detracted in any way from Notre Dame or from· its position_ as a university." 
Mr. Krause continued: "We've eliminated the so­called 'football factory' image. At no time did Notre Dame.concentrate on football to the point where it was harmful to the boys who participated." Reiterating Fr. Joyce's point, he stated: ''Over 99% of our student · athletes graduate in a four-year period. No other uni­versity .in. the country. can make that:statement. The are outstanding young men around this country who are capable of carrying on our academic work and participate in the major program that we have." 
"This of course hurts to be given the designation of a football factory because we know we simply are not that," asserted Fr. Joyce. Football is kept within the proper bounds at this University. It's just fortui­tous in-the sense that we have this tradition and that we've been able to have a pretty good record year in and year out. .. . . · 
. "The people that refer tci us as a 'football factory.' 
· are generally unkriowledgeable._ T believe that among our peers and throughout other universities that I deal with-they all recognize that Notre Dam·e is a fine university and many of them are jealous that we can combine being that and having a good football· team. 
"The scandal of intercollegiate football is that most schools dciri'f have a good graduation record.· I'd Hke to say to those other schools-you can do it properly and Notre _Dame is an example of it. If you want to 
. find out how to run afootball program properly then come take a look-it can be done: You don't have to cheat the students. We're a shining 'light to be held 
·up for the others." · · 
But a successful football program, although inte­grated within the framework of. an· academic institu~ tion, is not without its own benefits. Mr. Krause com­mented: "Winning seasons help to develop the alumni, subway alumni and fans who take pride in the. type of records Notre Dame has. We can find good athletes, good students who graduate from the University and then have . them support the University in every way they possibly can. That is why we have a good recruit~ ing program-the .former athletes are the biggest salesmen we have." · · 

"Having good football records," offered Fr. Joyce, "contributes ·to a spirit of cohesion on the part of the students, the alumni and the campus. It's a game, though. Unless it's fun for those who are playing it, then we shouldn't be doing it." 
Students and alumni assume Notre Dame · will always have winning football records. What would happen if ·the team went into a tailspin for a few 
· years? "We've gone through many years of losing before-in the 50's and 60's," stated the Executive Vice President. ''But we never changed our policies­not a single one of them: We don't fire a coach, for example, just because we think he lost one too many games." · 
Shifting to a focus on coilegiate football iii·general, the topic of an "elite" class of teams was· discussed. "I do not see it ·as· a serious problem," remarked Fr. Joyce:· "A more serious problem is if the number of schools that aspire to be in the·top rung just have to quit for lack of financing. That would be very unfor.: . tunate and could happen. Notre Dame will stay in the top ten because of our tradition and the kind of kids we attract.'. I hope that we have enough teams so we have national competition in football and it isn't ,re­stricted ·to 30 teams."· 
Mr. Krause responded, ''.One thing that has helped college football is the limits placed on scholarships.· We can have good football anyplace in the country. It's,levelleddff-the domination of a few big colleges who used to recruit promiscuously." · · 
The two sport~ moguls expressed contrasting view~ , · points on. the recent plethora of college bowl games.: "Bowl games have been good for college football," said Mr. Krause. ''Kids want to play in bowl. games against formidable opponents..It's a thrill to be on national 
television." · · · . Fr. Joyce chose the more pl:'edictable answer: "I'm baffled about the attractiveness of so .many. bowls. I. don't understand the rationale, for it's actually going to cost)mme of these teams to go to minor bowls!" What about college football in the eighties? Ariy problems in: sight? "It's very difficult to predict the future of intercollegiate football," commented; Fr.· Joyce. "One thing that has made great inroads on the college game since WWII is the popularity of the pro­fessional game. Intelligent use of. television ·has de­veloped fa·ns. They have outdone the colleges to the · 
extent that those colleges that exist side-by-side with pro teams have been practically· put out of business. : · "There have been .some comebacks in pro areas­SMU, for instance .. Maybe college football will survive. To me the college game seems to be more' exciting tha?-the pro gam': but I'm a_ little bit prejudic,ed!"... 
Are there ·any serious obstacles in Notre Dame's football future? "Possibly the greatest threat to Notre Danie and intercollegiate football is Title IX," stated Fr. Joyce. "We're probably going to the Supreme Court. If we lose there; football is destroyed in the private colleges. They'll put Notre Dame out 'of busi­ness. It's just impossible to understand _the rationale behind it. I've been dealing with it for five years now 
and I'm absolutely stymied!" . ... · · "Title IX will affect all schools," commented .the Athletic Director. "Eighty percent. of all schools are in financial trouble with their ·athletic programs be­cause they can't make enough money in fo·otball and . basketball to carry on their programs. · · F'ortunately at Notre Dame we can do that".''· · 
, ., 
FEBRUARY 8, 1980 

. . ' . . . . . . . 
Because of the recent public discussion arid media hype over the head football coaching position here, it,is important to know what attributes the Adminis­tration looks for in a head coach and how well they are being fulfilled: ''Some people think thaLwe always . look at the winning side of it," explained Mr. Krause. 
·''That's not the whole case. Our coach has to have the ability to motivate players. We don't expect National Champs every year although our coaches aim for that. We want to look good winning and losing. Our coach must have leadership qualities to develop· the_ boys to be competitive. We like to be able to say when these kids graduate that the coach helped to make them a 
. better person both on and off the field." 
"Our number-one requirement is a man of utmost integrity and honesty that would never be tempted to cut corners," insisted Fr. Joyce." We like a man who is proficient, who knows what he is doing. He must do the very best he can. 
"Coach Devine has filled the. role admirably. He has had a splendid record for these five years: Top ten three times. One National Championship. Three bowl victories. His recruiting has been outstanding. Since his .first contract has expired we now have a gentle~ man'.s agreement. He will certainly be here next year and for the indefinite future." . 
. Mr. Krause summarized the Administration's feel­ings on Notre Dame football: "We have developed an 
· image in the collegiate world as the football team. Japan said having Notre Dame over there was the greatest thing _that ever happened to their athletic program. To such football powers as USC and Mich­igan State, Notre Dame, they insist, is a],Ways their biggest game. Because we are in this position, we have to be. extremely careful to keep Notre Dame on a high level. I believe we have kept Notre Dame at that level." 
. 

Tennessee 
Drowned·in a Sea of Orange 
It all seemed so simple. Notre Dame, ranked 13th nationally after winning six of its first eight games, only had to beat a 4-3 Tennessee team to virtually assure itself a major bowl bid. 
In fact, representatives. from the Sugar Bowl seemed to be exception­ally interested in the Irish. After beating Tennessee, the Irish would just have to win at home against Clemson, and New Year's in New Orleans could have possibly been a reality. · 
But any dreams of postseason play quickly turned into nightmares on November 10, when Notre Dame was humiliated, 40-18, before a host of bowl scouts and an orange and white sea of 86,489 fanatics at Ney­land Stadium.in Knoxville. . . 
"Tennessee won because they ex­ecuted the fundamentals better than we did," understated Irish coach Dari Devine: "When a team does that, it should · be compli­mented." 
'Also to. be . complimented; was second-string ··volunteer · fullback 
While Irish quarterback Rusty Lisch did manage to throw for an impressive total of 248 · yards, it was Tennessee's ability to shut down Notre Dame's ground game in cru­cial situations that made the differ­ence. Excluding Ferguson, the vis­itors could accumulate_ only 29 yards via the turf. 
"I can't remember us ever play­ing so emotionally o·n defense," smiled Volunteer linebacker and. 
· defensive stalwart Craig Puki.. "In fact, this is the most emotional game I've ever been a part of. This. could be the biggest thing that ever happened to Tennessee football." 
At the game's very outset, nothing looked that big for Johnny Major's team ----'-except maybe the Notre 
. · Dame offense. On the• game's •· first · play from· scrimmage, Lisch hooked up with split end Tony Hunter for · 35 yards. Three first downs later; the Irish 'took an early command · when Ferguson took the pitch rightfor a·one~yard :score. But, as far as Irish fans were-concerned, that was · the end. Chuck Male's extra-point 
Hubert Simpson. All Simpson could: ··attempt was no good, and so was the 
mariage was '117 rushing yards and four touchdowns, a Tennessee­record. · 
Tennessee,· as·a team, rushed ·for 352 yards," ruiming_ straight ·up the·· middle against a.specially planned · remainder ofthe day. 
. Tennessee ' scored on the subse­quenf: posses·sion, taking a 7-6 lead into -the ·second quarter. And what· was about to "happen was_nothing less_ than a clinic on how to destroy 
_ shut down the outside rushing game. Tennessee ' went on a 23-point played-' a team ·that played better 
"We've had, a tough time stop-scoring blitz in the second stanza. . football · than we . did today. It's ping people going up the middle on Simpson ran for touchdowns of 24, tough for all of us _to face up totis all year lorig,'' admitted ·Devine .. one and one yards to lead the Vols that:" . · · · · · 
3-4 . defense that ··was supposed to ·.. your:football opponent. . . . 
"This isn't-the.first time we've been hurt this Vfay." . . . 
Nevertheless; it had to be the most painful .time for the 'Irish. The missed--tackles ·far'outnumbered the successful. Tennessee's-ability· to open·.:holes 'far outnumbered Notre. Dame's ability'to plug.them up;":And Tennessee's speed was . a· little tcio 
. . 
much for · Notre·• Dame's': injury,:: . 
riddled -point~preventio'n squad. ·_ ·.._.· · 
· ·But when the bibles were turned/ 
arid,the Irish·controlled the pigskin,· · 
the offeri'se was no· ·longer domk. · 
nant.: Notre. Dame halfback· Vagas .:·. 
Ferguson, at that time .the nation's . -fourth-leading. ·rusher, -cciuld ;· only .· 
muster 8~ yards . in' 22 'carries4ne.' .. 
yard per carry less than his average
of five. · 
by Paul Mullaney 
But any adjustments that might have been made .. during the half were left behind on the chalkboard. 
• .Tennessee picked right up where it left off at the first half's conclu­sion. The Vols scored on both of their ·first two possessions .in the third quarter. The Irish trailed 4_0-12 before 10 second-half minutes had ·elapsed.. _ . . . . 
· Tennessee was simply overwhelm­ing: 5.1 yards per carry; each of the three ._Vol quarterbacks had good runs, Jimmy Streator for 51 yards, Dave Rudder for 18 and Jeff Olszew­ski for 17; tli~ unstoppable dive play, with Simpson· gaining 24, .. :then James Berry for 25; 69 ·running plays in total. . · ·· . 
And, to top it off, UT punter John Warren didn't unload his firsf punt until only . 9: 19 remained iri the game. . . 
Teririessee did, on the other hand; benefit from a good numberof Irish miscues. A 27-yard screen pass from ' Lisch to Ty Barber ·was called back because of holding. Bernie Adell misplayed a: kickoff returri,'stepping out of bounds ·at the Notre Dame one-yard line. That set up a busted play which resulted in Lisch being . trapped· for a safety. Adell • later muffed a kickoff out of bounds at his own seven. And the list goes on. 
"We -cannot make .any excuses about this game," said Devine. "We 

·into the' locker room with a 30-12 .· . ·:• Especially when you lose two bulge.· _. · ._. _ 
·· .-The Irish, on the other hand;_were ·fumbles, 'throw'.~three interceptions; shell-shocked :at the intermission.. (continued on page 47) ..----------~----~•-----------------'-----, 

. . . 
Scoring:"_-: ··_,:, · · .·. ~D·.:..:_ F:erguson, i-yard. run (kick failed) :U:T-Streater, 5-yard run : (Duncan kick) UT -Simpson, 24,-yard ri.iri (Duncan kick) UT-: _Simpson, l~yard ruri. (Duncan kick) · 
-· 

UT__: Safety. Lisch tackled -in endzorie · 
. 

UT-~ Simpson, 1-yard rtiri (Duncan . kick) 
ND_...:... Ferguson, 2-yard ruri" (pass failed) .. · UT--:-Duncan, 35~yard _field ·goal ... . _ . .. UT.:..:._ Simpson; 8~yard. run .(Duncan kick) . ND...:... Ferguson, 10:yard· rim (pass failed) •· · 
·, : ' ':_·.'J 
0 6-18 10 o....:._40 



contact with Boulac who is stationed on the field. 
But there's more. When he's not worried about recruiting and trap blocking, Boulac occupies his time
Smiling· 

as administrative assistant to the head man. It's a job he inherited during the summer of 1979 and one that requires plenty of "busywork." · 
"I . help Coach Devine with correspondence and
Coach 

office chores in order to free him to spend more time thinking about football," Boulac . explains. "It does take some of the load off. his shoulders and I like to
Boulac 

think it is helpful to him." . 
Boulac who wears two national championship rings ( one from 1973 and one from 1977) is·in a good posi­tion to evaluate the changes in Notre Dame football
·by Frank LaGrotta 
over the last few years. He admits there are differ­ences but quickly points out that they are of a positiveIf they ever do a Broadway musical about the life nature. . .
of Brian Boulac, they just might be tempted to call it "Both Coach Devine and ·Coach· Parseghian have
The Most Ha'PP]J Felw-: · · 
been very successful here," Boulac starts, "but they've. Except that one's. been used already, hasn't it? · achieved their success in different ways. That's because
OK, then how about The Most HaP'PY Fella-Part II 
we're talking about two different individuals withbecause nothing ·better describesthis Notre Dame as~ two different .approaches to the game.
sistant football coach and the way he feels about his "Certainly my role has changed since Coach Devinefamily, his profession and the place he happens to arrived here but that's probably because I have morework. · · experience now. If I had to cite a ·major difference"r" consi_der myself extremely lucky because I've · between the two men it would be in the area of re­got a great family, I'm doing what I.want to do and cruiting. While Coach Parseghian never went out onI'm doing it where I want to do it," ·smiles Boulac the. road after his first few years here, Coach Devinewho's about a~ much a "Notre Danie man" as anyon~ takes an active part in the recruiting activities andcould possibly be..After earning monograms as ·a does make a point of travelling around to meet fam­player at Notre Dame from 1960-62, Boulac returned . ilies of prospective recruits. Both practices were. suc­to his alma mater in 1964 to pursue his master's degree cessful for the individual so there is really no way towhile serving as ··a graduate assistant coach under say which one is more effective." · · •head ·man ..Ara Parseghian. He remained in South But recruiting is an area in which Boulac has moreBe.nd u~til 1968 doing doctoral work arid coaching than a passing interest. In· fact; he is one of the fewfootball. A two-year stint with the Army Medical Ser­
· (continued on page 47)
vice Corps followed and he returned to Notre Dame in 1970_ as a full0 time assistant--:-a position he's held ever since'..· . · . · .· : · • . ·· . · · · 
IIThis is the best school in thecountry," he tells you with a'. look that· doesn't encourage any argument.· "People who come out of here are class people.. They are successful an~ the greatest compliment they can pay to Notre Dame is that they always give the place . credit for their success.· They always come back here: too; whether it be for a sporting event or a reunio~ and a place that breeds that kind of loyalty must be something special.'' . . · · · . 
. All of: which sounds Uke a· double-barrel· re~ruiting pitch. But that isn't· surprising because Boulac, besides serving as offensive Une coach and head coach Dan Devine's administrative assistant, also handles the re­sponsibility of "recruiting coordinator." 
."Because Notre Dame is such a national institution ~II the_ assistant coaches take a region of the country m which they concentrate their recruiting . efforts," . Boulac explains. "My job as coordinator is to follow 
·up on prospects and make.sure _the right coaches are being notified about prospects in their areas. I also structure the weekend recruiting visits and just handle 
. the day-to-day duties that accompany major college athletic recruitment." And that's just one of his jobs. Boulac, a man of ·. 
.·. many titles, also works with fellow assistant Bill Meyers with the offensive line. He handles the exterior linemen (tackles and tight ends) while Meyers works with the guards and centers. . • · "That breakdown just helps clarify things," points out Boulac, explaining that both he and Meyers are actively involved with all phases of the offensive line 
\/·,:._··<.:
During a game, Meyers is in the press box in constant ,~,. -~, -~-...,_:_-.; :._.~-:l. 
FEBRUARY 8; 1980 
Clemson 
Stalled by Tiger Paws 
. Unseasonable · sixty-degree tern­peratures and warm sunshine made an uncommon, but welcome Novem-· her for. just .the second meeting of 
· the Irish and the Clemson Tigers; As the · afternoon wore on, the throng . of Clemson · faithful, colorfully. dis­playing their loyalty with orange hats, orange blazers, and even orange tiger paws imprinted on their cheeks,. would not be disappointed for mak­ing the ·long· journey from South Carolina. . . 
Faced with the possible, dubious· distinction of becoming the losingest . Notre Dame team in sixteen years,
the Irish received no relief from this
· · · 

· year's unrelenting sched_ule in facing the 14th-ranked ,Tigers .. And after playing an inspired first half of foot­ball, Notre Dame got careless and inevitably feJ+ to Clemson•s:stifling defense and the brilliant scrambling of quarterback Billy Lott, 16•10· Looking to bounce back frorri last week's humiliation at Tennessee, the · Irish. amassed 387 total yards, out­distancing the victors by some 107, yet were hurt by a host of mistakes, . including thre~ fumbles and two cru~ . cial fourth quarter interceptions. 
In the opening stanza, after ex­changing punts, ·Notre Dame com­mitted their first error when after making a fine grab of a Rusty Lisch pass, Pete Holohan, carrying the ball pret!ariously in one hand while dodg­-ing Clemson defenders, dropped the ball after the play .had gained 20 yards to the Clemson 40. ··After Clemson recovered, the ailing, ·but still quick Lester Brown, who has rushed for over 2000 yards during ·_ his career at Clemson, could not get . 
. outside against the Irish. "Notre Dame's defense really surprised me. I felt I could get outside and make things happen; but I never had any­where to go," Brown later stated. 
· · 
After losing two yards in three plays,Clemson was-forced to purit, and 
by Bill Ryan 
yard try just minutes later, but strong defensive play on the part of Steve Cichy and the ever-present Bob • Crable stymied the· Clemson ground game, and after a booming, . 49-yard punt by· one of the nation's · best, David Sims, Notre Dame launched a drive from their own 20. After 13 plays, the Irish found them­selves in a4th and· one situation at the Clemson four;· carried there by the sliding and gliding of Ferguson, arid the hard running of first-time starter Phil Carter: The .. Tacoma, Washington freshman must have appeared much bigger than 5'11", 185 . lbs. to Clemson would-be tacklers on runs .of 'fifteen and eight_ yards. . Lisch's keeper gave N.D. a first . down inside the Clemson two, where 

Notre Dame assumed control at their ···it. took Ferguson two plays to bang 
own 20. · On the merits of Vagas Ferguson's running arid a 16 yard Lisch aerial to a. leaping· ·Toriy , Hunter; the Irish marched to ·.the . Clemson 24, where Chuck Male put Notre Dame on the scoreboard first with a 42-yard field goal, his twelfth of the year, tying the school's single 
season record set by Dave Reeve: 
•· Male blew an opportunity· to break that record when he missed a 46­
into the end zone, while Male's sub­;sequent conversion· gav~ Notre Dame a 10-0Jead. , . . • 
Duririg the week much was made .of the · All-American match-up be­: tween ·Notre Dame's Tim Foley, and .. 
the hulking/ 6'5", 250 pound, defen­
sive tackle, Jim Stuckey, ofClemson. 
With. Notre Dame··· doing much of 
its running· over· Foley~s: ·. broad 
back, it was clear. who ·was· ~hning 
~~r 
_ 
.. -~~,,:· . 
.··::'~·-. 
. 
:\ ',:. .. .,,.~,-'\:.; 
_-. -,:· .:... 
;,\ 
..,":'; 
~ 
'., 
':­
i~ 

that · publicized· battle.· After the game a battered · Stuckey praised Foley saying, ~'Foley is the best• I've played against all year long. I think I had only one or two tackles." 
Following . the score; Clemson drove the ball to the Irish ·24, but a fierce blitz on third and nine by Mark Zavagnin dropped Lott back to ,the 38 arid out ·. of scoring range. The Irish took over.with under two min­utes left in the half, ·and Lisch put the ball deep in Clemson territory with a 38-yard-·sideline _bomb to Tony Hunter. -·· Ferguson broke through for 15 yards to the 11, but a holding can· and two incompletions brought Chuck Male jogging to the field. It had been . a long time ·for Chuck since his early season heroics, the Michigan game, and the ·cover of The Sporting News, and he demon­strated this by kicking this 33 yard attempt wide right. ,The half. soon ended and .the Irish carried a 10-0 advantage, that could very"wellhaye been more, into the locker room. 
. . . . . . ;. -.. 

. ·After last week's disaster at Knox­ville, Coach Devine.· seemed to have his charges back on··track. Though they held only aten point lead, their 295 first half yards were the most any team had punched out against the heralded Clemson defense this year in an· entire game; while ·Fer­guson's · touchdown was -the first, first-half rushing·touchdown allowed by the Tigers. On defense, the Irish halted the superb Clemson running attack. And after stopping the . Tigers on their initial· possession ·of the second half, Notre Dame ap­peared headed for its seventh win in this, ·the home finale. :However, the ensuing punt was grossly mishandled by Ty Dickerson, whose. fumble .was recovered by Clemson at the N.D. 20. Dickerson, who showed questionable judgment earlier .when he chased a first quarter Sims boot back inside his own ten, rather thanlet it bounce into the end zone, appeared less than enthusiastic about the game, -and 
!:T .. ·· -1
y..,Z-:-:. "ii·'·•j 
·, j,'1 
. 
' 
. . . 
. 
' --~ 
. 
. "··· 
._ .... 
the afternoon. Clemson moved to the four before stalling and calling on Nigerian-born Obed · Ariri, who doubles as a star on Clemson's soccer team, to kick a 23 yard field goat 
Following a ten yard run by Fer.: guson ori Notre Dame's first second half play, the highly acclaimed Clemson defense began living up to its well-deserved reputation by shut.;. ting the Irish down on three . con­secutive runs. This tough unit came into the game boasting a miserly 7.7 points per game allowed average (second in the nation) and had relin­quished, amazingly, only six touch­downs all season. Though defensive stalwart Stuckey was still being manhandled by Foley, linebacker Bubba Brown and safetyinan Willie Unaerwood more than picked up·the slack. The defense would become even more _relentless as the second half wore on. And as the defense tightened, on offense, Billy Lott ·and others chewed up yardage and ·the 

was noticeably absent for: the rest of . clock, while Notre Dame would have 
.  . .  :.  
. . Clemson .. · .. · .. ·................................'··.......... ·... ·....  -0  0  13  3-16  
NoJre Dame  ......... : ...... · .............. ·. ·. ·.. · ......... ·.  3  7  0  0-'10  
Scoring:.'._ ·  
ND -Male, 42-yard field goal-.  .  
.ND-:..:.,.Ferguson, ·2-yard·run· (Male.kick)·  
CL -.Ariri, 20-yard field goal.  
•.. CL -Ariri, 41-yard field goal . CL_:_ Lott, 26-yard run (Ariri kick) . ·  
·CL-Ariri;-37-yard field goal  


the ball for only eight minutes the _of 20 and 23 yards, moving the Irish -· Notre Dame team since 1963 when entire second half: · · toJhe Clemson 25. Rusty was work-.. they were 2-7, and featured a com­--After a Mike Boushka punt, ciem-_.ing-on . courageous, senior co~er-. plete. collapse, ·through mistakes, of son moved from theirown 33 to the ·c:back, Rex Varn,·who has a medical the Notre Daine attack in the second 
N.D. 25, mainly on the running of -r~por~ ~s long as Orl~ndo Woo!-· half. However, there were a few Lott with help from quick freshman, _rid?e s ,right arm on file 1!1,Clemson s bright lights shining through the Chuck Mcswain, to set up. another trainers room,was provmgto be no dark cloud of defeat. The· pleasantly 
·Ariri field.goal that made the score match for _the.fleet, ~!)gul3:r _Hunter, surprising ·:running-or Phil_ Carter 10-6. Down just four points, and and_ o~ third and !Jl~e, L1sch, once . (44 yards,' ali'in the first half). and sensingachanceto take the lead, the _agam, looked -Hunters. ,'Ylay._ the continued brilliant .play· of the Tigers got a little help from Vagas . Once again Hunter beaLVarn and ever-improving Tony Hunter (four Ferguson who fumbled at the Notre . Lisch's pass gotto Tonyatthe three-receptions for -97 yards) arid .the Daine .20 following .a vicious pop -yard line.-However;the usually sure-ubiquitous Bob Crable -(26 tackles) from Brown .in· the . backfield. Four handed ·receiver· deflected• the ·ball gave Irish rooters good : reason to plays later,· Lott-danced down the into the open arms _of ,strong safety look forward to upcoming seasons. middle of the field-26 yards to-the Terry Kinard, who promptly re-Rusty Lisch had another 200~plus Irish end zone, past Notre Dame de-turned the ball out to·the 25..From:. yards passing day, his· fifth-· in six fenders who .must . have thought here, Lott chewed up over two more games, while Vagas Ferguson had 
· · · yet . another. 100-yard day, rushing
Jimmy Streater had.-returned to minutes in.pushing the Clemson of­. haunt them. Lott's artful scramble .fense to two first downs before Sims' . · for 106 t~ be exact, and no doubt · gave Clemson a _13-10 lead they punt turned the ball overto the Irish · set another Notre. Dame· rushing 
brought with theni irito fourth quar-on their own:16 with 2:34 left onthe mark. .:. · -· -· · · 
ter: play. ·Clock.: Needing a big play to trigger Though the Irish blunders certain­. · -· what they hoped would be the gam~ _ ly· contributed, the. :real credit .for After another, impotent_ N.D. winning touchdown ·march, Notre the· win lies in. the tremendous, . series, Clemson. tookoveron its own Dame turned to its "ace in the hole,'" . second-half turnaround . by . the 38,_from· where they proceeded to ·.tlie endaround-pass.-·Theplay.took '.frugal· ·c1emson ·defense and ·the march to the N.D. 17. ·The drive .. A.C.C.-leading· Clemson running at-stopped when Scott Zettek sacke·d . :::t;~~~~fm~k;eiee~:lo~a~~:!t .. tack, led primarily by the quick and 
Lott .on a crucial third and . seven, unlo_ade__d his pass .Kinard caught up wily Billy Lott. Lott on the ·day -and Clemson hadto settle for Ariri's rushed for 106, yards, all but_ 20 iri ·th.1'rd field ·g··o·al-1·0 1·n·'cr·e-ase···th·e1·r 1·e·a·d with Hunter and ·again intercepted, th · · ·· d h lf ·· ·d· · · d th
. · · . this time returning the ball 40 yards e secon a , an . score . e to six. -to the Notre Dame 19,. apparently. clincher on his 26-yard scamper.
The drive took 15 plays, mostly Lott, certainly the. offensive key for short gains up the middle, but more securing a Clemson victory. the Tigers, offered this insight as importantly consumed seven and a • Notre Dame was given one last to what magic words Coach Danny half minutes of riow crucial fourth breath. of life when Clemson furn-· Ford may have uttered in the locker . quarter time. The N.D. students, in-bled two plays later at the 16. But room· to cause the drastic improve­active so far, now came to life with -. a 14-yard sack and two incomplete ment. "At halftime coach told us memories of the 1977 thrilling come-. passes gave the ball to the Tigers that this was• a chance· of a lifetime back against these same Tigers in · who simply and wisely. ran out the for us.. It was a chance to beat a SoutnCarolina, and hopes that Rusty ·. clock for-the win. team with a great tradition. When Lisch could somehow emulate Joe This loss, N.D.'s fourth of the sea-I'm 40 or 50 years old, I'm going to Montana's heroics of that game. Tak-son, rendered them 6-~ on the remember this game.'' . A ·gaJJ}e ing to the air, Lisch found Tony· -season and was significant in that Notre Dame and its many support~ 
· Hunter an attractive target on passes it represente.9-_ the most losses by a ers would sooner forget. 
Miami 

Muddy Mirage Massacre 
by John· Heisler 

"Whatdoes the Mirage Bowl game Whether .the Irish romp came week by both knee and shoulder against Miami mean to Notre about simply because of a sense of soreness. And the option-oriented Dame?". pride on Notre Dame's part mattered signalcaller skirted the ends for 11'." 
That was the question facing Irish little. Devine's charges dominated and-17-yards gains · on the . game;s coach Dan Devine as he entertained the Mirage Bowl ill affair in just the · · first two plays. The Notre Dame a barrage• of Japanese journalists manner he had hoped for to help drive bogged down, literally, af the following Notre Dame's first practice diminish the leftover thoughts from Miami 42, but a roughing-the-kicker in Tokyo; · the losses the two previous weeks. In penalty on a Dick Boushka · punt 
"This game means everything .to fact, with the. arduous transcon-handed the Irish new life. us," Devine emphasized .. "This is our tinental flights and the Japanese cul-With a first down at the Miami 27, last game of the season and a loss ture thrown in, the week went down Vagas got the call five straight times, here would leave a bad taste in our as one of the more eventful in Irish the last one for two .yards .and a mouths all winter long. We ·don't football annals. score. . plan to let that happen.": . . . . The· football game actually was On Miami's second · play, from 
Vagas Ferguson, Dave Waymer never much of one. Ferguson, scrimmage, this one from its ,own and Tim Foley-the Irish tri-cap-Waymer:and a helpful official's flag eight, freshman quarterback Jim tains flanking their head coach:-saw to that.in the first five minutes Keliy aimed a sideline : . pass for nodded · in agreement. And, indeed, of the contest. flanker Jim Joiner. Waymer ·had it was those three who did as· much··· · Devine started junior Mike Courey other ideas, . though, and he. picked as anyone to ·make certain Notre at quarterback after· Rusty Lisch off the throw at the three and easily Dame closed out its '79 football had been bothered in practice . all scored. Just like:tl1at i~ was 14-0. campaign ori a positive note. 
The Irish · concluded a fascinating week in Tokyo by thrashing Miami 40-15 despite a persistent rain that made a quagmire ofthe field halfway through the first period .. An enthu­siastic crowd of · 62,574 · ignored the ~-... i.·· JF. wet conditions in Olympic Memorial . . i l . Stadium-and they . couldn't. have. i ,,.. : 
l 

seen a more fitting finale for Fer-·'. • ; ···.··•· 
-:1 \\·..

guson, Waymer and Foley. . . . . ·. , 1·• All Ferguson did in his 42nd and · ."\ \ L\i '.'1t\.::.final appearance in a Notre Dame . ···T · <,· ' }tti.
~~:~r:nt::ie~!:~~t::~uf:r.. i~; .··•·~· : -\At~ :~_/-' ­
~·lo 

yards and .~hree t?u.chdowns._ On ~n _·.· 1.'l tR~ H ~l.CQlJ .. afternoon. m which ·· the· Irish dis-:i: 2:c -. 1;.DAM IV\ t_ · . dained the forward pass in.. view of 1r')~ -~;, 8J1E· •, \ ~ \ 's M -. 
. · th d . .....;,. •Ii·• ....... '•"',~ :-:__., ' "''r-' I;. . :V \ t-, \ 1\ ..V
the mud and poor footing, .. ey e--~~ · · -" ", ~·:.:, >i • ,. • pended almost exclusively.on the · •·•-~: -~-•~:.,.. . ·.::•Y.:.,i:1,,,.,:;,."lV\ -: elusive senior halfback. As has be-· ·•·• ••";,. '."·• ~ } 1: 0;,;·/~:,·t,· ;~,, ··.·•.~.-.·•.Ht•..1

... ·ti ··" 

come the custom, he came through ·•· ·-·~ 
/>ut}

in magnificent fashion: · ·. . ··.. <·•HU
::·•··•••f•

Foley, who joined Vagas on tlie · ~:~;:'.::\\---'.~·-·All-America roster for '79, led the ·· charge of the Notre Daine offensive Hneas ittime and again carved out: openings-for Ferguson. 
And Waymer, who saw his post:.. season honor hopes shattered by an early-season knee injury, made his last game quite possibly his best. He ­
· accounted for the two touchdowns that Ferguson didn't score by return­ing interceptfonsthree.and·37 yards. 
"I recognized the quick screen from the films we had seen," Way­mer noted. "I saw Joiner take a step, off the line of scrimmage . and I automatically looked for the ball. But I didn't know if the quarterback would throw because I thought he saw me." 
Miami coach Howard Schnellen­berger admitted the Hurricanes dug an awfully large hole for themselves. 
"The penalty on fourth down gave them new life, and our throwing that interception put a different light on the remainder of the game. But even without the mistakes, Notre Dame was a superior team." 
The Hurricanes cut the margin to one touchdown with a 66-yard march that ended in a. Gary Breckner one­yard scoring plunge · early in the second quarter. But the loss of Kelly to a knee injury midway through that drive spelled trouble for Miami the rest of the way; 
While the Irish were content to stay on the ground, substitute quar­terback Mike Rodrigue kept Miami in the air the rest of the way. He finished with 15 completions in 37 attempts, but the 122. yards simply weren't enough to put Miami in scor­ing position often enough. 
Meanwhile, the Irish continued to make the big plays. 
A 46-yard punt return by fresh­man Dave Duerson left the Irish on Miami's 22. And even though a fourth-down race for the flag by Lisch ended up on the one, the Hur­ricanes were in trouble. They got only as.far as their four, where Bob· Crable blocked a punt out of the end zone for a safety. · · 
~ >
Ji~,-~,~\" 
:/ ,.,, , 
.,_.,,,,11,'.€' 
,.-';:,>­

The Irish then drove 40 yards with 
the ensuing kick, enabling Chuck 
Male to connect on a 35-yard field 
goal attempt. That gave him 13 for 
the season, a Notre Dame record. 
Another spectacular Duerson punt 
return, this one of 43 yards, set the 
Irish up on Miami's 18. From there 
it took Ferguson but two carries to 
find the end zone, the final run an 
11-yarder. Male's kick made it 26-7 
and effectively clinched the verdict. 
Notre Dame went 75 yards ( 44 of them Ferguson's) for yet another score early in the last quarter. Way­mer added the final tally by inter­cepting the same sort of dangerous . sideline throw he had taken advan­tage of early in the game. This one made it 40-7 after the senior corner­back took the football 37 yards in 
the other direction. 
· Miami did manage a final score 
with four seconds to go in the game, 
but only ··after the officials had 
strangely added a minute to the 
scoreboard clock after the game 
apparently had ended. But . it 
Notre Dame .................................................... Miami ................................................................ 
Scoring: 

ND -Ferguson, 2-yard run (Male kick) ND -Waymer, 3-yard interception return M -Breckner, 1-yard run (Miller kick) ND -Safety. Punt blocked out of endzone ND -Male, 35-yard field· goal . ND-Ferguson, 11-yard .run (Male kick) ND -Ferguson, 1-yard run (Male kick) mattered little to Notre Dame after the Irish had run up 250 total yards, actually one less than Miami's final total. 
!'We didn't make many mistakes," said Miami fullback Chris Hobbs, "but the ones we made were costly. They made a big difference in the momentum in the game." 
Ferguson's 13th career 100-yard effort left him with 1,437 yards in 1979 and 3,472 in his career at Notre Dame. His three touchdowns against Miami gave him 17 for the year, yet another Irish mark. 
"I thou·ght it was fitting that Vagas and Dave and Tim played as well as they did in their last game," Devine noted later. "I'm sure they had hoped to finish with a .little better record than we did, but they did a great job as our captains this year. You can't ask any more than that." . 
And the Japanese :fans couldn't. have asked for a more rewarding Notre Dame finish as the· Irish bid sayonara to the '.79 campaign. 
14  5 .  7.  14-40  
0  7  0:  8-15  
(Male kick)  


ND-Waymer, 37-yard interception return (Male kick) M-Breckner, 1-yard run (Rodrigue run) 
SCHOLASTIC 

.:.. 

Band Jams 

Japan 
by Greg Papiernik 

On Monday, November 19, 1979, two hundred members of the Notre Dame· Marching. Band boarded five buses to begin their trip to Tokyo, Japan, as repre­sentatives of the University of Notre Dame at ·the Mirage Bowl. This trip to Japan was the culmination of several months of preparation arid. hard work by the band's three·· directors, Mr. Robert O'Brien, Mr. 
James Phillips and.Fr. George Wiskirchen as weU: as the band's two hundred members. What was once a dream in the early part of the' year had now become a reality as both the· band and the football team were about-to embark. on a trip that would always be re­membered by its participants. · · 
In the ·early· months of last year, a rumor spread around the.Notre Dame campus ·that the football team· was going to· schedule an. away game with the Univer­sity of Miami in Tokyo to help :promote football in . Japan as well as to promote Mitsubushi Motors' new' car, the Mirage. The game became' known as the Mirage Bowt ·In order to :giv~ the Japanese people a better picture· of• football, both schools' bands -were in­vited· to accompany their football teams and march in two parades, to participate in a "battle of the bands" arid ·to· perform three· separate·-shows·· at-the -football game. A difficult task remained for the Notre Dame Band as preparations for the trip were made through­out the summer by: tlie band· directors and staff~ Not only · did the: bahd have to prepare for the regular marching season, but special themes had to be selected and music had to be ·arranged for the .trip to Tokyo. Many extra hours of preparation and practice were put into this· trip to make it a success. 
The fall semester passed by quickly ·as the magic hour finally arrived for the Notre Dame Band. Early in ,. the morning on Monday, November 19, several hours before the sun would rise, two hundred band members boarded -the buses which would start them on their journey to Japan by transporting them to O'Hare International Airport for a flight to Los Angeles. 
· · The trip to Chicago was brief · as many people fell asleep only to .wake up at the International Terminal of O'Hare Airport. Luggage,was checked in, and the 
FEBRUARY 8, 1980 
trip to Japan. . .. ·. _ · _ . . 
· . The flight to. Tokyo was long and boring and many · people· tried. to find ways to amuse themselves. One such way was by playing with the chopsticks which the barid members. used to eat their meals. Many people ..struggled to'.: manipulate these -hyo· wooden sticks to· pick· ·up peas and noodles in :an attempt_ to feed th°E~mselves. Band members crowded the aisles, enthusiastically· discussing .their plans for the .next few days. After leaving South Bend at 5 a.m., Monday, the Notre 'Dame.Band· arrived in. Tokyo.International Airport. at 6 p.m .. on Tuesday. Three ho·urs later, the band 'Vas .greeted by their. J apaiiese hosts at the 
Miyako·Hotel in.Tokyo. · ·· · ·· . · ~· 
.The Miyako· Hotel. was . a new building surrounded by. many tiny houses and shops with a garden just outside. the hotel .. ·. The only vehicles on . the· streets when the barid arriv·ed were taxicabs.' The cahc; rlrnv~ along the left ·· side of the streets · which .was -quite different than what one is used to in· the United States. Quickly the· band· members rushed · into their rooms, unpacked· and were then treated. to a steak dinner in a spacious' banquet room in the hotel.. Sala(i' and soup were served with the meal as the waiters were careful to ·make sure that everybody was satisfied with 'his meal;; Arrangements were made for the next practice which would start at 8 a.m; the nexf morning. Since it was late, many band members decided to call it a night and rest up for· their busy schedule.·.. · However; several members of the group, unaffected by their lack of sleep, ·decided to explore the area. surrounding the 
~~ .. · ..... . 
These travelers began ·their adventure by walking down several winding streets in search of anything that would ·catch their eyes. ~t· did not take long for 
them to find · a building that they could recognize without any difficulty. They discovered a Japanese Coffee Shop or bar equipped with electronic games. Eagerly, they entered the Coffee Shop and were ~eeted by the owner who was surprised to see the Americans. The language barrier was quickly overcome as the 
· band members ordered a "bee-ru" , or beer and pro­ceeded to play the electronic games. The other patrons became interested in their visitors and tried to speak to the band members. Fortunately, one man could translate Japanese and asked the American visitors if they would entertain the patrons with a song. Well, it did not take long for the band members to respond as .· they· were given a microphone, a songbook, and some background music for the Beatles' song, "Yester­day." They sang the song and were warmly applauded for their effort. Next, the Japanese patrons sang a Japanese folk song and after several more exchanges, the evening was ended with a rendition of the Notre. Dame Fight Song. 
The next day, Wednesday, began with a buffet­style breakfast. consisting of several types· of eggs, several kindsof meat and an assortment of rolls and bread quite· different from the ·. standard cafeteria breakfast. The. band . boarded the buses· only to be dis­tracted by little children on their way to school in their uniforms. · The children . were by rio means shy· and · gladly posed for the flashing cameras. The buses finally left for ,the practice field with the musicians hanging outside the windows greeting the. Japanese ·people who were on their way to work. .• The streets were crowded with tiny cars-,-quite adifferent sight from the empty streets of the night before.· ·The':~treets were filled with many miniature garbage trucks which re­minded one of Matchbox cars. A steady· mist filled the air-this·· would be the prevailing weather . con­dition for the. majority of the ba~d'.s. stay in Tokyo. Many little shops . lined the streets · offering various commodities such as· raw fish, squid, groceries and clothing. . , . . .. . 
PracUce took place at a small park with a mud field adjacent to where the football team was practic­' ing. Later during .the week; the weather ·conditions became so bad that both the Miami and Notre Dame bands were forced to practice on a field that reminded one ofa rice paddy because there were several. inches of water and muddy ground which· caused many people to· sinkarid slip: The highlight of the pra~tice sessions occurred when several band members, modelling their souvenir Japanese baseball shirts/posed with a Japan­ese Little. League team for fifty people equipped with cameras. They disrupted a baseball practice, but no­body seemed to mind this brief int~sion. 
. While in Tokyo, the band performed several con­certs for Mitsubushi Motors wlio had. sponsored the . 
·Mirage Bowl. These performances included an ap­pearance on the· Japanese .equivalent of the Jo~ny Carson Show. Thistelevisioil,appearance featured the Irish Guard and the Notre Dame Cheerleaders. The Japanese were. amazed to seesuch big men with kilts dance, and the Irish Guard-·became instant celeorities. 
The Notre Dame Band and the Miami Band marched in· two parades which:were about five Illiles in length; The bands played a variety of school 'songs along with other American tunes as they . marched through the Japanese business districts.. A constant rain did not dampen the crowd's enthusiasm for their American 
-guests. _The parades.were held in two business dis­tricts called Ginza and Harajuku as cars drove along­streets ,as in the United States, but thousan·ds of Japanese spectators hung. out their windo'ws . applaud­ing. the Notre Dame and Miami b_ands'. , performances. Later, we found out that. these were .the fir~t parades ever to take place in Japan. . . . 

· On the day before the. football game, the Notre Dame and Miami bands participated in a llbattle of the bands." Both bands, in. front of a filled baseball stadium which was part of the Tokyo Olympic Com­plex,. accompanied· a, popular saxophone :pui.yer named Sadao Watanabe. · His music, which is -popular in Japan, soon became the favoz:ite <:>f, many .band· ~em­bers.. Many people purchased Watanabe, albums con­taining such songs as "Ngoma Partyn and "Calif<:>rnia Shower" which had been performed at the concert. The concert was a tremendous success as both bands demon­strated their marching skills to the Japanese spectators by performing halftime shows. The program concluded with· a ..battle of the bands" as the Japanese cheered every song. They tossed souvenirs out . to the students in appreciation for their efforts. . .· ·. . · .. 
When the Notre Dame Band was not performing, the visitors travelled.• around Tokyo exploring its nar­row ·streets· for small shops and restaurants. Many 
. band members could be. seen dashing for, cabs which ' would take them· to the Meguro train station where they would get .on a train and go to one of Tokyo's many business districts;. The. popular · districts fre­quented by the group included the Ginza, Harajuku and Shinjuku districts. These districts featured a variety of Japanese and American shops where aperson could buy a kimono, a watch, a china · set, a happi coat or many other types of souvenirs. . Bargains could be found everywhere if you would just walk down a side alley. If you· found something . you liked, · you could bargain with~the store. owner for a lower· price .. If one walked around long enough, he could,even find· 
side the marching :bands .. N(?t many people lined ~e -_-a small Japanese. restattrant ·· serving such delicacies 
SCHOLASTIC 

. 
.... 

as squid or raw, fish. Many . times, people found it _safer to just point out what they wanted to eat and not ask what it was. 
Most shops closed at 9 p.m., so many of the band members went back to the hotel to check out the coffee shops. However, ,with the advice of our Japan­ese hosts, some adventurers decided to stay in the dis­trict and ·. visit a suitable bar or disco. One did not have to go far to find one of these establishments and a popular disco discovered bi the Irish Guard was 
.Studio. Orie. Here, one would pay $8 for entrance . 
.into the disco and get all the drinks and food he de­sired for the entire night. The. music played ·was not all hard-core disco as the dance floor was crowded with a mixture of Japanese and American youths; Every­body had a great time as they danced the night away though Japanese girls were initially reluctant to dance with the American· men. If disco did not· appeal there · was always a nearby bar which· offered some type of enjoyable entertainment. Generally, a cab could be procured for a ride . back to the hotel-occasionally, however, the cab driver dropped.you off at the wrong 
.hotel. . . -. • . . . . ·· There were two major parties hosted by the Mirage Bowl Committee in the Miyaka Hotel. The first was 
. a welcome party on Thanksgiving Day .and the other was a Sayonara party which followed the football game. The parties honored both Notre Dame and Miami as ,there were. two large ice statues of football players . symbolic· of .the upcoming game. These two statues were surrounded by tables of Japanese food which in­cluded raw fish, squid and shrimp. It was· the type of .party only seen in the movies as a live band played 
•in 
the next room. People from Notre Dame and Miami · demonstrated their abilities on the dance floor for this 

•evenLwas 
more than just a football game. Usually, 


·. _these parties ended early, so many peoplejust continued the party in their hotel rooms. These gatherings at­tracted people from both Notre Dame and Miami as well as some Japanese guests. Highlights of the parties 
FEBRUARY 8, 1980 
were card tricks and songs as many band members 
fondly nicknamed the party a N goma party in honor 
of the saxophonist, Sadao Watanabe. 
Finally, the advertised ·event arrived as the bands 
entered the Olympic Memorial Stadium to perform for 
the Mirage Bowl. As usual, it was raining and the 
field ·was· muddy, but nobody seemed to mind ·the 
weather conditions. The Notre Dame Band performed 
pregame, halftime and postgame ·shows which inter­
mixed Japanese and American music. After each show, 
both bands combined to spell out Mirage and played 
the Mirage Bowl Theme; Half of the Japanese football 
fans. waved green pompoms for Notre Dame while the ' 
other half waved orange pompoms for Miami. ·The. 
Japanese crowd mimicked the band by swaying their 
pompoms back and forth even though they did not seem 
to understand what was happening in the football game. 
Notre Dame emerged victorious in the game, 40-15: · 
When the game was over the football team took 
a victory lap around the stadium as the Japanese 
cheered loudly for both teams. The saddest part of the 
trip came as the band had to leave the field. The people 
cheered and hurled tiny souvenirs onto the field. It 
was difficult to say good-bye after such a short visit in 
which the band had enjoyed the hospitality of its · 
Japanese hosts and had become attached to the Japan­ese people. Outside the stadium, the band members passed out small souvenirs and even signed some auto­graphs for the Japanese people. We were celebrities with the football team as all involved wished that they could stay a littlelonger. For such a short time, many people had encountered things they would never ex­perience again in their lives. Sadly, the next day, the Notre Dame Band and football team left Tokyo for the Notre Dame campus. We could be proud of what we had done in Japan, and we will treasure these ex­. periences that we had with the Japanese people. Many stories will go untold about this trip, and it would probably take a book to fully describe the Notre Dame Band's trip to Tokyo to perform in the Mirage Bowl. 

1979 Final Notre Dame Football Statistics 
INDIVIDUAL SCORING PUNT RETURNS G TD PAT R·PA s FG TP No. Yds. Avg. TD long Ferguson .....• 11 17 o.o o.o 0 0·0 102 
Duerson 12 209 17.4 0 46 Male ••••••uoo 11 0 24•26 o.o 0 •13.20 63 
············-­
Dickerson ............ 14 100 7.1. 0 51

Vehr ............ 11 2 o.o o.o 0 o.o 12 
Gibbons 2 9 4.5 0 6 

I
Hunter ........ 10 2 o.o o.o 0 o.o 12 Maszlok ...... 11 2 o.o 0·0 0 0-0 12 Waymer .............. 1 1 1.0 0 1 lisch ............ 10 2 o.o 0.2 0 o.o 12 
Krimm ................. 2 0 0.0 0 0 

Waymer ...... 8 2 o.o o.o 0 o.o 1·2 
J. Slone ...... 11 1 o.o o.o 0 o.o 6 ND ...................... 31 319 10.3 0 51 Barber ........ 11 1 o.o o.o 0 o.o 6 
OPP .................... 20 134 6.7 0 18 

Team .......... 11 0 o.o o.o 2 o.o 4 Holohan ...... 11 0 o.o 1.1 0 o.o 2 Unis ............ 1 0 o.o o.o 0 0.1· 0 
KICKOFF RETURNS ND .............. 11 29 24.26 1·3 2 13•21 243 No. Yds. Avg. TD long OPP ............. 11 24 22.22 1.2 1 9.13 197 J. Slone 19 493 25.9 0 48 
Barber ................ 7 158 22.6 0 31 

'40, 44, 22 and 39 yards vs. Michigan Adell 6 83 13.8 0 24
40 and 32 yards vs. Purdue ·················· 
49 and 36 yards vs. Michigan Slate Vehr ..•.•.•...........•. 2. 17 8.5 0 10 
43 yards vs. Air Force Belden 2 12 6.0 0 8 4 2 yards vs. Southern Col 
OoOoOOouoouOoo 
Waymer 7 7.0 0 7 40 yards vs. South Carolina 

Holohan .............. 0 0.0 0 0

42 yards vs. Clemson 35 yards vs. Miami 
ND ...................... 38 770 20.3 0 48 OPP 26 502 19.3 0 46
··········---······· 

RUSHING G TC Yds. Avg. TD long 
INTERCEPTION RETURNS 

Ferguson ........ 11 301 1437 4.8 17 79 
No. Yds. Avg. TD longBarber 11 40 172 4.3 1 22

·-········ Waymer 4 77 19.2 2 37 
J. Slone ........ 11 37 156 4.2 1 20 
Gibbons 3 74 24.7 0 51

Carter .......... 9 27 145 5.4 0 23 Adell ............ 11 20 93 4.6 0 34 Duerson 2 43 · 21.5 0 33 Sweeney ......... 10 9 33 3.7 0 8 Leopold 1 16 i6.0 0 16 Courey .......... 5 17 28 1.6 0 17 ·2
Cichy 2 2 ,1.0 0
•·••·•·······•···•

Dickerson ...... 9 1 4 4.0 0 ,4 Whittington 1 0 o.o o· 0Koegel 11 6 -7 -1.2 0 5 ········
·········•

lisch •.......•..... 10 58 -36 -0.6 2 17 Crable ................ 1 -3 -3.0 -0 -3 
ND· ...............• 11 516 2025 3.9 21 79 ND ...................... 14 209 14.9 2 51 OPP .............. 11 542 1985 3.7 17 51 OPP· ....•............... 13 151 11.6 0 ·40 
PASSING DEFENSIVE STATS 
G No. Comp. Pct. Int. Yds. TD 'TM Tl•Yds. PBU FR BK lisch 10 208 108 .519 10 1781 4 Crable 187 10·29 3 2 3
·······•···· •·················
Koegel 11 32 13 .406 1 175. 1
······-· Whittlnglo~ · 108 4-11 3 0 0
Courey ........ 5 13 6 .462 1 104 0 -········· 
Honkerd ................ 73 14•90 1 ·3 0

Holohan ...... 11 3 2 .667-·1 81 0 Knafelc ........ 2 1 1 1.000 0 17 1 Cichy .................... 67 . 3.1:i 2 2 0 
J. Stone ........ 11 1 0 0.000 0 0 0 .Leopold ................ 66 3.9. . ·5, 0 0 Ferguson ...... 11 1 0 0.000 0. 0. 0 
Zellek .................. 62 5.34 . 0., 0 0 ND 11 259 130 .502 13 2158 6 Gromke ................ 52 5.22 0 0 0
--------······ 

OPP 11 241 118 .490 14 1396 7 Gibbons ................ 48 0-0. .3 0 Zavagnin 43 3.16 0 0 
•·······•·•· 
·············• 

Waymer ................ 41 2.4 6 0 0 PASS RECEIVING _G;iflith .................• 33 2.7 0 0 G PC Yds. Avg. TD long 
Krimm .................. 26 2,2 3 0 0 

Moniak ........ 11 28 428 15.3 2 30 
Kramer .................. 25 3.29 0 0 0

10 27 690 25.6 2 75
Hunter ••·•·······• 
Duerson 24 1 • 1 2 0

22 17.5 Dickerson ........ 9 16 361 22.6 0 47 Czaja 14 1.5 0 1 0 
Holohan -······· 11 386 0 59 ················ 
···················· 

Ferguson ........ 11 14 72 5.1 0 18 
· Kidd .................... · :14 2.16 · 0 0 ·o.o 

Barber ....•••..•.• 11 9 106 11.8 0. 36 
Fasano .................. 10 0·0 2 0 0

Vehr .............. 11 6 56 9.3 2 25 
Sweeney ........ 10 .2 12 6.0 0 .. 10 lueken .................. 7. 3.12 .. 0 0 0 Hort .............. 10 1 27 27.0 0 . 27 DeSiato ................ 7 o.o ., 2 . . 0 ..0 
M. Boushka .... 11 1 11 11.0 0 11 7 2.3 0
Bone .................... 1 0 

Carter 9 1 4 4.0 0 4
········--·· Moyn(han ............ 7 1-4 0 o· 0
lisch .............. 10 1 3 3.0. 0 3 
·3 Mishler· •••••.•••.•..•.• 6 0-0 0 1 0

J. Stone ........ 11 1 3 3.0 0 
·, 0

Adell .............. 11 1 · -1 ,;,.1,0 0 o· Cla.sby .................. ·5 o:o 0 0 D•. Boushka .......... 4 o.o. 0 O'· 0
ND ................ 11 130 2158 16.6 6; 75 
Thayer, .•. : ............... .3. .o.o ·. 0 0 0 . Rudzinski .............. 2' 0-0 0 ·o 

OPP 11 118 1396 11,8 7 80 
.. 0 Rayam .................. 2 .1-1 O· 0 0 · Belden .................. :1. o.o o. 0 
PUNTING 
Cose .................... o.o o.. 0 0

G No. Yds. Avg, Long ND .................·•••.•• 67-306 34 3
D·_-Boushka •••• 11 56 2D16 .36.0 54 945· 13 ... ND-............. · •• •11. 56 2016· 36,0 54 OPP ...................... 955 47-203 32 ·13 :. 0 OPP 11 70 2586 36,9 68 • Includes solos and ouists -: SCHOLASTIC 
RESULTS ••• Won 7, lost 4 ot Michigan ......•....... W 12-10 ot Purdue •..•••...•..•.•.•• l 22-28 MICHIGAN STATE ..... W 27-3 GEORGIA TECH .......• W 21-13 at Air Force .............. W 38-13 SOUTHERN CAL .......• l 23-42 SOUTH CAROUNA .•.• W 18°17 NAVY ••••...••..•••••...•...• W 14-0 al Tennessee ........•.•. l 18-40 CLEMSON ....••••.......... l 10-16 Miami. al Tokyo .......• W 40-15 
TEAM STATISTICS 
Total Offense Yards •...................••.. Total Plays ••••...•.•.•..•.•..•..•....••.••.• Yards per Play ; •.•.•••...••.•.•..• ; •••...• Yards per Game •....•.......•...........• 
Rushing Yards ....................•..•.....•.• Attempts •..•........ ...•• : .......•.....••.••• Yards per Rush ....••.•...••••....••..•...• Yords per Gome .•. : •.......••...........• 
Passing Yards ...•................••...•.....•••' Attempts .................•..............••.••• Completions •......•...••.••.•••••...•••••.• Hod Intercepted ••.•••...•••••••.•.•...... Comp. Percentage •••...•...•...••.•...... Touchdown Passes ...•........••.......• Yords per Attempt •...........•......... Yards per Comp•.......•...............• Yards per Game ...•........•....•..•..•.• 
Punting Yards ••••....•••••••.••....•..•.......• Number of Punts .•.•............••........ Average Punt .....•..•.......••.........•.. Hod Blocked •.......................••...• 
Punt Return Yards •••••.••.....•••••••.•..•••• Number of Returns ••.•••..••....•.••.... 
~verage Return: .......................... 

Kickoff Return Yards •.............••...•.••. Number of Returns .......•.•.•.....•..•• Average Return ••...............•.•••••.. 
Interception Return Yards •.....•........• Number of Interceptions ........••...• Average Return •...•.•.••••...•••..••...• 
Number of Penalties .......••..•••....••.••• Penalty Yards .......•..........•...•.•..••• 
Fumbles (lost) ...........•...••.•.•.••..•..•..23(13)26(11) 
Yards Returned •.••.•.•..•....•••..••••••.•  0  0  
Total First Downs •....•.......•..........•..•  207  193  
By Rushing ...•...••...•...•.......••...•...•  112  116  
By Passing •••..•.•........••......•...••...•  89  68  
By Penally •.••....•...••................•..•  6  9  

Third Down Conversions •.........••.• 57/ 171 71 / 184 
Percentage ....•................••••..... 

Possession Time ••.••....•......••....•..• Minutes per Gome •......•.....••••• 
SCORE. BY QUARTERS 
Noire Dame ••••.•••••.• 74 . 61 Opponent •.•••••••••..•.• · 24 57 

TEAM. SCORING 
Total Points 
.................................... Average .•••••••••••••••••••• · •••••.•.••• ·.••• 

Touchdowns ••••••••••••••••.•••~ ••••••••••••.•." By Rushing .; ...... ·-·······....... :........ By Passing .............. :................... By Returns ,................................. By Recovery ••••••••.••••.•••••••••:••••.••, 
Field Goals (Mode•Att.J •••••••••••..••• · Safeties · ..................................... · .•• 
PAT-Kick PAT-Run PAT..;;_ Pass  ................................ ••.•••••••.••.••••••••••••••••.•· ................................ .  
.42  

105,111 ic, 70,567(C) 
59,075(C) 59,075(C) 
34,881 
59,075(C) 59,075(C) 59,075 (C) 86,489 (C) 
59,075(C) 62,574 
ND 4183 775 5.4 380.3  OPP 3381 783 4.3 307.4  
2025 516 3.9 184.1  1985 542 3.7 180.5  
2158 259 130 13 .502 6 8.3 16.6 196.2  1396 241 118 14 .490 7 5.8 11.8 126.9  
2016 56 36.0 0  2586 70 36.9 1  
319 31' 10.3  134 20 6.7  
770 38 20.3  502 26 19.3  
209 14 14.9  151 13 11.6  
54 607  31 244  

· .333 .386 
326,53 333,07 29:43 30:17 
48 60-243 77 39 -197 
ND OPP 
243 •197 
22,1 17,9 29 24. · 21 17 
6 7 
2 O 0 · ·· 0 · 
13/21 9/13 2 1 24/26 22/22 

· 0/0 . 1/2. 1/3·· .. 0/0 . 
The Enemy's Best 
One is tempted while selecting the 1979 all­opponent team to merely reprint the starting lineup for U.S.C. and let it go at that. But most of the under­classmen for the Trojans will most likely make it before they leave school, so you are able to spread out the picks. 
A schedule that included six bowl teams makes it pretty easy. to ·name outstanding players. But exclud­ing some others"is the hard part. Every Irish fan has his own personal favorite from the other side. Here are mine. 
OFFENSE 
QB-Paul McDonald of USC had everyone waiting for the southpaw curse to hit. A bit of wildness or an ill­timed interception would make him a bit more be­lievable, but it never happened. Easily the best in '79. 
RB-It would have been nice for Charles White to have received a casting call for "The White Shadow" or "Quincy" on Oct. 20 but no such luck. He'll be tough to clone, but John Robinson willfind away. 
RB-You can look for George Rogers of South Caro­lina to follow in the footsteps of Ottis Anderson of Miami. He didn't get the ink of a White or Sims, but will be a super pro. 
WR-Kevin Williams is listed at 5'8" and 155 lbs. That is not the height arid weight for a USC football player, but Williams makes the deep route look easy. He's only a junior and will probably get smaller and faster in the summer. 
WR-The other receiver opposite Williams is a little difficult to pick. It ·could be Dan Garcia of USC or Zion McKinney of South Carolin~, but my honoree is Bart Burrell of _Purdue. He is a precision receiver and has the best hands of anyone the Irish faced last year. He'll be back to team with Mark Herrmann one more time in 1980. 
TIGHT END~I should have asked Steve Cichy for his evaluation. He is the one strong safety who faced more than his ·share of good, strong and fast tight ends. Doug Marsh of Michigan is the one that comes to mind first. Dave Young of Purdue caught more passes, but ­Marsh is the smoothest·tight end to come along in· a long while. A sure bet for the NFL. 
TACKLE-George Schecterly of South Carolina trans­ferred from Penn State.. ·He probably got tired of facing Millen and Clark in practice. He was a major cog in the Gamecock running attack and at 6'3", 255 blasted some good-sized holes for Carolina backs. 
FEBRUARY, 8, 1980 
by Jeff Jeffers 

TACKLE-The Chicago Catholic League is noted for good players 'and Purdue's Steve McKenzie is no excep­tion. A two-year starter for the Boilers, McKenzie cleared the way for the running game that hurt the Irish more than Herrmann's passing. 
GUARD-Brad Budde lost his running mate when An­thony Munoz was hurt in the first game. This may have made Budde mad. A consensus All-America selection, Budde was the best in the offensive trenches against N.D. in 1979. 
GUARD-Dale Schwan of Purdue helped McKenzie an­chor the best offensive line that the Boilers have had in many years. •The improvement of Purdue's running game made them a multidimensional team and Schwan was a key member. 
CENTER-Rick Bott of Navy had a fine game against the Irish. He possesses pro size and strength. He will probably be drafted in hopes that he wiii play profes­sionally after his service commitment. 
DEFENSE 
DEF. END-Notre Dame's offensive linemen handled Keena Turner of Purdue pretty well, but Tom Kings­bury continually made the big play in the win at West Lafayette. He is one of those small and quick defensive ends who give the Irish fits. 
DEF. TACKLE-Jim Stuckey of Clemson played head to head against Tim Foley. The battle was as close to a draw as either would want. If you can go even with Foley, you deserve a spot on the team. 
DEF. TACKLE-Curtis Greer of Michigan helped keep the Wolverines close with Notre Dame while their of­fense fizzled. Greer made some All-America teams and should go high in the pro draft. 
DEF. END-Navy played the Irish better than. they had hoped. Injuries had sharply reduced the Middie roster, but,.players like Charlie Thornton kept it close. Thornton played all over the. field on Nov. 3 and sparked a fine Navy· defensive effort. 
LINEBACKER-Notre Dame saw more than its share of excellent backers· this past season. .None w,as more prevalent than Dan .Bass. of Michigan State; It was easy to find the tackler for MSU, just look for number 49, that's Dan Bass. 
LINEBACKER-Dennis Johnson of USC teamed with Riki Gray to form a tough twosome to run against. Johnson always seemed to .have Vagas Ferguson just when it appeared that Vagas would break for a long gain. · 
43 

·______ j 
LINEBACKER-It isn't too often that a fan shouts for a defensive player in an individual salute. "Kill Bubba Kill" is one of the few. But Tennessee fans let loose with yells of "Poo, Poo, Poo" to show their approval of Craig Puki. Puki made the hit on fourth down to deny Vagas a score on the last play-of the first half. 
DEF. BACK-Marcus McKinnie of Purdue did his best when it hurt Irish fans most. A key interception ended the hopes for two straight N.D. wins. Only a sopho­more, McKinnie should anchor the Boiler secondary for two more years. · 
DEF. BACK-Roland James of Tennessee is one of the premier defensive backs in the country.· One of his be:.i: games came against the Irish. He's equally adept at stopping the run and the pass. 
DEF. BACK-The Clemson Tigers·had one of the top team defenses in 1979. Terry Kinard had not figured to play much,. but two interceptions against Notre Dame established Kinard as. one of the top returners among defensive for the coming season. 
DEF. BACK-One has to·have a Trojan back here even though USC did not have one of their better defensive teams.in 1979. A converted wide receiver, Jeff Fisher came up with a clutch interception to seal the fate of the Irish. Fisher has a good nose for the ball and should get better with more experience. 
PUNTER-A bright spot in a disappointing season for Michigan State was the play of the special teams. Ray Stachowicz may be the first punter taken in the draft. He could have played a bigger part in the N.D.-MSU game ifthe outcome had not been decided early. 
PLACEKICKER-Obed Ariri of Clemson plays both soccer and football during the fall. He fit in perfectly with the type of game plan the Tigers used. The defense held the opponent in their own end of the field, receiyed the punt, let the offense get three first downs and bring on Obed. The best thing to come out of Nigeria since Dick Tiger. 
COACH-:--Clemson had only six starters coming_ back from 1978. Gone from the Carolina. campus were NFL players Steve Fuller, Jerry· Butler; Jeff Bostic, et al. Danny Ford came into the season having been a head coach.for the grand total of one game. . His team fin­ished with.an 8-3 mark and should be a force ·in the South for as long as Ford is around. 
HONORABLE MENTION....:.:.Ryan Williams,·def. tackle, Air Force;. Kevin Motts, linebacker,. Purdu·e; Alan Dun:. can~ kicker, Tenn.;· Billy Lott, ·quarterback, Clemson; . · 
. . _;• ; . 



Entering a NeW Decade 
· by Shawn M. Collins 
Where there's life, there's hope. FEBRUARY 8, 1980 
I have a ''friend". back home who says his favorite college football team is "whoever plays Notre Dame this week." , Like, a famished dog licking his chops, my friend tore up last season's 7-4, Bowl-less Top Twenty­less Fighting Irish · as being the signal to the end of everything from Dan Devine as head coach to Roman Catholicism as we now know it. His reasoning, exag­gerations aside, was clear: the 1979 record was Notre Dame's worst since 1963's pre-Parseghian 2-7 team; we were summarily· dismantled . ( 40-18) by a mediocre-at­best Tennessee and embarrassed by the Clemson Tigers {16-10) in front of a Senior Day crowd; Southern Cal didn't even blink at the green jerseys-this time around as they outlasted a weary Vagas & Co., 42-23. Unchar­acteristically/' the echoes never woke up for last sea".' son's· injury-ravaged Irish. 
Next year's season will. be, depending on who you listen to, "challenging" {from the coaching staff) "in­teresting" (from the Dump-Deviners) or "potentially, another good laugh" (from my friend, the.Protestant). Half of lastyear's starters return; Conspicuous by their absence, however, will be superback Vagas Ferguson, QB Rusty Lisch and offensive tackles Rob Martinovich and Tim Foley. Fortunately, the team is loaded at Vagas' old spot with the likes of senior-to-be Jim Stone and 1980 juniors Bernie Adell and Ty Barber. All three saw · action last. year. The QB . position, on the other hand, boasts little experience. With the exception of last year's early-season display of "musical quarter~ backs," 1980 senior hopefuls Tim Koegel, Mike Courey and Greg Knafelc got little chance under. the gun. Pre­season writers and pollsters are likely to, again, focus attention on the Irish QB Derby. Fullback, meanwhile; has "Pete Buchamin" written all over it, that is,· if Pete can overcome the broken ankle that cost him the 1979 season. John Sweeney and Joe Rudzinski will fill in otherwise. On the.line, three holes will need to be filled as only Tim Huffman (guard) and tricaptain John Scully (center) are back; a lengthy list _of Goliaths waits in the wings for the available spots, however. Finally, perhaps the thing that allows Coach Devine to sleep more -peacefully during .the night is the aerial spectacular that returning receivers Tony Hunter, Pete Holohan and Dean Masztak are capable of. None of this trio is shy of All-American status. 
Defensively, the Irish will miss cornerback Dave Waymer and linebackers Bobby Leopold and Mike Whit­tington most of all. But fear not for the secondary. Due to an eerie blitz of injuries in 1979, plenty of players did some dutyin the defensive backfield and this should prove to be a bright spot for 1980's squad; Rod Bone, Steve Cichy, ~Dave Duerson, John Krimm and tri­captain Tom -Gibbons should more than fill the bill. Fear neither for·the linebacking _corps. Though two of _three· 1979 starters are gone, the. presence of one-man wrecking crew Bob -Crable already makes the N.D. line­backing unit one of the nation's.finest. Brendan·Moyni­
. han ·and . Tony Belden look good .to join the tricaptain Crable at the vacated spots. Unlike the backfield and linebacking positions, • though, the defensive line . loses no one. 'John Hankerd, Joe Gramke,Scott Zettek; Don Kidd, Pat Kramer --and hard-luck Mark Czaja form a lighter-than-usual but experienced·front. 
· ·Our kicking-game,. at times erratic last season, returns only punter Dick Boushka while losing Chuck Male and Joe Unis., Steve .Cichy may handle kick-off responsibilities but extra points and field goals will belong to new faces, for sure. 
On top of having to plug crucial holes on both sides of the line, 1980's Fighting Irish will back one of the country's most ferocious schedules, including peren­nial heavyweights Michigan, Purdue, · Alabama and Southern Cal. Here's the order they'll come in and a little bit about each one. Try not to cringe: 
Sept. 20-Michigan (Home). The Wolverines had a tough year of their own in 1979-'80, finishing 8-4 overall, 3rd in the Big 10 and 18th in the national rank­ings. They also sustained their annual postseason bowl game loss-this time at the hands of North Carolina State. Twelve-year head coach Bo Schembechler will try to avenge last year's 12-10 loss to the Irish with return­ing tailbacks Stan Edwards and Rich Woolfolk and quarterbacks John Wangler and B. J. Dickey. The Wolves' trump card is a rocket by the name of Anthony Carter who averaged 21.2 yards per catch as a fresh­man split end. Defensively, Michigan will feel the loss of All-American linecbackers Ron Simpkins and Curtis Greer as well as three out of four starters in the secondary. 
. Sept, 27-Purdue (H9me). As the Big lO's runner­up last. year, the Boilermakers' hopes for national prominence wilted in a muggy Southern California match with U.C.L.A. But Purdue is a good bet to mend its ways in 1980-81 under the cool leadership of Reis­man candidate Mark Herrmann. The tall, strong quar­terback has waged war with N.C.A.A. passing marks ever since his celebrated freshman year in 1977-78. He is joined by his favorite target, tig~t end Dave Young, and by leading Boiler rusher, Ben McCall. The hype out of West Lafayette has Purdue challenging Ohio State for next year's Big 10 title. With 43 lettermen return-· ing, this may not be far from the truth. 
October 4-Michigan State (Away). The Spartans are still reeling from the evacuation of· Athletic Direc­tor Joe Kearney and Head Coach Darryl Rogers to the lan.!l_of the battered football player, ·Arizona State Uni­versity. M.S.U. tied for 7th place in the Big 10, post­ing a 5-6 overall mark. They were still flying high, however, when they brought their act to South Bend . early last season, only to leave with their tails be­tween their legs, courtesy of a 27-3 whomping. To make matters worse, they have lost 19 seniors .and will place a relatively inexperienced group in the hands of their new coach. There are but · several bright spots. Leading ground-gainer Steve Smith returns along with running mate Derek Hughes and QB tandem Bryan Clark and Bert Vaughn. Middle guard Bernard Hay and defensive back Jim Burroughs anchor the graduation-riddled defense. 
October 11-Miami. (Home). Second-year Coach Howard Schnellenberger has bet his job on some young players and hopes to catch some of the payoff in 1980. Despite a 5-6 record in 1979, the Hurricanes boasted victories over Penn State and Florida. Virtually every­one returns, including 55 of 80 from last year's team who were only. freshmen or sophomores. QB Tim Kelly leads Miami into battle while defensive.tackles Lester•.. Williams and Fred Marion will certainly do their dam­age. The 1980 game should be head and shoulders above last year's Rice Paddy Bowl where the Irish practically conducted a football clinic before enthusiastic Japanese fans. . . . 
October 18-Army (Home).· After last year's 2-8-1 effort, Coach Lou Saban probably wishes he were back with the pamper~, overpaid pro players rather than mired in one of the few. time warps where the crewcut · is· still in vogue. He loses nearly half his starters, wel­coming back Brad (T.D.) Decker and Mike Fahnestock on the offense and few, if any, standouts on the defense. The last time these two teams met, Notre Dame won 24-0 in the Meadowlands. That was in 1977. In·1980, the Cadets cari only hope to lose by that little. 
October 25-Arizona (Away). With this jaunt, the Irish begin a four-game road trip that ends in Alabama on November 15. A successful season depends heavily on some fine play from Notre Dame Stadium. Arizona comes from the PAC-10 Conference, recently having fled the Western Athletic Conference. They made it to the 1979 Fiesta Bowl, 16-10 in their own backyard to Pittsburgh. Notre Dame and Arizona last played in 1941; the Irish prevailed 38-7. 
November 1-Navy (The Meadowlands). The Mid­shipmen finished at 7-4 last year. Their closer-than-the­score-indicates, 14-0 loss to .N.D. last year was made famous by Dan Devine's proclaiming them to be "deep­er than anyone we faced all year, including Southern Cal." Oh, well. Devine's remarks aside, Navy will come at the Irish with a defense bolstered by returning stand­outs Charlie Thornton and John Merrill. A full deck of running backs is also around for another year for Coach George Welsh, but he will need to fill gaping holes in the offensive line and QB spot. With luck and a good showing against Notre Dame, the Midshippers will stake their claim for a postseason bowl bid. 
November 8-Georgia Tech (Away). The Ramblin' Wreck landed Green Bay Packer assistant Bill Curry, as their new coach in place of Pepper Rodgers, who got his pink slip after last season's 4-6-1 finish. Mike Kelly will, once again, handle. the QB job, having all of last year's wide receivers back for targets. Leading rusher· Ronnie Cone's return won't hurt any, either. The of­fensive line and linebacking crew, however, were totaled by graduation and will no doubt be Coach Curry's first headache..On paper, Notre Dame should add a notch in the win column with this one, but our · performance south of the Mason-Dixon line ha_s often left something to be desired. Watch out for flying fish. 
November 15-Alabama (at Birmingham). Enoughsaid. --· · November 22-Air Force (Home). Completing its tour of the Armed Forces Academies, the Irish host a young Falcon club that staggered to a 2-9 mark in 1_979. QB Dave Ziebart and running back Shelby Ball have vacated the premises as has defensive tackle Rich Williams. The Air Force will rely heavily on a defense led by linebackers Mike France and Mike Bloomfield. 1980 marks the Falcons' first year in the Western Athletic Conference, filling aspot left by the PAC 10­bound Arizona. · November 29-Southern Cal (Away). Gone are Charles White, Paul McDonald, Myron Lapka, Dennis Johnson, and gigantic Brad Budde and Anthony Munoz. For most teams, such a loss would be staggering. For the Trojans-who function as little less than a holding company for pro talent, however, the departure of White & Co. will merely· mean a parade of future All­Americans from the Sunshine School. While the legen­dary tailback spot is wide open, 1979 backup QB Scott Tinsley from Oklahoma, appears to have a lock on Mc­Donald's old roost. He will have :receivers Kevin Wil­liams and Malcolm · Moore to team up with. Over the . years, and particularly of late, N.D.-U.S.C. games have proved to be among the most classic, titanic battles in . American football. It's probably safe to say that future games will provide more of the same. 
· ( cont. fr<Ym page 32) 

and return two punts for minus­
eight yards. 

, It was the day that Tennessee 
fans will never forget. The cry 
"How : 'bout them Vols?" rang 
through 'the streets of Knoxville on 
November 10, and continue to echo 
until this day. 

.On the other hand, Notre Dame 
fans don't care to relive that dis­
aster ever again. Neither do the 
Sugar Bowl officials. 


( cont. from page 33) 
coaches at any college in any sport that happily. ad­
mits he enjoys the process. 
"I really like recruiting-or, should I say recruiting 
for Notre Dame," smiles Boulac. "I believe for a 
coach to be a good recruiter he has to seriously be­
lieve in the product he's selling and I take·the position 
that the product I'm selling to potential student-ath­
letes is not just Notre Dame football, but Notre Dame. 
Sure the football has to be a primary consideration· 
but• we go after the kid who wants to be a good 
player and a competitive student as well. When we 
find that type of kid then our methods pay off." 
So what's down the road for this coach-of-all­trades? "Well, I'd like to be a head coach at some· point," he admits. "I think that is a dream of every young . assistant." · 
With 39 candles on his next birthday cake; Boulac goes one step' further and admits that the job he'd most· like to have someday is the head spot at (you guessed it) Notre Dame. 
"Of course that's a dream of mine but I have to 
be realistic and see that to ever have a chance at it 
I'd have to leave Notre Dame for a while and make a 
reputation as a head man somewhere else," he says. 
And while he doesn't jump for joy at the prospect of ever leaving Notre Dame, he admits that ·he's grateful for the time he's spent there. "A learning ex­perience" he calls it, even for someone that's been out of school for almost 18 years. · 
"You might say I just love Notre Dame," he sighs. ·"And I hope, in some small way, my work here has been able to repay what this place has given me." D 

.........._·,•. 

-PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGERS 
The SCHOOL OF U_~BAN and PUBLIC AFFAIRS at CARNEGIE-MELLON -UNIVERSITY offers· a._ two year program designed to prepare future leaders for · professional ser.vice · in the expanding area of· management of public policy. 
·care~r opportunities in :this critical area are expanding faster than in most other fields.:They offer 
· great challanges for· innovative approaches to_ public sector management using -modern q·uantitative · methods. SUPA's· problem-solving orientation offers ­diverse careersto aspiring public managers. · 
*SUPA has had a 100% PLACEMENT RECORD -since its first graduating class in 1972. Rosanne Salerno 
. School of Urban & Public Affairs · Admissions Office Carnegie-Mellon University _ 
·_ Margaret Morrison Bldg., Room 110 Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . 
FOR MORE INFORMATION; PLEASE FILL OUT AND RETURN THE FOLLOWING COUPON 
. . 
. NAME ____________________ 
ADDRESS_---------'-----'-----------­
.. 

CITY ___________STATE____ZIP ____ UNIVERSITY/COLLEGE________________ MAJOR ______________DEGREE_.___ 
DATE OF GRADUATION_.·-----------·Cl.P.A._.___ SOCIAL SECURITY NO. 

•Bill Cosby tells 
why Red Cross needs your type ofblood. 


"Every day of the week, there's somebody who needs your type of blood. 
"But the thing about blood is: it doesn't keep very long. Which means we've got to keep the supply coming con­stantly. Donors are needed every day. 
"Sorry to say, there are never enou8h donors. "In fact, five people out of every 100 are doing the whole 

job. That's right, five percent 
. of the people give IO0 percent of the blood that's donated. ."Ifyou're between 17 and 66, and generally healthy. you can help change all that. And your one blood donation can help up tofive people to live. "Call your Red Cross Blood Center and make a donor appointment soon. It's one way you can help keep Red Cross ready ... to help others." 

Keep Red Cross ready. 




