
M A G A z N E 


Subscribe to: 

Only $35 a year ~ 12 regular biweekly issues plus the annual Football Review 
You'll find: 
• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues 

• 
what's happening on weekends • off-the-wall humor 


MAGAZINE 

r---------------------~
I I 
I  Please put me on your subscriptio!]-liSt for 1998-1999.  I  
I  I  
I  Name:  I  
I  I  
I  Address=---------'------­ I  
I  I  
I  B  
I  g  
I  g  
I I I  Please send this fo1m, with payment, to: Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center  B D ,g  
I  Notre Dame, IN 46556  H  
I  ~  


A G A z N E 
Color By Number 
With the universify' s efforts to increase minorify enrollment going nowhere fast, minorify student organizations are working with student government and the administration to increase communica­tion between ethnic groups. Scholastic examines attempts to give these groups a voice without promoting segregation. 
by Jim Pastore 
Business Options () 
Do you want to spend four years learning about art, literature and music, but still want a shot at gainful employment when it's all over? COBA is considering a minor that may help you do just that. by Allison Fashek 
Out For Redemption G) 
With a crushing lineup and a strong pitching staff, the baseball team is looking to improve on its 41-win campaign of a year ago. Scholastic previews the Big East favorite's upcoming season. by Chris Hamilton 
Working Hard for the Money by Lisa Virani  10  
Praying Out Loud  
by Melissa Kalas and Heather Hogan  12  
All Wrapped Up by Eric Yuva  14  
Dinner and a Painting by Andy Nutting  24  
-~  The Beat Goes On by Katie Cleary  26  

Departments 
From the Editor 2 ND Notebook 5 Man on the Street 7 Campus Watch 15 Splinters from the Pressbox 23 Out of Bounds 27 Week in Distortion 28 Comic Strip 29 On Other Campuses 30 Calendar 31 Final Word 32 
DAME•FEBRUARY 18, 1999 
o:= 
.I-­
0 
LU LU 
I 
I­
~ 
0 
o:= 
LL 


All the Difference 
Most people don't realize that they are different until someone else· makes the effort to point it out. This became pretty clear to me on a Satur­day morning, shortly after my family moved to Auckland, New Zealand. I was window shopping downtown with my dad when a man came up to us and suddenly started shouting, "You're Americans, aren't you? Why don't you go home?" Besides a few instances like this, I rarely felt discriminated against during my time in New Zealand. In fact, my differences, like eating peanut butter and jelly for lunch instead of meat pies, often won me atten­tion. People would constantly introduce themselves to me just because they wanted to know what life in America was really like. (Is American high school and college just like it is on 90210? Um, sort of.) But even after two years, while I had grown to love the country, I never got used to feeling like I was different. Even while ordering food at McDonald's I would have to tell the person behind the counter that I wasn't just on vacation for a couple of weeks, I actually lived right down the road. And during a history class, my teacher and classmates decided that I should explain why Americans became involved in the Vietnam War. (I spent the entire class apolo­gizing.)· 
Talk to most people of minority race or ethnicity on this campus and you will likely hear a similar sentiment, that being singled out for your differences isn't easy to get used to. Jim Pastore examines what the admissions office, club leaders and student government are doing to address this issue on page 16. 
The Turnover 

Scholastic's annual spring break staff turn­over is coming up once again. If you're interested in applying for a position on the · first editorial board of the next millennium, please pick up an application outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall (room 004). If you have any questions, call Scholastic at 1-7569 or e­mail us at Scholastic.scholast.l@nd.edu. The deadline for applications is Sunday, February 21. Further details can befound in the ad on page four. 

Correction 

In the last issue of Scholastic, a story 
-· entitled "WWF Meets ND" contained two errors. Stone Cold Steve Austin was re­ported as the leader ofDegeneration X, one of the WWF's factions. Austin is not the leader ofDegeneration X. Also, ·a character named Deborah was listed as one of the WWF's female wrestlers. Deborah is not a wrestler. Scholastic regrets the errors. 

Managing Editor 
46 Years Ago: 



Study Time 
In the February 13, 1953, issue of Scho­lastic; the following was published: 
Officials ofthe University Library re­cently announced that Libra1y facilities will be available to students on Sundays during the Spring semester from 1 to 9 p.m. 

However, ifonly a ve1y small number of students avail themselves ofthe opportu­nity, the .Sunday Libra,y schedule will revert to itsform_er hours, officials said. 
Judging from its current hours, students must have been way,too eager about spend­ing more time in the 'brare. Perhaps ifwe all boycott the-building, they'll cut back their hours -at least it'll be a good excuse n~t to study. 
-MWS 


FEBRUARY ·18, 1999 


SCHOLASTIC .... __
M A G A z I N E proudly presents .... 



Question: 
Howmany 
differences can you find be1ween .these two covers? 


If you've got something to say, we want to hear. Send letters to: 
Scholastic Magazine 
Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 e-mail: Scholastic.scholast.1@nd.edu 
Letters may be edited for space. · 

FEBRUARY 18, 1999 · · SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

Tired of reshelving books? 


Leave Hesburgh 
for a new girl. 

MAGAZIN E 
is now hiring. 
• 
Managing Editor · • News Editor •Assistant News Editor • Campus Life Editor •Assistant Campus Life Editor 

• Sports Editor 
•
Assistant Sports Editor 

• 
Entertainment Editor 



•
Assistant Entertainment Editor 


• Departments Editor 
•
Assistant Departments Editor 

• Layout Editor 
•Assistant LayQut Editor 
• 
Business Manager 

• 
Systems Manager 

• 
Graphic Arts Editor 

• 
Photography E,ditor 



•
Assistant Photography Editor 


All applications due February 21, 1999 
Applications can be obtained in the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Questions? Call 1-7569 or e-mail Scholastic.scholast.l@ttd.edu 
SCHOLASTIC FEBRUARY-18,.1999
MAGAZINE 

AND IN THIS CORNER 
Fighting the Good Fight 
The 69th Bengal Bouts aim to raise a record amountfor the missions in Bangladesh 
Monday marks the beginning of one of Notre Dame's oldest and proud­est traditions. The Bengal Bouts is celebrating its 69th year of raising money for the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh while providing students the opportunity to participate in an intramural program unique to Notre Dame. The most rewarding aspect of this organization and its tournament is the $50,000 it hopes to raise for the missions in Bangladesh. This goal is the largest ever, exceeding last year's by $9,000. According to David Murphy, one of the captains, there is a special need this year. "This past sum-
The charitable goal may be the reason behind the fights, but it's not the only inter­esting story of this year's bouts. Senior captain Brian Gaffney, a 180-pound bruiser, is aiming for his fourth straight title. Gaffney is anxious to begin the bouts, but he wishes that he were a challenger rather than a three­time defending champion. "Chasing a title is easier to deal with than defending one," he says. 
Of course, Gaffney is not the only attrac­tion at next week's fights. Over 100 com­petitors who have spent the last six weeks fitting in 10,000 push-ups, 20,000 sit-ups 
and 30,000 jumping jacks 
will be facing off in the

HThjs past summer there was Joyce Center on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
severe floodjng over there. The 
Three-day passes are avail­able from the boxers for $10 

mjssjons were particularly 
each. 

affected by jt." Youdon'thave to know a boxer or even understandDavjd Murphy the basic rules of the sport 
mer there was severe flooding over _there," he says. "The missions were particularly affected by it." Though the goal is ambi­
/

tious, Murphy is optimistic. "It's surprising how much we're getting," he says. 
to enjoy this year's tourna­
ment. If you've missed the tournament in past years or have never seen a boxing match, you can't ask for a more immediate, active and spectator-friendly sport. Just come out ready to see a lot of action and a lot of heart. 
-Josh Kirley and Patrick Downes 


FEBRUARY 18, 1999 
Q&A 

Z 10uestions with 0 

z 
0 
-I 
m 
CP 
0 0 
?\ 
....I 
....I 
w 
CD 
w ci 
a: 0 C!l 
Felicia Johnson 
Ifyou've got a little brother, 
here's your new best friend 
If you're a student at Notre Dame, you might owe it to Felicia Johnson.Johnson is currently burrowing her way out from be­neath the applications from nearly 10,000 Class of2003 hopefuls to decide who gets the fat envelopes and who gets the thin ones. Scholastic caught up with one of Notre Dame's "gatekeepers." 
How many applications do you get each year? Each year we receive anywhere from 8,500 to 10,000 applications. 
What is it like deciding who gets in when they all want to so badly? 
There are certainly some students who bleed blue and gold and just barely miss admis­sion. Those cases break my heart. We get so many qualified applicants, but we only have beds for 1,900. 
What is your favorite part of your job? 
I most enjoy speaking with prospective stu­dents about the many opportunities that exist at Notre Dame. I feel like I might have a small influence on the creation of this student body. Another benefit of this job is that I have the chance to travel to Latin America and recruit students. You can't 
. ­
beat that. 
What is your leastfavorite part ofyourjob? 
I have a love/hate relationship with file reading. In one sense they intrigue me; however at other times the applications seem to fill my every wide-eyed moment. 
-continued on next page -. 
SCHOLASTIC 5 
MAGAZINE 


Q&A 
continued from previous page 

What is the best book you have ever read? 
The best book award would be a close tie between Don Quixote (in Spanish) and Zen and the Art ofMotorcycle Maintenance. 
Who do you think is atrue leaderin ourtime? 
The first two people who come to mind are Nelson Mandela and Jimmy Carter. They are both leaders who actively commit them­selves to the cause of social justice in our world. 
If you could have any other job at Notre Dame, which would it be? 
I would love to be Bill Kirk during the football games ... just kidding! 
What do you look for in a potential Notre Dame student? 
Energy, compassion, intelligence, opens mindedness and diverse experiences. 
What's the most adventurous thing that you have ever done? 
I lived in rural Honduras for two years. Have you ever been chased by someone with a machete and been forced to defend yourself with a coffee cup? 
What question would you ask as question number 10 if you were doing this inter­view? 
Do we get to play God as admissions coun­selors? No, no and no! -Kimberly Blackwell 
WEBSITE REVIEW 


Flopscar.com 

Oscar's official website leaves much to be desired 
By this time, anybody who is even remotely interested has 
probably alreadyread the  
list of this year's Academy Award nominees. With  ~ :-:Pllllllllll.,.-!  
that in mind, what else is  
left for the official Oscar,  
website (located at http://  
www.oscar.com) to offer?  
Sadly, the  answer is not  
much.  
After you finish reading  
the list of this year's nomina­ 
tions, there is little else to ex­ 
plore. The site boasts two inter­ 
esting contests (an Oscar trivia  
contest and a chance to predict  

this year's winners) butneitherof these links is particularly spec­tacular. There is a promising sec­tion on the history of the Academy Awards, but these pages seem more interested in selling movie posters than in providing any useful infor­mation. For those people who are disgustingly rich enough to care,the site also contains fash­ion information that tells you where last year's celebrities 
bought their gowns. A bizarre link provides the official Academy vot~ ing rulebook, full of helpful guidelines such as which ·films are eligible for costume design awards. Overall, Oscar.com is a fairly dry and uninteresting site. While hard-core movie buffs may appreciate the glitz surrounding the Os­cars, the casual web surfer will probably find the of­ficial site for the Golden Raspberries (or Razzies, for short) much more enter­taining. Razzies are the an­nual awards given out the day before the Oscars to the worst movies of the year. Will Arma­geddon beatSpice World? Who is a worse actor, Sylvester Stallone or Barney the dinosaur? Drop by the site athttp://www.razzies.com. for the fuUlist ofnominees, and a refreshing change from the Os­car buzz. -Jeremy Slater 


..... . . ··•goo4ief froiri··.peopl~! .an~tf~};11nd th~t ·..·• > little sister,<make avisit to .ND , :so111e oftli.elll_gidi(t s,eu very ~¢.lI;S.o dgµtdpeopledon)evenk11ow\ve 're dmvn here?. 
~~tt!ii~~1~1~G!~!~:1< r~11i~t!f~il!ifIf;Z£ltir1!~i!!iifJij;~JfJ;
.·. three ·years ago,·· ND,Video,..entered the.·••· an.·ofits O\Vn fµiilnces,·sothe,futlire of the.• dnoyies tq studf#t!lleiiib'ergfor$2.:Any 
•:rttt'~v:1~~#iJ!rytmtt4i! 1,t1~t,!t:,~1!1!~ttita11}i~M'tiWt~"t!£i~~vi~ilWl~t:'
•..selecticm.Isn't.·,huge, .itjs. gm\\'ing. •-''Vfe ..; itfor110~;?Dooli?.sa~Si ''.A:t.th~··end.of tHe ;'.iC()llle a.nien1Jj~r:8San additio1al.service;.: 
•·. have abCmt25 CD~righr11ow, and.•riiat'S..'. ye·ar,: wl•JJ evaltiate :i¥hbther.'it'~ibbei>a ,·;';ND;'.Vide'o:ilow· allb~s'ni6yies· :r1fai<are·' ·.tht{mos_t,~~;ve h.ad,jo fcrr/'.s~y•s-~ew . so~rc:~ofrevenue~r·a1{~xpensef~r:~~-''.\s4/: ~~nte~-O~·s;t~rd~ys :~~d TiiesJays:t; be····. student ni~nager;Kerry Dooiiri; '/Qrigi; :. adds, ."Rtght now,'we'~e fhldm'g m~fe sell~ ,·.,_ kept f9r:tw'od_ays 'at 11<\~xtra charg~. . ,· 

.. . ..... '\1·:"i .... , .. . ·.·.·.·.•.•·.·.•.·.··.·•.:.•..•.•.· 1·_..·..,.·•..·.:.·'·,.·.·.·.•·•.··.••:;, i:/'.t,_•...:·.'...-.·.:...·.,.:.•.:>7>:(<<1a1'da/Mai·x:
, .. -··,.:·?:<....,/-::,_.,:.-__;;·i/.r~.,,\.: 'i,':/i.,_\-J ..... -:,;•_:.'.-:·:··· . 
6 SCHOLASTIC FEBRUARY 18, 1999 
MAGAZINE 


..•"71Iaf··wouldi:yotihf·. .dohigiif. yo.u hadn~t ·•· ·.··.·cCJineilo·.··coIIeg~.?
. > '.'_·. .,•-·· . ·:·;·,•.·: ......·, _-;-: 
0 .:,·.:
m:~\f~.r.s...:.·....·.·. ...~.-.f.•.f.h.I.~t!+:;W~t
. ::'. ..·,_;_:~,.,,: ·'.,;., 
FEBRUARY 18, 1999 



Higher Education 
President Clinton wants more people to be able to attend college. But is that worthwhile? 
education at the college level is in direct 

BY JOHN rnFRANCA ourye.ars ago, as I neared the end ofmyFhigh school career and found myself  conflict with the establishment and mainte­nance of academic standards. As poet and social critic T.S. Eliot wrote in his Notes  
deciding where to go to college, I told  Towards the Definition of Culture, "The  
my mom I thought it might be a good idea to  ideal of a uniform system such that no one  
take a year off from school. The suggestion  capable ofreceiving higher education could  
receivedlittleconsideration.Myhighschool  fail to get it, leads imperceptibly to  the  
sent all but a few ofits graduates to college,  education of too many people, and conse­ 
and so the very idea of not going seemed  quently to the lowering ofstandards to what­ 
absurd. This was the well-worn path society  ever the swollen number of candidates is  
,had paved for the bright and privileged.  able to reach."  
Recently President Clinton declared in  I am by no means advocating a state in  
his State of the Union address that "Your  which certain individuals are placed in spe­ 
children can  go  on to college," and his  cific roles so as. to afford a more efficient  
budget proposal includes substantial fund­ society.Nor do I propose testing individuals  
ing for the High Hopes for College pro- at an early age and directing their education  
gram. Although it may seem unpopular and  from then on. My distaste for the follies of  
elitist, I find no reason to encourage our  democracy does not run deep enough to  
entire.population to attend college.  promote some form of societal predestina- 
Itseemsmorelikelythattoomany people  tion. Rather, I propose we rethink our very  
are already pursuing higher education. In- ideas  on education, and the value it has  
stead of improving the intellectual climate  within society, particularly a democracy.  
of our nation, this phenomena appears  to  Popular media suggest our society is be­ 
have accomplished the opposite.  coming considerably less intelligent. Our  
The major problem with the notion that  attention spans and knowledge of current  
all Americans should attend college is two- affairs are decreasing, all at a time when 65  
fold. First, its major ideological underpin- percent of recent high school graduates are  
ning is the often untrue belief that a college  _ now in college. It seems that even as more  
diploma will lead to a higher salary and a  people are receiving higher education, the  
better quality oflife. Such thoughts encour­ respect for that education, and the attention  
age the idea of education as a commodity,  paid to it, is declining. Increased demand  
and produce students in search ofjobs rather  has devalued the currency of education.  
than knowledge. This perception is at odds  Our society must continually remind it­ 
with the very intent of a university and can  self that the search for truth is worthy in and  
turn colleges into trade schools.  of itself, the highest calling of the human  
Thesecondandmoreimportantproblem,  spirit. As John Henry Cardinal Newman  
however,isthesocietalperceptionthatthose  writes in The Idea of a University: "It [a  
with college diplomas are more intelligent  university] educates the intellect to reason  
and qualified for  a  given position. Our  well in all matters, to reach out towards  
nation's conception of education, like its  truth, and to grasp it." At the same time, our  
conception ofmost things, stresses quantity  society must also rest confident that univer­ 
over quality. We push for higher degr~es  sities are not the only place wherein this  
without considering the quality of the edu­ search can be made.  0  
cation for which that degree is bestowed.  
Rather than pressing for further educa­ The opinions expressed in this commenta,y  
tion, President Clinton should consider in­ are those ofthe author and do not necessarily  
stituting standards that demand achieve­ reflect the opinions of the editorial staff of  
ment. Unfortunately, advocating universal  Scholastic Magazine.  
SCHOLASTIC  7  
MAGAZINE  

~ 
)> 
z 
0 
z 
-I 
I 
m 
(/) 
-I 
;::;c, 
m 
m 
-I 

Business Options 
The College ofBusiness is considering giving students from other colleges the chance to add a highly anticipated minor to their resumes 
BY ALLISON FASHEKIt was late sophomore year when Chris Fesen forced himself to choose a major. 
i 
: : He narrowed the choice down to gov­ernment or business. 
"In the end, I kind of chose my govern­ment major by default,".he says. "I thought about business but by the time I de­
cided it was too late." 

Fesen, now a senior, took a number of electives in marketing and finance to fill out his resume, but he's still worried about job prospects. "I thought corporate · America would be more interested in arts and letters students, but they aren't getting jobs like business and finance majors are. I definitely would have done a business minor if it was offered." 
What most students don't know is that such a minor once existed at. Notre Dame and that the College of Business Adminis­tration is trying to bring it back. 
SCHOLASTIC ..
8 
MAGAZINE 
ALPA, the Arts and Letters Program for Administrators, existed according to course descriptions from the 1981-82 through the 1989-90 school year. The description calls ALPA "an interdisciplinary program oflib­eral arts and business courses organized to prepare liberal arts students for a wide range of administrative and management oppor­tunities after graduation." 
The program provided arts and letters students with a chance to take these courses as a second majoror minor. Stu­

dents in the ALPA sequence were expected to major in an arts and letters department and then dedicate eight of their free elec-. tives to business, including three hours of economics, three hours of computer appli­cations or statistics, 12 hours of introduc­tory courses in accounting, finance, manag­ing and marketing, and six hours of elec­tives in appropriate arts and letters or busi­ness courses. 
Current Associate Dean of Arts and Let­ters Dian Murray gives two possible reasons 
that the program ended. "Logistically, arts 
and letters students were having difficulty 
getting into business classes· [ even with 
ALPA]" she says. "But also, academically, 
the faculty and the dean were concerned ... 
that the program was at odds with the aims 
of the liberal arts [education]." 
Few others have heard about the old pro­
gram or know why it ended. Kathleen Maas 
Weigert, assistant dean of arts and letters 
during the late '80s, says she felt ALPA was 
important for liberal arts students because at 
the time it was impossible for them to, get 
into business classes, but adds that she didn't 
know why it disappeared. 
Reverend Robert Austgen was an assis­
tant qean at the time ofALPA' s initial devel­opment. "ALPA was developed with the intent to give arts and letters students a · chance to gain a business background," he says. "It was a popular program at the time . ... It was the dean's decision to terminate it." Likewise, Carolyn Woo, dean of COBA 
for the past year and a half, does not share 
Murray's concerns about the dangers of the 
program. "Wedon'tknowwhyitwentaway, 
but COBA didn't stop it," Woo says. 
The New Program 
The program that is.now in the develop­
mental stages seems to have the same inten­
tions as ALPA. The main differences are 
that this time around the College ofBusiness 
Administration is in charge, and· that the 
program plans to offer a minor instead of a 
second major. 
Woo cites demand from other areas ofthe 
university for COBNs decision to try to 
bring back the minor. "Various colleges 
have expressed interests in terms ofwanting 
a business minor,"...Woo says. "No matter 
the background, a large part ofany student's 
future employment will inyolve industry." 
This is the first year that COBA has taken 
steps towards making this idea a reality. 
Woo has assembled a committee offaculty 
from COBA and other colleges, as well as a 
FEBRUARY 18, 19~9 
small number of student representatives, to decide what the program will look like. "This is all in the design stages, but there is a good chance it will happen in the near future," she says. 
COBA Assistant Dean Samuel Gaglio adds that students will be slowly phased into the minor. "We don't even know about what year this will be ready yet, but the students will start slowly." 
Ideally, Woo would like the program to meet the needs ofall students who are inter­ested, but because administrators have no idea of the potential demand for the pro­gram, students will have to apply to become part of it in its early stages. "It might be a tough program ofstudies to combine and we want people not just to come in, but to come in and perform successfully," she says. 
Woo feels that demand will play a strong part in how the program develops. COBA is the fastest:-growing of Notre Dame's col­leges, and Woo says that the college's abil­ity to staff the program will play a part in shaping the curriculum. 
From 1992 to 1997, COBA' s undergradu­ate school" enrollment increased by 15.4 percent, while Arts and Letters increased by only 5.3 percent. 
"We're already strapped with the num­ber of hours per faculty member," Woo says. "We can hardly keep up with our own majors." 
Arts and Letters and COBA: At Odds? 
Dean Mark Roche of the College of Arts and Letters sees these enrollment statistics as cause for concern. "Right now the <;ollege of Arts and Letters is dramatically understaffed," he says, citing as a reason a shift in the college's focus from teaching to a combination ofteaching and research. 
Most professors now teach two courses instead" of three, one of which is often a university seminar, the course that replaced Freshman Seminar. De­spite these changes, Roche says, "We welcome all these students from all col­leges, Ifsizes ofciasses drop we still offer classes. We can't just cancel classes." 
Roche does worry, however, about the effects of arts and letters students taking a greater number of business courses. "The logistics are that our own students would put greater demand on COBA.... I don't want to see the College of Arts and Letters fail to obtain the correct number offaculty." He says that he would like his students to 
.FEBRUARY 18, 1999 · 
have a broad background in terms ofcourses and the ability to deal with a wide range of problems. "[But] it is difficult for me to think it's better for our students to go over and take most of their courses at the busi­ness school," Roche says. 
In his address to the JPW crowd last spring, Roche emphasized the fact that arts and letters students continually prove to be successful in business positions after gradu­ation without taking business courses. 
"While it is true that business graduates tend to earn a bit more than arts and letters graduates in the first three to five years of their career, on average arts and letters gradu­ates eventually overtake their business coun­terparts and tend to have greater success even in the business world," he says. 
Roche feels that this is due to the focus in arts and letters on developing analytical and communication skills, as well as imagina­tion. . His speech continued, "In a liberal arts environment one learns how to think on one's feet and how to think outside of the box. In exploring what is of intrinsic value, our students also learn the intellectual vir­tues that are requisite for success." 
Roche would like to see the proposed business sequence contain one to fiye course~, and sees room for cooperation be­tween the colleges over the project, but also adds, "to have [the program as] a second major is not my ideal." 
According to Woo, COBA is not trying to compete with arts and 
letters for numbers of students or faculty. 
"All we're doing is responding to a need," 
Woo says. "We're not trying to encourage 
more minors. We're already growing so 
fast." Woo says, adding that she encourages 
business students to take arts and letters 
courses. "We're not in competition with 
each other." 
In fact, when Woo first began evaluating 
the minor, she thought it might provide 
relief for faculty by reducing the number of 
COBA majors. But a survey of sophomore 
business students conducted during the fall 
of 1998 showed otherwise. Students were 
asked whether they would still major in 
business ifa minor was offered, and over 85 
percent stated they would remain business 
majors. 
"People want to major in business," Woo 
says. "Students are entering jobs with a lot 
more responsibility than 10 years ago, get­
ting internships at the end of their sopho­
more and junior years, working in fast­
paced industry." 
Evenwith the growing number ofmajors in their college, Woo and Gaglio both feel that COBA will be able to benefit students of other majors. As Woo puts it, "We have . the resources if other people want to make use ofthem. We [can] help other majors." D 
Jim Pastore contributed to this report. 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 



UJ Ll.. 
...J 
(/) 
:::> 
a.. 
~ 
u 
<( FOR THE 


Notre Dame students go to classes, they study, they party -and some of them go to work 
MAMA MIA. Jeremy Bauer tosses pizza crusts at Reckers for extra dough. 
BY LISA VIRANI hat do you get when you mix 40
W

computers with Victoria's Secret 
models? A job at your local LaFortune computer cluster. At least that's what sophomore Matt Walsh, a LaFortune computer consultant, says. "The fact that during my last shift I was able to watch the Victoria's-Secret 'Yeh cast is the coolest thing about the job/'says Walsh, who works part time in the cluster. "Anything where I can sit around watching Victoria's Secret models is great. Aside from the Gorch Games Room, I can't think of a better place to work." Who knew jobs like this existed on 
campus? 

At Notre Dame, s·tudents collect pay­checks for performing all types of on-and off-campus work. Many work for those few extra dollars to spend at their favorite South Bend haunts while.others work to decrease tuition debts and help their parents with college expenses. The Office of Financial Aid offers a wdrk/study program for stu­dents in need of on-campus work, although not all on-campus jobs demand that stu­dents be a part of the work/study program. Students can also find employment in the 

-South Bend-and..Michiana communities. A student looking · for work can use the 
FEBRUARY 18, -1999 


-.-----------. 
.

' . . 
university's employment opportunities web 
page at www.nd.edu/~finaid. Both on-and 
off-campus employers use the site to list 
descriptions of available jobs, job hours, 
pay rates and contact information. 
Senior Jamiko Rose is the assistant to the 
executive director of the Center for Social 
Concerns and for her, working at the CSC is 
more than justa job. "Ireally enjoy the work 
that I do in the CSC," she says. "I don't go 
in because I am scheduled for certain hours. 
I go in when I feel that something needs to 
be done." Rose worked in an off-campus 

restaurant during her sophomore year, but 
felt that it was important to have a more 
meaningful job. 
Sophomore Colleen Garvey is respon­
sible for scheduling and clerical work in the 
Food Services Catering Office and works 
mainly to help out her parents with school 
expenses. "This job allows me to learn a lot 
of practical skills and has flexible and con­
venient hours," she says. Garvey also ap­
preciates the proximity of the catering of­
fice to herresidence hall. "This job needs no 
travel time and I can work in the same quad 
that llive on." 

Not to be forgotten: students who labor in 
the campus dining halls. Most first-year 

students in the work/study program are as-. 
signed to work in either North or South 
Dining Hall and continue to work in food 
service afterward. 
According tojunior Michael Burke, work­

ing at North Dining Hall has its perks. "I 
love my job at NDH," he says. "The people 
that stay for four years make it enjoyable." 
Sophomore Cathy Danner, another NDH 
employee, agrees. "The full timers and the 

students are rea.lly friendly, and we have 
fun while we are working," she says. 
Sophomore Amy Szestak works at the 
Food Services Support Facility located be­
hind the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. 

She is currently in training for the student 
manager position. "At first I had trouble 
finding a job because I didn't think that I 

qualified for work/study, but when I called 
Food Services, I got the job easily. First I 
was putting together Grab-N-Go sandwiches 
at the facility and then I interviewed for the 
student manager position to take over for a 
senior," she says. "Because there are so 
many shifts, the facility can usually work 
around your class schedule. The only draw­
back of the job is the facility's location." 
If location presents a problem, jobs are 
also available within the residence halls. 
Sophomore Susan Fritts works as the 
Cavanaugh Hall clerk and is responsible for 
FEBRUARY 18, 1999 . 

''Anything where I can sit around watching Victoria's Secret models is great. Aside from the Gorch Games Room, I can't think ofa better place to work.'' -Matt Walsh, computer consultant 
distributing keys and detex cards to dorm residents, collecting fines that have been levied by hall staff and taking care of mis­cellaneous projects for Sr. Pat Dearbaugh, the hall rectress. "Being hall clerk is very convenient because I don't have to leave the dorm to go to work," Fritts says. "This job is so much more flexible than other campus jobs. I do what needs to be done as soon as I can." 
Sophomore Shannon Lacy is an employee at the Gap in the University Park Mall. Lacy favors off-campus employment because she can work here in South Bend and continue to work for the Gap while she is at home. "About 25 percent ofthe students who work at the Gap go to Notre Dame. Working off campus helps me to better structure my time," she says. "Italso helps me get out into the real world, which is a nice change from the campus setting." 
Employed students agree that their jobs provide them with certain benefits. Garvey enjoys the free Snapple and soda available in the catering office, and Lacy adds that the employee discount at the Gap is her favorite part of the job. Fritts says that her biggest job benefit as hall clerk is being able to pick office hours according to her semester sched­ule. Rose is most pleased with her cowork­ers' dedication to service and community improvement. 
As with most jobs, Notre Dame student employees also have to take the bad with the good. Walsh sometimes has difficulty while working in the LaFortune computer cluster when technical problems arise. "You nev.er know what people are going to ask. We have 40 computers, both Macs and PCs, that have completely different problems. The job is good because it trains you to deal with a variety of problems, but you can't know everything," Walsh says. 
Fritts says, "The worst part of my job is collecting fines from people in the hall be­cause they always get mad at the messen­ger." 
Burke reports that NDH has problems with people stacking their cups higher and higher without recognizing the impending danger of those leaning towers of plastic. More seriously, Burke adds, "The rudeness of the student body to the NDH workers is a continuing problem. People are disrespect­ful to our employees even though they could easily end up in the same classes." 
Problems also arise for sophomore Nikki Andrzejewski, who works in the Rolf's Fit­ness Center. "Trying to enforce the Fitness Room rules is hard because people try to break just about every rule we have," she says." The worst thing about working there is having to re-rack all of the weights be­cause half of them weigh more than I do." 
Some students find it difficult to balance their jobs and their class work. Senior Den­nis Basila, a student assistant in the office of student employment, says, "The hardest thing is trying to schedule time for class, studying and work." This is especially true for senior Allison Krilla, who currently holds three jobs. Krilla works as a lab assistant in the Language Resource Center, as an asso­ciate sports editor for The Observer, and as the Notre Dame football and basketball stringer for USA Today. "It is hard because even though I make close to $150 a week, I still have to spend the hours doing the work and sometimes things start to slip," she says. 
There are diverse job opportunities avail­able for Notre Dame students both on and off campus. So keep your eyes open for those applications, sharpen up yourresumes, and remember that you too can be part ofthe 
Notre Dame working community.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  11  
MAGAZINE  




·W LL 
-I 
I 
i II1\ 
i.j: 
i:~II 
1• 1'1 
'\ 
:. ~ 
I 
I ! 
ii' I _;i I 
ii I 
!)I' I 
ii 
, ~I ,,f 

G} 
0 
:D 
0 
iii 
m 
.--m 
.-­

Thai distant rumbling on Sunday nights is probably an opening hymn 
rather.'than·a -. rerun_ ofThe x~ . Files 

FEBRUARY 18, 1999 

unday night for a college stu­dent usually means donning 

Ifs a good place to hang out with my a T-shirt and sweats for a night of recovering from the week­
friends. If I've had a busy week and wasn't 
end and catching up on home­work. But the late hours of 
able to see them, then I know I'll see
Sunday evenings for Notre 
Dame students are in many cases reserved for going to one of 27 dorms for Mass. 

them on Sunday night.
Father Don McNeill, the in-residence priest at McGlinn Hall, characterizes dorm 
-Annie Sutera

Masses as "symbolic ofthe life ofthe mem­
bers of each hall." While the Basilica re­

mains popular with the early morning risers Mass is said each week by a different cel­Katie Cousino, a junior at Saint Mary's, 
of the Notre Dame community, there are ebrant. While some individuals may find agrees. " Community is really important to 
certain factors surrounding the atmosphere this to be a benefit, adding diversity and meduring Mass, soI lookfor an atmosphere 
of the dorm Mass that appeals to students. character to each sermon, others may find it that is both spiritually and socially pleas­
"A lot of students like them because of the -·a drawback, preventing them from becom­ing," she says. 
time frame -late on Sunday night when . ing comfortable with the speaker. Although the different environment from 
they're either finished studying or when Mary Ann McAloon, a junior in Howard that ofthe Basilica is inlarge partdue to the 
they need a break from doing so," McNeill Hall, often attends Zahm Hall with her boy­students, the priests presiding over the ser­
says. "It's an opportunity to invite friends friend because she finds Zahm's Mass to be vice create the same kind ofimpact. "Every 
over to socialize with before and after Mass "a, more spiritual and comfortable atmo­once in a while Father Al [D'Alonzo] will 
as well as a chance to be with the people they sphere." She occasionally attends Howard's point someone out and joke with them in the 
live with." Mass to spend time with her friends and middle ofMass," says SteveBomeli, a fresh­
Students agree that there is a social appeal show support for herfriends inthe choir, but maninCarroll Hall. "Heknows pretty much 
to the dorm Masses. "I stay in my dorm for feels that she gets more out ofZahm's Mass everyone that attends Mass and his sermons 
Mass. I know the people who will be attend­than her own dorm's. "Father Bill [Wack] often relate directly to us." 
ing and I enjoy the opportunity to see them," gives great sermons, and I find more of a It is unlikely that students will find an­
says Pat Mitchell, a sophomore in Zahm . spiritual atmosphere there," McAloon says.·--other parish intheir lifetime where they will 
Hall. JuniorCamilleFitzpatrick, HowardHall' s be able to wear pajamas to Mass and be 
Many students take advantage ofthis op­dorm's liturgical commissioner, says most calledbynamebya pastor while surrounded 
portunity to spend quality time with friends of her friends explore other options for by friends. 
from other dorms as well. Annie Sutera, a Mass. "It's good to try different Masses and Whether they're held in marble chapels 
freshman in Pangborn Hall who regularly attend where you feel the mostcomfortable. or among folding chairs, it is this combina­
attends Mass ~-Alumni Hall, says, "It's a ZahmandMorrissey have always been popu­tion of convenience and intimacy that has 
good place to hang out with my friends. If lar places for Mass, and it does provide the formed the unique entity that is the dorm 
I've had a busy week and wasn't able to see opportunity to see more people." Mass. . 
them, then I know I'll see them 

oil Sunday night.-1-also like to LET US PRAY. Though they may be just as spirited, men generally do not attend Masses in women's go and see all of the guys dorms, such as this one in Lyons, as frequently as women attend men's Masses. 
singing-somethiµg I'm not 
used to hearing on a daily 
basis." 
While the opposite sex can 
be an alluring -attraction of 
Mass, it is not the only reason 
for students to trek outdoors. 
It is not uncommon to find a 
number cif females _dispersed 
in the men's chapels on cam­
pus, but it is an oddity to find 
many men in the women's 
chapels. This is in part due to 
the fact that many ofthe dorms 
oh campus have priests living 
in residence either_as rectors 
or assistant rectors, but a few 
dorms, especially a number 
of women's dorms, do not. 
FEBRUARY 18, 1999 



LU ...J 

ALL 
i~~ 

Singing Lollipops ... Flying Foam Darts ... SYRs keep junk shops in business 
BY ErucYuvA hey have a date. She's wearing a 
black dress. He's in khakis and a navy blue blazer. There's romance in the air as he presents her with ... a pine­
T
apple. 
The tradition of 
_gift-giving at SYRs 
has stood the test of 
time (and several un­
fortunate '90s innova­
tions). Yet the beauty 
of handing a bottle of 
bubbles to a complete 
stranger remains. 
Most students shop 
for toys -the more 
childish, the better. 
Dart games, Etch-A­
Sketch, toy guns and 
various action figures, 
including the new Star 
Warsfigurines, area.11 
popular. "Mylast date 
got me this cool gun 
that shoots foam darts 
up to speeds of SO 
miles per hour," 
freshman Josh 
Heinlein says. "It's a 
big hit in the dorm_." 
Food items are 
also popular.Candyis 
always a sure bet with 
women, and some­
times exotic fruits are 
exchanged. "I got a 
pineapple from 

Meijerformylastdateandshelikeditalot," 
junior Jason Leung says. "Now other guys 
are following my lead." 
14 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

New innovations in technology are creat­ing better SYR gifts than ever before. Sopho­
more Nicole Rodgers combined candy and 
machinery for her last SYR gift. "I got my 
date this musical-lollipop device that plays 
music when you put the lollipop in your 
mouth,"shesays. ''The 
vibrations go off the 
teeth and into your 
head, so only the per­
son tasting thelollipop 
can hear it." Weird gifts are also greatforSYRdances. 
Zahm sophomore 
Scott Killen says, "The coolest gift I got was a cactus from my date in Lewis. I named him Spartacus." 
But beware the too weird -many stu­
dents recycle their 
SYR gifts and give 
them to future dates. 
One pair of "Spec­
tacular Sea Mon~ 
keys," the hatching 
brine shrimp eggs, got 
passed from Farley to 
Zahm to BP and on to 
Dillon, where they 
were tossed into a 
dumpster. 
SYR gifts are meant to be taken as jokes, so hoping for something practical is a waste of time. But living or leafy, foamy or flirty, gifts for dates can often make or break the night. So 
please, choose wisely. D 


a football player getting a rubdown in a very 

TIP THE GIPP. GIPPER.l@ND.EDU 
personal area one afternoon. 


Weeks like this, the Gipp wonders why people think he's so negative. He's actually quite cheerful once you get to know him, especially when people send in as many tips as they have lately. With the snow melting and people getting back into trouble, Notre Dame is a great place to be. The Gipp thinks acouple9fObservercol­umnists put it best when one of them wrote, "Blah blah balh (sic) blah blah." Or something like that. The Gipp fell asleep a couple of lines--in. Anyway, 
e · • -d d
thank
s 1.or your continue rea ­ership; guys. 
The Gipp doesn't want to sound like some kind of elitist here, but he wonders if anyone else has noticed some of the stupid things drunk people do on this campus. Just a thought. The Gipp hopes he hasn'tpoisoned the campus atmo­sphere any further with his negativity by mentioning that. 
Anyway, here's an example from one poor Reckers employee ~ho may be on the verge of doing something drastic, thanks to the antics of a couple of oversized custom­ers. 
Baring it All 
The first was a lacrosse player, about as 
FEBRUARY 18, 1999 


wide as he was tall, who removed all ofhis clothes and, leaving them in a pile on the flocir, walked up to the counter and began yelling at the cashiers. When Reckers secu­rity confronted him, he ran out the door and into O'Neill Hall, leaving his clothes be­
; 


hind. Last thing the Gipp heard, no one had gotten up the nerve to touch them. 
Best Scivice at Rerncrs All Year 
If the administration really wants to im­prove gender relations, it should think twice· before making the decision to close Reckers late at night on weekends. At least one couple found the atmosphere of the place ­very stimulating, according to the same poor tipper who contributed the bit about the overweight streaker. She reports seeing 
The Gipp doesn't know who the guy was, but he's pretty sure it wasn't one of the placekickers. Everyone knows they can't perform in front of a crowd. 
Would You LiRc Some Intimidation With That? 
Just in case anyone is looking to enjoy a meal in an environment free of fat, naked men and live sex shows, remember that there's always good old North Dining Hall. But be warned: try to escape from NDH with anything more than stomach pain, and the · dining hall police will grab you like opposing defenses grab an Eric Chappell pass. 
That's what happened to a tipper who tried to leave with a peanut butter and jelly sandwich for a sick friend. She thought she was in the clear until a Magnum P.I. look­a-like and a surprisingly nimble old lady chased her down outside PW. Magnum confiscated the offending sandwich and in­formed this dangerous criminal that taking food from the dining hall is a felony. Heleft her with a warning: "Take the word back to your dorm thatNDH does nottolerate steal­ing from the dining hall." 
The Gipp thinks it's reassuring that the dining hall is working to strike fear in the hearts of psychotics like these. After all, if everyone stole food, what would the rats and roaches eat? 
Barn to Ruining Notre Dame's Reputation 
At the same time all ofthe security forces on campus apparently had their attention 
focused on tracking down wayward ba­
nanas, one tipper reports a run-in he had on a campus road with an overly-aggressive, older male driver. 
In language that the Gipp has cleaned 
up slightly, our friend reports, "This 
[gentleman] tailgated me something fierce all along the street along the lakes, nearly hitting me at the stop sign at the Grotto." The mystery driver then ran a red light 
leaving ~ampus and tried to squeeze past our hero next to D2000. When they pulled 
even with each other, the tipper looked to his left and saw the crazed face of ... Monk Malloy!? 
Again, the Gipp doesn't want to seem negative, so he won't suggest that certain 
administrators think they're above the law. They'd probably just claim they answer to a higher authority anyway. D 
SCHOLASTIC 
15 
MAGAZINE 


~ With recent recruiting attempts to diversify the student body, 0 the administration is playing a game of... 
I­
(/) 
°'LLI 
>
0 
u 

by Jim Pastore 
00otre Dame prides itself on its minorities to Notre Dame lies in the recruiting minorities to apply to and academic and athletic reputation. already low number of such students on enroll at Notre Dame. Within the Admis­Administrators boast about the campus. sions Office, a diversity committee 
school's ability to attract talented students "It's a tough one because South Bend· spearheads the effort to increase the from all 50 states. But when it comes to really isn't for everyone," Liu explains. numbers of minority students on campus. cultural diversity, Notre Dame is about as "With the fact that there's such a low · James Riley, a·~94 Notre Dame varied as the Indiana landscape. At a minority representation already, I think it · graduate, sits on the diversity committee school where minorities comprise only makes it hard for people to come here. It's and participates in the major recruiting about 15 percent of the entire student kind oflike a snowball effect." efforts of the Admissions Office. Al­body and an even smaUer percentage of Senior April Davis, who chairs both the though he acts. as the coordinator of the faculty, some students wonder what Campus Life Council Diversity Commit­Asian-American recruiting, Riley's the numbers mean for race relations on tee and the Ethnic Clubs Division of the involvement with the recruitment of campus. Club Coordination Council, agrees that minority students extends far beyond 
Justin Liu, a junior and president of the university needs to increase the Asian Americans., In the fall of each year, Notre Dame's Asian American Associa­enrollment of minority students and hire the Admissions Office establishes a tion, feels that increasing the number of more minority faculty members. "I would phone center where university representa­
minority students and faculty members like the university to have some faculty tives call promising minority high school holds the key to improving race relations members that are not just white faculty," students. here. "It's more of a problem with Davis says. "We call students of color and ask them 
integration than anything else .... It's a In an attempt to address concerns about if they're going·to apply, and if they need matter of numbers," Liu says, He notes diversity, the Undergraduate Admissions an application, we mail it to them," Riley that part of the difficulty in attracting Office has taken a proactive approach by explains. This effort increases the 
:Ii The Student Palette
,1 
·'I 
® 
-



·white Native
Asian Hispanic Blacks
American 
~ .' 

16 SCHOLASTIC FEBRUARY 18, 1999
MAGAZINE 
Despite some instances of 
The
ethnic insensitiv­ity, Riley consid­ers the campus a 




Faculty
welcoming place. "When I go to predominantly 


Palette
African-American admi_ssion pool .and ultimately results in higher acceptance and confirmation rates. 
Riley also visits college fairs through­
out the Southwest in the spring. "We set 
up booths and let students know Notre 
Dame is an option and is out there so 
hopefully they will apply," Riley says. 
In addition to Riley's efforts, the 
agree that the 

"I've nevefB~een~·o.~hiwel'.fa·r~J but I did campus is 
relatively free 

have ?TA\a~mJ hfw fo~, stamps 
of overt 

work 
1n frdnt of~: . a yp~le. ... I was racism, some 
students of 
color feel 
professors and 

· ··· -·-"enror April Davis 
white students make assump­

Campus Life Council 
tions based on race.

Diversity Committee Chair 
Admissions Office employs three minor­ity students as Multicultural Student Recruitment Coordinators. Junior Michael Fierro, who serves as a coordinator, visits high schools and talks with students interested in attending or applying to Notre Dame. "We talk to everybody, but we try to target students that are ethnic minorities," Fierro explains. 
Aside from v,isiting high schools, student coordinators write letters to minority students who have expressed interest in Notre Dame, attend college fairs and help administer a fall open house weekend for promising minority students. Although the student coordinators do not read applications or admit students, they play a major role in the diversity recruit­ing effort at Notre Dame. 
Despite the attempts made by the university to increase undergraduate minority enrollment, the results have not consistently produced a higher proportion of minority students over the past five 

1 
years. The proportion of minority students rose between 1993 _and 1994, but it
1,. 
dropped in 1995 and remained constant in 1996 and 1997. 
In 1993, 13.9 percent of the student body were non-white. Five years later, that number has increased by less than 2 percent. These inconsistent results have led some students to question the effe.ctiveness of the university's efforts. "I definitely see them noi recruiting enough. Evidently, [the attempts] are 
FEBRUARY 18, 1999 
not working well enough," Davis says. 
er The Climate of Notre Dame he low number of minority students ultimately choosing to attend Notre Dame in the fall may be due, in part, to the school's atmosphere. While 
most students 
Marisa 
Marquez, 
President of 
La Alianza, notes, "People have never been out and out just racist." Rather than racist comments, Marquez sees incorrect assumptions as an obstacle to a more comfortable environment for minority students at Notre Dame. Marquez notes that one white girl assumed that, because of her Mexican background, her family picked strawberries for a living. "Maybe she's a really good person, but she turned me totally off. That type of ignorance stunts relationships with other people," Marquez explains. 
Cultural insensitivity does not exist merely in a dorm or social setting. As Davis notes, faculty members can also make incorrect assumptions on the basis of a student's race. "I've never been on . welfare, but I did have a TA ask me how food stamps work in front of many people. How am I supposed to feel when you pick me out and ask me how food stamps work?" Davis says, "I was alienated just in that comment alone." 
Iris Outlaw, Director of the Office of 
Multicultural Student Affairs, also 
believes that false assumptions can lead to 
an uncomfortable environment for 
minority students. "I've talked to students . that said they are possibly the only Latin American or African American student in 
the class. Everyone will look at them as 
the expert," Outlaw says. "[These] 
students are called to speak for their 
whole race, whereas majority students are 
not." 
deal with challenges because of the color of my skin that I will probably face in the profession that I want to go into," Fierro says. Although he says he has faced obstacles because of his skin color, Fierro does not regret his choice to come to Notre Dame. "I love Notre Dame and I'd do it again in a heartbeat," he says. 
Not all minority students, however, share Fierro's love of Notre Dame. "A lot of majority students, they think [Notre Dame is] the best place on earth, like Disneyland. But if you talk to a lot of minority students, it's like a jail sentence almost," Davis explains. "It's totally different for a minority student than for a majority student." . 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
high schools, they'll ask me have I ever run into any racial problems and I tell them, 'No, it's a good place to be and the environ­ment is welcom­ing,"' he says. 
Fierro also speaks to high school students in his role as a student coordina­tor. "When I talk to a student, and they ask how it is; I'm completely honest," Fierro says. Having come from a high school that was 96 percent Latino, Fierro sees Notre Dame as a challenge both academically and socially. 
"Notre Dame has made me grow as a person because it has made me able to 
® 
White 
•Asian Hispanic 


Native American 
k
-
I

Bac s 


Differences in culture and background sometimes make interaction among the races difficult. "A lot of reason you see the separation between groups on campus is because of the fact that they feel more 
comfortable with each other from their backgrounds," Liu says. 

On a social level, ethnic groups fre­quently have different tastes in food, music and events than the majority of students on campus. Yet, large organizations like the Student Union Board are charged with the responsibility of programming events for the entire campus. Almost by necessity, SUB' s activities must grab the attention of the majority of students on campus. In the case ofNotre Dame, this can mean pro­gramming events for white students. Unlike a large, state school at which minority students might constitute the largest proportion of the student body, the voice of minority students can be lost at Notre Dame. "The school is catered more towards white students, period," Davis says. 
The Ethnic Clubs: Forces of Division or Integration?

§ UB is not the only programming body on campus. Especially in recent years, clubs have gradually assumed a larger role in programming major events on campus. Ryan Harding, the club coordinator, says that clubs provide outlets for their members' specific interests -interests that larger programming bodies might overlook. As Harding sees it, ethnic clubs perform much the same function as other campus organizations. "Just like any of the other groups, they offer opportunities for the members to explore specific areas of interest and in this case it happens to be cultural areas of interest," Harding says. Ethnic groups typically program a wide array of events including shows, discus­sions and dances. Because they program· a full calendar and often sponsor expensive events, ethnic clubs typically request more money from the Club Coordination Council than other types of club. This 
18 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

year, those clubs also received the largest amount of money per club. Ethnic organizations received over $40,000 to divide among 26 clubs. 
Harding cites preparation and vigor as 

key elements in the 
decision to award the ethnic division a large amount of funding. "The ethnic groups come in and their proposals are well­researched. I see 

them doing a lot of large-scale events that are focused at the entire campus [and also] doing a lot of education-type events," he says. 

This dual pedagogical and social function presents a challenge to ethnic clubs. They often struggle to provide fun events for their members while also trying to reach students from outside their ethnic group. "Unfortunately, it's our job to educate the whole school about diver­sity," Davis says. "For the most part, it seems the minority students have to educate the majority students." Davis believes that when too much emphasis is placed on the educational function of clubs, students of color lose the clubs as places of recreation. 
For many club members, ethnic groups provide social opportunities otherwise lacking at Notre Dame. "I have yet to go to an SYR that plays something different than 'Come On, Eileen,"' Marquez says. As an alternative to dorm SYRs and formals, many ethnic clubs sponsor their own dances. "I don't think that it's being divisive. Everything that we put up from any group is open to the whole Notre Dame community," Davis says. "It brings us together and gives us a sense of community. We come together, have fun, chill." 
Despite 
Marquez would like to see the problem 
addressed. "You don't have to be just a 
minority.... We're not just here for 

minorities or for Latinos," Marquez says. 
Outlaw believes that this lack of 
involvement often stems from some 
students' aversion to new experiences. 
"We have some students who are even 
hesitant to get involved because they 

think they'll be the only white students in 
there. It's hard to take risks, and that's 
why some of the students don't move 
outside their comfort zones," she says. 
Outlaw maintains that both white and 
minority students need to work through 
their fears in order to achieve a greater 
level of appreciation for one another's 
cultures. "You learn so much, you learn 
about yourself, you learn what other 
students are going through, and you 
become more empathetic," Outlaw 
explains. 
Although ethnic clubs invite the entire 
student body to their dances, the events 
are often, in effect, segregated. "There 

was one white person at last year's Latino 
formal and that's just because he was 
dating someone," Marquez says. 

These segregated situations alarm some 
students. "I can understand why people 

enjoy the dances, but it does segregate the . campus in some ways," senior Jorge DeJesus says. But not all dances are so segregated. According to Liu, a fair number of white · students attended this year's inaugural 
Asian Formal. The dance, however, was 
still attended primarily by minority 
students. 
Finding Common Ground 
urther integration of the student 

body presents a difficult challenge. 
Aside from a strict focus on 
increasing the number of minority 



being open to 'We have some students who are even students of all 
ethnic groups, hesitant to get involved because they the dances face 
think they'll~l5e1n~ <rrllywlli~ students in 
an obstacle common to h I ',\,,,="" d·I! \\ k ·fiiA d h ' 
t ere. t S\a nar,~0 t~-A~-"'fl'S,$, an t at S 
many of the other events why som\e--_of tH_'.~ sfuden_.tsi don't move 
sponsored by ~ ~ ~~ cultural clubs: outside tnetrcomfort zones." a lack of white 
--·· Iris Outlaw
students in attendance. 

FEBRUARY 18, 1999 

students on campus, various campus organizations have provided forums for 
discussion and e_ducation in an attempt to 
bring students together across cultures. 
Outlaw sees the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs as an essential part of increasing dialogue on race at Notre Dame. "I think one of the major issues still is to provide venues for students to talk," she says. 
Outlaw also notes the need to educate faculty members as well as students about race. "Like my mom used to say, 'There are a lot o(educatedfools running around."' Outlaw believes that you need to feel comfortable with race before you can facilitat~ discussion among students. "If you're taking them to the book, you better have read it," she says. 
In addition to OMSA's efforts, Student Government has worked with administra­tors in order to implement Diversity Education Programs next fall. Student Body Vice President Andrea Selak explains that the programs would target first-year students and address concerns about race at Notre Dame. "Presentations would be in the dorm," she says. "Ideally, we.'d have one in the fall targeted towards first-year students and another one· in the spring that would be a more general one," Selak says. 
Although plans are still in the early stages, Student Government has already established the groundwork for the presentations. Student Body President Peter Cesaro remains confident about implementing the programs. "This is our major goal for our final time in office. It will be accomplished by April l," Cesaro says. He emphasizes the importance of creating a more comfortable environment for all Notre Dame students, and says, "We're trying to create an environment where people can interact." 
Cesaro and Selak's proposals specifi-

Their Part of the -Picture 
Ethnic clubs get their share of Student Activities Funds 

cally target the dorms in an effort to foster more awareness and communication about race among residents. "We want as much interaction among the dorm residents and among the different cultures as possible," Cesaro explains. 
Riley shares the view that race relations in the dorms ultimately influence the atmosphere of the campus as a whole. "The students come here to Notre Dame and they spend most of their time [in the dorms]," he says. "If [students of different race] could just spend a little more time with each other, I think the race relations will improve drastically," he says. A positive experience within the dorm may carry over into the larger university community. Marquez, for example, got along with her freshman year roommate, who was of a different race. "My room­mate was cool. It turned out good for me, but I can't say that for everyone," she says. 
Despite the 
varying opinions on 
what course the university 
needs to take in the future, most 
students and administrators agree that 
things are moving in the right direc­
tion. "I think that we're on the right 
track in terms of working together. I 
think that's key, OMSA, student 
government, the ethnic clubs all 
working together," Selak says. 
Outlaw also has seen positive 
changes since her arrival in 1991. 
"There are grassroots organizations 
providing opportunities for dialogue," 
she says. 
As Notre Dame moves into the next 
century, the efforts to improve race 
relations are expected to exp~nd. "I 
think it's the administration's job to 
step up. I may not be a white Irish, but 
I am Notre Dame," Davis says. 
With the groundwork established for 
more effective communications among 
campus organizations, Cesaro expects 
race relations to continue to improve. 
"The multicultural climate is a key 
element at Notre Dame. Significant 
advancements have been made this 
year and I hope they continue to be 
made. This is not an overnight process, 
but we are moving forward." 
SCHOLASTIC · · 
MAGAZINE 


season. 

The Irish may be the only 41-17 team with something to prove 
!though neither Head Coach Paul Mainieri nor any of his players 
·f, has acknowledged it, the unoffi­cial slogan for the 1999 Notre Dame base­ball team can be best summed up in one word: redemption. It may be hard to imag­ine why a squad that compiled a 41~17 record and ended up one victory shy of the Big East championship a year ago, would feel any need to be redeemed. But, amid the positives of the1998 campaign, there were some blemishes. Getting crushed by Miami 
20 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
by Christopher Hamilton 
in three straight contests by a total score of 62-8 and failing to win the conference tour­nament after being the odds-on favorite for the third straight season put a damper on the year. It also led the Irish to be focused and motivated with the season opening tomor­row in Florida. 
"We look back and see the 40 wins ... and don't get us wrong, we're proud of that," reflects team captain and pitching staff ace Alex Shilliday. ".We're happy we got so many wins, but you feel empty and you feel something' s missing from your season when you don't get that Big East championship and go on to the playoffs." 
As the Irish embark on their quest for their first-ever Big East crown, they will be doing so without some key contributors from last year's team. The Irish lose the talented bats of J.J. Brock, Allen Greene and Dan Leatherman, all three of whom batted over .315 and provided defensive stability at their respective positions ofshort­stop, centerfield and first base. Notre Dame 
FEBRUARY 18, 1999 
will also be without the services of one pitcher from last year, Brad Lidge, though 11 of the team's top 12 hurlers return. 
"We're certainly going to miss the leader­ship and ability of J.J. Brock, Brad Lidge, Allen Greene," Mainieri says. "But each year you have to tum the page and look forward to the new group coming in." 
Mainieri cannot help but be excited with the incoming crop of freshmen. In fact the head coach expects as many as four or five newcomers to see daily action this year. "We traded a lot of experience for youth," said Mainieri. "But I think the young play­ers that came in bring certain qualities to the team we were lacking before." 
Accordingto Mainieri, centerfielder Steve Stanley, left fielder Matt Strickroth and 


1~This year's 
lineup is _definitely going to have a lot more pop than in 
farting factor of having four or five fresh­man in the lineup is knowing that you've got veteran players like Brant U st, JeffWagner, Alec Porzel, Jeff Felker and Jeff Perconte coming back [to complement these play­ers]," Mainieri notes. 
Last season's Big East Playerofthe Year, Brant Ust, and Notre Dame's career home run leader, Jeff Wagner, form the heart of the Irish lineup. "In Ust and Wagner you're talking about two guys that have had stellar careers already,» Mainieri says. "If they never played another game they would go down in history as being two ofthe very best players that we've ever had at Notre Dame. We're going to look upon them in a very big way to provide leadership, to perform in the clutch. and really show the way for the 

i>-,11'+--­
•

··previous ., '.,:.·,.,··, 
· II L; 



-B,:~r~~f ~;~.tr:J;f~~f££l-..~i}:<i;gii~!~;­
third · baseman Andy Bushey are already 
penciled into .the starting lineup for the 
season opening games against James Madi­
son and Florida International, which will be 
played tomorrow. The other freshmen com­
peting for playing time are catcher Paul 
O'Toole and utility player J.P. Drevline. 
0 'Toole looks to share time behind the plate 
with senior Jeff Wagner,-and Drevline is 
making a serious bid to be a regular at the 
designated hitter slot. 
While having so many freshmen contrib­
uting immediately might be a cause of con­
cern for some, Mainieri chooses to view the 
situation in a positive light. "The real com-
FEBRUARY 18, 1998 

fill:filLo_;p.9.Q.B.ls§,Y.;_Q.E:_S.EQBIS JISIE0BMA-TI 
BATTER UP. Senior catcher Jeff Wagner, Notre Dame's career home run leader, will share the time behind the 
plate with Paul O'Toole. 
young players." 
Ust and Wagner do not feel they will be shouldering most of the offensive load, as they believe this year's offense should be every bit as potent as last year's offense, which produced an average of more than nine runs per game. "We seem to have, from one to nine [in the batting order], all three, four, five hole hitters," Ust notes. "This year's lineup is definitely going to have a lot more pop than in previous years." 
"We also have some guys that can really run at the top of the lineup," Wagner says about the much-needed boost in team speed due to the influx of freshmen. 
And the lineup can only benefit from Ust's experience of playing for the USA Baseball World Championship team this past summer. As the first Notre Dame rep­resentative to make the USA national team since Shaun Fitzmaurice participated on the 1964 Olympic team, Ust performed excep­tionally well. He ended up as the USA's third-leading hitter, batting .378 and re­cording 20 RBIs. 
"It helped me tremendously ... just being able to compete day in and day out with teammates that are considered the top play­ers in the country," says U st about his unique experience. "It improved my confidence, and the traveling, the experience of repre­senting your country, was unbelievable." 
While Notre Dame promises to boast an 
impressive offensive attack, Mainieri feels that the pitching staff will be the team's biggest asset. "The strength of our team is going to be our pitching," notes Mainieri. "Ithink when you throw Alex Shilliday, Tim Kalita and AaronHeilm out there, those three guys are going to be as good as any three pitchers in 
the country." 
Shilliday, · a senior right hander, returns as the staff ace after recording a 9-5 record, a 
3.54 ERA and team-high 93 
strikeouts last season. Shilliday 
was also the staff workhorse a yearago,throwingforateam­
1
¦ ~h~~~E~~~;~-iwng""'e~,:;;f 
willbeagain this year;" Mainieri 
says. "He will be Mr. Depend­able for us again and when we have a big game there is _nobody 
I want on the mound any more than Alex Shilliday." 
Kalita, a junior southpaw, is a formidable pitcher in his own right, as he went 4-0 last year with a 2.78 ERA. Sophomore Heilman, who turned heads with a nation-leading 
1.61 ERA in a relief/closing role last year to earn All-American honors, might also see action as a starter to complete an imposing trio. Senior Chris McKeown and junior Scott Cavey, along with freshmen Drew Duff, Matt Buchmeier and Jason Rodda, are also strong candidates who will be competing for starting roles. 
The only real question mark regarding the 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

'99 Irish is the defense. Excluding the pitcher position, Notre Dame might potentially have only one player, namely catcher JeffWagner, playing at the same position as last year. However, Mainieri is confident that the defense will be up to the task. 
"I thought our infield defense last year was a big reason why we won40ballgames," notes Mainieri. "J.J. Brock played tremen­dously at shortstop for us last year and now the key is going to be for Brant Ust to play well at shortstop for us this year. If Brant does for us what J.J. Brock did for us last year, then I think our infield defense will be even better than last year." 
With Notre Dame looking to be a regular 
22 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

in the top 25 this season, the Irish will undoubtedly have too much firepower for a good majority of the opponents they will play in their 55 regular season games. But Mainieri promises the Irish will not become overly complacent. "I don't take any games lightly," Mainieri says. "It'sthe oldestcliche going, but you take them one game at a time and you place importance in every game." 
One can't help but think that Notre Dame is a little more pumped up than usual to take on the Miami Hurricanes. "I wish we could play them [Miami] right away, but unfortu­nately, we have to wait about 50 games before we get another shot atthem," Mainieri says. "But, I can tell you that when that day rolls around, May 11 ... it's a day circled on our calendar becausy it'll be fun to have them at Frank Eck Stadium and hopefully we can have a little fun like they had at our 
expense last year." 

While teaching Miami a lesson is im­portant, the Irish know that focusing their efforts on the Big East crown supersedes everything else. And that means the Irish will be focusing on Big East contend­ers such as St. John's,. West Virginia, Rutgers, Seton , Hall and Connecticut just as 'muchastheHurricanes. "It's going to be a typical Big East 
. dog fight again this year," ._ ; warns Mainieri. 
Given the fact that Notre Dame is yet again the fa­vorite to capture the con­'. ference championship, \_ as it has been every
I 

\ year since joining the 
1 Big East, it would seem only natural that pressure and a sense of 
. urgency would pervade the team atmosphere. But that train ofthought 
could not be further from the truth. "We don't really feel pressure to do 
anything," says Mainieri. "Our players are going to go out there and do the best they can. I feel very proud ofthe last two yea.rs eveIJ. though we've lost the final game ofthe [Big East] Tournament. I don't feel in any way that we should be ashamed of the last two years at all. But, certainly we want to win the Big East Championship." 
The bottom line is that the Irish are due 
. to capture their first Big East crown. But this year will likely also hold more in store for Notre Dame than in previous years, even if the. Irish do not win that elusive title. They wil.l benefit greatly from the expansion ofthe NCAA playoff field from 48 to 68 teams this year. This means.that a performance similar to last season will all but guarantee Notre Dame a place in the postseason. 
Ifthat happens, the Irish can start talking seriously about returning so~ewhere they have not been in over 40 years: the College World Series'. D 
FEBRUARY 18, 1999 







SPLINTERS 
FROM THE PRESSBOX Edited by Christopher Hamilton 
Men's Tennis • 1999 Record 3-3 

if 
Streaking: After winning their first three matches of the season, the Irish have dropped three straight. Prime Time Performer: Third-ranked singles player Ryan Sachire is 7-1 in dual match play this year. Did You Know? Head Coach Bob Bayliss is one win away from his 500th career victory. On the Horizon: Notre Dame takes on Northwes_tern this Saturday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 1 p.m. 
Women's Tennis • 1998-9 Record 5-2 

Streaking: Kelly Zalinski and Becky Varnum-are both perfect in singles matches this season, as both notched wins against Duke. Prime Time Performer: Overall this year, freshman Becky Varnum owns a 20-5 record. Did You Know? The number two Duke Blue Devils were the highest-ranked team the Irish have ever played at home. On the Horizon: Today at 2 p.m., Notre Dame challenges· top-ranked Florida in the opening round of the National Women's Team Indoor Championships. 

Offensive. Remarks· 


•"LexperiencedJour great fosses inNo.tre.Dame Staclil}m withthe Naval A~ademy.lr~member\ve 'ouldcome. out·~nthe 
. field forwarnmps :and see guys wearing dre~ses [the Irish Guard inkilts] who w·ere bigger than our linemen, That made a realimpression on me.? ·. _ _ . > __ ...._-__ < . . . .___ ._ __ _ _ _ . ._. _ _ . 
--,-:.Kevin-Rogers, Notre-Dczrrze' s new offensive coordinator; who spent eightyears\vithNavy before coaching at Syracuse;. 

. ... . .... ·.._·,. . ·. . .· .. ••· .. · .··. ·. . . . . _·. ..... . . .. Corey:s .Gall . .. 
. ·•. ·. . .· •. . . .· ·...._• .··. ·. .. . ... .. The unp[edictable men\ hoqp squ~d finishes.its regular,seasoninfamiliar fashion. ·Led by Troy Murphy's (who· else?) 30~point .. · performancethe)rish exact revenge onth~ Mountaineers atthe Joyce ~enter-before being dismantled in the garden by St John'.s.. . Jn iheirnextouting against Boston College;howevt:!r, Notre Dam~wiU salvage the fin.ale ofthis once promising senior dassiThe •• Irish :w}ll need to win two games in the Big Easttourriey to secure an Nl'.I\ berth, a task too greaHor this young bunch, 
.. , ,· :· •,,: ,•,',. -·' .,.-.,· ·.·. .. ,,• :··. .--.., .'_ ...___ ,_, :·•.•_·. ··. ,' _', ·.. -·.·' ·,· ., -,.,. ,' '.-. __ "·, ,... -,: ,:··-...._. . . . ' 

Hamilton's Hunch 



REibiiunding from two1~sses fast weekend, the· ho~key team scores big wins over Michigan State and Bowling Green and · solidifiesjts presence iiithe.fourth:and final home~ice playoff.spot. -. . 

Men's Basketball • 1998-9 Record 12-13 
Streaking: Notcounting the Syracuse game, the Irish have lost two in a row, watching their hopes for the NIT bid slip away. Prime Time Performer: Last Sunday against West Virginia, freshman Troy Murphy scored a career-high 32 points to go along with 16 reb_o.unds. Did You Know? In three of Notre Dame's six Big East wins, the Irish have been down at the intermission. On the Horizon: Notre Dame will get a chance to avenge last week's 85-80 loss to West Virginia, when they host the Mountaineers this Sunday at 2 p.m. 

Women's Basketball • 1998-9 Record 20-3 
Streaking: Before losing at Rutgers last Saturday, the Irish reeled off 11 straight wins. Prime Time Performer: Last week against Villanova, sophomore Ruth Riley tallied her ninth double-double of the season, scoring 23 points and grabbing 11 rebounds. Did You Know? Notre Dame has been ranked in the Top 10 for a school-record 13 consecutive weeks. On the Horizon: The ninth-ranked Irish travel to West Virginia this Saturday for a 2 p.m. match-up with the Mountaineers. 
23

FEBRUARY 18, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 



~ 
. 1-­
j Z 
I. LU 

~ 
z 
~ 
Ck:'. 
LU 1-­
z 
LU 
STARING AT THE WALLS. This colorful mural of Lyons Hall, painted by Notre Dame alumnus Charles J. O'Neil, makes students feel like they're studying on the quads even in the dead of winter. -

Dinn 
24 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
by Andrew Nutting 
FEBRUARY 18, 1999 

ow that the controversy re­garding the value of the sculptures decorating our 

'~rt lovers like coming into 
campus has died down, Notre Dame's art champi­

coffee shops. It's a goodplace
. ons and critics could easily select Reckers, the 24-hour 

to discuss what's onyour
coffee shop behind South 

Dining Hall, as the official new battleground of the left-brained versus right-brained. After mind." all, the walls feature surrealistic photographs, cubist charcoals _and Escher-like drawings 
-Jo Mikals-Adachi 
-not exactly tra_ditional art. Strangely, though, they seem to appeal to most patrons Mike Davy, operations manager of Arts Collective. Bill Tourtilotte, curator of at Reckers. Reckers, says that O'Neil's murals were education at the South Bend Regional Mu­
Its cozy atmosphere seems to mix well part of the original construction project. seum of Art and a former Notre Dame and with the offbeat nature of some works on When plans were made to enliven the shop's Saint Mary's art professor, selected the fi­display. "Art lovers like coming into coffee anteroom with three wall-sized works rep­nalists. The exhibit will be introduced today shops," says sophomore Jo Mikals-Adachi, resenting the campus, three spots on cam­with an opening reception, which "is basi­an art major with a concentration in paint­pus had to be chosen. "What's obvious?" cally a chance for the artist to stand up in ing. "It's a good place to discuss what's on Davy says. "The Grotto, the Dome, the front ofthe work," according to Tourtilotte. your mind." Of course, having an aestheti­Basilica. Lyons was chosen because it's The stylistic makeup ofthe spring semes­cally pleasing atmosphere also helps, and pretty neat architecturally." A mural of the ter exhibition rests onTourtilotte' s decision Reckers offers more than enough works of Dome and the Basilica was to adorn the and the artistic leanings of submitting stu­art to interest patrons. north wall behind the stage, but it was dents. Tourtilotte says he selected"theworks 
The two most noticeable works in Reckers decided that a vivid paintingofNotreDame's that speak of their time, that are visually are represent~tional, unlike the abstract art most renowned structure might interfere challenging in line and shape and design, that graces the otherwise traditional quads· with Reckers' stage performances. and that have some content." of Notre Dame. The bright and colorful In addition to the O'Neil paintings, Mikals-Adachi, who teaches a figure murals of the Grotto and Lyons Hall were Reckers features 15 photographs and draw­drawing class every Wednesday in Riley painted by local artist and Notre Dame alum­ings by current students. On February 17, Hall, also acts as secretary of Arts Collec­nus Charles J. 0 'Neil, whose previous pieces the pieces currently on display were re­tive. He notes that the Reckers management _include several "South Bend landscapes and placed by th~ work of the student artists has been excited to assist with the project. artwork formerly displayed in the Huddle. who won a contest held by the student club "Reckers has been really cooperative," he 
says. "Both our club and Reckers are WALLFLOWERS. Student art like this sketch will continue to adorn the walls at Reckers after a very interested in having the show. I series of exhibitions begins officially today. · 
think people in general will enjoy com­ing in here and looking at the artwork." 
Reckers also donated the money for framing and matting, Davy says. "It's a win-win for everybody. We liked the idea of another venue where students canhave their stuff displayed. It's a way for us to decorate and it's another form of involvement in the campus." Com­munity appreciation for the artwork in Reckers has ranged from passive ac­ceptance ("Nobody's bothered a thing," says Davy) to overt enthusiasm. 
Tourtilotte would like to see Reckers' art exhibit thrive. "As people use that space, the work will hopefully evolve in what it has to say," he says. Davy's favorite piece from last semester, a col­orful photograph by Oscar Riley, was sold to a customer last week. If the Reckers art exhibit becomes a tradition, students will be displaying and perhaps selling their drawings, photos and paint­ings for many semesters to come. D 


FEBRUARY 18, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

'' 
' 
' 
I­

:1 z 
LU 
~ 
z 
~ 
~ 
LU I-
z 
LU 

The BeatGoes On 
More than a halftime show, the Jazz Band pulls out all the stops in its 
upcoming performance at Washington Hall. 
BY KATIE CLEARY n beat writer Bob Kaufman's poem "O­
I

Jazz-O", jazz is described as "my 
father's sound, my mother's sound, Is love, Is life." 
This may explain why the Notre Dame Jazz Band has a concert scheduled amid the frantic chaos of Junior Parent Weekend. In Washington Hall this weekend, they will attempt to bridge the generation gap through the timeless tunes and funky beats of big­band jazz. 
"Ifthere [are] people outthere who haven't seen [the Jazz Band] I'd recommend they see it," graduate student Lane Weaver says. Weaver, who has a trombone solo in the concert, says "there's a lot ofenergy to jazz. ... Jazz is a great form of music to see live and I believe there's a lot of interaction between the musicians and the audience." 
This energy may derive from the unique way in which jazz is played. In improvisa­tional jazz, changes tell the musician which chord to use, but the musician is free to choose each note. 
The jazz band is divided into two groups: the big band, which plays more orchestrated music, and the jazz combo, which plays more improvisational pieces. "In all other music, except for some really progressive music of the 20th century, there's a lot of orchestration," Weaver says. "Jazz is uniquely improvisational in its structure." 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band, consisting of two different groups with 20 musicians each, is made up of mostly non-music majors. Father George Wiskirchen has been the director of the jazz band since its inception in 1972. 
He began playing the trumpet at eight years of age and later pursued teaching. After years of instructing jazz at a nearby high school, Wiskirchen took his directing ability to the university level. 
26 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

Jeff Spoonhower, a senior trombone player, refers to Wiskirchen as "an underappreciated encyclopedia ofjazz." He says, "Father Wiskirchen is a living legend in the world of jazz. . .. He knows all the greats and they know him, too." 
Weaver agrees. "Father's got an incred­ible amount of knowledge. He's one of the pioneers of jazz in the United States." In addition to teaching classes, Wiskirchen has written several jazz books and is also credited with founding one of the first schools focused purely on playing and study­ing the trumpet. 
With a director as accomplished as Wiskirchen, the jazz band should be noth­ing short of spectacular. According to · Spoonhower, "The trombone section is mostly seniors, so we have been playing was introduced to jazz early on as well. "[In high school] I wanted to play drums, but I got stuck playing the sax .... Since jazz is so popular in sax I began to play it. Once I got a taste for it, I never looked back." The jazz band practices twice a week for two hours, and these limited hours make it difficult for the group to jell. 
"It takes a while to get kicking," Spoonhower says. "The first concert is usu­ally rocky, but by the second and third, we are usually pretty tight." Having already performed two concerts this year, Spoonhower and his comrades look for­ward to a successful JPW concert. 
The band also annually hosts the Colle­giate Jazz festival, which will mark its 41 st anniversary this April in Stepan Center. 
Some 15 other collegiate bands will gather 
"Father Wiskirchen is a living legend in the world ofjazz . ... He knows all the greats and they 
-
together for quite a while. Our rhythm sec­tion is a bit younger, but they have come a long way and improved a great deal." 
Weaver says, "When I had my under­graduate degree we had more music majors and people who studied music, but this is a good band." 
Many of the seniors involved in the jazz band have similarly strong connections to jazz. "I was fortunate enough to grow up with jazz," Weaver says. "My dad was a deejay in the '60s, when jazz was more popular than now, and he'd play jazz for me." 
Senior Keith Syska, who plays alto sax, 

know him too." JeffSpoonhower 

together to play what Wiskirchen calls a noncompetitive tribute to the jazz art form. The festival is the biggest collegiate event of its kind. 
Syska says, "We're not exactly a music school, so it's a chance to see musicians who want to go on and do this for the rest of their lives. We look forward to the jazz festival because we can learn from the play­ers." 
Though this weekend's concert is billed as a JPW event, all are welcome to attend and watch college musici_ans swing to the tunes of the jazz greats under the watchful eye of a living legend. 
FEBRUARY 18, 1999 


. Of Sega and Safoation 

Video·· Came Virtues 
Severi·morallessons.anyone can ·learnfromvideogames. 
As children, .we are taughf th,at. video gamesare a yice. They are expensive, . tempting and\Vasteful. Yet those who are quick to condemn video games sel­dom truly understand their appeal or and the benefits \Vhich a simple game can offer to its players'. .. Jil order to ipcrease understandingbyc tween those who wouldratherreada book and those who w~uld rather beat their. best sc~re, Out.of Bounds offers the Seven 
Virtuesof Vicleo Gaming. . ..•. . .· .. 
Relaxation 
The road to ~nlightenmerit has m~ny paths. While ~-o~~ prefer the conternpla­
• tion ofnature.for their meditation, others. prefer tlie flickeringUghts ar1d bright col­ors_ofa video game; Observe the player, focused intently on the screen before him, withdra\Vn from the world around him. Anyone \,\lith a little hand-eye coordirnic. tioII can take ~-moment outof the day to· simply relax arid withdraw from the world, for a while.If religion is the opiate ofthe masses, Nintendo isalarge dose ofNyq].!il. 
P~tience 
J'hougll vicle(). gru:rn1s seem to decrease attention . span while· increasing·• exaspera-.. tion levels; they offer aJesson in patience. Often one mus{playalevelfive,10, soine­times·-100,times_·before moving on;thus developing a near infinite sense ofpatience before theunyie~ding forces,of _the video game; Simply discuss patience with anyone who's had tolead_Na:talyaoutofthe bunker 
. in Goldeqeye. Ifvideo gam~s teach nothing 
Wisdom 

Though. outsiders wiU never unde;stand,.· there is a special knowledge involved in playing._ video games. One must .know not only how to score in NBA Jam, bt1t how to do the fiery ''cannonball" slam dunk.Yetagood play~r must know not only how to per.form a dazz_ling move, but when. to perform _it. It 
. would hardly be sporting to runup the_ score oq a player less experienced inthe ways of NFL-BHtz, or showup_·a)ess experienced fighter with a special spine~ripping F_inish~ ing Move. Thus agc1111e player learns to show restraint, and learns the wi_sdom necessary 
. forgopd sportsmanship. 
..Chastity 

There may be women who say,_ "Any man who can finish first inGran Turismois sure. 
· to be a man .o' n1ine," or who see·a _match of WCWNitro as an aphrodisiac. Unfortti_nately, these women are rare)nde<:!d, many worr,i~n seemto showa,distinct lack ofunderstanding . of the benefits of video ga~ing. Som~ ~ay count parietals as the greatest deterrent to the Deadly SinofLust, but there are few greater catalysts for chastity than a seven-hotirgame of Super Tecino Bowl. · · 
Justice 

Atthe heart ofalmost every video game, is• th_ere not a lesson of justice? Marip and Bowser, Sonic and Dr. Robotriik, Ali~ and Dark Force: characters. whosy storiesprove that justice willprevail.1)ue, justicesotne-·· times costs time and energy that should be' spent studying. Players Jeam the valuable 
· lesson thafJustice mustbe fought for, ap.d · 
Love 
The spirit ofcompetitionfourid in video 

games can befound in any sport or board 
game, and only a fool would take. this form 
of competition asapersonal-attack. When 
taken as simple entertainment,a .yideo 
game ,can become a powerful tool for the 
forming of friendships. People divided by 
race, gender, religion, political belief or 
even dorm, rivalry can all findcomrnon · ground in a friendly :(if sometimes heated) 
one~on-one session ofTecmo SiiperBowl 
or Ken Griffey, Jr. Baseb_alL Rather than . isolating its players, video games can often 
· 
· 

bring people together,. · 
Moderation 

. His true that whe~taken to excess, video gamescan be unhealthy. A child (or col­iege student) may reach the point wherehe orshe would rather play a game than spend time withJriends,oi: read a book or play outside. But anything (!ntertainingbecomes unhealthy when taken to excess, and video games should not be condemned simply because they offer the possibility of be­comingoverwhelming. Each player must le~ to moderate himself or herself, and thus learn a yirtue of moderation _that can be applied to almost any aspectof life. 
1·· n theend! . video games are entertain­
rnenf They can be a g1:eats?'ess reliever . and a much-needed d1vers10n from the fas(pace of,life.-One.-should not .be too 
quickto cond~rhnthose who devote their time to suth di\rersioris; it may be that thos'e'Nho playyideo games are practicing 
m 
z 
m 
;::;o 
z. 
~ 
m 
z 

FEBRUARY 18, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
27 
MAGAZINE 


z 
0 
I­
0 ~ 
I­
~ 
Face the Music 
When you gotta dance, 


z you might as well make the most of it 

BY KARA ZUARO re you dreading your next dance? 
Does the mere idea of a formal 
make you queasy? Does the term "soiree" make you squirm? Do you con­sider an "All-Hall" to be a sort ofpurgatory, in comparison to the hell of an SYR? There was once a time when I would have an­swered yes to all these questions, but now I've learned that "dance" need not be a dirty word. 
Way back in the beginning of last year, while I was still recovering from freshman orientation, I was invited to my first SYR. Since it was a '70s-theme shindig, all my nervousness and self-consciousness was amplified by my polyester threads. And within the first hour ofthe dance, I managed to get a near-fatal injury. I wasn't asking for 
A

trouble-I just needed a bathroom break to fix my frosty lipstick and adjust my bellbottoms in the privacy of a bathroom stall. But just as I unlatched the lock to exit, a drunk girl came barreling into my stall, causing the door to swing in and nail me in the noggin. I don't remember much except feeling really dizzy -and then suddenly I was in a strange room with somebody hold­ing cold beer cans on my head. Not only did the beer cans ease the swelling, but the girl holding them ended up becoming one ofmy best pals. When I regained semi-conscious­ness, we disposed of the beers, found our dates and boogied down. So don't fret, my fellow dance-a-phobics, becoming a Danc­ing Queen ( or King) just takes · time, pa­tience and a little help from your friends. 
Here'showdance-anxietyworks. You're either the inviter or the invitee. Being the invitee is practically anxiety-free. I've per­sonally never had a bad time at somebody else's dance. The home dances are the ones that cause the grief. Your panic attacks start the moment a dance is declared at your dorm.You have no idea whom to ask, and to make matters worse, someone is bound to advise you, "Take a friend. Unless you really want to have a good time -in which case you should ask someone you like." 
When uttered in that certain husky tone of voice, the word like can be the dirtiest four­letter word of them all. 
But of course you must like somebody. I'll admit that I usually do. Unfortunately, most of the people I like are people I don't actually know. What I mean is, I identify them by monikers .. of my own creation ­like Shorts Boy, Tattoo Guy or Red-Haired Boy of My Dreams. 
Now don?t act like I'm the only one who refers to people by assumed names. Every­one does it. In fact, the names I've bestowed don't even seem that ridiculous when com­pared to the titles some guys I know use to label the anonymous women in their lives 
(e.g. Nike Girl, Ex-Porn Star or Amazon Love Goddess). 
And don't be one of those people who innocently suggests, "Why don't you ask Red-Haired Boy of Your Dreams to the dance when you see him in the dining hall?" 
For goodness' sake, that's a stupid ques­tion. Could you ask a complete stranger ( whose schedule you know by heart) to your dance? And in the dining hall, no less? No. So don't even go there. 
Nevertheless, if by some act of God you do acquire the guts to ask somebody to your dance, keep_this in mind: You should feel happy ifthey reject you.· Concentrate on the fact that you have provided the person who rejected you with a feeling ofpower, an ego boost. You sacrificed to make them happy. You're a saint, baby. ­
And here's another little tip for all you 
FEBRUARY 181 1999



get asked to a dance by My date madefriends with a blow­the two finest things in there. 
someone I don'tknow very Friendship is so beautiful. 
well, I feel like I'm being up dolphin, and he was galloping One way or another, all dances 
inviteis out there -if you do ever actually convince a stranger to go with you, try to get that person to bring a date for one of your friends. Whenever I ask anyone to a dance, stranger or not, I try to set up their roommate with one of my gal pals. Group dates are much easier to deal with. Plus, it breaks up the monotony on the dance floor when we can swap partners every now and then. And if the guys turn outto be duds, at least we can ditch them and notfeel bad because they can go entertain each other. 
Personally, I would be delighted if a guy invited me to a dance and asked ifany ofmy sista-friends wanted to go with his room­mate. Sometimes, when I 
targeted as some kind of 
prey -as if the inviter is around the dance floor, asking 
trying to separate me from 
my friends so that once strange couples to kiss its nose. 
we're alone he can have his way with me, Listen closely, guys, be­cause even if you do have these dark inten­tions, I'm going to explain to you why inviting a girl and her friend is still a guar­anteed good idea. 
OK, so you want to attack her. Fine. She probably knows that. Maybe it's mutual. But what if it's n_ot mutual (yet)? Ifyou ask her with a friend, then maybe she will be fooled into believing that you're just a sen­sitive guy who wants her to feel safe and have a swell time. Maybe you're not wor­ried about hooking up. Maybe you care about her feelings. Maybe you care about her best friend. See.where I'm going with this? She thinks you're the man of her dreams. In fact, she's sure of it. And you know what, skipper, your chances ofgetting 
HER[) 

some action have skyrocketed. She's happy, you're happy and the dance is a success. 
However, maybe you're wondering what happens if there really isn't anyone on this whole campus who falls into the category of people you like. I recommend asking some­body who's really funny or really weird. Funny people don't clam up on the dance floor. And ifhe starts acting up, you can just make up stories about him and laugh while he scares the drunk people. At my last SYR, my date decided to jump into the middle of one ofthose dance-circles by himself. When that song ended, he proceeded to gyrate in the center while the circle people whis­
pered, "Who is that guy?" But my date wasn't fazed. Soon his roommate and their friend arrived, and the three of them did a suspiciously well-choreographed Backstreet dance. When his roommate and friend dis­appeared, my date made friends with a blow­up dolphin, and he was galloping around the dance floor, asking strange couples to kiss its nose. 
When people asked me where I found such a date, I replied, "I picked him up over by the railroad tracks. Charming, isn't he? Oh look, he's doing some kind of interpre­tive dance now-to 'Motown Philly'! How cute." 
But then again, maybe you 're the kind of girl who could get offended by the dolphin thing. Maybe you 're feeling a little shy, a little uncomfortable, a little terrified by the way your date is grinding with his room­mate. Don't sweat it. Just excuse yourself and head on down to the ladies' room. You're sure to find a friend. Girls' bath­rooms during dances ( especially the ones in boys' dorms) are havens offemale bonding. You may very well find yourself sharing a stall with another gal. You may notice a familiar disoriented gleam in her eye. You start to tell her that you don't know anyone, that you don'teven know why you agreed to come to this stupid dance. You take turns peeing and head back to the party together. Now that you're dancing with a girl, all the 
guys in the room think you're 
should help you make friends. 
Maybe someday I'll retract the 
whole Weird Boy= Great Date 
theory and start looking for a 

nice, regular date. He'll be the enchantingly awkward kind who buys me flowers instead ofalcohol and doesn'tknow the words to "Ice, Ice Baby" and feels too self-conscious to dance to anything but the slow songs. When I introduce him to my friends, he will greet them with a hand­shake, rather than a pirouette. He will not drink so much that he is found unconscious in the bed of some unsuspecting girl who lives down the hall from me. His tie will never end up Rambo-style around his fore­head. At the end of the night, he'll tell me what a greattimehe had, he will say goodbye and thank you to my rectress (thus buying me many brownie points) and he '11 even call me the next day. But then again, once you've got somebody like that, what's the point of going to a dance anyway? 0 

Ar~ ~ov I~i~ tv \JS, 6-Y'a tiJ ~~ . 
FEBRUARY 18, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


(/) 
w 
(/) 
::J 
a.. 
~ 
<( 
u 
~ 
w I 
l­
o 
z 
0 
l ..:•:•,::-.f~ 
, ..; .. ­.,..:-~ :· 
-·.-.••,:·:.-:-:-.-··-:.:. 

. ·AtMichigan State, a full-servic:e uniyersity, s.tudents no longer · have.t9worry:about'n1aking enibaii'~ssing trip~ to ih~store to pick ., .·.· . , up'tlieh'·cc;mdoriis:·For·:their. coriyeriience; 64\big, blue'moose~: :..i_· 
h~ad.condemi·dispensers. have beeri pl~ced inresidence_halls a~d ·· · · ' 

~1~~,1r~t;{f;'1-,i;.~·~·.~~· ;,,· 
Dear Johnny www.pathetic.com 
Western Kentucky U. students in Sociology 434, an organized If those MSU students don't have a place to try out the Blue crime class, recently made a distressing discovery -one of the Moose, they may can tum to two enterprising graduates ·of the crime bosses they were studying had fallen ill. They decided to get University ofIllinois who are taking stalking to a new level. Their together and send him a get-well card. They soon received a letter new web-based business, ecrush.com, is intended to match people in return wishing them "health, happiness and success." This reply up with their secret crushes -all for the low price of $39.95. came from a maximum-security federal prison in Illinois. The Visitors to the website will be asked to submit a profile of them­sender: John Gotti, a notorious Mafia boss convicted eight years selves, their credit card information and a list of people they're ago of ordering hits on other members of his crime family, the interested in dating. An exact match can only be found ifthe object Gambinos, and watching those assassinations himself. A Western of the person's affections knows about ecrush.com, of course. An student, in defense ofwriting letters to Gotti, said, "We admire him. "anonymous" e-mail-will then be sent to "suggest" that said object He's made history in his lifetime, and we admire him for it." Next ofaffections might want to visit ecrush.com to find outmore-and semester, the cl~s plans to send cards wishing health and prosper­maybe even find out who has a crush on him or her. "We aren't ity to Saddam Hussein, Slobadan Milosevic and Augusto Pinochet. matching you up with strangers here," one ofthe website's creators 
said, inanattempt to promote the site to college students. Butbefore 
you make a bee-lineforthenearestcomputerto checkoutecrush.com. 
for yourself, keep in mind that actually talking to your crush can be

What, Me, Study?. 
fairly productive. OOC realizes this may be a foreign concept here at Notre Dame. 
It turns out Northwestern students aren'.t as studious as they'd like the rest ofthe country to think. According to anew survey, even though their grades have remained about the same, students aren't spending as much time hitting the books. Probable causes include students getting smarter or classes becoming easier. The survey also reports that freshman academic interest is at a new low, and students are only interested in getting better jobs. "Well, we can't just pursue a general education," freshman Renaissance-man Zach Rogers said, while finishing the second-to-last level on Zelda 64. "There's no time.to simply learn for learning's sake." Rogers is an education major. He leads OOC to suspect that maybe, just maybe, the reason for grades staying the same is not the rising intelligence levels ofWildcat freshmen. He can, however, win the Super Bowl in Madden '99. 
by. Kimberly Blackwell 
30 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 












qlj.J g)\CI.}Q~Slif 
r •Tennis: ND men vsi Mihriesota,-1:00'PM, -• /,;\E~k±.~111is yivflion,< .·. )i '.. ;'>-.·.·. ·-; , i ~~P~I,¥_Sp ¥a~s;1::3?\ P~f K!~na11::, ·_, -· • !..sta,nfordChapel ) r ..l I... < ·.· ... . 
('•.M,aVieenRoie[M;:}ifeitt,Pi~k),in ....


ii~~;;~;t
,,.. -2.00PM;Joy<,:eCenter., .• .._.-.. ·•.. ·.· .. ·,:, 
it;iJ.i;j,;·,~~0w~~~~-:_;__::_;_i_._:_:._._:_:_•.•.!_.::_:_;_;_·_:1,..•
_·_•.·.•.'_·.i 

::::\:.>)·.\·.,):};\;r:,::::', ~:,_ ;-: ~
~~~ill\-~ 
>. :_;,:.:~ -._ ,,': .. 

;;:;(J?i ·}ri: }·.· 
,::·:~::;:: ,t'Mc;:i;~~~~-I;:;:;.. 


!;~;£i~~fl 
:"(jffi· • 0.'if:'Oo·g:o5Y9:l5:ll:'15>Dr;:Wei Ch~µ(3:30'PA-:l;J38'DeBartplo,Hall; :;;;{:ct~i{f:h'.~~~~;:?--~~:~;:~~i~1~:_51~\2i5~
;:'::.••,Gt~ ~as(~u~~lH~~~1J(~;\6lp.o·:i? . ,.She s.AUTliat: .. O-J,15--S,Z5,;;Z:.~5,9,;4t,
~'y"'·,~s-},"-.'fG·,.,:.,:i'M'''•' f1·00•· ;'d;'1''·g/·6·:4··s·tg·'5.. ·3·',•:,:/\':';
:'. 9:00. PM,. Rolf's Spo~ts Recr~ati_QP.1Center, . 
' ... ," ' . . ' -. / I''· ·. ·c /.••· ..· ,.
[, 1-8662 to regist~F / . •.· -• .,,<\· · i"".·t 
·•·•A11ui'st{!l~odi&\i6:3oiM(ctishing \'F• ;;.·· ;~;~~;~be~~;~~::~::r~::;)1)go_,._ 

•, • '-,·. ':'. 'I,..,.,!.,'..: : . '-...,/ • . ' 
. . . I •Concert: f.'.Gershwin:.Remembi:ance and 
' _;_::._·,_/_.~_-.;~?/<-..~-, ._:,./•'. . . 
·. \_,,:••';. 

:,\,;;.,\'.1i''"~'.-,·--.·,, 

Ji. l :do Ph(Eck,Tennis'Pavi4on---\\ . . . . 

FEBRUARY 18, 1999 . SCHOLASTIC 
31 
MAGAZINE 

() )> 
r­
m 
z 
)> 
,c 

0 
et:. 
0 
~ 
_J 
<( 
by Helga Schaffrin 

Close to Home
z 
LL 
New York Times, January 17, 1999: "Scat­tered on a Kosovo hillside and heaped to­gether in a muddy gully, the bodies of 45 ethnic Albanians were found shot or mutilated Satur­day in what appears to be the worst killing spree of the nearly year-old conflict." It was a beautiful_ day in southern France. Not a cloud in sight, and a light breeze kept the temperature comfortable. Several weeks ago, we, a group of 15 young people from various nations, met in Ales to take part in an international volunteer project. Our task was -to reconstruct a· wall supporting a garden terrace in a public park-and to build cross-cultural bridges. We worked every day, lifting bricks and fastening rods under aburning sun. Yet in spite ofthe 
------------------hard work, we had time Mehdi told us about his oldest to talk and joke, teach 
brother, who fell in Bosnia wear-eachothertocountindif­
ferent languages and ing a Yugoslav uniform; about ·. share stories from "back another brother, who is now home,"whetherthatwas 
Ireland or Mexico, Tur­

fighting for the rebels in Kosovo. key or the U.S., or, in 
Mehdi's case, Kosovo. 

He was one of the most outgoing people of the group and always up for a joke. He was the wildest dancerat the open-airdiscos, and he didn°t let the lack of a common language stand between him and a beautiful girl. He was a daredevil and anything but shy. He could be the perfect gentleman, offering to pump up the air mattresses for us girls every night­but he steadfastly refused to cook. He was always ready for anew adventure, always eager to make new friends. He loved to sing in a language no one else understood, music that had an exotic Middle Eastern ring to it. And maybe in these songs one could detect a slight note of sadness. 
He didn't. talk much about his family. Once he mentioned a brother in Germany, but Mehdi himself was now living in Lyon, France. That day, though, as we were all sitting in the shade, pleasantly exhausted andfollowing our own thoughts, he began to tell us 
about the war. First, he said, the Serbs closed down all 
the schools for ethnic Albanians in Kosovo. Then they tightened regulations on Albanian businesses and drastically restricted economic opportunities. When Yugoslavia began to break up, the Kosovo Albanians were drafted into the Yugoslav army and fqught side by side with the Serbs against the Bosnian Muslims and the Croats. After the Bosnian war, they hoped their situation would improve. It was a vain hope. So the Kosovo Albanians decided to break off as well. But Serbia was not willing to let the small province go. In their fight for independence, which originated in a desire for self-determination, eco­nomic opportunity and fair treatment, the ethnic Albanians are now facing economic, political and military disadvantage~: 
Mehdi told us about his oldest brother; who fell in Bosnia wearing a Yugoslav uniform; about another brother, who is now fighting for the rebels in Kosovo; and about his parents, who sent him and his youngest brother abroad to survive the war but had to stay behind themselves. He told us that he hadn't heard anything from his parents in a month arid didn't even know whether they ( or his brother in the rebel forces) were still alive. Keeping in touch is pretty hard when the phone lines are regularly cut by an enemy army. 
Mehdi's story has stayed with me. The West has grown weary of the Balkan conflicts. After NATO sent troops to enforce the Bosnian peace treaty, the problem was supposed to go away. Well, it hasn't. So now the U.S., France, Britain, Germany, Italy and Russia are trying to talk peace again. They succeeded once before, in Daytona Let us hope that they can pull it offagain, that they can persuade both the Serbs and the various Kosovo Albanian factions to come to the table, and that they have the courage to bring a full commitment to building a lasting peace. 
As for me, whenever I hear a news story from Kosovo, I wonder: Aie Mehdi's parents and siblings in that stream of refugees taking to the hills for relative safety? Are they freezing in the harsh winter? (The cease-fire that was supposed to hold until the end of the winter hasn.'.t lasted.) Were they among those many civilians massacred? Are they still alive? D 
FEBRUARY 18, 1999 
Helga Schaffrin is a senior 1n the honors program. She is originally from Stuttgart, Germany, but currently resides _in Columbus, Ohio. 
32 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
. I 
i 
,..




··NoW 
Available 
Thel 998 Football
. ' 

·.. Review 

Relive the-j-oy of the win over Michigan. 
-. 

Remember the excitement of Autry Denson's record breaking rush. 
Recal_lthec~gony of the intentional safety against LSU. 
· ... i
, 


-. i
,_·_5--'·_-, : .. ·.·
'. 
. '. 



1··11·
. . ' ' 
. . . . 

. . 
ere. 
:Additional Cop.ies ofthe_Football Review ___rnay be picked up in the _,\ Scholastic Office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Off-c~~mp~s students get one free copy. All others pay $5. 

-_ CATC::H THE iAsT 2 DAvs a°F THE.SOPHOMORE LIT~RARY FESTIVAL ___ ---­
SLF STUDENT READERS :.. :·· /, , TONIGHT, FE~RUARY 18 AT 8 PM 
ANN If.FINCH WORKSHOP FRIDAY, FEBR_IJARY 1,9 AT 2 PM AT THE NEW BOOKSTORE 
.. ·. INCH LECT~RE ·.. : ·. . --·. • : . --. . -... . --_ FRIDAY, FE:B~,UARY -19 AT 6:30 PM A(WASHINGTON HALL · .. 
t 
THEN KICK BACK~ ~ELA)_( AND ENJOY A BUG 1~ LIFE! 
.-. THURSDAY, FE:BRUARY1-8AT 10:30 PMAT CUSHING .. FRIDAY & SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19 & ·20 AT 8 & 10:30 PM 




