SCHOLASTIC
PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
Notte jbame CeMietuual
1942 VARSITY FOOTBALL ROSTER
NAME	NO.	POS.	HOME TOWN	PREPARATORY SCHOOL	.	AGE	WT.	HT.	EX.
Adams, John William	. 80	L.T.	Charlestown, Ark.	Subiaco, Ark. Academy	20	225	6:7	0
Ashbaugh, Russell G.	55	Q.B.	Youngstown, Ohio	South High School	•	21	178	5:9	1
*Bertelli, Angelo B.	48	Q.B.	W. Springfield, Mass.	Cathedral High School	21	171	6:%	1
* Brock, Thomas James	68	C.	Columbus, Neb.	Kramer High School	22	195	6:%	2
Brutz, Martin M.	73	L.G.	Niles, Ohio	McKinley High School	22	195	6:%	2
Clatt, Corwin S.	69	F.B.	East Peoria, Ill.	E. Peoria Community	18	198	6:0	0
Coleman, Herbert E.	44	C.	Chester, West Va.	Chester High School	19	195	6:1	0
Cowhig, Gerald F.	53	F.B.	Dorchester, Mass.	Marianapolis Academy	21	205	6:2	0
Creevey, John F.	9	Q.B.	Clawson, Mich.	Clawson High School	19	205	6:2	0
Creevy, Richard C.	43	R.H.	Chicago, Ill.	Mt. Carmel High School	21	182	6:1	2
Creevey, Thomas E.	2	Q.B.	Chicago, Ill.	Mt. Carmel High School	20	185	5:11	1
Cusick, Francis M.	29	L.E.	Providence, R. I.	LaSalle, Academy	20	180	6:3	0
Czarobski, Sigismunt	76	L.T.	Chicago, Ill.	Mt. Carmel High School	20	206	6:0	0
David, Robert J.	39	F.B.	Dalton, Ill.	Mt. Carmel High School	21	205	6:0	0
"Dove, Robert Leo	42	L.G.	Youngstown, Ohio	-	South High School	21	195	6:1%	2.
Dwyer, Eugene J.	51	R.E.	Chicago Hts., Ill.	Mt. Carmel High School	20	190	6:%	0
* Earley, William J.	1	R.H.	Parkersburg, W. Va.	Parkersburg High School	21	173	5:10	2
"Evans, Owen F., Jr.	23	L.H..	South Bend, Ind.	Riley High School	21	175	5:11	2
Filley, Patrick J.	52	R.G.	South Bend, Ind.	Central High School	20	178	5:8	1
Frawley, George M.	31	R.H.	Los Angeles, Calif.	Mt. Carmel (L. A.)	21	177	6:0	0
Hecht, Daniel J.	63	R.G.	Peoria, Ill.	Spalding Institute	19	195	5:11	0
Higgins, Luke M.	75	R.T.	Edgewater, N. J.	Cliffside High School	21	210	6:0	0
Huber, William W.	54	R.E.	Tuscola, Ill.	Tuscola High School	19	197	6:3	0
King, James F.	78	F.B	International Falls', Minn. Falls Senior High School		19	215	6:0	0
Krupa, Edward H.	33	R.H.	Flint, Mich.	Flint Northern High School	20	182	5:11	0
Kudlacz, Stanley A.	20	C.	Chicago, Ill.	De Paul Academy	20	187	5:9	1
Lanahan, John F.	21	C.	Jacksonville, Fla.	Immaculate Conception	21	188	6:1%	1
Limont, Joseph Paul	30	R.E.	New Orleans, La.	Jesuit High School	19	190	6:2	0
Livingstone, Robert E.	40	L.H.	Hammond, Ind.	Hammond High School	20	175	6:0	0
* McBride, Robert J.	47	L.G.	Lancaster, Ohio	Logan High School	20	198	6:0	1
McGinnis, John J.	35	R.E.	Chicago, Ill.	St. George (Evanston)	20	185	6:2	1
Mello, James A.	65	F.B.	West Warwick, R. I.	W. Warwick Sr. H. S.	21	188	5:11	0
Meter, Bernard J.	49	L.G.	Cleveland, Ohio	Cathedral Latin	18	190	5:10%	0
*Miller, Creighton E.	37	R.H.	Wilmington, Del.	Alexis I. Dupont	20	188	6:1	1
Miller, Thomas S.	58	L.H.	Wilmington, Del.	Alexis I. Dupont	21	183	6:1	2
t*Murphy, George E.	18	R.E.’	South Bend, Ind.	Central High School	21	170	6:0	2
*Neff, Robert H.	64	r.t.	Buckhannon, W. Va.	Buckhannon-Upshur	22	215	6:1%	2
O’Conner, William J.	15	R.G.	Tulsa, Okla.	Subiaco, Ark., Academy	19	185	6:0	0
Peasenelli, John J.	27	R.H.	Rochester, Pa.	Rochester - High School	22	176	5:10%	2
Piccone, Cammille W.	25	L.H.	Vineland, N. J.	Vineland High School	20	186	6:0	0
^Rymkus, Louis	70	L.T.	Chicago, Ill.	Tilden High School	22	218	6:4	2
Sullivan, Lawrence P.	72	R.T.	Brockton, Mass.	Tilton, N. H. Prepartory	22	205	6:2	2
Szymanski, Francis S.	45	R.T.	Detroit, Mich.	Northeastern High School	19	205	5:11%	0
Tobin, George E.	17	R.G.	Arlington, Mass.	Marianapolis Academy	21	191	5:10	0
Walsh, Robert M.	50	R.G.	Springfield, Ill.	Cathedral High School	23	193	5:11	2
Webb, Robert B.	60	L.G.	Santa Ana, Calif.	Santa Ana High School	21	190’	5:10	2
White, James J.	71	L.T.	Edgewater, N. J.	All Hallows, N. Y. City	21	210	6:1%	0
*Wright, Harry C.	4	R.G.	Hempstead, L. I., N. Y.	Chaminade, Mineola	22	190	6:0	2
Yonaker, John J. ,	82	L.E.	Dorchester, Mass.	Mechanic Arts High School	21	222	6:4	0
**Ziemba, Walter J.	74	C.	Hammond, Ind.	Hammond High School	23	225	6:3	2
Zilly, John J.	56	L.E.	Southington, Conn.	Cheshire, Conn., Academy	19	-194	6:2	0

* Indicates number of monograms won. t Indicates captain.
2
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
' MASH NOTE
A nut at the wheel
A peach at his right -
*	A turn in the road
Fruit salad.
DOWNSTATE
.News from points south concerns the ^bond rallies held at Indiana and Purdue
universities. Miss Gene Tierney of Hollywood rallied around the Indiana cam-
. pus to the tune of §215,507.95 for the coffer. Over at Purdue Dorothy Lamour, also of Hollywood, took the spotlight as Uncle Sam’s bond agent. She was subbing for Rita Hayworth who had a convenient breakdown.
At Notre Dame -the bond drive is just a rumor.
ALSO
► Come October 2, Purdue will hold its Riveter’s Rassel with the “Queen of the Sand Bags” presiding over the mob. The dance setting will typify a London subway during an air raid. Members of the queen’s court will be “Queen of the Screaming Sirens,” “Queen of the Blackout, ’’ “Queen of the Shimmering Rails,” and “Queen of the Sub Pub,” all “regal * lasses that would make life take a turn . toward the exciting in any sand bagged ~ subway.”
_ Indiana U. has already witnessed its Table-Waiters’ Dance, conventional costumes for which were the usual hashslingers’ garb, T-shirts and waiters’
*■ jackets.
Have you a ticket for Notre Dame’s first Victory Dance? .
POME
There was a young fellow of Wheeling, Endowed with such delicate feeling, When he read, on the door,
“Don’t spit on the floor.”
He jumped up and spat on the ceiling.
< DATE BUREAU
The male population at DePauw is now a minority, but still struggling. Just t so the boys’ last days won’t be inconvenienced in any way, The DePauw keeps them posted on the date situation. A recent issue lists seven girls as “free,”
eight as “steady,” three as “pin,” two as “ring,” and two “married.” Others in the running are listed when discovered.
N. D. LAUNDRY?
When John Dough put his shirt in the laundry bag he forgot to remove his favorite address book from the pocket. . . . Back came the shirt, address book neatly in the pocket. In it were a dozen additional names, addresses and telephone numbers.
REFUGEES
“Say, Tony, those rabbits you sold me all have the hiccoughs."
“Sura, boss, dey are Belchin hares.”
BARREL BRIGADE
At Armour Tech in Chicago all freshmen refusing to wear green caps are stripped of their pants and required to walk in such a state to all classes during, the day.
LOCAL COLOR
Of all the Chinese girls in South Bend we know of only three who are not married:
Tu-Young-Tu.
Tu-Dumb-Tu.
No-Yen-Tu.
PURDUE FARMERS
The boilermakers of Purdue University have taken on a new task for the summer. 125 of them are in the fields every day detasseling corn at 40 cents per hour. This contribution of farm helpers was made by the university to alleviate the shortage of farm labor.
ALIAS THE DINING HALL
Those in charge should really be complimented on the smooth way in which the new system is working. It works with the least amount of inconvenience, (if you get there, at the right time.) Most of the fellows like the idea though, so a big blow for Mr. Connolly. . -. . The following was overheard in the caf the other morning:
“Looks like rain today.”
“Yeah, but it still smells like coffee.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 18 6 7
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Don Heltzel, Editor
Robert D. LEMENSE...Jlfanaping	Editor
Dauiel Downey.__________Campus	Editor
Bill Reynolds___________Sports	Editor
Robert Dunne___________.Admin.	Editor
Robert Lonergan____________Promotion
Ted Weber______________ .Photo	Editor
Walter Krawiec_____________Art	Editor
James CHRisovERGis..Staff photographer Gail Fitch, Jr.............Advertising Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Facility Advisor
. Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 151 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.	•
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m. -
IN THIS ISSUE
SPORTS
Irish Face Wisconsin ...........  5
Georgia Tech Comes North ________15
Footbal Movies __________________16
CAMPUS
No Official Student Trip
K. of G. To Sell Bonds______
.. 7
. 8
ADMINISTRATION
Centennial Mass ___________________10
Laetare Medal Awarded ...__________I I
FEATURES
College Parade   ______________ 3
The Week _____________________ 4
The Cover ________________j____ 4
The Navy ______________12 and 13
Man About Campus ______________ 8
Telescope ________________1____ 9
3
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
Notre Dame 20; Wisconsin 0.
LA DE DA
One of the lads gave a St. Mary’s belle a little Notre Dame bracelet, the kind Jack “Chicago” Thornton sells, and told her it was solid 14 kt. He went over to see her a few weeks later and wondered why she looked slightly peeved. He said, “Darling, in the spring a young-man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.” She said, “Yes, and a young lady’s bracelet slowly turns to green.” . . . Watching some of the fellows in the dining hall we imagine their definition of a mushroom would be, “a place to go and eat.” ... If the lovely ladies from across the way seem to ignore your affection don’t despair. We’ll all be in uniform soon! . . . You can tell a lot of the football players by their mustaches. You can see the first down on their upper lip. Apologies for that one will be mailed out. . . . With all the putt-putt going around the campus it’s beginning to look like Coney Island.
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“Well, tell your mother I go to Notre Dame.”
THEY'RE LEARNING
You’ve all seen at one time or another the corny college freshman like they depict in the dining hall. We have some, too. The other day one noticed his book • being borrowed. He pounced on the snatcher and cried: “As Columbus said to the Indians, ‘I caught ya red handed.’ ” The lads are completing their indoctrination very successfully however. Some have already mastered the art of howling as they lope across the campus at night ’neath a full moon. The funny men step off the bus and serenade the men in Alumni with, “Scratch your head and if you find—” They’ve learned that: Wal-green’s isn’t a drug store; Harry Nicodemus isn’t a band leader; Lee Douglas isn’t a comedian; and St. Mary’s, well, the old grey mare ain’t what she used to be. . . . The most interesting freshman caper this week though comes from Rockne Memorial and it seems hard to believe. Last week one of the athletically inclined frosh decided to play a little solo handball. After inquiring, as to
4
where he could find the courts he wandered up into the unlighted corridor. All was dark as he opened the cage door to the court. He figured that the light switch must be inside so in he strolled. He saw plenty of lights when he landed on the court floor, 12 feet down. Said the freshman: “Darn it, I forgot the handball.” •
HEY BUDDY
Every year about this time the' freshmen halls are flooded with potential Fuller Brush salesmen selling everything from unrevised editions of Calamitas, Calamitatis, to special letter hooks so you don’t have to open the door to get the mail. We give you a typical scene in a room in Zahm. Some Joe busts into the room then knocks on the door. “Mind if I come in?” he says as he lies down on the bed. “Nice room, nice room. I used to live in this hall when I was a freshman. It was O.K. Bunch of perks here now though. Say bud, need any books? No? How about some stationery? Fancy stuff with your name on it. My brother makes the stuff so I get it cheap. That your gal friend?” The young lady is the proverbial “dog” but the super salesman rattles on. “She looks like nice stuff. How about that stationery? Well then how about a nice subscription to Time., Look, Life, Pic? How about a subscription to Grandma Greene’s Almanac? You want to see what the St. Mary’s girls look like don’t you? Who’s your rector? Oh yeah! He’s 0. K. but he insists you make seven checks a week. I sure used to tell him where to head in. Don’t take any boloney from him. He’s not so tough. Well so long chum. If you ever need any equipment just drop a note under my door. Boop bop chum!” and he goes walking out leaving the door open.
The Cover
.... an anonymous photographer caught a neat bit of football history at 3:45 o’clock of the afternoon of the Notre Dame-Southern California game last fall. As the second half opened, Captain Paul Lillis led his team from the tunnel for the final 30-minute defense of an undefeated season— first since the Rockne era. Ques-.tion at Notre Dame today: . Will Murphy continue that victory string tomorrow? '
THE SOCIAL WHIRL «
On the front page of the Mishawak ^S! Mess was the following story: “Pop 9 Jones, aged 97, last night drank his 9 7000th consecutive strawberry sody in Schickentruler’s Sweet Shoppe.” In the interests of unethical journalism we in- YJB terviewed Pop this week. He said, “Boy,j. 9 do I like strawberry!” Nice goin’, Pop. Iff The sophomores are getting set for their S big weekends. They’ll be coming from « far arid near. An unusually large group *9 will be representing St. Mary’s this fall. Am Say the girls: “So we are in the eighth (_■ grade.” The juniors still haven’t picked^® a band. Said Glenn Miller: “The juniors | of Notre - Dame have offered to pay I enough to cover expenses. That’s O.K. g with me but I want to bring my band,*p too.” Last week’s Senior Ball was pro- J nounced a howling success. Georgia and : Patricia and Orry and Connie thought it as good as any of the previous six they | had attended. Johnny Boyle, the lad i with the sax appeal, had his prize win-ning song aired over WSBT and fronf^T this end it sounded plenty good. Al Don- ff ahue was especially low down with his « rhythm. They had him and the band JI playing from one of the handball courts. » Here’s hoping for a good start against I Wisconsin tomorrow.	[■
•	«■
LEAVE HIM ALONE, ETC.
With the first football game coming 4 , along everyone is excited. The sophomores are memorizing the players’ num--1-4 | bers, the juniors are memorizing- the >< players’ numbers, the seniors are memo- |j rizing draft numbers, and the freshmen are memorizing South Bend numbers, jd With the student trip definitely off, the^W New Yorkers are casting anxious eyes Bl at the Met Club. The Met, Club is cast-ing anxious eyes at the New Yorkers. When they get finished throwing those eyes around they’ll all .be ready for the E.R.C. physical. The band is getting-ready for the football season also. The-*
revised uniform has
arrived and we
promise you a dazzling sight at a spank- “ ing gait. As usual Mr. Leahy predicts a bleak future for the season but with
plenty of pep and support from the str-dents we can’t miss. There is a rumor afoot that the $4.40 seats at the Great> Lakes game will he sold for $.90 to the students ..and it looks good. Wonder if 88 will - be a lucky number for the Illinois team this year? Harry Wright says “No.” The South Benders will be here^ as usual cheering for the other teams, j They’re just jealous because Bendix Col-lege hasn’t got a football team.	1j
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
The weak Week last week.
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.

Vol. 77
SEPTEMBER 25, 1942
• No. 2
FIGHTING IRISH FACE BADGERS
IN SEASON OPENER AT MADISON
BILL BOSS
The opening of Coach Frank Leahy’s ^.prize package will take place at two o’clock tomorrow afternoon in Camp (K Randall, Wisconsin’s football home, as Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish square off * against the Badgers.
Pat Harder sat wistfully on the Cardinal bench at Madison last Saturday and watched • his teammates, the Wisconsin Badgers, run freely and without repulse against Mickey Anderson and the horde of. former professional and collegiate ball players that represented the khaki of Camp Grant.
Harder, the injured All - Conference plunging back, trotted onto the playing
l' field but once during the afternoon and then his efforts went to waste as a 30-
yard field goal attempt fell short. But tomorrow when the Blue and Gold of Noire Dame attacks the Cardinal of Wisconsin Pat Harder will be uniformed
ami ready to make up for the noticeable loss cf charge in the Cardinal backfield when the goal line beckoned last week.
Adding to Notre Dame’s massed worries will be the unexpected passing precision of Jack “Beezer” Wink. Preseason notices predicted that Wink will be the No. 1 quarterback in the Badger backfield because of his exceptional blocking ability. But Harry Stuhldreher noticed a faint tinge of perfection lodged in the passing arm of the Milwaukee lad during early fall drills. The keg-built sophomore stands 5 feet 10 inches and
weighs 190 lbs. Against the Soldiers his passing overshadowed the. flipping of ' the heralded Elroy Hirsch.
I In Saturday’s encounter Hirsch, the
Wassau wonder, displayed more ability
in running than in passing. Hirsch’s ■ first two pass attempts went for naught ; as they well outdistanced the proposed receivers. So it was through the first period and into the second quarter be-■’» fore Hirsch saw one of his tosses drop into the arms of a Cardinal receiver.
Then the great Wink took over. A splurge of passes and the Badgers were in the touchdown territory only to be
thwarted by the bulky Army line. Pat
Harder was in great need at those trying moments but senior Robert Ray, for three years a dependable Badger back, •took over and his charged line thrusts gave Wisconsin its ultimate victory.
Notre Dame's encounter with Stuhl-dreher’s team will mark the tenth session that the Irish have had with the Dairyland unit. The Cardinals have wrecked Irish hopes four times over a 41 year period. Notre Dame is credited with the other five victories.
The tears aren’t yet dry in the eyes of Frank Leahy. Last week he watched
Irishmen Murphy and Leahy believe the Badgers will put up quite a scrap.
an unscheduled shoddy display of the crippled varsity against a not-too-potent
Frosh squad. It looked like the Notre Dame varsity propped along the edge of the dugout and the reserve force playing against the Snydermen. Dippy
Evans, Creighty Miller, and a host of other injured varsity men were lined up at the field’s edge craving action. Although the varsity triumphed by a substantial margin Coach Leahy still has need for worry. The Freshmen had been drilling only a little more than a week. It seems that the same eleven which played such ragged ball against them in the stadium last week will have to face the Badgers at Camp Randall tomorrow.
Stuhldreher’s plans for offensive and defensive tactics will be hampered by a
5
few minor injuries but with Harder back on the top roll all the power necessary will be in the Wisconsin secondary. The injury list strikes only at the Cardinal reserve section.
Senior Dave Schreiner, All-American choice, and Junior Bob Henzlick will open at ends for the Badger brigade. Paul Hirsbrunner and Bob Baumann will man the tackles, Red Vogds, a junior, and sophomore Dean Currier will be at the guards, with Fred Negus, another soph, at the pivot post.
Elroy Hirsch, the owner of one of the most fabulous grid careers ever written in Wisconsin high school records, will probably play at left half in place of the veteran Bud Seelinger. Seelinger, like the kitchen stove, was hot and cold last Saturday so Harry Stuhldreher, the old Horseman, will probably wait until tomorrow to decide which will start. The Wisconsin mentor has been drilling Hirsch at both halves and may shift the speedy sophomore into the other half slot if it becomes necessary.
Mark Hoskins, veritable senior battering-ram, will be at right half, and senior Len Calligaro will be at fullback.
Wisconsin, looking forward to the greatest season in her grid history, is reminding Irish fans of the 1904 game between the two schools, and hopes for a repetition. Wisconsin was rated the “breather” for the Irish that year. Notre Dame, at that time, also, was traveling to Madison with an undefeated 1903 program in the background. Accumulating a mere 30 points in the first half the Badgers added 24 counters in the final half to squash the Irish, 58-0. History could repeat itself, we are told, and and there would be nothing more pleasant to Cardinal adherents than a Notre Dame defeat.
It would be almost impossible to name the eleven men who will comprise the Irish starting lineup for the Badger contest. As things now stand the probable Notre Dame linemen will be: Captain George Murphy and Bob Dove at ends; Lou Rymkus and Bob Neff, tackles; McBride and Harry Wright, at the guard posts for the first time; and Wally Ziemba, center.
The secondary, the injury - plagued area, will have Angelo Bertelli at quarterback; Bill Earley and sophomore Bob Livingstone at the halfbacks; and Jerry Cowhig or Jim Mello in the full back post.
The backfield relief men will be John Creevey and Pete Ashbaugh at quarterback, Cammille Piccone, and Tom Miller, halfbacks, and Corwin Clatt at fullback. Line replacements will become principally sophomores: John Yonakor and Jack Zilly, ends; Luke Higgins, Jim
6
White, and Ziggy Czarobski, tackles. Juniors Pat Filley and Bob McBride and soph George Tobin are the leading guard reserves. Tom Brock, Rebel Lan-ahan, and Herb Coleman will be ready to fill in at center.
N.R.O.T.C. Begins Semester With 250 Enrollment
The Naval R.O.T.C. began another semester with 154 new frosh candidates out for their initial training. This brings the Notre Dame unit up to 260. As soon as the new building behind the Rockne Memorial is finished, the N.R. O.T.C. unit will hold classes and have its headquarters there.
The Irish Pennant, N.R.O.T.C. publication, will resume publication today, with Joseph Conerty as editor and Lt. Thompson Black, Jr., as faculty advisor. This issue contains a report by Chief Specialist Jablonski on the physical conditioning program carried out during the summer. It was announced by Editor Conerty that a special Navy Day
Alumnus Stuhldreher: he has changed colors since ‘24
issue will appear the latter part of October.
Another summer cruise on the Great Lakes is planned. The frosh and upper-classmen will sail the “seas” for two weeks and the latter will have their first crack at the four inch navy guns. The exact dates for the cruise and the route to be followed have not been disclosed.
Despite the usual rumors concerning the possibility of imminent induction of the R.O.T.C. men, it has been announced that their status is exactly as it was when the unit was organized a year ago. No change in this status is foreseen in the future.
Again this year the R.O.T.C. will send a football squad against the hall teams. ' Chief Specialist Jablonski, the coach, has a line averaging 180 pounds lined up with a backfield slightly below that. Forty are slated to wear the colors of the unit. Among them will be several frosh who have shown promise in practice. Competition is keen for several ■ spots.

... OFFICIAL STUDENT FOOTBALL TRIP CALLED OFF-MAY GO TO NAVY, GREAT LAKES, NO SPECIAL RATES
BILL
v The first change in the normal fall routine was instituted last week at a meeting of the Student Council. For u. the first time in many seasons there will not be a regular student trip to one of the out of town games. The reason for this omission is apparent: train accom-modations must be reserved for a more f4 important function than carrying a student body several hundred miles to see * a football game. Indeed, difficulty in obtaining accommodations has caused many colleges to completely revise their football schedule.
i—
But football is still very important, both for the general student body as » well as for the men who are actually playing. So, as a substitute for the regular student trip, sponsored by the University, the Student Council adopted a plan whereby the city club of the particular city where a game is to be played arrange a trip that any student may •- make. These “city club trips” will be fairly short trips, but the games con-' '• cerned will be two of the best on the schedule. The clubs that have been tentatively listed to arrange these trips are the Cleveland club (for the Navy weekend) and the Chicago club (for the Great Lakes weekend).
Local boys in New York: this year they go elsewhere.
BRADY
Although these two trips will not be sponsored by Notre Dame officials, the administration has promised to offer every assistance in order that the trips will be a success. This assistance will consist, among other things, of allowing any student who desires to make one or both of the trips to leave the campus Friday afternoon after his last class.
In order to keep us further posted on the foreign activities of the team the administration announced last week that the movies of all out of town games will be shown to the student body during the week following the game. The movies will be shown in Washington Hall, and mark the beginning of a new system regarding football movies. Formerly, only football players were allowed to attend these midweek showings.
Notice
There will be an important meeting of all members of the Scholastic staff, and all prospective members, this evening. Place: the office, second floor, old Ave Maria building, back of Main Building. Time: 7 p.m.
Heralded "Green Banner"
Makes First Appearance
The Green Banner, one of the first Notre Dame rumors to become reality, made its initial appearance late yesterday afternoon. Student owned, operated, and controlled is the boast of this eight page collection of facts, figures and fun. A concensus of. student reaction to the paper was not available as the Scholastic went to press.
Admittedly designed by its contributors, “to foster and promote the traditional ‘Spirit of Notre Dame/ ” the paper carries much promise in its initial issue. Like all rumors, the Green Banner gained weight as it spread, but running not-true-to-form it materialized and something was done about it. The culmination of all efforts came last night and its organizers breathed a sigh of relief — win, lose or draw. Some indication of the campus approval of the paper was given by the several hundred subscriptions taken on a sight-unseen basis.
December "Dome" Well
On Way to Completion
With summer work finished and the home stretch in sight the Deme is well under way toward its December completion. Despite the strain and shortages of war, which necessitated the Deme’s reduction to 200 pages, this first real wartime production is already being hailed as one of the better issues of the annual.
Deserving much of the credit for the yearbook’s special feature on art work is Professor F. J. Hanley, who left this week for a commission as Ensign in the Communications branch of the Navy. Mr. Hanley, who has insured the success of many Notre Dame Domes with his art contributions, is to be stationed at Cornell University for training.
According to Editor Kelly Cook, a Walsh Hall junior from Lexington, Ky., all the summer activities have been covered and recorded, and the staff is now-ready to work on the football season. Also finished completely are the pictures of seniors. Portraits of the faculty and juniors are, according to contract for the duration, to be left out.
7
K.C. to Sell Students War Bonds and Stamps: Room to Room Canvas Will Start Thursday
Notre Dame’s first organized effort io promote war stamp sales will begin officially next Thursday when the Knights of Columbus drive gets under way.
The drive, receiving official sanction of the University and the Student Council, comes to Notre Dame after other universities in the country have already jumped on the band and stamp wagon by promoting activities designed to make college students more conscious of wartime conditions.
According to unofficial reports, sales of war stamps at the campus post-office have been unbelievably low. The new drive, which calls for a weekly canvass of each room in all residence halls, will be aimed toward increasing student purchases of war stamps. The drive will give each student a chance to do his part in
VALUABLE PLAYER" CONTEST AFTER HOME GAMES;
MET CLUB TO GIVE EACH WINNER $25 WAR BOND
The Metropolitan Club, under President Donald Degnan, has this week received sanction to promote a program in Washington Hall after every home football game, in which a “most valuable player of the day” award will be given.
Beginning a week from tomorrow, after the Georgia Tech game, the student body will parade from the stadium to Washington Hall, where with Coach Frank Leahy and the entire team on the stage, one player will be voted as most valuable of the day. The winner will be rewarded with a $25 defense bond to be presented to him upon graduation. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, expressed his approval at the idea which will both bolster the war effort and promote a real team spirit among students.
The most valuable player will be chosen by three votes, one by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and a member of the athletic board, another by Coach Frank Leahy, and the third by the student body. Each student will be admitted for a dime and will cast his vote at the door. The choice of the majority of these votes will comprise the one student body vote:
The proceeds of each Saturday’s con-
vocation will be presented to. Father The other officers of the club this year O’Donnell to disburse among war char- are Anthony Maloney, vice-president; ities.	.	. Thomas Foley, secretary; and William
The Metropolitan Club also - plans to McNamara, treasurer. Trustees * include have a football banquet at the end of William Walsh, Gerald O’Reilly, Charles the season, for the purpose of present- McCafferty, and John Murphy.
the unified effort of a 130,000,000 Americans, said Jerry Killigrew, Grand Knight of K. of C.
It was pointed out that purchase of war stamps and bonds is not only an insurance against the dangers of inflation, but is the one bit of activity that can be shared by all Americans. One United States senator recently stated that “we all cannot be with MacArthur in Australia, nor can we all be engaged in vital defense- industry, but every American can hasten victory by his purchase of war stamps and bonds.”
A chairman has been appointed in each hall and plans have been made for a special opening. The first canvass calls for distribution of albums with initial stamp sales. It is expected that the new service, designed to carry sales directly to the room, will skyrocket campus totals.
ing the most valuable player of the year with a special trophy. In addition, a scroll will be given attesting that that player won the most valuable award contest.
Every possible means is being employed by the club to make the idea appeal to the student body so that a representative number will join the parade each Saturday. Football scores of other nationally known teams will be announced periodically, so that no one will need miss because of other games. Also scheduled to keep the crowd enthusiastic are Veet Capello and his Cavaliers who will provide music for the program.' Dave Curtin, of Rochester, N. Y., will act as master of ceremonies.
President Degnan announced that though all other students will be required to pay a dime for entrance, Metropolitan Club members will be admitted? by membership card.
The club, which now boasts an exten- -sive active membership, is carrying on a drive for new men. A meeting will be held some time next week, at which final .plans for the Saturday’s program will be considered. New men are urged to attend this meeting.
<about the camPus
•i
Dave Condon
Walt Jones, tall, blond, blue-eyed . . . resident of Sorin sub, heads this year’s Student Council.
Representative from Morrissey hall as a soph, vice-president last year as delegate from Dillon, Walt inherits mantle of Gene Schumaker.
Quiet, not politically ambitious, he is
voice of
the student body. Occupies
A

position of king without too much kingdom ... . super-charged Cadillac with . three tires.. . . strives to make best use of council’s limited powers . . . has pro-;, gram lined up for council.
.. A law student, Walt represents A.B. school in the council . . . rooms with George Kelly, Scrip scribbler from Richmond, Va., . . . oldest of four children, '■ Jones may have acquired his pleasant quietness from three younger sisters....
. Kelly says sisters are beauties; one was up for Senior Ball.

4
A member of the marine reserve, Jones intends to resume law studies when Nazism is a was-ism . .. figures on going 4 to marine base at Quantico in Decern- ! ber . . . eye-catching pictures on his desk in spacious quarters suggest. other in-. terests in the east beside leathernecks.
8
i Hailing from Anderson, Ind., he was • *<,.forward on Anderson high school cage l' team when the Indians annexed state
. hoop title ... admits Anderson is bas-■ ketball hot-spot and manufacturing cen-h r ter . . . made use of height (6' 2") by ; playing interhall basketball.
; । Also played on Anderson high football * and golf team . . . replaces divots rever-
> FRESHMEN - ST. MARVS "MIXER" SERIES SCHEDULED; x BREEN-PHILLIPS SLATED TO CRACK ICE SUNDAY
■1~‘ The uncounted hordes of “hot-dogs” who swept down on the St. Mary’s lassies last Sunday may not have resem-tabled the Four Hundred riding into the Valley of Death but many were the long faces by five o’clock. It’s the same story every year. Only the most aggressive **■ and persistent survive that first Sunday. Many disillusioned Freshmen abandon any social plans they had formed before they invaded “The Rock,” being i overcome bv sheer numbers. ! *
I ► Last year the senior president, Jim | O’Neal decided to try to remedy the sit-jt“' nation. He enlisted the aid of the Cath-I olic Action students, on campus and a I committee of St. Mary’s girls and inaugurated a series of Freshman mixers.
' The general result was a good time for | all. Whatever embarrassment the boys : felt early in the afternoon disappeared I at its end. The program included danc-I ing, entertainment by Notre Dame per-/ formers, and refreshments — and the * whole affair was free of charge, unless you want to split hairs and count the \ bus fare.
Continuing what was hoped would be an institution, the Catholic Action Students are planning more dances this I	year. The plan is for one group of about
|	180 Freshmen to attend a dance each
; Sunday for several consecutive, weeks, until all Freshmen have gone, seen, and I perhaps conquered. But only one. group at a time. Breen-Phillips is first, in line, and , as’ students in that hall already know, they are scheduled for ’ this " Sunday, Sept. 27. The other Freshmen halls and Off-Campus eligibles will have their K chance on Sundays yet to come.
One rule that all, including the faculty members of both schools, are agreed upon is that no one but each Sunday’s particular Freshman group will be admitted to the dances. All Freshmen girls will attend them. Upperclassmen from Notre Dame may of course date the three other classes at St. Mary’s on * ’ those Sundays. .
t Just one element will be missing from the dances this year: There will probably be no refreshments “on the house” because of the war.
V , —
* I'	'
ently ... on campus he’s a member of Law Club, Catholic Action group, vicepresident of Academy of Politics.....
Voice of student body, Walt Jones lives in tradition shrouded Sorin . . . likes Notre Dame . . . plans active semester . . . has divan in his room . . . tells reporters to toss cigaret ashes on floor. . . .
And remember . . . three sisters. . . .
700 Can't Be Wrong.
If you’re a Freshman and you’re apprehensive, just ask some Sophomore about last year’s mixers. Most of the present Sophs seemed, to like the idea, and 700 Sophomores can’t be wrong!
—Tom Clemens .
Dean Clarence Manion Rules in Rent Case
When a special court;was called to hear the first case in tne country concerning the constitutionality of rent control, Judge Peak, of South Bend, appointed Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the Notre Dame Law school, as special judge to hear the case. It was Dean Manion’s job to define the law and consider the right of petition for declaratory judgment in such an unprecedented case.
The consequences of the case are considered grave, for whatever may have been “Judge” Manion’s decision, the case will be appealed until issue is brought before the Supreme Court of the nation to test the constitutional validity of rent control laws.
The plaintiff in the case presumed he had the right to receive more rent for his property than tne rent control law
TELESCOPE
George Bariscillo	. .
FRIDAY, Sept. 25: A date; spaghetti;
Rosie’s.	■_
SATURDAY, Sept. 26: Wisconsin-NJ)." . game; broadcast by Bill Stem over NBC. network; sorority dates, fra-, ternity parties, and aren’t you glad you didn’t go to Madison this weekend. 9 p.m., Stem inteiwiews Mrs.-Rockne over CBS. Movie, “Gay Falcon.”	.	.
SUNDAY, Sept. 27: N.D. Forum of the • Air, WSBT, 10:05-10:30 a.m. (Premiere of Fall series). Radio Club meeting; the studios (Engineering Bldg.), 11 "a.m.; “Breen - Phillips’ Day” at St. Mary’s. First date with Lily of “the Rock.”
MONDAY,. Sept. 28: Football tickets for Saturday’s game with Georgia Tech; Seniors ONLY; 12:30-3 pan.; Gate 14 at the stadium.
TUESDAY, Sept. 29: Tech-game tickets, for Juniors; 12:30-3 pan. .
WEDNESDAY,’ Sept. 30: Movies of the Wisconsin game; Washington Hall; songs, cheers, pigskin stars in person. Sophomore game tickets; 12:303 pan. The Economists meet, as another leaf falls from the calendar.
THURSDAY, Oct. 1: Freshmen 50-yard-line tickets; 12:30-3 pan. The Wranglers meet—top hat, white tie, and tails, if you please.
allowed. -Consequently, the defendant produced a demurrer, which raised two heavy questions: the constitutionality of the Emergency Price Control Act, and the right of any court to try the validity of the law. Special Judge Manion granted that congress can restrict a law to trial in Federal Courts. But whether or not congress had this restriction in mind when making the law will be determined when the right of congress to sanction the provisions has been ascertained. If congress had this power it also had the right to indicate the courts of adjudication.
In considering the plaintiff’s-right under the due process clause to ask for a declatory judgment, and in considering the constitutionality of the Emergency Price Control Act and congress’ assumed powers, the court found the action to be without grounds and ordered the complaint dismissed.—Bill. Talbot	.
9
T
' AamituAfoudton NewA
Vc®

UNIVERSITY INAUGURATES CENTENARY YEAR WITH SOLEMN MASS; OTHER PLANS SET
Officially opening the University’s academic observance of its Centenary, a Solemn Mass of the Holy Ghost in Sacred Heart Church was held Sunday, Sept. 20. Notre -Dame’s president, the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., delivered the sermon.
Highlight of Father O’Donnell’s pulpit oratory was a plea to President Roosevelt to set aside a day of prayer and fasting for the nation, to restore the concepts of fundamental Christianity that the founders embodied in the American government.
In outlining the century-old history of Notre Dame, the University president said:". . . One hundred years! A long time in the life of man, though a short span in the life of a university! But what a change there has been since Father Sorin first saw the log cabin in the woods south of St. Mary’s Lake, in , which there were a chapel and one living room. What a change there has been from the Old College, still standing as a reminder of our humble origin. Now, more than forty-five buildings on our 1,500-acre campus are devoted to the five colleges and the graduate school. The number of courses offered has been multiplied many thnes over, and the faculty is larger than the student body
was only thirty-five years ago. 30,000 young men have been trained under the Golden Dome.
“Notre Dame changes but remains forever the same. Notre Dame still emphasizes the discipline of the spiritual, the intellectual, and the moral. Here you will always find applied the first principles from which all true development proceeds. This is still the Notre Dame of Father Sorin and his worthy successors. . . .”
Ths Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame, and general chairman of the Centenary, sang the Mass with the Moreau Seminary Choir singing the music of the Mass. In academic procession from the Administration Building to the Church the lay faculty and the clergy of tb-e faculty and administration marched for the ceremony.	-
Other events to mark the Centenary, announced this week by Father Cavanaugh, will include a Solemn Pontifical Mass on Nov. 26, by Bishop Noll, of Fort Wayne, in the presence of Bishop Ritter of Indianapolis, and other dignitaries and prominent clergymen of the State and Congregation. This date, which - falls on Thanksgiving Day, marks the actual 100th anniversary of the arrival
of Father Sorin and six Brothers of Holy Cross at the present site of Notre Dame. A eulogy on the founders of the University will be delivered on that day
by Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, outstanding radio lecturer, who received an honorary LL.D, and delivered the baccalaureate sermon in 1941.
The Centenary Medal will be unveiled and blessed by the Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, D.D., bishop of Indianapolis, immediately following the Mass. Bishop Ritter’s diocese now takes in Vincennes, which was the See in 1842 that included land now owned by the University. The Centenary Medal has been designed and sculptured by Eugene Kormendi, Budapest artist and sculptor, who has been working at. Notre Dame since Septem- , ber, 1941. Following the unveiling ceremonies, a special prayer will be offered at the graves of Father Sorin and the Brothers who accompanied him at the time of the founding.	,
During the winter there will be a series of. meetings of learned societies, altered considerably from the original program by the war conditions.
Plans for the Spring of 1943 include a gala music festival, part of the annual music week program.
In the first week of September, 1943, the Centenary will draw to a climax with conferences on the University and problems of the era after- the war.
The procession of the clergy, naval officers, and faculty wends its way from the Main Building to the Sacred Heart Church
^ CENTENARY LAETARE MEDAL GIVEN TO WISCONSIN AUTHOR, LECTURER
Notre Dame’s Centenary Laetare . Medal, the 60th award of this annual prize for the outstanding- Catholic lay F. achievement, was presented to Miss Helen
Constance White, the 1942 recipient, in Madison, Wis., last Saturday, Sept. 19, at a private dinner.	.
'J.- - Miss White, national president of the American Association of University Women, well known lecturer and author, and professor of English in the University of Wisconsin, was chosen ..xas the receiver of the honor last spring-on the fourth Sunday of Lent. This par-rx. ticular day was assigned for the selection of the person meriting this distinc-* tion because of the significance it assumes from ancient times when a priest commemorated the call of Moses to take the leadership of the chosen people of God. The first word of this Mass is
► - Laetare (rejoice).
The Laetare Medal dates back to the custom by the popes of presenting a pure gold ornament to the outstanding community or person for its Catholic spirit and loyalty to the Holy See. This award was called The Golden Rose, and was blessed, as is the Laetare Medal, on the k- fourth Sunday of Lent.
The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., ’ president of Notre Dame, wrote the pres-
' UPPERCLASSMEN MISSION ENDS TODAY
' Rev. John Delaunay, C.S.C., dean of men at Portland university and prominent retreat master, completed this week what was considered by authorities here as a most successful mission given to the p upperclassmen of Sorin, Walsh, Alumni, Cavanaugh and Dillon Halls.
The mission opened Sunday evening with group singing, a sermon by Father , Delaunay and benediction of the Most 1 Blessed Sacrament. After the Mass each morning at 6:30, a short instruction was • given. Every night, the upperclassmen << gathered for their .7:30 devotion which • - consisted of a sermon and benediction. -
Father Delaunay’s services were well received. His popularity has spread throughout the country by his appearance on the “Catholic Hour,” and in recognition of his missionary work in India.
" Sacred Heart Church was packed for x all - the mission services. Nearly 1,000
- students received Communion daily during the week.	.	.
The first mission was conducted the In closing one of his talks, . Father
entation speech, which was delivered by Mr. Paul R. Byrne, librarian of the University of Notre Dame. During the presentation, Mr. Byrne praised Miss White by saying, “The award is bestowed annually on some member of the American Catholic laity whose personal life'illustrates a high pattern of Catholic li' ing, and whose worthy endeavor is so distinguished as to merit this symbol.”
“The title,” Mr. Byrne stated, “of your most remembered book—Not Built With Hands—may well serve as a motto of your art., For, it seems to us, every book you have built has been built not so much with the cunning of hands as with a serenity of spirit that comes like a Pentecostal visitation upon , all who minister to Truth. Madam, you have taught that Truth is Beauty. You have captured the realities of fact and the fictions of imagination that temper questing minds into more subdued thinking, and strengthen human wills into more courageous agents of command.”
Miss White was the 13th woman to be presented with this medal. A few of the others being: Eliza Allen Starr, art critic, 1885; Katherine E. Conway, journalist, 1907; Margaret Anglin, actress, 1927; and Josephine Brownson, teacher, 1939.—Frank English
past week, attended by the freshmen and off-campus students. This group was introduced into Notre Dame religious life by the Rev. John F. Marek, C.S.C., Holy Cross missionary.
Father Marek stressed the Notre Dame way of life: living a Christ life. He- emphasized the theme, “What does it profit a man to gain the whole world and suffer the loss of his own immortal soul?”
Sunday night's sermon.in the upperclassmen’s mission captured the interest of those attending with Father Delaunay injecting bits of humor throughout his talks. ...
In other lectures during this week, Father Delaunay employed an ingenious way to bring the sacraments before the eyes of the students. He compared the sacraments to a train, the washroom being the Sacrament of Penance; the dining car being the Holy Eucharist; the engineer, brakeman and conductor'were examples of Holy Orders.
Delaunay stated: “You cannot preserve -your religion in alcohol; champagne makes you see double and feel single!”
Later he advised the students to get hold of - themselves and to see what is causing their downfall. He said, “If it is our arm, throw it off; if it is an eye, ' pluck it out.” He urged the students to get away from sin and lead the life of a true Notre Dame man.—Dick Grant
Ensign Fergus Kelly, *37, Killed In Alaska
Fergus Ford Kelly, B.S. in ‘C.E., ’37, of Hollis, N. Y., met his death in air combat on Sunday, August 9, according to word received at the Alumni office here.
Ensign Fergus Ford Kelly
When he enlisted in the Navy Air Corps in December, 1940, Kelly was ah engineering assistant in the office of the Borough President, having worked on the East River Drive, and with the Tunnel Authority on the Mid-Town Tunnel in New York. He was commissioned as an ensign in September, 1941, at Jacksonville, Fla., and was assigned to flying patrol bombers. First he was sent to Havraii, and then to duties in the Pacific and finally to the Alaska area where he was killed.
Four hundred of his former fellow workers in New York attended a Memorial Mass for him on August 27 in St. Andrew’s Church. The Notre Dame club of New York City was represented at the Mass by several members of the Board of Governors and the club later . had a special Mass offered for the repose of his soul.	■ ‘
Surviving him are his parents and. a . sister.	. ; :
11
NOTES TO YOU
John R. Rawn, 25. of Columbus, 0., was a four letter’ man in college. He played football, baseball, basketball and was on the track team at Capital University*, Columbus, 0. He was captain of the basketball team in his senior year. He also coached the four sports from 1939 to 1941. . . .
* *
Sylvan I. Cohen, 23, of Pullman, Wash., is one of the few V-7sto hold an advanced degree. He entered Washington State University at the age of 16 and earned his B.S. and Ph.D. in seven years. He was a graduate instructor at the same institution before enlisting in the Navy.
John R. Rowley, 22, of Collegeville, Pa., worked for the A—bar—A ranch before entering this V-7 class. He is a graduate of Amherst College.
* * *
Alex J. Safer, 21, of Birmingham, Ala., with 15 relatives in the Army and Navy, tops Frederick M. Coates, of St. Paul, Minn., who, we reported last week, has nine relatives in the armed forces.
if *
William S. Morris and Pete Zaley, chief athletic specialists at the Navy School, have been promoted to ensigns. Morris attended the University of Richmond and William & Mary. He played football and baseball. Zaley was graduated from East Stroudsburg State Teachers College in Pennsylvania. He is an outstanding high diver and taught swimming in Florida.
$	T
Leo Shatin, 23, of Brooklyn, N. Y., V-7 in the Seventh Company, has been
a psychologist with the Worcester State Hospital; a New York policeman; a stock clerk and an editing clerk. He attended Brooklyn College and the University of Iowa.
Another movie actor is in our midst. This one is Ernest M. Cole, 26, of St. Louis, Mo., second company. One of the latest pictures he was in happens to be playing in South Bend. It’s “Ten Gentlemen from West Point.” Cole is one of the “Ten Gentlemen.” He also has a small part in “Wake Island,” which will be seen by the entire regiment this Friday.
Cole is a graduate of Missouri University. For the past year he has been working for Twentieth Century Fox. Prior to entering the movies he was a radio announcer with Station KSO, St. Louis.
The first movie actor at the Navy School was Richard Ney, who took the part of the young English flyer in “Mrs. Miniver.”
#
Add gloomy occupations — Thomas E. Colby, III, of Rockville Center, N. Y., dug graves for the Montefiore Cemetery during the summer of 1941. He is a graduate of Hamilton College where he won his varsity letter in fencing.
He is Cole’s roommate and they have a common interest as they both were active in dramatics in college.
* *
There are two professional football players now in the Navy School. Ruey Young Bussey, 24, of Houston, Tex., was quarterback with the Chicago Bears. He played under the name of Young Bussey. He was captain of the Louisiana State team in 1939.
George C. Conklin, 21, of Kansas City, Kas., played with the Philadelphia Eagles. He is a graduate of St. Benedict’s College where he payed both football and basketball.
A hangup musical revue will be staged in Washington Hall Monday evening by the USO. Camp Shows, Inc., for the Navy School.
The cast includes the. Stroud Twins, « Clarence and Claude, of movie, radio and vaudeville fame; Wini Shaw, singer of radio, movies and night clubs; George Prentice, comic punch, and judy routine. He appeared in Ed Wynn’s Laugh Parade.
There are also the six Ramblingi* Rhythmettes and June Lorraine, songstress, who was with Phil Spitalny’s band for many seasons.
There will be two shows, at 1915 and 2045. The entire program is being handled by the Public Relations Office.
Clear the decks, mates, for there’s going to be plenty of action next Tues- .. day evening when the boys put on “Cornzacookin.”
“Cornzacookin” is the brain child of the present V-7 class for the “happy hour” which is presented by each class of trainees at the school.
According to a communique issued by the “high command” in charge of the ex-travaganza, when the corn is cooked it will present a dish of song, dance, and vaudeville, ranging from the heights of the artistic to the depths of . . . well, < you name it.
• The producer and general manager is John de Paul Hansen, of Chicago, for-merly of St. Ambrose College.
In addition, to assuming the headaches supported by all producers, Jack has composed a number of songs and parodies for the program. His hit tune (Tin Pan Alley is after it) is titled, “I Know a Ninety-day Wonder That’s Wonder- . ful."
Jack’s right-hand man is Director Fred Johnson, of Chico, Calif. Fred has played with stock companies throughout ■ the United States and Canada.
Chief announcer is Ward Quaal, former special events, sports and commer-cial announcer for WGN. He also announced for WJR, Detroit, while at the University-of Michigan. .
Master of ceremonies and prompter* of much of the ribald humor that will 4 fly, are, Ed Jacobs, of Puyallup, Wash., and Bill Haupt, of Los Angeles.
King of; the dialect sketches is Bill Keegan, of Jamaica, N. Y. Bill also does
12
A,
' some vocals of a not tot serious nature during the show.
The team of Fagan and Fall will star in a very appropriate skit which they call “Sick Bay.”
The V-7 choir, 50 voices strong, and ' the V-7 orchestra, will also be on deck.
A somewhat different brand of melody is that of the Texans, Karl and Victor Hoeffner, who are twins from Henrietta, Tex. These boys aregenuises with the guitar and mandolin. . '
Their accompanist, Tom Healy, can really beat a piano apart. Two other i vocalists of no mean ability are Jack
Murray and Henry King.
Something a • little different is the magic show presented by Jerry Matson, of Racine, Wis. Jerry has been performing through southern Wisconsin for several years.and is far from an amateur.
I It is hoped to complete arrangements « for broadcasting part of the show.
WHADDYA KNOW - •
Below is listed a series of questions ► to test your knowledge of Navy customs ! and language. The answers are listed i'*" below.
!	1. When was the U. S. Naval Acad:	emy established?
2. When’was the Navy Department created?	•
।	3. Who was the first commander in
' chief to hold divine service for Navy I personnel?
L 4. What is a “holiday” in the Navy?
5.	What are the “chains”?
6.	What is meant by “through the cabin windows?”
'	7. What is the “throttle watch?”
I 8. What is a transom stern? 1 ►
9.	What are the names of the boats L used by the captain and admiral?
10.	What is meant by the expression
“J. 0. Country?”
■	11. What is a “sea lawyer?”
I**	12. What is a dog watch?
'	13. What is meant by “dressing
ship?”
_	14. What is an “Irish Hurricane?”
15.	What is “over all?”
16.	What does the word “seize” mean in the Navy? .	.
•
1.	The U.' S. Naval Academy was established at Annapolis, Md., August 10, V- 1845.	.
2.	The.Navy Department was created April 30, 1798.
-	3. The first commander in chief to.
hold divine service. for Navy personnel j. was President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
On Easter Sunday, April 1, 1934, the —- President in the absence of a - chaplain, stood on the quarter-deck of the Nour-mahal and read the service from the Episcopal Book of Common. Prayer.
4.	A “holiday” in the Navy is an unpainted, unvarnished or unscraped spot aboard ship. It is also used when a vacant space exists in ranks of men drawn up in formation.
5.	The “chains” is the small platform, surrounded by chains, that extends from the side of a ship and .is used by the. leadsman to take soundings.
6.	The expression “through the cabin windows” is said of a man who reaches a command without serving time as a seaman in the forecastle.
7.	“Throttle .watch,” an engineer’s watch when ‘a ship is pitching so much that he -must constantly operate the throttle to prevent racing the propeller.
8.	A transom stern is a flat type of stern popular in motor boat design. Cruisers and sub chasers also have this type stern.	-
9.	The captain’s boat is called the gig, and the admiral’s boat is called the barge.
10.	“J. O. Country” is the quarters for junior officers.
11.	A “sea lawyer” is a seaman who questions authority by argument. Usually a “know-it-all.”
12.	Dog watches are those from 4 to 6 and 6 to 8 p.m. The watches are “dogged” when the watch changes at 6 p.m.
13.	Dressing ship means to display flags in honor of a person or event.
14.	Irish hurricane, a calm.
15.	Over all is the length of deck from end to end.
16.	Seize, to bind with small stuff, as, one rope to another, a rope to a spar, etc.
EDITORIALLY SPEAKING
By Ensign E. C. Dollard
“Radio can do much for the morale of this nation,” spouts a network executive. And after listening to it lately, the logical question is “then, why doesn’t it?” If the morale depended on the radio nowadays they ought to bar radios from training camps, or else supply suds for the boys to cry into. The music of today spells a shade of defeatism which cannot be excused under the .title of romance or anything else. It’s written by some stupid back-room-Charlie trying to put a lump in his throat into music.	"
Here’s the latest, published Sunday in.. a leading metropolitan paper. “Sb Lonesome For a Letter,” featuring the line, “I’m so blue, homesick every day, it . broke my heart to go away.” If that ; doesn’t leave you limp, think how the girl back home feels when she’s been grilled with “Johnny Doughboy Found A Rose in Ireland.” Or maybe; the private, a bit self conscious in his first uniform will get a patriotic lift from, “She Wore Lace As She Danced by My
Khaki.” Yes sir, radio Is certainly doing . a lot for the boys in khaki by featuring . the weekly and nightly drivel parade.
After a swell week end, lift your morale with “I Left My Heart at a Stage Door Canteen.” There’s an ego booster for you! If you still think you ' have a chance of feeling good, cringe a bit to, “Oh How I Miss You Tonight.”.
- Before you go over the hill A.W.OL. to the tune of, “When Are the Boys Down . : Under Coming Back?” send a card or sign a petition, will you?	'
Tell the song writers to cut it out or give up. -	.	'
We’re a fighting nation, with fighting men. That’s what they tell us in words, so it’s about time they stop sabotaging us with songs so gushy they’d wrinkle the bleary cheeks of Capt. Blight Fighting men are singing men, and it will be a new day before you hear fighting men go into battle with “We’re Going To Slap The Saucy Little Japs” as a fist clinching hell-for-leather battle cry..
After listening to the radio tonight, I: suspect my brother’s • in chains, on his way to the draft board, my girl’s married the local city slicker, the rent’s due and my mother’s been thrown into the street, the rain is leaking through the mortgage on the roof of the. old farm, someone’s going to get all the “roses” before I get to Ireland, and, Oh, well, you name it.	-
Manager ’'Tom” Owens
Begins 17th Year Here
This month Manager Tommy Owens, . the dynamo of the University, dining . halls, is starting his 17th year of service -to student and faculty of Notre Dame.
Mr. Owen’s first and last words concerning the occasion were, “I don’t want a story written, no'pictures, and no in-, terview. Forget it. Come back on my 20th anniversary.” After this he.evidently felt relieved and managed to part with a few interesting items about, his career. ;
The present dining hall was just being . built in 1927 and according to Manager Owens, “was only. a. mass of bricks, and mortar when I started.” .	1	. •
His work is, “hard and , long,” always -has been that way, and still is, even with the new system: But he believes the cafe style is, “much better for everyone under the present conditions.”.	.
When asked what he did on vacations he angrily replied; “I take no vacations. . During the summer we have to take cafe of the summer school group, tend to the Sisters, and to the laymen during their retreat. I can’t even get a week-end off.” About relaxation he said, “I don’t relax.”
His plans for the; future are bright though. He figures to stay around a few . more years, “with the help of God and a . : few policemen to mind the students.” - T
.	. —Vince Scully •?;;
-	■	: ' •’ B "
INTRODUCING
JACK DENNISTON
Pictured belote are Bob Dove (top) and “Dippy" Evans (bottom). Dove, allAmerican. at left end last season, will be back at his old spot tomorrow against the Badgers.
Francis Wallace’s latest line about this year’s Notre Dame football squad reads: “Watch Evans go behind the line which Dove heads up.” Adopting Wallace’s summary of the Irish football strategists we flick the Introducing spotlight on two of N. D.’s most prominent All-Americans.
First, up front into the line, where roams Robert Leo Dove, fiery senior left end from Youngstown, Ohio. Last year Dove nailed down 15 Bertelli heaves for 187 yards earning a berth on several All-American teams. Now in his last year, he was transfered to the guard slot to act as the fly-wheel in Frank Leahy’s fast stepping model “T” machine. This week an acute left end shortage sent Bob back to his original station, and tomorrow he will open the season in his accustomed spot.
A bright sun chased the clouds away from “little Pittsburgh” on the 21st morning of February, 1921, the day Bob was born. Dove divided his early school years between Cleveland and Princeton grammar schools. He spent his junior and senior high sessions at South High in Youngstown. When sophomore Dove reported as a tackle for opening grid drill at South High, head coach Russell G. “Rusty” Ashbaugh, former Walter Camp AllAmerican from Brown University, and father of Pete Ashbaugh, reserve Notre Dame quarterback, told Bob that he was going to be an end. For three years Dove faced men of such caliber as Frankie Sinkwich, now the University of Georgia’s triple-threat ace.
Bob recalls his most thrilling high school play: “It
was in the final minutes of the game against our dreaded rival, Rayen High. Their halfback started to the right for a wide sweep. It was two degrees above zero and the * ground was as hard, as a highway. I was the first South High man to miss him; but got up to join the chase, |and finally nailed him on our 18 yard marker as the game ended.” Dove’s tackle salvaged a tie for the city * championship. He merited all-city as well as the class presidency in his senior year.	-
Bunny Barrett, ex-pupil of Elmer Layden at Duquesne -University, steered Dove to Notre Dame. With George Murphy, he flanked the green-shirted frosh line in 1939. In his sophomore year the “Pigeon’s” spirited work ( gained him a regular berth on the varsity after the second game of the season. Having won two monograms 2, J Bob is looking forward this fall to joining the select group who weal- three gold stripes on their sweaters.	--y
The tall, blond senior spent last summer as a Deputy || Sheriff of the Millcreek Park Police. Asked about his idol, Dove stammered something about, “so goes the captain, <t so goes the team.” And then he named pert Miss Jayne I Kelly, his high school big moment, and a four and a half year veteran in the Dove league. To the query of, “how many brothers and sisters have you?” Dove’s roommate, "4 i Dick McCormick, answered: “No brothers, but two sisters, Betty and Joanne.”
When asked about his greatest thrill in college foot- > ball, Bob said that nothing has been so thrilling as scoring the first touchdown against Arizona last fall to start N. D. on the blistering path to an undefeated season. “And if we expect to play the same brand of ball this " campaign as we did last we’re going to have to play heads-up ball all the way,” added Dove. (See page 20)
14
V
c/${j
IRISH FACE GEORGIA TECH IN HOME OPENER; ALEXANDER BRINGING STRONG JACKET ELEVEN
!	BILL BOSS
The “Ramblin’ Wreck” of Georgia Tech will chug into South Bend next week with the strongest Yellowjacket eleven that Coach Bill Alexander has seen on Grant Field since his 1928 National Championship squad.

Tomorrow, Tech will parade its great horde of sprint backs against Jack Meagher’s Auburn Tigers. A preliminary display of the Notre Dame attack as taught by Meagher would have been welcomed by the wily Georgia mentor in past years in the advent of the Notre Dame skirmish, but not this fall. Tech’s initial T-formation baptism will take place in the shadows of Notre Dame stadium. The “T” will be manned by one Angelo Bertelli as the Irish drive forward in an attempt to string their line of .five victories over Tech in the last five times to the sixth degree. In his 23-year regime at the Georgia school Coach Alexander has seen his representatives lean to victory against Notre Dame but once in 12 tries.
All the peaches in Georgia shrivel these days when the name of the great casting ace, Bertelli, is sounded. Last year’s 20-0 stinging defeat by the Irish is still felt in the warm corners of Grant Field. Bertelli heaved a battery of passes that accounted directly for two Notre Dame scores and indirectly for most of the gains that the Irish accumulated in the Atlanta stronghold. A solid line flattened the Irish driving attack and Notre Dame took to the air to score their touchdowns on three remarkable aerial spurts.
Af-
To offset Georgia’s ladened fear of the Irish the Yellowjackets may have a platoon of backs blessed with hipper-dipper and molded with bullet speed. To bolster the nucleus of the strong forward wall that crushed Irish running attempts last season Coach Alexander has a brood of experienced linemen to care for. Charlie Sanders was the only tackle lost by commencement exercises this year. “Alec,” the noted offensive genius, will look upon one of the speediest backs to don the. mustard jersey of Tech, Davey Eldredge, to spark his running attack. True Johnny Bosch is gone but the cruising cleats he left behind will be ably filled by scat-backs, Eddie Prokop, Bobby Sheldon, and Jim Luck.
Luck, an exceptional punter, will carry on the famed booting prowess of the Southland eleven.
Bobby Dodd will carry his weight from the fullback post ably supported by promising Ralph Plaster. The wing-back, Bob Sheldon, will lace through opposing forward barriers with a deftness familiar to southern fans who have watched him the past two years. Quarterbacks Jackie Faulkner and Wilbur Stein, although lacking weight, carry extra poundage of football knowledge and will call the plays from the wing-formation. George Manning has moved from a mediocre shock-troop center last year in to a first rate pivot man and will back up the Yellowjacket line when the Irish send their power backs forward.
Although the Engineer linemen lack the usual tonnage, they are starterquick when they have to throttle through to black-out a crouched secondary. The qualities the lean linemen lack in bulk are made up by their exceptional speed.
The injured halfback battery of Notre Dame, Evans and Miller, should be off the infirmary rack by game time, Oct. 3. The tangle with Wisconsin tomorrow should give Coach Leahy a fair idea of how potent his newly installed T offensive will be. With the sophomores tested in the run of battle the Irish tutor will probably be able to revise his opening lineup for the Yellowjacket engagement. The usual bit of aerial display that characterizes .the jitterbug-play of the southerners will have to be quelled by the defensive work of the Irish if they can hope to thrash the Techs.
With. All-American selection promised, “Dip” Evans, will start up the lane slashing goalward from the left half spot. Wild-running Bill Earley will run from right half. The enthused broken-field running that Earley displayed during the early fall practice sessions will probably force Coach Leahy to match the little West Virginian against the peak punts of Jim Luck. Jim Mello or Jerry Cowhig will sink into the sturdy Tech line from the fullback way. Angelo Bertelli will doubtlessly start at quarterback.
Shifted and reshifted Bob Dove will
-	:	-I6V
line up at left end with dependable Capt. George Murphy nabbing Bertelli’s flings from the other side of the wall. Bob McBride and Harry Wright will plaster the openings on either side of center Wally Ziemba.
Opening the current Irish home card, stiffest in the school’s history, the Tech game is expected to draw a sizeable throng to the west campus arena. Game time is 2:30 C.W.T. R. H. Rupp (Lebanon Valley) will umpire, assisted by: John Wilson (Ohio State), head linesman; Capt. S. M. Bach (Kentucky), field judge; Stewart Wilson (Minnesota), head linesman.
Ghost Stadium Sees
Varsity Beat Frosh
Phil Keen
The weather was not cool or crisp. The stadium was not hemmed in by acres of parked cars. Ted Husing was not “w i t h i n the shadows of the Golden Dome overlooking the. beauti- • ful twin lakes.” In
fact, there one in the except two and some
was no stadium squads dashing
managers. However, if anyone had seen this game they would have seen the 1942 edition of the Fighting Irish humble the freshmen 44-0.
The varsity, scoring 14 points in the first quarter, took a lead which was never threatened. The frosh had been together for only a short time and did not function smoothly as a unit and lacked team play on defense. Leahy’s boys scored almost at will against Wisconsin’s style of play as set up by Bob Snyder’s greenshirts.
Angelo Bertelli was once more the big gun. “Bert” flashed his 1941 form to the frosh as he hit his target consistently for good gains. On the receiving end of many of his passes was Bill Huber, making a determined bid for the vacant left end post. Bill scored twice with passes from Mr. Accuracy and Russ Ashbaugh. The varsity maintained their unusual record in those valuable points after touchdown as all six placements split the bars. This consistency proved very valuable to the Irish last year against Northwestern and Southern California.
Bill Earley operating in the injured
Creighton Miller's right halfback spot scored a pair of six pointers and displayed a great deal of power and deceptiveness. Jack Zilly, one of the leading candidates for the left end post, scored another touchdown when Lou Rymkus broke through to block a punt on the frosh eight yard line. Zilly recovered over the goal line. Speedy Tom Miller sped past the secondary on a quick opening play for 32 yards and the final touchdown. A bad pass from center accounted for the final two points; when a freshman back finally retrieved the ball he was tackled in back of his own goal.
Head Coach Frank Leahy used about 30 players as the team scored in every quarter. The effectiveness of the varsity offensive can be seen in the fact that they did not lose the ball once on downs. Only once all afternoon did the frosh move effectively; and then they were stopped without serious tnreat to the varsity goal. Lu jack of the greenshirts showed a lot of accuracy and coolness in his halfback position as his passes hit for good gains. Another freshman back, Dancewiecz, pleased Coach Snyder with his passing and kicking.
"SCHOLASTIC" SPONSORS FOOTBALL MOVIES; WISCONSIN GAME FIRST
Breaking all tradition, the Athletic Department will release the movies of all football games played away from home this season, a few days after the game has been played. The program is part of the Co - Operation Movement which began last summer, and it is being done under the patronage of Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Frank Leahy, head of the Athletic Board and director of athletics, respectively. Scholastic’s “Promotion” department has worked out a tentative schedule of the movies, along with a program for each showing. Because of the obvious risks involved, it will be necessary to be very particular in regard to who will be allowed entrance to Washington Hall. Students will be required to present their Athletic Books to gain entrance.
The first showing will be a review of tomorrow’s Wisconsin game. It will be brought to Washington screen Wednesday evening, and displayed twice.
Times of the two showings will be an-nounced via the bulletin boards early next week.
The tentative schedule for the series of shows follow:
Sept. 30—Wisconsin game.
Oct. 14 — Highlights of Notre Dame, X’ 1941.
Oct. 21—Open at present.	‘
Oct. 28—Illinois game.
Nov. 4—Navy Game.
Nov. 11—Army game.
Nov. 18—Open.
Nov. 25—Highlights of the Green Bay Packers, 1941.
Dec. 2—Southern California game.
Dec. 9—Great Lakes game.
This schedule is subject to change.
The professional movies will be. shown through the courtesy of Elmer Layden, Commissioner of the National Professional Football League.
IVISCOHSIM
THESE BADGER STALWARTS WILL BE OUT FOR IRISH BLOOD TOMORROW.
END
(-4
SHORT SHOTS from SPORT SPOTS
Interhall Football
BILL REYNOLDS

The Cardinals have done it. The Redbird drive to first place has been one of the outstanding finishes of the always hot National League races. ... A month ago baseball followers were counting the Dodgers in and wondering if the Boston Red Sox might not beat out the Yankees and be the Bums’ opponent in the World Series. The Dodgers slipped before the onward rush of the Cardinals and. the Red Sox fell to the wayside as the Bronx Bombers snapped out of their slump. Today the Yanks are in. The National League race is not settled as this is being written; however, with a 2% game lead and only a week of play left, Billy Southworth’s charges are almost assured of the honor of representing the senior circuit in baseball’s grand finale. . . . Last April your writer said that the Yankees would open the big series at Sportsman’s Park in St. Louis. . .. Looks like he was right. . . .
Southern California recently added game number 11 to their schedule — St. Mary’s Pre-Flight team on Dec. 19. . . . The Trojans open tomorrow against Tulane and have two off-Saturdays in their program, one coming the week before the Notre Dame clash. . . . Bernie Bierman is still moaning about his Iowa Seahawks. It’s a shame; the Fliers beat Kansas only 61-0 last week. It seems as though he was worried about his Gophers last September too. . . . Twenty-eight of the Michigan football squad are natives of that state; the North Carolina Tarheels claim 31 home state squad members ; Iowa has 35 native Hawkeyes; Purdue has 24 Hoosiers on the roster; 41 of Wisconsin’s 54 are from the Badger state; and only four of the 58 men on -the Southern California squad are from out of state. In this respect Notre Dame is really All-American; there are 20 states represented on the roster. Illinois leads in the number of candidates with 13. . . .
Records are made to be broken. . . . Len Merullo, Chicago Cubs shortstop, had a poor day afield a couple of weeks ago as he made four' errors in the second frame of the night-cap of the Cubs-Braves doubleheader. What happened? Mrs. Merullo had presented the young outfielder with , a son that morning. . . . A few weeks ago this column mentioned that “Ace” Adams, Giants relief hurler extraordinary, this year would set a new record for games pitched in a single season. Two weeks ago, today, Adams appeared in his 57th contest of the season . setting the new mark. . . .'What’s become of the New York Yankee’s record-, setting twin-killing infield? In a recent.
Program Starts Oct. 4
The most spirited interhall football campaign in many a year is developing right now on Brownson field and will bloom for the first time Sunday, Oct. 4. For the past few years there has been somewhat of a lull in interhall athletics but a new era appears in the effing. Supervisor Vince Commisa, who so successfully worked all summer bringing interhall baseball and soccer competition back to a high pitch, has been largely responsible for the new enthusiasm.
Vince will supervise the heavies while Bill Stewart, of .4 lumni hall, is .handling the boys under 150 lbs. Practice started off in a serious vein Tuesday and there was no loafing. Vince and Bill, along with the individual hall coaches, put the boys through strenuous setting and limbering up exercises.
The Naval R.O.T.C. is expected to present one of the strongest teams in the heavyweight division, under the direction of Chief Specialist Jablowski. Material is so plentiful they may even enter two teams. Their, lightweight team is to be coached by senior Paul Corgan.
Cavanaugh hall’s squad appears to be equally as strong as the N.R.O.T.C. They have 28 men out including Bob “Red” McDonald, an ex-varsity man.
Dillon hall, under the direction of Coach Cuddigan will have an exceptionally strong team. It is composed of the same men who fought for Zahm hall last year. One of their key players is Tony Pojmah, who was on the freshman team last year.
Coach Dudley, Sorin, will have most of the Dillon men of a year ago to mold into a team.
Breen-Phillips should have a fair team if we can use their baseball team as a judge. The same men will make up the football team.
The Main Building will present only one heavyweight and one lightweight squad unless more material shows up. John Tray, the heavies coach, and Stan Murray, the lightweight tutor, are work. ing hard on the boys so that .Brownson and Carroll will each be represented.
The St. Ed’s team x\nll be coached by Harry Florence, of Alumni hall, and plans on entering the heavy division.
: ,.A1 Swan, the California lad and a “T” exponent, is taking care of Zahm hall and has quite a number of promising candidates out.	'
The gentlemen from Walsh will follow ■ “Red” Murphy, in the heavy division.
—Vince Scully	.
~	.	J7
game the Chicago White Sox pulled five double-plays against the champions, while the Yankees were shutout in this department. . . .- And the hapless Phils set another record. For five consecutive years they have lost 100 or more games.
The University of Iowa plans a large intramural athletic program this fall with competition in football, golf, tennis, and swimming. They have 56 different groups that may have representative teams. The groups include fraternities, dormitories and town clubs. . . . The performance of the Notre Dame men in the All-Star game was very much up to Irish standards. There was hardly a minute when, there wasn’t at least one of the Fighting Irish in the lineup. Captain Crimmins, Steve Juzwik and Paul Lillis saw as much action as any other players on the squad. . . .
“The Pride of the Yankees” ... A truly great tribute to a great American. . . . Hats off to Gary Cooper for the fine job he did in portraying Lou Gehrig. The picture is not a baseball movie in the strictest sense. It is really the life of a free America, using as its model one of the truest, most courageous Americans of all. It may not be the best motion picture ever filmed but it is one of the greatest and is one that will live in the memories of movie-goers. . . . Don’t miss it. . . .
Last year there were two pitchers in each of the majors who won 20 or more games. This season there are sure to be two hurlers in each loop who will capture 20 or more victories—Mort Cooper and John Beazley in the National and Ernie Bonham and Tex Hughson in the junior loop. Claude Passeau will be the third one for the senior circuit. Wyatt should be another in the National, but after last Sunday’s game his chances are pretty slim. Phil Marchildon of the Athletics is the only other American league flinger who came close. . . . Should Wyatt yet gain his 20th win, he will be the only' repeater in either loop. . ... And it’s no wonder that Ed Smith of the White Sox and Jim Tobin of the Braves are the only pitchers to lose 20 games. Each is the high homer-yielder in his own league. . . . Speaking of pitchers, who is the best in the majors? The argument can be reduced to Mort Cooper and Johnny Vander Meer. When he is right Vandy. can’t be touched, but then neither can Cooner. You take your choice; I’ll take them both. ...
The Wisconsin game: Notre Dame 27, Badgers 13.	.
NOTRE DAME MEN!
Gilbert’s has South Bend’s Largest Stock of Men’s Clothing
BOB DOVE
BOB DOVE, All-American Football Player, is our campus representative
FREE CAB
Whether you need —
Suits	Topcoats
Shirts	Overcoats
Ties	Hats
Shoes	Socks
Jackets	Gloves
Sport Coats	Pants
— or whether you just want to look around, hop a cab and say "Gilbert's" and the driver will take you to the door Free.
THE MODERH
GILBERT'S
Mom,
Home of Florsheim Shoes, Dobbs Hats, Hickey Freeman and Society Brand Clothes!
18
OkicaGG. Branch, in jtM&ke Jtaiel ', . .
NAVY MEN!
AT GILBERT’S LOW PRICES
Why Buy Unknown Brands at the Same Price?
Hickey Freeman Navy Officers' Uniforms
Dobbs Navy Officers' Caps
Arrow Shir+s and Collars
AND EVERYTHING YOU'LL NEED TO COMPLETE YOUR OUTFIT
Cd! Us -- We'll Deliver
THE MODERN GILBERTS '7je££(
TAKE A CAB FREE TO GILBERT'S
f
19
19
Back in the secondary one finds the workhorse fullback of last season’s Fighting Irish, Frederick Owen “Dippy” Evans, Jr. Shifted back to his sophomore station, left half Evans is set to be master cylinder in Frank Leahy’s new model “T”. Leahy couldn’t have
Short
A 1. DOUGlAS / SHOE CO BROCKTON MASS
210 South Michigan Street
ALSO FALL FASHIONS IN LADY OOUOLAS SHOES $3.45 — $4.45 — $5.4f
chosen a better “master,” for Evans is probably one of the most talented all-around athletes ever to come to N. D. Fast starting “Dippy” can block, tackle, run, receive passes, and punt with the best backs in the country.
The Irish running ace was born in
Grand Rapids, Mich., on May 27, 1921. Evans received his three R’s in Lincoln primary grades, and then jumped to Riley junior, and finally to Riley senior high school in South Bend. His sophomore year, as far as football was con-cerned, was spent on the “B” squad. He t hopped into a varsity role in his junior year, and for two years blazed across the * gridirons of the Northern Indiana Conference. In his senior year he was voted all-city, all-conference, and all-state; and received a gold watch for being named * the most valuable player in the NIHSC. - x “Dip” is the only man in Riley’s history to win four letters in one year—basket-	■> <
ball, track, baseball, and football. He became quite famous in Indiana track circles for his cinder duels with Jay Gibson, Notre Dame sprinter. He finally gave up track, after having seen enough of Gib- ><> son’s heels that he could practically draw them line for line. Dippy traded his long- J11 spiked shoes for. shorter spikes and went out for baseball just in time to help Riley win the city baseball cham-pionship. That fall, as a forward on the basketball team, he scored an average of 13 points a game in the State Basketball finals.
Last year playing in the fullback spot, “Fearless Fred” led the blue and gold in scoring, averaged 39 yards a shot in punting, and every time he carried the ball he was good for 6.9 yards average. He grabbed 9 passes for 132 yards as -4 well as returning 9 punts for 106 yards.
Last season’s Indiana game provided T" “Dippy” with his greatest thrill . . . beating his old high school rivals Pat Ronzone, Gene White, Dale Swihart, and Howard Elliot. Dip played the major part in trouncing the Hoosiers, scoring all three touchdowns.
Dippy has very little time for social life — athletics and studying occupying most of the time. One in a while he likes to lean back in his easy chair and listen to Glenn Miller or Dick Jurgens, or turn the dial to see how his idol, George McAfee, ex-Chicago Bear speed king, is : doing.
“Fearless Fred” is a little boastful about ruling the nest over at 111 Sorin. 4 He modestly claims that he is complete master of the room. Dip adds that when he goes to heaven he will have an easy time getting in because he has spent hell on earth with his roommate, Bud Dudley, for three years.	.
r
Evans has enlisted in the Army Air Corps Reserve and probably won’t be called until after graduation in May.
Patronize Our Advertisers
i *
20
I
'Wf
Notre Dame Affinity
Chicago Bears quarterbacks seem to have some sort of an affinity for Notre Dame as both of theii- mental master minds are now on campus. Bob Sny-’ der is. our freshman coach and Young Bussey, their other great quarterback, is here as an apprentice seaman in the 30 day indoctrination program. They are both high in their praise of Angelo Bertelli and they feel that with a little
more experience he could step right into the shoes of their own ace quarterback, Sid Luckman, which is certainly endorse-^^ment enough for any player. It is inter-i;U esting to note that our football captain, ft George Murphy, will be 22 the day the University celebrates the 100th anniver-sary of the arrival of Fathei- Sorin. This
M
will be Nov. 28. This year the fans will have to look elsewhere for their bacon for since the arrival of the Navy the dining hall has been converted into a cafeteria, making it impossible to serve the public as well.

The Rocknes
Last Sunday Mrs. Knute K. Rockne, and His Eminence D. Cardinal Dougherty dedicated Rockne Hall, a new $400,-000 structure containing a gymnasium, basketball floor, and classrooms for Central Catholic high school of Allentown,

Adler-Rochester Tailored
NEW FALL ARRIVALS
Pa. John Cavalier and Leo Crowe, former Notre Dame stars, coach at the school. The Knute Rockne Boys Club of Newark, N. J., holders of many titles in basketball and baseball, will turn to football for the first time this fall. The organization is headed, strangely enough, by William Seeman, who is Jewish. He works without remuneration. Paul Morrison, a former Notre Dame halfback, is the athletic director. Jackie Rockne will have to do some high class deciding this Saturday for he has been asked down to the Wisconsin-Norre Dame game from Prairie du Chien where he attends Campion prep, as a guest of both coaches, Harry Stuhldreher and Frank Leahy.
"Singing Them Blues"
“Kitty” Gorman, an ex-center and cocaptain, and his assistants, Andy Pilney and Bud Kerr,. both former Irish All-Americans, are really singing those blues this season and it looks like it is legitimate. They have only four seniors and one junior to start building theii- Washington University team on. This will be Kitty’s first year as head mentor at the St. Louis institution. The Bengal Bouts will be put on this fall instead of the usual time due to the pepped-up war program. They will probably be staged during the latter part of the football

season. If the summer show is any criterion at all, the fall show should be a feast for the eyes. Most of the boys will be in the best of condition as they are ' not letting themselves slip back into that dormant state. There will also be a new group of freshmen who will undoubtedly supply us with at least three or four top notch leather swingers. One of the most promising men on the freshman squad will be Red Sitko of Fort Wayne, who is a cousin of the former great field general and blocker who played on the 1939 Irish squad. Red is one of the most promising of this group of yearlings when it comes to passing. The Miller boys have an ancestry here at Notre Dame that one could, really boast of. Besides their father, captain of the 1908 team, their uncles, Don, Gerald, Walter, and Ray, all played for the Irish, Don being one of the famous Four Horsemen of 1924. Don is present U. S. district attorney in Cleveland; Tom’s father was president of the Notre Dame alumni association; and his uncle was mayor of Cleveland several years ago.
AMERICA’S FAVORITE
Dr.GRAB0W
THE Pte • imoKtci PIPE

SHETLANDS, TWEEDS AND FLANNELS
by
•IK
L
- HGc/te^tel
Custom made or ready to wear Suits, Sport Coats and Topcoats
The only correct way to break in a pipe is to smoke it Linkman’s mechanical smoking machine every dr. GRABOW with fine tobacco.
-3
FULL DRESS AND TUXEDOS FOR RENT '
■ »>
PARKER-WINTERROWD
11B1/* - 117^2 N. Main Street (Upstairs) North of Oliver
Captain George Murphy, 130 Alumni
Bob Kuipers, 114 Alumni
MADE BY M. LINKMAN & CO.
FOR VICTORY 3.-
NO
BREAKING N
NO BITE NO BITTER TA SU
A
,s
2t
Steve Juzwik in his first few games in the pro circle has definitely shown us that the monster lines of the dollars and cents league aren’t going to stop him. He has made several sensational runs against the Redskins opponents already this season. This may also be said of Johnny Kovatch whose first performance must have been pleasing to the eyes of the Redskins followers; it should give them a greater feeling of security now that they have found some suitable re
placement for their sensational end, Wayne Millner, who is now one of Frank Leahy’s understudies.
Returning to the Flock
Paul Lillis, last year’s captain and outstanding tackle, is back on campus for a few days before he departs for Dartmouth College where he will take up two month’s training in naval engineering. Bob Maddock, Notre Dame’s left guard last year, has been starring
for the Chicago Cardinals pro team; that is, until he broke his collarbone in the opening kickoff in the second half of the Cleveland Rams-Cardinal game of two weeks ago. If there are people who still believe in that old saying “the luck of the Irish” they had better see a psychologist at once. From the first scrim-of the year Frank Leahy has been besieged with bad luck. In that initial intersquad scuffle he lost the services of two of his key men in Dippy Evans and
TOPCOAT SMARTNESS PLUS SHOWERPROOF PROTECTION
TACKLE TWILL. . . $l«.?3
Made from weather-and-wear defying Tackle Twill fabric. Used by leading teams for football pants. Chosen by Uncle Sam for first Paratrooper uniforms. Balmacaan style, raglan shoulders. Deep yoke and sleeve linings of lustrous rayon. Made showerproof by famous Long-Life Cravenette process.
Keeps its water-repellent qualities when-dry cleaned! Colors: eggshell or tan. Sizes 32 to 44. Regulars or longs.
GRAFTON . . . $11.50 Definite "favorite” with college men everywhere! Balmacaan style, Piedmont gabardine Storm Coat -with fly front.. expertly tailored .. and finished with sleeve and deep yoke lining of lustrous rayon. Showerproofed by Cravenette. Colors: fawn, light olive or taupe. Sizes 34 to 46. Regulars, longs, shorts.
ZIPRAIN . . . 813.75
The nonchalance college men look for . an English style knee-length Storm Coat. . made of fine quality Piedmont gabardine, showerproofed by Cravenette. Talon fastener on fly front. Slash pockets, railroad stitching on cuffs and bottom, full iridescent rayon lining! Colors: bleached bone or light olive. Sizes 32 to 44. Regulars,longs.
MAX ADLER
A
Creighton Miller. Then came the avalanche: Bob Livingston was put out of many of the practices with injuries of various sorts; Jerry Cowhig, the number one fullback, has been out for quite a spell with a rather severe groin injury;

CURB SERVICE AND DELIVERY
Special Prices to Students and V-7!
American Shoe Service
New, Modern Repair Shop All work guaranteed
Phone 2-4830	613 N. Michigan
(Two blocks South of Bridge)
Leather goods and gifts for every need:
LUGGAGE BILLFOLD SETS ZIPPER NOTEBOOKS HANDBAGS GLOVES
Wrapped as gifts and • for mailing.
Hans/^Rintzsch
Shop.
138 N. Michigan
PALAIS ROYALE
presents
CLAUDE THORNHILL AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Saturday, September 26th Adm. $1.10 per person (tax iric.) 9-1-
Bob Neff has been hampered by injuries to the extent that he may relinquish his starting post to Luke Higgins, another sophomore. This will mean that in our early games we will have to depend to a great extent on an unprecedented number of sophomores. '
Beware of those Badgers
Wisconsin’s 7 to 0 victory over Camp Grant was hardly what you would call impressive, but then you can’t take much stock in that score either. The Badgers threatened at least three times in the last quarter, and with the full use of “Dynamite” Harder they would have probably crossed pay dirt each time. They also were quite aware of the fact that N.D. scouts were right on the spot to gobble up anything of value that they could feast their eyes on. For these reasons the Badgers were out to win without showing anything and this they did. The game was a vital testing and seasoning ground for their prize sophomore find of the year, Elroy Hirsch. Their Pat Harder will be on deck tomorrow, and in his sophomore year he was able to score as many points as the great Harmon of Michigan did in his last year, and Pat could only dream about the support that Tommy had. It will be interesting to watch the passing duel between our own Angelo Bertelli and the Conference’s top passer, Len Sellinger. On the receiving end Len has probably the midwest’s finest offensive in Dave Schreiner. Of course, Wisconsin has its weak spots and their line seems to be it, especially when it comes to defense. For the Badgers had little trouble in scoring last year but a tough time stopping their opponents from crossing their goal. Just the same it’s a good idea that before you sell this Wisconsin team down the river you just remember that they led the Conference in three offensive maneuvers last year, and that they have virtually the same team returning. Also that they have what the sports writers consider one of the nation’s finest sophomores.
A pass in the dark: WISCONSIN 20, NOTRE DAME 26.
To Publicity Chairmen
All publicists and propagandists of the various student organizations and endeavors who desire space in the Scholastic are urged to submit their copy to the editors not later than Monday of the week publication is desired. Co-operation in this matter will bring better results to all concerned.
People are judged by the company they keep
We are proud of our association with:
. Hart, Schaffner and Marx Clothes	.
Manhattan Shirts
Stetson Hats
Inter-woven Sox _
Hickok Belts	.
Town and Country Sports Apparel
Nunn-Bush Shoes
SPIRO'S
121 South Michigan
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONERY AND NAVY JEWELRY
Toilet Articles Supplies
23
English Christian Movement Explained By London Lecturer Here September 17
A fascinated audience of students, professors, and members of the People and Freedom group of South Bend, heard Miss Barbara Ward, of London, England, tell Thursday night, Sept. 17, that Catholics possess the answer to why the two world wars have been waged within 20 years.
Speaking in the engineering auditorium, Miss Ward said the answer lies in the Church’s pattern of economic justice and social order. Her topic was “The Sword of the Spirit Movement” which, she explained, is founded on the natural law. The organization was begun in England two years ago, welcoming both Catholic and non-Catholic interests, and laboring for lasting peace through divine law.
The Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., veteran Notre Dame economics professor, introduced the young London lecturer, who is assistant editor of the London Economist.
On Friday, Sept. 18, the London visitor-toured the Notre Dame campus, and later the same afternoon spoke at St. Mary’s of the Lake where she stayed during her visit.
Leaving here, Miss Ward traveled to Kansas City, Mo., for her final lecture in the United States. In a few weeks she will return to England.
Poll Proves Ball Was as Successful as Ever
The Senior Ball obviously was a success according to ten seniors interviewed from Alumni and Sorin Halls. Although opinions often differed on other details of the Ball, they all agreed that everyone there had a swell time.
Pen repair materials may soon
Charles Steltman, 227 Soi’in: “It was the swellest dance I ever attended. The band was better than it was claimed to be, and the Tea Dance was nice, though a bit too crowded. My girl, ‘Peg,’ said that Notre Dame men were the nicest she ever met.”
Bob Dove, 211 Alumni: “Al Donahue was good. I’m glad the dance wasn’t on a football week - end, as the team wouldn’t have been able to make it.”
Fred Hoover, Sorin Sub: “The Band was particularly smooth with a nice sax section. Lots of slow music and that was O.K. with me. The ‘Blackout’ dances were particularly nice.”
Al Muench, 214 Alumni: “It was a lot better than other dances here. I think it was better not being on a football weekend. Donahue was O.K.”
Dick Milliman, Sorin Hall: “Al Donahue fulfilled completely our desires for an outstanding band at the Ball. He played in a smooth and mellow manner
In her address, Miss Ward declared that “unless we get justice in the peace settlement, there will be another war in 20 years.” She also stated that the origin of war lies in the violation of the natural order and that Hitler is nothing-more than a “puppet of social disorder.”
‘ “Today the world is going up in flames. It is being destroyed by its own corruption and decay. We see man-made law being set above that of God and the result is anarchy in some places and brute force in others,” she asserted.
Miss Ward added: “Placing human law above the natural, strips man of his natural rights and he is treated as an animal, just as has happened in Nazi Europe.”
BE UNOBTAINABLE!
BLUE-BLACK
1. The solv-x tn new Parker Quink dissolves sediment and gummy deposits left by inferior inks. Cleans your pen as it writes!
2. Quink with solv-x prevents the rubber rot and corrosion caused by strongly acid writing fluids.
NEW PARKER QUINK is the only ink containing solv-x.
Eliminates the cause of most pen failures:
Xen repair parts are getting as scarce as '"A” grades. Pens that fail now may ]>c out for the duration. That’s w hy you are urged to take this protective measure: flush your pen and fill it with new Parker Quink containing solv-x. A sensational discovery of Parker scientists, Quink eliminates fears of pen failure due to faulty inks. Ends gumming and clogging. Cleans as it writes! Ask your dealer for amazing new Parker Quink with solv-x. Smooth-flowing, faster-drying—new Parker Quink gives added pleasure to writing.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
COPR. >942. THE PARKER PER COMPANY
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
J5f, 25$, and up- Made by the makers of famous Parker Pens. 7 PERMANENT COLORS: Black. Blue-black, RovalBlue.Green.Piolet,Broun,Red.2 {CASHABLE COLORS: Black, Blue.
Parker
QumxA' COMTAINS SOLV-X
24
as the majority wanted. We naturally • regretted the absence of a football game but even with that loss, we all had one of the most pleasant weekends of our days at Notre Dame.”
Dud Smith, 357 Alumni: “Donahue ■»- was strictly a good band. I didn’t mind not having a football game with it, since ' ' we will have two dances on football weekends anyway.”
Pat Robles, Off Campus: “I’ve seen
much better dances as a whole. Al Donahue was pretty good!”
John Shindler, 325 Sorin: “Donahue forgot his ‘Top-Hat.’ It was too hot for the dance: held too early in the semester. ‘Idaho’ must have been his theme song—I think he played it 20 times. I thought the Tea Dance was much better—better band too.”
Fred Dewes, 357 Alumni: “They should have it later in the Fall. It was
too hot. They should also prohibit ‘Profs’ from coming to class on the following Saturday morning. Gal Claridge was pretty swell at the Tea Dance. There should be two or three Senior Balls a year.”
Ray Lennertz, 164 Alumni: “The band was all right, but nothing particular. The outfit at the Tea Dance was better. I think it would have been better if it was held on a football weekend.”

Sensational new Parker "51”. A completely new kind of writing instrument. Concealed, "torpedo” point $12.50 (illustrated) and $15.
Parker
COPR. T942, THE PARKER PEK COMPANT
Beautiful ParkerVacu-matic with Television Ink Sup ply. "One-hand" patented filler. Junior and Sub-deb, $5; Major (illustrated) andDebutante,$8^5.
SINCE 1888 AMERICA’S FINEST PENS, PENCILS, SETS
■
Only a Parker gives you: extra large ink capacity... original pocket-level Military Clip . . . and the Blue Diamond Life Contract Guarantee. Visit your pen dealer today!
Speed—more speed! And whether you face new duties at college, or are getting set for a job in the Service—a Parker Pen helps speed every writing assignment. Parker Pens contain no rubber sac... hold one-third more ink than the average of three well-known sac-type pens. The ease and balance of the Parker are a revelation. That satinsmooth tip of osmiridium won’t wear scratchy in a lifetime! Visit your pen counter. Try the amazing new Parker "51” with the "51” Ink that dries as you write! See the famous Parker Vacumatic Pens; too.
♦ GUARANTEED BY UFE CONTRACT! Parker's Blue Diamond on the pen is our contract unconditionally guaranteeing service for the owner's life, without cost other than 35c charge for postage, insurance, and handling, if pen is not intentionally damaged and is returned complete to The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin.
MAX ADIER
“ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
It's Adlers for Arrows!
Picture yourself in the authentically styled new Arrow White from Arrow Headquarters. They’re tops for Fall . . . See them tomorrow.
DISC-CUSSION
Daguerreotype or the JrrowType?
Frank A. King
In the first place I shall introduce myself for the benefit (?) of those lucky people who have never heard of me. For the rest of the present school year the weekly dirt on popular music will be dished out from 206 Alumni. All bombs, rattlesnakes, etc., should be sent to that address.
In the second place, perhaps it is fitting that we should all stand for a moment in a silent’ prayer for the regime of the sweet music lovers. Alas! it is no more. Although I personally dislike any music whose appeal is based on the arousing of the emotions by sentimental lyrics, I feel it incumbent on me, out of deference to all those who do like this
type of thing, to let them know when a classic example of their favorite Guy Lombardo music is, shall we say, re- — leased.
And in the third, and last, place, let’s "* turn back the clock exactly one week and take a look at what Al Donahue brought with him besides an innovation which may, but we doubt it, sweep th^. country soon, viz., a drum solo for the last set.
eep breathely and picture yourself in one of Arrow’s new pride-swelling white shirts. They’re tops in authentic styling and sport a collar that made history. Sanforized-la-heled (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). Cost less than you’d expect.
$2.25 up
ANO STAMPS ■*	:
ARROW SHIRTS
• HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR. SPORT SHIRTS
Donahue, who is no new figure at College dances, gave, on the whole, a very good evening’s entertainment. And, although when Count Basie took pen in hand and wrote “One O’Clock Jump,” he never expected that it would be included in a “Lights Out” set; let’s chalk that one up to those circumstances which are always beyond our control.
Chief standout among the musicians was Bill Haley who played a little Claude Thornhillish at times and smacked a little of Eddy Duchin at others but always with just enough
Complete your wardrobe with ARROW SHIRTS at "The MEN'S Corner"
Oxfords, Broadcloths, and Neck-bands.
RmiKoi
MAIN AT
26
Let us help you save your hair!
Harper Method Shop
413 City National Bank Bldg.
112 W. Jefferson Blvd.
ft am t so much the hours — it's the WOIK . .
(
|x*

r
7
You said it, Butch — driving to Chicago is just plain woild That's why so many people prefer to ride the South Shore Line. It's the carefree, sensible way to go. No traffic congestion. No driving jitters. And when you get there, no parking problems.
Next time you go to Chicago, ride the South Shore and relax! For information call C. W. Veach.
Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3 III.
NAVY MEN!
Ask about special furlough rates
Chicago, South Shore and South Bend Railroad
Southshore
originality to make it good. Rudy Thies on the bass wasn’t exactly getting bored with his night’s work either. “Doodles” Bell played a mighty fine trumpet and the way Danny Young took his sax rides was equally good.
“Snooky” Lanson performed rather well but on some of the numbers he seemed to have a nasal quality which shouldn’t help him beat Eberly (not Ray) out of first place among the nation’s crooners. Patti Farnsworth, a cute little trick from the deep south—South Portland, Oregon—gave all the Seniors something to admire when their dates were wielding powder puffs; besides having a fair voice. Patti, or should I say Miss Farnsworth just started - singing four months ago and Al Donahue-is the first band which ever claimed her services. Nice way to start. She thinks that Ella Fitzgerald is tops for singing the numbers but gives Helen O’Connell the nod for commercial appeal — and Helen does have a lot of appeal with those “cool and limpid green eyes.”
Notre Dame Represented
At Colgate Ceremonies
The University of Notre Dame was represented at Colgate University, Sept. 24, when Everett Case, former assistant dean of the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration, was inaugurated as Colgate University’s ninth president. Rev. John J. Lane, C.S-.C., assistant director* of studies at Notre Dame, represented the University.
One hundred and twenty-one institutions of higher learning from 31 states, three Canadian provinces, and the District of Columbia were represented at the ceremonies. Dr. Harold W. Dodds, president of Princeton University, and Dr. James B. Conant, president of Harvard University, were the principal speakers.
University Will Offer Industrial Studies
Increasing its important participation in the war effort, the University will offer five courses in industrial engineering for war workers in South Bend and vicinity beginning Sept. 28, in night classes.
The program will include study in industrial management, production engineering, motion and time study, salaried occupation evaluation, safety engineering, and also various courses in aeronautical engineering, mathematics, civil engineering, chemistry, electrical engineering, production supervision, metallurgy and mechanical engineering.
The courses are for women as well as for men and are sponsored by the federal office of education.
Notre Dome HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS
SOFTDRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY TOBACCO PIPES
N. R. O. T. C. 4
Neckband Shirts-$2.00
Paper Collars_10 for 50c
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 Shetland Building
T. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, MJJ.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, D.D.S.
Cyril F. Rose. D.D.S. Peter J. Rose, D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Building South Bend. Indiana
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2674
27

HP- PAUL BYRN^t LIBRARY,
NOIRR DAHE, ,I^D
THEY TREAT
YOU RIGHT
They keep
KEEP ’EM SMOKIN’
'em likes 'em.
Copyright 19-42. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Our fighting men rate the best. . . .
See that they get plenty of milder cooler-smoking Chesterfields.
Everybody who smokes
you happy because they re Milder. .. they let
you know how good a cigarette can be because
they Taste Better. You II like them these hot
days because Chesterfields smoke Cooler.
TODAY’S MILDER BETTER-TASTING CIGARETTE