The Scholastic
Letters
Dear Editor:
Radio station WND, to which you devoted three pages in your October 8 issue, would fare much worse in a music journal. Every evening from 9:30 to 10 they present the Coliegeum Musicum, giving us, they say, “a program of the world’s greatest music.” And they have presented some of the world’s greatest music — in symphonic form. However it has not been as Toscanini, Koussevitsky, Walter, Weingartner, Ormandy and Mitropoulos have done it. WND deletes
movements from symphonies. They have two-second needle-scratching at the completion of every third record; they promise us Schubert’s Unfinished Symphony and forget to play it the next night; they then forgot the whole Coliegeum Musicum program on Friday, October 8.
We ask only one thing. If WND is going to play, as they say, the world’s greatest music, do it as it should be done — in its entirety. Illinois University’s radio station, WFUV of Fordham-, and the New York Times’ WQXR all do it that way, gentlemen. A forty-five minute program lasting until 10:15 p.m. or an hourly program would take care of the situation.
We heard at the year’s beginning that they would not base this year’s programming on the attitude of “we-were-
okay-last-year-let’s - do - it - again - this-year.” We thank them for their introduction of classical music but not for their unintelligible presentation of it.
Lynn Marshall Charles Hickmann Charles Breslin Joseph Acey Cavanaugh Hall
Does WND have a defense?—Editor.
Blue Circle — Two Views
Dear Editor:
The Blue Circle has been doing a fine job — but I think they missed the boat on the very big issue.
I understand that, as in past years, the freshmen have been issued song sheets for school songs. That is all well (Continued on Page 34)
v DANCE
FOX TROT —WALTZ —JITTERBUG RHUMBA — TANGO — SAMBA
BE POPULAR
Good dancers are always in demand. You will be, too, once you have learned to dance.	.
Put yourself in the hands of one of our expert teachers and you will find the sure short-cut to new fun and popularity.
First Lesson Free
COME IN OR PHONE 4-0801 TODAY FOR APPOINTMENT
Alice and George Davis
Open Daily 1-10 P.M. Saturday 10 A.M.-S P.M.
A Former Dance Director at ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIOS. Chicago
345 LINCOLN WAY WEST South Bend
Oct. 22, 1948
3
THE WEEK
By Bob Vierhile
dence hall this summer. Most students, eager to try the device, have been placing calls to hither and yon. Not only are the switchboards belching with calls, but many of the fathers of progress are wondering if this new invention was not a little too advanced fo? Not 'e Dame. Look for cut wires any day now.
STRATIGON GRILL, Thursday, Oct. 21, 11:15 p.m.—What a dull life. Art Buchtel, the owner of this Michigan St. gold mine, just took a look at my bank-
roll and 5&10. . creeping stand a
asked me to depart for the . . The hands on the clock are around to 11:30. ... I underlot of Notre Dame men come
from poor families. Are the families poor because they’re sending their sons to Notre Dame?____The clock says 11:45. . . . Notre Dame men are notoriously known as lady killers. They starve them to death. . . . Last week a frantic mother from Massachusetts dragged her son out of school because she heard they served anything “from soup to nuts” in the ND dining halls. Her husband works in a bolt factory. . . . There’s an interesting bit of conversation going on at my right. “You know that gal I was out with last night,” this one guy is saying. “Yeah,” comes a voice. “I found out she had a
have been a little below normal standards, but it can never be said that the food was not dispensed in quantity. Every student should consider the fact that he chose to come to Notre Dame in the first place. Besides, I like beans.
Wrong Number
Since Alexander Graham Bell whispered his husky voice into a pod-shaped mouthpiece, Notre Dame students have been yelling for quantitative introduction of his instrument on this campus. Always careful to make sure of the value of scientific discovery before making application, the university introduced telephones into every campus resi-
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Test
That Guy Garrity
Walt Garrity, the being who goes about the campus imitating man, has been tossing kilocycles in the direction of this column for the last two weeks. “Jump Time,” for Mr. Garrity, should be whenever he’s walking over a high bridge instead of seven-thirty every night WND broadcasts. His show, I’m told, has a .00002% Hooper rating, that puts him in company with CBS’s “Easy Aces.” You get an idea of just how muddled Garrity’s mind is from what he garbled over the air last Wednesday night. Said Garrity: “A hiccough is really only a message from departed spirits.” He was .doing a commercial for Harry Nicodemus at the time.
glass eye,” says the guy. “Howja find out?” “When I put my arms around her and squeezed, it lit up and said 'TILT!’” . . . There goes the last bus. Anyway, they don’t kick seniors out of school.
Those Parlays Again
We noticed in the papers that the authorities cracked down on the parlays up at Michigan State. The operators were fleecing the students at a $3,000-to-$5,000 weekly clip.
I tried my luck again last week and wound up with three out of three wrong. Those who run the pools are selecting games tougher than a five-cent hamburger (remember?). Statistics show two strikes against you and Johnny Sain on the mound before you even start picking. Mathematically, the chances of selecting three for three are 32 to 1.
We interviewed a vendor on the campus this week. Said he: “Last week a student won $3.50. And that happened in 1943, too.”
You May Graduate. Too
Griping, like the price of Pittsburgh pineapples, has reached the bottom of the barrel. The student should consider the administration’s position before ranting and raving. For the last 107 years the administrators of this institution have produced a smooth and efficient organization. Sure, at times, the menus
LOOSE, ugly dandruff and scraggly locks were getting Billy’s nanny. Then—he discovered Wildroot Cream-Oil and ate half a bottle before discovering that a little is all you need to groom hair, relieve dryness and remove loose dandruff. Have you tried it? If not—goat to your nearest drug or toilet goods counter for a bottle or tube, today. And ask your barber for professional application.-. No ifs, ands or butts about it—Wildroot Cream-Oil is again and again the choice of men who put good grooming first. It’s also preferred by
. goats of distinction..No kiddin! Try it!
•	of327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
4
The Scholastic
Campus Clubs
suits placed Dick Murphy in the president’s chair; Dick Frankel as vice-president; Milt Kupfer, secretary; and Ed Raymond, treasurer. The committee designated to draw up the constitution included John Whaley, Bill Reagan and
James Spencer.
Plans for the future include a Communion Breakfast and a club-sponsored Christmas Dance for the club’s supporters and friends in the Racine-Kenosha area. (Continued on Page 32).
Rhody Preserves Autonomy
At a recent meeting little Rhody’s rugged individualists voted unanimously to remain independent of the newly formed New England Club. The shot in the arm was the arrival on campus of ten freshmen from Roger Williams’ backyard. Jimmy Murphy, vice-president, presided at the meeting. It was decided to hold the election of a new slate of officers after- a steak dinner at the Ramble Inn October 27. Temporary committees were formed to handle athletic activities and to serve as hosts to * the delegation of Rhode Island alumni coming to the annual homecoming game.
Okies Hold Big Pow-Wow
The panhandlers of Oklahoma held their first meeting of the year recently with the principal business being the election of officers. Bob Skeehan got roped into being president. Joe Moran was selected vice-president while Jack Haddox lassoed the secretary’s post. John Johnson was chosen treasurer.
Plans were laid for several picnics to be held during the football season when the team is away. The next meeting will be a social meeting, and a dance committee will be appointed to begin plans on the annual Christmas dance to be held in Tulsa in conjunction with the Oklahoma Alumni Club.
Rochesterites Kick Off
The Rochester Club opened the books on the new season last Thursday night. A new panel of officers was elected. Charlie O’Brien nosed out Paul Pukish and Paul Reidman in the race for the presidency. Vic Yawman nabbed the VP post, Gene Myler the secretarial slot and Lee Wesley nailed down the treasury job.
Plans for the semester include monthly dinner meetings at cne of the local steak houses, a communion breakfast, and a couple of fostball recaps. Main feature of the club is that members pay no dues. “You can’t collect ’em anyway,” says Prexy O’Brien.
Racine-Kenosha Club Formed
Students of the newly organized Racine-Kenosha Club made their first meeting a big one, holding club elections and appointing a committee to draw up the club’s constitution. The election reOct. 22. 1948
Two thirds every college man, should know I
• This is a philosopher. Spends time trying to prove he doesn’t exist.
He might as well not. without a ”Manhattan” tie.
This is a "Manhattan” tie.
Rich foulard pattern with solid-color knot and border. Benefits from our philosophy of taking extra pains and care with everything we make.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Copr. 1948, The Manhattan Shirt Co.
CALENDAR
For the One and Only
F lowers hylFilliams
OCTOBER 22
JOHN ADAMS—Rise Stevens sings. Pretty nice way to spend an evening, but if you don’t like semi-classic stuff, meet the roomie and the Kenton fans at the Lido.
PALACE—Walls of Jericho. From the novel of the same name featuring Kansas, Cornel Wilde, Kirk Douglas, Anne Baxter, and Linda Darnell. If the drammer is too heavy, there’s always Linda. Night Wind. Hope it blows.
RIVER PARK—High Wall. Robert Taylor and Audrey Totter in a neat package about a psychoneurotic who really isn’t psycho at all. Mix in a drop of amnesia, three fingers of gin and stir well. Springtime in Sierra. Trigger, Roy Rogers, and Dale Evans all in trucolor.
OCTOBER 23
NOTRE DAME at IOWA—Leahy & Co. in an eleven-star performance. After the game Gene Hull dishes out the music at another Victory dance. If you don’t like dancing, there’s Washington Hall —
OCTOBER 24
STATE—Red Skelton in The Fuller Brush Man. Even old man Fuller got a few chuckles outta this one till the Redhead and Janet Blair got all tangled up in a thug-loaded warehouse. Tangled with Janet is all right, but not with all those lifeboats. Drop out for a smoke at this point and come back for- Woman in White. Get your coat and get out!
JOHN ADAMS—Spivakovsky, noted Russian violinist, appears with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. A chance to hear music a little better than that usually at the Adams place. Real symphony lovers can get season tickets.
OCTOBER 25
PALACE—Deep Waters. If you like sepia-tone, Dana Andrews, Jean Peters, and lobster fishing, this is a good picture. If you don’t, it’s still a good picture. Goldeneye. Cholly Chan has exhausted sons number one to ten, but eleven is strictly a comer. Velly nice.
OCTOBER 25, 426 BC. Flavius Ignus, one-time Roman toga magnet, was tossed to the lions today in Pluribus arena for non-payment of dues to the local Rotarius club. Sic transit gloria Flavius.
OCTOBER 26
CAFETERIA—Hamburger Hattie and her 6 Burgers still dishing out the post-pork chow. Roll will be taken for all Commerce majors.
OCTOBER 28
COLFAX—Jack Carson and Dennis ‘Smiles’ Morgan get together daown- Texas way and come up with Two Guys From Texas. In words of one syllable shrdllp.
GRANADA—Man-eater of Kumaon. Wendell Carey Fan Clubs say nix. Even Wendell Carey says nix. If you liked Caged Fury (Wash. Hall Sept. *47, Apr. ’42, and Jan. ’08) by all means. Creeper. Required subject for Sociology 77.
STATE—I Remember Mama. Irene Dunne with the Smor-gasboord accent was tough to take. So was Mama. You could do a lot worse. Silver River. Errol Flynn and Ann Sheridan. One more like this and Annie’s going to quit. Errol should have quit a long time ago.
ORCHIDS & GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
V
Williams, The Florist
219 West Washington
“Just West of the Oliver”
NO!
WE DON’T ADVERTISE
IN THE
SCHOLASTIC
. NOBODY READS ’EM ANYHOW
TO PROVE IT, WE CLAIM YOU WON'T READ ON INTO THE FINE PRINT
But we could be wrong—are you still with us? If so you’re our man. We thought you’d like the gag.
We’re having Notre Dame week in our store beginning Saturday, Oct. 23 and ending Friday night, Oct. 29. and to every N. D. man who registers at our store during that week we offer a flat 10% discount on all purchases.
Bruggner’s Book Dep’t. at 127 W. Washington; cigar dep’t. at 110 N. Main—“In the J.M.S. Building.”
6
The Scholastic
Ike Mte
SCHOLASTIC
Rasmussen Men's Shop
South Bend’s Best
Vol. 90 October 22. 1948 No. 5
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Van Heusen
has the BOLD LOOK!
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance lor mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
The Staff JOSEPH A. DOYLE, Editor Associate Editors ROBERT T. STOCK JOSEPH HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN._______________News
VICTOR DORR_____________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN____________Features
HARRY MONAHAN__________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT_________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER_____________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN._____________Librarian
L. A. KYSER______________ Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK_____________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN_______Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Take a good look at this
scene. It’s Injun Summer at Notre Dame
and it lasted just one day. Soon, maybe
tomorrow, the ground will be loaded with snow and you can lug out the mag and gaze fondly at the garden, spot of St. Joseph County. The truth in this whole ugly mess is that the Photo Ed-
itor lost two bucks on a football parlay and refused to work.
—Photo by Jim Ferstel
BOLD is the word — for the wide-spread, low-setting	I
"Comfort Contour” collar, just right for a Windsor knot. For the half-inch stitching on the collar, the extra wide center pleat, the cuffs. For the smart, definite yet restrained solid colors. Van Heusen tailored in fine broadcloth, Sanforized—a new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! Be bold—come in today.
Monday Store Hours: Noon ’til 8:30
Rasmussen
MEN’S SHOP
106-108 So. Main St.	130-132 W. Washington
7
Oct. 22, 1948
Copr. 1948 by Thu Harker Hun Company
$29 CASH GIVEN AWAY—for interesting, true stories about the Parker “51” Pen. Base it on your own experience—or relate the experience of some friend. $25.00 for each story used. Just report the facts. Stories are judged on facts alone. All letters become our property—cannot be returned. Address: The Parker Pen Company,Dept. S-47, Janesville, Wis.
world’s most
wanted pen
"IXTith leaders in government and business, the ’ ’ arts and professions—Parker “51” is the preferred writing instrument. Actually, 83 surveys in 34 countries show Parker to be the world’s most-wanted pen.
Here is a pen of flawless beauty and balance. Precision-made throughout. The 51’s exclusive alloy point starts instantly—paces your swiftest thoughts with ease. What’s more, you never need a blotter. For the “51” writes dry with new Superchrome, the ink created for this pen alone.
See the famous “51” at your Parker dealer’s today. Choice of colors, custom points. Pens, including the new demi-size, $12.50 and up. Sets, $18.75 to $80.00. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis., U.S.A.; Toronto, Can.
IN THE HAND OF DR. GUILLERMO BELT—Dr. Belt is Cuba's Ambassador to the United States and her permanent United Nations delegate. Like many other representatives, he used a Parker “51” to sign the new Inter-American Defense Treaty. By this pact the 21 American Republics pledge themselves to mutual defense in case of attack.
8.=
The Scholastic
*1tte Matte
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 5 OCTOBER 22, 1948
Larry Clinton Will Be There Oct. 30!
By JOE DUKERT
Semester Seniors Get Jan. Commencement
Approval for the joint recommendation of the Director of Studies and the Director- of Student Welfare that commencement exercises he held at the conclusion of the present semester has been granted by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.. president of the University.
Approximately 414 students will receive degrees in January. The College of Arts and Letters will graduate 10G, the College of Science 10, the College of Engineering 79, the College of Law 49, the College of Commerce 167, the Department of Physical Education 7, and the Graduate School 22. An estimated 600 students will receive degrees in June.
Father Cavanaugh will announce the commencement orator and the cleric selected to deliver the baccalaureate sermon at a later- date.
Semester examinations will be advanced from the originally scheduled dates of January 22 to 29 up two days to January 20 to 27. The examination schedule will be posted in a few weeks.
Following is the commencement schedule:
Saturday, January 29
9:00 a.m.—Mass and last visit— Sacred Heart Church. (This is a private ceremony for the class of January only, preceded by a procession from the Main Building to Sacred Heart Church. Graduates assemble at 8:30 in the Main Building.)
10:00—Breakfast for Class of January, 1949—University Dining Hall.
8:00 p.m.—Concert of Sacred Music by the choir of Moreau Seminary— Washington Hall.
9:00-10:00 p.m.—Administration Reception for graduating Seniors and parents—University Parlors, Main Building.
Sunday, January 30
8:30 a.m.—Academic procession — University Gymnasium to Navy Drill Hall.
9:00—Solemn Pontifical Mass—Navy
University Theater Plans 'The Milky Way'
Springing the first of its well-laid plans on a waiting student audience, the University Theater announced this week that the first of the season’s three dra
matic productions, The Milky Way, will open in Washington Hall, Nov. 28.
Since early this semester, William J. Eisen, director of the University Theater, has been striving to obtain a worthy production for the Theater’s first activity this year. After he had been foiled several times, The Milky Way was finally selected and production dates were set. It will run five nights in Washington Hall, Nov. 28, 29, 30, Dec. 1 and 2. Already work has begun as the first curtain looms but six weeks away.
Directing The Milky Way through its paces from the opening practice to the final curtain call will be Leonard F. Sommer of the Notre Dame Department of Speech. It was his production of Rope that enjoyed such a successful run in Washington Hall two years ago. Likewise, Rope was the last student drama until the University Theater’s rejuvenation brought the present Milky Way.
The play itself is an hilarious three- • > act comedy which will open the campus theater season with a roar of laughter. Written by Lynn Root and Harry Clark, The Milky Way achieved considerable success as a stage production before it was transplanted to the screen. In an earlier movie release under the same name, Harold Lloyd carried it to new heights. And more recently it was seen as “The Kid From Brooklyn,” starring Danny Kaye.
Drill Hall (Admission by ticket only.)
1:00 p.m.—Academic procession — University Gymnasium to Navy Drill Hall.	"	.
2:00—Conferring of Degrees—Navy Drill Hall. (Admission by ticket only.)
LCWBT 30 . . . and you?
That cryptic message, which has puzzled the campus for the past two weeks finally took on meaning when the sponsors of the Student Trip Victory Dance in Washington announced that “Larry Clinton Will Be There, October 30.”
CARTER. PERENICH AND HELLMUTH
Guy Perenich, president of the Washington, Maryland and’ Virginia Club promises continuous, danceable music from the Clinton Orchestra, which offers what they term the “New Look in Music.” With only 12 pieces, Clinton shifts the number and type of instruments to suit the particular song, boasting a maximum of- four singers, a quartet, two trumpets, four trombones, two clarinets, a saxaphone and five rhythm instruments. Larry Clinton himself triples on the trumpet, trombone and vibraharps.
Clinton first attained popularity as an arranger for Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey. After forming his original orchestra before the war, he turned to composing, producing such well-known tunes as “My Reverie,” “The Dipsy Doodle,” “Our (Continued on Page 25)	. f
Oct. 22, 1948
Ancient Musical Drama Opens Monday As 'Mediaeval Mystery' Plays Washington Hall
By JIM CARRIG
We had a special interview with the ghost over in Washington Hall the other day- and he confided that he expects a large turnout Monday night for the first student musical of the year. He advised that all music lovers come early and avoid the rush for this new presentation of an ancient musical drama. The program gets underway at 8:15.
It’s the “Mediaeval Mystery,” a thirteenth century interpretation of the Annunciation presented by the combined St. Mary’s and Notre Dame glee clubs. Under the direction of Father William J. McAuliffe, it will feature Dorothy Biro, soprano, in the role of Mary; Evelyn Sabol, contralto, as Elizabeth; Joseph Sarka, tenor, as the Angel Gabriel, and King Achaz will be played by John Broderick, baritone. Carl Mathes will provide the organ background and Father John Gallagher will accompany on the piano. The chorus of sixty will sing the narrative.
In that curiously remote age which lives for us mainly as a memory of armored knights and cowled priests, one comes upon a drama that is a medley of austere piety and observant humanity. It represented humanity’s graduation from barbarism and, through religion, became a potent organ for both reality and aspiration. God, the invisible protagonist of mediaeval plays, was brought closer to man through the stage. Here began that mixture of reverence and joy or of bondage and release which molded society and uplifted the soul.
As the Roman Empire collapsed, so also did the drama. But it was revived by the Church, who derived her* idea from observing the crude performances of magics and superstition exhibited by serfs of that day. To celebrate Christmas and Easter, pantomimes were enacted in the church. This was the origin of the Christmas mummings, Maypole celebrations, and St. George plays, which still survive.	,
As time passed, chanted dialogue was added to these plays, and antiphonal groups were known to sing explanations as action progressed. They were intended to teach the illiterate masses about the lives of Christ and the Saints. Bible stories were presented, particularly the Crucifixion and the Resurrection.
The plays grew in popularity and passed from the church to the churchyard, and thence to the city square. They were found in England, France and Germany, and are heard of today in Ba
10
varia and Italy. The town of Mons gained renown as the center of mediaeval productions, as the language used progressed from Latin to the vernacular. Soon elaborate costumes were provided for the actors, and colorful stage settings were used. Notably, hell was invariably represented on the stage by the open mouth of a terrible monster through which could be seen threatening fire and ominous teeth. It was an impressive sight indeed, and the peasantry experienced great emotional uplift from watching these spectacles.
Such a play was the Annunciation. Before the Mass on Christmas, this drama was often staged in the courtyard, with members of guilds taking part. In those days there was no curtain or backstage. A raised platform represented the setting and the entire cast remained there throughout the play. As the time came for each actor to chant his line, he came forward to his “station,” a raised box toward the front of the platform.
. The choristers Monday night will present the Annunciation exactly as done in the thirteenth century, with the exception of mediaeval costumes and stage settings. Also, the monotonous chanted monologues have been adapted to chorus and organ for modern listening.
RCA Head Defends Patents In College of Law Address
In a talk last week before the students of the College of Law at Notre Dame, Conder C. Henry, manager of the Washington patent department of the Radio Corporation of America, spoke out in defense of our present patent system.
Mr. Henry declared that the incentive to invent may well be impaired by court decisions setting up standards of patentability impossible of attainment. As an example of a direct attack on the U. S. patent system, Mr. Henry cited the “repeated effort to discredit patents by classifying them with unlawful monopolies.” He told the students, however, that “a patent creates no more monopoly than a deed to a man’s house.”
Before concluding his talk, Henry expressed the hope that some day soon, some great judge, speaking from the vantage point of his high office, will reverse the present trend of striking down patents and patent applications on purely subjective considerations.
FATHER GABRIEL
Mediaeval Students Life Depicted; Exhibit
An exhibit showing the mediaeval life of students from their grammar school days to their college life went on display at the library last week under.the auspices of the Rev. A. L. Gabriel and Rev. Gerald Phelan of the Mediaeval Institute. The aim of the exhibit is to show the evolution of college life from the mediaeval days to the present and to depict the Church’s part in that evolution.
The exhibit is composed of miniatures, many of which are from unpublished manuscripts, and is in three cases on the main floor. The first depicts the College of Grammar and Arts, and shows the “Camp of Knowledge,” and also tells of the student passing from the grades through the elementary studies to the philosophy and finally to the theology and his final degree.
The second shows the miniatures of the first Notre Dame College in Paris, and has the seal of the University of Paris, which illustrates the dramatic story of Theophile, a mediaeval student who sold his soul to the devil, but was saved by the Blessed Virgin.
The third case tells the history of the English Nation in Paris. This “nation” was a group of students from England, Ireland, Scotland, Hungary and Germany. It shows further' the life of the masters, and some of the early cartoons and official publications of the mediaeval universities.
Some of the miniatures were developed from photostats of unpublished manu-‘ scripts, and were sent to Notre Dame by Jeanne Viellard, a mediaevalist of considerable merit in her own right.
—Rick Klein
The Scholastic
N. D., St. Mary's Frosh Meet for Gala Picnic
Take 500 males; add a pinch of flirtatious lassies; mix well; stuff with hot dogs, potato chips, and coke; chill thoroughly in 45 degree temperature, and you have the Freshman Picnic!
At 1 p.m., last Saturday afternoon, busses .jammed to the gunnels, began to pull out from the port of embarkation behind Farley Hall. After a seemingly endless ride, the glassy-eyed frosh were disgorged at Potawatomi Park, a devilish name probably invented by some real estate promoter.
Soon the afternoon’s madcap festivities began. The frosh had already started up a softball game when the St. Mary sirens arrived in their pumpkins which had been changed into busses for the occasion. Wi'h the coming of these young ladies, the air was soon rent with high-pitched giggles as the damsels were • coerced into numberless games, softball, volleyball and others, known to the cognoscenti as “making out.”
The diamond was soon the center of all eyes as the St. Mary’s pitcher displayed a dazzling repertoire of curves and the other members of the team all proved themselves capable of a befudd-t ling “fadeaway” as well as some plain and fancy broken-field running.
What few males were not engaged in any of the games contented themselves with other “sporting” activities, generally sneaking up on some innocuous damsel and inquiring if she knew the score in the Tulane-Mississippi game. Generally, the victim was ignorant of such vital info., but, with the results usually following—who cared?
ST. PATS TO HOLD REUNION
Erin 90 bragh will be the password when St. Patrick's High in Chicago holds its bang-up Alumni Roundup in the school gym on the nights of October 29. 30. 31. The bazaar is to be held for the benefit of St. Pat's Christian Brothers. AU local alumni are invited to attend the reunion which is described as “an opportunity to meet old friends and make new ones."
Sailors Skip Studies To Take In Smoker
Tearing away from their books on Thursday night October 14, the men of the NROTC unit initiated its social bill for the school year with a smoker in the Navy Drill Hall.
On deck for the men was an evening of.enjoyable entertainment with movies, talks and plenty of cokes and smokes. After a welcome by Jack Donahoe, the master of ceremonies, the film of the Notre Dame—Pitt game plus a cartoon were shown.
Captain A. L. Danis, U.S.N., the commanding officer of the unit, started the talks off with a bang. Capt. Danis was on the airship Macon when the lightei-than ail- craft crashed in the Pacific Ocean. The skipper of the unit told of his experiences on the Macon when the airship went down.
Father Theodore Hesburg, C.S.C., then took the floor and related some of his adventures on the midshipman cruise to Hawaii last summer. Father Hesburg was the Catholic chaplain on the U.S.S.
Princeton. He also told of the time that he spent as a chaplain at a federal reformatory and passed on quite a few tips on leadership, and the making of a good Naval Officer. Also present was Father John Murphy, C.S.C., Vice-President of the University. .
After Father Hesburg’s talk, the NROTC Activities Council was elected for the current school year. This is part of the greatly expanded activities program for the men of the unit. The new members of the council are Midshipmen Courtney, Loure, A. Walsh, Meagher, Dillon, Brewer, Black, and Donahoe. Captain Jack Daily, USMC, will act as the staff advisor. Plans already include monthly smokers, a basketball tournament, and the 1949 Naval Ell. The 1949 Naval Ball will take place on Saturday night January 15, 1949.
Irish Air ROTC Unit Plans January Ball
. During the past week, the social activities committee of the Air Force R.O.T.C. unit was formed by vote of the advanced class of the unit. Chaii-man Tony Day, last year’s Military Ball chairman, heads the five man group. The others are: Jim Ford, Larry Heuser, Bob Campbell, and Tom Devanny.
An activity packed schedule awaits these future flyers. Last Wednesday a smoker was held in the South Bend 40 & 8 clubrooms, with over fifty members participating. The 2nd annual Military Ball is slated for January with Tony Ray again working as chairman for the dance. A Communion Breakfast, a steak fry, a bowling team, and a basketball outfit will also be included on the R.O.’s social calendar.
Oct. 22, 1948
11
Students Vote For Hall Councils
Amending their old constitution Monday night, the Student Council voted unanimously to provide for Hall Councils, presided over by the Hall Representatives.
These men will have complete freedom in appointing members to the Hall Councils. Their job will be to “carry out the purposes of the Student Council” and to “coordinate activities of the students in the halls.” Immediate problems arising in the halls, such as hall decorations, or misuse of telephones, socials, will be theii- concern.
After opening the meeting with a prayer. Stay Council chairman Jim Cassidy introduced himself to the newly elected Hall Representatives and briefed them on Council activities to date. Roll call then being taken, every hall except Lyons, Morrissey, Zahm, Breen-Phillips, and Farley, was represented at the meeting. When the new men present had introduced themselves, Cassidy announced that elections of Council officers will be held next Monday night.
First item of business before the floor was a motion by John Walker and John O’Donnell that classes in student government and parliamentary procedure be held for the Council this week on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday nights. The motion was passed.
Jim Wise and Jack Kennedy then moved that the Council approve the proposals of Student Relief chairman Jack Dempsey for a Navy game Victory Dance in Washington, D. C., and Student Relief Carnival on February 28 and March 1. The motion passed unanimously.
John O Donnell moved that the request for an Engineers’ Ball on February 11 and for late permissions for freshmen who attend be approved. The majority was in favor of the motion, with the under-standing that final approval on such a matter must come from the Director of Student Activities.
The final item placed before the Council was the motion by Lou Burns that it adopt the Hall Council amendment. The motion was carried, after being modified to read that the groups will be set up within two weeks of passage of the amendment.
JUNIORS!!
Junior Class President Russ Skall has announced a scheduled meeting for the whole class on Tuesday, Oct 26, at 7:30 pan. in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. The business to be discussed includes plans for a bam dance and other activities which will be revealed at the meeting.	.
N.D. Photo
Dr. E. O. Dodson, secretary of newly formed ND club of Sigma Xi. national scientific honor society, accepts charter from Dr. D. B. Prentice, former president of Rose Poly, at installation rites last week.
Glee Club Frolics
At Home of Director
Last Saturday afternoon, amid brisk Indiana breezes and threatening skies, over 100 members cf the University Glee Club got together for a picnic at Director Daniel S. Pedtke’s home. After a delayed start because of a transportaiion snag, the singers traveled north of the campus to the spacious picnic grounds.
The picn’c was a complete success from beginning to end. Since the size of this year’s organization necessitates a two-group rehearsal set-up, new and old members alike viewed this outing as the best way of getting better acquainted with each other.
The usual thrills of Saturday afternoon football games were provided by several portable radios. Then, the Glee Clubbers highlighted the day’s activities with numerous inter-squad touch football games. A pleasant afternoon was somewhat dimmed by the ankle injury received by Bud Johnston, freshman singer from Breen-Phillips, during one of the games.
A typical picnic supper of hot dogs, potato chips, etc., was served in a wooded grove around an outdoor fireplace. Like the mailmen who take walks on their days off, the Glee Clubbers didn’t have to be coaxed to gather in groups and sing four-part harmonies throughout the evening after supper. While old timers reminisced, new comers saw bright visions of Glee Club life as they sang
together around the dancing fire.
Co-Chairmen of the picnic were AI Gavan and John Commerford. They were assisted by the following committee chiefs: Ed Jett and Jack FitzHenry, entertainment; Joe Owens, Pete Friday, and Paul Owens, activities; Bob Reutz, transportation and site; and Dud Birder and Bill Sahm, refreshments.
—John Janowski
Post-Grads Toss Stag Party; Elect Officers, Seek Space
Approximately 120 graduate students got together last week at a stag party in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle. The gathering was sponsored by the Graduate Students’ Association. A business meeting was held and officers for the coming year were elected.
At the stag party movies were shown, and community singing highlighted the entertainment. Joseph Wu, Chinese Civil Engineering major from Peiping, China, rendered vocal selections, among them the Anniversary Waltz, in Chinese.
Three committees were appointed at the meeting. Vincent Giese was made chairman of one, to investigate the possibility of a permanent graduate column in the Scholastic. Father Healy was placed in charge of another committee for a monthly Missa Cantata Mass for the graduate students. Because of the pressing need for a room where graduate students might go to study and assemble, Father Healy was chosen to obtain further information on the matter.
This year Paul Hopper will reign as president. His assistants will include representatives from the Colleges of Science and Arts and Letters. They are. respectively, Ralph Thorson and Father Basil Mattingly. The alternates are Gene Voilland and Ralph Weber.
British Chemist to Give
*48 Nieuwland Lectures
One of the leading British scientists of oui- era in the field of organic chemistry, Dr. Alex R. Todd, will deliver the 1948 Julius A. Nieuwland Memorial Lectures here October 22, 25 and 27.
Dr. Todd, presently in charge of research on the nuclei of the living cell at Cambridge University, was formerly the top ranking scientist at the University of Manchester in England. A native of Scotland, he carried on important research for the British government during World War II.	.
- The Nieuwland Memorial Lectures, presented annually by outstanding men in the fields of chemistry and botany, were established, by the University of Notre Dame after ■ Father Nieuwland’s death in 1936, to honor the memory of this pioneer in the chemistry of synthetic rubber.
12
The Scholastic
Concert Series Slates Shakespeare Dramas
Shakespeare is coming to Notre Dame!
Under the sponsorship of the University Concert and Lecture Series, H. M. Roger’s Royal Theater Repertory Company of New York City is scheduled to present two Shakespearean comedies with an all-Broadway cast in Washington Hall for one performance each on November 8, 9, and 10.
The plays, streamlined versions of A Mid-summer Night’s Dream and The Taming of The Shrew, will be given on the same program with each performance being cut to approximately forty-five minutes. Descriptive narration over a public address system and a smooth musical background is designed to compensate for the deleted parts. Directed by H. M. Rogers, the production is complete with stylized settings and costumes.
This famous theatrical troupe, the Royal Theater Repertory Company, made up of Broadway actors, has been touring the East and West coasts for the past four years bringing these two Shakespearean masterpieces to adult and student audiences alike. As a result of specialization and extensive experience in this field, the interpretation by the actors is a lively and professionally skillful one, and is designed to give the audience a new-found appreciation for the Bard of Avon.
The leading lady of the troupe is Marrian Walters, who plays the parts of Katharina and Helena in the two performances. Miss Walters recently concluded a successful engagement in John Golden’s Broadway production of Made In Heaven. In the roles of Petruchio and Demetrius is Frank Leslie who has
in his background of experience several years of work with the Theatre Guild. He also planned both the costumes and the sets for this production.
Historian to Lecture On Byzantine Culture
The Department of History announces a series of foul’ lectures on Byzantine History and Political Philosophy to be held Monday through Thursday, next week. The guest lecturer will be the Rev. Franz Dvornik, of Charles IV University, Prague, and the Harvard Research Library at Dumbarton Oaks. The lectures will begin promptly at four-thirty in room 101 of the Law Building.
Father Dvornik is probably the most well known scholar of Byzantine Culture in the Western world. He has distinguished himself by his discovery of a number of facts which apparently refute the prevalent idea that the Patriarch Photius, was responsible for the Great Schism in the Church between the East and the West.
In the July, 1948, issue of the Review of Politics Father Dvornik published a resume of his findings on this subject. According to old records which Father Dvornik has come across, the Patriarch Photius did not die outside the Church, as is popularly believed, but was reconciled to it before a Church council. The records of this council have beep overlooked ever since, and history has recorded Photius as dying while still under excommunication by the Church, thus precipitating the East-West Schism. A book written by Father Dvornik on this subject, entitled The Photian Schism, History and Legend, has been recently
published in England and is soon to be released in this country.
Father Dvornik’s first lecture will be a supplement to this book, consisting of his further findings on the subject which have not yet been published. In the three following lectures, he will treat “Oriental and Hellenistic Ideas on Kingship,” “Byzantine Political Philosophy,” and “Church and State in Russia.”
Father Dvornik gave a series of lectures at Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1945 and ’46, as well as lecturing at the Sorbonne in France. He was invited to this country by Harvard University and is pursuing his research at Dumbarton Oaks in Washington. He is also active in Harvard and Yale seminars in Oriental History. The importance of Father Dvornik’s discoveries to the reconciliation of the East and the West has been recognized by authorities on both sides.
How Will Notre Dame Go?
Who will Notre Dame back in the national elections next month? What percentage would or will vote for Dewey. Truman, Wallace, Thurmond — even Norman Thomas? Next week SCHOLASTIC will answer these questions with its campus-wide presidential election straw vote. Watch SCHOLASTIC for a cross-section view on who Notre Dame thinks should be the next president. Another election feature in next week's issue will be articles by four outstanding professors'giving their opinions on how the elections will affect the country.
For student trippers the SCHOLASTIC of Oct. 29 will include full details on the Baltimore-Washington excursion.
ED DONOHUE. GERRY McFAHLAND, JACK KENNEDY
AL ALLGAIER, JACK DEMPSEY, JOHN MOORHEAD
Part of a committee of nine who will direct Notre Dame's program for Foreign Student Relief
Oct. 22, 1948
13:
Kenton Personality, Progressive Jazz Impress Patient 'Scholastic' Reporter
By VERNE KELLEY
There are some who say the Stan Kenton orchestra isn’t the greatest in the world. But there can’t be anyone who would say that its leader isn’t one of the finest personalities in the music business.
The Scholastic finally met him in the Oliver Hotel after waiting almost two hours for him to arrive from Chicago. His concert at John Adams Auditorium was only forty-five minutes away. But that didn’t stop him from talking about his band.
“Sure, this is the greatest crew I’ve had,” he said, answering our first question.
“We’ve been experimenting a long time for the proper sounds and the best way to present them. Now I think we’ve got both.
“A lot of people ask me just what the difference is between be-bop and our progressive jazz. Well, bop is usually played with a steady beat. Progressive jazz uses many beats: straight beats, off beats, and counter beats plus bongo beats.
“Another thing—bop almost always has a very simple melodic line. But we have melodies, counter melodies and dissonances.
“You might say we try to excite the emotions. Our music has life excitement in it.”
Lon? Concert Tour
The Kenton band started its concert tour in Philadelphia and since then has played to capacity crowds in New York, Chicago and many smaller towns. Sixty concerts were booked for the tour, six nights a week.
Stan believes that his new sound in music is best presented in concert form. Originally, the band played exclusively for dances, but that system became too confining when the new ideas in the new arrangements started coming along.
No Lonely Woman Here
Of more interest than even Stan Kenton to most college students is the tiny woman with a voice, 23-year-old June Christy.
June has been with Kenton for the past three years. When Stan had a nervous breakdown last year and disbanded for a few months, June worked as a single getting beaucoup raves.
She broke up a Dave Garroway jazz concert in Chicago a summer ago when she unexpectedly appeared to sing “How High the Moon” and “Body and Soul.”
Kenton tenor man Bob Cooper married June in the spring of 1947. That changed her name for the third time in three
Senyczko
JUNE CHRISTY
years. Before she sang with Stan her name was Shirley Luster, like a shampoo ad.
It shouldn’t be a surprise to us if Stan Kenton, June Christy, Pete Rugulo, Shelly, Manne, Eddie Safranski, et al., win many more musical honors-. . . and probably some for friendliness, too.
Interhall Debates
To Start Next Week
Preliminary interhall eliminations will be held next week according to an announcement from Frank Finn, president of the Notre Dame debate group and chairman of the tourney. Inter-hall clashes are scheduled for the week following the Student Trip. •
Two Notre Dame blankets will be awarded to the members of the winning team. Another purpose of the competition is to provide a testing ground for new aspirants to positions on the varsity squad. Subject of all the contests will be the national collegiate topic of federal aid to education.
An affirmative duo made up of Ken Snyder and Lee Sheridan will tangle with Dove Matthews and John Gallagher Tuesday afternoon for the right to represent Cavanaugh Hall, the defending
champions. Like all the debates next week, it will be held in room 327 of the Main Building, and will be judged by members of last year’s varsity team.
Since Zahm has four separate teams gunning for victory, eliminations will be conducted in two rounds. On Wednesday, Bill Dempsey and Charles Fahy will argue affirmatively against Bob Wolf and Howard Phillips. Dave Wilmot and Paul Wells will uphold the question against the negative views of Ed Waters and Malham Wakin on Thursday.
Last of the eliminations is set for Friday, when Bill Rich and Kenny Hoelscher meet Austin Hogan and Frank Haendler for the championship of Farley Hall.
In other halls, preliminary rounds are unnecessary since only one team has been formed in each. Campus semi-finals and finals will probably be held in about three weeks in Washington Hall.
$100,000 Prize Money Lures College Writers
The National Five Arts Award, Inc., has announced the first of its annual contests for Awards and Fellowships totalling §100,000.
Open to all writers, but primarily to those of college age, the contest will receive entries in the full-length play, the radio script, the popular song, the screen original, the short story and short short.
Six cash prizes will be awarded in each category: a $2,000 first prize, a $1,000 second prize, and four prizes of $500 each. In addition, $70,000 of the total awards will be granted in the form of 140 fellowships of $500 each.
Nat Sherman, director of the New York corporation, asserted that mere awarding of prizes and fellowships falls short of the ideal. On this promise the non-profit firm—sponsored by the Normandy Pen manufacturers—will arrange for Broadway production of the winning play. The playwright will receive full royalties for his play and for radio and television adaptations which might follow.
In each category, as with the play, the National Five Arts Award proposes to obtain professional production and publication of the most meritorious scripts, stories, and songs, the author receiving full royalties in each case. ’
The contests require a two-dollar entry fee on the first manuscript submitted, and a one-dollar fee for each additional entry. Closing date of the contests is January 31, 1949.
Information, entry blank, rules and regulations may be obtained by writing The National Five Arts Award Inc., 715 Fifth Avenue, New York 22, N. Y.
14
The Scholastic
LOL BURN J
Small Swordsman Seeks Half Million For Relief
By LAWRENCE CONNOR
The cute young lady rose from her seat to propose a nomination. She was one of the New York delegates attending the national congress of the NFCCS last April in Philadelphia. Her choice as national chairman of the Student Relief Campaign — twenty-six - year - old Lou Burns of Notre Dame. On the basis of his fine job of raising funds for the campaign last year (Notre Dame contributed five times more than any other college— $35,000), the delegates elected him. In the space of a few minutes, short, stocky Lou Burns was lifted from the ranks and placed behind a desk in the Empire State Building — headquarters for the Student Relief Campaign.
It also placed him somewhat behind the eight ball. What last year had been a big job (raising $153,000), now loomed as nearly impossible. Lou and the NFCCS had set their goal at $500,000. Can they do it? They have behind them a plan and an organization that includes 207 colleges, numbering approximately 225,000 students. It will be Lou’s job to promote drives, gather- cash and supervise it in the distribution of funds to needy foreign students. It promises to be a big job, but Lou’s friends at Notre Dame think he will take it in stride.
If energetic personalities are reasonable success standards, their confidence in him is justified. Dapper, good looking Lou is an interesting person — a college student who is wise and mature. Last year he engineered the relief drive at Notre Dame. His choice of personnel to run the program was a shrewd bit of judgment; Jack Murphy, Bill Duggan and Joe Conerty were hard working and intelligent men.
At first glance Lou is just an average Notre Dame student; perhaps, a little shorter than most and certainly more active, he doesn’t strike you as a “ball of fire” as one of his friends called him. He’s a stocky fellow with a springy gait; smokes heavily (cigars, cigarettes or a pipe); and doesn’t stay too long in one spot. A congenial sort, he is both a diplomat and a man of action. Two weeks ago he made a 5,000-mile trip in four days to prominent colleges in St. Louis, Denver, Cincinnati and New York, where he discussed plans for the campaign year. Sleep was necessarily at a minimum but his disposition belied
his condition. Said Lou in his warm, good natured voice, “We got things pretty well set up, but come that last day, I was really worn out.”
LOU BURNS
Man With a Point
To most students a couple of trips like that would show up in their class work. Not so with Lou; he has a rare gift for concentrating. Jack Carvil, his roommate in Dillon Hall last year, says of him, “He can get more studying done in two hours than the average guy can do in eight.”
He learned to cram an hour- of study into fifteen minutes shortly after he came to Notre Dame in 1940. Before he was here very long he had joined the Band, Glee Club and was aiming at a berth on the fencing team. He picked up an interest in the latter while attending Seton Hall Prep.
Instead of coming back to school after his sophomore year, he went into the Army, and embarked on an enviable tour of duty. He received his captaincy while serving with an anti-aircraft artillery outfit in the Pacific. Shortly after that he was transferred to a military intelligence staff. After seven months there, he was made aide-de-camp to Lt. Gen. W. D. Styer, who was then commanding general of the army in the Western Pacific.
Lou says of his role as an aide, “I was really just a kind of flunky.” In the part
of self-styled flunky, he was responsible for arranging interviews between his charge and top ranking officers, as well as setting up diplomatic dinners at various times. While he complains that the latter were “not nearly as exciting as you would imagine” he still, secretly, regards his meetings with America’s top military leaders and their aides as a great experience.
By November of 1946, though, even Lou was ready to call it quits. He had served 60 months (24 of them in the Pacific) and he was eager to finish school. Unlike most veterans, though, Lou was willing to keep his finger on the Army. He has stayed on reserveactive duty; he spent the last two summers on active duty in the Pentagon Building in Washington (his home town). Says Lou, “I’ve got to admit, the Army has been pretty good to me.”
Asked if he might make a career of it, Lou grins and answers cautiously, “I’d like to try my hand at a couple of things and if they don’t pan out, well . . . perhaps. Maybe, they’d have an opening for me in promotional work. That’s about all I’ve really done.”
By this time next year he should know where he’s going. Right now he is a senior, with an 88 average, majoring in accounting. For the rest of this year, Lou’s plans are pretty well set up. At the present time, he, Jack Kennedy and Jim Cassidy (they form the student stay council) are rewriting the Student Council constitution. They hope to make student government at Notre Dame stronger than it was last year. This, along with Lou’s work on the Relief Campaign and on his studies should keep him busy enough, but Lou intends, also, to try improving his fencing record at Notre Dame. That won’t be easy! Last year he captained the team and between him and Mike DiCicco, they set a school record in the foils. Between them they won 52 out of 60 bouts (3 bouts to a match) and were instrumental in helping the Irish win 9 out of 10 matches — losing only to Chicago.
When he isn’t trying to break his own fencing record or attending some campus meeting this year, look for Lou to be on a train. He averaged a trip to New York every other week-end last summer from his home in Washington. Says Lou, “I guess I’ll be doing about the same thing from here this year. Oh, it’s pretty hard work, but I get a bang out of traveling. You’re always seeing new things and meeting new people.”
All of which seems to mean that distance and time are no problem to Lou Bums.
Oct. 22, 1948
15
Knights of
Dame council. People said the idea was fantastic: the turn-over of students would make a stabilized council impossible, and the thing would die out after the first generation. But John Tully fought for his idea and won, and Notre Dame became the first collegiate council of the K of C in the world.
Unique among Notre Dame institutions and unique in its own field is the local chapter of the Knights of Columbus.
It is the first K of C council ever to work out of a university. It is the only organization on campus that offers a student full membership in a mature, national organization. It is one of the oldest student organizations we have, and one of the most active.
The Knights of Columbus, as most of us know, is a fraternal benefit society of Catholic laymen. Its members try to show how Catholic principles extend to every-day life, show how Sunday Catholics miss the point. They live the faith and set example for others. And they assist their less fortunate brothers, both in and out of the society.
Their theme is charity, patriotism, unity and fraternity.
A parish priest in New Haven, Conn., founded the K of C around 1882, and the movement spread to the diocese, to the state, to the nation, and now there are councils in Canada, Newfoundland, Alaska, Cuba, Mexico and Puerto Rico as well. Today the K of C has around
Columbus
First College Council, Labelled Sure Flop 38 Years Ago, Now Top Campus Success
By BILL LYMAN
600,000 members, 2,600 subordinate councils, and an insurance fund of over $270,000,000.
Local councils of the K of C work under the Supreme Council in New Haven much as local governments work under the federal government in Washington.
In 1910 John Tully, a Notre Dame student and now a prominent Chicago businessman, got the idea for a new kind of council—a collegiate council, a Notre
Photos by BRUCE HARLAN
And instead of dying out, the K of C grew into a permanent feature of Notre Dame life. John Tully and the Grand Knights who succeeded him laid solid foundations. They built chambers in the Walsh Hall basement and set up a building fund for future quarters. They drew interested, active members into the council. And they planned and put into motion an ambitious program of activities.
By 1930 some 8,000 knights had gone out from Notre Dame to other councils in the country. The Notre Dame council was feeding youth and spirit into many
IOHN NOONAN
i
FRANK BAKER
old, established councils that needed just that. The Notre Dame council was turning out Catholic leaders faster than any other campus organization. Some ND council members were to make their way to the top of the society: Brothers Greig-, Galvin and Miller were to serve on the Supreme Council (today Timothy Galvin, ’16, is Deputy Supreme Knight and Leo Greig is Director of the K of C Insurance Program); R. Conroy Scoggins, ’24, Daniel Nolan, ’23, and John Rocap, ’30 are state deputies in Texas, Pennsylvania and Indiana, respectively.
The Notre Dame council members had started a Boy Guidance Course that was to be the seed of a great national boy ; guidance program by the K of C. And they had other activities rolling—a magazine, an orchestra, dances, picnics, food and clothing drives for the poor,,lectures and a growing building fund.
So by 1930 the K of C was an established feature at Notre Dame.
Today it’s just as important.
If you’ve ever visited the Walsh Hall basement, you can’t help being impressed by the council’s roomy, comfortable chambers — the big meeting hall; the lounge with its easy chairs and sofas and radio; the work-room with its desks and typewriters and files. (And you might be surprised to learn that its building fund has swollen to around §60,000.)
This means that the K of C council is not exactly a campus club; it acts quite independently. Still its members are Notre Dame men, and it is in that sense a part of Notre Dame.
So, besides working with and for theii-brothers here and in other councils, our K of C men work with and for the University. They put on the Bengal Bouts each year. They hold dances that every student is invited to. And most important, they help build Catholic leaders out of Notre Dame men.
The K of C can hardly miss turning out leaders; they have a way of attracting the most active, interested students on campus. They go cut and find these men or weed them out of the fellows who come to Walsh Hall wanting to join.
The council works like this: You walk in and say you want to join; old members look over your history and what you think you’d like to do when you get in; within a week or so, if you’re accepted, you’re initiated into three of the four K of C degrees (the fourth is honorary, and you don’t usually get this until you’ve proved yourself over a few ■years); then you go to work under a group chairman to push forward some phase of Catholic action; finally, you get to be a group chairman yourself or
an officer oi- even the Grand Knight.
The Notre Dame K of C council, like mcst others, has a five-point program:
1.	Catholic Activity Group: 1-5 men who organize communion breakfasts and run the Catholic action cell (a group that investigates council problems).
2.	Council Activity Group: 11 men who organize council athletic teams, anti-communist discussion group, bridge tournaments, dances and the yearly Vaudeville and Bengal Bouts.
3.	Fraternity Activities Group:, ten men who provide refreshments for meetings and smokers; and a lecturer who provides movies, contests, door prizes for meetings, and schedules -visiting lecturers.
4.	Membership Group: Nine men who investigate new members to see if they are good, practicing Catholics.
5.	Publicity Group: Six men who put out the council newspaper, work with the Scholastic to keep the student body informed on council activities and send news to the Columbia, the official K of C magazine.
John Noonan, a second year law student from Brooklyn, N. Y., heads the list of 12 K of C edeers as Grand Knight. Behind him are three trustees, all faculty members — Rev. Thomas Brennan, Rev. Edmund Murray and Professor Robert Sullivan of the Law school. Frank Baker, of Oakdale, L. L, New York, is financial secretary.
Now in its 38th year, the Notre Dame council of the K of C has 560 members and shows no sign of fading. If anything, its history has been a credit to Notre Dame.
And it’s certainly worth knowing about.
Oct 22, 1948
17
TOM DEWEY A New Maturity
I'll Take Truman
I am going to vote for Harry, the hat salesman. Furthermore, I am going to vote for Captain Truman of the field artillery. It is the least I can do for the American flag and small business. After all, Mr. Dewey’s career has been law and politics; the sanctity of the American bar has not been an issue since 1932, and no one speaks kindly of governors except the U-Drive-It company.
I have some duller and more prosaic reasons for supporting Mr. Truman. In the arena of foreign affairs, he has taken a firm stand against Russia, a position which both major parties endorse. This has cost him the support of the left wing of the party, and he is better off without it. Aided by Senator Vandenberg, he sponsored the plan for European recovery and used the best men of both parties in forming foreign policy. In the face of this, there seems to be no valid argument for preferring Mr. Dewey’s foreign platform. On the contrary, the appointment of Rep. Scott as chairman of the National Committee seems to indicate a reactionary outlook on affairs of state. In gratitude for Senator Martin’s support at the convention, Dewey may give the Old Guard a voice in the government, a move which would lessen the chances for enlightened action.
In the domestic field Mr. Truman has proposed a program of legislation which has provoked great controversy. The civil rights bill lost the right wing of the party and put Mr. Thurmond into the presidential race. He has also tried to pass anti-inflation legislation, housing
TAKE
aid and federal health insurance, all of which are loudly approved by the Republicans, and all of which they failed to enact. He managed to get the new draft law through because of the obvious necessity.
And what say the Republicans about these issues? They promise to pass them all when they get in. But they have been in control of the legislature for two years, and rather than allow any credit to Mr. Truman, they have devoted their efforts to stalling and trying to look busy by pressing their investigations of the administration, in the course of which they unearthed the startling fact that they could find no one in a responsible position who was a communist.
To conclude, then: Mr. Truman is following a foreign policy formed by men from both parties. He proposes a badly needed domestic policy which has been blocked by Republicans who avow their support of much of it. He has stuck to his guns despite the defection of two factions in his party.
The Democrats got to Norman Thomas’ platform first, and the Republicans are reduced to repeating the same planks while protesting that Hoover said it twenty years ago. The only regret I have is that Governor Warren’s family is so attractive.
Thurmond's My Man
“The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution nor prohibited to the states are reserved to
HENRY WALLACE A Step Forward
YOUR
the states respectively, or to the people.” This is what we of the South are talking about when we speak of “States Rights.” We are talking about rights and privileges, reserved to the States of the Union, which are just as sacred to us, just as cherished by us, as the right to worship, write and speak as we please —the right to govern and manage our internal affairs.
We subscribe to the theory that “the least government is the best government.” The encroachment of the federal government on the rights of the several states is an action that we look upon with fear. We have, in the past few years, seen our fears justified. The expansion of federal powers has reached an all time high. The rapid centralization of government is now threatening to replace many of the functions which have been, in the past carried on by the states.
We consider the President’s Civil Rights Program as a drastic step toward increasing centralization.
We believe: 1) That the Federal government should not have jurisdiction over whom we wish to employ or refuse to employ. 2) That the individual states should have the right to decide upon the qualifications of its voters. 3) That we should not be subjected to a federal police force in our business, our elections, and our social life.
Our own Democratic party no longer recognizes these dangers; and, not recognizing these dangers, refuses to take action. We feel a close bond of kinship with our party and cannot transfer our allegiance to our recent enemies.
- Therefore we must assert ourselves as a faction unrecognized by our party. We have chosen as our standard bearer J. Strom Thurmond, governor of South Carolina. We believe that in him we have found a capable leader who will ably apply our theories.
As governor of South Carolina, Strom Thurmond has proved himself to be a man of vision and foresight. His administration has been one of the most progressive in the history of the state. His actions have marked him as a true liberal. His experiments in the field of racial relationships has set him apart from the Senator Claghorns of the South.
During his administration he has increased appropriations for Negro educa-
18
The Scholastic
PICK!
tion—both on the graduate and undergraduate level. He was instrumental in the removal of South Carolina’s poll tax, and is an enemy to lynchings and other brutalities committed against our minority race.
Our case is not a case of raea against race, or state against nation; ours is a case against the infringement of the federal government upon the powers of the individual states.
We know that we have little, if any, chance of winning the presidential election this fall. However, we do not feel that our effort is in vain. At best, we hope to gain the balance of power in the electoral college. If this is the case we feel that we will be instrumental in naming the next president of the United States, and in deciding his policies. At worst, we will have made the people of this nation aware of our objections; and this we feel is a noble end in itself.
Dewey Gets My Vote
Tom Dewey’s getting my vote next month and here’s why.
In 1944, looking toward 1948, the Republican Party- nominated Thomas E. Dewey, the Governor of New York. The party expected him to lose, but to put on a good show. Though he was a cold campaigner, who made many mistakes, and looked like a CYO boxer suddenly thrown into the pro ranks, Dewey did put on that good show. Sincere and straight forward, he pulled no punches, all straight to the point, and none below the belt. But with the party, Dewey looked ahead to 1948.
The big year for the Republican party and Tom Dewey is here. That’s why the Dewey political organization has been stumping the nation for two years. This is why Herbert Brownell has been plotting strategy. This is why Dewey forces smashed through all opposition at Philadelphia. This year, Mr. Dewey isn’t just a candidate — he’s the next president of the United States.
What kind of a man is this Dewey — organizer, candidate and next president?
As an organizer Tom Dewey has probably few equals in the political field. Government to Dewey is a business and he runs it accordingly. Surrounding him in the State capitol at Albany are a group of young, hustling experts, Paul
[] DEWEY [] TRUMAN [] WALLACE [] THURMOND
Lockwood, Herbert Brownell, John Russell Sprauge, Edwin Jaeckle, John Foster Dulles, Elliott Bell, Roger Straus and John E. Burton — all outstanding men in their fields. Most of them have given up lucrative positions to join Dewey in his diive for better government. All of them make up what the Republican standard bearer likes to call “the Dewey team.” He consults them regularly and listens openly to their opinions. They have a tremendous influence over him but they do not dictate to him. Tom Dewey makes all the decisions, takes all the responsibility. As a result he has presented New York State with its finest chief executive in its long history. He has completed the job of clearing up the mess left by a predecessor — Franklin D. Roosevelt. He has cleared up the budget, put the state in the black, insured his people protection against the lifting of rent ceilings, and has given veterans the finest housing program of any state in the union. He has done all this because Tom Dewey knows how to run big business and government is big business.
As a candidate Tom Dewey has gained a new maturity, a new sense of the people, a refreshing warmth that was so pointedly lacking in ’44. He has toured
Timt
STROM THURMOND Not a Claghom
PRESIDENT TRUMAN A Bi-Partisan Policy
the country speaking quietly and effectively on the broad and basic issues facing the nation. He has neither ranted nor raved nor has he played his theme song on emotional heartstrings. He has gained friends everywhere and he has inspired confidence in himself and in his party because of the confidence he has in himself.
As the next president, Tom Dewey is of course an unknown. There are no criteria except to judge his past record, his character, and his platform. We know he would make a sincere and honest president — that’s just the kind of a man he’s always been. We know he would have a clear understanding of all the problems and hopes of the leading interests of the country. He knows big business thoroughly, knows what they want and how far they should go. He knows the farmer—he’s one himself and a good one. He knows what the laboring man wants and if you don’t think so look at the labor record of New York. On foreign policy he has shown, through his statements and those of his foreign advisor, Mr. Dulles, that he will never allow his Republican Administration to slide back into the old isolationist rut. He is a progressive looking administrator with the right balance of maturity.
Tom Dewey has been a remarkable organizer, a fine campaigner and he will be a great president. That’s why he gets my vote in November.
How About Wallace?
The Progressive Party was conceived in the hope of salvaging the social, political, and economic program of the late Franklin D. Roosevelt. This was the program so quickly repudiated by an
Oct. 22, 1948
19
onslaught waged against it by vested interest groups, and because of the narrow vision and ineptitude of his successors.
In founding this new party, Nominee Henry A. Wallace pointed out that the bi-partisan policies of the present administration have reached such a state as to make the historical distinction between the Democratic and Republican parties a mere sham; that both parties stand, generally speaking, for the same reactionary policies and the same cater-
ing to the wishes of monopoly business groups. Hence we need a forward-looking third party, unhampered by political and business committments.
Unfortunately, the American press has not, on the whole, dealt fairly with the program and the beliefs of the Progressive Party candidate. Often they say that Henry A. Wallace is against the Marshall Plan. This is true. But with the help of the press it has come to seem that Mr. Wallace is against any form of aid to Europe. Actually, Wal-
&t. John’s;
^c^ool of Uato
.Approved by the American Bar Association. Member of the Association of American Law Schools..
Three-year day and four-year evening, courses leading to degree LL.B. (Summer Sessions conducted)
Students are admitted to the School of Law in September and February.
Candidates for the February 1949 Class are required to register for the Law School Admission Test prior to November 6, 1948.
REGISTRAR:	96 Schermerhorn St.
Brooklyn 2, New York
Chicken-in-the-Rough
Steaks — Chops — Sea Food — Chicken
Open 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Closed Mondays
213 North Main St.
“Nabicht’s — South Bend's Oldest Catering Family"
lace is very much in favor of a genuine aid program for Europe (it is a part of the party platform). He feels, however, that the administration, in fostering the Marshall Plan has, (in human terms), committed the greatest “treason” by doing the right thing for the wrong reason; that is, by fostering an aid program which subjects the recipient countries to the fickle patronage of the politicians and businessmen who control the program. Mr. Wallace is for an aid program administered through the United Nations, without political conditions and without abetting, in its course, the economic imperialism of Big Business.
Wallace, American big business press notwithstanding, is not the impractical confused (“however well-meaning,” as they so patronizingly say) thinker that he is made out to be. He has amply demonstrated in his work as Secretary of Agriculture that he is an astute administrator, with a large amount of social, political and economic sense. Wallace’s program for the farmers, which helped pull farmers out of the miseries of the depression, was so sound that it still stands as a monument to his ability and good judgment.
Wallace believes that the administration has not made a genuine effort to come to an understanding with Russia, and that we must, if we are to achieve the peace for which we all hope, find areas of agreement with the Soviet' Union. However, he does not believe in appeasement, but would accomplish his purpose through a revitalized and greatly strengthened United Nations.
The Progressive Party has spoken in concrete terms of what they propose to do, and of what their party stands for. One of the major tenets of the party platform is the repeal of the repressive Taft-Hartley Act. The third party believes in the further strengthening of government regulations over business; that the people should, through their democratically elected representatives, take control of the main levers of the economic system, so that a more equitable distribution of wealth could be secured. Othei- major points in the Progressive platform are: world disarmament through the United Nations: restoration of price controls and roll-back of prices; laws against poll taxes, Ivnchings, segregation and discrimination; long range housing program; national health insurance laws, repeal of the peace-time draft.
Purnoseful and deeply meant, the program of Henry A. Wallace and the Progressive Party carries forward the policies of Franklin D. Roosevelt and the aspirations of Wendell Willkie and holds forth the promise of a reborn democracy ready to play its part in one world.
20
The' Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC SCCRTT
Jinx Team Will Try Again Tomorrow
Cagers Have Practice For24-Game Season
December 8 may seem a long way off, but Coach Ed Krause conducted special calisthenics for “fat men” as the Notre Dame cagers opened practice at the Fieldhouse last week. It will be no time for excess poundage that day when the Irish take off on a rugged 24-game schedule by entertaining ever-strong Illinois.
With a refinished hardwood and half a dozen crisp new basketballs, Moose started the sessions in proper style. But he possessed more than good equipment —he had eight returning lettermen, all of last season’s starting five and 13 other eager squadmen.
Although the schedule is tough, the tremendous scoring potential could enable the boys to surpass last year’s mark of 17 wins and 7 setbacks. Ue-covered from a broken arm that limited his playing in 1947-48, lanky John Brennan, top scorer two years ago, should be as good as ever. And Leo Barnhorst and Kevin O’Shea will do plenty of scoring too. .
While O’Shea was gathering AllAmerica laurels, big “Barney” walked off with the scoring title, bagging 290 points and hitting on 40 per cent of his shots. The amazing O’Shea can be counted upon to befuddle opponents with his one-handed push shots and his dribbling magic. Kevin had 265 markers in 1947-48.
Paul Gordon, starting his fourth season here, will be at one of the guards, with speedy Jim O’Halloran in at forward. Big John Foley, Dick Kluck and Frank Kaufman are other lettermen back.
Disappointed over the failure of All-American Vince Boryla to return after his term in the army, Krause also lost two standout freshmen in Dan Bagley and Bill McGee. Bagley was declared ineligible and McGee transferred to Texas.
After tangling with the Illini, the Irish play at home against Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Denver (with Boryla), Butler, Marquette, DePaul, Michigan State and St. Louis.
EARL BANKS
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS
NOTRE DAME		IOWA
Martin 		_.E		_ McKenzie
McGehee		_..T			Winslow
Fischer 		_G			 Grothus
Walsh 		...C		_ Woodard
Wendell	...	...G			 Banks
Fallon		_.T			Kay
Hart 		...E			Dittmer
Tripucka 		-Q —			DiMarco
Brennan<		H 			Halliburton
Sitko, 		H			 Faske
Pahelli 'J.		...F			 Tedore
Irish Again Favored In Hawkeye Battle
By RALPH WRIGHT
Again heavily favored, Notre Dame returns to the corn lands for the second consecutive week when it plays Iowa at Nile Kinnick Stadium tomorrow. But the husking should be a little more difficult than it was against Nebraska last Saturday, and the name of Kinnick should remind the Irish that Dr. Eddie Anderson’s teams have a flair for upsetting unbeaten Irish squads.
In 1939, the great Kinnick scored all the points as the Hawks ruined a perfect Irish record with a 7-6 win. To prove lightning can strike twice in the same place, they did it again in 1940 when the Irish were on the way to a National title. However, the last three years Notre Dame has won easily, rolling up 118 points while blanking the lowans. The series now stands at three victories each.
This season, Iowa opened with an unimpressive, last quarter triumph over Marquette, 14 to 12, then dropped a 7 to 0 decision to Indiana the next week. The Hawkeyes followed with a 14 to 7 upset of strong Ohio State, but were lucky to hold resurgent Purdue to a 20-13 score last Saturday.
DiMarco Leads Iowa Attack
Twenty-three lettermen give Iowa plenty of experience, but the loss of the Shoener brothers, twin ends, and Em Tunnell has hurt the offense. Once again little Al DiMarco’heads the attack. The pass-pitching senior hurled for 644 yards and nine TD’s last season and has accounted for 379 yards this year on 25 completions in 63 tosses.
Aiding the air arm is right halfback Jerry Faske, one of the Big Nine’s best ground gainers. A high school sprinter, the 185 pound sophomore furnishes the backfield speed needed so badly in the past. “The Kid from Brooklyn” has a big lead in conference kickoff return yardage and has been one of DiMarco’s chief receivers. Other starting backs are veteran John Tedore at fullback and
Oct. 22, 1948
21
left halfbacks Jim Haliburton and Bob Longley.
Although right end Jack Dittmer weighs only 165 pounds, the huge Hawkeye line averages 203, Center Dick Woodard, 220 pound heavyweight wrestler, shone in the first four encounters, but no pivot man could give the Irish more trouble than Nebraska’s Tom Novak did last week. At right guard, chunky Earl Banks was AA-Conference two years ago and played great ball here in the ’47 game.
Iowa operates from the T with DiMarco under the center. But they used the single wing to good advantage several times in last season’s game. The scoring has been evenly divided, no player having tallied twice. Ron Headington does the extra-point converting.
Panelli in High Gear
Notre Dame survived the Nebraska battle without any serious injuries and was able to rest the ailing. Meanwhile “Pep” Panelli’s tremendous fullbacking was making him a leading contender for All-America honors along with Fischer, Wendell and Hart.
Bill Gay took over Coy McGee’s job as punt return specialist and hauled one back for 64 yards against the Corn-huskers. Only Dick Hutton’s speed (9.7 for the hundred) kept Gay from going all the way.
For Nebraska, monstrous Charley Too-good and Tom Novak performed wonders on defense, the latter practically assuring himself a spot on the Irish All-Opponents team again. ' Small Cletus Fischer scored both Husker touchdowns and ran and passed brilliantly.
Keglers Contemplate Joining New Intercollegiate League
An announcement that Notre Dame may participate in an intercollegiate bowling league featured the inaugural meeting of the Kampus Keglers in the Law Auditorium last week.
President Ernie Huffman of the Keglers said that Coach Ed Krause, Assistant Director of Athletics, was in favor of a local entry in the league. A decision will be made at the next meeting of the athletic board. Meanwhile the American Bowling Congress has assured the interested teams that their league will be the first intercollegiate league ever sanctioned.
Besides Notre Dame, other schools at the October 23 conference in Valparaiso who have agreed to participate are St. Joseph’s, Valparaiso, DePaul, Loyola and Illinois Tech. Our home alleys would be at the Bowl-Mor with all matches being rolled on Saturday afternoon and evening.
If an official Irish team is approved, a call will be issued for any students wishing to try out. The varsity squad of seven to ten men will be selected on the basis of the highest averages computed in at least 15 official qualifying games.
As for the regular Notre Dame club competition, the energetic Huffman already has the Bowl-Mor reserved and play begins on Sunday, November 21. He expects 36 teams to vie for the cash prizes and trophies. Last year the Keglers gave away $500. With the old handicap rule still in effect, the two-division league should offer a close race. The first two games bowled will determine a bowler’s handicap for the entire season.
Notre Dame Harriers Meet U. of Iowa Next
Still smarting from the decisive defeat suffered at the hands of Wisconsin’s harriers last Saturday, the cross country runners of Notre Dame will endeavor to regain the victory path when they encounter the Hawkeye runners of Iowa tomorrow on the Iowa City course.
The 18 to 38 triumph of the Badgers was the first a Wisconsin group has dealt to the Irish in the past three seasons, and the first sustained by Notre Dame since Michigan State turned the trick 27 to 28 late in 1946. Don Gehr-man, Western Conference mile champ paced the victorious scarlet-clad runners, and he was followed by two of Wisconsin’s ace sophomore runners. Jim Urquhart and Dick Randolph.
Iowa was defeated by a strong Purdue ’ squad last Saturday 21 to 34. The Irish whipped the Hawkeyes last year on the Notre Dame course, and the Iowa aggregation is seeking to avenge the defeat. Notre Dame will meet the powerful Purdue group early in November when the Boilermakers come here for the Indiana State meet.
Jim Kittell was the first Irish runner to score in the meet at Madison last week. He was fourth. Fifth place went to Weeks of Wisconsin and then Jim Murphy the Notre Dame runner favored to make a battle of it with Gehrman took sixth. The other Notre Dame scorers were Lou Lepry, 8th; Bill Leonard, 9th; and Lou Tracy 11th.
The runners coached by “Doc” Handy will have to do well in the Iowa meet to prepare for the five-mile run against Navy and Villanova on Oct. 30.
PANELLI GETS FIVE YARDS	COUTRE GETS SIX POINTS
22
The Scholastic
LEN KROLL
A Short Rest
Len Kroll Injured; Must Rest Until February
Injuries were costly to the Irish grid machine last week and part of the charge was the loss of Len Kroll, one of the most promising sophomore halfbacks on the squad. Kroll, an import from Boys Town, Nebraska, suffered a brain concussion in a game against the Purdue “B” team and was forced to drop out of school for the! rest of the semester.
Len sparked the Irish “B” eleven in its win over the Boilermakers, scoring two of the victor’s three touchdowns and displaying brilliant broken field running in returning a Purdue punt some 70 yards to set up his second tally. He set an athletic record at Boys Town, earning ten letters in football, basketball, track and baseball.
His injuries caused recurrent headaches. Doctors advised him to quit school and rest for a couple of months. Len made the trip to Boys Town with the varsity traveling squad last week and hopes to be able to return to school in February.
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
RUSHING
	Times Carried	Net Yds. Gained	Avg. Gain
Spaniel 			 4	56	14.0
Panelli 			 36	283	7.9
Coutre 			 11	68	6.2
Brennan 			 23	137	6.0
Sitko			 61	352	5.8
Landry 				 25	121	4.9
Gay 			 19	87	4.6
SPLINTERS from the Press Box By Harry Monahan
Challenge
. . . any Saturday, any season.” F. Leahy
Apologies and Alibis
For two years there have been complaints that the interhall sports program has been publicity-starved. With the opening games of this year’s campus grid ■ play the complaints have started again. Today we hope to begin correcting that fault.
Unfortunately the interhall schedule itself is the biggest obstacle to complete Scholastic coverage. Our deadline is Tuesday night, while the games are played on Wednesday and Thursday afternoons. All of our reports, therefore, will be ten days old. There is nothing we can do to correct this.
Sometimes the very volume of inter-hall sports news is a handicap. This will be especially true during the spring when five varsity teams will also be in action. Despite these obstacles we will try to give interhall athletics the coverage they deserve.
Musings at Halftime
Was it just accidental that Pete Ashbaugh showed up on Cartier Field last week? It was a happy coincidence then that the weak Irish aerial defense should get some help from the best defensive back Notre Dame has produced in several years. Nebraska only completed 6 out of 16 aerials attempted last Saturday. . . For those who like comparative scores: Michigan plays five teams that are on the Irish schedule. The remaining four Wolverine foes tangle with eight teams that are on the Irish schedule. Slide rule manufacturers should show big profits this year. . . “Pep” Panelli likes to do it the hard way. Both of his scores have been on 70-yard runs. None of those easy two yards plunges for him. . . . Who is the new basketball 'captain? Let’s lift the iron curtain, Coach Krause.
Jackrabbit Shackled
An unknown Notre Dame freshman accomplished what our opponents have been trying to do for three years—he
stopped Coy McGee. The Texas speedster has played his last game for the Irish. He suffered fractures of the left leg and foot in the last ten minutes of practice prior to the team’s departure for Nebraska. As an unknown “B” team halfback he earned a varsity berth and headlines by scoring two touchdowns in the 1946 Trojan game. Since then Coy has been Leahy’s psychological weapon. While the opposing team has been cover-
COY McGEE Jackrabbit Snared
ing him like a tent, the other Irish backs have been sneaking downfield for large gains. The climax was in the Michigan State game two weeks ago when three Spartans hit Coy as he came through center, only to find that Swistowicz had run the right flank for the score. The crowd will miss his pre-punt gymnastics and the Irish eleven has lost a fighting halfback.
■ Prediction of the Week
Here comes the jinx team again. DiMarco will pass, and pass, and pass, but he won’t get much more than a sore arm. Notre Dame 35, Iowa 7.
PASSING
Passes Passes Net Yds. Att. Comp. Gained Pet.
Williams .... 1	1	14 . 1.000
Tripucka ....48	31	319	.646
Oct. 22, 1948
23
Blunder
Life
As about fifty thousand football fans have probably informed its editors by this time, LIFE magazine pulled a terrible rock last week. For their picture of the week they used this one, claiming that the Holy Cross players were greatly ashamed of themselves for not downing their own punt on Georgetown's one-yard line, thus permitting it to roll over the goal
Bowlers!
Be Sure to Start Your League Bowling Right! Get a Custom-Fitted MANHATTAN Bowling Ball Today
We carry a complete line of bowling shoes and bags. We will gladly give estimates on team bowling shirts.	s
SONNEBORN'S
SPORT SHOP
121 West Colfax Avenue Phone 3-3702
and be brought out to the twenty. Actually, of course, you can't down a punt inside the ten. Michigan State tried it a few weeks ago, and the refs promptly brought the ball out anyhow.
Glass Ball Football Experts Predict Hawkeyes1 Defeat
“We’ll plow them under,” was the concensus of opinion of Notre Dame students when asked to forecast the outcome of the Iowa fray tomorrow afternoon.
Lou Gieselman, Sorin — “We’ll take them by 21 points. They eat too much corn out there.”
Jim Higgins, Farley—ND 40, Iowa 0.
SPALDING
..VOUR-XN THETIRST TWEINE .MINUTES’/
COME TO ME ARMS YABEAunnn. DAWN/r
IN THE 1^24 ILLINOIS-MICHIGAN GAME
RED GRANGE ■Pirros tootbalLS
GREATEST ONE-MAN DEMONSTRATION..-HE CARRIED THE BALL EXAcrnr five times AND SCORED EXACITY FWE TOTCHDOVJN5/
THE BALL THAT GETS THE CALL IN AMERICA'S LEADING GRIDIRON CLASSICS AND IN MOST OF THE ANNUAL BOWL GAMES..
-Qj'COACM
GRANGE.'"
Mtfc SDMEKUM*
THE FAMOUS SPALDING J5-V
w---z—!—
“With compliments to my friends from Iowa, I know they can’t do anything against us.”
Joe Fahey, Walsh—ND 28, Iowa 6. “If the officials don’t outgain us on the ground again.”
Eon Zier, Farley — ND 28, Iowa 0. “Leahy will be keeping them under wraps.”
Joe Lotta, Farley — ND 27, Iowa 7-“Iowa was lucky against Ohio State but they won’t be lucky when they play us.”
Bob Campbell, Sorin—ND 26, Iowa 6. “Iowa has been in and out this year and they’re going to be out against us.”
Pat Caraher, St. Ed’s—ND 28, Iowa 6. “They’ve got a big line but ours is bigger and tougher.”
24
The Scholastic
LCWBT and You
(Continued from Page 9)
Love,” “Satan Takes a Holiday” and “Study in Brown.” After six years in the Air Force, he returned to the band stand with his new idea for “New Look Music,” displaying the unique style at the Meadowbrook, Hotel New Yorker and the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York.
Featured vocalists with the Clinton Clan are Patti Dugan, Dick Styles, Lloyd Strang and the “Dipsy Doodlers.”
Along with' the announcement of the band, the moguls behind the scenes of the dance opened their bag of tricks and pulled forth a whole raft of details about the affair, scheduled for Washington’s huge Uline Arena Saturday night from 9 to 1.
Harry Wismer, nationally noted sports announcer and commentator, will act as master of ceremonies. Arthur Godfrey, who has plugged the dance on his daily radio program over a countrywide network, will also be there to entertain the 4,000 couples expected to attend. Secretary of the Navy Sullivan and many other celebrities, including several Broadway and Hollywood stars, will be present.
Selections by members of the Notre Dame Glee Club and the “Five Chimes” of Georgetown University, and a skit by the Georgetown “Flask and Bottle” players will be featured during intermission.
Trophies will be presented to the most valuable players for Notre Dame and Navy, as selected by a board of sports writers and announcers during the afternoon’s game in Baltimore.
The nation’s capital itself has gone all out to make the week end enjoyable for the Irish visitors. Merchants have proclaimed “N.D. Comes to Town Week” up and down F Street. Large displays have been arranged by several stores, and Notre Dame will form the central theme of many shop window decorations.
Tai Powell’s date bureau jumped into full swing operation this week, deluged with applications from Dunbarton, Trinity, and Georgetown Visitation College girls to provide dates for the evening. A large number of girls from Notre Dame of Maryland and Mt. St. Agnes Colleges in Baltimore have also contacted the club, but lack of adequate transportation facilities will probably rule them out as date bureau clients.
Results of ticket sales among college students in the Washington-Baltimore area have not been officially released; but co-Chairmen Charles Carter and Charles Hellmuth declare that they are “more than satisfactory.”
Carter and Hellmuth have mentioned the possibility that the dance may receive coverage from a national picturenews magazine, but at this writing, no actual statement had been made.
601 North Niles Avenue
— for —
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
HOURS: 10 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. Re-open: 4:30 p. m. to 10 p. m. SATURDAYS: 10 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. Re-open: 4:30 p.m. to 11 ;30p. m.
Call 3-0978	Janies and Josephine Bamber, Proprietors
RUBIN CLEANERS
20% Discount to Notre Dame Students on regular service.
EXPERT REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS
217 E. Jefferson
2 Blocks East of Kresge’s
Keep Warm in Washington!
ALL WOOL
Notre Dame BLANKETS
for just
Blue-Gold School Colors
s6.95
1 v FOR MEN AND 1 ^LYOUNG MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
Oct. 22, 1948
25
Books
Vision of Fatima by Thomas McGlynn, O.P.; Little, Brown and Company; $2.50. '
Religious books are often boring, their message buried within pages of slow-moving, dull writing. Vision of Fatima is not that kind of book.
Instead, it is a word-by-word picture of the Dominican author’s journey to Portugal to make a statue of Our Lady of Fatima.
By describing his travels, Father McGlynn tells the story of Fatima easily and simply. He avoids long discourses on the beauty of the miracle, preferring,, to let the facts speak for themselves.
The priest-sculptor wanted to make an authentic replica of the Blessed Virgin as she appeared outside Fatima in 1917. To guarantee that accuracy, he made the statue under the direction of Lucy dos Santos, the only survivor of the three children to whom the vision appeared. Father McGlynn relays her accurate account of the vision to his readers.
The author also talked to the Bishop of Fatima, the Cardinal of Lisbon and witnesses to the visions and miracles to get all the facts. The result is a true story of the vision and its importance.
Trumpet on the Wing by Wingy Manone and Paul Vandervoort II; Doubleday and Co., Inc., $2.95.
One of the most colorful musicians to come out of the jazz era is Wingy Manone. He got his first horn when he was eight, and when straight music ceased to satisfy him, he began to listen to the
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in
TELEPHONE 4-7471
New Orleans Negroes and their jazz. He knew that was to be his field.
His career was nearly halted at ten, when he lost his right arm. However, he learned to play with his left, and a few years later he left his parents and New Orleans.
The beginnings of jazz weren’t easy. Wingy and his trumpet rode all over the country in box cars or beneath them. His troubles were many, but they are interesting reading.
Trumpet on the Wing is not a history of jazz. It is merely the story of one musician’s life. But into that story come such famous people as Louis Armstrong, Art Tatum, Red Nichols and Bing Crosby. By reading of their actions and reactions in the twenties and thirties,. it is easy to understand the place of jazz in modern music.
If you can fight your way through his musician’s slang, you’ll like Wingy’s । -book. There are enough anecdotes and .personality sketches to keep it interesting.—Joe Herrington
Take The KuJist Out of That
Trip From Farley To The Cafe
GET QUICK RELIEF
tan calf $1X95
Dr. Scholl Foot Comfort Shop
% Stratigon Grill
The finest in .foods . . .
SEA FOODS STEAKS
CHOPS
Noon Lunches
“Art” Buchtel and “Harry” Reed Proprietors
"WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN MEET"
FROM DR. SCHOLL’S SHOES
Foot troubles can take all the fun out of life — make you irritable, sap your energy, seriously impair your efficiency at work. Decide today to get relief. Slip your feet into a pair of Dr. Scholl's Shoes. They're scientifically designed to give you miles of real walking pleasure!
We have everything for the relief of common foot troubles — complete under one roof. Trained attendants and private fitting rooms. Come in today!
215 WEST WASHINGTON
26
The Scholastic
Series of Child Psychology Talks Opens at St. Joseph's
Father James P. Smythe, a visiting instructor in religion at Notre Dame, opened a series of six talks on the “Psychology of Childhood and Training of Children in the Home” at the auditorium of St. Joseph’s School last Sunday. The scheduled series will run until March 13, 1949, at the auditorium.
Father Smythe was ordained in the archdiocese of Liverpool, England, in 1936, receiving advanced degrees from the Catholic University of Lille, France, and from Oxford University in England.
Upon his return to Liverpool, Father Smythe engaged in social work and organization of youth clubs. During the war, he served as chaplain in the Royal Navy, landing on the beaches of Normandy and later serving as senior chappain in the East Indies. Upon receiving his discharge, Father Smythe again took up his studies of the Catholic Social Services in France, Belgium and Holland.
The round of discussions on child training includes everything from the initial talk on the new born baby, to the .problems of adolescence. The lectures are open to the public, tickets for the entire series scaled at- $3.00 per couple, $2.00 per person, or 50 cents per lecture.
Adler’s
Van Heusen
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
Year in, year out, on campus and off, Van Carson is one of America’s soft-collar favorites. Now with new smartness, new comfort, new neatness, thanks to its collar stays and low-setting "Comfort Contour” styling. Fine, Sanforized fabrics— a new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! Tug-proof pearl buttons, action-tailored, figure-tapered. And Van Heusen quality in every stitch. In oxford, $3.95. la broadcloth, §4.95. Other VanHeusenshirts §3.50, §3.95, §4.95.
You’ll find college men’s collar favorites in
PHUUPSJONES CORP., N. Y. 1. N. Y.
Van Heusen the world’s smartest shirts
“VAN HEUSEN" IS A TRADE MARK REGISTERED IN THE U. S. PATENT OFFICE
Look to
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
for VAN HEUSEN
Fits so nice
around
your neck!
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
The regular length Van Carson with Comfort Contour" collar
27
Oct. 22, 1948
Names Make News
As the one or two readers cf this column know, we attempt each week to present a symposium of the doings and feats of Notre Dame people. However, although the editor of the column is little short of infallible, once in a while an item or two manages to squeeze past his ever vigilant glare. Ergo, he has decided to swallow all pride, pull various hats down and various coat collars up, and make an appeal to the charity of the myriad of Scholastic readers who weekly page by in search of the wit of Max A. Browser. We ask that all those readers who know of any doings of Notre Dame graduates, students or profs turn in the same to the Publications Office in the Main Building. We are especially interested in births, deaths, marriages, etc., but we will not sneer at such items of universal interest as jumping off skyscrapers, winning ear-wiggling contests, shooting mothers-in-law, judging beauty contests, launching rockets to the moon — in short, anything at all.
The Rev. WALTER HIGGINS, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, conducted the annual 40-hour devotions in St. Joseph’s Church which ended last Sunday. . . .
The Rev. WILLIAM F. CUNNINGHAM, C.S.C., professor of education at Notre Dame, attended a meeting of the midwest executive committee and problems committee of the National Catholic Education association in Chicago early last week. Father Cunningham and the Rev. PHILIP S. MOORE, C.S.C., dean of the graduate schdol, attended a meeting of the national executive committee of the college and university department of the NCEA the following day. At the same time, Dr. KARL E. SCHOEN-HERR, dean of the college of engineer-was attending the American towing tank conference in Ann Arbor, Mich....
Dr. WALTER L. WILKINS, professor of psychology and education at Notre Dame, last week addressed the Northern Indiana branch of the National Vocational Guidance association in South Bend. His subject was “The Implication of Projected Techniques in Testing for Guidance.” Introducing the speaker was EDWARD R. QUINN, of the university testing and guidance office.
Dr. MILTON BURTON, professor of chemistry at Notre Dame and atomic
energy research expert, addressed the Association of Commerce at the organization’s weekly luncheon early this week on the topic “The Need for World Government.” Dr. Burton ranks as one of the outstanding pioneers in the utilization of atomic energy and was associated with the Manhattan district project during world war II. He also served
JOE CONERTY Gives the Word
as an official government observer at the Bikini Atom Bomb tests. Dr. Burton was recently elected secretary-treasurer of the division of physical and inorganic chemistry of the American Chemical Society. ...	•
The Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of the University, was guest of honor and speaker at a dinner meeting of the South Bend Serra Club last week. Introducing Father Cavanaugh was Herbert E. Jones, president of the Association of Commerce of South Bend. Professor PAUL E. McLANE, of the department of English here and vice-president of the Serra Club, was chairman of the committee on arrangements for the dinner. The Serra Club is composed of Catholic business and professional men. Its aims are to foster vocations to the priesthood and to acquaint its members with local, national and international problems concerning the Catholic church. . . .
At the first of the 1948 series of history seminars held here earlier this week, the Rev. GERALD B. PHELAN,
director of the Mediaeval Institute of Notre Dame, was the discussion leader for the topic “The Philosophy of History.” Dr. WALDEMAR GURIAN, professor of political science, served as chairman and Professor ROBERT CA-PONIGRI, of the department of philosophy, was main speaker. . . .
Among the speakers at the National Press Commission Workshop, sponsored by the National Federation of Catholic College Students, which was held at St. Joseph’s College, Indiana, last week was JOSEPH A. CONERTY, JR. Conerty is a junior in the Law School here and holds the post of National Publicity Director of the $500,000 NFCCS Student Relief Campaign. . . .
WANT TO EARN $9000 A YEAR?
A career in life insurance selling can be both profitable and satisfying . . . with your income limited only by your own efforts. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more! We invite you to send for our scientific Aptitude Test, which measures your qualifications for this interesting work.
After taking the test, you’ll hear from our manager in or near your community. If you qualify, he’ll explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial retirement income at 65. Mail the coupon today!
THE MUTUAL LIFE
MSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
3t Nassau Street HK	New York 5, N. y.
FIRST IN	AMERICA
PLEASE SEND APTITUDE TEST
NAME	_	. 
<nnRF<?s --- ------ . . _	-	- -
CITW	__
1104
28
The Scholastic
Cavanaugh Slashes Weak Farley, 27-0
Wednesday, Oct. 13, saw Cavanaugh Hall whip a weak Farley team 27 to 0. It was the first league game of the season for both teams.
Paul Schafiy, fullback for the powerful Cavanaugh eleven, tallied two touchdowns. The other scoring was divided between Bob Barrett, quarterback, and Gene Kreuz, an end who scored- on an end around play. Barrett scored on a twenty-five yard run after he faded to pass but found no receiver. He also kicked two out of three conversions.
It ^appears that Cavanaugh, the 1947 campus champion, has a strong team with plenty of spirit. The other interhall elevens have their work cut out for them if they intend to prevent Cavanaugh from repeating last year’s title march.—William Delaney
Walsh Struggles to Down Zahm, 7-6
In a hard fought game, Walsh Hall edged out Zahm by a score of 7 to 6. The game was scoreless for the first half and then Zahm drew first blood with a touchdown in the third quarter on a short pass to Bob King in the end zone. The crucial point after was missed.
With time running out Walsh put on a sustained drive of 80 yards. Tony Ben-kowski climaxed the march with a twelve-yard plunge for the touchdown. Tony also added the extra point to give Walsh the victory.
Although Walsh is definitely a power, Zahm cannot be sold short. Both teams claim to be capable of taking the division title at least.—William Delaney
Dillon Shows Power; Downs Howard
Sparked by the “Inside-Outside” combine of interhall football, . Jack Mac-Groder and Leo Eikmeyer, the Dillon Hall team downed Howard, 13-0, last Thursday. Jack MacGroder notched all of Dillon’s points, scoring early in the first period and midway in the second.
Dillon took the opening kickoff and marched the length of the field to score on MacGroder’s punch through the middle. MacGroder booted the extra point. Again in the second quarter it was MacGroder, alternating with Eikmeyer and Dahm who spearheaded the Dillon attack. The drive culminated with Mac
Groder’s smash over tackle. The try for the extra point was blocked.
In the third quarter the game resolved itself into a midfield battle with neither team able to muster enough power for a touchdown push. Dillon forced the ball to the Howard four-yard line, only to fumble away a chance for a score. Howard had little trouble making first downs between the thirty-yard lines, but the Dillon line was solid when really threatened.
Senyczko
WALSH 7, ZAHM 6
In the fourth quarter both teams uncovered passing attacks. A Howard interception stopped Dillon on the Howard ten-yard line and the game ended with Howard in possession on their own eleven.—Bill Riley
Zahm Dumps Sorin for Baseball Title
Zahm Hall completed a sweep of the interhall baseball league with a 3-1 win over Sorin Hall last Friday. The championship game ended on a rather tense note as Zahm hurler Bill Nichols struck out the last two Sorin batters with the bases loaded. Nichols had relieved Bill Froats at the end of the first inning after Zahm’s top chucker complained of a sore arm.
Zahm was the only competing team to go undefeated as they had previously whipped Alumni Hall, Walsh Hall and Howard Hall.
With two defeats necessary for elimination, Howard and Sorin played on October 13 to determine the other playoff entrant.—Frank Ronnenberg
Fine Repairing •
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
outercoat fit you? It does if your outercoat’s a Mt. Rock...
because a Mt. Rock coat has • increased depth in back from • your ninth vertebra to your • collar top — that means the • collar never funnels out behind. • Try on a Mt. Rock coat today * and see for vourself.
$50 to $80	a
15% discount to all Notre Dame men through October and November on all readymade and tailor-made suits and coats. Use our charge account.
Campus representatives:
Pete Francken, Tom Tierney, Mike Ivers, Jack Clynes, Tom McGuire, Gus Cifelli, and Max Gabreski.
Parker-Winterrowd
115^4-117/2 North Main South Bend, Indiana
Oct. 22, 1948
29
Music
By VERNE KELLEY
JUGGLER of Notre Dame
Box i 85
Notre Dame, Indiana
Please enter my subscription to the JUGGLER for 1948-49. (Rate: $2.00 per year)
Name________________________,__________
Street and No. _________________________
City, Zone, State_______________________
Enclosed find-Check---Cash----Money Order
• RICH CORDO GRAIN LEATHER
• STYLED IN TRIM SLEEK LINES
• DURABLE, TRIPLE SOLE
A perfect threesome assuring you complete comfort . . . foot-ease and long wear. See them today!
S)ouq&nShoa tH. L. DOUGLAS fSHOE CO., BROCKTON 15, MASS.
210 S. MICHIGAN STREET
Mail Orders Promptly Filled
How bad can one business get?
Today the band business is lower than our grade in Political Science. There are no more jitterbugs, no more bobby-soxers, no more nuttin.
Promoters say even a big name band can’t be relied on to pull in the customers. Ork leaders say promoters are killing the business by cutting dances down to a minimum and that record companies are killing the business by pushing singers too much.
So what’s with the solution! There must be kids in high school who have heard about dancing from their older sisters and would like to try same.
Let's Blame It on the War
People everywhere have said the' jazz craze was brought on by the strife in the world. Conditions were so unstable that adolescents had to let off steam some way. So . . . they chose jazz.
But that doesn’t explain why non-jazz bands like Hal McIntyre, Tex Beneke, Tommy Dorsey and brother Jimmy are having trouble like never before.
We think that too much has been said about singers. Frankie, Dick Haymes, Perry Como, Jo Stafford, Peggy Lee, Doris Day and too many others have taken the spotlight away from the orchestras. And it is rather hard to dance with just a singer on the stage.
Need the Exercise
It’s about time the kiddies get out of the bars, drop some of their more entertaining practices and run like mad to the nearest dance hall to jump around with Woody Herman or Harry James.
Music is a part of education. ..Every- _ body needs it. Everybody needs all of it. There’s no sense in listening to “Hair of Gold” by the Three Suns all the time.
Let’s learn as much philosophy, engineering and facts-about-movie-stars as we can, but don’t anybody mention dancing faster than a slow walk to the men’s room.
Perhaps we could use less “Put Them in a Box” and some more “Stardust” and “The Man I Love” to boost the musicraze.
Have You Heard . . .
... Goodman and Shaw are reorganizing . . . Mel Torme’s “Gone With the Wind” . . . and the great album cut by whiz Andre Previn. A piano must!!
30
The Scholastic
Look to
Rvsc & K^tz
1 v FO/? MEN AND 1 ^.YOUNG MEN
Gilbert’s
JR RO IV Shirts
ARROW
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
Versatile
I
Oxford i|
Adler’s
ARROW
Fine Gordon oxford cloth in a two-pocket, convertible collar shirt makes Doubler a perennial campus favorite.
ARROW DOUBLER
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Oct. 22, 1948
31
Corsages
FOR THAT DANCE
Flowers for All Occasions
Flowers Wired to Every City and Town in the World
South Bend Floral Co.
114 So. Michigan	Phone 3-8227
Save at “Bert’s” .. .
• 25% Discount on all dry cleaning, pressing, repairing, and dyeing.
•	3-Hour and While-You-Wait Services.
•	Free pick-up and delivery service.
COME IN AND PICK UP YOUR 25% DISCOUNT CARD
Bert Cleaners 6? Dyers
222-224 WEST WASHINGTON
Ride to Washington in Comfort!
See the NOTRE DAME-NAVY Game! Rent a Car
Coupes, Coaches, Convertibles, & Station Wagons.
Gas and Oil furnished — Adequate Insurance.
The U-DRIVE-IT Co.
223 West Washington Street Next to Oliver Hotel
Phone 4-1606 or 2-2941
32
Estimates Gladly Given
Campus Clubs
(Continued from Page 5)
Met Club Smoker Tonight
President Don Begley of the Met Club announced last Wednesday night that the club will toss a Smoker tonight at 8:00 at American Legion Post No. 50. The Smoker is open to members only.
Texans Plan Dallas Roundup
The Texas Club held its second meeting of the semester Wednesday, October 13. More than forty Texans turned out to elect new officers for the semester. John Brogan, of Tyler, was re-elected president. Jchn Giles, of Dallas, was elected viee-president, with Don Helling-hausen, of Breckenridge, taking over the recording secretary’s slot. Phil Record, of Fort Worth, took over as corresponding secretary, while Jerry Fisch, also of Fort Worth, was selected treasurer.
The Club held a gala roundup in Dallas the latter part of the summer. At present, plans are underway for another Dallas reunion to be held during the Christmas vacation.
The Texans attended a shrimp supper last Friday night. Future plans for the semester will be discussed at the next meeting.
Financiers Elect Officers
The Finance Club, recently formed campus organization made up of junior and senior finance majors in the College of Commerce, elected officers and adopted a constitution at their second meeting held October 13, at 7:30 p.m. in room 209 of the Commerce Building.
The officers are: Robert A. Poisson, president; Robert G. Surkamp, vice-president, and Larry F. Gallo, secretarytreasurer.
President Poisson presided at the regular meeting last Wednesday. He explained that the purpose of the club is “to make the study of finance come alive to maj’ors in the field by the discussion of current problems in finance.”
A.S.Ch.E. Meets, Bills Film
At the regular meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society of Chemical Engineers last week, Ben Smith was elected president to fill a graduation-created vacancy. Charles Bauman discussed further the tentative plans for the Engineers’ Ball to be held in February.
Of special interest was the announcement by Professor George F. Driscoll that on November 9 three-dimensional color film entitled “Highway, USA” will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium. The movie is to be open to all students at the University.
The Scholastic
Radio
By VERNE KELLEY
Now that hostilities with WND have ended we can. talk about other things.
Sunday afternoon is a great time to listen to the radio. The New York Philharmonic does a good job bringing symphonies to you. Milton Cross, who seldom has a hangover as we erroneously reported last time, presents excerpts from an opera directly following the symphony.
Then there is Robert Q. Lewis. The man has a different brand of humor, somewhat in the Morgan manner. No, he doesn’t imitate Englishmen with the mumps.
Last Sunday his guest was her nibs, Miss Georgia Gibbs. Georgia sang some fine notes and with television she should make even more money.
Crazy and Insane Section
Every Friday evening at 9:30 (South Bend time) the Spotlight Revue wreaks havoc—we don’t mean June—with your intelligence.
Spike Jones has the zaniest band in the world. His musical murals start with gunshots, cowbells, auto horns and doorbells, progress into ducks and headless bodies falling from above, and end with riots in the brass section and water ' fights among the saxes.
It's Afternoon Music From WND To You
Evei- since the day 630 on the dial became WND, there has been an ever growing clamor for music—music uninterrupted and generally any kind. At long last, the clamor has been answered.
Frank Crenan and Jack Dunlevy, general manager and assistant, have reached a goal planned as long ago as last fall. Starting next week, every afternoon, Monday through Friday, from one till 7:15, regular WND broadcasting time, there will be music, the kind you want, as you like it—uninterrupted.
Sources for the all-afternoon trans-
MAKE EXTRA MONEY
Excellent opportunity for live wire student interested in representing established Orchestra and Entertainment s e rv i c e. Generous commissions offered. .
ZAINEY BROTHERS ENTERPRISES
304 Inland Building Indianapolis, Indiana
SOUTH BEND'S UNIQUE SHOP
DISTINCTIVE GIFTS—EXCLUSIVE JEWELRY
118 W. Colfax Ave.
Phone 4-7565
scription will be either recordings of, or complete programs broadcast daily by FM stations in the South Bend-Chicago area, including St. Joe, Fort Wayne, Elkhart, and other stations.
Listeners can participate in making this their own program. If there are any particular FM programs you prefer to hear, drop WND a post card. If at all possible, your requests will be aired back to you.
AT LAST!
Family Group Hospital
Insurance for
Married College Students
Hospital expenses, Surgeon’s fees, Full Maternity benefits (10 days). For full information, write—World Life and Accident Ass’n., Dept. P, Richmond, Indiana.
BUSINESS SYSTEMS
Order Your
CHRISTMAS CARDS
Now!
Large Selections
Desk Lamps - Slide Rules Ring Binders - Notebooks
126 S. MAIN across from the courthouse
SURPLUS PORTABLE MICROSCOPES
We offer a limited quantity of surplus portable microscopes for sale. These are all new, in original cartons and cost many times the price for which they are now being offered.
Specifications: Overall height 8 inches, turret with three different powers. Will accept auxiliary eyepiece for higher powers desired. Fully adjustable on tiltback base. Optical system: Pitch-polished lenses.
These portable microscopes are offered subject to prior sale on the following terms: Price $9.00, includes shipping and packing charges. Check or money order should be sent with your order or §2.50 deposit, the microscope to be sent C.O.D. for balance. Any check received after the quantity has been sold will be returned promptly.
Gibson Page Company, Inc.
DEALERS IN WAR SURPLUS
Box 11.30	Rochester 2, New York
Oct. 22, 1948
33
Browser's Column
Stop the Music
Notre Dame has, in a sense, been running just this kind of a program for many years. The mystery tune is a very beautiful song with inspired lyrics and a high purpose in its theme. Its words were written by a late President of the University and were originally in poem form. The music was written by a former ND bandmaster. It starts out “Notre Dame Our Mother” and it is the official Alma Mater of this University.
We have heard it played or sung by a Notre Dame musical organization just once — the Notre Dame Band did it at the Army game in 1946. (Incidentally there were few ND men who stood for it.) The concluding song at graduation is “The Victory March.” This is a great piece of music and an inspiring one but IT IS NOT the Alma Mater and is hardly appropriate at such a ceremony.
FOR YOUR NEGATIVES AT NO EXTRA CHARGE
We have the latest photographic equipment for developing and printing your snapshots. Try our quick mail order service. Ask for our handy mailing bags. Remember, you get oversized prints at no extra charge. Send us your next roll of film.
We are all for a revival or introduction of “Notre Dame, Our Mother” to the Notre Dame student body. We have been given to understand this is a very difficult band piece and cannot be truly played on a football field. But it seems to us it can be presented at concerts, commencement or even basketball games. After all Kay Kyser does a beautfiul job on it as does the group that presents . that ND album on sale in the bookstore.
Letters
(Continued from Page 3) and good but if this procedure is not carried further to pep rallies, then I’m afraid that the freshmen will be following in the steps of the majority of upper-classmen, who do not know the Hike Song nor Irish Backs, nor do they even realize that there is a verse to the Victory March.
Ault Camera Shop 122 SOUTH MAIN PHONE 3-5041
“Opposite the Court House"
The only solution to this problem is to issue song sheets to everyone and to have someone go through the songs at a pep rally and then have the student body sing them through. If this is done maybe we’ll have a little more school spirit and a little more volume when the band begins to play.
I think this problem should be handled immediately in order to have everyone in shape for the Student Trip to Baltimore.
Bob Joyce Dillon Hall
Dear Sir:
. . . The blue circle or blue semi-circle of happy smiling faces are exactly 180 degrees off their course and will continue to be so until their complete membership is known. We know the alleged objectives of these gentlemen, but their clandestine methods are about as coy as a St. Mary’s girl on the South Shore. This writer believes that they are guilty of false modesty in which case they should be led blushingly forth to receive the plaudits of the student body.
The aims of this group are praiseworthy enough so why must they employ a “Sherlock Holmes” means? If authority is to be invested in the blue circle by the student council throtigh which the student body is represented, then their complete identity is of interest and necessity . . .
The blue circle may keep their identity hidden but such puerile practices lead this source to believe that the student council can keep running around in circles — even technicolor ones.
Jack Young Off-Campus
P.S.: If you must attach a religious significance to your club’s name why not give the circle its true meaning? Properly the circle signifies eternity — no beginning and no end.
Let's have an answer from the Blue Circle publicity chairman!!
ND Propeller Club Casts Off With Election of Officers
Although lacking the sound of pounding breakers and the moaning of fog horns, the Propeller Club, Port of Notre Dame, the local chapter of the national organization, cast off its cruises for the year Tuesday, October 12. The meeting was in the nature of organization and election of officers. The following were elected: president, Chuck Cain, Kansas City, Mo.; vice-president, Dick • McGowan, Amboy, Ill.; secretary-treasurer, Joe Eames, Chicago, Ill.
The Club Moderator is Professor Herbert Bott.
34
The Scholastic
COLLEGE l il Al t
Definitions
Wasted Energy—telling a hair-raising story to a bald-headed man.
Civil Service—something you get in South Bend restaurants between wars.
Committee—a group of students who keep minutes and waste hours.
Gold Digger—one who uses the males to defraud.
Hash—the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things which have been.
Diplomat — a man who remembers a woman’s birthday and forgets her age.
—Unknown.
First Aid
“Oh, Doctor,” said the young lady, “will the scar show?”
“That madam,” said the doctor, “is entirely up to you.”
—Idaho Institute of Applied Sciences’ Bugle
On the Scope and Nature of University Life . . .
The College of the Future, starring Philo Lance. The Scene is a student’s room, the time is the very distant future.
In one corner,, a huge fire crackles in a fireplace,, reflecting on the polished mahogany walls. As the scene opens a butler enters, wheeling in front of him a small tea table on which a cold supper is laid. In a deep leather chair, sits a young man. It is to him that the butlei-delivers the goods, and speaks:
Butler: Your supper, Mr. Lance.
Philo: Oh, thank you, Murrie. What have we . . . ah, cold beef, and . . . Murrie, what is this? 1922? My dear fellow, you know perfectly well my stomach cannot digest that new wine. Take it away and bring back ’04.
Butler: Yes, sir, sorry sir* . . . right away sir.
(He goes out, and Philo digs into the kitchen-fruit eagerly. In his eagerness, he knocks over a microscope. He is .just wiping his fingers with a page out of a philosophy book when the butler enters.)
Butler: I am sorry, sir, but Mr. La-Fortune tells me the cellar is rather empty . . . the ’22 is the best he could do. It seems that the young men here in the hall made serious inroads .into the old stock after our football match with Leningrad U.
Philo: Oh, well. (He takes the bottle, and knocks the top off it on tlie edge of a piece of furniture, which in the old days was called a desk.)
Philo: By the way, Murrie, what took place in that class I have . .. Economics, is it called?
Butler: Yes, sir, that is correct. We have an assignment for tomorrow.
Philo: Well, don’t stand there . . . get to work on it. After all I imagine the chap that teaches it likes to have these assignments . . . whatever they are . - . in on time.
Butler: Yes, sir. Will that be all?
Philo: No. Please bring the car around in front of the hall, and give my compliments to the rector, and tell him I will be stepping out for a bit this evening.
Butler: Yes, sir. The car?
Philo: The Chrysler will be nice . . . good night, Murrie.
Butler: Goodnight, sir.
(Curtain)
Odds ’n’ ends . . . students at the University of Virginia do not wave Virginia pennants at football games . . . they use Confederate Flags . . . and at DePauw University, junior men and women will compete in a “most shapely legs” contest ... a fascinatin’ item.
CORDUROY SPORT SHIRTS . . . .
in the new wide^wnle corduroy 6.95
BVD tailored wide-wale corduroy sport shirts to wear with your corduroy slacks ... in four popular “Bold Look” colors . . . green, tan, grey and fireman red. Convertible collar... to wear with or without tie.
THIS WEEK'S BROWSER WINNER: W. J. LAYDEN —387 DILLON

Oct. 22,’ 1948
35
z I enjoy Chesterfields because theyre really Milder ”
STARRING IN
"JOHNNY BELINDA" A WARNER BROS. PRODUCTION

WHY...I smoke Chesterfield
(FROM A SERIES OF STATEMENTS BY PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS)
I have done business with Liggett & Myers for over 40 years. They buy the best crops in the house at the auctions.
I am exclusively a Chesterfield smoker. I think they are the best cigarette made.
TOBACCO FARMER, NICHOLASVILLE, KY.
COOLER SMOKING
Always milder
-HESTER FIELD
BIGHT COMBIXATIOX
WORLDS BEST TOBACCOS