-3339
To enter YOUR NAME for
DANCE LESSONS
HURRY!
HURRY!
10 Hours
$15.00
ATTENTION: Notre Dame Men — At Your Request
Gentlemen:
In the past two years, since the ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing opened in South Bend, we have had numerous telephone calls, and many personal suggestions from many of you regarding special classes and special rates for Students! Mr. Murray has given me permission to arrange the classes below at reduced rates again this year. Women Instructors are already reserved.
Best Wishes for Your Dancing Future,
Leila Gray.
Pay as little as $1.50 a week. Free Dances every week! Also Special Parties
MONDAY—October 22, 4 p. m.	TUESDAY—October 23, 4 p. m.	WEDNESDAY—October 24, 4 p. m.
Enroll—3 - 4 p. m.	Enroll—3 - 4 p. m.	Enroll—3 - 4 p. m.
THURSDAY—October 25, 4 p. m.	FRIDAY—October 26, 4 p. m.
Enroll—3 - 4 p. m.	Enroll—3 - 4 p. m.
Think of it . . . for as little as $1.50 a week you can learn all the latest dances at the famous Arthur Murray Studios. Be sure to ask about the special pay-as-you-go plan when you come in to arrange for your dancing lessons.
We Teach All the Dances — You May Have Your Choice of:				
• FOX TROT	• JITTERBUG	• WESTERN SWING	• SAMBA	
• WALTZ	• POLKA	• CHARLESTON	• TANGO	• MAMBO
P. S. If any five or more students want a class at a different hour or on a different day—our women instructors will be glad to arrange a special one to suit each group, on the day of your choice.
Call 2-3339 NOW
OPEN
10 a. m. — 10:30 p. m.
Arthur Murray 120 East Wayne Street (Above Copp Music Shop)
Call 2-3339 NOW
OPEN
10 a. m. — 10:30 p. m.
The Scholastic
r SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
NITE- LIFE BEGINS at GILBERT S
in Tuxedos with all the tailoring “know how” of years of experience fully apparent in the ease with which they fit the wearer. The size range is complete with regulars, shorts, longs, extra-longs and portlys.
$42*50
Tuxedos bought before 3 o'clock will be ready for you by 6:30 the same evening!
FULL DRESS all sizes $57.50
We also have the most complete line of Formal Accessories in South Bend.
GILBERTS
81.3-817 S. Michigan Street	OPEN EVERY EVENING UNTIL 9
Take the Michigan Street Bus
Oct. 19, 1951
3
All you style conscious Notre Dame men will want to hurry right down to Spiro’s in South Bend and pick up a couple of these smart Manhattan Shirts. Spiro’s carries a complete line of Manhattan shirts and has a large staff of salesmen ready to serve you promptly and expertly. Remember you look best in a Manhattan shirt.
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
121 S. Michigan - South Bend
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of Manhattan shirts, neckwear, underwear, pajamas, sportshirts,beachwear and handkerchiefs.
4
The Scholastic
SUN	MON	TUE	WED	THUR	TRI	SAT
4 711-
aboard one of the supersonic conveyances in back of Farley Hall the other afternoon. We strapped ourself in our seat, fastened our Lucky Teter crash helmet and with our stopwatch in our hand and our heart in our mouth we watched our driver, a swashbuckling lad of about 32 who informed us that
Top of the Week
Only 60 days ’til Christmas vaca-tion . . •
Mustang Musings
Unless you’re off for the Steel City and the Pittsburgh scuffle then you’re in for a serene and subdued stay-at-!	home weekend. Quite the opposite from
*■	last Saturday when the campus re-
sembled a Sons of the Confederate Veterans rodeo with ten-gallon hats and the fluttering stars and bars of the Dallas Dixiecrats in evidence at every turn.
The post-game celebrations by the \ Mustang crowd had the usually staid borough of South Bend in somewhat of an uproar. In every Lone Star group the strains of Dixie and The Eyes of Texas Are Upon You were loud and frequent, and the town echoed to earshattering rebel yells the like of which haven’t been heard since Beauregard won the day at Bull Run.
A few of the local lads extended their hospitality to the visiting hordes by squiring some of the SMU belles about the premises. And we overheard one of the Texas co-eds exclaiming to her ND guide, “Why honey, the way yo’all talk I’m beginnin’ to think yo’all 7s- don’t appreciate us Dallas folk.” To which her suave escort replied, “What makes you say a thing like that, doll, why I worship the very ground your father discovered oil on.”
' Any Takers?
■4 Overheard in the Huddle: “Wanna take a friend of my girl’s to the dance Saturday?”
“What does she look like?”
“I’ll pay half your expenses.”
“No thanks, I gotta date.”
Jokers Inc.
The Friday eve Badin Bog pep rally was made into rather an impressive affair- by the appearance of the several top dog celebrities who spoke, but its overall success was marred by a few i wisecracking flannel-mouthed clowns k who insist on trying to be funny at the expense of the guest speakers.
We suggest that a special heckling session be given in Washington Hall for all these infantile jibesters in I which they could all get together and
By Jack Hynes
air their special brand of moronic wit once and for all. At any rate, let them stay away from pep rallies and such where they only cause embarrassment to their targets.
Indianapolis Here We Come
We have been meaning for some weeks now to take up a little space in discussion of the N.I.T. bus drivers on the Notre Dame run, but fearing that we might precipitate a strike or- walkout, or whatever it is that bus driver's do when rankled, we held back comment.
Nevertheless, strikes and walkouts notwithstanding, but with a wary eye cocked for thin-skinned union leaders, we feel it is high time to take up the matter of the frustrated Mauri Roses who pilot the red wagons from Adler’s corner to the circle.
For purposes of research, we hopped
BRING A FRIEND
... and take advantage
of our special low 2-for-l rates!
DIAL
7-1517
For FREE
Analysis Lesson

Who gets the dates? Who has all the fun? It’s the GOOD DANCERS . . . naturally! Why wait when you can learn to be a smooth dancer at our low 2 for 1 rates . . . just bring a friend and start today!
“South Bend’s largest studios!”
CORNER MICHIGAN AND MONRCE
he was a former test pilot for Chance-Vought, rev up the engines and take off rocket-like in the direction of South Bend.
It seemed that only a few bare minutes had gone by before we landed at Adler’s comer, after a trip which was marked by flitting scenery, jolting stops, squealing brakes and the pungent odor of burning rubber.
We consulted our stopwatch, saluted the pilot for establishing a new record for the run and stumbled down the avenue in search of something to calm our jangled nerves.
As long as the jaunty coin-box cowboys keep on trying to out-do each other in speed, some enterprising young huckster might make himself a buck by selling bonded insurance at the circle for all passengers.
Anybody want to buy my goggles and crash helmet? I think I’ll walk.
Bottom of the Week
. . . only 40 days ’til midsemesters.
Oct. 19, 1951
5
CalencCar
OCTOBER 19
PALACE (through Oct. 25)—John Payne fans will get a double dose of their hero in two Technicolor epics that are as far apart in quality as they are in location—California and New Guinea. In the California location, Passage West (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) Payne turns from heartless fugitive and leader of escaped cons to “nice guy” and grabs off Arlene Whelan in the process. Dennis O’Keefe matches the good performances of the principals in a supporting role. In Crosswinds (A-2), Payne turns up in the lush jungles of the South Sea isle and the change of scenery doesn’t do him any good. He and Rhonda Fleming engage in some modern day treasure hunting (he’s an ex-GI who has settled down to a life of beachcombing) complete with battles with natives and aL tempts by some dirty guys to beat them to the treasure. Neither Payne nor Miss Fleming ever get lost in the New Guinea undergrowth but somewhere along the line the film does.
LE MANS HALL—Jack Lambert of Sorin Hall will be hung in effigy from the tower. Officers of the Senior Class of SMC will preside at the ceremonies starting at 7:30 p.m.
BADIN BOG—Five hundred members of the HJLC (Hurray for Jack Lambert Club), representing 358 cities in the U. S. and 15 foreign countries, will present their distinguished hero with the keys to their respective cities plus the names of the most poised, charming, intelligent young ladies in their communities so that wherever he may go he may never want. Ceremonies start at 7:30 p.m.
OCTOBER 20
PITTSBURGH—The Fighting Irish try to hit the victory trail again as they take on the Pitt Panthers in the Pitt Stadium before a sellout crowd of over 60,000 spectators. Game will be broadcast over station WSBT starting at 12:45 Central Standard Time.
COLFAX (through Oct. 26)—Ann Blyth plays a Persian princess seeking to save her city from the eastward march of Genghis Khan in The Golden Horde (A-2), filmed in Technicolor. Although it uses the historical angle, the film is nothing more than a series of battles, intrigues, and swashbuckling experiences but along these lines it succeeds fairly well and provides good escape entertainment' from any “early bird” mid-semesters.
WASHINGTON HALL—Mario Lanza and Kathryn Grayson star in Toast of New Orleans.
OCTOBER 25
STATE—For one day only, House of Frankenstein and House of Dracula return to town for their 654th showing.
p/ain as
black/
r WHITE
your best buy is
MUSIC'S MAGIC NUMBER
THE 45J2 —$12.95 THE 45EY3 — $34.95 THE 45EY2 —$27.95
In addition to this, upon the purchase of any “45” you may choose your own bonus album, a record value of over $6.00.
If
N. D. Bookstore

6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Vol. 93 October 19, 1951 No. 6
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor
JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE................News
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY..........Features
JACK R. VARLEY.................Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO........Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER.......Photography LEON GARDNER............Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER............Advertising
C. B. FARMER........Campus Circulation WILLIAM KERWIN......Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT.......Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
Return of An Odd Bird
Now that autumn has returned to Indiana and the new semester is no longer new, a not-so-rare bird (indigenous to this Campus) is once again in full-throated cry. We’re speaking, of course, of the raucous, humorless Washington Hall CatCaller.	-
This benighted creature labors under the illusion that he is funny. He spends his Campus life trying to make people laugh at rather inappropriate moments. Failing this, he settles on merely annoying people. For him this isn’t at all hard.
The plumage of this odd specimen has never been before recorded. He works usually at night; always in the dark. In fact, one rarely hears his call outside the anonymity of a darkened theater. Daylight and the possibility of detection lowers his screeches to squeeks. This interesting fact often leads observers to suspe.ct either his courage or confidence in his own j'okes. We suspect both.
At one time last year, it seemed that the creature had practically been exterminated. It seemed too good to be true. It was. He’s back again this year with all the poor taste, bad jokes and inappropriate remarks that made him notorious in bygone years.	•>
What is worse, he has taken to invading pep rallies. He can now be heard baiting football players and annoying radio announcers and the like. He never realizes that these people are up there because they’re a whole lot better at something than he is. He revels in the crowd. He can annoy and insult and delay and hardly ever be captured.
And of course he continues to bedevil the college-level audience in his traditional habitat, Washington Hall. In fact, he almost succeeds in destroying the pleasure and entertainment to be derived from the movies to be seen there. This is regrettable. And unnecessary'. Perhaps another exterminating campaign is called for. A college campus is no place for a bird like this.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Off for a small night in the big city is Senior Bob O’Connor, sans money, sans destination, but with an inclination to take an evening off that just has to be humored. But the evening won’t be wasted, not with all those store windows to gaze into, not with the bargain rates at the Oliver Theater, not with those stacks of magazines at Walgreen’s begging to be read, and one of the largest selections of pocketbooks to be found on God’s green earth just across the street. A man with ingenuity and a mighty slow walk can go far in South Bend, a fact you will readily agree with after reading the article on an evening in the city which appears on page 18.
—Photo by Al Muth.
Good Taste From a Good Band
Good performances are so synonymous with the Notre Dame Band that most of us kind of take that aggregation for granted. They’re always there; they always playr well: they always put on a fine half-time show. In passing, we might comment on the fact that the members do a lot for the Universitv and the students. It would be hard to imagine football games without them. They deserve more notoriety than they usually get.
But we want to talk specifically about the Band’s stadium shows at half-time during football games. We’ve yet to see one that wasn’t pretty good. The majority are very good. Every' show is entertaining and every show is conducted in good taste.
It’s rather disconcerting to see a half-time pageant along pep rally lines where the object is to assure the rival school of the beating they’re about to receive. We can’t recall ever seeing the ND Band do anything along those lines.
Mr. H. Lee Hope and his lads stick to a sportsmanlike salute to our rivals during the mid-game entertainment. That’s a good thing. It goes a long way toward keeping athletic rivalries friendly.
And it also marks one big credit to the Notre Dame Band: The boys can put on a really good show on talent and ingenuity alone. They don’t have to resort to anything else.
Oct. 19, 1951
7
Students who have taken Foundation’s training agree with these N. D. men who say:
Scholar, 21, Proves It Takes Common Sense, Not Genius
Robt. J. Moskal
I did not have a
“I was amazed to find that in only 20 hours of instruction I was able to increase my reading rate from 311 words a minute to 1215 words a minute and at the same time to improve my comprehension,” says Robert J. Moskal, N. D. Law Student. “I am very sorry that chance to take the course when
I was a freshman.”
“. . . has helped in all forms of reading. My increased reading speed enables ine to cut study and outside reading time in half,” says Jack Becker, N. D. Senior in Commerce. “Even the reading of involved and difficult material is made much more enjoyable.”
John J. Becker
i
Listen to our classical music concert every night at 10:30 p. m. — WHOT
Ky •s itr "R
BY DAVID TAYLOR MARKE.
Associated Press Education Reporter.
NEW YORK, Sept. 29.—Getting good college marks isn’t difficult. Take it from Albert M. Wojnilow-er.
Albert proved it by achieving a near straight A record and coming "out top man in Columbia college’s class of 1951. In addition, he made Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic society, and walked off with the Albert Ascher Green prize, Columbia’s highest scholastic honor.
Albert, a scholarly-looking chap of 21 years, is not one of those geniuses who scoot through college without cracking a" book. Neither is he a grind. He credits his good grades to his ability to* read the printed page and understand what he reads.
“I’d sit down in a comfortable chair and read my class assignments without interruption,” he said. “The trick is to read every-thing twice. No matter how diffi-cult or simple, I’d always get more out of a second reading.
‘.‘Since the readings were related to the" lectures In class, I didn’t have to make many notes but could concentrate on what the instructor was saying.
“If you’re up to date with your readings,” Ke continued, *Hiis shouldn't be too difficult.”
Instead of cramming“Ibr exam-’ jinations and trying to decipher’ 'hastily "jotted down, class notes, he simply re-read the material to be covered by the examination.
“If you read with comprehension,” says Albert, "you soon get to know the essential points in an assignment and latch on to them perinanently.”
Albert took great care in preparing his examination answers. He never answered a question without first taking several minutes out to make an outline into which he put every relevant point he could think of.
“But knowing the points to be covered is only part of the job,” he says. “The next step is to put lyour answer into good prose. You Ineed good writing style and clarity of expression. I.always avoided the choppy answer like the plague. Also, I made sure to include one or two detailed explanations to show the instructor I actually had read the course material.”
If you’ve read your material conscientiously throughout the semester, Albert says, “it’s not a good idea to study for an examination the day before you take it. Instead, study for some examination later in . the week.
i
t P o. G
(Reprinted from the South Bend Tribune}
FIND OUT HOW WELL YOU ARE READING NOW
... LEARN HOW OUR TRAINING WILL HELP YOU. 4
Write, call or stop in for valuable reading analysis certificate at no cost or obligation.
-----CLIP AND MAIL NOW
Mr. Stanley M. Gould, Director
South Bend Center
114 E. LaSalle, South Bend
□ Send me a free copy of “How You Can Read Better... Faster"
□ Send special reading analysis certificate.
Name...................................................
(Please Print) Address................................................
Major..............................  Year__________(B)
GET THIS HELPFUL 16-PAGE BOOKLET FREE!
It tells you how you can boost your J class standing and have more free time.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING 114 E. LaSalle South Bend 3-0077 I
Also in New York and Chicago (OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL 9)	|
The Scholastic
Notre Dame jSelh o II	ue
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 6
OCTOBER 19, 1951
Sunday Matinee Opens z Faustz Run
Ann Duncan, Tunney, Hauser Play Leads
Sunday afternoon in Washington Hall the University Theater will open the 1951-52 season with a matinee performance of Faust, to be followed that evening and the next three evenings with additional performances of Stephen S. Phillips’ adaptation of Goethe’s story.
Free tickets for the play are being distributed now in the lobby of the Dining Hall to students, faculty members, employees, and guests, as long as the supply holds out. Seats for the performances will not be reserved.
Joseph Tunney, Steve Hauser, and Ann Duncan will carry the major roles of the play, which several weeks of intense practice have brought to performance quality.
Tunney will portray Faust, the man who sells his soul to the devil and then realizes his mistake almost too late to
save his soul from damnation.
MEPHISTOPHELES AND MARGARET
A Sophisticated Devil—Desired Woman
A Senior philosophy major, Tunney has previously played the title role in Macbeth at St. Joseph’s Prep in Philadelphia before coming to Notre Dame, and has acted in two French plays in Quebec City, Canada.
Unusual Devil
Family man Steve Hauser will undergo a change of character as Mephis-topheles, the sophisticated devil who bargains for Faust’s soul. Married and the father of a two-year-old girl, Hauser is working for his Ph.D. in mathematics, while doubling as an instructor in math and philosophy in the General Program here.
He took the paid; of the canon in the 1948 production of Shadow and Substance at Notre Dame, and last year served as stage manager for the South Bend Presbyterian Players’ The Hasty Heart.
On the distaff side, Miss Duncan will be seen as Margaret, the woman Faust desires so greatly that he gives his soul for possession of her.
Although only a 16-year-old Junior at South Bend’s John Adams High School, Ann already has four roles to her credit. She portrayed Jo in the Little Women three years ago with the South Bend Little Theatre Group. Last year she appeared with the Presbyterian Players in Naughty Marietta and as June Stanley in The Man Who Came to Dinner, and also played Julia in The Rivals in summer stock.
Hildegarde’s Back
In the major supporting roles, Jack Dekray is cast as Margaret’s brother Valentine, Jack McDermott as the burgomaster, and a familiar face around Washington Hall, Hildegarde Vargas, as Martha, Margaret’s friend and the “devil’s foil.” Tom Matthews will double as both angels, Gabriel and Raphael.
The characters will all appear in modern dress. This method of costuming, contrary to general belief, is not a new innovation in the theater. “It is so old it is not used,” said Mr. Len
FAUST PONDERS LIFE . . . And an Old and Tired Man
Sommer, the play’s director. When the play was first produced, the dress worn was the mode of that day. The University Theater version will follow the same policy, with actors and actresses dressed like those who see the play.
Hauser, however, will be formally attired in white tie and tails for his role as Mephistopheles.	.
The play, except for only one intermission, will be an uninterrupted sequence of scenes. As one scene is completed, action immediately shifts to the next. The main curtain will not close during the play, and the audience will be able to see the sets as they are first placed on the stage..
Rehearsals Are Different
To enable the actors and actresses to perform with full capabilities, rehearsals have been in session for many weeks.
Watching a production such as Faust in the making is far different from seeking the finished product.
(Continued on Page 12)
Oct. 19, 1951
9
Sophomore Tefel Identifies Miss Alice Weiss As Mystery Gal, Wins Free Cotillion Bid
Jacob Tefel has been awarded a free bid to the Sophomore Cotillion by identifying Miss Alice Weiss as the “Cotillion Gal,” it was announced by Bill Fagan, publicity co-chairman of the dance.
Miss Weiss, a St. Mary’s Junior from South Bend, appeared in The Man JJ7io Came to Dinner and Harvey, put on by the University Theatre, and also in several WND Radio Workshop productions.
At the Cotillion, she will be accompanied by Tom Nourie, a Notre Dame Junior.
Bids for the “Southern Serenade,” have been sold out for several days. Equally scarce are Cotillion-section tickets to the Purdue game on Oct. 27 and Sunday morning Communion-breakfast passes.
For many Sophomores, their big weekend will begin at the pep rally Friday night. From there, they will go, attired in formals, to the major social event of the semester, the Cotillion. They will have 2 o’clock permissions and the use of cars, provided they register in the Prefect of Discipline’s Office.
Southern Charm
At the Palais itself, they will find the air of Southern charm and hospitality. Al Trace will be playing from the balcony of a Southern manor as couples dance in the garden before him. In front of the bandstand, there will be live shrubbery and a picturiza-tion of the lower floors of a Georgian plantation. Other decorations include a wishing well on the main floor- and a garden entrance at the edge of the dance floor.
The men who have taken charge of the decorations are Ted Kintner and John Reidy. They and their 15-man committee already have much of the basic work done. They will add the finishing touches, with the heavy props, Thursday and Friday.
But the weekend will not end with the dance. The Purdue contest Saturday afternoon will find the Cotilliongoers in their special section rooting for the Irish.
Sunday a Mass and Breakfast
Saturday night will bring with it another dance—the Victory Dance in the Navy Drill hall. Then Sunday morning Cotillion-goers may sit in reserved center-aisle pews at the 9
o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
After the Mass those lucky enough to have tickets will troop downtown for the Sophomore Communion Breakfast. The breakfast will be held in the main ballroom of the Hotel Oliver from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. The principal speaker will be Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C.
MISS ALICE WEISS
The Mystery Is Solved
By Sunday night, the weekend will be over and the studying will have begun for any who have the ambition or the strength.
Triple Cuts to Doom Longer Yule Vacation
Are you hoarding your cuts to splurge at Christmas time in order to stretch out the vacation festivities a few days? If you haven’t checked very carefully, you may be surprised to find out that the most you can gain this year will be two days, unless you are saddled with an unusual schedule.
Last year, with New Year’s day falling on a Monday, classes were dismissed on a Tuesday afternoon, Dec. 20, and were resumed, as usual, on Jan. 3, a Wednesday. As a result, many foresighted men who wanted to extend their vacation had cuts to carry them through the triple cut days, the Monday and Tuesday before class dis
missal, and thus were able to leave :
" 37 -school on the previous Saturday.
This year, with New Year’s day falling on a Tuesday, the entire vacation >> schedule moves up a day with dismissal ' and resumption of classes coming in . the exact middle of the week. As a . • result, two days generally will be the _ -most the vacation can be extended, < since triple cuts will carry the normal ; schedule only two days.	i
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of academic affairs,' Z pointed out that this year’s schedule represents no change in policy but ' varies only as the day of the week on 7 which the New Year falls. He further	i
stated that the situation is really more	;
expeditious than usual, because it will • discourage the use of triple cuts and ( hence enable classes to be carried out . more efficiently.	/
It also is argued that there are defi- . nite requirements concerning the num- ‘. ber of days school must be in session and the amount of material to be covered, and time lost because of absence Y before and after vacations must be made up at the student’s expense.
—Jim Harrington
Fr. Hesburgh Tells Met Club
Of Building Program Plans j
Speaking at the second meeting of | the New York City Met Club on Oct. J 10, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, execu- | tive vice-president of the University J and chaplain of the club, gave a few | particulars on the building campaign | now in progress at the University.
According to Father Hesburgh, the Morris Inn will be ready about Jan. 1,	=3
containing approximately 200 rooms for visitors to Notre Dame. Another item on the building agenda is the construction of a water tower which will hold 500,000 gallons, enabling the students to have drinking water in their rooms.
The Liberal and Fine Arts building, donated by Mr. O’Shaughnessy, will hold all the paintings of the University and will accommodate 1600 in classrooms.
He-finished by saying that the com-
0

£
fl

pletion of how many receives.
Met Club
the project depends upon donations the University
dance chairman, Hank Mc-
Cormick, announced that the annual Met Club dance will not be held on the Starlight Roof of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, but that it will be held in one of the other rooms there.
The meeting ended after a movie of the 1946 Army-Notre Dame game was shown.
3
10
The Scholastic
Science, Engineering Progress at ND Ci+ed
A vast increase in science and engineering research during the postwar period at Notre Dame was reported by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Notre Dame Graduate School, in a report to the Notre Dame Advisory Council for Science and Engineering Saturday.
Father’ Moore reviewed Notre Dame science and" engineering progress before the council’s semi-annual meeting held on campus over the weekend.
The Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame is composed of 21 leading industrialists and scientists who advise Notre Dame on its science and engineering research program.
In science and engineering at Notre Dame, Father Moore told the council members, the undergraduate students have more than doubled since the last pre-war year — from roughly 800 to 1,700—while the graduate students have increased from about 50 to 200.
“More notable among the developments here during the past six years have been increased work in organic and medicinal chemistry and especially the building up of our laboratories in physical and radiation chemistry, which we have been assured are among the best equipped university laboratories in the field,” Father Moore declared.
More Fields for Graduates
“In engineering, only metallurgy offered graduate programs for the master’s and doctor's degrees before the war. Now master’s work is offered in aeronautical, chemical, civil, electrical and mechanical engineering. A new department, Engineering Mechanics, has been added and master’s and doctor’s programs introduced.
“Research, therefore, has been much expanded. New laboratories in Engineering Mechanics, Extractive Metallurgy, Soil Mechanics, Ultra-High Frequency and Air Conditioning and Refrigeration have been set up. An hydraulics laboratory is in construction.”
Father Moore reported to the Advisory Council that “in the past schoolyear we brought in a little over three-quarters of a million dollars under contracts, grants and fellowships from outside sources.”
“Most of this was from government agencies, but there were a number of grants from Foundations and industry,” Father Moore reported.
“Instead of peace and reasonable security, the postwar- period has brought uncertainty and mounting tension. The end of uncertainty is still not in sight.”
Oct. 19, 1951
Notre Dame Alumni Board Stresses Activities And Testimonial Fund at Yearly Meeting Here
The Alumni Board of the University of Notre Dame held its annual Fall Meeting on the University campus Oct. 12-14. A President’s luncheon was held in the faculty Dining Hall at 12 noon, Saturday, prior- to the opening business session of the meeting in the evening.
Perfect attendance was recorded as
Meeh Engineers Host National ASME Head
J. Calvin Brown, National President of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers will be a guest of the St. Joseph Valley Chapter of the ASME at their meeting here next Tuesday. He will speak on The Engineer and the American Wag of Life.
J. CALVIN BROWN
Tuesday in Engineering Aud.
Notre Dame members will act as hosts to the professionals at the gathering held at 8 o’clock, Oct. 23, in the Engineering Auditorium. It will be open to all students free of cost.
Mr. Brown, a graduate of the California Institute of Technology and the Hamilton College of Law, is both an attorney and a mechanical engineer, specializing in patent, trademark, and copyright litigation. He is a member of the bars of the U. S. Supreme Court and of the State and Federal Courts in California, Illinois, and the District of Columbia. A member of the ASME since 1928, Mr. Brown was its Vice-president 1945-49.
all members of the 12-man Board participated. They included: Leo B. Ward, ’20, Honorary President; the four Directors until 1952, William J. Sherry, ’21, William B. Jones, ’28, R. Conroy Scoggins, ’24, and .Edward J. Beckman, ’16; those Directors until 1953, Harvey G. Foster, ’39, Richard J. Nash, ’23, and Dr. Matthew Weis, ’22; and those invested asx Directors until 1954, Joseph S. Morrissey, ’28, John H. Neeson, Jr., ’35, William C. Schmitt, ’10, and Luther M. Swygert, ’27.
Besides the usual reports by the various business committees as indoctrinated by the By-Laws of the Association, a large amount of new business was introduced.
Prominent on the agenda was the discussion of club activities. Reaching newer heights of activity, the organization is at such a stage that since June, nearly every active club has had at least one summer activity, the most popular being the summer picnic. The more ,opulent clubs had golf parties.
Pre-Game Rallies Inaugurated
A wholesome and more encouraging sign of club activity which has been undertaken, exclusive of Alumni Office sponsorship, is the arrangement of several pre-game rallies for games which are to be held away from Notre Dame.
The Royal York Hotel is to be the scene of festivities in Pittsburgh; two rallies are planned for the Baltimore trip, one at the Emerson Hotel, and another in Washington, D. C. The North Carolina game will furnish the occasion for another at the Washington Duke Hotel in Durham, and Southern California alumni will gather at the Biltmore Hotel in Los Angeles.
The proposal for larger clubs to contribute a sizeable donation to the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund during the present year was also introduced.
Foundation Committee members announced that the corresponding increase in alumni participation for the year is up 500, and that non-alumni donations have almost doubled in number of donors and more in total amount than in 1950. Neither the additional gift of §673,533 from Mr. I. A-O’Shaughnessy nor that of Mrs. Sally Fisher, valued at SI,200,000, is included in the increase.
Further- impetus in the direction of class activity was provided by the first- Class Secretaries Conference.
11
■Mhwsa
Faust Opens
(Continued from Page 9)
The sight of many people milling around on stage makes one wonder if any organized play could • come out of such confusion. But all doubts are quickly dispelled as Mr. Sommer calls for the performers to run through various scenes that he feels need polishing. Quickly the stage is cleared and the scene begins.
The order of scenes during rehearsal is not always logical. One moment Faust may be striving to regain his soul from the devil, and the next he may be selling it to him. A feasible plot develops, however, when the pieces are fitted together in their proper order.
In one scene Mephistopheles speaks from the orchestra pit. As his lines roll out over the seats, expressing assurance of his power over the soul of man, another voice—obviously not in the script—interjects lines like “turn around . . . speak slowly . . . more to the audience”; it’s Mr. Sommer adding those little touches that are intended to guarantee a good performance.
Scene 7, Then Scene 2
The play rehearsal moves on—scene seven is finished and now scene two begins.	'
Faust sits at his desk, an old and tired man wondering what good all the studies he has spent his life following have done him.
A voice, eerie and strange, is heard from off-stage. The devil is calling to Faust, who asks the devil’s help, that the powers of good have not given him and, with his own blood, Faust signs what he wants. Mephistopheles enters, an agreement giving his soul to the devil in return for his help.
Another scene is put through the paces after this. A seeker of knowledge comes to Faust for instruction. He does not realize that Faust is in reality the devil, and in the lines that follow the devil discloses his philosophy ■on life, much to the astonishment of his listener.
At practice it is a little difficult to get into the mood of the play, for there is no scenery and the players are not in costume. No one cries when Margaret’s brother dies, because they know some of Valentine’s friends are waiting off stage until he can join them for a cigarette, as soon as he is through being “dead.”—Roger Zoellner
12
Historians Inaugurate Educational Parleys
Beginning next Tuesday, the regular History Department discussions for the year will take place in room 101, Law Building, at 7:45 p.m. The general theme for the year is “TF/io Shall be Educated—and Hoiv Shall He be Educated?”
The topic of the first meeting will be the aristocratic-classical tradition. Rev. Astrik Gabriel of the Mediaeval Institute will speak on “Classes and Ideals in the Mediaeval Universities.”
Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C., head of the Department of Classics, is to lecture on “The Role of Education in Antiquity.”
After the two principal speakers have opened the meeting, the topic will be open for discussion from the floor.
Father Gabriel was formerly the director of the French Institute in Budapest. He is an authority on the character of the universities and of student life in the Middle Ages.
Father Kelly received his doctorate at the Catholic University, where he specialized in Latin and Greek. He is the author of a volume on St. Ambrose.
Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., assistant to the vice-president in charge of aca-
International Relations Group Sponsors Third Discussion
The third in a series of five discussions on Communism in theory and practice, sponsored by the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations,
PROF. BARTHOLOMEW “Communism in the United States"
demic affairs, will be the chairman of Tuesday’s discussion.
The main problem to be examined in these meetings will be the rise of the concepts of democratic education. Later, the various characteristics of modern education will be discussed.
Among those taking part will be Professors L. F. Robinson and B. J. Kohlbrenner of the Department of Education, Professor E. K. Francis of the Department of Sociology, Head Football Coach Frank Leahy, and Superintendent of the Schools of Mishawaka, Dr. John Young.
Iowa Game Virtual Sellout; 60,000 See Irish Battle Pitt
Reports from ticket manager Bob Cahill indicate that the game with Pittsburgh tomorrow will be played before a Pitt Stadium capacity crowd of some 60,000 fans in the Smokey City.
For the Iowa contest on Nov. 24, the ticket sales are reported to be on the rise and indications point to a sellout. The Iowa game will be played here at the Notre Dame Stadium.
A number of tickets for the Dec. 1 game with the University of Southern California, to be played at Los Angeles, are also available.
will be held Oct. 25 at 8 p.m. in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial. Topic of the discussion will be “Communism in the United States,” with Professors M. A. Fitzsimons and Paul Bartholomew as discussion leaders.
The two remaining lectures will be entitled “The Communist Party in France” with Professor J. B. Duroselle as discussion leader on Nov. 8 and “What Must Be Done Against the Communist World Danger,” with all members of the Committee participating on Nov. 15.
The previous two discussions were: “Establishment and Development of the Communist Power’ in Russia” on Oct. 11, with Dr. Waldemar Gurian as discussion leader, and “How the Soviet Union Organized Its Satellite States” on Oct. 18, with Stephen Kertesz as leader.
Dr. Gurian, the chairman of the ; Committee on International Relations ; and Editor of the Review of Politics, ? expressed the hope that more of the student body, especially those in the i Political Science School and those in- | terested in world affairs, would feel free to attend and participate in -hese | discussions.	i
i
The Scholastic
1
Duroselle Describes France's Problems
France along with the world is looking for a genius who can interpret the social justice principles of the popes in terms of a workable system, according to Dr. J. B. Duroselle, visiting French history professor at the University of Notre Dame.
In discussing “The Catholic Social Movement in France Today,” Dr. Duroselle, Dean of the University of Saar-brucken, Germany, said, “that the big problem in France is to raise the living standards of the workers.” Working toward this end are the communists, socialists, liberalists and members of the Social Catholicism group.”
Dr. Duroselle is lecturing at Notre Dame under the auspices of the Notre Dame Committee on International Be- • lations.
Economic conditions have improved with the past several years. Dr. Duroselle told the Notre Dame group, and communist governmental representation dropped from 26 per cent to 22 per cent in the 1951 elections. However, the average income of the French worker is still about one third that of the American worker, he said.
“Social Catholicism” is not Catholic Action in its full sense, the professor declared, but it “is useful in creating a favorable atmosphere for Catholic Action. Catholic Action must prove to workers that the church is not the enemy of the workers but their most helpful friend.
“France is a deeply de-Christianized country,” Dr. Duroselle noted. Of a population of about 42,000,000, there are about 1,000,000 Protestants and about 8,000,000 practicing Catholics, he estimated.
Another obstacle to the adoption of Catholic social principles, Dr. Duroselle believes, is the loyalist, anti-democratic stand the Catholic clergy has made, especially in the 19th century and even as late as World War II, when many x bishops supported the Vichy government which collaborated with the Nazi.
To combat these attitudes, some priests have gone as workers into factories and are trying to establish proletariat parishes, according to Dr. Duroselle. The average number of Catholics is much higher among the middle classes than among workers, he said.
SENIORS
The last chance for Seniors to sign up for their Dome photos is Oct. 22 and 23 from 1 to 4 p.m. in the basement of Walsh Hall.
Engineers' Ball Nov. 16;
Pick 'Loveliest Night of Year'
Plans for the production of the Engineers’ Ball are well on their way. Co-chairmen of the dance, to be held Nov. 16, are Roger O’Hara and Pete Skerrett.
The rest of the men behind the dance are Dick Novitsky, tickets; Joe Scherer, programs; and John Urbain,
SKERRETT AND O’HARA
Consulting Engineers
personnel. Phil Meyer and Dick Hardin are in charge of publicity and Bob DeLine is handling the date and tux situation.
The scene of the ball will be the Indiana Club and its theme, The Loveliest Night of the Year, as played by Gene Hull and his Lettermen. Tickets are priced at $3.60.
Since the week-end of the 16th is that of an away game, tentative plans have been made for a barn dance the following evening under the auspices of the Engineers’ Committee.
E. H. Hunt to Manage New Campus Inn
Edward H. Hunt, veteran hotel manager, has been named manager of the new 92-room Morris Inn, which is scheduled to be completed in the next few months at Notre Dame.
Mr. Hunt, who has arrived at Notre Dame to assume his new duties, has been a hotel manager for the past 20 years. A native of Syracuse, N. Y., he is a graduate of the Goodyear Business College in that city.
Before accepting the position as man-
Off-campus students who have had to take rooms a long distance from the campus may now have the opportunity to move closer to the University. Listings of the newly-avail-able rooms may be had at the office of the Prefect of Discipline.
ager of the Morris Inn, he had served as Manager of the Langren Hotel in Ashville, N. C., for the past three years. Previously he had spent 17 years as manager of the McCurdy Hotel in Evansville, Ind.
The Morris Inn is a gift to Notre Dame of the late E. M. Morris of South Bend, Chairman of the Board of the Associates Investment Company. Mr. Morris, a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame, gave the University $1,000,000 for construction of the inn at the entrance to the campus.
The Inn will house guests and visitors to the Notre Dame campus.
Four Holy Cross Brothers To Run High School in Brazil
Four Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross sailed yesterday from New York City for Santarem, state of Para, Brazil, where they will assume the administration of Ginasio Dom Amando, a high school for boys.
The Congregation of Holy Cross is assuming administration of the Brazilian high school at the invitation of Bishop Loewenau, O.F.M.
Director of the school will be Brother Richard Grejczyk, C.S.C., of Chicago, Ill. Others accompanying him to Brazil are Brother Gerard Greene, C.S.C., of Los Angeles, Calif.; Brother Paul Schaefer, C.S.C., Dayton, O.; and Brother James Walter, C.S.C., Akron, O. All are graduates of Notre Dame and have been teaching in various schools of the Brothers of Holy Cross in the United States.
Santarem, located 500 miles up the Amazon River, is the Episcopal city of a missionary diocese that includes villages, towns and vast areas of jungle along the Amazon and Topozoas rivers. The Holy Cross Brothers will relieve the Friars who have conducted the Ginasio Dom Amando since its establishment in 1943.
In response to the urgent appeal of the Holy Father to assist the Church in South America, this will be the seventh foundation made by the Congregation of Holy Cross in South America. Two parishes and a college are located in Sao Paulo, Brazil, and a parish, college and seminary in Santiago, Chile. -
Oct. 19, 1951
13
Lose Football Tickets, Socks, Keys, Wallets? See Dolores in Lost and Found Department
By BOB GORMAN
Next time you lose four tickets to the Notre Dame-Michigan State game, why not stop in to Father Leahy’s office and check the lost and found department there, instead of only posting a desperate sign or two in the Dining Hall?
Maybe you’re a skeptic who doesn’t think that anyone would be so far gone as to turn in four Michigan State tickets, but you might be surprised. Father Leahy’s attractive secretary, Dolores Perry, has a pair of shoes and a couple of socks waiting for the spring-struck neophyte who discarded them by the edge of the lake last April. Why not football tickets’
Nearly every day sees somethingnew added to the formidable array of misplaced articles in the collection of the lost and found department. Among the items waiting to be claimed are wallets, jackets, two missals, lighters, keys, a fine collection of pens, and many, many pairs of glasses.
Bankroll of SI25 Turned In
The only things consistently claimed on the day they are turned in are wallets—and in the case of a Notre
DOLORES PERRY AND MERCHANDISE
See Anything You’ve Lost?
Dame man, that’s not difficult to understand.
Last year a student turned in $125 that he found lying on the ground in no wallet or container of any kind. The money was finally claimed some time later by an off-campus student who thought he had lost it at work, and only checked with the lost and found department as a last resort. The owner was overjoyed to get his money back—his wife was laboring under the delusion that he had spent it on the horses, and he was sure that marital bliss would at last be restored.
One day a student walked into the office and asked if his two white shirts had been turned in—and, believe it or not, he walked out with two white shirts. Other oddities which have been turned in have included a doctor’s kit from the infirmary, which has never been claimed, and a suit case, which finally was recovered by its owner.
Post No Bills
Any student finding a lost article on campus is urged to turn it in to this office—first floor, east wing, Main Building—and not merely to post a
sign somewhere on campus, which could well be overlooked by the owner of the article. The name of a student who brings something in to the lost and found department will be taken down, and if the item is not claimed by the owner within a month or two, then the finder may have the article if he wants it.
If all students would follow this policy, the lost and found department will be 100 percent more efficient, says Father Leahy, for it will have become a central service, where a person who has lost something may quickly recover it, provided of course that someone else has found and turned in the lost article. The only exception to this practice regards items found in or near the stadium on the weekends of home football games, for a lost and found department is operated right at the stadium during home games.
Placement News
Employment interviews for Notre Dame students are to be conducted Oct. 22 through 26. Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 22 and 23, Douglas Aircraft Co., of Santa Monica, Calif., will interview Mechanical, Aeronautical, Electrical, and Civil Engineers, and also Physicists and Mathematicians expecting advanced degrees.
On Monday alone, Babcock and Wilcox Co., of-New York City, will interview Mechanical Engineers, while on the same day Cessna Aircraft Co., Wichita, Kan., will interview Mechanical and Aeronautical Engineers.
Merck & Co., of Rahway, N. J., will interview Chemical Engineers, both M.S. and B.S. candidates, Oct. 24. Thursday, Oct. -25, the Standard Oil Co., Whiting, Ind., will interview M.S. and Ph.D. Chemists. The Standard Oil Co. of San Francisco, Calif., will also interview M.S. and Ph.D. Chemists on Friday, Oct. 26.
On the same day, U. S. Rubber Co., Mishawaka, Ind., will interview men who are finishing at midyear- in technical fields. They are also interested in talking to all types of engineers and chemists. In non-technical fields they want men of .any educational background for openings in production supervision, production control, sales, accounting, and general office work.
On Thursday and Friday, Dr. J. W. Kneisley, of the Hercules Powder Co., will interview Chemists. He will talk to the Student Chemists on Thursday evening, and will interview chemistry Ph.D.’s on Friday night.
The Scholastic
14
Julius Wolff Named as New Member of Advisory Council
Julius Frederic Wolff, of Duluth, Minn., who recently retired as General Mining Engineer for the Oliver Mining Company, has accepted membership on the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, announced Mr. Wolff’s acceptance of membership on the council. Consisting of twenty-four of the leading scientists and industrialists of the United States, the council advises Notre Dame regarding its scientific and engineering research programs. '
The Duluth engineer and geologist is credited with working out the structural geology of iron ore deposits of the Mesabi and Guyana ranges in Minnesota, and with the correlation of the geology of these ranges with that of the iron ore producing districts of Michigan, Wisconsin and Canada.
Mr. Wolff also is known for his engineering and geological investigations of the ores of iron and manganese in the Western portion of the United States, in Canada and Brazil, and of the deposits of fluorspar' in Kentucky.
Mr. Wolff, who currently is serving with the Oliver Iron Mining Company in an advisory capacity, joined that company as an engineer in 1908, aftergraduating from the University of Wisconsin. He served for the ‘ next 42 years as an engineer and geologist with the same company, which is a subsidiary of the United States Steel Corporation.
Fr. O'Brien Explains Mass To Legion of Mary Sunday
Sponsored by the Legion of Mary, “A Day of Explanation” will be conducted this Sunday morning at 10:30 in the Dillon Hall Chapel by Rev. John A. O’Brien.
While the Mass is being said at the altar by Rev. Regis H. Riter, C.S.C., Father O’Brien, noted lecturer and writer, will explain the ceremonies of the Mass.
Following this, Father O’Brien will lecture on the teachings and practices of the Catholic faith. After lunch at the cafeteria, a lecture and question period will be held in room 101 Law Building at 12:45.	.
A visit to the Grotto and Benediction in Sacred Heart Church will terminate the program.
The general public is cordially invited.
WND's UP Wire in Operation Thursday;
Hynes Resigns Position as Chief Announcer
The long-awaited United Press News wire is slated to go into operation at WND this Thursday, the station staff announces.
Already installed, the teletype waits
Legal Eaglets Probe 'Autumn Assizes' Ball
Arrangements for the Law Ball, the “Autumn Assizes,” are presently underway. The dance will be in session at the Indiana Club from 9 till 1 on Friday evening, Oct. 26, with a Halloween motif and music by Gene Hull and his Lettermen.
Bids are $5, and single students can purchase two tickets to the Purdue game with their bids. For those who attend this “trial by ordeal,” 2 o’clock permissions have been granted, as well as the usual car permissions.
The presiding justices will be Vic DeFiori and Bob Burns.
Assisting the two Justices will be Counsellors Enburg and Loughlin in charge of decorations. Counsellors Sav-inell and Tuskusky will handle the Summons, Counsellor Savage is arranging the Docket. Counsellor O’Reilly is in charge of tickets for the game.
JUSTICES AND COUNCIL
Will Deliver Verdict Next Friday
only the date on which the contract sets the go-ahead for the UP to press the button and the copy to start issuing forth.
The use of the teletype will be under the direction of Rudy Unger, WND’s news chief, who has already gotten his staff set up in preparation for the advent of the ticker.
The present schedule calls for three 15-minute news summaries to be presented every day—at noon, 5 p.m., and before sign-off time in the evening. Five-minute summaries are tentatively scheduled for 1, 2, 3, and 4 o’clock in the afternoon.
Campus news is already a regular feature of the WND program schedule, with a five-minute summary appearing every evening at 6:55.	'
Keith Klein, who has been handling WND radio news in cooperation with the WSBT news department, will continue to handle the 5 o’clock show, which includes the South Bend weathercast and the dining hall menu.
Hynes Quits as Chief Announcer
Two new appointments were made this week as the campus station continued to juggle its staff.
Jack Hynes, 50 percent of the now-famous “Chas and Jack” team and a
Oct. 19, 1951
15
WND announcer for three years, announced his resignation as head of the announcing staff due to the press of too many other activities.
He has been replaced by Al Wood, a junior English major from Memphis, Tenn., who has served as a WND announcer for two years and is featured on the “Story of Storyville” show on Monday nights.
Another change saw Bruce Harrison, a sophomore from Englewood, New Jersey, take over as record librarian to replace Marion Lesczynski, another
resignee because of time.
Although out as
Hynes will continue
the demands of
head announcer, as emcee of his
weekly “Requestfully Yours” show, “On the Sunny Side of the Street” every Sunday morning, and Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, when he has “A Date at Eight” with Chas. Schubert.
Build a Second Story
WND’s studios, “high atop the Irish Fieldhouse,” are to have a second story added. Work was begun this week, and technical chief Ted Byrne has placed Paul Curtin in charge of the new construction.
The purpose of the new construction,
which will put a bf approximately studios, is to give nical departments
second story on top half of the station the News and Tech-some place to work
where they will be out of the way of those who are actually producing shows.
Another construction project undertaken is the refurbishing of closetsized Studio B. It will be equipped with a complete control board in which the announcer can run his own microphone, spin his own records, and completely run his own show.
Last Saturday’s “Open. House” at WND attracted over 500 guests before and after the SMU game.
Fr. Broestl Addresses Air Reserve Breakfast Sunday
The Air Reservists will hold their second social event of the year Sunday, Oct. 21. It will begin with a 7:30 a.m. formation in front of Morrissey Hall, before proceeding- to Sacred Heart Church for the 8 o’clock Mass. A communion breakfast will follow, with Rev. L. G. Broestl, C.S.C., as guest speaker.
All those interested in attending should contact Chairman Paul Braun-lich at 351 Badin, anytime this evening. There will be a slight charge of 25 cents for campus students, and 75 cents for all those off-campus.
Council Will Accept 'Who's Who' Ballots
Nominations will be accepted within the next week for Notre Dame’s representatives in “Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.” This was announced at Monday night’s Student Council meeting by Ed Noonan, Chair
man of the Blue Circle, which dling the nominations. Posters placed on the bulletin boards student support in this project.
is hanwill be asking
The Circle will also send letters to recognized student leaders and administration heads requesting their ideas on good men.’ It will then compile a list of worthy individuals from which the Student Council will choose 30 for listing in “Who’s Who.”
A new plan for the election of hall presidents was also announced at the meeting. In Sorin Hall last week ballots were passed out in the mail boxes and pencils hung up nearby. Students were asked to fill out the ballots right there and return them to the boxes. Jim Manion, Council vice-president, said he would report on the success or failure of the plan at the next meeting.
The Council authorized a $500 Charity Chest contribution to the United Charity Fund of South Bend. This money will be given by the United Fund to such worthy charities as the Community Chest, the Red Cross, and the Cancer Fund. No separate con
tributions will be made to ties as was done last year.
A Barn Dance in the
Hall was scheduled by the
these chari-
Navy Drill
Council for
Saturday, Nov. 17. This will replace the usual dance in the Palais Royale since that has already been reserved for another dance. The Council thought that the students might like this type of informal get-together for a change.
The Council also heard a report from the NFCCS on its week’s activity. Senior-Delegate Al DeCrane announced that
Mass Schedule
Monday, Oct. 22—Mass of the season. Colls, of the Saints, of the Faithful Departed, 4 at choice
Tuesday, Oct. 23—Mass of the season. Colls, of the Saints, 3 at choice.
Wednesday, Oct. 24—Feast of Saint Raphael.
Thursdaj', Oct. 25—Feast of Saints Chrysanthus and Daria. Colls, of the Saints, 3 at choice.
Friday, Oct. 26—Feast of Saint Evaristus. Colls, of the Saints, 3 at choice.
Saturday, Oct. 27—Vigil of Saints Simon and Jude.
Ek
the Catholic Action Study Commission was sponsoring a talk Tuesday by Mr. David O’Shea, an English Catholic Action worker. This was the first major action taken by the commission since its chartering during the summer.
Sommer Preps Debaters For Collegiate Competition
General speech techniques, the theory of debate, and strategy are the main points which Mr. Len Sommer, debate team moderator, has stressed in initial lectures to the team for the past month.
Team members with no previous college experience were given partners with whom they might prepare for an inter-team elimination tournament among new members. The purpose of this tournament is to give the neophytes experience and also to give Mr. Sommer a chance to inspect their debating talents.
A small cash prize will be awarded the winning pair. Defeat does not necessarily mean elimination from the team, however. To give the team more experience, its members will engage in exhibition debates before the Ardmore and St. Matthew’s P.T.A. groups on Nov. 13.
The Irish debaters will encounter Indiana Nov. 11. On Nov. 19, ten team members will journey to Peoria, Ill., where they will enter the Bradley debate tournament.
The team will also go to Iowa City Nov. 30, to participate in the Iowa Conference Tournament.
Highlight of this year’s debate season will be an exhibition debate with Oxford University’s famous team Nov. 15 in Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. The topic will be “Resolved: That any
attempts to outlaw
the Communist
Party endangers the liberties they are
designed to protect.
Al DeCrane and
Bill Dempsey, taking the negative, will represent Notre Dame.
I


16
The Scholastic
University to Install New Water System
One of the first things that an incoming Freshman is told upon entering his new residence hall is “. . . don’t drink the water in your room, only fountain water- is drinkable.”
This rule exists because the University operates on two independent water systems. The one designed for drinking is stored by two wells which are located at the laundry and the dining hall. The other system includes the well at the golf course and also taps St. Joseph Lake. It provides a supply for all other needs.
Since this arrangement has long met with disfavor, Notre Dame officials, under the supervision of Brother Borromeo, C.S.C., head of all utilities, have drawn up a plan which will provide for a one-pipe system. Under such a program all water, even that used for utilities, would be drinkable.
To accomplish this, it will be necessary to construct a 500,000-gallon tank east of the steam plant. The tank will supply the system and will act as a reserve in case of fire.
In addition, new wells of approximately 190 feet depth will be dug. New 12-inch line will also be installed to connect the wells, water tank, and outlets.
The total capacity of all the wells is estimated to be about 3,500,000 gallons per day. This could therefore easily supply the average 1,000,000 gallons needed each day.
University officials hope to have the system installed by late June or early July. _____
Applications for Dec. I Draff Test Due Soon
Information from the Selective Service Testing Bureau of Princeton, N. J., indicates that applications for the Dec. 1, 1951 and the April 24, 1952 administrations of the College Qualification Test are now available at Selective Service System local boards throughout the country.
For students here in school, further information on these applications may be obtained from the Department of Military Information in the east wing of the first floor, Main Building.
Eligible students who intend to take this test on either date are advised to apply at once to the nearest Selective Service local board for an application and a bulletin of information.
Following instructions in the bulletin, the student should fill out his application and mail it immediately in the envelope provided. Applications for the
O:\ 19, 1951
Dec. 31 test must be postmarked not later than midnight, Nov. 5, 1951.
According to Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the College Qualification Test for the Selective Service System, it ■will be greatly to the student’s advantage to file his application at once, regardless of the testing date he selects.
The results will be reported to the student’s Selective Service local board of jurisdiction for use in considering his deferment as a student.
Ballas and Maher Speak At Inter-American Meeting
John Ballas and Donald Maher are scheduled to lead the open discussion on job opportunities in Mexico at the third meeting of the Inter-American Affairs Club Wednesday.
The Club seeks to provide a background of knowledge and appreciation of the civilization of the neighboring countries of the Western Hemisphere. The club is open to those who have either cultural or specific commercial interests in these countries.
A varied program has been planned for the year through the combined efforts of Mr. Thomas Downey of the Department of History, club moderator; Robert Peterson, president; Adolfo Calero, vice-president; John Ballas, treasurer; Donald Maher, corresponding secretary; and Roberto Ai-guello, recording secretary. Lectures, movies, panel discussions, and perhaps a few fiestas will help to carry out the aims of the club.
The second meeting of the year, held Oct. 10, featured a discussion of the problems of the Spanish speaking people of the American Southwest. Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., stressed the need of Catholic lay leadership to keep them true to age-old loyalty to the Catholic Church.
City College Professor Gives Lectures on Slavic Culture
The Committee on International Relations announces a series of three lectures on the general subject, “Pan-Slavism,” by Prof. Hans Kohn of the City College of New York. They are as follows:
Monday, Oct. 29, at 8 p.m., “Pan-Slavism and the Western Slavs;
Tuesday, Oct. 30, at 4:30 p.m., “PanSlavism and Russian Messianism;”
Tuesday, Oct. 30, at 8 p.m., “PanSlavism and Two World Wars.”
Pan-Slavism, as defined by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, chairman of the Committee on International Relations, is a renaissance of Slavic culture and former glory, both artistic and military, which started
about the middle of the last century. It has been and is still being used by both Czarist and Soviet Russians to further the causes of Russian imperialism.
Professor Kohn holds the degree of Doctor of Law from the German University in Prague and witnessed the Russian revolution and civil wars of 1917-22. He came to the United States in 1931 and has taught at a number of schools.
He is an editorial advisor to the Encyclopedia Britannica and has written a mid-way account of the Western World entitled The Twentieth Century.
These lectures will be held in Room 101 Law Building.
Notre Dame Gymnastic Club Plans Intercollegiate Meets
The initial meeting of the Gymnastics Club was held at the Rockne Memorial last week. President John Wenning presided and outlined the objects of the club for the coming season.
“The furtherance of gymnastics at Notre Dame, and getting as many fellows interested in gymnastics are the main objects of the club,” stated Wenning. He further added, “We would like to see the gymnastic sport represented, if possible, by a varsity team in the future.”
Coach Raymond Runkle outlined the schedule for exhibitions and competition for the year. The group will perform at Muessel school Nov. 16 as part of a carnival, and will present basketball half-time shows for the Wisconsin game Dec. 11, the Butler game Jan. 8, and the DePaul game Feb. 14.
The team has made tentative arrangements for meets with Ball State, Indiana and Michigan State.
As part of a program to popularize gymnastics the club will perform at the local YMCA.
Coach Runkle stressed to the group that hard work would be the only way they could make a good showing in intercollegiate meets this year. Practice sessions have been scheduled to prepare the team for the first show at the Muessel school.
MOVIE SCHEDULE
Sat., Oct. 20—“Toast of New Orleans,” News and Cartoon, 3 p.m., 6:40, 8:50 p.m.
Sat., Oct. 27 — “Battleground,” News and Cartoon, 6:40, 8:45 p.m.
Wed., Oct. 31—“Vengeance Valley,” News and Cartoon, 6:40, 8:35 p.m.
Sat., Nov. 3 — “Three Little Words,” News and Cartoon, 3, 6:40, 8:55 p.m.
NIGHT IS THE CITI
Text
those nights where
It’s one of
well, a bus’ll be along Oddly enough, it is, so man your dime, smoke a wonder again just what two great beers, until
soon anyhow, you pay the cigarette, and are the other your feet hit
The Notre Dame man ... his love for fine clothes a legend in the world of fashion ... his arrivals at some gay cabaret, some exclusive restaurant or theatre affected by the Motor City's finest products ... his jaunty, yet smart appearance the cynosure of all eyes.
you need is some change and the clination. On with the shoes, off to Circle, out with the thumb, and
all in-the oh,
by JOHN SLAVICH Photos by AL MUTH
the pavement and there’s still no place to go. The store windows give some promise, so off you shuffle, past the
Eastern-style men’s wear that you happen not to like, a little slower past the mirror, past the female mannikin unaccountably wearing a football helmet. The sign says “WAIT” so you wait, remembering the story about the kid down the hall who was fined a buck for jay-walking, and feeling foolish because the other guys go.
There she is, man, the perfect girl. How about that? Look at it go. Again you slow down, around goes the head,
looking back the way you came. Into the bar she goes, and you shake the change in your pocket and think, “What a lucky dog he is.” Well, that’s the way it goes, so you walk a little further feeling sorry for yourself. On the outside, looking in. Once more the trek starts up, with a momentary diversion outside the photography studio. More girls, more shopwindows, more people. Where are they all going to, anyway? There sure are some odd-
His near-reverent appreciation of the beautiful is unsurpassed in human experience ... as is his awareness of the value of thrift
>3
Mil



Above all, he is modern ... his clothes
But even the Notre
smile as it at that gal thinks she’s tell by the
looking ones. The thought once struck you that someone was probably thinking the same thing about you, and you
strikes you again. Look over there! Boy, bet she really something, you can way she walks that she
come only from the finest stores ... his
literature from only the best-stocked shelves . . . and his culinary tastes delight the epicure.
-CITY DROIIMMCE ML 23M
327
NO SMb-
- CITY
considers herself the class of Michigan Street. Hmf, she’s in a class by herself, all right. There certainly must be better-looking gals in the world. Maybe in South Bend, even, although that’s stretching it a bit. But look who’s talking.
Well, here we are at the theatre, and there certainly is quite a crowd of first nighters here for the gala opening. Naturally you’re a movie marquee critic, so you kill some time trying to figure out the plot of the picture from the stills in front of the theatre. Sometimes you can even guess who did throw the ground glass into the soup, but you never find out for sure on nights like these. Not without enough money to buy a ticket. So down the street you saunter, ’til you come upon a class B western with Rodney Ranger banging it out with Black Mack. A bit lacking for the aesthete, perhaps, but for a quarter who can lose? No popcorn tonight, thanks. By the time the show is over you’re fixin’ to tangle with someone, but the streets are rather empty of varmints tonight, so you just breathe in deeply of downtown’s fresh
finally leave the city . . . with the evening behind him, he goes . . . still jaunty . . . still modern.
air after the justice, and it
ute or
two.
The evening
triumph of rangeland wears off after a min
is yet young, but no
sudden flash of inspiration has struck you since you came out of the show, so you wander again, down to the South Shore Station this time to look at the sleeping people. Perhaps a prolonged glance at the magazine counter too, except that the lady there doesn’t (Continued on Page 33)
And when he sleeps, naturally enough ... it is in the best of accommodations.
Dame man with his bon vivant, his love of living, must
“Smedley Always Leaves for Class at the Last Minute.”
THE THIRD DEGREE
By J. L. SHEPHERD
A plan for the brandishing of the bulging biceps of graduate students through the medium of touch football was formulated by the Executive Council of the Graduate Students Association at a meeting of Oot. 11. The Council unanimously voted that Larry Monaco and Dick Schaver should serve as a committee for the extension of the program and delegated all necessary authority to them.
Teams from every graduate department and school will be formed to participate in league play on Saturday afternoons. If you are a graduate student and desire to play on your department’s team, you can either contact other like-minded men and form .your own team of any of the following men who will furnish all necessary details: Ed. O’Connor, History; Joe McGrath, Chemistry and Science; Fred Herx, Philosophy; and Carl Julien, Engineering.
The league will commence operation on Oct. 20 at 12:45 p.m. on the athletic field near Notre Dame Boulevard, with Biology the pre-season favorite to cop the league title. Teams within departments will have eliminations which will then proceed to the departmental level until a winner evolves.
Preliminary plans were adopted for a lecture to be sponsored by the Gradu
■ 20
ate Student’s Association later in the semester and final preparations were reported to be in progress for the Halloween Dance to be held on the evening of Oct. 30. A “Harvest-time” motif has been selected for that soiree.
Irish B Team Opens Today
The University of Notre Dame B football squad will open its five-game schedule this afternoon at Champaign against the University of Illinois B team.
The schedule:
Oct. 19—Illinois there	, '
Oct. 27—Purdue here
Nov. 3—Tennessee there
Nov. 9—Michigan State there ’ Nov. 16—Michigan State here
'Sailing Irish' Take Second Behind Purdue in Regatta
Compiling 28 out of a possible 40 points the Notre Dame Sailing team placed second in the Washington University Invitational Regatta held in St. Louis Oct. 6 and 7. Purdue’s Boilermakers copped the fifth annual event with a total of 33 points. Washington and DePauw trailed the Sailing Irish with a total of 24 and 23 points respectively. Ed Rogers, with 16 points, and Pat Keefe, with 10, led Notre Dame in her first regatta of the season.
A dual meet with Northwestern, Nov. . 10 and 11, and competition in the Midwest Thanksgiving Regatta will round out the Irish’s schedule.	■
Cavanaugh Defeats Farley For Interhall Diamond Title
Cavanaugh captured the interhall baseball championship by defeating Farley, their East campus rivals, 3-1, in a tight pitchers’ duel. Warren Riggs on the mound for Cavanaugh allowed only three hits, two of them successive triples to open the ninth. Riggs weathered the rally by fanning the last three batters.
Bill Faimon’s two-run double in the third, one of two safeties by the winners off Farley’s Ed Conklin, was the big blow of the game. The other run scored in the fourth without a hit.
■Cavanaugh won the championship by sweeping their four-game schedule. They were captained by outfielder Tom Moore who also paced the club in RBI’s. Along with Moore in the outer gardens were Dick Hammer and Riggs.
The infield was composed of Romie Zenetti at first, Faimon at second, Ed Flucco at third, Sam Tiano at short, and Larry Dolan behind the plate. Tiano and Faimon led all hitters with .500 batting averages.
All members of the team will be given gold medals as a reward for their play. In addition Cavanaugh will take on the varsity baseball squad in a practice tilt.
Other news along the Interhall scene included plans for touch football and soccer leagues. All who are interested in the two sports should watch their hall bulletin boards for announcements.
Notre Dame Harriers Place Second in Triangular Meet
The University of Wisconsin Badgers, led by Captain Walter Deike, outdistanced Notre Dame and Marquette in a triangular cross country meet held in Milwaukee last Friday. Wisconsin scored 36 points, the Irish 44, and Marquette 49.
£
Deike’s winning time of 21:33 paced i the field over the four-mile course, m He was closely followed by Notre I Dame’s Benny Almaguei* and the Hill- B toppers’ captain, Ted Baars. The Irish B star came in at 21:36; Baars at 21:37. J Other ND point scorers were Jack S Alexander, Wheaton winner, finishing £ fourth in 21:49; Bob Feiler, eighth B with 22:13; George Helfenstein, 14 th Is at 23:26 and John O’Connor, 16th at S 23:31.	O
This week, the Irish harriers travel jtS to Pittsburgh in hopes of duplicating last year’s 24-33 triumph over Pitt, The Panthers are bolstered by the re-j|l turn of Luterancick and Kuzma, two of^^
last year’s standouts.—Bill Noonan

The Scholastic]
Letters . ..
Spirit or Bad Manners?
University of Notre Dame:
Listening to the game today I have concluded that you are a very poor bunch of sports, I repeat, very poor sports. When Southern Methodist called signals on the offense, your student body and townspeople all kept yelling; your officiating was partly to blame for not stopping such poor spoi-tsmanship, but it is disgusting to have to listen to such a poor display.
Name Withheld
Dear Editor:
The scent was really hovering over the student’s section at Saturday’s game. As a group—with the exception of the senior class—our student body gave the worst display of manners that I have ever seen. The ND students deserve less than anything to be called men. Their actions Saturday would have made retarded grade school children ashamed. Not only was it immature, but it was a direct insult to our visitors from Southern Methodist University. It blasted at our school’s reputation, for surely it was noticed by the 58,000 people in the stadium—minus the idiots responsible— and by 60 millions who heard and saw the game over radio and TV.
Bob Flynn
Off campus
It is rather unfair to judge a whole student body by the impolite actions of a few boors. The immature we always have with us. But the Irish reputation and spirit were not built by these few. We agree that certain occurrences were not in the best sportsmanship, but let’s use a little moderation in judging ND and its reputation by isolated individuals and incidents.—Editor.
Lambert for President
Editor:
What’s all this talk about Taft for president? Who wants Truman? Mac-Arthur, Eisenhower, Vinson, they’re all out of there. I nominate herewith a man of true vision and perceptivity, a man with clarity of thinking and the ability to state the truth in a nutshell, a man with the knack of pithy, hardhitting statements, a man used to the rough and tumble of public life, fearless, unafraid, staunch—Jack Lambert.
Robert A. Dougherty Off campus
Minck to Represent ’Review' At Engineers' Magazine Meet
John Minck, editor of The Notre Dame Technical Revieiv, will represent that publication at the annual convention of the Engineering College Magazines Associated, in Philadelphia, Pa., today and Saturday.
The Pennsylvania Triangle, engineering publication of the University of Pennsylvania, will serve as host to the delegates under- a rotation plan which sets the site of the annual convention at a different campus each year.
The Engineering College Magazines Associated is an organized group of engineering publications of many colleges. Purposes of the organization are primarily two-fold. The first purpose is the improvement of the individual magazines by co-operation and exchange of ideas and problem solutions between members. The second is better operation of the first purpose by the procurement of more and better national advertising through the combined efforts and workings of the organization.
Now entering its third year of publication, The Technical Review has received initial approval for membership. Final approval is obtained by a full vote of the convention delegates. Minck will also bring back points of interest pertinent to the engineering publication field discussed at the meetings.
‘‘Honest, Ed, I Was Just About to Return Your Soap!”
Purdue Week End Contest Offers Decoration Trophy
This year the Purdue week-end will feature the annual inter-hall exhibition contest. Each hall will be allowed one exhibit with a maximum budget of $100. Co-chairmen of the contest are Joe Albers, a senior engineer, and Dick Benedict, senior architect.
The specific rules for the contest were distributed yesterday to the individual hall presidents. The committee hopes to have professors from the various colleges to judge the exhibits according to the professors’ special fields.
A trophy will be presented to the winner between halves of the Purdue game which will remain in residence at the winning hall until it is won by another hall. If it is won three times in a row, it will be retired.
The second big feature of the Purdue week end will be the pep rally, sponsored by the Senior Class. Joe Stanichek, chairman of the rally, will be assisted by Glen Haney and Dick Stubbing. The affair will feature a monster bonfire in Badin Bog. Any seniors interested in helping in this undertaking are asked to contact one of the above-mentioned men.
The senior class will also sponsor the Victory Dance in the Drill Hall. Decorations will be handled by Tom Foley, Jack Daut, Tony Messina, and George Reverman.
I
Oct. 19, 1951
21
ND in the FBI
by Rudy Unger
Almost anyone who steps onto the front porch to pick up the morning paper will find in it such items as ■“George and Walter McGee were apprehended for the kidnaping of Mary McElroy as a result of investigation by G-Men and the Kansas City Police Department,” or “David Greenglass, 28-year-old former Young Communist League member who, while in the army and working at the atomic bomb project in Los Alamos, New Mexico, in 1945, allegedly passed on atomic secrets destined for Russia, was arrested yes
22
terday by the FBI on espionage charges.”
Day in, day out, night in, night out, as the nation goes about its everyday living, a group of unnoticed, efficient investigators quietly go about their task of protecting the welfare and security of America. To kids in playgrounds they are known as the G-Men; to the movie-going public they’re usually the FBI; officially they are Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation —the finest law enforcement body in the history of mankind.
Approximately 100 of these agents?,? are Notre Dame men!
As an investigative arm of the De- ”? partmen t of Justice, headed by the s? Attorney General, chief legal officer of the United States, the FBI has a two- ? fold function, being both a fact finding > agency and a service agency.	f
Fairly and Impartially
It investigates violations of Federal . laws, seeking out fairly and impartially the facts. These are presented to the Attorney General and his aids, ' the United States attorneys, who decide whether or not the people involved are to be brought to trial.
It also serves in assisting local law enforcement agencies in identification and technical matters.
In order that it might fulfill this double function with the greatest efficiency, speed and accuracy, the FBI operates on a nation-wide network. Divided into 52 field divisions, each under a Special Agent in Charge—and central headquarters, under the Bureau’s Director—this system has been so effectively set up that within one hour a special agent can arrive at any point in the nation where his services may be needed.
From this network the Federal Bureau of Investigation strikes out in deadly combat against its two great enemies—Crime and Subversion.
“Elements which would destroy American liberty are at work in America today,” are the words of the Bureau’s chief, Mr. J. Edgar Hoover. “These elements are the criminal and the subversive.”
“The criminal is a vicious hoodlum intent upon advancing his own predatory interests at the expense of the innocent citizen.” Whenever one of these hoodlums violates a federal law j within its jurisdiction, the FBI’s agents ’ swing into action, working out of central headquarters through such agents as E. H. Winterrowd, a Notre Dame graduate of 1940, who serves as an ac-sistant to the head of the Investigative Division. ,
Constant contact is maintained between Washington and the chiefs of the Bureau’s field divisions; men such as Richard Hosteny, Notre Dame ’33, who is Special Agent in Charge of the Springfield Office. Hosteny, in his position, is responsible for the direction of FBI activities in a large portion of the State of Illinois.

Works With Local Law	8
As indicated in the above-mentioned® McElroy kidnaping case, the Bureau often works in collaboration with local law enforcement bodies in trackingjS down violators. Hoover always has|||g
The Scholastics^
HARVEY G. FOSTER ‘‘Extremely well qualified"
placed great emphasis on the importance and responsibility of local lawofficials in fighting crime. During the Kefauver Hearings he testified, “If the laws against gambling presently on the state and local statute books were earnestly and vigorously enforced, organized gambling could be eliminated within 48 hours in any community in the land.”
To provide local law officials with every possible aid, the Bureau readily • offers them the use of its scientific crime d; tection laboratory and Identification Division in Washington. The Bureau’s fingerprint files in Washington contain over 121,500,000 sets of fingerprints, the largest collection in the world.
Big cities like Cleveland are ready to be aided at a minute’s notice by such
Special Agents as Maurice Mahon, class of 1950, who died last spring in an unfortunate plane accident while on an assignment. Small towns, such as Erie, Pa., can call upon the assistance of Special Agents such as Ollie Hunter, Notre Dame ’43, who is a resident agent in that town.
Special agents often are called to help in the training of local police officers. Harvey G. Foster, who graduated from here in 1939 and now the Bureau’s top man in Indiana, was frequently called into such towns as South Bend to instruct police on the techniques of pistol shooting. As Indiana State pistol gallery champ, he is extremely well qualified to perform such services.
Public Enemy No. 2
Regarding the othei- public enemy, the subversive, Mr. Hoover says that “there are more than fifty thousand conspirators, trained in deceit and subterfuge, who today are fanatically attempting to delivei- the United States into the orbit of Communistic control which now envelops more than one-third of the world’s population. Highly organized and militant, they comprise a plotting group that follows the whims and dictates of a foreign master—they are members of the Communist Party, United States of America.”
“The FBI, by presidential directive, is charged with responsibility of leading the fight against those forces which threaten the internal security of the nation.”
In Washington, in the Domestic Intelligence Division of the Bureau, there are a number of agents who are Notre Dame men. Six of these: W. A. Brani-gan, ’38; R. H. Egan, ’38; A. B. Fipp, ’41; J. E. Foley, ’31; J. T. Harrington,
RICHARD HOSTENY
“A large portion of Illinois”
’32; and J. F. Wacks, ’35 are Supervisors. This group has a vital part in protecting our internal security against subversives.
In the previously-mentioned Greenglass arrest, the officer in charge was Edward Scheidt, Special Agent in Charge of the Bureau’s New York Division. Scheidt’s chief assistant is Bill Whelan, Notre Dame ’34. Besides Whelan, there are eleven other agents under Scheidt who claim Notre Dame as their alma mater. Among them are such agents as Tony Maloney, ’43, who in his Senior year collaborated with Bill Leonard, Frank Conforti and agent Ollie Hunter in setting the American Indoor Track Record for four miles at 17:31.1.
In one of the opening paragraphs (Continued' on Page 32)
ON THE FIRING LINE	NOTRE DAME GRADS
"Against those forces which threaten our internal security”
Oct. 19, 1951
23
fb Scholastic Sports J
Irish Invade Panther’s Lair Tomorrow
MUTSCHELLER GRABS A MUSTANG
A basketball game in the stadium
Pittsburgh Tests ND's Ailing Pass Defense; Leahy's Lads Seek Return of Winning Form
BY MICKEY CARROLL
THE END OF A JAUNT
Bruised linemen, bruised egos
Their National Championship hopes smashed by last Saturday’s 27-20 upset at the hands of the aerial-minded SMU Mustangs, Notre Dame’s Irish visit Pittsburgh tomorrow, in an attempt to get another victory streak under way.
Notre Dame would have to go some to find more likely candidates than the Panthers to start them back on the win trail. In three games so far this season, the Pittsburgh eleven has managed to accumulate three losses, the most recent and most crushing a 34-17 mauling at the hands of a not-too-powerful Iowa team.
The Panthers were the victims two weeks ago of an Indiana club seeking vengeance after they had been crushed by Notre Dame 48-6. Vengeance the Hoosiers got, as they dropped coach Tom Hamilton’s Panthers by a 15-6 count. In the curtain raiser of their 1951 campaign, the Panthers were edged by Duke, 19-14.
Panthers No Pushover
But, though their season record doesn’t indicate much more than a singular talent for coming out on the short end, the Panthers will not be a pushover for Leahy’s lads.
A line in which five of the starters weigh in at over 200, a quarterback in the person of Bob Bestwick, who throws a hard, accurate pass, and the educated toe of substitute quarterback, freshman Paul Blanda, all make Pitt a power to be reckoned with.
Chris Warriner, a senior letter man, and sophomore Dick Dietrich figure to hold down the starting end posts for the Panthers. Warriner, comparatively small for the flank position, makes up for his lack of height by a pair of very sure hands which were on the receiving end of a Bestwick aerial for the initial Panther tally in the second period against Iowa. Warriner carries only
185 pounds on a five-foot ten-inch frame.
Dietrich, at the other end post, is a big capable boy, as yet a little short on experience. A sophomore, he is six-two and 210 pounds.
The Panthers are strong at tackle. Bill Gasparovic, a 205-pound, six-one senior, and Bob Brennen, six-one and heavyman in the Pitt forward wall at 215 pounds should start — but the pair are backed up by no less than five more over-200-pounders, all of whom could well see action against the Irish, tomorrow.
Guard is anothei- post at which the Panthers should have few worries. Three lettermen, all of whom had some starting experience in 1950, are back with this year’s squad, with the starting nods probably going to Rudy Anda-baker, an aggressive, but not too big senior, and 210-pound sophomore Merle Deluca.
John Dazio, a two-year letterman and starting center on the 1950 squad, will hold down the middle spot of the strong Pitt line. A 205 pounder, he is noted as a top blocker and a team leader.
Bestwick at-Quarterback
The Panther backfield is built around senior quarterback Bob Bestwick who last year completed 62 out of 113 passes for 757 yards and five scores. Bestwick plays defensive halfback as well, and started out in that position under the old Pitt single wing. Shifted to T quarterback last year, he was a bright spot in a not too brilliant Pitt picture, and should keep the leaky Irish pass defense on its toes.
Bill Reynolds and Lou Cimarolli figure to start in the halfback slots, both typical T halves, depending mainly on speed. Reynolds, a 185-pound junior, had a particular ability last season for
Oct. 19, 1951
25
BOB BESTWICK
Bright spot in a not too bright picture
intercepting passes, grabbing seven for a total runback of 123 yards. A clever broken field runner, he is dangerous on punt runbacks from the safety position.
Cimarolli, who tips the scales at a somewhat anemic 165, is another’ dangerous breakaway runner. Against Iowa he ran back a fourth period kickoff for 65 yards to set up the final Panther tally.
Bob Epps, another sophomore, rounds out the Pitt backfield. A hard driving fullback, he weighs in at 190 and is the workhorse of the Panther ground attack.
But the main Panther threat is in the air. Against Iowa, both Pitt markers came on passes, one a 59-yard screen play from punt formation.
Notre Dame will enter- the contest without the services of first string guard Paul Burns and with a squad still feeling the bumps and bruises of last week’s rugged upset at the hands of SMU’s Mustangs.
Burns suffered a shoulder separation, sophomore tackle Fred Poehler was carried off the field with a severely bruised back, and freshman guard Frank Varrichione suffered a bruised tendon.
All of the Irish suffered bruised egos as they were outpassed and outclassed by the Mustangs in the upset of the week on the collegiate sports scene.
SMU passing star . Fred. Benners made a basketball game out of the affair, as he nonchalantly avoided inrushing Irish linemen to complete 22 out of 42 passing attempts, including one for each of the four Mustang tallies.
While Benners was filling the air with footballs, Notre Dame alternated between an in-and-out running attack and a definitely out passing offensive which still netted the Irish three touchdowns and any number of heart-breaking near misses.
The Mustangs started the scoring in the first period, when Benners passed to Musselwhite on the Notre Dame forty, with the SMU halfback legging it the rest of the way for the six points. Notre Dame answered back with an off tackle smash out of the I-formation on which Paul Reynolds broke loose for 33 yards and the touchdown.
SMU was right back in the game when, at the end of the free-scoring first frame, Benners hit Russell, who ran 15 yards to score.
As the second quarter began Notre Dame counted again when John Mazur passed to Chet Ostrowski in the end zone. Mavraides, who had missed the first PAT, drove this one through the uprights to even things up.
The Mustangs took the lead again on the next series of plays, when Benners capped a field-length drive with a 31-yard pass to Sam White in the end zone. They counted again early in the final frame, when Benners tossed to Knight.
After a series of bobbles which saw Jack Allesandrini recover an SMU fumble, then drop it, and see it picked up by Irish center Dick Szymanski,
NEIL WORDEN SMOTHERED BY PONIES
Still not beaten Notre Dame fought back
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP
(Offense)
PITT	NOTRE DAME
Warringer ....LE...... Ostrowski
Brcnen ......LT......... Poehler
Andabaker ....LG.... Lee	or Burns
Dazio ........ C......... Hunter
DeLuca ......RG..... Varrichione Kraemer .............RT_ Toned
Dieruck .....RE..... Mutscheller Bestwick ............QB. Mazur
Cimarolli ...LH.......  Petitbon
Reynolds ____RH......... Barrett
Epps .........FB......... Worden
Kickoff time: 2:00 EST.
Notre Dame moved to the five on a Mazur-to-Worden aerial, and scored when Lattner drove over tackle.
The game began to take on the appearance of 1949’s Irish-Mustang battle in reverse, as Notre Dame tried an onside kick that failed when the Mustangs recovered. But Notre Dame got the ball with a little over a minute to play and another Mazur to Worden pass soon had the Irish on the Mustang 27.
But a 15-yard penalty and a 15-yard loss when Mazur was trapped behind the line spelled defeat for Notre Dame. Even a spectacular last second pass to Bob Toneff in a tackle-eligible play, couldn’t hold the ball for the Irish, who went down to their first defeat in a four-game series with the Mustangs.

The Scholastic
Hall Football Mayhem Begins Another Year; Morrissey Smashes St. Ed's in Opener, 20-0
Combining a well balanced passing and running attack, Morrissey won its first game of the interhall football league play by downing St. Edward’s, 20-0.
In the first half it looked like Morrissey was going to completely rout the Saints as Joe Bandiera and Fred Bel-lissimo chalked up huge chunks of yardage through the middle of the St. Ed’s defense.
The first time Morrissey got possession of the ball Bandiera and Bel-lissimo combined their efforts to carry the ball deep into the Saints’ territory. When the running attack bogged down, quarterback Marty Vieth flipped a pass to end Don Zech who caught the ball in the end zone for the first score. Bellissimo’s conversion attempt was good.
Morrissey scored their next touchdown in the second quarter and again it was Vieth who did the passing. This time to Al Jannett.
St. Ed’s was hit hard with the loss of their ace quarterback, Chuck Mears who was taken from the game with a broken nose.
The second half was a different story. St. Ed’s looked like a new team
when they took over the ball. The brunt of the load in the backfield was then carried by Dan Moore, St. Ed’s fullback. His running and passing, along with the great line play of Captain Bill Brewer and right tackle Jim Yonke kept St. Ed’s hopes alive during the entire second half. Although St. Ed’s could never find the needed punch to take them all the way, they played the powerful Morrissey on even terms.
Late in the fourth quarter, St. Ed’s gambled for a first down deep in Morrissey territory, lost, and thereby set the stage for the final score. Again Vieth lost no time when he tossed his final touchdown pass to end Joe White, who outran the St. Ed’s defense. The conversion was good and the game ended with Morrissey on top, 20-0.—Bob Frolicher
Zahm Downs Farley
In the opening inter-hall game of the 1951 season, the Zahm squad downed the Farley Hall team by a 6-0 score.
It was a closely fought battle all the way. Coach Dick Tighe’s “Zahm-bees” scored the lone tally on a partially deflected pass from quarterback
LYONS PASSER TRAPPED
More first downs, less touchdowns
Mike Aquilandro to end Bob Haidinger late in the third quarter. Haidinger took the pass on the Farley 40-yard line and went the distance unhampered behind some nice blocking by his teammates. The point after touchdown was low.
The line play of both teams was spirited during the entire game; but the fighting T-formation Zahm squad proved the victor over the nigged single-wing eleven from the campus’ northeast corner.—Pat Lally
ANOTHER LYONS PASS PLAY
Looked Like Johnny Lujack at times
Cavanuagh Trounces B-P
The gridiron men of Cavanaugh Hall took up where their baseball team left off and scored a very impressive 25-0 victory over a seemingly badly befuddled Breen-Phillips aggregate. In the first half of the contest the Cav-anaughites were a bit too eager to smother the B-P backs and as a result were penalized quite frequently. ■ However, in the important second half they got together and began to roll smoothly-
Fullback Dick Duffy was definitely the day’s TD hero driving over the B-P goal line three times. Bill Dwyer scored the remaining marker on a 35-yard pass from quarterback Pete Chase. The latter played an outstanding game in directing the destinies of his squad.
The charges of line coach Pete Ku-charczuk were really opening and dosing gaps in the line at the right time. On offense big Joe D’Antoni appeared to be making the most room for the hard charging backs while the standout on the defensive unit was guard Jim Maclnnis who constantly broke through to smother the hapless Freshmen backs for losses. Tackle Paul Kelley, center Rich Hohman and end
(Continued on Page 29)
Oct. 19, 1951
27
Splinters fiomth(PressboX
By Jack Varley
Southern Methodist wasn’t renowned for a ground attack when they entered the Notre Dame stadium last Saturday and it was hardly to be expected that any strategy based strictly on aerial bombardment could be so effective, especially an attack that was so brazen. They didn’t try to be deceptive and not long after the opening kick-off every-, body in the stadium began to realize there was no need for the Mustangs to cover what they were about to do for they had a great passer in Fred Benners and a capable catcher in every eligible receiver on the club. Sure, SMU had been scouted and Notre Dame was well aware of the passing prowess of Mr. Benners. With a guy throwing as many passes as he does, it was just taken for granted that some of them would have to be intercepted and give the Irish a break every once in a while that might result in a score or at least set one up. But, things didn’t turn out that way. Maybe Benners was having the best day of his career, but his passing Saturday was so accurate interception was almost impossible.
Irish Pass Defense Weak
Of course, Notre Dame’s pass defense has never been the strongest point of the team and chances are that it is just liable to hurt quite a bit in the next few weeks for in that time Leahy and Company face three very capable aerial artists. Tomorrow at Pitt they run into Bob Bestwick. Last year, despite Pitt’s 18-7 loss to Notre Dame, Bestwick stole the show from All-American Bob Williams when he completed 19 out of 24 pass attempts for an amazing .792 average and 252 yards. Incidentally, Benners only had an average of .524 last Saturday. At the present time, Bestwick is pitching over .500.
The following week it’s Purdue and their passing specialist, Dale Samuels, who gave a very brilliant display of passing against Leahy’s lads last year. Then it’s Navy and Bob Zastrow who is quite capable in the passing department. After last Saturday’s game, Pitt, Purdue and Navy are most likely to attempt the same antics SMU used to defeat Notre Dame . . . pass, pass and more passes.
Fred Benners was undoubtedly the outstanding star of last week’s game, but Notre Dame’s John Petitbon did the best job for the Irish. He was all over the field on defense and turned in one of the better jobs when he worked with the offensive eleven. After three games, the New 'Orleans speedster still maintains his lead in the ground-gaining department with a total of 131 yards in 20 carries for an average of 6.6 per carry. He also leads in punt returns, kick-off returns, is fourth in pass-receiving, and second in scoring which all adds up to making Petitbon the mainstay of the Irish offense.
Frosh Quarterback Makes His Bid '
Another* performance that was brilliant . . . but awfully brief - . . was that turned in by Frosh quarterback Ralph Guglielmi who picked up two first downs, completed four out of six passes and generally looked quite cool in his bid. Young and not possessing too much experience, he’s still a signal-caller to watch.
Prediction of the Week
Tomorrow afternoon, the Fighting Irish meet the gridders from the University of Pittsburgh’s Tower of Learning. So far this year, Pitt hasn’t been able to win a game. They’ve come awfully close every time, but have yet to find their name in the win column and tomorrow should be no exception for they are facing a team that has found victory sweet and defeat quite distasteful . . . Notre Dame 34, Pitt 14.
Four Future Foes |
Win; Three Succumb Si
By JACK SAND
.Michigan State, the pride of East Lansing, narrowly missed the same fate that befell Notre Dame, as they just did manage to eke out a 20-14 win over a scrappy Marquette University eleven.
Soundly outplayed by the Hilltoppers and behind 14-6 at the end of the third quarter, the Spartans cut loose with a flurry of passes in the final 10 minutes to avert what looked to be a mighty surprising upset.
An 86-yard touchdown march, sparked by halfback Leroy Bolden and quarterback Al Dorow netted State’s second score, as Dorow pitched 46 yards to Billy Wells. Dorow set up the winning touchdown tossing 50 yards to end Paul Decker, whence Bolden raced 13 yards around end to score. Thus, Michigan State remained undefeated in gaining its fourth successive victory.
Outside of the Spartans, the only othei* undefeated squad the Fighting Irish will have to face is their old nemesis, Southern California. The Trojans thus far have looked exceptionally well in winning four, and after last week’s 16-14 triumph over* Oregon State, they proved that they are good and should be given special attention.
Trailing 14-6 at halftime, USC came back in a rush, scoring early in the third period and winning in the same canter on a field goal by Frank Guif-ford. In winning, the Trojans advanced one notch farther in its quest for a Rose Bowl bid.
Two other future Notre Dame opponents recorded victories last week, while Pittsburgh, Purdue, and Navy all fell by the wayside.
Iowa Trips Pitt
Pitt, in losing to Iowa 34-17, has yet to enter the winning column. The Panthers from the “Smokey City” were completely overwhelmed by Iowa’s aerial attack, but fought gamely up until the last quarter, The Hawkeyes were spearheaded by the passing of quai*terback Burt Britzmann, who completed 12 out of 25 for 203 yards, including three touchdown tosses.
Iowa thus gained its second victory in three games, and gave ample warning that they aren’t to be toyed with1 when they face the Irish over Thanksgiving weekend.
Meanwhile, the Boilermakers of Purdue, who will face ND in another week, took it on the chin for the second time as they lost to Miami, 7-0.
The Scholastic
28
The boys from Florida scored the only touchdown of the game when, with but three minutes having gone left halfback Frank Smith scampered 38 yards around left end for the tally. Out-scored, but not outplayed, Purdue roared back time and time again, but could not cross the goal line.
In a contest that occurred in the Southwest, the Midshipmen from Navy, always a mainstay on the Irish schedule, lost to Rice’s air-minded Owls, 21-14. It was Navy’s second loss of the season as against one tie, and Rice’s first win.
Across the South, over to Chapel Hill, a capacity crowd saw* North Carolina belt its arch rivals, South Carolina, 21-7. In evening up its season’s record at two and two, the Tarheels capitalized on a recovered fumble and an intercepted pass to do most of its scoring.
Just as Notre Dame has many an uj) and coming freshman, so the Tarheels produced Larry Parker, a frosh tailback, who set up NC’s second score with a sparkling 40-yard kickoff return to the Gamecocks’ 37. From there, Bill Williams lugged it over for the touchdown.
Interhall Football
(Continued from Page 27) Tom Short also played very well throughout the contest.
This coming week Coach Dyson’s men take on the boys from Zahm Hall and it promises to be a thriller.
Sleeper Slips by Lyons
Last week the gridiron men of Dillon Hall took advantage of an early lead to hold off the Lyons lads for a 13-0 victory. The first touchdown was scored before the first minute of play had been completed. The oldest play known, namely, the “sleeper,” was good for 60 yards, and end Jack Mooney was never touched on his sprint to the goal line.
The first time the Sophs from Lyons got their hands on the ball, they decided to give it back to Dillon when the former’s center- sent a high pass over the head of a halfback. On the
NOTICE
All students attending presentations of the Concert and Lecture Series are requested to wear coat and tie.
Students not wearing coat and tie will not be admitted.
following play the Dillonites scored their second TD on a 20-yard run around end by Ed Deboer.
Dillon quarterback John O’Brien did an excellent job of calling signals from the T-formation as well as the single wing. Defensive Captain Art Midili played an outstanding game for the victors as did George Kirchner. Bob Mullen and Ray Dittrick played roles of 60-minute men, and did a good job on both platoons.
The losers were not without their outstanding players. Captain Ed Burns made the majority of tackles and played a sparkling game on offense as well. Quarterback Guy Macina looked like Johnny Lu jack at times in completing nine of 12 passes for about 150 yards. Right end Bob Adams was the recipient of those passes, and played a key role in stopping Coach Don Owens’ men from picking up yardage on end runs.
Outside of the first three minutes of play the Lyons gridders seemed to have the advantage in chalking up seven first downs to one for Dillon. However, when that Dillon line was called upon to hold or else, they held, and that made the difference.
—Thomas Moore
Tokyo Prof. Dr. Mizushima Gives Reilly Chern Lecture
Dr. San-Ichiro Mizushima, professor of physical chemistry at the University of Tokyo, will be at Notre Dame during the week of Oct. 22-28 as the third Peter C. Reilly Lecturer in Chemistry for this year. The professor will lecture on “Some Research on Internal Rotation in Molecules.” The lecture schedule will be posted in the Chemistry building next week.
DR. ROBERT R LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
David Kempler
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us. '
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry...
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
111 South Michigan Street
BEST AND LATEST AT
/ll SmiilA
RECORD BAR
Complete line of
JAZZ—DIXIELAND—POPULAR CLASSICAL—BLUES on all 3 speeds
412 S. Michigan . Phone 7-3553
Don’t miss our WND shows.
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING ____________ GUARANTEED
Marti
12 6 NO.MICHIGAN 5'
SPECIAL GRAND OPENING STUDENT RATES
TUXEDO RENTAL CO.
206 North Main St.	Phone 4-0228
Um! tfua	uJttte Ute Qualify Jitt/tee Hum tie Price
Oct. 19, 1951
29
tyo/Mall tyvteca&t.
Here's your chance to prove that you too are an expert in rating football games. All you have to do is to mark in your favorite predictions’in the space provided and leave them at the designated points before noon of the Saturday on which the game is to be played. What could be simpler? The makers of Medico V. F. Q. pipes will award a Smoker’s Set containing two pipes (as pictured) each week to the winner of our contest.
DIRE CTION S—Please circle the ten teams that you think will come out on top. Also indicate your prediction as to the score of each game. In case of ties duplicate prizes will be awarded. To facilitate judging please use the form below. Only University of Notre Dame students are eligible.
. &la^k at Ute cJludMe. a* St
FOOTBALL FORECAST
NAME
NOTRE DAME .....
CALIFORNIA......
PRINCETON ......
ILLINOIS ....
MICHIGAN STATE......
MARYLAND .......
FLORIDA ......
FORDHAM........
ARMY.......
T. C. U......
ADDRESS
PURDUE........
OREGON STATE .......
CORNELL .....
INDIANA.. pin.......
L. S. U......
KENTUCKY.......
SYRACUSE .......
COLUMBIA ...... SOUTHERN CAL. ..
30
The Scholastic
Get Your Cotillion Dote a Corsage from South Bend Floral
They carry flowers for all occasions.
Why not get the best?
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
SOUTH BEND FLORAL
114 South Michigan
Phone 3-8827
Throw Away //
NICOTINE7
position is everything
nt ease m
ARROW
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
Switch to
MEDICO
FILTER PIPES
'''o’’"1

When filter, brown—in Medico
Pipes or Cigarette Holders—throw it away, with the nicotine, juices, flakes and tars it has trapped. Insert fresh filter for cooler, cleaner, dryer, sweeter smoking. Imported Briar.
Ifs ADLER’S for
... ARROW
NEW: MEDICO CREST- 53.00
Mudico'i FinttH Kick Burgundy finiih.
MEDICO V.F.Q. — 52.00 MEDICO MEDALIST-11.50
Wide variety of styles and sizes.
Write S. M. Frank t Ce., N. Y., fer Beeklel 6
MEDICO CIGARETTE HOLDERS-S1
Oct. 19, 1951
31
ND in the FBI
(Continued from Page 23)
the statement was made that “the FBI is the finest law enforcement body in the history of mankind.” Although to some that may appear somewhat rash and glamorous, a look at the facts will verify its truth. In the fiscal year 1951, 8,408 convictions were brought
This article on Notre Dame and the FBI would not have been possible without the fine assistance and cooperation of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The author is particularly indebted to Mr. Hoover, the bureau's director, for the invaluable time, material, and cooperation he so generously gave in making this article possible.
about in cases handled by the FBI. This represents a percentage of 97.5 of all the FBI cases brought into court; 94.5 percent of these convictions were based on pleas of guilty by the defendants.
The answer to this amazing efficiency and competence lies in the FBI agents themselves and the training they receive.
The agent, as an individual, is a man who possesses “personal integrity, devotion to duty, and regard for nothing but the truth in protecting the welfare of our nation.” He is an individual having the highest possible physical, intellectual and moral qualifications.
Until recently all applicants for the posiiton of special agent were required to hold law degrees or to be certified public accountants. In view of the FBI’s increased work load and responsibilities, however, it has been found necessary to substantially increase its investigative personnel.
In order that the desired quota be met in the shortest possible time, applications are now accepted from graduates possessing a law or accountant degree from resident law or accounting schools. Applications are also being accepted for investigative work for a temporary, indefinite period from men holding four-year degrees from accredited colleges.
In all other respects candidates must meet the requirements set for the position of special agent, such as age (25-40), physical fitness, and availability for assignment in any part of the United States or its territorial possessions.
The recruit receives schooling at the Bureau’s headquarters in Washington
32
and at the FBI Academy in Quantico, Va., as did Bill Roemer, ’50, former Bengal Champ, who recently completed the course.
The rookie receives more than 600 hours of lecture and practical work. Classes run from 9 in the morning until 6 in the evening for 14 weeks. He also must qualify as an expert in the handling of the Thompson submachine gun, the rifle, shot gun, and pistol. In addition, he receives athletic training to keep in physical trim.
This rigorous training, the agent’s high personal qualities, and the things he fights—Crime and Communism—are what make him the efficient, respected individual he is, and the bureau the outstanding organization it is. Using this nutshell description of the agent and the bureau as a basis, two points might be made.
First, the FBI agent exists only because of J. Edgar Hoover. The morale, discipline, loyalty and efficiency of an organization are no stronger than its chief’s, and rare is the American leader whose character and qualities have been so imprinted on his organization as have been those of Mr. Hoover.
Prior to Hoover’s appointment as Director, the FBI was little more than a nesting place for political graft and corruption. In 1924 Attorney General Harlan Stone, later to become Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, was searching for a man who could take over the Bureau and clean it out. He approached Mr. Hoover. Hoover said he would accept the job only if the bureau would be free of any political ties whatsoever and be run as an organization in which ability and character would be the only requirements for appointment, and performance the only criterion for advancement. This was precisely what Stone had hoped to hear. The 29-year-old Hoover got the
For your convenience —
Shirts Expertly Laundered
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson	On the Bus Line
20% DISCOUNT ON CLEANING AND PRESSING
job, anti what has followed since is a ; matter of history.
The Formula Is Simple
Hoover’s formula for an effective law enforcement officer is simple. “One needs only the ingredients of honesty and determination, of integrity, of education and intelligence, plus the freedom to proceed.”
This leads to the second point: Why are there so many Notre Dame men in the Bureau? The answer seems to be that the association is a rather natural one.
There exists no direct connection between the University and the bureau, no program of active recruiting. However, there is a very definite friendly relationship between the two. For Notre Dame students, the FBI has become an increasingly greater attraction as a vocation; they like this life where the work is noble and the standards high. Similarly, the Bureau has tried and found many Notre Dame graduates to possess the character and qualities which it demands of its agents.
The relationship is natural because an FBI agent and a Notre Dame man tread on common ground. The agent with “honesty and determination, integrity and education” is similar to the University’s “Whole Man”; the train-
The Scholastic
J ing and qualities, the aims of the two 1	—destruction of crime and Communism
—are very much the same; the philosophy Hosteny, Whelan, Hunter, and other agents absorbed here finds ac-> curate reverberation in J. Edgar Hoo-? ver’s statement that “Communism can | be defeated by the truth—and only the truth.”
Therefore it really isn’t too unusual that such a person as Harvey G. Foster, perhaps the finest example of a Notre Dame-FBI man, should be both the Bureau’s Indiana chief and one of the Alumni Board’s directors.
And likewise, it really isn’t too strange that Mr. Hoover continues to . receive a rather steady stream of replies to what he told a group of graduating Notre Dame students a few years back: “I am hopeful that from the classrooms of your great institution will come more men of the FBI.”
Night in the City
(Continued from Page 19)
- seem to be the essence of hospitality, but it doesn’t make a bit of difference for the big idea has just hit. Wal-green’s! It’s a natural. Walgreen’s, the poor man’s library. Walgreen’s, the perfect place to go and read all the magazines that aren’t sold on campus. Besides that, it’s warm, and if you are adept at ignoring the clerk’s glances, and the glance of a drug store clerk was the inspiration for the word “meaningful,” it’s possible to finish an article started last week and dropped in the middle when the same clerk started walking over. Except that the magazine has been sitting on the rack for three weeks and isn’t around any more. But over there is that new sport magazine with the article on football. I The usual “Will They Come Back?” |	stuff. As if they know. Then even the
t	jangle of cash lying loose in your
pocket can’t hold off the clerk forever, so you mumble something about “just looking” and walk out. The lure of pocketbooks at Ford Hopkins arrests I	you for a moment, and you pause on
I	the corner, but there’s that Kewpie
sign glowing down the street, so you take off. The din from the jukebox and the hum of conversation hits you at the door, but this night you’re a stranger in town, so you sink into a booth and wait for your coffee. You sip it slowly, pondering over what kind of people would pay to hear “Down » Yonder,” then play with the sludge at the bottom of your cup. Finally the bewitching hour is 20 minutes off, and you’re out again onto the quiet of the street. Push aboard and kindly step to the rear of the bus for the long ride back. It was one of those nights.
Van Hensen shirt
REG. T. M.
with the soft collar that...
Never a wrinkle-proof collar like this! Now in white and colors, too! The collar of the Van Heusen Century shir t jus t can’t wrinkle. That’s because it’s made in one piece by a patented process. Keeps you collar-neat all day —without starch or stays! See the Van Heusen Century shirt in a choice of campus-right colors today! Regular or widespread collars, only $4.50.
Wont wrinkle, aer!
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Oct. 19, 1951
33
Ihe Hack
_____________________ By Bill Riley
One of the most fantastic cold wars there is takes place not between communism and capitalism, or even man and woman, but between students and professors.
It is a constant battle, though a quiet, sometimes almost unconscious one. Its major victories—from the student’s standpoint — come when the professor is fooled. Or to phrase it more succinctly, faked out. Its major defeats—also from the student point of view—come when he is treated in what he considers an unfair manner. We had better not phrase that more succinctly.
Originally, it seems to me I have read somewhere, there existed a great deal of harmony between the student and his teacher. It was merely a question of one who was relatively unversed in knowledge admitting to himself his lack, and hieing himself to one who could fill the gap.	.
Anymore, that is not the case. Instead, the conflict is joined. Arrayed in the prof’s arsenal are his light artillery—sarcasm immune from retort, the ignoring-a-question fish-eye — his medium weapon—the cut system—and his killer bomb—the almighty grade. It is truly said that you can run but you can’t hide.
The student, on the other hand, fights guerilla-style. His is the fire-and-run-for-the-hills type of attack. He fights a traditional, but constantly changing kind of war. His tricks are the tricks of his fathers, modified with the changing system, challenging even the impersonal, murderous categorizing of the IBM machines.
These constant skirmishes are almost always amusing, seldom tragic, and make good material for Hollywood musical comedies dealing with college life and the milder undergraduate humour magazines.
However, it seems to me that they are not at all good and spring from a general condition prevalent in American colleges that is much to he deplored.
To go from result to source, we would start with the existence of a state of conflict. It then follows that this state exists chiefly because of a lack of the studential attitude.
I am sure that professors will agree with me on that fairly obvious conclusion. However, to stop there would
be something like attributing the responsibility for a war to the soldiers in the trenches. In both cases, the final answer probably lies deeper.
Lack of a studential attitude comes from compulsory education. When people don’t want to learn, but come to college only because it is a sine qua, non for getting a good job, they are not going to like to do anything more than what is necessary to get the minimum grade they need. And that minimum can be a 70, a 77, an 85, a 90 or a 95. The principle, generally, is the same. It is the grade, not the knowledge, which is important.
When the excellence of a college is judged by the number of its graduates who have succeeded at General Electric, General Motors, or in any other business, there is either something wrong with the system of evaluation or something wrong with the definition of the purpose of a university which most colleges state in the first few pages of their general bulletins.
Colleges have become chiefly a training ground for business. This is not at all entirely their fault. In the case of state-owned schools it springs from this primary set of facts: state colleges are dependent on taxes for their operational funds. Taxes are voted by the legislature. Legislatures are influenced strongly by business. Business, becoming increasingly complex, needs trained young men. It gulps them up. College provides an excellent place for those young men to get the necessary training.
To a lesser degree, the same is true of privately-owned institutions. There was a time when they could cover their ivory towers with ivy, and satisfy their donors with a name on a building, or maybe only a cornerstone. Nowadays, it seems that donors want a little more say. Maybe this is not universally true. It is true, regardless, that even privately-controlled universities have to fit their graduates to prevailing conditions, or pretty soon they probably won’t have any graduates.
What Is the Purpose of a University?
A definition of purpose for a university that has always seemed good to me is that “a university is established to teach a man how to live, primarily
... to teach him how to earn a living, . j secondarily.” Except for the liberal ’ arts schools, it would seem that the relative importance of living and earn- 1 ing a living have become reversed. * Disjointed.
As always, there is an obvious solu- ' tion. That would be to reduce actual colleges to liberal arts only. Give only one degree—the A.B. Leave out technical training, except insofar as that technical training contributes to the making of a whole man. Teach knowledge for the sake of knowledge. Or at least knowledge for the sake of wise and full living.
As always, the obvious answer is full of holes. The probable result of the above plan being used would be that nobody would get any education-for-the-sake-of-nothing - but - the - develop- ' ment-of-the-mind. On the other hand, those who would go into liberal arts would probably be true students.
A secondary solution, and probably a little more sound one would be to make three years of liberal training । (the word liberal is a little unfor-	’ 1
tunate, as it has prejudicial connotations, but there doesn’t seem to be one in common use that will fit as well) a pre-requisite for any technical or commercial training. This, modified to a certain extent, is what most colleges are doing today. That is, those colleges who have not thrown in the . sponge altogether, and gone hell-bent for pragmatism.
Some, in Place of None
There are several reasons why colleges have chosen this solution. It is a compromise, it’s true, but most people ” tell me that life is one long compromise. It does give the student some liberal training. It gives him a sort of ethical, knowledgeable background about what is happening in the world, what has happened, and what should happen, before he starts toting •up figures or manipulating a scalpel or a slide rule. And it still satisfies > that segment of the population which makes it possible, monetarily, for the colleges to continue existing. Also, it is much safer to follow a trend than to start one.	>
Unfortunately, it seems that those people who are aiming at training a man to live, first, are being choked out. They are losing ground. The	‘
compromise system is not working. Its the old case of giving an inch and	1
ending up without the whole mile. Seems	like	there	ought	to be	somebody	I
smart	enough	among	those	who are	|
running things to figure out how to	I
start the current moving the other	h
way.	H
The	Scholastic	1
34
EAST MEETS WEST
IN NEW RELAY EVENT
You’ve heard of the Penn Relays. But have you ever heard of a relay where the hurdles are mountains, the average stride is thirty miles, and the track stretches coast to coast?
It’s the Bell System’s
and it brings East and West together in one of the most important events in the history of communications.
Telephone construction crews have just recently completed the coast-to-coast system. Today, Long Distance calls ride on radio microwaves, beamed through the air from tower to tower. And, for the first time, television programs have been flashed from coast to coast.
The new system supplements the thousands of miles of wire cable that already tie the nation together. It helps make America’s vast communications network even stronger and more flexible. And it could hardly happen at a better time. The demands of defense are heavy and urgent.
HOW	WORKS. Microwaves travel in a straight line. So relay
towers are usually built on hilltops and spaced about thirty miles apart. Just as a
runner picks up the baton from another runner, so each tower picks up micro waves from its neighbor, and with complex electronic equipment amplifies and focuses them like a searchlight, then beams them accurately at the next tower. And hundreds of Long Distance calls ride the beam at the same time.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Oct. 19, 1951
IY LIBRARY
ME IND
No Unpleasant After-taste
is
____added to the world's most famous ABCs
THE BIGGEST puts" IN CIGARETTE HISTORY
Always Milder Better Tasting Cooler Smoking
See’PAUL DOUGLAS; starring in "THE GUY WHO CAME BACK' A 20th Century-Fox Production


1
‘'It’s the only, one
ic thf ONLY CIGARETTE of all
panel found no unpleasant after-taste.
from rhe report of a
fidway- ^uv Chester^

