e
1ng 
Dame'. 
to the 
t 


1 
I 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Entertainment reviews and previews, Out of Bounds and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In-depth news and sports coverage. 
Read one for the Gipper! Campus Watch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses. 
Campus Life stories to keep you informed of what's happening on campus. Reme~ber: If you see news happening ... you're probably reading Scholastic! 
If you don't have time to write home every week, l~t us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription! 
~-------------------------------------­
Please send · years of Scholastic to: 
Name: 

Address: ______________ 
City: ______ State: ___ Zip Code: ____ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x __ years = $ ___ .. 
Please send form.with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 




NOTRE D ME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 

2 Editor's Notes 

7 Campus Watch 22 On Other Campuses 23 Week in Distortion 24 Final Word 
Above: Women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli watches the action on the field. 
3 Push 'em Back 4 Who's Who 6 The Decline and Fall 

·8 Looking Beyond 

14 A Match Up? 20 On the Cutting Edge 

19 The Entertainment Blitz 20 A Musical Sampling 21 Movies and Music 
Cover photo by Brent Tadsen 


FROM THE MANAGING EDITOR 
Last year, I heard a story about a Notre Daine senior who blindfolded himself for a full day. He walked to class blindfolded. He went to lunch blindfolded. He spent the whole day in pitch blackness. In the evening, he walked back to his dorm, still blindfolded. Disoriented, it took him three hours to find his room. 
When I heard this story, I laughed; I put my foot in my mouth. He said he wanted to know what it was like to be blind. 
I try to imagine not being able to see. I imagine my daily routine turned inside out. How would I take notes? How would I know which building is Galvin Life Sciences and which is the Hes burgh Library? How would I be able to appreciate the hand-drawn maps on Father Kerby's blackboard? How would I take notes, or write papers, or read my text books or watch Seinfeld? 
I remember the few times in my life when I encountered someone who was blind or had a disability. I always felt just a little bit uneasy. I noticed that there was something about that person that made him or her different but didn't know what to do about it. 
Once someone asked me to picture a room full of young children from around the world. In this room, there would be a few light-skinned children and a few dark~ skinned children. There would be children who might be missing a finger; there might be a child with a withered arm or one who wouldn't be able to hear. There might be a blind child in the room. 
Children would celebrate these differences, I was told. One dark-skinned boy might crawl up to a lighter-skinned girl and pinch her cheek to see why her skin is different than his. One child would notice the withered arm ofanother and ask him in child-like gibberish, "What happened to your arm?" Children wouldn't shy away from each other because of any kind ofdifference. They are too young and too innocent to have learned to be afraid. 
Irely so much on my sight. I dependon it. NotreDame freshman Lori Miller doesn't. She is athletic and academic. She takes full advantage of life and the beauty of this world and doesn't need her eyes to do it. Find out more about her and her experience as a blind student in Cain pus Life Editor Michelle Crouch' s article. It will open your eyes. 
ALSO IN THIS ISSUE ... News Editor Mark Mitchell investigates student government efforts to "push back parietals." J amesCoolican evaluates the economics and politics ofeconomist William Greider, who lectured at Notre Dame last week. Sports writer JeffWeghorst searches for the key to women's soccer head coach Chris Petrucelli' s success. Entertainment writer Scott Johnson previews Friday's The Samples concert. In our regular features, Katie Redding presents her views on the few rewards and duties of being a Notre Daine Scholar in the "Final Word." News writer T. Ryan Kennedy writes a "Who's Who" feature on vice-president of student affairs Patricia 
O'Hara. 

Scholasticispublish,dwttkly throughout th, school year except 
durbtg ex11.mi1u1ticm 11nd vaciition periods Rt the University of 
Noire Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 ""d prittted at The Papers, lttc, Milford, IN46542. The su&scriptiatt rat, is $25.00/year and back issues are available at $1.25 /copy. The oplttions expressed ht Scholastic are thos, of th, authors and editors attd do 'itot necessarily represettt th, apittiatts ofth, ,tttire ,ditorial boardof Scholastic or of th, Uttiv,rsity of Notre Dame, its administra­tiott, faculty or students, Editorillls signed Scholastic represent th, opittiott of th, majority of th, executiv, ,ditorial board, Manuscripts Arewelcom,. Allw,soliciticd materials &team, th, prop,rty ofScholastic. 
C,,pyright 1993 Scholastic Magazin,. All rights reserved. Repro­
duction be whole orin partwithoutwritUn permission is prohib­ited, 
-Kenneth A. Osgood 

Utters to S~holasticmust bt typed and include thL writer's name, addrtss and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college, Faculty mtmbers should include 
their departm,nt, All lettus must be signed, Names will be 
withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic rtserves tht right to reject letters that art libelous or 
obscene by th,laws ofth, United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scho/astic 
style. Because ofspace,Scholastic cannot print allleHersrtceived. 
Address all correspondence to : Th• Editor 
Scholastic Lafortune Ctnttr 

Notre Dam,, IN 46556 

. . ,., . . ~ 
' . . , ' ~ -. ~ . --".,, 

Push 'em Back, Push 'em Back, Way Back 
Student government tries to score a victory by dropping parietals for a loss 
by Mark J. Mitchell IV 

What is 11 hours long, 21 years old, and comes with only one gender (never both)? Parietal policy is correct. And once again, the student government is playing a favorite game of challenge the administration's parietal regulations. Chal­lenging the administration on the matter of gender separation is a popular issue at which student government likes to hammer awav. but rarely with any success. This installment of the on-going saga of parietal wars was kicked off last week by student body vice-president Nicole Wellman when she presented the Hall Presi­dents' Council with a survey asking students to select which aspect of parietals they would like to see changed. The options were three: in the mornings, parietals would stop at 10:00 instead of 11:00; on week nights, parietals wouldn 'tgo into effect until 1 :00 instead of12:00; and on weekends, parietals would be pushed back to 3:00--instead of 2:00. Wellman emphasized that this is only a test of the students' opinions on the matter; it is not a petition. "Ifthe administration is unsure of how the students as a whole feel about.the issue, we hope we can show that a significant part of the student population is in favor ofhaving more interactive time, and we hope the evidence of the signatures will say to the administration 'please listen'," Wellman said. "The Colloquy report calls for more 24­hour space and improved gender relations. What students want is the opportunity to interact with each other in their own rooms. This survey will give us a chance, as the voiceofthe students, to clearly present this," said student body president Frank Flynn. 
While all the results are not yet in, accord­ing to Wellman, the most accepted proposal is that of moving the morning parietal hours back to 10:00. Studentsaremoredividedon the other two proposals, said Wellman. 
When all the results are compiled, Flynn and Wellman will take the matter pefore the Campus Life Council, which will then vote on the issue and make its recommendation to the vice-president for student affairs, profes 

sor Patricia O'Hara. O'Hara then has seven days to either accept or reject the council's proposals. 
"I am personally resistant to the idea of shortening parietals, especially on the week: ends, because as it is, that last hour from 1 :00 to 2:00 is the longest and the worst. The hall. staff is not at its best, and neither are the residents or guests. One more hour is only going to make that more difficult," said Father Stephen Newton, C.S.C., rector of Sorin Hall. 
"On a slow weekend night, the R.A.s 

don't finish their round until 3:30, and I and the other assistant rectors are on rounds until easily 4:00," said Bob Dowd, assistant rec­tor in Flanner Tower. "I was a senior here as recently as 1987, and ifyou asked me then if I thought parietals should be moved back, my gut reaction would be 'yes, move them.' But with a little reflection, I would have to realize, and I think most students would realize, that this is a place of study first, and parietals help bring us back to that reality," Dowd said. 
"I would be interested to see what itwould be like to move parietals back on an experi­mental basis. In Morrissey we decided as a hall to have quiet hours beginning at _2:00 and 12:00. With that as the case, I think the issue is coming to see that we are not on the prowl because members of the opposite sex are in the hall. The hall staff would stay up to make sure that our quiet hours are ob­served, not because members ofthe opposite sex are evil and bring all the problems with them -that's a terrible notion," said Father Joe Ross, C.S.C., rector of Morrissey Manor. 
Student government's strategy in this round is to take the parietal issue on as a matter of principle. "We are not trying to chip away at parietals, we're not trying to beat anybody. We are just trying to achieve something on a very important issue," said Flynn. 
But if student government is trying to argue issues and principles in its efforts to win this round, the game is not even as clear as it seems. According to Father Newton, "The issue is not to expand parietals, the issue is whether to have them at all. And the principle is that the administration is in the position to dole out liberties.'' 0 





ho: Patty
ho' 



O'Hara 
A closer look at Notre Dame's vice-president for student affairs, the woman who makes the rules 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 
In the corridors of the Main Building, hers are the footsteps of power. She makes· the rules and sets the agenda for campus ministry, campus security, student activities and of course, residence life. But vice-president for student affairs Patricia O'Hara prefers not to be an authori­tarian as much as she would like to be thought of as an educator of the whole per­son. "Teaching and research is what the university is all about fundamentally. I am a professor first and foremost, and I never want to lose touch with the core of the university, with the faculty or with the stu­dents; My first joh is as an educator; my work in the administration is an out-growth of that." As part of her goal of remaining as much. ofa classroom educator as well as an educa­tor through the administration, O'Hara con­tinues to teach and publish through the Law School. "I have two classes, one in corpo­rate law and one in securities and regula­tions, which I teach at 11:00 to 12:00 three times a week. That way, I can break up my day by interacting with students." 0 'Hara' s experience ofNotre Dame Law School and student life extends far into,her background. "Igrew up in the San Francisco Bay area and went to a women's college, transferring to the University ofSanta• Clara from which I received my undergraduate degree. Then I went to Notre Dame Law School, where I was one ofonly te·n women in my class and oneofonly40 in the school." O'Hara returned to a law firm in San Fran­cisco where she practiced corporate securi­ties law for six years. "I came back to Notre Dame in 1981 as a professor in the Law School because education and especially Catholic and Christian education is very 


Patty O'Hara has .been at Notre Dame since 1981, first as a law professor, and for the last four years as vice-president for student affairs. 
important to me." 
As part of her career as a professor here, O'Hara served two years on the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Infrac­tions Committee. "It is a committee of six law professors and athletic directors which hears enforcement cases brought before t}le NCAA. There is a requirement that two of the members ofthe committee l)e women, so I served · several important roles for that body as a female member, a law professor and a representative of an independent uni­versity." 
O'Hara came to know all about dealing with the principles of discipline during her tenure on that committee. "I was on the the committee at a very exciting time. We dealt with Texas A&M, Kansas basketball, Ken­tucky basketball, Maryland basketball, and the, yes, the U.N.L.V. case. It was great experience for me as an educator and, in retrospect, as a future administrator." 
But O'Hara's term on the NCAA infrac­tions committee was cut short by an unex­pected call from university president Father Edward Malloy, C.S.C. "In the Spring of 1990, Father Malloy called me and asked to 
5 see me. I never expected that he would ask 
~ me to submit my name to the board of 
O' 
1r trusteesfor the position ofvice-president for 
:n 
~ student affairs. He felt committed to bring 
i-women into the university administration, and in fact, I was the first woman to be appointed an officer of the university in the history of Notre Dame." O'Hara took over at the helm of student affairs in the fall of 1990, after Father David Tyson, C.S.C., left the post. to take up· the presidency at the University of Portland. The role of the vice-president for student affairs is wide-ranging, covering 11 depart­ments from security to ministry, as well as tfie 24 residence halls and what goes on in them. "The residential mission of the uni­versity is an integral part of the educational mission. Residence life is a panoply of 


, . / . . ' . . ~ -' , -~ , . , ' ; --·_.. 

student life issues. What we do here at Notre Dame is to call students to a higher standard and higher expectations. We call them to this because it is part of the vision of Notre D'ame as a Catholic and Christian place. Wecall students to high standards because we have faith that they can meet them, and we want to help them in achieving these expectations. Indeed, these standards are becoming almost counter-cultural in so far as the media, the entertainment industry, and so much in our society today displays lower standards of behavior and lower expectations about life in general." 
O'Hara laughed when asked what the worst part of her job was, commenting, "What, you mean the whole campus doesn't love the Office of Student Af­fairs?" · She continued: "The nature of student affairs carries a negative stereo­type for many students who associate the whole spectrum of the department with discipline and punishment. But 
That is the most fulfilling part of my job -to interact personally with students. My door is always open to any student who has a need to communicate or who just wants to talk ... I am forever optimistic; I am rooted in my faith; and I have a great sense 
of humor. 

that comes with the territory. Part ofour work is with rules and expectations, but 

BRUNO'S PIZZA 
1111Q ·1111


there is so much more to what we do, from campus ministry to student activities to counseling. And even when we have to deal with matters of discipline and expectations, there is so much inherent goodness in the students that there are still plenty of good times." 
O'Hara views herself as the students' link to the administration. To that end, she tries to maintain a good deal of contact with students on many levels. ''Every year I go to each dorm at least once: I try to work person­ally with the R.A.s and student government; I go to student activities events, and I go on Notre Dame Encounter retreats. That is the most fulfilling part of my job -to interact personally with students. My door is always open to any student who has a need to communicate or who just wants to talk." 
After four years at the post of vice-presi­dent for student affairs, O'Hara has found that the good aspects of her work far out­weigh the more difficult matters. "I am forever optimistic; I am rooted in my faith, and I have a great sense of humor." 0 
Bruno's North  Bruno's South  
sOpen for carry out and delivery only.  Accepting reservations on weekends.  
One eighteen inch pizza for $13.  Available for private parties and banquets.  
115 N. 31 Gust North of campus)  Open at 10:00 a.m. on football Saturdays.  
273-3890  2610 Prairie Avenue  
288-3320  

"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We now deliver our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 




TheD 
• eandFall 
Economist William Greider joins the list ofdoomsday prophets predicting the collapse ofAmerica 
. I 
Wednesday, September 15, William Greider, the newest spokesperson for the labor-left, elucidated his thoughts as to America's decline, its symptoms and its causes. Greider' s lecture is fuel for the fire of the average Notre Dame faculty member and for the president and his legions, but perhaps his assumptions need to be questioned. Greider began his lecture by flat-out announcing America's decline. Many of his ihoughts are those of his most recent book, Who Will Tell the People. There is no shortage of pomposity in Mr. Greider, as one could expect from anyone who believes he or she can 

predict apocalypse. While it may be difficult to defend the status quo, we must realize that brother fought brother in a war on American soil, caused by the bondage of a significant percentage of the population. Our national income was reduced by more than half during the Great Depression. A madman ruied much of Europe, threatening our way oflife just fifty years ago. Until just two years ago, a sick ideology of authoritarian communism (what other kind is there?) was bent on conquest of the Free World. Today, Greider and others on both the left and right claim America is in decline because not everyone has two cars. Indeed, many in Washington seem to think history began last week. Before we make apocalyptic pronouncements about America's decline, it is best that we examine our long history of enduring and prevailing. 
Greider discussed three causes for American decline, describing them as new forces in the world. According to Greider, the Cold War was a unifying force for America, providing a common enemy as well as a minimum amount of industrial output. Apparently the freeing of a billion people once held in complete tyranny was just a game. The Soviet Union was just a delusional enemy, never mind the nuclear capability that Castro or Ortega could possibly have 
commanded. In reality we ought to be celebrating the victory of the 
American ideal, not disparaging it. 
The second area of American decline, according to Greider, is 
economic. While it may be true that wages have been stagnant over 
the last twenty or so years (rising during the Reagan era), wages are 
not always indicative ofliving standards in a technological society. 
For example, what was once the eight track is now the CD. Who had 
ever heard of the Playboy Channel twenty years ago? How many 
Americans owned VCRs in 1970 or 1980? Personal computers? 
How many cars came equipped with airbags? 
Greider's suggested solution to the economic problem is predict­able: a renewed labor movement, more government and protection­ism. If anything, these are the causes of our economic stagnation. Greider fails to see that what is truly happening in the world today lies in the growth of freedom and markets. Each nation is producing what it can most efficiently. Economists call this phenomena comparative advantage. Most importantly, Greider fails to see the · underlying flaw of the American economy; an ever-increasing welfare state that on the one hand taxes economic growth, and on the other hand allows some (like labor unions) to sustain from govern­
ment charity. 
Greider's final and most legitimate argument is that there lies a 
separation between the government and the common man (and 
woman). Our political system has failed us, and indeed Greider's 
point is well-taken. Special interests, especially those with the most 
campaign dollars like labor.unions, make governing decisions for 
us. The Fortune 500 has in some ways subverted the democratic 
process. Greider, however, whiffs on the cause. Ultimately, the 
larger government becomes; the more benefits and punishments it 
has to confer, the more corruption there will be by vested interests 
attempting to grab the benefits or impede the punishments. Thus, the 
only way to reconnect the people to their democracy is by reducing 
the size and scope of government. 
Despite what he may think, William Greider does not singularly 
represent the working men and women of America, nor does he have 
a monopoly on truth. I for one am not about to stand and watch as 
wide-eyed Notre ·oame undergrads are indoctrinated to the ortho­
doxy of the labor-left. 



00 0 • •••• :: •••••••• \.
~L... L:... • :L ..::.:.:.:u.:.~:.u.:.,.u..:....::.U.i.U.:.U.::...:.t\.U:!.U.\.:.. Lu.1\L .Lu.u.:u......:.i...:.:.... :U..'... =..:.:.: ......:.:.'. ::.·L :_ ,:/U...:...u:·: .. ·······'iL :u...:....... :.u=. : ....... ·.· :.:.U....:.,~.:.: .:.)Li.!.:. ..·....:.u.:.....:.=.:.:..:.=.....:.:.i\·,,.... J 

Can1pusWatch 
· BY THE GIPPER 
INFORMATION, ATTITUDE AND INNUENDO 
Last week the Gipp did a lot of reading. He also did a lot of ridiculing. His roommates have been paying for it: the Gipp has been receiving crank calls. 
A Notre Dame professor, who will remain nameless, discovered the Gipp's real identity, and has been harassing his roommates. A. typical call: 
"Hello." ­
"This is Monk. Where's the Gipp?" 
"He's not here." 

"You're lying. He's dodging my phone calls." 
"No he's really not here ..." 

"You just tell him that I'm shutting Scholastic down." 
<Click> 

The Gipp' s roommates: "Gipp [not his real name], some guy named Monk called. Isn't that the ·president? He says he's shutting Scholastic down." 
"Oh. Pass the beemuts." 

The Gipp's staff has been harassed too -by a professor's wife. A typical call: . "I want to know who the Gipp is." "I'm sorry we're not allowed to release that infor·mation." "I'll slay your family." But the Gipp has bigger problems to think about. The Phantom 
English Professor is back. The Gipp received a copy of last week's "Campus Watch" in the mail, plastered with nasty comments, like: "Try doing investigative journalism," and "Hire an editor for En­glish usage." 
All of this means, of course, that the Gipp has been stirring up entirely too much trouble, so he will refrain from making fun ofany administrators, professors or people who can have the Gipp re­moved from his cozy third floor LaFortune post to a Knute Rockne­stamp~licking plant in Siberia. 
Instead he will· use a non-controversial Question and Answer section: 
NON-CONTROVERSIAL QUESTION & ANSWER SECTION 
Q. Why did DeBartolo's son get kicked out of Notre Dame? 
A. For stealing a folder from the bookstore. 
Q. Why did_he steal a folder from the bookstore? 
A. Even the DeBartolo family can't afford the Hammes. 
Q. Did two guys rent a golf cart during Northwestern weekend, get drunk; drive it across campus, and get caught at 6:30 p.m. by Notre Dame security? 
A. I know no-THING! 
Q. Will the Notre Dame College Republicans club start publishing its own magazine to rival Scholastic? 
A. Some sources say yes. Some say no. 
Q. If they do start this magazine, what will they call it? 
A. The Notre Dame Conservative. 
Q. Redundant? Redundant? 
A. Redundant. 

Q. Is a petition circling the campus to award George Wendt an honorary degree? 
A. Who's George Wendt? Q.Norm. 
A. Yes. Pass the beemuts. 
Q. By the year 2000, what will be the most frequent question asked Notre Dame students? 
A. [German accent] Your papers, please. 
Q. Is the Huddle improving? 
A. The cheese fries portions are smaller. 

Q. What is the Dillon scavenger hunt? 
I
A. Freshmen raid girls dorms for panties, bras and feminine prod-· .. · ucts. ' 
Q. What is the Dillon Scavenger hunt? 
I
A. Sexual repression at it's finest. 
Q. What can be done about it? 
A. Send flowers and apology notes to all the girls dorms, extend parientals, pass out Victoria's Secret catalogs. 
Q. Will the petition to change parietals make a dent in the progres­sive liberal-minded administration that cares what its students have to say? 
A. Your ·papers, please. 
Q. How does one contract Hepatitis A? 
A. A press release from public relations sayid the disease is "spread through contact with surfaces contaminated by the feces of infe~ted persons and requires prolonged, close personal contact for transmission." 
Q. Is the Ziti safe? 
A. Next question. 

Q. Why are there cadavers in the basement of Haggar? [Business majors: Cadavers. are dead bodies.] 
A. Next question. 

Q: For how long Mr. Spock? For how long? 
The Gipp is still waiting for a knock on his door: "I have been sent by a higher authority. You know too rriuch." 0 



Blind freshman Lori Miller looks beyond her disability to find her role at Notre Dame. 
by Michelle Crouch 
Lori Miller snow skis, but she has never seen the beauty ofa snow flake glisten­ing in the sun as it falls. She plays both the flute and the piccolo, but she has never looked upon a piece of sheet music. She even qualified for the nationals with her partner in compulsory dance on roller skates, without ever seeing her partner's face. And now Lori Miller faces another chal­lenge: she is the only blind student at Notre Dame. When Lori was only two-and-a-half years old, she was diagnosed with Retino­Blastoma, or cancer ofthe retina. In order to prevent the cancer from spreading, she un­derwent intensive surgery in which her retina were removed and replaced with arti­ficial eyes. Since then, Lori has been unable to see, and thus she relies on her remaining four senses. Deciding to come to Notre Dame was a difficult decision for Lori. Her other college option was Stanford, a school renowned for its accommodations of the visually~im­paired. "ButI've always wanted to come to Notre Dame," she said, "and I decided that I really wan Led to fight and make a difference here." 

Lori, 18, has never been a person to evade challenge. Rather than going to a private school specialized for the disabled, Lori' always attended public school in her home­town ofWarsaw, Indiana. She started learn­ing braille at the age of four so she could 

"She loves to rollerblade, swim and ski, and she has been asked to compete in the U.S. disabled ski team's qualifying races." 
keep up with the reading in her classes. 

Braille is a very complex language·made up of different grades and types. Before Lori turned eight, she was completely profi­cient in literary braille. She had mastered two other types of braille, the music code and the mathematics code, by the tfme she_ had finished Lhird grade. ­
To help Lori keep up with the. rest of the students, the schools she attended usually provided her with a visually-impaired con­sultant or teacher. This tutor would braille all of her work for her, teach the daily living skills necessary for independence and work with Lori on orientation and mobility. 
Coming to Notre Dame has had its ups and downs, according to Lori, bringing both difficulties and pleasant surprises. 
"I'vebeen so impressed by the students on campus," she expressed. "It's so different from high school. There's much more ma­turity." 
However, even the smallest tasks in this new environment have become major ob­stacles for Lori. 
Freshmen who have access to a map ofthe university often have trouble finding their way around. Imagine how much more diffi­cult it would be·without the benefit ofsight. In an attempt to make this task easier, she brought with her a certified orientation and mobility instructor to help her gyt her bear­ings before freshman orientation started. "And, of course, the university did give me a map," she added, "Obviously, it wasn't of much help." One of Lori's plans in the coming year is to see if she can find an engineertomakeareliefmapofthecamp·us 




for her. 
"Luckily, I'm usually pretty orientated," Lori said. She is also blessed with "facial vision,>' the ability to hear sound waves bounce off objects. This is an ability with which some people are just naturally born. She said she has had,a lot of fun surprising people with this facial vision. "When I walked with a friend to the library, we passed [ the statue of] Moses, and I gestured and said 'There's Moses,' completely nonchalantly. She was totally confused and surprised!" Lori said. 
To get around in high school, Lori used a collapsible cane or walked with someone. 
.Ce Ce, her aff ec-· tionate, widely loved guide dog, was a recent acqui­sition to help her here at Notre Dame. "Everyone told me I didn't need a dog, but I had it in my head to have one," she said. 
But now she is . not sure having a guide dog is such a good idea. "I get around so well without her that I get really frus­trated when she gets distracted," she explained. "The squirrels here are her favorite; I keep thinking I'm going to end up in a tree." In addition, feeding the dog twice a day and talcing him out is an added stress. 
However, Lori is reluctant to get rid of Ce Ce because "she' s such a great ice-breaker. People will come up and pet Ce Ce and ask me her name before they even ask me my name," she said, "After all, a dog has more personality than a cane." 
In order to accommodate for Ce Ce, the university placed Lori in a three-room quad in Siegfried but gave her only one room­mate. Thus, she and her roommate, Carrie Cook, each have their own bedrooms and a third room to share. 
Before school started last summer, the university called Cook to make sure she would not object to having a blind roommate. Cook said yes without hesitating, but she remembers thinking that she would have to "do a lot for Lori." 

Upon arriving here and meeting Lori, Cook said she was surprised by how well Lori couId get along by herself. "The only thing she's ever asked me to do was maybe look up a phone number for her," she said. 
Cook was also amazed at the acuity of Lori's senses. "When we walked into the dining hall once, she knew what was for dinner; she said she could smell it. To me, it 
· just smelled like the dining hall." 
Lori makes full use of the space that she and her roommate share. Her small bedroom is filled with posters and momentos from high school, including a poster entitled, "Just in . case you everneed an excuse to party .... " and a large poster over her bed with the serenity prayer: "God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can and the wisdom to know the difference." 
However, a very large, advanced speech access computer dominates the room. 
This computer is invaluable to Lori. Not only does it read aloud each character which appears on the screen, but a device called an Arkenstone scanner will read aloud for her any flat, typed sheet ofpaper that she places in it. She also has two printers connected to the computer, one which prints in braille allowing her to proofread her work and another which operates as a regular printer so other people can read what she has writ­ten. 
Also an essential aid to Lori is her "Braille-n-Speak," which resembles a laptop computer with a braille keyboard. It can read aloud everything written on it, and Lori uses it to take notes in her classes. 
Lori has a number of different gadgets to 

help her with small tasks. In order to know how much money she is carrying, she has a portable money identifier. However, ifa bill is old or wrinkled, the 
· identifier will refuse to read it. So she usually just folds the bills dif­ferent ways to help her remember which are which. 
Lori also has a talking clock, which says the time every hour, and a watch which will read the time at the touch of a button. Furthermore, a Franklin speller with speech access serves as a dictio­nary and a thesau­

rus for Lori. 
But advanced technology cannot make everything easier. The Arkenstone scanner, unfortunately, cannot read textbooks. So Lori has turned to other resources, asking student volunteers to read her textbooks on 
. tape in return for some kind of monetary compensation provided by the university. So far she has received about fifty phone calls responding to her requests, and many of these students have refused to accept money. 
"I went the first week and a half without readers, and it was a nightmare. I had to go home on the weekends and have my parents 


read for me," she said. 
Math class presents the biggest problems for Lori since it involves so much written work, and her scanner cannot read num­bers. "It'sjust another headache," she said, 

j: 
"but I try to make the best of it. Usually, I 

I: have to get someone to read the problem to fi me. Then I braille it out by hand. Then I do 
I. the problem and read the answer back toI! someone to write it down." Another difficulty for Lori is test taking since she cannot take the standard written tests so common at Notre Dame. She is hoping to work out testing situations with her professors beforehand. She figures that they can either put the test on tape for her or have the T.A. read it aloud. Professor Harvey Bender, Lori's genet­ics professor, commented that although he is "certainly aware" that Lori is in his class, "she basically does itall herself. She gets to class on time, takes her own notes, and she is very much just a member of the class." 
"She is really going out of her way to be 

a 'regular' Notre Dame student," he said, "and I think that's wonderful. She's amaz­ing, just amazing." 
Although Lori spends a lot of time on her schoolwork, she still finds time to pursue her many hobbies. Her disability has not stopped her from trying and enjoying all kinds of sports. 
She loves to rollerblade, swim and ski, and she has been asked to compete in the U.S. disabled ski team's qualifying races. Lori wears a fluorescent vest that identifies her as a blind skier when .she skis. She is also required to ski with a guide whose primary purpose in Lori's case is to point out ob­stacles and to tell Lori if she is skiing too close to the edge. 
Another of Lori's interests is riding and showing horses, so she recently joined Notre Dame's equestrian team. 
One of Lori's favorite sports is roller­skating. However, she was unable to com­pete in the Nationals with her partner in 1988 because she was once again diagnosed with cancer. According to Lori, her doctors have speculated that the radiation used in the treatment of her earlier cancer actually caused the reoccurence. This time the doc­tors found a muscle tumor in her jaw, which they surgically removed. Lori then under­went 8 1/2 hours of plastic and reconstruc­tive surgery, and she received chemotherapy treatment for the next year and a half. That year, she missed 105 days of school, but she was still able to make the honor roll. 


Socially, Lori enjoys the same activities as most Notre Dame students. She · watches television and goes to movies and Notre Dame football games. When she does not understand something that is going on, she said that she simply asks the person next to her. 
Parties at Notre Dame have presented 

. more of a difficulty for a number of reasons: "I'm real conscious about what people think about having a dog in their room, but Ce Ce doesn't like being left alone," she said. "Also, it's hard for me to go wandering around to lots of different parties the way most freshmen do, and I need to make sure I have someone to help me get home." How­ever, Lori said she does enjoy parties. "I'm not going to let the dog stop me," she stated. 
One of Lori's goals here at Noire Dame is to start a disabled students organization so 

· that students who are physically or learning disabled will have "somewhere to turn." This organization could as·sist both disabled students and also those interested inworking with disabled students, according to Lori. 
"Ifpeople see me getting around or getting my work done, there is the assumption that everything is great," Lori said, "but there still needs to be improvements." · 
According to Lori, the biggest problem disabled students face here is the lack of awareness. "Other people tend to set my limitations because they don't realize that I like to do everything a normal student does," Lori said. 
Lori said she hopes that people will not be afraid to approach her and get to know her. "It doesn 'tjustbenefit me, it benefits them as well." she said. "It's a preparation.for them to succeed in the real world. Sometime, some­where they're going to have to deal with something different than theire used to. " 
-. 


\ 
THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL PRESENTS, AS PART OF 
1HE 

MULTICUI,JTURAL FALL FESTIVAL, 
IF JI ffi JE ·~ JI ID) IE 

MONDAY-FRIDAY(SEPTEMBER 27-OCTOBER 1), 12:15PM-1:00PM 
Monday, September 27 Learn about the myths and realities of living with 
AIDS 

from an HIV positive speaker 
Tuesday, September 28 
TODAY'S FAMILIES 

Dr. Jane Aldas explains how Murphy Brown and Dan Quayle could both be right 
Wednesday, September 29 
"ON THE ROAD AGAIN" 
Learn about the subculture of truck drivers from a South Bend based trucker 
Thursday, September 30 Reverend Coates, of 
NEW WINGS OF FAITH, 
talks about the spirituality of his multicultural church 
Friday, Octa ber 1 
THE OUTBACK 

Fr. Miscamble shares his insight on the continent of Australia 
SEE YOU IN ROOM 202 LAFORTUNE FOR 
FREE LUNCH 

AND GREAT CONVERSATION! 


Send information for your event to: Jenny Tate, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 631-7569. 
Thursday 23 
Soccer: SMC vs. Wheaton College, 4:00 p.m., SMC Soccer Field. American Catholic Studies Seminar: "Metal Stable, Granite Base: The Jesuits' Woodstock College, Maryland, 1869­1891," Rev. John Ciani, S.J., Gccx-getown University, 4:15p.m., Hcsburgh Lilrary Lounge. Acoutic Cafe: 9:00--12:00 p.m., LaFortunc. Movie: "All About Eve," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theatre, $2. 
Friday 24 
~cer: Notre Dame men vs. Indiana, 
7:30 p.m., Alumni Field. Soccer: Notre Dame women vs. North Carolina State, 5:00 p.m., Alumni Field. Cross Country: Notre Dame vs. National Catholic, 4:00 p.m., Golf Course. Film: "'The Lover," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snitc, $2. Movie: "Made In America," 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Movie: "Blues Brothers," 7:00 & 9:30 p.m., Carroll Hall, SMC, $. Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Santa Clara, 7:30 p.m., JACC. Modem Dance Sketches: "Atrek Contemporary Dance Theatre Perfor­mance," 8:00 p.m., O'Laughlin Audit<rium, SMC, $. 
Saturday 25 
Storytelling: "Cinderellas from Around the World" 10:30 a.m., Front Desk of Snite. Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Southwest Missouri, 11:00 a.m., JACC. Soccer: SMC vs. John Carroll, 1:00 p.m., SMC Soccer Field. Football: Notre Dame vs. Purdue, 2:30 p.m., Purdue. Movie: "Blues Brothers"?:()() & 9:30 p.m., Carroll Hall, SMC, $. 
African Gala Party: "Kouassa-Kouassa 
No. 3," 6:00 p.m., Wilson Commons,$. Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Nebraska, 
7:30 p.m., JACC. Film: "The Lover," 7:30 & 9:45, Snite, $2. Movie: "Made in America," 8:00 & 10:30, Cushing Auditorium, $2. 

! 
.i1 

\ 
\ 
\ 
Touch Four 
x 1031 for local weather .Dial 239-2500, then press: x 6736 for national weather 1x 6050 for news headlines x 6123 for movie reviews :x 6052 for world news x 9463 for thought for the day x 6121 for top pop albums x 6238 for TV sports events x 6571 for prime time TV x 6230 for national sports report x 6129 for video releases x 6263 for college basketball 
TOUCH.

Sunday 26 
Monday 27 
Film: "Breathless," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. 
ioccer: Notre Dame women vs. 
FOUR

Film: "Forbidden Planet," 9:00 p.m., 
;outhem Methodist, 2:30 p.m., Alumni. 
Snite, $2 ..
•ield. . :oncert: "V enneer String Quartet," 
Wednesday 29
t:00 p.m., Snite, $. 
uesday 28 
Soccer: Notre Dame women vs. WrightSoccer: SMC vs. Kalamazoo, 4:00 p.m., 
State, 4:00 p.m., Alumni Field. 
SMC Soccer Field. 
Fourth Day Meetings: 7:15 p.m., Stanford­Film: "Vidas Secas," 7:00 p.m., Snitc, $2. 
Keenan Chapel. 
Film: "Spies," 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2. Soccer: Notre Dame men vs. Depaul, 
7:00 p.m., Alumni Field, Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Depaul, 7:?I) p.m.,JACC. Campus Bible Study: 7:00 p.m., Badin Conference Room. Lecture: "Peace is a Question," Betty 
Movie Theatres: 
Williams, 8:00 p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
100 Center Cinema I&Il: 259-0414 


Scottsdale Theatre: 291--4583 
Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090 
University Parle Cinema East: 277-7336 
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441 
Forum I & IJ Cinema: 277-1522 

A Match Up Or A Massacre? 
The Purdue football team has proven in the past that it can play with anyone, but,for the pastsevenyears, the Boilers have been beaten by the Irish 
by Warren Junium 
Thepast ten years have not been the most memorable for the Purdue Boiler­maker football program, and it appears that this season might be similar. This Saturday, Notre Dame will travel to West Lafayette, Indiana, to battle the Boilermakers at Ross­Ade Stadium, where the Irish have posted a 4-1 record in their last five appearances. The Boilers are looking to prove themselves with 
an upset over the nationally ranked Fighting 
Irish. Purdue's 1992 campaign started out promising, but they struggled through the remaining games of the season, ending with a final record of 4-7. The Boilers' season had a few bright spots, including both an impressive victory over nationally-ranked California (17th AP, 20th CNN/USA To­day) and one over Indiana. in ·the season finale to recapture the traditional O Id Oaken 

Bucket. .However, most of the other games of the 1992 . season the Boilers would like to forget. 
. These include a 48-0 thrashing by the Fighting Irish, a · squandering of a 17-. 7 lead over Michigan and a 35-13 loss to Michigan State. 
Though 1992 was not a standout year for the Boilers, they did have a few bright spots in terms .of of.. fense. . . Purdue's. leading :receiver, se­
. nfor Jermaine Ross, led the team with 26 pass receptions for 579 yards and three touchdowns. In his three years as a wide receiver, Ross has averaged 19.3 yards in 43 receptions and has four touch­downs.


Purdue Jun.lor quarterback Matt Pike completed 56 of 137 Wide receiver · passes fQr 840 yards with five touchdowns and five Ernest Calloway, a Interceptions last season. 1992 graduate, also: 
contributed greatly to the Purdue cause. Calloway averaged 15 yards on 24_ carries with one touchdown, which all resulted in an All-Big Ten Honorable Mention. 
The leading rusher and second leading scorer for Purdue last year was Arlee Conners, a senior tailback. Conners aver­aged 4.4 yards per carry with four touch­downs. Conners and Ross are returning for the 1993 season, and they may prove to be the cornerstones of an improved Boiler­maker offense. · 
However, these three players alone could not carry an entire offense last year. Purdue was ranked sixth in both total offense and scoring offense in the Big Ten. 
Purdue's defense was also weak during the 1992 campaign. It was ranked sixth against the rush, fourth against the pass, eighth in scoring and seventh in total de­fense in the Big Ten. This weak defense did have a few strengths. JeffZgonina, a 1993 graduate, was the Big Ten defensive player of the year and second team UPI All-Ameri­can.. Eric Beatty,· a lineb.acker and recent graduate, was first team AU-Big Ten and was the 1992 Purdue Boilermaker MVP. 
Third year head coachJim Colletto is very optimistic, though, about the 1993 Boiler squad.. Colletto told reporters that during spring practice he noticed an improved ag­gressiveness and· desire to win from his players. 
"We wanted to develop a lot more team speed on defense; and I think that was ac­complished to a large degree," Colletto said. 
The Boilers will have to shut down oppo­nents with this 'improved defense as their offense has only six returning starters. There is a concern over the lack of experi­ence on.the line..Set to be calling the plays for l?urdue is junior quarterback Matt Pike, who started five. of the first six games in 1992. Pike has displayed a strong arm and had 85 completions in 198 attempts, with eight touchdowns and 10 interceptions dur­ing the 1991 ·and 1992 seasons. 




Purdue started off this season with a loss to nationally ranked NorthCarolina 

. State (AP 18th) and a victory over West­
. ·em Michigan. The Boilers were not very impressive in either of the two games. Against Western Michigan, the Purdue offense was ineffective after the first half. · The Boilers scored all 28 points and had 15 of their 18 first downs in the first half. 
Matt Pike was .the quarterback for Purdue, and he was 9 for 22 with one touchdown and one interception. The leading receiver in the Purdue attack was Jermaine Ross who had two recep­tions for 56 yards, and the leading rusher was sophomore· Mike Alstott, who rushed for 100 yards on 12 carries. 

· The Boilers' defense was unimpres­sive against Western Michigan as well. It allowed 26 first downs and 417 total yards: Coach Colletto summed up the defensive woes when he said, "Our-pass defense stinks." 
Coming into Saturday, the Irish need to be aware of-~ few Purdue strengths such as fullback Mike Alstott and receiver Jermaine Ross, but this game should not require much concern by coach Lou Holtz. 

Purdue's offense does have two dangerous players, fullback Mike Alstottand receiver Jermaine Ross. The defense that Colletto spoke highly of at the beginning of the season has not congealed and should pose little threat to the powerful Irish offense. 
Notre Dame should dominate Saturday's game. With the offensive power shown in the Michigan game, the Irish should run holes through the Purdue defensive line, and Kevin McDougal's passing game should have little trouble against the Boilers' passing defense. Notre Dame's defense, which was strong against Michigan, should hold the hapless Purdue offense at bay. 
After analyzing all the facts, it appears that Purdue will have to wait another year to reclaim the Shillelagh, which is given to the winner of the Notre Dame-Purdue game every year. The Irish have held the award for the past seven years, and it ap­pears that they will soon make it eight. 
Colletto .put this game into perspective when asked if Notre Dame might present Purdue with any specific problems. Colletto almost smiled as he answered, "Y eah,just showing up." 0 

--·-------------·---------------------------­

On The Cutting Edge 
With the help ofhead coach Chris Petrucelli, · the Notre Dame women's soccer team has sliced throughNCM competition 
i· 
by Jeff Weghorst 
Schools across the nation are trying to improve women's soccer programs, but few teams, ifany, have taken flight like that of Notre Dame. The Irish ascension to the lofty levels of powerhouse programs has been, in a word, meteoric. Nobody expected a squad in justsix seasons to rise to a national rankingofthree; building a program up to the top ten plateau is no walk in the park. So why has Notre Dame been so fortunate? Why have the Irish been able to kick it into high gear and gain national 

· prominence? What edge does Notre Dame have that the others lack? Well everyone, meet the Edge: head coach Chris Petrucelli. Ask him why the Irish have vaulted ahead of the masses, and he'll tell you it's the players who have built this program, that it hasn't been the coaching atall. He'll tell you that he has been for­tunate to ride the crest of this wave of success powered by his athletes. There's no denying the fact, however, that it was Petrucelli .who brought these players to Notre Dame. Without his keen eye for talent and acute knowledge of the game, the Irish would not find them­
selves where they are today -smack dab in the middle ofthe hunt for a national champi­onship. 

Let's not get ahead of ourselves though. A quick glimpse at the coach's past is in order. 
It was as a twelve~year-old that this Or­ange.New Jersey, native first came in contact with the game of soccer. A simple play­ground game in the beginning, it soon be­came a sport from which Petrucelli would 

national prominence. 
never wander. As a starting midfielder and team captain 
for North Carolina-Greensboro, he led .the 
team to two NCAA Division III national 
championships for his coach, Mike 
Berticelli. Berticelli moved to Old Dominion and 
asked his former player, Petrucelli, to spend 
a year as a graduate assistant with the Mon­
archs. "It was something to do. At first it was like, 'I'll try this for a year and just see what hap­pens,"' recalled Petrucelli. . What happened was a 
-promotion to full-time assistant coach in 1986, and a 76-27-17 record over six seasons at Old Dominion. 
In 1990, Berticelli as­sumed the role of the Irish men's soccer coach, and Petrucelli packed his bags for South Bend as well, tak­ing the reigns of the women. s program. 
"I took the job," said Petrucelli, "because I wanted to coach atNotre 
. Dame. It was a place that stressed academic ex­cellence and had a rich tradition in athletics." 
Coaching a women's program required a little adjustment, however. 
"When he first showed up he picked up a barrette off the ground 



and asked, 'Whose is this, and what is this?"' said senior tri-captain Stephanie Porter. 
Adjustment to the women's game went smoothly for Petrucelli as the squad won 16 games in his first season as coach, a team record. 
From then on, the Irish neverlookedback. 

Each year, the Irish have improved at a phenomenal pace. Last season the team broke into the national rankings for the first timein historyatnumbersixteen. Today, the squad is ranked third by the Intercollegiate Soccer Association .of America. ­
And there•s still plenty of soccer to be played this year. The Irish look to continue their as­cent as they battle their toughest schedule ever, an agenda that in­cludes four of the six top teams in the country. Among their opponents lurks North Caro­lina, winnerof 11 of the last 12 national titles. 
So how has Petrucelli led the Irish to such great heights? Over and over, the response to this question_ has been "recruiting." 
"He has a real· good eye·ror talent. He's brought in players who could do the job," said senior tri-captain Alison Lester. "You couldn't ask for a more dedicated 
coach." · 
Indeed, the i993 Irish squad.features a· freshman class that was rated the best ofany school over the past two years by Soccer America. PetrucelliclaiinsthatNotreDarile lures in the good recruits because of its academic and athletic traditions of excel-Jenee. But freshman phenom Jen Renola 
thinks it's somethng else. "lwasnotinterestedinNotreDame,"said Renola. "It was not on my list. He ch1;mged 

that: His visits turned my head and made me consider Notre Dame. The coach is what made the difference for me." 
While bringing in players like freshman Cindy Daws, possibly the top recruit in the country last year, increases Notre Dame's potential, Petrucelli must also coach this talent.Recruiting alone does not win games. 
This is where Petrucelli's ability to run a team comes into play, and rules one through three are: work, work and work. 
"He's very intense. He doesn't settle for anything less than perfect? said Lester. 
"During practice, he's always on the field. He doesn't let mistakes go. He wants to make sure that things are corrected. Practice is what mistakes are for, but coach doesn't 
· say it's all right." "He totally knows his game. As long as we're working hard, we can joke around. I know that sounds like a contradiction, but what I mean by that is that we don• t talk any differently when he's around. He's a friend 
. of the team's.," said junior Jodi Hartwig. While some f~el that Petrucelli was quiet· when he first arrived at Notre Dame, that has changed somewhat. He is not afraid to be 
vocal during games and has let referees know when they're doing a poor job of officiating. Always, however, he keeps his poise. 
If there is any problem that the players have with Petrucelli, it's that he's not vocal enough with positive comments and that he needs to work on positive reinforcement in his coaching methods. 
Make no mistake, though. The players recognize that building a program as quickly as Petrucelli has is no easy task and it has been under his leadership that they have come as far as they have. It is a leadership 
they welcome and re­spect. 
Petrucelli also ex­pects his players to be totally dedicated to the team. While academics come first, soccer comes second, and he doesn't want to hear any complaints about lacking social lives. 
However, it was Petrucelli who proved his dedica­tion this past sum­mer. His wife. Eve gave birth to daugh­ter Gabrielle late one night in August. Petrucelli stayed at the hospital until about 5 a.m. and 
. measuring up to his own expectations, showed up for an 8 

a.m. practice, · So what will this dedication bring? 
"Our potential is unlimited. Our ultimate goal is to win the national championship. It could happen this yearornext year or the year after," said Petrucelli. · . 
Certainly the talent is there right now. The Irish have reached the highest level of com­petition.Look for the squad to make its first trip ever to the post~season NCAA tourna­ment.:. And they won't be playing like. a bunch of rookies; this squad will be one to 
fear. . Meanwhile, the ascent up Poll Mountain continues ... . 


FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

/ 

Christy Peters: Peters, a junior from Solana Beach, CA, led the Notr 
. Dame women's volleyball team to the Shamrock Invitational Championship last weekend. Peters was named the tournament MVP. Christy had a good weekend all around. "When it's crunch time, we're going to her," said Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown. 
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK . 

Tont Richardson: Richardson, a sophomore from Windsor,. CT, scored the only goal for the Notre Dame men's soccer team in its win against Evansville last Sunday. "In our game against Evansville last year, Tont left with a broken leg. It's a tremendous thing for him to come back and play as well as he did," said Irish head coach Mike Berticelli. 


A Forum on Postmodern 
lnfoculture and Multimedia 
Events 

Trivia has become our generation's method of communication. After years of information bombardment through televi­sion, movies, books and other media sources, we have come to a point where relations are not expressed through meta­phors but rather through references to popu­lar movies, television shows and like media. Knowledge oftrivia has replaced knowl­edge of scholarly books as a determinant ~f a person's social position. For our genera­tion, trivia has become a way of life. ­
Take my roommates for instance. When casually asking them ifany ofthem hadseen a pairofvice grips, the response was, "Vice Grips? I haven't seen that show in years." "Wasn't that the one where two Miami po­lice officers tried to solve crimes with differ­ent tools." "Yeah, in fact I think it was. They used chainsaws, hammers, ratchets -all that stuff." "And ifl recall correctly, wasn't Gary Coleman the police chief?" (Laughter) "He used to always say, 'What you talkin' about, Sonny?"' This conversation led on for a full five minutes before it eventually died down, and everyone came to the skewered conclusion that they had in fact not seen my vice grips. 
This sort of mental wordplay is entirely based on simple television trivia. The more television you've watched, the more able you would be to communicate on this level. I've seen this 'trivia contest perpetuated mil­lions oftimes, and I must admit that I engage in this game. I know some people who can­not communicate normally without constant referral to television and movies.But there is no substance to the conversation. Informa­tion is not being exchanged, no one is listen­ing or learning -it is entirely a game that is unfortunately becoming all-consuming.· 
Sex Machine Conquers Bridge Apparently James Brown has a lot offans in Steamboat Springs, Colorado. The county held a contest to name the bridge, and the winner was "the James Brown Soul Center of the Universe Bridge." The godfather of soul attended the dedication and was quoted as saying, "Papa's got a brand new bridge." I suggest we name the new plaza near DeBartolo and Fitzpatrick halls the "James Brown Useless Area in which One Can Sing Soul." 
The Life and Times of Frasi~r Crane 

Kelsey Grammer, who stars as Frasier in the new television show by the same name, has had anything but a life typical of a therapist. He just recently divorced his wife Leigh-Anne Csuhany, a -former topless dancer. He claims that the marriage was based on fraud because he didh' t know that she was of "unsound mind.'? Csuhany ad­mits when she gets "frustrated ... angry, I can't stop myself from flipping out.' I'd throw things, and I'd scream and yell. I have a chemical imbalance, but I take ... Prozac, that helps me great." Apparently Csuhany, then three months pregnant, attempted sui­cide after Grammer requested an annulment and miscarried. "I hate him for that No, I don't hate him; I love him," she said. Come to think ofit, his home life probably provides very good insight into some of his patients. 
Chili Peppers Fire! 

Apparently the Red Hot Chili Peppers have fired their guitarist Jessie Tobias. Tobias was at least the fourth guitarist the Peppers have used in their illustrious career. In this instance, Tobias never even got a chance to play live with them or be on a recording. Former Jane's Addiction guitar­ist Dave Navarro has replaced Tobias and is expected to be with them ·when they record in early 1994. I predict that the next guitarist will be The Edge, angry at Bono for not allowing him to sing a song other than "Numb." 
Up and Coming ... New in television: The new fall season has officially begun, so there are tons of soon-to-be-cancelled shows. New in the theaters: Martin Scorsese's The Age of Innocence; David Cronenberg's adaptation of Madame Butterfly titled M. Butterfly; and Macauley Culkin plays a bad kid in The Good Son. Upcoming in record stores on Tuesday: DJ Jazzy Jeff and The Fresh Price, Local favorites Freddy Jones Band, Dream Syndicate (reissue), Revolting Cocks and Wayne's World babe Tia Carrere. 
lans and lans and Ians, Oh My! 

For w_hatever reason, I suddenly noticed the fact that there are a surprising numb~r of lead singers named Ian who hail from Britain. Take this quick matchmg test; and see how well you know Ian. 
1. 
Ian Gillan 

2. 
Ian MacKaye 

3. 
Ian McCullouch 

4. 
Ian Hunter 

5. 
Ian Curtis 

6. 
Ian Astbury 

7. 
Ian Anderson 



a. 
Lead singer of Mott the Hoople 

b. 
Former lead singer of Joy Division 

c. 
Lead vocals in Jesus Christ Superstar 

d. 
Lead singer and flutist of Jethro Tull 

e. 
American lead singer of Fugazi 

f. 
Lead singer of Jesus & Mary Chain 


g: Lead singer of the Cult 


The Samples permqnent road tour comes to Notre Dame 

by Scott Johnson 

Happy, Happy! Tour, Tour! In the tradi­tion of the bands that rocked the sixties, not on the airwaves or on Music Television but on the road, emerge The Samples. 
A band that atone time scrounged for grub at sample counters in the supermarkets of Boulder, Colorado, oneday decided to leave town and tour, and over four years later have arrived in their Volkswagon buses on the front steps of the Golden Dome. 
Over those four years Sean Kelly, The Samples guitarist and singer, and his bandmates -Al Laughlin, keyboards/vo­cals, Andy Sheldon, bass/vocals, and Jeep MacNichol, drums/percussion -have ac­quired a strong, national following simply by word of mouth. 
Since the production of their first album The Samples in 1989 (known by fans as the Blue Album will be re-released on W.A.R.? this fall), the band has encountered many strange events. After signing a deal with Arista Records (bureaucratic giant), the company made moves to push the band Top Forty. I know you all cringe when you hear thatphrase. Well,sodidTheSamples. With confidence in their music, the band soon left Arista and ventured into the world of the "unsigned," Unwilling to return to Boulder supermarkets, unwilling to sell out, The Samples returned to the road. 
In April of 1992, the band signed with 
W.A.R.? (What Are Records?) and released 
the highly popular album, No Room. With · 
their new label, The Samples reminded us 
that their focus is on music and, of course, 
touring. They are still on the road four out of 
every six weeks and still take music, but not necessarily themselves, seriously. Beneath 
their relaxed melodies, mellow yet buoyant 
bass lines and rhythmic reggae beats, The 
Samples pursuit of musical truth and musi­
cal change is evident. 

This mentality was also apparent in The -Samples participation in the second 
H.O.R.D.E. festival (Horizon of Rock De­veloping Everywhere). The summertime 

The Samples most recent release 

tour that included Blues Traveler, Big Head Todd and the Monsters, Widespread Pani.c and Col. Bruce Hampton & the Aquarium Rescue Unit was an all-day carnival, cul­tural, socio-political and musical extrava­ganza. The H.O.R.D.E. wasn't put together for money, or to battle Lollapalooza, but to bring together a blend of blues, jazz, reggae and funk in an eight hour musical showcase. The H.O.R.D.E. set out to celebrate a lifestyle of days gone by, to bring music away from professionalism and cynicism, back to its roots. 
The Samples have been compared to a folk R.E.M. ora garage version ofthe reggae"'" rock of the Police. Lead singer Sean Kelly bears a slight resemblance vocally to fellow­blonde Sting, but don't worry, he doesn't share that annoying high-pitched twinge of Michael Stipe. 
The band also has been categorized with the keyboards similar to Peter Gabriel, live demeanor of :f>hish, and a musical blend of XTC and Yes. The Samples may share similar sounds but didn't get their name from "sampling" these various bands. Their sound is none of. these, but a constantly changing, unique experience. Their lyrical style jumps from easy going, sarcastic and funny to sincerity and seriousness. They deal with and show support for ecological issues and the plight of the Native Ameri­cans in their music, yet at the same time deliver funky, eclectic tunes. 
Someday Sean Kelly would like to play a show in complete darkness, to give the band and the audience ari entirely new experi­ence. "The goal with our music is listening, not playing," said\ Kelly. ·"I think to play in the dark would emphasize that more. Now that I think about it, the keyboardist might have some problems." . 
The Samples, .like so many bands of the sixties, like that one other band that is tour­ing all the time, can only be appreciated, or loved, live. "Quite frankly, we're a very different band -live," said Sheldon. "We extend the songs in a live setting, so that they're similar to but not exactly like what's on the albums. We distort them justenough, almost accidentally, to make it intriguing." If you want to see a great show, or if you want to see the first concert everin complete darkness, come taste a sample Friday night at Stepan· Center. 



C> ! • • 
: ~ ... . . . ' -. < \ . . , . . 


® 
@
ov1e and USlC 
You've Neither Seen nor Heard 
Orlando: An Untraditional Victorian Film of the 90's 
by Tony Leonardo 

My girlfriend ·beckoned me to see Or­lando with her this summer. I had previously read reviews on the film, so I knew the basic plot line and the fact that the Queen of England was played by a seventy-year old man. The movie critics, however, were vague and seemingly confused by the movie, so I had to find out for myself what Orlando was all about. 
I discovered that Orlando was a very intriguing movie about what it's like to be woman -a topic I know little about. The basic story follows the life of Orlando, a young English prince. Itis apparent from the beginning that this prince is really more ofa princess, but it is simply played as if she were indeed a man. This confusion of sexes is a constant theme throughout the movie and caused meto wonder what reaction the director (Sally Potter) was trying to elicit. It became increasingly clear throughout the film that Potter was dispelling traditional male/female roles. The plot line revolved around Orlando as he/she falls asleep in a certain time period and wakes up in another. Orlando eventually wakes up to the realiza­tion that he is a woman, although no physi­cal part of him has changed. 
It was at this point that I began to sense a certain amount of didacticism. It seemed to me that the feminist ideal of equality and identicality had already been reiterated enough within the film. But just as I started to question the film, itrebounded with re­newed purpose and spirit and escaped the trap of a morality play. Orlando kept on leaping time periods, and her feminity and similar masculinity became increasingly relevant to the age in which she was in. The story took her all of the way to the present and purposely left the ending happy yet still aware of the problems that face women. 
I found this movie compeHing for the very strength of the text (based on a Virginia Woolf novel), the incredible cinematogra­phy and its enlightening social awareness of women. Orlando should be in video stores fairly soon. I strongly recommend watching this unique movie. 
, 
J Church's Album Quetzalcoatl 
by Doug McEachern 
The San Francisco area has long been 
associated with music, especially with re­
gard to the late sixties. Recently, a large 
amount of independent punk bands have 
been emerging from the Bay Area, such as ·. 
Jawbreakerand Operation Ivy. This summer 
a band named J Church released their first 
full length album, Quetzalcoatl ,on the San 
Francisco-based Allied Recordings record 
label. Previously the band had released sev­
eral songs on seven inch records and compi­
lations, including a briliiant cover of 

R.E.M.'s "(Don't Go Back to) Rockville" . on the Surprise Your Pig tribute album. 
J Church is Lance, Garndner and 
Brendan. That is all the information they 
provide about themselves, with no instru­mental listings or group photos. J Church's· music is best described as punk rock with an emphasis on rock. T~e trio writes songs that are straight ahead but not basic. Most of the songs are upbeat, mid-tempo pieces that make you want to jump up and down with the music. The lyrics are well written and reflect that the singer is both intelligent and well read. The vocals are clear and occasion­ally border on sounding like they are being spoken. 

The songs are consistently good through­out the album, although a few toward the end sound less inspired than the rest. The album opens with "Bottom Run," where the singer talks about being part of the corporate ma­chine that will "grind on careless, with or without me." "Blister," the third track, grabs you by the collar, throws you against the wall a few times, and leaves you wanting more. The rest of the album continues :with · stong (but more friendly) tracks, of which I highly recommend "Yellow, Blue and Green," "Open Road" and "What Could I Have Done." 
Try tuning in to catch J Church or write to Allied Recordings, P.O. Box 460683, San Francisco, CA 94146. 
Five From WVFI 
by Joe Cannon 

1. 
Lungfish~Rainbowsfrom Atoms. Po­etic lyrics, amazing music. Pure. 

2. 
Music For the Proletariat Compilation. Allied Recordings' 26-track compilation of · sheer might. 


3.1.6 
Band-1.6.Band. Makes what most major labels try to tell me is hardaedged sound like the pre-pubescent whine of the bloated. You should own this. 

4. 
Dogs On Ice-Housefly 7' ."Amazing jumpy pop punk with some fIREHOSE in­fluence. · 

5. 
Mercury Rev-Boces. A King Crimson for the 90's. 


. 



News ofthe Bizarre from the Nation's Universities 


Ross Resurfaces · 
Ifyou thought (or hoped) that Ross Perot's defeat in the 1992 presidential election would mark his disappearance, think again. He's back-,-and this time he has friends. Students from more than 250 universities around the country have rallied around Perot to form United We Stand America, Inc., a non-partisan, non-profit, · political watchdog group. 
UWSA members hope to impact the college political scene and challenge College Republicans and College Democrats chapters. Although the group embraces Perot as its fqcal point, members adamantly deny that they are running a campaign. Instead they are attempting to "affect a positive change in this country," said coor­dinator Darla Kay Kreller. 
Just in case, however, one of the primary functions of the group'. rests in establishing a mailing list/database ofPerot supporters. The 
· newly established group seeks "Democrats, Republicans, indepen­dents, idealists, pragmatists, activists and even political malcon­tents. Political ties not necessary." OK, so you don't need political ties, but a working knowledge of the finer points of pie-chart deciphering and the tende~cy to overuse the word "gridlock»are prerequ!sites for group membership. 
· ·Roll out the Barrels 
When officials from the University of California system asked students for more money fast semester, they complied_:..sort of. Six student government members from UC, Santa Barbara flooded the 
· campus billing and accounts receivable offices with barrels of money_..:.literally. Employees spent four hours sorting and counting the hundreds of pounds of dimes, niGkels and pennies that the students rolled in on dollies. The students were making a political statement and protesting budget cuts for higher education. If you can't beat 'em, make their life difficult. 
Underwear Bandit 
The demanding academic grind at many universities forces students to do strange things. For one University of Wisconsin student, the best emotional release proved to be stealing underwear. This student has been charged with stealing 150 bras and women's panties from dormitory laundry rooms. The student told university police that he took the underwear because he was "under a lot of academic pressure." Someone should put this guy in touch with our own campus library streakers so maybe they can work out their problems together. 
Jive Talking 

College students can and do make a difference. Just ask the 
. publishers of the latest edition of The American Heritage Dictio­nary. . Houghton Mifflin has added over 15,000 words to the dictionary's third edition and many of the new words are college­related terms or college slang. "Generation X," "politically cor­rect," "cheesy" and "dweeb" arejust a few of the additions to the dictionary. As everyone.knows, attempting to capture college slang is similar to attempting to define clothing styles. Both trends change very rapidly. However, any word added to the dictionary is expected to be around for at least another ten years. So dudes, rage, get stoopid and hurl to your heart's content-it's all legit. 
Edited.:by Jenny Tate 
.: 

• -' ~---------------• t ~ ; \ 
-' . 
. . . 
• • • ,.> • 

Whassup Wit Dat? 
A New York perspective on language 
by Jessica Robb 

H ey, um, e_'.(cuse me, but could you repeat that? Soda, do you mean pop? Hey, where are you from anyway? These are questions that I encounter almost every day. The minute that I speak to someone, he or she knows that I am from New York City. I guess I'm blessed with something that hits you like the unmistakable smell of ethanol in the morning: a heavy New York One thing is different though, being sur­rounded by people with all sorts of accents remindsm~ofhome. NewYorkCityisa world full ofaccents. One thing is for certain though, you almost never hear "y'all" in the middle of Times Square. If you tried to say "y'all" there, you'd probably be shot. 
One of my roommates is from Indianapo­lis. Sheconstantlytriestoimitatemyaccent, but there is something that sh.e just can't difficult to catch phrases: "Djeet yet?" and the normal reply, "No, jou?" (Here is a translationforthoseofyouwhodidn'tcatch it "Did you eat yet?" and the reply, "No, did you?" Anyway, my friend from Dixon, Illi­nois, quickly mastered those phrases. 
There are lots ofdisadvantages to having an accent too. Lots of times, people just can'tunderstandwhatl'msaying. I've been asked to repeat things so many times here, 
I've lost count. People also tend 

.--------------------------,
accent. to form opinions about me before 
No, I can't deny the fact that I pronounce words a little differ­ently. In fact, I don't think I have ever pronounced the "r" at the end of a word. Sometimes I speak a little faster than the average per­son. The way I speak doesn't make me less ofa person, does it? No, it makes me a New Yorker. 
Being a New Yorker means a lot more than having an accent. It means not being able to com­pletely trust the friendly, secure atmosphereofNotreDame. !can't quite shake the habit of periodi­cally glancing behind me while I'm walking at night. It means being completely stunned when a stranger walks by and says, "Hey, how are you doing?" I automatically think, "What do you want from me?" It means always being in a· rush, even when there's not much to be done. Being a New Yorker means a lot more than having an accent. It means a different way of life. 
Before I came to Notre Dame, I didn't have an accent. At least no one ever told me I had one. Now I'm surrounded by people with all sorts of accents. Just as people notice my accent, I notice those from Chi­cago, Tennessee, California and Boston. 
quite catch. Once in a while, in the middle of . a conversation, she will slip in a phrase like, "Whassup wit dat?" Uh-oh, I think I'm be­ginning to rub off on her. 
Having an accent has its advantages and disadvantages. Here on campus lots of people know me as the "short blonde girl with the New York accent." So, having an accent is a definite attention grabber. 
I'veeven had peopleaskmetoteach them how to speak with a New York accent. How do you do that? I'm not sure, but last year I taught a friend of mine a few crucial, yet they even know me. Pushy, rude and mean, that's what people thinkaboutNewYorkers, but it's not always true. Sometimes, people fail to realize that I have absolutely no control over _my accent -it's just there! 
Last December when I re­turned home for winter break, my friends at home informed.me that I had lost my accent. Now, that'stheultimateinsulttoaNew Yorker. I began to sweat; I was trembling; I was a nervous wreck. I began to think that South Bend had transformed me intooneofthosemonotoneMid­western newscasters. For the 

entire duration of winter break, I worked hard at getting my accent back into top form. When I got back to Notre Dame, my accent was good to go. 
While I'm at Notre Dame, my accent makes me stand out in the crowd. My accent is an extension of myself, a part of my personality. DaybydayhereatNotreDame, I'm losing my accent. Does that mean I'm losing a part of myself? No,,I think I'm just picking up some new character traits. You maynotrealizeit, butwealllosealittlepiece 
•of home to Notre Dame. 


SO I'M A NOTRE DAME SCHOLAR ••o 
by Katie Redding

Now What? 

Katie Redding is a freshman Notre Dame Scholar from California. 
Scholastic is now . accepting submissions for. the Final Word. Call the office for deatails. 

Notre Dame has mysteries lurking behind every corner. (I suppose that's part of its charm.) Someone, in fact, has conceived to write an entire book about the mystery surrounding Notre Dame. And yet, I would venture to speculate that even he did not attempt to unravel the enigma of the Notre Dame Scholar. Smart man. No one really seems to be sure what the point of being a Scholar is, not even the Scholars themselves. (Or at least though a Scholar, 1' mconfused.) This is not entirely inexplicable seeing as how "scholar" isn't exactly a descriptive term. In fact, if one were to be trivial, one could point out the fact that the phrase "Notre Dame scholar" pretty accurately describes no less than lOOpercent ofthiscampus. Thus.all Notre Dame students are Notre Dame scholars, but not all are Notre Dame Scholars. And so the mystery gyrates outward. Ido know that Notre Dame Scholarship is conferred upon admission, as I received the letter informing me of this award in my ·acceptance packet. Unfortu­nately, the admissions committee didn't feel the need ·to elaborate on what a Notre Dame Scholar is .. Con­sequently, I spent most of May confused about what exactly I'd received. And when I needed to make a list of my awards for our high school graduation program, I had to ask my guidance counselor whether or not I should write in "Notre Dame Scholar." (She didn't know either.) · · · ' However, to iny relief, I finally found the official description of the Notre Dame Scholar by accident one day. (There's.nothing like an award that you're not sure is an award to drive you crazy;) It's hidden somewhere in the Notre Dame Undergraduate Pro­grams Bulletin of lnformation, between the sections "The Application Process" and "The Physically Dis­abled. " It seems every year the admissions depart­ment designates the top 20 per cent of each entering class Notre Dame Scholars. How they decide what is the top 20 pet cent is not elaborated on. Perhaps they multiply everyone's GPA by their SAT score and take the product to the power of the number ofactivities they participated in Or maybe they just tack all the applications up to the wall and throw darts at them. (Nice throw -Bull's eye on Redding, Katherine!) 
If a student is found to have financial need, this is good news. This lucky prospective Irish man or woman receives the prize behind door number one: a guarantee that aU of his or her demonstrated financial 
. need will be met. (Evidently the rest of the freshman class is not guaranteed that their financial aid will be met, but I do wonder just how much difference being a Notre Dame Scholar makes in the financial aid package that a student receives from the university.) Unfortunately, however, if the powers that be decide the student's family is perfectly capable of handing more than $20,000 a year, then he or she receives the prize behind door number two: a beautiful 8X10 
· certificate. Granted, the merits of said certificate are not to be overlooked and certainly mine is highly prized: It came with a sturdy cardboard protective cover to preserve it for posterity; my name is spelled correctly; and it fits just perfectly into the box with my kindergarten diploma and the leaf collage I made at sixth-grade Science Camp. 
This occurs as such because, according to the Notre Dame Undergraduate Programs Bulletin of Informa­tion (amazing what you find in there!), "Notre Daine awards financial aid on. the basis of financial need." Thus, no matter if a student is in the top 20 per cent or the top 1 per cent, if there is no financial need he or she will receive no merit awards. (As an aside, I would like to point out the fact that athletic scholarships seem to mysteriously bypass this rule .... But that's a whole differenttopic.) 
My point being; if you were not designated a Notre Dame Scholar upon admittance and have ever won­dered about it, or perhaps even wished that you, too, could be a member of this mysterious society, relax. You aren't missing anything except a piece of paper (versatile though it may be) and an invitation to house prospective freshmen.. I have my doubts, too, as to how accurately the admissions committee can decide what the top 20% ofan entering class is, based on such a varied group of qualifications as grades, SAT's, extracurricular activities, essays, teacher recommen­dations, etc. My guess is that the counselor with your 
· application just had no talent for darts. · 0 
The views expressed inthis column do not necessarily reflect the views ofScholastic. 



Grist For The Mill Rick Grey 
'? //~ ,~_,..;--,.,.

"WE''I.E F~Or-1 THE "BA~'( / 
Oh. Uh ••• HOW M 

TliAT HA1'!t>LE.5 YOUR 
HAVE I MISSEDi

~STubENT LOA-lsJ.S ,., 4 



TAL.£S A2oM TH6 1DP op THE. toME 
The ctc:I.M.i'\iS~-h'on us clec..icleo! to um.d.11c.f-o, .svr-vey --lo see. WI-lat !:ids !,ia.ve.. (~rneo\ o.+ ND , .. So1 tell us w~af you·vc learned h'\ scl-o0 I . . . . 
\)Jell, collej:-isht a.·h,l\ wt.tat ) 
:i: e?<pec.f-eo\1 Yll:.(. !,Jave; -Iv be i\tore r-tspO>'lsibleJ laLJV1tl.r-y if: ti Jr~, mts are Iii 
fqin••· 
./ 


LOOI<'., I HAVEN'T E,E~ ABLE. TO Fll--l'l> A GC01:> JOB YET... I JU.ST CA!u'T 
AFFO"R.l> 11-\E. F'Al'M1=-/J1.S. 

• , "-I ~ I • ::. r'. -· ' 
' ~ • • ~ .•, ~\ . ~ • ~ .~ ' • -" t . . . 
. ' t; 


' ' 
. I
THE 
. _, ;1 
Stepan Center ·Students $8 -General $15 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 





