
r 7 
I Scholastic I Think about it. What do your parents hear ILaFortune Student Center I 
.1 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 I . 
about Notre Name while you're here?. The I . · · · IIPlease send ...: ........ years of Scholastic I
pink slips, the report cards, the room damage 
I I 
fees, the Bill. This year, give them something 1 at $5.00 per year to: I 
I · . I
I . I ­
to smile about. Give them a taste of the thrill 
1Name ........................... , ................................ 1 
I ..· I
and excitement of Notre Dame as you see 
IAddress ............... : .......................... : ......... ;. I
it every day-give them a subscription to the 
I • . . ,­Scholastic. 1 City .......................................................... : ... ,, 
IState .................... : .. ~····........ Zip...; ............ I 
I 
Do little elves do it? Do starry eyed English profs do it? No-YOU do it: 
Write stories Read copy Learn layout procedures Organize pandemonium · 
The Scholastic. 3rd floor LaFortune Student . Center. · Stop by at lunchtime or come up to Activities Night, September 11. We want you to do it. 

SCHOLASTIC · 


scholastic 
Vol. 120, No. 1, September 8, 1978 Notre Dame, l_ndiana · 
FEATURES 4 Mountain Paradox Mary Beth Dakoske 7 Meet the Provost Elizabeth Donovan 8 Whipped Cream and Jimmies Paul Korzeniowski 
10 Gentlemen, Place Your Bets Jim Trausch 
REGULARS 13 People at ND Theresa Rebeck .14 The last Word Jake Morrissey 
Dykhoff. ·. . .. · • .. ·. ' 
Photographs: All photographs . done l:iy Phillip Johnson. Cover: Mike Cantwell. 
Editor 
John Morrissey 
Managing Editor 
Theresa . Rebeck . 
Art Director 
Mike Cantwell 
Production Manager 
Bernie Valenti News Editor . · Liz Donovan 
Culture Editor 
Dave Satterfield 
Sports· Editor 
Mike Kenahan 
Fiction Editor 
Tom Balcerek 
Copy Editor 
Bob Southard · 
Layout Editor 
Lisa . Hartenberger 
Photography Editor 
Phil Johnson 
Business Manager 
Kimberlie Gumz.­
Advi~ory Board . . Elizabeth Christman, John Reid. 

Staff 
Marcie Weigle, Cindy Dykhoff, Craig Smith, Leo J. Mulcahey, Greg ·G. Gregory, John 
McDermott. 
The opinio.ns expressed in Scholastic are those ofthe authors· and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration,-faculty or the student body. ·· 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Adve~~ising 
. Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 ··a year and back issues· are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. · 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. ·copyright © 1978 Scholastic / all· rights reserved I none of the. contents may be repro-_ duced with_out permission. 


MOUNTAIN PARADOX 
On a summer night in Roses Creek 
Hollow, a squeaky front porch rocker 
keeps time _with the chirp of crickets. 
Cool ~ountain breezes lift the 
lingering scent of honeysuckle from 
the vine, and the mist settles in 'til 
morning. Somewhere "up the holler" 
the suppertime smell of cornbread 
and sausage finds it way down the 
valley.-. For. the city-bred volunteer 
to Appalachia these simple, even 
sensual pleasures were welcomed 
treats. But country living in the 
Cumberlands is not all crickets and 
cornbread. The contrasts I discovered _were often staggering. 
Appalachia is a land of paradox. 
Surrounded by magnificent moun­
tains, rich natural resources, and 
lush greenery, the people of this 
land live in stark poverty. In the 
midst of a flourishing "coal boom," 
mountain people continue to live on 
land owned by huge coal corpora­
tions and in shacks· leased to them 
by. landlords who·would sooner see 
them leave than fix a crumbling 
foundation or repair a septic system. 
A large portion of Campbell County, 
Visitors to this third-world pocket in America's -South. look at-the shacks, the filth, the disease and wonder: "How can 'people live that way?" Consider the feudal system that operates in Appalachia and the answer becomes painfully clear. The coal companies own the land, the houses, even the grocery stores in a system that resembles serfdom in the Middle Ages. Why paint yourhouse or dig a well or install indoor plumb­ing when the coal company that owns your land might evict you next month? 
Many .families live in houses with­out foundations, without screens (or even windows), and without running water. And yet electrical appliances abound. A color television set is not an unusual sight. One morning I was visiting a family who lives in a tumble-down trailer in Chadwell Holler. As we chatted over coffee on the front stoop, the television game 
by Mary Beth Dakoske 
,, 

The people are themselves a para~ dox. Though they lease their land from alien, absentee -landlords, mountain people possess the earth in ·a unique way. In this Bible belt, the promise in Deuteronomy is pro­claimed at Baptist revivals as a pledge to be taken· quite seriously: "The Lord your God has given you this land· for your own.... You _shall possess it arid you shall live on it.'_' 
Listening to that .reading and see­ing its' denial in the physical land­scape were sharp contrasts for me.. For the people of' Appalachia, the incongruities seem to ·go unnoticed. Some call it. "foolishness," others call it "faith,". but. there remains an abiding trust that the land they call "home". will someday · be theirs once more. 
Men, women a~d -children operied my eyes to the paradox of Appa­· lachia. · The men on this mountain 

show inside promised lavish cash .· are caught in the dilemma oLeither 
prizes, a Hawaiian holiday, and a sporty red Porsche. I wondered what that would mean to 'a mounta~n 

Tennessee,_ is owned by a single com-_-family living below the poverty level. 
pany, "The American Association." -The company name is intentionally misleading; the American Associa­tion is, in fact, a British Corpora­· tion operated from offices in Lon­don by executives who have never seen northeastern Tennessee. The -families have lived in Central Ap­palachia for several generations, but they are fairly mobile in terms of housing. It is. not unusual for a . mountain family to be evicted from one home after another once coal is discovered in their backyard. Sur­rounded by a wealth of minerals and ·What_ possible appeal would. such blatant consumerism have for them? The fantasies t:hat,flashed from that · "television box" were all such easy, instant escapes from the injustice all around them. As I squinted against the midmorning sun, the trailer it­self blurred info a box. I had an alarming image of boxes within boxes, and then-people inside those 
-boxes. People, who so warmly' asked me to come in ... people I_ so des­perately wanted to let out. 
Diseases that had been long for-­gotten in middle Ani_erica nm·ram­

rich resources; the lives of these . -pant in Appalachia---polio, goiter, 
people remain untouched by their ,. scurvy, ringworm, black" lung.. But 
-environment's economic potential. In. ,there are still old folks on the moun­winter some families -still have. ·_ tain who can tell you where to find trouble buying enough coal to heat the herbal cures for everything from· their homes, even when coal is mined "yeller jaundice" fo "sleep' twitch-right up the road. ing". 
. strip mining the land they love or collecting unemployment. Women, who rule · their households _with matriarchal · might, are strangely . submissive to their husbands;:.spo­radically indulgent -to their children, and shy in the presence ofstiangers. The youngsters are a stoical .breed, at first bashful and · distant, but openly affectionate once they know 
.they're loved. -One evening in July, a coalmirier sat on our front porch; whittling a 
· piece of oak as he talked. His eyes fixed on the bit of wood; he-caught my own gaze with quick; guarde~ glances. But his feelings. poured out with a candor that touched,· me deeply. Glen Hembley told me how reluctant he was to "mess with that strip mining," how he hated 'the job of blasting away at the mou'ntafnside to unearth the surface coal. In an area where the. only real·sou.rce of income is coal mining, his alternative was unemployment. The immediate, 
SCHOLASTIC 


personal need to feed his family was clearly more urgent than the long-range, . collective need to save the soil. But the cracked voice, the clouded eyes raised to scan a shaved mciuntain_side told me that this man was not a: strip miner by . choice. When w:ork becames a burden not only . to the body, but to_ a man's very soul, who can blame those who give up the work and simply whittle?.·· 
· The _WOJ'!len of Appalachia reveal something quite ,, different. The strong, resourceful matriarch man­ages her household on her own store of grit; but this same woman will cower in the presence of "her man.". Pioneer-spirited, very few are ac~ tually liberated. One morning in the local-Jaundromat, ·I met a woman• who alerted me to this contradiction. Loaded down with two . babies,. a pickup -·truck fuli'.of. clothes; and a jug of detergent, . she welcomed an extra hand, even ,from a stranger. Our · chat-Jhat morning was inter"'.. rupted occasionally to change a load . of laundry or a diaper, but in those few hours I came ·to· admire the quiet strength of this mountain worn-
only as "Mrs. Hill, Sedrlc's wife." As we talked, she occasionally lowered her voice to tell me some of the grim facts of her life: "Sedric whups me from time to time, but I don't let him lay a hand on the young'uns. He'll wander off for weeks when he gets the notion. But he always comes back to us. Sedric's a good inan, really. He don't drink, nor smoke; nor curse." Sedric still didn't sound too terrific to me. I was thinking how I'd prefer a little drinking, smoking and cursing to Sedric's style. 
On this particular day, Mrs. Hill had aiready carried ten. gallon jugs of water from the public water spigot, fixed an .. ample breakfast for her-family. of eight, weeded tlie garden, fed the chickens-and packed the. pickup truck for a trip to; the laundry. Bathing her babies in.the sink,. she: mused: "Life ain't none too easy on this mountain, · but I wouldn't live nowhere else in all God's whole creation." When I ad­mired her little, blond-haired baby, splashing in the sink, Mrs. Hill gave 
· me a meaningful look and said,· "He's 
summer-born you know." My blank 
look told her _I didn't really under­
an. Though she was close to my ..._stand the ·significance of that. own age ·and I gave her my first (Come to think of it, I'm summer­riame, she introduced herself_ to me ; . born mrself. j.'was curious to find 
•...~; • • • ~:,;, 
. ' ·. :· .~ : 
,_,• . -~­
•, 
. . •, 
··•t 
• ~I ,\'JII
. .Jt: ~{I)-.:~.,,,. 
~·~~ ~.-. 
,-.Cir. •• • , 

out what might be special about it.) With a twinkle in her eye, she ex­plained: " 'A summer-born young­'uns · from wintertime lovin' .' Haven't you ever heard that?" I had to admit that was a new one for me. In .. fact, there was much that was new to me in her experience, much that I couldn't understand. 
Although she puts. up with .her husband's "whoppings" and "wander­ings," Mrs. Hill is a capable, intelli­gent woman. I couldn't understand why she would hide her strength from her husband and. feign submis­sion. There were lessons for me that day in the. local laundromat, many, I· still ponder. As we parted, •Mrs: Hill remarked, "I don't know wliy I've: told you all my troubles, and you a stranger.'; There was a strange bond between, us, strangers though we were, .and at the same time, dis"'.. tance. I could not share the values that ·determined her .life, nor iccept strength masked as weakness.: .. But I knew. that for _her, •those values gave. her life meaning. . 
Mountain ·children, shy and reti~ cent at first, offer another contrast; Once .they· know .· you; these same youngsters can be openly affection~ ate. Once they know: they're loved, you have a friend for life . 
. The: first· day I arrived in· Roses Creek, I met a·thirteeri-year-old:boy, who , was to become·· a real friend: Robbie. looked · like , a tough child; taking deep drags ·from· a· cigarette, kicking a soft-drink can, and eyeing up -"that new female with the Michi.; gan license plates." A few days later, Robbie ·. came. · to· our door • badly bruised and bloody.. He had taken a pretty. bad fall· from his motorbike onto ·the· rough, gravel road beyond our house.· The· tough-guy facade was forgotten; and Robbie was sim­ply-a little kid in· need of attention. I washed his scrapes;: bandaged: his bumps and we sat on the front porch swing eating · ice cream. A strange and wonderful friendship had begun . I couldn't help•· thinking how· easily the little boy inside him had· tumbled out, how close to .. the· surface· his need for care. 
Robbie is an amazingly indepen.:. dent child. His mother lives in Dayton, Ohio, _his father in the State Prison at Oak· Ridge,. Tennessee. So Robbie stays occasionally with "some kin up Buffalo Creek." Most of the time. he wanders up and down: the mountain, · sleeping in a different house every night or outdoors if it's not raining. By midsummer, Robbie was staying at our house quite often. He would be up and off most morn-­ings before I was stirring. Offers to delay him until breakfast usually got a firm ·"Yuk." I soon learned not to overdo the hospitality or this little Huck Finn would be long gone. 
·The day I left Roses Creek, Robbie stopped. to say. good-bye, hugged me from atop his motorbike, and then zoomed off down the di_rt road. A few minutes later, he returned. He watched me pack the last of my suitcases into • the car . and finally spoke up: "There's something I fer­got. I just gotta ask · you." At this point I was prepared for anything. Shyly meeting·· my gaze, he said simply, "You· really like me, don't you?" To some questions, the an­swers come so easily. ' 
.I came to Clairfield, Tennessee, for a summer of volunteer service. With secret delight, I had left my grad­uate studies behind me. This was to be a long-awaited break from aca­demic life. But there were lessons for me in the hills of Appalachia, lessons ·unheard of in the halls of ~cadem.ia. 
The job· description I responded to was an exciting array of possibilities. I was to begi_n an oral history, re­search grant proposals, write news­paper articles on the activities of local groups, . publish . a brochure on a community. Health Fair, catalogue books for a new children's library, work in the Day Care Center, and hold a Children's Story Hour. How would I . ever accomplish all this in ten weeks? A ·familiar fear· set in. It was like that overwhelming panic at the start of a new semester. So much.to do in such a short time! I was back in the• mind-set ·· I had traveled . · hundreds of · miles to avoid. .But after a few . weeks, a strange thing. happened. · I started to slip into a slower pace of living. The leisurely rhythms of life in Appa­lachia felt more and more com­fortable .• I decided to do whatever I could in that short period of time, leave a . certain. factor to fate, risk the inevitable failures, and. simply BE. 9uriously enough, it was at this point that I started to make;prog­ress, and ·my ,work was really un­der way.. 
. There was a personal paradox for me in the• strange way I felt about leaving Appalachia. For weeks I had struggled against feelings of · isola­tion and loneliness. Yet ·when the time came to leave, I knew I had formed some very special friend­ships. There were days when I felt the loss of all that was familiar and comfortable, but· moments when I felt· at home. Sometimes the moun­tains that encircled · the hollow seemed like a shelter; at other times, 
theyfelt like an enormous trap: I had been a stranger in their land, and these people had welcomed me, asked me to stay, even offered me·a--job. Why was I itching to leave? · As I drove down the mountain and yielded to the Interstate, my muddled emotions settled into a singular feel., ing of solidarity with a people·! had grown tolove. In my very confusion, I had . experienced· the paradox of Appalachia; 
On a ·quiet-night··in the Cumber­lands, the·· serenity is only on the surface. If y~u listen carefully, you can hear the coal trucks lumbering up the highway, the dynamite blasts in the distance, and ·the· cry of •a "summer-born young'un.'.' That cry echoes through the hills and "hollers" of Appalachia. Some nights it spans the miles and· reaches the heart of one who has left Appalachia . for academia. -The sound reminds me that there are still .men struggling with'' the strip miner's dilemma; women masking their strength· as submission, and children keeping their distance, but • craving ··love. Hidden in those "hollers" are truths long . shrouded ·in paradox,· truths. I have yet to probe; but the paradox prevails.· · 
Mary Beth Dakoske, a graduate student in the Department of-Eng.:. lish, teaches -Freshman Composition and ·.Literature.· The -volunteer ex­p(!ri,ence described here, was ar­ranged through the Office of Pastoral Ministry by Monsignor Jack Egan.·· 


, :SCHOLASTIC 



Last spring, after Father Burt­chaell resigned as Provost, the Uni­versity began its search for. a _suc­cessor.-Advertisements for a. new Provost described him as "the first ranking academic officer under the President.'' As q~tlined by the Fac­ulty Senate, the,. chief academic of­ficer "must be himself dedicated to academic excellence. To faculty and students he should represent the in­tellectual life, . distinguished by a career of teaching, research, and scholarly publication." 
Indeed, a tough bill to fill. Dr. 0. Timothy O'Meara headed the Provost Search Committee which presented a list of candidates-to Father Hes­burgh. The President of the Uni­versity is empowered to recommend other possible successors. Father Hesburgh exercised this authority and made one addition to the list: Dr..O'Meara himself .. "It was news to me," said O'Meara in reference to his reaction to the Board of Trustees' approval of Hesburgh's recom­mendation. .Yet after reviewing O'Meara's background, the choice is indeed _consistent with the require­ments set forth by the Faculty Sen­
ate. · 
O'Meara was born in Cape Town, South Africa. One of five children of an Italian mother and an Irish father, he describes himself as "half Irish, half Italian, all South African," and since his naturalization in 1977, "all American.'' He earned his B.Sc. and M.Sc. from the University of Cape Town, then completed his doc­toral work in mathematics at Prince­ton in 1953. In 1962, after teaching at Princeton for several years, O'Meara joined the Mathematics De­partment at Notre Dame and has since . accumulated an enviable 
SEPTEMBER 8, 1978 
resume of committee chairmanships, scholarly publications, and admin­istrative appointments. This past year O'Meara was a visiting scientist at the University of Toronto, and this summer he was in Germany at the Gottingen Academy of Science. 
The Board of Trustees elects . a Provost for an indefinite number of years, but by O'Meara's own request, his tenure as Provost will be limited to four years, at which time he will return to teaching. It-. has been rumored that the office of the Pro­vost is a. training ground for the presidency, and in this light, O'Meara's appointment. may -have been controversial, for traditionally the president has always been a clergyman. The rumor is unfounded, however, because the duties of the Provost and the President are clearly distinct, and the former is not necessarily a stepping-stone to the latter. As stated by the Faculty Senate, "the Provost provides the University with the leadership in its intellectual endeavors, while the PresidenL offers a more general leadership, which might be called moral, or ideological, or even spir­itual. The Provost should be chosen . for his qualifications as Provost, rather than for his promise as a President.'' 
Created in 1970, the position of Provost united into one office several administrative positions that were formerly distinct. The Provost,· by definition, is "the leading academic officer." His duties include oversee­ing all . academic. programs, faculty appointments and promotions, and the relationship of students to fac­ulty and academics. The Provost concerns himself primarily with the internal · affairs of the university, thus making the President _the lead­ing spokesman for the university. On occasion, in an effort to promote the school's welfare,. the Provost must also address "off-campus" con­stituencies: the general public,· gov­ernment officials, the Trustees, and the alumni. 
Notre Dame has established itself as an excellent institution of higher education. One task O'Meara: feels is set before him is to further im­prove the university's reputation in academic circles. "Right now I feel we have a. very good undergraduate program, faculty, and student body. Our mission has always been to be a champion of .human and ·spiritual ­values. We have come a long way in scholarship and research, and we can distinguish ourselves even fur­ther through recognition of our fac­ulty and attraction of more scholars.'' 
' Aside from the strictly academic side of his duties, O'Meara · would like to see more minority members added to the faculty and student body. Increasing the number of worn-· en at Notre Dame is also a considera­tion for the new provost. 
O'Meara's interest in Notre Dame and its future is undeniable. Any father who would send four· of his children (Maria, Tim, Jean, Kate) to a university has obvious faith in the school's ability to provide an ex­cellent education. As "chief academic officer" of Notre Dame, O'Meara will be a strong influence on the Univer­sity and the academic path which it takes in the next four years. 
Elizabeth Donovan, a senior Ameri­can Studies maj<Yr from South Bend, is News Editor of this year's Scho-. lastic. · 
;· . . 
Whipped ·Cream .With Jimmies · 
As Jill Halley's left hand reached over the dear glass . panel and into the frozen food container a chill from the cold _air went up her left arm and do_wn her spine. She picked up· two· packages of Green . Giant French Cut Beans but as she was lifting the box up she realized that she had the wrong kind of beans· and she let the packages fall back· into the· freezer. After her eyes had scanned. the freezer she reached in once more but this time she grasped two packages of Green Giant Six Ounce String Beans.· They were sale priced a.t two for one dollar. Then she· casually dropped the two boxes into her half-full shopping cart. As she dropped the beans· into the cart, she raised.• her. right. hand to chest, , level. In her right hand,was a small piece of• paper with jagged edges. 

·Printed on the back of the paper was the date, ,January 17, 1974. Jill had ripped this piece of paper from an old journal that she had found in· her kitchen earlier this morning. Jill· looked at the items -that• were written. on the paper: · potato chips, celery,· beets, Rice-a-Roni-'_;_ Beef style, milk, :apples;-oranges. When she was sure that none of :the items· on the list could be found . in the Frozen Food aisle,: she reached into her brown pocketbook and took out her pen. Theri she placed · a small checkmark next to the·item marked Green Giant Six Ounce String Bea.ns · on the shopping list. She placed the pen and.: paper in-her :1eft shirt pocket, 'then she pushed her shop­ping cart toward ·the end of the aisle. "Jeffrey, what• kind of :... Jeffrey, Jeffrey, where•>are 'you?" . she asked.· Her eyes quickly looked up and down the aisle but'her four­year-old son was not ·in sight: She let out a deep sigh. Her son had a habit of getting lost in grocery . stores. Once she found him sleeping behind a stack .of loaves of. Wonder• Bread. Jill was not. in a. good mood this morning. She was starting to 
have her. period, and the last· thing · she wanted to do was look all over · the supermarket for her four-year­
old son. · 
"Jeffrey, Jeffrey,'.' she cried. 
·. ·As she pushed her shopping cart 
down the aisle, her son· turned· the 
corner iri front of her and ·ran to-· 
ward her: He was· small,; even for a 
child of four years. His eyes were 
dark brown like his father's eyes;· 
but .· his hair was blond and · curly 
like his mother's hair. Many people 
thought he was a girl, and sometimes 
his father feared-that the boy would 
be a homosexual when he grew up. 
When Jeffrey was within an arm's 
length of his mother her right hand 
reached out, · grabbed him . by the 
shoulder, and pulled him toward 
her. She pointed her left index finger 
at his face while bending down so 
that her face was about eight inches 
from his nose. Looking him straight 
in the eye she said, "Jeffrey, how 
many times do I have to tell you to 
stay close to me? Why don't you. 
ever listen to me? Next time I will 
give you a good -whack." Jeffrey's 
brown eyes stared. sheepishly at. his 
mother. · · · · "Where did you go?" she asked. ."I was going to the cookie ·aisle to get some Fig Newtons so you:, wouldn't forget ; . -~ but I guess I forgot. Guess. who I saw Mommy," he said. : "Who?" she asked. ·."Oh, guess, Mom," Jeffrey whined.'. · Jill was in no mood to play guess-.. ing games. "All· right. Let's see, Grandma?'.' she asked. "Nope, I saw a magician,'' Jeffrey said.· · , '.'A magician. In the cookie aisle?" Jill said with atone of disbelief. "Honest; Mommy," Jeffrey said. , Jill .thought it would be a good idea to :have someone to entertain children while . ·. their parents shopped. She could leave Jeffrey there and not haye to worry about 
•him getting lost. It was : probably 

by Paul Korzeniowski 'Q 
Mr. Goldstein's idea. He was a 

pretty smart Jew. r. \ 
"What kind of tricks was he do­
ing?" Jill asked. 
"He was sticking. swords in him­
self. Real long ones,'' Jeffrey re­
plied. . 
"Really, where is he?" Jill asked. 
"He's right there," Jeffrey. said;' 
pointing toward the end of the aisle. 
Jill pushed. her shopping cart .past 
the Bird's Eye Frozeri · Foods dis­
play. As she turned the corner she· 
looked for a magician. She didn't 
see one. 
"Where, is he?" she asked: 
"He's right there," Jeffrey said, 
pointing· to ·a man ·who was seated 
on the floor. The .man had a few 
strands of blond hair on the top of his 
head. These strands looked, like they 
had not been combed in a month;· 
His eyes were small arid brown and 
he had a brown mustache. He was 
dressed in blue overalls which per­
fectly matched his blue-striped 
shirt. His hand were folded, ·resting 
on top of his black belt. He was 
sitting with his ·legs outstretched 
and his back was supported by three 
cases of Clorox Bleach; The top case 
was : open ·and a sign was• hanging 
over it. The sign said: SALE 3 BOT-: 
TLES.OF CLOROX. BLEACH FOR 
ONLY : $2.00 LIMIT 9 BOTTLES 
PER· CUSTOMER.. -The man was· 
whistling "Camp Town· Racetrack"!··. 
while he sat. · 
'.'What made you think that ·he 
was•. a· magician, ·' :-Jeffrey?": Jill 
asked.,, 
, · "Look near his belly button, Mom~ 
my. He ha.d a. long sword and he 
stuck it into his belly button. See 
the handle,'' Jeffrey said. . · 
··Jill's eyes scanned the man's body'. Gazing at his folded hands she saw·· a, brown handle sticking out· of his, stomach. His hands :partially cov-• ered the handle. As she look~d closer she saw some blood on hi~ hands• · and on his shirt. A small 'pool-. of: blood was forming on the floor near· 
SCHOLASTIC 

the man's butt. Jill thought for a moment, then she realized that she was on_ television. This must be a Candid Camera sketch done by the creW' from Saturday Night Live. Her eyesl searched -for the . hidden camera. · 
_"O.K. Now where is the hidden camera?'-' she asked. 
The man continued to whistle. Jill became agitated."Just what do you think you are doing?" she asked. 
"I'm dying,'' the man answered.· · 

"Oh, I.see," Jill replied. "But why are you . dying in the cookie aisle of Newman's Market?" she asked. 
"It's God's· will," the man-an­swered; 
Jill stood silently staring at the man. He · continued whistling. Jill looked down the cookie aisle and she spotted a stock boy at the other end of the aisle. She waved her hands to get his attention. The . young man moved toward · her. He was wearing a white smo_ck that had a large yel­low stain on the left side and a small blue name tag over the right pocket. His name was Steve. 
"Yes, ma'am, can I help you?" he asked. 
Jill raised her right hand and pointed at the· man sitting with. his back to the boxes of Clorox Bleach. The stock boy• moved toward him., The man . was • now. whistling "Dixie." . . 
"Can I help you, sir," the boy

asked. . --. ;UNO, I'm fine," the ma11· said, and he. began whistling again.· The stock boy reached with his left hand at.the puddle that'. was on the floor. He dipped his index finger in -the pud­dle then he raised .his finger t~ his eyes. After looking at his finger for. a few seconds the boy turned .and called :1:0 a blonde-haired girl who was, standing behind the cash regis~, ter.:-''Lori, call Mr. Smlth for me, please," he said... • : ~•What for?" the girl a·sked . . : •iJust· call him, please," the. boy
said. . . . . . . . . . 
:She reached under·· the register. and . picked up .a telephone .. She, dialed : 9 for ·the -intercom: The easy.liste~ing music that was being played for the shoppers: was inter-: 

_rupted ·by.· her.. voice. _'!Mr, Smith,. 
cookie . aisle. ,Mr..· Smith, cookie ·aisle,'!: she said. •. . .. 
Shoppers,·had: begun. to· form a circle-around the man seated next· 

to the Clorox boxes. Two elderly women were staring intently at the man; One of the women whispered to her companion, "He must· be _on drugs." Her companion nodded her. head in agreement. The people stood silently waiting for the man to make some type of movement.· Suddenly he stopped whistling and he began to hum the "Notre Dame Victory· March." 
As he was humming the chorus, a short, bald man of about fifty years of age came jogging down the cookie aisle. He had a smock similar to the stock boy's smock. He did not have a large yellow stain· on his left side but he had a name tag over his right pocket. His name tag read "Mr. Smith." 
"What do you want?" he asked the stock boy. Before anyone could speak Mr. Smith saw the puddle of blood and the man sitting on__ the floor." 
. "Oh, shit,'' Mr. Smith said. "Does a'nyone kno~ who this man is?" he asked. 
. ''I do,'' Jeffrey said, "he's Mr. Magician." · . · 
Jill's face turned red. "Isn't she cute, Mabel," the elderly .woman said. Her · companion ·nodded her. head in agreement. Both .. of the 
women smiled as they stared at Jill.. Ignoring Jeffrey and both the elder­ly ladies, Mr. Smith bent · down and moved . closer. to the man on the floor. Mr. Smith . fixed his eyes on: the object. that was sticking out of the man's stomach. "Jesus ·Chris_t,, it,'s ,an ice pick," Mr. Smith screamed. The crowd let out a gasp of disbelief. The man stopped hum­ming. 
"Can't you let me die?" he asked. As he spoke, he raised his right hand to his · face. The palm of his right hand was· dripping with -blood. A stream of blood ran down his right side and onto the floor. He scratched his cheek with his right hand, leav­ing streaks of blood on his face. The noses of the two ' elderly · ladies wrinkled and they closed their eyes. Jill turned her head to the side. Jef­frey stared at the man on the floor. 
"Come now, Jeffrey, we have shopping· to do," Jill said as she started to push her cart up the aisle toward the girl behind the cash reg­ister. Jeffrey remained stationary for a moment, then he ran after his mother. 
"Mommy, what was that man doing?" he asked. 
"I don't know, Jeffrey," she said. 
"What's 'God's will'?" he asked. 

"Jeffrey, how would you like a hot fudge sundae?" Jill asked. "With whipped cream and jim­mies?" he asked. "With whipped cream and · jim­mies," she answered. 
"Yummy, yummy, yummy," Jef~ frey said, running his tongue across his lips in a circular motion:· 
"Let's go, then, we've done enough shopping today," she said. 
Paul Korzeniowski is a1918 grad­uate with· a B.A. in American 
Studies. 


Over 150 college football teams start their season with one goal­to be ranked number one by the wire service polls. Last year it was the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, this year there are many teams waiting · to ambush _the Irish. College foot­ball, like basketball, has become bal­anced and no longer does a small cadre of elite teams dominate the scene. The race for the national cham­pionship is up for.grabs and any one of the ten teams mentioned below could claim the title. Here .are the prime candidates for this year, choose your. own order of finish. 

Gentlemen, Place Your Bets· 
by Jim Trausch 
UCLA 
The Bruins. have all the ingredi­ents needed to bring the national championship to Westwood for the first time since the early fifties. They boast seven returnees on offense in­cluding · Rick Bashore at quarter­back, with James Owens and Theotis Brown in the running back positions.·· The defense is also solid; ·Manu Tuiasosopo and Billy Don Jackson, a. pair. of outstanding tackles, anchor the line. They are backed up by Jeff 

Muro and two-time All-American Jerry Robinson in the linebacking positions. Terry Donahue, third-year 
-coach, has to be optimistic about this year. After a disappointing start last year the Bruins rebounded to post five victories in the last six games and came within seconds of earning a trip to the Rose Bowl. Bashore is the key. ·· He gained val­uable experience last year when he became the first Bruin sophomore to pass for over 1,000 yards and is ready to emerge as one of the best quarterbacks in the country; UCLA's season hinges on their November 18 confrontation with crosstown rival USC. If they leave the coliseum with a victory, it .is on to Pasadena and the national championship. 
ARKANSAS 

Arkansas, coming ·off a 41-6 thrashing . of Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl; is a definite contender for the national crown. Lou Holtz, fast-talking coach of the Razorbacks, had an outstanding·. debut at 11-1 last year and this year bodes well. 
Ron Calcagni, all-Southwest Con­ference quarterback, runs the offense and he is one of the best. When throwing he will look for wideouts Robert Farrell, Bobby Duckworth, Danny Bobo, and tight end Charles Clay. Joining Calcagni in the back­field are Ben Cowins, Michael ·For­rest, and Orange Bowl hero Roland Sales. Everyone in this group is a letterman. 
On defense eight returners high­light what will be a stingy Arkansas eleven. All-SWC performers Jim Walker, Vaughn Lusby and Larry Jackson head a fine cast. Only t~e secondary is suspect. Free safety Larry •White must return success­fully· from neck surgery or teams 
. will pass on the Razorbacks. Arkan­sas should makeit through the SWC schedule undefeated but a loss in the Cotton Bowl to a team that can pass will deny them the national cham­pionship. 
ALABAMA 

The seasons of 1966, 1973, and 1974 were not banner football years in the state of Alabama: For some reason they failed to win the national championship. The villain .in ·each 
.· case was Notre Dame. Last year was more of the same as the Irish nosed out 'Barna and claimed the national crown. Bear Bryant, third winning­est . coach of all time, is not accus­tomed to losing ways and this may be the year the Tide beats the Notre Dame jinx and ascends to the top spot. 
Bryant must rebuild to get there. Only two starters return from the offensive line but one is All-American candidate Jim Bunch. Jeff Rutledge is backto run the wishbone and he'll hand off to Tony Nathan, who scored 15 touchdowns last year, or Mitch Ferguson. 
The defense, meanwhile, has lost four starters. Fortunately for Barna fans the outstanding linebacker trio of Barry Krause, Rich Wingo, and Ricky Gilliland remains intact. Ala­bama also gets a break in that their two big games,. with Nebraska and Southern Cal, are at home. The road for Bear Bryant's boys leads to the Sugar Bowl and oops ... a possible. matchup with Notre Dame. If so, good-bye National Championship. 
PENN STATE 

The Nittany Lions are coming off a fine year in 1977 and have visions of bringing ·the national champion­ship east in 1978. · Coach Joe Paterno is· optimistic. With quarterback Chuck Fusina,· running backs· Matt 
· Sohey, Bob Torrey · and .'. Booker Moore, and receiver Tom Donovan returning it is · easy .to. see why. Fusina, who Paterno feels is the best he has ever coached, is a strong candidate for· the Reisman 'trophy. Add ' to this a sound offensive line and you have a strong offense over­
all. . Defensively, Penn State has·some holes to fill. The .entire secondary must be replaced· and 'All-American Randy Sidler is gone. B_ut Matt . Miller, Bruce Clark and Joe Lally lend stability to· the defensive line. Overall, Penn State will be . less exciting, especially without big play­back Jimmy Cefalo. Their schedule is rough-road games at Kentucky, the only team to beat the Lions last year, ·and Ohio State. Notre Daine proved last year that an· early season defeat does not put a team out of the national championship pic­ture, so a loss by Penn State. to one of these teams will not be disas­trous. 
.. · SCHOLASTIC 
OKLAHOMA 
At Oklahoma there are 15 return­ing starters,_four All-Americans, and a controversy brewing. Newspaper stories report that Barry Switzer, head coach, is going to quit. Switzer labelled those stories as false. 
Switzer, when not rebuking news­paper stories, spent his summer re­vamping the Sooners' wishbone at­tack. The offense, led by Thomas Loot at quarterback, features vari­ations of the wishbone and the I for­mation. The object is the same as always-to get the ball to speedsters like Billy Sims, Freddie Nixon, and David Overstreet and then get them outside. 
Defensively, the Sooners are solid. George C. Cumbry and Daryle Hunt, both outstanding linebackers are back. The line is thin but standout Reggie Kinlaf is also back. In the backfield· Sherwood Taylor, Mike Babb, and Byron Paul should com­pensate for the loss of All-American Zac Henderson. Uwe Von Schamann makes the Sooner kicking game one of the best in the country. 
If Switzer can get the Sooners concentrating on football and not on off-the-field rumors then Oklahoma will be powerful. How powerful, ·it remains to be seen. When the Sooners meet a team than can defense the run, like Arkansas in the Orange Bowl, .they could be in big trouble. They• have done nothing to shore up their passing attack but fortunately play ho team in the regular season that can pass. Bowl games are dif­ferent stories and Oklahoma has a weak shot at No. L 
PITTSBURGH · 
The Pitt Panthers will be back in the top ten but , the loss of eight• starters and four All-Americans pre~ vents them from. seriously contend­ing for the top.spot this year. Coach Jack. Sherrill has. Rich Trocano, who quarterbacked three games last year when Cavanaugh .was hurt,· as his top· choice to lead the Panther of­fense..· At split end is the dangerous Gordon Jones, holder of .four school records. The tight end is likely to be ·steve Gaustad. . 
On defense the Panthers must re­build ·. around_ the · loss of . Randy Holloway and Bob Jtiry, both All~ . Americans. This is accomplished with the· return of seven starters. On the line Hugh Green, Dave · De­ciccio, Bob Gruber, and Dave Logan are coming off outstanding years. Team leader in tackles, Jeff Pelusi, heads a fine linebacker corps. Over­all this is another fine Pitt defense. 

Sherrill has a relatively · easy schedule to start the season. This will enable his newcomers to gain experience before killer road games at Syracuse, Penn State, and Notre Dame. _The Panthers rare a year away from a real shot at regaining their '76 glory. 
USC 

Southern California merits consid­eration simply because they are SC." The potential is there-33 letter­men, 11 starters, and 10 prep All_. Americans, considered the best freshman crop in the country. How­ever, who will fill 'the· quarterback spot remains a· big question mark. Coach John Robinson's top candi­dates are Paul MacDonald, a junior, and· senior Walt Ransom. Neither saw much action in '77. · 
What makes the Trojans a threat is their running backs. · Charles White is on his way to smashing all SC rushing records and he is backed up by Dwight Ford, who'rushed for nearly 800 yards as White's substi­tute last year, and by Rod Conners. They run behind the · best, interior line in the nation; They are Pat· Howell (255 lbs.), Tony Munoz (280 lbs.), four-year starter Brad Budde (250 los.) and Otis Page (265 lbs.). 
If Robinson can find ·another Pat Hayden .or · Rob Hertel among the quarterback hopefuls · the· offense will· be· explosive ..The defense will be the usual SC-tough. Their•sched­ule is; however, murderous, featur~ ing· Texas Tech, Alabama, Michigan State, UCLA, and Notre Dame. The Trojans·are unpredictable; but aren't quite ready to vie for number one. · 
MICHIGAN 

Last year was the year Michigan should have won the national cham~ pionship. . Unfortunately, Minnesota and . Washington forgot· to check with AP and UPI before they dumped the Wolverines. The loss to Washington in the Rose Bowl has to' be particularly grating to Rick· Leach and Bo Schembechler. Schem-·. 
bechler, who has never won at Pasa­
dena, faced the heavy underdog 
Huskies, and still the team was 
clipped; Leach, who proudly points 
to his passing records when his 
ability is questioned, has looked like 
anything but an All-American in his 
three bowl appearances. 
That is not to say that Michigan 

will not have a good team. The of­fensive backfield returns and fea­tures Leach, who is a good runner and a master at the option, letterman . Harlan Huckleby, Russell Davis, and 

Ralph Clayton. The ·offensive line they run behind is young but tal­ented. On defense, Michigan must replace half • of last year's group. The entire secondary is inexperi~ enced and will be tested severely in a September 23rd · matchup with 
Notre Dame. . . Maybe this is the year that Leach will put together the passing game. I don't think so. With the horses Bo 
has in the· backfield it will be· run, run,. run,· to the Big Ten' champion~ ship for the Wolverines. But then it 
is out to Pasadena where, for the 11th consecutive year, Michigan will drop its last game. · 


AP Championship Trophy 
MICHIGAN STATE 
Since 1967 the Big . Ten has been dominated by two teams-Michigan and Ohio State. This year that trend will end when Michigan State cracks the elite two . and replaces Ohio State as runner-up to Michigan. 
. Coach . Darryl Rogers, · who grabbed Big ,Ten.Coach.of the Year honors, last year, eagerly awaits the return. · of 45 .,. lettermen._.· Among: those are the Big, Ten's best quar~ terback Ed Smith, who holds: vir~ tually all-the _MSU passing marks, and Kirk Gibsen, · a potential All-. American. 
. Defensively, the , Spartans · are strong. Gone :is Larry Bethea, Big, Ten· MVP, but returning are -lin~­men Melvin Land and Angelo Fields, 

· · linebacker Dan Bass, and. the entire secondary. ·: AP. and UPI may not agree with my pick of State as one of the Top_ 
Ten. The reason will be their record. MSU. plays an unbelievable schedule. They open at Purdue, then play 
··Syracuse, Southern California, Notre Dame, and Michigan. They will lose a couple of those games, but do not be deceived by what may seem a poor record for. the Spartans are a fine team. 
NOTRE DAME. 

At Notre Dame a National Cham­pionship is like a glass of beer: as soon as you are. finished with it, your thoughts automatically turn to another. . Another national . cham­pionship, . however, unlike pouring another beer, is not · an· easy task. Being. the national champion makes orie the target of every· team aspir~ ing ·for the top spot. Losses .include· All-Americans Ken MacAfee, Ross Browner, and Luther Bradley. Also gone are dependable starters Steve McDaniels,-Ernie Hughes,·· Terry Eurick, Willie Fry, Ken Dike, Doug Becker, and kicker Dave . Reeve. They will be sorely missed. . . . . 
< •• : < ' .'. ' ­

But the nucleus back for the Irish is excellent and they winonce again be.serious contenders. Joe.Montana, a surefire candidate for -All-Ameri­can : and • Reisman honors, leads an_ offense featuring eight returning starters: Joining him in . :the: back~ field is the explosive running _back tandem of Jerome Heavens· and Vagas Ferguson. Add to ~is Jim· Stone, .· tight end . Kevin Hart, spgt end Kris _Haines, apd a soHd line. The offense looks _in fine shape for. the season: . 
Defensively, the line and second­ary _have huge gaps to filL An in­jury; to Scott Zettek, who seemed ready to. continue. the Irish tradition· of outstanding linemen, leaves Mike. Calhoun. surrounded by , question marks. Jay. Case,_ Jeff Weston, -and John Hankerd will have to have big years or the front f9ur will be weak. 
The linebackers are the real brighL spot ·. on the defense. , Bob Golie • is .the . best middle linebackers in the country. He is ·flanked by Steve Heimkreiter and Bobby Leo-.. pold. In the. secondary, Randy Har­rison, if he can. escape injury, . will battle Joe Restic for one safety spot 
· while Jim Browner holds down the other...one. Dave Waymer, over from the offense, moves to one corner and Tom Flynn handles .the· other.Over~ all, the secondary is untested/ 

. Defending "a national . champion~ ship is not an easy job, but it is not an impossible task. Since the na­tional championship was established in. 1936, only six teams have suc­cessfully defended • . their . crowns. They are Minnesota in 1940 and '41, Army in .1944 arid/45,. Oklahoma in 1955 and '56, Alabama in 1964 and '65, Nebraska in 1970 ·and· '-71, and the Irish did it back in 1946·and '47., Jimmy'. the: Greek makes the Irish. co-favorites -with Alabama' and· Arkansas at five; to· one. A two­dollar bet on the Irish to win would be a wise choice. ·_ 
Jim Trausch, a senior Government major:from Arlington Heights, Illi­nois, is · · Scholastic's off-the-track oddsmaker. .This.· is his· first· con­
tribution.· · 
· SCHOLASTIC 
by Theresa Rebeck

People ·At·ND 


Who is the typical Notre Dame student? According to the Admis­sions Office, the average student is a young man who graduated in the top 10% of his class from:a private college preparatory high school in the midwest and scored. a . 1110 on the Scholastic Aptitude Tests. 
None of this news is really news. The Admissions Office comes out with virtually the same set of statis­tics ,every fall. But what is the aver­age student actually like? What does he do on weekends? Is he a pre­professional throat or a two-fisted, hardheaded redneck? In an effort to · answer some of these questions, the Scholastic loC!ated the <'average" Notre Dame student (according to the Admissions Office · data) and found. out what it means to be av­erage at.Notre Dame. 

Edmund K. O'Shea· is the typical Notre Dame student. ·He was born and reared in a rural suburb of Chi-. cago, ·Illinois, he graduated. thir­teenth in a class of 130 from an all­male,. college preparatory Catholic high school, and he scored a 570 on the verbal, and 640 on ·the math SAT's. His father and six of his Although he does enjoy football life's simple pleasures, ' such as uncles attended Notre Dame, and his (Ed played tight. end. on his high watching television.. His favorite grandfather played football under school .team) the, real reason he . program -is a.·. toss-up between Knute Rockne. He is indeed the came to Notre Danie was, he insists, "Three's Company" and "Sixty Min­typical Domer. . to get an education. Ed is double utes"-he · can't decide whether or 
Ed "Banana Face" O'Shea is very · majoring in Pre-Law and Nuclear not he likes Suzanne Sommers' legs open to discussion of his normalness. Physics, a combination major which more than Dan Rather's interview­','! guess I'm just your typical wild he, thinks, is extremely practical. ing techniques. · · · and crazy guy," he says with a "If I.don't get into Law.School I Some of Ed's other interests in-Steve Martin grin. "I like to.drink, I can work for the government in one · .elude ice hockey, wrestling, boxing, like to play football, and hey, I even of the many , nuclear plants that and chess .. "I like breaking heads," enjoy studying sometimes.'' When have been springing. up lately," he .· claims this alleged· human being. asked what he thought of girls, how-exp!ains. "And if Ido make it as a "But there's nothing: like ·a good ever, he replied, "Girls?','• The sub-lawyer, I figure I can make a for-game of chess· to keep your mind in ject was dropped: tune as a prosecutor for the Envi-shape." ·. . . 
_His friends dubbed Ed •~Banana ronmental. Protection Agency." He When asked if he considers him-Face" the evening of the• Notre manages his . course · load, which self a true representative of -the · Dame-Southern.· . California . • game, might be considered somewhc1t im-Notre . Dame student body, Ed when he went to the dining hall and possible by many people (24 hours), -laughed. ·"The statistics say I am, ate 83 bananas.in a row; attempting by throating out Monday .through and hey, I hear that statistics never . to set· the world record .for banana Thursday, and drinking himself into lie." His suitemates agree. "When­eating. "I had to do something after oblivion Friday and Saturday. "Hey, ever I try to· explain the spirit of agame like that.and.food fights are I've got to have some rest and re-Notre Dame to :rµy friends back against University policy," he says. laxation, don't I?" he points out. home, I just tell them about Ed," "Besides, they waste food." He's not Sundays are set aside for recupera-says one. "He's one hell of a guy." 
' sure if he broke the record or not; tion, although he does · make sure the Guinness Book of World Records he doesn't miss the 10 p.m. Mass. With this biting social commen­has no· statistic for the number of Iri the midst of his hectic sched-tary, Theresa Rebeck begins her ten­bananas eaten in.a.row..-. ·ule, Ed finds_ time to enjoy· some oL ure as Scholastic's managing editor; 

The· Last· Word 
by Jake Morrissey 


I was . called a . "p.reppie" today, .
•.. --~<~J 

and it occurred to me that there 
', really is no definitive test to de­termine one's "preppiness." ·· 
The following is a preppie test, designed to determine; once and for all, whether or not you are one of that rare breed known as "preppies." 
1. When you were born, were the diapers your mother put on you decorated with little green alli­gators? 
a. 
Yes. 

b. 
No. 


2. Are you ever mistaken . for Woody Allen? 
a. 
Yes. 

b. 
No. 


3. Do you have shirts with a grey 
sweater sewn onto the back and · shoulders? 
a. Yes. b; No. 
4. -Where are the U.S. Tennis Championships held? 
a. Who cares? 
• 
b. · Tennis, what's that? 

c. 
· Leave me alone: 


·d. Somewhere in the east, I think. · 
5. What kind of liquid refreshment 
. do you enjoy on a casual eve­.. ning? · 
a. 
'Beer. 

b. 
Milk 

c. 
A ·' light . Chablis, with an aroma that's aggressive, but not overpowering. · · 


6. One of the most important parts of any winter wardrobe is: a; Mittens Grand~a made for 
you; 
b. 
A scarf Grandma made for you. 

c. 
A hat Grandma made for you. . . 

d. 
A lift ticket from a ski resort prominently displayed across the front of your $150 ski parka. 


7. Do you sweat? 
a. 
Of course not. 

b. 
Well.... 

c. 
Profusely. 


8. If your house were on fire, and . you had the choice of saving your "Docksiders" or your little brother, would you save: 
a. 
Your "Docksiders;" your little brother is replaceable. 

b. 
Your little brother. 

c. 
Your little brother, only if he's wearing your "Dock­siders." 


9. Do you play: 
a. 
Backgammon, of course.. 

b. 
Backgammon, only at cock­tail parties. 

c. 
· Checkers. 



10. Do the number of khakis. you own: ­
·a. Exceed the Gross National Product of· the NATO al­liance countries. 
b. ~mbarrass you, since you ·don't own any. 
Scoring: Give yourself 1'. point'for 
1) a; 2) a; 3)a; 4) d; 5) c; 6) d; 
7) a; 8) a or c; 9) a; 10) a; nothing for the rest of the answers. 0-3: You're out of "Father.Knows Best"; 4-7: There's hope for ·you, try read~ ing'the New-Yorker's cartoons; 8-10: welc?me to preppiedom. 
SCHOLASTIC 


IPRE-MlbN\GBT ¦ PB.f-M1001Z:rftt ¦ Pf\E-MU'SN\&HT ¦ ffiE-M\@,t-,H:t¦ 

Do you sing? Tap dance? Tell jokes? Play the spoons (or any other instrument)? If so, your campus needs you. Come up to the Student Union booth Activities Night, September 11 or call 7757 and find out how to become an overnight success. Perform at the Nazz. 
IPO$T•M11lN1GBT ¦ ©s:t-M\tsN\Gs:t ¦ PO$\•MitiN\&BT ¦ R$T-NmSSGBT I 







