Vol. XXV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 20, 1892.	No. 24.
Two. Cardinals as Writers of Fiction.
I
The Treatment of Character.
Newman and Wiseman, as novelists, are diametrically opposite. They have nothing in common except a close attachment to the Church, and a lively interest in her beginning, trials, difficulties, triumphs, history and everything else connected with her. Newman wrote “Callista,” and Wiseman “Fabiola,” in order to efface the false opinions about the first Christians, which Gibbon’s “Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire” had fostered in England.
Newman seems entirely unable to invent or imagine scenes and incidents. “Callista” has a meagre plot seldom enlarged by circumstances or interrupted by events. The reformation of Agellius and the conversion of Callista “form the stream in which the plot .flows.” For Jubal cannot be identified with the development of the action, because he exhibits so many incompatible qualities, and commits so many contradictory deeds, that we must confess our incapability of picturing him to ourselves as a human being. When he frees Ccecilius he evinces divine inspiration; and yet only a few minutes later, he clearly shows demoniacal possession.
In Wiseman we discern an abundance of creative power; his imagination is competent to portray every shade of character, from the filthy villain to the pure saint, and to contrive exciting episodes and unexpected turns. “Fabiola” has a large number of mean and noble characters, which are, on the whole, more natural and consistent than Newman’s. They act like men; and among them one will search in vain for an anomaly like Jubal. Exquisite is
Wiseman’s delineation of Agnes and Syra, Sebastian and Pancratius. Even Callista falls immensely below Fabiola. They are equal in many respects; they are both pagans, learned, cultured and thoroughly acquainted with the world; both see something supernatural in the doctrines of the Church; but how different are their conversions; Callista finds fault with the life of every Christian; Chione, Agellius and Ccecilius act, she' thinks, not otherwise than pagans. Fabiola, on the other hand, is forced by her own judgment to acknowledge the peace and sweetness of the lives of Agnes and Syra. She must admire the fortitude and tranquillity with which Sebastian and Pancratius submit to their butchers. Fabiola embraces Christianity from a firm conviction, and Callista probably because she has received the grace," for she cheerfully undergoes martyrdom. In Callista’s strange behavior during her imprisonment, one cannot fail to observe- that Newman, like the Greek poets, when they came to a difficulty not solvable by human agency, is too ready to assume divine intercession.
Another reason for the dullness of Newman’s characters is his sparing use of dialogue. He forgets continually that he is writing a story. Where his characters should speak for themselves he wearies the reader with a sketch of their thoughts. Wherever possible, Wiseman employs the dialogue with great effect. Can, for instance, anything be more entertaining and instructive than the discussions between Syra and Fabiola? Newman’s style in “Callista,” as * in his other works, is conspicuous for its stately harmony and unrivalled exactness of language. His descriptions of the luxuriant landscapes of Northern Africa are at times beautiful and poetical. Nevertheless, one feels a certain care and stiffness which show, in place of personal
404
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:
’observation and imagination, knowledge drawn from books.	’
Wiseman’s manner of expression is often careless, again verbose and tiresome, but at the proper place eloquent and stirring. Although in his English he is inferior to Newman, still he is better qualified to adapt himself to’ the occasion. Newman remains always the same cool, undisturbed thinker. He does not rise and fall with the importance or the triviality of the moment. With an equal emotion and energy he relates a conversation between Agellius and Callista and the execution of this heroic maiden. We are consequently but little touched by the death of Callista. When Wiseman, however draws those dreadful images of the slaughter of Agnes, Sebastian and Pancratius, are we not grieved, terrified, and almost incited to curse the emperor and his officers? All the warmth and tenderness with which Wiseman loved the first Christians, he has poured out into his descriptions. He represents every action as if he had been an eye-witness, and makes the reader feel his own anguish and joy.
. II.
Cardinal Wiseman’s Advantages as a Novelist.
In justice to Newman, we should remark that Wiseman was much better prepared than he to produce a novel concerning the age of the persecutions. His long residence in the Eternal City had rendered him familiar with the places where the martyrs lived, worshipped, suffered and died. His own eyes had looked upon the decaying ruins of the amphitheatre and the abiding terrors of the catacombs, while in the museums of Rome he. had been horrified by the implements of torture and scientific cruelty which human ingenuity and Satanic malice could bring forth. From the Acts of the Martyrs he had learned the usages, conditions and ideas of the first ages of Christianity, and had imbibed . that deeply religious, mystic spirit by which Agnes, in her replies, perplexes the pagans, and by which St. Francis of Assisi has won the affection and admiration of the whole world.
Perhaps the most momentous requisite for a novel is that it should be a truthful mirror of the period it treats of. In order to decide justly • whether “Callista” or “Fabiola” is the more reliable, it may be well to quote some principles of criticism, which Newman lays down in his “Essay on the Poetics of Aristotle.”	:
“The difference between-poetical and historical narrative. may be illustrated by ‘Tales Founded on Facts,’ generally , of a religious
character. The author finds in the circumstances of the case many particulars too trivial for public notice, or irrelevant to the main story. These he omits. He finds connected events separated from each other by time or place, or a course of action distributed among a multitude of agents; he limits the scene or duration of the tale, and dispenses with his host of characters by condensing the mass of incident and action into the history of a few. Thus he selects, combines, refines, colors, in fact, poetizes. His facts are no longer actual but ideal; a tale founded on facts is a tale generalized from facts. The authors of ‘Peveril of the Peak,’ and of ‘Brambletye House,’ have given us their respective descriptions of the profligate times of Charles II. Both accounts are interesting, but for different reasons. That of the latter writer has the fidelity of history; Walter Scott’s picture is the hideous reality, unintentionally softened and decorated by the poetry of his own mind. Miss Edgeworth sometimes apologizes for certain incidents in her tales by stating they took place ‘by one of those strange chances which occur in life, but seem incredible when found in writing.’ Such an excuse evinces a misconception of the principle of fiction, which, being the perfection of the actual, prohibits the introduction of any such anomalies of experience. It is by a similar impropriety that painters sometimes introduce unusual sunsets or other singular phenomena of lights and forms.”	_ -	.
If Newman had written in harmony with his own rules, he might have produced an excellent novel, in place of giving us “such anomalies of experience.” What, besides an anomaly of experience, is the lukewarmness of the Catholics of Sicca? Were not,at the same time, thousands of Christians pouring out torrents of blood to drown pagan idolatry and superstition? How few did apostatize, when Decius used against them “prisons, fire, stripes, wild beasts, melted wax, boiling pitch, red-hot pincers, racks and iron hooks to tear the flesh from the bones”! Newman overlooks the constancy and firmness of the Catholics under all sorts of tortures; and still pretends that “Callista” is an attempt to imagine and express the feelings and mutual relations of Christians and heathens at the period to which it belongs; while he has only imagined and expressed “the feelings and mutual relations of Christians and heathens” in the small town of Sicca.
With what an accuracy has Wiseman depicted the prominent outlines of the’, persecution of Diocletian and the difference between pagans and Christians! Truly offensive and low are the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	405
former; lovely and exalted the latter. Wiseman’s representations of Sebastian and Pan-cratius are not taken from Rome, but idealized from all Christendom.
A. B. Ahlrichs, ’92.
\Iascribed to J. R.’s Friend^
To the Critic’s Critic.
Dear J., I’ve read your stanza o’er,
And mourned, of course, my own disaster;
But here’s a point has vexed me sore—
Are you a prentice hand, or master?
Your touch is one that’s far from weak,
Your voice seems all unused to stammer;
And yet—you’re faulty in technique, Still worse—you’re incorrect in grammar.
In line the sixth your rhyme is “rich,”
If you’ will take Hart’s word upon it;
And what's beyond my reach, pray? Which?
The futile sneering, or the sonnet?
A critic’s critic’s lines should be
Quite perfect; none should see a flaw there: Revise, dear boy, more carefully,
And believe me
. , Yours serenely,
“Aw, THERE.”
William Shakspere.
William Shakspere was born in Stratford-on-Avon, about the 23d of April, 1564. Although the destroyer was busy in Stratford during the following summer, carrying off many of her sons and daughters, still it spared the babe on whose life hung the fate of English literature. Just how this famous poet attained the height to which he has attained in literature is not very clearly known as we are not informed definitely enough about his history. At the time of his mother’s death, which occurred in 1608, our poet had reached his forty-fifth year, and had already produced those immense works which now render his name so famous.
According to a renowned German critic the women of Shakspere’s later plays are far superior to those of his earlier ones. And as he became older he saw more of great and good in both man and woman, as he was full of intellectual righteousness in this as well as in other things. I do not think it out of place to say a few words about the peculiar style of Shakspere, that is, his choice and arrangement of words, the structure of his sentences, etc.
In Shakspere there are many passages running to a considerable length and made up chiefly of Saxon words, and not a few wherein
the Latin largely shares. For examples of these I refer the reader particularly to “ King Leaf,” “Antony and Cleopatra.” The next point in regard to the style of our poet is the very peculiar way in which he arranges his words; so peculiar is this arrangement that it sometimes renders his meaning very obscure. He also sorts and places his words in a manner which seems to me to be arbitrary, throwing them out, so to speak, almost at random. Here is a slight instance: when the king suddenly resolves to send Hamlet to England, and to have him killed there, he says:
“To bear all smooth and even, this sudden
Sending him away must seem deliberate pause.”
There are many other instances of this to be found throughout the works of this renowned poet, but the one to which I have referred above will suffice to show what I mean. Any individual who has carefully read any of the productions of this famous man cannot but observe the peculiarity of his metaphors. Now, a metaphor, as every one ought to know, is a figure of rhetoric which is founded upon the resemblance which one object bears to another. In the use of this figure our poet is said to have surpassed all others, both ancient and modern. And Wordsworth is the only English poet who approaches any way near Shakspere in the use of the above-mentioned figure. If this great man had died when he reached the age of forty, it might have well been said: “The world has lost much; but the world’s chief poet could hardly have created anything more wonderful than ‘Hamlet.’”
After the production of this well-known play, Shakspere was a very prosperous and wealthy man; and, as a very famous writer has said: “ In point of style, Hamlet stands midway between his early and latest works.” You may peruse the entire productions of this great poet, and I think you will not find a nobler piece of prose than the speech in which Hamlet relates to Rosencrantz and Guildenstern his melancholy.
While Shakspere is considered as the greatest .of poets, nevertheless, he does not fail to shine among the best of dramatic artists, and I think that no play which he .has presented to the public coul'd be better set forth as an example of his dramatic art than the “ Merchant of Venice.” In this comedy it is wonderful to witness how two tales, which ought to be familiar to every student, are woven together into a single plot: the story of the wicked Jew who entered into a bond with one of his enemies, the forfeit of which was to be a pound of this enemy’s own flesh, and the story of the “ Heiress
406
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
and the Caskets.” In the story of the Jew the most prominent point is the capability for bringing out that simplest and most universal idea of all dramatic motives, Nemesis, which is known in the world of art as retribution. A better story could not have been found for the dramatic effect of Nemesis, than that of the cruel Jew. Any person who has read this story cannot help but discern a double retribution in it attached both to the Jew and his victim.
In the world of art these two characters represent the different conceptions of the abovementioned term in the ancient and' modern world: Antonio’s excess of moral confidence is what is known as the Nemesis of reaction in his humiliation; and Shylock’s sin of judicial murder finds the work of retribution in his ruin by process of law. Without doubt, therefore, in that which gives artistic character to the reaction and the retribution, the two Nemesis differ. As St. Paul very well said: “Some men’s sins are evident, going before unto judgment; and some they-.follow after.” So in Shylock’s case we are much interested with his .punishment on account of the impatience with which we look for it; but in the case of Antonio, the humiliation is-striking because he, of all men, seemed most safe against it. In the story of the “Caskets,” which Shakspere has united with that of the Jew, the dramatic capabilities are altogether of a different kind, the most effective weapon being that of idealization. What is the reason that this story possesses such good material for an artist? It is because that poet of poets always selected his characters from the world at large, as the more commonplace the experience is, the greater the triumph of art can be idealized.
“Four Fishers Went Fishing'.” .
It was about dusk on the evening of July 3, 1890, when a party of gay fishermen,, of whom Iwas one, turned their ill-rigged boat toward the southern shore of Catawba. Why the little band was so gay I know not, unless it was that we. caught no fish that day, and there was no hope of catching any for several days to come. Still we were happy, and each one tried his best to make the others happier. Fishing bouts are generally mirthful affairs, but this, one was exceptionally so.	. .
We numbered but. four—four light-hearted apprentices in the art of fishing, with little tack and much less industry for this drowsy, though pleasant pastime. ; There was one, Dick —
who held a position more dangerous than comfortable at the extreme end of tfie boat. A jollier lad than Dick, I think, could not be found.. It was a favorite trick of his to round off a real good joke with a peal of laughter that makes one feel really happy. Then, right at Dick’s left, seated like a stoic, was an odd genius, noted only for his queer, dry way of retorting. Ned “The Sorrowful,” we called him; for when Ned was in good spirits, or. wished to disseminate some very happy thought, his countenance took such a downcast, gloomy look that can only indicate traces of deep sorrow.
Just as the boat had-reached the middle of the stream there was a dead silence, broken only by the plashing of the oars on the waters. The cawing of a crow, as she swept to her feast, attracted Ned’s attention to the receding shore. As usual, he found there food for his poetic fancy; he saw inexpressible beauty in the hun-gry-looking pines that stood sentinel-like in the. background, and suddenly he paused to apostrophise nature, as he beheld her lurking in the variegated waves. Dick, who, by the way, was of a very practical turn of mind, never boasted of having such a delicate sense of appreciation, so he did not hesitate to suggest that Ned’s wonderful perceptive faculties might be employed with profit in spying out some fine fat bass. Soon witticisms waxed warmer and warmer as they were exchanged, and Dick worked . himself into his usual spasmodic laugh. The last ripple of his mirth had just died away when the boat made a jerk, letting jolly Dick down , into the ^.silent deep. There were no “whys” or “wherefores” asked, but on the spur of the moment we made a mental resolution to save Dick, or die in the attempt. It was plain to be seen that Ned “The Sorrowful” would be of no use to us: for, judging from his vacant stare, one would think he had not sufficient courage to live, much less nerve himself to die. We succeeded, however, in dragging our halfdrowned companion into the boat without rousing Ned from his comatose condition. When we reached the shore, all the relief possible under the circumstances was given Dick.
We had hardly settled down on the bank when we spied a burley-looking planter, brushing his way through a thicket of glistening reeds a few paces behind us. He quickened his steps when he caught sight of usu and in a moment came abruptly up to where we were sitting. Then off sprang a number of questions;; inquiring the cause of our coming, and, with the air of a judge, he pried into the accident which had befallen us. He received very little infor
1 1 I 1
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mation from any of us; but continued to give in exchange a lot of boring nonsense about the reckless risks the “young blood” runs. His philosophizing, however, was cut short, when one of our men began to throw out a few clever intimations about the possibility of securing supper in those parts. It was surprising what an effect these hints had on the old planter. He was uneasy, that was evident; for he constantly changed from hand to hand the knotty staff-with which he had been tracing some unintelligible characters in the sands. Pointing towards a road which led away from the cozy* cot just a stone’s throw behind us, he stammered out a few vague directions to the White Inn, * with the assurance of getting everything desirable there.	’	•	:
As far around about as the eye could reach, not a habitation was visible, excepting, of course; the one I have just mentioned. We began to regard the planter’s directions with no little suspicion, and we made bold enough to ask who lived on this plantation. “I do,” said he, “but,” he continued in the next breath, “but I am‘ sorry we cannot accommodate you with supper.” “Well,” replied Dick, “I am only a half dead man, but I could plainly see all along that your smooth talk had its object in view;” This riled the old fellow. He was nonplussed for a moment, but soon began to fire out a volley of maledictions on the “band of villains” whose avowed obj ect, he knew, was to sack that district.
Before we had time to recover from this attack, he darted through the thicket, and gave out a most unnatural y611, which we soon learned • was a call for help. Presently we saw a crowd of negroes, armed with clubs, coming in full speed towards us. There was certainly no great security in remaining here, so we5 launched for other parts far more quickly than we disembarked, and down the stream we went,, making double time and a little over. When Mt. Hickory was reached, the boat was back to the ferry, and safety and freedom was ours once more.
•	-	W. McN.
The Mexicans.	’
At the time of the Spanish invasion, the Mexicans had made considerable advance towards a polished state of society, while their northern neighbors, were mere hunters and fishers. If we may credit the accounts of the. first visitors* to these regions, the manners, government and' civilization"were such as would not have'dis-‘ graced even the polished nations of the Eastern Hemisphere.
4<>7
When the Spaniards invaded America, the -Mexicans were well skilled in agriculture; and cultivated maize even in the mountainous country of Tlascala. They also understood gardening, and even botany; a garden belonging to the emperor was open to all who wished to obtain medicinal plants. The Mexican women were dexterous spinners, and manufacturers of cotton and hair abounded everywhere. The public edifices and houses of the nobility in the city of Mexico were of stone, and well built. The royal palace had thirty gates, opening to as many streets. The principal front was of jasper, black, red and white, well polished. Three squares, built and adorned like the front, led to Montezuma’s apartment, which consisted of spacious chambers, the floors covered with* mats of different kinds, and the walls hung with a mixture of cotton cloth and furs; the innermost room was adorned with hangings of feathers, beautified with various figures in bright colors. The ceilings of this building were so skilfully formed that larige planks sustained each other without the help of nails.
The great causeway which traversed the lake, in which the city of Mexico was built, connect- 1 ing it with the neighboring shore, was a striking^ proof of the industry and mechanical skill of this people. They had likewise, we are told, brought water into the city from a mountain at a league’s distance. They possessed artificers1 of great skill in the various branches of manufacture. Their drinking cups were of the finest earth, exquisitely made, of different colors, and sweetly perfumed. Their goldsmiths were skilful in moulding gold into various forms, particularly into the shapes of different animals. Their painters made landscapes and* other imitations by means of feathers so artistically blended as to rival the life and coloring of nature. Neither were they ignorant of music and poetry; • and one of their favorite amusements consisted in the rehearsal of songs celebrating the achieve-* ments of their ancestors. -	.	? ;
In government, polity and laws;the Mexicans had made considerable progress. Their mon-* archy was elective; but the right of election; as* well as the privilege of being elected, was con-* fined to the princes of the royal blood. Before his coronation the emperor-elect was obliged* to perform some warlike exploit by which means the military spirit of the empire was kept up. There was a revenue for the slipport of the crown, derived from mines of gold an3 silver? a duty upon salt and other manufactures, aniTar third part of all the rent of lands. The’^states’bf ‘ the nobles were exempt. This privileged order

408
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	!
were subject to no tribute, except the obligation to serve in the army with a number of their vassals, and to guard the person of the emperor.
Various councils were appointed, among which were distributed the different departments of government. The management of the royal patrimony was allotted to one council; appeals from inferior tribunals to another; the levying of troops and the providing of magazines to a third; while affairs of supreme importance were reserved for a council of state. All these boards were composed of men experienced in the arts of war and peace; and the council of state consisted of those who elected the emperor.
Police and education were matters of attentive concern in the Mexican government. During the fairs, which were frequent and very numerously attended, judges were appointed who decided all mercantile differences on the spot, and peace and good order were preserved by inferior officers, who made regular circuits for that purpose. The Spaniards were much amazed at the abundance and variety of commodities brought to market, and the conduct observed by such multitudes. There were schools in Mexico allotted for plebeian children, and well-endowed academies for the nobility. The masters of these last were considered as officers of state, as it was their business to qualify young men for serving their king and country. The most honorable of all employments was that of a soldier; but it was judiciously enacted that when a young nobleman made choice of this profession he was sent to the army and made to suffer great hardships before he could be enrolled. Young women of quality were educated with no less care by proper matrons, chosen with the utmost circumspection. So strictly, indeed, was the distinction of ranks observed in Mexico, that the city was divided into two parts, one of which was reserved to the emperor and nobility, and the other left to the plebeians. The Mexicans were a warlike people, as was sufficiently evinced by the brave defence which they made against the Spanish invaders. They had a variety of weapons, both offensive and defensive, and were not entirely ignorant of the art of fortification. Military orders were instituted among them, with peculiar habits as marks of distinction and honor, and each cavalier bore the device of his order painted upon his robe, or affixed to it. Montezuma founded a new order of knighthood, into which princes only were admitted, or nobles descended from the royal blood, and the king, himself was numbered among its members. The knights of this order had part of their hair
bound with a red ribbon, to which a tassel was fixed, hanging down to the shoulder. Every new exploit was honored with an additional tassel, a contrivance well adapted to render the knights eager to embrace every new opportunity of signalizing themselves.
That the' Mexicans had even made some proficiency in science is apparent from the ingenious method which they had adopted of regulating the calendar. The Mexican year consisted of 3653^ days. It was divided into 18 months, of 20 days each, which in all made 360 days: the remaining five intercalary days were added at the end of the year, and were employed in diversions; and the fourth part of a day was allowed for, by adding 13 days at the end of 52 years, which is equivalent to adding one every fourth year. But in the religious system of this singular people we discover two genuine tokens of the remains of barbarism. They not only practised human sacrifices, but they dressed !and ate the flesh of those that were sacrificed. Their great temple was contrived to excite horror, being crowded with figures of venomous serpents, and even with the heads of the unfortunate victims of their faith. It affords a striking proof of the grossness of their superstition, that every emperor, at his coronation, was obliged to swear that there should be no unseasonable rains, no overflowing of rivers, no fields affected with sterility, nor any one injured by the noxious influence of the sun.
Such was the remarkable situation in which this nation of the New World was found by the Spaniards. Without any channel of intercourse with the civilized nations of the ancient continent, and situated in a climate which is not naturally favorable to the energy of the human character, it displayed considerable advancement in the science of government, in military skill, and in many of the useful and ornamental arts of life.	S.
. “The Aboriginals.’’ .
Every cultivated nation had its heroic age— a period when its first physical and moral conquests were achieved, and when rude society, with all its impurities, was fused and refined in the crucible of progress. When civilization first set up.its standard as a permanent ensign, in the Western Hemisphere northward of the Bahamas and the great Gulf, and the contests for possession began between the wild “Aboriginals,” who thrust no spade into the soil, no sickle into ripe harvests, and those earnest delvers from the Old World, who came with the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.	409
light of Christianity to plant a new empire and redeem the wilderness by cultivation—then commenced the heroic age of America.
The history of the Indian tribes, previous to the formation of settlements among them by Europeans, is involved in an obscurity which is penetrated only by vague traditions and uncertain conjectures. Whence came they?-is a ques-tionyet unanswered by established facts. Within almost every State and Territory remains of human skill and labor have been found which seem to attest the existence here of a civilized nation, or nations, before the ancestors of our numerous Indian tribes became masters of the continent. Some of these appear to give indisputable evidence of intercourse between the people of the Old World and..those of America centuries, perhaps, before the birth of Christ, and at periods soon afterward.
The whole mass of testimony yet discovered does not prove that such intercourse was extensive; that colonies from the Eastern Hemisphere ever made permanent settlements in America', or remained long enough to impress their character upon the country or the Aboriginals, if they existed; or that a high degree of civilization had ever prevailed on our Continent. All the nations and tribes were similar in physical character, moral sentiment, social and political organizations, and religious belief. They were all of a copper color; were tall, straight and well-proportioned; their eyes black and impressive; their hair black, long, coarse and perfectly straight; their constitutions vigorous, and their powers of endurance remarkable. Bodily deformity was almost unknown, and few diseases prevailed. They were brave and sometimes generous in war;, revengeful, treacherous and morose when injured or offended; not always grateful for favors; grave and sagacious in council; often eloquent in speech; sometimes warm and constant in friendship, and occasionally courteous and polite.
The men were employed in war, hunting and fishing; the women performed all menial services. In hunting and fishing the men were assiduous and very skilful. They carried the knowledge of woodcraft to the highest degree of perfection; and the slightest indication, such as the breaking of a twig, or the bending of grass, was often sufficient to form a clew to the pathway of an enemy or of game. The women bore all burdens during journeys, spread the tents, prepared food, dressed skins for clothing, wove mats for beds made of the bark of trees and the skins of animals. These constituted the chief agricultural production of the Aboriginals under the most favorable circumstances. Like that of the earlier nations of the world, their religion was simple, without, many ceremonies, and was universally embraced. They had no infidels among them. Dualism is the most ancient tenet of Indian faith—a prominent tenet, it will be observed, in the belief of all the more advanced Oriental nations of antiquity.
They believed in the existence of two Great Spirits: the one eminently great was the. Good • Spirit, and the inferior the Spirit of Evil.- They also deified the sun, moon, stars, meteors, fire, water, thunder, wind, and everything which they held to be superiorto themselves; but they never exalted their heroes or prophets above the sphere of humanity. They also adored an invisible, great Master of life in different forms, which they called Manitou, and made it a sort of tutelar deity. They had vague ideas of the doctrine of atonement of-sins, and made propitiatory sacrifices with great solemnity. All of them had dim traditions of the creation, and of the great deluge which covered the earth. Each nation, as we have observed, had crude notions, drawn from traditions, of their own distinct" origin, and all agreed that their ancestors came from the North.	-
“ And till your last white foe shall kneel, . ’ And in his coward pangs expire,	-	—
. Sleep—but to dream of brand and steel;. - . Wake—but to deal in blood and fire!”	‘ .
Inconstancy.
. Pope has said, and truly said: “The proper study of mankind is man.” That we may; therefore, the better understand and guide ourselves, we should study the traits of others. Besides noting the peculiarities of our associates, we should carefully study the characters of the great men of history. What, do we find, enabled these men to become benefactors of their race? Noble purposes and constancy.
On the other hand, it is inconstancy that renders so many men unsuccessful. While a majority of the latter class possess sufficient intellectual ability to insure success in any one -pursuit, they too often waste their energy on diverse undertakings. Such men surrender at the first obstacle, while the constant man struggles on till victory crowns his efforts.
As constancy has been the stepping-stone to great achievements, so has inconstancy been the source of great failures. The former quality enabled the Normans to conquer England; the latter made several of the crusades failures.
The inconstancy that has wrecked the hopes of so many unsuccessful men germinated and, was nurtured, in their youth. How many young men fail at college from this cause! What a common occurrence it is to see a youth of only moderate ability surpass, through unyielding perseverance, his more gifted fellow-student. -
As the child is father to the man, we should endeavor, while young, to eliminate whatever inclinations we may have towards inconstancy. By so doing, we shall have profited by the experience of others, and will have taken an important step towards insuring future success.
L. S. Vinez, ’95. '
4io -	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MV SCHOLASTIC.
IBublfsttli tSttj Jgaturhag Surins Stmt Stmt at N. B. Rnifirrsitj.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Notre Dame, February 20,1892.
Terms, $P.$o per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
—We desire to call the attention of our readers to Mr. A. B. Ahirich’s paper on “Two Cardinals as Writers of Fiction.” It is keen, careful, and it does honor to the literary taste of the writer. We are sure that we are not immodest in expressing the general opinion that the standard of excellence of the papers, drawn out by the encouragement given by the Scholastic to literary aspirants, has been unusually high during this and the previous session.
—One of the Chicago dailies says, very aptly: . " It would be a relief if the political cartoonists of Puck, fudge, and similar publications would quit labelling their caricatures of well-known public men.’ It looks as if they had no confidence in their own ability to draw a recognizable portrait.”
It might go further and. protest against the harm done by such publications by their contempt for authority and their indecent flings at the religion and nationality of honest citizens. If the. papers named ceased to exist altogether, it would indeed be a great relief all around.
—The educational system of Prussia—the great model for our compulsory educators—is beginning to assume a more rational phase. It is reported that the Diet has passed a measure providing that children belonging to religious denominations recognized by the State shall be instructed by teachers of their own denomination, except in popular schools already established, where present arrangements remain unchanged. This is, to some extent, an improvement upon the former tyrannical system, and, when its beneficent results are experienced, may lead to complete justice and the full recognition of the rights of all classes of citizens. No argument should be required to show that it is the height.of injustice to compel a body of people to contribute to the support of school's of which they cannot conscientiously avail themselves.
Notre Dame.
The visit of the Rev. James F. Loughlin,D.D., Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Philadelphia, is remembered with pleasure by all at Notre Dame. In last week’s issue of the Catholic Mirror, of Baltimore, he gives an interesting account of his Western tour, and the good accomplished in behalf of the Catholic Young Men’s NationalUnion. Speaking of Notre Dame, Dr. Loughlin says:	-
“On Monday, Jan. 25, I proceeded to Notre Dame University, where the Rev. President arid Faculty extended me a most hearty welcome. Although from childhood I had heard mention of this great Catholic seat of learning, I was utterly unprepared for the sight which actually met my gaze. To one who has never got quite rid of his schoolmaster’s instincts, it was a veritable oasis in the desert. And yet, when I beheld this magnificent group of buildings and when, later, through the kindness of the Faculty, I was permitted to investigate the admirable arid thorough course of studies pursued, my dominant feelings were painful rather than otherwise. I remembered (1) that only a. small share of the glory of erecting and maintaining this grand institution could be ascribed to the American Church.' It represented the great ideals arid indefatigable labors of one single priest. (2) I reflected how little disposed the Catholics at large are to acknowledge and appreciate the resources actually at their disposal. Many a young man has passed within gun-shot of Notre Dame on his way to Harvard or Yale who would ignorantly sneer at the thought of completing his studies at a Catholic University. Everything non-Catholic is great in the estimation of our half-educated wealthy classes; the Cross on an educational building is merely the badge of inferiority. As if to emphasize this despicable feeling so prevalent, it happened that on the following Sunday morning I read in the Chicago Timesw'dA. project, ventilated by some Catholic lunatic, of founding a grand Catholic University in the Windy City. As if the Catholics of Chicago had not a flourishing university at their very doors! How long shall we continue thus in utter disorganization, each one laying a separate foundation and no one able to bring his projects to any.respectable termination? In my address to the five hundred students I reminded them of the obligation imposed upon them by Christian charity of extending to less-favored brethren the benefits of a university education, ^explained the meaning of ‘ Catholic University Extension,’ and exhorted them upon the termination of their studies to assist their pastors in the work of improving the minds of the young.”
!
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Did the Critics Kill Keats?
Reader, I pause for a reply.
I feel certain that very many, if not all, of those whose eyes have just.fallen on the above question will answer it with a decided “Yes!” which will cause a .thrill of conviction to course “ from Beersheba to Dan ” over the system of the dubious questioner. Even the paragraphist who wrote the item relating to Keats in last week’s Scholastic will drop his flippant “Ah, there!” and clinch the reply with an equally logical and forcible “Well, I should remark!” .1 wonder if this person, and the others who answer in the strong affirmative, ever think that there may possibly be another view of the question, differing somewhat from their own? Perhaps they do not. But there is such another view, and one which the writer of this article, too self-com-placently, perhaps, regards as the fairer.
-1 have rarely come across an essay on Keats, or an allusion to him, which did not, in expressed or implied terms, lay the blame of his death on the critics. We are told that John Keats, a weak, over-sensitive young man, ventured to publish a poem, entitled “Endymion,” the defects of which so raised the bile of a Mr. Gifford that he mercilessly slashed the author and poem in an article in the Quarterly Review ; and poor John, unable to recover from the blow, died in misery and despair. Considering the widespread belief in this opinion, it may appear rash and bold in me to deny it. But I do deny it; and, if I mistake hot, my opinion can be as well supported by facts and proofs as theirs of the affirmative.	.
To begin with: What truth is there in the statement that Keats was affected “unto death” by the attacks of the critics? Very little, I firmly believe. It is true, Gifford’s brutal review may have wounded his feelings to a certain extent; but there is no reason for believing that it brought on a deep, mind-wasting despair, or in any way hastened his death. The warm praise and encouragement which he received from other and more learned critics would have been sufficient to raise his hopes, and soothe his wounded feelings, if Gifford’s article had produced any serious effect on him. “Endymion” received a flattering review in the Edinburgh from the pen of Lord Jeffrey, who declared that the poem was “ at least as full of genius as of absurdity,” and that “anyone who could not find in ‘Endymion’ much to admire, could not really appreciate Shakspere or Milton, Ben
411
Johnson or Fletcher.” Such praise, from one of the greatest critics of the day, was praise indeed. I venture to assert that no other author has been met at the beginning of his career with such words of encouragement and such flattering recognition of genius; and if Keats was insensible to such a welcome, if he could not set at defiance all malicious criticism after such words of approval, he was no man; he was a weak, effeminate being, who' deserved no pity, but, on the contrary, contempt. He was also praised and defended by the Chronicle and other journals; and instead of losing by Gifford’s attack, he really gained. Here let me ask a common-sense question: Can we picture to ourselves Keats repining, despairing, and dying in . ;misery after so encouraging a reception?.
Moreover, shortly after the publication of “Endymion,” a wealthy admirer sent himi a congratulatory sonnet, with “turn over” at the" bottom; and when the request of the writer had been complied with, the poet found a ^25 bank note. This is something that poets do not touch often; and if it did not lift a great weight from Keats’ mind, he must have been; a strange being,—stranger, indeed, than many of his very sympathetic admirers have ever pictured him. -
I believe the honor of perpetuating these stories about Keats’ death belongs to Shelley and Byron; the former, in the mournful strains of “Adonais,” and the latter, in the witticism on “the soul’s so fiery particle” in' “Don Juan.” When Leigh Hunt, saw this famous poem in manuscript, he told the author that the jeu d'esprit was founded on a falsehood; but his lordship, who preferred wit and immorality to a nobler use of his God-given genius, refused to correct the error. It must be remembered that neither Shelley nor Byron was an intimate friend of Keats; and they are certainly not to be trusted in preference to Hunt, the poet’s warmest friend and admirer, Lord Houghton, his biographer, and others, who do not confirm the story now so commonly accepted.
In concluding this part of my article I do not think I could do better than to cite a fact, which must convince any reasonable man of the truth of my statements. His grand fragment, “ Hyperion,” which Byron declared to be as sublime as 2Eschylus, was begun after Gifford’s attack in the Quarterly Review. Was Keats a ruined man, shattered in mind and body, when he wrote that poem? I will leave it to the reader to judge.	'
Before closing, I will make another statement which will, perhaps, cause greater surprise than the former. I deny that Keats was the over-
412
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sensitive poet that has been described to us as “Tense Keats, with angels’ nerves
Where men’s were better.”
In this denial I am confirmed by those who knew him best, and by his own words and acts. At school, as some of his friends have testified, he was noted for a stubbornness of purpose and a spirit of pugnacity which one does not naturally associate with timidity or weakness. He was a strong, well-built boy, an acknowledged leader in all the athletic games; and so much were his companions impressed with his manliness and bravery that it was the firm belief of all that he would, one day distinguish himself as a military commander. These traits still survived in him in after-life. It is related that he once took a boy’s quarrel in hand against an offended baker and came out the victor.
. He showed himself no less fearless of the vengeance and malice of the critics, even at the very beginning of his literary career. It is well known that Leigh Hunt was the best-hated man and the target for all the critics of his time; yet Keats not only dedicated his first volume of poems to him, but also wrote a sonnet praising him as a noble genius, and branding his enemies as covvards. He must have known that such an act could only make many enemies and injure his prospects; and, in reality, it was this fearless defence of a friend which was the chief cause of the violent attack on “ Endymion.” Did Keats cower and fall into abject despair when he felt the effects of the storm of criticism which he, with such impunity, had brought down upon himself? I think he did not. But let us judge from his own words. Shortly after the publication of “Endymion” he-wrote: “I do not feel the least humility towards anyone, except the Supreme Being, the Spirity of Beauty, and the memory of great mem . . . In ‘Endymion’ I leaped headlong into the sea. ... I have written independently without judgment; hereafter I will write independently with judgment. I was never afraid of failure; I would rather fail than not try to be among the great.”
To conclude: Keats was not the soft-headed poet, who was too weak to stand against the “wind of words”; the malice of his critics did not bring him to his early grave. He died from that fatal disease, consumption, of which his mother and one of his brothers had died before him. Those who hold him up to the pity of the world as a weak man, should seek a better means of increasing his fame. If they would pity, let them go in spirit to Rome, where, in a simple grave, sleeping in the shadow of the. monument of Caius Cestius, lies all that was
once mortal of John Keats; let them breathe a prayer for the soul of the young genius, who toiled and wrote with a noble purpose, but
“ Whose name was writ in water.”
.	Exchanges.
—The Mt. Angel Students' Banner comes to us every month from far-off Oregon. It is a pretty little magazine, and contains a pleasing variety of poetry, fiction and solid prose articles.
—The Young Eagle, which comes to us from St. Clara’s Academy, Sinsinawa, Wisconsin, is a handsome little monthly filled with some matter contributed by the pupils, and a good deal selected from the writings of older authors.
—The Mount \s> a neat little monthly, published at Mt. de Chantal, near Wheeling, W. Va. Its table of contents shows quite a variety of reading matter ranging from the inevitable poem to a very interesting editorial on the position which women ought to hold in the world of art.
—One of the brightest of our exchanges is The Cadet, published by the students of Jarvis .Hall Military Academy, Denver. Its literary department is generally supplied with matter of a light, chatty character, which affords a pleasant contrast to the ponderous subjects treated by a few of our exchanges.
—The Earlhamite is the organ of the Ionian Society of Earlham College, of this State. A monthly of sixteen pages, it is a fairly well-conducted college periodical. Its exchangeeditor, we notice, has no sympathy with those who make of the exchange column a department reserved for the literary idiosyncrasies of some would-be funny man.	.
—The Albert College Times in a recent issue gives us a brief sketch of “Canadian Poets and Poetry.” On this side of the line little is known of the bards who sing the glories of Canada, and a series of papers giving us an insight into their work and its character would undoubtedly prove interesting. Why do not The Times _ and our other Canadian exchanges give more space to their national literature?
. —The Blackburnian contains some very read-, able articles. An editorial on “Conversation as a Lost Art” is particularly worthy of mention. The writer evidently has no sympathy with punsters and, in general, with those who show, a preference for the discussion of frivolous subjects; and, in his wrath that such people are so numerous at Blackburn University, strikes right but from the shoulder. That’s right, Blackburnian!
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
4i3
You may not succeed in killing off any of the punsters, but it must be a great relief for you to show your contempt for them. You have our sympathy in the great and good crusade which you have inaugurated.	-
—The exchange-editor of The Wesleyan Echo entertains very mild views on the question of literary criticism. He says: “A few exchangeeditors seem to think it their duty to cut the exchange to. pieces, and thereby show their stock of brains. Let us remember that college men, with little time to spare on ‘the paper’ at most, should be criticised in all kindness. If it is so done they will never fail to appreciate it.” We infer from the tenor of the above that The Echo refers to the malicious slashing of everything without regard to merit. He certainly cannot mean that an exchange-editor should not object to what is objectionable, or condemn what is silly and worthless. Though the truth may sometimes hurt, it is best, and often kindest, to tell it.	.
—The Holcad is published monthly by the students of Westminster College, New Wilmington, Pa. In a recent issue its exchange-editor, speaking of the attention which students give to standard literature, says:
“ There is among students a growing interest in the study of standard literature. This is manifest from the literary department of the college paper. Apparently more attention than usual is being-given to critical writing,'which is not at all the easiest style in which to attain perfection. Although not the easiest style, it is, none the less, profitable to the writer. That is a pleasant hour, too, that is spent in delving ’neath the flowing language of a favorite author, and in discovering there the treasures of which the words are but symbolic. It is in this way the critic becomes acquainted with an author’s life which is often itself a work grander than any he has ever written. Some articles of this nature are: ‘Critique,’ in the Chronicle; ‘Poet of Restoration,’ ‘Elegy in. English,’ ‘American Writers,’ in the Scholastic.”
—The Queen's College Journal takes exception to the critical essays which appear from time to time in the Scholastic. While it may betrue that we devote more space to such articles than do other college journals, we are not quite prepared to admit the justice of all the remarks which our esteemed contemporary deems it proper to make. As to the individual merits of the essays in question we have nothing to say. We do not object to truthful criticism, however severely it may deal with our work; and the exchangeeditor of The Journal seems honest in passing judgment on it. To assume, however, that because students are generally acquainted with “The Elegy in English,”-Milton’s “Lycidas,” Gray’s “Elegy in.a Country Churchyard,” Tennyson’s “ In Memoriam,” Shelley’s “Adonais,” etc., such subjects should be excluded from the columns of a college paper, is not, in our opinion,
just or reasonable. The discussion of the merits of even well-known productions is always a pleasure to the true lover of literature; and the Scholastic, in helping to increase amongst our students the taste for a critical study of English-masterpieces by throwing open -its columnsto such discussions, does not overstep the bounds of propriety in college journalism.	:
Personal.
—Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., ’64, South Bend, Rev. J. Lang, Fort Wayne, and Rev. J. Boeckelman, Elkhart, were welcome visitors to the College on Thursday.
—Very Rev. Provincial Corby has returned from his visit to the Houses of the Congregation in the South. He reports all in a very flourishing condition, and brings pleasant greetings from friends in Austin, New Orleans, and Cincinnati.
—Two New York weekly papers recently published very complimentary notices with portrait of H. M. Jewett, ’88, who has achieved fame and distinction in the line of amateur athletics. The sketch of his work during the past two seasons shows a splendid series of victories. His best records at different games are given as follows: 100 yds. run, 10 s.; -220yds. run, 22 s.; running high jump, 5 ft. in.; running broad jump, 21 ft. nX-in.; hop, step and jump,44ft.8%.in.; putting 16 lb shot, 39 ft. 10 in.; running 120 yds., 11 3-5 s. The papers say that “Jewett is a resident of Chicago, and as he is full of ambition and just of the right age, we may expect to see him improve on his past performances during the season of 1892.”' *
—Hon. Bernard J. Clagget, ’85, is the efficient and popular Mayor of Lexington, Illinois. The Sunday Eye, of Bloomington, recently contained a lengthy and interesting sketch of his career. Among other things it said:
“Nature has endowed Mr. Clagget very generously. He is built on a liberal plan, intellectually, morally and physically. He is of splendid physique, and always took a lively interest in athletics, and at one time had Lexington wild over base-ball, having organized one of the best clubs in Central Illinois.' He is of sanguine temperament, looking always on the brighter, better and happier side of life, and willing to confer pleasure upon others. Mr. Clagget is gifted with that rare but happy faculty of making friends among all classes of people, rich and poor, which can never be acquired, but must be inborn. He has a pleasant and inviting address, and his geniality of disposition makes him readily accessible to all manner of men, the lowly as well as the affluent.. He has never failed to assist to the limit of his means every worthy cause and deserving person that appealed to him.’
Mr. Clagget has twice been elected Mayor of Lexington, by an unanimous vote, a splendid tribute to his worth and popularity. He is a Democrat in politics, and has now under consideration an urgent request to accept a nomination as Representative. His many friends at Notre Dame congratulate him upon the success which attends him.	.	;
414
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Resolutions of Condolence.
■ Whereas, God in His infinite wisdom has seen fit to deprive Mr. L. M. Sanford, one of our fellow-students, of a loving mother; and
Whereas, We deeply sympathize with him in his sorrowful affliction; Be it, therefore,
Resolved, That we, the students of Sorin Hall, do tender him and his bereaved family our most heartfelt condolence; and be it, moreover,
Resolved, That these resolutions be printed in the Notre Dame Scholastic, and that a copy of the same be forwarded to him.
N. J. Sinnott, Geo. G. Lancaster, Jas. McKee, E. F. DuBrul.—Committee.
.	Local Items. .
—’Rah! .
—-Siz-z-z!
—Monday.
Thespians.
—Who sent ’em?
—Bennie’s valentine. :
—Sholer took the cake!
—Boozyris’ loaded cigar.
—Aiderman’s valentine was Allright..
—Mac is particularly afraid of hydrogen.
—Who wanted a piece of Clarence’s cake? ; —The phonograph was around on Wednesday. —Monty’s oratory was “in sight” during the week.
—Venus has obtained a.bill of divorce from Jupiter.
—Why does not Orpheus play the organ nowadays?	'
—Our home laundry is like the machinery they use—O. K.	.
—The leader of the-mob was in a bad predicament last Sunday. .	.
—Rehearsals for the great Shaksperian production are under way.
—Ursa Major wanted to know if the Greek plays are given in English!	„
—Misty has the grippe: no doubt he’ll not be missed before he comes back.
. —-The older the door, the more bangs, it gets; a reciprocal of human nature.
—Bro. B. would make a great artillerist, so they of the Chemistry class think.
—Did you see the three aspen leaves in the study-hall, when J. J. delivered his Phillipic?
. —The class in Gymnastics was started this week, and is now enjoying a decided boom.
—He who is to personify the gentleman from the /‘unknown country” will have a ghost of a show.	...	a ..
a —Those in the literature class possessed of Learic: (lyric) minds are in admiration of Shak-spere.	.
—We are pleased to state that Rev. Father Connor is rapidly recovering from his recent illness.	.
—The swimmers are getting anxious for warm weather. One of them wanted to go to the lake last Thursday. .	-
—Those who occupy the gallery in Washington Hall during histrionic times are able to read. Don’t forget this, Thespians!
—T. Moss desires it to be strictly understood that he will set no more traps for rabbits until after the next snow-storm.
—The reports of the Competitions in the Collegiate Course, which were held during the week, will be published next week.
—Lost.—A watch charm: locket with the monogram L. B. D. on it. Please return to Bro. Emmanuel, or leave at Students’ Office.
—The Crescent Club had a reception last Wednesday. Each member invited a friend, and a very pleasant time is reported by all.
—Boozyris is highly indignant that he was not called upon to play Cassius. Better luck next time, Booz! Look out for Richard III.!
—Several students received valentines.. Most of them, however, were of the kind that makes the recipient feel like retaliating with a brickbat. '	.	•
—The scientific “conversaziones,” to which some of the membersof the Faculty were treated during the week in the office of the Director of Studies, were highly interesting. .
—During the past week Casty has been engaged in calculations concerning Easter, and as a result he found that, on account, of this being a leap-year, Easter Sunday would fall on Monday.
—The “Dancer ought to pay the Fiddler” was the unanimous verdict of some of the members of one of our leading organizations in regard to the actions of their “Frank” last Wednesday evening.
—Bulletins are being prepared for the reception of the marks for the months of January and February. We hope that the first official report for the new session will be satisfactory to all concerned.	.
—Prof. M. F. Egan paid a very delicate and kind attention to Very Rev. Father General, on Wednesday last, in the presentation of a large pheasant which Dr. Egan had received from Lord Aberdeen on whose estates in Scotland it had been taken.	■
—Whether Casty is a Thespian or no, he seems to take great delight in quoting “Julius Caesar.” A few days ago he met skinny ( ?) Gerdesj and, assuming a dramatic attitude, exclaimed: “Away, slight man!” Gerdes couldn’t do it, Casty was in his way.	.
—The None-Such ball took place in the Brownson reading-room on Thursday afternoon. The grand march was led by Waltah Castenado and Jay Eye Case. After an afternoon’s dancing
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	415
the None-Such were favored by a song into . and out of the phonograph by Mr. Hennessy.
—No little excitement was occasioned in the class.of Second Chemistry the other evening. An unexpected explosion startled professor and " pupils so that one of the latter, who, by the way, is a gentleman of considerable bulk, dove under a-bench to escape the flying fragments of glass. .
—Will the Podunk fiend please stop, or tell us who or what a Podunk is. If he means those . seedy individuals who seldom don a respectable suit on Sunday, and allege they are saving them forCommencement, we can understand him, and ' would answer all inquirers by saying: Don’t be a Podunk.
—The St. Cecilians held their regular meeting on Wednesday, Feb. 17. A humorous declamation was well delivered by M. Prichard. An instructive essay on “Reading,” by J. Ball, and an entertaining paper on “College Reminiscences, by J. Delaney, were features of the evening programme. Mr. Rend sought to convince his hearers-that Illinois was//z^ State and Chicago the city of the Union. Then followed the debate: “Resolved, That the United States should extend her dominions.” Affirmative,(Fitzgerald; negative, D. Casey and M. Prichard.
—Last Sunday, Captain Chute, of Company 2?, decided to fill up his complement of officers. To this end he had a drill to decide whom to appoint. The contest was close and exciting. All of the men were trying for an office, and, as . a result, the Company drilled better than ever before. Their guns came down to the floor altogether, making but one sound, and great energy and snap in their drill were shown by the youthful soldiers. Captain Chute, with his two Lieutenants, strove to pick out the best drillers, but all three concurred that there were seven among whom the -selection was too difficult to be made hastily. They were summoned to the armory after drill to decide. They were: Messrs. Pope, O. DuBrul, Ford, Sholer, Marre, Dorsey, and A. Funke. Mr. Pope decided that he had a lead-pipe “ cinch ” on the medal to be given in June, and so withdrew. The drill was resumed, but still no decision could be reached so the appointments were deferred till Thursday." Thursday Captain’ Chute gave out the names of the successful competitors as Messrs. O. DuBrul, A. Funke and E' Dorsey as 4th, 5th and 6th Corporals. He expressed himself as being highly satisfied with the proficiency in drill shown by the whole company, and by the willing spirit shown by the members. After this came a drill for the cake that had been promised. The friends of Mr. P------evidently considered him infallible on the subject of tactics, for many asked him for a piece of the cake before the. drill. Their fond hopes, however, were dashed to the ground, for their favorite was disqualified on the first command, which was roll-call. After a spirited drill, Mr. Sholer won the cake, with. Mr. McDowell second.
—Moot-Court.—The case exhibited on the docket for Saturday, the 6th inst., was Rodney vs Williams. P. Ragan and L. Whelan were attorneys for plaintiff and A. B. Chidester and G. Lancaster for defendant. The-action, was brought for the supposed breach of contract founded on letters and telegrams passed between the parties. From June 1 to the middle of July, 1891, there appeared in the South Bend Tribune an advertisement in which Margaret Williams offered for sale a lot situated in South Bend. About July 10 it attracted the attention of T.A. Rodney, of Warsaw, who contemplated coming with his family to South Bend to live. He at once wrote to the defendant asking for her terms. A few days hence he received a letter stating that the price was $5000, leaving- it at his election to pay cost at once or one third down and deferred payments of the balance with the legal rate of interest and with notes and mortgagebackon the land. Rodney telegraphed immediately as follows: “Offer accepted. Money ready. Send deed at once.” The next day Rodney received a telegram from defendant, saying that she had received a better offer viz.: $6,500 cash, and, unless he could meet these figures, he should consider the trade as off. Rodney sues for the difference between the amount he agreed to give ($5000), and the actual market price of the property, or the price she says she is offered for it, claiming that the first telegram bound the contract. The plaintiff brought action of trespass on the case; defendant demurred to the form of action, which position was sustained by the court, with permission to plaintiff to amend his declaration. The trial was carried over to Saturday, the 13th, when the action was brought in assumpsit, to which the defendant answered, denying that there, was any contract formed. T. Ansbery Rodney was called to the stand and testified as to the correspon dence, and telegraph agent R. E. Frizzelle, as to receiving the message to forward; Editor E: W. Browne, of the Tribune, acknowledged the advertisement to have been published in his paper. Plaintiff maintained that the . measure of damages is not the amount stipulated at the time of the contract, but that at the time of the breach. Defendant claimed that there was no contract of sale; that the telegram was not a sufficient acceptance, and that plaintiff should have been specific in stating which of the two setspf terms he accepted, failing which the contract was void for uncertainty.
The opinion of the court was then given in effect as follows: an advertisement in a newspaper, is a sufficient offer and one held out to all the public; that a telegram or letter, containing an unconditional acceptance, binds the contract; but that in the case at issue the telegram gave but a qualified acceptance, owing to the words contained therein: “Send deed at once”; that plaintiff should have'finished the contract and the money should have been delivered in South Bend, and not in Warsaw. -In
416	NOTRE DAME
$
- i
SCHOLASTIC.	;
support of his opinion the court cited “Sawyer vs. Brossart,” 25 N. W. 876, “Baker vs. Holt,” 56 Wis. 100, “Derrick vs. Monette,” 73 Ala. 75, and “Robinson vs. Weller,” 8 S. E. 447, in which the same principle was involved and the cases decided accordingly. ‘‘The decision of the court must, consequently, be in favor of the defendant, together with costs.”
nes, Morrison, F. Morris, R. Morris, Nichols, Ninneman, j O’Neill, O’Brien, Oatman, W. Pollitz, H. Pollitz, Pieser, .	<
Peck, Pursell, Pratt, Ransome, Rose, Repscher, G. Scher- 1 rer, W. Scherrer, Swan, Smith, Stuckhart, F. Trankle, i L. Trankle, Tussner, Trujillo, Weber, Wilson, Wilcox, j White, Wolf,	;
* Omitted Feb. 6 by mistake.
Class Honors.
Boll of Honor.
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Bachrach, Brady, Cartier, L. Chute, F. Chute, Coady, Carroll, Carney, Combe, Dechant, Dacey, Fitzgerald, Flannery, Hannin, Joslyn, Lancaster) P. Murphy, Monarch,* Maurus, McAuliff, Neef, O’Brien, Quinlan, Rothert, Sanford, Schaack, Sullivan, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, N. Sinnott, R. Sinnott, F. Vurpillat, V. Vurpillat.
BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Arts, Breen, Burns, V. Brennan, J. Brady, E.W. Brown, Beaudry, Brinen, E. J. Brown, Cullen, Corcoran, Corry, Crawley, Cassidy, Correll, Chilcote, Caffrey, Crilly, Castenado, Cherhart, Case, Doheny, Delaney, Devanny, Damsky, Egan, Ellwanger, Foley, Frizzelle, Flannigan, Fardy, Heneghan, Healy, Hesse, Holland, Henly, Houlihan, Heer, Hagan, Hoepe, Jacobs, Kearney, F. Kenny, Krost, Kleekamp, W. M. Kennedy, M. Kelly, Karasynski, Kintzele, Kearns, Kunert, Libert, Lindeke, Layton, C. Mitchell, McFadden, Monarch, D. Murphy, McErlain, McKee, F. Murphy, Mattingly, Mc-Carnck, McDonnell, McCullough, Murray, Maynes, Maisen, Mulcahey, Nester, Newton, O’Connor, O’Donnell, Oide, O’Shea, Powers, Pulskamp, T. Phillips,-Perry, Patier, Quinlan, M. Ryan, Ragan, E. Roby, Raney, Riordan, Sherman, Stanton, Schopp, Stace, Sabin, Tin-nen, Thayne, Vinez, Vurpillat, Welsh, Zeitler, Zeller, D. Phillips.	.
CARROLL HALL.,
Messrs. Arvidson, Ashford, Bauer, Baldauf, Ball, J. Brown, G. Brown, Byrnes, Brennan, Bergland, Burkart, Bachrach, Casey, Covert, Connell, Cullen, Carpenter, Cheney, Dion, DuBrul, DeLormier, Duncombe, Dillon, Dillman, Delaney, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Dorsey, Edwards, Fleming, Falk, Finnerty, A. Funke, G. Funke, W. Ford, W. Foster, Fitzgerald, J; Girsch, L. Gibson, N. Gibson, Gilbert, Griffin, Gillam, Garfias, Garst, Girar-din, Gerher, Gerdes, Hagan, Hilger, Hoban, Hargrave, Hagus, Hittson, Healy, Hamilton, Hack, Janssen, Joseph, Kauffmann, Kreicker, Kindler, Kinneavy, A. Kegler, W. Kegler, Kerker, Levi, Lee, Lowry, Luther, Lawlor, Lane, Leonard, Martin, Mitchell, J. Miller, W. Miller, Meyers, Marre, Miles, Mahon, Moss, McDowell, Nichilson, H. Nichols, O’Brien, O’Rourke, J. O’Neill, W. O’Neill, Oliver, Payne, Peake, Prichard, Pope, Rupel, Rogers, Ratterman, Renesch, Rumely, Regan, H. Reedy, C. Reedy, Rend, Sullivan, Stern, Sparks, Sedwick, Shimp, Scholer, Sweet, Slevin, Shirk, Thornton, Thome, J. Tong.O. Tong, Tallon, Teeter, Thorn, Trimble, Theit, Tobin, Todd, Vorhang, Walker, Weaver, E. White, J. White, N. Weitzel,,B. Weitzel, Wellington, Wells, Wagner, Warner, Werisinger, Yeager, C. Zoehrlaut, G. Zoehrlaut.
.	ST. EDWARD’S HALL.	.
Masters Ayers, Ahern, R. Brown, 0. Bums, Blumenthal, ,V. Berthelet, R. Berthelet, Ball, Cornell, Corry, Christ, Curtin, Chapbton, J. Coquillard, A. Coquillard, Croke, Cross, W. Durand, B. Durand, Dugas, L. Don-ijell, S. Donnell, W. Emerson, F. .Emerson, Egan, Finnerty, Fuller, Fossick, J. Freeman, N. Freeman, B. Freeman, E. Furthmanh, C. Furthman, Girsch, Gregg, Gilbert, Hoffman, Howard, Holbrook, .Hilger, Healy, Roy Higgins, Ralph Higgins, Jonquet, Kinney, Kuehl, Krollman, Kern, E. LaMoure, W. LaMoure, Londoner, Lysle, Lawton, Langley, Loughran, Lonergan, Longevin, Lowrey, McPhee, McIntyre, R. McCarthy, E. McCarthy, G. McCarthy, E. McCarthy, McAlister, McLeod, Mater-
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. Covert, Dix, Weaver, Mills, Hagan, W. Sullivan, Janssen, F. White, J. White, Stern, O. Tong, Strauss, Rupel, Evans, Payne, Sedwick, Ashford, Todd, Tallon, E. Brennan, C. Cullen, Sparks, Grote, Lee, DeLormier, L. Gibson, A. McKee, Falk, H. Nichols, Stone, McDowell, Theit, Sweet, Peake, Barbour, Johnson, Thomas, Hargrave, Griffin, Rend, Stephens, Baldauf, O’Connor,'J. Keager, Miller, Gerdes, Slevin, N. Weitzel, B. Weitzel, Finnerty, Hittson, Miles, Kinneavy, Lane, Oliver, Lawlor, McPhee, Phillipson, Rumely, Edwards, Prichard, Wellington, Tobin, Burkart, Bears, F. Brown, Feehan, Carpenter, J. O’Neill, Vorhang, L. Healy, O. DuBrul, Arvidson, Garfias, Burns, Nichilson, Heneghan, Palmer, G. Ryan, Walsh, Perry, J. Ryan, Kilkenney, T. Quinlan, Krembs, Whitehead, Pulskamp, Murray, Carter, Burns, V. Brennan, R. Healy, A. Brady, T. Monarch, J. Cummings, J. O’Connor, Egan, Baldwin, R, Harris, Phillips, Arts, E. Brown, Stanton, Malmey, Zeitler, E. Kelly, Moxley, Hesse, Layton, Oide, McErlain, W. Funke, Mc-Gonnigle, E. Mitchell, Maynes, Ludlow, C. Roby, Rudd, Weaver, Ellwanger, Colby, E. Harris, Riordan, Lindeke, E. Roby, Hoepe, Marmion, Hennessy, Stace, Tinnen, - Conroy, R. Delaney, Cook, Mattingley, Nester, Fardy, Kenny, Perkins, Sabin, Newton, E. Hagan, Case, Mulcahy, Marston, J. Corry.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. T. Brady, Ball, Bates, J. Browne, J. Brennan, W. Cummings, G. Gilbert, Gerner, Girsch, Hawthorne, McCullough, G. McDonnell, Major, F. Murphy, C. McCarthy, F. O’Rourke, Rogers, E. Smith, Sherman, L. Thome, Yingst, Bergland, Bixby, Doyle, Easily, Gillam, Kauffman, Thayne, Krost, Krenctler, W. Kegler, D. Kelly, A. Kegler, Markhoff, F. O’Brien, Onzon, Pope, E. Vurpillat, Washburne, Zeller, Ford, Hennessy.
List of Excellence.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Greek— Messrs. Walker, McNamee, D. Murphy; Latin —Messrs. Whitehead, Smoger, Kinneavy, Grote, Wellington, N. Weitzel\ Algebra—Messrs. Lindeke, J. Ryan, DuBois, Strauss, C. McCarthy; Arithmetic—Messrs. R-. Harris, Wagner, E. O’Connor, Luther; Reading— M. Byrnes; Orthography—L. Healy; Geography—L. Healy; United States History— Messrs. M. Burns, E. O’Connor; ’ Grammar—Messrs; J. Dillon, N.- Gibson, Hamilton, * Hoffman, Vorhang, H. Nichols, Arvidson, W. Kegler, ’ Sparks, Stanton, R. Harris, Hesse, Roy, Fischer, Labelle, Welsh; Christian Doctrine—L. Healy.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Book-Keeping—Messrs.. Ball, Bates, Hawthorne, E.
Smith, L. Thome, Bergland, Bixby, C. Corry, Duncombe, ■ W. O’Neill, Krost, Krenctler, W. Kegler, Markhoff, । Nockels; Arithmetic—Messrs..Zeller, Kintzelle, Bixby, J. Brown, McCullough, Ball, Caffrey, Sherman, Zeitler; Grammar—Messrs. G. Gerner, Strauss; Penmanship— Messrs. Chilcote, R. Harris, Hack, Stanton; Reading— . Messrs. Dion, Stone, Bixby, Lee, Levi, Glass, Kauffman, Dillon, J. Brown, DeLormier, Falk; G. Gilbert, W. Keg- , ler, Regan, Washburn, R. Harris, Perkins, Hesse, Schnur;	<
Orthography—Messrs., T. Monarch, Bauer, DeLormier, j Washburn, Leonard, Shimp, Ball, Breen; Geography— i Messrs. Ball, Girsch, Palmer, Hesse; United States History—Messrs. Ball, Palmer..	' ,	.	,
T
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
4T7
RMS
St. Mapy’g fisademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—By mistake the name of Miss E. Dennison— who is advanced to the Second class of drawing—was omitted from the list of promotions given in the report of last week.
—The teachers and classmates of Miss Hallie Sanford extend to her their deepest sympathy in the bereavement she is called upon to endure by the death of her mother, which occurred on Tuesday, February 16.
—The Graduates have already begun their work in criticism, and as a first step in this direction, have submitted very creditable book reviews, thus proving their ability to make, later on, a lengthy and exhaustive criticism of the works of their chosen author.
—The bright, cold weather of the past days was thoroughly enjoyed by those among, the pupils who hail from northern climes. On them the brisk walk out-of-doors acts as a tonic, whence they return with rosy cheeks, bright eyes, and an increased capacity for study.
—At the reception on Tuesday evening, February 9, the members of the Graduating class acted as hostesses, receiving the Second Seniors. A recitation, by Miss Carpenter, and an instrumental duet, by the Misses Ludwig and Field, contributed greatly to the pleasure of the evening.
—The members.of the Art Society held their regular meeting on Feb. 9. The Roman and Byzantine schools of painting engaged the attention of the society during the early part of the evening, after which Philip Gilbert Hamer-ton’s essay on “Landscape Painting” was read by Miss Marrinan.
—The first number of The Chimes for the new session, edited by the Third Senior class, was read by the Misses Farwell and Clifford at the academic meeting of February 14. It proved an entertaining and thoughtful number, its leading article on Christian Doctrine being especially commended by the Rev. Chaplain, who presided.
—The magnificent display of the aurora borealis was visible at St. Mary’s from six to seven Saturday evening, Feb. 13. The deep crimson of the northern sky faded at times to a pale pink, again flushing to a lovely rose, through which shot rays of white light, like tongues of flame. The snow on the roofs of the surrounding buildings wore .a ruddy glow, and commonplace objects, bathed in the rosy light, were transformed into things of beauty; while the full moon, sailing serenely through the heavens, looked down upon a sight gorgeous in the extreme. The phenomenon was one to excite - admiration hot unmingled with awe, bringing home to the heart the truth of the words: “The heavens declare the glory of God.”
—The literary societies; interrupted in their meetings by the examinations, resumed their usual work on' last Tuesday evening. In St. Teresa’s society, Pope’s translation of the 2Eneid continues to hold the attention of the members, relieved by readings from the Century, Cosmopolitan, Review of Reviews, etc.; while at the last meeting, an essay from Emerson, with Browning’s “Good News from Aix” gave a pleasing variety to the reunion. Brother Azarias’ “History of Literature” forms the leading study for the members of St. Catherine’s Society, to which is added, in lighter vein, entertaining sketches of men and things, concerning which the pupils should be informed. The Preparatory classes, who form St. Angela’s association, have been considering the inimitable Dickens, while the little ones of St. Agnes’ Society are entertained by following the fortunes of the youthful kings and queens of history.
—Now that the lengthening days give better opportunities for reading, the library-proves, to the studiously inclined, a most attractive apartment. In pleasant contrast to the merry laughter and conversation of the recreation rooms, here silence reigns, save from the rustle of leaves as the reader pours over the pages of some literary favorite, dr diligently consults the encyclopedias. Here conversation is limited to what is strictly necessary, and thus that delightful quiet is secured so dear the heart of the earnest student. Here the great men, who have dazzled the world by their genius, live again, and speak’ from the treasured lore that lies at hand waiting to be read. Thus, whether one wishes to, pursue some fact that lies hidden within some ancient volume, or is in the mood to wander through the realms of poetry or romance, in the library is found every means for beguiling the passing hours.
Idleness.
Standing on the verge of a new century and looking back through the ages, even to the time “when the years were young,” it cannot but be noticed that there have always existed a class of people with whom idleness was a natural propensity; a class wholly oblivious to the value of time and to the manner in which ■ it should be employed. Nor do we find these lovers of ease confined to any one country or district; on the contrary, they are to be met with in all walks of life and in eyeiy portion of- the globe. Moreover, there are all grades of society represented among idlers, and men of varied attainments, and gifted with many sterling qualities, are victims to this spirit of indolence. Rip Van Winkle and Micawber are not isolated examples; for we see around us in everyday life men whose repugnance to exer
418
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tion is painful to those who are blessed with energetic dispositions. Idleness manifests itself at a very early age, and the school-room is generally the first field on which it begins its active career. We say active, for often the idler will go through more labor to avoid accomplishing a task than would be required in the allotted work itself.
Those who yield to idleness are often addicted to many other vices, for it is one of a large and prolific family of failings; chief among the near relatives are selfishness, uncharitableness and intemperance. Duties to God and the demands of religion are neglected by the idle man, and he who is not true to the requirements of his Creator is certainly careless in performing the duties he owes to his fellow men. It has been said that “an idle mind is the devil’s workshop; ” and, who does not realize the truth of this. saying? Labor is the law of life, and from the transgression of our first parents all have come under its exactions. The thinker, the speaker, the writer, the artisan,—all must toil. In all walks of life there are to be found men who, like the rois faineants, leave their work for others to do; but, like them also in the result reaped, they find that “no service is like self-service.”
The noble deeds that have astonished the world have been the fruit of industry; and whether we glean our examples from the pages of history and literature, or from the living pages of life arid experience, we see that idleness accomplishes nothing worthy of notice, whereas industry makes all things subservient to its efforts. There is happiness, too, in labor, which comes not to the idle man. Men of leisure are generally restless and uneasy in their search after pleasure; they use more energy running from one amusement to another than does the day:laborer in his eight or ten hours’, manly toil. Father Faber says the day is thirty-six hours long to the lazy man; and Count de Caylus, a French nobleman of wealth, who turned his attention to engraving said: “I engrave, that I may not hang myself,” for he realized the truth of the old saying: “The human heart is like a millstone; if you put wheat under it, it grinds the wheat into flour; if you put no wheat, it grinds on, but then ’tis itself it wears away.”
The experience of all times teaches us that the mind which is left unoccupied with serious thoughts, and the powers suffered to remain unused, lose theirvigor, and the noblest purposes ~ of life are thereby frustrated. The necessity of labor and industry is summed.up in the strong words of Sir Joshua Reynolds: “Let every
beginner in life put forth his whole strength; for if he has great talents, industry will improve them; if he has moderate abilities, industry will supply their deficiency.”
“ Eva Adelsperger.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Augustine, Bassett, Bero, E. Burns, Bell, R. Butler, Brady, A. Butler, C. Barry, Buell, Black, Byrns, Bogart, Charles, M. Clifford, Crilly, Carpenter, L. Clifford, D. Davis, Dempsey, Duffy, Dieffen-bacher, Dennison, Dingee, Fitzpatrick, Field, Griffith, Green,Galvin, Grace, Gibbons, Goge, Hellmann,Hutchinson, Higgins, Hammond, Hopkins, Hittson, Hunt, Kirley, Klingberg, Kemme, Kieffer, Kelly, Kasper, Kauffmann, Kingsbaker, Kiernan, Kinney, Lynch, Lewis, Ludwig, Londoner, Lennon, Lantry, Morse, M. Moynahan, Marri-nan. Murison, Morehead, E. McCormack, D. McDonald, McGuire, A. Moynahan, M. McDonald, McCune, Maxon, Nacey, L. Nickel, M. Nichols, B. Nichols, Nester, O’Sullivan, Plato, M. Patier, Payne, Quinn, A. Ryan, K. Ryan, Robinson, M. Roberts, Rizer, Russert, Rothschild, M. Smyth, A. Smith, A. Seeley, C. Sena, Shaw, Sleeper, Singler, Thirds, Tietjen, Tod, Van Mourick, G. Win-standley, B. Winstandley, Wurzburg, Whitney, Wolverton, Wile, Zahm.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Boyle, Berg, Fields, Hopper, Hickey, Kasper, Mills, Ryder, Scott, Tilden, Wolverton, Williams, Whit-tenberger.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses Ahern, Buckley, Dysart, M. Egan, H. Girsch, Lingard, McKenna, McCormack, A. McCarthy, Murray, Palmer, Wormer. ’
Class Honors.
LANGUAGE COURSE.
LATIN.
1ST Class—Misses M. Roberts, M. Smyth.
2D Class—Misses McGuire, Nacey, Thirds.
3D Class—Misses Higgins, Lancaster.
FRENCH.
1ST Class—Misses K. Morse, E. Dennison, Gibbons.
2D Class—Misses D. Davis, Bero, Bassett, Lynch, A. Ryan, Wile, Morehead.
3D Class—Misses Call, A. E. Dennison, Dempsey, A. . Tormey, M. Dennison, M. Byrnes, Hickey, K. Ryan, M. Murison, Tod. .
2D Div.—Misses Sena, Moore, Van Mourick, Doble, Whitmore, S. Smyth, Kinney.	-
4TH Class—Misses Seeley, Robinson, Black, E. McCormack, Butler, Stewart, R.- Lichtenhein, Kemme, M. Nichols, B. Nichols, Dieffenbacher, Londoner, A. Smith, Hammond, Rizer,. Field/L. Griffith, G. Cowan, Ludwig, Bogart, Tietgen, Maxon.
2D Div.—Misses M. Davis, B. Davis, Hopper, Berthelet, Meskill, Baxter, Nacey, Curtin, Culp.
5TH Class—Misses Dysart, Egan, M. McCormack, Wormer, Finnerty.	.
german. .
2D Class, ist Div.—Misses L. Nickel, Wile; Ludwig, Nacey, Marrinan.	.	. '
3D Class—Misses. Green, E. Adelsperger, Kirley, E. Dennison, Kieffer, Welter, Farwell, Dreyer, C. Kasper, Kingsbaker, O’Mara.	.
4th Class—Misses Klingberg, O’Sullivan, Wolffe, G. Winstandley, Tietjen, M. Moynahan, A. Girsch, Leppel, Schmidt, Lichtenhein,. Johnson, Pfaelzer, L. Schaefer, Jacobs, E. Seeley D. McDonald..
= 5TH Cl ass—Misses B. Winstandley, Hellman,Keating, Holmes, Lennon, G._ Cowan, Buell, A. Cowan, Hittson, Lantry. Dingee, Maxon/N. Smyth. ’	■