
THE WEEK
BY J. Q. O’CONNELL
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Top of the Week:
The Navy drops anchor!
We Are Visited
T. V. comes into our little hole unexpectedly the other day, catching us reading the Chicago Tribune.
“Chief” we say, flushing guiltily, “this is an unlooked for pleasure, and, honest, we were only snatching a peek at “Terry and the Pirates.”
“Enough,” says T. V., holding up an imperious hand. “We are not interested in the disintegration of your mind. We are here to talk business. You may rise.”
We get gratefully off our knees, and look up at him, our face shiny with eagerness. “Chief,” we say, “only speak, and it shall be done. Whom do we go to work on?”
He ignores this.
“J. Q.,” he says, “what do you know about the sea? Are you conversant with nautical life. Have you ever stood on a poop-deck, with the salt air whistling down your throat, and the foamy waves pounding and billowing about your barque?”
“We rowed across Lincoln Park Lagoon once, Chief,” we say. “During a rain squall, too. Boy, what a day that was!”
“Bah!” says T. V., explosively. “And bah, again. Save that harrowing experience for your memoirs.” (Our memoirs are neatly stacked over in one corner of our room, awaiting the man from Houghton-Mifflin.) “Here we are, trying to put out a briny edition, in honor of our new guests, and all you’ve done is row across a lagoon. Thrice bah! Zounds,” he groans, tearing at his hair, “now I know how William Allen White feels, land-locked in Kansas. The trial we editors must face. ...”
“If it will help any, we saw ‘Captain Blood’ when it came out, Chief,” we put in, a little timidly.
“You did? I missed that one. How was it? Errol Flynnish, I suppose. . . .” Then he catches himself. “To Davy Jones’ Locker with ‘Captain Blood!’ Modern naval life is different nowadays, in case you don’t know it, J. Q. They have steel ships nowadays, and they generally fight with guns instead of swords. But I’m not asking you to write a history of the Navy. I’ll be satisfied if you make
that column tangy—do you understand? —tangy, just this once. That’s not asking too much, is it, J. Q.? I’ve tried to be lenient with you. I’ve-let you have your own way. But this time I want it done my way. Be personal—nice and friendly. Say we’re glad to have ’em around. You might start off -with something about that ensign who goes around under sidearms. . .
“So that’s what he carries. It looks like his lunch.”
The chief favors us with a look of vast disgust. “I give up. I don’t care what you say. Make it anything you like, only for the love of Barnegat Light, say something about the sailors.” He turns to go, then he stops.
“And another thing. You might mention for the benefit of the Senior Class that the Ball is coming up next week. Don’t try any sales talk. Just remind them casually that it’s their last Ball, that one of the best bands in the country is coming, that the Bob Hawk Quiz Show, starting at 9:25, gives away $800 in Defense Bonds, that the ‘Country Garden’ decoration theme is "working out nicely, that the Quiz Show gives away $800 in Defense Bonds, that the favors look nicer than ever, and that the Quiz Show gives away $800 in Defense Bonds. You know, be subtle, especially about that $800 in Defense Bonds.”
With a parting smile, he rolls out the door, whistling a pretty punk version of the “Sailor’s Hornpipe,” leaving us to wonder how the dickens we’re going to work all that into the column.
TO R. LeM. Via W. von Goethe “You sit forever gluing, patching;
“You cook the scraps from others’ fare; “And from your heap of ashes hatching “A starveling flame, ye blow it bare.”
That’s telling him off, Wolfgang!
Overheard in Walgreen’s
Female: Say, I hear youse boys is having a big dance out there at school next week. What band ya gonna have?
Male: Vaughn Monroe.
Female: Boy, do I love dancin’. Male: Well, so long, here comes my bus.
Bottom of the Week:
All the potential “Bottom of the Week’s” we’ve missed this year.
Enteied as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Thomas V. Powers, Editor
Don Heltzel..................Managing	Editor
William Scanlan............Promotion
John Dinges....................Sports	Editor
William Baader....................Art	Editor
Tom Clemens.....Administration Editor Dan Downey......Campus	Editor
Ed Drinkard.........Staff Photographer Leo Lee.............Advertising
Frank Kiener..............Advertising
John Lynch.................Photo Editor Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate p'ress, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 228 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Buillding: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
PAGE
SPECIAL FEATURE	’
The Navy Comes to Notre Dame (6 pages of pictures)....17
NEWS
ADMINISTRATION
N D. Welcomes 900 V-7 Men_______ 3
Alumnus Wills Testimonials to Library.. 5
Matthew J. Carney, Trustee, Dead. 4
CAMPUS
Naval Cadets Dance Friday.....  6
Planning Completed For	-
Last Great Senior Ball__________ 8
Notre Dame Approved For V-l Program ..........     7
SPORTS
Klinemen Face Iowa Today ........10
Students Watch Spring Practice____13
FEATURES
The Week .................        2
The Upper Bunk.....„.............37
College Parade ................  25
Introducing .................   .27
Scoop'n Splinters .............  15
Man About the Campus ...........  7
What About Sports .............  21
2
------ " 1 ----------------------------------------------
ual-.. I "_■	■^■■1	■ ■ u	.	-■	-	1	■ .	. I	.	-J	I1-	-	-■	g-' -■ 1 ■■	—
N. D. Welcomes 900 V-7 Men To Campus;
40 Officers, 70 Enlisted Men Direct Training
The figure of the Blessed Virgin atop the University of Notre Danie’s famous golden dome, symbol of all that is good, found her outstretched hands bidding welcome to the peaceful campus on Wednesday to 900 young, sturdy and spirited men from throughout the nation who have pledged their lives that God-fearing men shall rule this world.
Capt. H. P. Burnett
The things they have in common will be apprentice seamanship ratings in the United States navy; goals of ensign ratings and ultimately, perhaps, higher rankings; a will to do their part and a background of complete college training.
These 900 apprentice seamen will form the first group in the United States navy’s training school, V-7 indoctrination. In 30 days most of them, perhaps all of them, will leave the campus, bound for midshipmen ratings and additional training at one of three other training centers.	.
One group, training to become deck officers, will go to Abbott Hall, on the Chicago campus of Northwestern University. A second group in the same classification will go to Columbia University, New York City, while the third group, made up of engineering trainees, will continue their training on the Prairie State, formerly the battleship
Illinois, which is anchored in the Hudson river in New York.
Capt. H. P. Burnett, commandant of the training school at the University, expressed the keynote of the program, which will continue each month with new and larger classes of recruits, when he said:
“We will be very busy.”
The 900 arriving Wednesday, graduates of far-flung colleges and universities, had scarcely placed their belongings in Lyons, Morrissey and Howard halls on the campus before their mode of living noticeably changed.
First, Capt. Burnett said, the young men checked into the naval station headquarters in the Rockne Memorial field-hous and were issued uniforms and instructions.
Thursday the 900 will get their “shots,” inoculations of every routine type. Friday they attend their first classes in studies required for deck officers and engineers, including mathematics.
On Monday, April 20, the trainees’ first regular week of routine work will begin and it goes like this:
Breakfast in the Notre Dame dining hall at 6:30 a.m. From 8 a.m. until 9:15 a.m. four platoons will be hearing a lecture, four platoons will be drilling, four will be learning gun-loading, rifle-range performance, seamanship and first aid, and four will be studying mathematics. The platoons shift for the period from 9:45 to 11:05 a.m. and lunch is served at 11:30 a.m. The third period, with the four platoons again shifted, runs from 12:30 to 2 p.m. and the fourth, the final shift in platoons, extends from 2:30 to 4 p.m. Dinner is served at 5:30 p.m., and the recruits will study from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. Taps ■will be sounded at 10 p.m.
The routine schedule for all days, Monday through Friday is the same, except that on each day one platoon will have an athletic period instead of a lecture.
During the first two periods on Saturday, captain’s inspection will be held. After lunch the 900 recruits will be at liberty until Sunday night. -
Because of the freedom on week-ends it is expected that South Bend churches (Continued on page 29)
Two Men Directing Training Have Colorful Navy Careers
Two men who have been down to the sea in ships—fighting ships—direct the preparation of thousands of young college-trained seamen at the new naval training station.
Calm, business-like Capt. H. P. Burnett is commandant of the station, V-7 indoctrination center, which received its first 900 apprentice seamen today for 30-day courses.
Young, dynamic Lieut. Commander J. D. Shaw is the executive officer of the station who keeps the machinery of training humming.
Both are graduates of the United States Naval academy, Annapolis, Md., and both have been, during the course of their interesting navy careers, commanders of destroyers.	'
Becomes Commander in 1935
Capt. Burnett was graduated, from the academy in 1915 and during the first world war he served on the staff of Admiral Henry T. Mayor, the commanderin-chief of the United States fleet, aboard the flagship U. S. S. Pennsylvania.
His advancement in naval ranks was rapid. Commissioned an ensign upon his (Continued on page 31) ’
Commander J. D. Shaw
3
Matthew J. Carney, University Trustee, Long-Time Friend of Notre Dame, Dead
Notre Danie lost one of its most beloved friends during Holy Week. He was Matthew J. Carney, a former vice-president and director, Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation, and a lay-trustee of the University, who died at his home in New Rochelle, N. Y., after a brief illness. He was 67 years of age.
Matthew J. Carney
Mr. Carney was born near Leitchfield, Ky., in 187-5. Subsequently he lived in Paducah, a nearby town, where he received his early education. He attended St. Mary’s College, from which he was graduated in 1894.
Mr. Carney had worked with the Paducah, Tennessee and Alabama Railroad, and later as a reporter. In 1899 he began his long association with the oxyacetylene industry when he became sales agent for the Union Carbide Company in Kansas City, Mo. He took a prominent part in the development of the oxyacetylene process of welding and cutting metals, and served as an officei- of a number of the leading companies of the industry. In 1917 he became vice-president of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation at the time of its formation. He held many directorates, and was well known both in New York and Chicago for his philanthropic interest in educational and ecclesiastical work.
Besides being a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame, he was listed with the
4
Board of Trustees of the Holy Family Church in New Rochelle, and was a member of the executive committee of the Catholic Charities of New York. His clubs included the Westchester Country Club of Rye, and the Wykagl Country Club of New Rochelle.
He is survived by his wife, Lucile Rogers Carney, a brother, Charles Carney, of Louisville, Ky., and two sisters, Mrs. Stonewall J. Gardner, of New Albany, Ind., and Miss Frances Carney, of Louisville, Ky.
Services, Requiem Mass, were held Monday, April 6, at the Holy Family Church, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Rev, Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial of the Holy Cross Congregation, and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, officiated at the funeral services. Honorary pallbearers were: officers of the Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation: William F. Barrett, vice-president; Ralph R. Browning, vice-president; William E. Cotter, counselor; Fred H. Haggerson, vice-president; Paul P. Huffard, vice-president; Benjamin O’Shea, president; James A. Rafferty, vice-president; Jesse J. Ricks, chairman of the Board; Robert W. White, vice-president and treasurer and Frank C. Walker, postmaster-general, also a lay member of the University Board of Trustees.
Local Broadcast To Fete Universal Notre Dame Night
William B. Guyol
Nineteenth annual Universal Notre Dame Night will be held this Friday, April 17, and the campus feature will be the “Meet Your Navy” radio program which .will emanate from the Notre Dame campus for that night.
The above announcement, made by Harry F. Kelly, secretary of state of Michigan, and national president of the Alumni Association, ties in closely with the arrival on the University campus-of the 900 V-7 Navy apprentice seamen for indoctrination training. The broadcast, usually emanating from the Great Lakes training station, will be held in the University field house with the V-7 men, 3,000 Notre Dame students, faculty ■ and officer personnel and the Notre Dame alumni of the St. Joseph Valley, in attendance, totaling an anticipated 5,500. '
The broadcast, 7:30 to 8 p.m. central
war time, 1930 to 2000 in N.R.O.T.C. terms, willfeature the Great Lakes band and choir, with orchestra, accompanied by Eddie Peabody, popular entertainer, the University band and glee club, and talks by Admiral John Downes, commandant of the Ninth Naval District and Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Begun in 1924, Universal Notre Dame Night has annually grown in program and extent. The 94 local alumni clubs throughout the world, supplemented by other groups, especially this year the N. D. men in the many camps and training schools of the armed forces, meet simultaneously on this night, and since 1935 have enjoyed the unifying factor of a national radio broadcast featuring the president of the University and other Notre Dame features.
Harry F. Kelly
The “Meet Your Navy” program on the Blue network, with WLS the key station, has rapidly grown over a three months period until it now has an outlet through more than 300 individual stations and reaches many foreign service groups by short wave. The close relationship existing between Notre Dame and the . Navy makes this union of Notre Dame Night and the Navy broadcast one of both strength and mutual interest.
Students will be seated in the south stands of the Field House, and are requested to present their Athletic Coupon Books at the south entrance to serve as identification.
With but..few exceptions Michigan’s constitution is outmoded and needs a thorough revision, asserts John A. Perkins of the University of Michigan political science department. ’
Library Presented With Testimonials of Hugh A. O'Donnell, Outstanding Alumnus
BILL SCANLAN
Testimonials to the active, interesting, and progressive life of one of Notre Dame’s outstanding alumni, Hugh A. O’Donnell, ’94, became the property of the University Library in the form of rare books, autographs and paintings, Paul R. Byrne, librarian, announced recently. The gifts provided for by the will of the late Mr. O’Donnell include 150 of the world’s best-known characters, 17 autographed books, and an oil painting of the famed New York City alumnus by the artist Nikol Schattenstein which now has a featured position on the east wall of. the journalism room in the Library just north of the office of Professor John M. Cooney.
The career of Notre Dame’s outstanding journalist, which began as a Scholastic editor in his undergraduate days, finally blossomed into the kenote position as assistant business manager for the New York Times, in which capacity he was contact man between the newspaper that publishes “All the news fit to print” and the constant flow of celebrities who were won by his keen mind and his diversity of background and interests.
- The namesake of the present University president, Father Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., was a founder and patron of the Notre Dame club of New York and in 1924 became president of the National Notre Dame Alumni association.
Replying to a letter sent by Mr. O’Donnell in 1927, the Rev. Francis P. Duffy, noted chaplain, of the Fighting 69th, replied: “I treasure that letter of yours very much. It is a very welcome testimonial from one whose opinion I prize very much.” Daniel F. Fitzpatrick, outstanding cartoonist for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, promised Mr. O’Donnell an original of a cartoon series, “Laws of. Moses,” in another letter.
Knute K. Rockne, on Jan. 21, 1927, wrote of a vacation trip to the Hawaiian Islands: “I had a wonderful trip and the family is back home fine and healthy.” . - -In-March of the same year, Rockne asked O’Donnell to help four Notre Dame men —Bill Cronin, George Radigan, Dick Halpin and Harold Reynolds—to gain working passage aboard a ship bound for Europe.
The collection now includes a letter from a gentleman named Franklin D. Roosevelt, who corresponded with Mr. O’Donnell in March, 1919, relative to a release from the navy of a seaman second class. Mr. Roosevelt was then assistant secretary of the navy.
The Late Hugh A. O’Donnell
Even • competitors on the New York newspaper horizon came to O’Donnell for advice and suggestions. And O’Donnell was noted for bestowing congratulations upon successful competitors. One of the most gracious replies came from the pen of Stuart Olivier, publisher of the New York Telegram and Evening Mail.
In glancing over the files of letters, one may flip the pages of original letters from such persons as Eugene O’Neil, His Eminence, Patrick Cardinal Hayes, Deems Taylor, Will Hays, Alexander Woollcott, Hillaire Belloc, Bernarr McFadden, Andrew Mellon, Patrick J. Hurley, Joseph Pulitzer and Christy Walsh. A large number of them are personal notes, from the original handwriting of those men.
Among correspondents in 1925 were Don Miller, president of the class of ’25, and Harry Stuhldreher, quarterback of the Four Horsemen backfield which also included Miller. Mr. O’Donnell’s thoughtfulness of others was revealed by. a'note from Fiorella LaGuardia, New York’s ambitious mayor. LaGuardia announced that he had just returned to his City Hall desk after an illness: “Your letter brought me a great deal of cheer.” That letter was dated Oct. 15, 1940.
Eamon de Valera, current head of the Irish Free State was a newspaperman, according to O’Donnell’s files. De Valera once published the Fiannia Fail. Bruce (Continued on page 38)
Revised Educational System
“The American system of education wastes time and does not have enough intellectual discipline,” Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., director of faculty of the University, told the National Catholic Educational Association at a meeting in the Stevens Hotel in Chicago, April 8.
“While this nation is at war the proper time has arrived for the United States to economize on time and to improve the discipline in education.”
He recommended that the American educational ladder consist of a six year elementary school, a four year high school and a four year college. This ladder would omit the seventh and eighth grades, which are largely made up of reviews, and would distribute the things of value to be found in these school years in the lower grades by having a longer school day and longer school year.
The Return of the Pigeon
To Dr. Francis E. McMahon, the interventionists’ gift to Notre Dame, last week an old pigeon came to roost. It
DR. F. MCMAHON
came in the form of a telegram from the New York City convention floor of the annual gathering of the Catholic Association for American Peace. The olive branch it bore: Presidency of the Association.
The pigeon was only a year late: Dur
ing the peace - time Easter of 1941,
it soared past the Golden Dome and eastward to the Association’s Convention at
Washington, D. C. McMahon, the Mid-Western interventionist, in the last year of his famine wanted the presidency. With no Pearl Harbor in sight, the Association kicked the doctor upstairs, gave him the bird and the vice-presidency.
This week the herald of the first year of plenty winged homeward.
Lee Ya-Ching
Garbed in the ankle-length dress of her native Hongkong, Miss Lee Ya-Ching, China’s’ “First Lady of the Air,” visited the campus last week. She is touring the country in the interests of the current campaign for the United China Relief. She urged Notre Dame men to recognize and cooperate with the efforts of the South Bend chairman for United. China Relief.
5
CADETS HOLD FIRST NAVAL BALL IN HISTORY OF SCHOOL FRIDAY ON ROCKNE MEMORIAL COURT
DAVE CONDON
The- coming of the fleet was a mammoth occasion in the annals of Notre Dame history. But a still bigger occasion, at least for the recently established Naval R.O.T.C. unit, will be on April 17, when the laddies drag out their full dress togs, discard class worries, and take their girls to the first Navy Ball.
That means that over 150 future officers on subs, destroyers, battleships, cruisers, and barges, will escort an equal number of local and imported talent to the Rockne memorial, the Notre Dame Annapolis, for one evening of jigs.
Cadet John Herlihy, a future admiral from New London, Conn., is general chairman of the ball. He will escort Miss Mary Vaughn, Lafayette, Ind., and St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross, Ind. He is assisted by Cadet Paul Rooney, a Detroit man, who is in charge of arrangements. Cadet Rooney will escort a Detroit lass, Miss Marion Maxwell, who attends the University of Michigan.
Unit Captain H. P. Burnett and Mrs. Burnett will head the receiving line at the balk
Invitations to the dance have been extended to a large number of officers in - the Ninth Naval district, including Admiral John Downes. Previous to the Ball the cadets and their dates will' sit in a reserved section of the N. D. fieldhouse for the national broadcast of “Meet Your Navy.”
Cadet Lt. Com. Robert L. Bobbett, battalion commander of the unit, from St. Louis, Mo., will escort Miss Jerry Dazey, of St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross, Ind.	‘
Chairmen of other committees include: Alfred "Bohn, Chicago, Ill., invitations; Joseph Hickey, Los Angeles, Calif., music; Charles Seghers, Mt. Lebanon, Pa., decorations; and John Zwicker, Appleton, Wis., refreshments.
Six Campus Groups To
Meet at Nazareth College
Notre Dame representatives from the C.A.S., the Student Commission, the Liturgical Society, the Speakers Bureau, the Servers Club, and the Vincentians, together with many unaffiliated students, will convene at Nazareth College, Kala
6
mazoo, Mich., April 18 and 19, for the first regional congress of the Fort Wayne Region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students. Although the federation functions on the campus through only the first three of the aforementioned organizations, the added interest is the result of recent plans to organize all the Catholic clubs on the campus into a local federation.
Local students who will speak on the program are, from the C.A.S., Martin McLaughlin and Alphonse A. Sommer; from the Liturgical Society, George Bar-iscillo; and from the Student Comrnis-sion, Louis Kurtz, Jack Terry and John A. Lynch. The Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C., regional chaplain, will also be on the program:	.
Local Round Table Men
Active in Mid-west Meet
Bill Clarke
Eight members of the Notre Dame Economic Round Table participated in the Twelfth Mid-West Conference of the International Relations Clubs on the 27th and 28th of last month at Muncie, Ind. The host school this year was Ball State Teachers College. The 1943 conference will be held at MacMurray College in Jacksonville, Ill.
The International Relations Clubs are . sponsored by the Division of Education of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. In the colleges and universities of the United States there are 735 such clubs, and in foreign countries, 184 clubs. The Mid-West Conference embraces 75 colleges and universities in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin. The Notre Dame Economic Round Table is an active member of the Conference, and as such it annually receives an invitation to send delegates to the Mid-West Conference.
' Attending this year’s conference were the following members of the Round Table: Seniors, Roger W. Young, George E. York, and Coe McKenna; Juniors, Charles Kralovec, John Ryan, Bart Ram-sour, and William O’Neil; Sophomore, ’ Charles Uruella. .
At the Conference Roger Young presented a paper entitled, “The Japanese Threat to Human Rights,” Coe McKenna, a paper, “How Can The United States Understand Latin America?” and Charles Kralovec, “The Japanese Threat to India.” In one of the sessions, “After . the War—What?” John Ryan participated as a discussion leader. The other delegates attended various sessions and took an active part in the discussions following the presentation of papers.
Last week, on the 8th of April, at a regular weekly meeting of the club at the Rose Marie Tea Room, Charles Kralovec read to the group the paper that he gave at the conference, “The Japanese Threat to India.” At this meeting Peter Moulder acted as chairman. At tonight’s meeting Leo Sclafani -will speak on “The Economic Order Which Will Follow World War II.” On the 29th of this month the Round Table plans to hold its annual banquet.
Junior Chemists Needed In Civil Service Posts
War demands have created unusual opportunities for technically trained persons in Federal employment. The United States Civil Service Commission is now seeking Junior Chemists to perform research, investigative, or other work in some branch of chemistry. The positions pay $2,000 a year. No written test is required. Applicants’ qualifications will be judged from their experience, education and training.
Completion of a 4-year course in a recognized college with 30 semester hours in chemistry is required, although senior students who will complete, the required course within four months of the date of filing application may apply. No experience is required, although preference in appointment may be given to applicants showing experience in chemical or related work.
There are nd age limits for this examination. Applications must be filed with the Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C., and will be accepted until the needs of the service have been .niet.	-	'
Application forms and further infor- mation regarding this and other opportunities open to chemists in the Federal Government may be obtained at first- and . second-class post offices throughout the country.	,
"THANKS" FOR THE WAR CHARITIES CARNIVAL
“I certainly appreciate the kind thought of the Knights of Columbus and the students of Notre Dame in sending me their very generous contribution to Army Relief.
“I will transmit this check to one of the Posts in the Corps Area and I am sure that the money will be put to good use. We have cases of distress constantly arising and no appropriated funds to cover them. The community fund at the Post is a God-send and your check will add substantially to some Post.
/s/ J. M. Cummins,
Major General, U. S. Army”
NEW NAVAL RESERVE CLASSIFICATION AFFORDS ADVANTAGES TO FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES '	TED WEBER
An enlarged Naval Reserve Officer’s Training program was announced this week by Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., Notre Dame defense coordinator. Most startling of the announcements was the information that the V classification of ■ officer’s training has been - opened' to college freshmen and sophomores and certain high school seniors.
Under the new plan, entering freshmen, present freshmen, and sophomores would be enrolled as Naval Reserves of the V-l class. At the end of a specific period, a strict physical examination coupled with a mental aptitude test will be given these reserves. According to the results of the tests, the V-l men would then be reclassified as Naval Air Cadets of V-5 rating, Reserve Deck Officers of V-7 standing or apprentice seamen.
■ For the 50,000 college men expected ' to sign up for V-l, the Navy Department has listed three advantages, of the pro- -gram: the student is allowed to remain in college; V;1 provides . an excellent start toward, an officer’s commission; each individual student will have a defi-
, nite place in the nation’s’ war - effort. . One further advantage lies in the fact that after. May 1 the only possible way to enter V-7 will be through the V-l classification.
' The requirements of V-l, especially physical, can be met by most college men.
. The applicant must be an unmarried citizen of good standing in his community. Physical standards will in general admit any applicant .who has been in . good health. The applicant must be a freshman or sophomore in college or a . high school senior who has been accepted as an entering freshman by the administration of any accredited college.
Dear Father Carey:
“The Notre Dame Council of - the Knights of Columbus and the Student. Activities Council of the University have my very sincere appreciation for their generous contribution to.the Navy Relief Fund. I speak not only as Commandant of the.. Ninth Naval District and Commanding Officer of the Naval Training Station, but as President of the Great Lakes Auxiliary of the Navy Relief Society.	-
/s/ John Downes,
Rear Admiral, U. S. Navy”
The applicant must not be less than 17 nor over 20. However, if he is 20, he may still enlist provided he finish his sophomore year within 60 days after his 20th birthday.
The reclassification examination will be administered to entering and present freshmen in 1944. These men may enlist at any time up to this fall. Sophomores will be examined in March, 1943, and may enlist up to May 8 of this year. If the student passes the examination, he may volunteer for aviation training or sign up as reserve deck officer and finish his college training if conditions permit. If he fails to pass the examination, he may finish his sophomore year and ■will then be taken as an apprentice seaman.
As V-l reserves, college studnets are required by the Navy Department to take English, mathematics, physics, and physical .education. Functional English will be stressed. Mathematics will include plane geometry, elementary algebra, and plane trigonometry. Physics will be a general college physics course. Between four and five hours a week wil be spent in physical education classes.
Mother of Former N. D.
Students is Honored
Two recent Notre Dame students are among the 13 children of, Mrs. William N. Berry of Greensboro, N. C., who was chosen last week “The American Mother of 1942.” They are Francis X. Berry, ’38 and Joseph L. Berry, 1939-40. Two of Mrs. Berry’s grown children are nuns and another son will be ordained a priest this year. The title was conferred by the Golden Rule Society. •
Most students experience difficulties crowding assignments for six or seven -classes into the week’s program but that is a mere half-way task for Paul Edwin Neville, senior politics major, who is to be graduated cum laude ■ May 10. In addition to studying the whys and wherefores for paul Neville PasL present and future political aspects of the rapidly-changing world, Neville has been doing a snappy job as full-time night police reporter for the South Bend Tribune. His headquarters every evening, and sometimes early mornings as - well, . is at the City Hall press room.
Strangely, Neville breezed past classes in elegant manner last semester with a mark of 85 or better- in each—and the - lowest, the 85, was registered in his campus course in news-writing and reporting.
Major problem while at Notre Dame has been Neville’s attempts to explain his home town whereabouts. That familiar question “where you from?” flashed’ at every incoming freshman, by student and professor alike, often reverberated into somewhat like grounds for a fight when one would casually ask and he’d retort briskly, “Ware, Mass.” “O Where or where is Ware?” Even his Walsh Hall buddies, whose room he occupies three-fourths of the time on campus—Joe Hra-chovec and J. Emmett Keenan, have failed to find the spot on the map.
The late Hugh A. O’Donnell of New York City, Notre Dame’s one-man employment agency in the East, was instrumental in Neville’s appearance at Notre Dame, as a member of the publicity department staff Paul had received a $1,200 scholarship from Holy Cross, at Worcester, Mass., after graduation from high school, but lack of auxiliary funds prevented acceptance. Paul wrote a sports column in a Ware weekly after getting out of high school—an innovation so successful that when Neville left the paper the editor admitted that it had aroused so much interest that he could not stop it, and had to hire someone else to carry on. That first year out, Neville also worked as a stock clerk at a Woolworth company five and dime store and later a mill office. At the end of the year
(Continued on page 34)
7
Seniors "Ready and Waiting" For Monroe;
Orchestra, Broadcasts Make Ball Exceptional
Bids To Go On Sale Monday; Price Cut to Ten Dollars
Final arrangements were being made
this week for the last great Senior Ball
of Notre Dame’s World War II era and
TOM WALKER
for the reception of one of the most popular musical - favorites of the nation.. Vaughn Monroe and his sensational 16 - piece orchestra, who will provide the music for the dancing Seniors and their guests on the
all - important night of April 24.
The exception which characterizes this year’s Senior Ball strikes from every angle of consideration. The top-ranking orchestra leader and his musically-tops aggregation are flying directly to South Bend from an epic-making engagement in New. York’s Hotel Commodore and, after treating Senior Ballers to the kind of music they’ve been dreaming about but never expected to get for their last big dance, are flying back direct to Philadelphia early Saturday morning. Broadcasting over national hookups five times weekly, Monroe and his orchestra represent the most popular musical entertainment that could have been booked for the Balk Two separate broadcasts from the site of the Ball in the Rockne Memorial will go out to the nation over Columbia Broadcasting System’s nation-wide chain of stations. Bids for the Ball will, however, cost only ten dollars, tax included.
Monroe Attendance Record-Breaker
The musical choice for the Senior Ball is a “big name” orchestra in every sense of the word. Since he set up headquarters . in New York Hotel Commodore’s Century Room, Monroe and his band have broken all attendance records. His music is heard several times weekly by the Columbia Broadcasting System and his theme song, “Racing With The Moon,” is a familiar tune on the air waves.	'
Music Chairman Tom Walker, who engineered the feat of signing Vaughn Monroe after three months of seemingly unending difficulty, announced Tuesday the completed arrangements for the two broadcasts of the weekly CBS feature, “How Am I Doin’?” spot-lighting the Bob Hawk Quiz Show and the music of Vaughn Monroe, which is one of four radio programs sponsored weekly by the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., makers of Camel Cigarettes.
First Broadcast for V-7 Men .
The 6:30 broadcast is to be dedicated to the new arrivals to the campus, the V-7 trainees, as a toast from the Senior Class to the first class of Notre Dame’s new Naval training program.. Hence, only the V-7 apprentice-seamen and their superior officers will be admitted and be eligible to receive the $800 in war bonds Bob Hawk will distribute in exchange for answers to the questions in his Quiz Show. The Naval audience will be required to be on the Rockne Memorial gymnasium floor before 6:20 p.m. at which time the doors will be locked until the end of the broadcast at 7:00 p.m.
2nd Broadcast for Seniors and Guests
The second broadcast which will admit
Seniors and their guests exclusively will begin shortly after the Ball gets under
way. The Ball will start sharply at 9:00 p.m. while the broadcast will begin at
LARRY KELLEY
9:30 and end at 10:00. This time the Senior Ball audience will be eligible to receive the $800 in war bonds.
There is a faint possibility that Monroe may be forced to quit playing at 1:00 a.m. Saturday morn
ing. Because of the restrictions imposed upon air-liner travel by the recent War
Productions Board order, reservations for Monroe and the orchestra for the re
turn trip to Philadelphia have thus far been impossible to make. The only other way that Monroe and the band can be in Philadelphia in time to make the engagement for which they contracted many months before they signed the Senior Ball contract, is to catch the 1:30 train at Plymouth, Ind., 20 miles away. Chairman Walker has already made provision for this eventuality. In case plane reservations for Monroe and his orchestra for
their return trip East do not appear possible by the week-end, a rhumba band which has already been contacted will be signed to play during intermissions and from 1:00 to 2:00 a.m. Saturday morning.
The Ball •will end at 2:00 and Seniors will be required to sign in with their respective night watchman by 3:00 a.m.
Monroe’s band will then be whisked to Plymouth in special cabs under police escort but will have until 1:45 a.m. to make their train, due to the granting of Chairman Walker’s request to hold up the train for 15 minutes at Plymouth.
Decorations, Favors Still a Secret
Senior Ball to be Nostalgic Link
Despite the general rise in costs, despite the clamor of contracts for Monroe’s band. and the competition from larger colleges who were anxious to book his orchestra, despite the War Productions Board order limiting air-liner traffic which mode of travel makes Monroe’s presence at the Ball possible, this has been the fortune of this last-minute inheritance to which the Senior Class of 1942 may well look back upon for pleasant memories. These will be the memories of the Ball which will pierce through the war-tom forties and link the nostalgia of the last academic days of the hectic, draft-ridden, volunteering Class of ’42 with the happiness of the future peace-time reunions.
Miss Marilyn Duke
General Chairman Larry Kelley announced that the motif of the decorations and the favors for the Ball would be kept secret until Friday night. Kelley also announced that the contract for the orchestra for the Saturday afternoon Tea Dance at the Chain o’ Lakes Country Club awaited signature. “All other arrangements for the Tea Dance are more or less complete. Bob Finneran’s efforts in arranging the orchestra, for the fresh cut flowers decoration and for the spacious terrace will make this year’s Tea Dance well worth attending.”
Along with the other announcements came the good news that Seniors would be allowed 1:00 a.m. permissions for Saturday night.
Meanwhile other completions of arrangements were announced. Entries in
8
the Senior Song Writing Contest have reached Monroe and he is at present judging them. Orchestrations for the “Notre Dame Victory March” and “Notre Dame, Our Mother” were sent to him, courtesy of Joe Casasanta, last week.
Bids Not to Cost Over Ten Dollars
A most important announcement came from the arrangements chairman, Frank Pollnow. It was to the effect that the price of Senior Ball bids, despite the higher costs of everything this year due to. the war, despite the exception of Monroe’s appearance here, would not exceed ten dollars, tax included. The bids will go one sale next Monday and they . may be purchased, after lunch and dinner in the basement of the Dining Hall until Wednesday night, April 22, when the deadline will be imposed.
"Singing Bandleader" Has *
Meteoric, New Orchestra
Fifteen years ago a well-to-do manufacturer in Jeannette, Pa., brought home a new trumpet for his son. The boy was pleased with the gift, to be sure, but he . had a peculiar formation of teeth that made it impossible for him to play the instrument properly, so he gave it to his friend down the block — a boy named Vaughn Wilton Monroe.
The boy with the horn grew up and, during this past year, has been acclaimed as one of America’s favorite bandleaders. The popularity polls give him first rank among the newcomers.
Voted "Most Popular" By Collegians
Recently voted the most popular young band of the year by the students of 171 colleges and universities throughout the country, in the annual poll conducted by the Billboard Magazine, “bible” of show business, Vaughn Monroe and his orchestra made their first New York hotel appearance at the Century Room of the Hotel Commodore.
Blonde, six foot two inch, broad shouldered, Monroe has zoomed to the top faster than any other batoneer in recent years.	-
Billed as “The Most Talked of Band in America,” Monroe has been labeled by veteran showmen as the first great singing bandleader since the days of Rudy Vallee.
Born in Akron, Ohio, he got his front name because his mother admired a matinee idol of the day—one Vaughn Glaser.'
. . .. Vaughn Monroe . . . “Racing With the Moon" . . .
The Monroe family moved east to Jeannette while Vaughn was a youngster. He went through high school, playing his gift trumpet in school bands and orchestras, and for a while he attended Carnegie Tech with the idea in mind of becoming an engineer.
In 1932, he quit school and played with bands headed by Larry Funk and Jack Marshard. It was Marshard who. saw possibilities of a new singing bandleader in Vaughn Monroe.	.
Once Turned Down His Job
At that time, Vaughn was playing ■ trumpet and singing with Jack Mar-shard’s orchestra at a swanky Boston hotel. Marshard liked the young vocalist and decided to put a band behind Mon
roe, and book him at a smart New England resort.
But Monroe turned his boss down cold, declaring that he wanted no part of the headaches that make up a band leader’s existence. Marshard threatened to fire the young musician if he insisted on holding out. Faced with unemployment and an immediate lack of funds, Vaughn finally agreed, but very reluctantly.
Vaughn grins now, when reminded of his original unwillingness to lead his own band. He’s gradually come to like the acclaim, as well as the burdens of band leading.
“For more than a year, I led a band that played nothing but society music,” explains Vaughn. “We had a good band, (Continued on page 11)
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
Track Captain Ray Roy
Weds South Bend Girl
KLINEMEN FACE HAWKEYES TODAY AND THURSDAY; SHOULD HAVE GOOD SEASON
A college romance of three years was culminated Saturday morning when Irish track captain Ray Roy escorted the formei' Geraldine Ellis to the altar and proceeded to change her name to Mrs. Raymond L. Roy. Rev. John M. Ryan, C.S.C., performed the ceremony at the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church. The
bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Matthews of South Bend, and the groom’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Julius Roy of Oak Park, Ill. were present. Ray’s roommates Robert Burke and John Kilbane were best man and usher respectively, while Mrs. Robert Martin was maid of honor and Miss Irene Ingram was the bridesmaid.
An Accounting Major
Ray’s later plans hinge on the decision of the Navy as he has applied for a commission in that branch of the service. At present Ray is working for a Ph.B. degree in accounting which he will receive upon graduation in May.
As to the honeymoon, Mr. Roy was quite secretive. All he would say was that he and his wife, a South Bend music teacher, would be away from the campus for three or four days. Where they went is a matter for speculation.
’ Two-Mile Relay Anchor Man
Roy’s career as a quarter-miler has been spectacular. At Oak Park high, Ray turned in the fastest indoor quarter mile in Oak Park history, 52 seconds flat. At Notre Dame he continued to develop under-the tutelage of the immortal John P. Nicholson, late Notre Dame track coach. In 1940 at the Hoosier Relays, Ray anchored the mile-relay team to a record indoor mark of 3:19. After Nicholson’s death he worked under Nick’s youthful successor Bill Mahoney, and at the Drake Relays last year Ray flew over the anchor lap in an unofficial :47;5 to help establish the all time Notre Dame outdoor mile-relay record of 3:15.9. It was his greatest race as he came from 12 yards back in edging out- his victory, which, incidentally, was broadcast to millions . of listeners coast-to-coast by both Ted' -
Husing and Bill Stern. .	:
In their second game of the 1942 season, Jake Kline’s baseball squad meets Iowa’s powerful team coached by Otto Vogel tomorrow in the first of a two-day series. Leading the Hawk’s lineup are Captain Bill Welp, catcher; Clarence Dungan, junior shortstop who won the Big Ten batting crown with .395; Dick Hein, winner of five out of eight games pitched last year; and Tom Farmer, a major league prospect, at second. Students are reminded to bring their A.A. Books for admission to the game.
Irish Played Purdue Monday
Previous to the Iowa engagement, the Irish had scheduled games with Purdue and Chicago, but these were postponed because of bad weather. The Boilermaker game was played Monday in West Lafayette, Ind., where the Irish dismantled the Boilermakers, 12-3.
The Team
Coach Kline started his ninth season at Notre Dame with what should prove to be an improved squad. Last year’s club won only 6 while losting 10 and tying one. The improvement is anticipated despite the graduation of three starting infielders and the loss to the Chicago Cubs of Eddie Hanyzewski, the Bruin’s current star rookie, who was ace frosh pitcher of 1941.
This year’s team looks long on battery men, with five monogram winners, but . short on hitting power. Due to the usual inclement weather, the squad had little work outdoors.
Captain and catcher is Bernie Crimmins, last fall’s All-American guard, and number one catcher for two previous campaigns.' Last year Crimmins missed the team’s road trips to attend spring football drills, but was able to take time off to catch the home games. In his absence capable behind-the-plate man, Mike Kelly, was developed. The mound staff
In his new life as a married man Ray Roy carries with him the sincere best wishes of all Notre Dame and his host of friends and admirers throughout the nation.	•
Should start an improved squad.
includes three lettermen, all right handers, in “Subby” Nowicki, John Metzger, and Bob Fischer. These flingers will be aided by sophs Norval Trimborn, southpaw, and Harold Smullen. Smullen, hailing from West Haven, Conn., has but 150 pounds draped over- his 5 feet 10 inches, but may prove to be Kline’s leading pitcher.
Andy Chlebeck, last year’s captain and leading hitter with a .479 average, is back in center. Sophs Frank Sanfilippo in left and “Buster” Hiller in right will complete the outfield.	.
The infield will find capable George Sobek, winner of two monograms back at his old stand at second base. Jack Tallet on first, Fred Gore at short, and Jim Carlin at third will round out the infield.
Great Lakes Game Planned
. Coach Kline is attempting to complete arrangements with. Mickey Cochrane’s . Great Lakes team for a game here late in April, but as yet there is nothing . definite. The remainder of the April schedule includes the Hawkeye games, Northwestern here on the 21st, Purdue here the following day, Northwestern at Evanston April 27 and Michigan at Ann Arbor April 29.	.
10
"SINGING BANDLEADER"
(Continued from page 9) but it was too sweet for my own tastes. It had nothing but class appeal. When I reorganized my band in April, 1940, my aim was to achieve a combination that would appeal to the more conservative folk, but at the same time provide the jump and the rhythm that intrigue the millions of young music fans from coast to coast.”
The fact that Monroe’s formula was right, has been established by the enthusiastic reception that it has received during the past nine months.
This is Monroe’s year. The handsome young band leader has sky-rocketed to the top faster than any other batoneer in recent years. Organized less than a year and a half ago, Monroe’s Bluebird records have made every best selling list from Maine to Los Angeles. His sustaining CBS network shows, carrying to every part of the country, have established Vaughn as the new idol of dance fans everywhere. He is also heard weekly-over the NBC chain of stations.
The Monroe outfit features a combination sweet and swing style that appeals to young debs and college men as well as society matrons. The maestro’s throbbing baritone voice has established him as the new romantic idol of the music world.
Saw Weakness of Shaw, Miller, Herman
Monroe is the latest in a long line of great bands that originally made their mark in New England. Artie Shaw, Glenn Miller, Woody Herman and Will Bradley are just a few of the famous names that first began to click in one-nighters, hotels and theatres along the North Atlantic Coast. But of all the band leaders that have come up recently, Vaughn Monroe has created the most enthusiastic and varied audience. Miller, Shaw and Herman had tremendous appeal to the youngsters, the juke box and hep cats. Monroe, however, in addition to having an unusual enthusiastic young audience, also has a corps of conservative older folk applauding his music nightly. Monroe’s full masculine baritone voice, and blond wavy hair, very much in the manner of Nelson Eddy, further established him as the new romantic idol of the music world.
In addition to Monroe’s thrilling baritone voice, the orchestra features the smooth rhythm singing of charming Marilyn Duke.
Ziggy Talent, the outstanding young • trumpeter of the Monroe band, is cofeatured with Miss Duke. In addition to his unusual ability as a musician, Ziggy is featured as one of the outstanding entertainers in the band.
Hobbies: Motor-Boating, Flying
Although he has a natural flair for mechanics and took a complete course at Carnegie Tech, Vaughn Monroe confines his activity in the mechanical field to his hobbies of flying and outboard motor boat racing.
Monroe originally studied to become a concert singer. To earn funds to pay for voice lessons, he sang with numerous dance bands and as a featured NBC vocal soloist. Vaughn decided finally that he preferred popular music and set out to make his way in the dance field, doubling as a trumpet player and vocalist with various orchestras from time to time.	.
WELCOME! V-SEVENS!
When you’re in uniform or out of it, you’ll feel finer than the Admiral himself, with a pair of good looking Douglas Shoes on your feet. Douglas Shoes are styled with precision, made for long wear, and priced your way. See them today.
The Briton—Black, plain toe Navytype, blucher oxford. The right shoe for smart appearance and lasting comfort. Ask for style 0107.
$5.50 — $6.50
Custom and Normal Treds $S.5O
Douglas "Down-to-the-Wood” construction assures be*-ter fit— greater comfort.
Chemists' Club Bowling
• Tom Degnan
The Chemists Club bowling league, organized by Sport Chairman Charles Becker, has finished its first successful season. Although many of the bowlers were novices when the league opened, a handicap system helped to make competition keen. The bowling took place at the Bowl-Mor on Saturday afternoon.
The Senior I team, captained by Becker and composed of Bart Crowley, John Borda, President John Costa and John Conry, won the crown. Prizes will be given at the annual Chemists Club banquet.
11

MAX ADLER “ON THE CORNER.” Michigan at Washington
Are All Men Alike?
Look at ’em! Tall, skinny, squat, plump! But it doesn’t faze us — in our Arrow Shirt family you’ll find collars to suit all male shapes and tastes.
It’s Adler's for Arrows!
Among Our Athletic Alumni
Jim McGoldrick, captain of the 1938 Notre Dame football team, and assistant freshman coach since receiving his bachelor’s degree, has passed the State of Illinois bar examination. He will be graduated from the Notre Dame college of law, May 10.
Bob Osterman, star center with Notre Dame’s 1940 football team, is back on the campus, this time as a sailor. The big Detroit boy is a storekeeper, third class, in the Navy, and he has been stationed here in connection with the indoctrination program of the Naval Reserve which will bring 1,035 midshipmen here by April 17. Osterman received his training at the Great Lakes, Ill., station.
Two former Notre Dame captains did themselves proud in a recent “crucial” handball match here. Ray Meyer, twice captain of basketball and now assistant basketball mentor; and Bill Mahoney, (Continued on page 29)
the Arrow Lido dress shirt with your tails and white tie. Lido has a smooth narrow bosom with suspender loops on each side to keep it in place.	~
If you’re wearing tux, you’ll want the Arrow . Shoreham with its pleated bosom and smart collar attached.
Both shirts are as comfortable as they are easy-on-the-eye. Complete your formal rig with Arrow today!
^ARROW-\
^SHIKTS ana? TIES 71
MEN'S SHOP
HEADQUARTERS for
ARROW!
« -and
MANHATTAN!
. ★
111 North Michigan
- (Convenient Entrance
; on Center Street)
12
Identification Will Admit
Students to Spring Practice
A visit within the confines of hallowed Cartier Field for an early view of the 1942 Notre Dame football squad revealed some 70 of white jersey-clad huskies warming up for a strenuous practice session. Coach Leahy is working the lads hard and by the fall semester will have a smaller, more select crew delicately trained in football principles to face the most rugged Notre Dame slate in many years.	•
Ever obliging Coach Frank Leahy expressed his desires for the complete satisfaction of the student body when he gave his permission for them to watch the daily routines of the diligently working Irish. “As far as the coaches are concerned,” he averred, “we are glad to help at any time. We feel the students deserve that consideration. After all we haven’t forgotten the important part they played in the performance of the 1941 team. It’s our one concrete way of showing our appreciation.” So any afternoon you get a scratch of “pigskinitis” and feel that you would like to observe the coming squad and the famed “T” formation, dig an A.A. book or dining hall card from your desk drawer for identification and march through the portals of Cartier Field.
Angelo is Still Accurate
The array of football talent you gaze on will probably surprise and please you. For never before have the fond eyes of Notre Dame looked on such a parade of gridiron tonnage. You’ll see darting backs slash the turf as they slither through a sturdy forward wall. You’ll hear the resounding thud of sweaty pads as Ed Krause and Joe McArdle push the guards and tackles through strained blocking periods. For here on Cartier Field during the next few weeks you’ll see the birth of an Irish, squad that shows promise of growing into a great grid power. Here you will see Angelo Bertelli, Mr. Precision himself, flinging his ever-accurate passes from his new quarterback post. Here you will view Harry Wright and Bob Dove in unfamiliar guard positions, improving rapidly as the days march by. A maze of new plays and practical improvements on the old Rockne System will thrill those who watch and send anticipiating shivers ' of hope through football loving Notre Darners.. ’ ,
Coach Leahy, the master strategist who shifted Bernie Crimmins from full-.back to guard last year and watched him charge his way into All-American recognition, is well pleased with the rapid improvement of his current converts. “We are very pleased with Dove and Wright,” he happily asserts, “they show
On Alert...
the Task Force of the Telephone army!
Wherever the call, a mechanized army of. more than 27,000 Bell telephone trucks stands ready. Each has a skilled crew ... armed with hand tools and power equipment designed especially for the job to be done. They are ready and efficient and can be mobilized anywhere, anytime.
SAM'L SPIRO & CO ar Feature	•
Manhattan
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
YOU don’t have to be an Einstein to figure this one out; Three famous fundamentals make Manhattan shirts tops in the field: Thev?re Size-Fixt—average fabric shrinkage 1% or less. They’re Man-Formed—cut to your figure. They're CollarPerfect—in a style to suit your face.
Ask to see the new Manhattans for Spring, in . tasteful pastel designs or pure lustrous white. Once you wear a Manhattan shirt, you'll have a one-track mind—you’ll consider no other.

signs of progress daily and we feel they will measure up to all expectations.”
Frosh Look Good
Backfield material is plentiful. The Frosh backs seem to show promise of providing some of the most competent rear guards that Notre Dame has ever seen. Coach Leahy is evidently satisfied with the progress of these novices so far for he says, “Some of the Freshmen backs have done fairly well in the running department. Their blocking is weak but by the end of Spring Practice they should improve considerably along that line.” And knowing Coach Leahy, and the Leahy system we know they will improve. For the great axiom under Rockne was “to block and tackle perfectly.” Coach Leahy will imbed this in the mind of every one of his pupils again this year.	’
Old Timers Game May 2
The yearly clash between the rusty, weight-ridden Old-Timers and the Varsity will take place in the Stadium on May 2 according to an announcement made this week. Captain Paul Lillis will lead a competent gang of former varsity men that should give the present varsity as tough a battle as they could expect this early in the year. Full details of this entanglement will appear in the next issue of The Scholastic.
Warmerdam Noses Out Rice
For Track and Field Trophy
The exploits of pole vaulter Cornelius Warmerdam of the San Francisco Olympic Club were recognized as the most outstanding events in track and field participation during the past year by the New York Track and Field Writers' Association. He was named the outstanding athlete of the winter and spring indoor season over the perpetual chugger, J. Gregory Rice of Notre Dame, who holds the world’s record in the two- and three-mile events and has been unbeaten in his last 49 two-mile engagements.
The selectors obviously felt that the consistent 15-foot leaps of the Californian overshadowed any other achievements in track and field competition. Warmerdam established the new worldvaulting record of 15 feet 7% inches at he Boston Garden spurting off a 141-foot runway.	•
The high-flying Dutchman polled 44 votes to win the 1942 trophy. Rice, who had been undisputed claimant to the a«ward the past two years, was second with 40 votes. Leslie MacMitchell, the swift-running N.Y.U. miler, garnered 31 votes for third place followed by John Borican of Asbury Park, N. J., who pieced fourth with 21.
14
FROM THE RRETT EOX ______________________________________—------------- BY BILL SCANLAN
ENOUGH FROSH FOR A BALL GAME
After only three days of practice, the entry list in the Freshman Baseball Sweepstakes had mounted to 131 players. . . . Second base is the most popular spot, 25 candidates making a bid while 36 outfielders are seeking the three outer garden positions. . . . Most hotly contested post, though, is first base with 16 men showing fine form. . . . That list included: Jack Killian, Clark Fischer, Larry Hackett, Jim Droney, Ed Hoban, Jack Schaefer, Al Cree, Maurice Healy, Joe Brauer, Ray Peets, Bill Wicks, Jack Freeman, Gil Miller, Jim Begley, Elmer Milliman and Bob Quinn. . . . All 131 candidates are anxiously awaiting the spring extravaganza, the Varsity-Frosh tilt scheduled Sunday afternoon, April 26—a date which also marks Coach Mike Hines’ departure for Marine service at Quantico, Va.
seniors
Graduation Portraits from your ‘DOME” • negatives. Any quantity or size may be ordered from Tom Atkins, 389 Dillon Hall, or at our Studio.
BAGBY STUDIO 110 w. COLFAX AVE.
SUGGESTIONS WELCOME FOR PETSCHEL PLAQUE
Plans are under way for the solicitation of voluntary contributions from among Seniors and Juniors who have been classmates of Howie Petschel, ex-’42, who is believed to be the first member of the original Centennial class to lose his life in actual overseas warfare. . . . Proceeds of the contributions will go toward a plaque to be erected in his honor, probably Carroll hall, his last residence on the campus. ... If the collections pass the cost of a plaque, offerings will be made to have Masses said. . . . Additional suggestions regarding the plaque may be addressed to Sports Editor John Dinges, 256 Sorin.
OLD-TIMERS OPEN DRILLS FOR MAY 2 GAME
Captain Paul Lillis called drills for the Old-Timers this week for their final appearance in Notre Dame Stadium against the Varsity of 1942, Saturday, May 2. . . . What a backfield: Milt Piepul, 1940 captain and Detroit Lions fullback; Bernie Crimmins,. all-American guard who will be left half; Steve Juzwik, all-American on some teams, right half; and Bob Hargrave, dependable quarterback. . . . The line will probably have Gordon O’Reilly, center; Herk Bereolos, Bob Maddock and Joe Laiber, guards; Lillis and Jim Brutz, tackles; Ray Eble and all-American John Kovatch, ends.
MEEHAN ONLY MANAGER HURT AT GRID DRILLS
Track manager this season is Frank Meehan, the Newton Mass., senior who holds the distinction of being the only manager ever carted off a football practice field injured. ... In 1940, while aiding Coach Elmer Layden on the field, Milt Piepul and Company, in a pass defense drill, accidentally smacked Meehan to the ground. . . . Coach Layden rushed over, discovered it wasn’t a star player injured—but a dependable manager who got plenty of assistance off the field from the rest of the staff. . . . Meehan’s foosteps will be filled in the.future by another Newtonite freshman manager, Jack Nolan. . . . This is the seventh consecutive year Meehan has settled track managerial problems, having filled the same post three seasons at high school. ... He is an accounting major in the Commerce school but aims at a career as a hotel manager, after the duration.
YANKEES AND CARDS GET THE BALLOT
It looks like the New York Yankees, trailed by the Boston Red Sox and Chicago White Sox in the American loop race with the St. Louis Cardinals, Brooklyn Dodgers and Cincinnati Reds finishing 1-2-3 in the National. . . . John Powers,, eagle-eyed St. Ed’s hall junior, comes up with a note that Corporal Ray Pinelli, captain of the 1940 Irish baseball team, has been displaying his dramatic ability reading comedy skits at the Enid, Okla., Army Flying School headquarters. . . . And John Lynch, of Badin hall and Detroit repute, presents a letter from Private Jim Jennings of Fort Jackson, S. C., who wrote “Right now we are in the wilds of South Carolina where it takes years for news about Notre Dame to filter through.” . . . Lyneh has solved the problem by sending on the Scholastic.
Gym Pants, Gym Shoes, "T" Shirts, Gym Socks and. , Good Sporting Goods
SEE
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP 121 W. Colfax Avenue
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
AU work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to the HUDDLE
Dean W. R. Woolrich of the University of Texas college of engineering estimates Texas defense industries will need 55,000 additional .workers in the next few months.
Your Stay in South Bend!
Relax and feel at Home with the best of the Home Folksl
For
A GAME OF BILLIARDS
A LUNCH OR
A TOBACCO TREAT
BRUGGNER'S
CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Opposite Oliver Hotel
For
YOUR READING WANTS OR A HALF HOUR’S
BROWSING
Try BRUGGNER'S NEWS CORNER
Main and Jefferson Opposite Post Office
Cadets’ Summer Cruise
Due to Begin May 7
“Anchor's Aweigh” is the cry for Notre Dame’s Naval Reserve Cadets on Thursday, May 7. Lieutenant Howell, executive officer, returned from an important conference of all N.R.O.T.C. units held in the offices of the Commandant of the Ninth Naval District last week, and reported that the two-week cruise on Lake Michigan, aboard the training ship U.S.S. Wilmette, will be officially held.
The crew will shove off from Chicago with possibilities of stopping at Milwaukee, Green Bay, Mackinac, Michigan City, Escanaba, and Muskegon on the way. However, no definite route has yet been determined.
To the cadets taking the trip two uniforms will be issued — white working clothes, similar to an enlisted man’s uniform, and the blue service uniform, which will be worn during certain watches and possible liberties.
Only members of the Notre Dame unit will be on board, except for the Wilmette’s skeleton crew and an officer and chief petty officer from the unit. During the cruise, the cadets will stand watches (some on the bridge), hear lectures on ship operation, take part in small boat handling and drills, and actual gunnery practice.
The officers believe the cruise will be highly profitable to the cadets and a valuable aid in navigation to be studied later in the summer.
I Free Naval Cadets Try For Midshipmen Rank
Three students from the University of Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. Unit have been nominated by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, to take a competitive examination for appointment as midshipmen. The students are John A. Jennings, Jr., Orville E. Dunn, Jr., and Frank P. Crowley. The examination will be given in the Federal Building in South Bend on Wednesday, April 15, 1942.
With sailors moving into our midst-from all directions people have been wondering just what bearing they would have on the students of Notre Dame. Will we still be able to use the “Rock” as much as before? Will there be sailors in our classes? How about the meals?
Captain H. P. Burnett cleared up most of these questions for us. “By no means will the navy ‘take over’ the school or any part of it. The only part of the Rockne that we will use to any extent is the pool and even then the students may come and go as they please, as they have in the past. Probably we will have men training there about four hours a
day, but this won’t stop the other students from working out if they wish.”
Capt. Burnett also explained that the navy program would be arranged so that it would not interfere in any way with the schedule now followed by the school. “We will use class rooms all over the campus when they aren’t being used by the student body. Also, we plan to turn the chapels of Howard, Lyons, and Morrissey into class rooms.”
The all important question of feeding these 1100 or 1200 extra men was encountered. “We plan to eat before the regular students do in the dining halls. This problem will be left entirely up to the school. They will furnish the food and also the waiters,” explained the captain.
The stocky seaman, who is now in charge of the Naval R.O.T.C. boys, made it clear that in no way would the sailors interfere with the regular life of the students now attending school. “We will live here and use some of the facilities.”
lUIUIIIIIKKIIIllllinilKnlKIIKiniltlUIIUIIIIillHIIIllllllllllUIIUIIlll
Pearl Harbor paid another visit to Notre Dame this week that the students under the Golden Dome will long remember. Onto the lazy quadrangles and into the time-hallowed halls, long characterized by yawning and squatting undergraduates of the passing era of comfortable isolation, came the sharp, stern blue of the men of the United States Navy, of the future deck-admirals of Uncle Sam’s “First Line,” and with them the spirit of Victory that molds lazy, idle boys into fighting stalwarts for the preservation of freedom.
WF-
Frosh Baseball Begins
“Most of the fellows won’t make the team,” said Mike Hines, Frosh baseball chief, ‘but I’ll guarantee they will be in good shape.” With these words, Hines summed up the freshman baseball practice session to date; condition is his watch word. On Wednesday, April 8, 150 eager candidates reported to Hines
bob Kehoe—Bill Scanlan
and his two aides, William “Scoop” Scanlan, and Bob Kehoe, at the “B” diamond behind the Engineering building.
Besides conditioning, the first workouts included batting practice, plenty of throwing, and numerous pepper games. Present plans call for three full teams to be uniformed shortly after the final cut, and possibly a fourth team, minus the suits, will be retained.
16
Sophomores move their brooms and clothes across the once-hallowed Senior Quadrangle as Tex Adams looks out sorrowfully at the proceedings.
Sabatino Addonizio, sophs,’all, found they had little room in their new Cavanaugh quarters for letters, stationery, and junk.
DUL'I SPES
Indianapolis' Joe Vollmer found himself thrown out of his room during moving day and so he set up house in Alumni's comfortable phone booth and talked to girls at the Rock.
Mwei Chit
VITAiCEDO
Yeomen stand by for messages at Morrissey Hall Navy center.
L to r., they are Yeomen King,, Schuchman (standing), Ortman . Van Der Werven, and Jorgenson.
Nauy
Ensign Lauren Chamberlain and student John Baum, stand in iront of the boarded-up altar of what was formerly Morissey chapd, and is now one of Navy's classrooms.
Lt. (j.g.) Conrad J. Zimmer, U.S.N.R., Lt .Theodore R. Stansbury, U.S.N.R. and Lt. V. E. Johnson U.S.N.R. become acclimated to Cafeteria procedure as bus-boy Lloyd Hilt, works on.
i
Notre Dame Netmen Open
Against Spartans Friday
Spring was officially ushered in last week when the white-clad tennis varsity engaged in their first organized practice. With the start of a tough nine meet schedule facing them this Friday, the squad promises to be in fine shape for the trip to Michigan and Michigan State during this coming week-end.
In the opening meet of the campaign the Blue and Gold travel to Michigan State Friday to meet a traditionally tough team that will have its sights trained on the invading Irish. The past record of the series is decidedly in favor of the East Lansing squad. Last year was the first time in several seasons that the Irish defeated the boys from the neighboring state.
Saturday afternoon Michigan, Big Ten tennis champions of last year, are host to the Irish. This meet is slated to be one of the three toughest meets of the season. Michigan will constitute a big hurdle for the Irish in the path of a
There is a part of Notre Dame, far removed from the shining edifices and sturdy buildings of the quadrangle, a more primeval tradition that is deeper rooted in the history of the institution than the part that Notre Dame has played in all the wars of the past. It is the solemn beauty of the silence of Her lakes and her winding woodland paths, where religious men can meditate the problems of their lives, where religious men and God can make their decisions. These too are a part of the tradition which Notre Dame men share this week in friendship with the men of the United States Navy.
til tllllltttltllll tilt Illi tlllltlintlllilllttHllillltHlIIHSIIIitHIIIHIIIHIIII
successful season. At present, the series is all even at two wins each.
The complete schedule recently released presents the Irish with four home meets and a like number away. The ninth meet which is with Illinois is undecided as to the place but is scheduled on April 21 against the Illini. Undoubtedly the big event of the tennis season will be the meet with Northwestern on the week-end of graduation. The Wildcats, with Seymour Greenberg who is twice winner of the Big Ten singles championship, as their “big gim,” will be here with the hope of partially avenging their defeats to the Irish in football and basketball.
The 1942 Tennis Schedule
April 17—Michigan State at East Lansing 18—Michigan at Ann Arbor 21—Illinois (undecided) 25—Kentucky at Notre Dame 28—Western Michigan at Kalamazoo 30—Indiana at Notre Dame
May 2—Wisconsin at Madison
7—Chicago at Notre Dame
9—Northwestern at Notre Dame
Madigan To Lead '43 Fencers; V. Gonzalez Wins Frosh Meet
The 1942 fencing team, having completed a successful season, announced another popular victory this week when they elected Jim Madigan as captain of next year’s squad. “Big Jim” has been one of the mainstays of both the foil and the epee teams.
The annual banquet given in honor of the fencing team also brought forth the announcement of the 1942 monogram winners. They are: Captain Frank Veit, Mike Humphreys, Angel Gonzalez, Jim Madigan, Herb Melton, Johnny Flynn, Jim Leising, Tom Teamey, and Marleau Cragin. Cragin, although called to the Navy shortly after the start of the season, won his monogram with the brilliant fencing he displayed in his few appearances.
Sharing the news spotlight this week are the results of the freshman fencing tournament. Medals were awarded to the three highest men. The number one spot was captured early in the competition by Venturo Gonzalez, brother of the senior monogram winner, Angel Gonzalez. Venturo defeated Stewart Stratter, Don Sargol, and Frank Repilado in succession to win the first-place medal. Don Sargol and Stewart Stratter battled through ten bouts before a final decision was reached. In one of the battles of the tournament, Sargol got off to an early lead and battled his opponent on even terms to win the second-place medal.
Coach Langford was very encouraged over the showing of the freshmen in the tournament. “There was much more quality and skill displayed by the freshmen foil men than I expected.”
Former Graduates Now
Flying For Uncle Sam
Holder of a bachelor of science degree in mathematics, Aviation Cadet John S. Powers is now writing figure eights in the Texas heavens with “Satan’s Angels” —America's future flying aces at Foster Field, Victoria, Texas. John Powers graduated from Notre Dame with the class of 1941, and is now in his final 10-week course of tactical gunnery and pursuit training. At the completion of this course he will receive his “wings” and will be commissioned as a second lieutenant.
Also flying for Uncle Sam is William G. Blum, graduate of the class of 1940. For the past nine weeks, Bill has been at Enid Army Flying School, Enid, Okla., mastering basic navigation. For another nine weeks he will attend an advanced school and then will be rated as a “pilot” with a commission of second lieutenant.
Brown and whites that lead in popularity again this season. Treat yourself to a pair. Enjoy the lift you get from their handsome Spr.ing-like freshness. Select yours now.
PAUL O. KUEHN
Footwear of Fashion 120 S. Michigan St.
Dining Room the la ^>all&
You will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments and . excellent service. .
WELCOME V-7!
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. and 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
23
ATTENTION
STUDENTS
Are You Getting Popular
RECORDS YOU WANT
When You Want Them?
WE’VE GOT 'EM
------All Makes-- VICTOR — BLUEBIRD COLUMBIA — OKEY DECCA — and others.
Hundreds of Students have “switched” their buying to Elbel’s'
MOST COMPLETE STOCK
ELBEL’S
234 N. Michigan Cor. LaSalle
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S._Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Law Club Elects Officers, Hits Banquet Trail Hard
The switch to three-semesters has not caught Dean Clarence E. Manion’s aspiring barristers of the Notre Dame Law School napping on their voluminous torts.
The sudden change from the inertia of lounging amidst the cushy chairs and stern portraits of the Law Building’s front parlor to the challenging pace of elections and banquets began last March 27 when the Law Club chose officers for the coming year. As announced by Election Chairman Rob Richardson, Walsh . Hall’s recently - emancipated orchestraleader, the new officers are:	'
President, Robert E. Sullivan, Helena, Mont., who defeated the “little major of Danville, HL,” John P. Meyer.
Vice-president, Peter T. Alonzi, Chicago, HL, who won over James E. Diver, Bridgeport, Ill.
Secretary, Michael A. Stepovitch, Fairbanks, Alaska, who beat Andy Cher-ney, from Ashtabula, Ohio.
Treasurer, Ray Quinn of Rochester, N. Y., who edged out Bob Sinon, Ottawa, Ill.	.
Student Council Representative Joe Barr, Wood River, HL, who defeated James C. Daner of Mt. Clemens, Mich.
. Last Thursday night the 23 out-going members of the Senior class were hosted to a banquet in the Bronzewood Room of South Bend’s Hotel LaSalle. The speaker for the evening was Mr. Tappan Gregory of the Chicago Bar Association who brought before the Seniors the point of the “Practice of Law in Wartime.” The obliging host: the St. Joe Bar Association.
For the Seniors it was one banquet down and one to go. The latter, the annual Colonel Hoyne Testimonial Dinner, is scheduled for the night of April 21 and will be held in the Gold Room of the Oliver Hotel. General Chairman of the event is Henry P. Schrenker, Elwood, Ind. Mr. G. A. Kelly, vice president of Pullman Co., Chicago, HL, has been in- -vited to give the principal address. Toastmaster .for the event will be James E. McGoldrick, ’39 football captain, of Philadelphia, Pa. His student-assistants will be Richard F. Swisher, Piedmont, Calif.'; Jerome J. O’Dowd, Ft. Wayne, Ind., and Bob Sullivan, the Law Club’s newly-elected president.
TICKETS — Chairman, J. Allan Burns, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; John H. Verdonk, South Haven. Mich.; Anthony M. Bernard, Youngstown, Ohio; Joseph J. Barr; Leo L. Linck, Ravenna, Mich.; Michael Stepovich; Andrew W. Cherney; William S. Spangler, Britt, Iowa.	'
PROGRAM — Chairman William B. Mooney, ’ Waverly. Ohio; John J. Ward, Barrington, Ill.; James H. Neu, Plymouth, Ind.: John P. Meyer.
ARRANGEMENTS—Chairman Ernest Timpani, Lansing, Mich.; Joseph J. Miller, South Bend, Ind.; James Cl Daner.
PUBLICITY—Chairman Edward M. Porten, Chicago, Ill.; Henry R. Anderson, Paducah, Ky.; Cecil E. Jordan, Winside, Nebr.; Lawrence I. Ferguson, South Bend, Ind.
PRINTING—Chairman John M. Speca, Kenosha, Wis.; William J. Syring, Toledo, Ohio; Alexis T. Tsiolis, South Bend, Ind.: James E. Diver.
Remember Bataan!;
Apply For Marines
Applicants for the Marine Corps Candidates’ Class may apply for this junior officer training course at the Indianapolis marine recruiting office at 406 Kresge Building, according to an announcement by Capt. Ralph E. Boulton of the Indianapolis marine headquarters.
The Marine Corps has expanded its junior officer training to include married men. Men who have already graduated from college and are between 20 and 26 years old are also now eligible. Applications are still ’ being • accepted from freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors.	„
Men accepted for the Candidates’ Class program are enlisted as privates first class with pay of $36 per month during- their three months training at Quantico, Va. Upon successful completion of this course they are commissioned second lieutenants in the Marine Corps Reserve..
Graduates of the Candidates’ Class continue their schooling for three more months in a reserve officers’ class, after which they will be assigned to general duty or sent to an advanced school.
College students who are enlisted will not be called to active duty until after graduation unless the national situation requires their earlier training.	■
Met Club Elections, Dance Announced
A meeting held in the auditorium of the Engineering Building the Thursday night preceding the Easter holidays, requested all candidates for 1942 offices to announce their tickets in time for the Metropolitan club election the latter part of April. President Matty Byrne issued a financial report of the Christmas Dance which was hailed by all as a huge social success.
Plans are now being made for a Spring Dance and Chairman Jim Burke has announced it' will be an informal affair at \
the Hotel McAlpin Roof Gardens, the night of May 22. Bids will be priced at $2.50.	.
24
COLLEGE PARADE
In the Spring ...
There are many distractions on the third floor of Alumni that are not conducive to writing a column—even during Easter vacation. At my left elbow, “The Roses Bloom Again” courtesy of Glenn Miller’s Saturday Serenade; there is competition from the radio of the only other person left on the floor on this beautiful April afternoon. It’s too warm to keep the door and window shut so I let them bang in the wind. It’s spring.
I remember last year there was a beautiful spring. We who lived in Morrissey Hall (its pre-nautical days) always managed to waste an hour or two after supper each night. Sometimes we’d just recline on the sloping lawn alongside of the library and talk; often we spent an entire hour seeking who could make a flat stone skip the most out on the lake. Once in a while someone would throw out a tin can or' a piece of wood and we’d all see if we could hit it; and this was before the war fever hit us.
You really should feel guilty if you’ve never walked around the lakes in the spring. But don’t make the same, mistake a group of us did once. One fellow, without thinking, threw a rock near a number of ducks that were peacefully swimmin garound in the lake. It so happened that we wear near the boathouse at the time and the custodian there was not slow to reprimand us. He was very irate.
“Sure, and what do you think you’re doing? Whose ducks do you think those are? Do they belong to you?”
We felt kind of silly; all we could do was to answer sheepishly, “No.”
“Sure, and I know they, aren’t,” he said emphatically, “they’re God’s. And don’t ever let me catch you scaring them again or you won’t be walking. around here anymore.”
The balmy days of spring present serious obstacles to. even the most serious student. You can’t get yourself out from behind a pink-slip eight-ball by playing 18 holes of golf or four sets of tennis. If you think it’s tough now.___wait until the summer semester starts.
Significant
Here’s a short comment by one H. C. Witwer. Ouch!
“College - bred refers to something which requires a fearful amount of
By ROBERT LeMENSE
dough, is seldom self-raising, and usually proves to be nothing more or less than a four-year loaf.”	•
Another One of Those . . .
“Plains Talk” in the Auburn Plainsman tells us about the moron who stayed up all night studying for a Wasserman Test.
Progress?
1940—No running boards.
1941—No gear shifts.
1942—No tires.
1943—No cars.
*	—Northeastern News
Bluntness
“Oh, Mrs. Quinklestein, I don’t believe I ever saw a child as badly spoiled as your little boy.”
“Why the idea! There’s nothing spoiled about little Edgar Roylance.”
“You don’t think so? Come out and see what the steam roller did to him.”
—Northeastern News
Praise
A very good girl’s school paper is the New Rochelle Tatler. Consistently the girls turn out an interesting publication. The writing is generally good and the. makeup of the paper is well-planned. But enough of this praise. Don’t let this sample of the humor belie our statements.
Roses are red	• ’
Violets are blue Sugar is reduced How about you?
Politics
“The Congressman’s wife suddenly sat up in bed, “Jim there’s a robber in the house.” .
“Impossible,” was her husband’s reply, “in the Senate, yes—but in the House, never.”
\	—Battalion ’
To the Navy —
Welcome to Notre Dame. Perhaps this little squib from the headquarters publication (Naval Academy Log) would be in place at this point.
“Itches,” says Colonel Stoopnagle, “is ’ something that when a recruit is standing at attention his nose always.”
Navy V-7
Make
KUEHN'S headquarters for your footwear.
' This shoe meets Navy specifications . and is stocked in all sizes.
Price to NAVY men, $4.95
Price to Civilians_____$5.50
X-Ray Pitied iy
120 South Michigan St..
26
T
INTRODUCING |
By JOE PALMER
Folks who have seen Andy Chlebeck play ball will tell you that he’s quite a star, and they’re dead right. Those who know him personally will tell you that he’s a pretty swell guy, and they’re just a little more than dead right. But St. Patrick’s Day is gone, so enough of the blarney, and let’s see what we can dig up on the big center-fielder.
Andy, A Senior in Physical Education, , hails from St. Paul, Minn. He will graduate in September, and his deferment from the fighting forces will end at that time. What will he do afterwards? Well, if he has his way, there won’t be much of-a question about it. He wants baseball and all he can get of it. From the start he has made, we’d say he’ll get plenty of it, too. He was slated to work out with Leo Durocher’s Brooklyn Dodgers during the Easter vacation, but his draft status cancelled that.
Ten-Letter Man in High School
In St. Paul, he attended the St. Thomas Military Academy in his Junior and Senior years of high school, and in those two years he picked up a grand total of ten monograms (in baseball, football, basketball, track, and golf). After his high school days, he headed for Notre Dame and didn’t lose any time in getting started here. In his freshman year, he earned numerals in baseball, basketball, and football. Since then, he has continued as a fullback on the varsity football squad, but it has been baseball that has really kept him in the limelight. As proof -of this, note the fact that, at the end of his sophomore year, he was elected captain for the coming year, a really unusual occurrence. What effect did it have on his playing? Well, the records say that Andy hit .480 last year, and his fielding was plenty sharp. Enough said about that year. Soon, Spring will be here again (we hope), and you don’t see Jake Kline searching for new centerfielders, do you?
During the summer, Andy plays semi-pro ball, and, during this past summer, played for Bennington, Vt., Jake Kline’s team in the Northern League. In that league, where only five men broke .300, Andy chalked up a neat .308.
Personals: Chlebeck comes from a family of 17 (11 boys and 6 girls). He is crazy about bowling, and has an average of around 180. His big interest in life right now is named Joan, and she is
taking her education across the road, is the sister of varsity chucker Johnny Metzger (but we promised that we wouldn’t tell you her name, so we won’t), and is quite comforting to the optics.
Andy rooms with Paul Patten and Bill Regan on the fourth floor of Walsh Hall. He is willing to sit around any time and listen to good music, preferably slow and mellow. Likes to think of the game at the University of Chicago last year when he hit six for six, including two doubles and a triple. Here’s hoping there are lots more days like that, Andy.
"SUBBY"
Sebastian (Subby) Nowicki is another fellow who craves baseball and all he can get of it. Is a valuable man to have around, this very popular South Bend lad, for he can pitch or play a nice game in the outer pastures. Just where he got his nickname seems to be a deep mystery.
Plays Basketball Too
Subby is a product of South Bend Central High School, where he played three years of varsity baseball and basketball. In his freshman year here, he won numerals in baseball and basketball, played both in his sophomore year, but then gave up basketball. In his junior year, he came away with a monogram in baseball. Highlight of that season came the day he held powerful Michigan, Big Ten champions, to three hits, beat them on their own grounds, 6-2. Another really memorable event occurred in the closing days of the season. California was leading the Irish, 3-2, as Notre Dame came up in the last of the twelfth. Going in as a pinch-hitter, Subby got himself a hit, drove in the tying run. Then, Ray Pinel-li slammed out another hit, and the winning run scampered home.
In earlier years, Subby was quite a softball player, but he gave that up, once he found out how much he liked baseball. He has played quite a bit of semi-pro ball in local circles, a good bit of this with the Studebaker outfit, at whose plant he works in the summer.
Subby will graduate this May, and at the present time he has hopes of enlisting in the Navy. After that, he would like to coach baseball and basketball in some good high school. ‘
At the present, Subby, along with other South Benders, is quite enthusiastic over the showing that Eddy Hany-czewski, local flinger, has made with the
THE


TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow$1.50
Yeflo-Bole Regular___ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial _ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless__ 3.50
. Kaywoodie Carburetor _ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran_ 5.00
Hollycourt ___________3.50
Comoy .. Corncobs.
_________6.00
,„IOc and 25c
“The MEN’S Corner”
HOME OF NATIONALLY Accepted MERCHANDISE
BUY QUALITY TODAY for Real Service Tomorrow
Home of Kuppenheimer Clothes Wall Street Clothes . Clipper Craft Clothes Arrow Shirts - Ties Underwear	.
Stetson Hats Jockey Underwear Botany Ties	.
Beau Brununel Ties ■ Palm Beach Clothes Florsheim Shoes Freeman Shoes ■and many others	.
MAIN AT COLFAX
27
Hello, V-7!
The .
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Welcomes you to the campus. We invite you to visit our shop at your first opportunity.
★
Souvenir Jewelry
Compacts Necklaces Bracelets Pins
Novelties
Toilet Articles
Toothpaste Shaving Creams Lotion
Soap
Postcards and Stationery Pens and Pencils
GREETINGCARDS
Chicago Cubs this spring. Like the other close friends of the rookie, Subby is predicting great things for the latest find of Jimmy Wilson. -
In his spare moments, Nowicki gets a big kick out of bowling, averages around 170. Is very seldom seen alone at the bowling alleys. His companion is known to us only as Katie, but from what we have seen on numerous- occasions, we’d gladly wait for K-Katie at the K-Kitchen Door. Yes, they will be seen togethei* at the coming Senior Ball when Sir Nowicki makes his debut in formal Notre Dame society.
Subby is an enthusiastic hunter; goes . after pheasants and rabbit, most of the time. ■
That about winds up the case on Subby, and the jury finds him guilty of being a pretty nice fellow to know. But just one word of warning: If you ever call on Subby, you’d better not do so in the early Sunday afternoon. That’s when his favorite, Sammy Kaye, presents his “Sunday Serenade,” and Subby doesn’t like to miss any of it.
Irish Cagers Make All-Midwest
Dan Hanley finished sweeping up the remnants of the past basketball campaign from the court in the fieldhouse many days ago, but mythical all-star cage selections still come in from all sections of the nation. As always, Notre Dame manages to hold its mm in the great field of net artists. Bob Faught and Cy Singer, who were recently named to the board of honor of Pic’s All-Ameri- ‘ can squad, were again honored, being selected as center and guard, respectively, on the Chicago Herald-American’s All-Midwestern basketball squad. Other corn-belt stars that rounded out the aggregation were Kuffel of Marquette and Wozny of De Paul at forwards and Mickey Rottner of Loyola at guard.
Frosh-Varsity Basebailers Clash Sunday, April 26
Climaxing the freshman baseball season will be the Frosh - Varsity game scheduled for Sunday, April 26, in Car-tier Field.-
By this time Coach Hines and his aides will have selected the best men from their 150 candidates, including some 17, pitchers, and the varsity will have completed six scheduled^ games — weather permitting.
The game will be significant in that yearling players performing well will have a good chance of graduating to the -varsity squad which is likely to be active in the summer semester.
Senior Ball goers .may find the game, an interesting diversion for. that: Sunday afternoon. ■	\	;
| WHAT ABOUT SPORTS? |
"Red" Lonergan
Another baseball season is on the way, and with it has come the reappearance of the grim dictator of baseball, Commissioner Landis, the slapstick comedy of Leo Durocher, and the perennial fighting of Jimmy Dykes. Right along with the old boys will come a new crop of hopefuls and some oldsters who are replacing those who have found positions in Australia or Ireland. In spite of the .number of ball-players in service there • is still a great interest in the old game.
We have picked up a few ideas from “those who know” and we’re passing them on.
It’s nothing new to most of us that the Yanks are pointing for. the head spot, . and it looks like ,they’ll get it. No other team has the balance, the hitting, fielding, and pitching. Now that Hassett is on first there will be some changes made. With Rizzuto, Gordon, and Rolfe . .to round out the infield the Yanks will have plenty of experienced men to keep the opposition on base. Selkirk and DiMaggio are still in the outfield so there is no lack of power out there.
Between the Red and White Sox there is much wonder. We think that the return of Ted Williams may swing the scale for the Red Sox. Their old power is still there but their pitching may let them down. If they get a couple of good pitchers the Chamber of Commerce will make a nice profit.
The Chicago White Sox have been a problem ever since way back. They have upset experts every year with a fighting spirit that no othei’ team has. They have always needed long range hitters but Coach Muddy Ruel has done wonders in the line of a pitching staff to make up for this defect. If Moses.can take up enough, of that hitting, gap and if the Sox acquire a permanent infield they can wind up on top. Lee and Rigney can do a lot to keep the Yanks on the run.
In fourth place we put the boys from . Detroit. When Greenberg dropped a bat for a bayonet and Newsom lost his kick, the Tigers got a jolt. Pat Mullin represented . another loss when he got in the Army. The Tigers can cause a lot of trouble to the two Sox teams with a lot of help in pitching.
The Cleveland Cry Babies ought To be on top in the second division. It”s going . . to be a reconstruction year for the In-- dians and Lou 'Boudreau will have some job in trying to round out a well bal-: anced team like this. Weatherby, Walker, and Heath have plenty of power but
they still need Hal Troskey. Bob Feller was a great loss but if they can get anyone to replace him they will be sure to get first.
The St. Louis Browns are next in line with a wealth of power but with too . generous nature. Too many unearned runs are handed out. For the first time in years the Browns have a nice collection of pitchers. If they get off to a good start they can take fifth place.
Connnie Mack’s Athletics are next in line. They are fair all around but they need pitching and hitting, and the loss of Barney McCoskey, Sam Chapman, and Al Brancota to the service was not completely remedied as of last week.
The next stop is in Washington where we hear that the Senators haven’t recovered from the effects of the draft yet. Cecil Travis and Buddy Lewis were the best men on the Capitol team but they led the way to the Army and there are many more on the way. The future does not look good for them.
It looks more like the return of the older player to the lineup and a year of reconstruction for everybody but the Yanks. Night games will probably be more prevalent and the .turnstiles may see more turning. This will be a big year for coaches but there may be some irregular playing.
N. D. WELCOMES 900 V-7 MEN (Continued from page 3) will arrange for attendance by the seamen of their denominations. Naval authorities as well as Notre Dame authorities point out that the young men will be members of many religious denominations and will be permitted and urged to attend their respective churches. University religious facilities will be available to all Catholic youths in the training station.
Preparations for the indoctrination course have been under way for some time under the direction of Capt Burnett and Lieut. Commander J. D. Shaw, executive officer of the station. About 40 naval officers are here ready to take over the training of the men and they will be assisted by about 70 enlisted men.
The trainees will drill on the huge parking area east of the football stadium. There it is planned also to build softball diamonds and other outdoor sports facilities for their use.
In the meantime regular classes at the University continue on a new; wartime speedup program.
(Continued from page 12) 25-year-old track coach who captained the 1938 team, were given five points a game in a match with Ed Krause, former football and basketball all-American, and Ed McKeever, both assistant football coaches. The Meyer-Mahoney combination won, 21-20, 19-21, 21-17—for steak dinners!
Jackie Hayes, coach at Rockhurst college, Kansas City, Mo., and the youngest collegiate head football mentor in the nation at the age. of 23, has entered Naval training at Norfolk, Va., according to word received here. Hayes, a quarterback with the 1940 Notre Dame eleven, will become an athletic director under Commander Gene Tunney, U.S.N.
% NAVY V-7
X
I The BOSTON Shoe Store ❖
* - has purchased and warehoused
X X
❖ X X

X X X X
X X X $
X X
X X X X X
1,000 PAIRS of Regulation Dress Oxfords in all sizes and widths, specially priced to Navy V-7 Men!
X
$
X
$^3S
PER PAIR
(Our Regular $5.85 Quality)
Remember the Location — 124 So, Michigan. Look for the NAVY V-7 Sign in Our Window!
The Boston Shoe Store
124 South Michigan Street

X
X
Sports Quiz
"Red" Lonergan
1.	What is the record amount of money paid to any one boxer for a single engagement?
2.	The time record for swimming the English Channel was held over eight years by whom?
3.	What famous swimmer had to startswimming to retain his health?
4.	Was pole vaulting originally a sport?
5.	What are the names of the two East-West wrestlers who have had a ' continual feud for the world championship?
6.	From whom did we adopt polo?
(For answers see page 32)
^h^^m^***^*^****^*^*^^^^*^^^^^*^^^^
❖
A
❖

J
J
A
F

r Combination Lasted — They Fit!
As pictured — Black, Plain-Toe, Blucher, Dress Oxford. All Leather, with Steel Arch.
Brother Boniface Is
Veteran of World War I
Joseph Conerty
Until he was almost 18, Brother Boniface, C.S.C., lived with his family in Southern Germany, and when the first World War broke out, he was called into the army. A half-year after the war ended, and after having fought in France and Germany and being awarded the Silver Medal and the Iron Cross, he was discharged from service.
From the war's end he had planned to join some community on the Continent, but decided to come to the United States, and to Notre Dame, to join the Congregation of the Holy Cross. When Brother Boniface came to Notre Dame in 1922, he could speak no English, but picked it up by himself, accepting corrections and criticisms until he finally mastered it.
For 16 of his twenty years at Notre Dame, Brother Boniface has been sacristan of Sacred Heart Church, having charge of the entire building, its altars, and vestments and linens. Brother is. also in charge of the hall chapels.
His creative ability is much in evidence in Sacred Heart Church, because not only does he have charge of the vestments, but he designs and directs the making of all the vestments that are used on the main altar, as well as those used in chapels on. the campus. Particularly, he introduced here at Notre Dame, and designed, all the Gothic type vest
With Spring coming ...
— choose your new outfit from our new shipment -of ADLER-ROCHESTER tweeds, Shetlands and flannels. Many, patterns from which to choose.
The three-button, single-breasted Brooks coat is still in high favor with college men ... we have it In any cloth you select : . . . also slacks to match or. contrast. -	.	■	-	’ •	'
Government restrictions on Tailor-made and. Made-to-measure garments do not go into effect until June 1st. All orders, placed within the next five days will be delivered before the end of the school term. .
PARKER-WINTERROWD .	.	115% - 117% North Main Street (Upstairs) \
Visit our upstairs shop or see our campus representatives:
CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS	LARRY KELLEY .	- NEIL J. McCARTY
321 Alumni Hall	334 Alumni Hall	.	115 Sorin Hall
ments, carrying the markings, figures, and outlines through each piec.e of each set.
Brother supervises the making of some 25,000 hosts each week, as well as making, himself, most of the wine used in the Masses on the campus. He also started and organized the Server’s Club some seven years ago, and as its moderator climaxes each year with a special banquet for the boys who. serve on the main altar. A little previous to this organization, Brother Boniface went back to Germany for a visit at his home in the Black Forest, seeing his family then as a full-fledged American, having become a United States citizen in 1931.
Brother’s work goes rather as a routine from day to day, but he is always looking ahead, planning for the special celebrations to be held in the church.
Recently he had been working on the arrangements for the ceremonies of Holy Week, and has even an eye out for the Sunday in May when an altar must be erected in the fieldhouse, and the* sacred vessels, the vestments, and a Bishop’s throne must be set up for the celebration of the Mass on graduation ■ day.
Of the spectacular events that he himself, arranged. and planned in detail Brother Boniface remembers most vividly the consecration of Bishop Finnegan, then vice-president of the University, and the consecration of Bishop O’Hara,, president of the University, at the time, both of which took place in Sacred Heart Church.

Welcome V-7 Trainees!
You'll Find the ’ Supplies You Need . at Max Adler's
Neck-Band White Shirts
Collars
T-Shirts
Bostonian and Mansfield Shoes
M*X ADLER Michigan at Washington
30
TWO COLORFUL CAREERS
(Continued from page 3) graduation, he became a lieutenant junior grade in 1917 and in the same year added the other half-stripe to become a senior grade lieutenant. In 1925 his rank became that of lieutenant - commander and 10 years later he became a full commander. When he was sent to Notre Dame last September he was commissioned a captain and took charge of the University’s E.O.T.C. training.
' In addition to commanding a destroyer, Capt. Burnett has been commander of a submarine. From 1927 to 1930 he held a commission in the Peruvian navy as a member of the U. S. navy mission there.
During his 32-year career, Capt. Burnett has been decorated with the Victory medal of the first world war; the second Nicauraguan Campaign medal, and expert rifleman’s badge. In addition, his submarine insignia is the equivalent in the navy to an aviator’s “wings.”
Serves in Far East
Lieut. Commander Shaw's naval career which began with his graduation from the academy in 1923, contains a bit more color for present war followers because of his active duty in China and the Philippines until Feb. 3, 1940, when he was stationed at Northwestern university, Evanston, Ill., for the purpose of preparing the Abbott hall training station there.
For two years after his graduation Commander Shaw was aboard the U.S.S. Maryland, then one of the most powerful units in the fleet. From 1925 until 1937 he was assigned to destroyers. In 1937 he" was sent to China, his . arrival there being timed with outbreak of the war be^ tween China and Japan. .
During the heavy bombings of Canton, before its occupation by the Japs, Commander Shaw served on a river gunboat, holding that assignment for 14 months. His gunboat was the Mindanao, which was lost only' recently in Philippine waters.
When he was shifted to shore duty Commander Shaw was skipper of the destroyer John D. Ford, the lone survivor of its destroyer division of four ships which is still afloat and fighting somewhere in the Pacific theater.
Much of Commander Shaw’s time, as well as much of Capt. Burnett’s time has been spent in the Philippines. Commander Shaw said he had often been on and around Bataan peninsula and describes that area, as well as most other Philippine territory aside from its immediate coastline, as being extremely wild. Much of the land, he said, has never been explored by a white man.
For	.	Gail Fitch		
Commerce Forum	Blair McGowan - Jim Madigan ' Jim O’Donnell J. Tom O’Reilly	Ted Toole		
	jim Mcelroy	An Active	J. DICK KLEE
Offices	BILL O’NEIL		ED KEELAN
	BILL MOORHEAD	Notre Dame Year	DICK MURPHY
31
Wranglers Hold Mid-west Catholic Speech Contest
Charles J. Patterson
Even in this time of year, when the schedule of University forensic activities is a long and impressive one, the Notre Dame Catholic Oratorical Contest looms importantly as a major event, and will be held on Saturday, April 18.
Begun in 1936, the Wranglers-spon-sored affair first gathered its participants from Catholic high schools in Indiana. Since then the contest has grown, and now Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin are usually represented.
Each invited school may send one male representative to deliver a ten minute oration, original or interpretative. Contestants will be judged according to standard oratorical considerations: platform appearance, voice, enthusiasm, organization of material, and ability to accomplish purpose, both with speech and with the audience. Preliminaries will be held in the Engineering Building and Law Building auditoriums, beginning at 1:30. The finals will be held in the Engineering building at four o’clock. Judges for the finals will be one member of the religious group of the University faculty, one member of the department of speech of the University, and William Meier, president of the Wranglers and Valedictorian of the Class of 1942.	.
Trophies will be awarded to the school whose representative wins first place in the finals of the contest, and to the school whose representative wins the highest place among contestants from Indiana. Both trophies will remain in the possession of the winning school for one year. Individual awards will be presented to the men who place first, second, and third in the finals. All awards are donated by Mr. Joseph P. McNamara, deputy attorney-general of the State of Indiana.
On Saturday evening, following the contest, all participants, members of the Wranglers, and honorary guests will attend a testimonial banquet.
ow meet her sister
Answers to Sports Quiz:
1.	Gene Tunney received §990,445.54 for one of his contests with Dempsey.
2.	Gertrude Ederle.
3.	Johnny Weissmuller couldn’t swim a stroke at the age of 11, but in a few years he held all records from 50 yd. to the half-mile and was never beaten in amateur competition.
4.	It was not; Finns used it to get over dikes.
5.	Ed Lewis of the East and Jim Lon-dos of the West.
6.	The Persians played it before history was recorded, then it moved to India where British officers learned the game.
32
Site’s a good friend of yours
Thegirl behind "the voice with a smile” is known to everyone. Yon have learned to count on her when you make a telephone call.
—also a Bell System girl. She’s your friend, too, although you’ve never heard her voice. Here she is on the final assembly fine at one of Western Electric’s great plants. Like the 15,000 other women in the Company, she does her work well. She’s proud of the part she plays in making telephone equipment for this Nation... and for the armed forces of the United Nations.
Welcome! V-7 Trainees!
HOME OF
• Hickey-Freeman Clothes * Society Brand Clothes * GGG Originations • Alpagora * Burberry • Arrow, Van Heusen and Kingly Shirts • Interwoven and Phoenix Hose • Florsheim Shoes • Dobbs and Mallory Hats • and a host of other famous brands.
^WILBERT’S — South Bend’s largest store for men — welcomes you to Notre Dame, historic center of education, culture, athletic prowess and now, naval officer training. Lots of good luck to you and many happy landings.
THE MODl/tf/
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN
33
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS (Continued from page 7) he started with the Worcester Evening Post, continuing until he enrolled at Notre Dame.
At the same period, he was a correspondent for the Boston Herald. Paul recalls that two of his first assignments never saw light. Once he was sent to Athol, Mass., where a 75-year-old man
tf/^MEDICQ FILTERED SMOKING
66 Baffle Filter retains flakes-slugs and whirl-cools smoke in Medico pipes, cigarette and cigar holders.
Best Foot Into Summer in
Selby’s TaylorMades
BROWN and WHITE
It’s you ... at the Senior Tea-Dance April 25th, in this outstanding shoe which will be correct and comfortable all through the summer.
Our Black Shoe meets NAVY specifications!
V-7 NAVY SHOE - $4.95 and $5.95
Special discount for any group of six coming to us for shoes.
130 West | Washington Street

was marrying a 16-year-old high school sophomore. The church was surrounded by a screaming crowd, enraged at the man. But just before staring time for the night wedding, about 8:30 p.m., a terrific electric storm broke and strong winds put telegraph lines out of cimmis-sion. Paul finally got a story through by telephone—and a rewrite man did the job.
For over a year now, Neville has been night police rpeorter for the local Tribune, culmination of a career as campus correspondent for that newspaper since his sophomore year. At the end of January this year, he took the job as South Bend and Mishawaka correspondent for the Chicago Daily News, an opportunity that nearly doubles his weekly paycheck. He covered the Goshen tornado and was thrown into the Bendix plant guard house for going into the plant with police and firemen.
Most of the material students read concerning the “Knute , Rockne, All-American” movie filmed in part on campus two years ago came from the typewriter of Neville. When Warner Brothers company was shooting location ma-teriol on campus he wrote a daily story about activities, and in the fall when the Hollywood stars stormed into South Bend for the Premiere, Warner Brothers offered Neville a job writing local public-itty. He accepted, and banged out more than 50,000 words—enough for a good sized novel. Last summer he put to work his publicity experiences keeping the local populace informed of activities at the American Legion convention.
Piepul, Bertelli Publicity Agent
When Milt Piepul, a star at Springfield, Mass., Cathedral High school, became 1940 Notre Dame football captain, several papers in the New England states clamored for news—and Neville stepped up,, volunteered to “keep ’em posted.” Last year Neville kept the folks in that section acquainted with the exploits of Angling Ange Bertelli, another sensation from Massachusetts. For the past two football seasons, Neville has supplemented his sports coverage by interviewing all Irish and rival coaches at home games in the dressing rooms .immediately after the games, getting highlights while they are really fresh in the minds of the principals. Nevill expects an Army call during the coming sum-mer.-
Neville reports “I have found the biggest people are the easiest to meet and talk with, and obtain information frohl —and I hope I never do anything but reporting and writing.”
34
FOR ALL EVENTS
Make Your Barber Headquarters
CYR'S
South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop
100 South Main Street (Across from the Courthouse)
WHAT BRAINS — WHAT A MEMORY!
And you, too, can easily be a memory marvel when it comes to remembering the South Shore schedule to
• Chicago. Here’s all you need to know:
Trains leave South Bend 30 minutes past the hour from 7:30 A. M. to 9:30 P. M. Two early morning trains, at. 6 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Two late evening trains, at 11 P. M. and 12 Midnight.
For detailed information call
C. W. VEACH
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St. -Phone 3-3111
Students Co-operate In Coat-Hanger Shortage
Harry Osborne
A few weeks ago, when Notre Dame men went over to get their laundry at Badin Hall, they noticed a sign that said, “If you have any extra coat-hangers in your room, please bring them to the laundry.” Similar signs were posted in several of the halls, and many have wondered why. Here, at last, is the reason.	"
Due to priorities, it is impossible to get any more steel coat-hangers. The laundry officials realized that this would create an inconvenience when the students would not longer be able to carry freshly cleaned and pressed suits, coats, and pants to their respective halls on hangers, but instead would be forced to carry them draped over their arms. They promptly began thinking of ways and means to swell their dwindling supply of hangers. Finally, Mr. Hoar, manager of the laundry, thought of the idea of having students return the surplus of hangers so that they could be used again. Within four days after posting the signs, the laundry had received about 1,000 hangers, which was a pretty good response.
Mr. Hoar wishes to thank all the men that cooperated in the drive. He says that, with the supply now on hand, it will be a month or so before we need worry about the situation again.
Mr. Hoar wishes to thank all the men that cooperated in the drive. He says that, with the supply now on hand, it will be a month or so before we need worry about the situation again.
In one year, the laundry uses almost 10,000 hangers. Of these, some are reclaimed during the year by various methods, and others are gotten back from the rooms after the students have gone home for the summer vacation. ■
HAVE you SEEN SLEEPY'S BOOK!
“Sleepy” Dick McHugh, one of Alumni Hall and Manhattan, Illinois’, sharpest citizens, would appreciate it greatly if some one would find a copy of The Works of Milton, Vol. II, Book 2 and then return the book to the Library. “Sleepy” says he never saw the book before and never held anything against Milton. The book was taken from the Library in his name in mid-October of last year. But he says the Library says he’s gotta pay $6.00 for the book or he doesn’t graduate. The Library will, though, charge him only 30 cents for the book he never took out of the Library, if he gets the book back to them. So “Sleepy” is offering a 50 cents reward for its return and no questions asked.
WELCOME
to Notre Dame
Men of the NAVY
Make WYMAN’S MEN’S SHOP your headquarters to purchase all essentials . . . Complete lines of stock for miscellaneous equipment.
“T” Shirts of sturdy, knit cotton and woolen cloth to make your outfits complete.
.	65c
Black silk socks with buffer heel and toe for lasting wear . . . These socks are styled by Interwoven and Wilson . . . Prices are at 39c and 45c
White broadcloth undershorts in all sizes — Sanforized and sturdy, lasting quality.	55c
See Mr. James O’Neill for suggestions.
WYMAN'S
Men's Shop
(Entrance next to American Trust Bank)
35
NAVY ANNOUNCEMENT TO COLLEGE FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES 17-19
You want to serve your country! Why not serve where your college training will do the most good?
Under the Navy’s newest plan, you can enlist now and continue in college. If you make a good record, you may qualify within two years to become a naval officer—on the sea or in the air.
Who may qualify
80,000 men per year will be accepted under this new plan. If you are between the ages of 17 and 19 inclusive and can meet Navy physical standards, you can enlist now as an Apprentice Seaman in the Naval Reserve. You will be in the Navy. But until you have finished two calendar years, you will remain in college, taking regular college courses under your own professors. Your studies will emphasize mathematics, physics and physical training.
After you have successfully completed 114 calendar years of work, you will be given a written examination prepared by the Navy. This examination is competitive. It is designed to select the best men for training as Naval Officers.
How to become an Officer
If you rank sufficiently high in the examination and can meet the necessary physical standards, you will have your choice of two courses— each leading to an officer’s commission:
1.	You may volunteer for training as an Aviation Officer. In this case you will be permitted to finish at
least the second calendar year of college work, after which you will be ordered to active duty for training to become an officer-pilot. Approximately 20,000 men a year will be accepted for Naval Aviation.
2.	Or you will be selected for training as a Deck or Engineering Officer. In this case you will be allowed to continue your college work until you have received your degree. After graduation you will be ordered to active duty for training to become a Deck or Engineering Officer. Approximately 15,000 men a year will be accepted. •
If you do not qualify for special officer’s training, you will be allowed to finish the second calendar year of college, after which you will be ordered to active duty at a Naval Training Station as Apprentice Seaman.
Those who fail to pass their college work at any time may be ordered to active duty at once as Apprentice Seamen.
Your pay starts with active duty.
Here’s a real opportunity. A chance to enlist in your country’s service now without giving up your college training...a chance to prove by that same training that you are ' qualified to be an officer in the United States Navy.
DON’T WAIT ... ACT TODAY
1.	Take this announcement to the Dean of your college.
2.	Or go to the nearest Navy Recruiting Station.
3.	Or mail coupon below for FREE BOOK giving full details.
U. S. Navy Recruiting Bureau, Div. V-l.
3Oth Street and 3rd Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Please send me your free book on the Navy Officer Training plan for college freshmen and sophomores. I am a student □, a parent of a student 0 who is______________years old
attending College at
Name________________________________________________________________-________________________
Street______________________________________________________________________________________
City & State________________________________________________;________________________________
36
Entry Deadline Nears
For Engineers' Contest
The Notre Dame Student Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers announces the approach of the deadline for all entries in the annual essay contest. The winners of the contest will represent the local branch in the district meeting of the Institute to be held in Chicago very soon.
According to the rules, each contestant must write a paper pertaining to Electrical Engineering or some allied subject. The maximum time for presentation of a paper is 15 minutes. No entry will be accepted later than April 17. Each contestant will .read his paper* before a joint meeting of the South Bend and Notre Dame branches. The date of this joint meeting will be announced later.
Prizes of $10 and $5 will be awarded the two contestants, who, according to the content and delivery of their papers, are named winners by appointed judges. Besides the cash award, the winners will have the opportunity and distinction of delivering their papers before the district meeting in Chicago.
All members both of the National Association and the Notre Dame student branch who are in good standing are eligible for this contest. Professor John A. Northcott will act as advisor to Notre Dame contestants.
Mystery Balls
An English gentleman, lately arrived in China, sent for his native cook to congratulate him upon an exceptionally tasty dinner. ’
“I hope, Koog Ho, you did not kill one of those dogs to provide the soup,” he laughingly remarked, referring ta China’s pariah dogs.	.
Kong Ho made a solemn gesture of dissent.
“Me no kill dog, Master,” he declared, “Him all dead when I pick him up.”
—The Urchin
Dance to Tiny Hill “AMERICA’S BIGGEST
BAND LEADER” Friday, April 17th at the
PALAIS RO YALE
9 to 1 o’clock
Admission is 6Sc per person. (No Advance Sale)
JOHN T. KELLEY
THE UPPER BUNK
For years I have felt that there is something positively unwholesome about people who attempt to engage you in lucid conversation before breakfast. As a consequence I am very abrupt with them. And unless they are fully equipped for a filibuster I can drive them ofF in short order. There is little to be said in defense of these garrulous invaders except to point out that they are as seraphs compared to the noxious vermin who creep up in the grey light of dawn and bang you between the shoulder blades exclaiming all the while, "How the devil are you this bright and cheery morning?"
If you have not been driven to your knees by this unheralded attack it may at least be said that you are somewhat nonplussed. Even the most infernally pleasant person can be counted upon to snarl under his breath to the effect that it were better a millstone be tied, etc. It is pertinent to add here that there is no insulting these people. Leading questions intended to squelch them such as "Have you gone
. S A
GOING PLACES
“ST
Shod
W. L, DOUGLAS f SHOE CO., BROCKTON, MASS.
Douglas "Down-to-the-Wood” construction assures better fit and greater comfort.
$5.50 _ sc.so
Custom and Normal Treds S8.50

College Men who are going places these days know that for real top style, Douglas Shoes have what it takes. You owe it to yourself to see our new Spring line. Try a pair of snappy two-tone tans — you’ll agree — Douglas Shoes are right — in style, in comfort, in honest value!
The Duke — a ventilated shoe for summer—lets your feet breathe I Mudguard helps keep dust out. In two-tone tan,smart ’ for dress or street wear.
210 S. MICHIGAN STREET. SOUTH BEND
ALSO NEW SPRING STYLES IN LADY DOUGLAS SHOES —$4.45 AND $5.45
37
mad?" or "Might I borrow your bowie knife?" are likely to accomplish nothing. Although they have been known to lay the groundwork for a rebuke from your assassin. Usually, "Whatsa matta? Sorehead?"
Now, the S.S.S.S. (Society for the Stamping out of Spine Smashers), is going to station one of its members in front of each of the halls every morning from 6:45 to 7:00. All you have to do (if you are assaulted) is to crawl out of the way of the breakfast crowd; identify your garrotter to our representative, who will give you a sip of brandy and help you over to the infirmary. That very evening our appeasement committee will go round to visit him (with the collapsible guillotine) and see if some sort of agreement can't be reached.
* * *
This usually happens on trains over vacations; or so I've found it. You are minding your own business counting telegraph poles or brunettes when someone taps you on the shoulder. It is a girl. (Much lacking)
"Please excuse me. Do you go to Notre Dame?"
"Why uhh . .. yes . .. umhum."
"I thought so. I met you at their Junior Prom. I was Bunion Nosegay's date." "Why of course ... of course," you lie to her.
"Bunion says you live right next door to him."
So that's who that fathead is. Bunion! And all the time you thought his name was Manuel or something and that he couldn't speak English.
WILL 53rd STREET NEVER COME?
"That was the first time I'd ever seen the university. Gee, they've got a beautiful campus. Bunion invited me down for the Senior Ball. I can hardly wait."
Well that's just dandy, you think. Bully for-Bunion. Just as you have decided that it would be worth it to get out at 29th and walk to 53rd, the girl, whom you suddenly place as the one who tripped on her dress and fell the whole length of the Palais Royale steps, jumps up.
"Whillikers, I get off here!"
"While the train is still moving," you hope, and watch her disappear down the aisle.
A PROBLEM FROM TORONTO
Pete Stewart, South Bend Senior and football manager has a unique problem. She is a pert, 5 ft. 4 in. Toronto blonde, Pete’s date for the Senior Ball week-end. Due to the immigration laws she can only buy her ticket as far as the Canadian border and cannot carry more than $5. Well—Good luck, Pete!
HUGH A. O'DONNELL (Continued from page 5)
Barton, one of advertising’s top men, congratulated O’Donnell upon being named honorary president of the Notre Dame club of New York in 1937. And Mayor James J. Walker, on June 10, 1926, appointed O’Donnell to a special committee to form plans for New York’s reception for Lt. Com. Richard E. Byrd, the aviator-explorer. Other letters, rich in value, numbered among the files are from the Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., current history professor and president of Notre Dame in 1928; Fritz Lieber, actor; Nance O’Neil Hickman, actress; Grantland Rice, sports writer; Cornelius Vanderbilt, Jr., the industrialist; and
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA.COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
Ice-cold Coca-Cola is everything refreshment should be. • • a clean, exciting taste... refreshment you can feel... quality you can trust. For complete refreshment it's all you want and you want it all. Try it.
You trust its quality
38
t
I
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg. South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
Phone 3-1254	South Beno. Indiana
1 ~ —
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. Building Telephone 4-3601
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER M.D.
M. J. THORNTON M.D.
sf- Phone 3-2805
Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J. M.S. BUILDING £ HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND, IND.
J. Telephone 3-4269 *■
I ROSE DENTAL GROUP
-
S;	Leonard A. Rose. d.d.s.
j:	Cyril F. Rose, d.d. s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.	'
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend g
c
f	DR. O. J. GRUNDY
■	REGISTERED PODIATRIST
[	FOOT AILMENTS
; 406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2574
Maurice Francis Egan, noted writer and one-time Notre Dame professor.
Among the books added to the University collection is one from Notre Dame coming back to Notre Dame: A Rime of the Rood, and Other Poems, by the Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., personally autographed by the widely-known Notre Dame poet-president. Others are by Lowell Thomas, Christy Walsh, Agnes Mac-Carthy Hickey, Perry Belmont, Harlan Eugene Read, Earl Rossman, J; H. Schlarman, Charles Hardy Meigs, T. A. Daly, Edward L. Wilson and James G. Harbard.	.
Throughout his long career, Mr. O’Donnell remained the exemplar of loyalty to the University. His major avocation was making friends and helping young men in their search for careers. He was characterized as a “one-man employment agency” in seeking jobs for Notre Dame graduates of the past quarter century.	.
Mr. O’Donnell’s brilliant career of service to his fellow men came to an end on August 23, 1941, at his New York home. He died at the age of 67.
He turned to journalism only after a career as an actor and travel-lecturer. His acting ability was more than ordinary. A professional career following his years at Notre Dame included. perfonn-ances with such favorites of the Nineties as Fanny Davenport, Blanche Walsh and Charles Coughlan. The urge for the journalistic inclinations soon won over and his newspaper trail carried him to positions as feature writer for the Minneapolis Tribune; circulation manager, St. Paul Pioneer-Press; advertising manager, Minneapolis JoumdH; editor and publisher, New Orleans American. Later he became associated with the Philadelphia Press, and joined the New York Times in 1917, which he served 16 years, retiring in 1933.
He was treasurer of the Manhattan division of the City Fusion party; chairman of the National Leisure Time commission; representative of the organization improving trade relations between the United States and Russia; and was active in Boy Scout work.
Notre Dame, in addition to the valuable collection of letters, books, and paintings, benefits according to Mr. O’Donnell’s will by the “Hugh A. O’Donnell Award,” which provides a gold medal each year to the outstanding senior journalist, a prize established as a tribute to a deceased brother, James F. O’Donnell. The bequest of $2,000 establishing this award perpetuates the love and loyalty of the donor—the truly representative Notre Dame man, Hugh Arnott O’Donnell, ’94.
to NOTRE DAME
See RODIN'S for
Also available COMPLETE STOCK OF
NEW Columbia
MASTERWORKS
---0—
Open Saturday evening.
H0DII1S
//♦ -V TT^
39

