THE CONVENIENCE OF A CAMPUS CHARGE ACCOUNT...
When you need clothing or furnishings get them and enjoy the convenience of a Campus Shop charge account. As a Notre Dame, man your charge account is always open. . . .
If you wish, pay one-third in January . . . one-third in February . . . one-third in March.
No interest or carrying charge, of course.
November20, 1959

during the Thanksgiving holidays select your clothing and furnishings AT OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
In our New York, Boston, Chicago and West Coast stores, an interesting selection . of good-looking suits, sportwear, evening clothes and outerwear awaits your visit... made to our exacting specifications in sizes 35 to 42...and all moderately priced for such fine clothing.
Suits, $60 to $70 • Sport Jackets, from $45 Topcoats, from $75 • Outerwear, from $50
ESTABLISHED 1818
^lens fhmishings. ^ats
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK * CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES « SAN FRANCISCO
AGREED
Editor:	|
Thank you for the very effective editorial which accompanied the introduc-tion of the new faculty series which the j Notre Dame Alumnus is happy to share i with the Scholastic.	]
The second edition will be equally as j stimulating and interesting, on reading	]
and reading opportunities and habits, j authored by the distinguished Professor	j
John T. Frederick, and a group of col- - • leagues in the English Department.	i
Your editorial comment on a lack of | understanding and contact between un- | dergraduates and alumni is of course * | well taken. We are not two worlds, but 1 two areas of one world, in which the in- j tellectual goal is a constant and common ; denominator. I am sure that our new s | joint venture will help eliminate the | feeling of separation and produce not | only enjoyment and profitable reading	|
suggestions for students and alumni	|
alike, but a continuity of identity.	|
There are many other channels of closer communication potential, out-	।
standingly the geographical clubs. The I Alumni Association sponsors the annual	।
Senior Dinner. And we had hoped that | in recent years a campus club composed ? of sons of alumni might spearhead	this	'
strengthening of undergraduate-gradu-	|
ate ties.	?
These are physical things, subject to j physical problems. I think they	may	|
prosper from the change in approach, to t the intellectual ties first. That is why I 1 appreciate the cooperation of the Scho- I lastic in using the faculty inserts, and ? the editorial with which you launched it. i
James E. Armstrong, ’25 6 j Alumni Secretary	<
!
THE BEST?	M
Editor:	j
Upon returning from seeing The Room	i
at the Top, I immediately checked Tony , ; Wong’s review. Yes it was the Avon,	<
that was highlighted. If there is no bet-	i
ter movie to be seen in South Bend, do not lead us astray with the rating of excellent. This rating is explained by the last words of his review — “crazy column.”
Joe Kelly t, 127 Keenan
(Continued on page 24)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic

Vol. 101
NOVEMBER 20, 1959
i, -
Founded IW
:<s?Ag
No. 8
The Notre Dame

..^ wCBvW^wlH,dllOT , RONALDBLUBAUGH
t'




E. (TED} THOMPSON
OiAtoTgj^ ■nowro<Sterarid;sl^^ aU ROY;RUBELI
AA;‘Wtl»^
^Thdlhas fecriures editor end staff ^-':g CHARLES WEdC V £>ff
ThomasSiflliva^^^^ ;	'»j ’ -■
jff^WdBor. <iW.wil4^ ! < THOMAS I^SEXWa ?>■'ii William Cary-: ?■<■■■; ■- A
copy edHor and staff ; A A^^LTEIH^^
iV s<:Tlramcis Mal^nidlc ' artedHor '• A \‘
JERRYFLORENT 'photbjpeHph^
4

ROBEIOP*0?fV^ XI Jos^fr-RhW^frx^
.-"Al dwulalid^diB^
LAWRE^^
■MnaiAeMmAjiLm	i-x* *	' ' "1
.Mamnor^ <cs.<	v >*]
REV^d^RLES:'<^R^w^|
STILL NONE OF THEIR BUSINESS: At the request of the social commissioner of the Student Senate, the leaders of the many geographical clubs on campus held a meeting last week to discuss the possibility of the formation of a geographical clubs council. One of the first reactions of most club presidents was, “Who wants such a council?” Reasons given by the chairman for its formation included movie pools, loan funds (which already exist) and stricter enforcement of the Student Senate’s rules for organizations. Last and least, more representation in the Student Senate was mentioned. The advantages of such an organization seem to be almost non-existent. Aside from the superfluous representation in the Senate, the clubs stand to gain little, especially at the cost of their freedom. The geographical clubs already operate under a stringent set of rules imposed on them by student government. One cannot deny that all such rules pertaining to financial matters are absolutely necessary; perhaps even those regarding membership for interhall athletic competition are desirable. But for what reason does one student activity take upon itself the title of “Big Brother” and feel that it must organize and eventually control eveiy student organization on campus? We have reached a sorry state when an octopus-like bureaucracy feels it must organize for the sake of organization. Let us cut off its tentacles now.
ESPRESSO: We note with great interest the announcement regarding the new “London Art Gallery” opening in downtown South Bend. A student owned and operated gathering place for university scholars away from the campus is a familiar sight in many college communities, but there has never been anything at Notre Dame which remotely resembles such a place. The new coffee house opened by Jim Rose could be a step in the right direction. The “London Art Gallery” at 228 N. Michigan has already received a clean bill of health from the City of South Bend Board of Health. Now it is up to the students to patronize the venture. Certainly a good cup of coffee would be welcome on the upcoming cold winter nights, and the patron will also be given an opportunity to view some of the latest paintings and drawings of University students. Perhaps no Samuel Johnson will emerge from the coffee house in the next few years, but the atmosphere created might possibly stir up some good discussions which are always an integral part of learning at the university level.
TWO AND ONE-HALF ACTS: We take this opportunity to apologize to the cast of The Hasty Heart for the mass exodus during one of the most crucial scenes in the play last Saturday night. Certainly the disturbance was not caused by a displeasure of the audience ■with the performance, noi- by the intended rudeness of the students. It was necessitated by a hastily invoked disciplinary measure across the Dixie which required that all students report back before 10:30 p.m. Why?
IN SHEEP’S CLOTHING: Whenever a University student has attended a recent dance in the LaFortune Student Center, he has no doubt been panhandled by students handling the coat checking concession. Not only when the coats were checked, but also when they were picked up after the dance he was often requested to give a donation “to the missions.” Now the idea of giving money to the missions is highly commendable, but when on further investigation we learn that the aforesaid “missions” are the personal pocketbooks of the coat checkers, we are thoroughly shocked. Certainly there can be no objection to 6 or 8 students receiving a fail- return on an evening’s work in the form of tips. It is most disgusting, however, that attempts have been made to increase the “take” with an appeal for the missions. We understand that steps have been taken to end this pernicious subterfuge; we certainly hope so.
news reporters Philip Larrabee John Ohola
" Thomas Schelereth - William Sparks
' Michael Woods
3
1
J
Thomas Barth?! John Bechtold \ Richard Corso Jiwry Hewdt "
h
■»
CLEANLINESS: Now that the South Bend winter has really descended on us with its usual freezing temperatures, snow, icy rain and bus strike, we feel that it is appropriate to bring up a minute but nevertheless important point. Nearly every large city in the nation has been putting on campaigns entitled “Keep Your City Clean” in the past few years. On a campus level such an attempt has never been made and is perhaps unnecessary. It strikes us from time to time, however, especially when we observe campus workers spearing paper with their new five-pronged paper-spearers, that some sort of effort on the part of the students could be made to stop the throwing of containers, wrappers and paper of all types into any unlikely spot on campus. In the winter such debris merely piles up in the snow, causing a very unpleasant sight in the spring. We suggest that the University install more waste containers, especially within radius of the eating places on campus, and that students, with or without these aids, attempt to be less careless in the future.
— B. T. <fc T.
5
RENEW YOUR SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTION NOW!
THE BOOK SHOP
Paperbacks •
Contemporary Cards and Glassware •
All the Best Sellers •
130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
Right down from the Bus Stop
OUR COVER: The disgruntled Pilgrim featured on today’s cover is no doubt unhappy because his freedom to enjoy cranberries with his turkey has been curtailed; or, being a resident of Massachusetts, perhaps he is a cranberry producer, which more than adequately explains his sour look. At any rate, our cover artist, Denny Luczak, a junior in art, is sure that the freedom which comes with vacation time will overshadow this loss on the part of Notre Darners who will, come next Thursday, be stuffing up either at home or at Ziggie’s palace.
assn ans naa§ asms SEB BSBB HHaSEBSB H0SE bbbbb asmsas □man as
□□□asaoas Esas 7?as he0 naansk
□BUI SHOE asmaans aanaa □man aaasnaaa edhe ana bqee bbge ass sees
ti3MSNV*KDM
KGDL KROSSWORD	No. 8
ACROSS
1. Big laugh
5. It’s very constricting
8. Berries in Bronx?
12.	Repulsive type
13.	Fail without the “F”
14.	Sundry assortment
15.	Make it dill-y and it’s a Swedish_______
17.	Not a woman author
18.	Nut who sounds buggy
19.	Odd-balls are
21. Current expression
23.	Start hunting
24.	His heroine made cigarettes (not Kools!)
26. Doggy frosh
29.	Gew’s companion
30.	Pitts’ forerunner
31.	Double-hull boat
33.	It’s either__
34.	Pony-tail temptation
35.	Menthol Magic makes Kools taste ______
40. Describing bathrooms
43.	Feel seepy? Have a little snoozy
44.	Unbalanced upper
46.	Subject of Mexican bull session
47.	Heel’s alter ego
48.	Snicker___
49.	Old card game; go away
50.	It’s backward in fraternity
51.	Watch over
DOWN
1.	Atomic or aerosol
2.	Exclamatory molding
3.	Small boys’ dub
4.	Festival
5.	Sheepish expression
6.	Texas’ money
7.	“Come up,_____ 	up to Kools”
8.	Lollabrigidian
9.	He's in balance
10.	Monroe4ike kiss feeling
11.	Area of defense
16. Tell all
20. Rutgers’ routine
22. Kool is America’s most refreshing_______
25. “Iz
so?”
26.	Snooty London street
27.	The 50 best
28.	Humor’s black sheep
30.	Goofiest
31.	Not a pro.
32.	Numbers' racket
35.	Baby beds
36.	Kool, from the wrong end, see
37.	Pound of poetry
38.	Shaw’s
St. Lawrence
39.	Cheer from the bottom up
41.	Not a bit odd
42.	Colored fatally?
45. Type of green
15
18
35
34
37
KODi
MioMenwoi.
12
ARE VOUKODL ENOUGH TO krack THIS?*
43
46
49
21
22
24
31
33
25
29
48 .
51

When your throat tells . you its time for a change you need a real change
YOU NEED THE

K®L
A
OF
The Scholastic
J .
J
I
- )’•’ )
i
you are there
by CHRIS FOLEY
What kind of a day was it? It was a day like all days that illuminate and alter our times, except — you are there. Excitement tingled my crooked young spine as I slipped into my front’ row seat in the Student Center Amphitheatre. It seemed like there were hundreds of eager young students crammed r ( into the tiny room; some sat quietly — ** others chatted nervously among themselves — a few wiped drips of perspiration from their brows — one senior be; > hind me belched obtrusively and was ’ asked to leave. We were all waiting for the same thing, for one of the most mon-umentous decisions of our undergraduate careers.
After seemingly hours of waiting, Student Body President Royce Rabbit * called the meeting to order; the great debate had begun!
4, WHEREAS (a tall statesmanlike gen* tieman read from a scroll of yellowed papyrus; his manner was calm, his voice grim) Whereas it has been brought to the attention of the Student Government
* of the University of Notre Dame that certain undergraduates, not all undergraduates to be sure, but a few individuals, have been observed in and ‘ around the South Bend area acting in a manner and fashion not becoming the manner and fashion suitable for univer, sity students, and
1 4
WHEREAS, it has been observed that these violations have been not those of a venial nature, but those of a serious ■ and shameful nature such as drinking beer and staying out after night check . and smoking cigarettes, and
(chorus of hisses)
J WHEREAS, it has been further ob-1 served that a certain establishment has ( ? proven to be a proximate occasion of Isuch vices in that it purveys both the ^.aforementioned beverage and tobacco, ^does stay open after times when all descent students have retired to the solitude 4	'
^November 20, 1959
of their residence halls, and does maintain other vehicles of debauchery such as automatic music machines and pinball gambling apparatus,
(nods of affirmation in audience)
WHEREAS, in view of these flagrant and defamatory facts be it hereby ordained and decreed that from this day hence no member of the undergraduate body of the University of Notre Dame shall be permitted to place himself near this establishment or its environs, nor associate with any person or persons who do frequent this establishment or drink beer or smoke cigarettes.
(vigorous applause and cheers)
Be it further established that this ordinance shall be enforced by a student-elected posse of vigilantes who shall patrol the area in question and return offenders to the University for punitive action.
(cries of “bravo” and “good show”)
ANTICLIMAX
Needless to say, the resolution passed in a landslide. Outside the Student Center I could see throngs of students gathering around bonfires while cheerleaders led such cries as Nooooo Irish Eaaaat at Frankie’s. Vengeful juniors and seniors carried signs such as “Wipe out the menace” and “A dry school is a happy school” or the simpler “He’s a no good stinkin’ lousy rotten bum.”
Student government business carried on. Fred Freebie of Fischer was appointed head of the committee to look for other places to put out of bounds. Sam Simple of Sorin was appointed head of the vigilante commission. Clark Kent of Keenan was appointed to investigate Frank the campus cop to find out if he had any connection with the infamous restaurateur. All scurred from the Student Center to start on their new jobs.
The next order of business was for Student Body President Royce Rabbit to write a letter to inform him of the student government’s action. This he did on the spot.
Royce Rabbit
Univ, of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana Dear Sir:
Youse is a bad guy, and we don’t like you any more. You been making everybody that goes down to your restaurant misbehave so none of us guys is gonna go down to see you any more, so there. I hope you go broke. I never liked your pizza anyway.
Sincerely yours, Royce Rabbit
From then on the meeting proceeded smoothly, even quietly, although outside I could hear spiteful shouts about pizza and see a few burning crosses in front of Walsh Hall where a small band of pro-restaurant seniors reportedly live.
CLIMAX
Then it happened! From a distance I could hear the heavy clumping of what sounded like a hundred soldiers. The sound came nearer and nearer. Suddenly the door of the amphitheatre swung open! Terrified, I turned around. Twelve burly giants stood grimly in the doorway; they were wearing steel-soled military boots, polished cottons, and green T-shirts. The Vigilantes! At a cry from their leader they sprung for Royce Rabbit; in a flash they had him shackled, head and foot.
“What is the meaning of this?” he cried. “I never eat in there!”
“You ever eat at the Huddle?” one of the Vigilantes asked. “You ever been in the Chern engineering building? On Sorin’s porch?”
“Yes,” Royce stammered, “but what of it?” “New rule, buddy, they’re all out of bounds. You better come with us.”
7
IN YOUR FAVORITE PACKAGE DESIGN!
Bes’ lighter ofier yet! They re windproof, sturdy, handsome —and richly enamelled in full-color baked on' Just tell us which of the 3 great cigarette package designs vou prefer - and order as many of each as you want I But order NOW because oaer expires January 31, 1960 —and time flies!
SEND ONLY 60c AND THE BOTTOM FLAP FROM 10 PACKAGES OF
EM or CHESTERFIELD or OASIS
SMART, TIMELY GIFTS — 3 Great Liggett & Myers Brands to Choose From
SPECIAL OFFER
Order as many lighters as you wish!
LIGHTERS, P.O. Box 85A, Mt. Vernon 10, N. Y.
I enclose 606 (no stamps) plus the bottom flap from 10 packages of EM or Chesterfield or Oasis, for each lighter. (Send money and bottom flaps by First Class Mail only.)
BOTTOM FLAP
This offer expires Jan. 31, 1960 and is not valid for shipment into states where prohibited, taxed or regulated.
NOTICE: If you are sending in for more than one lighter be sure you have provided sufficient postage to cover additional weight of coins and paper flaps.
L&M LIGHTERS
CHESTERFIELD LIGHTERS
OASIS LIGHTERS
8
The Scholastic
Camfud StXM
POLITICAL CLUBS TO BEGIN OPERATIONS
Organizations to Hold ’ Election in December
Three years of persistent work have reached their culmination in the new campus Young Democrats and Young 4 Republicans organizations, which began operations this week.
It was in 1956 that the Student Senate, realizing the outstanding political apathy of Catholic students both on the campus and national level, began plans for campus political organizations. Two years ago, a proposal for these campus groups was passed in a Senate vote, but vetoed by the administration. This past year, through intensified student effort and the cooperation of the Academy of Political Science, a constitution for the organizations was formed. This constitution, weakened through a compromise with the administration, was approved earlier this year.
Three-Man Board. The joint board responsible for the new political organization is composed of Denny Shaul, Terry Lamb and Bill Mapother.
Shaul, last year’s student body president, is a senior history major from Wolverhampton, England. Active in the Young Democrats on a national level, he
POLITICAL ORGANIZERS SHAUL AND MAPOTHER “An academic and educational approach to politics’’
is heading the Democratic group on campus until the coming elections.
Lamb, who is now heading the Republican group hails from Washington, D.C. A commerce major, he has been active in Republican politics in his local area.
A senior political science major from Louisville, Ky., Mapother is presently active in the coming Mock Political Convention. A member of the Academy of Political Science, he is interested primarily in politics on the municipal level.
Strategy Plotted. The first organizational meetings were held in the LaFor-tune Student Center for the Republican and Democratic clubs respectively. At these meetings nominations of officers were made, dues collected and panel discussions carried on. The panels, composed of faculty and student body members, discussed the reasons that the respective parties hold for hopes of victory in the coming national elections.
At the second meetings to be held on December 9 and 10, the officers of the organizations will be elected. By this time the nominees will have done considerable campaigning, personally visiting as many members of the groups as possible, expressing their view on party action.
This year’s activities for the organizations will center on the national elections. Such basic ideas as party plat
forms, liberalism vs. conservatism, candidate background and foreign policy will be discussed. This will include such problems as the Southern question and business vs. labor.
The political organizations will be governed by a constitution which represents a necessary compromise between Student Government and the University administrators. The compromise is in the form of several limitations on the groups’ activities and “any failure to observe the mentioned limitations of activities shall result, ipso facto, in the immediate and permanent dissolution of the club without hope of future resurrection. This is the basic and essential point of understanding between the club organizers and the University and is accepted by both parties as not re-negotiable for the future.”
These limitations do not allow official endorsement or opposition of local, state or national candidates for public office by anyone connected with the clubs. Who belongs to the clubs can be determined by checking the complete roster of membership which each group will be obliged to file with the Vice President of Student Affairs.
N. D. and the Public. The prohibiting of endorsements is intended to prevent the possibility of the public misinterpreting such endorsements as being those of the University. Also for this reason, public demonstrations are forbidden as are affiliations with political organizations on either the national, state or local level. Because of possible abuse of the cut system, the clubs will not be allowed to sponsor field trips. Other than these restrictions, the clubs are completely free to operate.
Dixie Ramblers to Set Theme; "Twenties" Make Comeback
Bruce Cosacchi and his Dixie Ramblers will be switching to the Charleston tomorrow night as the Social Commission’s “Roaring Twenties Party” brings to a climax the fall social season. The affair will be held in the LaFortune Student Center from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Tickets may be purchased at the door.
Features of the evening will be the awarding of several door prizes and a floor show. The floor show, which is reported to be one of the best in recent years, will be presented by students with theatrical experience from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
Student Senate social commissioner, John Christen, is being assisted by chairmen, Pat Kelly and Mike Hart, in making arrangements for the “Party.” Costumes appropriate to the “roaring twenties” theme may be worn if desired.
November 20, 1959
9
Catholic College Students to Hold Symposium; Kirchner to Discuss Topic of World Missions
It was seven years ago that the first Advent Symposium took place on the Notre Dame campus. Then just a spark, the symposium idea has now caught fire and should be the best of the seven held here, according to an article in the Catholic Action periodical Anima which is edited by Pete Hennigan.
Again it will be the National Federation of Catholic College Students who will sponsor the discussions. Among those responsible for the organizing of this year’s Symposium are N.F.C.C.S. officers Tom Geil, religious affairs vice president; Dave Mayer, secretary; and the NFCCS Moderator Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C.
World Mission. The Symposium, which will ran from December 4 to December 6, will center around the topic, "The Student and the World Mission.” It will have the same general format as in past years, with talks by distinguished scholars, followed by discussions in small groups.
Giving the keynote address will be Edward Kirchner, director of the Association for International Development. A past vice-president of Pax Romana, he prepared for his present work with experience as a diplomatic attache in Germany. He carries the responsibility of training single young men and young married couples for work in the mission fields.
Giving the second talk on Saturday, December 5, will be Rev. George Tavard, A.A., who has written extensively on ecumenical problems. Discussing “The Missionary Role of the American
HENNIGAN, GEIL, FATHER PUTZ AND MAYER A year of appraisal and self-inspection
Church,” he will present and analyze the situation for the spread of Catholicism to foreign lands. Later that same day Mr. David O’Shea, one-time lay mis-sioner and now chairman of the Catholic Action Federation of Chicago, will describe the various agencies directing lay missionary groups in foreign lands. His talk will be entitled “Missionary Opportunity.”
Finally, at the Sunday morning Communion Breakfast, Rev. Laurence Murphy, Maryknoll priest-editor of The World Campus, will synthesize all the ideas presented in his talk “From Campus to Mission.”
The purpose of the symposium is to give to those interested in Catholic action and the lay apostolate a deeper insight into the meaning and objectives of these organizations.
Re-Flaming. This year’s symposium, in particular, is being focused toward one project: the enkindling of the same faith that directed the early Christian centuries ago. The problem will be “the integration of Catholic ideology with a culture foreign to it.” In this issue lies the wall that this year’s YCS, who sponsors the Advent Symposium, hopes to crack open.
The topic for this year was decided upon by the Second World Congress for the Lay Apostolate, which met in Rome in October of 1957.
The NFCCS has recently become the object of some criticism by members of student government for failing to justify its annual cost of $.25 per student collected by the Senate.
St. Mary's Debaters to Hold Annual Contest in Moreau Hall
Tomorrow St. Mary’s College will hold its first annual intercollegiate freshmansophomore debate tournament. Rounds will begin at 9:30, 11:00, 1:30 and 3:00 in Moreau Hall. Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., will present trophies to the first and second place teams shortly after the last round.
The topic for intercollegiate debaters throughout the country this year will be argued at tomorrows’ tournament: Resolved: “That the Congress of the United States should have the power to reverse decisions of the Supreme Court.”
Nancy Miller and Cathy Dwyer will take the negative for St. Mary’s and Ann Houlihan and Judy Nelson the affirmative.
Representing Notre Dame at the affair will be four freshman debaters. Chris Rane and Martin Gordon arguing for the affirmative, and Pete Aylward and Ray Kelly for the negative.
Besides Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, ten colleges and universities from six states will participate in the tournament. These include Purdue, Loyola, Marquette, Xavier, Butler, Northwestern, Bellarmine, University of Illinois at Chicago, University of Indiana and the University of Western Michigan.
Leonard Sommer, head of Notre Dame’s forensic activity, is also debate coach. Pat Bramucci is general chairman of the tournament and president of the debate team. Chairmen for the tournament are Beth Fiss, publicity; Judy Hargadine, registration; Jane Hillyer, tabulation; and Judy Nelson, timekeeping.
Dr. Hutchison to Present * Discussion on Chemistry
Dr. Clyde Hutchison, Jr., professor of chemistry at the University of Chicago, will give a lecture on “Paramagnetism of Phosphorescent Organic Molecules” at 4 p.m. this afternoon, in 123 Nieuwland Science Hall.	'	"
This lecture, is the third in a series of P. C. Reilly lectures held at the University. Earlier in the week Dr. Hutchison ,a specialist in physical chemistry, spoke on “Paramagnetism and Paramagnetic Resonance” and “Applications of Paramagnetic Resonance Techniques to Chemical Problems.”	*
The annual series of lectures by outstanding chemists and chemical engineers was established in 1945 by a gift of more than $1 million from the late Peter Reilly, Indianapolis industrialist and a member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees. Earlier Reilly lecturers this year were Dr. Fred Basolo, professor of chemistry at Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill., and Prof. Kenneth Pitzer, dean of the college of chemistry at the University of California at Berkeley.
Hutchison has been associated with the University of Chicago’s Institute for Nuclear Studies since 1945.
10
The Scholastic
University Receives $75,000 Research Grant; Gift to Support International Relations Studies
The Rockefeller Foundation has awarded the University of Notre Dame a $75,000 grant to support a five-year research program on the “assumptions, methods and issues of contemporary diplomacy.”
The program will be conducted by the University’s Committee on International Relations, a group of six political science and history professors headed by Dr. Stephen Kertesz, former Hungarian diplomat.
Another Library. As part of the project a library of diplomacy will be established at Notre Dame. The fund will underwrite the participation of visiting scholars and diplomats in lecture series and symposia as well as a long-range study of diplomacy through. the years by committee members.
Kertesz said the Committee will establish a study room on the campus for a collection of books in all major languages on diplomacy, foreign policy and international institutions.
A second major objective of the five-year program, will be to search out and record original diplomatic experience in the broadest sense. Outstanding American and foreign scholars and veteran diplomats will be invited to Notre Dame to contribute their unique personal experience to the advancement of knowledge about methods, procedures and issues in international relations.
The System. In addition, the six members of the Committee will undertake a long-range research program and systematic publication of material on the development, role and limits of diplomacy throughout history.
Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations was established in 1949 with the support of a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. Since that time the Committee has published twenty-two books and sponsored more than two
Cultural Week End Planned For Washington Hall Crowd
Frances Archer and Beverly Gile will initiate the 1959-60 Notre Dame Artist Series tonight with their popular program of international songs and ballads. In their musical tour, the Archer and Gile duo will wander through France, Spain, Italy and Japan, only to end up again in the homeland of America. The group has merited outstanding ratings by critics throughout the country.
On Saturday night students will have a chance to see Alec Guiness starring in the much publicized movie, “The Horse’s Mouth.” Guiness is the star of the Academy Award winner “Bridge on the River Kwai.” Described as a “delicate capturing of the creative inspiration of an artist,” the movie will be run at 6:20 and 8:35 p.m.
November 20, 1959
DR. STEPHEN KERTESZ
The importance of diplomacy
hundred campus lectures and symposia on international affairs.
Serving with Kertesz on the Committee are Dr. Matthew Fitzsimons, who is also editor of Notre Dame’s Revieiv of Politics; Profs. F. A. Hermens and John Kennedy of the political science department; and Profs. William Shanahan and Frederick Pike of the history department.
NSF Sponsors Studies In Moth During Summer
High school mathematics teachers from all over the country will study here during the 1960-61 academic year and in an eight-week summer session under a special program supported by a $228,600 grant of the National Science Foundation.
Notre Dame is one of 33 colleges and universities participating in the $9.2 million national program whose purpose is to help teachers of mathematics and science improve their subject-matter knowledge through a year’s study.
Between 40 and 60 of the 1600 teachers participating in the National Science Foundation mathematics and science institutes will be enrolled at Notre Dame. Each teacher will pursue a program of study planned especially for him and conducted by outstanding faculty members.
A stipend of $3000 will be awarded by the National Science Foundation to each teacher enrolling in the institutes, and additional allowances for dependents, books and travel will be provided. Several institutes, including the one at Notre Dame, will provide an additional summer training program to enable teachers more easily to fulfill graduate degree requirements.
Who M lIlBMiatiii!
Forty-five minutes of meeting, one-half of them in total darkness (literally), characterized last Mondays’ meeting of the Senate. The group was truely in the dark, but this time it was caused by a power failure, not intellectual lapse as some would say. But not much happened, light or dark.
I wonder if it ever occurred to anyone in the Senate that perhaps there might not be a need for weekly metings, and two per month might be adequate. There usually isn’t that much going on, last week being the notable exception, and it seems like a formal habit having a meeting every Monday evening just because there always has been. Is there any value in this?
Things have subsided since the Frankie issue, and that is good. SBP Babbitt reported a number of favorable letters, and no visible bodily harm has come to Ed Butler. Apparently, things are being done. United Press International reported even the Russians have hit the moon.
Who knows how long the local bus drivers will be out on strike? The Senate doesn’t, but it hopes to alleviate the transportation problem anyway. Various suggestions are being considered, and there are hopes that something will come about soon, a deal with taxis or rented busses. Hope so.
$250 was loaned to the Jazz Festival committee for their start, and $390 was given to the sailing team for their regatta traveling. John Keegan told of more merchants being added to the student discount service, and gave an NSA report. Andy Lawlor again announced this Sunday’s Student Forum, featuring a labor union discussion, and mentioned the futility of arranging for a big-name speaker in the near future. Blue Circler Tom Scanlon finished his report on the student trip with some analysis of the Pittsburgh blind dates.
Then Social Commissioner John Christen returned with his amended lottery system suggestions for buying dance bids without a strain. It will be an appendix to the dance constitution, and available for use at the dance chairman’s discretion.
Here is how it works: Upon presentation of his IJ)., a student can put his name in the hopper of his choice, thereby indicating his dance preference. A dance list will be created in the order the cards are drawn at a public drawing. Football tickets, accommodations and bids will be sold following the list. The alternates who miss on one will be put on the next dance list. Theoretically, it sounds at least as fair as present systems.
John Christen and his committee are to be sincerely commended for their patience and diligence.
11
ARMY-NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
SPECIAL—A Used Alpaca Lined Parka—Only $7.95 YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
NOTICE
Award Jackets
GOLD STEERHIDE LEATHER SLEEVES 24-OUNCE WOOL NAVY MELTON BODY IRRIDESCENT RAYON LINED BLUE AND GOLD TRIMMED
Special $17.95
MINKOWS
303 So. Michigan St.
NEXT TO PLANTERS PEANUTS Home of Adam Hats, Massagic Shoes, and Campus Sports Clothes.
Labor Management Club Visits Ford Motors; Members Hear Industrial Relations Lectures
Productivity, profit sharing, automobile pricing structures, and grievance procedures were among the most frequently discussed topics during the Labor Management Club’s fall field trip to the United Auto Workers’ Headquarters and the Ford Motor Company in Detroit.
Armed with cancelled cuts, 30 members of the active, 70-member club arrived in Detroit Tuesday night via chartered bus. Ten o’clock the next morning found the club in the impressive conference room of Solidarity House, the central headquarters for the International U.A.W. Leonard Woodcock, a vice-president of the International and head of the General Motors department, addressed the club on the problems of his union.
Questions for the Brain. Following the half-hour talk, the floor was opened to questions and what was to be a two-day, continuous barrage of questions began. The scope of the Labor Management Club is wide and varied, dealing in all aspects of the Industrial Relations field and the diversity of the questions reflected this. After lunch (where a representative of the union was on hand at each table to answer questions), Nat Wineberg, nationally famous economist and one of the “brains” behind the U.A.W., expounded his theory on how to increase the productivity of the U.S. and subsequently raise the level of the whole economy.
Educational Service Reveals Date of Teacher Examination
For those aspiring to the teaching profession the Educational Testing Service has announced the National Teacher Examinations for 1960. The examinations will be given at 160 testing centers throughout the United States on Saturday, February 13, 1960.
At the one-day testing session a candidate may take the Common Examinations, which include tests in professional information, general culture, English expression and nonverbal reasoning; and one or two of twelve optional examinations designed to demonstrate mastery of subject matter to be taught. Anyone interested, may seek advice concerning the National Teacher Examinations from the University’s education department or from the school system in which he is seeking employment.
An application and a bulletin of information describing registration procedures may be obtained from the National Teacher Examinations, Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, N. J. Completed applications, accompanied by proper examination fees, will be accepted by the ETS office during November and December, and early in January so long as they are received before January 15, 1960.
He insisted that to effect this increase it was necessary for what he termed “the excessive profits” of industry to be dispersed to the workers at the bottom of the wage scale where the money would be spent instead of concentrating it in the hands of the rich few who would save rathei- than spend.
Info, on Hoffa. An additional two hours was spent at the University of Detroit’s College of Business Administration. There staff members acquainted the club with Detroit’s laboi* relation problems, and provided the club with first-hand information about James Hoffa and the Teamsters.	'
The next day the club traveled to Dearborn, Michigan, to get the management interpretation of labor-management relations in the automobile industry. The Industrial Relations staff of the Ford Motor Company had prepared a program of talks and events. Meeting in the plush caucus room, normally used by the union in actual contract negotiations, the club heard talks by five top Ford industrial relations officials. The questioning following these talks was (Continued on page 13)
Debaters Place Second In St. Joseph's Tourney
Four more trophies and two medals have been won by the Notre Dame debate team in three recent forensic engagements.
Last week end the team of Joel Haggard, Jerry Goudreau, Guy Powers and Jay Whitney placed second out of 28 , teams at the St. Joseph’s College Invitational Debate Tournament, in Philadelphia. In addition to the second place silver cup, Whitney and Powers received the second and third place trophies, respectively, for individual speaking. This is the second year in a row that Notre Dame has placed second at this event.
Sophomores Richard Meece and Maurice O’Sullivan participated in the Texas Christian University Forensic Tournament in Fort Worth, Texas on November 6-7. Meece won first place in extemporaneous speaking and received an individual trophy. In debate, with 115 teams competing, Notre Dame was the * only undefeated team in the six preliminary rounds but lost in the quarter finals. The debaters received medals for getting to the elimination rounds.
Four other men attended “Debate Days in Detroit” held by Wayne State University on November 9-10. Sophomores David Castaldi and Bill Beaver, ;4 and Freshmen Martin Gordon and Christopher Lane debated before audiences totaling 18,000 people. The team had an 11-7 record, with the team of Gordon and Lane ranking as the third best negative team with their record of 7-1. The last debate was telecast by WTVS-TV in Detroit.
12
The Scholastic
SHIRTS EXPERTLY LAUNDERED
for $1.00 RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JB7ERSON Downtown—■on the Bus line Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
Labor Management
(Continued from page 12) especially robust, for the members had ammunition from the U.A.W. session of the day before.
Lunch was provided in the luxury of the Executive Dining Room at company expense followed by a tour of the final assembly line of the Dearborn plant and a talk on plant level industrial relations.
The trip, at every point of which the club received red carpet treatment, was arranged by the club officers under the direction of Dr. Richard Lyon of the College of Commerce. Terry Conway is the president; Ray Hurley, vice-president; Bill Lehr, secretary; and Pete Boyle, treasurer.
— Bill Lehr
IIIHIS UBUIYari BNI8NP
New Catholic Books, Missals, ami Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Band A Nonprofit Organization
Stays moist and firm throughout your shave!
regular or new mentholated
Take your choice of new, cool mentholated or regular Smooth Shave. Both have rich, thick Old Spice qualitylather that won’t dry up before you’ve finished shaving. Both soften your beard instantly—end razor drag completely. For the closest, cleanest, quickest shaves... try
SMOOTH SHAVE by SHULTON
Old Spice Smooth Shave!
122
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
November 20, 1959
13

Zke Sand Castle
A HE BOY half-ran, half-slid down the long slope of the dune that led to the shore. The beach was deserted. After Labor Day only a few tourists remained in the town, and today he was alone as he passed the boarded refreshment stand and descended the rotted wooden steps to the beach. He had watched the sunrise as he drove from his cabin, that uninspiring sunrise that turns the Michigan sky from black to gray to blue, and now the sun blinded him for a moment as it reflected across the water of the lake. He unfolded his blanket on the sand, dropped his book, and tuned the radio to the early morning jazz show from Chicago.
It was only minutes later that he heard a car drive up and stop above him in the parking lot. When he heard the
stretched and twisted and made angel patterns in the sand with her arms and legs. Then she arose, fluidly, andwaded into the water and the whitecaps swirled around her legs. . She made a cup of her hands to wash the sand from herself. He saw her do this as he turned an unread page of his bode. .
She removed the shoulder straps of her suit as she Walked back to her blanket, and there she spread sun lotion over her ' arms and legs, the tops of her breasts, and on her shoulders . - ' and neck. Afterwards she dried and brushed her hair until ' it fell like spun glass fibre over her shoulders.	./
He watched her do all these things and then he’ saw het: \ ’ kneel in the damp sand and build a sand castle. He could not look away even as she was doing this. He watched herform
J
the walls and towers, seeing them grow 5 : and seeing her move. He turned another page in his book.	. -
He was revived by the sound of a car. ■' horn above him, and he saw Hie boy _ run down the wooden stairs and wave / to his girl. She stood up f rom her castle, .•/ and when the boy reached her she kissed ? < him quickly, folded the blanket, and ran with him down the long white sweep of the beach.	-	?
He watched them until they, were al- ' most out of sight, then he walked slowly.. . ■ to where she had been. He stared at-: the impression her body had made in the -wet sand, then walked to her sand castle and slowly kicked it apart. He ran to the water and dived into a breaker. The ; .: water blinded him. It went into his nose • ' and started a raw stinging. It lingered: afterwards in his ears, rattling back and forth like pebbles for hours. . ■ f
door slam he turned and saw a young girl walk barefoot down the? steps, glance at him without really seeing him, and walk to a spot fifty yards down the shore. As she passed he saw that she was a girl of eighteen or nineteen, with summer-tanned skin and hair bleached almost white from the months of exposure to sun and water. She had the perfect yet nondescript body of the girl who is not quite a woman, covered only by a soiled white bathing suit, and he watched her as she walked down the beach away from him, the brown tops of her feet burying themselves in the sand with each step. He watched . her walk, then run to the water and throw herself into the ' surf, and he watched her as she swam towards the guard ropes and then back to the shore, where she lay on the wet sand letting the foam wash white over her body and feeling the surf pulling the'sand from beneath her.
He opened his book and put on his sunglasses as a guise, but it made no difference for she never looked up, never looked ; towards him.	_	.
In a few minutes she began to move, and as if awakening,
aS
by Edward O’Malley
£



November 20, 1959
NEGOTIATORS AT WORK:	!
CAUTION

by ARTHUR HENNESSY
Laurel Race Track in Maryland has an international horse race annually on November 11 at which each nation is invited to send its finest horses to compete in world competition. A few years ago the Russians brought over two entries. They were long shots as can be expected because few Americans would put any money on a Russian horse and right they were for the Russian horses finished well down the track. The race was won by a horse from Australia but after the finish the judges disqualified the Australian entry and gave first place to an Irish mare. The comment of a Washington newspapei- later that evening was: Well, at least an English speaking horse won. Some years ago Harvard elected Nathan Pusey as its president. A group of reporters noting that Pusey came from the same home town as the late Senator Joseph McCarthy asked the Senator whether they were acquainted. Senator McCarthy answered: As far as I know the man is not a Communist.
I think both stories illustrate a basic attitude towards Communism. It is an attitude based largely on emotion and fear. To me this is the attitude that Professor Gerhart Niemeyer has asked us to maintain towards Communism in his article, “The Thaw.” His argument is, that once the threat of a Hot Wai* has dissolved, our resistance to Communism will melt and that Khrushchev, like the Pied Piper, ■will lead us down the road to national disaster by playing a tune called negotiation. To Professor Niemeyer, it is a sign of weakness to negotiate with the Russians. Because the West lacks a concrete program, any negotiation in his mind, will only lead to some concession to the Kremlin leaders and the injection of more novocain into the will of the American people to resist. Coupled into the meaning of the term negotiation are such items as the visit of Khrushchev to the United States and further educational and cultural exchanges with the Russians. To these, Professor Niemeyer is opposed.
NEGOTIATION AS AMORAL
To negotiate in itself is indifferent. >	To make a judgment upon a negotiation,
.	it is necessary to relate it to a particu-
, lar event. Some nights ago on television s. Jack Parr made the comment that he would not like to buy a used car from Khrushchev. Well, neither would I. But the Russians are there — some two hundred million of them — and it is necessary to deal with them. You cannot sweep them under the nig. In any relations with them I would use the same strategy one should use in buying a
used car. Carefully examine what you are purchasing and the price you are paying for it. If you are dissatisfied, don’t buy. One of Professor Niemeyer’s assumptions is that the American people and then* leaders will accept the fact that the basic differences between the United States and Russia can be settled by conferences. This I refuse to concede. Neither President Eisenhower, Secretary Herter nor the American people are that naive. The basic contention of the State Department is that in cei-tain areas we can cooperate with the Russians if the Russians themselves show a willingness. They assume that the result attained will benefit us more than it will benefit the Russians or at the worst be of equal advantage to both parties. Take for example the hydrogen bomb. If fifty of these bombs can destroy either Russia or the United States why have one hundred of them. If an inspection system could be set up which would insure that Russia would keep a disarmament agreement and that agreement still assured us a balance of power with the Communist world, the State Department would agree to it. Professoi' Niemeyer’s contention that we would liquidate “the last ounce of our resistance,” by a series of agreements takes for granted that we will liquidate our basic intelligence in future years and become prize A-l saps. Resistance to Communism will not evaporate in our country; the press, the pulpit, the schools, the colleges, the various communication medias will all see to that. Since the turn of the century we have risen from a position of relative isolation in world affairs to one of world leadership. History shows us many mis- ‘ takes along this path but it also pictures a growth towards a mature judgment which I say will continue into the future.
The West does have a program which is both general and specific. In general, we are endeavoring to spread the institutions of freedom and democracy throughout the world, not with the idea that these institutions can be imparted part and parcel to other nations, but that they can be adapted to a degree by other- nations within the framework of their particular culture. Specifically, our
Arthur L. Hennessy, Ph.D., is a member of the History Department. He received his B.A. from Catholic University, his MA. from Harvard University, and his Ph.D. from Georgetown University where he specialized in American Diplomatic History. During the last war he served in the Navy and from 1953 to 1957 he was attached to the National Security Agency of the Defense Department.
program has been embodied in such acts . as the Marshall Plan and Point Four to ¥ name the most obvious ones and the instruments of defense which would include the North Atlantic Treaty Organ- . ization and the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization as prime examples. A government agency, which I would like to add in passing, that has the mission of interpreting our program, is the United States Information Agency. I would agree that further progress is necessary in this latter area but I feel certain it . will come as we put more time, thought, and effort into this medium.
REASON ABOVE PROGRAM	4
It is my impression that when Professor Niemeyer speaks of a program or lack of it he means a lack of a certain technique in expressing ourselves. Where are the parades, the banners, doctrines and slogans? But do we have to adopt these emotional propaganda techniques ourselves? Do they show conviction? Are they not made more for the totalitarian regime? Let our approach to this problem be one of rationality and cool calculation.
I think it is also significant that no mention whatsoever is made in the article of the United Nations. Possibly because by our membership in the United Nations, we are cooperating with the Russians in certain areas and lessening the tensions of the Cold War. This is what the great majority of non-Commu-nist nations in that organization desire and the United States must take their wishes into consideration. We cannot afford to go it alone as Senator McCarthy once suggested. When the Russian troops marched into Hungary, they undid years of then- propaganda effort in the so-called neutral or uncommitted nations. Every time there is a border clash in India with the Chinese Communists, Nehru feels more and more uneasy about his announced neutrality. This is fear, I concede, but it is a rational fear based upon a potential dangei- which will continue even if the Chinese Communists discontinue their military efforts along the frontier.
Is Communism the one monolithic structure that Professor Niemeyer would have us believe? Is Mr. Khrushchev as its high priest merely to apply the Marx-Lenin formula to the Russian problem and obtaining the present result or is he merely taking what is workable in Communist theory, discarding the rest and merging the remainder with Western capitalistic solutions? As a historian I suggest that he is doing the latter. History shows that rigid systems of ideology do not have long life. Russian Com-
The Scholastic
? munism has survived and the Russian ? nation has prospered because a flexibility ; has been developed in the system. Their official claim of course is that this road will lead to the ultimate victory of Com-> munism. Professor Niemeyer tends to i accept the official Communist contention ! that they can control events and that , history is moving towards this victory for socialism. We will be buried so to speak. To me, too little credit is given to the vitality of our capitalistic system, which is much closer to the dictates of v human nature than the Communist one.
After World War II Communist dogma called for a depression. It has not come. Mr. Khrushchev came over here and saw for himself why it did not come. He found out that the old Marxian picture of capitalism was a myth. He saw that the modified regulated capitalism that A we have in this country today was a far cry from that which Marx pictured in England one hundred years ago. I doubt whether Khrushchev accepted this simple picture of us but I believe that his impressions of this countiy were moving enough so that he returned to Russia determined to modify Communism with •> more capitalistic techniques.
| What does the future hold? If we do not maintain the tensions of the Cold War, will we be beguiled into submission by Russia as Professor Niemeyer contends? I doubt it. Life will continue on both sides of the Iron Curtain. Negotiation will take place but the basic competition between the two systems will remain. Russia will discover that their system does not have all the an-i swers and that the classless state is a will-o’-the-wisp; something that will be dangled in front of the proletariat to prod them to greater effort but a goal that will never be attained. As for the spread of Communism to other parts of the globe, it is my belief that its limits * have been just about reached. There will be Communist inspired revolutions from time to time that will stir up the emotions, but they will be minor ones and short-lived because we will act as we did in Berlin, in Korea, and in Lebanon. As for this countiy, we will grow and mature gradually solving our prob-- lems — and we do have many — by utilizing our modified system of capitalism within our free institutions and keeping up our defenses simultaneously. Time is on our side.
AT THE THE ATE KT
The Avon returns to Art this week with one of Ingmar Bergman’s movies, Three Strange Loves (Oct. 19-25). Producer Bergman has always strived to make his movies so meaningful they resemble James Joyce prose. Consequently, they are very obscure. Accompanying this is The Last Honeymoon, about which nothing can be said because there is nothing to be said about it. Clear?
According to Webster, a jayhawker is: “Slang, U.S. A member of a band of guerrillas, orig. antislavery men, esp. in Kansas and Missouri, before and after the Civil War; hence an irregular soldier.” This tells the story of The Jayhawkers, showing at the Colfax (Oct. 20-25), almost to the last detail. Jeff Chandler is the big hero, and Nicole Maurey is the big heroine — a widowed Frenchwoman tired of gunplay. Fess Parker, put under a fatal spell by Walt Disney some years back, is still unable to escape that section of American histoiy dealing with frontiersmen and their immediate descendants. All kidding aside, this is based on the true story of an obscure jayhawker of the time. His life was so obscure the winters have not had to stick to it at all. Good hokum.
Ah, what a relief it is to see now and then a movie which is what it claims to be. Such opportunities are rare, and no good Notre Dame man should miss the chance to see Pillozv Talk (Oct. 13-25) at the Granada. Funnier movies may come around, but I doubt they’ll be even half as clever. Rock Hudson is actually funny in his portrayal of an amorous songwriter who ties up his phone from dawn to dusk with calls to his many girls. Doris Day, an energetic interior decorator, shares Rock’s party line and is very inconvenienced since she can’t use the phone at all. Tony Randall is the oft-married millionaire who deplores Rock’s fast rise to fame and money. “You had to work your way through college,” he says to Rock, “and now you have all the money you want. Me — I started with $8 million and I still have $8 million.” He is sort of engaged to Doris, and won’t tell Rock her name for feai’ of the latter’s charm. But Doris gets stood up at a club by a drunken Harvard man on vacation, and in steps Mr. Hudson (by now knowing who she is) playing a gentlemanly Texan. From then on, bedlam breaks loose as he tries to hide their acquaintance from Tony and in the end everything is happily resolved for all of them. Rock gets Doris, and Tony starts catching up again on his alimony payments. All in all, this MOVIE OF THE WEEK will give you 105 minutes of uninterrupted enjoyment which will surely brighten you up in time for Thanksgiving.
Walt Disney has gone and done it again. This time, it’s a breathtaking travelogue up Switzerland’s mighty Matterhorn. But nothing more. No story, or hardly any, and no point to it. James MacArthur, late of the Helen Hayes household, plays a boy with a yen to climb anything, including the dreaded “Citadel” (even the Matterhorn has a stage name). Everybody in the town has mountain-fever, and the boy receives instructions on how to lace his climbing boots from the cook in the hotel. He is also aided in his ambitions by the moral support rendered him by Janet Munro, a local girl who yodels to perfection and braids her own pigtails. Enter romance, pure and simple. There were more romantic complications in Sleeping Beauty. But back home await a warm fireplace and a pair of pigtails. Really a very amusing story, if you happen to care for skipping ropes. For her fine performance, Janet Munro is the recipient of this week’s White Owl award of the Week. Have a White Owl, Janet.
—Tony Wong
Player and Piano . . .	by G. P. Scarpia
A surprisingly large crowd assembled in the Ait Gallery of O’Shaughnessy Hall last Tuesday, and at approximately 10:30 a.m., this little man, hair parted in the middle,- sat at the piano, and then I knew, yes, it must be Ullmann, for who ever heard such an impressive, allBeethoven program?
Ullmann began with the Sonata No. 8 in C minor, Op. 13, often referred to as the Pathetique. He seemed to take quite a long time in warming up and the
Grave suffered a little. The opening chords which recur twice, to usher in the development section and the final measures, failed to excite.
In the second movement, Adagio can-tabile, we are given a song, as beautiful a song as Beethoven ever wrote, neither melodramatic nor tear-jerking, but simply personal, filled with pathos, evanescent. Mr. Ullmann’s tone was quite lyrical, and he was much more precise and warmer in interpretation.
But it was the Allegro which brought Mr. Ullmann to his peak, and he remained there until his final bow. The tone was magnificent, technique was accurate, and as the graceful, little tune became more dramatic, so did Ullmann. His approach to some of the chords was superb, and the bravura of his scalework involved an almost perpendicular attack which was indeed quite dazzling,
(Continued on page 21)
November 20, 1959
DISCIPLE AND MASTER
... YVES SIMON ■
by FRANK KEEGAN '
I>AST Friday evening a philosopher and an old friend returned to Notre Dame. Professor Yves R. Simon has been gone from us too long and his visits have been too infrequent, yet it seemed to many of us last Friday that he had never been away.
It is not often that a lecture is also a conversation, but perhaps there are too few good lecturers. Professor Simon is a lecturer of magisterial stature, and when his topic is one with which he has “intuitive familiarity” he becomes an inspired lecturer. In hearing his lecture last Friday, the audience was admitted to the delights of great conversation. Professor Simon spoke of his old and dear friend, Jacques Mari-tain, and those in attendance heard an impression of Maritain unique in our time. Only a few men alive can speak with an
the
SCHOLASTIC
is preparing its Christmas issue. Readers are urged to submit short stories, poems, and essays dealing with Christmas themes for publication in this special issue December 18. Address correspondence to:
SCHOLASTIC Office
or
319 Badin Hall
authentic voice of Jacques Maritain’s philosophical development and perhaps one or two of these can speak of that development as well as Yves R. Simon. None of them can say । what he can say on particular matters.	,
What did Yves Simon say of Maritain’s philosophical career, especially in the years between the two World Wars? He said it was a career in which historical contingency played a large part, a career shaped more by the problems of the ,, day than the problems of academic “scholastic” instruction or the orderly demands of research and scholarship. For Yves Simon, Maritain is “the first non-scholastic in the history of Thomism.” In another place he has said that the modernity of Maritain’s thought is one of its outstanding features.
Professor Simon then evaluated the philosophical work of Maritain claiming that the three areas of metaphysics, aesthetics and mystical experience are especially marked by his ' I “intuitive familiarity” which greatly assists our reading of Maritain’s works in these fields and gives to them particular cogency. Because Maritain came late to the study of political and social ideas, Simon feels that his insight here, as profound and as true as it is, lacks that “intuitive familiarity” which J makes his writing on metaphysical, aesthetic and spiritual questions especially sound and right. Professor Simon’s authority in this matter is very great, yet one may wonder whether this judgment on Maritain’s achievements in social and political philosophy will gain universal assent.	<
FROM TRAGEDY TO REBIRTH
Professor Simon’s own gifts as a social and political ob- < server were particularly evident in his analysis of the Papal condemnation of the Action Fran^aise (1926) and its aftermath of crisis, and in his impassioned description of the Spanish Civil War and the Italian conquest of Ethiopia. When he stated, for example, that the French supporters of Mussolini acted out of hatred for law and the love of force, there was authenticity in the utterance, a sound, sure experience behind it. If one feels — as I do — that the insights of Yves Simon are particularly sensitive in exposing and interpreting the grimness of war and human suffering as well as the tragic aspects of modem political life, one is also sure that these insights are touched by the hope of Redemption and the promise of a new Christendom.
These fragmentary impressions of this great lecture do little, I think, to communicate the full splendor of it. There was, to be sure, a substantive side which will distinguish this ,♦ first lecture of the Jacques Maritain Center as an indispensable text for those who wish to study perennial Thomism as exemplified in the contemporary philosophical career of Jacques Maritain. With the possible exception of the late Waldemar Gurian’s excellent essay on Maritain’s political philosophy (The Thomist, 1943), Professor Simon’s lecture stands as the best interpretation of Maritain’s thought ever presented in America.
18
The Scholastic
It was not, however, merely the content of the lecture ; which held a large, warm and spontaneous audience closely attentive through a lecture of well more than an hour. It was j rather the man—Yves Simon—who came through to us as a person and as a philosopher. Professor Simon combines the intelligence of the philosopher, the sagacity of the political observer, the incisive comment and wit of the social and literary critic, the wisdom of the Christian thinker and the great heart of a friend. When these monumental talents became focused on the man whom Simon calls “master,” there resulted a powerful exchange of intuitions which, had Jacques Maritain been there, could have been called a dialogue, but which, for many y. of those present last -Friday, was both a revelation and a testimony.
WE HAVE BEEN FRIENDS
What was briefly revealed last Friday evening was the philosophical life itself incarnated in the fniitful exchange between Yves Simon and Jacques Maritain — as philosophers and as friends — over the past four decades. Professor Simon showed us a great deal about the inner sources of the philosophical life as he presented a testimony to his friend and his master. (And one wonders if anyone else in Christendom can speak of Jacques Maritain as “the city child with the soul of a contemplative and the gifts of an artist.”)
Jacques Maritain has called attention to that spontaneous contact with reality which so illumines the human intellect that it converts the apprehension of an object into the metaphysical intuition of being. But there are many ways of achieving spontaneous contact — both in the natural order and in the supernatural order. Professor Simon showed his audience last Friday evening that respect foi- the friendship and the accomplishments of a living philosophei- is one of these ways. For a brief moment, one glimpsed the form of the contemporary master, Jacques Maritain, clearly outlined in the
features of his friend, his former student and his fellow philosopher.
Young philosophers sometimes speak too enthusiastically, and perhaps too sentimentally, of their masters and others wrongly infer from this that personal testimony should not appear in the writings of mature philosophers. Doubtless one should make sure of the greatness of one’s master, but this done there is much need for personal testimony in philosophy not only at the beginning and in the middle of one’s work, but also at the end and beyond the end.
We saw last Friday evening a mature philosopher justly renowned for his remarkable logical powers, a philosopher with a consummate ability to handle ideas in several orders of being, a philosopher who seems to hold everything surely within his grasp. We saw also in the stately measure of his testimony to Jacques Maritain some portion of the intuitions which have fired and sustained the philosophical demonstrations of Yves Simon and made his career an enviable one for those who love Christian philosophy. We saw last Friday evening the intermingling of affection for a person and the love for truth which has marked the careers of great philosophers from the time of Plato under Socrates to the time of Maritain under Bergson. But last Friday evening we saw something else. Though Yves Simon came to Notre Dame to give testimony to philosophical truth by giving testimony to Jacques Maritain, he did also give testimony — and it was inevitable he should — to the life and the work of Yves Simon.
The Jacques Maritain Center sponsored its first public lecture last Friday evening, November 13, at 8 p.m. in the Lew School Auditorium. The speaker was Professor Yves R. Simon, former faculty member at Notre Dame (1938-19^8) and now a member of the Committee on Social Thought, University of Chicago. These comments — constituting both a report and an impression of this lecture ivere written by Professor Frank L. Keegan of the General Program faculty who is also associated with the Jacques Maritain Center.
LABOR IN A CRISIS
by Mike Bird
In THE LAST several years our national magazines and newspapers have been filled with one facet or another of the labor unions. We have read about the corruption of the labor unions, in particular, their leaders (Dave Beck, for example); we have read about the controversial Right to Work Bill; and most recently we have read about the steel strike. What is the reason for this unrelenting interest? The answer is that the labor unions are a major factor in the running of this country; the Labor Unions are now as much H of our daily life as are televisions and small cars.
One of the most alarming incidents that has to do with the labor unions is the seeming breakdown of collective bargaining in the steel strike. Why is this so? Mainly because of the fact that neither the labor unions nor the management end of the steel industries will make any concessions. What, then, is the answer? This question, and many more that have to do with the labor unions, will be discussed this Sunday evening on the Student Forum, when Father Edward Keller of the Economics department and Mr. Aaron Abell of the History department will thrash about the question: whether industry-wide collective bargaining is justifiable. Father Keller will take the negative side of this topic, and Mr. Abell will take the affirmative side. Those of you who know these men realize that they are quite capable of presenting their respec! tive views, and of backing these views up with forceful arguments.
November 20, 1959
The particular question to be considered is indeed one which is difficult to answer in an unqualified way. One tiling is obvious to all of us, and that is that there has been a breakdown. What is not so obvious is what the results of this breakdown are, and will be. One opinion is that the breakdown has affected the welfare of the strikers’ families to a great extent; another, that it has not only hurt the strikers, and their families, but also the steel industries themselves. But the breakdown also affected the welfare of the nation, and thus the Taft-Hartley was invoked by the President of this country. The solution to this problem is still nowhere in sight; that there is a solution is certain. But will this solution to the problem of the breakdown of collective bargaining be compulsory arbitration, or voluntary arbitration, or possibly government control of our industries, or something else?
Other questions will naturally arise when one talks of something as big as the labor unions, and as important as free collective bargaining. Undoubtedly, the idea of the unions being likened to monopolies will be brought up, as will the importance of the Taft-Hartley injunction. -
These are only a few of the many ideas that will be thrown about this Sunday by Father Keller and Mr. Abell, and the students who care to attend. The issue is a trig one^ and the solutions of the many problems that arise with the issue will have a great deal to do with the way we live our lives.
19
The New Political Culture
by Michael Cummings
A F THE EVENTS of World War II, of the postwar political reorganization, and of the contemporary world make it quite obvious that the Soviet Union is the first object of interaa-tional political consideration for the United States, it is also true that the events of the last two years have made cultural and technological progress in the Soviet Union an equally important subject for American reflection. Sputniks and Luniks have become the symbol of scientific progress; Soviet education has been repeatedly compared to its American counterpart and in the comparison many have found the latter wanting. Close scrutiny of all phases of Russian culture seems imperative; lias the Soviet communist civilization finally begun to make good its claim of ultimate superiority over the “decadent” West?
CULTURE, i.e., POLITICS
The answer to this question lies in the present day attitude of the communist state towards culture. While in this country the term “culture” is usually applied to all physical and spiritual means which enrich the whole individual intellectually, morally and spiritually, the Soviet view of culture is definitely narrower. The Soviet definition differs in this sense: Soviet endeavors along these lines do not necessarily aim at the total and objective enrichment of a man. “Culture,” for the communist, also implies a set of physical and spiritual means, but these means are directed toward a one-sided political enrichment of the individual in relation to the society to which he belongs. The tendency of Soviet cultural means is to make such an individual one-sidedly aware of the various historical, economic and cultural differences within a given social order, within a given political constellation. Objectivity and the concept of the “whole man” are excluded. The implications of this doctrine become concretely evident in the cultural history of Russia since the rise of Bolshevism.
Although the whole concept of the political nature of culture originated with Marx and Engels, the communist cultural reality may be traced back most correctly only as far as Lenin, the father of Russian Bolshevism. At least it is evident that the so-called “classical” writings of Marx and Engels contain
Mr. Cummings wishes to thank Dr. John Fixer for his kind help in preparing this article.
THE
JUGGLER
wishes to clarify vidual copies is
that the price of indione dollar. Student
subscriptions for the remaining two issues are one dollar. Copies of the first issue’s Art Section are available at 315 and 321
Badin Hall. Fifty cents. No mail orders.
■<
no unified definition of culture while Lenin attempted sincerely to define culture in terms of the communist society. His article, “Party Organization and Party Literature,” published in 1906, was the first attempt of a Russian protagonist of Marxism to delineate the communist concept of culture in some precise manner. Lenin states therein that culture must be primarily subservient to the political objectives of society; he implies that all the concrete means of culture should come under the direct control of the Communist Party organization, that is, all publishings, libraries, schools and other media of educational advancement must be regulated by the Socialist machinery of state. Furthermore, the state must also try to turn the attention of these various media to the specific political objectives which the party is trying to achieve.
As a result, literature, music, painting and all other fine arts are meant to be the propagators of the communist philosophy, ideology and immediate practical endeavors; the school becomes the means of the organized dissemination of Marxism among society.
In the years immediately following the October Revolution little was done to carry out the cultural theory of Lenin to its logical limits — due to some extent to the fact that Marx and Engels had failed to leave the party specific instruction on this point. But with the death of Lenin and the gradual • assimilation of power by Stalin, the article of 1906 was seized upon as the origin of a definite communist cultural policy in the Soviet Union. It happened that the regime was still undergoing considerable change and reform at this time, particularly in regard to economic policy; the application of the ideas inherent in Lenin’s article required too much radical innovation and disciplinary harshness for the times, and consequently the implementation of these ideas was postponed. Nevertheless, the initial years of the first Five Year Plan saw
4
the attempt of the Party to create what was meant to be a 4 genuine communist line in the field of culture.
DIVERSITY ... AT FIRST
At the beginning of this period the literary life of Russia was quite plural in the sense that there existed a myriad of literary organizations trying individually to create in accord- . ance with various concepts of aesthetic theory. There existed considerable room for individual disagreement. During the first years of the Five Year Plan the Party suppressed all of these organizations and set up in their stead a single organization, the “Union of Soviet Writers,” which was aesthetically and ideologically compatible with communist dogma. It then imposed upon all those assembled in the “Union” the theory of “Socialist Realism.” By 1934 individual aesthetic prefer- 4 ence may be considered to have ceased to exist----at least as actively employed in creative literary activity.
The natural result of this harsh imposition upon the Soviet literati was the rise of utter uniformity. Soviet writers were prevented from expressing their own individual responses to the life around them. Soviet literature, a literature expressed in more than forty national languages, became boresome, monotonous and devoid of all the personal variation which 4 underlies the nature of a literature upon which such outside pressures have not been imposed. Sholokov, one of the leading Soviet writers of the contemporary world, comments that Russian literature produced at this time only a few good books; the rest he thought fit material for the waste can.	’
Socialist Realism and Party regulation were also imposed upon all the other arts. For example, in the field of plastic arts the emphasis was put upon applied exposition; the plas
The Scholastic
20
tic arts were made to advertise communist propaganda. In architecture a type of hybrid was developed in an attempt tc amalgamate classical styles such as the Renaissance, the Gothic and the Romanesque into a functional fusion. The depressing result was what is known today as the “Stalin type” of architecture. In music there were similar occurrences. Katchiturian, Shostakovitch, Prokofieff and others were made to write cheap musical creations glorifying the Communist Party, and in particular, Stalin. The theatrical ails became characterized by the production of works permeated with official optimism, glorification of the Soviet “reality,” and the downgrading of the rival western European culture.
V
EDUCATION AS TOOL


Education is also extremely indicative of the harsh Soviet cultural imposition upon society. During the first decade of the Soviet regime, pedagogues engaged in many forms of educational experimentation, just as their American contemporaries were doing on the other side of the world. But active thought about new schools, new subjects, and new approaches to traditional disciplines didn’t serve the communist aim; they were fostering individualism. Consequently all experimentation was suppressed in the early thirties. Soviet education returned to the pre-revolutionary Russian authoritarianism. The Soviets reintroduced harsh academic coercion, re-emphasized	.
the leading role of the teacher • in the classroom, and taught _ such disciplines as would foster only the total communist world , view. The Soviet school system became, and remains, an instrument by which the Party attempts to create a totally new, totally conformist communist society.
What has this finally meant in terms of relative merit to the J advancement of real culture? . In literature, the field in which the creative individuality of man is expressed perhaps most explicitly, the Soviets have produced since then almost nothing worthy of universal attention. , This must be particularly stressed in light of the superb literature of nineteenth - century Russia — who is there in the ; Soviet Union who has managed to carry on the tradition of Tol- i stoy, Dostoyevsky, Chekhov, and	;
Gogol? The Soviet regime has already been more than forty	;
years in power; certainly by	i.
this time outstanding works might have been written and already be praised as great to justify the Soviet cultural plan — but such is not the case. Soviet literature has not even been able to produce works of merit comparable to that which nineteenth-century Russia considered relatively inferior.
AND THE PLASTIC ARTS
*
The plastic ails exhibit the same result. Where are the Soviet painters whom we could regard with the same admiration as we can contemporary artists in Europe and America? Except for propaganda purposes the plastic arts in Russia have been completely thwarted.
In music the situation is not quite so bad. Obviously music is a field which cannot be reduced to explicit meaningful proposition; here the party did not find it necessary to exercise as complete a control as in the other major arts. It is true that dominant Soviet composers and many truly great Soviet performers have established considerable reputations, but by
the nature of the medium it is equally true that artistic freedom is more characteristic of this field than of some of the more unfortunate others.
In technology of course the situation is very different. One cannot make a sweeping generalization here though — a consideration of individual disciplines shows that all is not entirely well in the sciences. For example, in biology and genetics the regime has exercised considerable control over what should be the acme of objective truth; the Lysenko controversy has exposed the fact that in consequence there simply are no Soviet genetics and biology — and absolute catastrophe caused by state meddling.
The Soviets have made impressive strides in physics, mathematics, nucleonics, and other hard sciences, it is true. But this reflection must be made: these disciplines do not necessarily require a man’s individual commitment. A Russian mathematician qua mathematician need not differ from an American mathematician qua mathematician for being ruled by the Soviet regime. As a result there is comparatively less need for state intrusion into these sciences. In the last 20 years, relative freedom in the hard sciences and the desperate situation in other fields, of only supposedly individual creative endeavor, have caused a tremendous influx of talent into mathematics, chemistry, physics and engineering. These fields alone are still open for free research in the Soviet Union. It is only to be expected, then, that progress in the hard sciences should be relatively greater in a nation which is concentrating its talent in this manner. Sputniks and Luniks reflect not the glory of the totalitarian society but rather the moral shame of the deprivation of free creative will.
If there is a national culture today that can be judged as decidedly inferior to its contemporaries, it is only that of the nation which has destroyed intellectual freedom, originality, and spontaneous creativity. Soviet Russia made good no claims against Western culture.
PLAYER
AND
PIANO
(Continued from page 17)
so
complimentary to the explosive ending.
Published some eight years after the Pathetique, the
Sonata No. 23 in F minor, Op. 57 (Appassionata), was given a freer quality, less personal than the preceding Sonata, but more passionate.	.
The first movement, Allegro assai, constructed of two themes, both stemming from one idea, was a tribute to Ullman’s style and technique. The Andante con motto has four variations, the last moving unresolved into the Allegra ma non troppo. The interpretation was excellent.
There are just two things which I would like to mention in closing, the first being the use of Rubato, sometimes excessive, other times effective. This is a matter of style and personal taste for the artist involved, and I am sure that Mr. Ullmann intended no offense by his overuse of the Rubato.
The last muttering involves the piano used at this recital. The time of the conceit, the enthusiastic audience, and above all Mr. Ullmann, combined to make this a delightful and. memorable concert. One could only surmise the results of having an adequate piano available for Ullmann when he returns to us again. . . .
November 20, 1959
2t
The Maritain Center
$
by Frank Smith
A little over a year ago, in September of 1958, an addition was made to Notre Dame’s already expanding educational facilities. The Jacques Maritain Center was established on the third floor off in a comer of our University Library. Dr. Joseph W. Evans was appointed director of the Center, with Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. and Professor Frank Keegan rounding out the Center’s staff here at Notre Dame. All this information was duly released to the public at that time. The implications of a Jacques Maritain Center located right here on our own campus have for a great part escaped the student body. The very existence of this Center is probably known to only a minority of us here. But let us begin at the beginning — with the man who is most intimately connected with the Center.
Who is this French philosopher, that he would inspire the foundation of an “international clearing house” for his
Jacques Maritain (center) is welcomed at his librarycenter by Mr. Schaefer, Dr. Evans, Father Reith, and Dr. Keegan.
works out here in the center of the United States? Who is he that would come to a foreign country then say of her, “During my first visit to New York I was invaded by a kind of thrilling pleasure in the sudden feeling that here we are freed from history?” Jacques Maritain was born in Paris in 1882. He was baptized a Protestant but some years later he and his wife, Ralssa, became converts to Catholicism through the writings and example of Leon Bloy. Since that time Maritain has turned out treatises and philosophical works covering everything from his True Humanism
to the more recent Reflections on America.
Maritain is an existentialist, though not in the manner of a Sartre or a Heidegger; he is a proponent of the existentialism of St. Thomas Aquinas as evidenced by the treatment he gives this subject in his Existence and the Existent. But perhaps it would be best to let Jacques Maritain explain his philosophy in his own words from this book:
I am not a neo-Thomist. All in all, I would rather be a paleo-Thomist than a neo-Thomist. I am, or at least I hope I am, a Thomist. For more than thirty years I have remarked how difficult it is to persuade our contemporaries not to confuse the philosopher’s faculty of invention with the ingenuity that inspires the art of the dress designer.
However, and this is probably one of the reasons that he is the greatest Catholic philosopher living today, he is a Thomist who feels deeply that philosophers can cooperate,
if philosophers, that is, lovers of wisdom, cannot cooperate, how will any human cooperation be possible? The fact that philosophical discussions seem to consist of deaf men’s quarrels is not reassuring for civilization.
Here is a man possessing a profound sense of love, a sense of love that has touched and stirred people in every walk of life. Etienne Gilson said, more than a quarter of a century ago, “Jacques Maritain is growing greater and greater with the years.” Little could he know how prophetic his words were.
The Jacques Maritain Center is more than a mere room filled with many books, more even than the three men here at the University who spend many hours of many weeks collecting, editing, and translating these books. The Center is a world-wide organization of over thirty-one scholars and friends of Maritain, each united in their efforts to
bring the works of this great man closer and more accessible to you and me. Men from the United States, Canada, South America, and Europe, have all accepted appointments as consultants to the A Jacques Maritain Center. The appointments were announced last May. Since that time the Center has gained momentum and decided in general teims the lines along which it hopes to progress.
The writings of the celebrated Thomist philosopher will be systematically indexed and catalogued. In a trip to Europe during June and July of this year Dr. Evans discussed with the consultants across the Atlantic the future plans of the Center. The major topic was their plan to bring out someday an Oevres Completes de Jacques et Raissa Maritain. This, says Dr. Evans, should be one of the chief aims of the Center. The editorial preparation of the Maintains’ works will be a cooperative endeavor carried on by the Center and the Cen- i ter’s consultants. Already a tentative division of this work has been made along with a consideration of possible publishers and the various financial problems to be met. At present the Center is giving much thought, as Dr. Evans has said, to “putting the accent on the new avenues of thought opened up by Maritain. It would be better to encourage and sponsor studies along Maritain’s , line of thought rather than simply studies on him.”
Professor Evans and his associates at Notre Dame believe that Maritain has « much to give to the modem world. They see him as having to a pre-eminent degree what contemporary man, for all his grandeur, seems to be sadly lacking — the sense of being and the sense of love. Maritain, they feel, is a man “so admirably attentive to the real, a man who distinguishes in order to unite, in short, ♦ a man who really sees.” There is in Maritain, Professor Evans says, “a rich and far-flung mine of challenging insights, illuminating distinctions, and strikingly new avenues of thought. The Maritain Center,” he explains, “will strive to put special emphasis on the study of these new philosophical ideas. 4 Any living and creative thought, no matter how well formed and articulated its expression may be, has need ceaselessly to grow. We would like to think that , our humble efforts will assist Jacques Maritain’s thought to take root and grow in many minds of this and future generations.”	।
The Scholastic
22
Large Foreign Count Recorded on Campus
>- Speaking a veritable Babel of different tongues, 145 foreign students are giving Notre Dame’s campus an international air this year.
Rev. Joseph McGrath, C.S.C., foreign student advisor, said that the student body also includes 24 U. S. citizens now living in foreign lands as well as 22 f others whose homes are in U. S. territories.
The foreign students represent 35 countries. One young man, who was born in Hungary and emigrated to Canada, lists himself as “stateless.” Canada, with 37 students enrolled here, has the largest national contingent. The 1 Latin American countries count 35 students at the University. India has 18 young men at Notre Dame, and there are 10 Chinese.
Sixty-five of the foreign students are seeking advanced degrees in the Notre Dame Graduate School with another ten engaged in post-doctoral research. k While Catholics predominate, twelve are adherents to oriental religions. Among the non-Christian group are 9 Hindus, 2 Moslems and 1 Buddhist.
A complete list of countries with students enrolled at Notre Dame includes Canada, 37; India, 18; China, 10; Great Britain, 8; Philippines, 7; Columbia, 6; France and Panama, 5; Chile, Mexico and Nicaragua, 4; Japan, Korea and Peru, 3 and Ecuador, Germany, Iraq, Ireland, Pakistan and Venezuela, 2. Countries ■with one student each are Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Cuba, El Salvador, Honduras, Iran, Indonesia, Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Southern Rhodesia and the Union of Arab Republics. ____________________________________
Have a FUN!
Travel with fITA
Atony fours tnclvdo college eradit.
Orient 43-65 from $998
Allo low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up, South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $59* up and Around the World $1*9* up.
VMf	Travel Agent
Europe & from $675
■	30 St. SkbifM Aw.
■ ■	4, NA 7-2S57
WORLD TRAVEL

CONTROVERSY ANYONE?
The editors of the SCHOLASTIC sincerely urge all students to consider submitting articles to the “Back Page.” Such articles can be on any topic, preferably controversial, ranging from politics to philosophy. The “Back Page" is about 950 to 1050 words in length. Please type manuscripts 40 characters wide. Bring or send all material to 207 Fisher or the SCHOLASTIC office.
THERE IS NO FINER TOKEN OF YOUR AFFECTION THAN A NOTRE DAME MINIATURE
for years students and graduates of the University have given these rings to those they cherish most. You will find it is well received and lasts a lifetime. Stop in at the second floor office and make your selection from the wide variety of stones available. But, in case you’re planning to give it to her for a special occasion, be sure to allow four to six weeks for delivery.
For the best of everything at the lowest price and best service in Michiana area, see:
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
On - the - Campus
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED ‘ OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
: •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
November 20, 1959
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
SELF-CONTROL?
Editor:
The events following the “incident” have been of continued interest. To B. T. & T. many plaudits, to Mr. Butler the Spaceman award.
To the Student Senate some questions. Does this resolution, which passed with a 20-2 vote, reflect any attempt to further the ideal of developing mature Catholic man? A letter of apology from SBP Babbitt is nothing more than a noble, if misdirected, gesture.
When you admonish the proprietor to “take positive steps to maintain orderly conduct in the future,” I ask you, who did what? It would appear from this that the customer was the victim of irresistible circumstances.
Leo J. Vetter, Jr.
825 Notre Dame Ave. South Bend
Editor:	'
Excuse me, but your November 13 “Commentary” entitled, “None of Their Business,” contains a misunderstanding. The Senate cannot be censured for considering any resolutions. It must hear, and vote upon, any motions presented to it by any of its members. What it does with these motions is the question, an'd this opens up the area of evaluation.
L. David Otte 123 Sorin Hall
(ED: The fact that the Senate must hear all motions presented by its members does not mean that its members have any right to bring up matters of the type mentioned in last week’s “Commentary.”)
Editor:
I think the Student Senate and most of those who have wi-itten on its recent action have missed the point of the whole business.
The idea that anyone should have to
“take positive steps to maintain orderly conduct” ought to be felt as an insult by any student here. The idea that our student government should ask a restaurant to take such measures — which is to admit that Notre Dame students are incapable of self-control — is equally abhorrent.
I have only been here about two months, having graduated from a different college, so I can’t make any generalizations about the conduct of my fellow students, but it seems to me that * the aims of this school ought to be to produce an individual who doesn’t need to have his morals reinforced by billy clubs.
For Pete’s sake, let’s let our students act for themselves for a change. If we assume as policy that students need po- * lice measures to maintain order, then they will act as though they did.
Need we be protected from ourselves?
Joseph P. Summers 327 Fisher Hall Law I
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES < i
B	tor Seniors and Graduates in	;
zZZ'-	z--' PHYSICS V zz-- ?-'z	■	:
APPLIED MATHEMATICS U ENGINEERING MECHANICS j	ENGINEERING PHYSICS	j
Z • ■ ' ' ' ■	■ ■	AND	/
' AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, /	i
L	ELECTRICAL,
ZZ	■■■■■■■ ■"■■■■	MECHANICAL,	<	-i
:	< METALLURGICAL,
L	■ and NUCLEAR Z-
fZ/'ZZ-Az	ENGINEERING CAMPUS
Ifl ClAf E
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30
24
The Scholastic
STILL IVAN
Editor:
I am one of many here on campus who thoroughly enjoy the excellent art work of that popular artist, Ivan Osorio. His Scholastic covers are, indeed, unusually fine pieces of art.
Congratulations to Mr. Osorio for a wonderful exhibition of art and architecture, and I hope to see much more of it in the future.
Charles Lancelot >	204 Lyons
CHILDREN VS. CULTURE
Editor:
Unfortunately, many of those who were willing to devote an evening to the cultural pursuit mentioned in last week’s x Scholastic, namely The Hasty Heart, found their evening’s enjoyment curtailed. A number of students who had dates and had the foresight to obtain . tickets in advance for the Saturday performance, either missed the play and lost their money or were forced to leave
ATTENTION
The following is the publication schedule for the 1959-1960 SCHOLASTIC. The reader will please note that there will be no issue next week, and that on December 4, the annual Football Review will appear:
October 2, 9, 16, 23 and 30; November 6, 13 and 20; December 4 (Football Review), 11 and 18; January 15 and 22; February 12, 19 and 26; March 4, 11, 18 and 25; April 1 and 8; May 6, 13 and 20.
EAT ONE AT
i November 20, 1959
A
early. This inconvenience was caused by a sudden disciplinary movement across the road.
A blanket punishment was immediately enforced. By this happening, the majority was made to suffer for the minority and the ticket holders here at ND were left “out on a limb” as I have mentioned.
I hope that in the future if disciplinary action is necessary it will not affect the innocent both here and across the road.
Denis D. Manchon, Jr.
215 Fisher
(ED: See this week’s “Commentary” on “Two and One-Half Acts”)
GREATNESS UNRECOGNIZED
Editoi-:
Last Saturday Dr. Thomas A. Dooley spoke at St. Mary’s College.
It is to be very much regretted that only a handful of Notre Dame students heard him. Perhaps a number of people and organizations on campus might ask themselves and others why, when such a man is so close he goes unheralded and unheard.
Seeing and hearing such a man would have meant a great deal more than many of the other things that are veiy highly rated with meager results.
Jack Clark 144 Lyons
(ED: Communication with several news contacts at SMC turned up nothing about Dr. Dooley. We regret this as much as you do.)
KEEN OBSERVER
Editor:
Since when does being a civil engineer give one the privilege of eating steak on Friday? According to the Scholastic of last week, these bridge-building stalwarts moved en masse to the Capri on Friday evening, the 13th of November, and enjoyed a $2.50 steak dinner at the ASCE banquet.
Now the question is: Could I and some other 4,000 fish-eating fugitives from Zyggy’s cod-patty parlor obtain membership cards for this carnivorous organization?
Tom Shine 322 Alumni
(ED: Our mistake. Meeting was Wednesday, November 18, and steak was served.)
CONFLICT
Editor:
I have read in the last issue of Scholastic an announcement about a piano concert given in the University Art Gallery last Tuesday.
It is unfortunate that the time of said concert was so ill chosen. I am sure that there are many students who, like myself, faced the unpleasant alternative of either missing the concert or missing a class.
If the purpose of these concerts is to provide cultural supplements to Notre Dame men, the aim could be better achieved by holding them at a time when the whole student body would be free to attend.
A. G. Hermida 116 Keenan
SPECIAL! CHRISTMAS SALE
until December 24
fiatre ‘Dame 1OO years
by Arthur E. Hope, C.S.C.
Only $1.29
DURING THIS SPECIAL CHRISTMAS SALE
This is the deluxe, illustrated, cloth-bound edition that reg-nlarly sells at $4.00.
A GIFT THAT WILL BE PRIZED BY ALL FRIENDS OF NOTRE DAME
For mail orders, enclose 25e -extra for each copy to cover cost of mailing.
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Announcing a comprehensive Postgraduate Education Program for engineers, scientists and mathematicians
Ever since the founding of the company some forty years ago, IBM has recognized education as an integral and continuing part of a professional person’s life.
Through formal educational programs within the company, and through affiliations with universities, it has long been possible for IBM employees to earn scholastic credits.
Now a comprehensive Postgraduate Education Program, surpassing any previous programs, has been initiated at IBM for plant and laboratory personnel.
ADVANCED DEGREE UNIVERSITY PLAN A qualified engineer, scientist or mathematician, who has been with IBM at least a year, may compete for a fellowship or a scholarship in selected fields at the university which he believes offers the finest opportunities for advanced study. All benefits that would normally accrue if the candidate were on active employment will be retained.
•	Doctoral Fellowships: Selected candidates will receive full tuition, fees and regular salaries for full-time study up to three years.
•	Masters’ Scholarships: Selected candidates will receive full tuition, fees and regular salaries for an academic year of full-time study.
ADVANCED DEGREE ON-SITE PLAN A qualified engineer, scientist, or mathematician will have the opportunity to undertake parttime graduate studies at an IBM plant or laboratory, concurrent with active employment.
•	Masters’ Degrees: Candidates will be able to complete their studies at company expense under programs operated in conjunction with universities near IBM facilities.
ADVANCED STUDY PLAN (NONDEGREE) These studies offer continued educational opportunity throughout a career at IBM. They are not generally degree-oriented. Given at or near IBM facilities, they are designed to help retain mastery over basic engineering, science, and mathematical subjects and to gain knowledge in advanced fields such as number theory, finite mathematics, magnetism, solid state physics, and network analyses.
For a descriptive folder about the new IBM Postgraduate Education Program, write to:
MANAGER OF ENGINEERING EDUCATION, DEPT. 843, IBM CORPORATION, 590 MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK 22, N. Y.
IBM
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
The Scholastic
26
SjmU Pida^
BATTERED GREEN FACE DEVASTATING DEFENSE
Treadway, Jauch and Norton Pace Iowa Ground-Air Game
by BOB SCHAEFER
Notre Dame’s football Irish invade Iowa City tomorrow to battle the State University of Iowa’s Hawkeyes, a team which has averaged just under 400 yards per game total offense against eight opponents. The Hawkeyes have a three-game winning streak going over the Irish and will be favored to make it four in a row. The Irish, however, hold the series edge 8-6 with three games ending in ties. A sellout crowd of 59,000 is expected.
The Hawkeyes’ 3-3 Big Ten record is misleading when one attempts to com-
RAY JAUCH
Explosive Hawkeye speedster
pare the Hawks and the Irish. All three Big Ten losses have come at the hands of title contenders, with the average margin of defeat just one touchdown. The Iowa squad has lost to Purdue, 14-7, to Northwestern, 14-10, after leading 10-7 late in the game and to Wisconsin, 25-16.
In victory the lowans have been untouchable. They opened the season with a 42-12 win over California. Then they bounced back after a loss to Northwestern to trounce Michigan State, 37-8. The losses to Purdue and Wisconsin followed. In their last three games the Hawks have beaten Kansas State, 53-0, Minnesota, 33-0 and Ohio State last Saturday, 16-7, gaining 338 total yards to 181 for State.
Multiple Offense. The Hawkeyes operate out of a multiple offense pattern which has given Coach Forest Evashev-ski Big Ten championships in two of the last three seasons, and top offensive honors in the nation in 1958.
Using a basic wing-T, with variations of the straight-T and the double-wing T, Iowa will flanker a halfback or split an end occasionally. This offense is aimed at the opponent’s defensive tackle slots, a place where the Irish have been weak all season. They will send the left halfback Bob Jeter off right tackle with the wingback, Ray Jauch, the fullback, Don Horn, and the right guard, Mark Manders, leading the play. Jeter gained 194 yards in the 1959 Rose Bowl on that play. This season he has averaged over six yards-per-carry running from the same left-half slot.
The Hawkeyes will also bring Jauch back on a reverse off the weakside tackle with the guards again leading the way. This was the play that was the major factor in Iowa’s 48-8 win in 1956 over the Irish.
Fullback Hom is a 5-10, 190-pounder, but is like Irish fullback Jim Crotty who is the same size, in that he is hard to bring down and will fight for that extra yard. The Hawks use him mainly on a trap play straight up the middle.
Passing Threat. It is not safe to throw a tough rushing defense against the lowans because quarterback Olen Treadway has 78 completions in 130 attempts for 931 yards and six TD’s. In addition he had a national record of 111 consecutive passes without an interception going for him before the Ohio State game last Saturday, and he threw and completed at least one more in that game.
The Hawkeyes have four top grade ends in Don Norton, Curt Merz, Allan Miller and Jeff Langston. Merz was an All-American last season, but is injury prone and has seen only limited action.
Probable Starting Line-Ups
Notre Dame	Iowa
Stickles (80) ....Ie______ Merz	(82)
Flor (72) ........It........  Lee	(79)
Sabal (65) _______Ig....	Thorson	(66)
Scholtz (55) ........c-----Lapham	(52)
Adamson (67)	....rg....	Manders	(69)
Ciesielski (77)	rt------ Sawin	(78)
Heenan (83) ______re------ Norton	(89)
Izo (3) __________qb..	Treadway	(22)
Mack (23) ........Ih......  Jeter	(11)
Scarpitto (37) ....rh----- Jauch (46)
Crotty (24) ______.fb------- Horn	(32)
1:30 p.m. CST; Iowa Stadium, Iowa City
Norton has been the proverbial thorn in the Irish side for the past two seasons, because each year he has caught a TD pass late in the game to clinch a Hawk victory. Norton is only 175 pounds but Evashevski labels him “the best end we’ve ever had, the greatest offensive end in the nation.” •
Senior Charles Lee and John Sawin are the starting tackles. Lee weighs in at 229 and Sawin at 210. Both are letter winners from last year’s Rose Bowl winners’ squad.
At the guard slots are Sherwyn Thorson and Manders. Thorson is the only soph in the Hawk starting lineup. He weighs in at 195. Manders is a solid 200-pound junior. These two are backed up by seniors Don Shipanik (175) and Gerry Novack (195).
Center is held down by veteran Bill . Lapham, a 235-pound senior, with Lloyd
DON NORTON
Glue-fingered Iowa flanker
Humphreys in reserve. He weighs in at 195 and is also a senior.
Team Depth. Evashevski rates his two units as fairly equal, especially after the performance of the alternate unit in the last three games.
To win tomorrow the Irish are going to have to present a consistent groundair offensive, something they have not been able to do thus far in the season, except for the Northwestern game. If the Irish can stop hurting themselves with fumbles and other mistakes, and if Bob Bill can come back at defensive right tackle, the on^again-off-again Irish can spring an upset. In any event it will be an offensive show that will be a great one to watch.
November 20, 1959
ODDS and ENDS
Dean Look of Michigan State set a new Big Ten record last Saturday against Northwestern when he completed seven out of seven passes. Look, who switched over from halfback this season, is hailed by his coach, Duffy Daugherty, as the “greatest Spartan quarterback of them all, including Al Dorow, Earl Morrall and Jim Ninowski.” Look also is an outstanding baseball player and has been offered as much as $50,000 by the major leagues. He will probably sign after graduation this spring. . . .
George Izo threw his second scoring pass of this season against Pitt last week. He guided the Irish 73 yards in seven plays late in the last quarter. Bob Scarpitto took the payoff pitch on an eight-yard pass play. Scarpitto also caugh Izo’s other scoring strike, a 27-yarder against California. . . .
Georgia clinched the Southeastern Conference crown by beating Auburn last week, 14-13. The win gave the Bulldogs of Wally Butts a 6-0 record. They have one game remaining against traditional foe Georgia Tech on November 28. Georgia is being considered for berths in the Sugar, Orange and Gator Bowl games on New Year’s Day. Incidentally, Georgia compiled a 4-6 record last year. Their lone setback this year was at the hands of South Carolina. . . .
For the high school football fans, we wish to congratulate the South Bend Central Bears on winning their second consecutive Indiana state title last Friday at School Field. Their victim was East Chicago Roosevelt. Joe Wesley scored both Bear touchdowns on nine and 81-yard runs as the boys of Coach Bob Jones triumphed 14-7. Central now has a 20 game winning streak over the last two years. . . .
Syracuse and Southern California are the only undefeated major colleges in the nation. The Orangemen completely demolished what was left of Colgate by walloping the Red Raiders 71-0. The Men of Troy, led by those two fine gentlemen by name of McKeever, beat a stubborn Baylor eleven 17-8. Texas was dropped from the select . group by Texas Christian, 14-13. Syracuse, coached by the balding Dutchman Ben Schwartzwalder, leads the country in both offensive and defensive statistics^ . . .
Murray Warmath, the unlucky coach of Minnesota’s Gophers, might collect his pay check the easy way the next few years. It seems the Gopher fans and alumni are so displeased with the job Mr. Warmath has been doing that a group of Minneapolis businessmen have offered to put up $37,500 to buy up his contract. Tins probably won’t help Murray’s confidence as he prepares his Gophers for their season finale with the twice-beaten Badgers of Wisconsin this Saturday at Minnesota. Who says football coaches can’t be bought off? . . .
California lost its eighth straight game to Washington 20-0 last Saturday. Just shows what a difference a year makes. Last year at this time Coach Pete Elliott and his charges were busy smelling roses in and around Pasadena. . . .
28
Veteran Center Bob Scholtz Leads Notre Dame Defense
Bob Scholtz, senior center from Tulsa, Okla., has become a defensive standout for Notre Dame this fall. Scholtz, who
Bob Scholtz
made after eight In addition he h;
has been a regular since his sophomore year, was for two years noted primarily for his offensive blocking. Yet in those two years he ranked third in tackles each season. This year he has come into his own as a defensive player as he leads the Irish in tackles-games with 70 stops, s recovered three op
ponent’s fumbles to give him six recoveries for his three-year career.
Perhaps the best game Scholtz has played this season was in a losing cause against Northwestern, the then undefeated leaders of the Big Ten. He was the major cog in the Irish defense which held the Wildcat offense to 100 yards on the ground by making 16 tackles and recovering one Wildcat fumble.
Against Georgia Tech he played the entire 69 minutes of the game, making 13 tackles. He is the current “iron man”
of the Irish with a total playing time of 380 minutes.
In the classroom as well os on the football field Scholtz stands out. He is an honor student in electrical engineering. He also is a licensed airplane pilot.
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
Syracuse over Boston University Stanford over California Clemson over Wake Forest Dartmouth over Princeton Yale over Harvard Marquette over Holy Cross Purdue over Indiana Iowa over Notre Dame Nebraska over Kansas State Tennessee over Kentucky LSU over Tulane Michigan State over Miami Ohio State over Michigan Wisconsin over Minnesota Oregon over Oregon State Penn State over Pittsburgh TCU over Rice Southern Cal over UCLA
NEXT WEEK
Army over Navy
UPSET OF THE WEEK Illinois over Northwestern
LAST WEEK
13 right, seven wrong, no ties 65 per cent
TOTALS TO DATE 89 right, 43 wrong, eight ties 67.5 per cent
Novice Fighters Drill For December Bouts
For the past several weeks, the boxing room in the Fieldhouse has been filled with the sound of leather cracking solidly against flesh and the various grunts and groans of hopeful champions, dutifully working themselves into condition.
Practice for the Novice Boxing Tournament is now underway. Over 100 students have drawn equipment for the tournament, which will take place from December 7-11. There will be ten weight divisions, from 125 pounds to heavyweight, at approximately ten-pound intervals. The Novice Tournament serves as an instruction period, showing the boys the fundamentals of boxing and serving as a source of fighters for the University’s Bengal Mission Tournament later in the year.
At the beginning of the second semester, the training for the Bengals will get undeiway. As most of you know, the proceeds of the bouts will go to the Holy Cross Bengal missions. In past years the Bengal Bouts have been a source of great entertainment for those who have attended them.
The actual bouts will take place on March 28 - April 1. Many Novice champions have gone on to win their division in the Bengals, strong testimony to the value of the Novice program.
Victorious Sailors Merit Berth in Angsten Regatta
The Notre Dame sailing team under the skillful helmsmanship of Dan Schuster with Jim Kuras as crew, and Mickey Pavia with Fred Bremer as crew, took first place in the Area “C” Eliminations for the Timmie Angsten Regatta to be held over the Thanksgiving week end at Chicago’s Belmont Harbor.
Fighting freezing weather which proved to be almost unbearable, the , Irish also had to withstand its sailing competitors, Wisconsin, Marquette, Purdue and Washington University. Notre Dame’s total of 45 points was enough to edge out second place Wisconsin, which had a total of 44 points. Marquette’s score of 40 points was enough to merit them a berth along with Notre Dame . and Wisconsin at the Angsten Regatta.
Thirteen teams will participate in the Angsten Regatta. Nine of the qualifying schools are from three areas in the Middle West while four- of the schools are from the East coast.
The rivalry among the Midwestern schools promises to be intense. How- . ever, the traditionally strong Eastern teams will provide more than enough competition, thus making the Regatta one of the year’s best sailing contests.
The Angsten Regatta marks the end of the Notre Dame sailing season. The Irish sailors have compiled an outstanding record this fall with four first places in eight reeattas.
The Scholastic
RgiUIkU
Depth and Balance by GREG ROGERS
This article is the first in a series by Greg Rogers. Rogers, from Malverne, N.Y., is a journalism major who has been a feature writer for the Scholastic for the past two years.	.
This series of articles will analyze the basketball season as it progresses with the emphasis on personal interviews with the coaches and players.
A
Western Illinois invades the Notre Dame Fieldhouse on Decembex- 3 to open the 1959-60 Irish basketball season. Coach Johnny Jordan’s squad will play a 25-game slate this year and will be seeking to bettex- last year’s mediocre 12-13 record.
The Jordanmen are faced with the problem of replacing graduates Tom Hawkins, Gene Duffy and Tom Reinhaxt. The “Hawk” was perhaps Notre Dame’s finest player, holding several Irish scoring records including the individual game record of 43 and a three-yeax- total of 1820. Hawkins is now playing pro-► fessional basketball with the Minneapolis Lakers.
Duffy was the Ix-ish playmakex- fox-three years and an adroit defensive
First Row: Barrie Maguire (mgr.), Ray Vales, Bill Noonan, Eddie Schnurr, Bob Bradtke. Second Row*. Dennis Walljasper, Roger Strickland, Mike Farrell, Bob Skrzycki, Don McGann, Emmett McCarthy, Bill Crosby. Third Row: Mickey Bekelja, Armand Reo, Mike Graney (capt.), Karl Roesler, John Dearie, John Tully, Coach John Jordan.
player. He recently signed to play professional baseball in the Chicago White Sox chain.
Reinhaxt, also a three-yeax- membex- of the varsity, was a good reboundex- and scorer. Jordan is faced with the problem of finding three players who can score the 39 points a game lost in Hawkins, Duffy and Reinhart.
Returning Veteran. Captain Mike Graney returns fox- his third yeax- of varsity competition. “Big Mike,” from Chesterton, Ind., stands 6-5 and is expected to be one of the leading Ix-ish scorers and rebounders. Graney has looked impressive in pre-season drills and should improve on his point output of last year.
Anothex- prominent retux-nee is John Tully. Tully came off the bench last yeax- as a sophomore and helped out with his fine point making and board work. John, measuring 6-7 and a resident of Palisades Park, N.J., is a hard worker who should continue to improve as the season progresses. He too has been impressive in the pre-season workouts and is a probable stax-tex- along with Gx-aney.
JOHN JORDAN
Counting on sophomores
Other seniors on the squad include Bob Bradtke, Mickey Bekelja, Emmett McCarthy, Don McGann and Bob Skrzycki. Bradtke, from Hammond, Ind., saw quite a bit of action last year. He has a good jump shot. McCarthy is a valuable team member because of his fine jump shooting and defensive play. He is from Chicago. Bekelja, from Harrisburg, Pa., stands 6-4. He saw some action last year* and played particularly well on the eastern swing. He scores mostly on a long one-handed jump shot. McGann, from Joliet, Ill., is a 6-2 aggressive-defensive player and has a good two-hand set. Skrzycki is a 6-5 squad member from Detroit.
Other returning juniors are Bill Crosby, Bill Noonan, Ray Vales and Denny Walljasper. Crosby saw considerable action last year- as a sophomore. Noonan is a 6-2 jump shooter from Davenport, la., Vales, from Rye, N.Y., and Walljasper, an Iowa City, la., boy, both were members of the varsity last year.
Sophomore Prospects. Five sophomores move up to the varsity from last year’s crack freshman team. Eddie Schnurr is a 6-0 playmaker who hits well with a long two-hand set shot. Armond Reo stands 6-6 and is from Waterford, N.Y. He i-ebounds well and has a good jump shot. John Dearie is the same size as Reo and is a fine prospect from the Bronx. He is a very good driver. Roger Strickland is another talented soph from Jacksonville, Fla. At 6-4, he does everything well. Karl Roessler is a homestate boy hailing from Fort Wayne. He has a good hook shot and gives the Irish good height with his 6-7 frame.
Irish Offense. The Notre Dame squad uses a 1-3-1 type offense with the playmaker in the backcourt area used as the focal point. The defense consists of a shifting man to man along with a zone if needed.
The Irish have their usual tough schedule. They meet such teams as Indi-(Continued on page 32)
November 20, 1959
29
Scarpitto Holds Lead In Eight-Game Totals
With two games left in the season, halfback Bob Scarpitto continues to dominate the Irish offensive statistics. Leading in rushing, pass receiving, scoring, kickoff returns and punting, the Rahway, New Jersey junior is also second in the punt return department.
Senior quarterback Don White holds the lead in one major offensive area, passing, and also in its defensive opposite, pass interceptions. In the other major defensive section, tackles, right linebacker Bob Scholtz is the current pacesetter with Captain Ken Adamson not far behind.
Scarpitto has held the rushing lead for three straight weeks, and has now gaind a total of 172 yards in 48 carries for a 3.6 average. He is followed by sophomore fullback Gerry Gray, who has covered 150 yards in 31 tries, just under a 5.0 average. Close behind Gray is another fullback, Jim Crotty, with 148 yards in 42 carries.
In the scoring department, it’s Scarpitto again in front with eight touchdowns for 48 points. The runner-up to him is end Monty Stickles. The big senior from Poughkeepsie has carried the ball over the goal line once for six, but has gained the rest of his 27 points with his toe on three field goals and twelve conversions. Third in this category is Crotty, with three TD’s for 18 points.
For the Irish aerial show, White has connected on 39 out of 87 passes for 653 yards and three tallies. Runner-up George Izo has also pitched three payoff tosses while completing a total of 19 out of 47 for 219 yards.
The pass receiving section is led by Scarpitto who has caught 14 aerials for 286 yards, going all the way to paydirt with four of them. Second to him is Stickles, with eight catches for 167 yards and one TD.
Scarpitto has also returned ten kickoffs for 204 yards. Halfbacks George Sefcik and Red Mack have each taken back five for 98 yards. In punt returns, Sefcik is leading with eight for 120 yards, and Scarpitto is second with 95 yards in five returns.
On defense, senior center and right linebacker Bob Scholtz has been the “iron man” of the Irish line, making 70 tackles in his team-leading total of 380 minutes of playing time. Next to him is Adamson, a guard, with 65 stops. Scholtz and Adamson, along with end Pat Heenan, lead the squad in fumble recoveries, each having fallen on three opponent bobbles.
Scarpitto and Sefcik rank one-two in punting also, with Scarpitto holding the lead with a 37.8 average for 27 kicks. Sefcik has a 36.4 average for his 22 punts.
White leads the pass interception department with three pickoffs for 39 yards and Sefcik is second with two for twenty yards, but Scarpitto and Ratkowski have both taken their only interceptions back all the way for scores.
4th-Ranked and Unconquered USC Trojans Visit Snow-Bound South Bend Next Saturday
On Saturday, November 28, the Irish finish the 1959 season at home as they meet the Southern California Trojans in the Stadium. The Trojans are coached by Don Clark. Since there will be no issue of the Scholastic next week, we are previewing this game in the current issue.
Southern Cal has marched through eight straight opponents this year without suffering defeat. Included in their list of victims are Pittsburgh, Ohio State, Washington, California and last week Baylor.
The key to the Trojan success has been an aggressive, hard-hitting forward wall led by such standouts as the McKeever twins and Dan Ficca. Each of these boys is a prime candidate for AllAmerica honors, although Ficca, a 230-pound tackle, has been slowed at times this year with injuries. Both of the McKeevers measure 6-1, 220 pounds. Mike is a guard and Marlin an end. All three sturdy Trojans are juniors and will be back next year to raise more mayhem with their opponents.
The backfield is directed by Willie Wood, a 5-9, 170-pound senior from Washington, D.C. He was plagued by injuries last yeai- and part of the current year but seems to have shaken the injury bugaboo. If he fails, Coach Clark can call on either Ben Charles, a sophomore, or Al Prukop, a junior and high school teammate of the McKeevers.
THE McKEEVER TWINS: MIKE (LEFT) AND MARLIN (RIGHT)
Next week’s Notre Dame game will be the last bout of the season for the twins who have gone undefeated so far. These boys are two of the best football players in the country today.
The Trojans boast a fine array of Tuning backs. Three of their top backs are Jim Conroy, the fullback, and halfbacks Angelo Coia and Lynn Gaskill. Coia is a senior from Northeast High in Philadelphia while Gaskill hails from Wilmington, Delaware and is a sophomore. Conroy is a 6-0, 197-pound senioi- who * was moved from quarterback to take advantage of his running talents.
The Trojans use a unique system by which they giade the defensive performances of their players. It works like this: three points are given for an unassisted tackle, two for an aided tackle, one foi* an assist, five for a fumble recovered, three for a pass broken up, five for a pass intercepted and six for a kick blocked. The players are divided into three groups: linemen, linebackers and backs.
Last year the McKeevers, as usual, were among the leaders. In fact they were the leaders in two categories. Marlin led the linemen with 162 points. Mike topped this total by 17 as he registered 179 points as a linebacker. Don Buford, the diminutive back who almost ruined the Irish last year, paced the backs with 150 points.
The Trojans are seeking their first undefeated and untied season since 1932 when they posted a 10-0 slate under the immortal Howard Jones. That year they defeated the Irish 13-0.
—Bill Cary
30
The Scholastic
B. Weinsheimer Converts Very Unusual 8-9-10 Split
As the yeai’ progresses we are treated ’ to many strange leaves and even stranger conversions. Bill Weinsheimer of the White league left three quarters of the back row standing, the 8-9-10, on his first ball and then proceed to pickup the three pins for his spare.
Classic League . Schwartz’s ...............   17	7
Brunswick Shop ........... 16	8
Ted Nekis, 202-167-218—587; Maurie Lefere, 177-194-206 — 577; Greg Schwartz, 234; Jim Murphy, 231; Frank Prantil, 221; Dan Halloran, 222; Mike Rose, 216; Jim Flannery, 213-202; Carl Walsh, 209. Averages: Ted Nekic 196, < Tom Schroeder 186.
Kampus Keglers—Red
Rochester Club ........... 19	5
Glee Club “A”  .........   16	8
Dan Halloran, 190-204-194—588; Ray Stefani, 179-159-235—573; Mike West, 221; Herb Moeller, 214. Averages: Dan Halloran 178, Don Dvorak 176.
1	Kampus Keglers—White
Sixty-Niners ............. 19	5
Firehouse Five + 2 ....... 15	9
Elevators ................ 15	9
Jim Barrett, 214-174-169—557; Marty Kubiak, 197-1-57-186—540; Dick Traskos, 215; Tom Tafelski, 212.
Averages: Marty Kubiak 183, Ted ► Nekic 178, Denny Panozzo 178.
Detroit A ................ 19	5
Detroit “B” .............. 14	10
John Roark, 159-235-159—553; Don Prairie, 176-180-137; Jim Lefere, 202. Averages: John Roark 173, Earl Mos-sner 165.
Kampus Keglers—Yellow
Lucky Strikes ..........—	23	1
i Shady Grove ................ 19	5
Cleveland Club .........   19	5
John McKenna, 147-229-182—558;
Frank Aranetta, 186-164-199—549; Mike Gilbert, 183-176-178—537. Jack Denman, 209; Bob Middendorf, 190. Averages: Frank Aranetta 170; Ed Tejeira 167.
Classified Advertising
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS	 PRATT & WHITNEY—November 30.	~
All interviews are held at the Placement Office.
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR!
*9	★
Rasmussen Men's Shop MAIN & WASHINGTON STS.
November 20, 1959
"ALL IS NOT GOLD”
Seems like everybody had a crack at this piece of homely philosophy, but the originator seems to be Geoffrey Chaucer, in "The House of Fame”, Book I:
"Hyt is not all gold that glareth"
"COUNT 10...”
Was there any limit to the talents of Thomas Jefferson? Statesman, scientist, architect—he also authored this admonition:
"When angry, count ten before you speaks if very angry, a hundred.”
Jockeq T-Shirts
BRAND
The most respected, creative name in underwear is Jockey brand. It stands to reason, then, that Jockey brand T-shirts are unmatched for quality as well as styling. You can choose from standard crew neck T-shirt, "taper-tee” shirt, sleeveless l-shirt, and V-neck T-shirt models. Every man needs a drawer full of T-shirts—and the label to look for is Jockey brand. Let it guide you to the world's finest underwear.
fashioned by the house of
31
I
to BERMUDA
W® College Week yB 1960
Ie he GREATEST!
•	As always, the “Mixer”— College Day at the Beach.
•	And the All-Day Cruise to an ancient fort with calypso, luncheon, gombey dancers and native bands. AND FOR THE FIRST TIME
•	INTERCOLLEGIATE JAZZ SESSIONS, with competition between jazz combos of leading men’s colleges.
•	COLLEGE WEEK REVUEamateur college talent (YOU ?), directed by a professional.
•	Barbecue Luncheon and Games Afternoon.
•	Special TROPHIES for Fishing, Golf, Tennis.
ALL WITHOUT CHARGE.
The
BERMUDA
Trade Development Board
620 Fifth Ave., New York 20, N. Y.
SPRING SEMESTER 1960 Institute of European Studies arranges English taught courses through the University of Vienna. Emphasis on loaming German. Students live with Austrian Families, take meals at the IES student center. Three Study Tours through 8 countries when the University is not in session.
5% MONTHS IN EUROPE $1395 Price covers round trip ocean travel, room, board, tuition and study tours. SAILING: Moatdam. Feb. 4, New York APPLICATION DEADLINE: Dec. 10,1959 For fortfear iaformotioo, write Io:
INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES
35 E. Wacker	Chicago 1
SEND THIS COUPON FOR IES BULLETIN
Scientists Win Grants For Research Studies
University of Notre Dame scientists have recently been awarded research grants totaling $121,273 by the National Science Foundation and the United States Atomic Energy Commission, according to an announcement by Francis Bradley, assistant dean for research in the Graduate School. The grants will underwrite research in Notre Dame’s department of chemistry, biology, mechanical engineering and metallurgical engineering.
Dr. Ettore Peretti, head of the department of metallurgical engineering, has received a National Science Foundation grant of $42,700 for a three-year research project on “Phase Relationships in Systems Involving Semiconductors.”
Another NSF grant of $24,200 will support basic research directed by Prof. Kwang-tzu-Yang in the mechanical engineering department. The two-year project is entitled “A Fundamental Improvement of the Integral Procedure as Applied to Problems in Boundary-Layer Theory, Transient Heat Conduction, and Duct Flows with Heat Transfers.”
Dr. Robert McIntosh, assistant professor of biology, will be principal investigator for a “Quantitative Ecological Study of the Vegetation of the Catskills.” The four-year project will be supported by a $15,400 NSF grant.
A fourth NSF grant has been awarded to Rev. Ralph Davis, C.S.C., of the chemistry department for a two-year research program on “Condensation of. Aromatic Nitro Compounds with Arylacetonitriles.”
Chemistry professor, Dr. Richard Pilger, has received a United States Atomic Energy Commission grant of $16,308 to conduct “Studies in Nuclear Spectroscopy” during the coming year.
The AEC has also made a grant of $13,165 to support research in radiation biology directed by Rev. Cletus Bachofer, C.S.C.
name -a- a—
city	zone stalo
LISTEN
TO
THE ALL
NEW
WSND
FEATURING . . .
MUSIC NEWS SPORTS AND SPECIAL FEATURES
6 4 0 on your DIAL



0
Basketball Preview
(Continued from page 29) ana, Michigan State, North Carolina, Northwestern Louisville, Kentucky, Bradley, Evansville and Illinois. The Evansville squad won the small college championship last year.	'
Jordan feels that “no one right now is capable of scoring the 24 points that Hawkins averaged last year,” but he hopes that he will find three playei-s capable of getting the 39 points lost in Hawkins, Duffy and Reinhart. Jordan has been experimenting with two starting units, so he will not have to rely on any five players too heavily.
Jordan added that “we hope to better the record of last year. I feel that we were better than our record showed, considering we lost many close games last year. More experienced players plus better depth this year should add up to a better over-all record.”
"Variety is the spice of life.” Enjoy
GOOD—WHOLESOME
DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT
CANTONESE FOODS
•
Steaks - Chops Fried Chicken
Sea Foods
•
Reasonably Priced
MARK’S CAFE
SEN SAI GAI
134 N. Main St.
32
The Scholastic
AFROTC Students Travel to Eglin Air Bose; Airmen Inspect Largest Military Reservation
Last Tuesday, 67 Ail* Force ROTO cadets flew to Florida’s Eglin Air Force Base to undergo a three-day field visit designed to orientate AFROTC cadets on an official Air Force base.
The AFROTC cadets included frosh through senior years but the majority of " them were freshmen and sophomores. The reason for this was to illustrate to them what type of training they could expect in the Advanced Course which they will move into during the junior year.
Accompanying the cadets were 10 members of the faculty, members of ‘ the Administration and three Air Force personnel. The Air Force personnel included: Lt-Col. Matthew Merkle, Capt. Anthony Scolieri and Capt. Frank Zettel.
Eglin base is the largest military reservation in the United States. It is approximately 40 miles long, with 15 ’ separate airstrips on the airfield.
The trip was a three-day jaunt, with 1% days used to tour and explain base facilities. While touring the base the cadets examined such modern equipment as a climatic hangar, which can fit a B-36 inside. This hangar can provide temperatures ranging from arctic ‘ to desert in degrees, for experimental purposes. Also seen was an auxiliary field — The Drone Group — where
pilotless airplanes take-off in order to be destroyed by rocket over the Atlantic Ocean.
Other important items seen were the Drone jets called “Fire Bees,” a radiocontact, pilotless aircraft which take-off, fly in pattern and land. The last exhibit for the cadets ‘ included an air rescue demonstration in the air, on the water, and on land.
This move, combined with the Flight Instructional Program now conducted at the South Bend Airport, is designed to enable the AFROTC student to more readily reach a final decision on an Air Force future by actually experiencing Air Force life. The Air Force unit this year will also offer orientation flights to all cadets.
Fr. Ga brie! Delivers Lecture To Student Body at Fordham
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, O. Praem., director of the University of Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute, delivered a lecture on “The Conversion of the Hungarians to Christianity” at Fordham University, New York City, last Saturday.
Father Gabriel illustrated his talk ■with several maps representing the ecclesiastical organization of central Europe in the tenth and eleventh centuries.
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
*	THESAURUS OF BOOK DIGESTS Fuller
*	OPERA AS DRAMA
J. Kerman
* GREAT FILM PLAYS
J. Gassner * THE NEW CLASS M. Djilas
*	READER'S GUIDE TO JAMES JOYCE W. Tindall
*	DILEMMA OF BEING MODERN
J. Hodin
* INGENIOUS MATH PROBLEMS AND METHODS
L Graham
PRE-CHRISTMAS SPECIAL Notre Dame 100 Years A. Hope, C.S.C.
Formerly S4.00 Now $1.29
Save Time and Money at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on-the-campus
k JUdson 2-4200 1
POST-GRAD®
Everything new for your comfort end convenience. Completely now rooms — most modem furnishings in* eluding air-conditioning. Radio & Television in every room.
Special Group Rates —
Write for Details
Rates from $4 per person 2 tn room
3335^1
DAVID MHTERMAN Mgn.Dir.


rj* imas STnc
A classic fashion in a class by itself! Beautifully tailored with pleatless front and bold back pocket flaps, these H*I*S honeys are easy to look at, easy to wear and easy to own. Is a wide, wonderful choice of long-wearing, washable Cottons. Front $4.95 to $6.95. Knockout new colors. At your favorite campus shop.
GO OUT FOR his SPORTSWEAR
Swing into orbit with trim, tapered, terrific
November 20, 1959
33
Back Paye
by JOHN KEVIN WALSH
camp of nothingness
John Kevin Walsh, author of this •week's “Back Page” is a junior in the general program. In addition to his contributions to the Scholastic, Walsh is active in the student government’s “Distinguished Lecture Series,” of which he is chairman.
In this article Walsh inquires into the •reasons for a lack of real convictions among today’s college students.
“When I do count the clock that tells the time. .
Shakespeare’s simple line cap-tures the essence of its object with a perfection that no other poet could accomplish. The meter of the line is the meter of a clock, dispensing her moments — the sudden moment of enlightenment, the resolution of a piinciple or the re-enacting of that principle, the kind word said or the wise thought expressed. Time is fondest of her moments of leisure, and dispenses them gratuitously, knowing that in these moments fragments of her mysteries will be realized, and that her subjects will be satisfied in divertissements, pleasurable, interesting and contemplative. Indeed, as Josef Pieper reminds us, leisure is the whole basis of culture and wisdom.
Leisure, it might be said in the same breath, is the basis of a university. What are these four years but four years of leisure, four years in the pursuit of objectives devoid of any real association with the world of toil? The university community is an ideal community. The true university is a community in which its members are united in one mutual objective — the most proficient use of leisure. Leisure is a comfortable condition for a preparation for our world. Principles can be formed, convictions can be impressed, and the embryo of the whole man can be perfected.
NEGLECTED HERITAGE
In the great universities of Europe, leisurely activities reached extremes that can hardly be imagined by our comparatively tranquil American universities. Great movements were begun by students, and every student was obliged to locate himself in a “camp,” Le., to take one side or the other and defend it with patriotic zeal. Two camps would vie for supremacy in a university, and the instigators, the original thinkers, would become the leaders. The whole system was a healthy one. The student passed a judgment and chose to defend one principle or another, and joined its camp. In his eyes, the principle he de
34
fended was the right, and he had joined the camp of those who shared this mutual conviction, becoming a leader himself or electing a leader who would represent the position upheld by his camp.
In the universities of the United States, we have no such camps. Notre Dame is a gi’eat university and it has many gi’eat thinkers, but we have no camps. Either the men at Notre Dame have no convictions, or they are afraid to commit themselves, for the only movements at Notre Dame are confined to a handful of brave students who confirm one another’s convictions in leisurely convocations, perhaps in some quiet corner of our cafeteria. Such minorities (even the notion of minority is an exaggeration of their dimensions) are quiet in their pursuits, realizing that at Notre Dame it is. treason to be radical and at the same time foolish to declare yourself tolerant, or conservative.
However, at Notre Dame, as in other American universities, we have found a substitute for the European camp system, but it is a shallow substitute and I should be surprised if any Newtons, Newmans, or even Sartres should emerge. The system claims to have had its origins in the great American governmental systems, yet vestiges of the true spirit of the American system are not to be found. I am referring, of course, to the establishment which calls itself student government, that happy medium which unites every student in one mutual conviction — nothingness. The system has a jargon all its own. Such expressions as “student body,” “Student Senate,” and “social commission” propose a feeling of schoolboy democracy which is so effective that such expression might well have been designed in the idea room of some Madison Avenue advertising agency.
I do not suggest that a student government does not have its values. The spectacular blood-and-circus dance with its big-name band and elaborate decorations, the intimate mixer and the heated debate in which members of the government assert their opinions on the blood-and-circus dance and the intimate mixer are all-important functions of such a system.
Obviously, the term “student government” has been misapplied. The word, “student,” in its proper context, signifies man in the pursuit of wisdom and “government” signifies the notion of management- But student governments in American universities do not direct themselves to the young man as a student, but chiefly to the young man as a social glutton, and do not manage, but
appease. In most cases, the officers in a student government assert their leadership not because their convictions are shared by those who elect them (few dare to express their convictions), but because they propose a platform with more enticing social promise than their opponent proposes.
INCONSISTENCY
I am sure that you will notice a cer- I tain inconsistency in my observations and the present condition of student government, and I admit to this inconsistency. A government is sometimes blessed with leadership, and this leadership becomes the temporary salvation for a structure whose foundations are weak and without substance. At present, our student government is blessed with capable leaders and a few gi’eat leaders, a condition which the structure hardly deserves. The proposals of our president, the core of which is the creation of an 1 intellectual atmosphere as the most prominent student government offering, convince me that he is a sincere and । dedicated leader. But the fortunate condition that our finest man is also our leader does not erase the disgrace of last year’s election, an election void of election because a candidate ran unopposed. The crime is not only in the apathy of the students toward his convic- 4 tions but also the fact that he had no convictions to oppose. The system of student government is practiced only on the assumption that it is a miniature of our national government, but our national officers are elected because they represent a certain camp, a certain party which has a tradition of defending some ' convictions and opposing others, and the voter casts his ballot, theoretically, because he has preference for one tradition of convictions. What semblance do our elections have to so noble a theory?
I suspect that in these approaching days I shall find a succession of worthy . young gentlemen vying for my vote with * such enticements as a wild-and-woolly class trip to Chicago or the promise that he will do all that he is able (which is hardly more, than I am able to do) to obtain a Utopia of all-night lights. I should like to tell him that he has a hearty handshake and a pleasant smile, and that his clothes are brushed as though the goddess Athena has prepared him to look pleasing before me. I should like to ask him what his convictions are and to which camp he belongs, but I will return his pleasant smile and oblige his hearty handshake and satisfy him with noncommittal mumblings, because complacency is virtuous.
The Scholastic
with a
future
The shirt
You needn’t be a man of science
to recognize the superior styling of Arrow’s
Gordon Dover.
Its fashion credentials
number—the buttondown
collar with the perfect arched flare, the finest
Sanforized” oxford
cloth, Arrow’s
outstanding tailoring and enduring fit.
Try one—you’ll
vouch for it! $5.00.

Each Saturday ih Hie NCAA foot-
ball "Gama of the Week"—NBC
—sponsored by ARROW.
FORECAST: many good years of Fashion...
Arrow Gordon Dover
Arrow’s Gordon Dover sees you handsomely through the halls of learning. Notice its conservative style that means lasting fashion. See our extensive selection of Arrow shirts— buttondowns, tabs, pins tabs—all in long-wearing “Sanforized” fabrics. Classic stripes, solids, and white. $5.00.
GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
New 1960 KM brings you taste... more taste...
More taste by far... yet low in tar!
New, free-flowing Miracle Tip unlocks natural tobacco flavor! That’s why DM can blend fine tobaccos not to suit a filter... but to suit your taste!
Only the 1960 KM ■ Frees up flavor other filters squeeze in! ■ Checks tars without choking taste! ■ Gives you the full, exciting flavor of the world’s finest, naturally mild tobaccos!
« 1959 Liggett A Myers Tobacco Co.