
Bruno's 
Pizza 
ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR $12.00 EVERY DAY 119 U.S. 31 (just north of campus} Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in 11 :00 to 1 :30 Lunch 4:00 to 10:00 Sunday to Thursday 4:00 to 11 :00 Friday and Saturday 
273-3890 
HAIi Homemade -100% Real Cheese'' We offer FREE DELIVERY to Notre Dame's and · Saint Mary's campuses. 
So, you want to know who the Gipper is? Come·work for Scholastic. Learn all our secrets. 

is now hiring: Business/ Advertising Manager Assistant News Editor Assistant Sports Editor Call 1-5029 or stop by the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall for more information. 

.,..,./ 
.IRE&" . 
. ·--..... . 
.­
page 23 

Cov~r: What Makes a Catholic University? 14 
Ahighly anticipated vote byAmerican bishops has fueled debate over Ex corde Ecclesiae and its impact on Catholic universities. by Meredith W. Salisbury 

Executive Suite 10 

Ifyou've got the Guinness Record for most honor:-ary degrees, you probably need a lot of wall space to hang them. In an office on the 13th floor of the library named for him, Father Hesburgh stores the mementos of his decades of service. 
by Kim Blackwell, photos by Ben Wojcikiewicz 
Now Hear This 21 

· Jarious Jackson. Jabari Holloway. Lamont Bryant. Tony Fisher. Home or away. If you can't be there to catch them at the stadium, WVFI will bring them to you exlusively over the Internet. by Jeremiah Conway 
American Art,.Taos Style 26 

The most ambitious undertaking by the Snite in its history was finally debuted to the public last week. by Zac Kulsrud From the Editor 2 Editorial 3 Listening In 4 ND Notebook 5 Campus Watch 18 Splinters from the Pressbox 19 Out of Bounds 25 Calendar 30 Week in Distortion 31 Final w·ord 32 
Unwelcomed Change by Jared Marx  7  
An Open Door Policy by Seth Fabian  8  
Roll Call by Kim Blackwell and Kate Jacques  12  
On the Offensive by Drew Gawrych  23  
Soup and Sandwich  28  
Departments  



The perfect balance 

When I started as a freshman at Notre Dame, I found it ironic that Touchdown Jesus was on the side of library. Libraries always seemed to me to be cold, unfeeling places -where scholars spent hours developing scientific principles aimed solely at countermining faith. After spending time on campus, though, I realized that putting Jesus on the library was a perfect symbol of Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame has managed to strike a balance between the reason-based world of education and the faith-based world of religion. Notre Dame provides a community where knowledge can be pursued, scientific discovery can be made and political issues can be discussed, but this community is always guided by its religious beliefs of its founders. 
This balance isn't easy to keep. Issues like whether to provide a non-discrimi­nation clause, who can advertise in campus media and the type of pamphlets available in the Women's Resource Center constantly force the administration to choose between intellectual discussion and the key elements of our faith. These same debates echo through the faculty, staff and student body. 
Over the past decade, the ability of Catholic universities to create this bal­ance themselves has been called into question by the leaders of the church. This struggle between church officials and the leaders of Catholic universities is examined by Meredith Salisbury on page 14. 


A fresh face 

Thanks to the dedication of the staff, Scholastic was able to provide some· exciting additions for the 1999-2000 school year. Perhaps most noticeably, we have redesigned the nameplate and have full-color covers. These full-color covers will appear in every other issue. The inside of the magazine has been updated to match the fresh look of the cover. You '11 want to check out Listen­ing In, a new column featuring some of_ the interesting things seen and heard around campus in the past couple of weeks. Also, Splinters has been rede­signed to give a better picture ofvaristy sports on campus. Finally, the inside back cover will now be devoted to one photo image that caught our eye over the last week. 

Pat .on the back 

A special thanks to Mike Griffin for working tirelessly to redesign• our nameplate and to Kara Zuaro for doing double duty as departments editor and entertainment editor. Their work, and the hard work of the rest ofthe staff, have made putting together the first issue ofthe year a pleasure. I look forward to a great year. 

Editor in Chief 
2Scholastic From the Editor 





SChOIOSfic 
·•· VoL 141, Nq._2__ ._srP!~~~er 9, :\999 
P_:;:·:.:., ::-. ··: __-i~ 
: _ii •'.:~~•F. ),\ ·_._;,1• ;: 

·.. bisce Q~a~{$lrnkif Y,icturus · · Vive QuasLCrds::Mo,Yiturus ...
-..:''</tiT\i. . . 
·. 'Editors in Chief · Brian Christ Meredith W. Salisbury 

. . :, ·.. ·-: 
·Managing Editor · Associate Editor Zachary W. Kulsrud James J. Pastore, Jr. 
News: Jared P. Ma~, editdr 
Campus Life Kafe L. Jacques; edi_tor 
. . Kimberly A Blackwell, assistant 

Sports· · Christopher E Hamilton,. editor 
Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor 
Kathleen M. Corte, assistant 

Departments Kara S. Zuaro, editor 
Heather J. Hogan, assistant ·· 

Layout . Michael P. Griffin, editor 
Heather J. Hogan, assistant 
· Matthew M. Bunda 

S. Kristi Castro. Allen L. Tuazon Photography ·Michael J McNary, editor . Benjamin.K. W'ojcikiewicz, assistant Graphic Arts David B. Leeney, editor 
Caroline M. Wolf; assistant · Advertising. ··Kate L. Jacques, manager .· Distribution MichaeU. McNary, manager Web Design . Michael J. Gonzales 
http://www.nd.edu/.;.schoiast. 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and 
printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The 
entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright ©1999. All 
rights ·reserved. No contents of this magazine; either in whole 
.or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written 
consent of the publisher. ScholasticMagazine does not assume 
liability for unsolicited manusc,ripts or material. All 
correspondence· should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, 
LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame,.IN 46556. The official 
fraction of Scholastic Magazine i_s 1 /81.To be published in .the 
next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday 
before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, 
addr!!SS and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names. 
will.be withheld upon request in ce'rtain instances. Scholastic 
reserves the right to edit letters for space. The subscription 
rate, including the annual:football review, Is $35 per year. 
Available back issues are $1.50 per copy; please. specify 
volume and number, or d!lte. Copies of the annual.football 
review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates avai_lable 
on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine 
• are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body . 
. Cover .photo by Brian Christ Cover design by Michael Griffin 

Gipper Under Fire 


Is your desktop computer ready forY2K? 
rar e:;<.c.\us\ve use by 
fatUI\V, staff and dents at th• 

Pick up your free Norton 2000 testing software
stu . f Notre oarne 
Univers1W 0 

and associated instructions at the Solutions Center_or Cam.pus Computer Clusters. 
Don't be caught without your computer or your valuable files! Check them now. 

Need more info? www.nd.edu/-y2k 
Editorial Scholastic 3 
"Slanderous." 

Recently, we had an enlightening discussion during which we were reminded of the typical complaints about our column, Cam­pus Watch by the Gipper. Every year, the same arguments are made to Scholastic's editor. Every year, the editors decide to keep the column going. "Libelous." 
The reason the Gipper has endured for 15 years is simple. Students ask for it. They want a column that serves as both watchdog and entertainment. The demand for all of our other sections combined doesn't top the demand for the Gipp, and this is something we're acutely aware of. 
"Blight on the campus." 

But loud demand doesn't necessarily mean lots of demand. Perhaps there are more detractors than we realize. Every year, we hear the one or two complaints (for the record, this is the first year we've been called a "blight"), and we noel, and that's the encl of it. We believe, because all the students we talk to seem to agree, that demand is high enough to warrant continuation of the Gipp's column, and that's enough for us. 
"Lack of integrity." 

But this year, we're doing things differently. We're letting you decide. If you hate the Gipper, tell us. If we get an overwhelming response that students are offended by the column and they want it out of the magazine, we'11 reconsider our decision to keep it in. If you tell us it's your favorite piece, and that if you only read one thing each issue it's the Gipp, we'll make sure it stays in. 
Before you run off to tell us what to do, we' cl like to confront two particular concerns. 
First, as you can see, our complaints tend to imply that the Gipp writes falsehoods. Wrong. Each tip in the column, though presented and intended humorously, is verified before it goes in. · 
Second, some people resent the fact that the Gipper writes anonymously, saying that there's no accountability. Also wrong. The Gipper is accountable to the Scholastic staff, just like every other person who contributes to this magazine. 
So vote. Tell us how you feel about the Gipper. Offended? Amused? We want to know. Just go to our website, www.ncl.edu/ ~scholast, and fill out the survey. 
Cut the Gipper? It's your call. 


"Blood! Blood makes the ·grass growl" -the men of Dillon Hall 
"Totally Nude Gentleman's Club" -banner flying over Notre Dame stadium during Kansas game 
"Study: Disasters may strike anyplace" -South Bend Tribune headline 
"My wife's-due to give birth really soon, so I might have to miss a class next week. Or maybe two, depending on how long labor lasts." 
-professor of a class meeting · Mondays and Wednesdays 
"Ninety percent of the business school could be your best friend and they would still stab you in the back for a dollar." -overheard student 
"I think the student media here is very responsible." -Father Theodore Hesburgh, CSC President Emeritus 
"Stock options aren't available in higher education, but we do get a 20 percent discount on those football tickets." · -accounting professor 
4Scholastic Listening In 

Q&A
MOVIN' ON UP 


Upward Bound 
Summer pronwtions leave rookies in administration 
The chasm next to Badin Hall is the most conspicuous vacancy going these days, but it isn't the only vacancy that caused activity on campus this summer. In July, Patricia O'Hara became dean of Notre Dame's law school, vacating the position of vice president of Student Affairs. When administrators looked to fill the void, they looked to Mark Poorman. "I was really honored by the request to even consider [the position]," says Poorman, who was first approached about the new office by President Malloy last spring. Poorman, who has been on the theology faculty for the past 10 years, Dillon Hall's rector for three years in the '80s, and asso­ciate director ofCampus Ministry, said he is "looking forward to the challenge." "Student Affairs is the division of the university that includes everything that is education outside of the classroom," Poorman continues. Indeed, the job entails more than the disciplinary and judicial af­fairs for which it is so well known. Poorman will also oversee the activity ofNotre Dame's resid~nce halls. When asked if he'll move from Keough Hall, Poorman, who has lived in residence halls for the past 15 years, says that now he has "more reason than ever to be there," hoping that his experiences will allow him to really "speak from the trenches" on stu­dent issues. This year, Poorman looks forward to bringing together academics and student life, promoting diversity education, strength­ening Christian communities in residence halls and maintaining residentiary as a cen­tral part of campus life. He'll also be look­ing for better and increased ways to plan social activities that don't involve alcohol. 
Another significant personnel move that occurred this summer was the acquisition of Lou Nanni. Renowned as the executive di­rector of the Center for the Homeless for more than eight years, Nanni will be mov­ing to work in the Main Building with Malloy as executive advisor to the president. 
Malloy approached him about the posi­tion change as "a great opportunity to learn university governance issues and also as an opportunity to work on special projects with him," says Nanni. 
Though some have expressed concern for the Center for the Homeless without Nanni, he says that he is "confident that the Center will do well and even do better" than it has in the past. Nanni expresses confidence in Drew Buscareno, director of Development and Community Reiations for the past seven years, who will replace him as interim ex­ecutive director. 
Some of the key themes that Nanni will address this year are service and interna­tional relations, both areas in which he is very qualified. He will also be working with the Institute for Church Life and finishing a book about his experiences at the Center for the Homeless. 
-Elizabeth Burnett 

UUDGMENT CALLS 
! 
Now, along with the lab consultants, the computers in theiiMacs t clusters)iave distinct personalities. 
When dining in North and South this week, Domersgot a little
·Dining Hall 
memento to takehome. Wow, ifonly wecould take thesmellhome Calendars with us too. 
Big Ten 

Did they really.want us tojoin their conference that badly?
Referees 

Why are the Badin Bullfrogs co1nplaining? For three
Lewis 

years the Lewis Chickens silently endured the cacopho­
t

Martyrs _rwus renovatfon ofl:vfain Buil_ding. 

10uestions with 

a 
tii 
ii: 
:,: 
(,) 
z 
< 
ii: 
CD 

James O'Rourke 

He's seen it all 
A former Notre Dame student and now a professor in the College of Business, Pro­fessor 0'Rourke has seen the campus grow and change for nearly four decades. After editing Reflections on the Dome, a collec­tion of essays about Notre Dame history, he's now considered a campus historian. Scholastic caught up with O' Rourke to dis­cuss where Notre Dame has been and where it's going. 
At the turn of the next century, what will people remember most about Notre Dame in this century? 
Growth. I think the physical expansion of campus and a rise to respectability. In 1900 we were a third-rate boys' school. By 2000 we will have become the pre-eminent Catho­lic university in the world. 
What's your favorite building on campus? 
It's a tie between Rockne Memorial and the Hurley Building. I spent virtually all of my time here in Alumni Hall, where I lived, Hurley Building, where I went to school or in the Rock, where I swam. 
How has Alumni Hall changed since you lived there? 
I think the boys are better behaved. Father George runs a really tight ship. 
What do you think about the new South Dining Hall? 
The food is unquestionably miles better. The food in the 1960s was inedible, small portions, sometimes unidentifiable and badly prepared. 
Who has been your favorite celebrity to ever come here? 
Robert F. Kennedy came here twice in the spring of '68. I worked on his campaign. 
continued on next page -. 
Notebook Scholastic 5 
Q&A 
continued from previous page 
Ours was the only campus he visited twice. I thought he was the most remarkable man I'd ever met. 
If you could invite any person to campus, who would it be? 
We do a good job of inviting celebrities without inviting people who are too notori­
ous. John Paul Iiwould make an interesting speaker, if we could manage the crowd. What was your favorite summer movie? The Thomas Crown Affair. Rene Russo is 
just amazing. 
Who's your pick for President in 2000? 
I think we'll see a race between George W. 
BushandBillBradley.BecauseofBradley's 
candidacy, I think the race will be about ideas. I'd call that race a dead heat. 
When will Notre Dame win its next football national championship? 
I think they've got a good shot at it next year. I think Coach Davie will finally have his system in place. Keep in mind, when Notre Dame wins, they're never expected to. If FatherSorin and Father Hesburgh were in 
a celebrity death match, who would win? 
Sorin. He was a bull of a man. He was big, tough, and highly self reliant. Hesburgh is wily. He would find a way to talk Sorin _out ofit. IfRockne were still alive, he'd want to charge admission. 
Llr/\/(7.;),u,•i _,. 1r7°'1·1'f?;J•1,\""ln_,-: 'j'-._~ t 1'-'J 1 ­
L\/JQ'.J tJ 1..:_i,J©.N THE SIDE 
High on a shelf in O'Rourke's file room is the world's first parafoil, which became the basis for the parachutes of today. This chute, developed by former aeronautical and me­chanical engineering professor John Nicolaidis, was the first to allow the jumper to control speed, elevation and direction. 
"He had an idea to improve safety -to make a parachute look like an airplane wing," 
says O'Rourke. Nicolaidis developed his 
parachute at Notre Dame's Hessert Wind Tunnel and tested it like a kite on South Quad. O'Rourke, who was present for its maiden jump, remembers, "In 1964, on a field east ofthe stadium, he became the first human being to test the parafoil." Nicolaidis made the jump wearing his eyeglasses, a tweed blazer and wingtip shoes. 
Nicolaidis, who also designed the offi­cial golf ball dimple pattern of the PGA, sold the rights to the parafoil .and gave the original chute to the garment inanufac;turer that had sewn it for him. When that com­pany went out of business, it was passed on to O'Rourke. -Brian Christ 
6Scholastic Notebook 
FILLING IN THE HOLES 

Men at Work, Women at Rest 
The snooze button is no longer an option for Badin girls 
Perhaps the university was trying to trim down its electric bills. After all, with the construction ofthe Koleman-Morris Student Center beginning at 7:00 a.m. right outside their windows, most Badin Hall residents no longer need to waste en­ergy by plugging in their alarm clocks. The Bullfrogs aren't the only ones who miss the relative silence of the old book­store. Sophomore Andrew Naber, who re­sides far from the noise in Stanford Hall, relates fondly, "I miss Rudy playing non­stop in the old bookstore. It really added a lot of school spirit." Lindsey Updike, a Welsh Hall sopho­more, disagrees. "The old bookstore was too old and didn't feel like a bookstore -it was too small. The school spirit some people thought was in the old bookstore can be found in other places on campus." When the construction is finished in early 2001, the complainers may be swayed to Lindsey's point of view. The 14 million dollar facility, which will house First Year ofStudies, Campus Ministry and the Learn­ing Resource Center, will also include a student recreation area and more 24-hour space. 
It also promises to add even more archi­tectural beauty to South Quad. According to Jim Lyphout, vice president of Business Operations, "The same architects that de­signed the Eck Center and the new book­store are coordinating this project so that this new building will match the collegiate Gothic architecture found elsewhere on cam­pus." 
Kevin Rooney, dean of the First Year of Studies, makes a compelling argument for the project. "The old bookstore had senti­mental value for many alums and visitors, but the way in which it will now be utilized will enrich the academic life of the univer­sity considerably ... it will truly be a student services center now." 
Until that point, it may just make Badin girls early risers. 
-Brian Christ and E<f,en Essex 
DOME LIGHTS 





D6 or Bust 

Forty-two ofthe 50 states were represented in a recent survey oflicense tags in the D6 parking lots. These tags appeared with the highest frequency: 



Indiana isl)JN>••••••••­
•
Illinois 
Ohio ••••
exas 


Pa. •••••
N.J. U>JN>•• 
N.Y. 

Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Hawaii, Oregon, Utah, Vermont, Washington or Washington 
D.C. were not represented. 

One equals five license tags. -Mike McNary; graphic by Allen Tuazone 

Unwelcomed Change 
Changes in ticket distribution fail to win student approval 
BY JARED MARX appy Gagnon, coordinator of stadium personnel, tells this story about the night that football tickets were distributed to seniors: "I was there all night, so I had a chance to talk to a few kids. I asked almost everyone the same question: 'What do you think of this new system?' Lots of kids told me that they thought it was better than the old system. But once I asked the question and this girl just said 'Sucks.' So I asked her, 
standpoint, it went better this year than it ever has before." 
Some, like Murphy, seem to believe that the reason for change was based more on the alcohol and trash issues. Agreeing with this, John Micek, the junior class president, says that "we as students fumbled the ball." But despite this, both Murphy and Micek note that the ability to restrict alcohol in the stadium (as opposed to outside the Joyce Center) seemed more a fortunate side effect of, rather than a main reason for, moving ticket distribution across the 
what is it about it that 'sucks'? And she just "] hope that the students who were so vocal about the said, 'Sucks.' So I asked her again: Why does · it 'suck'?" He leans in for emphasis, "and system this year will offer ideas for nextyear." 
finally she admitted that it was because there was no alcohol." But no alcohol on the menus was not the only complaint among students who purchased their tickets at the stadium two weeks ago. Many complained that the new system was simply confusing. Some were annoyed by the fact that the new lottery number system took away the incentive for waiting in line. And then there were those who seemed incensed at having another student tradition institutionalized by the university. Micah Murphy, student body president, notes that a new ticket distribution system was one of the first things his administration looked into after being elected. To Murphy, there was immediate pressure from both students and the administration to change the system after last year's campout was allegedly more rowdy and more destructive than ever before. So in the spring of last year, members of student government, ticket distribution, stadium ush­ers and student affairs met to discuss a new plan for ticket distribu­tion. To Gagnon, the central factor to be considered in these meetings wasn't alcohol or trash, but rather safety. He notes that cars jump the Joyce Center curb along Juniper road all the time, and that the danger ofhaving kids lie on that sidewalk was simply unacceptable now that the new stadium offered an alternative. _He also states that as a crowd-control professional, the chance for students to get injured in a first-come, first-serve ticket distribution system, such as it used to be, is very high. Hence the new quasi-lottery system, which offers incentive to the first 200 students for being early, but by randomly choosing a starting place for distribution among these 200, offers no incentive for the students who arrive at the ticket gate first. James Fraleigh, director of ticketing and marketing for the athletic department, notes that another reason cited for change during these meetings was that the Joyce Center only has only five ticket windows, while the new stadium has nine. Where the old system took about four hours per class to distribute tickets, the new system took only about two hours per class. Says Fraleigh, "From a ticket office 
_ Cap_1ny Gagnon 
1:', 
street. 

William Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life, notes that the change was made necessary "clearly by a number of factors." But he continues, "If the students had been responsible, would there have been a need for us to get involved? No." 
What Gagnon, Kirk and Murphy do agree on is what they heard resoundingly from the student body: keep the campout. But be­cause the new lottery system required students to take a number when they showed up to the stadium the night before their class bought tickets, there was no need for students to stay the night to keep their place in line. Student government, the Student Union Board and a number of other student groups realized this and planned for activities, entertainment and food to be provided to keep students interested in the campout. But this failed when only two seniors stayed the first night and no one stayed on the succeed­ing nights. 
Murphy says that perhaps if the seniors -already upset at being the unwitting "guinea pigs" in an admitted test year for the new system -had not set the example of not camping out, then perhaps it would have gone better. 
Some of the apparent student distaste for the new system, though, can probably be traced more to poor communication than to_ the specifics of the campout. Because the plan for distribu­
tion was not finalized until part way through the summer, organizers had to scramble to inform students about the new system. And Gagnon, for one, says that once students understood the system, he had lots of students tell him that they thought it was much better than it had been in the past. To those involved with this year's planning, this is clearly not a dead issue. Already there are meetings scheduled to review the system, and ~ Murphy, Gagnon and Kirk all 
fc..-~ seem eager to hear what stu­dents have to say. Says Gagnon, "I hope that the students who were so vocal about the system this year will offer ideas for next year." 
News Scholastic 7 


p 
E 

! 
N 

1: 


il D
i 
I 
11 
0 0 
• "i ,.,_ 
, , 

, 
~: ' 
by 


Seth Fabian 
8Scholastic News 

JI]ouble glass doors define the physical space of the Intercultural Center, doors that are kept open for all students. Students enter the center into a spacious, sunlit lounge. Along a side wall, two students, one minority, one white, have just finished studying and are talking and laughing. See­ing this, Iris Outlaw, director of the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, breaks into a wide, genuine smile. "That's exactly what we're about," she explains, "we want to provide space for all students, not just students of color." Of the many changes to take place on campus this summer, one of the less hyped was the combination of OMSA and International Student Affairs into a common area. On the second floor of Lafortune, along the south wall situated between Student Gov­ernment and the atrium extending above and below, sits the Intercultural Center. The two organizations, which had been located next to each other for years, share a newly defined section of Lafortune that includes theiroriginal offices, the former lounge area 
and the former office space for Junior Parents Week­end, Multicultural Executive Council and Bookstore Basketball. But the OMSA and ISA view the move as more than an issue of space; together the two organi­zations hope to increase the pace of progress they continue to make for minority groups at Notre Dame. 
In the future, the walls will be covered , with multicultural international displays, including one sponsored by the Mishawaka nonprofit group Ten Thousand Villages. What had been office space for JPW, MEC and Bookstore now serves as a reception area. The main office for OMSA had its own renova­tion: the installation of a door that now links it to the Cultural Coalition room and adds natural light to the office. 
OMSA attempts to ensure that all students, espe­cially those of minority or historically underrepre­sented background, receive a holistic education and have an outlet to celebrate their ethnic background. They offer support services for difficulties students might encounter and encourages students to involve themselves in all aspects oflife at Notre Dame. They also have expanded to provide diversity education for residence halls and to assist in RA training. 
ISA provides programming support services for international students, such as an international stu­dent orientation and a host family program, which aims to provide culture and friendship with families in the community. Other ISA programs reach out to the larger campus, including a conversational En­glish program matching international and American students for cultural exchange. 
ISA Director Maureen Fitzgibbon explains that the office's programs "are meant not just for the international students but for the entire Notre Dame campus, so that there's that interac­tion between cultures and mutual learning that takes place when you have a diverse international student body." Last year ISA hosted its first International Week, a celebra­tion of culture that included participation by groups such as Troop ND and the Juggling Club. 
For OMSA, the changes are a sign of success. The spatial additions reflect a change in OSMA from offering merely structural support to more completely aiding in stu­dents' growth. Recently, OMSA has reached out to other organizations at Notre Dame, encouraging them to move from simple toler­ance into full acceptance of students of di­verse backgrounds, adding their talents and experiences to the wealth of the community. Branching out to the community at large resulted in OMSA' shaving a more important voice in daily campus affairs and aiding multicultural students for the larger world. 
OMSA took a leading role in making unity­oriented education for the community part of their major programming. Originally, OMSA worked with academic and student realms from the standpoint of providing minority students with a place to feel welcome in what could be considered a white world. In the past decade the focus has shifted to bringing the entire student body together while offering the same supportive environment for stu­dents. Events that had been aimed at students with specific ethnic backgrounds were opened up to the entire community. Minority organizations thus had the opportunity to use their activities and events to teach the community about their cultural heritage. For many of the white students on campus, it was 
their first opportunity to celebrate other cultures. The shift was very successful. Latin Expressions quickly outgrew the library au­ditorium, as did Black Images. The Asian community on campus went from having no official organization to having a campus organization on par with other minority groups, including a highly profitable fundraiser -Asian Allure. While Asian Allure represented groups of Asian-descent, it was performed in front of a diverse audi­ence. 
OMSA moved into the role of advisor and partner to organizations such as Student Union Board and Student Government and capitalized on this role in the planning of events. Increased programming and student involvement necessitated spatial expansion. Already cramped in its location when only offering support services for students, the office became congested with the outreaches OMSA made to other organizations. In ad­dition to more than 200 students a month stopping by the offices for services or sup­port, the office hosted countless meetings in the Coalition Center and received traffic from organizations such as Student Gov­ernment and SUB. Refusing to allow spatial constraints to hold back the successes only dreamed of earlier in the decade, OMSA looked to expand. 
ISA found itself in a similar situation to the one OMSA was in just a few years ago. A relatively new organization, ISA looked to expand its services from primarily struc­tural· support for international students to services that support the greater student community. As an organization open to all students with the goal of adding to the cultural mix at Notre Dame, combining into a common space with OMSA was a natural move. The two organizations do not want minority and international students to be merely tolerated or assimilated, but to have the opportunity to share their diverse back­
"You have to work with people. You're going to have tensions as long as there are hu~anvrheri~ 
grounds with the community. . . The Intercultural Center provides an m­viting, inclusive environment for students and groups to meet. The new center pro0 vi des both OMSA and ISA with an opportu­nity to increase awareness and visibility for their common causes. The groups hope that the center will attract minority, interna­
tional and white stu­dents, providing an opportunity for dia­logue and mutual un­derstanding that can break down cultural stereotypes and mis­understandings. "The Intercultural Center] will give recognition to the international and multicultural fo­cus that we have here on this campus. We hope to give it that recognition, but also stress that it is open to all the Notre Dame community," says Fitzgibbon. 
While advances have been made in the field of race relations, many feel that Notre Dame still has a way to go. Minorities at Notre Dame face a double-edged sword. Outlaw notes that not orily is the campus overwhelmingly white, but many of those white students come from homogeneous backgrounds. Adding to the pressure of being a student at a prestigious university, a minority student at Notre Dame faces the pressure of often being viewed as the spokes­person for his or her race or culture. The Intercultural Center provides minority and international students with a place to relax, without worrying about having to represent their ethnic group with things they say and do. "It's a place where they can just come and be themselves, and not have to be 'on' [in the role of spokesperson]," Outlaw ex­plains. "We've found our students of color that no one wants. Cultural tensions exist whenever cultures come in contact, and sometimes tensions heat up. "You have to work with people," Outlaw says, "you're going to have tensions as long as there are humans there." Such issues, however, have served as an opportunity for OMSA to en­courage dialogue and understanding. 


OMSA's work isn't done. It has already had a positive effect at Notre.Dame, bring­ing minority groups into greater commun­ion with majority student groups. More is planned, though, in terms of programs and spatial expansions. Concerning this year's . expansion, Outlaw remembers "In '91 that 

ha~e ~roug~1t some of their 1•• ; , ( 'c1JJJ1 
maJonty friends who have . ¢·•.·:_ : .:· fr)/1!}4 was what
.. our now turned this into a place _.· : c j ··. ·' dream was. We 're still tojuststoptopickupamaga-,i : , ·,, dreaming. One day we'd like to have a zine and read it." Outlaw : . building ... a LaFortune-type student com-pauses, and again that genuine smile comes plex. Not just for students of color, but for across. "That's the environment we wanted." everyone. It's about doing what's best for But there's still an environment out there our students." D 
News Scholastic 9 

i 


i E 
C
:1 
Ii 
11 
I:'i 
Fathe_r Hesburgh welcomes 

Scholastic into his 13th-floor office 
I 
I 
I 
I
::1 
:·11 

·! ·' 'i By Kimberly Blackwell Photos by Ben Wojcikiewicz 
PAPAL BELL. Here, Father Hesburgh holds a bell that Pope Paul VI gave to all of his cardinals -and, of course, to Hesburgh. 
Born on May 25, 1917, just four days before John F. Kennedy, university President Emeritus Father Ted Hesburgh has seen -and been a part of-a good deal ofthis century's history. His office, located on the 13th floor ofthe library named for him, reflects that. The office is filled with mementos ofthe places Hesburghhas traveled to and of the people he has met: a photograph of him holding hands with Martin Luther King, Jr., at a civil rights march in Chicago; a beautiful vase given to him by a woman in Kazakhstan whose life he helped save; a colorful stole from Ecuador. There's also a conspicuously recurring color scheme: "Blue and gold," Hes burgh says with a smile. "The colors of Our Lady." Hes burgh was generous enough to allow Scholastic0to take a tour of his office. This is what we found. 

NNECTION Th" ,t ,:
· ·· ·, • · 1s blue d ·
cqmplete· ·· · · · , an, · gold r

e .. . ., was spec1all .fr{''• ·. ug, w ··.se~I of the. universii''. a~~' mP._oneg romSorin to Hesbur:h~,":-~}~~:name,.. 
•,::_: .... •• :,,·:' < ' 


(!:0J President: Jay Smith ~ Number of Active Members: 30-50 g History: The College Democrats of America was an active organiza­
© 
tion on college campuses until the late 1960s. The national group was 6 reorganized under then-Senator Al Gore's direction in 1988, and its (kl) Notre Dame chapter has been "alive and well for at least five years," according to Smith. Q Goals/Purpose: College Democrats has three major goals, the first of E..· . which, says Smith, is to "raise awareness across a campus which seems politicallyb apathetic.:' Second, members strive to effect change on campus, with major issues such on the Left 
as monitoring sweatshops and adding sexual orientation to the school's non-discrimi­
@ 

nation clause. Finally, as a campus political party organization, College Democrats ~ Co-C_hairs: Jeremy Bauer and Anne l.S::dJ Gegg1e Number ofMembers: 20-40, with I 00+ on the current mailing list Website: www .outreachnd.org i::::.s7 History: Although the university does 
g works to let its members gain experience in local politics. Activities: College Democrats was responsible for bringing in Phil Donahue to speak about the non-discrimination clause last semester. FatherTim Scully, the club's advisor, @ wants to invite former Cabinet members to participate in a forum about the educational ,0 ~structure of America. The club also works with local and state Democratic candidates Y ·for public office, and they actively encourage students to exercise their voting rights. @j) In Summary: "Since we're a special interest club, we don't have as much money. We're = often severely handicapped by our budget," Smith says. "But I think we're effective as = a club, even though, for instance, the non-discrimination clause wasn't changed. Because whether people are for or against it, at least they thought about it-and that's© the most important thing." -Kimberly Blackwellu  
Editor: Sophie Fortin a. ~ 1)Website: www .nd.edu/-com_sens Number of People on Staff: about 20 History: Common Sense was founded 14 years ago by Notre Dame undergraduate Ann © Petti fer, who left the Observer staff because she felt her views were being censored. Petti fer still contributes to the publication today. 3 Goals/Purpose: According to its website, Common Sense is a newspaper "devoted to the examination ofsocial justice issues from many diverse disciplines, be they cultural, political or aesthetic, and at many levels, from campus life to international affairs." Covering a wide range ofaffairs, Common Sense prints liberal articles both from ND students and professors, and from outside sources such as The Nation and The Progressive. "We want to expose undergrads to a different voice than what's normally heard on campus," explains editor Fortin. "We're Very much the liberal voice here." Activities: Common Sense is published three times per semester, usually at the beginning of the month. They solicit articles and letters fro~ students and professors on campus on a ~ variety of issues, including rights of homosexuals and Catholicism as an institution. "We @expose different aspects and teachings of Catholicism that seem to be overlooked," Fortin says. 2>In Summary: "I think we're successful as a group, especially with issues regarding Catholicism, because we 're always open to debate," Fortin says. "We're notthat liberal -~ we're just progressive." -Kimberly Blackwell @  
President: Joe Smith Website: www.nd.edu/-psa Number of Active Members: 7-20, but up to 100 depending on events History: PSA was created in early 1998 by Notre Dame graduate student Aaron Kreider and received official university recognition in August 1998. Mission Statement: "The Progressive Student Alliance opposes all forms ofoppression and is working for social justice by raising awareness of social issues, cooperating with existing groups, empowering students and encouraging action." · Activities: PSA's main issues are the Women's Resource Center, free speech, sweatshops ~ and a non-discrimination clause for sexual orientation. Members are actively working to persuade the university to publicly disclose the locations of its clothing manufacturers and to disengage from the Fair Labor Association and endorse an alternate proposal for monitoring sweatshops. Last semester, PSA sponsored a hunger strike to protest the non­discrimination clause and also held teach-ins for the sweatshop issue. In Summary: "I think our organization has good potential, but we haven't seen it fully exercised yet," Kreider ·says. "My prediction is that this year our issues will be more noticeable." -Kimberly Blackwell 12 Scholastic Campus Life  

/4 1 not recognize OUTreach ND as an offi­
. · " cial club, for m,0re than a decade there has been a gay and lesbian organization on campus. Formerly known as GLND/ SMC, the group changed its name last 
year. Goals/Purpose: "This is a public ben­efit corporation that shall have as its purposes supporting those who have identified themselves as lesbian,
ck gay, or bisexual, or are in the process of exploring their orien­tation; providing evaluation and in­formation regarding current devel­opments to its members concerning 
. (S.dJ gay and lesbian issues; and informing and educating the broader University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College community about such issues." Activities: "We participate in a vari­
lg ety of activities to encourage educa­tion, pride and spiritual growth," Bauer says. The group holds weekly meetings and holds spiritual re­treats at least once a year.
@ OUTreach ND has been vocal in support of the Spirit of Inclusion in the university's mission state­ment. The group also held a mini­demonstration outside the JACC 
6 Activities Night. Because they are an unrecognized organization, OUTreach ND was notpermittecl to have a table. "One of the big moves we would like to 
r . . . make this year is to get more straight 
1.:,= people involved," Bauer adds. In Summary: According to Bauer, OUTreach ND provides a place for ho­mosexuals to learn how to deal with 
=::::;.,, social challenges as well, including com­r=::::l) ing out to family and friends. "It is · difficult to explain to someone who considers himself or herself to be straight what it is like to be gay....OUTreach ND provides a place for the non-straight 
A, Darners among us to be themselves," he ~ says. -Kate.Tacques 

• • ~ ~ \ r • t • •, • I • l '" 
. ' 



Editor-in-Chief: Luke White Website: www.rightreason.org

Your guide to 
Number ofPeople on Staff: 7 History: Right Reason was created three 

campus 
years ago by students on campus, but remains an independent organization. 

political 
Goals/Purpose: Right Reason is, ac­cording to editor White, "an orthodox 

activism 
newspaper with the twin aims of help­ing the faithful in their own faith and of 
bringing rational and thoughtful dis­course on campus issues into the pub­



On the·Right 
lic." Senior editor Sean Vinck explains further: "We serve as the voice of or­
President: Laura Antkowiak 

Website: www.nd.edu/~prolife = 0 
thodox Catholicism in student debates, 

:::::sherofActive Members•: 25, with up to 250participating in different ffi 
and we try to be scholarly." Activities: Right Reason publishes

Mission Statement: "The purpose of our organization is to promote and 

twice a semester, or "when campus

uphold the sanctity of all human life from conception to natural death ~ 

events warrant it," Vinck says. For in­

through prayer, service and education, and to help women in crisis pregnan­
stance, in 1998 Right Reason exposed 

cies find alternatives to abortion through service and support, in the spirit of i=i}:J 
that the Women's Resource Center had the Catholic Church." 
a brochure listing abortion doctors and Activities: Right to Life holds regular prayer services outside abortion 

the Planned Parenthood phone num­

~ ber, which led to the Center's being put clinics, writes letters to Congress and newspapers and visits prisons. The club 
on probation. Right Reason also speaks 

brings many speakers to campus who discuss issues ranging from personally 
out against adding sexual orientation to 

surviving abortions to possible links between abortion and breast .cancer. 
the non-discrimination clause and es­

Right to Life is also interested in starting a baby-sitting service for the children 
pouses that the university adopt Ex 

ofNotre Dame student mothers. As club president Antkowiak explains, "Service 
corde Ecclesiae, a controversial Church 

is a huge, huge focus for us." One ofthe club's major events is the March for 
directive. 

Life in Washington, D.C. Last year, Notre Dame's Right to Life chapter 
ffi1n Summary: "I'm not always sure
F 

how effective we are, but our issues In Summary: "Pro~life people are not always consistent in backing up their 
brought more students to the march than any other group. 
have been made mainstream and 
o = adopted, for the most part," Vinck says. 

rhetoric," admits Antkowiak, "but we're giving them opportunities to get 
"More importantly, we've provoked

involved. We are taking a stand, not just sitting still, and we're getting people 
discussion and made people think." 

very committed and excited about working for life." 
~ -Kimberly Blackwell
-Kimberly Blackwell 

~ President: Terry Kiwala Website: www .nd.edu/~colrepub 
C 

Number of Active Members: about 10, with {Q) more in election years Goals/Purpose: The main purposes ofthe club, 
y 

according to president Kiwala, are "to educate 
o= 

people on issues at hand, facilitate debate on
= 

these issues and to allow for support of Repub­

·cJ61 
lican candidates, both local and national." One club priority is to encourage people to register to vote and exercise their rights to V()te if already 
!I
registered. The group also stresses general ser­vice to the community. !I Activities: The club has helped local Republi­1 i can candidates campaign for office and has had } some me~tings with Republican National Com­
! 
mittee members in Indiana. They also bring in i 
i 
speakers and hope that Oklahoma Representa­
j
tive JC Watts will come to campus in the spring. In Summary: "Given our membership and bud­get constraints, we've been effective," Kiwala 
!J 
says. "We look to serving others· as much as possible, and whether this is in a political or social context, we have definitely succeeded." I 
-Kimberly Blackwell 
Campus life Scholastic 13 l 
I


-~'' 

:.' . . . . : ....,, ... ·.-.·,:•;,·• 
..• .--·.. ·.. 

• 

. : ... :.. ·· .. 

.·. i l)"niversfti1;fea,r .. · . , • that the-. Churchs ---:--:Ex ·corde-statement_:. _--_ -: .. ·.-_ -: touldlhreaten" ._• __ 
• • • · • • 
1ac;Cld(!,niiC~e.e_abln 

"-) ·. ·.. _,•;_·..,_ 
. . ~ •·i 
.· . _.;:. <.-. > . :. .-_·. i ! 
1



·'l\!Hat 

·...···· .\·<····• M~·kes···•··•··• .1 

!I ··...••... i·.••··· <( .··.· ..···. b)'Meiedithsp1isbUry ·· .. < .. <·. \ r·. ·...•. 
--. _· ·s··ophiauni;eiSityislotatedilldowutownTokyo,1al)ari.
· . 

--.. --__ --. __ --_ ()f:its 10,000_1n1dergraduate siudents, just three percent 
.: are ·catholic/ There's a small cross perched atop one of the campus builciirlgs, but the library by no means has a mural of -_ Jes11s ()n _j.ts ·side.· Still, Sophia Univer$ity, founded by Jesuits in1913, advertisesitself---:andis knowriin·highei-edllcation • . 
-•--aroundthe world.P•as a Catholic university~: •. <,,:; :· _, : ----­

14 Scholastic Cover Story 


''I resent the fact that Catholics will have to take an oath of:fidelity to their faith.'' 
-Larry Cunningham, professor of theology 
What, then, does it mean to be a "Catholic university"? This debate has engrossed the Church for the better part of the last 40 years. In one of the many attempts to define a Catholic university, Pope John Paul II issued Ex corde Ecclesiae in 1990. "From the Heart of the Church," as it's translated, gives guidelines, definitions and rules for Catholic universities around the world. 
The debate didn't end there, though. In fact, Ex corde opened the gates for even more argument by allowing for implemen­tation by region, leaving it up to the bishops of each area to decide how best to apply the ideas ofthe document. The controversy was perhaps most notable in the U.S., where many feared that the stipulations ofEx corde would threaten academic freedom at Catho­lic universities. The discussion continues here because American bishops have not yet passed an acceptable implementation plan. 

This month is pivotal for the issue. If the latest revisions are passed by the committee writing the draft responding to Ex corde, the new draft will then be circulated among American bishops, who then have the op­tion of voting on it, explains President Ed­ward Malloy. In the event that the bishops seem to agree on the new revisions, the vote will likely be scheduled for November; if there is too much dissent, the vote could be put off indefinitely. 
Historically Speaking 

FatherTed Hes burgh, former president of Notre Dame, was central to making the debate a serious and recognized issue. When he became president of the International Federation ofCatholic Universities in 1963, one of his main goals was . to establish a definition for Catholic universities. Hes burgh still believes this is a crucial con­cept. "We're a Catholic university," he says. "What does that mean? That's the real ques­tion." 
An IFCU meeting on Notre Dame's prop­erty in Land O'Lakes, Wis., led to a state­ment accepted by most leaders of Catholic universities around the world. The Land O'Lakes statement endorsed the autonomy of Catholic universities from external pres­sures of church or state, insisting that "uni­versity" is the key word while "Catholic," though crucial, remains the adjective. "It was finalized by a 10-day meeting in Rome," recalls Hesburgh. The statement became the treatise known as "The Catholic Univer­sity in the Modern World," finished in 1972 and published first in Paris under the aus­pices of IFCU. Hesburgh says this was the last thing he accomplished as president of IFCU, and that the document was later ap­proved by the Congress on Catholic Educa­tion in Rome, indicating its general accep­tance by the Church. 
' 
"  
~  -~--~---­ ,--~-­ 

However, after Hesburgh's term with IFCU, the document again came under scru­tiny. "Some people felt it wasn't specific enough," the former president says. A new document about canon law came from Rome, and it mentioned the need for a mandate, or church approval ofuniversity faculty. "That, ofcourse, put up some reel flags," Hes burgh remembers. "The university is independent of any external authority ... including that from state and church." 
Then cameExcorde Ecclesiae, the pope's dissertation on the definition of Catholic universities. Released on August 15, 1990, Ex corde was hailed by many as a move in the right direction. In an article for Today's Catholic, Bishop John D'Arcy of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese writes, "Ex corde Ecclesiae is a magnificent document, presented by a man who loves the university setting and who looks back fondly on his time as a professor." There were two main reasons that the debate about Catholic uni­versities persisted even after the publication of Ex corde. First, the pope insisted that each conference ofbishops decide how best to achieve the goals of his statement within its jurisdiction. Second, the pope used that scary word again -mandate -and Catho­1ic university presidents everywhere squirmed. 
In Europe, the mandate exists at many Catholic universities already. But many ar­gue that the American higher education system simply cannot be forced into a frame­work that might have held up in Europe. According to Hes burgh, more than 500,000 students are enrolled in Catholic universi­ties in the United States -that, he says, is more than the rest of the world put together. "We probably have the best-educated Catho­lic laity -both men and women -in the world," Hesburgh says. 
Despite these arguments, the Church in­sisted on regional implementation. Five bish­ops and five Catholic university presidents, including Malloy, sat on a committee to figure out how to implement Ex corde in the 


-----~~----~­
-
United States. In 1996 their review went to the American bishops, who voted in favor of the document by an overwhelming ma­jority 'of 224 to six. The main emphasis of the document was on the concept of educa­tion and the need for strong religious ties; the discussion was far more philosophical than concrete. The writers managed to avoid the sticky situation ofthe mandate by reduc­ing mention of it to a footnote. Rome was not pleased. 
The Church rejected the American imple­mentation plan and sent it back for revision, asking that a stronger juridical component be added. This meant that concepts such as the mandate had to be essential factors of the implementation-therehad to be policy as well as theory. According to Hesburgh, Rome's rejection was not anticipated. Given the overwhelming majority of bishops in professor of theology would have to be approved by the bishop (most likely of that university's diocese) before being allowed to teach. New hires, for example, would not only have to face and pass Notre Dame's hiring policies, but would have to get the bishop's stamp of approval as well. If the induction of a mandate is passed by the American bishops, any Catholic professors already in the theology department would likely have to get a mandate as welL Though the exact specifications for a mandate are yet to be determined, most believe that it would be based on the professor's commit­ment to Church policy. A professor who supported ideas unfavorable to the Church would be an unlikely candidate for the man­date. 
American higher education, many argue, is based on a commitment to academic free­

"One of the things that attracted me to Notre Dame was the openness of its theology department and its rigorous inquiry into Catholi~ism out of a love for that religion." 

-Rabbi Michael Signer, professor of theology 
favor of the American plan, says Hesburgh, 
"That came as a bit of a surprise." 
Back to the drawing board. A new com­
mittee was selected, this time composed 
mainly ofcanov lawyers who would be sure 
to focus on policy measures. It is their draft 
that is widely expected to come up for a vote 
this November. 
.. At issue 
Almost everyone agrees that the spirit of 
Ex corde couldn't be better. It highlights the 
importanc.e of Catholic universities and 
stresses their role in the Catholic :world. Ex 
corde makes a commitment to the truth of 
the faith, and to a quest for better under­
standing ofthat faith. Mary Doak, hired this 
year as an assistant professor in theology, 
says, "As general principles these are cer­
tainly not only laudable but important, en­
suring that a Catholic university be both 
Catholic and a university." 
The controversy arises in terms of the 

policy component in the document. The . 
most noisily debated aspects ofEx corde are 
its call for a mandate and its insistence that 
the majority of the university faculty be 
Catholic. 
The mandate means that any Catholic 
. 16 Scholastic Cover Story 
dom, and the very idea of having to get Church approval for hiring faculty mem­bers is anathema to that ideal. This, how­ever, is not universally accepted. In a forth­cmning article in The Thomist, Notre Dame theology Professor 


·Mike Baxter, C.S.C., disputes that notion. "It does not oppose aca­demic freedom, so much as define it ac­cording to truth and the ·common good as under­stood in Catholic tradi­tion." Baxter acknowl­edges that this in a way constrains, but contin­ues, "Every intellectual tradition places aca­demic freedom under some constraints." 
Despite Baxter's pragmatism, most fear the mandate is more than the average con­straint on academic freedom. One of the main reasons for con­cern, explains theology Professor Larry Cunningham, is that not all bishops have the academic credentials nec­essary to understand the academic environ­ment of theology departments. 

Malloy agrees with Cunningham's expla­nation. In his recently released bookMonk' s Reflections, Malloy writes, "Most bishops are not trained theologians, and they lack the professional qualifications to review faculty theologians." 
There is also a. legal concern. Suppose, Cunningham postulates, that someone was hired as a theologian, received a mandate and later got tenure. This person then writes something supporting abortion, for example, and the bishop withdraws the mandate. "What does the university do with that per­son?" asks Cunningham. "The university will be legally accountable if it fired a ten­ured professor for [ what is protected by] freedom of speech." 
Father James T. Burtchaell, former pro­vost of the university, disagrees with the legal issue. In an article published in The Journal of Coilege and University Law, 
Burtchaell writes, "When a bishop ... with­draws a theologian's mandate, the univer­sity will be faced with pretty much the same problem as when a professor of law is dis­barred, or a professor of medicine loses his license." 
Cunningham also debates the idea that Catholics alone would have to have the mandate; other professors would not be subject to the same requirements. "I resent the fact that Catholics will have to take an oath of fidelity to their faith," he says. 
Rabbi Michael Signer, also a professor in the Notre Dame theology department, pre­dicts that the mandate will negatively affect the university. "I think the implementation of the mandate would be extremely divisive within the [theology] department," he says. Signer believes the university would split the theology department into two separate departments, such as Catholic theol­ogy, taught strictly by Catholics with mandates, and religious studies, where unable to function as a theologian in such a university." However, Doak does not feel that the need for a mandate would have prevented her from coming here. "Iprefer to work as a theologian in a Catholic institu­tion participating in the life of the Church," she says. 
Erik Goldschmidt, a second-year student in Notre Dame's Master of Divinity pro-nonetheless. Goldschmidt, who hesitates to draw conclusions about the effects of Ex corde when so much speculation abounds, says the idea of what may come to be a Catholic quota system could be a problem. When the administration's looking for a new Old Testament scholar, he postulates, do they hire the best Old Testament scholar or the best Catholic Old Testament scholar? 

"The university is independent of any external 
everyone else (including Catholics authority ... including that from state and church." 
without mandates) could teach. He worries that such a divide could inhibit efforts to recruit theologians to the uni­versity. Also, he believes that the kind of atmosphere produced by the need for a mandate could discourage students from entering the field of theology, or at least from coming to a Catholic university to study it. "One ofthe things that attracted me to Notre Dame was the openness of its theology department and its rigorous in­quiry into Catholicism out of a love for that religion," he says. That openness, he fears, would not exist in a mandate-driven aca­demic culture. 
Doak, a Catholic, says that certain ex­treme applications of the mandate could indeed discourage theolog_ians such as her­self from working here. "Should specific regulations be applied that in their zeal to ensure Catholic identity failed to respect the search for the truth and the principles and methods of theology, I would certainly be gram, seems to agree with Doak's stance on the mandate. He says he would still have come to the university to study theology even if there were a mandate required for professors. He believes Ex corde represents "a very positive push for the Catholic church," but that "the concerns with aca­demic freedom, I think, are very legiti­mate." 
Malloy refuses to beat around the bush on this issue. "A mandate for Catholic theolo­gians is simply a bad idea," he writes. "The university must be preserved as a place where unpopular opinions can be expressed, where inquiry can take surprising direc­tions, and where the opportunity for more appropriate articulation of the life of faith can be pursued with vigor and integrity." 
Though D 'Arey recognizes university concern about the mandate, he feels this concern may be un­


founded. "The mandate," he writes, "is essentially pastoral. It also is related to a right: the right that the students have to re­ceive the fullness of re­vealed truth in a cohesive and comprehensive man­ner, in a way which is ... faithful to the Church." 
Aside from the man­date, Ex corde aroused further consternation by insisting that a majority of the faculty at a Catho­lic university must be Catholic. This has pro­vided less worry because so many professors at Catholic universities come from religious or­ders or are lay Catholics, but discontent exists 


-Father Ted Hesburgh 
Baxter, however, feels that diversity of religions should not be such a concern. He believes the call for a Catholic majority would promote pluralism within the Catho­lic sphere, giving us a better understanding of the "complex and multifaceted" faith. 
Where it stands 
, . . 
Since the release of Ex corde Ecclesiae 

nine years ago, the one thing that has be­
come glaringly obvious is the need for dis­
cussion about the role and definition of a 
Catholic university. Many have applauded 
Ex corde simply for stirring up the dialogue 
on such an important issue. 
Hes burgh explains that, assuming the vote 

takes place this November, there are two 
conceivable outcomes. First, the draft could 
be passed and sent to Rome, in which case 
the mandate would be made policy in 
America. Second, the vote could be incon­
clusive, and the discussion would have to 
continue. Hesburgh prefers the second op­
tion. "Personally, I hope that they decide to 
keep the conversation going until they come 
up with something better," he says. 
D' Arey concurs that the discussion has 

been tremendously beneficial, and he hopes 
for more. "We must establish and continue 
a structured, substantive, respectful and 
ongoing dialogue between university presi­
dents and bishops, a dialogue which should 
slowly widen to include theologians, mem­
bers of boards of trustees and other univer­
sity officers," he writes. 
In the meantime, Malloy does not see the 

outlook as bleak, nor as concrete. There is 
still very much to discuss, he believes. "Right 
now, we're simply interested in conveying 
our sense of the adequacy or inadequacy of 
the text [of the bishops' draft]," he says. 
Hesburgh puts it simply. "There's no ques­

tion," he says, "about our intention to be a 
Catholic university." D 
Cover Story Scholastic 17 

' l -~--~-~~-~-------­
--_,_ -----------------­
TIP THE 0 IP P. OIPPER. l@ND.EDU 
C'offiPUs 


4~ ll?a,c'\' 

The Gipp wants to extend a hearty hello kick with a running leap and, incidentally, to fans and foe alike. He's back on the got sprayed in the face by the skunk's stinky saddle and ready to rumble in 1999. stuff.And take it from Uncle Gipp, it smelled 
bad enough to gag a dog on a gut wagon. Sorin Otter TaRe.s On SRUnR Sorin was a stench hole for the rest of the The Gipp was wandering past his favorite week. Nevertheless, the Gipp would like to ex­
dorm late the other night when he ran into a tend a high five to that daring, skunk-kick­
certain Otter who was celebrating his birth­day. The lad was surrounded by a mischie­ing freshman. The Gipp did some crazy stuff in his day, too, and hey, a little infamy 
vous group of girls who were offering him ain't so bad.
five bucks to kick a "black and white squir­rel," which was just minding its own busi­ness by a tree. Now, the birthday boy was Cheese It -It's the Cops! three sheets to the wind, or perhaps it would This past Saturday night, the Gipp was be more apt to say "drunk as a skunk," but enjoying a post-parietals burger and fries at wasted as he was, he still recognized that Reeker's when a friendly group ofMcG!inn squirrel-of-a-different-color as the type of gals sat at the table beside him. As they rodent you don't want to be kicking. Unfor--blabbed boisterously about the night's 
-=-events, they realized they didn't get a full cup of cheese with their nachos, and they soon ran out. ''I'm getting some more cheese!" shouted one of the girls who ran 
"; back to the counter to make her demand. 
b-When she arrived back at the table she said, "We'd better hide this empty cup of cheese because I had to lie and say 
we didn't get any before they would give me any more." 
No sooner did the words leave her lips than an angry Recker' s worker came creep­ing up behind her. Pointing a finger at the 

tunately, as the older Otter retreated, an all­two cheese cups, the worker leaned right too-sober freshman stepped up to the plate, into the cheese girl's ear and said loud ready and willing to give little Pepe Le Pew enough for the Gipp to hear, "I'll be played a swift kick in the patootie. The Gipp isn't for a fool once, but not twice. You know I sure whether the freshman was unfamiliar could call security on you for that." The with skunks because he forgot to subscribe worker pointed ominously at the cups of to Ranger Rick as a kid or if he was just cheese. looking to impress some fine ladies, but The Gipp's question is: Which branch of either way, the young Otter bolstered his security would she call? The Nacho Cheese 
18 Scholastic The Gipper 
Gestapo Unit? Or would she go straight to the offical Nacho Cheese Nazi, more com­monly known as "The Big Cheese"? 
Oipp!ette.s 
1. 
The Gipp encourages all students to check out the newly updated Notre Dame webpage and to pay special attention to the background picture on the Current Students' site. While it would have been simple enough to get a shot here on campus of a few students' lower bodies, web administrators chose to pay $600 for a one-year rental of the picture you see. The Gipp only wishes he still had $600 to burn, but after his last trip to the bookstore, his life savings is in the single digits. 

2. 
Speaking of which, some lucky net­surfers may have caught a glimpse of a bookstore-related webpage that has recently been dismantled. The site, which was part of a student's page in the Notre Dame net­work, featured a phony news article which alluded to the bookstore's tendency to "rape" students with its high prices. It even in­cluded a rape crisis hotline, which the Gipp thought was a nice touch. Unfortunately, this site popped up every time someone searched for "bookstore" on the Notre Dame homepage. In order to pacify some scandal­ized alumni, the administration decided to put that webpage where the sun don't shine. 

3. 
In a Glee -Club entrance interview, three former members asked the new in­ductees to choose which member of their trio had fathered an illegitimate child. But just before the young men of glee began to soil their britches with the thought of such depravity, the old member came clean and explained that none of them had done such a deed; this was just an exercise to show the importance of maintaining a clean-cut im­age. So let's see if the Gipp has got this one right -as long as you 're wearing khakis and a navy blue blazer, you can get away with fathering as many illegitimate children as you darn well please. 

4. 
During room picks last year, a particu­lar rector cut a deal with a certain dorm resident who was planning on floating for a single. The rector promised the student a double all to himself in his home dorm. The catch? Just keep the room looking as if it's being shared with a particular football player who really lives off-campus without uni­versity permission. 


That's all_for now. Keep it real, don't squat with your spurs on, and for Pete's sake, tip the Gipp. 
This fifth­year player
0 

was recently ..c named Big East Goal Keeper of the Week after notching 1-0 shutouts against ,. Northwestern and Boston ;,,r'./ College. Short, who serves.,;·~ff as the team's lone captain, ?$.il',l] has bounced back after sus­
· ~t-'f. /
·,{fitJ} taining a separated shoulder in '., :"".{ the preseason last year, which ·/ knocked him out for the entire 
f 
1 season. 
The player who will surprise people the most this year is: Andy Forstner IfI could play another position, it would be: forward Other than at home, my favorite place to play is: at Rutgers I first took up soccer when I was: in the second grade 

My greatest personal athletic moment was: getting a scholarship to come to Notre Dame 
The greatest team moment I've experienced was: winning the NCAA first round match my sophomore year If I could play another sport at Notre Dame, it would be: basketball My favorite entree in the dining hall is: cereal The team I like most to compete against is: any Big-East opponent, because every game is intense My most memorable moment off the field occurred: last year, my senior year, at the last home football game when I ran out on the field with my friends. -Christopher Hamilton 
"Led by Kevin Rogers' potent new offensive scheme, the un­derdog Irish will keep the Boil­ermakers off-guard enough to outscore them 37-31." 
(~u-~§ ~i«JJm~ ~t·@llll 

"My heart's with Notre Dame. My money's with the bookies. Drew Brees wins the quarter­back battle here. Purdue over the Irish 31-27." . '!/! fJ 
L@[ ~~U] ~Srij(DJ 

"Not letting the World's Largest Drum get to them, Notre Dame holds Drew Brees to what will be his lowest number ofpassing yards all season. Notre Dame wins 31-17." 

Sports Scholastic 19 

News broadcasters, football fans, journalists and even Sports Illustrated were in agreement: Notre Dame, which had recently lost Reggie Brooks, Jerome Bettis and Rick Mirer, could not beat heavy favorite and third­ranked Michigan. But for all the critics, Notre Dame was not listening. 
Before a rambunctious, record-setting crowd of 106,851 fans at Mi chi­. gan Stadium, the Irish prepared to shake down the thunder on their archrivals and establish themselves as a contender in the national scene. 
After Mike Millerreturned the opening kickoff fora 17-yard gain, i ttook Notre Dame just six plays to· reach the end zone. On the final play, quarterback Kevin McDougal scrambled through the Michigan defense to give the Iiish the early lead. 
"I did not expect to go that far," exclaimed a modest McDougal. "The receivers did a great job blocking." Michigan responded quickly, gaining 66 yards on 13 plays. Pete 
Elezovic split the uprights on a 32-yard l'.i.H,, lfl'lifl'r& WI'! ffilm/o'I. ,,7 attempt, putting the Wolverines on the O'G~llll q;;; !lJJlMJ ~ J.J scoreboard. 
McDougal again went to work for the 811 ° l O 23 Irish, targeting split end Clint Johnson for a uwn~[ uH~~(Ql ITT! 43-yard grab. Three plays later, he connected with flanker Lake Dawson 
• for a stunning 24-yard pass to put Notre Dame in position to score. On Kevin Pendergast's 24-yard field goal, the Irish restored the full touch­down lead. 
In the second quarter, it was Miller time. With 12 minutes remaining in the half, Miller returned a Wolverine kickoff for a 56-yard touchdown. Since Ricky Watters' 81-yard return in a 1988 Notre Dame victory, no one had returned a Michigan kickoff for a touchdown until Miller. Even in the frigid Michigan air, onlookers could begin to smell an upset brewing. 
Michigan quarterback Todd Collins breathed life back into the Michigan crowd late in the second quarter, marching the football to the Notre Dame one-yard line. Tyrone Wheatley finished the Wolverine attack by pound­ing his way into the end zone. With Pendergast' s extra-point kick, the Irish lead was reduced back to one touchdown. 
With the clock reading 1: 13, it seemed that Notre Dame would take an impressive 17-10 lead into the locker room. McDougal had other plans. With the Irish on their own 35, McDougal worked the clock, hitting Dawson and split end Derrick Mayes for completions. With 13 seconds left, McDougal dropped into the hole, scanned the field, and decided to tuck the ball away and head for home. Eleven yards later, the Irish lead had risen to 24-10. A stunned Michigan crowd sat down for a long halftime, shocked to see the third-ranked Wolverines being dominated by their nemesis. 
The third quarter started auspiciously for the Wolverines with a 49-yard kickoff return. Fortunes quickly reversed when a Collins pass, intended for Mercury Hayes, fell into Irish hands. McDougal completed two passes for 42 yards over the course of six minutes. 
When the Irish regained possession, Coach Lou Holtz shifted his attention to the ground game, gaining 63 yards on 13 plays. Pendergast consummated the Irish rush by booting a 19-yard field goal to give Notre Dame a 27-IO lead. 
"In the middle ofthe third quarter, things started going the wrong way," admitted Collins. Michigan's will proved strong, however. Two long drives had reduced the Irish lead to four points. 
With 32 seconds remaining in the contest, Michiganresorted to an onside kick. The Wolverine bid for a comeback victory was laid to rest when the Irish cleanly recovered the football and expired the clock. With the win, the Irish catapulted to #4 in the polls. 
That day millions of football speculators were taught a valuable lesson about predicting the outcome ofevents. McDougal summed it up, saying, "You can't worry about what's been said." -Gerard Meskill 
20 Scholastic Sports 



fijOll~tOJ~~ ,{1-1) 
Key Stat: The #16 Irish have only lost to Purdue once since 1986. Prime Time Performer: Sophomore Tony Fisher rushed for 7 5 yards on 12 carries and caught two passes for 51 yards last weekend against Michigan. Next Game: This Saturday the Irish take on Purdue at Ross-Ade Stadium at 2:30 p.m. 
W@:' l') Sijtt®r (l-1)
Key Stat: Randy Waldrum picked up his first win as Notre Dame head coach in the 4­1 win over Duke last Sunday. Prime Time Performer: Junior Moetis Erikson notched three assists to help the Irish to victory over the Blue Devils. Next Game: Notre Dame opens Big East play with a game at St. John's this Sunday. 

Key Stat: The Irish return only four starters from last year's 9-6-3 squad. Prime Time Performer: Freshman Erich Braun scored his first career goal to lift Notre Dame to a 1-0 win over Boston Col­lege last Saturday. Next Game: This Saturday the Irish travel to Pittsburgh for an afternoon with the Pan­thers. 
W@ITT~®r{~


~fo!!@J~@li! (3-1) 
Key Stat: Notre Dame knocked off 1998 NCAA round of 16 participant Louisville last week at the Shamrock Invitational. Prime Time Performer: Senior Captain Mary Leffers was named Big East Player of the Week after leading the Irish to a 3­1 record last week. Next Game: This Saturday Notre Dame takes on Kentucky at the Big Orange Bash in Clemson, S.C. 

WVFI netcast-s Notre Dame 
. /.~
football gvthousands 
/-,'>­
<1<_ame ~0tball, has "simply not
<> 
I J C

BY EREMIAH ONWAY ~been ready to embrace the rish EnterNew Era with Kans-;;{ Galze. ·. Inte~t," says Heisler. Therefore, ThatheadlinemightnotbesayingJu£_h, WVFI's new modifications were It seems we hear the phrase 'new era' i'Jespecially attractive to the ath­
connection with almost everyfootball game, 
and the Eddie Robinson Classic certainly didn't usher in any new era of Irish place­kicking. While we were busy getting sun­burned in the stands, however, two recent alums and one current student were helping the squad enter the next millennium. 
On August 28, a Notre Dame football gamewasbroadcastoverthelnternetforthe firsttimeinhistory.NateRackiewicz;Jason Zimbler and Chris Hamilton called a simul­cast of the game over both WVFI 640 AM and www.nd.edu/~wvfi, with www.und.com also carrying the program. WVFI had the exclusive rights to the netcast, and was operating in cooperation wi):h www.und.com in the endeavor, which received more than 6,000 hits from net, qualifying it as a rous­ing success. 
The camp~s' AM station, as many recall, closed down for most of the spring '99 semester to undergo a major overhaul and to push for FM statµs. In the mean time, other technology presented itself. Station director John Forgash sees the Internet as "the fast­est way to attract listeners through a pre­sentable medium. Realistically, we prob­ably will never go FM," he continues, be­cause there are no FM frequencies in the area for the FCC to assign to the station. While WVFI hopes to install an AM an­tenna on campus within a semester or two, Forgashspeaksproudlyofthestation'snew technical additions of computers in the booths, CD burners to allow DJs to make play lists more easily and, most importantly, th~ capability to broadcast over the net. 
It was this capability that attracted both the athletic department and Student Activi-ties.John Heisler, assistant director ofSports lnformation, acknowledges that the univer­sity has been looking into netcasting the football games for some time. However, Westwood One, the radio division of CBS that owns the radio broadcastrights to Notre 
le tic department. Adele Lan an, as­sistantdirectorofStudentAffairs, joined the project late -about, she says, "two weeks before the Kansas game" -and jumped headlong into making sure the maiden broadcast was a successful one. It was her job to find the broadcasters for the game, and her ini­tial pool was the current student body. 
"Unfortunately, since WVFI was inoperative for most of the last semester, [they] did not train anyone to call games," Lanan says. Only one student stepped forward, Scholastic Sports Editor Chris Hamilton. Then, Nate Rackiewicz, class of '98, called from Hoboken, N .J. Rackiewicz had worked with Lanan as station director of WSND for two years while attendi 
"It was definitely the ri time," Rackiewicz says about his being asked to call the game. He and his roommate Jason Zimbler, also class of '98, are both "sick, sick fans" of Irish football, and were on their way out to South Bend f o r t h e g a m e . Rackiewicz had broadcasting expe­rience from his WSND days, and Zimbler acted on Nick e 1ode on ' s 

Clarissa Explains It 
Sports Scholastic 21 

All, playing the character Ferguson. The pany that runs www.und.com, so, at a neg­dents in mind. "Our biggest push was on duo also hosts their own netshow, made up ligible cost to the university itself, the out­behalf of the number of students overseas ofclips from the streets ofTimes Square, so look for continuing netcasts seems rosy. without access to radio or television," Heisler 
they were no strangers 
to netcasting, either. 
Working with Hamilton, Rackiewicz and Zimbler spent nearly four hours in the booth, more than capa­bly calling the squad's 48-13 demolition of the Jayhawks. 
Boasting more than 6,000 hits with hardly any exposure or advance notice, WVFI's netcast success was a complete surprise. The Michigan game was also featured on the net, with the same team in the booth, and now it is up to the uni­versity to decide which direction to take the Sure, your Netscape homepage is www.nd.edu, but here are a couple of sites you may not have found yet. www.nd.edu/~wvfi -640 AM's site, which should be com­plete within three weeks, and features free downloads of the 


/', 

G2 player, necessary forAive:,f~ed of both music and games www.und.com -The lll}iversity?s official athletic site, which also netcasts the g~mes, 'an_ct can sustain many more hits than 
WVFI's site ./ ·.'-, ·. / ',,, www.espn.co1rt·. -Yeati., yea6' we kno~ this one, too. But 
. "· ., / .
/ ·..

they also lmk to und.coµi:' s n~tcasV, and, generatmg some­thing to the tune ofthree~quarter's:of a million hits a day, offers by far the widest possible exp6sure of the project. www.x2radio.com -The \Veb address for Rackiewicz and Zimbler's netshow, check it out and support some alums 
www.msnbc.com/news/N.OTREDAMECENTRAL­front.asp -The big boys who completely missed out on this groundbreaking netcast do host the most bizarrely complex ND site imaginable says, "constituencies sometimes forgotten by the university." Lanan echoes these senti­ments, noting that sev­eral students studying in Australia have al­ready offered their gratitude for the netcast. 
Should the netcasting of football games, both home and away, con­tinue, expect to see more advertising on campus, including websites, fliers and ads in campus publications. 
Depending on the fi­nal record of the Fighting Irish this season, Notre Dame's most memorable suc­

project. Lanan would like to have a complete staff cess on August 28 may have been thanks to The cost of the project is being covered of students working on all netcasts, since computers and not an incredible rushing entirely by University Netcasting, the com-the entire project was conceived with stu-day. 0 





• 


come on 1n. 
22 Scholastic Sports 





On the Offensive 
The women's soccer team has a new coach 
but retains the same high expectations 
BY DREW GAWRYCHIf the Notre Dame women's soccer team had commissioned bumper stickers for the upcoming season, the message on them would have been simple: national championship or bust. Arguably the most successful and dominating Irish sports pro­gram of the '90s, the team has the talent, the experience and the heart to warrant their lofty aspirations. This year's squad boasts an impressive group of returning players, including 14 monogram winners, nine starters and four All-Americans, from a team that won the Big East Championship, led the NCAA in scoring and allowed a paltry 16 goals over 25 games. Moreover, several of the Irish players saw action this summer -playing for their respective national teams. "We have some of the best players in the country. Several players are even among the best in the world," says junior defender and captain Kelly Lindsey. "With our talent level, if our gm1l is not to win the national championship, then we should not be play­ing." The precedent for ending the season on top certainly exists for the Irish. In 199 5, the yourig program's eighth year of existence, the team emerged victorious from the NCAA tournament. Since then, the Irish have gone on to win three more Big East Championships, bringing the streak to four; carried the NCAA scoring standard for three consecutive years, including a record 140 goals in 1996; and increased the run of seasons with double-digit shutouts to nine. For the Irish to win a second NCAA championship in five years, however, it is going to take some help from new faces -mostnotably, head coach Randy Wal drum, who takes over the reigns of the program from Chris Petrucelli. Waldrum comes to Notre Dame from Baylor University, where he was voted Big 12 Coach of the Year after directing the Bears to a 15-5-1 record and their first conference championship. Also a member of the U.S. national team coaching staff for the past seven years, the new Irish coach has wasted no time putting his stamp on the '99 squad. Probably the biggest change has been to the team's formation. After playing with a 3-4-3 ( three defenders,four midfielders and three forwards) last year, the team will take the field this year sporting a 4-3-3. "The new scheme fits our team better because we do not have enough good wide midfielders to play with four in the midfield. The extra player in the back also gives us more safety since most of the goals we allowed last year came on counterattacks," explains Walbrum. "I think the team has adapted well, and it has looked good." Though it took the players some time to adjust and learn the new scheme, they share their coach's enthusiasm and opti­
mism for the system heading into the season. 
"So far it is working great. It was a little difficult in the beginning, but it worked well in the [exhibition] game against Stanford. It is definitely different, but I think that it fits our personnel well and that it will confuse some ofour opponents," says senior forward Monica Gonzalez. 
The other big change for the Irish this year comes from the team's collection of new faces: the freshman class. If the wisdom about first impressions holds true, these seven talented, athletic players will be making a lasting impact on the Irish squad both this year and the years to come. 
"When I came to the program, I saw two main weaknesses from last year: not enough team speed and not enough depth," says Waldrum. "Both those problems were solved a lot by the incoming freshmen. They are not only great soccer players, but they are also great athletes with a lot of speed. Two of them, Nancy [Mikacenic] and Vanessa [Pruzinsky], are probably going to start, and several 

"ti 
:r: 
~ 
0 0 C 
JJ 
-l 
m 
en 
-< 0
.,, 
en 
"ti 0 
JJ 
-l 
en 
.· z 
.,, 
0 
JJ 
s: 
~ 
5 
z 
0 
m 
"ti 
)> JJ 
-l
s: 
m 
z 
-l 

others will see significant playing time." 
Even the upperclassmen are impressed. 
"Our freshmen have been great," says senior goalkeeper and captain LaKeysia Beene. "They have great athleticism and are very strong. It is 'hard to tell the difference between them and the veterans." 
Nowhere will the force of the freshman class be more apparent than on defense, where Mikaceriic and Pruzinsky are slated to fill starting slots alongside returning start­ers Lindsey and senior Kara Brown. To­gether the four will protect the pitch in front of Beene, who returns as the starting goal­keeper for the squad after posting a stellar 
0.68 goals against average with seven solo shutouts and six shared shutouts. Backing up Beene will be sophomore Elizabeth Wagner and freshmen Sani Post. 
"Ifwe want to be successful as a team, we need to have a strong base in the back. With a new scheme as well as two new players in the back, we really emphasized defense at the start ofpractices. I think all the work has really paid off. We are playing some hardcore defense," says Lindsey. 
One name obviously missing from the Irish defense is senior captain and All-American Jen Grubb, who helped an­chor last year's Irish defense, which gave up the fourth-fewest goals in school history. The strong play from the current defense, particularly Lindsey, who is coming offtwo major off-season knee surgeries, gave Waldrum the luxury of moving the Big East defensive.player of the year and her 21 assists, tops among all NCAA defenders, to the already potent Irish offense. 

"With our talent level, if. 
Grubb, who has a chance to become the 


our goal is not to win the 
second four-time 


national championship, 
All-American for the Irish, will join fellow 


then we should not be
All-Americans senior Jenny Streifferandjun­


playing."
ior Anne Makinen to form what is probably 


-Kelly Lindsey 
the premier midfield trio in the country. Last year, Makinen became the only player to win Big East Championship most outstanding player hon­ors two years in a row. The Finnish midfielder also was a finalist for the Hermann Trophy for the second time in as many seasons. 
"If you look at those three players, Streiffer, Makinen and Grubb, you [have] some of not only the best players at the college level but the best players in the world. They are going to form a great midfield for us. Throw in the three players up front, and it is plain to see that our strength is on offense," says Waldrum. 
Leading the Irish attack up front will be three more talented, goal-scoring players ­senior Jenny Heft, junior Meotis Erikson and Gonzalez. While Gonzalez missed all oflast season due to injury, her compatriot, Heft, set the Notre Dame single-season scor­ing mark with 28 goals, including three hat tricks. She needs only 13 more goals to pass Monica Gerardo's record of73 set last year. 
"Everybody on the team can score. Our opponents cannot focus on just one player because ifthey do, someone else will put the ball in the net," says Gonzalez. "We defi­nitely have a lot of options on the offensive side of the ball." 
The first team to find out how potent and talented the Irish really are was No. 21 Stanford, who met Notre Dame in an exhi­bition game. The No.7 Irish picked up right where they left off last season with a 4-0 victory over the Cardinal. Scoring for the Irish, who outshot Stanford 10-7, were jun­ior Iris Lancaster, Streiffer, Grubb and Heft. 
"I was very happy how we played defen­sively. We had put in a lot ofwork there, and it showed. Offensively, we have to improve the connection from our three midfielders to our three forwards, but with the emphasis we have placed on defense, that is under­standable. We are definitely going to get our chances offensively," Waldrum said. 
With their eyes set on being No. 1, the Irish got a chance early to see how they stacked up when they met North Carolina, the preseason No. 1, in their home opener. 
Notre Dame, who led 2-1 with less 


than three minutes to go in regula­. tion, went on to lose to the Tar Heels 3-2 in double overtime. That effort, coupled with a convincing 
. 4-1 win over Duke two days later showed that the Irish are still among the nation's elite. Plenty of big games remain on the Irish schedule, but if Notre Dame plans to make good on its goal of_ winning the biggest game of all, it has to continue to improve and grow as the season progresses. "It is important we keep the mo­mentum and see it all the way through," says Beene. "We cannot become complacent at any point, but we must keep working and keep improving." . 
24 Scholastic Sports 
. A Man's World 


Maxim-izing Manhood 
It was a hazy summernight ofold fi;iends, smeared stars, Slurpees and candy bars, and the humidity melted into a mist on the windshield of my old Datsun. I was driving my friend home from a party after a customary stop at 7-Eleven. He was still feeling the effects of a keg stand, and as we rolled to a stop in front of his house, he looked at me lazily and said, "You know, you 're not like other girls. You 're like ... a guy." Yeah, I've heard this before. I mean, I grew up preferring the Hardy Boys to Nancy Drew. I'm likely to choose a round of buf­falo wings and a good football game over an evening of manicures, Steel Magnolias and a pile of Glamour and Cosmo magaz_ines. I always thought it was really unfair that those kind ofmagazines could make me feel inadequate as a girl just because I'm not particularly interested in the season's new eyeshadow hues, the newest methods of meeting men or the kind of diet tips that translate to eating exces•sive amounts of green vegetables. I_ mean, my guy friends never had to read magazines that told them what kind of man to be, right? Well, that's what I used to think. Then I read Maxim. It's always been tough to be a girl, but nowadays it's getting pretty difficult to make the cut as aguy. Maxim magazine has mas­terminded the quaHfications for today's American man: 1. He is not sensitive by nature, but he will pretend to be if it means getting some play. 2. He loves sports, especially those that could lead to injury. 3. Beer is his favorite beverage. 4. Gadgets and tools make him happy. 5. He is neither a clothes horse nor a health nut, but he dresses well and works out in order to get women. 
One ofMaxim's premier columns, which combines all the aforementioned male quali­ties, is entitled "How to Do Everything Better." It includes tips on stealing another guy's girlfriend, training your dog to fetch beer and massaging away your sweetheart's PMS cramping to simultaneously end her crankiness and "make her think you 're all sensitive and crap." Much to my surprise, this piece began to delve into the ancient art of acupressure, but just before it started to sound authentically interested in the chi and meridian, all seriousness was severed with the words,"...oh, hell, we don't believe it, either. Just tell her you saw it once on the Lifetime channel and she'll go lie in traffic for you." Welcome to the new manhood, where feigned sensitivity reigns and real men can battle even the worst of feminine afflictions. 
Of course, Maxim's tips on women don't end there. In a piece called "Full Body Debauchery," helpful hints on dealing with each female body part are explained in de­tail. Since we're a fan1ily magazine, let's see what Maxim has to say about a woman's face: "Run your fingertips over her lips and cheeks, and allow her to do the same to you. 'Letting her touch your face shows you want to be with no one else,' says Liza, 27. (Try it with all your girlfriends.)" 
Well, those fellas atM axim sure are cheeky beyond the range of most other magazines for men. Scholastic's own photo editor, Mike McNary, explains the focus ofMaxim in relation to other men's magazines in its genre, "A magazine like Men's Health is more about fitness. Maxim is more about...technique." Couldn't have said it better myself. 
Springing up in the wake of Maxim are even more guy-defining media tools. Stuff, offering a more rambunctious approach to being a guy, doesn't even bother with all that "sensitive crap." The cover reads "Any Girl, Anywhere, Anytime," drawing test­osterone-driven (or perhaps merely curi­ous) readers into the article, "The A to Z of Outdoor Sex." (VisforVolkswagon. Three positions are suggested.) Other cover sto­ries include, "43 Wild Weekends...Hunt Buffalo! Beat Up Terrorists!" and "The ·so Worst Ways to Die." There is actually a photograph depicting the effects of flesh­eating bacteria which made me feel a little bit woozy. But I suppose that real men don't get squeamish. 

If you 're too poor to subscribe to these magazines, but you still want to make sure you're a macho male, you'll be happy to know that both Maxim and Stuff have websites, www.maximmag.com and www.stuff-mag.com. I even found a link on the Maxim sitetowww.guyrules.com, where you can take a quiz to see how much ofa guy you are. This test is for serious guys only. I only scored 6 out of 10, and that was better than several of my Y-chromosome toting counterparts. Don't worry ifyou fail the test (or tum out to be less of a guy than me) because this site also allows you to study rules for guy-hood, which have been sub­mitted by men from all over the world. 
For now I'll try to appreciate the fact that there is no web site with more than 500 rules for being a girl. And maybe next time I'm taking one of those late night stops at 7­Eleven, I'll grab a copy of Maxim with my cherry Slurpee. After all, it's kind ofa relief to sit back in my old car, still wearing my uncomfortable and wrinkled up party-going clothes and see how lucky I am to not have to worry about being a man. D 




by Kara Zuaro 
Entertainment Scholastic 25 




AMERICAN 
ART, 
~ 


This fall,_ the Snite displays poignant paintings ofNative Anierican culture 
BY ZAC KULSRUD ew chapters in American history are as 
F

shameful as those recounting the per­
secution ofNative Americans. Stories ofadroit exploitation and reckless assimila­tion blight our history books. Even today, our strongest associations with Native American culture are a parade of uneasy images: withered reservations, grinding poverty and casino gambling. 
The burden ofhistory has affected Ameri­can culture in countless ways, but in no way more strikingly than in art. Perhaps this is why the images of the Snite Museum's current exhibit, Taos Artists and Their Pa­trons, 1898-1950, are so powerful. Render­ings of New Mexico's brilliant northern landscape and the Indian population it con­tained dominate the exhibit, transporting one back to a time when the Southwest was considered by many to be America's last frontier. 
The Taos movement began when two young ai'tists, Ernest L. Blumenschein and Bert G. Phillips, heading south from Denver on a painting expedition, happened upon the remote community of Taos, New Mexico, in September 1898. What they saw in Taos changed the course of their journey and the direction of American art. Blumenschein and Phillips resolved to stay in Taos, founding an art colony that over the next 50 years attracted such artists as Victor Higgins, Walter Ufer, Georgia O'Keeffe, 
D.H. Lawrence and Willa Cather. 
The exhibit is considered the most ambi­tious project the Snite has undertaken in its 35-year history, and a quick perusal of the 85 featured works reveals why. Nearly ev­ery masterpiece of the Taos movement ap­pears, leaving one to wonder how so many critical Taos paintings were taken from their home museums and brought thousands of miles to the base of South Quad. 
Take The Stoic, for example, an arresting piece by Joseph H. Sharp. Borrowed from the Museum of New Mexico, Santa Fe, the painting depicts an Indian warrior turned away, poised in a beleaguered stance with blood running down his back. An exhibit 
wall label quoting Sharp ex­

Joseph H. Sharp, The Stoic, 1914. Oil on Canvas; 52.5 x 61.5. Collection of Fine Arts, Museum of New 
plains the scene: 
Mexico, Santa Fe. 
In a supreme grief; like the death ofa favorite war­rior son, the Indian would cut the muscles ofthe back, tie the buffalo thongs to them-with several favor­ite pony heads at the other end, and drag around the 
,...""··,+.•,,.-.,. hill side from sunrise till sunset, or until the thongs pulled loose-to prove he was a brave 111a11 and had the courage and fortitude to face a11y trouble. 
Indeed, the Taos move­ment is recognized more for the images it produced than the styles in which they were produced. Another standout piece, Star Road and White Sun by Walter Ufer, cap­tures the proud, unshakable countenances ofa young In­dian male and his mate. With lucid streaks of gold, orange and red around their outline, Ufer gives them an almost divine appearance; 
The paintings tell only half the exhibit's story. The 
exhibit also explores the role patronage 
plays in the creation of a work of art. 
Paintings with common sources of pa­
tronage are grouped together, and a 
lengthy text exploring the respective 
types of patronage accompanies each 
group. For this reason, the exhibit is 
highly accessible to anyone who will 
take a moment to read theexhibit's wall 
labels. One need not be an art majof to 
appreciate the concentrated efforts made 
to justify each piece's place in the ex­
hibit. 
Justifying each piece was one of the many challenges Dean A. Porter, direc­tor emeritus of the Snite, faced in orga­nizing Taos. But if the smile ingrained on his face these days is any indication, . the thousands of hours Porter put into this major exhibition have produced a 
magnificent result. 
"We've had to go to great lengths to 
gather some of this material here," says 
Porter. "This project was a challenge, 
but I think the result is an exhibit ofhigh 
quality that addresses the imagination. 
The exhibit challenges [the viewer], 
and that's what any good exhibit should 
do." 
A trip to Taos in 197 4 sparked Porter's 
fascination with Taos art. :'When I was 
there, I knew there was something spe­
cial about this community. They call 
New Mexico the Land of Enchantment 
-and rightly so." 
It has taken Porter the past seven 
years to bring to fruition his vision of a 
Taos exhibition at the Snite. During 
those years the direction of his efforts 
took many turns, such ~s the decision to 
incorporate the theme of patronage into 
the exhibit and the co-authoring of a 
major book dealing with the theme. 
Porter admits that at times the scope 
of the project stretched too far, saying, 
"There were times when I thought this 
exhibit was ambitious -even too am­
bitious." 
There is no doubt, however, that Taos 
is a success. Exploring Taos is worth an 
hour of even the busiest student's time. 
But if you are in a rush, it might be wise 
to avoid Porter, who won't hesitate to 
tell you the entire story behind each 
piece, concluding with a smile, "You 
can tell I'm quite bored with this sub~ 
ject." 
Taos Artists and Their Patrons runs at the Snite through November 14. Ad­mission is free. . 


E. Irving Couse, The Wedding, 1924. Oil on Canvas; 70 x 37. © Eiteljorg Museum of American Indians and Western Art, Indianapolis. 
Entertainment Scholastic 27 



·Cafe Poche 
Location: Bond Hall of Architecture Hours of operation: 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Flex Points and Domer Dollars: now available 
Is Cafe Poche an exotic bistro hidden somewhere on campus where beret clad literati converge to read Voltaire and Kerouac? Hardly. It is more like your mother's kitchen -plus an espresso machine. Noel, the proprietor of Cafe Poche is the bizarro world version of everyone's mom. 
Every patron, regardless ofage, is given a maternal moniker, like "honey" or "sweetie." This is opposed to a real mother who, when you ask her for a simple meal, yells over The Young and the Restless, "You're almost twenty years old! Make your own food. I'm not here to be your personal servant!" Tasty food orders are served quickly and with a genuine smile that sometimes overlooked in the 

campus' fast pace. I recommend the wet burrito with a raspberry mocha, but really anything Noel suggests is ging to be good. So, if you want to take some time out from a fast paced day-or you just have a fetish for being called honey-visit Cafe Poche. 
-Matthew Cremer 


Location: 151 floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall _ H_ours of operation: 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Flex Points and Domer Dollars: now available 
If your professor asks you to come to his office and you end up in a cafe, don't panic. Waddik's, located on the first floor of O'Shaugnessey Hall, doubles as office space for dozens of profes­sors of the College of Arts & Letters who are a long, long way from tenure. Don't think any less ofyour professor, however, ifyou have to rendezvous at Waddik's. Your professor might just want to introduce you to one of the daily food specials. Each week features a different menu with hardy combos such as English beef soup and a jumbo fried fish sandwich, or Cream ofTomato Soup and chicken and cheese chimichanga with Mexican rice. Most combos plus a drink can be had for less than five dollars. The food is worth a shot, but if you're like most of the faculty and students who frequent Waddik's, you come for the ambiance. But beware, a love/hate relationship with Waddik's pervades on campus. Some revel in Waddik's tight quarters and the chance to sit in an elevated, high­back, wooden booth, whiJe others see Waddik's a crowded but convenient place to fill their coffee cups before early classes. 
-Zac Kulsrud 
28 Scholastic Entertainment 

How They Stack Up  0) s::::: en ·­·­:::l u  0) u s::::: c::l·­,.n 8 --<  0) u·­>I-<. 0) U)  -ctj I-< 0) > 0 ...... ••• •••......  
Cafe Poche Waddick's Common Stock Greenfield's  •••• •• •••......  ••••..... .... ••••  ••••• ••• •••• •••••  

Common Stock Sandwich Co. 
Location: the lower level of the Business School Hours of operation: 7:30 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Flex Points and Domer Dollars: now available 
Any business majors out there? Don't you love how the College of Business is conveniently located as far away from every food court and dining hall on campus as humanly possible? Ifthis sounds familiar, you might be interested to know that in the basement ofthe College of Business Building is a mini-mart equipped with all the essentials for a fast meal. Whether your needs be tea, toast, ice cream, a soft drink, a baked potato, a hot dog, or even a newspaper, it's all available if you 're just willing to brave a couple flights of stairs. You can even heat a pocket-sized pizza, all for the minimal 
fee of just two dollars (which 
works out to about forty-five cents per pepperoni, but hey, you're a business major -you can shell it out)! To make things even better, the flex­point system is already in ef­fect, so you can charge your meal to your student account. Conveniently located just out­side the premises are a number of tables ( overlooking a sce­nic marble wall and staircase), so you can even sit down and 

relax while you eat. Each day, the [mini-mart] serves a special of the day, so you don't have to worry about monotony, either. Ifyou 're just looking for a pre-meal snack, the mart sells a number of different candies and other goodies. The employees are courteous, friendly, and helpful (I only met one of them, but she is really nice and promised me everyone else is, too). So if you have the munchies and don't want to walk to a dining hall or LaFortune, you might want to venture downstairs. 
-Gerard Meskill 

Greenfield's 
Location: Hesburgh Center for International Studies Hours of operation: 7:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Flex Poin.ts and Domer Dollars: coming soon 
You gotta get 'em on the run you gotta go, go, go! Tranquil, relaxed places to eat at Notre Dame are rare. When you're looking for more than something to order, snatch, and devour in some reclusive corner as if it was a paw-full of acorns, Greenfields, in the Hes burgh Center for International Studies, is the place to be. After placing your order with the wonderful lady at the counter, the restaurant offers table service, a relaxed atmosphere, and a deli­cious; reasonably priced breakfast or lunch with features such as stuffed French toast or "The Gobbler". Typically a faculty haunt, Greenfields will soon be accepting Flex Points and will undoubt­edly obtain the idolatrous worship of those who raise their hands and voices to praise the anti-grab-and-go. 
-Andrew McDonnell 

You can't study all the time ... ... 
'I 
'1:1 
i 



~ ice
t·: ' -. , 
:;; :\ s':I 

., · a. · . ,I 
. .. . '•• 
:'.-'. '. '. :· Featuring: 






.. : 
_:,_;!:The Knute Rockne Story and Rudy, 
2:00 PM, Montgomery Theater, Lafortune 
•Mu/an, 6:30 PM, Carroll Auditorium, 
SMC . . 

SUNDAY 

•Sankofa 
Honors Assembly, 7:00 PM, Eck Center Auditorium . 

•Acoustic 
Cafe, 9:00 PM, Lafortune Huddle 



THURSDAY 

•"The Rise and Fall of HarlefDav(dson: The• 
Power of Employde Empowei:ment,\ Speaker Ken Schn1idt from Harley-_Davidson, 
12:00 PM, Jord:an Auditorium '. 

•Shakespeare 
i/z Love, 7: 15 and 9:45 PM, Snite 

•EdTY, 
8:00 and 10:30 PM, Cushjng



! 
I • •• 



FRIDAY' 
•Football: ND @Purdue, 1:30 PM 

•Shakespeare in Love, 7:15 and 9;45 PM, Snite •&ITV, 8:00 andl0:30 PM, Cushing 

SATURDAY 
30 Scholastic Calendar 
· 
•"Alterniltives, to Westenn'.:onflict, 
I --·' · i 
Mismanagement in Yugoslavia,",4: 15 PM, C-103 Hesbi.Jrgh Center . . ·. 
• Written oil tiJe IVind, 7:00 PM;, Snite
' l 
I 

MONDAY 
• 
"Democratic Theory for Comparative Politics," 12:30 PM, C-103 Hesburgh . Center 

•
Men's Soccer: ND vs. Cleveland State, 


7:00 PM, Alumni Field 
•Campus Bible Study, 7:00 PM, Badin Chapel ·•Duffy Lecture, 8:00-PM,McKenna Hall Auditorium, CCE 


TUESDAY 
•Lecture: "S~1~_a Christian Do Enough to ­~ppose Geno9de while Remaining Non-.. ~\~~nt?",12:39PM, C-rn3'n~s1>{i'rgl1 Center 
men s Soccer: ND vs: Butler 7·00 PM
Alumni Field ! , -,-----' • ' 
•Latin American /Independence Da ': 
Celebr r 9·3 ' ·. y,
awn, _: qPM, faFortune ,Ballroom 

NOW SHOWING September 1Q;. 16 · 
-University Park West 
. Inspector Gadget 1:00 3:00 4:50 7:10 9:00 The Muse 1:30 4:00 7:00 9:20 

University Park East 
I: 277-7336 .. All Shows in Stereo 
I 
Outside Providence 1:05 3:30 6:15 9:00 11:10] SLxth Sense 1:15 4:00 6:30 9:10 ll:20i Love Stinks 2:00 4:30' 7:05 9:20 11:251 _Blair Witch Project 1:30 3:45 7:15 9:15 11:15\ Dudley Do-Right . ·1:00 2:45 4:45 -i The Astronaut's Wife 7:09 9:35 Thomas Crown Affair 1:45 4:15 7:10 9:30 
Shows after 10:00 PM .~hown Fri. &Sat. 01101 


Movies 14 
C254-9685 
' All Shows in Stereo American Pie An Ideal Husband Bowfinger* Brokedown Palace Chill Factor Deep Blue Sea , In Too Deep Mickey Blue Eyes Star Wars Stigmata':' . 
Stir of Echoes* The 13th Warrior The Haunting · The Iron Giant 
,;Stadium SeatfligAvailable Special sneakpreview ofFor the Love ofthe Game on 'I Saturday, 9/11 at 7:55 with Bowfinger : 
: 
I 
.j 
! 
. i
12:55 3: 10 5:25 7:40 10:05) 12:so 3:10 s:2s 7:40 10:os: 12:55 3:15 5:35 8:00 10:20 2:05 4:40 7:15 9:55 
.2:00 4:30 7:05 9:40 , 1:05 3:30 5:50 8:05 10:25\ 1:00 4:00 7:00 9:30 i 1:30 4:15 7:00 9:50 i 1:10 2:05 3:35 4:45 7:0Sj 7:45 9:35 10:15 i 12:45 3:00 5:15 7:35 10:lOj 
12:50 3:05 5:30 7:50 10:15: 1:00 4:00 7:10 10:00 1:45 3:45 5:45 

-----~ -. , . ,, ­
-----. 
I've Fallen Into the Gap and I Can't Get Up 
Beware the Abercrombie Aristocracy 
BY AMY SCHILL
Slavery still exists in America. I'm not talking about the slavery Lincoln abol­ished, but the slavery that exists in 
malls, schools and offices around this once­great nation. We have become slaves to a much larger evil: the fashion indus­try. We willingly forsake our savings and originality in hopes that our over-priced , purchase will change us 'A from awkward college stu­dents to agile swing danc­ers with the swipe ofa credit card. 
I have witnessed this horror, the Trendy Trans­formation of America, in disgust. I am not trendy. I have the fashion sense of an unpopular, insecure col­lege freshman. I have been a silent observer ofthe P~r­form anc e Fleecing of America -until now. Now, I speak out in hopes ofsaving you from the grips of the Abercrombie Aris­tocracy. 
I know the staples of every fashion-conscious closet. I'm well aware of the cargo pants, the spaghetti strap shirts, the $50 pre-torn jeans. I've even seen a monk wearing Doc Martin sandals. (What Would Jestis Do?) I excuse all these trends, for they are-not the true evil of the fashion industry. But there is one item ofclothing, one horror, that just makes me want to gouge out my eyes with a butterfly hairpin. You know what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the Capri pants. 
Never in my life have I seen an epidemic like this. Girls, teenagers, grandmothers have embraced the Capri, and I'm sick ofit. Even my mom has a pair. I used to wear pants like that; they were called high-waters, my friend, and people made fun ofme because ofthem. 
I finally learn how to buy jeans the right length, and suddenly ill-fitting pants are "in"? 
This new fashion baffled me, until I learned the truth behind the trend. 
Capri pants are an integral part of the uniform ofa female fighting force assembled by the fashion industry. This new military 

organization, the Old Navy, has been cre­ated to brainwash every man, woman (GAP), and child (GAP for Kids) in this nation into unthinking fashion slaves. Retailers start with women, the most frequent consumers, and lure them into becoming Capri-clad warriors with promises of meeting Ricky Martin. The women attract men ~ith their exposed shins (the sexiest · part of the female body), and the men, decked out in fisherman's hats and hemp necklaces, go out and recruit their friends. Before you know it, the entire country will be enslaved by Big Brother (popularly known as the lady with the big glasses in the Old Navy commercials). Didn't you ever wonder why Old Navy employees wear those headsets? They're the well­dressed Thought Police, report­ing to Big Brother people who speak inexcusable phrases such as, "The best clothes are thrift stores" and, "You know, it's not hip to zip." Big Brother is watching you all right, and so is that damned 
dog. 
How do I know all this? The fash­
ion moguls have been watching me 
for some time. I, with my blue Nikes 
and unflattering T-shirts, was seen as a 
threat to the Abercrombie Aristocracy. 
I was arrested by the Old Navy and 
imprisoned where I now write this 
warning -a dungeon known as the 
Gap. In this crevice, they have tried to 
crack me. I have endured. countless 

hours of House of Style, but I will not submit. I write in hopes that those who have not yet been brainwashed will see this ar­ticle and be warned. Stay away from malls, stay a:way from trends, and, for the love of God, stay away from the Capri pants. Unite and fight against the fashion industry, or you too could fall into the Gap. D 
Week In Distortion Scholastic 31 




Buckeyes' Revenge 
byKimBlaekwe!] 

They say no man is an island. Maybe this is true in some metaphysical sense, but as a Notre Dame fan (and now student) from Columbus, Ohio, I've discovered that it is indeed possible to be an island. For years I've been surrounded by an ocean of tens of thousands of Ohio State graduates and students, and almost every single one of them has an inherent dislike of Darners. It came to a head in 1995, when the Irish came to Columbus for the first time in about 60 years. Now, the city paper, the Dispatch, usually only deigns to write about Notre Dame when either a) a coach is suspected of having bought a prospective freshman lunch at Wendy's, orb) a new expose entitled "The Shadow of the Dome: Why Notre Dame's Winning Tradition is a Vast Right-Wing Conspiracy" is pub­lished. The week of this game, however, stories were all over the paper. Notre Dame had won the two games in the '30s, creating, according to the paper, 
--------~-----------"ghosts that had annoyed and haunted generations 
Our Notre Dame flag had been taken 
of Buckeye fans." The 

down, replaced by an OSU one. Blink­humiliation of being on the short side of a 2-0
ing red Christmas tree lights hung on the 
series record apparently 

bushes. The score had been chalked onto 
still 
our driveway. 
· Kim Blackwell is the assistant Campus Life editor ofScholastic. 
smarted, and the 
team was aching for re­
venge. 

They got it. My parents were downtown at the game along with a smattering of other loyal Irish fans, but they were lost in that sea of 100,000 red shirts. I was watching at home, and as the game progressed and ND fumbled the game away in the third quarter, I kept hearing strange noises outside my house: hammering. Lots of it. My neighbor walked through the house a few times, looking around speculatively. "Dennis?" I asked a bit ner­vous!y. "What are you doing, Dennis?" "Where's the garage door opener?" he replied. Followed by: "Do you guys have any extra nails?" 
I ventured outside when the construction noises stopped. Our Notre Dame flag had been taken down, replaced by an OSU one. Blinking red Christmas tree lights hung on the bushes. The score had been chalked onto our driveway. Black sheets hung from the garage doors reading "Quiet, please. In mourning." Candles in Ohio State paper bags lined the driveway. And as my parents drove up the street, there were lots of neighbors from up and down the street standing and watching with their arms crossed, nodding ap­provingly at the redecorating efforts. 
The next year the game was played in South Bend. The score was a bad one, and our neighbors outdid themselves this time. When we returned home the next day, we found that in addition to the lights, flag, and score (this time colorfully spray-painted on the lawn), there were now cardboard tombstones. "R.I.P. ND '96," they announced, and "Here lie the Irish, dead and gone." Black crepe paper was draped on the mailbox and front door. The TV van pulled up a few minutes later. 
On the local news that night, after the requisite story about OSU students overturning cars and burn­ing couches in celebration, the anchors turned to the story of the ND alum who had returned from out of town that day. "Mr. Blackwell is a huge Notre Dame fan," the voice-over reported as the camera panned back from the sticker on his car to reveal the mock graveyard. The scene shifted to Dennis the neighbor. "He's just so arrogant about it," he said in a long­suffering tone. "It's always 'Notre Dame this' and 'Notre Dame that.' " 
"So he asked for this?" confirmed the reporter with a grin. 
"Every day he asks for this," nodded Dennis. 
My father started laughing, knowing secretly that the arrogance was justified, seeing as he'd gone to, unquestionably, the best school in the country. He got in the last word, too, when the eternal reporter ques­tion, "How do you feel about this?" was put to him. "Oh, there's no hard feelings. I just find it sad, you know, that this football game means so much to Ohio State fans," he said regretfully, forgetting, of course, that had Notre Dame won, all of us Irish fans would have lorded it over the city.for weeks, maybe even years. "I mean, people, coine on. Get a life." 
I don't mean to suggestthere aren't nice students at or graduates of Ohio State out of the hundreds of thousands in the city; I personally know three or four of them. It just, gets slightly depressing when those infrequent Irish losses are brought up time and time again by a city with a major superiority complex. In the future, if we face Ohio State again or if we're contenders in a BCS bowl, I think I'll go into hiding. Ifwe win, I will ofcourse trumpet that fact to anyone who cares ( or doesn't care) to listen. If we lose, I'll just retreat back to· my South Bend second home. Here I know I'm surrounded by friendly waters. 0 
32 Scholastic Final Word 

Ur1der the Pergola Michael McNaru­









