^GILBERT'S
TAILORED BY
GENUINE
OUR WORSTED IVY SUITS WITH VESTS $65 and $69.50
We had Palm Beach tailor these handsome pure worsted suits for us because of their reputation for fine tailoring and authentic styling. The jackets have natural shoulders . . . the trousers have no pleats, arc slim and trim. The patterns are subtle, and they’re in the new deep shades like Black Walnut. Sizes for all men. See them soon.
WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME
AND
THE CAMPUS SHOP!
If you are returning to Notre Dame, “Welcome back!” If you are a newcomer to this great school, let us introduce ourselves: The Campus Shop is located on the Notre Dame campus, next door to the Notre Dame Bookstore. We are here to serve your clothing needs. You will find a complete selection of America’s most famous clothing and haberdashery’ name-brands . . . sizes to fit all men . . . and the convenience of a Campus Shop charge account. As a student, your account is now open . . . come in soon and say, “Hello!”
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
IN JANUARY
IN FEBRUARY
IN MARCH
No Carrying Charge
^GILBERT'S
3
Now, a clean-filling, smooth-writing
$095
Parker cartridge pen...only O'-
New PARKER ARROW
You can buy an ordinary cartridge pen for a dollar and even get a couple of cartridges thrown in free. But, then you pay and pay and pay. This pen can save you up to 20c every time you buy cartridges. You get five BIG Parker Quink cartridges for only 29C- But, even if you didn't save a dime, this pen would be worth the extra price. It's a Parker.
Only Parker gives you a solid 14K gold point, tipped with plathenium —one of the hardest, smoothest alloys ever developed. It should last you for years no matter how much you use it.
This pen won't leak the way the cheap ones doit has a built-in safety reservoir. It must meet most of the tough specifications we set for $10 pens.
The Parker Arrow comes in black, dark blue, light blue, light grey and bright red. You get a choice of four instantly replaceable points: extrafine, fine, medium, broad.
I” (Special Introductory offer ends October 15,1962)
I This coupon good for
।	5 EXTRA
। QUINK
I	CARTRIDGES
(29< value)
I Your Arrow pen is packed with 5 FREE cartridges.
Present this coupon for 5 more FREE cartridges I when you purchase the Arrow pen. Only one cou-| pon redeemable for each Arrow pen purchased.
Offer not available where prohibited.
I To the Dealer: You are authorized to redeem the coupon and I we will reimburse you for the 5 free cartridges with like . goods provided that you and the consumer have complied I with the terms of the offer as stated.
^PARKER
Maker of the world's most wanted pens
4
The Scholast.:
I

September 28, 1962
«w ww m ma aw
1
It’s your	[
s
tapered shape	I
and your	J
hopsacking look	I
that get me...	f
i I
288S ggg m SOB 3^.
tl
,®8BS«R55i?®®SSS
ft	&
|	Mother always	g
i	told me to	I
|	look for the blue	label*	J
Nobody’s really suggesting romance will be yours if you wear U.S. Keds.But it is true that Keds are the best-fitting, the most comfortable, good-looking and long-wearing fabric casuals you can buy. Because Keds are made with costlier fabrics. With an exclusive shockproofed arch cushion and cushioned innersole. In short, with all those “extras” that make them your best buy in the long run. Head for your nearest Keds dealer. Get that Keds look, that Keds fit...GET THAT GREAT KEDS FEELING!
•Both U.S. Keds and the blue label are registered trademarks of
United States Rubber
Rockefeller Center, New York 20, New York
The SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 104 September 28, 1962 No. 1
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vhe Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
JOHN McCABE
Editor
JACK AHERN
Associate Editor
JIM WYRSCH .............. News	Editor
TOM HOOBLER ......... Features	Editor
JOHN BECHTOLD ......... Sports	Editor
JOHN PESTA ..........   Layout	Editor
JAY WARD .......   Business	Manager
RICHARD ROGGEVEEN .................
......	   Advertising	Manager TOM DALUM .....   Circulation
BRIAN BECK.............   Photography
TERRY WOLKERSTORFER ................
......	 Assistant	Sports JOE RYAN .........    Assistant.Sports
KEN ARNOLD ......... Assistant	News
JOHN BUCKLEY ......  Assistant	News
DONALD COSTELLO .... Faculty Advisor REV. JOSEPH HOFFMAN ...............
................    Faculty	Advisor
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame. Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23. 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Pi css. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Coip.. 420 Madison Avenue. New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185. Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the propei ty of the SCHOLASTIC.
OFFICE OPEN:
Sunday, 7:30-12:00; Monday, 1:30-5:30 . 7:30-12:00; Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wedne: day, 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Fri day, 1:30-5:30; Saturday, not open.
The Scholasi:
EDITORIAL
The Scholastic, the weekly student news magazine published at the University of Notre Dame, is dedicated to serving the University community as an educational adjunct by providing the following:
•	an accurate source of information
•	a forum for discussion
•	a vehicle for personal viewpoints
•	critical appraisals of those campus conditions that reflect the concern of students and serve the interests of the whole community.
To carry out these four functions, the Scholastic hopes to contribute to a re-examination and stimulation of discussion in these areas:
1)	the sense of community and Christian living which Notre Dame should nurture;
2)	the intellectual climate and values of the University, illustrated by studies of academic standards, admission requirements, academic departments, scholarships and student loans, and student-faculty relations;
3)	student awareness of relevant community, local, national, and international problems;
4)	student government, YCS, NFCCS, and NSA efforts to encourage student responsibility in the operation and direction of student life;
5)	mutual Notre Dame-St. Mary’s social, academic, and administrative problems.
Considered in this light, the Scholastic is obviously a student magazine published for student enlightenment and entertainment; it is not intended to be a public-relations organ of the University, except insofar as student inquiry and expression reflect the University’s intellectual quest.
September 28, 1962
To satisfy inner urges for self-satisfaction and amelioration, the editors of the Scholastic have reexamined our schedule of planned obsolescence, and have subjected the magazine to a journalistic facelifting. Our plans include these alterations on the following five departments:
1)	Cover: experimentation with pictorial covers, and matching of cover themes with featured articles;
2)	Layout: use of clearly-defined blocks of copy, set off by extensive white space; open-end captions; and an attempt to reserve the body of the magazine for copy, relegating advertisements to front and back;
3)	News: concentration on distinguished lectures, debates, and symposiums; comprehensive coverage of student events, trends, and opinions in the new “Campus at a Glance” section. Here, as elsewhere, there has been a shift in approach to the normally-dry campus news.
4)	Features: weekly and bi-weekly columns, including a feature from St. Mary’s and a student-interest photo; special supplements on selected campus and national issues; and, in the future, use of a popular editorial cartoonist;
5)	Focus (formerly Forum): more space devoted to personal viewpoints on major problems and activities of Catholic and American students.
On the other hand, some phases of our operation have not changed. Once again, we are in the market for serious and perceptive articles for Focus, and worthwhile comments to be printed in our Forum (formerly Repercussions). All letters-to-the-editors should be sent to the Editor, 103 Walsh, and be in his possession at least five days prior to the date of publication. Letters should be signed (though names will be withheld upon request), and have a maximum length of 300 words.
7
THE CLEAN WHITE SOCK
He not only wears the clean white sock; he is "clean white sock." It’s a kind of confidence that comes from knowing the right thing to do; even if he decides not to do it His clean white socks are by Adler. His girl is by his side, every bit as "clean white sock* as he is. Naturally they don’t always wear white socks, they just act like they do. People who really swing are wearing the Adler SC shrink controlled wool sock.$1.00.
THE ADLER COMPANY> CINCINNATI 14, OHIO
ADLER’S swinging SC’s available at
Fine Stores Everywhere

The Scholastic
On&npiSM&ta (Author of "I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’/‘The Many Loses of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
H8I HEAR-SAY
A new column in a magazine, like a new doctor in town, is in the embarrassing position of being required by the normal human need for selfconfidence to introduce itself, and prohibited by spurious gentility from outright advertising. Purists will object that a column — and perhaps a columnist — is not strictly human, but this is a poor age for a good metaphor, anyway, and one sometimes wonders about certain isolated members of the medical profession, too.
At all events, this particular fosterling of the Ave Maria Press is called “Hearsay,” for two reasons. First, it is a music column, that is, one in which I will be speaking about an aural art. I admit that the title is dangerously close to Newspeak, but at least it is punning in a bloodless fashion, and any other titles that suggested themselves seemed either too presumptuous or too cute to use. Second, the column will really be hearsay of a sort, since the writer (note: I hope never to use the word, “critic”) is by no means any more than an avid layman with some pretensions to taste. I believe that Charlie Parker was a great man, for instance, but I am equally certain that much of his greatness is either lost on me or apparent only in a confused manner. So, to use a very unpleasant word, conjuring as it does back fences and water coolers, this is going to be “chatty”; professionals are asked to be tolerant.
It is also going to be rambling. Since economy forbids a biweekly review of new records and laymanship precludes (perhaps mercifully for all of us) any organized technical discussions, the column’s range is rather wide, and quite uncharted. The motion picture, A Taste of Honey, is a highly disappointing film, but its score is very fine and surprisingly reminiscent of the serious ballyhoo of the marches in Stravinsky’s L’Histoire du Soldat; the movie, therefore, or at least a facet of the movie, comes within equal shooting range as such favorite subjects as the Kingston Trio in its anemic attempts to reproduce the real vitality of folk music, the magnifi-
(Continued on page 25)
September 28, 1962
ANOTHER YEAR, ANOTHER DOLLAR
With today’s entry I begin my ninth year of writing columns in your school newspaper for the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes.
Nine years, I believe you will agree, is a long time. In fact, it took only a little longer than nine years to dig the Suez Canal, and you know what a gigantic undertaking that was! To be sure, the work would have gone more rapidly had the shovel been invented at that time, but, as we all know, the shovel was not invented until 1946 by Walter R. Shovel of Cleveland, Ohio. Before Mr. Shovel’s discovery in 1946, all digging was done with sugar tongs—a method unquestionably dainty but hardly what one would call rapid. There were, naturally, many efforts made to speed up digging before Mr. Shovel’s breakthrough—notably an attempt in 1912 by the immortal Thomas Alva Edison to dig with the phonograph, but the only thing that happened was that he got his horn full of sand. This so depressed Mr. Edison that he fell into a fit of melancholy from which he did not emerge until two years later when his friend William Wordsworth, the eminent nature poet, cheered him up by imitating a duck for four and a half hours.
But I digress. For nine years, I say, I have been writing this column for the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, and for nine years they have been paying me money.
You are shocked. You think that anyone who has tasted Marlboro’s unparalleled flavor, who has enjoyed Marlboro’s filter, who has revelled in Marlboro’s jolly red and white pack or box should be more than willing to write about Marlboro without a penny’s compensation. You are wrong.
Compensation is the very foundation stone of the American Wiry of Life. Whether you love your work or hate it, our system absolutely requires that you be paid for it. For example, I have a friend named Rex Glebe, a veterinarian by profession, who simply adores to worm dogs. I mean you can call him up and
1962 Max Shulman
* * *
The makers of Marlboro will bring you this uncensored, free-style column 26 times throughout the school year. During this period it is not unlikely that Old Max will step on some toes—principally ours—but we think it's all in fun and we hope you will too.
say, “Hey, Rex, let’s go bowl a few lines,” or “Hey, Rex, let’s go flatten some pennies on the railroad tracks,” and he will always reply, “No, thanks. I better stay here in case somebody wants a dog wormed.” I mean there is not one thing in the whole world you can name that Rex likes better than worming a dog. But even so, Rex always sends a bill for worming your dog because in his wisdom he knows that to do otherwise would be to rend, possibly irreparably, the fabric of democracy.
It’s the same with me and Marlboro Cigarettes. I think Marlboro’s flavor represents the pinnacle of the tobacconist’s art. I think Marlboro’s filter represents the pinnacle of the filter-maker’s art. I think Marlboro’s pack and box represent the pinnacle of the packager’s art. I think Marlboro is a pleasure and a treasure, and I fairly burst with pride that I have been chosen to speak for Marlboro on your campus. All the same, I want my money every week. And the makers of Marlboro understand this full well.
They don’t like it, but they understand it.
In the columns which follow this opening installment, I will turn the hot white light of truth on the pressing problems of campus life—the many and varied dilemmas which beset the undergraduate —burning questions like “Should Chaucer classrooms be converted to parking garages?” and “Should proctors be given a saliva test?” and “Should foreign exchange students be held for ransom?”
And in these columns, while grappling with the crises that vex campus America, I will make occasional brief mention of Marlboro Cigarettes. If I do not, the makers will not give me any money.
campus at a glance
1,000 girls .-.tepped into a whirlpool of academically excellent lines as they made a 12 o.m. arrival Saturday, September 22, for the All-University Open House. St. Mary’s and Barat colleges gave ihe year’s first taste of football as they cheered themselves to a 0-0 deadlock. They seemed to have trouble running their ends. Barat went into the game complete with a Friday night pep rally and a nearly entire-school turnout. Folk singing with the Four Winds followed at 4:30, and the afternoon ended with box lunches spread over the athletic field. 3,000 crowded into the 8 p.m. dance at the Stepan Student Center — 2,000 guys, 1,000 girls. One incident marred the proceedings. A misdirected freshman was heard to cry in well-indoctrinated fear as a girl came into his hall with a date: “Say buddy, you better get that girl out of here before the heads roll.”
Freddy Freshman can make his football games coed this season. The N.D. card-stunt section will mix with St. Mary’s girls to form a rectangular block of 800. They will be synchronized with the band during the halftime performance. Only freshmen are allowed. Man to see — Dick Stritter, arrangement committee head.
“It appeared to be wobbly and unable to gain altitude before it crashed,” said a witness. The crash af the Cessna-170 plane Sept. 13 near Norwalk, Ohio, snuffed out the lives af four, among them twenty-one-year-ald Allen James Cairns of Akron, 3hio. Cairns, a junior honor student in engineering science, was on his way :o Lake Erie Island for a dinner engagement before the untimely crash aided his promising life. This summer ae had been employed in a summer raining program by the National Aeronautics and- Space Administra-ion.
Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., lead of the department of art and a irize-winning sculptor, has been lamed director of the University art gallery. Fr. Lauck, a member of the tfotre Dame faculty since 1950, had ieen administering gallery activities :or several years and was a consultant n the planning of the O’Shaughnessy lall gallery prior to its dedication in .953.
A student under noted sculptors lari Milles, Heinz Warneke, and Ivan
O
Mestrovic, Fr. Lauck graduated from Notre Dame in 1942. He has studied at the John Herron Art Institute, Indianapolis, the Corcoran School of Art in Washington, D. C., and the Art Students’ League in New York City.
John Howett is curator of the Notre Dame collection.
Kenneth Walpuck, a special student under the late Ivan Mestrovic, and the holder of a Master of Fine Arts degree from Notre Dame, will study in Poland this year under grants from the U. S. and Polish governments. Walpuck, of Tarrytown, New York, graduated this past June. He will do advanced work in sculpture in Warsaw.
St. Mary’s College has announced a schedule of six lectures for the 1962-1963 Lilly Endowment Series. Three of the programs will be held in the next two months. At 1 p.m. on Oct. 2, Wm. G. Pollard of the Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies will lecture on “Science and Christianity in Western Civilization.” On Oct. 23, “Buddhism in the Modern World” will be the subject of Jos. M. Kitagawa of the University of Chicago. Chas. W. Lightbody of the University of Saskatchewan will speak on “Joan of Arc and the Historians” on Nov. 15.
Notre Dame students are welcome. No tickets are required, and no admission fee will be charged.
Vince Massa, a senior from Beaver Falls, Pa., will head the oldest university band in the country this year while George “Dutch” Heil of Monroe, Mich., will lead the 128-man marching unit on the field. Other officers for the year are Joe La Nasa, vicepresident; Dave Thompson, social chairman; Tom Mulinazzi, secretary; and Chuck Silio, alumni coordinator. Mr. Robert F. O’Brien, assisted by Jim Fleischer, will serve for his eleventh year as band director.
Camelot, symbolized by a still-tobe-named herald, has been chosen as theme for the 1962 Sophomore Cotillion. The Ralph Marterie Orchestra will play in the Broadway-inspired setting Friday evening, Oct. 19, with the Irish-Spartan duel providing the Saturday afternoon attraction for the Sophs and dates. Fr. Hesburgh will address a 10:30 Communion Breakfast on Sunday.
Added features for the week end include a buffet supper after midnight at the Cotillion and a “Name the Herald” contest, the winner receiving his week end free.
General chairman for the dance is Dick McCarthy. Second ticket sales are set for Oct. 7 in the Rathskeller.
Prof. Alvan S. Ryan, one month returned from a year in Germany, has taken over duties as head of the department of English, replacing the retired Prof. John T. Frederick. The distinguished-looking, fifty-year-old professor brings to the office more than twenty years of teaching experience. This past year Prof. Ryan was Fulbright professor of American Literature at the University of the Saarland, Saarbruecken, Germany.
In an interview with the Scholastic, Dr. Ryan demurred at making any “policy statements” after only one month with which to orient himself in his new position. He did say: “I think I have taken on the headship of a very strong department and a department that has developed steadily. Although recently there have been serious losses of personnel, I hope to do what I can to further strengthen the department.”
At Notre Dame since 1951, the new department head previously taught here from 1943 to 1946, teaching both English and mathematics to wartime students. Prof. Ryan was an associate professor in the General Program from ’51 to ’54 before joining the English department.
All students interested in the Varsity swimming team are urged to attend a meeting on Monday, Oct. 1, in the Rockne Memorial Building, room 3, at:
Freshmen — 4:45 p.m.
Upperclassmen — 5:30 p.m.
The Notre Dame Sailing Club, Midwestern champs, will hold their initial meeting on Wednesday, Oct. 3, at 7:30 p.m. in room 209 of the Engineering Building. All interested are invited to attend.
Joe Boland, popular Notre Dame sports announcer who died in 1960, is honored in a recently released book edited by his wife, Peg. Bing Crosby and Terry Brennan, among others wrote articles telling of their experi ences with “Joe Boland — Notre Dame Man.”
The Scholasti
Mardi-Gras:
Some Considerations
Mardi Gras was set up by the Student Senate some years ago both to provide students with a good time in the period just before Ash Wednesday and to promote various charitable causes from the profits made in such merrymaking. Today it is a $50,000 business, requiring the time and efforts of many. By and large it has done its job well. But we think Mardi Gras can do a much better job, for there have been problems within Mardi Gras. It is the intent of this article, first, to illustrate and, second, to offer our suggestions for remedying these problems.
For the past several years, rumors, justified and unjustified, have fled about the campus, seriously hampering Mardi Gras operations at every turn. Specifically, the rumors dealt with the handling of the new car to be given away (someone was always seeing it in Chicago at the Playboy Club), the size and luxury of the parties given by the Mardi Gras Committee, and even talk of wholesale thievery (some had the figure as high as $30,000).
For the most part the rumors were untrue or unprovable. The fact of the matter is that the books for the 1959-60 and the 1960-61 Mardi Gras reveal interesting facts, and one might surmise from these facts that these organizations were, in some cases, inefficient and imprudent.
The 1959-60 Mardi Gras, for instance, bought orchids from Hawaii to the tune of $100. They ran up a total bill of $1,137 at the Morris Inn, $156 at the Pick-Oliver, $400 at the LaSalle, and $86 at the Hoffmann, with no entry in the books explaining why these accommodations were needed. There are numerous and vague references to other items — “Chairman’s accommodations and committee.” Forty-five dollars was spent for “piano moving,” and various petty cash funds totaled $730, of which no accounting was made. (Normally any bill over $5.00 is paid by check. In an operation as large as Mardi Gras there should be very few expenses over $5.00 paid out of the petty cash fund. Most businesses keep
only about $50 in petty cash. The Student Government petty cash fund contained only $50 for all of last year, and of that amount only $30 was used.)
Mardi Gras 1960-61 was, if anything, a little worse. They, too, ran up a sizable bill at the local hotels. They had petty cash funds of $1064.70. Gasoline money came to $67.12. ’ Numerous checks were made out to “cash” instead of for a specific purpose; in like fashion, checks were made out to individuals instead of to firms (and these individuals were not specified as members of any firm). The Pick-Oliver was paid for “publicity,” an activity the Oliver has not been known to perform in the past or even now. There were two checks for $86.70 and $200 respectively, cashed by the general .chairman, for which no bills were produced nor vouchers signed. Finally, last year’s Mardi Gras continually paid bills for the 1960-61 Mardi Gras, bills which were supposed to have been paid through regular channels the year before.
What these figures indicate more than anything else is a lack both of
sound organizational structure and of good business sense within the organization. Last year’s Mardi Gras,
(though in general more tightly run), suffered from the same basic, almost inherent problems. Furthermore, the strongest suggestion made by last year’s Mardi Gras organization to remedy these complex and serious problems was “Keep an Esprit de Corps in your organization.”
The lack of good business sense stems, first of all, from the fact that the organization is run entirely by students. Though on the surface it is quite an honor for the student to run a $50,000 business with an annual profit of more than $20,000 and go to school at the same time, in actuality, it is too big a job for students alone. Jim Smith, last year’s Mardi Gras chairman, estimated that he worked more than 40 hours a week throughout the school year. As a consequence, his average dipped considerably.
A student comes to the University to learn to be a man, to acquire skills, to contemplate ideas and to allow ideas to become a part of him. He cannot do this and still do a competent job as Mardi Gras chairman. Thus it would profit not only Mardi Gras, but also those who work for it, and benefit by it, to hire a professional either to head the student operation or, at least, to do the accounting.
Moreover, problems lie within the structure of the organization itself. In former years the chairmen of the various committees within Mardi Gras (i.e., publicity and raffle) were almost autonomous, drawing monies from separate checking accounts. Last year’s Mardi Gras tried to alleviate this situation by centralizing both the
(Continued on page 26)
September 28, 1962
Academic Commission
by ED
COLLINS
JACK KILDEKRAND
The old problem of the allocation of free and preferential dance bids was again a point of Student Senate discussion at their opening meeting Monday night. The motion as moved by Dave Ellis granted senators free bids to the victory dances, and preferential bids to the Homecoming Dance and any big name entertainment
to come on the campus. After Tim Morrison’s motion to grant hall presidents equal rights with hall senators was clearly passed, and after Pete Clark had made a futile attempt to reduce the privileges of both these groups to that of preferential consideration, Tom Schlereth’s effort to deny senators and hall presidents of both gratuities and preferential considerations was decisively defeated.
When the vote was finally made on Ellis’ motion, Clark, Schlereth and Vitullo cast the only dissenting opinions. While the subject of the preferential allocation of dance bids is obviously still a controversial one in some circles, it seems difficult to understand in what way the members of the student government differ from the other members of the student body when it comes to social entertainment. If they do differ from other members of the student body, as they obviously feel they do, it might very well be in their appraisal of the relative value of a dance bid.
Two representatives from the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. addressed the Senate in an attempt to make that body aware of the presence of a problem which could, if not brought under control, seriously question the integrity of the Notre Dame student.
As a result the Student Senate has taken steps to form a Committee for the purpose of working with the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. in eliminating -such flagrant abuses as the one com-' mitted by the Notre Dame student last week who talked for two and one-half hours to Massachusetts, incurred a bill for forty-four dollars, and then hung up when the operator cut in. Last year alone, 2,721 slugs, 783 shaved pennies, and 1,199 washers were found in the coin boxes of campus telephone booths.
Also on the agenda was Bill Spark’s new policy of Student Organizations which promises to effect a more efficient control of all student organizations, including the elimination of the “recruiting” of athletes by campus geographic clubs.
12
That you have read this far surprises me. I expect that half of our fellow students here saw the title, “Your Academic Commission,” decided that this topic didn’t interest them, and then looked for some more appealing article to read.
Those who skipped this article have a misconception about their Academic Commission at Notre Dame. The Commission has probably the most important and appealing responsibility of any group on campus. Our signs say that we “intend to provide extracurricular opportunities for stimulating inquiry and expression among interested students.” Well, this certainly is a mouthful, but (if you’ll permit me) it is a meaningful mouthful.
We are all going to be influenced by our four years at Notre Dame. Some of us will change a great deal, others will develop what they brought here with them. When we say that some students will change and others will develop, we are talking to a large extent about their ideas and values. It would be difficult to finish four years at any one location, let alone a university, and have your ideas and the extent to which you believe in them unchanged. At Notre Dame, our curriculum and our friends probably cause the greatest change in our lives. Our friends and our curriculum give us the opportunity to experience and to understand ways of living and thinking different from our own. This gradual deepening of each student’s personality is aided by everything he encounters on this campus: by having to lend his roommate some soap, by being carded in Frankie’s, by listening to a distinguished lecturer such as Mortimer Adler.
It is the responsibility of the Academic Commission to provide, in its field, a contribution to this development of the student; to afford the student an added opportunity, besides his courses and his friends, for expanding his capacity to understand
and to love. This is the responsibility of all education, and seems almost too difficult to perform . . . but is it so difficult?
Quite often, the best way to handle a situation is to leave it alone, and let it work itself out. Similarly, a good way of contributing to the development of students is to let them flourish on what interests them. The Commission then has the appealing job, and the capability, of determining what the student would like to see, and of arranging for him to see it.
To help us do this, the Commission has six offices. The Distinguished Lecture Series Chairman will invite men from all over the country to speak in four areas: Education, Science and Technology, Theology, The Intellectual Life. The Student-Faculty Lecture Series will investigate the ideas of students and faculty at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s on topics such as “The Meaning of Love,” and “Catholicism and the Modern Vision of Man.” The Poetry Reading Series will invite the poets on campus, and from other colleges, to read and discuss their art with students and faculty. Our Coordinator will work with the Social Commission, the Political Affairs Commission, St. Mary’s College, the Morris Civic Auditorium, and with other organizations, to remove any conflict in schedulings. The Publicity Chairman will see that every student knows what we are going to do, when we’ll do it, and why it will interest him. The Secretary-Treasurer will keep our books. These six men, besides their particular jobs, will contribute their ideas and suggestions for establishing a worthwhile extracurricular academic life for us at Notre Dame.
If you are interested in any one of these six positions look for the signs telling you when and how to apply. If you think that the Commission’s purpose is a worthy one, and are interested, in helping us, drop me s line at 409 St. Joseph Hall.
The Scholastic
Changes & Things
“There is nothing more difficult to carry out, nor more doubtful of success, nor more dangerous to handle than to institute a new order of things,” was the warning of Machiavelli. And this is a year of new things at Notre Dame.
Three major construction projects are under way. The $3 million Computing Center and Mathematics Building, completed this past week, will house a UNIVAC 1107. The 13-story Notre Dame Memorial Library, and the Radiation Research Center have been delayed six weeks in their completion because of a pipe fitters’ strike.
The faculty received 56 new members, with 20 professors on leave, but suffered significant losses, including 9 members of the engineering department (4 from the Electrical Engineering staff) and 8 from the English department. Departures from the English department include Paul Baumgartner, Ross Brackney, Elias Schwartz, Jerome Taylor, and Rafael Alan Pollock. Frank Keegan, formerly of the General Program, is now an associate dean at Georgetown. The Mathematics department lost Wladimir Seidel.
Among the visiting professors are: Dr. Francis Rice, formerly head of the chemistry departments of Catholic University of America and Georgetown, now principal research scientist of the Radiation Laboratory and visiting research professor of chemistry. On his staff at the laboratory are research scientists Peter Ludwig and Donald Peterson. Peter J. Ro-quette, of the University of Tubingen,
September 28, 1962
Germany, will be visiting professor of mathematics.
Dr. Thomas S. C. Wang, of the Taiwan Sugar Experiment Station on Formosa, is guest professor in the departments of biology and chemistry; and Robert Boyd, of Australia, is visiting associate professor of political science.
This year the Freshman Orientation Program was revised. Dean of Freshmen William M. Burke said that, for the first time, that which had been planned was successfully carried out. The program, inaugurating the “new look” freshman year, had four characteristics distinguishing it from past years: an emphasis on the academic; a strong effort to include parents in the orientation; a shortened Mission to aid its impact; and an effort to maintain an over-all unity of feeling. To accomplish these goals, the old freshman picnic, mixer, and pep rally were abandoned, a joint parent-son session was conducted, and a “Meet Your Son’s Professors” program was begun. The new Stepan Center provided room for the parents and students to meet together and be treated as a unit.
If freshmen might appreciate the freedom of the common year, they were faced with a new set of rules. Unlike upperclassmen, freshmen have their electric power shut off at midnight, get only three midnight permissions a week, and are required to attend study periods set up by the rectors.
Freshmen have cause for hope, however. One Freshman Hall rector told the Scholastic: “It is possible
that, if the first semester goes well, the freshmen will be allowed all-night lights.”
Senior Blue Circle member, Bill Moran, who helped with the Orientation, was full of praise for the freshmen: “the thing that has most impressed me and given me my greatest optimism about the class of ’66 is its great eagerness to learn all it can about Notre Dame life and all its traditions.” The freshmen ware “seriously concerned with the most vital aspect of student life.”
They lost part of their enthusiasm when they registered a claim for the intercollegiate record for room stacking with Chicago WLS radio’s nutty deejay Dick Biondi. The freshmen massed 237 people in a room in Farley Hall. (See cut.)
The perenially new thing at Notre Dame is freshmen. This year the 1475 newcomers represent 30 foreign countries and every state but North Dakota. They were chosen from 4,300 applicants, 500 more than last year. For the first time the freshmen are not included in the four colleges, but are classed under a common freshman program. They were still admitted by quotas according to the colleges they “intend.”
It seems a new era is beginning at the University. There are new directors of Food Services and Dining Halls. Director Gilbert Volmi, who received his B.A. in Hotel, Restaurant and Institution Administration from Penn State, his master’s from Florida State, and with experience at the University of Maryland, was appointed to his position in June after observing Notre Dame operations all last year. His assistant and head of the North Dining Hall, is Bernard Marshall, who also has a degree in restaurant management from Penn State. Both men hope to improve relations with the students by improving service and offering more choices on the menu.
About the end of October, Volmi plans to establish Student Food Committees for both dining halls, with representatives from campus and off-campus students.
Louis J. Andrew, senior accounting major from Fond du Lac, Wise., is the first Director of Student Employees at the South Dining Hall. He will handle all student employees. William Parker, senior finance major from Nebraska City, Nebr., is his counterpart at the North Hail.
The new University Religious Chaplain, replacing Rev. Glen Boarman, (Continued on page 25)
13
OPEN HOUSE
yes, I know
by COLLEEN
Crashing Scholastic this year causes the same sensation in me that walking into a stadium-sized room filled with only Notre Dame boys does. It makes me very aware that I am a girl. I’m sure that the femininity of my mind shows, and if you call it anything else I shall probably be shattered. If, however, you are kind, I may manage to cross the room gracefully and make a confident exit by next June. There is a purpose to this feminine by-line: intercampus communication. In other words, we want to tell you what is going on at Saint Mary’s so, if you are bewildered at the social or academic setup here this column may help you. Also, if you’re interested in what our theater is doing, in visiting lectures, in exhibits, in social events, or even in
Sophomore left guard, Barb Brown, of the unbeaten, unscored upon St. Mary's Maulers, receives an after game mdssage from team physician Joe Brown. Besides football this 5’1/" River Forest, III., brunette likes Joe Brown.
what we think of these things, this column will try to let you know.
Not to throw too many compliments and thanks your way, but I must admit that there is a suspicion that your declaration of new rules last year has set a precedence for some changes over here. Our Dean of Students, Sister Basil Anthony, gave a “freedom convocation” last Thursday. Expelled from the books is the nine o’clock rule which meant that unless you left campus before nine you couldn’t leave at all. Sister has thought up an imaginary boy who studies on Friday and Saturday evenings until after nine and then suddenly wants to take a girl out for a cup of coffee or a walk. Now when that imaginary boy calls after nine o’clock we can say “Yes, love to go." No more six-hour limit! This is great because it means that you don’t have to borrow a car to return your date to her dorm twice a day for her to write her name in the sign-out book. Only two qualifications are made on this: still no dunes after five-thirty, and you and she can't elope to another state; in fact, you can’t take her over the (Continued on page 28)
In case you haven’t noticed, the name of this column is Time Out. Of course if you can’t read, you wouldn’t know either, and it will not help to go any further since all these letters won’t make any sense. Perhaps we have a mutual difficulty. You cannot read and some people say that we cannot. . . . Anyway, this is the movie column. The obvious question is: Why didn’t we call it the Movie Column? We are terribly unimaginative.
Aside from providing the Notre Dame student with invaluable information about the downtown movies, this column will also include many other worthwhile features. Productions and films at St. Mary’s, the Morris Civic, and at Washington Hall will be announced. We will also give notice of the Student-Faculty film series and the campus club films whenever we feel like it. And now. we go to the big town.
The Avon. This week's twin bill presents a couple of films from behind the Iron Curtain. The first is Kanai. a Polish production with English subtitles, and the second is A Summer To Remember, from Russia. Kanai. a 1956 production directed by Wajda, tells the story of a group of Polish resistance fighters (yea) making a last stand against the Germans (boo) in Sept. 1944. Most of the movie deals with the escape of this brave band through the sewers of the city, and little, if anything, is left to the viewer’s imagination in the way of dialogue and description, as they either: (1) kill themselves, (2) get shot by the Germans (hiss) or (3) just plain go mad. Sounds like a great one to see after a meal at Ziggy’s! Kanai. in case you didn’t gather, stands for
sewer.
Just for variety. A Summer to Remember is in Russian with English subtitles. It is the story of a young, innocent Russian boy who discovers life. This is a theme that will soon make freshman English students sick. Everything turns out well for the boy. He discovers life. The Avon also turns (Continued on page 21)
September 28, 1962
15
Dick and Jane at Notre Dame
1
“Oh!” said Dick, “look. What is that?”
“It is a city,” said Jane. “It is South Bend.”
See South Bend.
“A city?” said Dick. “What is that smell?”
“That is South Bend too.”
Smell South Bend.
“What are those men doing?” said Dick.
“That is men marching. They are having a parade.”
March, march, march.
“Where are they going?” said Dick. .
“Nowhere,” said Jane, “that is the R.O.-T.C.”
“Who are those in the grass?”
o
“They are alumni,” said Jane. “They are watching the parade.”
“Don’t they work?” said Dick.
“They are alumni,” said Jane.
“You are smart, Jane. How old are you?”
“I am a St. Mary’s girl,” said Jane. See
Jane blush. “I am not smart.” Blush, blush, blush.
“Are those St. Mary’s girls too?”
“Hi, Izzy. Hi, Boo. Yes, they are St. Mary’s girls too.”
“Then what is St. Paul’s for?” said Dick.
“Silly, we are not supposed to be in pictures.”
Jane is smart. Wouldn’t you like to know a girl like Jane?
2
Bang, crash, bam.
“They are playing football,” said Jane. “It is an athletic activity.”
Smash, kaboom, boff.
“Is it fun?” said Dick.
“Not really,” said Jane. “It is a business. It keeps the University running.”
16
The Scholastic
“What’s that man doing over there?” said Dick.
“Oh.” said Jane, “that is the coach. He is making a new secret weapon.”
“Look out,” said Dick. “Here they come.” See Dick and Jane run.
Crash, bang. 7	o
3	,
“Where are the cows?” said Dick. “What cows?” said Jane.
“The cows that live there.”
It’s a symbol. My Daddy is an English teacher.”
“What’s it stand for?” said Dick.
“Daddy won’t say.”	.
“Why is it golden?” said Dick.
“That’s the alumni’s idea. It makes it
cost more. People see how rich they are.” “Are those alumni too?”
“No, they are from South Bend.”
“Then why are they here?” said Dick.
“They have no jobs,” said Jane. “They come to see the Golden Dome.”
“Why?” said Dick.
“They are called migrant workers. Sometimes the University hires them.”
4
“Look,” said Jane, “see the smoke.”
Smoke, smoke, smoke.
“Stupid,” said Jane, “that is not for keeping cows. That is the Administration Building”
“What is that on top?”
“That is the Golden Dome.”
See the Golden Dome shine.
“What is it for?” said Dick. •
“My Daddy says it stands for something.
“That was fun,” said Dick.
Fun, fun, fun.
“Run,” said Jane.
“Ha, ha, ha.”
See Dick and Jane run.
Cough, cough, cough. O J	O J	o
(Pictures courtesy of the Unnersity of Notie Danie Library Archives.)
— John Pesta, Tom Hoobler
September 28, 1962
17
A Hart !
to
Heart
Talk
A dominating topic of discussion whenever the older alumni gather for a reunion is, “Whatever happened to the ‘good old Notre Dame’ of years gone by?” There is very strong sentiment that pre-World War II Notre Dame was a much more pleasing and rewarding place to live than is the Notre Dame of today. It seems this feeling is based upon something more substantial than mere sentimentality.
When the “Great Years” are recalled, there flashes before each of us the striking image of the vigorous, throbbing, yet warm and personal community that was Notre Dame. Why is it that students here no longer feel the fervent attachment to the University and the vital cohesiveness among themselves that once were so characteristic of Notre Dame? The obvious answer is that in the process of growth, changes within the University have caused the loss of certain institutions and traditions responsible for the particular atmosphere so well remembered, simply because the old institutions and traditions could not endure, intact, under new circumstances.
The root of unity within any university is the personal identification with, and mutual respect for, each member of that community of stu
dents, faculty, and administration. Several decades ago, when Notre Dame was a small school, it was possible to have close personal contact with' nearly everyone at the University. From this, an intimate family atmosphere developed quite naturally. Everybody lived on campus in closely situated halls; class schedules were about the same since everyone studied approximately the same subjects; and they all had roughly the same family backgrounds. The old community stability and tranquility was aborted after World War II, when Notre Dame mushroomed into a campus of 5000+. Specialization developed within the different colleges, attracting students of diverse interests, and, drawing on a national following, students of radically different ethnic and regional traditions.
The old family spirit remains at Notre Dame, but it is spread so thin over the student masses that it can’t really be felt, only referred to as a nonexistent ideal. In its hugeness, Notre Dame seems to have lost the spirit of fraternal companionship that contributed so significantly to the achievement of a full academic, social, and spiritual life.
But is it necessarily true that this community that was Notre Dame has
been lost forever? I think not. It is impossible to achieve more than an abstract feeling of belonging together with 5000 others. It is only through sufficient personal contacts or mutual interests that a conscious identification can be maintained. From this personal, conscious identification with others evolves social coherence, the basis of a true community.
Today, the only unit at Notre Dame where there is any reasonable basis for a community is the hall. Most halls are not so large that it is impossible to come to know everyone well, particularly under the permanent hall residence system, which provides for continuity of association. The hall is a place where those with common bonds of interest can thrive and develop intellectually, socially, spiritually, and even physically, by virtue of the mutual response and comradeship that is spontaneous within a group with similar interests.
A university housing unit designed for sleeping and studying but little else makes no significant contribution to the educational process of its inhabitants. It seems that a residence unit with satisfactory physical facilities and well-directed cultural, social, spiritual, and athletic programs helps establish social coherence within the

The Scholastic
Kevin Hart is Notre Dame’s student body President. Here he discusses student direction in a time when the University is changing both physically and educationally.
hall as well as contributing value and meaning to the educational process.
If we, as students, are to participate successfully in an effort to regain the sense of belonging to a community and take advantage of the potential educational opportunities in the residence halls at Notre Dame, the student government must modify itself to best accommodate this new concept of hall life. The student government should find its most productive expression at the hall level, because it can provide the activities through which the residence units can act as an integral part of the educational process. Hall-centered activities also provide more opportunity for the establishment of personal contacts and recognition of common interests, relationships from which social coherence, the feeling of belonging to a community of significance and value.
This year, the student government is focusing as many programs and activities as possible into the halls. But we are aware that the mere existence of activities within a hall is not sufficient to substantially change the tone and temper of student life at Notre Dame.
In most halls, the physical facilities severely limit opportunities for in
formal social contact. It seems, for instance, that the existence of a large common room on each floor where magazines, card tables, etc., are available, would enhance the coherence of that floor as a social unit, and, eventually, the coherence of the entire hall. It also seems expedient that some of the larger halls be broken down into smaller, more homogeneous units.
But none of these changes can be brought about only by the efforts of those directly involved in the student government. The commitment of each member of a hall to the desirability of and necessity for a particular change is required if that change is to be successfully effected. Whether alterations of the hall’s physical structure, or changes in the methods of maintaining order are contemplated, revisions will be made if the members of that hall feel they are important enough to merit the attention and cooperation of each member individually.
The possibilities for development in a residence hall that also functions as a community are almost unlimited. If the community desires self-government, success is assured by the very nature of the community. Each hall will have to prove its right to self
government, and depending on the success or failure of its proof, show itself to be a true community, or just a conglomeration of students acting individually and irresponsibly.
There is a natural tendency on the part of the administration to be critical of new ideas proffered by students. But student attempts at selfdiscipline have failed in the past for the same reason university discipline has not been able to “mold” anyone to its standards. No discipline imposed from without can stir students to conform in their hearts to a prescribed manner of behavior. It is only when there is general consensus and agreement among those who commit themselves to self-discipline and personal integrity and responsibility that a “discipline” can be said to be effective. True self-government under permanent hall residence is still several years in the future. It will take time for necessary community coherence to develop and take hold. The student government is seeking to uncover new channels for student action, and to discover the structures through which students can most effectively work to create for themselves a more satisfying, more rewarding life during their four years at the University.
September 28, 1962
19
OKLAHOMA BACKFIELD: QB MONTE DEERE, RH PAUL LEA, LH CHARLES MAYHUE, AND FB JIM GRISHAM.
Irish Face Sooners in Opener
by BOB SCHEFFING
Tomorrow afternoon at 3:30 C.D.T. before a CBS television audience numbering nearly fifty million people, the 1962 Notre Dame football team will move into action against Coach Bud Wilkinson’s Sooners at Norman, Oklahoma. Oklahoma has already opened its schedule with a 7-3 victory over Syracuse, the Liberty Bowl champs. This year’s Sooners carry a six-game winning skein into this game; but five of these wins were scored by last year’s team that graduated nine of its eleven starters. In addition to this the squad lost four members from its alternate unit.
Wilkinson is very optimistic about this new season even though the men who scored 15 of his 17 touchdowns last year have departed. The head coach sums up the season in this way: “I’m real optimistic. I feel our team has more athletic ability than we’ve had in several years and it should be a rapidly improving team.” The Sooners did a tremendous job in recruiting last year’s freshman squad; and they hauled in two junior college transfers, one named Joe Don Looney who streaked for a last quarter touchdown against Syracuse last Saturday.
Oklahoma coaches have analyzed the new year this way: they foresee a greater potential in all major phases of play although lacking an experienced team. The squad possesses more over-all speed, defense, passing, and running ability than last year’s senior team. The forward line
headed by co-captains Wayne Lee and Leon Cross average 211 pounds. Alternate end Rick McCurdy, a sophomore, recovered three Syracuse fumbles last week end and may move into a starting position.
LOOKING AHEAD
Captain Mike Lind, Coach Joe Kuharich, friend.
The Sooner’s biggest problem is in the backfield where the entire first team graduated and no lettermen remain at fullback. Halfbacks Paul Lea and Gary Wylie return from last year’s alternate unit. Lea is pri-
20
The Scholastic
marily a defensive specialist who led the team in kickoff and punt returns while Wylie is a converted fullback with plenty of speed. Sophomore Jim Grisham is the number one fullback, but is being pushed by Joe Looney. Looney stunned Syracuse last week with a 60-yard touchdown run with only two minutes to play. Last year Looney was an All-American at Cameron, Oklahoma Junior College where he established a new scoring mark.
Quarterback has been another question mark for the Sooners since sophomore Tommy Pannell was injured in an early scrimmage. Pannell would have been the first sophomore to ever open at quarterback for Bud Wilkinson had he not fractured his ankle. Pannell will be replaced by Monty Deere or Ron Fletcher. Deere has only played defense in his two previous seasons while Fletcher is a 159-pound junior who sold hot dogs at last year’s games. Fletcher was moved up to the starting position from fifth string.
This year is clearly a rebuilding year for Oklahoma which faces Notre Dame and Texas after beating Syracuse. Wilkinson had his youngsters ready for Syracuse, and their experience in that game should equalize Notre Dame’s uncanny ability to win opening games. If Cross, Lee, and tackle Duane Cook can maintain the stubborn defense they threw at Syracuse, it could provide the spark that this young team needs. Bud Wilkinson has not been coaching for sixteen years at Oklahoma to no avail. His squads have amassed a 123-23-4 record, and Oklahoma has won more football games than any other college team — including Notre Dame.
Foice in the Crowd
Notre Dame’s 1962 football team, much to the dismay of its still loyal followers, is “hurting.” Graduation and ineligibility have removed 25 players from last year’s squad which finished 5-5. These graduation losses include nine of last season’s starting eleven: the entire line and two of the top rushers. Academic deficiencies interrupted the careers of three expected key players on this year’s club: Mickey Bitsko, Jim Snowden, and Paul Costa. Perhaps an even more serious blow to the Irish hopes came when captain and preseason AllAmerican fullback candidate Mike Lind reinjured his knee over the summer, forcing him to the sidelines temporarily.
However, there are still some bright spots on the ’62 Irish. The greatest of these is the quarterback position where two seasoned signal callers, Daryle Lamonica and Frank Budka, return. As Captain Lind explains, “this has to be our greatest asset if we expect to win this year.” Since Coach Joe Kuharich plans to alternate two units equally in the Norman, Okla., heat tomorrow, both quarterbacks will play a great deal.	•
READY FOR OKLAHOMA?
Reports indicate the Oklahoma team resembles the great Sooner squads of the past. Again its main asset is lightning speed and a solid, yet mobile, line. Bud Wilkinson’s eleven opened its season last week end with an impressive victory over respected Syracuse, 7-3. The offense against the Orangemen featured roll-out passes and wide end sweeps.
This is a type of attack that could bury Notre Dame if it is not contained in the initial stages of tomorrow’s encounter. For if the Sooners score quickly, with a rabid home-coming crowd behind them, the game but inexperienced Irish could be unable to recover enough to come back.
Captain Lind has good reason to believe differently, however. As he puts it, “last year the main problem was that everyone knew what they could do and did it individually. A clique developed among the predominantly senior squad. This year, because of the loss of these veterans, there has been much competition for positions — causing everyone to work together. Therefore, we don’t have a senior group, a junior group, and a sophomore group as we had last year.” ANALYSIS
This is certainly not one of the great Notre Dame elevens. However, it could be a lot better than most feel it will be. Then again, it could possibly lose more games than any Irish team ever.
Will the Irish rise to the occasion as they have many times in the past or will they perhaps reach the lowest ebb of an already mediocre era? The guess is here that while this may not be a highly-rated Notre Dame team, it possesses certain strong points that could turn a close game in favor of the Irish. Lamonica and Budka have directed Irish squads under fire before, whereas the quarterback corps at Oklahoma is thin and basically inexperienced. Last year Lamonica’s steady handling of the squad against Purdue and Budka’s pro-like guidance in the Syracuse game meant victory in those close games. This leadership could keep Notre Dame in the game. For the Irish to win, they must get topflight performances from certain key individuals. Chief among these is Budka. Budka is a gambler who had 14 passes intercepted last season; but if he is having a good afternoon, few, if any, college quarterbacks can touch him. Many feel another key player is Ronnie Bliey, a much publicized but untested sophomore halfback. Few athletes give good performances in their first game or first year. But Bliey IS as good a running back as they say he is. However, nothing more than a good spot performance can be expected or hoped for.
FORECAST
A wide open game is predicted for tomorrow. Experience at quarterback will make up for a green line as the passing combination of Budka and end Jim Kelly will bring Notre Dame a 27-21 victory.
—John Bechtold
September 28, 1962
21
as we see it
by JOE RYAN
Another summer is gone, and with it, another baseball season. In the American League, Roger Maris was forgotten as fans warmed to the play of two new pennant contenders, the Twins and the Angels.
Camilo Pascual led a revivified Twins pitching staff to heights he, and othei’ former Senator hurlers, once thought untenable. Harmon Killebrew and Bob Allison again supplied the power, with Rich Rollins dropping in enough hits to lift the Twins to a surprising second place.
Gene Autry’s galloping Angels meanwhile, found themselves in a fight for an all-L.A. series as the added punch of Leon Wagner held them close to the top all season.
At the top, of course, there was room only for the Yankees who are surprising no one as they move to clinch another A.L. flag. Ralph Terry ■ became the work horse of the staff as he became the Yanks’ second twenty-game winner in as many years.. Despite Roger Maris’ halving his output, Tony Kubek’s missing half "the season, and another appearance of Whitey Ford’s chronic arm ailment, the Bronx Bombers have been able to compile a winning percentage which, though it would merit only fourth in the National league, seems to be enough to leave the Yanks at least five games in front on September 30.
In the Senior Circuit, the Dodgers raced right to the top, figuratively and literally. With Don Drysdale and Sandy Koufax firing strikes past perplexed opponents, Maury Wills and the Davis boys shot around the diamond to steal bases with amazing guile. Where there’s a Wills, there’s a way, and Maury found his way around enough tags to almost certainly become the first man to crack the century mark in stolen bases.
The Giants, who must wish the season lasted only through August, folded again in September after pressing the Dodgers until Labor Day. The decline of the San Franciscans began when Willie Mays collapsed from stomach pains in the dugout early this month. Willie lost three days due to this attack of indigestion, while Ins teammates lost three games....
Twins9 Twins: Rollins and Allen
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
Perhaps the most surprising team in a surprising 1962 American League pennant race was the Minnesota Twins, nee the Washington Senators, who rose from seventh to second. And the Twins’ most pleasant surprises were certainly Rich Rollins and Bernie Allen.
Third Baseman Rollins and second baseman Allen gave the Twins the spark to challenge the Yankees and, ultimately, to finish ahead of Los Angeles. Said Tigers’ Manager Bob Scheffing, whose charges lost 13 of 18 to the Twins: “Those kids killed us.”
Rich Rollins and Bernie Allen are members of the new generation of college-educated major leaguers, competent and confident on and off the field. Both are from Ohio; both were born on April 16. Rollins, now 24, played against Notre Dame as a member of the Kent State baseball squad; Allen, now 23, played both baseball and football against the Irish — in Purdue’s 51-19 football victory in 1960, he alternated at quarterback with Maury Guttman, throwing a touchdown pass, and kicking six of seven extra points and a field goal. Both plan to teach and coach. ■
These “Twins” room together on the road and share common viewpoints on baseball and other subjects.
Rollins, whose batting average hasn’t fallen below .300 all season, talks modestly of his success: “There are a couple of reasons why I was able to have a good season this year. First, I played a few games with the Twins last season, and had a chance to see some major league pitching, so it was easy for me to adjust this spring. Second, I was lucky enough
to get off to a real good start, and that always gives you confidence.
“Actually, the only reason I got a chance to play was that Zoilo Versalles got sick during spring training, and I was the only guy left who could play shortstop. And then to be chosen by my fellow players as All-Star third baseman means more than I can say; Brooks Robinson is my idol, and for my money he’s the best third baseman in the league. I just had an early hitting streak, that’s all.
“The toughest thing I’ve had to learn this year is how to pace myself— you don’t feel the same every day, and you have to make adjustments.”
Allen reacts similarly: “When I reported this spring, I thought I’d be playing in Vancouver this season. But I got a chance to fill in at short, and then they moved me to second. Why has my average gone up steadily? Well, I’ve gotten to know the pitchers, and as I got more relaxed and confident, I started waiting for my pitch. I’ve had to learn two important things as a rookie: how to play different hitters when I’m in the field, and how.not to worry. At the beginning of the season, I couldn’t buy a hit, and I started worrying and trying too hard. It wasn’t until I figured ‘the hell with it’ and relaxed that I started hitting.”
Good-natured banter between the “Twins” helps keep them relaxed before the game. “You know, Rooms,” cracked Allen as he headed for the batting cage, “my wife says you’re getting thin. You better marry that girl and get some home cooking.”
The Scholastic
22
AUTUMN SPECIAL • FREE Goodyear Rubber Heels with
MEN’S FULL SOLES $3.89 MEN’S HALF SOLES $2.89
•
• QUALITY MATERIALS • EXPERT WORKMANSHIP • COURTEOUS SERVICE
o Washington Shoe Repair Shop 116 West Washington Street
Welcomes Notre Dame Men
FINE JEWELRY * FINE SERVICE FAIR PRICES
DIAMONDS
Keepsake • Artcarved • Orange Blossom
WATCHES
Omega • Rolex • Longines • Wittnauer Patek Phillipe
14K GOLD JEWELRY
Charms • Bracelets • Pendants • Crosses Pins • Cultured Pearls
FASHION JEWELRY
Trifari • Monet • Eisenberg • Siamese Sterling and Gold Filled Charms
Credit (with no interest) and Layaway — available to
NOTRE DAME MEN
Open Monday and Thursday till 8:30 P.M.
J EWEIE KS
121 W. Washington CE 4-1311
September 28, 1962
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
MIAMI VS. TEXAS CHRISTIAN: In the Game of the Week, the nation’s two top quarterbacks will meet in a head-to-head duel. George Mira and Miami are the probable winners over Sonny Gibbs and TCU.
ARMY VS. SYRACUSE: Paul Dietzel has yet to walk up the Hudson, but after tomorrow’s victory at Yankee Stadium, the Cadets may expect him to return to West Point by this route. Army over Syracuse in the Upset of the Week.
MINNESOTA VS. MISSOURI: The Gophers haven’t found a quarterback to replace All-American Sandy Stephens; even Stephens wasn’t enough to beat the Tigers last season. Missouri over Minnesota.
RICE VS. LOUISIANA STATE: LSU should be one of the country’s top half-dozen; Jerry Stovall and the Bengals will be too much for the game Owls.
AIR FORCE VS. PENN STATE: The class of the East will look like Thunderbirds to the Falcons.
MICHIGAN STATE VS. STANFORD: As Duffy Daugherty said, “Our linemen are so big I had to get small backs to squeeze through between them.” State’s linemen will be too big and their backs too swift for Stanford.
ALABAMA VS. TULANE: Bear Bryant’s Crimson Tide should engulf the Green Wave of Tulane with little difficulty.
OTHER GAMES:
Ohio State over North Carolina
Southern Cal over Southern Methodist
Baylor over Pittsburgh
Washington over Illinois
Duke over South Carolina
Iowa over Oregon State Mississippi over Kentucky Oregon over Utah Tennessee over Auburn
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
When Godiva, that famed lady fair, Told her husband, ‘Tve nothing to wear,” With his Swingline in hand. He stapled a band And said, "Wear this, my dear, in your hair'."
SWINGLINE
STAPLER
No bigger than a pack of gum
•	Unconditionally guaranteed!
•	Refills available anywhere!
•	Get it at any stationery, variety, or book store!
•	Send in your own Swingline Fable Prizes tor those used
INC. LONG ISLAND CITY 1, N_ Y, -
RUBIN CLEANERS
Save 20%
Use Student Discount Plan •
217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown — on the bus line
•
COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE DRY CLEAN ONLY SERVICE 8 lbs. for $1.50
Serving Notre Dame Men for over 40 years!
Back to classes...
prepared for every course with
famous educational paperbacks perfect for learning and reviewing Over 100 titles on the following subjects:
ANTHROPOLOGY ART BUSINESS
DRAMA ECONOMICS EDUCATION
ENGINEERING ENGLISH HISTORY
Soccer
The 1962 version of the Notre Dame Soccer Team, captained by senior Bob DuBois, opens the season against Goshen on Tuesday, Oct. 2, at 3:00 p.m. in the parade grounds. The club, in its second year of intercollegiate play, has expanded its schedule to include eight games after last year’s respectable 4-2 finish.
Nine of the eleven 1961 starters wall be returning to face teams like two-time N.C.A.A. champions St. Louis University, and Ball State, undefeated in last year’s play. Graduation losses included forwards Charles Wong and Josef Echelle, last year’s captain and founder of the club.
BARNES & NOBLE COLLEGE OUTLINE S SERIES
LANGUAGES MATHEMATICS MUSIC PHILOSOPHY POLITICAL SCIENCE PSYCHOLOGY SCIENCE SOCIOLOGY SPEECH STUDY AIDS
Cross-Conntry Prospects
by BILL YALEY
1962 Cross-Country Captain
The 1962 cross-country team, looking forward to a successful season, will meet Indiana at Bloomington in its opener on October 12.
Although junior Frank Carver is the only returning monogram winner, a good group of experienced juniors and an excellent crop of sophomores make Coach Alex Wilson optimistic about the season’s outcome.
Pressing Carver particularly are sophomores Bill Welch, Bill Clark, and Rich Fennelly. Welch, recovered from a leg injury, has been especially impressive.
This foursome will be backed by veterans Jim Webster, Ray Wherley, Jack Mulligan, John Salzman, and Kevin Walsh, and by sophs Al Whittine, Pat Conroy, and George Carroll.
The schedule we face will be tough. The Indiana meet will be followed by the Notre Dame Invitational Meet here on October 19, and by a dual meet against Michigan State at home on October 26.
November meets include the Indiana State Cross-Country Championships on November 2 at Indianapolis; the Chicago Track Club at home on November 9; the Central Collegiate Conference Championships in Chicago on November 16; the IC4A meet in New York on November 19; and finally, the NCAA Championships at East Lansing on November 26.
Prime foes for the Irish in big meets, such as the CCC, IC4A, and NCAA, will be such powerful squads as Western Michigan and Villanova.
Coach Wilson feels, though, that our sophomores, while inexperienced, definitely have ability, and he is hoping that this year’s cross-country team will be one of his best. I just hope I recover from my pneumonia in time to be a part of it.
Average price $1.50
ON DISPLAY AT YOUR BOOKSTORE
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Lacrosse
Sandy Marlowe, captain-elect of the Lacrosse team, has announced a meeting to be held on September 30 at 6:30 a.m. in the basement of the Geology Building. Only varsity members of last year’s team are asked to attend this informal symposium.
The Scholastic
24
‘Hear-Say’
(Continued from page 9)
cence of the Miles Davis Porgy and Bess album, and the amazingly and triumphantly nonderivative beauty of Stravinsky’s Pulcinella (the Russian composer, as you have probably gathered, lives near the capital of Hearsay). One of the things which we seem to be taking really seriously this century is a democracy of ideas. This can lead to productive greatness within the tradition, to inconsequential stammering, or (with apologies again — this time to John Stuart Mill) to “chats” and columnists. I hope that the column is going to be fun; or rather, I hope it doesn’t begin to take itself or be taken too seriously, and manages to be fun.
It’s an odd sort of thing, and frankly, I’m surprised that it happened, albeit glad. Terms have been defined and offenses laid bare, and next time music in some form or other will be discussed. The column will be biweekly, and, of course, will run for the full school year, unless reader interest, writer stamina, or official permission (that is, the work load) begin to fluctuate more abnormally than usual.
—Frank McConnell
‘Changes & Things’
(Continued from page 13)
C.S.C., is Rev. Lloyd Teske, C.S.C. He graduated Magna Cum Laude from Notre Dame, and later received his master’s in English. While in school here he was associate editor of the Dome. He was assistant editor of Ave Maria. Fr. Teske comes to Notre Dame after nine years at the University of Portland, where he was Dean of the Faculty and Dean of the College of Liberal Arts. He plans a one-page Religious Bulletin that will “reflect my own personality.”
His assistants are Rev. John Dupuis, C.S.C., and Rev. Thomas Baker, C.S.C. The new Director for Student Religious Life, occupied with study and survey, is Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Father Cavanaugh is a former corporation officer for Studebaker and President of Notre Dame.
—John Buckley Ken Arnold
Next Week
Being a somewhat presumptuous group this year, we’ve consulted our Ouija board and arrived at an impressive table of contents for our October 5th issue:
Jim Simone on the West African Federation;
Mike Murray on E. E. Cummings;
Ralph Martin on William Higgs;
a Special Report on selected spas of Madison, Wis.
Student Loans Now Available!
JOHN A. MORRISSEY MEMORIAL LOAN FUND
Room 3 — Student Center
Office Hours: 3-4 Monday through Friday
Small Loans subject to approval of Student Center Committee Larger Loans subject to approval of the Office of Student Aid
A man needs Jockey support Jockey is for men. Made from 13 separate pieces to give the support and protection every man needs
Get the real thing... it isn’t Jockey
if it doesn’t have the Jockey Boy.* ■
Nans/- Ri ntsssn
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
Phone: CE 2-5881
PROTECT YOUR BOOKS— CARRY THEM IN A STURDY BRIEF BAG.
From $8.95 plus tax
Initialed Free
A man needs a special kind of support for true male comfort. And only Jockey builds a brief from 13 separate, tailored pieces to give that support-plus comfort. No other brief has such a firm, long-lasting waistband to hold the brief up for constant support, and no other brief has the Jockey assurance of no-gap security. d
COOPER'S. INCORPORATED. KENOSHA, W«SC.
fl Jockeu BRIEFS 'I’l	£ 8^-0 9
September 28, 1962
25
Mardi-Gras
(Continued from page 11) allocation of funds (Fr. McCarragher signed all the larger checks) and the decision-making processes. However, in reality, the general chairman approved decisions already made and checks were signed without any real investigation of their need.
Furthermore, the collection process was always haphazard. Normally the student received two books of tickets to sell, but he never really had to account for these tickets. He might sell the tickets and keep the money, for none made him accountable. The hall representative was under no obligation to hand over the money to the raffle chairman, since neither had a complete record as to how many books were out. The raffle chairman likewise could perhaps withhold money from the treasurer and general chairman. Similarly, the general chairman and treasurer (or either one for that matter) could make off with substantial sums of money. There simply hasn’t been any accounting of books to say nothing of the people responsible for them.
But this is not to say that this happened. Mardi Gras workers have been to a high degree honest and dedicated men. But there are no guarantees that students and officers of the organization do not steal or graft. Measures should be taken to insure that students have the responsibility for each raffle ticket, that some accounting is made for each book of tickets handled by the officers of the organization. In general this would require more centralized control and tough accounting procedures. Specifically, all entries must become explicit and detailed. Entries into the check registers and general journal should be clear and complete enough so that auditors will have no cause to question any entry. For example, a bill for $623.95 incurred by the 1960-61 Mardi Gras is under the heading of carnival miscellaneous publicity. A bill this large is hardly miscellaneous.
But the problem of keeping track of Mardi Gras money does not lie wholly with the Mardi Gras organization. The money made by Mardi Gras is turned over to student government, which is the rightful custodian of the
funds. However, in the past, when the transfer took place, the Mardi Gras profits were deposited into the single student government account. It is this account (Student Government Fund) that pays for every expenditure that student government incurs, e.g., card stunts, stationery, and phone bills. It can easily be seen how Mardi Gras profits could be unknowingly used to pay expenditures which are anything but charitable. In order to insure a better accounting and a more proper use of Mardi Gras profits, a separate account (student government auditors concur in this) under the direction of the student government treasurer should be set up. In other words, Mardi Gras must become professionalized to meet the demands of the business it is.
If the improvements as suggested above are adopted, it is felt that Mardi Gras will realize its fullest potential, will do its greatest good. If they are not, we might expect some more rumors, more poor grades for its chairmen, and less confidence and thus less profits for Mardi Gras.
—Jim Wyrsch Tom Schlereth
CLASSES OF
FROM THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
We know what you need in class and out... and we have it for you!
26
The Scholastic
‘time out’
(Continued, from page 15) to the opera again this week. Faust will be shown at 6:30, 8:00, and 9:30 on Wednesday evening.
(Kanai: 6:25,9:30; Summer: 8:00.)
The Colfax. An oldie returns. Rear Window stars James Stewart and Grace Kelly, among others, and is of 1954 vintage. Stewart is a worldroaming photographer who breaks a leg and is confined to his New York apartment. It seems that the good people there do not pull their window shades. This gives the invalid photog a chance to observe life through his rear window. The plot is thickened by Grace Kelly’s attempt to ensnare Jim into marriage. Also, a murder is seemingly carried out in one of the observed windows. All these problems are finally solved, but we never find if Mr. Stewart also discovers life.
(Rear: 1:00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00.)
The Granada. Rock Hudson, Burl Ives and Gena Rowlands star in the Spiral Road. It’s the story of a couple of doctors out there in the jungle. It has its share of conflicts and love affairs and has a surprise ending. They all discover life.
(Road: 1:00, 3:40, 6:25, 9:10.)
The State. Elvis sings his way into our hearts and brings glad tidings of the fight game in Kid Galahad. Presley also sings no less than six hit songs which should make him very happy. While he is doing all this, Elvis discovers that things aren’t quite cricket at camp, since a fix is on. Our hero also straightens out the camp owner’s love life and starts one of his own. Throw in some beautiful color scenery, including Joan Blackman, and you have an Elvis movie which all of his fans cannot miss. By the way, can Floyd Patterson sing?
(Kid: 1:05, 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25.)
Washington Hall. Winner of numerous unknown awards, the French comedy, La Belle Americaine, makes its first appearance tomorrow evening in the local madhouse. If you’re so inclined, watch closely for the commercially attractive “Belle Americaine.” — She sold well in France.
(6:30, 8:30.)
Inside Filmland: Wins YCS Award. Joe Carlock, manager of the Pitt theatre, Lake Charles, La., was awarded the Young Christian Student’s Award of 1961 in recognition as the theatre in Lake Charles showing the highest percentage of family movies during 1961.
“Good night, Chet.”
“Good night, David.”
“Chet?”
“Yes, David?”
“Will you get me a glass of water?”
—Dick Gibbs and Brian Barnes
Cool, clean Old Spice After Shave Lotion always gets you off to a fast, smooth start. Feels just as good between shaves as it does after shaving. Rates A-OK with dates. 1.25 and 2.00 plus tax.
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
S H U l- T O rsl
September 28, 1962
27
FROSH. SOPHS. JUNIORS
The Scholastic business staff is now holding interviews for prospective new members. Those interested should see Jay Ward in 339 Walsh between 6:30-7.00 Mon.-Fri.
Open only to students of NOTRE DAME
Viceroy
Football Contest 1
(Closes October 3rd)
First Prize.. .s100— Second Prize...$259? Ten 3rd Prizes...$10^.cw
12 WINNERS ON THIS CAMPUS IN EACH CONTEST.
Four contests in all . . . New contest every two weeks . . . exclusively for the students on this campus! You’ll find complete rules printed on Official Football Contest Entry Blanks.
Ballot Boxes and Entry Blanks are located at:
THE HUDDLE and THE CAFETERIA
ENTER NOW AND WIN!
Viceroy^
Not too Strong... Not too Light...
got the Taste that’s right!
O ISM. BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP.
Also available in new 'SIide-Top Case

‘Yes, I know’
(Continued from page 15)
border unless she has parental permission. Another thing I think you should know is creating whole women of us is self-sanction. Now we tell the girl down the hall to turn down her stereo if we don’t like her music, rather than waiting for Sister Silent Beads (who is pacing the halls) to quiet her. If house rules are ignored, the girl accepts a set sanction from another student. In the world it is called self-discipline and courtesy. These are all on a one-month trial.
The Freshmen this year are either unadjusted to start with or they are trying to be the best-adjusted-class-on-campus because, in addition to the traditional Big Sister, each one has a faculty counselor to tell her problems to. All they need now is a problem, and the administration is doing their best to eliminate those. For upperclassmen the roommate is still recommended as the psychiatrist.
Please do not call number CE 30407. You will not get Regina Hall any more, but the convent. The Regina girls are now all in Le Mans Hall.
A change has come upon O’Laughlin and the Little Theater. Tony Bill no longer lives in the rafters playing every male lead, and a Mr. Sweet has joined the drama staff. The first play that the department is going to produce is “Bye-Bye Birdie.” If you think it is a nature play it isn’t, but rather, it is a comedy about a rock-and-roll singer who makes good (but not as the son of Frank Sinatra). I can’t say if the response to tryouts has been good but the publicity they are giving them is effective. The come-on they use is like this:
“Bye-Bye Birdie”
is better than
FREE BEER!
There was a big exodus of faculty members from our campus. Everyone heard rumblings of the turnover last spring and part of the coming back conversation was wondering how the new faculty would work. I have four of them myself and I think they are good people, young and knowledgeable. Even the traditional complained-about departments are being turned into favorite departments by the new teachers. How enduring all this first impression is I’ll let you know.
Watch for my other half, this is to be a two-woman venture.
—Colleen
28
The Scholastic
Save 75%!
Do it yourself at Morrow's Cleaning Center 1015 Corby
•
20 Min. Dry Cleaning—8 lb., $1.50 Washing—8 lb., 20c; dry, 10c IRONS & MANGLE
•
Hours: 8 A.M. to 10 P.M.
Attendant to help you
^ItWTURBOW
\0PT0MKTRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
LEATHER SLEEVE JACKETS
Reco Sporting Goods
113 N. Main St.
Next to Oliver Hotel
A. Scripto Wordmaster Ball Pen. No-skip fine or medium points write on anything.Tele-Gauge refill lets you know when the ink is low. Six handsome colors. $1. B.Scripto Ink Cartridge Fountain Pen. Drop-in cartridge writes hundreds of tests, quizzes and phone numbers in blue, black, red or green ink. Fine or medium point. $1. C.Scripto Thin Lead Mechanical Pencil. Sleek, rugged, elegant. Writes with extra fine lead. With reserve’eraserand spare leads. Six colors. $1. Scripto makes the Tilt-Tip® Pen and a complete line of quality ball pens, fountain pens and mechanical pencils from 29$ to $1.98. In Canada, too.
.....	Scripto
September 28, 1962
29
A
I
This week’s cover, by Scholastic art editor Pat Saxe, brings out two prominent themes in Notre Dame life. Large structural changes at the University have been in evidence since 1953.
COVER
The changes have been along various lines, buildings and landscape in particular have moved toward a more elegant approximation of functional design.
More subtly, a new brand of student has appeared, with eyes on
higher goals and new ways of thinking. Some of these new men have been mentioned in this week’s Scholastic — (Page 13).
In future weeks the Scholastic will endeavor to reflect the new with the old, their conflict and mesh.
BUY A PaperbMate PEN GET A REFILL FREE!
The Scholastic
Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry
★
J. Trethewey, Jeweler
★
For: Hamilton — Elgin Bulova — Longines and Wittnauer Watches
★
104 N. Main St.	CE 2-1756
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP
SINCE 1911
PICTURE FRAMING
ART SUPPLIES
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS
•
117 NORTH MAIN ST. South Bend, Indiana CEntral 3-2409
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hout Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
i
Is this the only reason for using Mennen Skin Bracer?
1«AX>£ MMH
Skin Bracer’s rugged, long-lasting aroma is an obvious attribute. But is it everything?
After all, Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer ts the after-shave lotion that cools rather than burns. It helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Helps prevent blemishes. Conditions your skin.
Aren’t these sound, scientific virtues more important than the purely emotional effect Skin Bracer has on
I BAJB M e N « 6 «
I Iwl skin bracer
IN THE NEW NON SUP FLASK
women?
In that case, buy a bottle. And —have fun.
Available at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
September 28, 1962
FOCUS
SUMMER LAY APOSTOLATE: PERU
by Tom Schlereth
This is the first of two Focus articles by Tom Schlereth, a senior History major, who is a member of the Council for the International Lay Apostolate (CILA) here on campus. During the past summer Mr. Schlereth was a member of one of three teams that went abroad as pilot projects of CILA to work as laymen in the mission areas of South America.
“It is good for us to be here, Lord.” Never have these words of St. Peter at the Transfiguration had more meaning for me and the eight other men here at the University whose lives have been transfigured in many ways by our experiences this summer. Our team of men spent the majority of their summer vacation working in the poverty-stricken parish of the Ciudad De Dios (City of God) on the outskirts of the city of Lima. It was good for us to be there to see the strange paradox of a land Catholic in culture, in background, and in sympathy, and yet a land where ignorance and misunderstanding of that very Catholic faith abound; it was good for us to be there to help with the distribution of the foodstuffs donated by the people of the United States to those who call them, “Viveres” (things-to-live-by) and who clutch them with such care that one would think we were distributing life itself;
and it- was very good for us to be there in that dusty, dehydrated slum carved out of an abandoned desert, teeming with 10,000 people, where a dozen individuals crowded into a one-room home is not uncommon, where tuberculosis and cancer take their daily toll, where many children have no shoes and many fathers have no jobs.
Such were daily occurences during our summer’s stay in Peru. A sum- . mer’s stay filled with many reflections, observations, and vivid memories. For example, Bill Moran (G.P. senior from Memphis, Tenn.) will long remember the pride and honor paid him by a humble Peruvian mother and father who requested him to be the “padrino” (godfather) of their newly born infant. Brian Boulac (Physical Education senior from Olympia, Wash.) will not forget the gratitude of a bedridden, widowed cancer victim for whom he constructed a makeshift bed
and put a window into her otherwise damp and dark, cardboard and bamboo hovel of a home.
Similarly, Tom Bishop (History senior from New Rochelle, N.Y.) will frequently recall an experience that happened to him on an evening just before we were to return to this country. At the conclusion of a : program of songs and speeches that was designed to be a fiesta for the	;
people of the city, Tom, making his	i-
way through the crowd, saw a woman ] struggling to get to him. She held i out her small daughter’s little hand 1 to him, and explained her desire to have him say good-bye to her little girl. She said that she wanted him to come back again and continue the ; fine work that he and his friends had ; begun. She was contented that she j and her daughter had the opportunity j to say good-bye personally and wished him to convey her best wishes to his family, the other men at his uni-
32
The Scholastic
versity, and to all the people of his country.
Working daily with the women of the parish in helping them prepare and distribute a breakfast of hot milk and hard rolls, another member of the team, Phil Fedewa (Comm. Arts senior from Lansing, Mich.), will always be reminded of the satisfaction he received from knowing that he had a part in securing such a meal for five hundred children of this slum area, since, for many, it was the best or the only meal they would receive all day. I am also sure that neither the Peruvian mother, her little child, nor Pat Deluhery (English junior from Davenport, Iowa) will forget his attempt to take the infant’s temperature — rectally, that is, while working at the parish clinic and dispensary.
Our work in the slum of the City of God took on many different aspects.
September 28, 1962
Besides the work in the milk line every morning, we were able to set up a recreation program, teaching football and basketball to classes at the Boys’ School. Afternoons were spent in working around the parish plant and helping out wherever we could — painting, repair work, etc. Also, when the occasion presented itself, we helped make small improvements to the shabby homes of the extremely
33
poor when the materials were available. Evenings were occupied with discussions with university students, businessmen and government leaders, from the city of Lima. Also, many evenings were spent in conducting English lessons at the church hall. Since the Peruvian young people are eager to learn what they term the language of success, we were provided with excellent opportunities to get to
know the people well, and were able to talk with them at length about their life, its difficulties and how they might be solved.
However, all of us feel that the real value of all our work was not in these quickly evident, physical contributions, small as they might appear. Rather, we feel results were achieved in the intangible and unmeasurable accomplishments that comprise a major part of any apostolic endeavor. Intangible accomplishments like the one Tom Jolie (Latin American Studies senior from Park Ridge, Ill.) made by simply walking through the streets of the slums, looking like the . Pied Piper of Hamelin with his stream of youthful followers, and always showing his interest and concern for the small children who tramped behind, around, and sometimes on their hero. Affectionately called “Tomas Gordo” (Thomas the Fat) he, like
“ . . . and it was good for us to be there in that dusty, dehydrated slum carved out of an abandoned desert, teeming with 10,000 people, where a dozen persons crowded into a one-room house is not uncommon. . . ”
the rest of the men, played marbles, learned to spin the “trompo” (a toy spinning top) and, in general, attempted to bring some enjoyment into many young lives that had known destitution since birth. Even the smallest attention paid to one of these is rewarded by a response difficult to explain but impossible to resist.
Barry Baldwin (Latin American Studies senior from Toledo, Ohio) will not forget- the feeling he had of the proximity of God’s Providence as he witnessed the contented expression on the faces of a dying Indian couple as they received the last rites of the Church high in the Peruvian Andes. He reminisces how he felt after bouncing along in the jeep of one of the Maryknoll missionaries on this sick call, seeing these two Quechuas baptized, joined in ecclesiastical wedlock, and then receiving Extreme Unction. To him, the global nature of his faith was never more vividly portrayed.
However, the faith of these people left us confused on many occasions.
34
After attending a solemn High Mass in a 400-year-old cathedral in the altiplano city of Cuzco, once the capital of the Inca empire, Ed Murphy (Civil Engineering sophomore from Lima) was intrigued to see the ceremony celebrated in this unique fashion. A booming brass band blaring in the back of the church, hundreds of blazing candles, columns of rising incense, popping fireworks to complete the cacophony of sound and activity, moved Ed to question the celebrant after the Mass on the strangeness of what we had just witnessed. The native cleric replied with some astonishment, “Haven’t you ever seen a Mass celebrated with three priests before?”
I have walked in a Corpus Christi procession, through the streets of the slums, seeing Christ borne in a monstrance of gold through streets littered with dirt, filth, and sewer water. And as the disorganized mass of talking,
singing, praying humanity made its way through the mud-and-cobble alleys, I could only think of how it must have been that Friday in the streets of Jerusalem and how close these people must be to God. Here, the faith seemed so simple, so basic, so human.
However, the Jansenistic spirit, a tradition of the past, has done much damage to the Catholic mentality, and it is taking the heroic effort of missionaries to rebuild it once again. The old tradition, deeply ingrained, was that the majority of the sacraments were for women and children only, and that Baptism and Extreme Unction would suffice for men. It is still evident today. The fact that nine of us went to Mass and Communion every morning had us immediately labelled as “Padrecitos.” The young men of the parish were amazed that we were not seminarians but just average American college students. On the other hand, it seems to me that these people have a great, community consciousness that we, as Catholics, lack in the United States.
In fact, I have been told by some of the Peruvians that, because our faith is so extremely individualistic, it resembles that of the Protestants.
Sunday Mass in the temporary hangarlike church of the City of God is an excellent example of this consciousness. Contrary to our traditional belief that the church building is only God’s house, the Peruvians look upon the temporary shelter as not God’s house alone, but as their house too. It is both theirs and God’s. As a result, there is not the rigid formal ceremony in which the laity take little or no part, but rather a communing with God, a dialogue. That dialogue takes on the form of saying Mass prayers along with the priest, singing hymns, quieting howling babies, or chasing dogs and other animals out of the aisles. It is a ceremony where the humanity of our faith is always evident. Much of it is external, visible, and tangible, but then what is the purpose of our liturgy other than to aid man to God through sign and symbol?
This “community consciousness” does much to give one a tremendous feeling of the unity of the faith and the sense of belonging among its members, but it can also enable an individual to lose himself in a multitude of externals. Incidentally, hearing these humble people sing their native hymns with all the vigor, enthusiasm, and pride that they are capable of, is enough to convince anyone of the value of increasing the vernacular in the liturgy.
There are other paradoxes too. Standing in a three-hundred-year-old Spanish cathedral in Juli, one of the four that flourished in this little altiplano town at the time of Spanish Christianization, I was amazed by the fact that in the colonial period here was once a center of a thriving Catholicism and this very countryside (in fact, all of Peru) had a surplus of priests. The history texts tell us that the ordination of hundreds of deacons was put off because there were no positions available. Today, three Maryknoll fathers care for a parish of almost 100,000 souls in that general area. In addition, more than 200 of the country’s 800 parishes have no resident pastor, and for every missionary there are approximately 6,000 people.
These are some of my observations on problems that confront the Catholics of South America. In next week’s article, I will present some impressions of the economic, social, and educational difficulties of South America and comment on what the Church is doing and plans to do to solve the crisis of the Latin continent.
Dave Brubeck
I'm in a Dancing Mood
RayConniff
The Way You Look Tonight
Miles Davis
If I Were a Bell
The Brothers Four
Marianne
Andre Previn
Like Love
Duke Ellington
Perdido
Carmen McRae
Paradiddie Joe
Boy Hamilton
Angel Eyes
Gerry Mulligan
What Is There To Say
TheHi-Lo’s!
Everything's Coming Up Roses
Lambert, Hendri^^
Cloudburst
Buddy Greco
The Lad/ Is a Tramp
Great new record offer (*3.98 value)...just *1.00 when you buy Sheaffer's back-to-school special!
SHEAFFER’S BACK-TO-SCHOOL SPECIAL!
New cartridge pen with 98 < worth of cartridges FREE.
*3.93 VALUE FOR *2.95
Now when you buy your Sheaffer Cartridge Pen for school, you get 98c worth of Skrip cartridges FREE...a $3.93 value for just $2.95. Look for Sheaffer’s back-to-school special now at stores everywhere. On the back of the package, there’s a bonus for you ... a coupon good for a $3.98 value Columbia limited-edition record. It’s “Swingin’ Sound”, twelve top artists playing top hits for the first time on a 12" L.P. This double-value back-to-school offer good only while they last! So hurry, choose your Sheaffer Cartridge Pen from five smart colors... and mail your “Swingin’ Sound” record coupon today.

NDS-E
Many college graduates have decided to volunteer for two years of service in the Peace Corps-upon the completion of their formal academic training. Their reasons have been both practical and idealistic.
Perhaps such a decision would be the right one for you.
As a Peace Corps volunteer, you can make a valuable contribution in the worldwide battle against ignorance, poverty, tyranny and disease.
By sharing your American skill, knowledge and know-how with the peoples of rising nations, you can do something of importance for human dignity and welfare, for world peace and freedom.
Published as a public service in cooperation with The Advertising Council
And you can do something for yourself as well. By volunteering for service in the Peace Corps in South America, Asia or Africa, you make an important investment in your own future, one that will add substantially to your professional competence and stature. It can provide an opportunity for experience and responsibility that will pay dividends throughout your career in the years ahead.
Teachers, engineers, mathematicians, archeologists, doctors, nurses, agricultural specialists, and liberal arts graduates in many other categories (probably including yours) are now being selected by the Peace Corps. Placement tests (non
competitive) will be given soon. Use the coupon below to receive full information.
।------------------------------------------------j
Please send me full information about the
! Peace Corps.	]
■ Name M__________________________________F______ !
I Address________________________________________ |
I City_____________________Zone____State .
[ College |
I Date of Graduation Degree______________________ i
[ Field____________________________Age___________ I
PEACE CORPS
Washington 25, D. C.