////////////// /
Wednesday	Kim Massman	Marshall Rrminator "Spaced Cowboy: Scenes from the Chainsaw npacalypse"	Keuin McDonough	Rieu Nunez "Estoy pensando en anad Nesral"	Greg Murphy “Minimum Rage"	Jazz with Ralph Fafbo &Keuin Fleming	Nelu\j ack Parch e e s i with Lizzie Graner	Mike Bertinfr Kathy Hardiek "Kathy Came, and Then She Left"	Keuin Flaherty "Stooge Potpouri"
Tuesday	Jessica Hoida	Tasha Gutting	John Dugan ‘Days Of Thunder"	tolando de Aguiar The Manic Hispanic	Mike Goodwin	5-6 Maximum R O' R 6-6:30 Soho Natural Sessions 6:30-7 Grateful Dead	7:00-8:00 Dead Show 8:00-9:00 Sports Talk	Marc Johnson &* Rich Kurz ’Don’t turn us off, we’re a pair of sacks"	Mr. Vuk "The Week In Suede"
Monday 1 1	Dane Richardson "Tired and Pasty"	Elizabeth Hayes "Health &' Beauty Q O' R"	Kristen Harknett	Rlyson Naimoli "No Ska Today"	Dane McMahon & Garr Schwartz Puke & Cry"	Dance Show WUF1 Remotes Staff	JeffJotz "Smells Like Tuna, Tastes Like Chicken"	Dennis McNicholas	Tom Fellrath The 11:00 News
	7-9 a.m.	9-1 1 a.m.	11-1 p.m	1 -3p.m.	3-5 p.m.	5-7 p.m.	7-9 p.m.	9-1 1 p.m.	11-1:45a.m.
11 o mvi uuai rui DUciUll
18 Establishing a New Tradition
20 National Champions : 1929 DEPARTMENTS
2 Editor’s Notes
3	Opinion
4	CampusWatch
16	Coming Distractions
21	On Other Campuses
22	Behavior Modification
23	Week In Distortion
24	Glancing Back
26	Final Word
On The Cover: Stereotypic icons of Notre Dame. Cover photo by Paul Webb.
SEPTEMBER 26,1991

C □ CL
	o X	o o o *a
	a	Si S ® 02;
	X	U)I 0)
a		o Ff* • •
Q E	>» cn •u co	.. 5 >. co
Q.	□ £	T3	C X CO D
Sunday		- 1:00 pm	Chris LUeirup "Sunday Morning Brunch"		John Strieder "Baroque and Before"	Joe Cannon "Three Yaks and an eyebrow"	Metal "Thrashing, Bashing & Banging" Chris Ebert	Tim McAdam	Mike Montroy "This One Goes to Eleuen"	Miss Karaffa's Charm School
Saturday		1 0:00 am	Jason Winslade "Jazum Jetsam's Oscillating Audio Sculpture		Louis Flores Flannerite Demon Spawn and the safe missuse of dairy production and small furry animals	Joseph Adams "Tireiron"	Hardcore/Punk Out of Step Chris Infante	Rosanna Penseiro	Chris Seidenstiker	Sal Cilella
Friday	Kelly McLaughlin	Chris Murphy		Jim Doppke "LU a ng Dang Lemon Meringue"	Mike Schuabe How to defrost your icicle and relish your pickle"	James O'Brien “It's like an ocean cruise encept there's no boat and you don't go anywhere"	Reggae with Bernard Baez	Debbie Wunder "Chlamydia is not a Flower"	Darrell Clark "No mushroom-eaters allowed"	lain Gould "Formica"
Thursday	Erik Christensen	Dan Langrill "The Audio Mood Rina"		Chris Infante 1 Blhrghphergeeh" _ 		William Polking "String too short to be saued"	Paul Broderick FM Broderickast"	Hip Hop with Warrick Muldrow & Tara Payton	Kelly Daugerdas "R Slam Dance with Flo Henderson"	Daniel Byrne "Rudy's Reuenge"	Jim Maloney G* Pat Finn "Partners in Crime"
										
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
ENTERTAINMENT
6	Music: Toad and Hooker
7	The GranerGuide
NEWS
8	Notre Dame’s Image
CAMPUS LIFE
11 Beating the Odds
13 “Don’t Be Afraid to Stare”
SPORTS

EDITOR'S NOTES
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 133, No.5 September 26, 1991
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Ian Mitchell
MANAGING EDITOR
Mari Okuda
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Patricia Doyle
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Elizabeth Baytion
SPORTS EDITOR
Jon Paul Potts	■
SPORTS ASSISTANT
Jim Kuser
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR
Elizabeth Graner
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR
Michael Owen
DEPARTMENTS ASSISTANT
Kim Cenedella
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR Paul Webb
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT
Nick Spangler
COPY EDITOR
Margaret Kenny
SYSTEMS MANAGER
Kevin Hardman
ADVERTISING MANAGER
David Chmiel
BUSINESS MANAGER
Scott Ecker
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Holy Strawberries, Batman! We’re in a Jam!
Scholastic was faced with some comic mayhem this week. Due to the tight voting race we had no uncontested comic favorites. Therefore, we will be running three, yup, three new student comics. Scholastic is pleased to announce our feature cartoonists: Steve Duenes, Scott Lieberlz and Brian Muller. Look for them every week on the back pages, beginning next week. To give them time to get those creative juices flowing Scholastic will be running College Press Service political cartoons in this issue.
You Don’t Say...
On the facing page is a letter penned by an insightful (?) student down in Bloomington. He obviously has some highly charged opinions about the folks here at Notre Dame. If you’re charged enough to retaliate, send responses to Scholastic. Our letters policy is at the bottom of the facing page. We will be sending a copy of next week’s issue to Indiana U’s student paper.
Nothing’s more fun than reading about yourself. To find out what else is being said about our alma mater, check out Ian Mitchell’s report in News. Scholastic's editor in chief explored all those college guides being perused by high school seniors across the country to find out how Notre Dame is viewed in the eyes of outsiders.
Also In This Issue
Some of you may have seen Dawn Partok’s smiling face around the quad. Campus Life Editor Elizabeth Baytion introduces us to this remarkable frosh and how she copes with the out-of-the-ordinary challenges she’s faced with every day. Dawn, in her own essay, next offers some insight and invites us to ask questions.
Under a new head coach, the Irish women’s volleyball team is off to a fantastic start. Tara Bonner profiles the expectations of this year’s squad while writer John Regruth reveals Notre Dame’s “rugger” tradition. Find out how the rugby team is faring after thirty years of highs and lows.
The new releases by Toad the Wet Sprocket and John Lee Hooker are reviewed in this week’s Entertainment column. Need some “guidance” on that fateful 21st B-day? Editor Liz Graner offers her choices on South Bend nightlife.
As always, our weekly Departments columns are sure to keep you laughing all the way to our comic page. Mr. Manners asks you to keep those cards and letters coming.
Don’t Just Say It, Write It!
Got an opinion? Want to give Scholastic (or Mr. Hurst, this week) a piece of your mind? Mail letters, stories or ideas to 303 La Fortune Center. Or give us a call at 2397569.
Mari Okuda Managing Editor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Noire Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed al The Papers, Inc.,Milford, IN46542. The subscription rale is $25.00fyear and back issues are available al $125 joopy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Noire Dame,its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the properly of Scholastic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
2
SCHOLASTIC.
OPINION
Irish ego goes beyond gridiron
Editor's Note: The following student column orignally appeared in the. Indiana Daily StudentJUIBloomington's daily newspaper. It is reprinted with permission.
by Steve Hurst
Last Saturday, like most sports fans in Bloomington, I settled down in front of the television with some friends to watch our intrepid Hoosiers play mighty Notre Dame. To be honest, I wasn’t expecting much of a game considering the opponent was the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME and the fact that IU was playing on the road. However, we did OK. I felt IU earned a fair amount of respect. Unfortunately, it didn’t seem that the announcers felt the same way.
I had no idea that NBC sports was taking lessons from Nazi propagandists. It appeared that Bill Walsh was going to go down on the field and embrace each and every Irish player. It was so bad that at halftime, with ND up 28 to 17, an NBC sports flunky asked Lou Holtz if he was disappointed with his team’s performance. “They give scholarships over there, too!” Thanks Lou. IU’s honor was temporarily saved by the other team’s coach.
I hate Notre Dame more than any other university in the world— even more than the one Oral Roberts runs. This raw hatred goes beyond sports. (The most detestable in the sports-only category is Oklahoma. Billy Tubbs and Barry Switzer,—what else needs to be said?) No, I hate everything about Notre Dame: South Bend, the arrogant student body, the even more arrogant alumni, the fight song and especially that idiotic leprechaun. But the main reason for my hostility is because it is so very, very overrated.
For some reason, the general public views Notre Dame as just a step below Harvard. An utterly lost person might even think Notre Dame superior. It isn’t a bad school by any means. On the other hand, it does not produce geniuses at a faster rate than, oh, let’s say a certain school located in beautiful southern Indiana. Just look at those incredibly accurate college rating statistics that news magazines come out with every year. So why does John Q. and Jane Z. Public dream of sending their young child to the hallowed halls of Notre Dame?
Most of your know the answer to this question, as do I. There is a simple reason why people say, “If you graduate from Notre Dame, you can write your own ticket” And they aren’t talking about front row seats to the circus (although it has been shown that many Notre Dame grads” heroes are Barnum and Bailey clowns. I have no
explanation.) If you go to Notre Dame, you will meet the children of rich, high-powered people who are going to be rich, high-powered people themselves whether of not they get straight A’s. Thus, when one becomes and Irish alumnus (bow your head), one magically has a powerful tool of moneymaking: CONNECTIONS.
We all know the cliche that it’s not what you know but who you know. Unfortunately, this is often true. I’m not saying that idiots rule the United States; it just appears that way sometimes. Many of these people with connections are extremely competent. I just think that the most competent person often gets denied simply because he or she doesn’t have “the inside track.” It’s like a big fraternity without the handshake. Things like Notre Dame are what drove egoist Ayn Rand to suicide.
When one graduates from Notre Dame, chances are that person will get a job partially on merit but more because of where his or her degree is from. There are plenty of intelligent students at Notre Dame. In fact, it takes incredible grades and SAT scores to be admitted unless, of course, you are the sibling of an Irish alumnus. If this id the case, you need only be slightly more intelligent than the average “Joker’s Wild” contestant I could be wrong, but it seems like the interview to get into such a prestigious school should be deeper than a discussion on the social merits of “CHiPs.”
Ibis is what we’re up against as IU students. Even though we attend a fine university in many different academic areas, we will never be considered the equals of Notre Dame graduates upon first encounter. I don’t know how you feel about this, but I think it sucks. Unfortunately, it is doubtful that we can do much about it.
Where does that leave us? Well, I feel better already just writing about the incredible detest I feel for this evil place and all those associated with it. Soif you feel the way I do, and why wouldn’t you, do what I did and get down on paper. A letter, for example. If you are not in the mood to think one up, here’s a model for you:
Dear Notre Dame person,
Asanon-Notre Dameperson, lam notimpressed with your school or, for that matter, you personally. It’s time you people got off your high horse and mingled with everyone else. The world would be a better place without you and your beloved college.
Peeved in Bloomington
P.S. Why do you people always wear green when the school colors are navy and gold? Stop it!
It might not do any good, but you will feel better. Now if we could just do something about NBC Sports.	□
let ters io Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include ikar depart ment. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to ;
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN46556
SEPTEMBER 26, 1991
3
Bi
CampusWatch
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
Hocker Head Revisited
The Gipper got a message from a disgruntled CampusWatcher last week. Seems that the student who informed the Gipp that university president Father Edward Aloysius “Monk” Malloy was once called “Hocker Head” by his brother was misidentified in last week’s CampusWatch. Contrary to what was published last week, the snitching student was neither Michael James Kelly, Michael L. Kelly nor Michael P. Kelly, but was, instead, Mike Holley, a student in Monk’s freshman seminar course last year. (Of course, if it was the Gipp who had told the campus about Monk’s early nickname, the last thing he would want is to have it printed and spelled correctly. One hopes Fr. Malloy has a sense of humor about these things.) Anyway, the Gipper regrets that the facts have failed to conform to his reporting, and hopes that they will try harder next time.
Question of The Week: Watch Your Language
Now the Gipper is pretty clever, if he does say so himself, but he’s got to admit that his Latin isn’t quite up to snuff. He’s a little puzzled by' the official motto of Scholastic: “Disce Qasi Semper Victurus/Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus.” Any CampusWatcher out therecare to clue the Gipp in? Call 239-7569 or write 303 LaFortune. As long as he’s asking, the Gipp would also like to know what the official Latin motto of the university (as seen on the seal) means.
All Right, so The Gipper is Filling Space
Presented on this page is another cartoon by Ed Wolf which the Gipper enjoyed so much
that he decided it should see print. This week’s voting for cartoonist was close, the Gipp knows, and he is personally sorry that space wasn’t available for all four contestants. The Gipper is also a little short on gossip this week, and would like to encourage previously quiet CampusWatchers to speak up.
Tell One to The Gipper
Got a tip for the Gipp? CampusWatch tells the stories that aren’t covered by press releases, but the Gipper can only be so many places at once. Ifyouhaveanews tip or any kind of campus information that people need to know, become a Junior CampusWatcher — tell the Gipper! The gossiping ghost doesn’t see visitors, but you can leave a message for him by phone (239-7569, call anytime), in person (stop by the office Monday-Friday 2-5 p.m.) or by campus mail (303 LaFortune). The Gipper is counting on you. □
MUMMING UP BUSINESS
SCHOLASTIC
1867 - 1992
A century ahead of the competition.
Parents - Alumni - Fans Subscribe to ’ , '	- !
Scholastic
Notre Dame's Weekly Student Magazine
Follow the Fighting Irish and keep up with campus events as Scholastic celebrates our 125th anniversary!
Your subscription includes our annual football review issue, published in February 1992.
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:________________________________________
Address: ____________________________________
City:State:ZIP code: 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
MUSIC
Toad The Wet Sprocket
by Kevin McDonough
Before I begin, let me say that I was going to do a review of Guns ‘n’ Roses’ Use Your Illusion I&JI, but as far as I know, ev-
eryone already has it, so such would be pointless. Fear is the third release from Toad the Wet Sprocket, and is their most challenging album to date. The single, “Walk on the Ocean,” is a staple Toad acoustic effort which contains echoes of their last release Pale.
Toad’s lyrical style is not meant to depress; it presents what the band sees and how they see it. This is evident on the upbeat “Hold her Down,” which is, in their own words, “an angry, sarcastic response to an
ugly incident.” The obvious irony behind lyrics like “ ... take her arms and hold her down, until she starts kicking ... “ Other powerful tracks include “Something to Say,” “All I Want” and “Pray Your Gods,” a soft but biting song about the meaningless “gods” people turn to when challenged. There are no mincing of words with lyrics like: “as people turn to gods of cruel design, is it that they fear the pain of death, or could it be they fear the joy of life?”
With Fear, Toad turns up the energy andmakes the lyrics more discernable, allowing the listener to enter the music more easily than on their two previous efforts. Vocalist Glen Phillips’ range has improved, as can be heard on “Is it for Me,” a less intense musing of late-night teenage adventures. Todd Nichols’ guitar soars and dives, along with Randy Guss’ determined pounding during “Butterflies,” one of the high-
lights on Fear. Phillips’ lyrics tend to be a bit harsh at times, but his sarcasm comes through during “In my Ear.” Phillips sings, “ ... never meant half of the things I said to you, so you know there is a half that might be true... “
The band comes together on “Before You Were Bom” and “I Will Not Take These Things For Granted.” “Before” is a bitter observation of a friend’s seemingly miserable life, and “Granted” is somewhat optimistic tale persuading careful attention to life. This is Toad the Wet Sprocket’s’ finest effort to date, so sidestep the line for the new Guns ‘n’ Roses release (your neighbor probably has played it 7,586 times by now anyway) and give Toad a try.	□
Kevin McDonough is a junior WVFI dude and resides in Keenan Hall. He owns six copies of each of the new G’n’R LPs.
Ml Luckf
John Lee Hooker's Soul Heaven
by Jim Doppke
T^orget for a moment that an animated character named MC Skat Cat has an
entire hit album out of rap songs. Here’s what you need to know: John Lee Hooker, the man who makes all of your favorite blues-rockers sweat a little harder, has a new album out and YOU NEED IT. Mr. Lucky follows on the heels of Hooker’s “comeback album,” 1980’s The Healer, an often sylized attempt to compress the ever-independent Hooker into MTV formats; in some instances, such as “In The Mood” (a duet with Bonnie Raitt), the project succeeded but too often the record sounded patronizing and weak.
His is not the case with this album. The guest list this time is just as impressive; Hooker’s influence has been so great that musicians ranging from Keith Richards (yes, you are reading the name of an actual Rolling Stone in what tends to be the Sub
6
Pop Sound Off) to Robert Cray to Albert Collins to Van Morrison feel almost obligated to help out this master. Each featured guest contributes elements of style to the Hooker-penned tunes, but none overpowers Hooker’s style. The only possible exception would be Carlos Santana’s contribution, “Stripped Me Naked,” which suits Santana to a T, but John Lee sounds a little intimidated, as if he phoned in his vocals.
Apart from that slight downfall, the record offers some prime Hooker material. “I Want to Hug You” and “Susie” are of the classic “I’m in the Mood” mold, whereas “Back-stabbers” and “Crawlin’ Kingsnake” showcase the similar cool pickin ’ of master Albert Collins and relatively new kid Keith Richards. “Mr. Lucky” and “This is Hip” show just how to nudge John Lee into the modem blues era without constraining him. “Highway 13” and “Father Was a Jockey”
feature the superb slide-playing of John Hammond and point up Hooker’s real ability to convey desperation and urgency. Oddly enough, the record’s high point comes with “I Cover the Waterfront,” a song that has appeared throughout Hooker’s career. Booker T. Jones’ organ and Van Morrison’s soulful wail (don’t look for any “Brown-Eyed Girl”s on this) hinder the song not a bit, but lift it even further into soul heaven.
John Lee Hooker is, to employ a thoroughly overused rock critic phrase, a national treasure. He has taken a standard art form an made it his own. We are all lucky to have Mr. Lucky.	□
Jim Doppke is a Way Off-Campus stud and sensitive folk waif extraordinaire. Look for him, eventually, at the Grace Coffeehouse, for an evening of six strings and the truth.
SCHOLASTIC
ENTERTAINMENT
The GraaerGidde:
Scholastics Entertainment Editor on South Bendas Flourishing Night Life
The bars, etc., on the Campus are well patronized...” Scholastic, October 21, 1876, page 106.
When the well-awaited, much-deserved day of your 21st birthday has finally come and gone, you’re left with not too much else to do except act upon the established norms and practices of your elders. The more cosmopolitan of you came prepared freshman year with your 32-year old aunt’s I.D., but some of us came from places where you could go through the drive-thru beer distributor with your four-year-old brother in the baby seat; no questions asked. Unfortunately, for those of us whose elders (and often, contemporaries) are absolute geeks, we feel abandoned. “Here I am, I have a legitimate form of identification, a few bucks and the willingness to circumvent an evening of study. Now what?” Well, kiddies, you need not fear any longer, for now you shall journey the South Bend you actually might like.
The GranerGuide: Nifty Night Life and You
McCormick’s: Located beside the now deceased Sefior Kelly’s in downtown South Bend, McCormick’s often has local and campus bands perform. Good import deals on Thursdays. This place is a curious mixture of offbeat residents and students, and has the aura and smell of any good western Ireland establishment. It’s probably one of the best places to socialize in town.
Club 23: Vic’s Subs has moved to the back room of this beatnik refuge, adding even more flavor to its desirable location and atmosphere. Another cool attribute is Moe’s Middle Eastern cuisine. The hitch is that there is usually a cover, but this is good, because that means bands are playing. SEPTEMBER 26,1991
Black turtlenecks, clove cigarettes and Birk-enstocks are nota requirement, but they may pad the admission process. “Sub 23” ranks second behind McCormick’s in the Guide but is not recommended for asthmatics.
Commons: Smoke and Calvin Klein’s Eternity immediately fill the nostrils as you enter this five points establishment, which immediately brings to mind Pasquale’s finest business tactic: popcorn. God knows why popcorn all of a sudden becomes palatable, but there’s just something about tradition and Commons. Good for the beginner.
SEX HEIGHT EYES SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
F ra" BLU	000 00 0000
DRIVER / l.D, NUMBER	Bl RTH DATE	DUPS
00 000 000	05 25 70	00
EXPIRATION DATE CLASSES ENDORSEMENTS 07 31 95	05,07 BRAGG, WM.
ISSUE DATE COMMERCIAL/MED1CAL RESTRICTIONS 070191	BUND AS BAT
ELIZABETH A. GRANER
303 LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER
NOTRE DAME, IN 46556
Driver’s License
The Linebacker: Tales of the raids and police cars camped out front at this place kept us far away from here before the glorious 21st However, one wonders about the waning popularity of lingerie night A good place for those who actually like dancing. C. J.’s: If you want to hang out with football players, this is the place for you.
Kicker’s Saloon: The advertisement for this place in The Observer should say enough. However, advocates of female exploitation should go for it.
Cheers Lounge: Friendly construction boot and flannel-sporting patrons are usually more than happy to welcome students to their clean but smoke-filled haven. Especially girls. Very nice wooden dance floor. Coach’s: During the Summer, this place
was popular for its overactive air condition-	■
ing. It’s a Bridget’s for those of age, but i otherwise convenient for transportatipnless Turtle View residents. Coach’s is appropri-	J
ate in the early evening if you want a beer -and something to eat and later for some crowded company. Good pitcher deals on Tuesdays.
Meanwhile ...: Not as cool as the ‘Backer but another dancing place. If you have big hair and like to wear spandex, here you go. Senior Bar: This place is a LaFortune with	I
beer. Aside from Thursday Cup Night, it !
risks being slightly dead. The$251ife-	i
time membership deal is good for	i
those who intend to come back for	i
every single home game once they : i graduate. No discounts are given for plaid pants, however. Good food.
Bridget’s: Come on, guys, you’ve all been going here since Freshman year, so I won’t even try.
Lizzie’s Adventure Pix
The Cap ‘n’ Cork: This rustic but quaint place often has bands every
weekend night. Tales of a “girl fight” there ■ last week brought inspiration to this sugges-	|
tion. The more adventurous might want to I embark upon this social journey.	I
Howdy Doody’s: A colleague loves this , place merely because they have the new | Garth Brooks on the juke. Fun and anthropologically interesting for a change of pace. You must go here and show off your Texas Two-Step at least once before you graduate. Bridget’s: Why not come back and reminisce about old scams?	□
Lizzie Graner is Scholastic’s Entertainment Editor and plans to write advertisements for those catalogues in the back of Cosmopolitan once (if) she graduates. Ian ? Mitchell will never let her do this again. '
7
NEWS
Notre Dame’s Image:
How others see us
A look at the university through the eyes of college guides
Compiled by Ian Mitchell
Every year, thousands of high school seniors make the biggest decisions of their lives (thus far): they pick a college.
While deciding where to spend the next ; four years of their lives is a monumental i task, the information most high school stu-i dents have is fragmentary at best. Perhaps i	they attend their high school’s college night,
talk to alumni or visit the campus. But many !' students make choices based on nothing more than what they read in a college guide.
What do these guides say about Notre Dame? Is it a realistic portrait of the university? Scholastic offers a review of the re-
I	viewers as we present an overview of Notre
s	Dame—as presented in the college guides.
« We leave it to the reader to evaluate their ’	accuracy.
Academics
Notre Dame’s academic quality across-the-board is generally rated by the guides in the top rank. While the engineering college 'I	is often singled out for praise, other colleges
s ; and departments are given varying levels of approval.
The Fiske Guide to Colleges 1992 by Edward B. Fiske gives ND four out of five . ; stars for academic difficulty, and lists his-? . tory, philosophy, government and English J : as “highly regarded departments” in Arts !■ ' and Letters, while singling out chemical j - engineering, accountancy and pre-med as - other top courses of study. On the other | - 8 is ■
n _	________
hand, the Fiske guide quotes a senior who states that Notre Dame is “oriented toward the business and science world, not toward arts and music,” and the guide adds “Modem and classical languages are also not up to par, although some efforts have been made to shore them up.”
The Insider’s Guide to the Colleges 1990, written by the student staff of the Yale Daily News, described ND students’ attitude toward study: “Though ‘throating’ (relentless studying) is said to be an engineering phenomenon, the majority of Notre Dame students take their studies seriously. One student summarized the academic atmosphere with the comment that ‘everyone works even though they say they don’t.’”
This assessment is echoed in the chapter on Notre Dame in Barron's Top 50: An Inside Look at America's Best Colleges. The chapter, written by John Staud, an ND graduate, describes the academic atmosphere as “more cooperative than competitive.” Staud writes that “Academic success is valued and admired, but unbalanced obsession with grades wins few friends in a community where people tend to downplay their accomplishments. ... Simply put, people work hard to succeed but don’t want to be seen as unbalanced or too intense.”
Almost all of the guides Scholastic consulted cited the structured format and available counselling of the freshman year of studies as a big plus, although The National Review College Guide:, which praises ND’s “classical tradition”, said the new head of freshman year “has been suggesting femi
nist innovations that threaten the program’s integrity.”
Lisa Bimbach's New and Improved College Book takes aless traditional approach to Irish academics and simply lists “best professors” (the guidebook mentions Thomas Morris in philosophy, Thomas Werge in English, and Fathers Edward A. Malloy and James Burtchaell in Theology), “recommended courses” (Philosophy of Law, Civil War, Political Theory and Introduction to Philosophy) as well as what the guide terms “gut” courses (the book lists Philosophy of Religion, Soviet Foreign Policy and Introduction to Anthropology).
Scholastic File Photo
Student Body
The guidebooks seem to agree that “Like the administration, students at Notre Dame tend to be conservative,” as the Insider’s ■ guide puts it. The guidebook continues:
SCHOLASTIC
“Many are from suburban Irish Catholic homes and are graduates of Catholic prep schools, though there is much geographic diversity. As one student remarked, ‘guys with earrings are radicals here. ’ This relative homogeneity fosters a strong sense of community as well as competition, since many students have similar aspirations.”
The Fiske book quotes an economics major on the campus political scene: ‘“campus protests arc few and far between unless the dining hall serves leftovers once loo often.’ The faculty, more liberal than the students, at times adopts a gadfly role in an attempt to stir the awareness of ND’s undergraduates. ‘One of my profs said that we are the worst-informed student body in the world,’ relates a senior.”
-A-..
Residence Life
Notre Dame’s lack of a Greek system is usually mentioned in the college guides, often followed with comments on the campus dorm life.
As Barron's put it: “Though there are no fraternities, sororities, or eating clubs, more than 80 percent of the undergraduates liveon campus. Students are encouraged to remain in the same residence hall for four years if they choose to remain on campus, though nothing prevents them from transferring to another dorm. This gives residence life a continuity, as each hall develops an identity based on the personalities of its members and its particular traditions.”
The Fiske guide echoes this evaluation: “Except for a group of restless seniors, almost all Notre Dame students live on campus. Once assigned to a dorm freshman year, students are encouraged to stay in the same one until graduation. Fraternities are banned, but all dorms are single-sex and they become surrogate fraternities or sororities that breed a similar spirit of togetherness while varying widely in their character and reputation. Some students opt for the 100-year-old dorms with chipped ceilings; other choose the 1980 cinder-block models that offer less atmosphere but are in better condition.”
Campus residences are subject to university regulation, the Insider’s guide warns: “Though some students feel the rules can be easily by-passed, after-hours mischief atND could make your undergraduate career a short one.”
Social Life
Beyond politics, dorms and studying, the college guides describe Notre Dame’s student body engaging in recreational activities.	'
Lisa Bimbach’s book sums up: “The ‘fighting Irish’ spirit infects party life at the school just as much as it does academic life, and the same students who happily lift a hand to help the poor will no doubt lift the other to hoist a mug of beer.”
But Bimbach’s book has been updated recently, and includes its assessment of ND’s revised alcohol policy: “In effect, dorm parties, once a sainted tradition, have become prohibited, which has sent students racing en masse to private parties in South Bend. The mostly working-class locals (South Bend was once the home of the Studebaker) didn’t care for the ensuing brouhaha, and police dogs—complete with German shepherd attack dogs — are not an infrequent occurrence. The result is a new local zoning ordinance prohibiting apartmentowners from renting to students unless they are already doing so.”
Barron's guidebook section on social life describes the alcohol scene at Notre Dame: “Beer remains the beverage of choice for most; really sophisticated drinkers are those who have a favorite brand beyond the special of the week. ... A typical Friday night for freshmen and sophomores consist of trying to have as big a party as possible in a dorm room without having it broken up by the hall staff. Hall formals and hall-sponsored dances where your roommate is in charge of
selecting your date are highlights in the social calendar, especially when your roommate bears you no ill will and finds you a compatible date.
“Dances aside, casual dating (movie/din-ner/whatever with a different person every week) is probably not as common at Notre Dame as it is at other schools. One reason for this is a limited number of places to go without a car. But this alone does not account for a certain undercurrent of tension between men and women. Both men and women complain about the unbalanced male/female ratio.”
The Fiske guidebook offers a slightly rosier picture of the student social scene: “Notre Dame has been open to female applicants since 1972, and the male/female ratio, despite recent improvements remains skewed; however, the presence of 1,600 women at St. Mary’s College across the street does a great deal to tip the social life back into balance, many a ‘Domer,’ as ND men are affectionately known, has found a sweetheart and future wife among the ‘Smick Chicks’ at Saint Mary’s. Unfortunately for the party set, ND social life isn’t as rambunctious as it once was thanks to the policy that forbids alcohol at campus social events. ... For those who choose not to indulge, though, there’s a Bacchus club dedicated to good times without alcohol. Athletics have a large impact on the social scene: ‘Football Saturdays are all enormous events on campus’ notes a junior. But don’t despair if spectating at awesome college football games is notyourpreferred social activity— there’s lots going on.” .
SEPTEMBER 26, 1991
9
Scholastic File Photo
Lisa Bimbach ’ s book mentions one activity that it claims isn’t going on: “Extreme fraternization (nudge, nudge) between the ' ’ sexes is distinctly discouraged at Notre Dame — ‘We’ve all been raised as good । Catholics, after all,’ one student says rather impishly—and there isn ’ t a lot of dating per » se, and even less sex. ‘One-night stands are nonexistent atNotre Dame in the traditional sense. Men and women meet and “mash” and it will carry all the emotional baggage of ; people who sleep around at other schools.’ The antidote to libidinous zeal seems to be ‘mass attendance and a lot of cold showers.’”
Spiritual Life
“Religion remains an important part of the Notre Dame experience,” says the Insider’s guide. This somewhat indistinct ] statement is expanded in the Fiske guide:
‘Nearly 90 percent of the students are ■ Catholic and “most go to Mass weekly,’ attest one student. ‘Even the Protestants 1$ attend Mass and are not frowned upon at all.’ Students feel Notre Dame nurtures their faith as well as their minds. ‘Their is a s	genuine feeling of community and concern
•, at ND resulting from the school’s religious ! character,’ notes one student.”
Short Takes on ND
“Three Things To Do In Town On Sun-i day Nights: ‘Go to mass; Go to mass; Go to p mass.’” —Lisa Bimbach’s New and Im-I proved College Book
“At Notre Dame, love of sports is almost •i	an admissions requirement.” — The
. j	Insider’s Guide to the Colleges 1990
|	“While ND has come a long way from its
humble frontier beginnings, one thing ii’ hasn’t changed: ‘Winter is cold, windy, and very white,” says an economics major.
‘This is definitely not the University of Hawaii.’” — The Fiske Guide to Colleges 1992
“In many ways walking onto campus is like stepping out of the real world. The statue of Mary atop the Golden Dome overlooks tree-lined quadrangles and two serene lakes, giving the campus a quality of self-contained separation from the rest of the world. One road encircles the campus, and footpaths crisscross the quad from building to building. Notre Dame is a pedestrian’s paradise until winter snows turn these cement walks into skating rinks.” — Barron's Top 50
“Favorite School Traditions: AnTostal. A
week-long spring festival of picnics, music,
and sports, climaxing in school wide mud-pit athletics — not only mud wrestling but also
more unusual events such as mud volleyball and mud pillow fights; Keenan Hall Revue. Annual show with skits parodying Notre Dame; Bengal Bouts. Intramural boxing to raise money for Bangladesh.” — Lisa Bimbach’s College Book
Summaries
Many of the guides end by balancing the pros and cons of the university community. The closings stress thatNotre Dame isn’t for everybody, but is ideal for some.
Fiske’s closes in a typical manner: “Everyone at the university, from administrators to students, is considered part of the ‘Notre Dame Family.’ For some, that could be too close for comfort. But if you’re looking for a friendly, caring environment, and a univer
sity that ‘combines an excellent academic program with great athletics and an overwhelming Catholic tradition,’ ND is the place for you.”
Thelnsider’s Guide also sums up: “On the whole, Notre Dame requires its students to take the initiative in both their academic and social lives; otherwise, it is easy, as one student phrased it, ‘to just hang.’ ND’s sometimes heavy-handed administration and ‘rah-rah’ spirit may not appeal to all, but any athletically-oriented Catholic student who doesn ’ t mind hitting the books may find Notre Dame to be just the place for a college career.”
Last word (in a similar vein) on Notre
Dame goes to alum John Staud, writing for Barron's: “If you hate cold weather, love the
excitement and cultural opportunities of a big city, are indifferent to sports, crave a highly intellectual environment, are a free spirit who would be stifled by so much emphasis on community, and feel uncomfortable with the thought of being educated in a religious atmosphere, then Notre Dame is not for you. But if you think a gorgeous campus compensates for severe winters, love to play and/or watch sports, can live without urban bustle and excitement, think you would like to become a member of a close-knit family, want a strong academic program, and can at least accept a Catholic environment and value-oriented education, then send for an application. It could be the start of an experience you will, treasure forever.”	□
10
SCHOLASTIC
CAMPUS LIFE
BEATING THE ODDS
Dawn Parkot faces special challenges as Notre Dame's first multiply-disabled undergraduate student
by Elizabeth Baytion
H ad a rough day? Sometimes it seems like nothing's going right: you flunked that chemistry exam, you and your roommate aren’t speaking and, to top that, you have a ton of homework to do.
The pressures of college life affect all students, but can be especially overwhelming to a freshman. Like most of her classmates, computer math and science major Dawn Parkot struggles with the homesickness that accompanies being away from her family for the first time. And, like everyone else, she feels the pressures of keeping up with her courses, having to make new friends and generally trying to fit in.
But Dawn holds a special place in the 1995 graduating class. Although there have been other disabled students at Notre Dame, she is the first undergraduate with multiple disabilities.
Dawn has cerebral palsy, meaning that she suffers from paralysis, or the loss of volitional control over motor functions, due to a brain disorder that occurred at birth. When she was bom, there was a deficiency of oxygen in her brain. Although cerebral palsy
Elisa Dunn
When asked what it is she can do that people don't often think she's capable of, Dawn spelled on her wordboard, "T-H-I-N-K."
difficulty in doing things that we take for granted. She is unable to walk, speak clearly or control the motor functions of her body. Though she can discern vague shapes and forms, Dawn is also legally blind.
When asked what it is she can do that people don't often think she’s capable of, Dawn spelled on her wordboard, “T-H-I-N-K.”
Fr. Oliver Williams, C.S.C., who assumed the responsibilities of the Office of Disabled Students this past August, admits that the university has not had many disabled students. When asked if Dawn’s disability played a role . in her admission to Notre Dame, Fr, Williams replied that “anyone who meets the qualifications is admitted to Notre Dame, and if we find out that they happen to be disabled, then we make all the arrangements we need ... to make it work for them.”
In Dawn’s case, those arrangements include a special living space in Pasquerilla East to accommodate her double bed and. computer system. Dawn shares the four-room “suite”— essentially a combined quad and double—with two roommates. The standard sink in her room has been ex-
may also be caused by pre- and post-natal diseases or by accidents that occur in early childhood, asphxyia is probably the most
common immediate cause of the disability.
Because of this cerebral disorder she experienced as an infant, Dawn encounters
changed for one specially designed for a person with impaired vision and coordination. Electronic devices have also been
SEPTEMBER 26, 1991
11
placed on the doors of Dawn’s rooms, as well as on the entrances of P.E., so that she can open them by remote control from her wheelchair.
Over the past summer, sophomores Jenny Galvin and Maura Carroll requested to room with Dawn after all the residents of
P.E. received a letter concem-
ing Dawn’s disability. “I just thought it’d be great to be a roommate and a friend to someone I can learn so much from, and Maura feels the same way,” says Jenny. When asked about their expectations and anxieties about the new arrangement, Jenny admitted that she hadn’t expected the communication barrier to be so profound, although now it doesn’t pose a problem.
One of Dawn’s avenues of communication includes speech, although those who aren ’ t accustomed to it may not be able to understand. She also uses a “wordboard,” a piece of cardboard with the alphabet in large type written along the borders, so that Dawn can point to the letters and spell out words.
Another option for communication is a lap-top computer equipped with an electronic voice, on which Dawn taps out the words in morse code by hitting a switch with her hand. However, she still isn’t comfortable using the computer voice to communicate, and
therefore most often uses-her Dawn wordboard.
The Office of Disabled Students has arranged for Dawn to have five student aides.
Senior Cristin Roman visits her on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays to help with her morning routine: getting out of bed, getting dressed, doing leg exercises and gathering her books and notebooks together before Dawn’s first class.
“I thought we’d have to do a lot more for her,” says Cristin, who is interested in a career in physical therapy. “Tdidn’t think she’d be as independent, just because anyone that I’d ever worked with was just not as smart as she was, didn’t have a strong will to
be independent.”
With a schedule that includes chemistry, calculus, music, English and physical education, Dawn’s curriculum is very typical of that of any freshman. Although she can’t take notes, she attends classes and studies by listening to tapes of the lectures. She has
with roommates Maura Carroll and Jenny Galvin
also been assigned a tutor for each of her classes. One of their duties is to read aloud
Dawn’s homework assignments, until her textbooks are also put on tape.
The Freshman Resource Center handles all of Dawn’s exams. Classes like music, in which the test questions can be answered by having Dawn spell out a.name or date; and chemistry, which has multiple-choice test questions, don’t pose any problems. But some classes, calculus, for example, prove to be more difficult to adapt to Dawn's capabilities.
Another freshman, Katie Bessidre, at
tended high school with Dawn in Morristown, New Jersey, where Dawn graduated third in her class. Katie says that the students at her school were "amazed at her ability.. .and her drive and her ambition."
What were the reactions of Dawn's peers when they heard that she had been accepted
to Notre Dame?
"I think that they were surprised more so because she was going so far away, but not because she got in,” Katie says. But she also acknowledges, “I imagine that there were people who thought that a lot of her grades were “grace” grades, that her teachers just gave her the A’s because of effort and not really because she deserved them.” To the contrary, Katie, who was in Dawn’s English class, adds that she doesn’t think the teachers were surprised about Dawn’s acceptance to Notre Dame.
And what does Dawn have to say about her new college lifestyle?
Well, when asked about how her expectations held up to reality, she laughs. She admits that it’s tough, that she’s homesick and findsitdifficultlivingaway from home. In response to the question about what she’s found to be the hardest part of freshman year, Dawn replies, “Everything!” with a smile and another rueful laugh.
But that certainly won’t stop her from pursuing her dreams,
like attending a prestigious undergraduate university, or
seeking a place on the 1996 Disabled Olympics equestrian team.
A friend of Dawn’s says, “Whenever we go to lunch everyone walks by saying ‘Hi, Dawn. How’re you doing?’” Maura and Jenny agree that everyone already seems to know their roommate. Jenny adds, “I think Dawn has assimilated very well to the whole P.E./N.D. community.”
Itseems that Fr. Williams voices the opinion of all of Dawn’s friends and acquaintances when he says, “We hope and pray that it works out for her here.” Dawn’s doing her part; the rest is up to us.	□
12
SCHOLASTIC
“Don’t Be Afraid to Stare”
Dawn shares her thoughts on the inclusion of the disabled in the finer things of life
, Elisa Dunn,
r |1 he Constitution of the United States A of America guarantees citizens the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. We have witnessed the erosion of the right to life under the guise of freedom of choice for potential mothers. We slowly allow our individual liberties to be taken from us by our government This occurs when it is easier to grant them more power than to stand up as individuals. But I’m not going to discuss these heady issues. I’m going to address the right I feel has the most impact on the disabled community. I’m going to tell you what you can do as individuals to make the world a better place to live. You, right now, right here, can make a difference just by changing the way you think.
Let me tell you from the onset, I don’t get around like anyone else on this campus. I don’t talk like anyone else on this campus and I don’t particularly look like anyone else on this campus. Aside from that, I’m just like everyone else.
In case you haven’t guessed, I’m going to discuss what for me, and probably for most SEPTEMBER 26, 1991
of the disabled community, is the thing we seek most Wejust want to be included. For us, inclusion is the pursuit of happiness. About 25 years ago, the civil rights movement began to draw the attention of the American public. This was a drive for inclusion of minority citizens into the mainstream of American life. Disabled citizens owe a great deal to the civil rights movement. Because of them, equal opportunity truly exists as an enforced mandate under the law. But like a single black student at an all-white school, the government cannot really enforce the inclusion which comes from acceptance.
The segregation which plagues the disabled community comes from a variety of sources. For years, people have been taught that dealing with a disabled person requires special skills. These skills take on the aura of a medical degree. There is braile, signing, and adaptive equipment of all kinds which reenforce this misconception. Probably the greatest source of this segregation is the medical and social services establishment.
But a new, fresh wind is blowing through
these bastions of second-class citizenship. On a grass roots level, disabled people are saying, “Enough!” Separate is frequently not necessary. Separate is also never equal. Just let us get on in our own way among you.
Don’tbeafraidtostare. Weknowwelook different. In fact, we look funny or frightening to children. J ust get the staring over with and the next time you see one of us, it's no big deal. The next time you see us, you may include one of us in a conversation. You may share a dirty joke or the latest gossip.
Don’tbeafraidtoaskaquestion. How did this happen to you? We know this is a question we ask of each other so why shouldn’t it be asked by the able-bodied. Just be ready to do whatever it takes to hear the answer.
The finer things in life arc not just five-star restaurants, and fron t row cen ter tickets. The truly finer things in life arc being part of a community where one is allowed to partake and give. Now slowly, surely, you can make this happen.	□
By Dawn Parkot
13
SPORTS
r@
©MOW
Under first year coach Debbie Brown, the Notre Dame womens volleyball team is out to win over some new fans
By Tara Bonner
When most people think of volleyball, they envision sand and some guys named Karch playing on a sunny beach in southern California or Florida. But the 1991-92 Notre Dame women’s volleyball team is redefining thatimage. As ofSunday, they had posted an impressive 6-1 record and were setting their sights on becoming the best Irish women’s volleyball team ever.
Leading the way in their quest for excellence is junior co-captain Alicia Turner, who has led the team for the past two seasons in aces, kills, and digs. Turner, an outside hitter from San Diego, Calif., attributes much of
Greg Kohs, Courtesy of Sports Information
Senior defensive standout Katie Kavanaugh.
this year’s success to first-year coach Debbie Brown.
“The team’s attitude has changed a great deal under Coach Brown,” said Turner. “The team is much more unified and optimistic. The coaching change has been very positive for the program, especially since Coach Brown is very encouraging in her coaching style.”
Turner hopes that the continued winning ways of the women’s volleyball team will help to increase the popularity of women’s volleyball on the Notre Dame campus.
Aside from the coaching aspects, Turner
said that being
close-knit is the best part of being on the team.
“We can have a good time playing together on the court and also have a good time when off the court as well,” she explained. “The team’s excellent depth helps, and any one of the players on the bench can step in at any point in a match and play a vital part in an Irish victory.”
Personally, since Turner is co-captain of the team, she believes that her primary duty is to lead the team through example rather than words. Another “dream” ofhersisto help Notre Dame to become natonally recognized in women’s volleyball and to play in the NCAA tournament.
There are many
freshmen on this year’s squad and they are making an early impact. According to the co-captain Turner, they are all easy to work with, a lot of fun, and have already made an impact on the play of the team.
One of these freshmen is Christy Peters, a native of Solana Beach, Calif., who has already done an impressive job for the Irish as an outside hitter. Peters has fit in very well at Notre Dame, and enjoys the overall atmosphere of the school. Although playing volleyball has meant not,being able to meet a lot of new people, she enjoys spending time with her teammates, which is a demonstration of the closeness of the team mentioned by Turner.
“Playing on the collegiate level is not that
SCHOLASTIC
“My favorite part of becoming a member of the Notre Dame family is the very friendly, outgoing and helpful people that I have met since my arrival from the West Coast.”
— Debbie Brown
much different from my previous volleyball experience at the high school level and in the
San Diego Volleyball Club,” said Peters. “Aside from the facts that the game is played at a faster pace and there is a lot more travelling involved, it has been about the same. I’d say that the highlight of my career so far was defeating Ohio State.”
The Buckeyes are a perennial powerhouse in women’s volleyball and nationally ranked 14th this year.
‘The upperclassmen haven’t been domineering,” said Peters. “Some of my best friends so far, aside from my roommates, are my upperclassmen teammates.”
Coach Brown has created an atmosphere at practice that makes the team want to work hard. A look at Brown’s volleyball experience as a player and a coach, shows why she has slipped into the job so easily. She has played for the University of Southern California, the United States National Team and the United States Olympic Team.
Her coaching experience includes assistant coach for Arizona State University in 1980 and 1981, and head coach from 1983 through 1988 at ASU. She was an assistant coach for the United States National Team before coming to the University of Notre Dame in early 1991. She takes over after coach Art Lambert resigned midway through the 1990 campaign amid a storm of controversy and was replaced by interim coach Maria Perez
Although Brown was denied the honor of participating in the 1980 Olympics in Moscow due to the United States boycott, she helped to coach theNational Team in the
1988 Olympics in Soeul.
This year, Coach Brown has used this ex-
perience to guide the Fighting Irish women’s volleyball team to its early success thus far, with their only loss coming against Kentucky. The team has already defeated Ohio Slate, and has captured the Southwest Missouri State Tournament championship, defeating Ohio State, Eastern Michigan, and host team Southwest Missouri Slate for the championship.
Overall the coach is pleased with the team’s performance, especially in their demonstration of poise and ability to come back and win after being behind.
“I would prefer that we not to be in the position of having to come from behind all the time,” said Brown. ‘There is not really one player who stands out as being most improved, but that the team has improved as a whole.”
The team in general has improved in passing and in defense since the begin-nig of the season. Players such as Katie Kavanaugh
and co-captain Chris Choquette have come into their own in this, their senior season. But one difficulty that Coach Brown has encountered thus far is recruiting. This year, only two scholarships were allotted for women’s volleyball, but next year five will be available. This will create a lack of player experience, but should not affect the young team’s potential.
“My favorite part of becoming a member of the Notre Dame family is the very friendly, outgoing, and helpful people that I have met since my arrival from the West Coast,” said Brown. “I appreciate the reputation that the University of Notre Dame has built for itself and the qualities that help to back up that excellent reputation.”
Hopefully, these three women and the rest of the women’s volleyball team can add to that reputation over the next few years and become a team to be reckoned with. □
Alicia Turner has been co-captain and a big hitter for the
Irish this season,
Greg Kohs, Courtesy of Sports Information
SEPTEMBER 26, 1991
15
Coming Distractions
11 day calendar
Thun
Septi Concen p.m.,JA Movie: and 10:2 $2.
Make sure your event gets listed -- send information (including date, time, and cost) to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call Kim Cenedella at 239-7569. The next Coming Distractions calendar will appear in the October 3 issue.
Sunday
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
September 29 Omelet Maker: The World's Fastest, 10:00 a.m., North Dining Hall. Soccer: Women vs. Wisconsin/Green Bay, 1:00 p,m., Alumni Field.	September 30 Film: "The Conversation," 7:00 p.m., Snite, S2. Film: "The Big Sleep," 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2.	October 1 CIRCUS LUNCH Film: "The Letter," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2 Film: "Blade Runner," 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2.	October 2 Soccer: Women vs. Lewis, 7:00 p.m., Krause Stadium.	Octol Sophom Lake Mi< class offi Movie:" 8:00 and Cushing,
October 6 CROP Walk: 1:00 p.m.	For More Information Call: On Campus	Touch Four	I LaFortune Information Desk: 239-8128	Call 239-2500, then press:	’ Student Union Board: 239-7757	ext. 2101 for movie information Snite Film Series Hot Line: 239-7361	ext. 2114 for the music line News Line (summary of campus events): 239-5110	ext. 2112 for concert information			
-	JACC Ticket Information: 239-7354 Notre Dame MenuLine: 283-FOOD Senior Class: 239-5136 Junior Class: 239-5117 Sophomore Class: 239-5225		ext. 2117 for theatre information ext. 2525 for a list of college event	
sday _____Friday_________Saturday
jmber 26	September 27	September 28
t: Amy Grant, 7:30 CC. "Star Wars," 8:00 iO p.m., Cushing, !	Soccer: Men vs. Indiana, 7:30 p.m., Krause Stadium. Film: "Sweetie," 7:30 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "The Empire Strikes Back," 8:00 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.	Football: Notre Dame vs. Purdue at Purdue Omelet Maker: The World's Fastest, 10:00 a.m., South Dining Hall. Film: "Sweetie", 7:30 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Return of the Jedi," 8:00 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.
ber 3 ores: Cruise on :higan. Contact ce for more info. Lean on Me," 10:30 p.m., S2.	October 4 Soccer: Women vs. So. Illinois, 7:00 p.m., Krause Stadium. Film: "Cyrano de Bergerac," 7:00 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Backdraft," 8:00 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing, S2. Concert: Side Street Strutters (L.A. Jazz Group), O'Laughlin Auditorium.	October 5 Football: Notre Dame vs. Stanford at Stanford. Film: "Cyrano de Bergerac," 7:00 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Backdraft,” 8:00 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.
I	Movie Theatres
.	100 Center Cinema I &II: 259-0414
)’	Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583
Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090
University Park Cinema East: 277-7336
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441 s	.
Picks of the Week:
The dining halls are the places to be this week. Start your weekend off right with "the fastest omelet in the world." And don your red clown
noses
on Tuesday and feast on cotton candy, peanuts, and hot dogs
at CIRCUS LUNCH!
Pull out and save this page!
B
SPORTS
IE s 4 ai H> H fl s tti fl m
c
Now T ff ai (fl fl 4 a © mi
The Notre Dame rugby club looks to put the past behind them and move on to establish their own tradition of excellence
Matt Cashore
Eric Ellingham presents the ball out of the maul formation
J
By John Regruth
The Notre Dame rugby club’s stunning 39-10 victory over traditional power Bowling Green last Saturday holds as much off-the-field significance for the team as it does on the field. That triumph was the team’s first ever over theFalcons and signals a resurgence of Fighting Irish rugby.
Although 1991 marks the 30th year since the club’s founding, an eventful past decade nearly saw the elimination of rugby from the
18
Notre Dame sports scene.
Incidents involving rugby players, which Rich O’Leary, the assistant director of recreational sports, characterizes as “offensive to the university” occurred in 1979, prompted Non-Varsity Athletic officials to cease the club’s existence.
No one associated with the team cares to comment on the incidents, though Colonel John Stephens, the club’s supervisor, said, “Ruggers throughout the country have a reputation for playing hard and then having
a few beers. They’re very enthusiastic.”
Whatever the incidents, they were serious enough to have the club disbanded during the 1981 season. Only the strong support of then athletic director Gene Corrigan and O’Leary enabled rugby to win rc-instate-ment in 1983.
However, tough new restrictions faced the club, including placement on permanent probation. Limitations were also put on travel and Col. Stephens, who had just retired from overseeing Notre Dame’s Army
SCHOLASTIC
ROTC program, was appointed as the team’s chaperone.
Another important change was the addition of Art Maerlender to the club as an instructor in 1987. Maerlender, a 43-year old doctoral candidate in psychology at Notre Dame, brought two decades of rugby experience and a new attitude to the team.
“When I joined the team, I asked the guys if they wanted to make the club social or athletic,” Maerlender said.
The players opted for the latter.
“We want to be known as athletes rather than partiers,” said Mike Moore, a senior scrumback and the club vice-president.
The present rugby players say they view those troublesome years as a kind of dark ages in club history.
“We have no connection to those guys (the ’79 team),” said Vic Pisani, the club’s president and outsidecenter back. “We’re trying to clean up rugby’s image. We run the club by the book.”
Their new attitude alone, however, could not win matches.
“Notre Dame had great athletes, but they weren’t rugby players,” said Maerlender. “We endured a first year of defeat figuring that it would take at least four years to build a strong program.”
He recalls his first team going several matches in a row without scoring a try (rugby’s equivalent to a touchdown) and losing to top notch teams by scores of 40-0.
But the four-year plan was initiated in earnest in 1988, setting the goal as winning the annual Chicago Area Rugby Football Union (CARFU) tournament.
The players responded quickly, winning last year’s CARFU tourney by a combined score of 113-14 and advancing to the Midwest regional of the national tournament The Irish placed sixth out of 16 teams in the regional, losing to Penn State.
“Last year’s goal was to win the CARFU — this year’s goal is to win the Midwest,” said Pisani of the team’s expectations com
ing into the 1991-92 season.
Early season drubbings of Illinois and Michigan by scores of 46-3 and 28-4, respectively, only proved the Irish ruggers status as above average. Bowling Green, who has won the regional tournament three times over the last six years, represented Notre Dame’s toughest opponent and served as a litmus test for measuring the club’s improvement.
“We’re gauging our performance on (the Bowling Green) game,” said senior hooker
Among the new breed of Notre Dame rugby players is theology professor Mike Moriarty, who is pictured here fighting to keep possession of the ball.
Tom Cocci.
On Saturday, the Fighting Irish scored first (then second) on two three-point penalty kicks off the able foot of Jeff Lyman, giving them an early 6-0 lead. Lyman, five for five on two-point conversions (similar to football’s point-after-touchdown) and three for three on penalty kicks, accounted for 19 of Notre Dame’s 39 points.
The Irish then reeled off 21 unanswered points on tries by Rich Huftalen, Rob McCurren and Tony Hazbun (with successful conversions) and another Lyman penalty. kick, giving Notre Dame a 27-4 lead which put the game out of reach.
“[Notre Dame] out-rucked us,” said Bowling Green head coach Roger Mazza-rella after the game. “We’re a ball possession type of team and when you get out-rucked, you lose tactical advantage.”
The victory improved Notre Dame’s record to 3-0, and set Notre Dame’s eyes on a
stronger finish at year’s end than sixth place.
“We still need some work,” said junior lock Mark Babka. “But, we have a good shot at the final four of the Midwest regional.”
The whole team is enthusiastic and generally in agreement about the Irish’s chances this season.
“Based on what I’ve seen and heard, it’ll probably come down to Notre Dame, Bowling Green, Wisconsin and (the University of) Cincinnati in the regional,” said Mazza-rella.
Mazzarella said he guesses the only possible disappointment for Notre Dame on Saturday was that Maerlender, who’s now interning at a hospital in Milwaukee, could not be in attendance to witness the team’s triumph.
Mike Moore expressed similar feelings, noting the central importance of Maerlender in the rugby club’s re-birth.
“Art’s been a great influence,” said Moore. “He knows the game well and knows how to teach an understanding of
rugby. He’s kept the team focused.”
Pisani noted a maturity developing within the club during Maerlender’s absence.
“I think it’s symbolic of how far we’ve come,” he said, referring to the team’s continued success despite Maerlender not being able to attend most practices or games.
The Notre Dame ruggers have another match Saturday at the Stepan Fields against the Griffins, a Chicago rugby club. The match will help to prepare them for the October 5 CARFU tournament. Pisani calls the remainder of the schedule after the tourney, which includes an importantNovember 10th match with Tennessee, as a period of “polishing and developing depth” before next spring’s regional.
If all goes well for this hard-playing group, they’ll be shining like new by the time the CARFU tourney rolls around and they’ll be ready to reassert once and for all that Notre Dame rugby is back.	□
SEPTEMBER 26, 1991
19
SPORTS
A Tradition of Excellence: ISIS National Champions
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports information
Coach: Knute Rockne	October	5	W	Indiana	14-0	A	16,111
CaptainJohn Law	October	12	W	Navy	14-7	Nl.	64,681 i
Notes: In his 11 th season as head coach of the Fighting Irish, Knute	October	19	W	Wisconsin	19-0	N2	90,000 j
Rockne led what was arguably the greatest of his six national	October	26	w	Carnegie Tech	7-0	A	66,000
championship teams to a perfect record of 9-0-0. This squad won a	November	2	w	Georgia Tech	26-6	A	22,000
national championship without ever playing a home game. The	November	9	w	Drake	19-7	N2	50,000
reason: Notre Dame Stadium, which would open in 1930,.was	November 16		w	USC	13-12	N2	112,912
structurally unsafe in 1929 and Notre Dame had no alternative	November 23		w	Northwestern	26-6	A	50,000
facility to accomodate the growing number of Saturday spectators.	November 30		w	Army	7-0	A	79,408
The season was highlighted by narrow wins over Navy, Carnegie
Tech, USC, and Army... Governor Alfred E. Smith of New York,	(9-0-0)
the 1928 Democratic Presidential nominee, was awarded the Lae- NX - at Baltimore Memorial Stadium in Baltimore
tare Medal from Notre Dame.	N2 - at Soldier Field in Chicago
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Bert Bader: Bader, the freshman goalkeeper for the Notre Dame men’s soccer team, took little time to estblish himself in the college game as he recorded three straight shutouts last week. Bader's goals against average stands at a sparkling 0.56, and he has collected 20 saves to date. The native of Dallas, Texas, was one of five high school goalkeepers named to the 1990 Parade All-American Team.
20
1929 National Championship Team
;Frwu Cowy, i Iaas,	Twowy. v>wj,:fc, JUrk Kun; C#i'>f\ UtUk
FEM ALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Nicole Coates: Coates, from Princeton, IL, is a freshman outside hitter for the Notre Dame women's volleyball team. She led her teammates to a fifth straight win with her nine digs on defense in Notre Dame's 15-10, 15-5, 15-9 demolition of Boston College. Coates and company are now 6-1, the best start ever for the Notre Dame women's volleyball team.
SCHOLASTIC
i
Penn State Protest: No Injuries, Nothing Said
Nothing to Say, Nothing to Do
Penn State must really be hurting for some humor or protests, neither of which was obtained in this instance, writes the Weekly Collegian. Jim Nothing and Jester Nothing (pictured below) held their own protest recently at Penn State carrying blank signs. The two also marched while remaining silent. What did they protest? Nothing. When asked to comment on their actions, the pair replied, “We really have nothing to say.” It was revealed later that the protestors were pledges to a fraternity at Penn State, which is truly nothing to get excited about.
UConn School of Pharmacy Going Up in Smoke
A news release circulating at the University of Connecticut's School of Pharmacy made a pun that was “weeded” out, according to The Chronicle of.Higher Education. The news release concerned a research project on the affects of THC (the active ingredient in Marijuana) on the brain. The release stated “the new photoreactive molecule has been tested in a joint project with the University of Massachusetts and the Saint Louis University Medical Center.”
Weekly Collegian
ND Staff Lounge Bugged
Here's an“on our campus” for a switch. According to The Chronicle of Higher Education, the Notre Dame library publication Mosaic recently printed a somewhat humorous and quite scarry tidbit. The quote read: “Some of the areas in and around the Library have been cleaned due to a gentle reminder from the Staff Committee, for example: The windows and the reflection pool. Also the Staff Lounge was exterminated when needed.” Bleccch.
These People Graduated from Miami AND Are “Successful”
In an effort to boost school pride, the University of Miami's Hurricane printed a list of successful alumni. The relatively short list included multi-talented Bruce Hornsby and mega-star Dawn Lewis. (She plays Jaleesa on “A Different World,” don't you know? AND, she won the oh-so-coveted People's Choice Award in 1988.) Perhaps the most famous alum is Top 40 Queen, Gloria “The Rhythm is Gonna Getcha” Estefan. The Hurricane failed to mention, however, those alumni whose success hailed from different sources. Drug trafficking, for instance.
Weird News at G.W.U.
A professor at George Washington University is into some pretty	;
weird stuff, according to the College Press Service. Chuck Shep- • herd likes to collect weird news clippings, a hobby he's had since his	i
days as a lawyer for the Federal Trade Commission in the '70's.	■
Some items that have made it into his newsletter include Iraq selling	:
tanks to Iran while the two fought each other and some prison inmates who nominated themselves for Outstanding Young Men in	<
America. The newsletter's motto is quite applicable to the ND	]
experience : “You're only young once, but you can always be	i
immature.”	□ i
Edited by Mike Owen and Kim Cenedella
SEPTEMBER 26, 1991
21
BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION
OfimfiiEig ZHMH 1L©w9 Clip siimdl ® Swlk
Dear Mr. Manners:
I have a problem. I work with a really obtuse guy in the dining hall {obtuse, not obese). I know that he likes me and to get my attention he likes to throw food at me. It really gets annoying after a while. Anyway, Mr. Manners, I need to know how I can evade this person. I figure with all of your immense popularity, you would know some pretty good blow-off lines.
Sincerely, Peeved, Lewis Hall
Dear Peeved,
I understand that you have a hard time dealing with this person, but don’tbesuchacold woman. After all, WEAREND where the social skills are slightly sub-par. Some people write letters, others sing, this guy throws cheap food. Your description of the situation is a little vague. Much more could be derived from this matter if you gave me a few more details.
For example, what your man wants from you can be specifically linked to what kind of food he throws at you. You see, if it’s, say, steaming, overcooked broccoli spears, then he is saying, “ I want you and my vitamins.” However, the major sign to look out for is the tossing of everyone’s favorite, Noodle Kugel. This can mean a more serious involvement than you’re ready for.
Finally, yes, I do have quite the collection of insults and blow-off lines, but none of these shall be given to you as you are just not into a little kidding around. Sorry.
Dear Mr. Manners:
I am now writing to you in order to emphasize the rights of smokers everywhere. I like to smoke. No, I love to smoke. Right now I’m up to a half-carton per day. I think part of the reason I smoke so much is because I get a kick from watching the various disgusted reactions of so many goody-goodys around here. I wish I had a video-camera sometime to show you how people look at a smoker around here.
And now they’re spending time and money to investigate the idea ofa smoke-free campus? What are we—Puritans? About the last thing we need around here is something to be banned. But for now, I sit here content to smoke my brains out, here on the second chair from the left of the front-left portion of Sorin’s porch with the other riff-raff.
Sincerely,
Chuck, The Front-Left side of Sorin’s porch
Dear Chuck,
I applaud you for your effort. I must tell you that I get a little happier whenever I sec someone walking by with a cig. Keep up the good work.
Dear Mr. Manners:
I’m a really cool and,good looking freshman guy. Hundreds of freshman girls are breaking down my door day and night. Some want me for my body, some want me for my mind, some want me for my hair, and some just want me for my name. I guess it doesn’t matter, though, because I’m not interested in any of them.
Just the other evening, I met my “big sister,”, a really hot blonde. The only problem is, she’s a senior. Mr. Manners, do I have a chance with her? Should I tell her my desires, or is this just freshman lust?
Waiting impatiently, HughC.
Dear Hugh,
You'll get nothing and like it for that disgusting name I almost printed. What a freshman.	□
Remember: Write the big M at 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail
22
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
Midi©	IPluy
WiW IFiip© HEmcDiia^glhi
rri his country is headed for big trouble. X The dollar no longer commands the respect it once did in foreign markets, the S&L failures have mortgaged our children’s futures, and the Japanese own half of Los Angeles. Also, the new Saturday morning cartoons really stink.
Now don’t get me wrong. Cartoons are still cartoons. Animated characters are still better than real actors. Bill Cosby probably couldn’t take more than one shot to the head with a croquet mallet per episode, whereas Daffy Duck, in his prime, could have taken six or seven.
Even so, America is still headed for trouble and I know why. The children of our blessed land haven’t been playing right They spend all their free time perched in front of the T. V., leading Mario to World 76, or wherever. All kids do any more is play Nintendo.
You see, when I was a kid, I used my free time much more wisely. I had a friend named James Wilson and during my formative years, James and I spent our time unlocking the mysteries of life, playing time-honored childhood games that developed my higher faculties. Mostly, James and I threw rocks at each other.
This was never really a planned activity, per se. When I was moping around the house with nothing to do, Mom never said, “Son, why don’t you go throw rocks at that neighbor boy?” Somehow James and I would just wind up in the alley behind my house throwing rocks at stuff and then the stuff would wind up being each other.
When we weren’t busy trying to put our.
SEPTEMBER 26,1991
eyes out with rocks, we played with fire.
To this day, I firmly believe that parents underestimate the educational value of fire. But James and I didn’t. Somehow we knew that testing the flammability of everything under my kitchen sink was essential if we wanted to become well-adjusted adults
some day. So that’s exactly what we did. Also, we tested most of the stuff in the medicine cabinet. And the utility closet in the garage. And a big pile of dry hedge clippings in the neighbor’s front yard. And gasoline-soaked tennis balls. (They burned best.)
The problem with America is that kids today don’t set enough stuff on fire. They don’t even throw rocks at each other. Instead, they wear their little thumbs down to stumps working the Nintendo controls. They sit hour after hour in front of the TV,
playing Extra-Super Mario Brothers III, or whatever the latest version of brain rot is. Eyes glazing over, absorbing dangerous levels of radiation from sitting too close to the TV screen, these kids won’t even stop to eat. Their only nourishment must be sucked through a straw so both hands are free to work the controls.
Now the kids themselves aren’t ruining America. Their parents are. Parents across the country have to endure that cheerful tune that serves as Mario’s theme music. This little ditty is responsible for turning otherwise courteous and efficient people into civil servants who have difficulty trimming their toenails without first completing the proper forms. Il causes normally responsible bankers to lend money to people
with the smell of cheap beer on their breath.
So the next time the good folks over in the Registrar’s Office give you a blank look, have pity on them. They probably have kids who play Nintendo.
By Tim Rogers
Tim Rogers is an Off-Campus Senior who knows how to solve the problems of America.
23

ANNIVERSARY
Glancing Back
The band marches through history
By JeffJotz
[	¥7 or 145 years, the University of Notre
j JT Dame band has been doing what bands i usually do: make fantastic music. From a j humble beginning in 1846 to last week’s 3 performance at the Michigan State game, the band has endured as a permanent stalwart of Notre Dame tradition. Under the present direction of Luther M. Snavely, Jr. and his associate, James S. Phillips, the band’s role in the Notre Dame community has been nothing less than essential to the i University. Since the initial issue was I published in 1867, Scholastic (called “a handsome paper” in 1867 by a leading South ;	Bend literary publication) has keptan eye on
what is proudly announced as “America’s first college band.”
Like other campus institutions, theband is ;	not a stranger to its share of campus tales and
legends. It has been a product of the University’s inherent love with music and the study of music. The October 28, 1876 issue of Scholastic defended the :	University ’s music program againstcampus
i critics. “Now while many persons may urge that it is, in their opinion, a degeneration to incorporate music into the curriculum at college, saying it produces stupidity, we would in refutation say that it is only that bad use of any art that plants the seed of corruption,” wrote its author.
Throughout the University’s history, many notable Notre Dame celebrities took part in the school’s rich musical opportunities. Knute Rockne played flute at Notre Dame before becoming the living legend behind the football team. Former Athletic Director Edward “Moose” Krause was an avid clarinet player and music student at the University. It was even rumored that Father Sorin himself was quite fond of playing the
clarinet.
To the nineteenth century Notre Dame student, the beggining of the school year meant a reorganization of the band and their common “serenading” about the campus. The October 28, 1876 issue of Scholastic praised the band as “able to discourse good music during the year.” That month, after more practice (rehearsals were held at 9 a.m. on Wednesdays), the Scholastic happily reported that the current round of serenading was a sign of “great improvement”
However, a mere eleven years later, Scholastic found the band to be a victim of the classic Domer apathy. “Where, oh! where has our little Band gone?” lamented the October 15,1887 issue. It seemed that the band was nowhere to be found.
Three weeks later, the band reappeared,
Band practice In 1950.
with fifteen members ready to re-serenade the campus. Keeping with the traditional astute musical prowess displayed by Scholastic music writers, the November 5,1887 issue stated:
The Band (?) was out serenading the other evening. It is in a rather primitive condition as yet, consisting of only two strong-lunged individual horn-blowers and a muscular drummer. The music (?) produced on the night in question was of the most doleful kind, and it is devoutly to be wished that the sere-naders will in future go far, far. away from any human habitation.
Thankfully, the band improved its music, and by the turn of the century, it was marching around Cartier field during football games and making formations of the letters “ND.”
In 1908, a marriage occurred between the band and a song. Written by John and Michael Shea, the “Notre Dame Victory March” and the band have become synonymous. From New York flea circuses, to numerous motion pictures, to White House parties in the nation’s capital, the Victory March has become one of themostrecogniz-able and influential school songs of all time.
The membership increased to 64 in 1928 under the leadership of band president Joe Keefe and director Joseph Casasanta, and the revamped University band led the festivities for the dedication of Notre Dame Stadium in 1930. The October 10, 1930 Scholastic mentioned that the band marched j from dorm to dorm, leading a torchlight procession of students which ended at the
24
SCHOLASTIC

stadium with a huge pyrotechnic spectacular. “When the last bomb has boomed the band will blaze out the tune of the ‘Victory March,’ and three thousand Notre Dame men will bow their heads,” reported the Scholastic. By 1950, the band’s total membership topped the century mark, and the legendary “hike step trot” was rapidly becoming a student favorite.
In 1949, Director H. Lee Hope decided that the band needed some more color in its performances. The Irish Guard was bom. Clad in kilts and bearskin, each man towered over eight feet high including his hat, and their impressive marching abilities made them the obvious choice for leading the band into the stadium prior to home football games.
The Notre Dame plaid worn by the Irish Guard (and countless alumni) is actually a copyrighted and trademarked design that is unique to the University. The Tartan Advisory Committee in Edinburgh, Scotland, confirmed that the green, blue, gold, red and black of the plaid was not found to be connected with any clan or familial name in Scotland. Thankfully, Notre Dame security reports that there have been no reports of vendors hawking any illegal plaid on campus this year.
Since days of old, the band has been quite busy performing both on and off campus. Boasting a current membership of 271 Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students, the band has remained entrenched as an institution of Notre Dame life. For example, the Friday evening pep rally has traditionally brought out hordes of camcorder-toting alumni and young girls dressed in Notre Dame cheerleader outfits. Following the post-pep rally enthusiasm, the band’s Saturday performance on the Administration Building steps 90 minutes before kickoff draws hundreds of fans, who then follow the band to the stadium.
Like the band of 1930, the University marching band, led by the Irish Guard, hike steps its way out of the tunnel and out on the field. In the December 7, 1989 issue of Scholastic, band president Julie McCarthy explained the drama of this moment: “the roar of the crowd as we exit the tunnel on
Nick Spangler
Even today the “Band of the Fighting Irish” still forms the “ND” during halftime at football games.
game days makes it all worth it.”
After meeting 59,075 screaming football fans, the band begins its unique rapport with the student body and the stadium crowd. With such favorites as “When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” “Hike, Notre Dame” and the classic third quarter “Lou” song (known to non-Irish fans as ‘The 1812 Overture”), the band keeps the crowd’s hands clapping and voices singing. At halftime, the band provides the visiting band with apples and invites them to the post-game reception. If the Irish win, the Irish Guard celebrates with the traditional “Victory Clog” out on the field.
Besides football, the band’s presence on the Notre Dame community has been highly visible. Three smaller varsity bands consisting of about sixty-five members help to light up the JACC for home basketball games. The concert band, roughly as old as the University band itself, embarks for a ten-day national tour of the United States each
spring. Roughly composed of some sixty members, the concert band provides various concerts during the year and plays at each University commencement. Woodwind and brass ensembles periodically perform for the community, as well as providing music for liturgies in Sacred Heart Church. Two jazz bands and four small combos help entertain the campus and the surrounding area with their unique talents. The highlight of the jazz program is the eagerly-awaited Collegiate Jazz Festival in the Spring.
One hundred and fifty years ago, Father Sorin foresaw a great Catholic University in the Indiana wilderness. Four years later, several Notre Dame students formed a musical band that serenaded students and faculty, for better or for worse. 195 years later, the University band and its various spin-offs have helped Father Sorin realize his vision, and as long as there is a field to spell “ND” on, the band will be with us for at least another 150 years.	□
SEPTEMBER 26, 1991
25
FINAL WORD
Notre Dame “Family”?
Transfer student Patrick Thomas criticizes the cold-shoulder attitude given toward GLND/SM
T t seems incredible, that it was just four A weeks ago when I transferred from a small junior college in Los Angeles to Notre Dame, but now I think it must have been decades ago, when McCarthy was ravaging our country with suspicion and ignorance. I savored, for all of three weeks, that first day of orientation until I became acquainted with this campus’ backwards philosophy of community. Every brochure I received way-back-when highlighted “Notre Dame’s sense of family unity.” I wonder if I can sue for deceptive advertising? We all are proud of our accomplishments, and we all chose Notre Dame or Saint Mary’s as upper echelon institutions to prepare us for our lives and wherever God/Fate/Luck lakes us. Granted, I claim that our school is in the “upper echelon,” but I am far from claiming elitism. In fact, that is one aspect of degenerative thought I perceive here and encourage others to argue with me. At no other school have I seen as arrogant a stand taken against a group of their own “family” as that of the Notre Dame administration toward GLND/SM (Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s).
When I care about someone, I do everything I can to keep that person from embarrassing himself or herself when he or she doesn’t realize it. Case in point: a good friend is lecturing in a small humid room on the benefits of keeping clean and he/she absolutely reeks of body odor. I feel I have an obligation to take whoever it is aside and tell him/her that it might be a good idea to put on some deodorant before lecturing on the same topic. I would hope those people around me would be kind enough to return the favor before I play the fool also.
Today, I tap on the shoulder of the
“golden domed ego” to reexamine its policy towards homosexuals and bisexuals on campus. Could it be that because I am from Los Angeles, a possible hotbed of “flaming” liberalism, that my perception is overly distorted and reckless here in the mid-west? That is a viable possibility. However, this school admits students with every religious and ethnic background, as well as every orientation, in order to prepare the students for the enriched living atmosphere, outside the metropolis of46556, that will beencoun-tered upon graduation.
Right now, the administration will, not allow a group of students who call themselves GLND/SM to meet as a club on campus. They are forbidden to use any campus building for a gathering spot and, moreover, this group is censored from campus publications using their name to advertise a possible meeting place or time.
Let’s think about this. Why don’t we ban them altogether from the campus and try to expel them? Or maybe this is going a bit too far. Perhaps we should back our faithful mentors and pretend that a group of our own classmates do not exist because of their personal orientation? That is fine, I suppose. It certainly has been done with more or less success in the past. I can’t imagine living a decade in the United States of America without some kind of persecution. Why should this university be any different? Now is certainly not the time to remind ourselves of the pretense underlying our education: Catholic Brotherhood. Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s have impeccable records of humanitarian deeds throughout South Bend, as well as the world. We devote thousands of hours of volunteer work trying to make a mentally and physically handicapped
person’s life more bearable by becoming a “buddy” to them. We have set records for fasts, and the money earned went to education programs in third world nations to teach more productive means of farming. The list is truly and gratefully immense. I doubt that we will ever lose sight of our moral obligations to the community in which we live.
Yet, frighteningly, our administrations have lost sight of their obligation to send forth rounded students into this same community we do so much to help. This is a onesided poker game that Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s will not lose. Our schools have reputations that will never fade. Consequently, there will always be that pool of blind and naive applicants willing to subject themselves to a firing squad for that elusive, albeit expensive, goal: education. Diplomas will continue to be handed out to students with rounded blinders well into the future because of a pervasive stagnant mentality which is already considered dead in the majority of universities across the country and, undoubtedly, the world.
Let us welcome our alumni back to the campus during this year’s sesquicentennial celebration and let us praise the progress and expansion of which we are in the midst. But, can’t we also welcome all of our classmates as well onto campus? As “family,” we should be proud of each other and support each other under any circumstance. Even though I am a new member of our community, I welcome GLND/SM to campus, and I personally apologize for the ignorance and regressive thought of our administration. □
by Patrick Thomas, off-campus junior!
English major
26
SCHOLASTIC
Distributed by Tribune Media Services
DiM' iHiP'f: !.'v Tribune Mpriia Services
SEPTEMBER 26/1991
27
Multi-Cultural Fall Festival Schedule of Events
Monday, September 30 ■ Sunday, October 6
Fireside Chats
Culture on the Quad
Entertainment
Mon.-Fri., Noon-l:00 p.m.
ISO Lounge, La Fortune
Monday-Friday
Monday-Friday
12:30-1:30 p.m.
4:30-6:30 p.m.
(lunch provided)
M: Igor Grazin
The Soviet Union
T: Michael Brownstei
Understanding Japan
W: John Kennedy
The American,. Illusio Th: ShjKhigP'B^ien The Righfs^f^In^igenqus F: 'Percival 15vet$tj|
Field House Mall*
BI a clMi ISisfe Py^Wro u g h
Field House Mall*
M: Native Am. Club
K Hawaiian Club
Club
: Ballet Folklorico
^Spanish Club

featuring Vane;sisa>^ Exhibit: Thursday Lecture: 7:00\p.m.
Taste of Nations
A global extravaganza
ffom ^^^d the World 00>ll/:00 p.m.
dancing
cuisine and entertainmen, Super Combo Pan Americano Friday, 7:30 p.m. - 1:30 a.m. Stepan Center
bn of llsm
all cultures ether in worship , South Quad
(between Lyons and Morrissey Halls)
Refreshments will be served at all events.
Watch for posters or call 239-8073 for more information.
♦Rain Location: Theodore's

SUB MOVIES
STAR WARS
THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 26
THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK
FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 27
RETURN OF THE JEDI
SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 28
J? CO |
Shown in Cushing Auditorium 8:00 p.m. & 10:30 p.m.
Admission is $2
BOUGHT TO YOU BY
NO ALCOHOL PLEASE
-P > g
°s st o
