The Notre Dame This
■	taken fro®1 tne
SCHOLASTIC
15 Cts. a Copy
S3.00 the Year
November 6
19 3 1
I
KEEP KISSABLE
WITH
IN A CARLOAD
NOT A COUGH
OLD GOLDS
It's not only good manners to avoid offending others with your smoking. It’s good sense. The best way to insure your own enjoyment.
For the same reason that OLD GOLDS do not taint the breath, or discolor the teeth ... for that very reason OLD GOLDS are a finer smoke . . . easier on the throat and more delightful in taste.
Pure tobacco ... that sums it up. Sun-ripened tobacco . . . sweetened by nature herself. Tobacco so good, it needs ho added flavoring.
If you’ll take a dare... and try natural-flavored OLD GOLDS for a day.. .we predict OLD GOLD will win another life-long friend!
.	. OP.lorilhrdCo.>Iiic.
NO "ARTIFICIAL FLAVORS" TO TAINT THE BREATH ... OR STAIN THE TEETH
November 6, 19-31
One
EXPERT SHOE REBUILDING and HAT RENOVATING
CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED
Phone 2-2228
Washington Shoe Repair Co.
116 W. Washington Street South Bend, Ind.
Don't Miss This Big Money's EKorth
Hello Men!
Smith’s Cafeteria 111 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
Now for the first time in 15 years, every man about the campus can afford a fine Kuppenheimer overcoat. This new feature is the most sensible and thrifty buy of all overcoats—Select one of these New models and know the comfort and pleasure of wearing an overcoat with hand craftsmanship plus smart style—
Kuppenheimer Overcoats
A New Value Group
others $28.50 up
V •
&Hnqstbw
Downtown and on the campus
Two
The Scholastic
The world gives a color to your eyes;
Gives a color to your thick, warm hair
That wreathes gracing circles on your temples;
Sees your cool, fine face, the smooth, firm brows;
Sees you alive and laughing with life—
And calls you “pretty” or says you’re “nice’ But what thoughts are tumbling underneath, Who alone it is your eyes can see, Whose heart you have and who has yours— These things no one knows, no one but me.
November 6‘, 1931
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-data matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance far mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1913.
NEIL C. HURLEY
, Editor-in-Chief
HENRY B. ASMAN.........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors
WILLIAM W. CORR JAMES CARMODY MYRON CRAWFORD LESLIE RADDATZ JOSEPH LOPKER WILLIAM BLIND
News Staff
EDMUND STEPHAN...............News	Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL.. .Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY JOSEPH DEGNAN PATRICK CORCORAN LARRY DUNDA MITCHELL TACKLEY
Department Editors PAUL J. HALLINAN.............The Week
JOHN PICK................College Parade
LOUIS E. BRENNAN.........Book Reviews
JOHN CONLEY..............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON...........Features Editor
JOHN RYAN..............Music	and Drama
Sports Staff JAMES S. KEARNS..........Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER JAMES McFEELEY, Jr. JOSEPH KURTH EDMUND MORIARTY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN	WILLIAM FLYNN
Business Staff ANDREW McGUAN..........Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
NOVEMBER 6, 1931.
Number 7.
SUMMARY
NEWS
Scholastic pursues mysterious columnist; reward offered for identification of the Stool Pigeon__ 5
Banquet of famous men broadcast over national radio chain opens the Rockne Memorial drive_____ 6
Father Nieuwland aids in developing synthetic rubber ; member of the Holy Cross community lauded by the scientific world_________________________ 7
Sophomore cotillion tonight is the first social event of the season___________________________________ 8
N. D. Glee club to lead singing at the Pennsylvania game tomorrow___________________________________11
The art of reading explained to freshmen by Professor John T. Frederick in	weekly convocation_15
FEATURES
Chicago, Broadway and the University Theatre look forward to a big season, says John Ryan_________12
Hank Tholen has been a drum major for six years___13
EDITORIALS
Father Nieuwland, Scientist; Student Policemen; Save the “Victory March”_______________________19
SPORTS
Penn brings unbeaten team to Notre Dame tomorrow; Fighting Irish favorites__________________ 5
• Schwartz and Leahy lead first half parade that brings 19 to 0 win from Carnegie Tech in Pittsburgh _________________________________________20
Notre Dame cross-country team wins from Iowa in easy fashion; Gene Howery leads the field by wide margin_______________________:____________20
Walsh hall sets Interhall' scoring record against Freshman; Badin and Off-Campus meet first defeats 22
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, November 6—Sophomore Cotillion, Palais Royale ballroom, 9:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, November 7—Football, Notre Dame vs. Pennsylvania, Notre Dame Stadium, 2 p. m.—Movie, “Ex Bad Boy,” Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.— Senior Class Dance, K. of C. ballroom, 9:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, November 8—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, November 9—Exams, 8:00 and 10:00 a. m.; 1:15 and 3:15 p. m.—French club meeting, Room 3, Main building, 6:30 p. m.
'TUESDAY, November 10—Exams, 8:00 and 0:00 a. m.; 1:15 and 3:15 p. m.—Economics Seminar, Law building, 7:00 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec,” 6:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, November 11—Exams, 9:00 and 11:00 a. m.; 2:15 p. m.—Spanish club meeting, 7:30 p. m., Walsh hall.
THURSDAY, November 12—Exams, 9:00 and 11:00 a. m.; 2:15 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Law building, 6:45 p. m.—Spectators’ meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.
o o o
NOTICE
There will be no issue of the Scholastic on next Friday, due to the quarterly examinations. The next issue will appear, therefore, on November 20.
The general sports and news staff meeting will be postponed until next Friday evening.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK ♦
FIVE of the boys were gathered,—as Notre Dame men will,—in a protracted session. The conversation skipped from puns to French to masters’ degrees to caustic professors. Then someone asked, “Who’s going to write the Notre Dame story?”
As if by the way of reply, a well known exponent of campus lore characterizes Notre Dame in this month’s College Humor. His treatment is witty, typical and of course, wholly inadequate as a story of the 89-year-old campus. Flippantly, he says: “Badin Hall has 147 windows,—some of which you can see through.”
Hollywood failed, miserably, in the recent “Spirit of Notre Dame.” The exigencies of filming the trite story left most students gritting their teeth or laughing outright at the many incongruities. The trouble seems to be that those outside the school are solely moved by the football glamour; those inside by the sentimentality of association. Can’t somebody read us objectively?
It has been recommended by Frank O’Malley that Maurice Egan contribute a chapter from his Recollection of a Happy Life. It is an accurate picture of pioneer days here. In a lighter vein, Tighe Woods (who matriculated shortly after the fire of 1879) could relate old tales of campus life; Walt Johnson might retell his epic of St. Mary’s; Emil Telfel could be recalled from his sport-desk in Manhattan to “etch in acid” wild yarns of Scholastic hey-days; and if the Stool-Pigeon hasn’t been murdered, he could relate some spicy gossip of social life here during the Civil War.
Notes on notes
EWS from the musical department runs as follows: Item: Hank Tholen, suave drum-major, recently campussed himself to insure good condition for the Southern California game. Item: The tuba-players were richer by two bushels of beans after playing downtown at the Festival. Every urchin had his bean-shooter, and the grinning cavities of the horns were ideal targets. Item: The time-honored goofing parties persist with two music-minded freshmen as the goofees: Every night they work out in Morrissey sub under a pseudo-director. Boys will be boys, and the one who plays a tuba lives in Carroll hall.
Like our modern hotels, the Scholastic is eager to have you satisfied. You are our best advertisement; we please us when we please you; if you like us, tell us, if not,— and so on, ad nauseam. With this issue, you will probably find, if the fellow across the hall hasn’t already, a durium-record of the “Victory March.” Next week it may be possible to bring you, similarly, the quarterly grades. Before long you will be sitting in, by Scholastic television, on a meeting of the Board of Discipline.
The 3,000 records promise to be a great menace. The new records will make nice Christmas cards.
“THESE EXAMS
• HE not-at-all startling infoi-mation that the senior knows less than the freshman was supplied recently by the Carnegie Foundation. Stifling a yawn and a “what of it?”,—because it really does matter,—we must take some cognizance, in the same breath, of that new line in the Bules for Examinations: quarterly grades do not count in compiling the semester mark.
The hard-working educators over in the Main Building show no evidence of being caught asleep on their academic ears. First, the 77 qualitative average, and now the “noquarter-grades” regulation. The problem of “when is a grade not a grade?” may arise, but that can be left to the Civil Engineering department.
The whole sin behind the sorry findings of the Carnegie men is that students are kept busy dodging hither and yon in a maze of quizzes, credits and electives that obviates at once the acquisition of culture, education or anything else worthwhile. The steps of the University’s officials seem to indicate new and better trends at Notre Dame.
SYNTHETIC RUBBER
DESTITUTIONS, like most things, are of two kinds: desirable and undesirable. These faked photographs of Big Ten games,—with the actual scenes backed by shots of the crowds which weren’t there,—have put Sorin sub in a frenzy for the past three or four Sunday mornings. The boys seem to feel that the Chicago papers are kidding them, and Sorin subbers do hate to be kidded.
More desirable are substitutes like fish (for meat), radio (for music), and Latin ponies (for Caesar, Cicero). Now comes the announcement of synthetic rubber with the basic invention by Notre Dame’s own genius, Father Nieuwland. The advantages of it are: price (only one-half cent more than genuine rubber); use for airplane gas tanks, and easy vulcanization.
Like other famous a priori pronouncements is this one from the November Forum by Howard Wolf, an Akron columnist: “Before we shall have a synthetic product that will be able to compete with reclaimed rubber in cheapness, Europe’s war debts will be paid and Clarence Darrow’s portrait will hang in the Tennessee State House.”
November 6, 1931
Five
PENN NEXT N.D. GRID FOE
THE “STOOL PIGEON”!
DO YOU KNOW HIM?
Undefeated Quakers Seek Revenge on Fighting Irish in Game Here Tomorrow
“Scholastic” Offers Prize For His Identification.
“Who is the Stool Pigeon?”
The Notre Dame Scholastic will give a ticket to this year’s Junior Prom to anyone giving conclusive evidence as to his identity. Or, should the winner be a freshman or a sophomore, a two-year subscription to the Juggler will be awarded.
There are no restrictions to the contest. Everyone is eligible to compete. All that is necessary is for you to give absolute and complete evidence as to the “Pigeon’s” identity.
Anticipating a steady stream of accusations the Scholastic will each week publish the names of those receiving mention as the writer, together with the number of times each has received recognition.
Furthermore, since the Pigeon on one occasion handed in copy in long-hand, a photostatic copy will be made and will appear next week in the Scholastic. Therefore you will have only to apprehend a student (if it is a student) with similar characteristics of penmanship in order to win the reward.
All suspicions should be handed in to Editor Neil C. Hurley in the publications office any evening except Saturday or Sunday at 6:30. Or, if you wish, you may write your accusations to the same address.
The contest will last until Junior Prom time and if not discovered by then, the prize will simmer into a two year Juggler subscription. In the event that an upperclassman wins the prize he may have his choice, providing that he discovers the culprit before February 10.
The Scholastic holds the privilege of insisting that the identity of the Pigeon be kept secret should certain conditions warrant this procedure.
Bill Goggins On Newspaper
Bill Goggins, Jr., graduate of the Journalism school in ’29, is writing for the Monongahela Daily, Monongahela, Pennsylvania.1 He divides his time between sports and general rewrites.
Cotillion Program
Friday—
9:00 p. m., Cotillion of 1931, Palais Royale ballroom.
Saturday—
2:00 p. m., Notre Dame vs. Pennsylvania, Stadium.
8:30 p. m., Senior Class Victory Dance, K. of C. ballroom.
Sunday—
2:30 p. m., Informal Parties, South Bend.
Father Haggerty Is Still Undecided About Frosh
“The Freshmen? What do I think of them as tenants? I cannot express an opinion right now; we have not been together long enough. But as time goes on I am sure we will become better acquainted.” This was the statement the Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., present rector of Dillon hall, made to the Scholastic w’hen he was asked how the freshmen were behaving in their new residence.
Father Haggerty has had a great deal of experience in handling Notre Dame men in their places of residence. He has been rector of Corby, Sorin, Walsh; Morrissey, and now it is Dillon hall and the freshmen. Just how relations will develop is unknown, but Father Haggerty is confident.
“The chapel will be ready for use in about six weeks,” Father Haggerty said. “When the chapel is ready, I’ll be able to gain a closer contact with the students of this hall. Until then I cannot pass an opinion upon the freshmen.”
At present the students of Dillon hall are using Sacred Heart church for morning and evening prayers.
Blue and Gold Heavy Favorites To Topple Invaders; Penn
Boasts Strong Offense.
By T. Edward Carey
A Pennsylvania football team will make its first appearance in athletic history in South Bend tomorrow when Coach Harvey Harman and his Red and Blue warriors engage the Notre Dame eleven. Notre Dame will be gunning for its twenty-fourth victory without defeat, and stands a good chance to keep its two and one-half year winning streak unbroken. Penn is the fifth unbeaten and untied team to face the Fighting Irish this season, and although it will probably put up a strong fight, will be simply outclassed.
With victories over Swarthmore, Franklin-Marshall, Lehigh, Wisconsin, and Lafayette, the eastern team comes here with a fine record and high hopes of avenging the 60-20 whipping suffered at the hands of Notre Dame last year. The sensational upset of Wisconsin was the first indication that Coach Harman had more than an ordinary team, and although they displayed woeful lack of scoring power in their 3-0 defeat of Lafayette last Saturday, the Pennsylvanians will probably enter the game tomorrow keyed to the same pitch as they were against a supposedly stronger Wisconsin eleven.
Penn’s strength lies in the offensive ability of its veteran backfield. Carl Perina, triple-threat fullback, has led the Red and Blue in every game this season. It was he who last year was mainly responsible for the three touchdowns scored by Penn against the Notre Dame second team after the varsity had run up sixty points. Gette and Munger will be at the halfback positions, although the latter may have to share his place with Bud Smith, who kicked the field goal which defeated Lafayette last week. Smith, a substitute quarter, was sent in at half in the middle of the game.
Bill Graupner, first string quarter-‘back, has been on the bench with injuries for the past month, but expects
.	(Continued on Page 24)
A7‘
The Scholastic
NOTED LEADERS OF SPORT, POLITICS, AND BUSINESS AID ROCKNE DRIVE OVER RADIO
PRESS CLUB MEETS IN FACULTY DINING HALL
Will Rogers, Jimmy Walker, And The Four Horsemen Featured on Program
The Rockne Memorial Drive campaign for one million dollars was opened in an auspicious manner last Wednesday night, when a coast to coast broadcast carried the speeches and tributes of world famous figures from the various cities throughout the land. The National Broadcasting Company network carried the proceedings over the air from 9:00 to 9:30, Central Standard time.
Will Rogers, speaking from San Antonio, Texas, was the principal speaker of the evening, and gave one of his typical “right from the heart” talks. Mr. Rogers will long linger in the memory of those who listened to the broadcast, especially his closing words, relative to Rock: “Dam, you, you old bald-headed rascal, if we asked you to help, you would give us your shirt.”
Mayor James J. Walker of the city of New York was the other featured speaker of the evening, speaking from a campaign dinner of committee workers in New York. Mayor Walker paid tribute to Rockne’s genius, and to the University, in a well delivered address, which showed his sincere feelings towards the success of the campaign.
In the absence of Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., who was prevented from speaking by doctor’s orders, Reverend Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., former president of the University, read Father O’Donnell’s inspiring address. Part of the speech ran as follows:
“Only a little more than half a year has passed since Rockne went from us. With all his achievements, with all his unexpended power, at the full tide of his career, he left us, suddenly, with unintended dramatism, tragically—in a moment he was gone. The country stood aghast, shocked as' it had not been shocked in our generation. When horror and dismay were somewhat spent, a great wave of grief swept the country. The President of the United States, in a special message to the bereaved family, _• termed his death a national loss. An Ex-President of the United States
wrote of him as of a public man who was at the same time a familial* figure beloved by millions of his fellow Americans. All over the country such tribute was paid to this simple American citizen as a king might envy. By a conservative estimate, the broadcast of his funeral sendees was listened to by sixty million people.”
“And so it is we are beginning tonight our intensive campaign for One Million Dollars to build the Rockne Memorial Field House at Notre Dame. We ask only that those give who are able to give and who want to give. The motive for giving is one of gratitude to this unique and lovable character, Knute Rockne, of whom it is no exaggeration but the literal truth to say, that because he did what he did, because he was what he was, this, world is a better place for all of us, but especially a better world for the boys and young men of today in whose keeping the destinies of our nation will so soon be placed.”
Mayor Anton J. Cermak, of Chicago, spoke from Chicago, promising that city’s whole-hearted support to the Drive and thanking the University for all that it has done for his city. He mentioned that he was one of the instigators in the Memorial plan, and said that he would have liked to have had the Memorial built in Chicago.
During the evening telegrams were read from President Herbert Hoover and Governor Franklin Roosevelt of New York. President Hoover’s message follows:
The program opened from New York, with Hugh O’Donnell, chairman of the eastern territory, introducing Grantland Rice, who in turn introduced three of the Four Horsemen, -who gave brief talks, demonstrating Rock’s ready wit and their experiences on the gridiron while members of the great 1924 team. Don Miller, who could not be present, sent his regrets in the form of a telegram.
Prior to Mayor Walker’s speech, Chick Meehan, N. Y. U. football coach and president of the Football Coaches’ Association, pledged that body’s support, in a brief talk.
Koons and Sylvester Entertain; Editor Cosgrove Present.
The regular* meeting of the Press club was held last Tuesday evening in the lay faculty dining hall. The banquet for the week-end of the Southern California game was discussed and Mr. Fitzgerald reported the developments. At the next meeting the charms for the club will be passed upon by the members.
James Koons performed feats of magic which mystified even the observant journalists as well as Dr. John M. Cooney, director of the department, and his guest, Mr. Gerald Cosgrove, editor of the South Bend Tribune. Mr. Koons did everything in the way of magic but do away with the refreshments that were prepared for the members.
The speaker of the evening was Harry Sylvester, a graduate of the class of ’29. Mr. Sylvester is midwestern sports expert for the New York Evening Post. He has written some stories for Columbia, the official magazine of the Knights of Columbus. Sports writing and the' development of the sport pages were the topics discussed by Mr. Sylvester.
Law Banquet Successful
More than one hundred and fifty students of the Notre Dame College of Law, members of the Law club, attended the banquet last evening given in honor of the South Bend Superior and Circuit Court judges. The affair was held in the lay faculty dining hall at seven o’clock.
The guests of honor at the dinner included Judge Daniel Pyle, circuit judge, and Judges Bingham and Peake, superior court judges. Former Judge Len Oare, a member of the Indiana Board of Law Examinations was the principal speaker of the evening.
Judge Care gave an interesting talk to the students concerning phases of his work and also discussed the law examinations in Indiana.
Last evening’s dinner was the first social function of the Law club this year. Edward Joseph ' England is president of the organization.
November 6, 1931
Seven
Synthetic Rubber Is Perfected
SYNTHETIC RUBBER . IMPRESSES CHEMISTS
Development of “Duprene” Started by Fr. Nieuwland Twenty-Five Years Ago
du Pont Company Announces Perfection At Akron.
The Akron University Club auditorium at Akron, Ohio, on the evening of November 2, was the scene of the announcement of one of the outstanding chemical discoveries of the century. Before a record attendance of four hundred members, Drs. F. B. Downing, W. H. Carothers, and Ira Williams, of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, told the Rubber Section of the American Chemical Society of the perfection of synthetic rubber.
The gathering was unique, in that the subject of the papers to be presented was unknown to those present. The committee arranging the program merely knew that some new product, revolutionary in nature and of value to the rubber industry, was to be described by the du Pont chemists.
Dr. Downing described the process for the manufacture of the basic material used in the preparation of synthetic rubber. This material, monovinyl acetylene, is the one discovered at Notre Dame by the Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., professor of Organic Chemistry at the University.
Dr. Carothers and Dr. Williams told of the preparation of rubber from Father Nieuwland’s compound. They displayed a number of articles fabricated from “Duprene,” the trade name of the new rubber, and pointed out some sort of the superior qualities of the products. The exhibit was passed through the audience and attracted much interest. A large number of the chemists present were much impressed by the number of possible uses for which Duprene could be utilized.
At the close of the talks the meeting was thrown open for question and the most interesting and spirited discission in the history of the Rubber Division took place.
Dr. Richard R. Vogt, research associate in the Department of Chemistry; Thomas H. Vaughn, du Pont fellow in chemistry, and George F. Hennion, a senior in chemical engineering, made the trip with Father Nieuwland.
Fr. Nieuwland Real Scientist,
Life Story Shows
The Reverend Julius Arthur Nieuwland, C.S.C., was born in Hansbeke, Belgium, on February 14, 1878. While he was still young his parents migrated to America, there to settle
Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. Who discovered basic compounds from which Duprene is synthesized.
in South Bend, where Father Nieuwland received his elementary education.
An interesting story is told of his early days at St. Mary’s parochial school. On the first day he approached his teacher, a German nun, and told her his name. “Julius Aloysius” in French was merely a guttural sound to the nun. She became more bewildered upon repetition of the name, and finally, in despair, told him that he was “Arthur.” Since that time Father Nieuwland has been Arthur and not the Aloysius of his baptismal records in Hansbeke.
1899 saw him graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a Bachelor of Arts degree. He then attended Catholic university at Washington, D. C., and was ordained a priest in the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1903. Upon returning to (Continued on Page 14)
Coal, Salt, Limestone, Basic Materials Needed In Synthesis; All Abundant In U. S.
By Thomas H. Vaughn du Pont Fellow in Chemistry at Notre Dame (Written specially for the Scholastic)
In 1906 Father Nieuwland discovered that when acetylene was passed into a solution of copper and ammonium chlorides a chemical change took place and a new substance was produced which was not isolated but was thought to be a gas.
After fourteen years of work on the reaction, Father Nieuwland found that it was possible to alter the composition of the solution into which the acetylene was passed in such a way as to give a higher yield of the new substance. Much to Father Nieuwland’s surprise, along with the gas which was expected, an oil was also produced. By 1921 the formula for this oil had been determined and it was found to be divinyl acetylene. Work on the gas failed to reveal its composition, but it was thought to be monovinyl acetylene.
In 1923 Doctor Richard R. Vogt, of the Notre Dame Department of Chemistry, treated this compound with a vulcanizing agent and obtained a highly elastic material, somewhat resembling* rubber in nature but which was too plastic for practical utilization.
At the Organic Symposium at Rochester, New York, in December, 1925, Father Nieuwland read a paper on catalytic reactions of acetylene in which he incidentally referred to the work up to that date on the new reaction. E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company saw the possibility of divinyl acetylene as a material from which to synthesize rubber and at once made arrangements with Father Nieuwland whereby they might take over the development of the new substance. They succeeded in producing a rubber from divinyl acetylene but to their disappointment found that it had a low elasticity, grew brittle as it aged, and was not generally satisfactory.
(Continued on Page 15)
Eight
The Scholastic
Sophomores Hold Cotillion To-Nite
General Chairman Laurence Licalzi Completes Arrangements For Gala Weekend
By William W. Corr
Tonight the class of 1934 will open their social season with 300 couples dancing at the Cotillion of ’31 to be held tonight at 9:00 p. m. in the Palais Royale ballroom. By train, automobile, and even by aeroplane, came the guests to the local campus during the past twenty-four hours to enjoy the music of Herbie Kay.
Laurence Licalzi, the General chairman for tonight’s dance, is to be congratulated for the way in which he has handled his share of the arrangements and supervised the work of his various committees. The decorations are all that could be wished for by even the most fastidious, among our campus personalities.
Campus Figures Are Patrons
The patron’s list includes many names that are well-known to Notre Dame dances. Dean and Mrs. James E. McCarthy head the list. Also included are many of the younger professors and their wives. Mr. and Mrs. Louis Buckley, Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Bocskei, and Mr. and Mrs. John Scannell have agreed to act as patrons for the dance. Mr. John Chev-igny and Mr. Paul Fenlon are also on the list.
Everything possible is being done by the committees to make the visit of the fair guests as enjoyable as
John P. Ffrench
President of the Class
possible. Much careful planning has been done by the members of the class to attend to each detail at this first formal function of the school year.
Corsages have been ruled out by the members of the class, following a suggestion made by the Scholastic. This move is hailed as a step in the right direction by members of the class, who, last week, voted to do
Miss Mary Elizabeth Dacey
Guest of Honor
away with the bouquets at their formal functions.
Edward Butler and August Petrillo, co-chairmen of the Arrangements committee have acquainted the class with several of the details which have been made regarding the dance. The weekend procedure regarding accommodations that have been secured have been made available by these men to the Sophomores.
Guests at the Cotillion will be present at the informal Victory dance Saturday evening following the Pennsylvania game. It is being sponsored by the senior class at the University and will feature the music by the “Jugglers,” campus orchestra.
EDWARD FISHER Invitations
JAMES DUNNIGAN Decorations
JACK HAYES Reception
AUGUST PETRILLO Arrangements
November 6, 19-31
Nine
Herbie Kay’s Orchestra Will Play
Maribethe Genochio
Queen of the Cotillion
Many of the couples will also attend informal parties at the homes of friends in South Bend on Saturday night. Last year the practice of a Mass on Sunday mornings was eliminated but the Sacred Heart church will see many of the guests on the campus. The weekend is certain to be a busy one with the two dances, the football game, and the various incidentals which are always a part of such social functions.
St. Mary’s Girl is Queen
Laurence Licalzi will have as his guest Miss Maribethe Genochio of St. Mary’s College. Miss Genochio, of course, will lead the promenade as
Queen of the Cotillion. She is in
300 Couples To Attend First Social Function of Year at Palais Royal Ballroom
Laurence Licalzi
General Chairman
her second year at St. Mary’s and is a resident of Chicago.
Many girls from out of town are to be present at the dance, South Bend hotel managers report. A large number of girls from the University of Wisconsin are preparing to attend, as well as a small delegation from Indiana and Michigan. Other midwestern universities will also be represented. Miss Mary Elizabeth Dacey
of St. Mary’s, will be the guest of John Ffrench, the class president.
Herbie Kay’s Music Featured
Thomas Dwyer, chairman of the Music Committee, has secured Herbie Kay as the orchestra for the evening. Kay is well-known throughout this section for his fine orchestration. He has been connected with the Radio show in Milwaukee recently but he will return to Chicago after he finishes his engagement at Notre Dame.
The engagement of Kay as the orchestra for the Cotillion was wise and assures the Sophomores of a high brand of entertainment. The many disquieting rumors which swept the campus during the preliminary plans for the dance have been brushed into oblivion and the Sophomores are prepared to make merry without a worry on their blithe young shoulders.
Invitations for this dance strike a note of refined dignity which . was much to be desired. The programs are a novelty feature which will serve as pleasing mementos of the weekend for the guests. They are leather card cases with an embossed seal on the front cover. The decorations for the dance have an autumnal note and are very simple but in this simplicity r,ests their charm.
BRYAN DEGNAN Publicity
J. ALBERT SMITH Tickets
JOHN TINGLEY Program
ARTHUR DOERFLER
Floor '
Ten
The Scholastic
UNIVERSITY THEATRE HOLDS FIRST MEETING
Sixty Students Signify Interest In Dramatic Work.
Sixty students represented the student body at a meeting of the University Theatre which was held Wednesday noon in Washington hall. The purpose of this gathering was to obtain an index of the names of all students of the University interested in dramatics.
Professor Frank Kelley, head of the department of speech and drama, and director of the University productions, presided at the meeting and pointed out to the students the purpose of the theatre. Registration blanks were distributed to be filled out according to the questions asked.
Prof. Kelly explained that dramatics at Notre Dame are primarily for the development and education of the student interested in any of its phases. The University does.not pretend to produce its plays on a professional scale and the theatre is but an educational activity.
The department of drama has devised a new system of cataloguing the talents of the students according to type, personal appearance, and capabilities. Thus by the use of a card index, the casting of plays is simplified.
Plans are now being completed by the faculty committee in charge of University productions for the presentation of a varied program for the year. Any student who did not attend Wednesday’s meeting and is interested in dramatics, should communicate with Prof. Kelly at once.
lowans Banquet
The Joan tea room was the scene of the Iowa club banquet last Monday night. Reverend Leo Ward, C.S.C., and Professor Flatley were the speakers of the evening. As a further attraction entertainment was provided during the course of the meal. A . freshman representative was elected ; at the business meeting. 1
Pharmacy Club Meet* >
The Pharmacy club will hold a special meeting this evening in Chemistry hall. The purpose of the meeting will be to discuss plans for a banquet.	.
Army Thanks Notre Dame For Sheridan Mass
The following letters, post marked from West Point, New York, were received at the University this week. One addressed to Head Coach Heart-ly Anderson read:
“Many thanks for your wire of sympathy on October- 27. Both Notre Dame and the Army have taken some severe punches on the chin this year. However, you have paved the way and we are ready to follow. We were deeply affected by the wire received at New Haven stating that your team and student body would attend a mass at Notre Dame for Cadet Sheridan.
“Best of luck and we hope to be ready for you the latter part of November. Congratulations on your season up to date and remember me kindly to all.”
The letter was signed by Ralph Sasse, head football coach of- West Point.
The other communication, a note from William R. Smith, Major General, U. S. A., Superintendent, was addressed to the coaches and the football team and read as follows:
“Please permit me to add thanks of the officers and Cadets of the U. S. Military Academy to those of the family for the touching floral tribute received from you at the time of the funeral ceremonies for the late Cadet Richard B. Sheridan, Jr.”
Konop Speaks At Ft. Wayne
Thomas F. Konop, dean of the College of Law, delivered a lecture to the ' Holy Name society of St. Andrew’s Catholic church at Fort Wayne, Ind., Monday evening of this week. The dean spoke on the present situation of affairs in this country.
The affair was the quarterly meeting of the society and over three hundred members were present. Dean Konop returned to the University Tuesday morning.
Kiener Moves Office
John A. Kiener, director of publicity of the University, moved his office recently from the Publications office to the Alumni office. Mr. Kiener hopes by this move to be able to better coordinate his work with that of James Armstrong, alumni secretary.
PRE-LAW CLUB MEETING
Addressed by England, Moran; Committees Appointed.
The Pre-Law club of Norte Dame, held its third meeting of the year, Tuesday, Nov. 3. The assembly was addressed by Edward England, president of the Law club, who invited the pre-law men to attend the Law club banquet. Joseph Moran of the Lawyer, also spoke and pointed out to the members the advantages of the Law School publication.
Business undertaken at the meeting was the appointment of two committees. Richard Balliett, Anthony Brick, and -Edward Dailey were appointed to act on a Constitution Committee, under the chairmanship of George Myers. A Smoker committee, to arrange plans for an informal entertainment, was made up of George Reilly, chairman, Donald Martin, Anthony Pugliese, James Gartland, and Paul O’Neil.
The reading ‘and adoption of the club charter, as presented by the Presidents’ council, concluded the business of the meeting.
Triple Cut* In English
Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, announces that all freshmen are hereby notified that failure to attend the scheduled lectures held weekly in Washington hall will be penalized by a triple cut from their English class for each lecture missed.
Met Club Gathers
There was a meeting of the Metropolitan club last Wednesday evening in the lay faculty dining hall. Plans for both the Christmas dance and the proposed Army trip were discussed. At the conclusion of the meeting refreshments were served.
Father Ryan Recovering
Reverend James Ryan, C.S.C., rector of Walsh-hall and head of the department or Religion at Notre Dame, is recuperating from a recent operation for appendicitis, at the St. Joseph’s hospital in South Bend.
Father Ryan was taken suddenly ill last week and was brought to the local hospital. His condition is steadily improving.
November 6, 1931
Eleven
DISTRICT COUNCILS MEET
Five Groups Join In First Meeting In South Bend.
Last Monday evening the combined councils of South Bend, Elkhart, LaPorte, Niles, and Notre Dame held their first district meeting in the K. of C. council rooms in South Bend.
Grand Knight Paul Butler of the South Bend Council conducted the meeting. The speakers for the evening were, Grand Knight Paul Butler of the South Bend council followed by the Grand Knights of each of the other councils.
The District Deputy Louis Buckley, an instructor in Economics at the University, also spoke.
The entertainment was provided by George Mandard, a baritone of the Notre Dame Glee club, who was accompanied at the piano by Justin Thompkin.
It was announced at the meeting that the first degree would be conferred on the candidates, Monday, November 23.
New Jersey Club Meets
At a meeting of the New Jersey club held Tuesday evening definite information concerning the Army trip was announced. All those who wish to make the trip and as yet have not made their arrangements may do so by seeing Salvatore Bon-tempo or George Rhors.
The new charter of the club was presented to the members of the club and unanimously adopted.
William Blind was appointed general chairman of the Christmas dance, and Al Waters was made chairman of the post-Thanksgiving banquet, s
Articles Lost and Found
The following have articles at the Lost and Found Department, room 124 (Old Book Store), Main building:
Jack Spork; L. A. Donoghue; Roger Lyons; Phillip Trexler; G. Bran Little; J. H. Devers; Richard Fitzgerald; Jack Novak; Leo Newman; Joe Simons; Stanley Kokowicz; Carl Zimmerer; Paul Gallagher; Martin E. Dolan; V. A. Simon; Jack Rainey; J. H. Krafthefer Charles Bringardner.
Office Hours: 800 to 9:00 a. m. and . 4:30 to 5:00 p. m.
Glee Club Will Sing Tomorrow Between Halves
For the first time since its organization, the glee club, under the direction of Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the department of music at Notre Dame, will take part in the program to be presented at the period during the half of the Pennsylvania game tomorrow.
According to plans, one hundred and twenty students, members of the club, will be seated together in the student section to act as a choral group in an effort to lead the singing of the entire section. The glee club will sing the school songs in a harmony of four parts, the first time that a university glee club has ever done harmony singing on a football field.
The plan is much similar to that of the Army cadet corps and the Annapolis midshipmen. These groups have gained prominence through their singing at the football games.
New formations have been practiced by the Notre Dame band throughout the week, and this organization and the Pennsylvania band will parade also at the half.
Interhall Debaters To Meet
James B. O’Shaughnessy, chairman of interhall debating, announced this week that the first open meeting for all freshmen will be held one week from Monday in the basement of the library.
Announcements will be posted in the halls giving more complete information.
Utica Club Meets
The Utica club held a meeting in the library last Sunday morning. Francis Donnelly w a s appointed chairman of the Christmas dance. The date and place of the affair will be announced at a later date.
No “Scholastic” Next Week
Due to the quarterly examinations, there will be no issue of -the “Scholastic” next week. Therefore, the staff meeting will not be held this evening, but will be postponed until, next Friday.
“JUGGLER’S” NEXT ISSUE TO BE ON HOLLYWOOD
To Ridicule Efforts of Our Own Cinema Stars
Hoping to strike a new “high” in campus humor, the Juggler staff continues its plan for its November number. “Hollywood” will be the theme, and the capital of filmdom and its entire population will be made to squirm by the efforts of Editor Bob Gorman and his fourteen-man staff.
From the cover to the special eight-page insert, the number will be novel. Continuing his plan of “novelty first, tradition afterward,” the editor has built around the Hollywood motif, the best art work and copy of his staff. It will be the first Hollywood number to be published by the Juggler.	•
Three years ago, in John Nanovic’s “Home Town” number, a sensation was caused by an insert, printed on newspaper stock, parodying the typical small-town gossip sheet. This year, Bob has introduced “Phonyplay,” a bizarre burlesque of that type of fiction known as the “movie magazine.” This will contain hilarious reviews, letters from the fans, sensational features, and a grand prize contest.
The cover is to be a striking “symbol” cover in two shades, done by Art Becvar. A frontispiece by Joseph Lopker, and some splendid drawings by other members of the staff will brighten the book in an unusual manner, says the editor.
Sales for the Autumn number ran past the schedule of the past two years. The “Hollywood” number will be on sale just before the Southern California game.
Wranglers Elections
Applications are now being received by the Wranglers, honorary forensic society of the University, for admission into their ranks. There are three vacancies.
Candidates must have an 85% scholastic average, and have participated in some form of University forensic work.	■
Applications should be addressed to John Wilson, chairman of the entrance committee, in Walsh hall, before next Wednesday.
1
Twelve
The Scholastic
MUSIC AND DRAMA
By John E. Ryan
With Chicago well supplied in the way of good stage production, and with Broadway somewhat beclouded as a result of the enforced retirement for the time being of Katherine Cornell, yet not wanting for the bright lights of the stage, the outlook, from the dramatic point of view, is encouraging. One almost doubts the sincerity of those pessimistic folks going about these days crying, “Save our Stage!”
Not less hopeful is the dramatic situation on the campus, as the University Theatre begins its season. Professor Frank Kelly, Director of the Theatre, looks forward to the best year in the history of the organization, and when you remember the production of “The Shrew,” “Caesar,” and of some of the other efforts of the local band of players, you will agree that something expected to reflect credit on the University is in store for us.
The plays for this year have not been finally decided upon, although an announcement of definite plans is expected in the near future. Campus opinion will favor the inclusion of a ‘melerdramer,” which may be played before the Christmas holidays. Competition for this production is expected to be keen. Who knows? We may have a chance then to see the inimitable John “Pepper” Perone in action, sobbing his big heart away as one of the Theatre smoothies steals his beloved.
Several of the leading players of last season have returned to school, though Harry Merdzinski, who had the leading role in “The Merchant of Venice,” was graduated in June. Portia and Nerissa of the same production, Mrs. Hays and Miss Julia Huff, respectively, are also lost to the University Theatre. J. Edward Phelan, remembered for his work in several plays, particularly the one in which he played two old women the same night, was also lost by graduation. These players, all of whom were starred at one time or another, leave a considerable gap to be filled. -
Prominent among those back from last year, is Roger Bierne, the Mal-volio of “Twelfth Night,” and the Bassanio of “The Merchant.” Bierne has spent the past summer in developing his poise and generally in rounding out his ability. He is expected to bear a considerable portion of the responsibility for this year.
William Walsh, the Antonio of the last production will also come in for heavy duty on the boards of Washington hall. Bill was the find of the year when he came through in remarkably good style to take the part of Antonio in the commencement play. His work was acknowledged to have been of the best, and places him in the fore ranks of the possible heroes for the “Melo,” of which more anon.	'
The trio of the street scenes in “The Merchant,” Denney, McKevitt, and O’Shaughnessy, are looked to for some of the leading parts in the plays of the season. Their entrance into the ranks of the University players was by no means accidental, as their work in the last play showed. Their ability to inject a bit of comedy now and then will show up in the near future, as any of their friends will testify.
For real comic relief, in a heavy play such as “The Merchant,” however, we expect Joe McCabe, of Scrip fame, to come through. His scenes with Phelan in the commencement play were enough to stop the show, which is not satisfactorily explained by the mere fact that Joe wore a nose that night of the reddest red hue. William Blind, who played Lorenzo that same night, and who makes a lover that Barrymore would envy, will be available, and should come in for some heavy work. All in all, the University Theatre swings into its season with the promise of some fine plays, done in the fashion that befits the organization. Definite plans will be available in the near future, in preparation for which we would suggest that all stuednts interested get in touch with Professor Frank Kelley and arrange for a tryout. '
PROF. PHILLIPS SPEAKS TO “SCHOLASTIC” STAFF
Emphasizes Value of Travel As Medium of Education.
The first monthly meeting of the Scholastic staff, held in the Faculty Dining hall on Friday, October 30, was featured by an interesting talk by Professor Charles Phillips of the Department of English.
Professor Phillips spoke in his own humorous way of the educational value of a trip to Europe, recounting some of the more interesting features of his recent trip abroad.
The itinerary included an auto trip to Montreal, steamship to Belfast, Ireland, and an auto trip through Ireland, England and Scotland, with a week-end jaunt to Paris. The party brought their own car with them on the steamship and found it in perfect condition for the European trip.
Professor Phillips declared that he was greatly impressed by the fine organization of the British A. A. It is an auto association which offers every comfort to the traveler at a reasonable cost. There is no similar club in the United States which offers services as complete.
The trip through Ireland included the kissing of the Blarney stone, rowing on the River Lee, and a horseback ride through the scenic land .of the Killamey lakes.
The tour through England began with a series of pilgrimages to the more important gothic cathedrals. Professor Phillips described these edifices beautifully, He particularly dwelled upon the beauty of the Five Sisters, a stained glass window in York Cathedral, the delicate blending of which he compared to the minute fibrils of a young leaf.
Professor Phillips, besides describing the various cathedrals, gave several interesting sidelights on university life at Oxford, and on the life of the ordinary Englishman. He visited several English movie houses, although American pictures shows are admittedly the most popular in the British Isles.
In conclusion Professor Phillips told how far from home England seems to the American traveler, and how good the United States seems to one homeward bound. Following the talk, refreshments were served and the meeting closed.
November 6, 19J1
Thirteen
DR. FRANCO AVERAIDI ADDRESSES STUDENTS
A Man About the Campus*»Henry Tholen
By Roy Scholz
Lectures On Italian Culture of Renaissance Period.
Doctor Franco Averaidi, graduate of the University of Tourin, Italy, gave an illustrated lecture Monday evening in Washington hall on “The Spirit of Florence and Sienna in the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Centuries,” before a large audience of students, brothers and members of the faculty.
Doctor Averaidi presented a series of twenty-four slides, depicting various stages of the existence of these two great Italian cities, and devoted a minute to description and detail of each slide. Special consideration was given to the different types of paintings created by the famed Italian masters of that period of history.
After being introduced to the audience, Doctor Averaidi, who was formerly connected with the Italian diplomatic service in Washington, D. C., first explained the purpose of his lecture and why it was being presented before Notre Dame students.
He has only been in this country two years and is now devoting his efforts to spreading a real sense and appreciation of the Italian culture of the middle ages. He expressed the real leader of the Renaissance as being Dante, the immortal poet, who by his poems and vivid descriptions, characterizes the conquest of the new world of the Renaissance over the old medieval world.
Perhaps some of the most interesting pictures shown on the screen were various sketches of the life of St. Martin, especially that which depicted the instance of the Saint replying to his emperor who had commanded him to serve in his wars, indicated that he would serve his emperor, not with swords or earthly weapons but with the cross, the most powerful weapon that was ever wielded.
The lecturer spent some time in describing the genius of Dante, who wrote of the most ugly things, but depicted them so vividly that they appeared to the student of his works as things of beauty. The works of other less famed painters and poets of that age were lauded to the extent that they all were good imitators of their great master, Dante.
“May I try on that hat?” A moment later a tall young man was putting a shako on his head. It fit, and that afternoon he had his first' experience as a drum major. This happened in high school and was the
Hank Tholen
Drum Major of the Band
beginning of a career which was to last six years. The young man was Henry Tholen.
He comes from Quincy, Illinois, is of German descent and proud of it. In fact he belongs to the German club and hopes to make a trip to Europe to visit Germany.
During his first year here Hank resided in Frosh hall and has happy memories of the great family there, especially one of a certain riot which took place on the last night of residence there for there for one year. Of course Hank slept soundly through the whole affair, as all present Sorin-ites will testify.
During the same year he, with four other freshmen, tried out for the position of drum major. Hank was most adept with the baton and since then has led the band on its every appearance.
It is said that a drum major life is full of interesting incidents and
Hank’s is no exception. That first game. . . . Navy at Chicago, the riding those sailor boys gave him on noticing his reversed puttees. . . . missing the baton he threw over the goal posts at the Southern California game. . . . being the first drum major to lead, a college band from the West up Fifth Avenue. ... a band which couldn’t play because its instruments were frozen. Incidents which make his life varied and interesting.
Behind all the color and glamor of the drum major’s parade life there is something different. It is work, too. He must plan all the formations which the band performs and then drill the group through long hours so that on the field everything goes off with precision. Drilling. . . . taking care of the organization. . . . swinging a baton. . . . planning the program. . . . arranging the programs with’ the other performers at the half. . . ., all things w’hich give Henry plenty to think about.
Nevertheless Hank still finds time to play a prominent part in the Mishawaka league; it leads him to quote, “The only redeeming feature about Indiana is the Moon.”
At present Hank is a senior in the College of Commerce majoring in philosophy, and hopes upon graduation to enter the finance field. Later on he claims he may study law, .although his ambition seems to be in the diretcion of finance and investments.
His tastes are many, and sometimes a least bit expensive. He. . . . “likes clothes but hasn’t any.” . . . reads literature. ... is an O. O. McIntyre fan. . . . reads “Vanity Fair.” . . . and has a favorite show called “Green Pastures.” ... In the summer he stoops so low as to run a miniature golf course, perhaps to keep in practice.
When the whistle blows to begin the final half of the Southern California game this year the band will have finished its marching season, then Henry will take off his shako, place it in Music hall, and all the days during which he led the band will just be memories.
The Scholastic
Fourteen
SENIOR CLASS STARTS CONTEST TO FIND THE UGLIEST MAN AT NOTRE DAME
It’s All In Fun, Though, But Winner Will Receive Twenty-five Dollars at Dance Tomorrow
The day of election draws near. From the various political camps about the campus comes the dull cry and buh-bub of backers and supporters, anxious to see their candidate acclaimed the victor.
Just who is the ugliest man in school? The winner of this somewhat dubious title will be elected this Saturday evening at the Knights of Columbus ball-room in conunction with the Senior class football dance. The inimitable John Perone will hold the gavel as master of ceremonies.
The prize that will go to the winner of the much-bally-hooed contest will be twenty-five dollars in cash. “With which,” says President Connelly, “one can buy plenty of ice cream cones.”
Already candidates are at the height of their campaign. Pals, who thoughtfully threw one senior’s hat into the ring, are enthusiastic over its possibilities.
“If the election is run on the square,” one of his campaign managers told the Scholastic this morning, “our candidate will win easily. ' We hear talk, however, of stuffed ballot-boxes and of complimentary passes (not to editors).”
When informed of these charges,
Hawkeyes Give Banquet
The Iowa club hmad its first banquet of the year last Monday evening at the Joan Tea Room. The banquet, which was given in honor of the freshmen from Iowa, was a complete success from every point of view.
President Lane was the first man to speak and in his talk he outlined the program to be followed this year. Then Reverend Leo Ward, C.S.C. and Professor Flatley, faculty members who hail from Iowa, addressed the members of the club. Following these speeches, Robert Gorman, Editor of the Juggler, gave the last talk of the evening.
General Chairman Tom Mahaffy issued a typewritten statement to the reporters who stormed his door in Walsh hall this morning.
“This election will absolutely be run on the square,” he stated. “All that you need for a vote is a ticket to the Penn dance, which the senior class will hold tomorrow, with the “Jugglers” furnishing the music. And remember, it is against the rules for the chairman to be nominated.”
Mahaffy furthermore states that although he is decidedly non-partisan it looks like a dead-heat between Chauncey Brantford, Tom McLaughlin, and Willie Wier. Mike Crawford and Vincent Whalen have an outside chance, Mahaffy added. •
A great score-board will be erected in the ball-room, it was indicated this morning, which will have the names of contestants and their total votage as the leads pile up.
The final outcome of the entire evening will be announced to the couples on the floor before the end of the dance. John Perone will present the winner, the University’s official ugly man, with the award of twenty-five dollars.
Fifty Years Ago Today
The following clipping was taken from the column “Fifty Years Ago Today,” appearing in the Chicago Tribune of October 18:
“Chicago.—Mrs. E. Dillon, one of the oldest residents of Chicago, died at the home of her son-in-law, Patrick Cavanaugh. She was born in County Galway, Ireland, in 1803. Two of her sons—the Rev. James Dillon and the Rev. Patrick Dillon—were among the most distinguished ecclesiastics of the Catholic Church in America . . .”
The Reverend Patrick Dillon, C. S. C., for whom the new dormitory is named, succeeded Father Sorin as president of the University in 1865.
FRENCH STUDENTS WILL CORRESPOND WITH N. D.
Language Scholars Here Will Thus Obtain Practice.
Correspondence between students of French and German at Notre Dame, and students in France and Germany will begin shortly under the direction of Dr. Paul Menge.
Dr. Menge has the names of those students in his classes who wished to enter this field of activity. He said that in a few days each student would be assigned t a foreign correspondent.
The American student will first write in English, and the French or German student will reply in his own language. As the intercourse progresses, it is expected that each student will revert to the other’s tongue to their mutual benefit.
Lay Faculty Hears Paper
“Simplicity of Poetry” was the subject of a paper delivered by Professor Andrew T. Smithberger, of the English department, at the regular monthly meeting of the lay faculty of the College of Arts and Letters. This meeting, which was held at the Oldenburg Inn, Tuesday evening, followed the dinner which is a characteristic feature of each regular gathering. The next meeting of the organization will be held December 14.
Father Nieuwland’s Life Story
(Continued from Page 7)
Notre Dame, Father Nieuwland taught classes in oragnic chemistry and botany, and is at present a professor in the College of Science, of which he was dean for a short time. Meanwhile he continued his studies and was awarded the degree of Doctor of Science in 1911. He was head of the Department of Chemistry from 1918 to 1920, when he was succeeded by Professor Henry B. Froning. Since that time Father Nieuwland has devoted his time chiefly to organic chemistry.
That his capabilities are not limited to the field of science is evidenced by the American Midland Naturalist, a ournal dealing with natural history, which Father Nieuwland instituted and of which he has acted as editor for some twenty years. He speaks capably on almost any subect and can express himself in eight languages.
November 6, 1931
Fifteen
PRIEST DOES BASIC WORK ON NEW RUBBER
Father Nieuwland Completes Study of 25 Years.
PROFESSOR FREDERICK LECTURES TO FRESHMAN CUSS ON ART OF READING
(Continued from Page 7)
The work on divinyl acetylene, however, did not go for naught. By a controlled polymerization of the compound a synthetic drying oil was produced. This drying oil has properties which make it a most valuable commodity.	.
While the work on divinyl acetylene was under way, the gas which Father Nieuwland had noticed in his early - work was being investigated by the Jackson laboratories of the du Pont Corporation, and, as suspected by Father Nieuwland, was found to be monovinyl acetylene. Since appreciable amounts of this substance were formed along with the divinyl acetylene, its possible use as a starting material for rubber synthesis was looked into. Monovinyl acetylene was treated with hydrochloric acid and gave a compound called Chloroprene which on treatment with suitable reagents polymerized to form a synthetic rubber.
The new rubber, which bears the trade name “Duprene,” has many commercially valuable qualities which will supplement the present uses of natural rubber. One of these valuable properties of the new product is that it is much more resistant than natural rubber to the swelling action of gasoline, kerosene and other solvents that are notoriously harmful to rubber.
One of the most interesting features of the new rubber is that it is vulcanized by the application of heat 1	’ alone, whereas it is necessary to add
sulfur in order to vulcanize natural rubber. Another important fact is that an artificial latex can be made by emulsifying chloroprene in water with the aid of soap. The artificial latex is a milk-like liquid consisting i	of particles of synthetic rubber sus-
pended in water. This latex may be applied to the surface of articles, and after drying the surface is covered with a sheet of fully vulcanized rubber. The Duprene latex differs rad-_ ically from natural latex because of > its increased penetrating power so that it becomes possible to impregnate many porous materials that cannot be impregnated with natural rubber latex.	•
Says a Literary Taste Is More Valuable Than Any Other Cultural Attribute
“Reading becomes an art when we try to make it yield to us the best and highest rewards it is capable of yielding,” spoke Professor John T. Frederick, in his lecture to the freshman students of the College of Arts
Prof. John Frederick
Editor of the “Midland”
and Letters last Wednesday afternoon. The address was the third in a series to be given by prominent speakers in the Washington hall auditorium.
The title of Mr. Frederick’s interesting talk was “The Art of Reading.” The speaker dwelt at some length on the fact that most people read simply for the sake of the pleasure derived. This pleasure he compared to amateur athletics, in that both are indulged in for the sheer love of the subject itself, their prime purpose being the search for enjoyment.
Professor Frederick’s discourse was liberally spiced with examples which demonstrated how reading, as it were, “maketh a full man.” He pointed out that by reading the stu-
“Scholastic” Board Adds Men to Staff
The editorial board of the Scholastic this week announced addition to the news staff of Bernard L. Cousino, Roy Scholz, James McCraley, Thomas Hils, and John McElIigot. William E. Dreux, John Lynch, Joseph Borda
dent is able to enlarge the scope of his experiences almost to an infinite degree; that he gets intimate glimpses into the life of people -with whom he has been unacquainted; that he may travel via the printed page into obscure and remote lands, and, perhaps, even relive the events of history.
Another beauty of reading pointed out to the audience was the actual musical and aesthetic values the words themselves, and the vividness of the images the author conjures up for the reader. In connection with this phase of his talk, Professor Frederick inserted a remarkably fine reading from a work of G. K. Ches-eterton, entitled “Lepanto.”
The lecturer explained that one should read the daily newspaper and the current magazine, by scanning over it and picking out only those things that are important or interesting to the individual. The difference between reading for pleasure and perusing the daily digests was particularly emphasized.
In the conclusion of his talk, Professor Frederick made the’ plea that every student always have at hand some piece of literature that he believes worth reading. “In doing so,” he said, “the student will accomplish more along intellectual lines than by any other single habit he may develop at a university.” ,
Professor Frederick, who is the editor and publisher of Midland, and a professor of English at the University, was introduced by Father Miltner, dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
and William O’Grady have been added to the sports staff. These men have been accepted as members of the staff because of the quality of the work which they have turned in for issues of the Scholastic this year.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
CAMPUJ CLUBJ
An Open Letter to The Student Body
To Each Member of Every Campus Organization:
The Presidents’ Council this year has made a determined effort to become one of the more active and influential organizations on the campus. At the first sign of life from this group accusations of fraudulent intent, over-stepping of its purpose, and general “racketeering” were directed against the officers of the Council. This letter is purported, then, to be an explanation and justification of the program projected by the Presidents for the current year.
The Council is the most representative organization of the students existing, inasmuch as it is composed of the recognized leaders of each and every campus club. The large majority, and technically, each, of the students is a member of some club, and the authority and influence of the Presidents’ Council is self-evidently great, for it is composed of student leaders.
The Council has proposed a system of awards for outstanding scholastic ability, and although a definite schedule has not yet been arranged, an attempt will be made to reward students of “B” and “C” ability as well as honor men. The Presidents’ Council is also making an effort to move the individual campus clubs to greater social activity, and plans have been drawn up for a series of banquets, plans which will be put in operation in the immediate future for the benefit and entertainment of club members. With the consent of the school authorities and the sanction of the Council, an effort is also to be made to establish a Students’ Loan Fund for the purpose of any student on the campus. This is an ambitious undertaking and will require considerable, careful attention, but a formal publication of the plan is expected in the next few weeks. A committee has been formed by the Council for the purpose of aiding any newly-formed or inexperienced club to promote a Christmas Dance this year. This aid will consist not only of experienced advice, but, to a reasonable degree, of financial assistanc also. Besides these projects, the Council also attends to the schedule of club meetings, and arranges places for such meeting. With the completion of the new Engineering School, the temporary schedule now in use will be substantially improved.
A careful review of the plans stated immediately above will, of itself, afford a complete explanation of the much-maligned “Two Dollar Assessment.” The tax undoubtedly is a small one, and the benefits to come are just as certainly great ones. The students tehemselves are to be the beneficiaries of any monies collected by the Council. You have as your representative in that group the man who has your best interests at heart—if he hasn’t, then you’ve made a mistake in the election of your leader. The meetings of the Council are conducted in a manner similar to that of your own club. All plans and suggestions come from the floor, and that floor is occupied by your representative. If in your own meetings you will have some discussion of the Council, you will not only receive information of the Council’s intentions and operations, but you will also give to your President valuable suggestions and hints which he will be only too glad to carry back to the Presidents of the other clubs. You have the license of voicing your opinions, but if there is to be any action on these ideas they must be expressed in your meetings. Complaints and other criticisms are so much wasted efforts when discussed in your rooms or over the dining tables.
The Presidents’ Council needs your cooperation and interest. Its potentialities are great. Its officers and members are making thankless attempts to bring the students benefits they have never had, and which are sadly needed. We are soliciting your patience and faith in our administration, pledging that we will do all in or.r power to carry out the plans that have been sketched earlier in this letter.
A. CHARLES HITZELBERGER,
President, Presidents’ Council.
November 6, 1931
Seventeen
COLLEGE IAEAEI
False Philosophies
An attack on “blasphemous scientists,” “unChristian professors” and “irresponsible authors,” as prophets of a “new paganism more dangerous and subversive than the older brand” was made last week by the Right Reverend Joseph A. Rummel, Bishop of Omaha, in an address at the opening meeting of the National Council of Catholic Women.
He named Professors James of Harvard, Drake of Vassar, and Dewey of Columbia, among others who “transgress their legitimate domains to discourse on religion and morality,” and quoted from an article by the latter which, he said, “congested into a few sentences the most sweeping skepticism and denial of the value of reason as well as faith and morality.”
“Among the protagonists of the New Thought,” Bishop Rummel said, “are legions of greater or lesser lights, including the Feudists, the Behaviorists, the Humanists, the advocates of loose marriage ties, divorce, and other false theories and practices which characterize the loose thinking and loose moralizing of modern times. All have their disciples and satellites.”
The “sad part of it,” he declared, “is that they are training their disciples to occupy teaching positions in our public schools and colleges, undermining the faith and morals of an extensive reading public, influencing the thoughts and acts of state and national legislators and furnishing argument and encouragement for “the prevailing laxity in modern amusements, which are notoriously impregnated with the over-emphasized sex appeal.”
♦ ♦ ♦
Youthful Proteges
Psychology examinations at Michigan State college reveal interesting misconceptions of freshmen; for example:
“A lieutenant is a clergyman officially attached to the army or navy.
“A dinner is a large social entertainment at which a large animal is roasted whole.
“A subway is a hall connecting several apartments.
“A knapsack is a portable case for holding loose papers.
“A mountain is any steep or overhanging place, as the face of a cliff.”
Orthophonitis
Columbia university requires all students to have phonograph records of their voices made when they are freshmen, and when they are graduated as seniors. Professor William Cabell Greet, of Columbia, believes that the records will constitute a cross section of the speech habits of middle-class Americans.
❖ ❖ ❖
Pyre
It may appear to be a far cry from beetles to bonfire but, strange as it may seem, the two are working together this year to provide a record pyre for the football rally preceding the Stanford-California “big game.” Four hundred Monterey pine and spruce trees in the arboretum may become part of the fire as a result of the ravages of the deadly pine beetle which is destroying them.
$ <•
Popular Applause
Among the spectators at the recent Northwestern-Nebraska game at Evanston was one genial gentleman by the name of Al Capone. As he and his guard entered the stadium the students rose and cheered in deference to his wishes, but it was a different kind of cheer than that to which he has been accustomed . . . disconcerted, he left during the third quarter.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
♦ THE WINK ♦
While I was at my mother’s knee
I penned no comic mystery;
Of Darwin I had never heard, Of syllogism not a word.
Since then my mind has grown apace And grasps the facts of time and space.
Too much so. How I long to be Dumb again at mother’s knee.
—ARMBO.
Quick Winks
Joe McCabe hasn’t been in for a while . . . ask him about the hotel dick at the Auditorium . . . Dick Oelerich acting innocent over the whispering ... A new record for the Aggies—one of them had no sleep from Thursday until Monday night . . . How about Tomasi for those Bulletin clothes? . . . Some say Ben Alexander . . . There’s money in it, Cooper .. . Bing Crosby gets a good spot at last.
Terrible Service
Marty Dolan wanted a check cashed and the little short fellow* (you know the one) who was behind the cash register told him he’d have to see one of the other girls.
We’re Proud
The Wink is an influence for good. Remember the band we cracked about? Well, two girls showed up for practice, and the thing flopped. We feel just like Art Brisbane today. Now7 if we could only make the Soph . class officers be sensible and grown-up, we’d feel really proud. We didn’t want to dance, anyway, and we’d have to get the tux’ pressed.
Pome
“Delta Sig” she Coyly said.
“Oh, how lovely! I’m Phi Ed.”
“Birdie Whispers”
We should expose these sophomores as we promised but we don’t like to mention names . . . who knows, . . . maybe some gal might read the Scholastic . . . We might as well start with the president, though ... he wanted to get his sweet cookie’s pitcher took for this sheet but she had another date that Wednesday . . . and another prominent sophie sent the babe an invite without enclosing a card . . . and she wrote back thanking his roommate ... or was it the guy next door, Jim? . . . Also the chippie from the downstate girls’ institution who wrote a senior in Walsh hall inquiring if he was allowed out later than the sophs any nite ... oh, there’ll be plenty of chiseling going on . . .
Speaking of the place everyone just loves to go to on
Sunday afternoon, we heard, indirectly, but truthfully, a funny one the other day ... A frosh over yonder promised that starting last Wednesday she’d go “steady” with one of our prominent literae . . . but he’s going away for the week-end . . . last we heard she was in the market for a blind for the Cot . . .
But after all, the main attendance at the Cot. will be the seniors, so why not think about them a bit? . . . This ugliest face thing is a Tom Mahaffey stunt . . . It looks like a push-over for Murnane from early reports ... he has many supporters . . . and he started to talk fight in the caf the other night until a fellow smaller than himself told him to shut up . . . nice goin’, Jim . . . That’s a nice costume Perone has for the above mentioned informal . . . especially the red skirt . . . which makes us think of tail coats . . . Tex Simmons is considering the purchase of one very seriously but he can’t figure out how to sit down in it . . .
And, oh, oh, we almost forgot, the laddie auctioning off blind dates to the Woods’ Prom . . . he’d have to pay us to go . . . and the Scholastic offer of a Prom ticket to anyone conclusively proving our identity . . . think maybe we’ll win that ourselves ... if we’re hard up, as we probably will be ... if we have a gal, which we probably won’t . . . See Harrington shining up the topper in Corby the other night? . . . Chink (Monogram) Kelly intends cutting in on the jewelry sales on the campus this year . . . Well, have a good time over the week-end, boys.
And here’s the big scoop. Complete list of campus wolves who are intending to make the St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Junior Prom: Jack Coyle, Jack Stanford, James Gleason, Tighe Woods, Art O’Neil, James Oldham, Jr., Marty Dolan, A. J. Smith, Jr., John Berry, John Quinlan, Jack Wittliff, Jim Collins, Rollin Bunch, Robert Sullivan, Karl Bartholome, Vince Donoghue, Robert Christianson, Tom Owen, Tom Ewing, Jack Hawks, Rodger Johnson, John Kiener, James Lony, J. S. Askew, Owen O’Neil, Robert Butler, Richard Kelly, Jack Hogan, J. B. Clark, Jack Cosozza, James Burke, and Jack Finneran.
—The Stool Pigeon.
Lemmonier Says:
“I’ll give you the dough tomorrow. I’m expecting a check.”
—Armbo.
November 6, 1931
Nineteen
EDITOR’^ PAGE
FATHER NIEUWLAND, SCIENTIST
While the Notre Dame football team charged down the nation’s gridiron to score permanent possession of the Rissman trophy by two continued years of sweeping athletic success, a a small, determined priest of the Holy Cross stood over his test tubes and chemicals here on the campus.
Our football team won the acclaim of a nation, were awarded eight-column newspaper headlines, but will be forgotten as quickly as they earned their glory when some other modern Jack-the-Giant-Killer captures the public imagination.
The result of the Reverend Julius Nieuw-land’s twenty-five years of painstaking technical experiments will not be forgotten and his work will live long after the roar of the football crowd has been hushed to a whisper and the trophies of our gridiron supremacy have tarnished and stand unnnoticed in the files of the gymnasium.
By making it possible to coin rubber in the laboratory that is even better than the actual product, Father Nieuwland has revolutionized the industry “that would never grow up.”
Notre Dame has reason to be proud of her Father Nieuwland, a great scientist, a good priest, and one of America’s foremost inventors.
o o o
SAVE THE VICTORY MARCH
Last year the Scholastic raised the tone of its editorial columns in a vigorous protest against the exploitation of the “Victory March” by money-mad music maestros and reeling speakeasy entertainers.
The name of Notre Dame, always colorful, traditional, has been teemed with her songs, “The Victory March” and the “Hike Song.” Their music is spirited and significant when played by Joseph Casasanta and his boys.
Perhaps it is melodramatic to cry “Keep the Victory March.” But it is Notre Dame, and has been since 1908, when Mr. Vallee and his colleagues were scampering about in knickerbockers, instead of robbin’s-egg-blue roadsters. In these days of collegiate music exploitation, of toasts that are drunk once again, and Betty Telephone operator, a college song loses its color, its tradition, and its fire only too easily.
And although we said all of this last year, and it didn’t do a bit of good, we will say it again, because we like the “Victory March.” And because we haven’t forgotten that Maine once had a Stein song.
COO
STUDENT POLICEMEN
Protected by the thin veil of dubious authority, the Vigilance committee of the Blue Circle burst into the room of a Howard hall junior last week, dragged their culprit to the lake front and with a mighty splash gave him a baptism of Notre Dame spirit.
The Scholastic, as well as most other student organizations, save the Blue Circle and the S. A. C., holds contempt for the high-handed methods of the campus R-K-O-lians, who hired by two local cinema theatres to keep undergraduates from rushing past the ticketoffice, continue their police work at Notre Dame.
True, the Scholastic holds no brief for the poor lad who was so unceremoniously administered the ducking. His action was equally as bad as that of the organization that “administered the justice.” But two wrongs never make a right, and may we repeat, that school spirit cannot be built by brute force or nocturnal lake parties, even though handsome Lew Ayers and his mates in a current flicker production might make one believe.
Twenty
The Scholastic
SPCKTS
Skibos Fall Before N. D., 19-0
Schwartz and Leahy Lead Attack as Notre Dame Outclasses Plaid Team
HARRIERS WIN EASILY FROM IOWA TEAM, 17-39
Blue and Gold Stars Thrill 52,000 With Long Gains; Scot Offense Helpless.
By James S. Kearns
Notre Dame’s undefeated football team rode rough-shod over the Skibos of Carnegie Tech in Pittsburgh last Saturday to cut an easy 19 to 0 notch in their belts. A flashing offensive in the first half insured the victory and the “Fighting Irish” unmeshed their gears in the final periods and coasted to their 23rd victory without a defeat.
Marchmont Schwartz again dazzled the Smoky City opposition as he led the way in the Blue and Gold offensive. “The Phantom of the Bayous” —thank you, Mr. Smith—unleashed that cool, precise fury that he seems to be able to turn on at will early in the game and spent the greater part of the afternoon racing through the Tech eleven for sizeable gains.
His first major contribution was a request number from the Schwartz performances of other years: a 58-yard touchdown jaunt over left tackle. The final total punched off on Schwartz’ yardage ticket was something like 188 yards. That was over half the distance gained by the Notre Dame team and a full eighty strides more than the entire Carnegie total.
There were others, though, who figured in the perfect revenge for the three touchdown upset of ’26. Bernie Leahy counted the second and third touchdowns of the first half splurge. More than that, he compiled an average gain of six yards for each of the ten attempts he made at the Plaid line.
Following a series of three fruitless marches that had been halted by penalties and a fumble, Notre Dame took the ball in the middle of
I LEADS FIGHTING IRISH
Captain Tommy Yarr
the first period on their own 33-yard line where Armentrout had punted out of bounds. Melinkovich pounded the line for nine yards. Then Schwartz broke through his own left tackle and raced past the Carnegie secondary for 58 yards and the first score of the game. Jask-which kicked the point.
The second Notre Dame marker came immediately after the opening of the second period. Hoffman and Harris blocked Armentrout’s punt on the Plaid nine-yard line where Harris recovered. A fifteen yard penalty for holding set the Blue and Gold back on the first play but on the next Carnegie earned a like sentence for themselves, and it was first down on the ten-yard line. Leahy took two cracks at the forward wall and on the second he zoomed over a pileup to land in the end zone for a score.
The hard running fullback finished (Continued on Page 24)
Howery Leads Field In 17:59; Wilson and King Second.
Led by the veteran Gene Howery, the Notre Dame cross-country team scored a smashing 17-39 victory over the University of Iowa harriers last Saturday. The run was held over the Notre Dame course around the twin lakes.
Trailing Howery as he snapped the finish tape were two more Notre Dame runners. Alex Wilson and the sophomore sensation, Eddie King, pulled a pal act to tie for second place. The two Canadian hill and dale experts were a little over 150 yards back of the flying Howery at the finish.
The first Iowa entrant, and the only Hawkeye to mar a perfect score for the Blue and Gold finished fourth. Wichey of the visitors trailed Wilson and King by about 50 or 60 yards. Joe Young, another sophomore on the Notre Dame squad, gave the Iowa leader a stiff fight over the entire course and succumbed only in the final stages of the jaunt.
Howery raced into the lead at the starting gun and stayed there to win about as he pleased in the fair time of 17:59. Running in seemingly effortless fashion, he had the race in complete control at every stage. Wilson and his countryman King legged it around through the woods stride for stride and held off all threats by the rest of the field.
While Iowa is not the leading harrier squad of the Big Ten, they are fair representatives of the .best competition of the mid-west. Notre Dame’s decisive victory was a definite, largesized boost for the prestige of Coach Nicholson’s runners.
November 6, Iff31
Tiventy-one
The Fighting Irish of ’35
Pictured above are the members of the 1931 Notre Dame freshman football squad.
Hard Blocking and Tackling Features at Tech
Special dispatch from a Staff Correspondent.
Pitsburgh, October 31.—One of the queerest possible scrimmages took place during the second period when Murphy returned a Carnegie punt for about 30 yards after a brilliant run. Not a man on either team was left standing in a mix-up which was said by players to be one of the fiercest moments they ever had experienced in a football game.
Bevevino, the former Carroll hall boy who made good at quarterback for Tech, was given a big hand when he came on the field. He seems to have captured the admiration of the Pittsburgh fans. But we remember when he wasn’t rated high enough to beat Vejar or Jaskwhich to the job.
Schwartz sent both the Notre Dame partisans and the Tech rooters wild with his sparkling delivery for the first counter. Even the Scots applauded the halfback after his sensational 58-yard run.
Then when the Mississippian, who seemed destined for all-American honors again,' left the field in the second half, he was given a send-off that would have raised the roof of the stadium—had there been a roof.
Most of the fans at the contest came out to watch Schwartz do his passing trick, but the fighting Irish •did not resort to that type of play as
much as they have in previous games.
During the intermission at half time, the Tech band ran through its formations, the bow to the Notre Dame stands being in the form of a shamrock. Confetti dropped by every musician while in that formation left a colorful design upon the field as the two teams returned for the resumption of hostilities.
Waddell, Coach Steffan’s righthand man, was holding a watch on the shift throughout the contest. He should have been timing his own players. On one occasion the whole crew came out of a huddle and virtually ran against the Irish. But they were penalized.
The coach’s timing did not aid his cause in the least. The Notre Dame outfit was doing better when they did wait the required time than when they became over-anxious, anyway.
Bernie Leahy, the boy who has been playing in hard luck during the past two seasons, was outstanding in his performance at the fullback position.
Several Notre Dame players declared after the game that the Tech mentors must have “doped” their charges for the second half of the contest as it seemed like a different team that took the field after the intermission.
X-COUNTRY TEAM MEETS MICHIGAN STATE AT EAST LANSING
Tomorrow afternoon will see the Notre Dame harriers make their final appearance of the year when they tackle the strong Spartans of Michigan State on the trying course at East Lansing.
Despite Notre Dame’s decisive win from Iowa last week, the Spartan squad is a strong favorite to win tomorrow’s meet. Led by the great Clark Chamberlain, national intercollegiate champion, the State aggregation looms as one of the finest teams in the country. Butler’s harriers, always among the best, were an easy 19-36 victim for Chamberlain and his mates.
Others in the Michigan State aggregation who should be well up toward the front of the pack tomorrow include Pongrace, O’Connor, Wissner, and Hurd.
Coach Nicholson and his men are confident, however, that the State runners are in for a busy fifteen or twenty minutes. Howery, Notre Dame leader, has a score of his own to even with Chamberlain. The Spartan led the Blue and Gold runner to the tape in last year’s meet though the Notre Dame team eked out a close win.
Wilson and King, the Canadian stand-bys, are the second best bets in Nicholson’s group. Young, Ewing, Rudd, and Hoyt complete the roster of the running Irish.
Tzventy-two
The Scholastic
Walsh Sets Interhall Grid Record
Senior Team Whips Freshmen, 39-0;
Off-Campus, Badin, Lose First Games
Alumni Bars Walsh’s Path To Title; St. Edward’s Remains Unbeaten In Group L
By Irving B. Halper
Walsh, interhall grid champs of 1930, added another bit to their fame Sunday when they ran up 39 points against Freshman for the high scoring record of Interhall history. Scoring 39 points in the brief playing time allotted is a feat worthy of a great team and the seniors are to be commended for their showing.
Walsh is now tied for the lead in Group II with Alumni and on Nov. 15 will meet their neighbors from across Dorr road in the game that should decide the group title. Alumni established their right to consideration Sunday when they downed Off-Campus, who had previously tied the highly touted Walsh eleven.
In Group I Corby defeated Badin and set St. Edward’s in undisputed possession of the top rung. This Sunday St. Edward’s faces Badin and a victory will give them the league championship. Should Badin win, however, the two teams will be tied and a playoff needed to settle the matter.
The Scholastic’s All-Interhall football team for 1931 which will be published at the conclusion of the season, will be chosen in a new manner. In former years the selection came from either the coaches, the officials, or the Scholastic sports staff. This year, however, a consensus of all these sources will be taken. With John Frederick’s permission and with the cooperation of John Scannell, the coaches will each contribute an all-star selection. The officials and the Scholastic sports staff will do likewise and the final selection will be made on a point basis. It is probable that the coaches’ selections will be limited to All-Group teams as they do not have an opportunity to see the teams of the other groups in action.
The schedule for Sunday, November 1:
Group I—Corby vs. Dillon at Min
ims’ field; Sophomore vs. Morrissey at Brownson field; St. Edward’s vs. Badin at Cartier field No. 1; Lyons, bye. (All games are to be played at 9:00 a. m.)
Group II—Alumni vs. Freshman at Cartier field No. 2 at 9:00 a. m.; Off-Campus vs. Carroll at Cartier field No. 1 at 2:30 p. m.; Walsh vs. Brownson at Brownson field at 2:30 p. m.; Howard, bye.
Standings for November 1:
Group I	W	L	T	PCT.
St. Edward’s			4	0	0	1.000
Badin			3	1	0	.750
Lyons 			3	2	0	.600
Corby 			2	2	0	.500
Morrissey			2	2	0	.500
Sophomore 			1	4	0	.200
Dillon 			0	4	0	.000
Results—Lyons 20, Sophomore 6; St. Edward’s 24, Dillon 0; Corby 6, Badin 0; Morrissey, no game.
Group II	w	L	T	PCT.
Walsh 			3	0	1	1.000
Alumni				2	0	2	1.C00
Off-Campus -			2	1	1	.666
Carroll			2	,1	2	.666
Howard			1	4	0	.200
Brownson			0	1	3	.000
Freshman			0	3	1	.000
Results—Walsh 39, Freshman 0;
Alumni 7, Off-Campus 0; Carroll 7, Howard 0.
Walsh 39, Freshman 0
Walsh hall ran up the highest score in the history of interhall leagues in defeating Freshman hall 39-0, Sunday afternoon on Brownson field.
Freshman was unable to cope with the hard running of the senior backs and the contest took on the aspects of a track meet early in the second quarter when Walsh pushed over three touchdowns.
Crawford made the first of the six . touchdowns rolled up by the upper-classmen on a 12-yard end run in the second quarter. McCarthy converted. McCann, tackle, was the next to reg-
(Continued on Page 26)
NAVY TO MEET NJ). IN BALTIMORE NEXT WEEK
Middy Team To Test Blue and Gold With Own Plays.
The seventh game on the Notre Dame grid schedule will bring together the “Fighting Irish” and the Navy Middies at Baltimore next Saturday. The game will be .the second of the year in which the Notre Dame squad will be forced to combat their own style of attack.
Under the direction of Head Coach . Edgar “Rip” Miller, Notre Dame ’25, the Midshipmen have revamped nearly their entire repertoire in installing the familiar Notre Dame system. Some few bits of strategy of Bill Ingram, former mentor, are — still on hand to furnish a little variety.
Coach Miller is ably assisted in his job of installing the new style by backfield coach Christy Flanagan, N. D. ’28, and Johnny O’Brien, N. D. ’31, who is handling the ends. Seven other coaches including Bowstrom and Hardwick, former’ Navy stars, complete the grid staff at the,Academy.
Among the veterans returning to the squad from last year are Captain Tuttle, a fine center, Underwood, a guard, and Bryan, tackle. Besides these linesmen, Kirn, Flack, and Tschirgi have returned for another year at the halfback posts. Graduation last June cost the embroyo admirals the services of fifteen of their best men. The development of new material to fill this gap has slowed up the progress of the team considerably.
To date the Navy has won from William and Mary, Princeton, and Delaware. Maryland holds a six point decision over the Middies, and West Virginia Wesleyan played them to a scoreless tie last week.
Against Carnegie Tech last week, Notre Dame made 388 yards from scrimmage and 18 first downs. Carnegie totalled 131 yards against the Blue and Gold eleven and made six first downs.
November 6, 1931
Twenty-three
INTRODUCING— v a	MIKE KOKEN
His best perofrmance last year was in the Penn game. And now Mike Koken is all primed to startle the prim Quakers again when he faces them tomorrow in the return engagement.
Michael Richard Koken, the full name of the gentleman in question, hails from Youngstown, and when he gets home after the football season, Notre Dame fans in that Ohio city royally fete their pride and joy. His first year of varsity competition last year earned him a monogram and instilled fear in the hearts of Notre Dame’s 1931 opponents who recall his speed and shiftiness.
At a disadvantage because he plays from the same position as that held by “Marchy” Schwartz with the regulars, Koken, nevertheless, gets his share of the playing time and so far this season has scored three touchdowns—all three against Drake.
The All-American Schwartz ’ will play his final game when the “Fighting Irish” meet Army this year, and then, since Koken has one more year of competition, the Youngstown boy will more than likely be in there with the regulars next season.
Koken, the lad whom the Pittsburgh sport writers called a “shifty Swede” after the Tech game a week ago, had never seen a collegiate football game until he witnessed the downfall of Notre Dame against Tech in Pittsburgh in 1926. The score of that tussle was 19-0 and, strangely enough, Mike was included in the 19-0 pasting which “Hunk” Anderson’s boys handed the Skibos last Saturday.
As are most other football players, Koken is now besieged with requests for tickets for the remaining games. The big problem which confronts him at present lies in figuring out a method whereby he can purchase four tickets for the Southern California game with the $12 which one of his Youngstown friends sent him. And that is hard, what with the ducats selling for five dollars plus the fee for postage.
Koken participated in four sports while he prepped at South High
school in Youngstown—football, basketball, baseball, and track demanding his attention there. The South High boys were state football champions while Mike was playing there, and then too, he was a member of
Mike Koken
Flashy Understudy to Schwartz
that school’s basketball squad which finished in the position of runner-up for the state title games one year.
The summer time does not find Mike working hard to keep in the pink as is the case with other football men. He does his working out as a real estate appraiser in the county court house in Youngstown. He admits that it is all “political.”
An expert swimmer, Koken divides his spare time between swimming and handball in order to retain his figure. He is enrolled in the Arts and Letters school on the campus and is majoring in physical education. After graduation, Mike expects to coach.
Take another look for No. 22 tomorrow—but you’ll have to look fast.
Football Statistics
Figures for the five games already played by Notre Dame discloses that the “Fighting Irish” have made 79 first downs to 18 for their opponents. Notre Dame has made 1864 yards from scrimmage while the opposition has picked up 434. In the matter of penalties, Notre Dame has lost 375; the opponents have suffered to the extent of 13C yards. The fumble race is close with the opponents leading, 20 to 19.
Kewpee Hotel Hamburg 328 N. Michigan
We are always open and ready to serve our specialties—
Excellent Hamburgers and Rich Creamy Malted Milks
□
Drop in after the games or shows.
□
PHONE 3-0405
Yard Service
Ticenty-fowr
The Scholastic
PENN HERE TO PLAY N. D.
(Continued from Page 5)
to see action during some part of the game. Jerry Ford will start at quarter.
On the line Pennsylvania will have such veterans as Colehower and Soko-lis at tackles, and Captain Paul Rib-lett at right end. Riblett is one of the outstanding wingmen in the east, and the Notre Dame pass defense will have to watch him closely.
Pennsylvania uses the Warner system which has never been particularly effective against Notre Dame. Coach Harman, the first non-Penn grad to coach at the Philadelphia institution, learned his football from Pop Warner himself, at Pittsburgh university. The team has shown excellent schooling in the fundamentals and complete mastery of the simpler plays, but lack of deception will count heavily against
the best of
to
of this fine old ginger ale. It blends with lively spirits . . . adds gaiety
CLICQUOT has it!
Even a man who's being penalized for holding can summon a long, long cheer for the mellower, smoother flavor
parties.
them when playing such a team as Notre Dame which will present an equal amount, if not more, manpower. Penalties handicapped greatly in the last two games.
The Fighting Irish, while not treating the invasion of the Pennsylvanians lightly, are not greatly perturbed about the outcome. If the team does not experience a let-down the game should be taken in stride. Greeney and Kurth were injured in the game with Carnegie Tech last week, but both are expected to be in shape to play tomorrow.
N. D. STOPS SKIBOS, 19-0
(Continued from Page 20)
the scoring for the day later in the second stanza. Koken replaced Schwartz and teamed with Leahy to take the ball to the Tech 11-yard line. Here, on second down, Koken lateral
passed to Leahy who ran right end for a touchdown.
That should be about enough on Notre Dame’s ball-toting activities. A big, smooth-working line paved the way for the dashes of the backfield aces. In addition to that, Captain Tommy Yarr and the other members of the front line held the Tech backs powerless for the greater part of the game.
Six first downs and 108 yards from scrimmage were all that the Tech machine could do with the Notre Dame forwards. The Skibos never pushed their drives past the Notre Dame 45-yard line, and only once managed to cross the mid-field.
Lineups and summary:
Notre Dame (19)	Carnegie (0)
Kosky ...........L. E...........Stewart
Culver ..........L. T......... Fletcher
Greeney .........L. G........... Sample
Yarr (C) ........C............. Ducanis
Hoffman .........R. G........... Heizer
Kozak ...........R. T.......... Forsman
Mahony ..........R. E.............Lewis
Jaskwhich .......Q. B........... Dueger
Schwartz ........L. H............ Kavel
Sheeketski ......R. H.... (C) Armentrout Melinkovich .............F. B. O’Toole
Touchdowns—Schwartz, Leahy (2). Points after touchdown—Jaskwhich (placement).	’
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Leahy for Melinkovich, Harris for Greeney, Krause for Culver, Host for Kosky, Brancheau for Sheeketski, Koken for Schwartz. Gorman for Yarr, Murphy for Jaskwhich, Devore for Mahony,. Pierce for Hoffman, Cronin for Brancheau, Kurth for Kozak, Laborne for Leahy. Carnegie — Kebe for Heizer, Ewing for
O’Toole, Bevevino for Dueger, Dreshar for Sample, Ostrosky for Stewart. Jones for Ducanis, Pauncey for Ewing. Referee—H. B. Hackett (West Point). Umpire—C. G. Eckles (ML & J.). Head linesman—J. H. Lipp (Chicago). Field judge— E. E. Miller (Penn State).
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
J. Burke, Inc.
OPTOMERIST and MFG. OPTICIANS 228 So. Michigan St. Est. 1900 SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO N. D. STUDENTS
CLICQUOT CLUB GINGER AGES Qhy-Qolden ~ dec CJkree (favorite flavors on any Campus
Be a Newspaper Correspondent
Any intelligent person may earn money corresponding for newspapers; all or spare time; experience unnecessary; no canvassing; send for particulars. Hea-cock. S48 Dun Building, Buffalo, N. Y.
November 6, 19-11
Twenty-five
“B” ELEVEN FACES U.OF BUFFALO TO-MORROW
Best of Notre Dame Reserve Material Taken On Trip.
A “B” team squad of twenty-two men left here today for Buffalo where they will meet the University of Buf-1 falo on Saturday. Expecting plenty of opposition, the coaches are sending the pick of a strong reserve squad on the trip. After the game the men will be taken on a sight-seeing tour to Niagara Falls and will return ।	here Sunday.
Although the University of Buffalo has had a football team only for the past few years they have risen rapidly in the football world and met both Carnegie Tech and Dartmouth on the gridiron this fall. Their coach, J. “Biffy” Lee, is a former Notre Dame man and friend of Rockne, and his offense is based largely on the Notre Dame system. So the “B” team will have its first chance, outside of Cartier field, of seeing Notre Dame plays
from the other side of the line of scrimmage. Coach Lee has been pointing his men for this game and the contest is attracting a lot of attention in Buffalo.
The “B” team has had fair success • up to date this fall. They lost to the Purdue Reserves, 19-12, after having the game apparently in the bag. They also lost to Western State Teachers, but they beat the Northwestern “B” team, 14-6, at Dyche stadium in their feature game thus far. They also defeated the Indiana Reserves at the same time that the varsity was running rough-shod over the down state team.	•
With no other Reserve game scheduled for tomorrow, the Notre Dame aggregation should put its full strength on the field.
How Harriers Finished!
1.	Howery (ND)____________17:59
2.	Wilson (ND) and
King (ND) tied________18:30
4.	Wichey (I)____________18:43
5.	Young (ND)____________18:49
6.	Ewing (ND)____________19:12
7.	Tratt (I) ____________19:18
8.	Klewin (I)____________19:26
9.	Gundeson (I) ---------19:48
10.	Rosenberg (I)--------19:51
BASKETBALL SQUAD IN DAILY WORK-OUTS;
BEGIN SCRIMMAGE
Coach George Keogan continued to drive his crew of varsity eagers through workouts all this week. While there were only slight bits of scrimmage during the practices, the squad is moving along at a pace that will enable the mentor to launch the more strenuous work soon.
Work had been delayed a bit last week to allow for repair work on the floor. With that out of the way the squad went back to work at fundamentals and pass practice. Scrimmages made their first appearance on Monday’s program.
The actual play featured a simple offensive and intensive defensive drill. Veterans of last year’s varsity and ex-members of the frosh squad who are preparing for their first year of college competition made up the teams that were used in the scrimmages. Several valuable basketeers are still engaged on the football squad and will be unable to start cage work for at least another month.
The Freshman squad has been practicing regularly under Coach Ed Smith and is gradually rounding into form.

TALK OF THE TOWN
FOODS OF QUALITY at STRA TIGON’S
PRICES
B R E A K F A S T—Specials 25c, 30c, 35c and up
LUNCHEONS
25c, 30c, 35c, and up
SUPPERS 30c, 35c, 40c and up
SUNDAY DINNERS
40c, 45c, 50c
SPECIAL COTILLION SUPPER Friday, November 6 Choice of Fillet of Sole or Jumbo Fried Oysters
STRATIGON’S
Known for Quality Since 1914
We Never Lock Our Doors 114 N. Mich. St.
Free Ticket to the Prom
or
Two years Subscription to the Juggler
Will be given by the Notre Dame “Scholastic” editorial staff to any student who discloses conclusively the identity of THE STOOL PIGEON, weekly conductor of the column “Birdie Whispers” that each week tells of the foibles and indis. creet movements of campus personalities.
Remember, the evidence must be conclusive. Contest opens NOW and will continue until the Pigeon is hunted down in his lair.
Turn the reasons for your suspicions in to the Publications Office any evening at 6:30 to Editor Neil C. Hurley.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
Walsh Defeats Freshman
(Continued from Page 22)
ister when he blocked a hostile punt and scurried the remaining ten yards for the score. Murphy then added his name to the list of scorers by sprinting over from the 15-yard stripe. Freshman was offside on rhe try for the extra point and since the attempt was good the score stood, 20-0 in favor of Walsh.
Freshman tried hard to score in the third period by passing, but their efforts went for naught. Miller of Walsh caught one of their wild passes and behind perfect interference raced 55 yards to a touchdown. McKevitt not to be outdone, blocked the Freshman punt and cornered the seniors’ fifth touchdown. Again the freshmen were offside, on the extra point play and it was allowed for Walsh had converted.
Law ended the orgy of scoring in the last period when he sped through the center of the line for six yards and a touchdown.
It would be hard to select any stars for the game as Walsh continually sent in replacements. The Frosh, although outplayed from beginning to end, fought hard throughout the game.
Corby 6, Badin 0
Pushing over a touchdown from the one-yard line, Corby sprang a big surprise in the Interhall league Sunday by downing a previously undefeated Badin eleven, 6 to 0 on Minims field.
It was Jim Gleason, hard plunging fullback who had battered the Badin line throughout the entire first half, who put the ball across in the third period. The attempt for the extra point failed.
Although the Badinites fought hard throughout the remainder of the fray they could not crash the senior line which, led by Blommaert, center, tore through the Badin forwards to toss the Badin backs time after time.
Dalecy, Corby end was another star for the winners, although overshadowed by the brilliant Gleason. Badin’s attack was led by quarterback Spike Conti, who, although his game was under par, was a shining light. Reilly, fullback, also played well.
❖
Lyons 20, Sophomore 6
Waging a terrific onslaught during the first half, Lyons defeated Sophomore hall, 20-6, Sunday morning.
Sophomore’s ends collapsed under the pressure of Lyon’s running attack permitting Pahlman, Conley, and Carney to round them at ease.
Early in the first period Pahlman, Lyon’s fullback, circled Sophomore’s right end for a gain of forty yards. Another play netted fifteen yards. Then Pahlman hurled over the line for the first touchdown. Carney plunged, making the extra point good and the score 7-0.
Lyons scored their second touchdown a short time after intercepting a Sophomore pass on the fifty-yard line. A reverse gained fifteen yards. On the next play Carney raced off right tackle for the score. The attempt for the extra point failed.
Sophomore was not to be entirely out-classed by their opponents for they came back the second half seeking vengeance. DeLea, Sophomore halfback, received the kick-off and ran back sixty yards before he was downed. A lateral pass failed to gain. DeLea then sped around the Lyons’ right end for twenty yards. Two plunges gained about four yards. DeLea then passed to Felts in the end zone for a touchdown, making the score, 13-6.
In the last quarter Louy, Lyon’s
r—IT’S TIME TO LAUGH AGAIN!
Dunk Your Troubles in Laughter and Howl at Eddie 1
Exceeding: by far your fondest dreams of the pinnacle in entertainment! All the glamour of a great spectacle. . . . AU the scenic wonder of a world of beauty. ... AU the girliest girls of a $6.00 “Follies.” . . . AU the songs worth humming for a year. . . . AU the hysterics of laughing-gas! ALL ROLLED INTO ONE GRAND AND GLORIOUS EXTRAVAGANZA!
NEW LAUGHS NEW SONGS NEW GIRLS!
EDDIE CANTOR
—IN—
'PALMY DAYS"
WITH CHARLOTTE GREENWOOD
It out-whoops “Whoopee” and will send you home humming new tunes—telling new jokes—and make you happy you’re alive!
STARTS SATURDAY—ENDS TUESDAY
November 6, 1931
Twenty-seven
halfback, slipped off tackle and ran sixty-five yards to cross the goal. Carney plunged over guard for the extra point, boosting the score to 206.
Carney and Pahlman in the backfield, Kelley, center, Huisking, tackle, whose pass defense was sensational, and Conley, an end, displayed excellent ball for Lyons. DeLea was the bright spot in the Sophomore lineup.
Alumni 7, Off-Campus 0
Scoring in the fourth quarter, Alumni hall defeated Off - Campus,, 7-0, Sunday afternoon on Cartier field. Ackerman led the victors in their march to victory in the closely contested battle. During the entire first half the ball never crossed the twenty-five-yard lines.	’
Taking the kickoff at the opening of the third period, Ackerman sprinted eighty-five yards down the sideline to the Off-Campus five-yard line. Off-Campus held Alumni for four downs and then punted and were out of danger. Alumni then began its victory march from the Off-Campus forty-yard line. Loughery received a pass good for fifteen yards. Ackerman gained eight yards through the
line and on the next attempt made a first down. Deauville crashed through center for the only touchdown of the game. Ackerman added the extra point on a plunge off guard.
The outcome of the game was dubious until the gun sounded, because Off-Campus, in an effort to even matters, opened a desperate passing attack. Two long passes were declared completed because of interference with the receiver by Alumni backs. The Off-Campus aggregation was successful with a few plunges which placed them on the Alumni two-yard line. Alumni held for downs and punted as the game ended.
Ackerman, Deauville, and Cashier were outstanding in the Alumni backfield while the defensive play and pass receiving of Loughery and Barnes in the line were exceptional. Murphy, Conlon, and Dooling played well for Off-Campus.
❖
St, Edward’s 24, Dillon 0
St. Edward’s hall stretched their winning streak to four games by routing Dillon hall 24-0 last Sunday morning on Minims field. The game was marred by frequent rains which made the play erratic.
Jim Newbold opened the scoring in the first period, when he crashed through center from the five-yard line. The kick for the point was blocked. A blocked punt by O’Brien with Will Kinnery falling on it over-the goal, gave the sophomores their second score. The pass for the extra point was grounded. Another blocked kick paved the way for St. Edward’s third score, with Frank Ponusanti, taking the ball over on three bucks at the line from the ten-yard stripe. A drop kick for the extra point went wide of its mark.
There was no further scoring until the last period. At this juncture Newbold ended a spectacular march down the field with a sweeping end run from the 12-yard line for a touchdown. Again the kick failed. Dillon’s only scoring threat came in this quarter. They managed to advance the ball to the ten-yard line on four first downs. Here, however, they lost the ball and the whistle ended the game a few moments later.
Gerald Rank, right half, and Rigney, end, played well for the losers, while the work of Carmody, O’Brien, and Newbold featured the play of St. Edward’s.
Last Two Days
“The Homicide Squad” With Leo Carrillo ' E-X-T-K-A!
NOTRE DAME
In “SHIFTS”
As a mad man he will turn your blood to ice. As a genius he will astound you. As a master he will thrill your soul as never before. :	:	:
"You needn’t — I know Cl the fresh ci
RESH
ill nature’s way
(/AMELS are never parched or toastedf
FrESHNESS and flavor in a cigarette trace right back to natural moisture.	*
If you overheat or process tobacco so harshly as to dry out all natural moisture you drive out fresh-ness and flavor too.
Camel never parches or toasts the fine Turkish and mild Domestic tobaccos it uses—they are naturally smooth, cool, mellow, with natural moisture retained.
That’s why the Camel Humidor Pack proves such a blessing to Camel smokers—it brings them a fine cigarette fresh to start with, and fresh to smoke.
If you don’t realize what natural moisture means in genuinefreshness and flavor, switch to Camels and see.
Try this mild, slow-burning, throat-friendly favorite for just one day—then leave it, if you can! R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C.
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company's Coast-to-Coast Radio Programs
CAMEL QUARTER HOUR, Morton Downey, Tony Wons, and Camel Orchestra, direction Jacques Renard, every night except Sunday, Columbia Broadcasting System
PRINCE ALBERT QUARTER HOUR, Alice Joy, “Old Hunch,“ and Prince Albert Orchestra, direction Paul Van Loan, every night except Sunday, N. B. C. Red Network
See local paper for time
Cam e ls w
FRESH
Made FRESH — Kept FRESH
Don’t remove the moisture-proof wrapping from your package of Camels after you open it. The Camel Humidor Pack is protection against sweat, dust and germs. In offices and homes, even in the dry atmosphere of artificial heat, the Camel Humidor Pack delivers fresh Camels and keeps them right until the last one has been smoked
CAMEL HUM I DOR PACK
(c) 1931( H. J. Reynold* Tobacco Company
Thirty
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
By Edmund L. Moriarty
CROSS COUNTRY TEAM
It is quite possible that a few men on the campus are aware that there is a cross country team here at Notre Dame. An assumption such as this can easily be reached by merely making a few simple inquiries concerning this prort. Football certainly provides the greatest interest to the student body in general, and perhaps justly so. Nevertheless, the good work that is being accomplished by Coach Nicholson’s hill and dalers should hardly be overlooked, and they are deserving of a major share of praise.
When the initial call for candidates was issued by Coach Nicholson in September, the outlook for a successful season was certainly not promising. Since then, however, progress has been made in great strides and we feel that this year’s team is equal to the best in the country.
Cross country is one of the most gruelling sports in existence today. It is a perpetual grind from one end
of the season to the other. The men have to subject themselves to intensive training and the daily drills and trips around the lakes certainly do not provide any great amount of pleasure. The men do not complain though, and the spirit shown thus far is something to be marveled at, especially with the weak support that is given them by the student body.
Why not show a little enthusiasm ? A few words of encouragement and praise always accomplishes a world of good. The way of the cross country man is certainly not the “primrose path” and the work cut out for them is anything but enjoyable. Give them a hand. They deserve it.
❖
THE SWIMMING MEET
The second great movement in the minor sports program being undertaken by the Scholastic will take form in the swimming meet to be held on the evening of November the nineteenth. This is a dangerous un
dertaking. Its success is questionable. It is wholly dependable upon the spirit shown by the student body. A little cooperation is all that we ask, and with this, there will be no doubts as to the ultimate result of the meet.
One does not have to be a Weissmuller to compete. This is not a national event, and the primary intention in this undertaking is to promote a bit of competitive recreation and to stimulate interest in the sports where it is needed.
The recent tennis tournament was a complete success from every viewpoint. This was due only to the fine enthusiasm and cooperation that was shown by the contestants. The swimming meet can be just as successful if this same spirit is. shown, and certainly it should prevail -when the future of a great sport is dependent upon it.
❖
MORE SCORES
Twenty-six scores were picked for your approval last week. The results: 19 wins, four losses and three ties. This raised the percentage for the year just a bit, but we’re still not satisfied. Some day we hope that all our forecasts may be winners, but
For Greatest Values in Delicious Foods Eat at the
Cafe Peacock
Today and Every Day
Chop Suey.................25c
Tenderloin Steak.......-..50c
Chicken Chow Mein.........50c
Special Cotillion Supper
Booths and Mezzanine are Splendid for Parties
Thousands Knowing True Values in Choice Foods and Service, Naturally Dine at the
Cafe Peacock “The Popular Priced Chinese and American Restaurant” 128 WEST WASHINGTON AVENUE
“All Sizes, AH Colors and AH Styles”
High Quality Corduroys $2.85
Field Shoes
for
io Cinder Path
Ma’s Oxfords $1.69
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Anny Store 330 South Michigan Street
November 6, 1931
Thirty-one
such a thing is perhaps just a little too much to expect.
Pennsylvania will be taken in the natural stride and Notre Dame looks to be four touchdowns better, even with Penn’s fine record for the season. Minnesota should give Northwestern a real battle, but the Wildcats, with their full strength again, should win.
Individual Scorers
Individual scoring for the first five games: Melinkovich, 24; Koken, 22; Leahy, 18; Schwartz and Sheeketski, 12 each; Jaskwhich, 8; LaBorne, Gorman, Cronin, Leonard, and Host, six apiece; Murphy, 4. The additional two points were registered by Ross of Drake on a safety.
So far this year Notre Dame has attempted 48 forward passes and has completed 11 of them. Four throws have been intercepted by the op-ponents.
The opponents have made 49 attempts with 12 of them finding their mark. The Blue and Gold have intercepted 11 hostile passes.
THE FORECASTS
Notre Dame 27. Pennsylvania 0
Northwestern 13. Minnesota 7
Michigan 21. Indiana 0
Wisconsin 20, Illinois 6
Nebraska 20, Iowa 0
Purdue 13. Centenary 0
Ohio State 26, Navy 0
Michigan State 34, Ripon 0
Harvard 13, Dartmouth 0
Yale 27, St. Johns 0
Georgia 14, N. Y. U. 7
Pittsburgh 20, Carnegie Tech 0
Princeton 13, Lehigh 0
Syracuse 34, Western Reserve 0
Colgate 28, Penn State 0
Cornell 34, Alfred 0
Columbia 19, Virginia 0
Holy Cross 25, Duquesne 0
Southern California, Stanford 0
St. Mary’s 19, Olympic Club 6
Tennessee 46, Carson Newman 0
Southern Methodist 24, Texas A. & M. 0
Texas 21, Baylor 0
Tulane 20, Auburn 7
Centre 25, Georgetown 0
ANDERSON CHOOSES “B” SQUAD FOR BUFFALO GAME
NOW-TWO "HITS for 15*
Coach Heartly Anderson picked twenty-one Reserve gridders Thursday for the game in Buffalo tomorrow. The squad will be in charge of Clarence Kaplan, freshman coach.
Kaplan and the players will leave South Bend tonight at eight o’clock and will return late Sunday.
Those making the trip are: Left ends, Bierne and Murphy; left tackles, Kieltyka and Mariani; left guard, Schrenker; centers, Robinson and Zoss; right guards, Mueller and Wiedner; right tackles, DeWaan and Cousino; fight ends, Rohrs and Rascher; quarterbacks, Christman and McCabe; left halfbacks, Connolly and Levins; right halfbacks, Dilling and Johnson; fullbacks, Grunderman and Hagan.
Here’s a bargain! The new Dunum "Hit-of-the-Week” Records now give you TWO big dance hits — New York’s newest, hottest success and an old-time favorite— both on one side of a standard size record.
Two full-length numbers, played by famous orchestras—five full minutes of continuous toe-teasing music, equal to both sides of other popular records.
HIT-OF-THE-WEEK Durium RECORDS 151—AT ALL NEWS-STANDS
The splendid recording of the ’’Victory March” given free with this issue of the Scholastic tells why Durium "Hit-of-the-Week” Records outsell all others. They play better, they are scratch-proof and crackproof, play on any phonograph — and they are all ’’hits.”
You’ll find a new double-time ’’Hit” at your news-dealer’s each week — 5 minutes of quality music for only 15^. Why pay more?
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
Girls vote for
Phone	Xbay
Office 2-1067
Residence 3-4041
Dr. E. S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
OLD
LADIES
DON’T
I II I IT
They despise to have to change trains in Chicago. But college boys are different. They like the hubbub and the swift traffic. They like the opportunity to make a couple of phone calls ... and look up some of their friends.
And particularly the students from Notre Dame. They generally use the South Shore Line to Chicago . . . taking a train an hour or so earlier . . . to give them even more time between trains after they get to the big city.
South Shore Line trains every hour on the hour to Chicago. Chas. Woods, 222 Lyons Hall, will make reservations to all points. Or call the agent 3-3111.
Chicago South Shore
& South Bend R.R.
On Down the Line
MAX SCHMELING has been barred from the United States as an undesirable, probably by complaint of STRIBLING . . . KEWAUNEE HIGH of Wisconsin has agreed that if they lose to their traditional rivals, Algonquin, they will walk home after the game, a distance of eight miles ... A player at WESTERN RESERVE when not performing on the football field holds forth from the pulpit . . . There are 21 undefeated and untied teams left in the country.
SUNBEAU, the greatest money winner of all times who amassed a total of $376,744 has retired . -. . GEORGE DOGDEN of Texas played a golf course in one; he dubbed his drive on number 1 and the ball rolled into the cup on number 18 . . . RIPON COLLEGE claims the distinction of inventing the huddle for they had a quarterback there with a weak voice and in order for the plays to be heard the players had to be called into a huddle . . .
4*
SMEAD JOLLEY of the White Sox was the champion pinch hitter of the American League last year; his average was .481 . . . ART BALSER of ALLEGHENY is still waiting for his signal to be called; he plays right half and has not carried the ball this season . . . MINIATURE GOLF is the newest form of recreation at the prison in GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN . . . COACH HOLLING-BERRY, of Washington State has never gone to college. . . .
❖
DEPRESSION has hit the race tracks to the extent that bets are $40,000,000 less than last year. . . . SIX professional football players from New York have been assigned to Sing Sing to coach football . . . they won’t be bothered by the alumni. ... A RABBIT’S FOOT is part of the equipment of every football player at DARTMOUTH for all the team carried them last week against Yale. . . . they tied them 33-33. . . . There is at least one sophomore star on each of the Big Ten Football teams....
PIPES
(for men!)
ASK any girl you know to name her A favorite smoke—for men! Ten to
one she’ll say a pipe!
She’s discovered—trust her bright little eyes—that it’s the BIG men, on the campus and off, who welcome the
mental stimulation and relaxation they get from this real man’s smoke.
And if she’s very wise in the ways of smokers, she’ll go one better than that. She’ll tell you the men who know,
She likes a pipe— for you!
smoke Edgeworth! No two ways
about it, you do get a doubly satisfying smoke when you fill up your pipe with this famous old blend. It’s a happy combination of choice hurleys — cut
long to give you a cool, slow-burning smoke. And its mellow flavor and rich aromahavemade Edgeworth the favorite pipe tobacco on 42 out of 50 cam-
A real man’s smoke puses.
Help yourself to a pipeful next time someone pulls Edgeworth out of his pocket. Pick up the familiar blue tin yourself at any good tobacco stand. Or for a special free sample packet write to Lanis & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old Burleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive
and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth ReadyRubbed and«Edge-worth Plug Slice. AU sizes, 15I pocket package to £1.50 pound humidor tin.
A formula to end
“Mother Hubbard buying”
Bare ‘ ‘cupboards” or overstocked ones
—are costly in any industry. In the Bell System a safe margin of telephone supplies must always be on hand to assure continuous, efficient service.
Telephone men attacked this problem of distribution in a scientific spirit — studied every angle of purchasing, shipping, warehousing, costs, methods. There emerged a mathematical formula. From
this, tables have been developed showing just how much of any item should be stocked to meet requirements most economically. Result: investment in stock is kept low—turnover is speeded-up — 99.25% of orders are filled without delay!
The working out of this formula is typical of the thought Bell System men give to improving the telephone art in all its phases.
BELL SYSTEM
A NAT.ON-WIDE SYSTEM OF I NTE R-C O N N E C TI N G TELEPHONES
notre d-ame, local