RASMUSSEN
MEN'S
SHOP
MARCH MEANS RAIN. These two Notre Dame men are well prepared. Walter F. Murphy of Charleston, S. C., at left, wears a Goodrich KOROSEAL transparent raincoat ($7.95). His hat is a smart, Finnegan-twist DISNEY in the popular willow shade ($12.50). Louis P. Louro of Akron, Ohio, right, is protected by a snappy Gale-Coat by ALLIGATOR, made from fine Egyptian cotton gabardine ($20.50). His hat is a lightweight DISNEY Gadabout ($10.00).
for
'Campus Clothes’’
TWO ENTRANCES: MAIN AND WASHINGTON
106-108 MAIN	13 0 -13 2 WASHINGTON
2
The Scholastic
‘Command Decision': Two Opinions
Dear Editor:
After reading the editorial “ ‘Command Decision’ Was a Bad Decision” (Scholastic, Feb. 18) I could not help wondering if our editor had ever seen the stage show or read the script? It was evident that he had not seen the new M-G-M movie version . . . for he would have known that this movie is just as enjoyable as the stage show even though the offensive army-talk had been rewritten. Perhaps our University Theater needs more mature actors . . . just as our weekly University magazine needs more mature editors!
Joseph Mengden Box 96
Dear Editor:
I agree wholeheartedly with your opinion of the choice of Command Decision as the spring opus of the campus theatre group. Anyone who has had to bury torsos or legs and hips without torsos or nicely toasted skeletal frames knows that the play is souped-up shock for civilian consumption. The number of individuals responsible for sending men to their deaths who suffered because of their decisions is debatable; the urgency of situations together with the necessary irrationality of one’s reactions to such situations soon anesthetizes one to the individuality of the persons dying and dead.
If the Notre Dame group leaves out the filthy speech they will leave out most of the vehicle whereby the play conveys the irrationality of war on a total basis. If they put it in they will be “shocking” the sensibilities of individuals who cannot begin to understand why men in combat speak so.
(Rev.) Philip L. Hanley, O.P. Graduate School
Poetic Plea
Dear Editor:
Dear sirs, I have a problem Oh, help me please, I pray, Or else my fierce employer Will confiscate my pay.
I know that you can aid me.
They say you’re all quite good, For minds on the Scholastic Are ’lastic, not just wood.
My problem is quite simple;
I wonder just what elf
In the basement neath the Dome
March 4, 1949
Saw the sign “Serve Yourself”?
That Pixie is oh so wrong
About the “Serve Yourself.”
It meant take Coca-Cola —
Not the bloomin’ sign itself.
. . . The Coke Sprite
Jim Carroll
Off-Campus
Poet, Coke Magnate Carroll gets this week's gold-plated magnifying glass to help find the criminal. We suggest he bolt all his coke machines to the floor before somebody steals them, too.— Editor.
Bear Facts
Dear Editor:
If I ever hear the “Teddy Bear’s Picnic” again, I’ll stomp my roommate to death. It’s bad enough that we must listen to it morning, noon and night from South Bend, but when WND starts playing it, it’s time to smash your radio.
What mental giants those students must be who would request this insult to an idiot’s intelligence.
“Don’t go down to the woods today,” kiddies.
Dave Peterson Zahm Hall
Strong Words
Dear Editor:
I am one of that strange species of Notre Dame students which resents the destructive methods used by the inept employees of the university laundry to clean shirts, socks, etc. Consequently, I take my laundry to a place downtown where the management is forced to satisfy the customer in order to stay in business.
The other day I decided to drop over to Students’ Accounts and get a refund on the money I had paid for laundry service. I was informed that such is not the policy. After threatening to appeal
the decision to the board of directors of the Alumni Association, I Ieft~-without the money.
The purpose of this letter is to inform the parties concerned that Webster defines “extortion” as “the offense committed by an officer who . . . claims and takes money or other thing of value that is not due.”
Sincerely yours,
Lawrence D. Gilling 251 Badin
When questioned about the laundry situation, University officials said that board, room, tuition AND laundry are “not served on an a la carte basis" for reasons of business economy. One member of the administration called the present system “the most efficient, economical and generally satisfactory possible.”—Editor.
A Dissenting Voice
Dear Editor:
Regarding your review of the winter edition of the Juggler, we should like to draw your attention to an article in the Theatre Review Section, entitled, “Play From Tennessee” by William H. Slavick.
In his review Slavick lavishes great praise upon A Streetcar Named Desire and its author, Tennessee Williams. But this same play, so lauded by this review, has been condemned by the Catholic Theatre Movement. It seems odd to us that such a play should even merit space, much less praise, from a literary magazine for Catholic students.
From The Register-.
Class C (wholly objectionable):
“A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE” “Private Lives”
“Mr. Roberts”
From the JUGGLER:
“For a Streetcar Named Desire, Ten-(Continued on Page 32)
Books
THE Juggler of Notre Dame, Winter 1949; Volume 3, Number 2, Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana, 50 cents.
The Winter Edition of the Juggler which recently came off the press is, first of all, a publication to catch the eye. That, in itself, is enough to merit its placement in the Notre Dame Board of Publication’s Hall of Fame. Jugglers in the past have been notorious for their dull format and even duller covers. The red and white of this winter’s edition is refreshingly welcome.
Having made an impression on all with their cover, the Juggler people strain mightily to keep up the pace on the inside. They come closer than perhaps any recent issue of the magazine. But they don’t quite make it.
This Juggler, following a recent trend, has cut its fiction to the bone. The issue under review has but two short stories in it. This is unfortunate, if not tragic. Scrip, Juggler’s predecessor, was famed throughout the land for the quality of its fiction and appreciated by students for the same reason. The new policy of few stories and heavy emphasis on book and theatre reviews, sympo
siums and weighty theses on the state of art have, to some degree stagnated what was once a very live effort. But despite this overbalance of contents, Juggler presents many labors which bear good fruit.
Those two short stories referred to above, for instance, “Them Women” by Gene Curtsinger, and “Handpainted in Bright Colors” by C. L. Whiting, C.S.C., are fine jobs of writing. The latter may be better because of Mr. Curtsinger’s overplay of atmospheric dialogue but that’s an easy trap for aspiring writers. Both were far above the average college fiction, cleanly told, with much force and perception.
Of the poetry there was a particular attraction in “Sow the Seed” by Valdi-mai* Olaguer; and William Pfaff’s “Oh Little Town of Pennsylvania,” while worn thin in spots, made a bright impression.
The book and theatre reviews were of a high quality, although Ernest J. McCullough seemed determined to out-do Mr. Churchill in reviewing “The Gathering Storm”; and George Murphy lost the real force of “Intruder in the Dust” by his admitted fresh approach to stream of consciousness writing.
Then there were the editorial and the symposium. Both are heavy reading, induced by heavy writing. Here is writing
for writing’s sake; and writing without a clear concept of ideas: a digging for something bigger and grander to say and not really saying it. The editor’s preface to the symposium on “The Christian and the University” admits that the work could possibly be construed to be “over-large, unanalyzed, general and incomplete.” It is all of these — with a literary vengeance. There then follows a defense on the premise that this thing represents an “earnest effort” of students. You get an “E” for effort, and “E” is still flunking in any course.
On the whole, though, the Winter Juggler is one of the finer publications in its line. It ought to be appreciated by those outside the University as well as students. It is improving all the time. —Greg Halpin
IRISH TO HAIL ST. PAT'S DAY
The new Irish Club will toss a St. Patrick's Day party March 17 at 6:30 p.m. in the faculty dinin? hall. All students and faculty members and their wives are invited. Tickets are $1.50 and may be bought from Bob Mahoney, 24 Lyons, or Dennie O'Neill, 110 Lyons. The Irish Club's next meeting will be at 7:30 p.m. next Friday in the Rockne Lounge.
The biggest slack-seoop in South Bend!
Pure Wool Gabardine Slacks $1 J*®5
Here’s the inside story: we shopped the market for the gabardine ... We hand-picked the manufacturer . . . and we insisted on our own quality specifications. You’ll agree . . . nobody else can give you the quality and tailoring at only 11.95. Choice of Airforce Blue, Smoke Grey, Green, Brown or Luggage Tan ... all with Hollywood continuous wristbands, pleats, Dot-snap closing with matching zipper-fly and specially styled sizes for regulars, shorts and longs to insure a perfect fit. Get yours tomorrow/
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER: HUGH HENNEDY —459 MORRISSEY HALL
4
The Scholastic
The Week
By Bob VierbUe
Culture Comes C.O.D.
Proving that it can happen here, the University Concert and Lecture Series brought the comic opera, The Barber of Seville, to the Drill Hall last Saturday night and packed the house clear to the row boats. Frank Cappelli, as Figaro, and Marilyn Cotlow, as Rosina, had to send a full-blown tornado through their throats to reach the back of the Drill Hall, but they made it. It was one of the finest road companies we have had the pleasure to see. If this is a preview of what could be had with student financial assistance, bring us more of the blue-plate special. Personally, we think more students showed up for the opera because the 75-cent fee was the signal that the high command had procured something other than Izzy Weinstein and his speech on “Chatrian Erckmann and His Influence on Wrist Movement.”
With the success of The Barber as the convincer, the University Conceit and Lecture Series is now ready to bring culture to the IBM-ed masses. Next sample is scheduled for St. Patrick’s Day. This year the Irish national holiday will not go by unhonored and untenored. On hand, if plans parboil, will be Christopher Lynch, the Irish tenor with the voice as strong and delightful as Guinness’ Stout.
Life Cannot Be Beautiful
Outside of the three Rs — the razor, the rope, and the rod — I know of only one way of ending all human happiness: take a history course. If you want to die a slow social death running down brand names of the pens used to sign the Declaration of Independence; if you want to know who Luis Dymaxion was, or what caused Queen Antennae’s hair to turn gray in Prince Respighi’s drawing room the evening of April 11, 1707, stick
SCHOCK TO ADDRESS K. OF C.
Mayor Schock of South Bend will speak at the meeting of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus next Thursday, March 10. All K. of C. members are urged to attend.
with the history department. Father McAvoy, who dreams up these ghastly adventures in culture, has devised a new instrument to add to his outside readings, departmental quizzes, book reports, visits to the reference room, and bonafide membership in the Pamphlet-of-the-Month Club. This device, so popular in other departments, is called the 10.000 words, due twice a semester, all triple-dip term paper — no less than rights reserved. It recently occurred to me while munching on a copy of The Age of Hate what a lovely department the Department of History was when it still employed those tricky true-false tests.
When Men's Hearts Turn to . . .
Spring, we are told, is right around the corner. Signs of it are popping up everywhere. Richard Smullen, the Howard Hall bird fancier, said he saw a flight of pimento-colored barn swallows swoop over the Fieldhouse last Wednesday. Bob Lankenau, Walsh Hall’s only aesthetic, said he heard an N.I.T. bus driver say “good morning” to a passenger last Monday. And, as a prelude to spring, SMC held its annual masquerade last Saturday (all of the girls came disguised as pastel-tinted dreams). All of this, combined with the fact that Hoosier hysteria is now sputtering through its last spasm, is proof enough that spring is here and Notre Dame men will once more be digging divots the size of scatter-rugs along the Burke fairways.
Case of Pohlmeyer & Pohlmeyer
For some time now we have been trying to determine whether the new children’s hospital on Notre Dame avenue is Renaissance rococo or late Restoration ranch house. Nobody around here seems to know what it is. Next to the court house in South Bend, it is undoubtedly the ugliest looking building in Northern Indiana. Some people seem to think architects Pohlmeyer and Pohlmeyer were refused tickets to the ’46 Army-Notre Dame game and are taking this opportunity to get even. We can be thankful for one thing: With its close resemblance to a Berlin bombshelter, the building should make an ideal hangout once the atomic bombs start falling.
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral 114 S. Michigan Phone 3*8227
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
LUGGAGE by OSHKOSH GLADIATOR VAI-A-PAK INDESTRUCTO
PIPES by KAYWOODY DUNHILL JACK OF LONDON CUSTOM BUILT
BILLFOLDS by
BUXTON ROLFS PRINCE GARDNER
Hans/^Rintzsch Shep
138 N. Michigan
March 4, 1949
5
Entertainment
MARCH 4
COLFAX (through March 9)—Every Girl Should Marry. Reported to have been put on the must-see list for all St. Mary’s femmes. Cary Grant stars in this moderately humorous comedy with his protege Betsy Drake cast as his manchasing vis-a-vis. The high point comes when Grant smash-ingly satires Miss Drake’s Katherine Hepburnish histrionics. P.S.: Her mouth’s too big.
PALACE (through March 5)—Shockproof and Slightly French. Your outside reading will offer you more entertainment than these two flops, and that’s saying a mouthful.
GRANADA (through March 5)—Decision of Christopher Blake and Loaded Pistols. Pseudo-psychology entwined with the torments a youngster endures when his parents contemplate divorce are the basis for this filmization of Moss Hart’s flop. Young Ted Donaldson, from the original Broadway cast, and Alexis Smith are featured. Kiss-less Gene Autry sings and shoots his way through the other sterile opus.
STATE (through March 5)—Sea Spoilers and Magnificent Brute. Hit that outside reading again.
MARCH 5
WASHINGTON HALL—So This Is New York. The frequently unemployed Mr. Henry Morgan injects a few honest guffaws into this parody, but, on the whole, it is a disappointing debut for the satiric radio comedian.
PALACE (through March 9)—Station West and Crime Doctor’s Diary. Dick Powell and beauteous Jane Greer help make the feature attraction a fair-to-middling western but don’t expect too many indiscreet disclosures in the second flicker.
GRANADA (through March 9)—My Dear Secretary and Far Frontier. An inane comedy with Laraine Day, Kirk Douglas and Keenan Wynn, coupled with a typical Gene Autry western, only this time with Roy Rogers in the stellar role.
STATE (through March 7)—Pardon My Sarong. Abbott and Costello are starred in the South Seas tripe. That should be enough warning for anyone.
MARCH 8
STATE (through March 10)—Henry VIII and Catherine the Great. Two royal reissues that are well worth the time and moola. Charles Laughton, as predatory Hank, gives what many consider his finest screen portrayal.
MARCH 10
WASHINGTON HALL—Anne Byrne. The personable and young concert pianist makes a return visit to the withering palace of music which she conquered so completely last year. Her program is listed in this week’s issue.
COLFAX (through March 16)—One Sunday Afternoon. Dennis Morgan, Jack Carson, Dorothy Malone and Janis Paige combine to make this technicolor, musicalized version of The Strawberry Blonde a tuneful and pleasant few hours of relaxed entertainment. The gay nineties costumes and settings are particularly pleasing to the eye.
PALACE (one-day stand)—Ink Spots and Feather Serpent. Check the time schedule so you will be able to catch the former stars, in person, and miss the picture.
GRANADA (through March 12)—Smugglers and S.O.S. Submarine. All Saturday afternoon serial enthusiasts will eat it up.
6
The Scholastic
Motte
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 March 4, 1949 No. 18
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate ol postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor ROBERT T. STOCK
Associate Editors
JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR ______________________News
JOSEPH DUKERT___________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN Features
HARRY MONAHAN.__________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT Assistant Sports
JOHN WALKER________________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN_______________Librarian
L. A. KYSER________________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE_________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK______________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL_________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN-Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published - weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: “Remember, man that thou are dust and unto dust thou shalt return.” With these awesome words the
Church heralds the beginning of the penitential season. With these words the Church strives to impress upon man the ephemeral nature of the material universe, particularly that of his own person. For
Notre Dame men the penitential season means many little acts of self-denial, many big acts of regular participation at morning Mass, at the Grotto, at adoration in Sacred Heart Church.
Scholastic Opinion
The Ashen Cross
The priest walked down to the communion rail. This time, though, he was carrying not Christ, but a little cupful of ashes. He put his thumb into the ashes and made a cross on your forehead. “Remember, man,” he said in Latin, “you are dust and to dust you will return.”
Ash Wednesday is a good take-off point for Lent. The simple ceremony of the ashen cross superbly underlines the fleeting flimsiness of anything connected with earth. We are made to live in the world but not for it. We are made to live for God. Lent is a special time for remembering that, and that’s partly what we practice penance for. If we can slough off some of our petty luxuries and comforts for a while, they become less important to us, and we’re better able to understand and appreciate the things that matter. If we can detach ourselves from the silly superficialities of life, we’re finally able to put everything in its proper place. We’re finally able to find the true place of God in our life.
One of the best ways to gain the detachment essential for a full understanding of Christian life is to make a retreat. For the next six weeks Notre Darners will have a remarkably good opportunity along those lines. The tremendously successful hall retreat series inaugurated last Lent starts again this weekend, and if last year’s series is any criterion, the hall chapels should be jammed. The priests chosen as retreat masters know the student’s problems and know how to answer his questions. Scholastic urges everyone who can possibly make it to attend his hall retreat. Before anything else we are Christians; a retreat can help us understand what the stamp of Christianity means. ... It is for things like this that Notre Dame exists.
Over the Hump
Notre Dame’s concert and lecture series would seem to be over the hump. Last week the Student Entertainment Committee took a bold step and brought opera to the campus. The response was terrific. Nearly 3000 culture-starved students, faculty members, and South Benders crowded into the Drill Hall for an evening of civilized entertainment. What’s more important, they enjoyed themselves. In spite of the hall’s unstable, hard-backed chairs, its wretched - acoustics, and its dead-level floor, most of the people who came were pleased with what they heard and saw. The Barber of Seville has doubtless been better rendered and maybe it would have been better in the original Italian (Joe Wilcox to the contrary). But the Wagner company’s performance was incomparably more enjoyable than most of the bang-bang, kiss-me-baby stuff shown in the town’s movie houses—which up to now has been almost the only form of entertainment available in this neighborhood.
We hope the University can bring more of this sort of thing to Notre Dame. It should be clear now that there is a welcome for it that all touring dramatic and operatic companies in the country couldn’t wear out. A man’s collegiate development should include learning how to use his leisure time, how to enjoy himself. Notre Darners should be exposed to more arias and less Autry. Good entertainment has too long been too hard to find. Notre Dame should have more of it; South Bend should have more of it. Notre Dame is beginning to get someplace. Maybe some South Bend entrepreneur will take his cue from The Barber and bring the village a little more good entertainment, too.
o	O	O	J
—Photo by Jim Ferstel
7
March 4, 1949
Clubs
Third Panel Held
“Architecture in Mexico,” third in a series of panel discussions sponsored by the La Raza Club, was held last Wednesday in Donaldson, Ind. Frank Schwab was panel chairman. The panel members: Jorge Marcos, Miguel A. Sastre, and Jaime Castiello. The discussions are under the direction of the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C.
Affairs Club Names Lueck
The Notre Dame International Affairs .Club recently elected Donald C. Lueck of Oak Harbor, Wash., president for the third successive term. Other results in the club elections find David K. Yerex of New Zealand, publicity director; Karl Ackerman, of Oklahoma City, Okla., vice-president; Michael J. McGuirl of Utica, N. Y., secretary; and John L. Totty of Pensacola, Fla., treasurer.
The next meeting of the club will be held on March 8. Eugene F. Maguire of Larchmont, N. Y., will present a paper on current international affairs.
St. Louis Makes Plans
The St. Louis Club at its last meeting decided to raffle hams again this year at the Mardi Gras Carnival. Plans were also discussed about an Easter dance and a freshman orientation program for next year.
Cercle Francais Meets
The Cercle Francais of Notre Dame, at a recent meeting in the Audio-Visual Center, elected the following officers for* the remainder of the year: President, Jean L. LePage; vice-president, Robert L. Rotchford; secretary and treasurer, Frank M. De la Vina.
On Feb. 9 club members saw a film on the French painter Henri Matisse. Pictures, folksongs and club business completed the program.
The next meeting of the Cercle Francais is scheduled for Tuesday, March 8, at 7:30 p.m. in the Audio-Visual Center.
La Raza's Present Panel
The La Raza Club, continuing its energetic program, is presenting a series of panel discussions on “The Story of Architecture in Mexico” during the months of February and March. The program consists of a panel discussion, colored slides illustrating architectural styles, and questions from the audience, and will be given five times during the two months.
They're new• See our smart
Notre Dame Jackets
X
Iii Two New Styles
!• The heavy-duty “Champion” is made of sturdy rayon, water-proofed for all-round wear. Notre Dame monogram-styled letters on the back. Selection of these smooth satins in blues, golds, and greens. All sizes.
9095
2* The light-weight all-purpose “Gadabout” jacket is just the thing for spring showers. It's the perfect thing for the golf course. Zelan coated, this jacket has a “UND" stitched above the left pocket. Choice of green, blue, gold, or clay. All sizes.
9095
Notre Dame Bookstore
Notre Dame, Indiana
8
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 * Number 18	-
MARCH 4,1949
Mardi Gras Hits Student Aid Jackpot
Pair From South Bend Wins Automobiles
By VIC DORR
Like its Louisiana namesake, Notre Dame’s Mardi Gras carnival drew to a reluctant close Tuesday night, just before Lent. And it ended with as much fun, splendor and brilliance on a smaller scale. The Student Relief drive for 1948-49 had reached its climax and, according to chairman John Moorhead, was destined for a “whopping success— at least as far as the carnival was concerned.” The carnival closed with the awarding of the two prize automobiles.
Again two South Benders were the starry-eyed recipients of the most cherished prizes of all. Mrs. Margaret -L. Bueche, of 2111 High street, found herself awakened in the middle of the night and told she was the new owner of the
MRS. BUECHE AND MR. CURRENT The Winners!
sleek 1948 Chrysler New Yorker. The yellow Plymouth convertible went to Donald A. Current, a commerce sophomore from Fort Wayne, Ind., who lives with his wife at the same address. When
INTENT CROWD AT CALIFORNIA CLUB BOOTH — A Jostling, Laughing Mob
Photos by Bruce Harlan (additional Mardi Gras pictures on page 17)
notified of her success, Mrs. Bueche said, “I can’t believe it’s true ... we surely needed a new car.” Current had an almost dumbfounded expression on his face as he exclaimed, “It doesn’t seem possible.” At the height of the Mardi Gras Tuesday night, Miss Sue Wagner, president of the Student Coun- . cil at St. Mary’s, named the winner, assisted by the Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., director of student welfare.
Two-Night Frolic
For two solid nights the festival held sway in the vast, hangar-like interior of the Navy Drill Hall, simulating the high-powered midway atmosphere of carnival fun and frolic. Like a composite of all state fairs and amusement parks, it had everything. Through a milling crowd of pleasure-bent students, SMC girls, friends, wives, and general
fun-seekers, the loud, hoarse cries of barkers and hucksters could be heard, splitting the noise and din of the smoke-misty hall. From the background came the muffled blare of an orchestra refrain. There were gaming booths, fun booths, trading posts, refreshment stands, ham raffles, clothes raffles and cake raffles.
Blazing color seemed to keynote the carnival. Thirty club booths used yards and yards of bright red, green, ydlow,. and blue crepe paper, multi-colored paints and oilcloth to decorate the stands in true Mardi Gras style. No less colorful was the carnival crowd itself, with many girls in vari-huel dresses of many styles; tuxedo-garbed barkers; suave game table proprietors, replete with green eyeshades and bright bow ties; white-capped ice cream ven-
(Continued on Page 21) . .	' /
March 4, 1949
Drill Hall Becomes Full House For ND's Night At The Opera
Hipp
The bam-like Navy Drill Hall was jammed to the five-inch guns
scheming Figaro. Marilyn Cotlow as Rosina, the maid in distress
Saturday night, the 26th. when Charles L. Wagner presented his anglicized version of “The Barber of Seville," a comic opera in two acts by Rossini. Frank Cappelli, playing the bumptious.
and Emile Renan as the pompous old quack. Dr. Bartolo, were particularly well received. Even the hard-working ushers, members of the Blue Circle, got a blow from ad-libbing Figaro.
Debaters Take Third In Azalea Tournament
In between parties and parades, Notre Dame debaters captured third place in the Azalea Tournament held at Spring Hill College, Mobile, Alabama, last week. With Lent nearing, the Azalea Festival and Mardi Gras were in full swing in Mobile, with fabulous parades, parties, and dances. Tn true Southern style the debaters had a dance featuring a Dixieland band.
Notre Dame was the only Yankee outfit to invade the Mardi Gras tourney. Twenty schools from the deep South took part including, TCU, LSU, Tulane, Georgia, Floirda, Alabama, Mississippi and New Mexico.
Frank Finn, Bill Carey, Tom Ninne-man and Bill Dempsey were awarded bronze medals. Their team record was eight wins and four losses. The southern favorite, TCU, last year’s national champion, and Florida, last year’s runner-up, failed to place.
Leonard Sommer, the ND coach, discussed this year’s debate topic with two other coaches in a radio forum over a Mobile station.
This series concluded the ninetieth debate of the current season, thus far. An unprecedented number of schools, twenty, also will have appeared on the campus for debates before the end of the term. Concerning the schedule, Coach Sommer said, “Other universities are conscious of the fact that Notre
Dame can debate. We have had contact with over four hundred schools at tournaments alone so far.”
Also released were dates of future tournaments and campus visits to occupy the sixteen men on the regular debate squad. On March 18 and 19 the Wisconsin University Tournament and on March 31 and April 1 and 2 the Tau Kappa Alpha Nationa.1 Tournament will be held. Six universities will journey to the campus within the last seven days of March for contests with ND.
A feature exhibition debate, requested by the physicians of St. Joseph County, to be given at the Indiana Club, was announced for March 8. The topic discussed will be socialized medicine.
—Frank Haendler
Postpone Alumni Reunion To Halt Overcrowding
The annual alumni reunion, traditionally slated for commencement week-end, has been postponed one week for the first time in University history. “Five-year anniversary” classes, from ’99 to ’44, will meet this year on June 10, 11 and 12.
The change was announced by William Dooley, assistant alumni secretary, who explained that the measure had been taken to avoid overcrowding the campus during commencement time.
Soisson, Rawson Score Slam in Bridge Tourney
Dick Soisson and Jack Rawson brought home the bacon in the ND bridge tournament last week. Pulling down an average of .588, they played themselves into the campus championships. The two card-sharks will be presented trophy cups by the K. of C.
Twelve tables competed in the first round held Sunday evening, Feb. 20, and the following Monday night in the Walsh Hall clubrooms of the K. of C. From all the participants all but the first fourteen pairs were eliminated. These twenty-eight men met again Tuesday afternoon. In this session the top two men, now the ND champs, and the next three pairs won the right to compete in the Great Lakes zone contest of the national intercollegiate bridge tournament on Friday. Dick Riley and Bill Dickson won second place with an average of .560; Zane Trinkley and Dan Russell, third place with .540, and Bill Marshall and Jack Houston, fourth with .527. The returns from the Great Lakes zone are now being checked, but it has not yet been announced as to how many ND pairs, if any, have qualified for the national finals in Chicago to be held in April.
Student bridge chairman Dick Soisson noted the interest which was displayed in the tournament. He also reminded, students that there is a bridge session held in the K. of C. clubroom' every Wednesday evening. All are invited to come.
10
The Scholastic
Three One-Act Plays Follow Peace Theme
The University Theater has begun preparation of three one-act plays, under the direction of Professor Frank J. Hanley. The program, scheduled for 8:15 p.m. March 14 and 15 in Washington Hall, will be produced by William J. Eisen, Director of the University Theater.
The first performance will be Lady Gregory’s “The Rising of the Moon.” The action takes place on a wharf in Ireland where the police are lying in wait for an Irish rebel. They are accosted by a ragged ballad singer who argues with the police sergeant over individual peace in a suppressed country.
“Dust of the Road,” by Kenneth Sawyer Goodman, will follow. Placed in the post-civil war period, it is the story of a farmer and his wife in their quest for family peace. The farmer’s ward is a civil war orphan, whose father left behind a large sum of money for the boy’s education. The impoverished family connives to use the money for its own ends.
Emmet Lavery’s “Monsignor’s Hour” poses a possible answei* to world peace. The scene is a Vatican art gallery, 15 years from now, where a middle-aged American monsignor meets a cross-section of Vatican hierarchy. Among them is a cardinal who induces the monsignor to pretend he is the Pope, giving the solution for world peace. Mr. Lavery is the author of such works as “First Legion” and “The Magnificent Yankee.” —Jack Powers.
Marian
FRANK HANLEY
Three for the Price of One
Wind-Whipped Flag Pulls Staff Five Feet Off Center
Repair work on Notre Dame’s flagpole in the main quadrangle commenced last week as Louis Salzbury’s steeple-j acks-from White Pigeon, Mich., raised a scaffold around the 138-foot shaft.
Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, C.S.C., head of the University’s maintenance department, explained that Mr. Salzbury’s crew had been called in to give the faulty pulley mechanism a thorough check. It was discovered that a bad bolt in the swivel pulley was the source of the trouble. But in the process of the examination, however, the top of the pole was found to be from four to five feet off the median line, due to the pull exerted by the wind through the flag.
The upper staff, a twenty-five-foot section of three-inch pipe, will take about a week to straighten.
Perilous Perch
Full House Attends 'Barber1 at Drill Hall
Several thousand opera lovers jammed the Navy Drill Hall last Saturday night to see and hear Charles L. Wagner’s touring company’s production of Rossini’s The Barber of Seville. The opera was entertaining but the Drill Hall was miserable.
The hard seats, the poor acoustics and the English translations did their utmost to defeat the presentation. The latter defect was the most disconcerting. Rossini’s gay and sprightly score was hampered by such lyrical banalities as “that little chicken you’ll have for your supper,” referring to the heroine, “the heck with it,” and “by golly.”
The curtain-less platform of the cavernous hall provided an inadequate stage, but the company did an admirable job in overcoming its shortcomings. Both the costumes and settings were pleasant and delightful to the eye.
The staging of the production tended to be pedestrian while the performers, for the most part, chose to act in a grand and sweeping style, bordering at times on over-playing. Miss Marilyn Cotlow, as Rosina the heroine, took top honors in the cast and acquitted herself especially well in the beautiful arias.
Frank Cappelli, as Figaro, and Edward Nyborg, as the hero Count Alma-viva, also performed capably in their respective parts. The remainder of the cast sang better than they acted.
The large and receptive audience proved that such an undertaking enjoys a wide following on the Notre Dame campus, and warrants more programs along the same line.—Ken Thoren
March 4, 1949
11
Anne Byrne To Return For Concert Thursday
Lenten Hdl Retreats To Begin This Weekend: Sunday Marriage Forum Will Be On Program
Anne Byrne, the brilliant young pianist who made the rickety rafters of Washington Hall ring with applause when she appeared here last year, will return to the campus next Thursday at 8 p.m. for a concert under the auspices of the University Concert and Lecture Series.
The lovely 23-year-old New Yorker is a graduate of the Juilliard School of Music. She became interested in music at the age of four, and has been studying the piano for 15 years.
The program for Miss Byrne’s return engagement in Washington Hall will include Bach’s Prelude and Fugue B Minor, Ludwig Von Beethoven’s Sonata Opus 78 in F Sharp Major; and Brahm’s Capriccio Opus 76 No. 1 in F Sharp Minor, and Capriccio Opus 76 No. 8 in C Major.
Also included will be Harmonies du Soir, by Liszt, La Soiree dans Grenade, by Debussy, El Puerto, by Albeniz, and Bal'.ade Opus 52, by Chopin.
Warblers Dance, Too
Rumley lull in the music-making of Gene Hull's orchestra are, left to right. Club President Boy O'Neil and Queen Donna Hazelton of Aurora, HL, who reigned over the ball, and Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Pedtke and the Bev. lames Norton, C.S.C., guests of honor.
Members of the Notre Dame Glee Club took time out from their twittering chores last Saturday night to sponsor their first formal ball in the Rotary Boom of the Oliver HoteL Pictured above during a
With the commencement of Lent last Wednesday, Rev. Edmund Murray, C.S.C., assistant prefect of religion, has inaugurated. a program for this year’s Lenten hall retreats. Highlighting the services will be a marriage forum conducted by the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., from 9 to 11 a.m. every Sunday.
Father Murray, expressing his views on last year’s retreat said, “I felt the retreat was a success, a big success, and only hope the boys will also turn out in great numbers this year.” Like last year it will be on a voluntary basis.
The week-end Lenten retreats will be conducted by the following priests: Father Sheedy, March 5-6 for Breen-Phillips, Farley and St. Edward’s; Father Mendez, March 12-13 for Cavanaugh and Zahm; Father Eugene Burke, March 19-20 for Sorin and Walsh. Switching from Cavanaugh to Dillon, the retreats will be continued by Father McDowell on March 26-27 for Alumni and Dillon; by Father Robinson, April 2 and 3 for Badin and Howard; by
. ft.
Father Laskowski on April 9-10 for Morrissey and Lyons.
The week-end procedure for the retreat will be as follows: On Saturday at 7:30 a.m. the opening conference will take place; at 8 a.m. there will be rosary devotions at the Grotto, and at 8:30 a.m. confessions will be heard. On Sunday at 7:30 a.m. the Mass and sermon will take place; at 9 a.m. there will be a marriage forum, and at 11 a.m. there will be a Holy Hour. At 1 p.m. a conference will be held and finally at 1:30 p.m. there will be outside Stations of the Cross and a renewal of baptismal vows. The services will not run later than 2 p.m.
In past years these Lenten retreats have met with the overwhelming approval of all the men who participated in them. At the close of last year’s services, Father Murray conducted a survey to gain an impression of student opinion on the retreats. These,,are some of the replies:
“Yes, it definitely was a success, chiefly because of the smooth manner in which it was run, and in the timely, cooperation of the men.” Still another man had this to say: “The retreat was excellent. I was particularly impressed with the simplicity and the informality with which it was held. This was perhaps the best spiritual exercise that I have attended while at Notre Dame.”
Other opinions were much in the same line: “The retreat was a fine idea. It’s the best way of banishing indifference and of getting the right slant on things about which we are in doubt. The success of the retreat can be measured by the large number of students who attended it. It was definitely a success.” And another: “I sincerely believe it was a wonderful exercise to have at such an opportune time. It was very enlightening and the procedure was well organized from the start to the finish. The speakers were excellent and I think the retreat was one of the finest spiritual experiences I have had since coming to Notre Dame. The marriage forum part of it proved especially beneficial to me, but I enjoyed the whole thing thoroughly and would be happy to see it made a yearly event.”
PHOTO CBEDITS
The pictures of the barker and the ducktoss booth on page 17 are by L. H. Bumely; others on that page were taken by Bruce Harlan.
12
The Scholastic
The Bulletin Board
Next Week
Sorrowful Saga
The Engineering Auditorium will be draped in black Thursday at 2:30 and 3:30 p.m., when the famous sport films series presents Army’s ’44 stromping of the Irish. “Mr. Inside” and “Mr. Outside” bowled over everybody but the referee that year to register- a 59-0 victory.
Lecture-Recital
Daniel H. Pedtke and Charles A. Bi
ondo, of the Department of Music staff, will offer the second in their series of lecture-recitals Wednesday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The program will feature Beethoven’s Sonata No. 9 in A Minor (Kreutzer Sonata).
Fred and Ginger
Top Hat, starring the famous old dance combo of Astaire and Rogers, is the film classic selection to be served up by the Department of Journalism Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Admission is by ticket only.
Classical Records
Record concerts in the Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room are scheduled this week from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. The week’s program includes: Monday — Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony, and Mous-sorgsky’s A Night on Bare Mountain; Tuesday—the complete opera La Bo-heme, by Puccini; Wednesday—Scheherazade, by Rimsky-Korsakov, and Khachaturian’s Gayne Ballet Suite; Thursday •—selections from Strauss; Prokofiev’s Classical Symphony in D Major, and Mendelssohn’s Scherzo from Octet.
Sociology Seminar
A seminar on “Sociology and the Natural Law” will be held Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building. The Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., former Dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the University, will deliver the principal address.
Father Miltner served as editor of the Scholastic and the long defunct Annals before he graduated from Notre Dame in 1911. He held the posts of Arts and Letters Dean and head of the Department of Philosophy from 1923 to 1940, when he left to become president of Portland University in Oregon.
Also . . .
Anne Byrne’s piano concert, the philosophy plays, and the Hall retreats . . . for details of these, consult the news pages of the Scholastic. _
This Week
‘Notre Dame' Issued
Notre Dame, official magazine of the Notre Dame Foundation, made its quarterly appearance today. The slick covered periodical contains articles on the Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., discoverer of the first basic formula for synthetic rubber; the Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., the “Radio Priest” who spoke here recently; and Coach Knute Rockne.
Contributors include ND senior Bob
Vierhile and Collier’s sports editor Bill Fay, former editor of the Scholastic.
Physics Talks
Professor Egon Orowan, F.R.S., a physics and metallurgy expert from the University of Cambridge, England, delivered lectures here on the “Structure of Cold-Worked Metals” and “Physical Aspects of Creep.”
Father Gardiner to Speak
“Ideas and Ideals in Current Litera
ture” will be the topic of discussion to
night by the Rev. Harold C. Gardiner, S.J., the second speaker in the 1949 Aquinas Lecture Series. The address is slated for 8:15 p.m. at Central High School Auditorium. Literary editor of America magazine since 1940, Father Gardiner
Father Gardiner has endeavored to stimulate
Catholic literary criticism by insisting upon sterner standards of evaluation.
Lost Week
Glee Clubbers Dance
The subdued light of the Oliver Hotel’s Rotary Room provided the setting for the first annual Glee Club Formal. Miss Donna Hazelton, escorted by G. C. prexy Roy O’Neil, was crowned Queen of the Ball. •
'Lawyer' Published
The March issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer appeared, featuring~an article by Senator Patrick McCarran, of Nevada, defending his proposed bill to codify administrative procedure. Other stories included “Dean Konop: A Quar-
of a Century at Notre Dame,” by
ter
Aaron B. Huguenard; “Racial Restrictions in Real Estate,” by Professor Alfred L. Scanlan; and “Exploration for Oil and Federal Income Tax,” by Jack R. Miller, Assistant Professor of Law
at ND.	.
New members of the Lawyer staff are John O’Hara, John Bodie, E. A. Steffen, Jr., James Oberfell, John Castelli, John Globenski, William Mahoney, John Palmer, George Ratterman and Lenton Sculthorp.	'
Opportunity
Jobs . . .
Civil Service research positions with salaries ranging from $3,727 to $6,235 will be filled shortly by special examinations. The jobs are in the fields of history, intelligence, foreign affairs and social science analysis. .
Also open at the present time are a number of archeologist posts in various, parts of the country, paying from $3,727 to $5,232 a year.	:
A Meteorological Aid examination to select men for jobs in Washington, D. C., Alaska, U. S. possessions and foreign countries will be administered to applicants having from one to five years of technical or professional experience, or appropriate high school and college education. Salaries vary from $2,498 to $3,727.
Further information and application forms for all these jobs can be obtained. at most post offices, or from the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington, 25, D. C. Deadline for filing applications is March 15.
Art Contest
College art students and instructors have been invited to enter paintings in a new $30,000 art competition sponsored by Hall Brothers, Inc., greeting card publishing firm. Individual prizes will range down from $3,500, with added royalties to winners whose works are selected to appear on “Hallmark” cards. A prospectus of rules and entry W»nlor may be obtained by writing to: Director, Hallmark Art Award, Wildenstein . and Company, 19 East 64th St, New York 21, N. Y.
March 4, 1949
13
Escape From Cold War
Lithuanian Professor Finds Haven at ND
By EDWARD JOYCE
During World War II, a Lithuanian scientist was trying to get home from Russia. Near a battlefront he was arrested by the Red Army as a German spy. After subsequent investigation he was released. After traveling on further he was seized by the German Army and arrested as a Russian spy. He got out of that one because the Germans were moving in a hurry and forgot about him. Now, almost ten years later scientist Stephanos Kolupaila is trying to forget Germans, Russians and wars and is trying to make Notre Dame students remember a little about hydraulics.
Dr. Kolupaila is one of many academic refugees of the “cold war” after the “hot” one, and he is happy to be here. He has had enough of Communism and “people’s democracy” and has seen 36,000 of his countrymen deported to Siberia and education driven underground. Indiana seems a little more like heaven to Dr. Kolupaila than to many of his students.
“Soviet Russia,” says this first-hand authority, “has become the despotic mon
DR. KOLUPAILA AND SOME OF HIS STUDENTS A Revolution Is Always Possible
archy, the crudest in the history of: mankind.” But there is hope. “A revolution in Russia is always possible,” he continues, “it is the only way of avoiding war between two parts of the world.”
Dr. Kolupaila should know what he is talking about. His life’s work has brought him into close contact with the present Soviet regime both at its beginnings and in its present state.
Born in Latvia, Dr. Kolupaila received his degree of Geodetic Engineer at the Moscow Institute in 1915, and his doctorate in Engineering in 1940 at the University in Kaunas, Lithuania. He was professor of hydraulics at Moscow from 1917 to 1921. Then he repatriated to Lithuania where he was Professor and Dean of the faculty of Civil Engineering at the University of Vytautas the Great in Kaunas until 1944.
Underground Schools
In March, 1943, when Germany suddenly closed all schools in Lithuania the teaching work was organized un
derground. He taught this way until the summer of 1944 when the Russians once again regained control of Lithuania.
On a day in June, 1941, the Russians deported 36,000 Lithuanians regardless of age. They were sent to Siberia as forced labor. Almost all died from hunger and fearful exploitation. Realizing that this would happen again, Dr. Kolupaila escaped with his family to Kemptem, Bavaria, just after the Russians had retaken the town of Kaunas. After the American troops had occupied Bavaria, he started teaching at the UNRRA University in Munich and organized the Academic Lithuanian Technical course in Kempten.
With FDR at White House
Dr. Kolupaila came to the United States in 1936 as a delegate to the World Power Conference. He met President Roosevelt at the White House and in 1937 dedicated his scientific work on “Gigantic Hydrotechnica Problems in America” to the late President.
He had published over 200 scientific publications in 10 different languages. In 1918, his book on “Water Measurement” was the first to ever have been published in Russia. His greatest work is “Hydrometry” in Lithuanian, published in-two volumes.
It’s a long way from underground teaching in Europe to the Engineering school at Notre Dame, but to a man like Dr. Kolupaila the trip is worth the effort.
Vespers Said Nightly In Sorin Hall Chapel
A small student community of eight to ten members are now regularly reciting Vespers every evening before dinner in the Sorin hall chapel. Purpose of such prayer is simply the praise of God through participation in this traditional prayer life of the Church.
Vespers are the seventh and next to last canonical hour of the day, the evening song of praise and thanksgiving at sundown. Because of their Eucharistic character, Vespers point to the Holy Sacrifice and are the beginning of every new feast and Sunday. They consist, basically, of four psalms, a hymn, the Magnificat, and a prayer.
.The Vespers community was formed last September and, since, has met daily for Vespers in Sorin chapel; the other hours are said either privately or, occasionally, in smaller, more convenient groups. They use the English Short Breviary, published for religious and laity by the Benedictines of St. John’s Abbey, Collegeville, Minn.
14
The Scholastic
Whistles and Boos
Washington Hall Movie Man Tells All
By AL LAPORTE
It’s the end of the week, Saturday night, and the more fortunate pleasureseekers in the student body are heading for the bus stop and the brilliant lights and gay heart of South Bend. Left behind in the wake of the deserting horde are a few hundred studious Irishmen whose plans for the evening include a quick stop at Washington Hall and a return to the room for a pleasant evening with the books.
Who are you trying to kid, bud? You’re broke and you know it. This bravado is a phony front for an empty pocket. You’re trying to make the best of a tough situation by wandering into the Old Barn, sitting through a show which you probably saw last August and enduring the ordeal with Spartan determination just so you can say you went out Saturday night. Legions of ND citizens have done the same thing when the only jingle emitting from their pockets was that produced by a room key rattling against a pencil. But it’s Saturday night and sitting through some of the shows over there again won’t be too bad. From the mob gathered at the doors half an hour before they open you’d get the impression that it might be O.K. after all. It’s a movie, anyway, so what the heck!
Up the Stairs
That’s what a Scholastic snooper thought, too, until he took his life in his hands and cautiously climbed the rickety stairs to the projection room for a little chat with the crew behind the camera. All was activity in the booth, but when the occupants up in that mechanical bird’s -nest saw that the intruder was persistent and not to be shooed away like an annoying gnat, they accepted the inevitable and thus began the interview.
A union rule of undetermined purpose
forbids the publishing of the projector operator’s name, but he could talk about the films—one had split in the early evening show—and the whys and wherefores of their treatment. Since Notre
Dame is on the same circuit with the downtown theaters, films come here only after they have played South Bend and the surrounding countryside from Anaheim to Sarasota. This constant handl
ing in shipment accounts in part for the imperfections that may be seen or heard during the showing.
Another cause for the numerical sequence which pops up in the middle of Bogart’s fifth big fight is an occasional burned foot or so of film which was scorched by the tremendous heat of the carbon arc lamp within the projector. For the interest of any physics majors
Brickson
WASHINGTON HALL PROJECTIONIST "Did You Say Louder?"
the arc lamp generates 10,000 candlepower light, which is reflected off a plate-sized mirror to the ball point opening in the camera behind the film. Got that? Remember it.
The film itself is run off at a 90 foot per minute rate, meaning that 1440 distinct “frames” or pictures pass the aperture every 60 seconds. Each reel runs approximately 15 minutes if it is fully loaded, and is rewound by hand as it comes off the machine. These were enough figures for a guy without a slide rule.
Though the operator plainly wanted to pursue the matter further. Sherlock politely, if abruptly, steered the line of conversation away from feet per second to the opinions the cameraman had formed about the audience. This query might also have been entitled feet per second, for Tarzan in his elephant fights has had help in the past from an all too willing Notre Dame jungle cheering-section.
Student Reaction
In reply to a leading question, and while he was turning a few impressively bewildering dials, our operator answered in true Hoosier style—succinctly.
“The only difference between the gang here and the people downtown is that here the boys are in their own crowd. They’re not timid about letting their likes and dislikes be made known before they leave the theater. They’ve toned down a little since last year, though. Of course, I guess they had to, what with the lights being turned on a couple of times.” Off that subject, but fast! Better stick to the technical side of the story.
The machines here—there are two of them—are about as modern as most on the movie circuit. With the exception of the manual rewind, the equipment is up to date. But, since Washington Hall doesn’t hold daily shows—its builder, George, didn’t know the Warner Brothers—there isn’t a pressing demand for a mechanical device to rewind the film.
Volume is also controlled from the little booth up where the rafters meet;
15
March 4, 1949
Cutting into that discussion came the low buzz of a wall communication from downstairs, the signal to turn up or drop the sound. If the dialogue and accompanying effects can be heard in the room without shattering eardrums or straining the auditory apparatus to pick up the sound, the dials are left alone. But when the buzzer breaks into the hum of the machines, something has to be checked. Of all the equipment in the room, the volume dials are the least dusty.
Enter Gay Paree
At this point a foreign voice, describing the new Paris fashions, broke through the talk, giving the room the air of an after-lights bull session when the floor prefect suddenly drops in with something totally off the topic but which commands instant action. Warner News was on and the crew had to get the next reels set up. Ten minutes between shows is just long enough.
Farewells were made hurriedly. “So long, and thanks, Local 187, International Alliance Theatrical Stage Employees and Motion Picture Machine Operators of the U. S. and Canada.” That was the name on the business card. The Paris hat show was over and the winded snooper headed for the stairs.
Big Place
The campus of the University of Notre Dame is half as large as the entire area of Charleston, South Carolina, and 17 times as large as the Vatican City State.
Universal ND Night On Campus in '49
According to an announcement last week by William Dooley, assistant alumni secretary, the annual observance oi Universal Notre Dame Night will return to the campus this year. It will be held on Monday, April 25, and will highlight Notre Dame's scientific achievements. An appropriate scientific program, the details of which are to be announced, will be presented on the campus and broadcast nationally.
This year marks the first time in many years that the nationwide celebration has returned to its home grounds. Universal Notre Dame Night was inaugurated in 1924 and has been observed annually to pay tribute to the academic, cultural, patriotic and religious achievements of Notre Dame.
liatiall
BREEN-PHILLIPS NEW STUDY ROOM —Seniors study at Sweeney's
New Lounge Supplies 'Homey Touch1 in B. P.
Although Notre Dame may not have the built-in bars of Williams College, the freshmen class is moving along rapidly in the field of comfortable living. Anyone who should chance to wander into the Breen-Phillips basement lounge would find some thirty to fifty students reading or studying in a home-like atmosphere.
The Breen-Phillips lounge is entirely completed and in full operation, while the lounges in Farley and Zahm halls are well on their way and should be in use in the near future.
These lounge rooms mark a definite step forward in freshmen class activities for there are no other student lounges on the campus that can compare with those of Breen-Phillips, Farley, and Zahm halls. The plan is entirely an outgrowth of the freshmen students who are both financing and operating the lounges.
According to the present plans, the rooms are to be paid for by the students in each of the three halls over a period of three years. The cost of each lounge room is expected to be approximately 81400. For the present the money has been borrowed from the University. But the students in each hall have pledged a certain amount which is expected to meet one-third of the total cost.
The Breen-Phillips lounge has four
large leatherette couches, and eight easy chairs, six of which are also leather upholstered. The lounge is lighted in a home-like manner by five floor lamps and nine table lamps which have been conveniently arranged on several end tables. Four large rugs add color and atmosphere to the room while four dining hall tables serve the students who have written work to do. All three halls have house committees which have set up certain rules to insure a minimum amount of damage to the furniture.
This project will not only benefit the present freshmen class but will serve the inhabitants of Breen-Phillips, Farley, and Zahm halls for many years to come.—Jim Clark
Illinois Club Holds Banquet
The Central Illinois Club held its Communion Breakfast in the faculty dining room Sunday, Feb. 27. Sixty members were on hand to hear Father Norton speak on Federal Aid to Education. Monday the club held its semester banquet at the Ramble-In.
The club has recently overhauled its constitution and has formulated plans for the annual summer dance in Peoria. Efforts are underway to secure both football and basketball films to be shown at forthcoming club meetings.
16
The Scholastic
Fat Tuesday at ND
Most observers agreed that this year's Mardi Gras was nothing like the K. of C. rat race pictured above. The two-night affair was termed a “whopping success" by its chairman. John Moorhead, and proceeds were as heavy as barker Dan Norander (below)
$
$
a
♦ X
4
a
i?
Q
g $
t *
a $
UPPER LEFT: Bob Wink gets a shower bath as some lucky Mardi Gras goer hits the water release button. UPPER RIGHT: Cleveland clubbers chase their elusive drawing cards. The ducks were targets for crochet rings. Bob Olmstead, facing the camera, was one of the attendants at the booth. LOWER RIGHT: The Syrian-Lebanese club sponsored this money-grabber with a mysterious East flavor. The veiled attendants aren't identified.
1 0 v




The N. I. T.
Arson Once Trumped Trolley Troubles
by AL LAPORTE
Photos by PAUL FITZGERALD
BRANCH LINE TO FARLEY Frosh Get the Seats
“Step to the rear of the bus — please! The front isn’t mad at the rear! They’re both going to the same place! Please move back in the bus!”
Sound familiar? If you’ve ridden the Notre Dame bus from downtown to the circle, you’ve probably heard the driver, almost driven to distraction, sound this plaintive wail, or something closely akin to it, as the mob congregates around the fare box. The mob obeys, slowly and reluctantly, yet the driver still gives forth his cry. Only when a raucous
BUS EYE VIEW OF DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND “And a Busman Hauled Another Load to Town"
voice from the very rear of the bus bellows, “Put the lid on, Joe; this can’s filled,” does he cease his plea, close the doors, and set the vehicle in motion.
Those busses, believe it or not, are on a 10-minute weekday and Saturday schedule, starting at 5:15 a.m. from downtown and making the last run at 11:45 p.m. Monday through Friday, with Saturday’s last chance at 12:15 a.m. The outbound (to the hinterlands on this end of Notre Dame Avenue) busses on Sundays start the run at 7 a.m. and
make their last trip at 11:45 p.m. Theoretically each of the big fellows holds 40 to 45 passengers, but top capacity is measured by the load the bus can carry up Hill Street.
Hill Street—NJ-T.'s Nemesis
Hill Street has always seemed to play an unusually important role in the Notre Dame scheme of transportation. It was this “slight incline” that contributed to a famous incident in the history of passenger service between the campus and South Bend. That is a story which can’t be left out of a description of the Northern Indiana Transit System’s long and illustrious life.
In 1907 a single track electric line was-installed to provide students with some means other than “shoeleather express” to reach the thriving business center of town. At first the service was adequate, but as the University added students, the need for cars bigger than the small, one-truck boxes became pressing. The students petitioned, but to no avail. They wrote letters, and got a flimsy excuse about Hill Street being too slippery in winter for the big cars. Then the students became vexed.
The motormen were made aware of the new attitude of their passengers in many and subtle ways. When the doors were closed and the car about ready to start to town, someone would grab the guide rope and pull the trolley off the power line. By the time the motorman had replaced it, 20 more passengers would be waiting for him to take them into town — and they’d all be inside a supposedly full car! There was no use trying to collect fares from these stowaways, so the baffled conductor would set
The Scholastic
18
ND HEADS HOME Stemdin? Room Only
the car in motion, mentally counting the lost fares.
Free-Loaders Ride Roof
But the crowd on the inside was nothing compared to the free-loaders on the outside. A dozen daredevils hung on the sides and several budding tank drivers rode the roof. Even if the number of cash fares were multiplied by two, not all of the riders would have been accounted for.
The students suffered not too patiently until the company attempted to do something about the increased number of men arriving in South Bend via trolley roofs and the dwindling fares being paid by bona-fide passengers. When muscle men were employed to teach the Irishmen manners, the roof literally caved in. By Feb. 6, 1915, the Irish had had enough. After some of the boys were given a slight working over by the hired toughs, the famous “Firing of the Hill Street Car” was perpetrated.
An irate group chased the motorman and conductor off their car. They overturned the car, then poured kerosene, gasoline and anything else that would burn over its wooden sides. A match was lit and thrown onto the sleeping hulk. By midnight nothing was left but the metal wheels.
The Feb. 12 Scholastic deplored the incident. The action was condemned, but the editor added this line, not in an attempt to condone the crime but to reveal the cause: “. . . An attack on student passengers by burly ruffians in the employ of the street car company so inflamed the minds of the students that some such violence was to be expected
. . .” The resulting wave of campusing kept the University’s populace home the next week end, but the “outrageous behavior” had gained its desired end. The Hill Street line got the big cars.
Trolleys Go—Conduct Better
In sharp contrast to the “villainous scamps” who rode the electric cars before the 20’s are the present-day students, the well-behaved, courteous gentlemen of Notre Dame. When asked for his impression of the current crop of ND men, one operator smiled and said, “They’re a pretty good crew — when the ship’s sailing OK.” Mr. W. W. Water-son, general superintendent of the Transit Company, replied when asked the same question, “They’re very cooperative.” Mr. Waterson declined to make any comment on the earlier student escapades, except to say that “when the team came home from the Army game, that was a general signal to raise cain in and about town.”
Football week ends tax the Transit Company to the limit. Every available bus, big and small, is put on the Stadium line, meaning that about 50 pieces of equipment are employed for each Irish home game. Running time to town is cut sharply from the regular schedule, since the busses run straight down Notre Dame Avenue to East Colfax to the Granada, where they discharge their cargo and come racing back on Highway No. 31 for more. Each bus on this
LIGHT LOAD HEADS TOWARD TOWN AND B-B ND Men Can Sleep Anywhere
run makes an average of three round" trips.
The special busses are loaded at the Stadium gates, where the surging throng-passes through four turnstiles and into a yard to wait for the next bus. When a bus is ready to take on passengers, both doors are thrown open and in less than a minute the groaning vehicle is filled to overflow. Then it’s off, roaring-down the avenue to return in the amaz-ingly fast time of 15 minutes. After the initial rush is over, the busses are still" kept running at three-minute intervals until 9 p.m. taking visitors on the campus back to town. After that the customary schedule is put into effect and the extra busses go back to the barn to have new doors put on for next Saturday’s duty.
Plenty of Picnic Runs
The drivers aren’t to be blamed if they dream about the “good old days”" when they were expected to drive a bus-on regular runs only. Now they have-to take three or four full loads of ND-guys and St. Mary’s gals to picnics or carry them safely across South Bend’s-answer to the Indianapolis . Speedway, U.S. 31. But the assistance of the transit company has been great when it comes to these unusual tasks. And ifs-not the spectre of Hill Street which prompts this action, either.
South Bend was one of the pioneers in matters mechanical along transporta
March 4, 1949
1»
tion lines. According to Mr. Waterson, who has been with the system here since 1920, “South Bend was one of the first cities in the country to install electric lines.” The initial means of transportation in the city was mule-drawn cars, inaugurated in 1885, but none of these hay burners ever ran out to the campus. When Notre Dame did get transportation, it was in the form of the electric car. '
But that’s all in the past, either as history or tradition which can’t be found in the little yellow book. The bus line from Michigan and Washington Streets to the Circle will be nine years old this spring. It was on June 16, 1940, that the old electric street cars were replaced by the big busses seen rolling past the tennis courts today, and it was about two years ago that the line was extended to Vetville.
Gone are the days when the student could hold up the trolley for his roommate by pulling the guide off the wires. And gone are the days when the student could wreck the whole system by smoking in the car or avoid paying a fare by riding on the roof. Now he pays his dime and moves to the rear of the bus until he can move no farther, then turns and yells, “Let’s get this show on the road, Joe. We’ve got a 12 o’clock curtain call.” And up Hill Street he goes . . .
The week after Notre Dame students burned the Hill Street car in 1915. SCHOLASTIC carried a poetic dialogue between two mythical South Bend Tribune reporters discussing the catastrophe. A reprint of the dialogue will appear in the magazine next week.
THE JULLIARD STRING QUARTET — One up on the Albineri Trio
Juilliard Quartet Hays Here Tomorrow
With a long line of well-received college concerts already behind them this season, the Juilliard String Quartet will visit the ND campus tomorrow for a program at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall.
The musical selections they will offer include Haydn’s Opus 50, No. 1 in B-Flat Major; Beethoven’s Opus 18, No. 1; and Quar-tet in F Major, by Ravel.
Members of the faculty of the famous Juilliard School of Music in New York, the four young musicians who make up the quartet have also established themselves as distinguished soloists. They are: Robert Mann and Robert Koff, violinists; Raphael Hillyer, on the viola; and Arthur Winograd, ’cellist.
Fr. Sorin Attends St.
Shades of Father Sorin!
The St. Mary’s Louis XIV Ballroom, better known as the social hall, was the scene of a masquerade fantasy last Friday night which included such costumes as Father Sorin’s cassock, an authentic Indian tribal outfit, and the windingsheet of a mummy. The dance was held for the benefit of the Student Relief drive and the dancers presented a colorful and varied array of costumerie that rivaled Hollywood in originality.
Approximately 175 couples streamed into the balloon-decked social hall in the vicinity of 8:30 and danced to the music .of Gene Hull’s orchestra for three hours. During one of the breaks in the music, prizes were awarded for the most striking and unusual costumes of the evening. The first prize was copped by Bee Gag-
Mary's Masquerade
non of St. Mary’s and Peter Helland of Notre Dame. They were both dressed as Indians, outfitted in buckskins. Miss Gagnon topped the charm of her tan costume with a papoose strapped to her back, while Helland’s authentic ceremonial headdress accented his white buckskin outfit. The couple was awarded a jump-rope and an 8-ball, respectively, as prizes.
Third place was taken by Peter Ko-blosh of Notre Dame who was swathed in enough gauze to rouse the envy of Rameses HI. The “mummy for a night” was given a schmoo "as his award. Ko-blosh’s date was Mary Ann Fanning, who was dressed as fin Egyptian slave.
A large net of balloons hung in the center of the hall until it was pulled down during the Grand March, and a
balloon tree in one corner- of the room also reached the end of the dance somewhat devoid of its foliage. Among the other striking costumes of the evening were a Hindu who looked like Gandhi in formal, an Eskimo and Penguin, some cannibals complete with ringed noses and bones in their hair, and, of course, Father Sorin.
There were Gibson Girls, the Toni Twins, a galaxy of pirates, gypsies, the traditional Raggedy Ann and Andy, an Ice Man and his Ice Cube, Canadian Mounties, and an ingenious duo composed of a walking Summa Theologica and the Companion to the Summa. Gaiety keynoted the evening and those drivers who ventured along the Dixie Highway between 11:30 and 12 that night may have had a few bad moments as the unusual array of Notre Dame men drifted back to their halls.
.20
The Scholastic
Mardi Gras
(Continued from Page 9) dors, and a generous sprinkling of black-robed clergy. It was a colorful crowd having a colorful time.
Booth Business Booms
Through the medium of cash-purchased script, the boom was on, and campus club booths were eagerly competing with each other for business. Among the most popular- displays of student talent was Detroit’s “douser,” an ingenious electrical device designed to drench some bedraggled stooge when a baseball marksman hit a target. The La Raza Club’s ring toss booth was a high point of interest until their supply of straw sombreros became depleted— then they had to raise the ante. The Cleveland Club brought an innovation to the scene with its “Ring the Duck” arrangement, complete with crocheting rings, six live ducks, and a water-filled pool. Business was going fine until some patrons figured the ducks were getting the worst of the deal.
Many of the Rockne Memorial’s hardwood sharpshooters monopolized the Philadelphia Club’s two hoops and kept basketballs flying, while the New Jersey Club monitored the baseball-bottle game to advantage. The Italian Club supplied the sidewalk cafe atmosphere with their hot meatball sandwiches. Two rat races, sponsored by the Rockford Club and the Knights of Columbus drew much attention from the crowd; as plans had it, the mice were supposed to dart into numbered holes to name a winner, but the LOBUND-bred rodents were tame and would not run. Still they provided the crowd with laughs and entertainment, as did the KC’s jet racer, the Met Club’s dai*t board and the numerous other- wheels and games of chance.
The Vetville Maternity Fund came in for a nice slice of the take, as the vets’ wives sold cakes, pies, cokes and cookies for their own benefit. The Knights of Columbus offered chances on a deluxe television set (won by student Ralph Thorson), while the St. Louisans peddled luscious smoked hams.
Moorhead Directs Success
John Moorhead was chairman for the entire Mardi Gras program, and a good measure of its success is attributed to his work. John Dempsey is chairman of the campus Student Relief campaign, which will benefit directly from the carnival proceeds. Moorhead was assisted by Al Allgaier, business manager; Bud Condron, publicity director; and Bob Cannon, who solicited South Bend merchants for many of the prizes offered in the booths.
RED TORTURE CHAMBER — From Fr. O'Brien's book "Thunder From the Left." Note Sloping Beds and Upturned Bricks on the Floor
Fr. O'Brien Says Reds Tortured Mindszenty
The Rev. John A. O’Brien, Professor of Religion, published an article in the current issue of Our Sunday Visitor in which he charged the Communists with using methods “to coerce prisoners to confess to virtually any charges brought against them.” Drawing his material from his book, Thunder From the Left, which he wrote several years ago after a visit to Spain, Father O’Brien exposed the “torture chamber” methods used by the Communists in obtaining “confessions” from their enemies.
Torture, Drugs, Terrorism
Father O’Brien visited a number of these torture chambers while he was in Spain and brought back several photographs of them and of the instruments used to coerce the victims. “The charge has been made by those who are on the inside that the Communist regime frequently resorts to force, torture, drugs and terrorism to cow their victims and compel them to testify in accordance with the wishes of the government,” he observed. “The photograph of Cardinal Mindszenty during the trial shows how greatly changed his appearance was from the time before his arrest. There is a world-wide suspicion that the Communists have resorted to the use of act-erole, a drug which dulls the mind, weakens the will and coerces the prisoner to accuse himself of the charges against him.”
Confirmation of these suspicions, according to Father O’Brien, is found in the “chekas” or torture chambers which
the Communists set up in parts of Spain during the Civil War, acting under orders from Moscow. He accused the Communists of bringing in a new technique of coercion known as “psychotechnics” designed to confuse, harass and disorientate the mind. He described how the Reds established a “dungeon of hallucinations,” placing on its walls dots of various colors, a chessboard, spirals and lines running at various angles.
“They are so arranged as to appear different in number depending upon the angle at which they are viewed. This illusion is further deepened by changes in the color of the light in the cell. For a time there burns a green light which brings out some of the colored circles on the wall and conceals others. Then, later, the victim finds a red glare in the cell with the result that the number of colored drawings on the wall again appears to have varied.”
Five-Hour Clock
Father O’Brien then described how the prisoner, left for a day and night in this cell and able to see only these strange drawings which he feels compelled to examine and to count, begins to feel that he can no longer believe his senses and that he is losing his mind. This mental bewilderment is further deepened by a clock which is so arranged as to record the passage of only four or five hours during the course of a day and night. The individual, concluded Father O’Brien, is thus driven to believe that .his time sense has been destroyed.
March 4, 1949
21
'How Come No Wine in the Cof ?' Waugh Asks In Informal, Rain-Spattered Interview
By KEN THOREN
Mr. Evelyn Waugh, one of England’s best known and most highly praised authors, sat in the brown leather chair, smoking a cigar. Around him in the Dining Hall’s lounge sat fifteen or more disciple-like students. They alternately prodded him with questions and listened to his replies. The mood was definitely informal.
A newly arrived student asked Mr. Waugh, “How do you feel today, sir?” The highly-touted visitor, who had spoken on Chesterton, Knox and Greene
Kunkle
EVELYN WAUGH Gin in the Rooms?
the night before in the Navy Drill Hall, answered succinctly but with obvious good humor, “No worse.” Father Leo L. Ward served as moderator as the discussion fleeted over such topics as the cur-Tent realization of evil, a continuance of the discussion on The Heart of the Matter, and a comparison between the sermons in this country with those presented in Great Britain.
A telephone call announced that Mr. Waugh had to leave within five minutes. Immediately following a student asked the guest what he thought of America. No answer came from the congenial author who wrote the savagely satirical 'The Loved One, berating the United States. Father Ward stepped into the void and tactfully said, “Oh, please remember, Mr. Waugh has only five minutes.” A chuckle resounded in the smoke-filled room.
Those remaining minutes slipped by and with sincere apologies Mr. Waugh -made his exit. It was at this point that
the Scholastic was able to corner him by himself. We asked if he would answer a few questions and he magnanimously said, “Why, I’d be ever so happy to. Come along and we’ll talk as you show me the way to the Infirmary. Your grounds are enormous, you know.”
The cold rain was coming down in sheets, but Mr. Waugh seemed to take much delight in walking through it. He wore a black bowler, carried a polished stick and wore a tweed coat that looked as if it just came off some Scottish loom.
Students' Piety Impressive
We asked Mr. Waugh what he thought of Notre Dame. He thought a few seconds and then said, “One of the things I’ve been impressed most by is the piety of the students. The number of students who visit the grotto, all those candles, the number in the churches and the great amount of daily communions. It’s all quite wonderful.
“We don’t have any Catholic colleges in England. Of course, there are really only two universities, to speak of: Cambridge and Oxford.” His love for the latter was very obvious.
In speaking of his latest book, Scott-King’s Modern Europe, which received a general drubbing from this country’s reviewers last week; he said, “The book was not written for the American read
ers. I didn’t want it printed ovex* here, but my publisher insisted.”
Liquorless Campus Strikes Waugh
Without questioning he reverted the conversation to the original question. “Oh, yes, there’s another thing I was impressed with here. I was greatly struck by the fact that no wine or beer is served in your tea rooms. I should think you would have great tankards of wine or liquor at the end of your (cafeteria) lines instead of those teetotalling liquids.” He made what looked like an agonizing grimace and then continued, “You know, one should consume great amounts of wine while eating.”
Father Ward, who had caught up with us by this time, explained a few of the University’s regulations. Mr. Waugh replied, “I still maintain it is better than having them take swigs of gin in their lodgings. Which they probably do, don’t they?”
Mr. O’Malley, of black tie fame and carrying an equally black umbrella, joined our small entourage at this point and helped to capitalize the conversation
for a few yards. And then Mr. Waugh turned to us and asked if we knew what Chesterton had to say on the drinking matter. We confessed our ignorance, whereupon the John Bullish-looking author recited the following stanza:
“Feast on wine or fast on water And your honour shall stand sure, God Almighty’s son and daughter He the valiant, she the pure;
If an angel out of heaven
Brings you other things to drink, Thank him for his kind attentions, Go and pour them down the sink.”
By this time we were nearing the Infirmary where Mr. Waugh was to meet the University’s chauffeur, who was to take him to the railroad station. We thanked him for his time and remarks, to which he replied, “Oh, please don’t mention it and don’t forget to put in that story what I said about the wine and beer.” Then Mr. Waugh disap-Deared into the solemn confines of the Infirmary.	.
Illness Speeds Ordination For Notre Dame Grad
The Rev. Jerome J; Wilson, C.S.C., was ordained a priest in Washington, D. C., recently, seventeen years after he had graduated from Notre Dame. It is the circumstances of his ordination that are unusual, however, not the fact of it.
Up until two weeks ago, Father Wilson, a brother of basebailer Fritz Wilson, ’28, had been studying with his fellow seminarians at Holy Cross College in Washington, expecting to be ordained in August of this year. But on the evening of Feb. 6 he received word from his home in Pittsburgh, Pa., that his mother was seriously ill and had taken a turn for the worse.
Immediately steps were taken to speed up his ordination. Special permission was received for the occasion. The Chancery office waived the usual formalities preceding an ordination and produced the necessary documents. Bishop Ansene Turquetil, O.M.I., a famous missionary to the Eskimos in the Hudson Bay regions of Canada who is now retired in Washington, agreed to perform the ceremony. Father Wilson took his final exams orally; concentrated on his last Mass rehearsal; and finished up his ordination practice. All this happened Monday night.
- Father Wilson was ordained on the morning of Feb. 7 in the chapel of Holy Cross College. Shortly after the ceremony he flew to Pittsburgh. He said his first Mass the following morning in the hallway of the Wilson home outside his mother’s door.
22
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
St Louis Meets Irish In
Bengal Bouters Swing For Final Practice
By BILL RILEY
While the rhythmic tattoo of fists beating a pattern. on steadily bobbing :	punching bags mingles with the occa-
< sional dull smack of a heavily-gloved hand driven home, the Bengal boys > swing into their third week of pre-fight ;. training. And, as the sparring starts, several outstanding newcomers to Ben-:	gal boxing have come out of the novice
ranks, looking like stiff competition for the returning champs. Bill O’Hara, Joe Brown, Vic Roblez, Jim Smith, Aaron Dyson, and Lincoln Yamamoto are among the most promising.
i O’Hara, a 148-pound Commerce junior from South Bend, acquired most of his ’ boxing experience while he was with the Navy Signal Corps, training at the Uni-’ versity of Illinois. He fought and won in = a tournament against the Navy Engineers.
From Sanders, Arizona, Joe Brown, and Arts and Letters freshman, is among the outstanding contenders for the 147-pound crown. While attending high school in Santa Fe, he punched his Z way to two successive Optimist Club 1 championships in the Northern New +	Mexico district.
| Vic Roblez, an Engineering freshman |	from Binghamton Canyon, Utah, is an-
j	other leathertosser who garnered expels	rience while in the service. He won the
<■	North China crown while serving in
|	the Asiatic theater. Before entering the
J	service he took the Utah sectionals in
j	Golden Glove competition.
.1 Aaron Dyson, a freshman from Indi-anola, Miss., promises to be right up | there in the struggle for the 167-pound | . championship. He is a veteran and got | his post-graduate boxing lessons in the service. He was champion of his com-| pany, and found time to spar with some ■i of the pros in exhibitions. Before enter-i ing the service, he took the intramural J championship of his high school.
Lincoln Yamamoto, a sophomore trans-(Continued on Page 27)
March’ 4,' 1949
Macauley's Back...
... and Barney's Got 'im
Cage Finale
Northwestern Closes Against ND Saturday
By RALPH WRIGHT
Back from their usual fine eastern performance, Notre Dame’s eagers seek their sixth and seventh straight wins when they play Northwestern at Chicago Stadium tomorrow night and then close the season against fast-stepping St. Louis here Monday.
The expected win over Northwestern would set the stage for a climactic finish as the Irish try to avenge their previous loss to the Billikens. If Coach Ed Krause’s boys can take the last two, they’ll top last year’s mark and wind up with a more-than-respectable 18 out of 24 record.
St. Louis’ long shots wrecked ND at Kiel Auditorium after the Irish had played right along with the Bills the first half. The final count was 61-44. The Krausemen didn’t have too much trouble in defeating Northwestern, 55-44, in their first game at the Stadium.
Wildcats End Dismal Season
Northwestern has had a dismal season. The Wildcats have won only five of 20 contests, and finished in the Big Nine cellar for the second consecutive year with a 2-10 mark. Their big day came when they humbled Ohio State, 62-50, only five days after the Buckeyes had beaten our St. Louis friends. The other victories came at the expense of Southern Cal (still a strong contender for West Coast honors), Navy, Iowa and Marquette. Last week the Cats and Illinois set a one-game scoring record for Chicago Stadium by tallying 146 points. Unfortunately, the Evanston crew got only 64 of them. Tomorrow’s tilt finishes their activities for 1948-49.
Co-Captain Bill Sticklen and burly Ray Ragelis have sparked Coach Dutch Lonberg’s five all year. Ragelis scores the most, but Sticklen plays steadier and usually better. Recently, Ragelis switched from center to guard, and mammoth George Maddock, the placekicking football tackle, moved into the pivot spot where he’s done very well. Jumping Jake Fendley now plays the
23
other forward and Jim Bari- pairs with Ragelis. Lefty Don Blasius, who made 15 against Illinois, used to start and should see a lot of action.
Track Rivalry With Spartans Flares Anew; Irish Runners Seek To Regain Cinder Crown
Bills Slip in National Ratings
By JIM HOWARD
Coach Ed Hickey’s Billikens have dropped a notch in the national standings since ND last faced them. Ohio State, which seems to be either great or lousy, was great against St. Louis and outran them, 68-60. And Oklahoma A. & M.’s possession type of play baffled the Bills for the second time this year (and the fourth time in two years). The Aggies defeated St. Louis, 29-27 and 40-37. However, Hickey’s gang has no need to be ashamed of its season mark — 21 wins, 3 losses.
Already Easy Ed Macauley is making the All-America selections at center. He was throttled by A. & M.’s Bob Harris, but Hickey attributes this to Ed’s being “tantalized” by huge pro offers. Ed still paces the attack with Joe Ossola and Bob Schmidt the No. 2 and 3 scorers. Lou Lehman and Marv Schatzman, the other starters, are far from helpless at hitting the hoop.
Barney Tramples Violets
There were all kinds of heroes in the 71-66' Irish success over NYU in the Garden. Leo Barnhorst hit his season
TROPHY TO FISCHER
Presentation of the Dr. John H. Outland trophy will be made to Bill "Moose" Fischer in a halftime ceremony at the Notre Dame-St. Louis basketball game Monday night. A representative of the Football Writers Association of America will give Fischer the trophy which is awarded each year by the association to the outstanding guard or tackle in college football.
high of 21 points and Jimmy O’Halloran was all over the place while collecting 16. Yet Kevin O’Shea made sure that the New Yorkers remembered him too; with NYU trailing, 63-62, Kev came through with three buckets and the Violets were through.
Barnhorst’s huge total gave him 263 for 22 games. O’Halloran’s continued scoring splurges have sent him ahead of O’Shea with 214 markers to Kevin’s 208; however, the San Francisco ace has missed two games.
Notre Dame’s fierce track rivalry with Michigan State will flare again tomorrow when the Irish spikesters invade the East Lansing stronghold in an attempt to regain the Central Collegiate cinder crown they surrendered to the Spartans in 1947. Although 100 schools have been invited to the track classic, normally only 16 to 20 teams finally compete.
The Michigan State team which ripped the title from Notre Dame after the
JIM MURPHY
ND Distance Ace
Irish had maintained a 13-year grasp, have displayed the same tenacity as the local cindermen, and have not allowed Coach “Doc” Handy’s team within ten points of recovery since 1947. This year, with Spartan Coach Karl Schlade-man controlling the greatest track team in the nation, the opportunity for a . Notre Dame victory appears non-existent. Not only do the Spartans boast superior performers in each event, but they also have depth up to five men in some specialties. Notre Dame will have an even chance in approximately six battles, but will be widely outclassed in most of the others.
Helwig Seeks Shot Put Record
John Helwig will lead the Irish attack, and is a favorite to take the shot put title. He may top the all-time Notre Dame mark in the process, if he continues to add inches to his efforts as he has in every contest this year. He is one and one-eighth inches shy of the 53 feet, four and seven-eighths inches record set by Jim Delaney at Purdue in 1943. Helwig’s strongest competition
will come from John Mueller of MSC.
In the hurdles, Bill Fleming, leading ND scorer, will clash with Fred Johnson and Paige Christiansen of the Spartans. Both of these runners nipped Fleming three weeks ago in the Michigan State Relays, after the Irish barrier bumper had equalled the meet record in his trial heat. With the improvement of Fleming during the past two weeks, he is expected to shade the MSC racers in both the high and low obstacle runs. Bill will also high jump for Notre Dame. His best effort to date is six feet, 2^ inches.
Leonard Challenges Dianetti
Bob Smith, the South Bend speedster, will also tangle with the versatile Johnson in the 75-yard dash. Smith may be handicapped in his efforts because he will run two heats in the 300-yard dash, two or more in the 75, and will form a leg of the mile relay group. Captain Bill Leonard will run the mile, where he is expected to duel with the “Rochester Rocket,” Jack Dianetti for honors. The mile run will be one of the key spots for Notre Dame, and Leonard will be backed up by Jim Kittell, the Missoula, Mont., distance star.
Undefeated Pat Kenny will also mix with the midwest distance terror, Dianetti, in the half-mile. Kenny has won three 880 contests to date this season, his most spectacular* triumph coming in the Michigan A.A.U. contest. Warren Druetzler of Michigan State is a real sensation in this event, and a brilliant time will probably be the outcome of this star encounter.
Irish Strong in Mile Relay
Notre Dame’s ace in the contest is its fine mile relay quartet composed of Steve Provost, Paul Schwetschenau, Jim Bollas, and Leonard or Smith. This group has beaten the Spartan foursome twice this year. In the two-mile, Tom Irmen of the Spartans will test Jim Murphy of Notre Dame who has now been idle for three weeks. Both of these distance runners are well matched, and a great battle is expected. Schwetschenau, one of the most consistent runners, and also one of the most improved on the Irish squad will match his skill with Spartans Mickey Rogula, Bob Kritzer, and Bob Schepers in the 440. This is one of the most difficult contests in the meet, since a trial heat is required in
(Continued on Page 28)
24
The Scholastic
Bengal Bout Bid Sale To Start Monday
With little more than three weeks to go before the first punch is thrown on March 28, the Bengal Bout ticket sale will open on Monday, March 7, at four points on the campus. Ticket Chairman Bob Welch has announced prices for the three nights of preliminaries, the semifinal and final nights.
Chief feature of Welch’s plan is a ticket, good for a reserved seat at all five nights of fighting, for §1.50. This guarantees a student the same seat each night at a reasonable price. All of these five-night tickets will be located in the temporary stands in front of the permanent seats.
Rumlev
BENGAL'S BOB WELCH Standing Room Only
For those lads who would rather buy their tickets one at a time there are general admission seats on sale at 25 cents for- each of the preliminary nights and 50 cents for the semi-finals and finals. Ringside seats are $1.00 for the preliminaries and $2.00 for the final two nights.
Student tickets will be sold at the Huddle and Knights of Columbus office (Walsh Hall basement) from 2 to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. They can be obtained at the athletic ticket office in Breen-Phillips hall from 8 to 5 on those days. They will also be sold during noon and evening meals in the basement of the dining hall.
No student tickets will be sold at the gate on the night of the fights. Married students ' may purchase student tickets for their wives.
March 4, 1949
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box by Harry Monahan
Ode to a Photography Editor
Blessings on thee, little man, But ’tis time your fotogs to pan. When printing their shots so candid Dorit make all our fencers left-handed!
Ironman Barnhorst
When the cage star of a small college is passed in the annual All-American selections it is cause for copious tears and dewy copy from the local sportswriters. When the same cold shoulder is given an exceptional eager- from a big college, the flimsy foundation of such A-A teams gets another shaking.
Leo Barnhorst isn’t going to be content with taking scoring honors this year for the Irish, he is also going to set a consecutive-games-played record that will give future Irish eagers a high mark to shoot at. With the NYU game he played in 70 consecutive games for a new all-time record. On a team that has run hot and cold all season Barney is the most consistent man Krause has in his starting line-up.
His offensive play is confirmed by the healthy lead he has in the scoring race this season. And few will forget the Denver game — at least Vince Boryla and his five points won’t relish the memory of the ivy-like guarding job Barney turned in.
Barney’s main trouble has been the play of Kevin O’Shea. The fancy floor man from San Francisco drew the press plaudits despite the handicap of his injured knees. But Bai-ney has actually outscored his All-American teammate over- the three-year period they have played together and has lost no time to injuries. Press associations and national magazines have to keep their circulations up, so the A-A honors have to show a “national” spread and Barney lost out in the annual grab-bag which purports to pick the nation’s best eagers.
Musings at Halftime
►
Sorry, Max, a courteous letter from the bricklayers’ local tells us we can’t touch a single fieldhouse brick until we get union cards. Will the boss okay the item on our expense account? . . . We were all set to recommend Bengal Bout matching of Mrs. Eager’s protege, Bob
Vierhile, against fashion plate Ted Budynkiewicz, but the Bull signed another contract last Saturday (marriage that is) and we had to drop the idea.. . . Indiana U., apparently impressed with Coach Leahy’s charity on the gridiron, asked “Doc” Handy to make their scheduled dual meet with the Irish tracksters a specialty relay event. The fact that they are strong in that feature might have prompted the request, but Handy cancelled the meet rather than be so “charitable.”
Has the recent “unusual” weather given the Trojans cold feet? We think dropping Notre Dame from the Trojans’ schedule will do more harm to the Uni-
LEO BARNHORST A-A Cold Shoulder
versity of Southern California than to Notre Dame. There will be screaming alumni, USC and Irish, looking for some administrative scalps at the Los Angeles campus. . . . The Trojan baseball team shows no reluctance to tangle with the best. Their- 45-game schedule includes four games with the world champion Cleveland Indians and the rookie squads of three other major league teams.
Prediction of the Week
Just once more to prove we can pick them right when we want to. Notre Dave over St. Louis by six points.
.	25
Fighting Irish a la Italiano
Napolitano Prepares Bengal Contenders
By JACK KENNEDY
Photos by BRUCE HARLAN
Whenever the Bengal Bouts are mentioned, the name Dominic Napolitano is bound to enter the conversation. The two are practically synonymous. When the annual boxing tournaments began in 1931, “Nappy” was still a student.
He liked boxing, in fact he had come to Notre Dame in 1928 with the intention of gaining a place on the university boxing team. The trouble was Notre Dame had no boxing team. With the advent of the Bengals, “Nappy” had a chance to use his knowledge of the sport. There were a lot of students who wanted to fight in the tournament, but few knew enough to be safe in the square ring. That was the year that “Nappy” started teaching the Bengal boys the niceties of give-and-take with the 12-■ounce gloves. With the 18th annual tournament less than a month away, he is still dean of the Bengal school.
Only three years have gone by without Napolitano directing the training of the
NAPPY SUPERVISES TRAINING—In 18 Years, No Injuries
Bengal bouters. During the 1943-44-45 tournaments he was serving as boxing instructor at Iowa naval pre-flight school.
Bengal Champ Beats Louis
“Nappy” is always pleased at the chance to discuss the tournaments and boxers of years past. His 1932 boxers stick in his mind as the greatest group of champions. That was the year that three students who won crowns in the Bengal tournament went to Chicago and won CYO honors. One of these fellows was Max Marek, who one year later won the Chicago Golden Gloves heavyweight title by beating another competent battler named Joe Louis.
After graduating from high school in Pleasantville, N. Y., where he won fame as a quarterback, forward and second baseman on the school teams, “Nappy” came to Notre Dame. Although he made both the basketball and football teams in his freshman year, he withdrew from
DOMINIC NAPOLITANO Boxing on a High Level
competition as a sophomore because a part-time job filled his afternoons.
After he received his B.S. in physical education in 1932, he joined the faculty, teaching in the physical education department while studying for his master’s degree. In addition to his teaching and Bengal training, he bought a whistle about ten years ago and has been a popular grid and basketball official ever since. Boxing is still his big love though, and he gets a great amount of satisfaction from assisting young men in learning its rudiments.
Boosts College Boxing
“If properly controlled, boxing should occupy as high a level as any other sport on the college calendar,” according to “Nappy.” He feels that too many laymen know too little about college boxing.
“The National College Boxing Association, whose regulations are followed in the Bengal tournament, works to make collegiate boxing strictly a sportsman’s sport. Instead of 8-ounce gloves we use the 12-ounce and limit the rounds to two minutes instead of three. Also, the referee stops any fight as soon as one of the contestants receives an open cut. The fellow who leads on points when the fight is stopped, is the winner,” said “Nappy.” “A bout that the referee considers unequally matched, also is stopped,” he added. “We want these boys to learn competition and boxing, not get hurt. No Bengal boxer has ever been seriously injured in either training or the actual fights.”
He wouldn’t make a prediction on the calibre of the 1949 boxers.
“We have several former champs competing, and a good supply of former
26
The Scholastic
CHUCK WATERS AND NAPPY The Boys Learn Fast
contestants. It is a little too early to guess about the newcomers. Some look as though they will develop, and you never can tell how fast these boys can learn. About 12 years ago we had a fellow, Kermit Rousseve, fighting in the 142-pound class. We went to the Indiana State Intercollegiates that year and he won the championship in his third fight!”
Both Napolitano and his assistant, “Chuck” Waters, who won the CYO heavyweight title in Chicago last year, work with the contestants for six weeks before the bouts. No boy is allowed to compete unless he works under their direction during this period.
Yes, about this time every year the Fighting Irish turn out to help the missionaries in Dacca diocese, India, by collecting a few black eyes and braises, but it’s a grand little Italian that shows ’em how.
KEGLER SCHEDULE FOR MARCH 6
Gold League
Columbus vs. Met Club; Inter-American vs. Architects; Fox River Valley vs. Aero; Italian vs. Rockford; Texas vs. Cleveland; Detroit vs. A.S.M.E.; Prop & Wing vs. Syrian-Lebanese; Philadelphia vs. Chemist; Off-Campus vs. Pittsburgh.
Blue League
Central New York vs. Kentucky; Buffalo vs. Metallurgy; Chern. Engr. vs. Minnesota; Indianapolis vs. Youngstown; Generation vs. New England; K. of C. vs. New Jersey; Vetville vs. St. Louis; Kansas City vs. Utica; Rochester vs. Toledo.
Kline's Clover Squad Has Double Depth
By RAY FITZGERALD
Outfield practice for Coach Kline’s nine is badly handicapped in the fieldhouse, but the starting trio is somewhere in the group which now spends its afternoons jogging around the track waiting for the weather to permit them to move outside.
Like a fella named Southworth, who also manages a ball club, Coach Jake Kline may have to use two separate outfields this year. There would be a right-handed set to throw in against southpaw pitchers, and vice-versa. Last year different combinations were tried in almost every game. Only Captain Steve Pavela was a fixture and the blond cen-terfielder never did find his batting eye. To get the hitting strength his club needs, Coach Kline will have to come up with a new idea this year, and the two-outfield system may be it.
There are four left-handed batters high on the list. Both Don Grieve and Tom McHale are back from last year. Don is a right-fielder, while Tom saw most of his action in the sun-drenched left field spot. Neither had much of a batting average but both are definitely better than they showed last year, and will gather experience in spring practice. Pushing these two are a pair of portsiders from the good fielding, even better hitting, freshman club of 1948. Jean Ferryman and Jim Gillis are the names, and they hit hard and often.
The third member of that ’48 freshman outfield is a right-hand batter and packs just as much power as his lefthanded teammates. His name is Ralph Sjoberg and he’ll definitely be in the race for one of the outfield posts. Other righthanders now working out include Tony Lipton, Bob Teuscher, and Bob Machado. Tony is primarily a pitcher, but demonstrated last year that he could handle outfield chores quite well. He hit .387 for the year, most of the hits coming while he was playing the outfield. Teuscher saw little action last year, and Machado, who saw quite a bit of it in left field, will probably return to infield duty this season. Definitely a possibility is the shifting of either Ray Petrzelka or Dick Giedlin to the outfield. Both first sackers are long ball hitters and there’s nothing the Irish need more.
The athletic board is still batting the baseball schedule back and forth. So far there has been no official recognition of
St. Louis Gome
Students please note the following entrance arrangements for the St. Louis game Monday night. March 7. PARTICULARLY RESIDENTS OF CAVANAUGH HALL:
Doors will be open at 7:00 pjn. Please use the following:
Cavanaugh, Vetville—NORTHEAST door.
Farley. Breen-Phillips, Zahm, Si. Edwards—NORTH door.
Badin, Howard, Morrissey. Lyons — WEST door.
Off-Campus—SOUTHEAST door.
Admission by Identification - Athletic Cards only. There will be no exceptions. BRING YOUR CARD.
Student attendance at the last home game numbered only 1.970. Hence. NO SEATS WILL BE HELD FOR THE STUDENT BODY AFTER 7:30 pan. sharp.
For the past several games the entire North Balcony has been closed to the student body. For the St Louis game. SECTIONS D and E of the North Balcony will be open to students. Cavanaugh Hall and Vetville should normally occupy those seats.
There will be no advance sale of any land for this game. There will be a box office sale beginning at 7:30 if the student body does not claim all available space.
—TICKET COMMITTEE
Bengali
(Continued from Page 23) fer student from the University of Hawaii, picked up his pugilistic polish in a casual manner. He learned how to box by watching the pros train in Honolulu gyms. Last year he fought with the University of Hawaii boxing teams.
A wrestler turned boxer: that’s the story of Jim Smith, a Commerce senior from Charleston, W. Va. This is his first crack at the Bengals, but in the past he has won two interhall wrestling championships, and in his senior year in high school, he went all the way to the West Virginia state high school wrestling finals before being downed.
the tentative one. The ball club will get experience against professional opposition during the Easter vacation when, they play two games against the Terre Haute Phillies of the Class B Three Eye league. A half dozen tilts against college teams are also tentatively scheduled for the vacation.
March 4, 1949
27
Zahm Again Sweeps Aquatic Meet
They did it again! That hustling group of aquatic specialists from Zahm Hall won their second consecutive interhall swimming meet at the Rockne Memorial last week.
Tabulating the totals of the evening’s events gives 43 points to the winners, 27 to Alumni Hall, 14 to Lyons Hall. An aggregate of five firsts, three seconds and also a trio of thirds accounted for Zahm’s win.
O’Connell of Zahm blazed the trail by copping wins in the 100 and 200-yard free style events plus aiding his mates to grab second in the 200-yard relay.
Summary of events:
150-yard medley: Zahm (Layden, McDonnell, DuRant), Alumni, Lyons. Time 1:32.
200-yard free style: O’Connell (Zahm), Haley (Lyons), Geisen (Alumni). Time 2:41.2.
50-yard free style: Heekin (Alumni), DuRand (Zahm), Dalton (Howard). Time :26.3.
50-yard breast stroke: DeLyra (Badin), McDonnell (Zahm), Dages (Zahm). Time :32.4.
Diving: Purcell (Zahm) 208.3, Heekin (Alumni) 183.4, Espenan (Alumni) 171.1.
50-yard backstroke: Layden (Zahm), Hahne (Alumni), McDonnell (Zahm). Time :30.3.
100-yard free style: O’Connell (Zahm), Dannetle (Lyons), Branson (Zahm). Time 1:09.
200-yard relay: Alumni (Hahne, Swis-towicz, Heeken, Grote), Zahm, Lyons. Time 1:52.—Henry Mayer
Interhall Cage Tourney Opens
Off and shooting are the 36 star-studded squads in the annual interhall basketball tournament being held at the Rockne Memorial. These teams have waded through a host of preliminary games to sharpen their abilities and to perfect their teamwork. They are tense and eager for a shot at the tourney title and consequently a high caliber of play is assured.
Indianapolis and Washington-Maryland-Virginia failed to show up to start the proceedings on the afternoon of Feb. 28. But at 7 p.m., Cincinnati squared
off against the Chemical Engineers and came out on the short end of a 20-17 score in a closely contested defensive game. The last game on the opening card showed contrast, perhaps a preview of things to come, when the Metropolitan squad swamped an outplayed but definitely not outfought Morrissey lightweight team, 53-20.
The Rockne courts will have no relief for the tournament will be a daily affair, weekday games being played at 4, 7, and 7:45 p.m. Saturday and Sunday contests will run from 1:15 to 4:15 p.m.
Teams are seeded according to strength on the basis of the preliminary games. At present, games are being played on a single elimination process, but Promoter Ernie Szekely says that when the semi-finals roll around, the four top teams may play a round robin in which the victor must win two out of three. Semi-finals and the championship game will be played on the varsity floor.
In last year’s championship tussle, St. Edward’s, paced by Petrzelka, Sullivan,
INTERHALL CAGERS WARM UP FOR CAMPUS CAGE CHAMPIONSHIPS
and Pevla, edged out Cavanaugh’s Wightkin, Hart & Co., 32-30, in the last 20 seconds of a never-to-be-forgotten ^ame.
All games are refereed by Physical Education majors, a pair working each game. All games are posted on the Rockne Memorial bulletin board.
—Rudy Unger
Track
(Continued from Page 24)
the afternoon. Ray Espenan will compete with Olympic star Lorenzo Wright of Wayne in the broad jump, and will also contend with Fred Johnson, the Spartans’ most versatile man. The pole vault will feature Notre Dame’s Jim Miller and Mike Bowerman of the Michigan State school. Both have topped 13 feet this year. Bob Wagner will also represent the Irish.
In the dashes, hurdles, and 880-yard run, only two men are allowed to compete. Ray Sobota will fill out the ND quota in the 300, Steve Provost in the quarter-mile, Vai Muscato in the halfmile, and either Bob McDavid or Leo McKillip in the hurdles. None of the Big Nine schools compete, as they take part in their indoor championships at Illinois.
The meet tomorrow may be the last C.C.C. contest due to the fact that no other school has adequate facilities for handling this spectacle which was instituted by Knute Rockne.
28
The Scholastic
Names Make News
H. D. HINTON, professor of chemistry at Notre Dame, spoke on “New Things In Science,” at the Tuesday luncheon meeting of the Optimist Club this week. The meeting was the club’s first in its new headquarters in the Bronzewood room of the Hotel LaSalle.
Rev. Clement Kane, C.S.C., chairman of the University of Portland athletic board, announced last Monday that HARRY WRIGHT, former ND guard and quarterback, will be the new head football coach of that school. Wright is expected in Portland some time next week to begin spring training.
The former head coach of Aquinas Institute of Rochester, N. Y., played at Notre Dame in 1940 through 1942 under ELMER LAYDEN and FRANK LEAHY. He was quarterback of the 1941 Irish squad but switched to the guard slot the next season when ANGELO BERTELLI took over as field general.
JAMES FARRAGHER, 75-year-old former head football coach of Notre Dame, died last week on a visit to his old home town in Youngstown, 0. Farragher won monograms on the Irish squads of 1900 and 1901 and, following a practice of those .days to have one of the graduating varsity men remain as head coach, he was the Irish mentor in 1902-03 with a record of 14 wins, 4 losses, and 2 ties.
In recent years Farragher had been employed at the Rockne Memorial fieldhouse and on the golf course and had made his home on the campus.
Michael Straight, editor of the New Republic and author of Make This the Last War, spoke on the problems of peace last Monday at a public reception given by the St. Joseph county chapter of Americans for Democratic Action in the Walnut Grove community house. Straight was introduced by FRANCIS O'MALLEY, professor of English at Notre Dame.
FRANCIS BORGIA O’BRIEN, B.S. in Commerce, ’47, an employee of Sco-vell, Wellington & Co. of Chicago, was recently awarded a gold medal by the Illinois Society of Certified Public Accountants for the highest grade in the annual state examinations held last November.
Testifying before a house armed services subcommittee last week, Secretary of Defense Forrestal stated that the basis for a bill to raise the pay of members of the armed forces, particularly brigadier generals, stemmed from the report of a four-man civilian commission which reported last December. Members of the commission included Charles R. Hook; Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, c.s.c., president of Notre Dame; K. S. McHugh, vice president of the American Telephone company; and L. H. Whiting, president of Whiting & Co. and head of the American Furniture Mart in Chicago.
J. ARTHUR HALEY
Visits B-36
It was also announced recently that Father Cavanaugh and J. ARTHUR HALEY, director of public relations at Notre Dame, were members of a group who inspected the B-36, world’s largest bomber, during a tour of the Fort Worth, Texas plant of the Consolidated Vultee Aircraft corporation.
WILLIAM THOMAS WALSH, 57, Catholic author and professor, died last week. Mr. Walsh was the holder of the 1941 Laetare medal, an award given each year by Notre Dame for an outstanding lay contribution to Catholic life in America.
Walsh started his career as a newspaper writer but early became an author. Among his works were Isabella of Spain, Lyric Poems, Out of the Whirlwind and Characters of the Inquisition.
Professor ROBERT E. SULLIVAN of the Notre Dame Law School, addressed a dinner meeting of the Goshen Exchange Club and city officials on February 18 in the Hotel Goshen on the subject of Crime Prevention. The speech was the highlight of Crime Prevention Week, sponsored by the National Organization of Exchange Clubs. Mr. Sullivan accentuated the necessity of a return to the concepts of the Natural Law as the basis of home training and education in an effort to attack affirmatively the causes of crime.
On Feb. 24, a son was born to Mr. and Mrs. JOHN CACKLEY of South Bend. Cackley is the editor of Notre Dame, the official quarterly magazine of the University of Notre Dame Foundation.
St. Bonaventure College, St. Bonaventure, N. Y., has established a Department of Journalism, it was announced recently. Head of the new department will be RUSSELL J. JANDOLI, ND grad of 1940. Jandoli attended the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University after his graduation from Notre Dame. He was a newspaper editor and correspondent in the West Indies for a time and later an editor on the foreign desk of the United Press in New York.	’
Another Notre Dame student has scored in the Chesterfield ABC Adds Up contest. Under the rules of this contest, Chesterfield campus representatives convert fellow students to the familiar ABC brand. Colleges are divided into three groups, A, B, and C, according to size. FORREST (SKIP) ROSSER of Morrissey Hall topped all competitors in the B group by signing up 92 new Chesterfield smokers. As a result of his efforts, “Skip” has been awarded a new Universal Underwood Portable .typewriter. This marks the third time this year that a ND student has won such a contest. The previous two were captured by BERNARD BANNON, an off-campus student.
FRANK LEAHY, athletic director and football coach at Notre Dame, touched off this year’s §89,000 fundraising campaign for the St. Joseph County chapter of the American Red Cross with a speech at a Dutch treat luncheon last Thursday in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel in South Bend. Leahy was introduced by Rabbi Albert M. Shulman, of Temple Beth-El. He spoke on “Giving Through Red Cross.”
March 4, 1949
29
narian
DILLON HALL CHAPED REPAIRS — Three men on a Horse (Wooden)
Dillon Hall Chapel Gets Repairs as Ceiling Sags
The Dillon Hall chapel is undergoing repairs which will curtail its use somewhat for the next few weeks. According to reports, the roof beams have been pulling apart from their supports, and the ceiilng was beginning to sag. The hall was built in 1930.
Repairs on the ceiling are being undertaken by the Sollitt Construction Company of South Bend, and should be finished within two weeks. The Dillon “late” Mass, usually held in the chapel at 7:20, has been moved temporarily to Alumni Hall. There is enough pew space left to accommodate the Hall students at the usual early Masses, however.
Freshman Olympics Planned By Lively First-Year Men
After watching the mad whirl on ND social life for six months, an activity-thirsty freshman class has come up with a new idea of its own to herald its debut into the melee. A “Freshman Olympics” has l>een tentatively scheduled April 8 and 9 to provide fun, thrills and food for every frosh.
The usual track and field events, team competition in several sports and novelty games will feature the two-day program. Trophies will be awarded to the freshman hall amassing the most points in team and individual competition.
With a hope of setting a precedent for succeeding frosh, Chairman Frank Price plans to offer something new and different to contestant and spectator alike.
Philosophy Skit To Mark Aquinas Day
In commemoration of the feast day of St. Thomas Aquinas (March 7), thirty members of the Introduction to Philosophy course will present an “Apology to St. Thomas Aquinas” next Thursday evening in the Veterans’ Recreation Hall at 7 p.m. The celebration of St. Thomas’ feast day is a yearly affair* arranged by the Department of Philosophy, headed by Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., in honor of the great saint. The play will last approximately 40 minutes, and in putting forth the philosophic principles of St. Thomas, should appeal to all students of philosophy.
The play is divided into three vignettes. A tableau of St. Thomas’ triumphs in the Catholic Church, including his canonization and promotion to Doctor of the Church, are the essence of the first part. This first part will serve also as a prologue. In the second part, the actors will portray philosophers who were contemporaries and predecessors of St. Thomas. They will pronounce their various arguments and will be answered by Thomists presenting the tenets of their beliefs. The future of Thomistic philosophy in view of modern thought will be emphatically dramatized in the third vignette.
The Moreau Seminary Choir will sing two hymns and several members of the University Band will provide solemn background music for the unusual play.
The group will utilize various facilities of the Audio-Visual Department and though costumes and scenery will be simple, they promise to be effective. The entire production is being undertaken by the philosophy students to glorify the labors of St. Thomas and to emphasize the importance of his philosophy in our world today.—John H. Janowski
Paper on Labor, Peace May Net Hillman Prize
One thousand dollars in cash will be awarded this yeai* to the dissertation judged best in the fields of trade union development, race relations or world peace by the Sidney Hillman Foundation. In addition to the award, the manuscript will be published by the Foundation.
To qualify, the work must have been accepted in fulfillment of requirements for the Ph.D. degree from a recognized university in the United States or Canada; or its author must already hold such a degree, or be a teacher or researcher at such an institution.
Entries should be forwarded to the Sidney Hillman Foundation, Inc., 15 Union Square, New York 3, N. Y., by the dean of the graduate school before July 1, 1949.
The Dissertation prize has been set up from a $30,000 scholarship fund established by the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America in memory of the late labor leader who led the CIO union for 32 years until his death in 1946.
Dr. Ralph A. Berman
DENTIST
Mon. 9-12; Thurs. 9-12, 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
408 Platt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
For the One and Only
Flowers by Williams
ORCHIDS and GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
28
Williams, The Florist 219 West Washington '‘Just West of the Oliver”
30
The Scholastic
Sophs Toss N. D. Counterpart to N'Orleans Mardi Gras Madness
Friday evening. Feb. 25. in South Bend's big Palais Royale the sophomore class sponsored its Mardi Gras Dance. The affair was under the reign of Queens Sylvia Wiersma and Kathleen O'Brien, dates of the co-chairmen. Phil Finnegan and Pat Gallagher. This
Feistel	Rumley
was Notre Dame's counterpart of that "epic madness." the genuine no-holds-barred New Orleans Mardi Gras. The boys and girls above had great fun blowing up balloons and dancing to the muse of Bob Ruehle and his Tennessee Trumpet Twirlers.
’Times' Correspondent Gives Erroneous Slant To Interview With Negro Graduate Student
“The presence of five Negro men in the University of Notre Dame, and of three young Negro women in St. Mary’s College for Women in the neighboring college community of Holy Cross was alluded to today (Feb. 6) as ‘an actuality, and no longer a reason for concern’.”
With this as a lead paragraph, George Streator in his column to the New York Times summarized the Negro situation here on campus. But his summarization left a dry taste in the mouths of the students “alluded to” for, as Tony Horne stated, “He didn’t come close to giving the true picture from our viewpoint.”
Horne, a Negro graduate student majoring in History, had quite a bit to say about the relations between white and colored students on campus that Streator failed to mention. Tony acted as spokesman for his fellow Negro students during the interview with the Times correspondent who was supposedly sent to get the Negro student’s reaction to life at the University.
What Streator failed to print in his column was what Tony actually said during the interview about his own impression of the University and the way the other Negroes felt about their status here. When he was shown a copy of the
Times and asked for his reaction, Tony
answered :
“Just as I informed the New York Times reporter, so will I answer you — I love Notre Dame and can think of no other place I’d rather be. Life here on campus is simply wonderful. My hallmates, classmates, schoolmates and all the persons with whom I have come in contact have treated and acted toward me with the utmost of dignity and respect. In short, with them I’m just another student, and I like it this way.”
Streator — himself a Negro — had ignored the student’s opinion, but had printed in its place this statement from Rev. Robert Sweeney, C.S.C., executive assistant to the president:
“The University of Notre Dame maintains today, as in the past, a policy of non-discrimination regardless of race, color or creed.”	■
Horne’s opinion of the University itself was also left out of the account, though Tony, speaking again for his fellow students who were unable to attend the interview, said:
“As for my impression of the University, I think it has already been said, but I will add that it is an esteemed one. I cannot find adjectives which would describe my liking for it.”
But the matter of his and his fellow
Negro students’ reception in South Bend brought a reserved and cautious statement from the New York University graduate. When queried about the town, Tony replied:
“To state my impression of South Bend is somewhat difficult owing to my short residence here. Although I have experienced some difficulties in being served in some restaurants and flatly refused in others, I- would not condemn the entire city, for this city as every other city has many nice people and nice things.”
Some of Horne’s white fellow students who have accompanied him to several eating places in South Bend were openly shocked when he was refused service, and one of them publicly apologized to his companion for the behavior of a waitress in a well-known downtown drugstore.
The headline of the Times column read: “South Bend Takes Negroes in Stride.”—Al Laporte
Viva Brownson
Orestes Brownson, one of the most celebrated of writers and reformers of the last century and a convert to the Catholic Church, is buried at Notre Dame. The Notre Dame library has a complete collection of his works and many of the most important papers and letters belonging to his estate.
March 4, 1949
31
Letters
(Continued from Page 3)
nessee Williams received the three most valued awards in playdom, including the Pulitzer Prize; the awards were well deserved.”
Whose side are you on, Mr. Slavick?
Joel Wells Ed Wehrle Ed Gray Breen Phillips
Figaro Here; Figaro There . . .
Dear Editor:
I’m glad it wasn’t sung in English...
Edward R. Conroy Morrissey Hall
Reader Conroy is apparently talking about THE BARBER OF SEVILLE, which was a little hard to understand for the patrons sitting beyond the sixth row. Frankly, though, Scholastic is so glad to see opera at Notre Dame we don’t care if it’s sung in muffled Turkish.—Editor.
Long Live Wally!
Dear Editor:
I am crushed. You have broken a’ sacred trust. How could you be so tactless? When I let you print the picture of the cyclists last week, you gave your solemn promise not to reveal my true age by telling I took the picture. Besides, I wasn’t 28 years old; I was •only 18.
Wally Kunkle,
University Photographer
Photographer Kunkle unwittingly stumbled over his beard last week and broke his arm. Our sympathy to him.— Editor.
An Amazing Offer by
HOLIDAY
Pipe Mixture
The pipe that every smoker wants—DANA, the modern pipe, with brightly polished alumi-;
By BO CONNOR
The current crop of disc jockey shows that solve program schedule headaches for stations from Bangor to Los Angeles are running so long nowadays that many of the record spinners are due to lose their voices after having worked a show for a year or so. This ought to offer a lot of opportunities for June graduates who haven’t yet lined up a job. If you want to land one of these choice spots, here are a few things you should know . . .
First, forget everything you’ve ever learned since grade school. If you refuse to do this, or can’t, then you had better form a new and separate personality to use on the air. One of the best ways to begin this is to pick up an old telephone directory and practice mispronouncing the names — in a hesitant but not apologetic manner. Once you’ve got that down, you are on your way.
The next thing to do is to line yourself up with the engineer at the station you have set your sights on. Spend
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. All clues are in ad.
2. Submit answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3. First ten correct answers win one carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes each.
4. Enter as many as you like, but one Chesterfield wrapper or facsimile must accompany each entry.
5. Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue's publication date. New contest next issue.
6. Answers and names of winners will appear in the next issue.
7. All answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8. Decision of judges will be final.
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS & WINNERS
A The word THREE is composed of five letters and they’re all found in CHESTERFIELD.
B Chesterfields in the pack, 3 E’s in Chesterfield, 3 x 3=9.
One E in REALITY.
Q Biscuit=muffin; Change M to R and you get Ruffin, the home of Van W. Daniel.
some time with him and create a friendship. Once you are buddies, spend regularly a few hours a day together, and practice mumbling and laughing at each other. Laugh hilariously, cynically, and casually. When you’re certain that you can turn your laugh valves on and off whenever he signals, then you have won half the battle.
Next, separate for a couple of months. During that time read all the comic books you can get your hands on, see all the B movies possible (take in The Snake Pit, too), and read up on all the jokes and poems that high school magazines publish. In all this time be sure that you don’t listen to any more music than you have to. In short, try to cultivate an interest in nothing.
When the two months are finished look up your hysterical friend and show him that you are ready for an interview with the station manager. If your funny bone is still facile, and you bore each other completely (the real test), he will love you. When he passes you, take off for the station. If you haven’t cheated in the training period, you are bound to get the job. To ease your own nervousness, though, take a look at the boss during the interview and if he shows signs of nausea, you can’t miss.
32
The Scholastic
Once you have the job don’t worry about something to say on the air. Besides the incoherent babbling you’ll be doing with your buddy in the control room, the station will supply you with a stack of commercials and a basket of requests from listeners. Why, after you’ve been working the show awhile you will find that you have all kinds of jokes, cliches, and local commercials to get out, and you will hardly have the time to fit them all in. The solution: cut out half of the music you’ve been playing.
Eight AROTC Cadets Get Medals in Snow Ceremony
Nothing can stop the Army Air Corps!
With traditional do-or-die spirit, upwards of 200 hardy members of the ND Air ROTC group plowed three neat little furrows in the five-inch snow east of the Stadium Tuesday in a dress review honoring eight student officers who were awarded badges of distinguished achievement.
The list of medal winners was topped by Cadet Colonel Thomas J. Devanny, student commander of the unit. Others receiving awards were Thomas O’Brien, George Benning, Matthew Campanella, Norbert LaVally, Mortimer Lewis, James Henry, and Robert Shafer.
Van Heusen Comfort Contour
collar styling
low-setting, smarter, neater
how it feels!
how it looks!
So comfortable you hardly know it’s there—yet it’s the smartest shirt you’ve ever worn. More and more college men are learning that there’s nothing quite like this collar styling— now on all Van Heusen shirts. It’s the collar design that: • gives you a smart, handsome appearance keeps the collar smooth and neat all day gives you that "nothing there” comfort.
Demand it next time you buy a shirt! , Van Heusen shirts §2.95 to §4.95.
A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size
Ifs
Adler’s
for
Van Heusen
Van Heusen
shirts
the world’s smartest
PHILLIPS-] ONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N.Y.
Look to
^GILBERT'S
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
for VAN HEUSEN
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
March 4, 1949
3$
‘6|lllltHII||l|||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUItllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHlf«]
I SPAGHETTI CARD I
1	SPECIAL OFFER	i
=	to	E
j NOTRE DAME MEN |
E	$^.00 worth of	E
1	Italian or American	i
1	food for_________ I
j	$5-00 j
E	Purchase youi' card at	E
=	Papandrea’s Today ... or	;
E	get one from a campus	e
E	representative:	E
E	Mike DiCicco	e
e Nick Barthalomeo	e
e	Rocco Romeo	e
1	Papandrea’s	E
I SPAGHETTI HOUSE I
E	(formerly THE CAPITOL)	E
415 NORTH MICHIGAN |
E	Jimmy and Rose Papandrea	E
$2.00 or MORE! Every Hour!!
Sell name plates for front doors
Every order pays you — in cash — immediately!
Free Sample
Write Dept. 158
NATIONAL ENGRAVERS
214 Summer St., Boston, Mass.
BROWSER’S Column
bff Max A, Browser
A Noble Effort
Since this column came into being last semester we have, as its official nursemaid, had many meetings with members of Notre Dame’s much discussed and abused Student Council. One such meeting took place just the other day.
To a man, we have found these SC men extremely likeable, good Americans and frightfully sincere about the job they are trying to do in the Council. We have listened long hours as they talked Council with us; trying to explain what is being done and what is to be hoped for. They have given us renewed hope in the student body of this University and what it can do.
From all that we gather, chatting away with these representatives of the toiling masses, this is the best Student Council to hold a session in quite some time. There is a much firmer purpose among them; a much more efficient procedure instituted at their- meetings; a far greater understanding reached with the liaison officers of the administration. It has come far, this Council, and done much. It is going to do a lot more before it adjourns for the summer months.
As a result, we admire it and its members. They are dedicated to the right cause — the promotion of progressive leadership. And so dedicated, they are trying to do something to bring about that progressive leadership. They are assuming new responsibilities, going ahead with new plans, hoping new hopes. They are quite a wonderful bunch.
All of which may seem to you a direct contradiction to what we have been spilling words over on this page for many a week now. You may recall our comments of the last issue in which we pointed a rather scornful finger at the goings on in their last meeting and implied that a lot of them were a waste of time. If that is the impression you may have gathered, we cannot let it stand. It simply is not true.
We have berated the Student Council in these columns, it is true. But we have been berating them for the foundations upon which they, as an institu
tion are built, not as the august body that they are. We have been chanting (and will continue) that the council, by its very nature, cannot produce the greatly desired effect of effective student leadership and government here. This is not the council’s fault. Rather it is the result of a vague, muddled relationship which exists between student and administrator here. It is due to the fact that students have never sat down with the administration and gone over a few essential matters. The Student Council, in its present form, is doing a fine job — the best yet, and the best one possible under present conditions.
As a result of this feeling of ours we wrote a column two weeks ago urging the formation of a student committee to confer on vital issues with the administration. This column has brought encouraging response and there may be fruits borne of our labor yet. We hope so.
Fan Mail
Our editor placed a worthy epistle in our hands the other day. The author was a student who had a few pertinent remarks to make on our proposed “Let’s Build a New Fieldhouse if We Have to Build It Ourselves” movement. He wants the thing changed from “Fieldhouse” to “Student Union” and suggests a student-solicited fund to finance the building of same.
We grieve that we cannot agree with him on the matter. To us, a fieldhouse still comes first. But we appreciate the letter and if enough students appreciate the idea they can start collecting dimes anytime. I understand you can pick up a second-hand Union for around $1,500,000. We’ll hold the kitty.
Nature Marches On
There was excitement last month at Notre Dame over the simple fact that a chicken laid an egg. The reason? The chicken, which was in one of the germ-free cages at the Laboratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame (LOBUND), was believed to be the first germ-free chicken in all history ever to lay an egg.
34
The Scholastic
A shpper utfro sfooc/
■■ at wfaef
Woukiwrigg/e an J sftfihn
$atcf tie Mate, /frfW-SAotls, s/q
r4ne wbm in a/iports, sir.—
No chafing center seam
'There's no efafing seam in -riekee/.*
For real comfort "below decks'— buy a box of Arrow seamless-seat shorts of long-wearing oxford or broadcloth.
"Sanforized" labeled—Gripper fasteners.
See your Arrow dealer for Arrow underwear.
ARROW
■:
SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS w.w.w.v.
If s Adler’s
for
Arrow
ON TH <MNEK... MKNMM f MfiNMMM
ND Debate Is Published in "Debaters Annual" for 1948
The Notre Dame debate team has had . one of its debates published in the University Debaters Annual, a publication of the H. W. Wilson Company of New York City, which consists of the outstanding debates of 1948. The Annua! each year publishes the complete text of the debates judged to be the best debates of the year. Included in the 1948 edition of the publication is the debate between the University of Notre Dame and Purdue University on the question of Universal Military Training in the United States.
Frank Finn, of Dennison, Texas, and Tim Kelley, of Pittsburgh, Pa., took the affirmative for Notre Dame in the debate. Finn is now a senior here and still a member of the debate team, while Kelley is currently attending law school at Yale University.
Young but Famous
Head of the Chemistry Department at Notre Dame is Dr. Charles C. Price, who is only 35 years old. Dr. Price recently was honored as Indiana’s outstanding young man by the Junior Chamber of Commerce of the state for his work in isolating four chemical compounds capable of neutralizing the Rh factor in human blood.
Look to
Gilbert’s
for
ARROW
^EiisTm
813-817 S. Michigan Sheet
March 4, 1949
35
MAKE YOURS THE MILDER CIGARETTE
Copyright 1949, Liggett & Myeks Tobacco Co.
Chesterfield Contest—Page 32

Everybody likes Chesterfield because its MILDER
"A LETTER TO THREE WIVES
PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS SMOKE CHESTERFIELD
A4. H. GRIFFIN, bailey, n. c. says.. /Tve been smoking Chesterfields ever since I’ve been smoking. They buy the best cigarette tobacco grown . . . it’s MILD sweet tobacco/'