~1~~~i1 {t;;{:t~~{1:Z1:;.~J~f '(~ :/; >'i,{~{;Ji){~;i1~ t1;~~~r.:~~{-.~~?(?_ h1 ~~.~/Ml', :,-~,:~:{ff -:.;t::~•~'t ~~~i·:>r·F~~{:~.:rt~Ji:~;: l~\{,~~,,;, :1:.j~t~~}fl<tt'tf,1ll~)r~ittt:),~t~:~~~\Mlit,ft\t;re;i~';tf~~1;'~tiftS1¾~~;~i\H\!(1i;,r;_:~:,~bt~\~:f:t;~,~;~~:
1 
-· .• ' •. , '~ l/t?,. 1'~ "··, ,: .~ -, .\ .~ ,_ 0 .• ;•/_,_'.. ':~-:.,..,'" ,..'. '.i, ~. ~ )•. •f, H .. i. ': ' 1 ".'n ·1, ,\ •• ;, c_ .-:\', :_'; ":, • ,-.•'/'\., .,/,'~ ~:::: ..;,.,_ ,t.,'h ~1·.1.:1:t:·t~•lt&,\11;1t:' .-.~:~>.i';!::\t~~:rz.~1-7{:-;;,.~~-::~~· /1,.);nni... r.r ::::·~·i~r•.:~\~f..',1~ 'I'••-ii' 1,t!.1 .,,,. , ......,f..":d,••· •• ' 

and beyond ... 
SUITS AND SPORT COATS 
Your Campus Shop now has a fine selec­tion of these easy-to-care-for, classic styles from Palm Beach . . . many are designed to wear 10 months of the year. Choose in your favorite colors, in single breasted as well as the Edwardian look. Stop in soon 
. your account is already open. 
SUITS SPORT COATS 
.from $65 .front $45 
Pay next summer with no carrying charge 
~~~ 
LIER • ______a~ho 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
march 20, _1970 notre dame, indiana


scholastic 
volume 111, no. 18 
Editorial ...................... . 

. ..................................... ··········· ... ....... ... . ..... ...... .... 4 
Markings 

My White Shoelaces / Ray Serafin ................................................ 6 
Creation and Suppression .............................................................. 7 
The Week In Distortion .................................................................. 8 
A Sense of the Sacred: Religion & Tradition at Notre Daine .................... 12 Richard Moran 
Dance: The Freshness of Wind on Your Cheeks ............................................ 16 Carolyn Gatz 
The Beautifulle Contradictions &c. .................................................................. 22 Steve Brion, Rory Holscher and M. P. O'Connor 
The Nonviolence Program: Revolution Within Tradition ............................ 26 David Lammers 
Departments 

Perspectives ................................................. :.................................... 30 
Picking the Bengals ................................... ~.................................... 32 
Gary Snyder: Poet as Ideologue .................................................. ·34 
Rush Up ! .......................................................................................... · 36 
Movies ................................................____ ..........______ ..___ . ... ... . . ............ .. 3 7 
Chicago .. . . . ... . . . ..... . ... . . ... .. ... . .. ... . . . ...... ... .. . ... ... ... . ........ .......... .. ...... ....... 3 7 
Last Word ..... .................................... ..... .......................................... 38 
Editor-in-chief Richard Moran Executive Editor Philip Kukielski Managing Editor Michael Hendryx Art Director Michael Patrick O'Connor Associate Editors John Keys, Raymond Serafin Assistant Editors Pat Gaffney, Carolyn Gatz, Fran Maier, Tim O'Meilia Photography Editor Gary Cosimini Copy Editor Greg Stidham Assistant Managing Edito1· Phil Stark Sports Editor Terry O'Neil Contributing Editors Steve Novak, Steve Brion Contribu,tors Michael Costello, Kevin Rooney, John Stupp Business Greg Naples Circu7,ation Michael Malone 
Public Re7,ations James Murphy Faculty Advisor Frank O'Malley 

Writers Jack Fiala, Phil Glotzbach, Don Kennedy, Tom Macken, Ed Mccartin, Marilyn Riordan, Bernie Ryan, Walter Secada, Martin Siravo, Joe St. Onge Copy and Layout VeAnn Patterson, Mark Richardson, Colleen Unger, Bill Wilka Business and Circulation Mike Casanova, Dan Hogan, William Pelletieri, Cliff Zmick Photographers Jim Hunt, Beth Malmsheimer Artists John Downey, Ginny Maloof. 
The opinions cxprcs~cd in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertbing by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Published weekly during the school year, e.'l':cept during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is ~-00 a year (including all issues and the Foorn.\LL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to the ScHOL\STlc, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
3 

Ill Danger:
The University • 
For the first ti'lne in the modern history of the Uni­versity, the state1nent of current fund operations shows a large cash deficit, the actual amount being $937,000. In the present year of 1969-10 we are anticipating an operating cash deficit of at least $1,000,000. It should be evident to aJ,l that the University cannot continue to sustain such losses. In an effort to eradicate them, the University has i11rstalled a new budgetary system which is designed to make all departments live within the total inc01ne of the University ... [This] requires the 
coO'peration  and  goodwill  of all  departrnents  on  
ca11ipus ...  
Insight, Vol. IV, No. 3  

One of the SCHOLASTIC's primary concerns this year has been University priorities. Up to this point, all the talk has been largely abstract and harmless. It now appears, however, that things are rapidly coming to a head. Due to the national tight money situation and Notre Dame's last five years of high living, the Uni­versity is in severe financial trouble. The problem of University priorities suddenly becomes a problem im­mediate and crucially important, because the cost of this extravagance will come from faculty salaries and development. 
Facts are nearly impossible to come by: the Ad­ministration will not release itemized cost figures for such things as the Arts and Letters and Engineering Schools, the Bookstore, the ACC, graduate schools, etc.; it also tends to offer contradictory figures and explanations on faculty raises, freshman enrollment for next year, et al. But only recently five department heads in the College of Arts and Letters seriously con­sidered returning their budgets as unadministrable; any faculty raises for next year will come to no more than 3½-4½% -which when juxtaposed with a cost­of-living rise near 6% means that the faculty will in fact be receiving pay cuts. The University will at­tempt, without increasing its faculty, to admit nearly 1,985 new students next year (235 more than usual), in order to pay off its debt. 
Virtually all budgetary information must be ex­tracted from the tables in this fall's Insight. These are confusing and perhaps even a bit deceptive. For ex­ample ,the ACC, the Morris Inn, the Bookstore and "others" are grouped under a single heading ("Other 

enterprises") that shows a loss of $76,794. The Admin­istration has said that no one has the right to see any individual breakdowns, so a few guesses must suffice: the Bookstore can conservatively be deemed "profit­making," and the Morris Inn a "break-even" enter­prise. This leaves the ACC and "others" as losing nearly $77,000, though the Administration has re­peatedly insisted the Convocation Center is "so close to breaking even as to be inconsequential to the problem." The Computing Center lost $766,479 this past year: the University (after what it terms "faculty pressure") plans to replace the present computer with a new and more expensive one, and will also institute a "Com­puting Science Major'' for all four colleges. 
These things spring from a common American edu­cational myth that feels the "great university" is built upon laboratories and convocation centers and the paraphernalia of our technocracy. The importance of people -students and administrators and most espe­cially faculty -is largely neglected. 
But this generalization becomes especially impor­tant when considering the status of this institution. Any undergraduate liberal arts university finds its lifeblood precisely in these three groups of people. That this priority should have been forgotten or ignored by an Administration known for its rhetoric of ''com­munity" is puzzling. That it should be brushed aside by a president who has described Notre Dame as "bricks and books, classrooms and laboratories, but . . . above all, people . . . " is both ironic and tragic. 
This kind of ostrich-like blindness is beginning to change here, but it has led to the adoption of "solu­tions" that are at once absurd and unfair. The ad­ministration says it simply has no more money and therefore must make cuts in faculty raises. It is con­fident that almost all its professors will stay despite the pay cuts simply because they will be unable "to find other positions." As to the rest of them, the ad­ministration feels forced to take a "hate to see you go but ... "attitude. The first assumption, that profes­sors will be unable to find other positions, is as untrue as it is unethical; the laissez faire attitude that follows deals only with the effects of these problems. 
The Administration has put a large part of the blame for our present financial crisis precisely on the faculty, stating that it is they who have pushed for 

Money vs. Priorities 
more buildings, wider access to computer facilities and expansion of curriculum. A faculty committee has in­deed recently called for the purchase of a new com­puter and establishment of a computing science major in the AL program; Father Wilson said, however, he did not know what percentage of faculty members supported such findings or from what departments they came. To put the responsibility for pulling the University out of a financial crisis on a group that had little or nothing to do with getting the University into that crisis is hypocrisy of the worst kind. 
President Hesburgh has said that in such a situa­tion we must do something "drastic" yet refuse to panic. What, exactly, is the University doing? Again, figures are hard to get, but the program to extricate Notre Dame financially seems to revolve around sev­eral stratagems: cutting budgets equally for all de­partments; decreasing faculty raises to about 4%; restricting new building but continuing to operate such things as the ACC and the Computing Center; raising tuitions and increasing the number of new students next year from 1750 to about 1985 (including fresh­men, transfers, re-admissions). These represent stop­gap, panic moves that will haunt the University for years to come. For example, the increased size of classes with no new space will prove unbearable for both faculty and students; freshman and sophomore theology classes will enroll 100-150 students next year. 
The real answers, if they are to be found, lay else­where: in a drastic rearrangement of this University's priorities; a restructuring that will make primary the necessities we can afford, and the things on which we, as a Christian university, should concentrate most heavily. 
In the meantime, a few alternate suggestions come to mind: renting c-ut dorm space to St. Mary's students (who also will be terribly over-crowded next year) instead of increasing the number of new students at­tending classes at Notre Dame; pooling resources be­tween the two schools ; arranging financial priorities and resources to line up with what Professor Dugan calls an increasing enrollment in Arts and Letters and a decreasing enrollment in the Engineering College; honestly evaluating the relative costs and necessity of each department within the University. The times do call for "drastic action": St. Louis University, another Catholic institution faced with a similar crisis, recently chose to phase out its School of Dentistry and its two schools of Engineering. The possibilities suggested above may seem equally drastic, but equally necessary. 
The designation of the faculty as both cause and solution of the University's financial troubles is ironic in the light of two critical facts. First, a large portion of the $54 million in pledges and donations re­ceived through SUMMA was designated for "faculty development," including the establishment of nineteen new chairs. To date, little if anything has come of all this rhetoric: no one is certain how many chairs can now be funded; faculty raises next year will bear the burden of our debt. More important is the de facto primacy of the faculty at this institution: it provides the largest portion of spiritual and intellectual leader­ship for the student and has given Notre Daine the academic recognition it deserves. It is indeed the life­blood of this institution. 
The problems of finance and priorities are internal ones of the utmost importance to Notre Dame's ex­istence. They can only be postponed, not solved, by the kinds of stop-gap action now planned. They must be met with an honest and immediate self-examination of the present situation by the whole University com­munity. The Administration has named a · committee under Father \Valsh to stuq.y the question of priorities, but the make-up of its membership remains uncertain. It should be tri-partite. The University Forum also broached the subject in its meeting last Tuesday. 
What may be necessary right now is a genuine stu­dent concern for these critical problems, and the Ad­ministration's willingness to make public itemized ex­penses and revenues instead of cloaking them under "other enterprises." 
Finally, it must be recognized that this is not 5imply one more manifestation of an effete Arts-and­Letters righteousness, exclusiveness, or disdain for the sciences. Rather, it is a question of what Notre Dame7 as a university faced with a financial deficit and a peaked revenue, can afford. It is in this light that the University must re-examine its priorities. Notre Dame can not afford to lose a faculty that is the heart of this institution, or to ignore an Arts and Letters College with an increasing yearly enrollment. Such a loss would necessitate cutting off the very lifeblood that has given it its vitality. 
My '1\Thite Shoelaces 
THE last column-what is the right note to hit? How about some melancholy reflections on four years of the University experience? No, James Kunen said it succinctly in The Strawberry Statement. As he cor­rectly noted, everyone says these are "the best years of our lives." We could perhaps tolerate the frustrations, banalities and trivialities of these four years if we weren't expected to get prepared for something worse. 
Or I could write an ode to the Zeppelin Boys, who live across from me in Morrissey Hall. They certainly provided some of the year's high points, as it were. But they might decide to hitchhike East this week if the weather turns warm before the magazine comes out. Leaving me to feed their pet iguana. And they might well decide not to come back, so the column would be lost on them. 
Sunday night in Detroit, then, I turned to Mary. With quavering passion in my voice, the big question: "What should I write about?" She failed me not, an­swering, "Why don't you write about your white shoe­laces?" The famous Socratic method at work again­I could not answer the "why not?" No wonder, then, that I call Mary my inspiration. 
At this point the reason for her strange fixation on my white shoelaces should be made clear. No history, as they say, is without nuance. The shoelaces, you see, are worn on my dirty brown suede, fur-lined winter shoes. I put them on Sunday afternoon when my old brown shoelaces broke again. Mary, being very ob­servant, noticed them almost immediately. Indeed, she marveled at my inept sense of aesthetics. 
Now in the past I have been accused of being too subjective in my journalism. I should only be like The New York Times or The Observer. So I will now give a solely objective description of the shoelaces, a brief description not filtered first through my own mind. So that no one can accuse me of subjugating the facts to my own devious ends. 
Each shoelace (there are two of them) is twenty­four inches long. They are white-on-white, which is to say that the plastic tips (there are four of them, by a stroke of good luck evenly divided between the two laces) are also white. Before Sunday, they had never been used on any shoes. If you will allow me just one opinion, I would like to put it on record that they are virtually flawless. 

Now a lot of people will look at my white laces on brown suede shoes and figure that I'm wearing them either out of ignorance, laziness or simple harmless eccentricity. The first two charges I categorically deny. And I wish that all you people who pass me walking down the street would stop looking at me so accusing­ly. I am neither ignorant nor lazy. Just maybe a little paranoid. 
BuT the accusation of eccentricity is the most danger­ous, because it ascribes a certain harmlessness to my white laces. On the contrary, I assert that wearing them is very subversive. In fact, so does the U.S. Army (and most other armies). This became clear to me in a conversation with a usually reliable source, who from here on shall be known simply by his journalistic pseu­donym, A Reliable Source. 
"The army," A Reliable Source said, "doesn't allow you to wear white laces on dirty brown suede, fur-lined winter shoes." 
But what would happen if someone did?" I asked naively. 
"It would undermine discipline which would under­mine morale, thus undermining the army which would be subversive to the country." 
"So the army outlaws white shoelaces on dirty brown suede, fur-lined winter shoes because they're ultimately subversive?" 
AH logic, ah me. On March 27 I report f~r a pre­induction physical. (March 27 is Good Friday-I won­der if they'll pass me if I get the stigmata.) Black armbands are already suspect by the military. But I will wear my dirty brown suede shoes, with the white laces. The night before, I shall dance in them. And love in them. When the machine asks for death, they will answer life. 


Creation & Suppression 
ABOUT the same time last summer that the Juggler came perilously close to extinction, another "periph­eral" activity here was in danger ... the Collegiate Jazz Festival, the oldest, best and most respected festi­val in the country. But it survived, and this will be the twelfth year Stepan Center will hear a music whose origins stretch all the way back to Buddy Bolden's 1897 black Louisiana street band. 
Big bands and small combos have submitted audi­tion tapes to a panel of professional judges who elimi­nate all but nine groups in each category. From these, the best three bands and combos will be selected to compete in the Festival's final session Saturday night. Among those competing Friday, for the first time since 1966 (the days of Larry Dwyer, Bill Hurd and a host of others who have since gone to musically greener pastures), will be a group from Notre Dame-the Larry Beachler Sextet. The group is made up of Norm Zeller and John Prendergast from First Friday; John Buchan­an, Jack Leo and Pete Szujewski from the Magnificent Seven (who recently won the Villanova Pop Festival), and Nick Talarico on keyboard. Many give Zeller a fine shot at best soloist on lead guitar for the entire Festival. 
Jazz is black music, from its origins in the back streets of Louisiana to its expression by men like Or­nette Coleman, the late John Coltrane and a host of others. Like most of black Afro-American culture, it has been largely ignored and/or usurped by the white man; today some of its most well-known interpreters are white. The Collegiate Jazz Festival will have a little of both-Notre Dame's representative, for exam­ple, will perform works by Coltrane and Frank Zappa. 
As an expression of an art form that is at once our oldest, most unrecognized and most bastardized tradi­tion, Collegiate Jazz Festival offers to the student per­haps his best possible chance to see the creation that grows out of suppression: both the suppression of the 
March 20, 1970 
black man in America and the less serious suppression of the musician at Notre Dame. It is a fine festival, one that simply should not be missed. And perhaps you'd better hurry, for who can tell what University priorities will cost this summer? 
Steve Brion 



The vVeek In Distortion 
Symptoms of a Bog 
Judge Clement Haynsworth's nom­
ination to the vacant Supreme Court 
seat was rejected by Congress last 
year when questions arose concern­
ing the ethics of his mixture of 
judicial and financial activities. The 
issue was murky but all agreed that 
it would be safest to turn him down. 
Now that President Nixon has made another suggestion, it seems that a definite but fainthearted lib­eral plot is developing in an effort to keep the Court from shifting too far right. Liberal Senators and Con­gressmen have been strained to establish grounds on which to vote against the confirmation of Harold Carswell. 
There are now 40 votes mustered against the Southern judge and the best they can do for a rationale is to say that he is a mediocre legal mind. His decisions have been medi­ocre. Everything -mediocre. There is nothing more damaging to the democratic process than to start getting picky when it comes to placing men on prominent pedestals. It simply slows things to an insipid halt. 

The Carswell defense has crept staunchly behind their man, fortified by the ancient democratic traditions of equality. One Senator from Ne­braska summed up the argument: ''We have a lot of mediocre judges, a lot of mediocre lawyers in this country. There are a great many mediocre people and it's about time they had some representation." 
How Could There Be So Many? 
Ever since taking office last Janu­ary, President Nixon has made an honest effort to keep abreast of at least the major issues in America. But Mr. Nixon is indeed a master politician -he knows his electorate and is most responsive to their vo­ciferous demands. He has been most responsive to the animated mandate of the Great Silent Majority. (Could this be a contradiction in terms?) Not one call to action from the GSM has been ignored. 
Earlier this week, however, Mr. Nixon displayed the independent ini­tiative and foresight of which great presidents are made, and announced the creation of the President's Com­mission on Population Control. To the commission has been assigned the task of first determining if there is, or will be in the foreseeable fu­ture, a population crisis in America. 
Several incidents have led the President to believe that more appro­priate than the standard "E Pluribus Unum," would be "E Pluri"bus Mul­turn.'' Not the least of these was what Mr. Nixon interpreted as a "somewhat rowdy block party [c. 
1.5 million] held sometime around the middle of last November." This, coupled with a petition from the residents of D.C. demanding that the White House be yielded to the local Public Housing Authority. 
Immediately after the announce­ment, the President was flooded with applications from the statesmen's labor pool. Yet by midweek the pri­mary concern of the Chief was re­portedly that of securing office space for the Commission in the nation's beehive of bureaucracy. 
"Tender Is the Abyss" 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Curtis W. Tarr, President Nixon's choice to succeed Gen. Lewis 
B. Hershey as director of the Selec­tive Service System, has recently published a philosophical tract en­titled The Te,nporal Experiential Abyss and How to Beat It. 

The book, believed by Adminis­tration wags to be the first of its kind in the history of American govern­ment, will be printed at government expense and disseminated to all Selective Service registrants. 
Mr. Tarr noted that he gained the insight for the remarkable treatise from his two years spent in the Army during the last great war, meaning World War II. The newly celebrated philosopher said that it wasn't until students at Lawrence College, of which he was formerly president, approached him for draft counseling that he conceived of the 
idea. 
The book was completed in a re­markable three days. Critics espe­cially approved of its poignant emotionalism, all too rare in phi­losophy in our nowadays complex society. The work concludes on this tender point: ". . . although I went 
in the Army with some uncertainties, 
I realize now how important the experience was and is." Unfortu-nately those who would disagree with Mr. Tarr are no longer with us. 
Rodent Renegades 

Fans of Vice-President Agnew and other so-called reactionaries are now pointing to Great Britain's counter­part to the movement and acquiesc­ing to think that all the name­calling directed at the Resistance has been borne out in fact. 
One of the major concerns of an early-week meeting of the Royal So­ciety of Health was the spread of the leftist-radical ideology among that nation's rodents. It seems that the rats and mice are showing resistance to long-time proven effective poisons. 
Addressing the Society ( a group long associated with the maintenance of the status quo), Dr. E. W. Bentley asserted that the Rodent Resistance must be checked; indeed even snuffed out. The blatantly fascist tactics received immediate reaction from many outspoken American radicals. 
Meanwhile a crowd of some 13,000 rats sporting omega buttons cor­nered Prime Minister Harold Wilson at 10 Downing Street, chanting, "Hell, no, we won't go." 
A Little Humor There, Son 
The Gridiron Club of Washington, an organization of journalists, re­cently held its annual banquet and caustic field day, lampooning such mythic heroes as "Mr. Touchdown" Nixon and "Liberal L o n e s o m e Southern Comfort Salesman" Finch. 
The skit became the medium of the hour as a Billy Grahamish figure in­toned (to the tune of Come to the Church in the Wildwood): 
There's a church in the East Roorn of the White House 
A lovely Establishment shrine I give briefings S1.1,nday at the 
White House; They're on poliC'lJ matters divine Oh., come., come., came, come., Come to the church in the White 
House Come help 'ltS purge national sin. No matter w!io's head of the White 
House I'm the preacher who always is "in." 

But not all the humor was this metaphysical. One of the hit produc­tion numbers featured a would-be Arthur Burns of the Federal Re­serve singing: 
There's no business like s1ow business, New-low business is swell! Let"s cool off this fever of em­ployment, Let"s cut back to nineteen-twenty­nine! 


9


G/s there 


a'Paulist 

in the crowd? 
Believe it or not, a campus pro­test group is not an unlikely place to find a Paulist, 
Why? Because Paulists are the mediators of our time ... stand­ing between God and man ... understanding, helping, loving ... trying to bring together the extremes of the world we live in and the Church. 
Wherever he is ... as a college chaplain, working in a ghetto or helping in a parish ... the Paulist is serving. 
If you're interested in finding out more about the Paulist priestly spirit, write for our illustrated brochure and a copy of our Renewal Chapter Guide­lines. 
Write to: 
Vocation Director 

'Paulistth 

<pa ere 
Room400 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 


THE UNIVERSITY BLAZER 
and our bold-striped Odd Trousers 
For blazer-or any other solid color sport jacket-we believe you will find these handsome Odd Trousers a most dis­tinctive complement. Woven exclusively for us in Scotland, they come in bold strip­ings in Tartan colorings of red, navy and green ... or yellow green and red. Even sizes 30 to 36. $32 
Our navy University blazer is aslimming six-button double-breasted model of medium-weight wool and molzair blend. Deep side vents, $95 
ESTABLISHED 1818 





~/4&JikeJ:1/
C~JE~r~~ 
~cn'.s ~r ~loys· furnishings. ~ats ~r~hoes 
74 E. MADISON ST., NR. MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO, ILL. 60602 
ATLA!I-TA • BOSTO!I-• LOS ANGELES• NEW YORK PJTTSBCRGII • SAN FRANCISCO• SCARSDALE· WASlllNGTO!I-
S V ; ~ A~ :-\ 
" _._, 
, . , 
' . ~ 
. . 
.·.' . . . 
.. 

Single copzes on sale at the bookstore and through your hall representatives. 

March 20, 1970 





Juggler 
~-------------------------~ 
Subscription: 3 issues only $2.00 mailed off campus and out of town. Delivered on campus. Copies of the first issue will be included-subject to limited supply. 
Make check payable to: 
Juggler Box 583 Notre Dame, Ind. 

Name 
Address .... ···············---·······------·--·-------·---···----·---·---------·-------­
~------------------------J 
A Sense of the Sacred: 
Religion & Tradition at Notre Dame 
If Johnny Howard and Snubber Murphy and 811 others had joined the church last Saturday morning, we would have had the two thousand asked for, and the scene in the gymnasiu,rn might have been different. As it was, Friday and Saturday's total,s had to be added together in order to :Wire the team that twenty-one hundred communions had been offered for them. 
Notre Danie RELIGIOUS BULLETIN October 19, 1925 
'l'rHE Religious Bulletin appeared daily at Notre 
11 Dame until 1960. It was published by the religious prefect (the opening quote was written by the not-yet­cardinal, John O'Hara) and on an ordinary day in­cluded articles like "The Price You Pay for the Modern Girl" and "The Devil is Mad at Notre Dame.'' With its daily communion and confession tallies, the Bul­letin serves as perhaps the most fitting symbol of regi­mented Catholicism at Notre Dame. 
But to be fair to the Notre Dame Catholics of yes­terday, the spiritual bouquets and the Mass attendance records were only the benchmarks of an often deeper spirituality. The attempts of the religious prefect to measure Christianity do not appear so foolish if juxtaposed to the recent issue of Neivsweek which listen to top ten religious events of the 1960's. Indeed the SCHOLASTIC considered running a sociological poll with this article, a poll which would measure the spiritual intake and religious output of students on the Notre Dame campus today. The new benchmarks are no more valid than the old. 
The danger of engaging in the search for an index of spirituality is not only that these measurements are irrelevant and foolish but also that, after a time, they may unconsciously become the substance rather than just an indicator of religious faith. Thus, consterna­tion has spread amongst administrators, rectors, par­ents, and alumni that Catholicism, the Catholicism of benchmarks, has died at Notre Dame. Their fears are justified; but they are finally petty fears and fail to confront the real religious problems on the campus, problems that existed as much in their day as in ours. The Catholicism of benchmarks has died; and until the creation of a committee for the study of the min­istry at Notre Dame several weeks ago, little syste­matic thought or study had been given to the nature of its spiritual replacement. 
CHAPLAINS, RECTORS, AND ·PASTORS 
'1f'HE University chaplain, Father Joseph Fey, has 11 four assistants and an office in the bus shelter. Father Fey is a man of gentle kindness and reverence, but the ignominious displacement of his office from the student center to the bus shelter emblematizes the futility and lack of direction incumbent upon his posi­tion. His parish includes 7,500 students who live any­where from Carroll Hall to Mishawaka; and each of these students possesses a peculiar religion or irreli­gion. Unlike the hall rectors, Father Fey does not live with the students and cannot come to know them as persons before coming to serve them as persons-with­

religious-eccentricities. No matter how understanding 
the chaplain is, the student who visits him must look 
upon himself as something of a freak. The psycho­
logical awkwardness of this situation is hardly con­
ducive tc., ': oastoral situation. 
When ·l '".._ responsibilities of the University Chap­lain and Sacred Heart Church are left undefined and undefinable, the burden of the pastoral duties falls up-. on the rectors and assistant rectors of the residence halls. But most of these men hold other full-time posi­tions as teachers or administrators and simply do not have the time to become a part of the hall commu­nities. A recent assembly of hall presidents unani­mously recommended that the job of rector become a full-time position reserved for religiously and psycho­logically sensitive men. This recommendation seems abundantly sensible, especially in light of recent shifts in the character of religious confession and prayer. 
Donald Sniegowski, an Assistant Professor of En­glish and a graduate of Notre Dame, suggests that introspection and confession to close friends have re­placed the confession box. If this is true, the sensitive rector, the rector who actually lives with the students of his hall, is in a much better position to serve as their confessor. Similarly, according to Father Thomas Chambers, the highly respected rector of Morrissey Hall, social service has become the most prevalent form of prayer for the college student. The rector can best exemplify this type of prayer by giving his service to the hall community, by bringing personal care and understanding to the students and their problems. 
SACRAMENTS AND ANTI-SACRAMENTS 
P""frHE liturgical revolution represents the most dis­
11 tinctive and obvious change in religious conduct on the campus. Latin Masses have been discontinued except in those dark corners of Corby where the lonely forefathers celebrate in solitaire. Among the replace­ments for the Latin Masses are the amorphous celebra­tions of pop culture like the 11: 00 a.m. Sunday Mass at Moreau or the convocation of joyful Christians who consider the homily-discussion the center of the liturgy. These gatherings cften incite joyous enthusiasm ,vith­out deepening religious experience or, in the second case, reduce the Mass to a Sunday school effort at lucidity. At liturgical events of this sort, the tension between the aesthetics of the profane and the aesthetics of the sacred can be disconcerting; more frustrating for some people is the formlessness which reduces sacrament to "happening" and fragments the relation between ritual and rhetoric. 
But the severe problem that undergirds all these difficulties may reside outside the ceremony itself; it may be that the sacramental nature of the liturgy has been left without a referrent in life. Robert Meagher of the Theology faculty points out that the sacraments emerged as ceremonies of the sacred events of a life: birth, death, marriage, and meals, for instance. When these events lose their sacred character (e.g., South Din­ing Hall), the sacraments become artifacts rather than images. According to Father David Burrell, this anti­sacramentalism is not peculiar to Notre Dame but symptomatic of the "American scene." Burrell be­lieves that despite these limitations, there are rich pos­sibilities inside the parameters that exist here: "You can sit and listen to the Scriptures, and the students are open -they hear; and it's not just a matter of asking critical questions. The Eucharist is in contact with something ancient and mysterious whether we call it transubstantiation or transignification or what­ever." 
Despite the inadequacies of much of the campus liturgy today, the prospects for a liturgical develop­ment of forms which befit the sanctity of the occasion without constricting community expression are good as long as men like Bartell, Burrell, Burtchaell, and Gerber are around. 
flESBURGH AND THE ATMOSPHERE 

U
p to this point, we have discussed some more or less formal questions about religion at Notre Dame. A shift in perspective leads us to ask what, if any, effect this University's claims to Catholicism have on the spiritual life of its members. Some would argue that Catholicity should not make an imprint upon the University, that the moral and spiritual development of the student does not properly concern the University. Father Edward O'Connor takes issue with this view­point: "The University is a community of living per­sons, · whose academic lives cannot be separated from the moral and personal. Hence, in fact, the University community does not need to be concerned about these other dimensions.'' 
Father Hesburgh's intimations of these peculiarly religious dimensions of Notre Dame have most often been sentimentalized generalizations; he has spoken 
incessantly of the spirit of the place, the atmosphere, the tradition. In an interview with him last week, he spoke of the grotto and the dome and how Father Sorin and his students rebuilt the administration build­ing. He told the story of an alcoholic who deserted his wife and children and drove toward Florida to drink himself to death but upon reaching Cincinnati, he turned back to come to Notre Dame where he found the courage to give up drinking. It is difficult to re­late these words without giving the impression that we have distorted these words to Father Hesburgh's detriment. In his more lucid and sensible moments, Father Hesburgh recognized the more elemental as­sets of Notre Dame. "Frank O'Malley would call it a reverence for things spiritual." "There is a deep re­ligious conviction among the people here." Yet it seems that Father Hesburgh's fingers have slipped from the religious pulse of the community. 
AN UMBRELLA 
W
ILLIAM STOREY, who chairs the newly formed committee on the ministry, points out that the idea and the establishment of the University began in the 12th and 13th centuries and began with the Catholic Church. Since then, at least up until the American and French revolutions, it was the Church that maintained the University in order to provide a liberal and theological orientation for its students. Thus the historical foundation of the University implies that education is a religiously profound activity. Moreover, this idea of education lends great dignity to man be­cause it implies that he is more than a worker or a craftsman or even a thinker; it implies that he can find something divinely inspirational within his person, within his experience. This is not to say that Notre 
Dame or even the generic Catholic University should 
monopolize the idea that education is a sacred enter­
prise. But perhaps history demands a greater commit­
ment on the part of this University because of its 
claim to Christianity and because of its proposed pre­
eminence among universities which claim to be Chris­
tian. 
To all appearances, Notre Dame's administration 
does not go about this commitment in any kind of 
conscious way. Father Hesburgh last week defended 
the College of Business Administration as "just as 
important as any other college here" -a statement 
which seems to forget the primacy and the centrality 
of the liberal arts at the Christian university, which 
seems to forget that man's dignity emanates from the 
fact that he is more than his vocation. Yet it seems 
that because of Notre Dame's claims to Christianity, 
men of religious concern are attracted to the faculty; 
the students and the faculty here believe that there 
is more at stake in the classroom, that the problems 
r·aised can be more than "academic questions," that 
they can be questions of personal and spiritual impor­
tance. Father Burrell calls Notre Dame "an umbrella 
where you can't write off religion as the society writes 
off religion." 
The Administration's claims to Christianity are, in 
a different way, a two-edged sword, working to both 
its advantage and disadvantage. A student at Michigan 
State cannot approach that university's president and 
denounce the university's conduct as unchristian. But 
at Notre Dame, Father Hesburgh, because of his per­
sonal and positional situation as a priest, must regard 
such denunciations seriously. At the same time, 
Notre Dame's claims to Christianity ordain her ex­
ecutives with a self-righteousness that often prohibits 
the University from asking fundamental questions 
about her own conduct. In any struggle, both sides 
are apt to use Christian arguments and rhetoric to de­
fend their respective positions. 
TRADITION' TRADITION 
A
CUTE ambivalence surrounds the word "tradition" whenever it is heard on this campus -or on any other campus. Sitting precariously on the ledge of respectability, it declares its wisdom while its at­tackers hurl at it stones carved with the word "pro­vincialism." The charges of provincialism are more easily understood and more readily apparent than the declarations of wisdom. What has been said of another school might also be said of Notre Dame: "a small Catholic college, run by small Catholics, situated on a bluff and operating on the same principle." Only the assessment of Notre Dame's terrain is completely mis­taken. Less evident are the advantages of tradition. 
Several years ago, when the student riots at Co­lumbia were first waxing hot, the radical left published a list of its course demands: American Imperialism, White Racism, and Capitalistic Exploitation -all of 
which presume a certain ideology. Without denying 
the presuppositions of these courses, it seems a dubious project to institute courses which presume an ideology, 
March 20, 1970 
since ideologies are created in the wake of huge his­
torical and political forces and by the limitations of 
their own vocabulary decide the outcome of any 
thought process before it is begun. 
Tradition, of course, carries with it many of the 
same limitations; but because it is the religious and 
intellectual product of several millennia, it has the 
advantage of a more flexible vocabulary and a more 
illuminating knowledge of itself. Perhaps at the root of 
all these attempts to justify the Christian tradition 
is a sense that there is a fertility in that tradition 
which gives itself to fruitful thought, thought which, 
unlike pure ideology, is embodied in history and human 
beings. 
FAITH AND EDUCATION 
A 
CHRISTIAN educator might make the comment 
that the Christian tradition somehow represents 
the experience of one man written large, that the il­
lumination of that tradition brings the individual to 
a greater understanding of himself and his condition. 
This claim brings up the entire question of the rela­
tionship between faith and education, a question which, 
large as it is, must be addressed, for it is the answer 
to this question which will finally decide whether this 
project called Notre Dame, a Christian University, is 
worthwhile. 
Robert Meagher noted that the most a teacher can do in the classroom is "to drive the student to the point of silence,'' to lead the student to an articulation of his own experience insofar as that experience can be articulated. If the student can explicate all of his experience, his life is a life of words, a life without faith, without hope. But if there is an inexplicable resi~ue of experience, an inscrutable gift of life, faith becomes a possibility. Either realization makes educa­tion a desperately serious matter. 
We said earlier that the University because of its claims to Christianity, attracts many men of uncom­mon seriousness. These men, together with those students who escape the dangers of parochialism, re­gard education with a seriousness that makes Notre Dame a university where hope and despair are felt more deeply. But what finally distinguishes Notre Dame from other universities is something that Father Hesburgh and almost any person sensitive to the spirit of this University has noticed: the faculty abounds with men of deep religious faith, men who transmit their faith to the students and faculty members who come to know them. For this is finally how faith moves in the church and in history; it moves in the person­to-person transmission of the sanctity and the beauty of life and death. A passion for wisdom, for more than wisdom, penetrates the failures and the inadequacies of this University, transforms the faculty and the stu­dents, and makes Notre Dame not a sacred society but a society of sacred people. 
Richard Moran 




Dance: The Freshness of Wind on Your Cheeks 
Beauty is momentary in Lhe mind ­
The fitful tracing of a portal 
But in the ilesh it is immortal. 
Wallace Stevens 

Man's experience never occurs in the sterility oi one level of consciousness: within every action, emo­tional or sensual experience lies an illusive percep­tion, in silence. This silence embodies a full spec­trum of human experience, underlining the external­ly obvious or even the concerns of the intellect. 
And this realm is the subject matter of dance. In the communication of emotion, sensual experi­ence or human intercourse, dimensions lie beyond the access of the verbal, left only to be shmvn. These dimensions are the subject matter of dance. 
''\,Vhat is the idea of the freshness of wind 
on your cheek? What is the idea of the smell of a rose? What is the idea of dawn, of sun­set, of the color green? If you call these ideas, these are the ideas we dance about -and there are whole ranges of delicate abstractions to employ: of qualities, of essences, nuance, degrees of certain emotions." 
Murray Louis, dancer-choreographer 
As a being defined through corporeal form, man experiences through the body. The expression of significant internal realities, through man's bocliliness elicits an aesthetically exciting integration with the mind. The dance elevates the human body far above its mundane concerns, through its use as expressive instrument and the necessary perfection of the in­strument itself. The dance is, then, the most highly refined experience of man as a physical/sexual being, and this is integrated in dance with his internal life more than in any other art form. 


The dance concerns the rendition of all of these aspects oi existence. The art form thus defines itself as a phenomenology. Or, in other words, the dance presents to its audience descriptions and explora­tions oi man and the vvorld as man lives, as he ex­periences, keenly and acutely, before the process of reflection begins. It is an almost intangible experi­ence, present only in the time space of performance and totally re-created each time repeated. 
Because it answers the call in man for expression in these realms, the dance stands among his natural impulses, an art form existent in every human culture. Further, the dance, poetry and drama constitute the most essential art forms, for in them man creates solely with the tools of his own being, independent of instrument or brush. 
To understand this, however, the ballet must be recognized as a derivative, highly specialized, form of dance. The ballet began in the 16th century at the court of the king of France but only during the last fifty years, has it slowly shed its aristocratic veil to begin to speak directly from the contemporary situ­ation. 
Richard Rutherford of the Royal Winnipeg Ballet terms the present a time of "tremendous Renaissance for the ballet as well as for the modern dance, each developing through their own techniques." Murray Louis explains this Renaissance as analogous to de­velopments elsewhere in art, growing out of a spirit of the 1950's. The '60's have been a groping time, and now hopefully the '?O's will see a new type of theater of mixed media. 


The elements of the dance are four: motion, time, shape, and space. Murray Louis defines dance as "the idea of sensing the motion in a movement." Though this definition functions only on the most basic level, it indicates the change in emphasis from the classical ballet to contemporary dance. This change affects the creative disposition of contempor­ary dance regardless of whether the artist works in the mode of the classical discipline or rejects that stringency for a personal discipline as Louis has. 
"The dance is an art in space and time. The object of the dancer is to obliterate that." Merce Cunningham, dancer-choreographer 

The twentieth-century choreographers discovered the use of gravity, long defied through artistic con­centration on ascent. With this principle, dance assumes as beautiful the heaviness of a living body falling with a full intent of eventual rise. The classical fixation with story has been negated through empha­sis on movement simply for the beauty of the move­ment itself. And the resultant structure, as Merce Cunningham explains, arose from a rejection of the classical space structure to one based on time. "If one can think of the structure as a space of time in \vhich anything can happen in any sequence of move­ment event, and any length of stillness can take place, then the self-imposed restrictions of a formalized art may become an aid towards freedom." 
The Janee continues to struggle for apprecia­tion equal to that a\varded to the drama in American theater. Richard Rutherford understands this as a lingering aversion to the dance as overly abstract and assesses a vicious circle of inability to comprehend the art form because of insufficient exposure. 
The dance combines elements of painting, sculp­ture, drama, music and creates a statement divergent from the experience of any of these arts. To· experi­ence for example, Agnes deMille's "Fall River Legend," to experience, in silence, the struggle of Lizzie Borden as she approaches the insanity of a murderess is totally divorced from time or space or rhythm or form-these blend imperceptibly into the emotion of the dance itself. The experience is finally perceiving the wrenchingly sorrowful terror of Lizzie Borden gone insane. 
''For me, it seems enough that dancing is a spiritual exercise in physical form, and that what is seen, is what it is. What the dancer does is the most realistic of all possible things. Dancing is a visible action of life." 
Merce Cunningham 
The Scholastic 



The Beautifulle Contradictions &c. 
In April, the Sophonwre Literary Festival will bring to this cmnpus eight poets to read and nieet inform,ally with people interested in their work: Lee Hmwood, Anselm Hollo, Stuart Montgomery, Ken Smith and Nathaniel Tarn froni England; and Michael Anania, Allen Planz and Gary Snyder from America. In the follOWing article, an atternpt is made to briefly introduce each of these poets. (We regret the omission of Mr. Stuart Montgomery, but his work was not available to us at press time.) 
THE distinction is often made between literature as process and literature as product: between the artist immersed in the act of creation and the artifact which that act produces. Poetry readings, poetry as oral medium for communication, offer a unique marriage of the two . . . plus an involvement by the reader/ listener that makes of this creative act a communal sharing, a celebration. 
The voice is the "producer and reproducer" of poetry; and the fact is that reading poetry off the page removes the reader twice from the creative source of that poetry -from the poet's voice and the reader's voice. In other words, as Eliot too has pointed out, the poet is not only the creator, but also an interpreter of his work; and the poetry reading supplies the only time when both these roles are at once visible. 
Poetry as an oral medium, with an assist from Dylan and his followers, has recently been given new strength in its ability to speak to a wider, and less print-oriented audience. Readings (both large and small, formal and informal) have made poetry much more of a communal, public experience than it has been since the time of the troubadours in medieval Provence. Poetry as oral communication has made the poet and artist sharing his creation with an audi­ence that at once receives and interprets. The reading has become perhaps the most effective way to com­municate those things only poetry can say, and it con­tinues the earliest of all poetic traditions -poetry as social communication, as a sharing and spreading of the common myths/traditions/languages of a people. 
Gary Snyder & Allen Planz 
Both Gary Snyder and Allen Planz write a poetry 
that treats, whether as an explicit theme or as a given 
supposition, the disintegration of the American mythic 
structure. Snyder begins with that decay (it is every­
where in his first volume, Back Gou,ntry) and creates 
from that given a completely new mythic system. 
Planz, in A Night for Rioting, takes as his theme the 
decay that characterizes both rural and urban America 
and treats the impending chaos with a violent energy 
that makes it something immediate and terrifying. 
The stock parody of Romanticism has Wordsworth 
and company fleeing headlong from the city to the 
innocence of the country where they can build a new 
society with new myths. Today not even this escape 
is viable, and Planz makes this undeniably clear. Not 
only is the city hell, but the country too is dry and 
sterile, a drought-strangled land where 
Sometirnes a skeleton whirlwind 
lifts the hoarse voice 
of the grasses. 
The volume presents a series of violent and gro­
tesque images that bespeak the terror of this total 
decay and the even more terrifying absence of substitute 
structures. 
If, as Thomas McGrath has written, Planz is singing ''the revolutionary song of the Unoccupied Country," there is not much to indicate the nature of that new territory. Perhaps it all has something to do with a return to the most primal mythic locus, the land. If so, Planz is content to hint at it: 
... and therefore nothing but the 7,and S1.1,rvives, 
for only the 7,and lasts, outlasting 
citizen, city, empire. 
Planz, like Nathaniel Tarn, is a political activist and he senses the decay that surrounds us and our inability to do anything immediate about it. But alternatives, again are only hinted at; the poetry as revolutionary statement is incomplete. 
Snyder, on the other hand, begins with the fact of this decay; his poetry has been an attempt to build for himself a new myth. This is difficult business, and it makes Snyder something of the man-without-a-cul­ture. 
Where Planz remains inside a decaying culture and offers no "alternatives," Snyder removes himself as completely as possible from the American myth (with­out penetrating those limits which enable him to com­municate through the English language), and posits "alternatives" in the construction of an entirely new system -one that rejects the city and embraces the Eastern/Buddhist/contemplative ethic: 
... sky over endless mountains. All the junk that goes with being human Dra1ps away, hard rock wavers Even the heavy present seems to fail ... 
The viability of this movement has something to do with the ethic/esthetic that the individual reader brings to Snyder's poetry . . . but the move has been made, and the poet offers us perhaps the best example around of one man's creative potential. • 

Nathaniel Tarn 
One of the most vital and important movements of modern poetry derives much of its content from an­thropology. T. S. Eliot began it when he used Sir James Frazier's The Golden Bough as a primary source for his abstruse classic The Wasteland. Other poets followed Eliot into the natural •science libraries, and some, like Charles Olson, even ventured out into the field and incorporated their experience into their poetry. With Olson's recent death, Nathaniel Tarn stands as the chief inheritor of this tradition, and al­ready he must be considered as a major innovator in both projectivist style and content. 
Unlike his predecessors, Tarn has spent much of his life working as a professional anthropologist. Perhaps this depth of experience is at least partially responsible for his singular understanding of how myth functions in society. Myth-making in most modern poetry is often associated with social disinvolvement; however, for Tarn it is integral with his radical activism as well as his dedication to natural conservation. He writes: 
There is no worthier S1.1,bject for poetry in our time than the fear that races should rise and rend each other O'Lff mother earth forget herself her milk run dry 
Tarn's poetry is relatively unknown in America_ It should soon find a large and enthusiastic audience; his rare knowledge of myth allows him to combine it with cogent ecological statements. The result amounts to a brilliant synthesis of the natural and surreal. certainly a major achievement. 
the worm multiplies in my h011,Se as I have less and less years to keep this is how he lives off me l do no more than house him yet I welcome his passage and the beautiful contradictions of his work the lichen of excrement he leaves in me that excrete him in due time as a denominator of the flights that we al,l take through one another the 1,wst material sign of certain processes some of which are of spirit All of a 81.(,d,den life is very beautiful there is an everbloom in the center of my existence I want life to go on for ever • 
23



Ken Smith 
Ken Smith's poetry offers another v1s1on of the rural-urban problem. Planz, a New Yorker, focuses upon the city, but Smith draws heavily from his boy­hood in rural England to present a view of nature at once beautiful and indifferent to men who depend upon it, vital beyond cruelty. Few men understand more than Smith about things close to the dynamics of na­ture, stones and grass. 
. . . stones rest on the soil, having rwt much to do wi,th it., but supplying it they crurnble slowly, reluctant to give of their substance. It is the action of the generations of grasses 
. to break and sift these down. 
As Vince Sherry has said, this poet makes roots, like grass, pushing, fingering through any soil, gripping it, trying to hold together his own atmosphere. 
Soil often becomes concrete. Smith himself has ex­perienced the removal from farm to city; he is one of those occasional geniuses born into a culturally sig­nificant situation, and gifted with the sensibility to transform his personal history into a myth that speaks to a whole society. 
THE STREET leads rwwhere, cannot be entered down which rw one is walking into the silence., the pure sea of boats., cryings., scuffed quays. The grey air is enipty., built into cloud-colmnns. Street of chi1i1hood., 
no one is calling. 

• 
Anselm Hollo 

There remains, of course, the fact that all of poetry is not -myth-making, that it all has something to do with sex, politics and even walking; Anselm Hollo says 
so: 
the rpoet Vallejo ·invented new ways of wal,king sitting lightly on icooden Metro benches not to wear out his trousers not to wear out his shoes 
in the secret code of his poems he described t1wse inventions 
The warning is of course that if you don't believe that sitting is really a way of walking you had better not read poetry. Saving those inventions for us makes Vallejo and his friend Anselm Hollo poets and there­fore in on a good number of things we otherwise might not find out about. 
Anselm Hollo is an international demon: he was born in Finland and still keeps himself going by trans­lating from that arcane language (which gives him, we've heard, a strange accent): 
the typewriter banging better than radio for c01npany. sheets of translations pile up., too many 
words, too many other men's words bang through my head. why don't they , learn English in Finland. why don't they learn Finnish Swedish German in England, 01,iJ, & New. they're just being kind to you, Anselm. they don't learn, you earn. 
Now what, you might ask, can the poet write about after he learns how to walk. Well, there is World War Three: 
not far from here., in a shadow or cluster of sha.dows not my own a large beast is turning., half-walking 
a brotherly being tho' of a di.fJerent order perhaps a being in love it hunis it si,ghs and hums in the shadows 
And there is one's private life: 
I am in my city. I have tied up my boat in the celestial, l,ake. I have seen Osiris., my father 
and I have gazed upon my mother. I have made love. I am the bull in a turquoise cloud. 0 Unen-ern-Hetep., 
name meaning 'Existence-in-Peace.,' I have entered into you., I have opened my head. 
-.. . . . ·-.. 
.'.' --\~ ~ . 
. \. ­

And there are the sheer problems of being a poet: 
what we need to do is write a lot of sentences and then put them in the right orcur:­if you know the right order. 
And then there is the problem of finding out if you really know how to walk at all. • 


Michael Anania 
Earlier we mentioned Charles Olson, T. S. Eliot and Nathaniel Tarn as members of a tradition as­sociated most directly with anthropological investiga­tion. There is a deeper impetus behind that poetry which often finds intricate expression in Michael Anania's work: it is a root compulsion to know every­thing that can be known. There is an anthropology to be discovered that will tell everything about people, starting with the way they talk: 
His wife left hirn in a year, said she couldn't stand the S1riell or even the look, it looks like leprosy; the rnud and the water, he says, got inside 111.e UJith the blood or deep down where it used to be. 
but including everything they feel. The sweep of history is also matter here, but only as it has been seen, as it has been remembered, as it can have been known or has been known: 
I was at Iwo, beneath the bronzed men, there where it cuts off to the base, held my ground against a thousand. They hogged all the glory, puked at the groans of heroes, my own cries. The whole world cheers and cries for m,e. I am a soldier a 111-0Vie imitation of my celluloid march through the forests and marshes of LmJte, bearded wi,t'h,. a cigarette 
March 20, 1970 
slouched against a tree 
forceful, unconcerned. 
She fell for me right off 
because I spoke Chinese, 
took her figured skirt off 
and did a deadly dance. 
• 

Lee Harwood 

Like Ken Smith, Lee Harwood possesses a keen sense for the English countryside. For Harwood, that countryside is the locus of a culture once strong by its traditions and basis in the organic. Industrialism has destroyed that: culture, and Harwood admits it bitterly. 
The morning spent loading cord-wood onto a trailer 
five young foxes in the bean-field waiting 
for the wood-pigeons 
in the beech woods 1.1,p on the ridge-the bark 
still green & wet., the "sticks" just felled. 
It's reduced to a violent struggle 
with heavy machiner1.J, & boredom . 
the castle crumbling sedately «Damn fool!" 
the gilding already flaking off 
The destruction of the organic threatens Harwood in another way. As a poet writing in an era of artistic alienation, he is forced to confront the danger of his losing all functions but those of perception and craft. 
Even the cliches seem to contain less conceit . than the poem., and now the poem about the poem, and now the poem abo'l.l,t the poem aboi1,t the . . . and so on and on cleeper into the cheap gaming house. 
But Harwood, as poet and man, has the power to stop this destruction, and he does, proclaiming 
that I should now leave writing this poem when it is so late at night., 
and go lie with my love. ·It is late., but such blindness 
could not go on forever, thank God. 
In light of such commitment, it is easy to agree with John Ashbery, who praises Harwood's poetry be­cause it is "self-effacing not from modesty but' be­cause it is going somewhere and has no time to con­sider itself." • 
Steve Brion Rory Holsher & M. P. O'Connor 



The Nonviolence Program: Revolution Within Tradition 
THE first year of the Program for the Study and Practice of the Nonviolent Resolution of Human Con­flict has had a substantial effect on the University. The two men who are teaching the seminars, James Doug­lass and James McCarthy, have had a significant influ­ence on the values, beliefs and actions of many students. Since its inception last March 5th, the program has been working out its internal character in imaginative ways that could assist the revitalizing of older and larger academic disciplines. By the end of this year, about 500 students will have been in one of the 21 sections within the nonviolence program. Nine faculty members from six different departments presently teach within the program. 
Father Hesburgh's support last spring was crucial to the inception of the program, and he and other mem­bers of the community have done much to -get the pro­gram firmly on its feet. "I couldn't be happier with the response and the support of the Administration and the faculty," Charles McCarthy, the director of the pro­gram, says. "They have not only let the program de­velop at its own pace and in its own way-that is, not to dictate what it should be-but have really supported it in a lot of ways. Ted has continually given not only his oral public support to the program, but in a rnyraid of little ways, has helped, for example, sending books, and essays that have come to him over the year." 
THE program's structure is unique to this University. Six faculty and six students form the "steering com­mittee'' which determines all policy decisions by a con­sensus vote. The members of the committee come from various disciplines; the students, including two St. Mary's girls, are not relegated to an advisory capacity, but have equal voting power with the faculty. Dr. William Storey, a member of the steering committee, says, "We learned how differently we go at things even though we had a common basis. We go in to listen to one another, and that takes a lot of time." . 
McCarthy, the director, sees his role primarily as a teacher and secondarily as an administrator: "I con­sider this the only way to be a meaningful administra­tor in the University, at least as an administrator whose decisions directly affect the intellectual, spiritual, and psychological development of the students. Knowledge from and about students that I acquire from my curric­lar and extracurricular relations with them has been indispensable in helping me plan a program and insti­tute courses that most students have found to be a meaningful and substantial learning experience." 
Rich Smith, a sophomore presently taking the non­violence seminar, says: "Without a doubt, Dr. McCar­thy's seminar is invaluable, if for no other reason than that it presents ideas which are rarely if ever presented in any other class. The examination of nonviolence as a life style has been sadly neglected in a time when it should be explored and investigated on an unprecedented scale. If nothing else, the class balances some of the ideas which have been presented to us for the past twelve to sixteen years." 
There is little doubt that the nonviolence program is a unique and exciting addition to the University, and has provided a personal and educational challenge to many students. The program's concrete accomplish­ments are impressive: other universities have expressed the desire to begin a similar program, a magazine has been started, and the program has received national attention. 
Yet there are very substantial dangers and prob­lems with the nonviolence department, both within the program itself and from persons and groups in the larger University structure. There has even been specu­lation that the area of study may not exist next year. Both Jim Douglass and Charles McCarthy are leaving Notre Dame after this year. Douglass, a visiting pro­fessor from the University of Hawaii, will probably go to Canada (his original home) to write a book on medi­tation and resistance. The reasons for McCarthy's resignation are more mysterious. On December 22, Mc­Carthy sent a one-sentence letter to Father John Walsh, Vice-President of Academic Affairs, informing him that he planned to resign after this year. After a three-year stay at the University, McCarthy says, "My resignation has no connection with the Administration's relation­ship to the program. Also, my resignation is something I'm willing to discuss personally with anybody. I have discussed this extensively with John [Walsh], but I consider it too intimately concerned with an individual's collective and personal Christianity to be exposed to the mentality with which people respond to mass media publications." 
McCARTHY and Douglass have demonstrated an intellectual grasp of nonviolence (e.g., Douglass' book, The Non-violent Cross), but more importantly, they have attempted to express the spirit of nonviolent Christianity in their daily actions. Fully cognizant of . Gandhi's qualifier that no man could be completely non-. violent, they have worked to create a life style, to live the philosophy/theology they teach to their students, and to embody the spirit of love and concern. Many students in the seminars have intuitively sensed this from the beginning. 
"Incarnating" a nonviolent life style is central to the whole purpose of the program. While the existence of the program in the next few years seems probable, its collateral ability to transform the way people live may not perdure. The program has been involved in several projects: the breakfast-food program, the drive for selective conscientious objection, the national radio spots on nonviolence. All are important because these kinds of activities are consistent with the program's emphasis on practicing the life style. Speakers, such as Dan and Phil Berrigan, Staughton Lynd, Gordon Zahn, and David Dellinger, have given witness to "living the life style." 
The danger of a failure to speak on a personal, experiential level has been avoided largely because the program has possessed a considerable amount of free­dom within the academic structure. It is obvious that the program must soon enter the academic framework on a more permanent basis; the steering committee is presently drawing up a statement of purpose and a pro­posal for the program's organization next year. Several possible goals of the program include a major in non­violence and a complete pass-fail grading system for the program's courses. A monastery program, in which students would join a Benedictine community for a sum­mer of reflection and meditation, is in the final planning stages. These proposals will be voted upon by the Arts and Letters College Council. If the proposal passes there, it will go on to the Academic Council, which in­cludes the Deans, the Vice-Presidents, and elected rep­resentatives, and is the highest authority in academic matters. 
There is a certain danger that the unique character and imagination of the program could be destroyed by becoming overly constitutionalized, dogmatized, and in­stitutionalized. McCarthy emphasizes this threat: "The program of nonviolence cannot become a convenient tool whereby the intellectual elite tell the violated and oppressed of the world how to respond to their agonies. In no sense is it an ideology to justify the claims of the powerful. If it becomes this, the program is worse than useless." 
FATHER WALSH has reported that several faculty members have written to him objecting to the nature of the program. These men have charged the program with "propagandizing," "soft intellectual work," and "communal stupidity." A professor in the general pro­gram described the nonviolence seminars as "entirely polemical." He says, "The nonviolence seminars are not a course in the study of violence, but a course in one methodology for bringing about revolutionary change. The program has defined itself within one methodology; it is not an objective exploration from many points of view. It is a group of people that think the same way, getting together to read authors that espouse the view that they already hold. The non­violence program does not study the opposite point of view by attracting different types of students, such as students in ROTC." This professor thought that the money spent by the nonviolence program could be better spent on a program to study oriental civilizations. 
In some ways, the nonviolence program suffers from its uniqueness. "What we have now, we more or less just happened into," Father Maurice Amen, a member of the nonviolence steering committee, says. "We are attempting to do something here for which there are no paradigms." The program has also suffered because of a general lack of communication between the teachers in the program and the Administration. Father Walsh and Dean Crosson both expressed regret at their lack of knowledge about the internal changes or future plans of the program. The program has responded to its limited first-semester scope by adding courses in human­istic psychology, the philosophy of revolution, eco­nomics, and personal "encounter" courses. 
Yet the inherent problem of a program based on action and personal commitment remains. As Father Maurice Amen phrased the problem: "Can the Univer­sity take a moral stance and remain a university, with the view that objectivity must be preserved? The non­violence program must be more than just the intellec­tual. In this, it does not fit the institutional thrust of dispassionately imparting knowledge and disciplining the mind. Yet the 'pursuit of Christian wisdom,' which is the purpose of Notre Dame according to the bulletin, means 'translating worship into acts.'" 
Dr. William Storey contends that students are tired of merely collecting facts. "Wise men by definition dis­turb the status quo, and wise students are trouble­makers. The nonviolence program-unlike a course in Celtic poetry-is problem producing. Certain kinds of teachers and programs invite the kind of action and thinking that draw the reaction of the nation or the alumni. The nonviolence program has immediate reper­cussions because it is close to the meaning of our existence." 
THE critics of the program are correct in citing the considerable danger of the study of nonviolence becom­ing an ideology. There is a thin line, as Dr. Storey mentions, between "Christian wisdom" and propagan­da, polemic, and dogma. The nonviolence program is intimately concerned with personal value judgments and in the creation of new values, values that many times are in contradiction with "the public morality." As Dr. Storey phrases it, a person committed to non­violence is "more of a hairshirt than a comforter." 
The nonviolence program raises a much larger question for Notre Dame: is the traditional institution able or willing to accept the revolutionary character of the nonviolent program? How will the alumni respond to a philosophy that severely challenged the mythical tradition of the Notre Dame man? 
The Administration and faculty must be able to realize and promote what many students have found to be relevant and critical to their lives. And the men within the program must retain a self-critical sense in order to escape propagandizing. Perhaps through its intended emphasis on the marriage of intellectual work and action, the nonviolence program may avoid re­placing Christian witness and Christian wisdom with yet another form of ideology. 
David Lammers 
-~ . ·' ' ~ 
~ < ~--­


i~{~J;~'
;~.t-r:..:,.... 
J.,.-,,.,, 

Believing that the United States is waging an unjust war in Viet Nam, if ordered for induction, we the undersigned will refuse. We will not serve in the miltary as long as the war in Viet Nam continues. 
Joe J. Accardi Dan Aerni Eric A. Andrees Patrick Andreoti Larry Ballantine C. D. Ballman Charles Barranco Peter A. Bartlo Betsy Bei tzinger Nancy Bestosheshky Chris Boss J. Timothy Brennan Steve Brion Richard Brinker James B. Bryan Mark Bulters James R. Bums Roger Burrell Jay Butler Michael Canale Frank Capobianco James H. Carlin Kate Cassidy Chuck Ceraso P. Michael Conway Christopher J. Cotter Carol Cusick Dan Daily Joseph D'Anna Dennis Dawson Robert DeVita John W. Dorsey Olinda Douglas John J. Dowling Robert Doyle Scott Doyle Beth Driscoll Tom Drexler Peter DuBois Peggy Dues Christopher Dunn John Eckenrode Robert E. Farrell Barbara Fening John A. Fiala Joseph Fieweger John Finnegan Richard Fitzgerald John H. Fonseca Steve Fortunato Bill Freund Patrick Gaffney Charles B. Gallager Greg Gannon Martin K. Gay Mark Genero Susan Gilmour F. William Golden Ann Gomez Jack Grate Sandra Griffin James M. Groseta James V. Guarino Kathleen Guima Bill Haines Larry Hartung 

K. Harrington Ricky Hauia Kevin Hoene M. K. Hoida John Thomas Hosey Stephen C. Hosselet Catherine Huart Stephen Hurd James E. Hynes Susan A. Jackson Bruce Johnson Noreen Jordan Glen Kalin Michael V. Keefe Terry Kennedy Susan Keris Terry Kurth Andrew Kuzmitz Debby Lahey David Lammers Steve Launier Eileen Lavelle James Leary Michael Leary Richard Lechler Andrew Lechner John Leonard William R. Lesyna Michael R. Lindburg Stephen Livingston Francis X. Maier Timothy Mahon William L. Manley Ben Marroquin Michael Maroney Gerald Martin Kathleen Martin Ed Mattingly Donald B. McCaffrey James McCarthy Paul F. McCarthy Edward F. McCartin John P. McGuire James McDonald John K. McMullan Maureen Meter Frank Miklavcic Marty Miller Edward J. Minch Frank Mondschein Bruce Monick Fred J. Monsour Daniel Moore Patsy Moran Richard Moran Richard L. Murphy Catherine Naphin Francis J. Niehaus Thomas Noe Mary Noell Steven Novak Richard J. O'Brien 
M. P. O'Connor Ray Offenheiser 
Maureen O'Grady Kerry O'Hara 
Thomas J. O'Hara William G. O'Hare Tony Oppegard John O'Reilly Robert A. Pastorok Paulette Pelatti Patti Perkovich Raymond Perry Robert Perry Joseph M. Portay Bob Puls Joseph E. Quaderer Richard A. Rae Carl Rak Joseph Raynek W. J. Reckling Jerry Ricigliano David Riley Bart Robbett Kevin Robinson David Rocsis Joseph Roe Kevin Rooney Fred Roskop John Rowe John C. Rudolf William A. Sackett Eric Sandeen Mark D. Saucier Robert Sauer Phil Schatz Raymond Serafin Richard Shannon Rick Smith, Jr. Ronald Smith Thomas Spahn Bill Spicuzza Frank Stackhouse Philip Stark Thomas Starrs John Stith John Tobin John Toller Ann Tudennann John Mark Vitter Frank Walsh Nan Walsh Fred C. Weber III Philip Webre M. J. Wehrman Noel Wehrung Keith l,Verhan Thomas Wilhelm John Williams Bill Wilka Dennis Wilson J. Thomas Yurst Mary Joan Zarenski Ted Zawadski Michael B. Zimbrch Thomas J. Zinser Gene Zlaket Stephen Zon 
Joseph R. Zorontonello Joseph Zulli 

perspectives 


richard a. lamanna population & pollution 
IWOULD like to accept Professor Griffing's invitation to dialogue regarding the problem of "over-population" and environmental pollution. Let me start by noting I hold no brief for continued rapid population growth or for environmental pollution -both are serious prob­lems deserving of our serious attention. This end is not served, however, by the proliferation of alarmist state­ments that has become a popular pastime of late. 
In my estimation, Professor Griffing's observations tend to confuse several distinct components of the over­all problem. He confuses the problems growing out of rapid population growth with those of "over-popula­tion"; problems of absolute size with those of spatial distribution; problems of environmental pollution with those of population growth and size. These are not unrelated problems but they are not identical either. 
Professor Griffing makes much of his inability to visualize a million, a 100 million or 3½ million objects. I can't visualize a federal budget of over $200 billion either, but that's hardly a rationale for freezing the federal budget at its present level. Congestion at O'Hare suggests to me not overpopulation but what a lousy job we have done of planning our cities and airports. We have such serious air-and water-pollution prob­lems because we have been unwilling to make the pri­vate and public expenditures to prevent them. 
As for the problem of population, not all students of the subject share Professor Griffing's pessimism and sense of crisis. There are several reasons that one might view with a degree of skepticism some of the claims of the prophets of doom. Their fears are usually based on the mechanical projection of past trends over fairly long periods with the assumption that there will be no change in the basic factors. As a hypothetical exercise this is fine. As an anticipation of reality, it is absurd. If you want to have fun, project into the future the current decline in birth rates and you can show that the American population will disappear entirely "if present trends continue," or project the growth of col­lege enrollments and you can show in a few decades we will have more college students than people in this country. However, even if we accept the risks of making such population projections, they are only as good as the data upon which they are based. Many of the frequently quoted extrapolations of the U.S. popula­tion are based on fertility rates typical of the peak postwar years. But, since 1957 U.S. fertility rates have plummeted 30 per cent reaching a new historical low. If they keep on falling (as I believe they will), then the increase in population over the next 30 years will be much less than what was projected in the early 1960's. In fact some are projecting a population of only 250 million for the year 2000. 
To put this in perspective, the U.S. could hold and support a population of one billion persons and still have a density well under 300 (our current density is 54 persons per square mile) -less by far than the current population density of the Netherlands (936), Japan (678), West Germany (607), United Kingdom 
(604) or even Italy (436). Even though their densities are so much greater than ours, pollution, congestion, etc., are no worse in those countries than here. It is also relevant to note that more than half of the coun­ties in the U.S. have lost population in each of the last two intercensal decades. Even more surprising, though urban places in the U.S. grew substantially in number, in size and in proportion of total population between 1950 and 1960, population density declined in all urban size classes over the decade. 
In short, we are not in a period of "unchecked population growth," we are not in any immediate dan­ger of becoming "over-populated" in terms of space or resources; we may have problems of maldistribution but there is no evidence that our cities are becoming "behavioral sinkholes" as some have suggested. 
Moreover, there is evidence that even in terms of world population the picture is not so dismal. Donald Bogue, a noted demographer, after analyzing recent developments has concluded that these developments are so new and novel that "population trends before 1960 are largely irrelevant in predicting what will hap­pen in the future." ("The End of the Population Explo­sion," The Public Interest, Spring 1967, p. 12.) He further notes that: 

The trend of the worldwide movement toward fertility control has already reached a state where declines in death rates are being surpassed by declines in birthrates. Because progress in death control is slackening and progress in birth control is accelerating, the world has already entered a situation where the pace of population growth has begun to slacken. . . . The rate of growth will slacken at such a pace that it will be zero or near zero at about the year 2000, so that population growth will not be regarded as a major social problem except in isolated and small "retarded" areas. (p. 19.) 
Bogue, of course, may prove to be a poor prophet. Nevertheless, it seems the evidence is not so clear as to warrant hysteria. Some might say, what is the harm in a little misdirected enthusiasm -like most fads it will come and go with little lasting consequence. I take exception to this on several grounds. First, it seems to me, the current alarmism on population pro­vides an easy escape for those who hesitate to face the very real problems confronting the U.S. and the world. I was appalled the other night when a steel executive on national TV asserted that his company was doing all it could to end pollution but there was little they could do if the population kept growing. 
The other danger is that the crisis mentality will lead us to take hasty and ill-considered measures that will cause more problems than they solve. A bill was introduced in Congress last week that would reduce the tax deduction for every child after the second. 
The real consequence would be to reduce the in­come of families with the greatest need. We would then probably have to turn around and provide these families with a subsidy under the proposed guaranteed income program. Even more frightening is the increas­ingly common suggestion that more coercive methods of control would be in order. Biologist Garrett Hardin claims, "In the long run, voluntarism is insanity. The result will be continued uncontrolled population 
growth." Astro-physicist Donald Aiken bluntly de-
March 20, 1970 
clares, "The government has to step in and tamper with religious and personal convictions -and maybe even impose penalties for every child a family has beyond two." Even a group like the Board of Christian Social Concerns of the United Methodist Church went on record with: "Can we depend on private decision and voluntary control to limit childbearing in each family to two? Under present circumstances, the answer would appear to be 'no.' " The assumption behind many of these statements is that Americans are inherently in­capable of acting responsibly and must therefore be coerced. 
F!NALLY, I believe playing with peoples' emotions on public issues is a dangerous business. Time recently reported residents of a town in Arizona have developed psychosomatic illnesses and a bad case of paranoia out of their concern for the environment. More generally, if you start out defining an intractable and complex prob­lem in simplistic terms and demand immediate solu­tions, you are doomed to disappointment and frus­tration and this is likely to have disastrous consequences for mobilizing and sustaining political support for bet­ter thought-out programs for social change. There is enough disillusionment in the society now without arousing any more irrational fears and false hopes. 
My hope is that we forget about the emotional non­sense of "overpopulation"; the need for totalitarian controls; the talk of the imminent collapse of civiliza­tion; or the implications of inferiority and the sug­gestion of protecting vested interests in restricting foreign population growth, and turn our attention to the very serious problems that do exist and that we can do something about. Let's get on with the job of planning for the proper development of our communi­ties; with making the legal and behavioral changes that would improve the quality of the environment; with applying ourselves to the task of exploiting and distributing the resources of the world on a more equi­table basis while encouraging responsible parenthood at home and abroad; with developing ways of assisting the less developed areas of the world make the transi­tion to modernity during what is likely to be a very difficult period in their development. Finally, let us approach our problems with confidence and hope but without any illusions about their difficulty and complex­ity or the expectation that it is the work of a semester or a year. 
Dr. Lamanna is an Associate Professor in the Soci­ology Department working in the field of Minorities and Urban Sociology. He has had monographs published on "The Negro in the Catholic Church" and "The Mexican­American in Texas." A book on The Mexican-American in East Chicago is soon to be published by· tlze Notre Dame Press. The Doctor received his Ph.D. at the Uni­versity of N01th Carolina. 
Each week the SCHOLASTIC will make this column available to a member of the University cmnmunity to @.,-plore and comment upon contemporary_, issues. Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect the editorial poliC'lJ of the SCHOLASTIC. 
Picking the Bengals 

by Terry O'Neil 
FffiST ROUND AND SEMIFINALS: WHAT HAPPENED 
12-5 POUNDS 

First round: No bouts. Semifinals: Jack Griffin decisioned Larry Semerad; Ed Ferrer decisioned Jerry Bradley. 
135 POUNDS 

First round: Terry Kurth decisioned Charlie Fabian; Tom Gould decisioned Jamie Egan. Semifinals: Kurth decisioned Ralph Bianco; Gould decisioned Phil Dollard. 
145 POUNDS 

First round: Jim Smith decisioned Simon Kovalik. Semifinals: Paul P. Partyka decisioned Smith; Tom Suddes decisioned Tom Sykes. 
150 POUNDS 

First round: Mike McNicholas decisioned Mike Joyce; Chris Miller decisioned Jim Lusk; Kevin Ker­rigan decisioned Val Bernabo; Aaron Baker decisioned Kevin Kahn. Semifinals: McNicholas decisioned Miller; Kerrigan decisioned Baker. 
155 POUNDS 

First round: Gary Canori decisioned Dan Lenzo; Mark Rukavina decisioned Lance Corey; Dave Pem­berton decisioned George Rebecca; Jim Hansen de­cisioned Doug Smego. Semifinals: Canori decisioned Rukavina; Pemberton decisioned Hansen. 
160 POUNDS 

First round: Tom Loughren decisioned Rocky Ro­belotto; Ed Carney decisioned Jim Gilmer; Roland Chamblee decisioned Tom O'Hern. Semifinals: Bill McGrath decisioned Loughren; Chamblee decisioned Carney. 
165 POUNDS 

First round: Dan Johndrow knocked out Fred DeBoe; Mark McGowan decisioned Tom Wagoner. Semi­finals: Chris Servant decisioned Johndrow; Jed Ervin decisioned McGowan. 
115 POUNDS 

First round: Kevin Howard decisioned Rich Ballini; Chuck Nightengale decisioned Joe Szady. Semifinals: Matt Connelly decisioned Howard; Bob Minnix de­cisioned Nightengale. 
HEAVYWEIGHT 

First round: Tom Davis decisioned Ron Saxen. Semifinals: Denny Allan knocked out Davis; Bill Etter decisioned Chris Bale. 
FINALS 
125 POUNDS 165 POUNDS Jed Ervin over Chris Servant
Ed Ferrer over Jack Griffin 

Ferrer is a two-year champ, having beaten Griffin last winter and Dave Krashna (who won his title in another sport) two years ago. Griffin has amazing reach for a 125-pounder Ferrer, however, is the complete boxer. Another unanimous decision for Eduardo, but a closer fight than last year. 
135 POUNDS 
Torn Gould over Terry Kurth 

Toughest pick of the night. Both finalists upset seeded boxers Wednesday and this is the third fight in five days for each, a wearying ordeal. Give Gould a slight edge on better stamina and smoother punching rhythmn. 
145 POUNDS 
Tom Suddes over Paul P. Partyka 

"Sudden Tom" defends his title against Partyka, who moves up after a victory at 135 in 1969. Suddes whipped Paul in an exhibition at Pittsburgh last spring; they sparred in practice a week ago to a virtual draw. Partyka has shaved his beard and added a few pounds since last year. Suddes is basically the same .fighter­patient, smart, explosive at the critical moment. Partyka carries his left dangerously low and Suddes is quick enough to take advantage. 
150 POUNDS 
Mike McNicholas over Kevin Kerrigan 

The tournament's most wide open division is 150­no seeds, no returning finalists. There is a strong sus­picion that Kerrigan cannot go three good rounds. McNicholas is a bullish lefty who will punish if he connects. 
155 POUNDS 
Dave Pemberton over Gary Canori 

Pemberton was the 155 champ in '68, then suffered a rude upset in last year's semifinals. Canori bowed to Suddes in the 145 finals a year ago. Pemberton's vivid, stinging memory of last year should be decisive. 
160 POUNDS 
Bill McGrath ove1· Roland Chamblee 

Bill is fourth and last in a string of fighting McGrath brothers. Each of the elder three was a champ; fresh­man Bill may be the only one to win four titles. Both finalists are quick and rangey, but Bill's last name is McGrath and that says it all. 
March 20, 1970 
Ervin, who has netted a pair of titles and a Most Valuable Boxer award in the past two Bengals, looked miserable in his semifinal victory Wednesday. Servant, a lunging, peek-a-boo boxer, is reigning king in this division. But nobody messes ·with Ervin. 
175 POUNDS Matt Connelly over Bob Minnix 
Connelly was the victim of a ludicrous split-decision in the '69 finals. He missed with a bundle of punches Wednesday against brawling Kevin Howard and easily could have been a spectator tonight. l\'Iinnix will not crowd Connelly as much as Howard did and Matt finally will get his crown-366 days late. 
HEAVYWEIGHT Denny Allan over Bill Etter 

Sometime during this week, Allan may have noted the certainty that quarterback Joe Theismann is riot indestructible and the probability that Etter will be Twiggy's substitute next season. Given the supposition that Allan enjoys carrying the football, good rapport with Etter is not a bad idea. Denny no doubt dismissed that notion with a chuckle and turned his attention to the destructibility of Etter. Allan's punching power is genuine, his hook an item of rare nastiness. Etter will scramble; Allan will pursue. And next fall, in the Irish huddle, Allan may wink at Etter and ask, "No hard feelings?" 
EXHIBITION 
Mike McCoy over Ed Grenda 

Without Vince Lombardi, the Green Bay Packers still are a disciplined football team, McCoy will tell you. Coach Phil Bengston has installed a cardio-vascular conditioning program which includes a demanding task for each player. McCoy, for instance, will be required to run three miles in 25 minutes on the opening day of training camp. Tonight's six minutes of sparring will be a fine conditioner. As for the outcome, McCoy is a convincing sight just sitting on his stool. 

A. man wlw needs the unusual to rnake hirn "wonder'' shows that he has lost the capacity to find the true answer to the wonder of being. The itch for sensation, even tlwugh disguised in the rnask of Boheme, is a sure indication of a bourgeois ?nind and a deadened sense of wonder. 
-Joseph Pieper, The Philosophical A.ct 

GARY SNYDER is a poet who has been invited to Notre Dame for the Sophomore Literary Festival. I mention this not so much to advertise his coming as to provid~ a rationale for this review. God only knows that if Snyder were regarded as just another San Fran­ciscan poet and Earth House Hold had to stand on its own merits, it would be left to linger in the obscurity it so richly deserves. 
I am somewhat in sympathy with the aims of the SLF and have no desire to sabotage one of their chief attractions, but I am simply at a loss to find anything of a complimentary nature to say about the book. The best I can do is to point out that Earth House Hold is not a book of poems (rather, a patchwork compilation of journal entries, book reviews and articles written over the past 18 years) and that an earlier collection of his poetry, The Back Country, from which I have read a number of selections, is somewhat more suc­cessful. 
But Earth House Hold itself is simply terrible. The blurb on the back cover tells us that the title is "a play on the root meanings of 'ecology' " -this is, in fact, true. However, the same back cover also compares Snyder with Ezra Pound and William Carlos Williams and this is most patently false. Snyder has written his share of respectable verse, and even Earth House Hold has its moments; but he is still -even at his best ­minor league material. 
The book, as I have said, does have a few high points-it would be possible, I suppose, to present a favorable case for the book by judiciously selecting a 





Gary Snyder: 

number of the more worthwhile. To give Snyder his due 
then, I shall quote one passage which seems to me to be 
quintessentially superior to the book as a whole: 
In a culture where the aesthetic experience is 
denied and atrophied, genuine religious ecstasy 
rare, intellectual pleasure scorned -it is only 
natural that sex should become the only personal 
epiphany of most people & the culture's interest 
in romantic love take on staggering size. This passage is from the earliest, and best, work in­cluded in the book, "Lookout's Journal," which consists of the journal entries of a Walden-like retreat into the wilds of the Rockies during the summer of 1952. "Look­out's Journal" is the best selection in the book because it is essentially the most honest and, in its parallels with Walden, the clearest attempt to stay within the Amer­ican and Western traditions. 
But even at this early date, Snyder's Manichean tendencies are already beginning to show. Snyder is no one for half-hearted measures; if he's going to reject Western civilization, by damn, he's going to reject all of it. Compare the following journal entry with, for example, Thoreau's activities in his bean field: 
10 August 
First wrote a haiku and painted a haiga for 
it; then repaired the Om Mani Padme Hum 
prayer flag, then constructed a stone platform, 
then shaved down a shake and painted a zenga on 
it, then studied the lesson. In the face of all this chatter about "haigas" and "zengas," the naturalness and honesty of Thoreau's reflections on his work in the bean plot are excellent: "What was the meaning of this so steady and self­respecting ... labor," Thoreau writes, "I knew not. I came to love my rows, my beans, though so many more than I wanted. They attached me to the earth, and so I got strength like Antaeus. But why should I raise them? Only Heaven knows. This was my curious labor all summer.... I cherish them, I hoe them, early and late I have an eye on them; and this is my day's work." 
THIS comparison of Snyder's work with Walden is, I think, a fruitful one. It shows, much more ably than I ever could, the difficulties involved when one· sets out to make a complete break with the cultural milieu that has nurtured him. Thoreau was hardly a conformist in either cultural or political matters, and yet he did not over-extend himself as Snyder is wont to do. Thoreau kept in touch just enough to become a real revolutionary force; Snyder's smattering of Zen Buddhism (1952), Hinduism (1960), and a ecologically influenced primitiv­istic animism (1967 to the present) qualifies him as little more than a religious and philosophic dilettante. Whereas Thoreau made a point of building his hut half-

Poet as Ideologue 
way between the town of Concord and Walden Pond, Snyder plunges into the proverbial heart of the wilder­ness. Thoreau spends much time discussing what he refers to as "pecuniary matters'' while Snyder is, of course, above such base things as money. Thoreau reads Aeschylus and Shakespeare while Snyder insists on struggling through Hui Neng and Patanjali. Most sig­nifigantly, while Thoreau goes back to Conco1·d after his respite at Walden, Snyder could never do anything so (apparently) prosaic: before long, he is packing for a trip to Japan to get his Zen straight from the master's mouth. This journey serves at least to provide a few more selections for the book, if not to satisfy his reli­gious curiosity. Next, he acts out the modern day bourgeois desire for "experience" ("Experience! that drug," he revealingly writes) by working his way back to America on an oil tanker, a decision which indicates perhaps the maturity of Snyder's mind: the wish to become a sailor in order to gain that drug "experience" is the subconscious dream of every rebellious school­boy. This "experience'' only satiates him for a short while and, before long, he plunges into Hinduism and tribalism. 
This move towards (or rather through-since he passes through them so quickly) ever more ancient and esoteric modes of thought is similarly a movement away from virtually every aspect of Western traditions and culture. In the best of Manichean traditions, Snyder's world is divided into the saved and the damned, and he is determined to steer clear of the latter. This means rejecting tradition, since tradition is "sane and ordered" (did you ever notice the negative connotations these words are beginning to take on?), 
i.e. it stifles initiative and "originality" (as if Goethe was not original since he worked within the Christian tradition): 
Comes a time when the poet must choose: either to step deep in the stream of his people, history, tradition, folding and folding himself in wealth of persons and pasts; philosophy, humanity, to become richly foundationed and great and sane and ordered. Or, to step beyond the bound onto the way out, into horrors and angels, possible madness or . . . Faustian doom, possible utter transcendence, ... possible ignomi­nious warmish perishing. 
No doubt Snyder thinks of himself as rather heroic in all of this, but his stance more closely resembles Sisyphus than Horatio at the bridge. All poets ought to be a bit mad, but this Nietzschean view (similarly expressed by another contemporary apocalyptic, Norman 0. Brown) of a plunge into the psychic unknown is one of the great fabrications of our time. This sort of thinking only SNYDER's evaluation of what he calls the Great Sub­culture shows a similar tendency to dichotomize the world, to present the reader with two choices when, in reality, there are many. "The Great Subculture," Snyder writes, "[possesses] an ecstatically positive vision of spiritual and physical love; and is opposed for very fundamental reasons to the Civilization Establish­ment." What these fundamental reasons are remains somewhat unclear after reading Snyder-one thing is clear however: the New Age will be built upon the values of the tribe and upon a conscious attempt to return to the primitive view of the world. The Civili­zation Establishment, depends upon those bothersome old values of reason and law, upon "civilization" itself; hence, all these things must go when we finally get rid of the Civilization Establishment. 
The culmination of this cultural evaluation is the statement that "the traditional cultures are in any case doomed" and the proposal that we ought not "cling to [even] their good aspects hopelessly" since we can "reconstruct" them all "from the unconscious, through meditation." This statement is so asinine, so totally ignorant of what a real culture is, that I find it scandal­ous that Snyder should consider himself in the vanguard of the youth culture. Does Snyder really think we should dismember all of Western culture? Does he really think we can just build it back up again in three days as it were? Does he know that culture includes, among other things, the very language that sets limits upon and helps to shape our thoughts? If Snyder's evaluation of primitive man and tribal society, so un­critical that it would make Rousseau blush with shame, is the best that the so-called' "counter-culture" can do, then it is not so much a culture as an ideology, a desper­ate search to find all the answers-any answers-to life's continuing perplexities. 
What Snyder offers in Earth House Hold is pseudo­philosophy, answers easily and disrespectfully skimmed off the top of some of the world's greatest systems of thought. He has proved himself unable to stay within the bounds of any one religious system-indicative of the shallowness of his thought. That he has gained a modicum of popularity should stand as an indictment of the present youth culture. Sooner or later (and probably sooner) tribalism will be replaced by some newer and more strange doctrine and Snyder will be in the forefront of that movement, too. He will no doubt shortly ask us to start going about on all fours since our spine is ecologically more suited for it. 
serves to isolate the poet from his own natural milieu, forcing him into a complete and uncritical acceptance 
Michael Costello

of Japanese, or Hindu, or American Indian cultures. 
March 20, 1970 

THIS article is for all you people who think you know all about Tom Rush just from his Circle Game album. It is also for all you other people who cried "sell-out" when Rush started doing Joni Mitchell and stopped doing neat stuff like, "Who Do You Love?" Both types should enjoy T01n Rush immensely, for it is a true synthesis of the blues-dirt-rock singer and the mellower balladier. The voice is as versatile as ever­a half-talk personal warmth that reminds one of fire­places, or a whipsaw-sound that cuts and shoves. His choice of backup men is impeccable-from mad Herbie Lovelle on drums to an almost unknown guitarist named Trevor Veitch who rips off some fine, semi­restrained leads. The material in the songs is the key to the album; they are Rush-type songs, typical of both his old and new styles. There are single lines in almost every song that grab your heart and wrench it for a second or two, and then drift on. 
The first cut, "Driving Wheel," is simple, direct and beautiful. Up till about two years ago, no folk singer would have touched this type of ballad, but simple lines and easy phrases ("Just came up off the Midnight Special/ Hey, how about that?") are "in" this year. If you hear a little "Hey Jude" stuff in the fadeout, you're as bad off as I am. Old Rush cultists will re­member "Drop Down Mama" and rejoice at his new version. He's taken a verse or two from other old songs on earlier albums, added the famous gruff "Who do you love" voice on one verse, thrown in some heavy lead and produced a song that should send the Circle Game teeny-boppers scurrying back to Tommy Roe. 
Rush counters this with "Lullaby," a little country­folk song done to delicate perfection. Listen to the per-


Rush Upl 
fectly placed vibes in the chorus; the restraint and beau­ty of the whole album converges on those three chords. Again, the lyrics are touching, simple, and sentimental without being maudlin. 
"THESE DAYS" on side two is a perfect complement to "Driving Wheel." It is a bit deeper, but the single lines still stand out ("Don't confront me with my failures, I haven't forgotten them"). "Wild Child" is a Fred Neil song that features a fine fuzz lead and a hard vocal treatment from Rush. 
The only song that doesn't fit is "Colors of the Sun," which fails because of overproliferation of images. The writer tried too hard, Rush tries too hard, and the in­strumentation is a bit heavy. Past "Colors," though, are two of the best songs on the album. "Livin' in the Country" is great-slightly misanthropic lyrics, a fero­cious Lovelle slamming the drums, and the song rolls and clicks along with the ease and flow that is often sought and rarely fountl. But, the masterpiece is "Child's Song"-even if the rest were nothing more than street noise, this one cut suffices. The grace, sincerity, and sheer propriety of the words and music make a quick and lasting impression. 
It is a rare thing when a performer can change an established style, step back, and integrate the old and new into something better than either. Tom Rush did this, and the results are worth hearing, if you are a new Rush fan or an old Rush fan, or just a regular who rises from his inertia once in a while to put a good disc on the turntable. 
John Hurley 

STATE: What Do You Say to a many fleas. In short, the film Naked Lady? Probably not, "Take rages like a quick wick across the your clothes off . . . . " For times screen, preaching a philosophy of 
movies 
GRANADA: The Only Game in Town. Warren Beatty and Elizabeth Taylor are together in this film about dice and vice in Las Vegas. Rex Reed said just several weeks ago on a late night talk show that this is by far Warren Beatty's best per­formance. Most of us are more fa­miliar with him in relation to his last appearances in Bonnie and Clyde and Mickey One, where he was di­rected by Arthur Penn. Elizabeth Taylor needs no introduction and she will get none. Dice and vice may indeed be nice, but ultimately incest is best. It's all relative. For times call: 233-7301. 

chicago 
Anyone at all familiar with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra must have felt their r.iewspapers tremble in their very hands when they saw the announcements of this weekend's concerts. 
This, of course, is a big season for the Chicago because instead of one regular conductor, it has had, in effect, two guest conductors. And with the onset of the new year, the effete Italian (who shall remain nameless) was banished and in his stead there came to stand GEORG 
SOLTI. 
Of Solti, it has been said that German music has no greater inter­preter in any medium. Comparatively little has been seen of him in the orchestra pit, because his triumph­antly successful career has been built on his work in staging opera. But anywhere Solti is exciting, because he will stop at nothing to render the fullest intention and impact of the 
Morch 20, 1970 
call: 233-1676. 

COLFAX: Peter O'Toole in Good­bye, Mr. Chips! For times call: 233-4532. 
RIVER PARK: There comes, screaming out of its sordid past, smelling slightly of Scotch and soda, drooling nastily, and balancing quite precariously on myth and illusion (to say nothing of metrical struc­ture), a film unlike all other films, a movie apart from all other movies, a cast of hundreds, nay . . . a hun­dred and one-in short, an epic with Epicurean proportions, a cinematic explosion in celluloid. To say that it has merely received acclaim would be a bold-faced lie, sir . . . one can only hope to list just a small num­ber of the accolades it has received, just a little of the enormous critical ravings which have followed it from fire hydrant to fire hydrant like so 
music. 

But I must admit that my excite­ment over the announcement this week was not for Solti (pronounced Sholtee), but for his two co-perform­ers. The main program piece is the BRAHMS DOUBLE CONCERTO FOR VIOLIN AND CELLO, WITH ORCHESTRA. 
The violinist is VICTOR ALTAY, a young Hungarian-American who has consistently distinguished himself in the past two years on concert tour. He has made no records as yet (that I know of), but his appearances with Bernstein on television and with Chi­cago Orchestra at Ravinia summer before last mark him as someone who will soon. 
But the cellist, the cellist! 
The cellist is FRANK MILLER, who ordinarily plays first seat cello for the orchestra; and Frank Miller is the man I have always rooted for out in the stands with the Chicago Orchestra at bat. 
Frank lVIiller is probably the largest man to ever wield a cello which makes the phenomenal grace with which he does it all the more remarkable. I have heard Miller play with five or six conductors, all of whom try to dominate the orchestra, and Miller has with all of them managed the sweet-tight sound that is the essence of cello-playing and sin, degradation, and virginity as observed in a canine community. 101 Dalrnations. For times call 288­101 Dalmatians. ·For times call 288­8488. 
READY THEATER (Niles): The portable Streisand, clip and take with you. 
SCHOLASTIC (Oct. 3, 1969): "Fun­ny Girl: Fanny Brice, alias Streisand, at her Oscar-winning best, music, dancing, and the sets of the Zeigfield Follies. · 
SCHOLASTIC (Nov. 14, 1969)°: "F11,nny Gi'rl is getting less humor­ous by the week." 
SCHOLASTIC (Feb. 13, 1970): "It's not funny." Funny Girl at 8:00. 
A VON: One a dem skin flies, if ya know wat I mean.... Fanny Hill at 6:15, 7:45 and 9:30. 
John Stupp 
managed in a distinctive way. He never puts down the other players when he does it-he's too good for that. Go see Georg Solti, go see Victor Altay, but for God's sake, go see Frank Miller. 
ORCHESTRA HALL is at 220 South Michigan; you can get in cheap. The show's tomorrow night at 8:30. The rest of the program is the prologue to Parsifal (SOLTI, as I might have mentioned earlier, IS RICHARD WAGNER) and Elgar's First Sym­phony, the English drop in the modern bucket of fluffy symphonies. But Elgar is always charming and Frank Miller never made a mistake in his life. 


the last word 
A SMALL man with attached ear-lobes and a duck­'like haircut stood in front of the Engineering Audi­torium. His knees bent in anxiety and his hands, cupped as if they held a soft-ball sized sphere, moved lucidly and quickly. They described charisma. "Per­haps the greatest danger of planning one's life is that the plan might succeed, that the richness of life might be overwhelmed with the tedium of preparing for that 
richness." 
Behind a podium in the Law Auditorium, Frank O'Malley pushed his rich white hair to the side of his head. The depth and resonance of his tones made his words enchanting, enchanting for the beauty of their sound and for the mystery of their message. "When the poet is not guided by love, he discovers nothing but an immeasurable abyss. Poetry converts the surface of objects into a brilliant flash which shows the flame burning within." 
Joseph Duffy sat at a desk in the Business Building; as he spoke, his desk toppled off the small stage. With no indication that the event was disconcerting, he looked toward the back of the classroom and, in a dis­tanced scorn, said, "Things of this sort would trouble lesser men than ourselves." He dropped back into his lecture and once again the veins on his neck began to throb. "Art discloses joy amidst the catastrophe of existence -God's laughter at the shattering of the world." 
JT would not be fitting for me to complete my tenure as editor without acknowledging my respect for John Dunne, Frank O'Malley, and Joseph Duffy. Together they gave to me what no number of paperbacks and hardbounds ever could, a passion for wisdom; and with their lucid vision, they gave me a small amount of sight that makes me s~ where I am blind. 
It was not until I stumbled across these men that I began to understand the fullness of the word "teacher," that I began to understand that, as Father Dunne would say, the teacher cannot teach doctrine, cannot simply transfer facts and information. No, the teacher provides his students with insight, insight into life, poetry, art, or whatever. Most of all, these three men have demonstrated to me that the teacher must be concerned with the souls of his students, that teach­ing is, finally, not concerned with parcels of thought but with. th.e teacher and the student as persons, vibrant persons in search of salvation. 
But this column is not designed as a simple pan­egyric; rather, it is an attempt, vulgar as it might be, 
to use these men as symbols or emblems of what teach­
ing should mean at a Christian university, of what 
aspirations such a university must set for itself. The 
importance of men like these, and there are many more 
on the campus, is that they offer the University a 
direction and an opportunity, an opportunity that it 
bas, for the large part, squandered. 
Instead of wisdom among men, the University now pursues professionalism. The blame falls on many quarters. The most important criteria used in designat­ing tenured faculty have become frequent publication, doctoral dissertations led, and money brought into the University. Far down the list are factors like under­graduate teaching and counseling. Research and scholar­ship have replaced understanding and reverence as motivating goals of both the faculty and the students. And it is no coincidence that each of the men I speak of above is considered something of an outcast from the status quo. 
Similarly, the Philosophy Department has aban­doned the "amateurish" philosophy which, through a project of understanding, helps people to lead their lives with some modicum of morality and happiness. It has abandoned such philosophy in favor of less futile and more sterile games of linguistic analysis -the little questions are always safer to ask. 
And while student enrollment has, in recent years, drastically decreased in the Engineering and Business Schools as well as in the ROTC program, Notre Dame continues to support vocational training with a Grad­uate School of Business, four new majors in Comput­ing Science, and countless smaller programs in tech­nical studies. More and more departments throughout the University have set up graduate programs, pro­grams which decrease the contact of the better teachers with undergraduates and, in turn, assign graduate assistants to teach underclassmen. Notre Dame is quickly abandoning her primary commitment, a com­mitment to nourish the wonder of her undergraduates. 
My first column last year discussed the direction of the University; I must now return to that subject. If Notre Dame is to fulfill her Christian promise, if she is to be more than a workshop for vocational train­ing, she must reverse her direction and seek out her soul. For when the teacher and the University are not guided by love, they "discover nothing but an im­measurable abyss." And should this happen, God's laughter and the richness of life may well be drowned in the clattering of the technocracy. 

Hyouthinkyou're getting agreat shave with arazor blade, 
A razor blade can give you a good, close shave on the easy parts of your face. 
Like your cheeks. Because your cheeks are almost flat, like a razor blade. 
But what about the hard­to-shave parts of your face? 
Feel your neck 
Feel how your beard grows down on part of your neck? And up on another part? (Some beards even grow sideways.) 
To give you a close, comfortable shave on your neck, we designed the Nore/co Tripfeheader with 18 self­sharpening rotary blades that shave in every direction. 

feel your face. 
Feel your chin 
The Norelco Tripleheader has 3 Microgroovern shaving heads that float to follow the curves of your chin. 
The heads go in where your chin goes in, and out where your chin goes out. To give you a really close shave, without irritating your skin. (In independent tests, the Tripleheader shaved as close or closer than a stainless steel blade in 2 out of 3 shaves.) 
Feel your upper lip 
The t1ard thing about shaving your upper lip with a razor blade is st1aving close enough. 
Again, the unique Norefco design lets you maneuver around your nose and mouth, to shave your beard in every direction. 

Feel your sideburns 
The biggest problem with shaving sideburns is to get them straight, and even on both sides. 
The Norelco Tripleheader has a pop-up trimmer that lets you see exactly what you're · trimming. So it's a lot harder to make a mistake. 
Now, run your hand over your whole face. 
If your beard feels uneven, maybe you should be shaving with a Nore/co Tripleheader. 
It comes in two models. The Cord Model Tripleheader (with easy flip-tor; cleaning). And the new Recbargeable Tripleheader (the shaver that gives you up to twice as many shaves per charge as any other rechargeable). Either one will give your face a whole new feel. 


A{,,eko® 

you can't get any closer 
@ 1970 North American Philips Corporation, 100 East 42nd Street, New York, N. Y.10017. 

...... 
~=::~8=::~~~-...;;:--...;;:~•_;,,•.......•.......•......•......m_,,.=..,...•_,,.•_,,.m..,..• ..,..• ")(.--x-·--x-·--x-~--x--_@ampu;;i;shop _/ • • • • • • • • • , • • · • • • • • • • 
,(~,(--in~_ . 00 • • • • • • • • 
.. 
Think Sun1n1er. Think Apparel. Think Gilbert's. 
Gilbert\ C:ampm Shop i;; reach· \\ ith a fine ....election of -,prim~ ,';;umnH't apparel :rncl :1ccc:-;,orie,-;. Quality i-, the rule. You'll find na­tion:ilh-ackl'rti~ecl item.... at competiti\·c price:-. \\'e im·it<' you to stop in ... look ;1round . . . think -..\mnner. 

. \\'H:\T COLLD BE EASIER? 
L~SE THE EXCLUSJT/E CAT\IPUS SHOP ,vAY TO BUY: 
ONE-THIRD  •  ONE-THIRD  •  ONE-THIRD  
in June  in July  in August  
NEFER  a service  or carr,·inu clzaraeJ ,..., (...,  

--~C----.-:::::: 


az.~~ 



· ILBE • 
ampu~~ho
-----~ 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 




