VOL. LV.	Commencement Number	No. 33
820
'Sfie Moure dame ^chdasuic
Base Ball
GET INTO THE GAME
with
Spalding Equipment
Gloves, Mitts, Bats, Balls, Etc.
Our catalogue is now ready. It*s yours for the asking.
A. G. Spalding & Bros. , S. State Street CHICAGO, «•
-as—an—a—»n—si—a—m—n—io—a—»—u—m—n—i *
| Ideal Laundry Company i
I “G>f the Ideal Habit"	I
I	I
1 Three collections a week at Notre I £ • = 1	Dame. Leave your pack-	I
I	ages at the	1
i	Notre Dame News Stand	I
1	I
* i—tui^—tyi^—tm—w—ua—m^-^au—mi^—jss—an—mt—on—on—oc—.tisje
mi—mi—m—tn—im^— na*— an —»au^— au an—m—tm—w— * I THE WORLD’S LONGEST ELECTRIFIED RAILROAD- I | 649 Miles of Trais:onlinental Line now Operated by “White Coal.” 1 1	--------— r
। If you want to enjoy every minute of your trip take | J THE CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL |
&]—tw—tin—sn—mt—ra—na^— nn^— un—nn—ttn—ta^— m—ue-^uA
nu—mi— ra— tm^— ns—on—nn^— mi—on—itn^—un-^tm—ra—mi—tm— .sy I .	A-a Qnvn you will be pleased witl orphoto- j
| W “ AIC OUlC graphs. Special rates to s’udents. । t	E. E. MANGOLD i
B	8
| ,	THE LEADING PHOTOGRAPHER .	|
J. 226 NORTH MAIN STREET NEAR CITY HALL ।
^(0—u— ffl—■—IB—H—H—HB—.n—■—to—ss—H—UD^—»slf»
THE DOME official portrait I n E> U V III C PHOTOGRAPHER
McDonald
211 MAIN STREET Crrosite Post Office, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
sjsn—nu—ut^—mi—rm^—tn-^—mi^—mi—^na-^nu—bu—su^—nu—on^—rm— ♦
I	!
!	Nobile’s College	Inn	1
B	.	■
I'	HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES	1
! FRUITS AND ICE CREAM J
I	.	1
I STU DENTS' ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY I g	1
. |	108	South	Michigan Street	|
j	Pbmaai	Ball, Sea; Hema. 9»s	I
ku—nn——mt——us-ra——m—-on—bh^— m—m—he—nn._ nr^— a ♦
mt—un^—B—mi—to—bb—na^—m—m—bi—na—•«»—
NOTRE DAME MEN	j
DO YOU KNOW THAT	|
The Campus Shoe Repairing Shop 1 • l	-	.	— I
' ! Is one the Most Up-to-Date in the State? | ■ ■
Let us prove to you, our Quality, Service, Workmanship. • ,	’ -	‘ ’ Town Prices.	I
< Notre Dame Shoe Repairing Shop and I
Shining Parlor candyrs°ore J ।
j	LEAVE YOUR
I	AMATEUR FILMS
I	•	AT THE
I NEWS STAND
■ To be Developed and Finished.
|	THE NATIONAL PHOTO	SHOPS	1
1	CORPORATION	I
| -	105 Lincoln Way East.	I
1	T
*	—«m—«n^— w— •«—wi—tsi an—bi—«c^— hm—na-^— mt—au—tn>—* tre—u^»
Cox Sons & Vining
131-133 East Twenty-Third St., New York
CAPS AND GOWNS
Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods. * Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship.
Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Cho;»
Noure 6ame ^cholascic
On the Corner .	. The Quality Shop
THE CAMPUS STORE
MAX ADLER CO.
These Are the Days of REAL SPORT Our Sporting Goods Section will supply you with the best of Baseball and Tennis needs.
Base	Tennis
Ball	Goods
$ Bats, Balls,	w Rackets,
Masks, Mitts,	Balls,
Gloves, Bags	Nets, etc.
Bathing Suits A great variety of one and two piece All Wool Suits, the nobbiest of the season.
N, D. Jewelry Pins, Rings, Brooches, Cuff Links, Cigarette Cases and a big line of N. D. Pennants and Pillow Tops.
a
THE CAMPUS STORE
822
Noure dame Scholastic
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURUS--VIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Published Every Saturday During the School Year. Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing ai special rate of postage, Section J 103, October 3. 1917 authorized, June 25. 1918.
“THE OLIVER”
Indiana’s Finest Hotel
No. 126
The First National Bank
South Bend, Indiana
(Oliver Hotel Building)
Capital, $600,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 190,000
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, Jr., Vice-Pres. '
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier.
C. J. WHITMER, Ass't. Cashier.
J. W. BUZLEY, Ass‘u. Cashier.
Fireproof SOUTH BEND ROOMS
Dining Room Open All Night
wens
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES for RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES.
We Issue FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Rates and Letters of Credit Payable Throughout the World.
TRY OUR TRAVELERS’ CHEQUES.
SPFLD.	LIMA
ILL.	OHIO
212S. Michigan, Blackstone Bldg.
Don’t Spend It All!
Some day you’ll want to tell the world:. “I’m in business for myself.” Then you’ll be glad you held onto some of your remittance money. This friendly bank will help.
SERVICE - STABILITY
JEf FCR5ON BLV D.	NEXT TO POST OFFICE
"The Bank Ahead"
OFFICE PHONE	RES. PHONE
Main 689	Main 1162 and 1847
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS
Dentistry.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS Extracting, and Surgery of the Mouth and Jaws.
J. M. S.3 BUILDING SOUTH BEND, IND.
—n—nu«—ns—w——M—mi—m—bi-^bu—
EYES EXAMINED J
Olaama Fitted at Moderate Pricaa	I
Sati^bdfoa GaoraaMM	t
DR. J. BURKE
_	OPTOMETRIST	1
I 23a S Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana 1 *-------------------————— *
DR. F. W. VAUGHN DENTIST and ORTHODONTIST
617 J. M. S. Building, South Bend, Ind.
DISCE- QUASI- SEMPER- VICTURUS- -VIVE - QUASI- CRAS- MORITVRVS
Vol. LV.	Commencement Number, 1922	No. 33
EXIT: THE CLASS OF ’22.
HERE is an end a^ things, Amen,” || as the experienced husband wrote, J| with dubious, intent, upon his departed wife’s tombstone. It is with a sentiment entirely different that Notre Dame has sent her latest collection of graduates into the world—sent them gladly because she is confident of what they can accomplish and of what they can never be induced to attempt but fondly also, in the trembling gentleness of a farewell. It is very easy to register a boy for college, comparatively easy to assign a cubby-hole in Badin, and easier still to get him up for morning prayer. But it is infinitely difficult and complex to make a graduate of him in the true sense of the word. The men of ’22, individually and collectively, have helped to solve the problem.
It has been a good year. The contestants who have represented the school in various ways have achieved brilliant and frequent victories which it would have been hazardous to anticipate. Student organizations have flourished as scarcely ever before; much has been added to the social life of the school; and work to aid the upbuilding of a greater Notre Dame was accomplished satisfactorily. In all of this undertaking the Class of ’22 has taken a worthy lead. Their athletes, leaving now, bequeath woeful gaps in every one of the teams. . . . _we haven’t the heart to indicate here how great the devastation is. Their orators and debaters have revived, this year, those ancient traditions of the successful harangue which men used to recognize enthusiastically. The glee-club, the players’ club, the Dome board, the bridge society (under the able management of J. R. C.), and the
S. A. C. have left far behind any possible reminiscence of posible woodland origin. Dances—ye nymphs, what dances! —led to the grand climax of an unsurpassed Senior Ball. For all of these things we are indebted to the initiative of upper class leaders, and to the optimistic presence of Doctor Hughes. Notre Dame isn’t likely to forget or to refuse her respectful veneration.
Nevertheless, we must suppose that the men of ’22, like all other people before them have looked expectantly to this conclusion, which is like the call to battle for the born soldier after long years of training and ambition. They will meet life in the shock of its desires and purposes, and some will suffer from their wounds. There are wounds and some of them cut deep; there are victories and occasionally, no great joy is in them. But always and everywhere the memories and confidences of youth will remain steadfast companions and no one shall have lived in vain the dream of Notre Dame. This is the dominion of peace and preparation, and the mark of its sovereignty is upon all who come.
That is a good thing to remember. In it waits consolation, the revival of energy and a great joy. For our school is not merely a place where lessons are dispensed by the cubic centimeter and credits by the yard. Notre Dame is a city over which stand the lamps of Our Lady, ineffably radiant, presaging immortality. When her own sons come back, a welcome is theirs in which she has not the least share. We know that our parting with the men of ‘22 is only a matter of physical distance or the dust of long, divergent roads. . . . Thank God, there is a neighborhood of the spirit in which we can always gossip over the fence and borrow things and have endless arguments about nothing.
824
Norre &ame Scholastic
VALEDICTORY.
JOSEPH A. RHOMBERG, ’22.
We, the Notre Dame Class of ’22, have, tonight, our Commencement. Ip school we have laid the foundations, and now we commence to build the structures, of our lives. We begin this task with the best training
that college can offer. We have been educated not only in academic learning but also in the principles and doctrines that make for manly Christian character, and we know Notre Dame has done her part admirably. We know that if we shall only put to proper use the equipment with which she has supplied us we cannot fail to achieve true success.
From now on the battle is ours to fight. We must meet the future alone. And we are determined that throughout that future we will continue in the path along which our professors have thus far so wisely guided us.
As we view from the vantage point at
which we have arrived in. panoramic retrospect the four years behind us and observe the haziness of the path before us, our hearts sway between contending emotions. We are happy in having been found worthy to receive the mark of the Notre Dame graduate; we rejoice in knowing that our parents and friends are greatly pleased; we are glad to receive the benediction of Alma Mater. For we have reached the goal to which we have aspired for many years.
But just at this moment our exultation gives way to the full throats and the heavy hearts which betoken the sadness of farewell. Some duties men are always reluctant to perform and such is our duty of sayinggoodbye to Notre Dame and to each other. Coming after associations which have converted this old place into a second home; coming as a last farewell to college days and to dependent youth, our parting is indeed difficult. It is hard to leave Notre Dame. It is hard to step across the threshold of the life before us because we thereby close the door upon the carefree realm of youth. To night we tear ourselves away from some of the fondest things we can ever know, things which we will treasure sacredly in our memories, but which we can never make real- again. To-night we bid farewell to the Alma Mater that has been so good to us. Not until we look upon the empty class rooms and feel the loneliness of the deserted halls can we begin to fathom the full meaning of this hour.
Some of us may again walk the shaded paths and visit thefavorite haunts of the campus; we may again linger to hear the quiet lapping of the lake; we may again commune with beloved priests and professors. We may experience all the pleasures again but how different it will be from the days that are no more. Strange faces will appear on every side. We shall miss the familiar greetings, the hearty handclasps, the warm light of happy, friendly eyes—fellows, we are going to miss one another. This, it seems to me, is the saddest part of Commencement. In the four years during which we have lived in closest intimacy here we have learned to appreciate and to love one another with an appreciation and a love possible only through long association. The unequalled democracy
Moure dame Scholastic?	825
of Notre Dame is nowhere so conspicuous as among her seniors and we like to think that we have been typical fourth-year men. Certainly no one can ever say that we have been reserved in our attitude toward one another.
And to-night we of this class are to be scattered abroad never again to be all united in one place. We who have been companions for years must now part, only a few of us ever to meet again. When we shall have grown old and gray we shall no doubt realize much more fully than we do now how much we have been each to each and all to all.
These thoughts are almost overwhelming. But while properly sensing the sadness of our parting we should be untrue to the school that has taught us if we faltered an instant in our advance toward the larger and better life in the world for which our years here have been a preparation. "We should be false to the teaching of Notre Dame and her spirit if we did not feel full ready to take our part in the world before us. It would be pleasant indeed to stay longer but it is time to take our leave and we shall do it as manfully as we may. So in the spirit of the poet’s words we go forth to-night from Notre Dame, understanding that’
Not enjoyment, and not sorrow, Is our destined end or wa^;
But to act, that each tomorrow Find us farther than to-day.
SONG OF TWO NESTS.
I walked down the paths of April That lead to the fields of M^y;
I found four crushed sky-blue eggs
In my way.
0 birdlings that will not be born!
0 mother robin, all forlorn!
You cannot sing, so let me
Weave song for your phantom progeny.
I walked in the fields of May, white
And pink with clover sweet.
From the bloom, lo, a bird took flight,—
A nest of eggs at my feet.
0 happy mother lark, arise!
Mount the turrets of the tall blue skies.
Sing you, not I. Sing sweet and long
Of your eggs that will burst into feathered song.
c. s. CROSS.
He who is sufficiently humble is insensible to disappointment.
ADDRESS ,
THE HON. KICKHAM SCANLAN, LL.D.
When a mother gives testimony as to the • truthfulness of her child it is best to take it with a bit of salt.
Along with the fact that I am glad to be here comes the feeling of pain. I am as Rip Van Winkle. The transition is certainly apparent.
I have no set address for my business would not allow me the time to prepare one. Just before the exercises began, my daughter said to me: “Remember dad, you were once a student, and have a heart.”	.	‘‘
I have the good of Notre Dame at heart. I love it as much as any one who has ever left the school before.
Notre Dame is an absolute necessity to the United States. Young graduates are now going into a troubled world. The boys of Notre Dame should know the condition and do their parts as they see their duty. Each man has three duties to perform: Service to God; service to country; service to humanity. A religious standpoint is first necessary. Is service to God and service to country in the United States interwoven? Have they a relationship?
Let it be said that service to God is service to country. In this country we are supposed to have religious freedom This country was founded as a God-believing one. In the days of development it had that character. Life, liberty and pursuit of happiness came from God. In our national hymn we speak of God as the author of liberty Even our coins bear the inscription “In God We Trust.” The great men of this country and others have been God-believing. The three great individuals that stand out in my belief are Washington, Franklin and Lincoln.
Washington in the dark days of Valley Forge issued a proclamation to the American army that God was the author of dur country. In his inaugural address he stated that the supreme ruler was God. .
Religion and morality are indispensable to American principles. Benjamin Franklin, recognized as the wise man of the time said: “God rules nations, and God has given America its freedom.” He moved that every session should be commenced by an appeal to the Almighty.	'
•/I
826
Norre 6ame Scholastic
Lincoln also said that God was the supreme ruler—that He would punish nations just as -He punished individuals for their sins. Intelligence, religion and patriotism are the three tokens of a true patriot.
In the old American homes we had respect for marriage, law and order. Prosperity came and drove the morale of the people to
JUDGE KICKHAM SCANLAN
the place where it is now. When a country becomes too prosperous, it is likely to become agnostic.
From statistics it has been found that 60 per cent of the American people have declared they no longer belong to any church. Washington was right—that religion and morality were indispensible to the welfare of America.
Some of the states 40 years ago had never had a divorce. In Chicago in the last year there were 8,000 divorces, granted. Disrespect for law and order has grown rapidly. Bootlegging has risen to a line degree of perfection.
These things are due that from a nation which was before 98 per cent believing is
now only 40 per cent. This condition is because of that fact.
In this country, thousands no longer vote. They avoid jury service. American citizenship is priceless. It is not appreciated. A government cannot function unless the citizens cooperate. The slacker in citizenship is simply a peace traitor and should be treated accordingly.
In Chicago, jury service has been shirked'. We must perfomi these duties as citizens or we will be punished. God was angry with the world at one time and it is just as possible that He will become angry.again.
This is my thought to you graduates. Realize fully the value of American citizenship and exercise your rights. We must hold the- torch of liberty high or our ideals will fall.
Notre Dame has taught this belief in God. Besides that it has regarded law and order as almost sacred. Its past record speaks for its patriotism. Above all else run the race of life straight. Think clean. You have a higher duty to perform than to look out for yourself.
In a short time this country will become a devouring monster if allowed to run its own course. Men of ’22, resolve to be what you can for its betterment. On the judgment day the crucial question will be: ‘What have you done for humanity?’ Then you will know whether you sit on the left or the right hand of the Father.
THOUGHTS.
The peacemaker has a lifetime job.
We may fear the “Greeks bearing gifts,” —but not in their restaurants.
A youth without ideals is like a beautiful cathedral with all its niches statueless.
Our sins are our own, yet they are the only things that we would fain attribute to God.
There is one good thing about disappointment in love: it obviates disappointment in marriage.
Everyone must admit that the gladiatorial combats were mild affairs compared with the murders of today.
Only the fool looks about the world for something new, for who has exhausted the wonders within himself?
'^9'J
Nocre dame Schofasric
827
BACCALAUREATE SERMON.
The Rev. Maurice Francis Griffin.
“The God of our fathers give thee grace, and may He strengthen all the councils of thy heart with His power, that Jerusalem may glory in thee, and thy name be in the number of the just and holy.”
Judith Chap. X, 3.
A while ago I stood in the midst of a great art gallery where all around hung pictures enframed in gilt and gold. In an alcove apart
REV. MAURICE F. GRIFFIN
hung a picture in a simple frame of oak. Studying that picture with enraptured gaze was ah old and learned priest. In silence we stood together until with all the enthusiasm of the Artist’s appreciation of a work of genius, heJwhispered, “There is a masterpiece.”
My dear young men, each of you, for his life work, is to present a masterpiece of perfection. Leave the tinsel and gilt to others, frame it in simplicity of faith and strength of service to God and man. You have left the common walks of life in search of the higher forms of beauty. You have entered a studio of the Master—this great
University, to study method, and learn proportion of form and color and shade. As tyros you may have made inartistic use of background — your new environment; you may not have properly mixed the magnificent colors furnished—the scholastic opportunities; you may have even spilled the rich crimsons and gold—the sacramental graces, which the Master has prepared with such loving care. But oh, how skillfully He retouches the daubs of a bungling hand until finally we have copied our ideals with the primary colors of education mixed with the delicate tints of experience that bring out the high lights of life’s picture.
Your studies, your various religious exercises have filled your minds with learning and youi’ hearts with noble sentiments. I could not hope to add anything to the instruction of a university course, but it might be opportune to suggest the necessity of a practical application of your education. I presume not to enter the field of vocational guidance and suggest a career. Rather would I discuss conditions and indicate the work that must be done.	'
The exit of your school days is also the portal through which you pass on to your life work. It is well then, to pause at the threshold of commencement and take inventory. One’s assets must be checked up very carefully. The talents which God has given must be appraised at their face value. The increment of increase which education has given, even the unearned increment of association, must he carefully estimated.
Hitherto you have not taken a very prominent place in the world of affairs, you have not attracted much attention to yourselves. Individually you have been lost in the crowd of fellow students, portected by the traditions and confines of your school. At your commencement you go forth from these environs, you become individual exponents of this educational system. You have been acquiring knowledge, now you must render service. Your graduation gives you a distinction in the communities to which you return. Your people not only think a great deal of you, but they expect a great deal from you. Henceforth you will be on exhibition. What sort of picture are you going to present to those who view you in the days

828
Norre dame Schotasric
and. years that are to come? It is a rare faculty to be able to visualize ourselves, it is a rare grace to live well subjectively, perhaps it is rarer still to live well objectively.
For you men I have no fear of human respect. Rather would I suggest a mild imitation of him who wished that some power would give him the gift of seeing himself as others saw him. I should like to have you seriously concerned about what others are thinking of you, zealously careful not to shatter the high ideals they may have of you, studiously striving to give good example, and exert a good influence on all you meet.
“No stream from its source flows seaward, however lonely its course but what some land is gladdened. No star ■ ever rose or set without influence somewhere. No life can be pure in its purpose and strong in its strife and all life not be purer and stronger thereby.”
Each of you is the center of a circle of influence that is constantly widening. Science has multiplied man’s activity a thousandfold. A human voice is broadcasted to millions of hearers and preserved for generations yet unborn. What tremendous influence a man can exert for good or evil! Only those who have high ideals can uplift, only those who have- the intellectual power which comes from educational development are strong enough to do so. For university graduates, opportunity is the measure of responsibility. You are the salt of the earth, the leaven to enliven-the whole mass. We have ordinary men by the tens of thousands, you must be extraordinary men. You have outgrown the swaddling clothes of the swarm of intellectual pygmies. You have stepped out of the ranks of the undistinguished herd, you have risen above the dead level of mediocrity. You are the representatives of a great university to bring into the several communities you may enter the best of Catholic culture, and the best of Christian education; You must shake off the lethargy of the commonplace and rise to the dignity of leadership for the higher and the better things of life .You must mount to the perilous heights of public duty, you shall bare your breast to every shaft of malice, supremely confident that the
fiercest dart shall find no flaw within your armour, nor the brightest ray one spot upon your shield. Oh truly glorious is an exemplar of Catholicity, worthy to be called a follower of Him who was the way, the truth and the life.
This generation has given us higher buildings, more destructive warfare, more ruthless exploitation of men. Our wondrous material progress has stunted our spiritual and our intellectual growth. What have we to offer in philosophy, literature, sculpture, painting or architecture? We Americans read almost all the tune, and almost nothing. We are too busy to do much thinking for ourselves. Art has become a poor suppliant for the crumbs that fall from the table of worldly success, '
Do not think I am so impractical as to belittle this success or to discourage you from striving for it. I appreciate that most of you consider it the proximate goal of your ambition. The professions, business, industry invite you. Rich reward awaits your toil and talents. Throw into your work the energy you throw into your play, concentrate upon it as you concentrated upon a problem of Euclid. But ever remain its master, never become its slave. Seek success for the power for good it gives you, make money a tool in your hand to build for the edification of men and the honor and glory of God. \
Whatever you may accept as your avocation, whatever field of human endeavor you may enter, do not allow your intellectual horizon to be narrowed to that field. Always remember there is something more expected from university graduates than just to earn their living. In addition to that you are to render a service for which no currency has ever been coined to repay you, for which no fee can ever be apportioned.
This is not the time, nor would these sacred precincts permit partisan political discussion, but when our beloved government of the people and for the people becomes a mere tool in the hands of an organized minority manipulated for selfish gains, when the noblest traditions of our statescraft are discarded and the most cherished rights of our citizenship jeopardized, it becomes the obligation of such men as you well grounded in faith in God and the history of our
Isfe Moure dame Schdascic
829
country and its traditions to prepare for participation in public affairs.
Catholic Americans,, what a proud title to leadership you have. America, Catholic in her discovery, Catholic in her exploration, Catholic in her colonization. A thousand names of river and lake, of city and town from the Sacramento to the St. Lawrence, from St. Paul to St. Augustine tell of the Catholic explorer and the Catholic settler. America in her development the melting pot of the world, whose cosmopolitan citizenship embraces men from every land and clime, and whose public spirit breathes the aspirations of all the old world people, how kindly is the feeling of these new Americans to all that is Catholic found here. How eagerly as they come to dur shores to find a home do they join with us, their fellow Catholics who are'here to welcome them, in singing “My Country, ’tis of thee, sweet land of liberty.”
How closely has the Catholic in America linked love of God and love of country, do not misunderstand, I do not say joined Church and state. We have rather given expression to that principle of religious liberty which allows every man to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience. How valiantly have Catholics fought—and may still have to fight to preserve for Americans this priceless legacy bequested to us by the Catholic Lord Baltimore, founder of the Catholic colony, named in honor of the Catholic queen, and still called Maryland.
Young men it is well for us to repeat how much of America is Catholic, and how much Catholicity has done for America. We have no call to hide our light under a bushel. Fairminded men must be informed and must recognize the Church of which we are a part, as the great stabilizing influence in our democracy, outlining a conservative program of industrial relations, preserving the sanctity of the home as the unit of the state, promoting the complete education of the heart as well as the head and the hand of the .child, guarding the bulwarks of our personal liberty, and teaching respect for lawfully constituted authority as a religious duty.
Sad to say, some of our well meaning fellow citizens know so little of our religious allegiance that they do not understand how it can be separated from our civil allegiance.
This misunderstanding is periodically taken by evil minded men as the basis of an attack upon us, and among the ignorant is made a political issue upon which they may ride into position of power and plunder.
It is strange that in the anguish of the recent world conflict, when all this sham patriotism sought cover and real loyalty became apparent, when the artificial barriers that divided our citizens were tom down, and the possibilities of our united citizenship , amazed the world, it is strange that all men -did not then learn the true position of the American Catholic and the Roman Pontiff: the Catholic who wrote in characters of living light his profession of faith in America and sealed the covenant in his heart’s blood, and the Papacy that alone among all the institutions on earth continued its beneficent influence among all the warring elements. Men of all nations gathered around the footsteps of the Pontiff’s throne, and whatever the language their tongues spoke, their hearts cried out to him—Abba, Father, the great white father of Christendom whose children in every instance, true in their civil allegiance fought in the ranks of the opposing armies, and thus clearly established the neutrality of the Pope who claims no civil allegiance as the Vicar of Him who said “My Kingdom is not of this world.” Thus was given to all men proof positive that Catholics throughout the world owe no civil allegiance except to country. Thus was the lie direct given to those infamous breeders of dissension in our midst who preach that we acknowledge the domination of a leader in Rome, and question our Americanism because of our Catholicity.
As we glory in their institution it is well for us to recognize our continued • responsibility for the preservation of our American Catholic traditions. It is well for us to face the facts, and behold in all its naked ugliness the cankerous growth that is rankling in our body politic to-day, when shrouded night riders outrage all sense of justice, strive to supplant our representative government with their invisible empire and crucify our co-religionists upon their fiery cross of bigotry. In every city in my native state, yes and in your neighboring state, in far off Oregon and the lone star state of the south
830
Nocre dame ^cholasdc
land professional organizers are herding together the thousands who have so far forgotten the principles of American liberty that in their intolerance they seem more like fanatical Musselmen than civilized Christians. With a thousand rancorous voices they are crying out their infamy in night, and with diabolical hatred and lecherous tongues attacking the Church which you and I love dearer than anything else on earth. But more vicious still is their attack upon the school and the consecrated nun who makes it possible. The consecrated nun, the chosen flower of womanhood, “Our tainted nature’s solitary boast,” ■ most noble, most heroic of her sex, giving up home and family and all that life might offer, living nearer to God than any one else on earth, laboring incessantly for the sick, the orphan, the infirm, instructing the children in the gospel of peace, and yet equipping them well for the battle of life, preserving inviolate for a thousand years the noblest traditions of high minded devotion to God and humanity. It is bad enough to heap commercialized calumniation upon the spouse of Christ, but Beelzebub himself must blush to hear their foul mouths belch forth accusations against these sweet defenseless women, besmearing their fair names with the foulest scum that ever was scraped from the hob Of hell. Compared with this the traitor’s treason is highest patriotism, and the murder’s malice sweetest charity. Verily, as Dr. Johnston says, “Patriotism is the last refuge of the scoundrel.”
Meh, there is much work to be done and you can do it in pulpit, and forum and sanctum, in office and workshop and club. The stage is set in any community you may enter. The American people await high minded, well trained men to shape public sentiment and lead public action. Opposition challenges, opportunity beckons, duty sounds the x clarion call “Pro Deo et Patria.”
This is the picture I would have you hang-in life’s gallery.. Oh men, do not put up a carricature of it and call that your life work. What is sadder than hopes that are blasted, promises unfulfilled, and God given talents idly squandered. Like the towering oak whose high top the lightning flash blasted is the college man who dies at the top, who
never grows up. “When I was a child” says St. Paul, “I spoke as a child, but when .1 became a man I put away the things of a child.” You can never be children again. Never stoop to things unmanly, unworthy, ignoble. Never forget your royalty as sons of our queenly mother, Notre Dame.
Hang up a finished picture of your best service to man and to God. With bold free strokes draw its outline, with rich full colors fill it in, and then when the lengthened canvas of your life story is hung in the gallery of eternity, and there comes to view it the great High Priest, assuredly He will pronounce it a masterpiece.
THE CAMPAIGN.
BY REV. JAMES BURNS, C. S. C., PH. D., PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY.
The scholastic year which is now closing-lias been a remarkable year at Notre Dame in several respects, but it will probably be especially memorable for the effort that has been made —for the first time in our history—to raise an endowment fund for the University. It is fitting that the graduates, the alumni and old students, and the friends of Notre Dame should now learn definitely of what has been accomplished in this way.
It is scarcely necessary to remind you that, in thus seeking the means to enlarge'and render more efficient our work", we have been doing only what almost every college and university in the land has been doing. The impetus towards expansion which has characterized American higher education during these last few years has no parallel in our history, or, perhaps, in the history of civilization. This movement followed America’s attainment of world leadership in the realm of international relations and sprang from a feeling that, in the new order of things, our colleges and universities were called upon to enlarge their service to society and civilization in accordance with their enlarged opportunities. -
Notre Dame fully shared in this feeling. The chief difficulty that confronted us lay in the circumstance that we had never before asked for such aid, and that the raising of money for endowment was something almost

Tofe Noure ^ame Scholastic
831
unprecedented in the field of Catholic higher education. Nevertheless, since we had neither teachers nor accommodations sufficient for hundreds of young men who were applying here, we decided, about a year ago, to endeavor to raise two’ million dollars, one-half of which was to be devoted to endowment and the other half to the erection of the most urgently needed buildings. It was resolved to devote the present year to the raising of the endowment fund and next year to the raising of the building fund.
The generous interest shown in the University by the General Education Board and its gift of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars has been of the very greatest help to us. The condition on which this gift was made, that we should secure the remainder of the million dollars, in cash or pledges, by July 1 of the present year, has served as'a lively stimulus to others to cooperate generously with our efforts. The example of the General Education Board was followed by the Carnegie Corporation, which also made a conditional gift to the University amounting to seventy-five thousand dollars.
The work was begun in South Bend last June where a committee of citizens, of which Myles O’Brien was chairman, were busy with .their task all through the torrid summer and during the early fall. In December a committee of the alumni was formed in New York City, and a little later in Boston, in order to reach our friends in New York City and in the New England States. Chicago was made headquarters for the states of Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin and Iowa, and early in March the central executive committee in Chicago was formed, Mr. C. C. Mitchell and Mr. Thomas T. Cavanaugh being chosen chairmen. From what has been said, it will be seen that our systematic efforts were confined to less than a dozen states, and that a very large proportion of our alumni and friends throughout the country have not as yet been reached. The student body at Notre Dame, under the guidence of Mr. Alfred Ryan, of the Class of 1920, have, during the past six weeks, been conducting a very vigorous campaign of their own, and in spite of certain handicaps they have been highly successful. A big helping hand was extended to the Uni
versity in its hour of need when the Knights of Columbus of Indiana, in their state convention at Terre Haute, on May 31, unanimously voted to raise fifty thousand dollars as the contribution of the Knights of Columbus of Indiana to our endowment fund.
The result of these efforts may be summarized as follows:
General Education Board_______$ 250,000.00 Carnegie Corporation__________	.75,000.00
South Bend ____________________ 252,138.00
Chicago District_______________ 197,386.36
Metropolitan District_________L 58,990.50 Alumni Association____________ 60,000.00
Miscellaneous ________________‘ 77,583.03
Knights of Columbus of
Indiana ________________ 50,000.00
Students Campaign_______1_____ 27,066.76
$ 1,048,164.65
Cash -------------f.___________$. 202,689.46
Due on Pledges_________________J. 845,475.19
$ 1,048,164.65
1-------------------------- .$ 60,000.00
2-------------------------- 50,000.00
1-------------------------- * 35,000.00
1--------.----------------- 30,000.00
1.-------------------------...	25,000.00
1-----------------------------15,000.00
1--------------------------   10,500.00
2---------------------------- 10,000.00
13....-------------------------- 5,000.00
4----------------------------- 3,000.00
1----------------------------- 2,750.00
5------------------------------2,500.00
9----------------------------- 2,000.00
2----------------------------- 1,500.00
1---------------------------   1,200.00
129..----------------------------- 1,000.00
1------------------------------  800.00
1----------------------1___s - 700.00
86-----------------------1___ 500.00
1128 below_____________________ 500.00
1387 Total
From the bottom of my heart I wish to thank all those who have given so freely or labored so devotedly to make our endowment campaign a success. The time was un-propitipus for such an effort, but we could not wait. If the effort has been successful,
832
Moure Same Scholastic
it has been so only because the friends of Notre Dame rallied in prompt and generous response to her call. To all of these—to our neighbors the people of South Bend and especially the members of the executive committee in South Bend; to our alumni and friends in New York and New England, in Chicago and Fort Wayne, and throughout Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin and Iowa, to the Knights of Columbus of Indiana, to the Alumni Association, and to the students of Notre Dame, I- express the University’s profound acknowledgment of what they have done in her behalf with the assurance that she will ever cherish a most grateful memory of it all.
During the coming year we hope to be able to raise an additional million dollars for new buildings. We imperatively need several new dormitory buildings, an engineering building, a commerce building, and an enlargement of.the gymnasium. In view of what has been accomplished and in view of ' the large number of alumni and friends of Notre Dame throughout the country who have still to be called upon, it is not, it seems to me, too much to expect that the means to provide for the carrying out of this building program may be secured during the next . twelve months.
arship for some deserving student during the next scholastic year.
The Scholarship Club of South Bend, through the efforts of Mrs. Dr. Alta. M. Boram and other ladies, raised funds sufficient to provide two tuition scholarships for the year at the University.
Mrs. Leo Sullivan Cummings and Mrs. Thomas Sullivan Brennan, of Chicago, have contributed a fund of fifteen thousand dollars, the income from which is to provide for three scholarships of $250 each, to be awarded annually to the three upper classmen, of the Senior, Junior, and Sophomore years respectively, who have shown the greatest improvement in scholarship during the year. These perpetual scholarships are to be known as the Roger C. Sullivan Scholarships, in memory of the father of the contributors, the late Roger C. Sullivan, of Chicago.
The University is grateful to the donors of ' these thirteen scholarships for the noble generosity-they have thus shown in providing aid for needy and deserving students. Hundreds of young men who knock at our doors each year are unable to enter the University unless they get help of some kind, and these benefactions have set an example.
Besides the gifts for endowment, the University received several other notable benefactions during the year.
The sum of $4000.00 has been willed to the University by an alumnus lately deceased, for the enlargement of the Dante Library through the purchase of books, magazines and works of art on Dante.
Mr. Francis Earl Hering, of South Bend, of the class of 1898, Mr. Albert Russell Erskine, of South Bend, President of the Studebaker Corporation and Chairman of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, and Mr. Conrad Mann, of Kansas City, united in contributing seven tuition scholarships for the. benefit of deserving students at the University during the year.
Mr John L. Heineman, of Connersville, Ind., of the class of 1888, gave the University $5000 to found two perpetual tuitions scholarships under specified conditions, and he also made a gift of $150 as a tuition schol-
Now dame Scholastic
CRUSADERS OF PEACE: CLASS POEM.
Karl Arndt, ’22.
Fair youth, all eager with unblemished dreaming, Nursed under contemplation’s peaceful sway In faery sunlands wisdom goes in, gleaming,— What anxious paths your benediction pray
As you walk forth?	,
You know the land is sickened with its strife, . That outlaw sins infest the roads of life To plunder all the virtues which you bear;
Must you step helpless into failure’s snare With victory’s treasure? .
No, tenderness will break the tempered sword, And miseries dark with evil fate’s decision Die swift before the virtue-knighted lord . Who lightly bears the armor of a vision, And strength is goodness.
0 youth, speed steadily on! Peace-blessed you are; The beggary that lingers in your way Welcomes this ready venture from afar’
Against (the) ageless night’s unbelieving grey And mists of doubt.
Then fill the saddened valleys with the laughter Of your enchanting, purifying song— Behold the blessings that will follow after And bring contentment that will quiet long
Your hallowed way.
Now leave the sacred beauty of this place Which breathes a kindly .atmosphere of grace, And strew your goodness on the hungry land That cries for bounty from the strengthened hand Your Mother held.
BACHELOR ORATIONS
THE JUSTIFICATION OF THE LABOR UNION.
x AARON E. HUGUENARD
The laborer and his wants have always been 'a vital problem in the government of every nation. From the revolt of the plebeian against the patrician in the days of Rome, all nations, all peoples, all times have been concerned with the toiler. Ancient history dwells upon his passing from the slave to the serf. The rise of industrialism sees him progressing from the indentured servant to the apprentice.	•
To-day finds the laborer striving persistently for his natural rights as a human being, for the same unrestricted liberties, the same freedom of action as his employer. The ‘ conditions of the struggle are different from those of other centuries, but the problem is the same. •	•	•	........
833
To secure natural, rights the laborer has associated himself, with his fellow-workingmen in the labor union. He is holding himself out, not as an isolated, non-essential unit of society, but as an integral part of an industrial organization, the product, of which is necessary for the world’s existence. To most of us perhaps, the question of the justification of the labor union has never occurred. Not a few economists take for granted labor’s right to organize, so in formulating their political economy, say very little on the subject. The employers are by no means uncommon who refuse to recognize the labor union. In the First Industrial Conference, convened at Washington by President Wilson, where representatives . of the leadingassociations of employers were gathered, a majority vote refused to recognize the right • of collective bargaining.	z
What can we say to convince such employers that the labor union is justifiable—of the justification of the labor union? Let us glance over the modern history of labor. Before the present industrial era, there was no distinction between Capital and Labor. The worker owned the tools he used with, which he worked. He disposed of his own products, and the profits of his labor went into his own pocket. Then, the inventive genius of man rather suddenly asserted itself. First the spinning-jenny was invented; then the steam-engine; then a hundred other machines of production. With the invention of these labor-saving devices, . the great factories appeared. As the factory system developed the worker found himself separated from his tools. A very clear line of class-distinction drew itself between the . employer and the employee. It was only a short time before the cleavage between the capitalist and the laborer became quite distinct. The owner of the factory and the * tools naturally wished to make all the money possible.. It was, of course, to his advantage to hire his labor as cheaply as he could. With this disposition prevailing, there has: developed a natural economic antagonism between th® capitalist and the laborer.
The story of the first decades of the industrial era is a tragic one. In those times ‘ the laborer was denied the right to organize! Many states made it unlawful for workers
Now Same ^chdascic
834 '
to combine for the purpose of securing higher wages and better working conditions. The pernicious laissez-faire theory, prevalent in those first years, was exactly what the factory-owner desired. It gave him a pretense under which he could bully and coerce the wage-earner to work for less than a living wage. T|ie .result of ;this let-us-alone policy was that the wage-earner, helpless in his predicament, had to work from twelve to sixteen hours a day, seven days in the week, in order to eke out a bare livelihood.
The reason for such a condition is easy to see. The individual employee can never be a match for the employer in the labor contract. The laborer out of work has little or no resources on which to fall back. Unemployment for him means discomfort, hardship, starvation. He knows that he is doomed to pauperism if unable to turn his labor into food and other necessities for the family and himself. To the capitalist, on the other hand the loss of the services of an individual laborer is at most only a slight financial one. He suffers no bodily discomfort, no physical penalty. It is optional with the employer to contract with an individual laborer; it is necessary for the employee to contract with his employer. .
Has the worker achieved his purpose by organization? Unquestionably he has. For proof of this, we have only to look to any field of labor and notice the conditions before and the conditions after the formation of the union. The coal industry affords a striking illustration. The active work of the union of the anthracite coal miners started in 1902, under the leadership of John Mitchell. The shorter day, better wages, provisions for safety and sanitation, bespeak the success of the organization. The building trades and the railroad industry present other notable examples.
The two methods found most effective by labor unions are collective bargaining and the strike. It is the use of these methods that arouses most of the opposition to the labor unions. Collective bargaining may be defined as “the process by which the workers as a group make agreements with the employers?’ It was over the right of collective bargaining that the First Industrial Confer
ence broke up. The representatives of the employers’ associations were willing to allow employees to form unions, but they took the position that an employer should have the right to insist on doing business only with labor representatives who were his own employees. The employers said, “We accept the principle of collective bargaining, but we reserve the right to decide whether we shall deal with representatives of the work who are chosen from outside of the particular establishment for which the bargain is made.” The labor party contended that this reservation destroyed the essential element in collective bargaining. “The theory of collective bargaining,” they said, “assumes not merely that we shall bargain as a group through our representatives, but that we shall choose whatever representatives we deem most efficient.”
To yield to the contention of the employers would be practically to deny the right of collective bargaining. For surely if laborers have the right to contract with their employer through representatives, they have the right to choose men most competent to make the contract. It is obvious that the wageearner is not in a position to demand for himself just terms without taking the chance of dismissal from employment. The men who are most efficient bargainers are not as a rule in the employment of any employer. Most of them are national officers of the union, who have had experience in making bargains, and who are not afraid to stand for the workers. - The men have nothing to lose by refusing to cower to unprincipled employers.	-
As a final argument against the labor unions, employers have charged the workers with using their power wrongly. Labor organizations have been accused of breaking their contracts, making excessive demands, calling unnecessary strikes, refusing .to arbitrate, disregarding the welfare of the public, ' and restricting production. We shall not attempt to deny these charges. Let us be fair, however, and look at some of the offenses which employers have committed. For every wrong done by the employees there are two by the employers. They have broken their labor contracts time and again. And if labor has been extreme in demand
Noure dame Scholastic
835
ing a six-hour day, what shall we say of the employer who requires his men to work twelve or fourteen hours a day? If strikes of the workingman have been unnecessary, what shall we say of the employer who has paid starvation wages because the employees could not help themselves? Arbitration? Employers have refused to arbitrate probably twice as often as the workers. Employers have shown quite as much disregard for the public as have employees. Their offences have not been apparent because they do not strike themselves but merely provoke strikes. If employees have been restricting output, what shall we say of the employers with monopolies, who cause a scarcity of goods in order to increase the price.
Such in brief, is the case for the labor union. I have tried to set forth the situation of the laborer before the organization of the labor union, a situation which approached serfdom, and to outline the progress which he has achieved through the union. Should certain employers prevail in their contention that labor has no right to organize, it is only fair to presume that the wage-earner will be at the losing end of a one-sided bargain. The well-being of the worker demands collective bargaining, as opposed to individual bargaining. The purpose of the labor union is to secure collective bargaining. Labor’s need for organized action is indeed the economic and the moral justification of organized labor. So long as the wage-system obtains, so long as there is a natural economic antagonism between employer and employee, the progress of the worker will be dependent upon collective action.
THE CASE FOR THE CLOSED SHOP WORTH CLARK
If we follow, through the centuries, the struggle of the wage-earner for his rights, we are impressed by the fact that as an individual he has been helpless before the power of organized capital. Man for man, the worker has never been a match for his employer. This inequality has given power to the employers, and their abuse of it is written on every page of economic history. It was reflected in the coal mines of England a century ago, when human lives were ground into dust, while in this country it reached a
climax in the sweat shops of the textile in-dustry,—where the worker’s blood was coined into gold and his limbs twisted into dollar signs. But under the stinging lash of such treatment, the workers began to realize that their only hope for emancipation lay in collective action. They realized that the only way. to obtain a fair bargain was to bargain collectively and meet organization with organization. The result of this awakening of crushed and bleeding labor was the trade union. Fired with the zeal of men struggling for their very existence, the workers gradually secured the recognition of some elemental rights from the employer. Their weapons were the trade union and collective action. With these weapons the worker has fought his way against fearful odds from the mire of slavery to the heights of partial freedom.
Now, however, he must halt. Capital, too has awakened, and realizing that its tyram nous position is menaced by unionism, it has pooled its merciless dollars and grimly launched a campaign to stamp out the trade union forever. War has been declared in industry.
On one side are arrayed the employers with their millions—on the other—the workers of America with nothing but their spirit and their unions. The open shop is the ostensible issue of this war—the existence of unionism is the real one. Labor is fighting for its freedom, for its very life. Capital has organized into gigantic employers’ associations, and has spent fortunes in propaganda. Perhaps the most powerful of these associations is the National Association of Manufacturers. In recent years, this organization has flooded the country with open-shop propaganda. This and all similar organizations have for their end not merely the abolition of the closed shop, but the destruction of trade-unionism itself. They would first crush the closed shop, and then, as I shall prove, it would be easy for them to destroy organized labor. This is no groundless assertion. Witness the statement of Mi-. Kirby, former president of the National Association of Manufacturers. He says: “After all is said and done about the solution of the labor problem, there is only one solution— and that is the utter destruction of organized
Isfie Norre (bameSchoidttie-
836
labor.” This, in the words of the former leader, is what the drive on the closed shop means. Its success spells the doom of unionism and means an economic set-back of three centuries. Here, too, the dictum of the National Catholic Welfare Council referring to the industrial struggle applies: “The evidence shows that in its organized lorm it is not merely against the closed shop, but against unionism itself, and particularly against collective bargaining.” - Thus we see that the Associated Financiers of the nation are planning the destruction of all organized labor when they launch their avalanche of dollars against the closed shop.
If Labor loses its fight for the closed shop, it loses its one protection—the trade union. The closed shop is absolutely necessary for the security of the trade union, -which, under the open shop, can exist only at the will of the employer. The closed shop is a shop in which any man may obtain employment, providing that he already belongs to a union or joins one within a reasonable time. Making the shop all union, is the only safeguard that labor has for the respecting of its rights. If all employers were just, there would be no need for a closed shop, nor is there any need for one in the shops of friendly and reasonable employers. But in the shops of hostile employers who have no sympathy for labor —the very existence of unionism and all that it means depends upon the closed shop alone. Why ? Simply because the power of a hostile employer can at any time destroy the unions in a shop where both union and nonunion men are employed. This he does by hiring the non-union men in preference to the union workers and soon he has exterminated the union in his shop. A house divided against itself cannot stand. Every shop tends either to become all union , or all non-union, and wherever employers are hostile, the so-called open shop inevitably becomes a closed shop, a shop closed to union men.	'
This is not idle theory. In two of America’s greatest industries—steel and. coal, it has become an accomplished fact. Every vestige of unionism was crushed from the steel industry in 1892 and even today no union man many work in the nation’s steel mills. • This unjust discrimination against
unionism became so notorious that Eugene' Grace, president of the Bethlehem Steel corporation, was forced to admit on the witness stand before the Lockwood investigating committee, that his company refused to sell steel to any building contractor who hired union men. Is this justice? Is it not rather the worst-form-of foul play and industrial despotism ?	.
A like condition exists in the West Virginia coal fields, where the operators, who pay starvation wages, are united in a final, unscrupulous war to stamp out every trace of unionism in the coal industry. These conditions prove that if the trade union is to exist, the closed shop must be maintained.
But, it may be asked, does not the closed-shop interfere with fundamental rights of other social groups? What about the right of a man to work under whatever conditions he chooses? What about the right of the employer to contract freely for his labor? What about the rights of the public which are violated by the union practice of restricting output? The answer to these questions is simple. None of these rights are even menaced by the closed shop.
Let us first consider the non-unionist laborer who is so generally depicted as a victim of the closed shop. It is true that every man has a right to work but this right exists' only so long as it is exercised in-a reasonable manner. As long as tlfe non-unionist acts reasonably in contracting for his labor he is within his rights but when he acts unreasonably his right no longer obtains. Now we maintain that nothing could be more unreasonable than the attitude of the non-union worker who works under the improved conditions’ achieved by the unions, and yet by his attitude actually injures those same unions the benefits of whose labors he enjoys. When a man takes advantage of all the im-' provements and reforms brought about by a century’s struggle on the part of organized labor and then refuses to aid organized labor by joining it he is unreasonable and to compel him to join a union or cease profiting by it is not unjust. '	*
Neither are the rights of the employer infringed upon. Labor is a factor in production and must be treated as such. Laborers are men and must be accorded the treatment

Noure dame Scholastic'
.83?
of men—not slaves. To demand that Labor’s right to organize be respected, to demand that the right of the workers to collective action for their own protection and advancement be recognized is not unjust, and when the employer refuses to recognize the rights of others, he forfeits his own. The closed shop asks nothing from the employer but justice and equality for labor. Another charge frequently hurled against organized labor in general, and its status under the closed shop in particular, is that the unions restrict output with a consequent loss to industry, and the public. This is a charge that is partly true, and that cannot be altogether justified. That some unions make a practice of restricting output no one will deny. That this is a wrong, all will admit. But that this evil is inherent in the closed shop and that the principle of the closed shop is unjustifiable because the unions do this thing is an unwarranted conclusion. In the first place, inhuman speeding by heartless employers is responsible for part of the restriction of output and that part is justifiable. Secondly, restriction of output is not peculiar to the closed shop. It is practiced in the open shop also, and to attribute the entire practice to the closed shop is manifestly unfair. That part of the restriction of output that may be charged to the closed shop we do not attempt to defend. It is an evil, and like all evils, must be remedied if possible. But to condemn the closed shop with all its tremendous advantages because of so small an evil is surely not common sense.
In conclusion then, ladies and gentlemen, you have seen how the open shop drive so strenuously entered into by the National Association of Manufacturers is but a veiled attack on trade unionism and as such is utterly wrong. You have seen how the laboring man today is fighting for his fundamental God-given rights which no man has the power to take away. I have shown you how these rights, embodied as they are in collective bargaining and trade unionism are absolutely dependent upon the closed shop for their security.
Finally I have shown you how the closed shop infringes on neither the rights of the non-unionist, the employer of the general public. Hence, it is justifiable. Labor has
fought its weary way upward through the years and would you now deny it the fruit of its struggle ? It is such a thought as this that makes such a cold blooded economist as Prof. T. S. Adams of Yale declare: “In the last Six centuries the labor population has risen from a condition of serfdom to a state of'political freedom. In this struggle, for economic equality the victories have been won by the wage earners themselves. Where they did not pursue their interest they lost their interest. When they forgot to demand their full reward they failed to receive their full reward. They had occasional encouragement and even an occasional leader from the employing class; but in the main, they, fought their way ‘'against the opposition and not with the assistance of the employers. Their weapons were the strike and the trade union. When the ponderous machinery of supply and demand was ready to give them a lift, its inertia and initial friction had to be overcome by the strike. When it had begun to thrust wages down, it was prevented from entirely degrading the wage earners by the . trade union. Always and everywhere the salvation of the working class has been collective action; and while the wage system remains their progress will .continue to be dependent upon collective action.”
THE CASE AGAINST THE CLOSED SHOP JAS W. HOGAN, C. S. C. .
In presenting the case against the closed . shop I wish to say first of all that I do not propose to. lay before you an attorney’s brief in opposition to the closed shop: to • gloss over its strong points and expose all . of its weaknesses and defects. I am aware of the fact that there is much to be said . in favor of the closed shop; that under certain circumstances, where the unions are weak and on the defensive, the closed shop constitutes a most effective means of resist- , ing the attacks of hostile, unscrupulous employers. No right-thinking man is willing that organized labor be left defenceless; all are agreed that if trade unionism is to accomplish anything at all it must, for the present at least, be equipped for a certain amount of struggle and provided with the instruments necessary to maintain that struggle. Nevertheless, however friendly
Isfie Houre Same ^cbotassi®
838
we may be toward the labor movement, we cannot safely ignore the fact that the interests of society are paramount to the interests of the laboring class or any other class; and the only right way to consider this problem of the closed shop is to lift it out of the narrow confines of trade-union advantage or disadvantage and consider it along the broad lines, of social welfare. Trade unionists are demanding that we give them—in addition to the strike and other instruments of industrial war—the weapon of the closed shop as a means of strengthening their position. • But we must not forget that the closed shop is, after all, a weapon, and like all other weapons it has about it an element of danger. And before we yield to the demands of the labor leaders, before we place such a powerful weapon in their hands, we must examine it carefully to • make sure that it can never be turned back upon society. It is my purpose to show that the closed shop considered from this point of view is dangerous and that the demand for it should be abandoned, because, as Mr. Chief Justice Taft has so well said, “The closed shop is hard, selfish, and unsocial. . . and in the end reacts upon those who use it.”
The chief objection against the closed shop is .that it would give to organized labor too much power. There are many who do not realize the precise nature, the implications, and logical consequences of
principle involved in the closed shop. They look upon it as a practical expediency to be used at a given time and place when necessity demands. They forget that you cannot limit the closed shop principle to any given time or place. The closed shop is as broad as unionism and the universal closed shop is admittedly the goal of organized labor; and if the principle of the closed shop were generally accepted by the American people you could no more limit or restrict its application than you could chain the torrent of Niagara Falls. Labor leaders do not hesitate to declare that it is their purpose to extend the closed shop to all industry and thus compel every workman to join the union. No less an authority than Mr. Jolin Mitchell has declared that, “With the rapid extension of trade unions the tendency is toward the growth of compulsory membership
in them,” and that “the tinie will doubtless come when this inclusion will be as general ... as the compulsory attendance of children at school.” And thus the leaders Ox organized labor, not content with the augmentation of power that would come them through .the natural methods of superior organization, efficiency, and service, are intent upon extending their control through the artifiicial methods of coercion and force. They would raise an issue between the unions, representing a distinct laboring population, and- society at large, and, by compelling every wage-earner to join the union or starve, they would mould this laboring population into a great federation of the proletariat, responsive to the dictates of its leaders, and ready to act as.unit whenever self-interest or expediency demanded.
The results that might be expected from the establishment of such a regime of closed shop unionism may best be determined by considering the practices of trade unionists wherever they have been able to carry out their policies without effective restraint. In England, for example, the closed shop is universal, since the employers have for decades been under practical coercion to employ only union men. This means, of course, that the trade unions are in a dictatorial position in England, that- small groups of labor leaders, sitting apart from industry and
the. holding in their hands the powerful weapons of the strike are able to decide the conditions under which industry shall be operated; to say just who shall and who shall not be employed, to fix the number of hours each man shall work, and the • amount of work that shall be performed each hour. It means, in other words—as every closed shop regime must mean—that the control and management of industry has passed from the hands of the employer into -the hands of trade union officials.
. We might very reasonably infer that such a. condition would lead, first, to a general slowing down in the forces of production, a certain stinting of effort on the part of the workmen, a general restriction in the output of labor. Such in fact has been the case. In 1917, the British Government, alarmed by the falling off in the national product, appointed a Commission of Investigation, and
Norre dame Scholascic
in their report they declare: “Nearly every employer who appeared before us had the same story to tell; that their workmen did deliberately restrict their output below that which represents a reasonable day’s work, and that this -deliberate restriction did ultimately have a serious effect upon the worker’s character, making him physically incapable of performing a reasonable day’s work.” Thirty years ago, Ladies and Gentlemen, the people of England pointed with pride to the integrity, skill, and general efficiency of their artisans and laborers; today after a period of closed shop unionism, a period of union control of industry, it takes, the average British workman (according to the last Industrial census) two and one-half days to perform the same amount of work that an American workman accomplishes in a single day. “The British Trade Unions,” says Mr. J. Ellis Barker, writing in a recent issue of the Current History Magazine, “far from benefiting the workers by increasing the supply of goods, have restricted it to the utmost... A study of their activity reveals the fact that they have inflicted the greatest injury upon England’s industry and trade and upon the nation as a whole.”
Nor is the situation in England in any way peculiar. Here in America we find that wherever the unions have been able to secure that autocratic control which the closed shop gives, there is the same irresponsible curtailment of output that is today bringing British industry to the brink of ruin. And the only thing that is preserving us from a similar disaster is the fact that there are so few American shops under complete union control. But if every shop in this country were a closed shop, every industry a closed shop industry, we would, if world-wide experience with the closed shop counts for any7 thing at all, be face to face here in the United States with a general deadening, of industrial effort, a restriction in the output of industry, with consequent scarcity of goods and increased cost for the food, clothing, houses, and other necessaries of life. This is indeed a big price to pay for the closed shop, and thoughtful students of the labor problem are coming more and more to believe that the closed shop is not worth the price.
In addition to this evil of reduced output
839
there is another danger to be feared from the compulsory unionization of industry by means of the closed shop, and that is the danger of ultimate political domination by the laboring population thus amalgamated. Under a regime of closed shop unionism their-would be no power either in law or in government that could preserve our republican institutions in theface of the concerted action of eight or ten millions of determined men, agreed as to their purpose and having in the hands the power to achieve those purposes. >The danger here does not lie entirely in the vote which these millions of men might cast at the polls. A still more serious phase of the matter is the union policy of ‘direct action’: governmental coercion through threat of strike, the forcing through of, class legislation by the paralysis or threatened paralysis of industry. British unionists have in this way repeatedly set at naught the majesty of British law and have attempted to force through Parliament measures which the great body of the English people had already repudiated at the polls. Powerful unions in this country have shown themselves equally insolent and irresponsible. The enforced passage of the Adamson law in 1916 is an outstanding and most dramatic example. Under guise of a plea for shorter hours, a bill for a national railroad wage increase was submitted to Congress. A time limit was then set for the passage of the bill, under penalty of a general railroad strike. And while union officials sat in the Congressional galleries with stopwatches in their'hands, a terrified Congress suspended all other legislation, and hurried to put the measure through .on time. Action of this kind is not republicanism,—it is despotism. Yet the high-handed methods employed by Brotherhood chiefs in this instance is as nothing when compared with the intolerable condition that would arise were all the wage-earners of this country conscripted into the union ranks and massed ready to strike at a signal from their leaders. As Mr. Garretson, Chief of the Order of Railroad Conductors boastfully declared to the members- of the New York Economic club a few weeks after the passage of the Adamson law: “If... four ^hundred thousand men held up the government, what will eight millions of
Moure dame Scholasuic
840
them do if they can to hold up the government ?” Surely language of this kind . is hateful speech to all }yho cherish the principles of democracy. Surely we should hesitate to give to such labor leaders this deadly weapon of the closed shop when we know in advance that it will be used to build up an organization in opposition to the government. Consider the matter howsoever you will, the general application of the closed, shop principle would mean the establishment here in the United States of an autocracy of labor, an imperium iii imperio, a power within a power, a super-industrial government, conscious of its ascendency and prepared to rule over industry and government according to its own selfish, class-conscious interests.
In the face of the danger then both of restricted output and political dominion it is not surprising that the closed shop principle has encountered such determined opposition here in the United States. There are still those who are dedicated to the belief that autocracy is badjilways and everywhere. We have given a trial of a hundred years to the autocracy of capital and we have found that capital is unworthy to rule over labor; we see in Russia today the pathetic spectacle of a great people groaning beneath an autocracy of labor; and yet by asking us to justify the principle of the closed shop, by asking us to justify the universal proscription of wage-earners into the union ranks, by asking us to give to a.small group of union officials a dictatorial control over the laboring population of this country the advo-cats of the closed shop are asking us here in America to follow the lead of Russia and give a trial to an autocracy of labor. The American people will not readily yield to such a demand. The principles upon which this nation is founded are opposed to all manner of class rule, and so long as those principles are cherished, closed shop unionism and all other forms of special privilege, will receive but little sympathy. Agitators may demand the closed shop, .demagogues may endorse it but the great body of the American people realize that somehow or other the closed shop means class rule, and they do not forget those words of Lincoln, that “No class is good enough or wise enough to rule another class.” Even among
union leaders themselves there are those who have the wisdom to see the dangers that would come from that absolute control which the closed shop would give to organized labor. “As much importance as I ' attach to the labor movement,” says Mr. Henry White, himself a distinguished unionist and for many years General Secretary of the United Garment Workers of America, “I am free to say that I would fear in its present status, its ascendency over society. Organizations,” he continues, “feed upon power for which they have an insatiable appetite, and the interests of society are best served by not permitting any one power to dominate to such an extent that it can afford to defy public opinion or ignore the principles of justice... Judging by the unions as now constituted,” continues Mr. • White, “we can conclude that until they develop the needed self-restraint, and realize through experience their limitations, if the closed shop were to prevail generally it would be as injurious to unionism as it would be to society.”
THOUGHTS.
Envy is nothing more than hatred in ambush.
Good tastes do not come from bad habits.
The beginning of wisdom is fear of “exams.” . .	-
The progress of civilization is due to sacrifice.
Humor is the rainbow in the tears of the world.
Happiness is viewing life in the mirror of eternity.
Labor and suffering are the raw materials of happiness.
The “won’t” power must never dominate the will power.	-
No man should drive an automobile unless he has horse sense.	.
- To graduate is to carry away an ideal with a resolution to live up to it.
Words are the servants of the master of diction. The greater number he possesses, the richer he is; yet, the test of his worth lies in his ability to. make each servant perform his duty perfectly. - “
Nocre Same Scholastic
841
H. W. Flannery
C. O. DeBarry
VOL.
LV.
Nttrt IhSt&dtahstit
Wait of Editors
Ians intss
Paul Breen
August Fipp
Robert D. Shea Harold E. McKee Karl Arndt
Leo R. Ward, 0. S. C.
Vincent Engeia Frank Wallace
J. C.
R. M. Murch, C. S. C. Gerald Hagan Charles Molz Frank McGinnis Francis J. Kolars W. C. Gilchrist Brennan	.
Atotrtisinj
Charles HirschbuhlAaron EC Huguenard
jaisct	dictums
^int Cfenast ©ras Blcntnm
Commencement, in its bare meaning, signifies a beginning, but in a larger sense, it must be both a beginning and an ending.
.	The days of books and
commencement , words and theories come to their close; the days of work and achievement approach. The graduate understands the importance of the days that are ahead of him. Printed page and oratory impress it upon him. Sentiment z tells him that this event is also an ending. As he closes his’ books for the last time, a vague restlessness seizes him and a dull comprehension- of inquietude overtakes him. As the days and hours accumulate, conflicting emotions arise, and though there is genuine hap-• piness at his triumph after four years of labor, there must be also mingled sadness and regret. He writes finis to a page into which have gone heart-aches and tears, pleasures and smiles. Soon the scene of all his victories will fade, leaving only its memories. Many others will occupy the rooms he has occupied and sit in seats where he has sat, but still these will always be his rooms and his seats. Years .will pass and he will return to revisit these scenes, flushed with success. The burning pictures of remembrance will glow new. He will always remember the old days. The places that he is leaving are sacred spots, and this ending of associations must be, in a way, final. It is this severing of ties that the ending over
shadows the beginning, that this commencement becomes a farewell night rather than an opening premiere.
The class of 1922 passes into history. Its members wil deserve all the success they achieve. And yet there will be things that material success will not efface. Hail and farewell. .. .	molZ
THE DRIVE FOR NOTRE DAME. .
It has been most gratifying to the administration of the University to see that the great efforts made during the past year for the raising of money towards the expansion of Notre Dame have been crowned with sue- * cess. We are certain also that every student and friend will rejoice as well, and rejoice the more for whatever assistance, large or little, he has personally been able to bring. As always, it seems that the development of Notre Dame will depend, not upon the generosity of very wealthy men, but upon the accumulated offerings of many. Widows’ mites even, have gone into this fund; and that is only another reason why the school of Our Lady will continue to be conscious of its mission, and waste none of its substance either monetary or moral. Unquestionably the future will add to what the past has done. We look forward hopefully to the work that will be undertaken by Father Burns during the coming year, confident that he will meet sufficient response to make his task a pleasure.
842
Noire ^ame Scholascic
THE NEW ORDER AT NOTRE DAME.
The close of this summer’s Provincial Chapter of the Congregation of the Holy Cross brought with it many significant changes in the direction of Notre Dame. First of all, the appointment of the Very Rev. James Burns, C. S. C., to the position of
THE VERY REV. MATTHEW J. WALSH, C. S. C.
President Emeritus, with full power to direct the Notre Dame expansion campaign, marked the close of three years spent in tireless service that has brought Notre Dame to the front as an academic institution. The University met the increased demands following the War much better than anyone would have been justified in anticipating: the faculty was judiciously added to, the recognition of the most important academic bodies in the United States was secured, and both the graduate school and the new college of Commerce were carefully organized, and perfected. Father Burns leaves the memory of scholastic vision and power as well as of. a personality whose i nfluence was strong, genial and exceptionally wise.
The Very Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C. S. C.,
has assumed the dignity of the Presidential office. It is, of course, unnecessary to say anything about him. If there is a Notre Dame man in the United States who doesn’t know and admire Father Walsh, he is a Notre Dame man gone deaf, dumb and blind, for whom we are sorry. As Vice-President and ever so many other things, his administrative powers have always been large. Now that he has brought courage, scholarship and .... Father Walsh to the supreme government of the University, its future is a matter upon which we may tranquilly cover all bets.
Our contemporary Vice-President is Rev. Thomas Irving, C. S. C., who used, among other details, teach physics, engineer bills of study and many devices concerned therewith, direct the destinies of the future at Moreau Seminary, and win the hearts of all. Other primary changes are: Rev. James Galligan, C. S. C., becomes manager of employment; Rev. James Quinlan, C. S. C., will preside in the office of Prefect of Discipline; Rev. Patrick McBride, C. S. C., will succeed Rev. Ernest Davis, C. S. C., as registrar.
For those interested in the future of the various halls on the campus, we wish to furnish this information: Rev. William Carey, C. S. C., will preside at Sorin; Rev. Patrick Haggerty, C. S. C., will rule over Walsh; Rev. Timothy Murphy, C. S. C.,will look after Corbyites; Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., will govern Badin; Rev. John Devers, C. S. C., will occupy the throne in Carroll; Rev. Allan Heiser, C. S. C., will protect freshmen residing on the campus. The other offices of this, sort will suffer no change.
Other variations of interest to Notre Dame men are many. Rev. Edward Finnegan, C. S. C., and Rev. George Marr, C. S. C., will go to Holy Cross College,. Washington, D. C., as professors of theology. Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C. S. C., and Rev. Bernard Lange, C. S. C., willjoin the faculty of St. Edward’s College, Austin Texas, where Father Steiner will supervise the work of reconstruction. Rev. Joseph Donohue, C. S. C., will increase the renown of Columbia University, Portland, Oregon. Rev. Michael Oswald, C. S. C., and Rev. Patrick Carroll, C. S. C., will return to Notre Dame as important accessions to the faculty. Brother Florence, C. S. C., will
Noure Same Scholastic
assume the office of treasurer, while Brother Engelbert, C. S. C., yill become purchasing agent. Brother Colimibanus, C. S. C., for many years director of the financial welfare of The Ave Maria, is to leave Notre Dame for another field.
COMMENCEMENT AT NOTRE DAME, •	1922.
Commencement this year .found the University in a better mood than ever for the dispersion of sheep-skins and academic approvals. The largest class in Notre Dame history went forth into the world, with a few tears at the end and the memory of many smiles. While the number of old chaps who came back to join in the celebration was not quite so large as usual—due partly to the fact that the Home Coming Game is now so definite a feature of our life—they were brimful of ginger and expended their enthusiasm with a generosity that will not long be forgotten.
To aid the festival, the Notre Dame Band was ‘on the job’ with a splendid series of out-of-door concerts which proved them the best band ever assembled on this campus and also testified to the love which this portion of the American public manifests in melody. On Saturday evening the fireworks began with the Bachelor Orations. Arrangements were carried out very successfully as follows:
BACHELOR ORATIONS
Subject of Trilogy:	“The Crisis of Labor”
Greeting’ Overture_______________Frantz Mahl
University Orchestra
I,—The Justification of Organized Labor Aaron Henry Huguenard, LL.B., Fort Wayne, Indiana
Colonial March_______________________Hall
__ University Orchestra
II.—The Case for the Closed Shop
' David Worth Clark, A. B., Caldwell, Idaho
Les SirenesWaltz_____________Walclteufel
University Orchestra
III.—The Case against the Closed Shop
Janies William Hogan', Litt. B., Notre Dame, Indiana
Beautiful Persia__________________Linke
University Orchestra
The speeches themselves are reprinted in another section of this noble periodical but
843
we must testify here to the art of eloquence created by the speakers. ’
On ^Sunday morning the alumni were directly instrumental, for Rev. Dr. Martin J. Griffin, ’04, delivered an effective, stirring, practical baccalaureate sermon which cannot fail to linger in the minds of those to whom, at their parting, it was directed. In the carrying out of the beautiful flag-raising ceremony a favorite Notre Dame tradion was once more developed with perfect simplicity and reverence. The evening saw the annual banquet for the Alumni in stately progress. It was enjoyable not only because of the excellent speeches and victuals which adorned the board, but also because of the success that had attended the meeting of the association in the afternoon, when the following officers were elected: Honorary President, The Rev. William A. Moloney, C. S. Cl, at present the pastor of a congregation near Watertown, Wis.; President, Henry Wurzer, ’98, of Detroit, Michigan; Vice-Presidents, Thomas J. Cavanaugh, ’97, of' Chicago; Gallitzen P. Farabaugh, ’04, South ^Bend; William Cotter, ’13, of New York Joseph Rhomberg, President of the class of ’22, who hails from Dubuque; and K. K. Rockne, ’14, of—well, everybody knows the whence of Rock. Rev. John McGinn, C. S. C., ’06, was re-elected Secretary, and the Hon. Warren A. Cartier will continue his long and invaluable work as a priceless Treasurer. The following trustees were chosen: Senator Robert Proctor, ’04, of Mishawaka; R. Daniel Hilgartner, ’17, of Chicago; and Joseph Haley, ’99, of Fozt Wayne.	-
The alumni also made the important decision to turn over the amount of money raised and pledged towards the upbuilding - of Old Students’ Hall to the present Endowment fund, under the condition that the first building to be erected should be known as Old Students’ Hall. Many interesting matters in connection with the Expansion campaign were brought forward. It was discovered that the largest single contribution to the fund had been made by Daniel P. Murphy, ’95, ’96, ’97—Mr. Murphy took degrees in Arts and in Law—of Rahway, N. J. He donated the sum of $25,000. Among the old boys who returned were some
844
Howe 6ame Scholastic
whom one hesitates to term old—no Notre Dame man, Colonel Hoynes assures us, is ever that—but who are slightly removed from the present generation. Some of these are: Robert M. Anderson, of Stevens Institute, Hoboken, N. J., who took a science degree here in ’83 and who was a close friend of Father Zahm; Edward J. Ott, ’84, of Cleveland, who made this year, his first return voyage to Brownson Hall; John Fitzgerald, ’77; Mark Foote, ’7*3; and. F. H. Mennet, ’77.	'
Commencement exercises came to a close on Monday night with the formalities enumerated below. It was a splendidly successful occasion marred slightly by the fact that Washington Hall failed to accommodate the large crowd. Valedictory and Class Poem alike were memorable and did their authors honor. The address of the Hon. Kickham Scanlon was vociferously applauded for its spirit of fine loyalty to Notre Dame. At the close of the evening’s solemnity, Very Rev. James Burns, C. S. C., President of the University, made certain interesting announcements concerning the outcome of the year’s campaign for endowment. The goal set was passed by fifty thousand dollars and the University is sanguine in its expectations that the coming year will see the secural of an additional million upon which the expansion of Notre Dame so closely depends.
We submit the evening’s program:
Greeting Overture___________?___R. Schlepegrell
- University Orchestra
Commencement Poem
Karl Matthew Arndt, Litt. B., Los Angeles, California
Valedictory
Joseph Andrew Rhomberg, Ph. B., in Com.
Dubuque, Iowa
Fantasie—O’Hare-----------University Orchestra
The Awarding of Medals and Conferring of Degrees Address to Graduates
■ The Honorable Kickham Scanlan Chief Justice of the Criminal	’
'	Court, Chicago
Announcements,
Rev. Pres. James A ,Burps, C. S. C., Ph. D. Crusader Overture
DEGREES CONFERRED.
The University announces the conferring of the following degrees:,	.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws has been conferred:
On a bistinguished divine whose sturdy character and lovable qualities of mind and heart have won for him in a remarkable degree the confidence and affection of his community, and whose broad Christian sympathies and zeal for every good cause constitute an inspiring example, Charles Augustus Lippincott, Doctor of Divinity, of South Bend, Indiana.
On an alumnus of Notre Dame who has attained distinction for zeal, eloquence, charity,—every priestly excellence, and whose, indefatigable efforts on behalf of hospital organization and development have been crowned with gratifying success, the Reverend Maurice Francis Griffin of the Class of Nineteen hundred and four, of Youngstown, Ohio.
On a brilliant artist who has loyally upheld the noblest ideals of classical music before the world in this generation, a teacher whose genius has been unreservedly expended in the service of humanity, culture and civilization, William Middleschulte, of Chicago, Illinois.
The University announces the conferring of the following medals and prizes:	'
The Quan Gold Medal, presented- by the late William J. Quan of Chicago, for the student having the best record in the senior year of the classical program, is awarded to Sigismund Janowski, C. S. C., Notre DWame, Indiana.
The Breen Medal for excellence in Oratory, presented by the Honorable William P. Breen of the cass of 1877, is awarded to James Hogan, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Indiana.
..Ten dollars in gold, for excellence in Junior oratory, was awarded to Leo J. Ward, C. S. C., for Freshman Oratory to Henry A. McGuire.
The Meehan Gold Medal, the gift of Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, of Covington, Kentucky, for the Senior who writes the best essay in English, is awarded to Karl Matthew Arndt, Los Angeles, California: Subject: —Faith, the Genius of Literature.
The Martin J. McCue Gold Medal, presented by Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer of the Class of 1877, for the best record for four years in the Civil Engineering Program, is awarded to Walter Leonard Shilts, Columbia City, Indiana.
The Barry Gold Medal for effective elocution, presented by the Honorable P. T. Barry of Chicago, is awarded to Harry Aloysius McGuire, Denver, Colorado.	-
The Dockweiler Gold Medal for Philosophy, founded in memory of his deceased father by Mr. Isidore Dockweiler, of Los Angeles, California, for the best essay on some philosophical theme, senior year, is
University Orchestra awarded to James. Edward Kline, C. S. - C., Notre
Noure dame Scholastic
Dame, Indiana;—Subject: Electron Physics versus Hylemorphism.
The Monsignor O’Brien prize for the best essay on some topic dealing with the history of the Northwest territory is awarded to James Hogan, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Meyers Burse, thirty dollars'in gold, founded in 1920 by a gift of five hundred dollars from Mf. and Mrs. A. R. Meyers of Paducah, Kentucky, as a memorial for their deceased son, J. Sinnott Meyers of the class of 1920, is awarded to William Augustine Castellini, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Twenty-five dollars in gold, given for the best literary work adjudged to have been done by a member of the Scholastic staff during the past y*eai-was awarded to Charles P. Molz, Peoria, Illinois.
The South Bend Watch Company has made permanent arrangements to offer annually a full-jeweled, eighteen carat gold watch to the seniorstudent in each of the five colleges who has made the best academic record for four years in the college from which he graduates': These watches are awarded as follows:
In the college of Arts and Letters to Karl Matthew Arndt, Los Angeles, California.
In the College of Science to Harry John Hoffman, Winamac, Indiana.
In the College of Engineering to Cyril Francis Kellett, Milford, Massachusetts.
In the College of Commerce to Joseph Andrew Rhomberg, Dubuque, Iowa.
In the College of Law to Franklyn Elliot Miller, Cherokee, Iowa.
Three money prizes have been offered for- distribution among the monogram men who have achieved the highest academic excellence. The first is a prize of two hundred and fifty dollars, given by Mr. Albert Russell Erskine, President of the Board of Lay Trustees. The second is a prize of one hundred and twenty-five dollars, given by Mr. Francis Earl Hering, of South Bend, Bachelor of Letters, 1898, Bachelor of Laws, 1902, a member of the baseball team of 1896-97, and captain of the football team during the same year. The third is a prize of one hundred dollars, donated by Mr. Leroy Joseph Keach of Indianapolis, Bachelor of Laws, 1908, captain of the track team of 1908. The prizes have been combined and are awarded as follows:
A prize of ninety-five dollars to the sophomore monogram man with the best class average for- the freshman and sophomore years, is awarded to Eugene Aloysius Mayl, Dayton, Ohio.
A prize of ninety-five dollars to the junior monogram man with the best class average for the freshman, sophomore and junior years is awarded to Edward George Degree, St. Cloud, Minnesota.
A prize of ninety-five dollars to the senior monogram man with the best class average for the fresh
845
man, sophomore, junior and senior years is awarded to Charles Bernard Foley, Burns, Oregon.
A prize of ninety-five dollars is awarded to each of the two senior monogram men whose academic records for the year are the best among the senior monogram men. These prizes are awarded to John Henry Mohardt, Gary, Indiana, and to Frederick Herman Baumer, De Pue, Illinois.
A gold medal for excellence in Vocal Training, presented by the Ladies’ Scholarship Club of South Bend, Indiana, is awarded to William James Furey, South Bend, Indiana.,	.
The Degree of Master of Arts is conferred on:
The Rev. Virgil Babbs, Williamsport, Ind. Dissertation: “Plotinus the Philosopher and Mystic Considered in-Relation to Modern Philosophy and Modern Christianity.”
Harry Murray Doyle, Culver, Indiana. Dissertation: “Applied Psychology: Its Use and Abuse.”
Brother Jerome, S. C. H., New York City, New York. Dissertation: “Deirdre, an Inspiration.”
The Degree of Master of Science is conferred on:
Lawrence Emil Rombaut, Rochester, New York. Dissertation: “Hexamethylenetetramine Catalysis from Carbon Monoxide, Hydrogen, and Ammonia.”
Daniel Hull, Ontario, Canada. Dissertation:- “A Continuation Theorem Applied to Positive Integral Series.”
The Faculty of the College of Arts and Letters announces the conferring of the following Bachelor Degrees:	-
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts on:	-
David Worth Clark.** South Bend, Ind.; William Joseph Donahue, C. S .C.,** Notre Dame, Ind.; James Anthony Fogarty, C. S. C.,** Notre Dame, Ind.; Sigismund A. Jankowski, C. S. C.,*** Notre Dame, Ind.; James Edward Kline, C. S .C.,** Notre Dame, Ind.; Frank Joseph O’Hara, C. S. C.** Notre Danie, Ind.;Hilary Joseph Paszek, C. S .C.,** Notre Dame, Ind.; Thomas Daniel Richards, C. S. C.,* Notre Dame, Ind.; Robert Driscoll Shea,** Indianapolis, Ind.; Joseph Patrick Sullivan,** Brocton, Ill.; Raymond Charles Switalski, C. S. C.,** Notre Dame, Ind.	-	.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters on:	'
Karl Matthews Arndt,*** Los Angeles Calif.; Edward Lambert Cochrane, Kent, Wash.; Robert Emmett Gallagher, Chgarlestown, W. Va.; James William Hogan, C. S. C.,* Notre Dame, Ind.;Francis Dewy Ott,** Warren, O.; John Michael Rice, Cleveland, Ohio.	'
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy on:
Gerald Mortimor Barrett, Omaha, Neb.; Edward Joseph Diindon, Ishpeming, Mich.; James Barry
*	—Cum Laude	.	. .
*	*—Magna Cum Laude
*	**—Maxima Cum Laude
<■ •
E
846
Noure dame Scholastic
Holton, Austin Texas.; Eugene Aloysius Smogor,* South Bend, Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy in Journalism on:
Willia mAugustine Castellini,* Cincinnati O.; Daniel Martin Coughlin,* Waseca, Minn.; Edward Charles Herbert,* Rock Rapids, Iowa; Clarence James McCabe,** North Platte, Neb.; Harold Earl McKee,* Oak Park, Ill.; Harry Jernes mehre, Huntington, Ind.; Alvin Theodore Van Dolman, Chicago, Illinois.
The Faculty of the College of Science announces the conferring of the following Bachelor Degrees:
The Degree of Bachelor of Science on:
Edward Nicholas Anderson,* Mason city, Iowa.; Thomas Leo Keefe,* Raub, Ind.; John Henry Mohardt,* Gary, Ind.; Wallace Francis Krieghbaum, South Bend, Ind.	'
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry on:	'
Harry John Hoffman,* Winamac, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Agriculture bn:
James Robert McCabe, Greencastle, Ind.; Leo Russell Metzger,* South Bend, Ind.; William Henry Power, Titusville, Pa.
The Faculty of the College of Engineering announces the conferring of the following Bachelor Degrees:
The Degree of Civil Engineering on:
Lawrence Timothy Shaw, Stuart, Iowa.; Heartley William Anderson, Hancock, Mich.; Frederick Herman Baumer,* Harrisburg, Ind.; Michael Edward Fahey, Jr., Carnegie, Pa.; Mark Anthony Foote,* Chicago, Ill.; George Philip Heneghan,* South Bend, Ind.; Cyril Francis Kellett,** Milford, Mass.; Leo Aloysius Mahoney, Davenport, Iowa; Jolin Bartholomew Reardon, Springfield, Mass.; Albin Anthony Rhomberg,*** Dubuque, Iowa; Walter Leonard Shilts,** Columbia City, Ind.; Egon Carl Von Mer-veldt, El Reno, Okla.	.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer on:
Joseph Edmund Duffey,* Lima, O.; Cyril Bernard Fites,** Winamac, Ind.; Richard Frederick Glueck-ert, South Bend, Ind.; Rafael Joaquin Gonzalez, Manila, P. 1.; Justin Edward Hyland, Penn Yan, N. Y.; Walter Edward Klauer,* Dubuque, Iowa; Clinton Joseph Lintz,* Rochester, N. Y.; Bernard Joseph McCaffrey, South Bend,' Ind.; Thomas Emmett Owens, Macedon, N. Y.
The Degree of Electrical Engineer on:
Raymond Augustine Black, McKeesport, Pa.; John Dean Fitzgerald ,Pekin, Ill.;John Jacob Huether,* Sharon, Pa.	'
The Degree of Chemical Engineer on:
Frederick William Glahe, Chicago, Ill.; Leo Josiah Lovett,** Castanea, Pa.; Edward John Ott; Jr., Cleveland, 0.; Arthur Henry Vallez, Bay City .Mich.
The Degree of Mining Engineer on:
John Charlesworth Sullivan,* Chisholm, Minn.;
The Degree of Architectural Engineer on: Gerald Clement Brubacker,** Mishawaka, Ind.
The Degree of Bachlor of Architecture on:
Joseph Bernard Behan, Jackson, Mich.; Walter John Matthes, South, Bend, Ind.; Joseph Bernard Shaughnessy,* Kansas City, Kan.; Clarence Anton Zwack, Dubuque, Iowa.
The Faculty of the College of Law announces the conferring of the following Degrees:
The Degree of Master of Laws on
Walter Aloysius Rice, South Bend, Ind.; Dissertation: “The Law of Replevin.”
Harry A. Richwine, South Bend, Ind. Diserta-tion: “Medical Jurisprudence.”
The Degree of Juris Doctor on:
John Joseph Buckley,* Youngstown, 0.; Clarence Emmet Manion,** Henderson, Ky.,
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws on:
John Paul Brady,** Lexington, Ky.; Stephen Eugene Carmody , Carlinville, Ill.; John Paul Cullen,* Janesville Wis.; Harry Edward Denny,* Bridgeport, Conn.; Jerome Francis Dixon, Dixon, 111.; James Christopher Dolan,* Peoria, Ill.;; James Ryan Dooley, Andover, Mass.; Fred. Bestow Dressel,* Oskaloosa, Iowa;’ Edward Joseph Dundon,* Ishpeming, Mich.; Joseph Henry Farley,* Chicago, Ill.; Charles Bernard Foley,* Burns, Oregon; Robert Patrick Galloway,* Silver Creek, N. Y.; Lawrence Henry Goldcamp,* Lancaster, O.; Clement Daniel Hagerty, South Bend, Ind.; Mark Remigius Healy, Muscatine, Iowa; Frank Michael Hughes,** St. Anne, Ill.; Aaron Henry Huguenard,*** Fort Wayne, Ind.; James Vincent Jones, Geneva, N. Y.; Royal Gerald Jones,* Dixon, Ill.; Raymond John ( Kearns, Terre Haute, Ind.; Arthur Charles Keeney,** Akron, 0.; Eugene Martin Kennedy,* Lafayette, Ind.; Peter Francis Lish,* Dickinson, N. D. ; Thomas Spencer McCabe,*. Rantoul, HL; Edwin James McCarthy, Horton, Kas.; Jolin Stephen McInnes, Wallace, Idaho.; Franklyn Elliot Miller,** Cherokee, Iowa.; William Anthony Miner,* Dushore, Pa.; Fabian Thurmond Mudd, Falls City, Neb.; James Edward Murphy,* Bridgeport, Conn.; James Francis Murtaugh, Chatsworth, Ill.; Kenneth Francis Nyhan,** Toledo, O.; Paul Vernon Paden,,* DePue, Ill.; B. Vincent Pater,** Hamilton, O.; Robert Richard Phelan, Fort Madison, Iowa.; George Edward Prokop, Youngstown, 0.; Anthony Joseph Schiavone, Chicago, Ill.; Paul Joseph Schwertley,* Miami, Florida.; Alfonso Aloysius Scott,* Los Angeles, Calif.; Clarence Ralph Smith,* Mizpah, Minn.; Mark Storen,* Lexington, Ind., Earl Francis Walsh, Adair, Iowa.; Chester Allen Wynne, Oronoque, Kan.
The Faculty of the College of Commerce announces the conferring of the following Bachelor ’ Degrees:	. .	.
Noure dame ^chdaeuie
The Degree of Engineering Administrator on: Paul Sun Ting, Manila, P. I.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy in Commerce on:
Francis Charles Blasius, Jr.,** Logan, O.;Frank Bernard Bloemer,* L6uisville, Ky.; Harold Sidney Bowden,** Birchtree, Mo.;. Emmett Francis Burke, Chicago, Ill.; James Andrew Carmody, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Albert Carroll, Shawneetown, Ill.; John Ralph Coryn,** Moline, Ill.; Philip Sylvester Dant, Louisville, Ky.; Wilfred Thomas Dwyer,** London, 0.; George Bernard Fischer,* Rochester, N. Y.; James Sinon Foren, Jr., Fond du Lac, Wis.; Eugene Joseph Heidelman,* Los Angeles, Calif., Charles Joseph Hirschbuhl,* Portland, Ore.; Richard Wilton McCarthy,* Chicago, Ill.; Arnold John McGrath, Chicago, Ill.; William Jeremiah Murphy, Johnson City, N. Y.; Edward Henry Pfeiffer, Louisville, Ky.; John Samuel Rahe, Madison, Ind.; Ardo Ignatius Reichert,* Long Prairie, Minn.; Romaine R. Reichert,* Long Prairie, Minn.; Joseph Andrew Rhomberg,** Dubuque, Iowa.; Morgan Francis Sheedy, Bellevue, Pa.; Benedict Paul Susen, Park Ridge, Ill.	■
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy in Foreign Commerce on:	,
Gerald Alphonse Ashe,* Rochester, N. Y^; Edwin John'Byrne, Natchez, Miss.; Cyril Francis Gaffney,* New Britain, Conn.; John Patrick Hart, Cleveland, 0.; Cletus Emmett Lynch, Meriden, Conn.; Paul Anthony Mulcahy, Geneva, N. Y.; Paul Joseph Pfohl, Chicago, Ill.; Walter Joseph Stuhldreher,* Massillon, 0.; Sylvester A. Steinle, New Washington, 0.; Daniel Edward Sullivan, Jamestown, N. Y.
Certificates were awarded to the following graduates in Pharmacy:
John Louis Bulowski; James F. Fogarty; Thos. Rose; Leo Clement Graf; Leonard G. Levitt; Frank S. Zachar.
CORRESPONDENCE
To the Students of the University of Notre Dame.
As my work as Reference Librarian in the University. Library will be completed at the close of vthe Summer School, I hesitate to leave without expressing to the students through their University paper my deep appreciation of their helpfulness and courtesy during the difficult time of the organization of a new Library Department. It is due to their hearty response and splendid attitude that we have been able to secure the results of the past year. For this I am grateful. The year has been called a memorable and satisfying year by those who are most anxious to secure for “our library” the best possible service for all departments of the University. ’
It is with the deepest regret that I leave Notre Dame before I can enjoy the larger and more efficient staff of the coming year. However, I can at
847
least take back to the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh the happy memory of this one year at Notre Dame. The many expressions of appreciations of the new Library Department will be no small part of this memory.	-
I also congratulate the members of the future staff upon the fact that they will have for their community a body of students who will be an inspiration and support to every effort on the part of the President, the Librarian and Faculty to make the Library of the University of Notre Dame a model in service as it is in architecture for all Catholic Universities throughout the country.
Vey sincerely,	•
M. Gertrude Blanchard,
Reference Librarian.
THE “QUAD” BY MOONLIGHT.
The trees and bushes sift the silver beams
And spread a mellow haze o’er all the scene;
The paths are liquid iridescent streams
With grayish lowlands lying in between.
The streams converge: and one can almost hear Their ghostly lapping on the statued crest;
Then lowlands, haze, and streamlets disapppear;
Behind a cloud the moon has gone to rest.
CHARLES CARROLL.
LIFE.
I stood at the edge of the lake And viewed the Dome, far across, Picturesque in the Novembei- twilight, And the lofty spire of the Church,	-
The guardian of the surroundings.	.
The glorious gold of the sunsec Was mirrored in the ripples, And a weeping willow nearby .
Swayed with the wind, Its innumerable leaves flying and fluttering. Peace and beauty seemed to characterize the scene. And I thought it was all very stately Until
My hat blew into the water.
J. RYAN.
IN WORSHIP OF EUTERPE.
On the hushed room, a story-book of sound Peals from the organ pipes, painting trees
Bright in their sportive verdure all year ’round, Or painting sombre scenes whence daylight flees
Before the eery light of lands ice-bound.
Or now some pleasing, echoing carols tease
The nymph, Mnesmosyne, or deep tones sound
Some gripping grief in anguished elegies.
Elysian music this! The hand that awes
By vibrant notes so deep they are not tone
Turn parent to the weak! Too often, true,
I seem to feel their presence as I pause, Enraptured, letting thought fare forth alone
Into unbounded realms', by Fancy led.
. L. V. B.
848
Notre Same Scholastic
THE S. A. C.
The rapid increase in the number of students at Notre Dame during the last few years has made it necessary-to establish a definite form of student government. This was effected two years ago by the formation
BLASIUS.
of the Student Activities Committee, an organization which has already made itself invaluable to student life at this University. Of course it was to be expected that the first years of its existence would be an experi-' mental stage for such a- body, but by virtue of hard work and careful thought on the part of its members, the S. A. C. has developed to a high degree of perfection in a remarkably short time.
For a long time the University department of discipline was well able to take care of the matters relating to student welfare. But as the number of students grew,, many questions were raised which concerned the students more directly even than disciplinary matters, and these demanded attention within the student body. Consequently a body of students was formed for the purpose of regulating student activities. The members were elected by the classes, thus giving each class a representation that would enable it to bring-its own matters up for consideration. The chairman is elected by the body.
During its first year of active existence
the S. A. C. accomplished many things of importance and succeeded in perfecting its organization. This year the committee has been stronger and has managed student affairs that would have been impossible to the faculty. In all of its dealings the S. A. C. has been very efficient, and its members have the high esteem of both faculty' and students.
■Perhaps the work of most importance accomplished by the S. A. C. during the last yedr: was the influence it exerted in establishing a closer union between Notre Dame and South Bend. When the Endowment Drive started in South Bend last Fall, the .S. A. C. managed the part the student body played, and the results obtained could not have been achieved without the effort put forth by this student governing body. The Homecoming celebration found South Bend decorated with Notre Dame colors for the first time in history. The football demonstrations in the city were conducted in a very orderly way, and such celebrations were made gala events rather than abominations.
In such matters as the trip of the student body to Indianapolis, the management of
DESCH.
spring elections, standardizing the Notre Dame class pin, the Red Cross Drive, investigation of cafeteria prices, etc., the S. A. C. worked in the complete interest of the student body and of Notre Dame. The great
Moure dame Scholastic
Student Drive last Spring was managed by.
the committee with great success. A plan was drawn up whereby the Dome will be changed from a Senior to a Junior publication, and provisions made to eliminate the possibility of financial failure.
The Committee itself has constantly striven to work out the best possible form of organization. Next year the number of members will be increased from thirteen to. nineteen, and the election is so arranged that every year six members will be carried over from the preceding year. Already the Committee has in mind many problems which can be worked on next year. One of these is the efficient bulletining of news, a need that has been felt keenly during the last year. The Committee will have much work to do, especially when Notre Dame begins to expand. Those will be active days for everyone, and without an organization such as the S. A. C. there would be many things left undone.
Much of the credit for the-success of the S. A. C. during the past season is due to its chairman, Frank C. Blasius. He has been on the Committee for two years, and because of his enthusiasm and activity he has been a most important member. He has attended two Student Governing Body conventions, and each time has returned with plans for betterment that were put into effect. To the other members also is credit due. They have all taken active part and have made themselves the live wires of the campus. Some of them will raturn. next year, and can go on developing the Committee, and bettering the details of student life at Notre Dame.
C. J. H.
WHY—
Why all this seriousness, ■
When a laugh would hame the world laugh too?
Why all this frowning,
When only shades of night are blue?
Why not a smile,
To change from dark to brighter hue?
Why not a song,
To make the tears turn into dew—
Why not?	■	.
God knows, I only wish I knew.
H. A. M.
Foolish Phyllis says: “Life is what you make it; but a lot of other magazines, especially the college ones, are more delightfully ambigious.”
849
IN MEMORIAM
We regret to announce the death, on June 6th, of Wiliam O’Rourke, engineer of the class of ’21. William had just begun an active career in Whiting, Indiana, when the close came all too soon. Rev- Charles Doremus ,C. S. C. and several members of the class of ’21 attended the funeral.
On June fourteenth Arthur B. Hunter, lawyer of the class of ’16, died after a brief illness. As an instructor in the Notre Dame College of Law, as a practising attorney in South Bend, and a candidate for the office of State Senator, his name was widely known and loved. To all his relatives and friends-, and particularly to his young wife so cruelly bereaved, the University offers most sincere sympathy and the promise of long remembrance.
South Bend lost another energetic and likeable gentleman when ex-Senator Charles Haggerty of the class of ’12 died after a long illness, on June 16. He was a brilliant attorney, an active citizen and a particularly wide-awake Knight of Columbus whom the local Council will remember with affectionate regret. The prayers of Notre Dame will add themselves spontaneously to the petition of his family and his many friends.
Students of recent years will regret to learn of the death, at Boise, Idaho, of Edmund D. Watters, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1917. Our appreciation of him as a gentleman and a student is confirmed by the sincere tribute paid to his memory by the citizens of Boise and their bishop. Edmund served for a time with the A. E. F. To his lonely mother, Notre Dame sends condolences and the promise of many prayers.
With the death of Sister M. Innocenza, of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, our University loses the services of an intelligent and devoted nun who has served as proof-reader for the Ave Maria and the Scholastic during many long years. Her de?? parture was, of. course, simply a journey, on a long and happy vacation to which we follow
850
Noire Same Scholastic
her with humble petition. With instinctive tenderness Sister Innocenza had long ago, in secret, asked us to do that very tiling in some verses which were found among her papers and which we are glad to insert here:
Will you come to my grave when my spirit ■has fled,
And beneath the green turf I am laid with the dead;.
When the heart that once loved you’ has mouldered to clay,
And the worm of the churchyard has gnawed it away?
Will you think when the chalice you’re raising ; each day	•
Of the spirit that lives in those cold lumps of clay?
Oh, when far from my grave, let your pleadings ne’er cease
Till forever we meet in the Kingdom of Peace!
PERSONAL.
The Macmillan Company announced on June 15th, the' publication of “The Catholic Spirit in Modern English Literature,” by George N. Shuster. The dedication to Father Carrico will please all old friends of the English Department.
Mr. Henry Stoy Rigden, of Chicago, has donated to the University Library three Italian books found near Cervignano, Italy, during the Austrian retreat from the Plava, during 1918. The historical value connected with these volumes is exceptional.
¥
This summer witnessed the investiture of thirty-three young men in the habit of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, at a ceremony both solemn and affecting. These young men, among whom was George Fisher of the class of ’22, have entered the Novitiate. '
***
Reverend John Sebastian Schopp, pastor of St. Augustine’s Church Cincinnati, Ohio, celebrated his silver jubilee on June 17th. Father Schopp was a memeber of the class of 1894, taking his degree in the Classics and will be well remembered by men of that time for the kind, genial spirit which made him very popular among his fellowmen.
The city of Fort Wayne has taken two.representative Notre Dame men unto her bosom. Walter O’Keefe, ’20, has moved over from S. B. to take charge of advertising as displayed by the Joibrnal-Press. Aaron E. Huguenard, of the baby class, stands at attention every time Judge Eggeman turns round in his swivel-chair.
On Friday morning, June 16, Bishop Hoban, auxiliary to Archbishop Mundelein, ordained in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, seven young men of the Congregation Vermont. These men were of the Notre McNamara of St. Matthew’s Parish, Chicago; Frank Brown of Grand Rapids; Wm. Lyons of New York City; James Kehoe of Platville, Wis.; Michael Early of Portland, Ore.; Michael Mulcair of Limerick City, Ireland; and John Reynolds of Bellows Falls, Vermont. These men are of the Notre Dame class of 1917, and four of them have just received their Master’s- Degrees at the Catholic University. At eight o’clock Sunday, June 18, Father Mulcair sang his first High Mass in the church at Notre Dame, Father M. A. Quinlan, his uncle, preaching; at ten o’clock, Father Lyons also celebrated his first High Mass here.
The following poem by D. Vincent Engels, of the future, was inspired by recollections of Studebaker City, but came too late to get into the first part of the magazine:
What can you tell me, Star in the west
Star in the west you shine so bright
So clear and so true in the distant grey
I wish you would lend me a single ray As clear and as true and as heavenly white.
You who have watched us, the worst and best?
You who have sat there the long years through?
You who have watched, us the worst and4>est? Oh ever ancient and ever new:
Luminous, all-seeing, what have you guessed Of the future for me—what do you know Of the days I live and theways I go?
I call on your wisdom, Star in the west.
Star in the west you shine so bright—
So clear and so true in the in the distant grey;
I wish you would lend me a single ray As clear and as true and as heavenly white.

1
^fie Moure Same Scholasuic
1	— I ■■	■■ ■■ ■■ BB BB B I —H ■■ ■■ ■ BB । —	BB BB BB KU ■■ nfr
| LITERARY SECTION |
.4.
THE ART OF THE SHORT-STORY. '
BROTHER ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
Literature is an expression in artistic language of thought and emotion. The various forms that literature may take are the result of attempts to clothe with beauty the ideas and feelings of the human mind and heart. When the dominant element in a literary production is intellectual rather than emotional the art form chosen is the essay; when the aesthetic phase of literature is to be emphasized, the most effective and natural means of expression is poetry; and when man seeks to interpret the thought and emotion of particular individuals, a union of the didactic and the lyrical elements blossoms ‘into another literary form called narration.
This most natural vehicle of portraying the soul of man lends itself to the revelation of character in a marvelous way. And as the delineation of character is the life bf narration, the value of this kind of writing for presenting a life-like picture is inestimable. When an author desires to place before his readers an ideal view of life, he chooses the narrative form called fiction. This may be long, as in the novel and romance, or brief, as in the tale or short-story.	.
The short-story is a more recent development of the possibilities of fictional writing. Its purpose is to give the reader a comprehensive view of a particular phase of life. The elements that are used to achieve this end are four: setting, atmosphere, characterization' and plot. The best short-stories usually include all of these elements, but sometimes the absence of one is compensated for by the predominance of one of the other three requisites. A brief survey of the development of the technique of the short-. story will enable the reader to see clearly the; various essential parts of a good story.
The first author to give the short-story a; literary form worthy of universal commendation was Washington Irving. His “Rip Van Winkle” and “Legend of the Sleepy Hollow/’ are so exquisitely embellished that they are always included in any list of the best shortstories. Not that they represent the typical
851
modern form of this species of literature, but because they were the initial efforts to create this new and delightful literary product, are Irving’s masterpieces so highly prized.
The qualities that made Irving’s sketches so much admired were their human characteristics and the charm of the author’s style. Another winter who possessed even greater -literary gifts than Irving, and who came closer to the true short-story, was Nathaniel Hawthorne. In several of his stories, notably in “Ethan Brand,” “The Birthmark,” and “Pappaccini’s Daughter,” the author achieved a perfection of narrative that has seldom been excelled. . One quality of ' Hawthorne’s stories detracts somewhat from their interest—this is a certain unreal weirdness.	.
A contemporary of Hawthorne and Irving, Edgar Allen Poe, analyzed the stories of Hawthorne, and in his criticism stated the ex-. act elements that differentiate this species from all other kinds of tales. He saw that the purpose the writer of the short-story must have in mind is a single total effect toward which the beginning as well as every constituent part must all tend. To exemplify the principles he so clearly enunciated, he wrote many masterpieces of the short-story. Among his more notable successes were “The Murders in the Rue Morgue,” “The Gold-Bug,” “The Purloined Letter,” “The Cask of Amontillado,” and “The Fall of the House of Usher.” The elements that received most attention from Poe were plot and atmosphere; his characters are, in the main, inadequately portrayed.	.
After the success of Irving, Hawthorne and Poe, there were no notable achievements in short-story writing until the advent of . Bret Harte in the latter part of the fifties. The Argonauts of ’49 brought a- new element into our western civilization, and Harte being on the ground, seized the opportunity of giv- . . ing an idealized picture of that unique period. In three masterpieces, “The Luck of Roaring . Camp,” “The Outcasts of Parker Flat,” and “Tennessee’s Partner,” the author crystal- . lized the rough life of the California miner, • made himself famous ,and gave the shortstory a vogue which it had never before . possessed.
Bret Harte’s achievements emphasized an
852
ZhQ Noure ©ameSchdascic
element in the short-story that was destined to have a marked effect in the majority of the stories that were written in the three succeeding decades, namely the element called local color. Such stories as “Old Creole Days,” by Cable, “Marse Chan,” by Page, “A New England Nun,” and “The Revolt of Mother,” by Mrs. Freeman, are conspicuous examples of the best work that was done with local color as the dominant feature of the short-story.
Still another variety of the short-story was that which depended for its success on a skillful twist at the end. Two authors who attained eminence in this type of story were Frank R. Stockton, whose “The Lady or the Tiger?” has remained the classic of this type; and T. B. Aldrich, whose “Marjorie Daw,” has had countless imitators, but none who have excelled the first masterpiece.
Three more authors must be considered before we have seen the full development and final triumph of the modern short-story, Henry James, Jr., R. L. Stevenson, and Rudyard Kipling. In the hands of these masters the short-story seems to have reached its utmost perfection. James, the psychologist, Stevenson the impressionist, and Kipling the journalist, brought the highest art to the service of the short-story.
Henry James wrote stories whose perfection of technique had never before been attained. A consummate artist of words, and a profound psychologist, he was equipped to construct story types that are marvels of ingenuity. By comparing his “The Real Thing” with the best of Hawthorne’s short-stories, it is readily seen what development has been made since the inception of this literary form. “The Real Thing,” which is typical of all of Henry James’ short-stories, reveals a mastery of the art of narration that is flawless.
After such lavish praise of Henry James’ work, it would seem almost impossible to expect that another writer could be named whose art in constructing the short-story is finer still. Yet the few short-stories with which R. L. Stevenson has enriched English literature are perhaps the very acme of the short-story narrative. “A Lodging for the Night,” “The Sire De Maletroit’s Door,” “Markheim,” and “The Strapge Case of Dr.
Jekyl and Mr. Hyde” are stories that leave such a vivid impression on the reader’s mind that they are unforgettable.
The secret of Stevenson’s power'as a narrator are mainly his remarkable gifts as a story-teller and his perfect English style. With these' endowments in an author, the narratives produced must be perfect.
In another master of the short-story there is a new element added, a subtle charm in all his work. Rudyard Kipling is a journalist, and with the training and instincts of a newsgatherer, he knows the paramount value of interest. In all his stories he is alert to what will be interesting, and in so far as this feautre is not overdone, its results are effective. Unfortunately, at times., the journalist sacrifices his art to a desire to be interesting, and forthwith there appears the sensational. .Besides the journalistic ingredient in Kipling’s work, there are the delightful qualities of setting and atmosphere in many of his best stories. His masterpiece, “Without Benefit of Clergy,” contains the subtle charm of oriental India, and the reader feels that this contributes largely to the wonderful effect of the whole story.
In this essay the art of the short-story has been traced chiefly in its historical aspects, but incidentally the various elements that are essential to the true short-story have also been named. Of course the technique of this species of literature must be studied with adequate fullness, and illustrations from the masterpieces are necessary to understand the working of the principles that underlie the art.
FOREVER AND A DAY frank j. McGinnis
Marcella lived in a small town; but it was small only in population. Schmutzville had been its name when christened by the old rough shod frontiersmen, but with the merciless onslaught of culture the rustics had awakened and re-baptized the spot Townne Hill, in most approved “Vanity Fair” style. It was tucked into the southeast corner of Indiana where the only yellow peril was the price of lemons in the summer time. Ten years before there had been nothing, for the natives to do but occupy the cracker
Nocre dame Schdascie	853
boxes in the general store and wonder which one of the local boys would marry the school teacher. Not so, after Volstead, Hoover and Woman’s Suffrage discovered that Indiana had a southeast corner. Almighty PROGRESS, that thundering word of so many patriotic speeches, had seized Schmutzville by the throat and shaken it into wakefulness.
Where once the slumbering equine had stood of a Saturday night passively hitched to a post, now panted a steaming pile of tin which smelled of gasolene and fresh Detroit paint. Where once the hunted red-skin had bit the dust the pedestrians were now doing it. Big-car owners killed these foot-trav-lers in family lots and the undertakers published a sliding scale of discounts. The Fords were more humane; they always rattled before they struck. Cigar stores held the familiar one-cent big-city cigar which sold for ten-cents; the corner picture show gave the people the expected bed-room and bath-tub shocks; the newspapers blazed with “Murders, Diaries and Hollywoods” and the society editor “thrust” beauty on every bride who was escorted to the altar. The book which had the least circulation in town was the cook book and each house was equipped with a two story bin to receive the tin cans after they had been taken off the supper tomatoes and the breakfast sardines. There was no howling in town because there was no infant industry to do it. The signs in the park read “No Sparking Here.” This was modern Townne Hill.
The husbands of those women who were lucky enough to get married before the modern free-love craze put everybody in an “artistic atmosphere,” no longer stayed at . home, because they did not like being alone. They staggered in three nights in the week beneath a heavy load of “white man’s burden” and went to work in the morning all cut up because their wives had looked daggers at them across the breakfast table.
The young and unmarried, i. e. untamed, shown brightly at night with the help of the moonshine. On nights when the moon was not shining they rested against the corner-cigar-store fronts and spent their time in guessing who was behind the feminine facial scenery which passed abetted by a
fur coat and a pair of galoshes. Summing up the activities of the young blade we find that he spent half of his time in bed and the other half in bad.	'
There was neither telephone girl nor sodajerking clerk in the town who had not read Fluvius Strop Spitzbarrel’s latest scandal, “The Dirty Side of a Shirt.”
The women of Townne Hill kept their ears out of sight and believed universally that the place for matrimonial bonds was a bank. When their divorce case came up (and it always came up) they pleaded that their husbands did not understand them, by which they meant that they had found other men who did. They used to enjoy “The Man With The Hoe” but now the only individual they could stomach was the man with the dough. The good, old-fashioned, stout-but-wholesome-type of girl was entirely passe..
But this story began with Marcella and by all literary rules should so continue.
Marcella claimed to be a live-wire and no doubt her grandma would have found her shocking. She was a highly cultured young thing holding an intense antipathy for anything old-fashioned. She demonstrated her culture by lifting her hand two feet after striking the piano forte and made plain her distaste for the non-modem by sarcastic remarks.	.
Her original name had been Mary but “Mary” and parents were both “so old-fashioned;” therefore, she changed the first and was endeavoring to reform the second. An idea could be found floating on the sur-race of her consciousness about three tunes annually and one time she had told a newspaper reporter that her idea of a perfect husband was a man who had a cigar named after him. Dogs were an abhorrence. She “hated” dogs. It was “so” old-fashioned to keep a dog.” The Pomeranian and the Pekingese are not generally considered dogs; she therefore made no mistake in judgment here.
The town was modem and Marcella was ultra-modern, keeping always about two skips ahead of the latest fad. Modernity alone, however, will not fill a pantry and Marcella had nothing but her modernity. She finally decided to form a new union if she could find the right kind of young man
854
"Sfe Moure dame Scholastic
with whom to consolidate. She would supply the brains and he would supply the money. She began to cast her eye about for a man who could raise the mortgage; and her eye fell on Amri.
Amri indeed had money, but he also had his drawbacks. He had money to bum but had been unable to find a match; that was, until Marcella appeared. Amri’s father had been a wealthy maker of red suspenders and Amri had never felt the need of support. Like all great men he had his moments of indecison, particularly those between waking and rising in the morning. His laziness was his only human quality. In other ways he resembled what his sister would have been if he had had any. In the evening it was his custom to sit and tell riddles to: the neighbor’s children or lacking .this entertainment he would take up his tatting and make himself a sweater; that was, before Marcella appeared-.
One day when he had gone down the street for a spool of thread, he saw her. Taking off his tin-rimmed spectacles he followed her all the way home and would have gone in after her if he had not been knocked off the sidewalk by three or four straw-hatted young men who had seen her approach.
Marcella had seen Amri and moreover she knew Amri and also just how much currency would be all Amri’s when the paternal suspender factory was no longer pater:	nal. Amri knew nothing. He walked home
।	in a blue haze narrowly escaping death by
!	ten Packards, three pop-corn. wagons and
i	two women on pogo-sticks.
|	Marcella managed to bring the meeting
|	about. It was a flirtation; “introductions
s	are ‘so’ old-fashioned,” she said. “Amri
|	was positively helpless. Marcella thought
that some1 one must have struck him on his :	one brain-cell but she really did not mind
this when she had looked up his exact rating in Bradstreets. On the third Thursday :	night that the dear boy had called Marcella
(who was the modem fast worker) decided to tell him a few things before she would give him the opportunity to propose to her, for she had made up her mind that he was | .'going to do it.
I	“Amri, why don’t you get rid of that old
stiff hat and that ancient knit tie? They are ‘so’ old-fashioned,” she said. “Here 1 have got you something really nice.” And she presented him with a mahogany colored straw hat having a red, orange and green band and a flowing black bow tie that contained at least a yard'and a half of goods.
In two weeks Amri was a transformed spectacle. Tortoise shell glasses, gold stockings, checkered knickerbockers, cream colored gloves, shirt thrown open at his manly throat; all these things he endured for his beloved Marcella. She considered her work just about finished and with a few added touches Amri would be in satisfactory shape to lead the march.
One day a boy appeared at her door with a note from Amri. “How old-fashioned” she thought, “why didn’t he use the radiophone?” The note read, “Dearest,” (very old-fashioned thought Marcella) “Mother compelled me to accompany her to New York. She wanted to attend the dog-show and purchase a Pomeranian to match the new tea cups. Will be back in two weeks. Will endeavor to be more modern. Amri”. This delighted Marcella. She wanted so,badly to have a widely travelled husband, “it was ‘so’ modern.”
In three weeks time Amri came back. When he came in he said he had a surprise for Marcella. He did. From his inside pocket he drew out the pictures of three young ladies and handed them to her with an enthusiastic air. He began to effervesce with eagerness to explain.	s~
“Why, what are these ?” she said, and she could feel her modernity slipping away from her.
“Those are my wives,” replied Amri, “You see I read in the paper that every modern man had at least two and so I went down to Greenwich Village and got a few. I thought that you would like me better if I had a little more than the ordinary man and so I got three.” And he held out his arms to her.
With a wail Marcella threw a book on psycho-analysis at his head and fled from the house. As she ran dowm the street a friend stopped her and said, “Why Marcy, old girl, you look all disorganized. Where to, and why ?”
Marcella groaned, “It is too much. It is
i
Noure Oame Scholastic
855
too much. Where is the dog catchers. I want to get myself a good old-fashioned blood-hound.” >
And they lived happily ever after; Marcella and the blojd-hound.
THE (WEDDING GOWN VINCENT ENGELS
I was strolling happily through the main street of my native metropolis one June morning, absorbing the spicy odors of the grocery stores, and the warm fragrance of the baker shops, thinking of absolutely nothing but enjoying myself immensely. But spices and jelly rolls were forgotten as 1 stood before a large shop window which displayed a wedding gown made in the manner of the eighteenth century. Oh, but it was a lovely thing, with yards and yards of fluffy stuff that had once been angel white, but were now a soft cream. As I gazed, enchanted, I knew that I had seen it before....
The breeze that played about my face was scented with the breath of the pine wilderness that crowded close about our little settlement in the year 1756. I stood directly beneath the open windows of the village church, and heard clearly the rise and fall of the priest’s voice as he sang the wedding mass. By all means, I should have been unhappy, for Norah was being married within. Norah was the Colonel’s daughter, you see, and I—well I am afraid that I loved the Colonel’s daughter. But I was not unhappy. I felt as free and as blithesome as the cocky robin, who sang, all alone, from the topmost branch of a nearby elm. Indeed, I possessed a powerful desire to climb way up there beside him, and sing my heart out to a happy world.
The ceremony over, I watched the crowd crossing the street to the Colonel’s home which reared its white porticoes and pillars, its narrow windows and its flat roof just opposite the church. Thither went Norah and her lieutenant husband; Thither went the old Colonel himself, and a score of his redcoats, and the Trader, and the Trader’s wife and daughters. Thither too, went I, when the last soul had passed into the hallway. My heartiest congratulations were to the groom, my heartiest thanks were to the Colonel who led me apart into a cozy. Toom and filled me with
glasses of the fairest wines of France. But I was looking for Norah, and when even the Colonel’s hospitality could not detain me, I found her in the garden, standing beside an immense rose bush, whereon grew the most famous white roses in the west. Her arms were filled with roses, as silky and as white as her fluffy wedding gown. The white loveliness bewitched me; I could observe nothing but her soft smile, and her blue eyes. I paused, reverently, as if I were entering a sanctuary. She remained motionless, but her blue eyes became bluer through the mist which slowly enveloped them. .She was trying to anticipate my question, for she said “I’m sorry,” so softly and so sweetly that I thrilled to the depths of my heart.
I bowed. “Norah, believe me, you must not be sorry. You shall not be sorry. I do not want you to be sorry. I want you to be glad —always—to have your arms filled with white roses every day of your life.”
“Ah, that is why I am sorry,” she said, and turning, walked slowly away....
I do not know how long I might have dreamed an existence in the eighteenth century, for suddenly I was quietly carried forward into the twentieth again. A stifling odor of raw perfume had awakened me from my reverie. I was conscious that someone was peering over my shoulder at the wedding gown in the window. I turned and saw two fat Women staring critically at the display.
“My Gawd,” one of them wheezed, “but aint it awful?”	v
“Aint it awful?” The words stabbed me. My blood surged to my forehead, my heart pounded furiously. I was angry and I was glad that I was angry. I wanted to swing my walking stick with all my strength across that fruited bonnet and slaughter the creature. I believe that I had begun the motion, but suddenly I realized that Norah, the Colonel’s daughter, with her blue eyes and her aims filled with white roses, was watching me from heaven. And feeling that she wanted me to forgive, I forgave, and went my way, with a prayer upon my lips.
First Stude: How come you always forget to knock the ashes from your cigarette?	•
Sec. Stude: I’m used to riding in a Ford while. I’m home.
856
Norre Same Scholasde
THE SEASON IN TRACK.
The story of the Notre Dame track season centers about the performances of the “Big" Four”, Captain Murphy, Hayes, Desch and Lieb. It was the work of these men which was responsible for the victories won in the bigger meets. This fact is borne out by a glance at the results of the four dual meets, of which only one resulted in a victory for the Gold and Blue. The reason is that the squad wa^ not well balanced as were those of Illinois and Wisconsin and consequently it was only in the big collegiate meets which could be won by a half-dozen first and seconds, that Notre Dame showed to advantage. At the Drake Relays and at the Conference meet, Hayes came. through with two firsts. Lieb took firsts in the discus at both meets, Murphy tied for first at the Conference meet and Desch came through in good shape in both his hurdles event and in his relays.
At least a half dozen records were lowered by these men during the season. Hayes now holds the Indiana state record of 9.8 seconds in the hundred yard dash and the Conference record of 9.7, his best record at Notre Dame. His time at the National meet last year, however, fell when Paulu of Grinnell outdistanced him and' set a mark of 9.9 seconds. Tom Lieb is remembered as the freshman who, when acting as field official at the Illinois meet last year, threw the discus back farther than the entrants were throwing it. His supremacy was proved this year when he set his many records. These are the records little Tommy.now holds: Drake relays record of 133 feet 4 inches, Cartier Field record of 137 feet 4 inches, unofficial Cartier Field record of 139 feet, and the National Collegiate record of 144 feet 2^4 inches. Lieb’s improvement has been geometric and he should be tossing the disc out of the. lot during his two remaining years.
Captain Murphy did his share of recordbreaking too. He is now holder of the following records in the high jump made this year as well as those made in previous years: Indiana State record of 6 feet 5 inches, and the Western Conference record of 6 feet 5 1-16 inches which he and Osborne of Illinois now hold jointly.
Gus Desch, the last member of the quarter of “champeens” did not set any new records for the year. His time in the state meet, 24.4 seconds, was faster than the existing record but it was not allowed to stand, Gus having knocked over two barriers. Nevertheless, Gus’ world’s record in the 440 yard hurdles, set last year at the Penn games, still stands and was not threatened at any time during the year. Furthermore Gus is more at home in the quarter-mile hurdles than in the furlong and consequently he did not perform at his best. Gus’ undeniable merits came to light in other events, however. As anchor man on the relay quarter, as an occasional quarter-miler and as an understudy to Hayes in the dashes, he proved himself worthy of the name of champion.
Montague jumped into the headlines of the papers when he set a state record of 49.4 seconds in the quarter mile at Purdue, and the relay team took its share of honors by setting a new Notre Dame gym record for the 12 laps of 3:30.4.
Frankly, the indoor-season wasn’t much. The outdoor season brought out almost all the thrills and it is certain that, but for the disqualification of Chet Wynne and Buck Shaw, victory might have been the lot of Notre Dame at the Conference and National meets. Chet bowed to none except, perhaps, Thompson the record holder, in the high hurdles and Buck could have been depended upon for five points in every meet, as he already holds the Conference record in the shot put. Still, we were jinxed, as a result of
Noure dame Schola»cic
§57
wliicK-tlie-indoor season wasn’t much, and the outdoor season not much better for the squad as a whole.
THE OUTDOOR SEASON. '
April 29 was a great day for the team. At the Penn relays held at Philadelphia, Captain Johnny Murphy took the high jump with a leap of 6 feet 2 inches, winning over the pick of the East. At the Drake games on the same day, Big Bill Hayes won the cen' tury and the furlong from the fleet Paulu of Grinnell, Lieb set a Drake record in the discus with a heave of 133 feet 4 inches, the ' quarter-mile relay team, composed of Ficks, Hefferman, Desch and Hayes took second place, losing out to Nebraska by .4 of a second, and the two-mile quartet took third place. Our own Coach Rockne bossed the job, acting as referee of the games.
Tommy Lieb continued his record-breaking throwing of the discus a week later at the varsity-freshman meet, won by the varsity 63 to 56, when he set a new Cartier Field record of 139 feet. The mark was un-official, however, due to the informality of the meet. Just to make it a full day, Tom took firsts in the shot put and the novice 100 yard dash. The work of the freshmen,even with their handicaps, augured well for next season.
The Indiana A. A. U. meet at Indianapolis, May 9, turnd out to be a strictly Notre Dame affair, the Gold and Blue runners taking seven firsts, one second and one third and leading all other organizations in the scoring by a wide margin. Desch and Hogan led the scoring with two first each.
The dual'meet on Cartier Field, May 13, in which Depauw figured slightly—46 points to our 80, to be exact—was the occasion of Hayes’ and Baumer’s last appearance on the home track. Bill came through as expected, winning the hundred and the two hundred and twenty yard dashes. After a very slow start, Big Bill pulled away from a diminutive streak of lightning from Greencastle known as Smith, and won by a foot. Revenge was due Hayes in the furlong in which not only he but also Desch left the Depauw man behind. Lieb set an official Cartier Field record of 137 feet 4 inches in the discus, bettering Gilfillan’s best by almost two feet. Desch, Flynn, Montague, Baumer, Murphy and Kennedy came through with first places.
Hayes’ total of ten points was closely followed by Desch’s nine and Lieb’s eight.
Facing certain defeat at the hands of the best track team in the history of the University of Illinois, the squad journey to Urbana again on May 19 and acquitted itself by its keen competition and determination as well as by the points won in the final reckoning. The score was 84 to 42 in favor of the Suckers, but the score does not do justice to the performance of Rock’s men. Hayes showed a clean pair of heels to the heralded Ayres of Illinois in both of his events. Tom Lieb displayed his wares to the Illini for the first time and, to put it mildly and popularly, he had them going. Not content with tossing the saucer a distance of 141 feet, 3 inches, Thomas took first place in the shot put. Desch proved himself a real champion when he outclassed the field in the 220 low sticks. Captain John bowed to the bespectacled Osborne of Illinois, true, but he bode his time with subsequent pleasing results.
Establishing four of the six new state records at the state meet at Purdue, May 27, and scoring 58^ points for first place, Notre Dame re-established itself as the champion of Hoosierdom on the track. Purdue made a pretence of giving competition by scoring 29 points, DePauw took third with 25 5-6 points, Earlham fourth with 25 2-3, and Butler, Indiana and Wabash brought up the rear in the order named with a few points each.
“Monty” Montague performed his act under the spotlight by pulling away from a determined field in the quarter-mile and establishing a new state record of 49.4 seconds, better than Cy Kaspar’s mark by a fifth. Monty came back strong in the relay and helped bring home the baton and the bacon in that event, wherein a new record was set.
Captain John, jumping in his best form, cleared the bar in the high jump at a height of 6 feet 5 inches, narrowly missing in three efforts to better the world’s record. This record leap of Murphy’s and Hayes’ time of 9.8 seconds in the hundred were the other records set by Notre Dame. Lieb was slightly off form and could do no better than 130 feet 11 inches in the discus event. Gus
858
Notre Same Scholastic
*
Desch “almost” set a new record in the low sticks. Gus stepped of the distance in 24.4 seconds but his time was not allowed to stand as a second due to liis having kicked over two barriers.
At the Western Conference at Iowa City, June 2 and 3, Captain Murphy and Hayes acquitted themselves nobly. Taking advantage of the introduction of new stopwatches which recorded the time in tenths of seconds, Hayes set a new Conference record of 9.7 seconds, winning from a bunched field of speedsters, including Paulu of Grinnell and Ayres of Illinois. This performance lowers the previous mark of 9.8 set by Blair of Chicago in 1903.	'	,
Captain Murphy engaged in a sensational high jumping duel with his old rival, Osborne of Illinois, and shared with the latter points for first and second places. The two jumping-jacks also divided the honor of reord-holder, each clearing the bar at the awful height of 6 feet 5 1-16 inches. .
Notre Dame’s track season came to a beautiful close June 17 at Stagg Feld, Chicago, when the Irish field stars finished in third place at the National Collegiate meet. The restriction of teams to ten men created havoc with Illinois’ well-balanced squad as a result of which the Illini could get only fourth place. California took the meet with 28 5-9 points, Penn State surprised everybody by taking second with 22^, Notre Dame gathered third with 16 7-10 and Illinois fourth with 14 7-10.
Lieb sailed the disc a distance of 144 feet 2^4 inches, his best mark of the year, setting a new National Collegiate record. Murphy and Osborne again, tied for first place but could reach a height of only 6 feet 2 5-8 inches—only.
Either Hayes was off form or Paulu was decidedly in form that day, for Paulu whom Bill had twice before beaten, won both the century and the furlong, each of them in record thne. The mark of 9.9 seconds in the hundred yard dash, although better than Hayes’ National Collegiate record of 10 flat, made last year, was .2 of a second slower than Bill’s thne at the Conference meet. Bill was outclassed in the 220 and landed fourth.
Gus Desch was outdistanced in the 220 low hurdles by Brookins of Iowa who set amew
record of 24.2 seconds, .2 of a second better than Gus’ record of last year. Eddie Hogan went into a quadruple tie for third place in the pole vault.	’
And with the end of a perfect day came the end of a track season not quite so perfect but nevertheless highly satisfactory. -
L. Bruggner.
COVERING THE BASES.
Winning four straight games, making thirty-eight hits in the first three, was the way the Gold and Blue squad opened the season in baseball. This showing against teams of creditable reputations quickly dispelled the prevailing idea that the Notre Dame aggregation was only ordinary.
Victory to the tune of 7-1 started the ball rolling at St. Mary’s Kentucky. The same streak of hard hitting and fast pitching staged with the Irish throughout the spring training trip.
. The lineup for the first game with St. Mary’s was as follows: Sheehan, s.s., Reese, lb., Kane, 3b., Blievemicht, c., Prokop, r.f., Kelly, c.f., Castner, l.f., C. Foley, 1. f., D. Foley, 2b., Falvey, p. Blievernicht made the first run of the season while Falvey fanned eleven men.
Paul Castner, N. D’s big southpaw stepped into the box and fanned twelve men in the second St. Mary game. Halas began shifting his men in the game with University of Louisville. Castner went to the field, Murphy and Blievemicht caught, and Magevney tried out with Ratchford in the pitchers box.
Score by innings of the third game:
R. H. E.
Notre Dame ........215	010 304—13	18	2
U. of L........-...000	001 003— 4	8	3
One more game in Kentucky and two in Ohio wound up the training trip with the following scores:
April 20 at Lexington:	.	.
R. H. E.
Notre Dame ...........104 000 331—12	11	4
Transylvania .........020 000 203— 7	5	6
Batteries: Falvey, DeGree, Murphy and Blievernicht; Halbert and Powell.
April 21 at Cincinnati.	‘
R. H. E,
Notre Dame  ............101 00’0 200—4	8	3
St. Xavier’s ....1______000 001 000—1	5	3
1
Nocre dame Scholastic
859
Batteries: Castner and Blievernicht; Hoffenbar-ger and Hart.
April 22 at Dayton.
.	R.	H.	E.
Notre Dame ..........000	003	412—10	12	1
University of Dayton	..000	000	000— 0	2	4
Batteries: Mageveny and Murphy; Bradley and Sullivan.
The first defeat was at the hands of Wisconsin on our own diamond. N. D’s lone score came in the first inning, Falvey hold. ing the Badgers scoreless for three innings before he began to break. It was evident that the Blue and Gold mouridsman needed rest following so closely upon the bunched games of the training trip. Hoffman starred in the box for the Madison boys.
Summary: Struck out, by Falvey, 9; by Hoffman, 5. Bases on balls, off Falvey, 3; off Hoffman, 3.
R.	H. E.
Wisconsin ...........000	500	032— 9	12	2
Notre Dame ..........100	000	000— 1	2-4
Castner relieved DeGree in the third inning of the Western State Normal game after Eddie had fanned three men and held th*e Michigan teachers hitless.
Summary: Two base hits; Prokop, Thomas. Three base hit, Simmons. Double play, Castner to Blievernicht to Kane to Murphy. Bases on balls, off DeGree, 4; off Kreuz, 1. Hit by pitcher, Sheehan, by Kreuz. Struck out, by DeGree, 3; Castner, 4; Kreuz, 7. Hits; off DeGree, 0 in 2 innings; off Castner, 7 in 6 innings.
Western State Normal .............001	000 01—2
Notre Dame .......................006	000 00—6
The game was called in the eighth to catch a train.
The Michigan Aggies were easy in spite of trying out three pitchers on the Irish swatters. Mageveny showed good style in the box for Notre Dame. Two base hits: Prokop, Thomas. Three base hits, Pacynski, Brown. Home run, Blievernicht. Stolen bases, Prokop 2, Kane 3, Blievernicht, Castner, D. Foley. Sacrifice flies, Sheehan, Blievernicht. Double play: Kane to D. Foley to Blievernicht. Bases on balls: off Magev-ney, 2; off Wenner, 1; off Ross, 8. Strikeouts’: by Magevney, 8; by Ross, 3.
Michigan Aggies ................120	200 100— 6
Notre Dame ...................  450	011 Olx—12
Notre Dame again met defeat at the hands of the Badgers with a trifle better score than the first game.
R. H. E.,
Notre Dame ............020 001 001— 4	8	5
Wisconsin .............120 110 23x—10	14	2
Staging a come-back against Beloit, Falvey held them for three hits in seven innings, being relieved by DeGree in the last two.
R. H. E.
Notre Dame  ________103 301 070—10 15 • 2
Beloit .............000 200 104— 7 . 8 3
Eight errors was poor support for Falvey’s pitching against Michigan; however we balanced this loss with the Wolverines later. Two base hits: Schultz. Hits: off Elliot, 1 in 2-3 innings; off Schultz 6 in 8 2-3 innings. Bases on balls: Elliot, 3; Schultz, 1. Struck out: by Schultz, 9; by Falvey, 5.
Michigan .......................001 012 llx—6
Notre Dame .....................101 010 000—3
May 6 found Halas’ men at Lansing doing perfect teamwork. Michigan Aggies were again victims in a 3 to 1 contest. Three base hits: Pacuski. Two base hits: Blievernicht. Struck out: by Magevney, 6; Johnson, 3. Base on balls: by Magevney, 1; Johnson, 3. Hit by pitcher: Castner, Thomas, Ful-len. Errors: Higbe, 2; D. Foley, 1.
Purdue fell on May 10 in a hard fought 2 to 1 battle. Stolen bases: Strock, Kane, Falvey. Struck out: Castner, 5; Wallace, 7. Base on balls: Castner, 3; Wallace, 1. Three base hit: Castner.
Purdue .........................000 000 100—1
Notre Dame .....................001 001 000—2
Playing’ poor baseball, the Gold and Blue downed Western State Normal 5 to 3. Stolen bases: W’alkotton, Blievernicht, 2; Castner, Kelly, D. Foley. Struck out: by Graham, 7; by DeGree, 1; by Falvey, 7. Bases on balls: off Graham, 4; off DeGree, 1; off Falvey, 1. Two base hits: - Petschulat, 2; Kane. Home run: Casteel. Double play: Foley to Sheehan to Prokop. Hit by pitched ball: Spurgeon by DeGree; Blievernicht by Graham. Balk, Graham. Hits: off DeGree, 0; off Falvey, 7.
Singling to left field in the ninth inning and driving Dan Foley across the plate for the winning tally, Bill Sheehan broke up an exciting game with Northwestern, May 15. Two base hits: Prokop. Struck out: by Palmer, 6; by Magevney, 8. Bases on balls: off Palmer, 1; off Magevney, 5. Stolen bases: D. Foley, 3; Blievernicht. Sacrifice hits: Magevney, Johnson.
Notre Dame .....................000	030 101—5
Northwestern ...................011 000 020—4
Castner pitcched a no-hit, no-run game be
Noure dame ^cholascic
860
fore a crowd of four thousand persons at Lafayette. The Irish went over with a 4 to 0 victory over Purdue. Three base hit: Kane. Two base hit: Castner. Struck out: by Castner, 7; by Wallace, 9. Bases on balls: off Castner, 1; off Wallace, 1. Sacrifice hits: D. Foley, 2.
Notre Dame .....................000	010 300—4
Purdue ........1..............  000	000 000—0
Bain balled up the schedule with Wabash and the South Benders moved on to Champaign, and to defeat. Falvey went to pieces after a good start, Magevney lasted less than two innings, Castner lost six runs in the fourth and one in the fifth inning before he got the range. After that he held Illini scoreless for three innings but he was too late. Two base hits: Vogel, Blievernicht, Castner. Struck out: by Barnes, 7; by Falvey, 1; by Castner, 3. Bases on balls: off Barnes? 3; off Magevney, 4; off Castner, 2.
May 30 was our big day. Cartier Field was the scene of our first victory over the Wolverines since 1919. Chuck Foley, Falvey, and Ted Kelly showed up in good style. Dan Foley stayed the final five innings with a broken hand. Kane and Sheehan also shone in the field. Castner started things in the fourth by singling to left but was forced by Falvey. Hits by Chuck Foley, Dan Foley, and Kelly resulted in three N. D. runs.
. In the fifth Blievernicht hit and stole. Castner beat out an infield clout and stole second. Vick’s throw was bad and Blievernicht scored the fourth run. Castner scored the final on Chuck Foley’s hit.
Michigan ...................    000	000 000—0
Notre Dame......................000	320 OOx—5
The Michigan affair was simply a keepingin form after defeating Beloit on the 25th. A wet field did not slow up the game a bit. Beloit ___;..........?..........000	000 101—2
Notre Dame ---------------------000 .003 20x—5
. Saint Viator’s sent a strong team to defeat on the 27th at Cub’s park, Chicago. It was Saint Viator’s second defeat of the year and the first for their pitching “ace,” Sweeney. St. Viators .................   000	000 000—0
Notre Dame .....................203	000 000—5
R. Riordan.
“The interest’ of the people will always be the closest to my heart,” said the Loan Shark as he jotted down the next figure.
CHANGE By McGinnis.
ROLLS ON THE CAMPUS.
Within the last two years the keeper of the grounds at Oregon has found nine bicycles hidden under trees on the campus. In the. last two weeks five have been discovered. Probably someone in league with the automobile manufacturers and commissioned to make the two-wheeler extinct is responsible.
PADDLING IN OREGON.
The Freshmen get their deserts at Oregon. Seven *■ of them who failed to wear the traditional green ' canopy were recently ordered to report at the library to receive their punishment which takes the form of strenuous wielding of paddles by the members of the Order of O. The day of corporal punishment have.not yet vanished.
Indiana finds that English professors are good for something other than English. Two profs at the Hoosier a college have discovered a new use for century plant needles. The spikes serve as talking machine needles. And they last for a hundred years. ■
At Iowa they have a student who is working on a perpetual motion machine. He is making it from a very few parts and using a cast iron wheel on a bicycle hub. We should think that at a co-educa-tional school they would have recognized the only , perpetual motion machine long since.
The second annual meeting of the editors of the Big Ten newspapers is being held this year at the University of Minnesota. The first meeting was held last year at the University of Michigan. It is expected by some of the papers that an efficient radio service among the papers will be organized in order to facilitate the reporting of athletic contests.
***
A chart lately.made public by Indiana University shows that men students were the more -numerous is soliciting the aid of physician’s • aid during the past two years. A number of accidents were reported and vaccination caused many to doctor. The majority of ailments reported dealt with eye, ear, nose and throat trouble. We are willing to wager that most of the men students suffered from eye trouble.
At the alumni reunions at the University of Chicago the different classes erect large colored umbrellas to serve as a meeting place for the members of the class. A shanty is also built to which men who have been out of the school for twenty years are eligible. Initiations are held on the twentieth anniversity of the man’s graduation. ~
Noure &ame Scholascie
861
CHANGE.
Questionnaires sent out recently to all the college presidents in the country by the Intercollegiate Prohibition Association brought varying responses. Some said that prohibition was premature, but the great majority stated that the students of their universities were opposed to the measure. Some were of the opinion that prohibition would be fine—if we had it.	-
The explosion of a tank of liquid oxygen, caused by a faulty compressor, resulted in the death of .two students and the severe injury of seven others at Harvard University a few days ago. One. of the students, engaged for some time in experimenta-• tion for the cheaper production of certain gases for commercial use, had just recovered from a similar explosion of a month before.
. ❖❖❖ ■
On its departure for the conquest of the world, the senior class of Chicago University is making to its alma mater a- present oiSa stone bridge to be built over Botany Pond. This bridge, to cost approximately one thousand dollars, is to be built in keeping with the general plan of architecture of the institution. Other senior classes have made gifts of clocks, drinking-fountains, and benches.
A reversal of the usual routine is taking place at the University of Illinois and the boys find that they do not care for it a bit. While the students are boning for the finals the faculty is disporting - itself on the diamond. The faculty of the College of Commerce meets the faculty of the Agricultural school and the usual hilarious athletes must remain indoors and pore over the commerce and agricultural books.
The Radcliffe girls are required to learn the arts of - swimming, diving and floating before they are eligible for a diploma. The swimming lessons are given in the new tank. A story is connected with the tank. Some years ago the president was contemplating the construction of the tank and wrote for specifications. A New York firm replied that they could plan a tank with a capacity of 40,000 gals. The president responded with dignity that there were but 400 girls in residence at Radcliffe.
GOOD ADVICE.
First Stude: What would you do if’ you were in a crap game and with ten dollars open on the next shot, and a prefect coming around the corner? '
Second Stude: Fade.
. ***
Kat: No, I fear that Gladys will never win the contest unless a grocer is the judge.	’
Nip: Why so? .
Kat: Because a grocer always puts the’ biggest tomatoes on top.
WALK-OVER
SUMMER OXFORDS
A New Shipment Just Received. Brown or Black Calf.
See the Sport Models in Our Window.
Clouse’s J
Doot Shop w
//y Jo. MichiganJr.
High Class Picture Plays are the
Standard Features
AT THE
La Salle and Blackstone
862
'Gfie Moure dame Schdasuie
The John Hale Hat Store
SNAPPY HATS AND CAPS Haberdashery That Will Please You. rjS
Howard Schrop,
THE HATTER
127 Washington Ave.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MAIN OFFICE
313 to 323 E. Jefferson Bld.
Call a Dependable Metered Yellow Cab. GET A RECEIPT CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Authorized Railroad Transfer.
Our Baggage Rates are reasonable.
Students’ Trunks to or from Depots or Notre Dame—
First Trunk.................$1.00
Each Trunk additional......... .50
Suit Cases, Bicycles, etc. additional .25 City Baggage according to City'rates. Show Baggage same rate.
HOLY SMOKE.
NEWPORT FIRE REPORT.
The high .school girls coming down the fire escape made an especially good showing. ....
Hot Dog!
- ***
We Were There (From an Illinois Paper.) '
Baptist Church, 7:30 p.m.-------Popular eveningsendee. Subject “Fools and Idiots.” A large number is erpected.
Stude: There is something going around that will interest you.
She: Well please be careful. My waist is full of pins.	’
Marriage used to be For Better Or for worse. Now it’s for.
More or less.	.
***
Head Line Wife follows Husband in Death. There you are fellows. There is no escape.
***
No matter how old
A woman is.	’
When she conceals her age
We Know
That she is old enough To Know
Better.	. w -
“No,” said the old miser? “I never give to church funds.”
“Then take something out of the tray,” said the collector. “The money is for the heathen.”
*** ‘
She: I just love animals. I could kiss them.
He: (silence) '
She: Why don’t you speak?
He: I’m a little horse. .
Boot Legger’s Motto
Mind your P’s and Q’s —We don’t know just what this means, but it is supposedly pints and quarts.
. ***
Mike: He is a man of few words.
Pat: Ya, but he’s using them all the time.
***
When men of wisdom are oft asked how “Genius” -is defined.
They always halt and cast about as if to rouse their mind.	.
And in the end they always pause—They bring up with a jerk.
But we know how the word is spelled —Just W-O-R-K,
r	*	'
Noure dame Scholastic
863
NOTRE DAME MEN ONLY
TEN PER CENT OFF
On presentation of Athletic Card at the
Quality Shoe Repair Co.
130 North Michigan Street
“In Middle of the Block.”
“SOLE SAVERS”
Consult J. A. Mogle, Foot Expert, on your Foot Troubles.
AFTER® EVERS' ■ MEAL
WRIGLEYS
with Peppermint
fla-gum
Peppermint voted chewing
Great
Newest Creation
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket ‘‘melts in your mouth,” leaving the deliciously flavored gum center to aid digestion, brighten teeth and soothe mouth and throat.
5<t
Auditorium Hotel CHICAGO
On the corner of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.
Special attention shown students and alumni of Notre Dame.
JOHN T. CALVEY, Manager
Remington Portable Typewriter
TYPEWRITTEN MANUSCRIPT is a requirement in many courses.
NEATLY TYPED theses, examination papers, notes, etc., save your time and labor in the writing—and better still, they score "io” with the “Prof."
THE PORTABLE has a standard keyboard just like the big machines. Typing on the Portable will make you expert on any typewriter—a most useful accomplishment.	.
209 WEST JEFFERSON STREET
Main 620	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
864
ttv. Noure dame Scholastic
Get One of Our Straw Hats
Between You and the Sun!
Now is the time to cast aside the old stuffy cool weather hat—done one of our new stylish straws and really enjoy this wonderful summer weather. We have the new straws in great variety. Specially priced at
$2.50 TO $5.00
“EVERY INCH A CLOTHING STORE”

■an—tm—na	re ■ nu-i ■ tin ■ — mi ■■■■ nu- - tat bb..	su^— tw-
Kable’s Restaurants
t 104-106 N. Michigan St.
1 raa W. Washington Ave.
119 W. Jefferson Blvd.
206 So. Michigan St.
■tm—nn^—tw-^—ot—m—ie!^—nn——Bn—nc—ek—ra-
I I The
Gift i | Shop
Furnishes
£
I ■ I Special Attention'to the Furnishing of Students’Rooms.
1	1 THE “GIFT SHOP” OF THE BETTER SORT.
•	V ® mi—nc un—un nn—na^—na—iw^—	«—an^— ni- —na—an—
> an—kb—bb—mi—m—mi—no—»—an—bb—bb—en^— txa^— b.«J< I	I
[ Students’ Note Books | [ Lefax Forms and Date Sheets at j j The Herr & Herr Co. Michigan St. ।
GEORGE WYMAN & CO.
Coma and See Ua
The South Bend Home for Better Luggage.
N. V. P. Trunks—Indestructo Trunki Fine Hand Bags, Brief Cases, etc.
j	CLAUER’S	j
! Jewelers, Silversmiths and Diamonds | j	Merchants 105 s. Michigan !
tjet—«tr—bb—mi—mi—bb—bb^—bb^—bb^—mi^^BB^—bb—bb^—kb—bb—mi^—b«U an—n—nn—bk^— na—mi— bo—nn—- m—bh—bb—bb—«c—mt— *
I National Grocer Company |
|	WHOLESALE GROCERS	|
£	s
|	South St. Joseph Street. South Bead. Indiana |
I	"LIGHT HOUSE BRAUDS"	?
kb—bb—ns^— bs—na—jra-^nn—ra—— an—bb^—bu—hw—m»—"■—
I; For juicy Steaks and Chops I
I	try	I
J	“THE GRILL”—“MIKES”	I
I 125 W. Wash. St. 105 E. Jeff. St. I
|	H. E. GROSS & SONS, Props.	j
__on—ea—nn— ua—w—no—on—bb—an—bb—w—bb «a—w——■ nafl
che Nouro 0ame Scholasuic
Face Flora. Whiskers is inelegant
F a Prof, taught a course in Whisker
call them Face Flora.'
Is there an easier way to remove them— the whiskers, not the profs.?
Razor edges were never keener than they are today. Then why do some shaves still make the tears come? Especially tender upper lips and chin corners?
. . Here is plain reasoning: Hairs can’t pull if ' they’re properly softened By the right lather.' Any lather won’t do. You know that. Williams’ Shaving Cream softens the toughest, bristle. Its unusually heavy lather softens the1 beard down to its very base. Few soaps can do that.
you will never be without Williams’ Shaving Cream near your razor.
Try it— tomorrow before chapel.
Williams
Shaving Cream
If you want a Good Haircut Patronize
I The Reliance Pharmacy
, Inc. J
The Campus Barber Shop

WASHINGTON HALL
PAUL WAMPLER, Proprietor
=
I
TOILET ARTICLES FOR SALE
230 W. Washington Avenue
866
Tsfie Noire Same ^cholascic
I
9

K
EV


S
1 must clearly understand your likes and
s
•Ml
And to supply your wants satisfactorily we must know merchandise thoroughly.

I
B
meet both requirements, completely.
B
©
J
LIVINGSTON’S
The House of Kuppenheimer Clothes
I p K
I 1 s B