Vol. XIX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 27, 1886.	No. 24.
On Reading “Vagrant Verses.”
Welcome, sweet vagrants,—sweet as she that stood Before the King Cophetua’s golden throne, And made that kingdom and that crown her own:
So, in her place, ye gentle vagrants would!
x Ye come from an inhospitable clime
Where vagrants are arrested (Cruel law!
Tears of compassion homelessness should draw,
But thou dost make of homelessness a crime.)
Ye errant verses shall reprisal make:
Poetic justice stern shall ye enforce:
Arrest attention, vengeance thus to take On who arrest your fellow-vagrants’ course.
Were ye our comrades, thraldom would be blest;
With you condemned, we’d say: “Give us arrest!”
The Author of “Vapid Vaporings.”
Father De Smet, S. J.
Father De Smet, the celebrated Indian missionary, died in St. Louis, May 23, 1873. Though neither a preacher nor a scholar of any eminence, — for his life, from the time of his ordination as a priest, was given up almost entirely to the labors of his peculiar calling,—he was, in many respects, one of the most remarkable men that could be met with. What was said of Edmund Burke might, in a certain sense, have been said of him; that is, were you to meet him, not knowing who he was, and to talk with him for a few moments, you would say: “ This is an extraordinary man.” But it is not the writer’s intention to pass a eulogy on the character of this simple, good, and great man. A few anecdotes respecting him will, it is thought, be more acceptable to the readers of the Scholastic. These anecdotes are all substantially true. The writer heard the two last from the lips of the venerable missionary himself. It is better that they be told in his exact words, as far as it is possible, and that he speak in the first person.
“ Once I was giving an instruction to a number
of Indians. Not knowing their language, I spoke in English, making use of a half-breed Indian as interpreter. When I had finished, one of the chiefs spoke up and said to me: ‘Father, that man has not interpreted you right.’ You maybe sure, I was surprised to hear the chief speak English. ‘Why,’ said I to him, ‘ where did you learn English?’ ‘I learned it in Ireland,’ he answered. ‘In Ireland!* I exclaimed. ‘And how did you come to be in Ireland ? ’ ‘Well, to tell the truth,’ replied the chief, ‘I was born there; I am an Irishman.’ And so it was. This exile from.Erin had, in his wanderings, made his way out among these dusky children of the forest, who made him one of their chiefs. Shortly after I met him, he was killed in battle.”
“ ‘O Father, said the Indian to me, ‘ we had great trouble since you were here last. A bad young Indian broke in among us and stole some of our horses. We followed him, and caught up with . him, after a long chase. Oh! I was mad, and so were my people. We were going to give him a great beating; but, remembering what you told us about forgiving injuries, we let him go.’ ‘ Well, my son,* said I, ‘ I wish you had tied that bad Indian to a tree and given him fifty good licks of a raw hide on the bare back. It would have done him good.’ The Indian, of course, understood the spirit with which I would have wished him to punish this bad Indian.”
“ When an Indian would come to me to confession, the first thing we would do was to have a smoke—indicative, of course, of the peace that was between us. ‘ Oh! Father, get us rain! get us rain !*	,
This was the cry with which I was met on the occasion of a visit I paid one of my settlements of Catholic Indians. -The poor.people were, indeed, in great distress. There had been no rain for some time, and their corn and vegetables were withering away. But I could only say to them: , ‘ My children, I cannot get you rain; but come to church to-morrow, and I will say Mass, and we will all pray, and, maybe, God will hear us.’ They did -as I said. They came to church on the next day, and I said the Mass, and we all prayed for the much-needed rain. And really it happened that before night we had a fine rain; and for some
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
days after it rained just enough; everything revived wonderfully, and my poor Indians were greatly rejoiced. Sometime after, a number of them came to see. me. They said they had something to ask of me. A Yankee peddler had come among them with whiskey for sale, and they wanted my permission to get drunk. Of course, I said: No! no! in the most positive manner. But they persisted. It was only once; just once, they would get drunk. And when I would not yield, they reduced their request to the getting of just one jugful. They would mix it with water and let it go as far as it would. But even this I would not grant, for I knew that the least taste of liquor sets the poor Indian wild.”
“In the year 1851—in the May or June of that year—I left St. Louis for the Indian missions. I was accompanied by Father Hoecken. When we were far up the Missouri River, the cholera broke out on the boat on which we were travelling. I was myself among the first to take the disease. Indeed, I was so bad with it that, thinking my last hour was soon to come, I asked Father Hoecken to administer to me the Last Sacraments. He was just getting ready to do so when a messenger came, in all haste, to our state-room to inform us that a man down on the deck was dying of the cholera, and I told Father Hoecken to go and attend the poor man, as I could wait. I had to wait longer than I expected; it was three full hours before Father •Hoecken returned; and when he did return, he was sick to death. It seems that, instead of one, he had several cases of cholera to attend to. I saw at once that, sick as I was myself, he was worse, and that I had not a moment to spare before administering to him the Last Sacraments. When I had performed this sad duty and prepared my poor, dying brother as well as I could for his last end,‘Now, Father,’ said I,‘prepare me.’ And, taking his hands in mine, I knelt down by His bed-side and made my confession. When I was through, I waited for him to say something; but as he was silent, I looked up into his face and saw that his eyes were becoming fixed in death. And thus he passed away, and without giving me absolution. I tell you I felt bad enough; but what could I do, save hope in God? With proper treatment, however, I was soon well again.”
• •••••••
Father De Smet is buried in the cemetery of the Jesuit Novitiate, near Florisant, Mo. It is but the truth to say that among all that knew him his memory is held in benediction.	X.
Something- about Opium.
The mere mention of the word opium is, in itself, an incentive to sleep. The famous and lucid definition of this narcotic given by the doctor in Moliere’s comedy here recurs to mind:. “ Why does opium produce sleep?—Because it has a soporific virtue.—But why has it a soporific virtue?-— Because it produces sleep.” As I quote this from
memory, I am not sure that the terms of the proposition are an exact translation of the original; but it matters little: the hypnotic virtue of the drug is an established fact.
Those who are afflicted with insomnia will probably find some relief in perusing this drowsy subject. At the risk of furnishing those not sb"afflicted with an extra nap, I shall speak of the source, the good and the bad properties of opium. I should also like to point out the remedy to be applied to that mania, by which so many millions of men now-a-days hurry themselves to certain death and destroy their intellect, merely to* obtain a pleasant dream; but I must acknowledge my inability for the task.
The English are the lords of the opium trade. Their dominions in the East Indies are its principal source. It is first imported into England, and thence exported everywhere in general, but principally to China, Japan, and the Soudan. It is a gummy-resinous juice extracted from the capsule of the white poppy. In Science Hall here it may be seen in "a phial, labelled •palaver somniferum— its scientific name. It is a substance of considerable gravity, solid and compact, but flexible. It is of a reddish-brown color at first, but becomes black and hard in course of time. Its odor is strong and unpleasant; its taste is bitter, acrid and nauseous. When chewed, it turns the saliva into a greenish hue. It softens at a moderate temperature, and the flame of a dandle will set it on fire. Its chemical composition is quite complex—consisting of no less than twenty different properties. An analysis of these would be extremely somniferous to the reader, and would preclude all possibility of his ever being able to reach the end bfthis "article. I will ask him, therefore, to credit the truth of the statement until he has time to test it for himself.
The high price which opium commands makes the genuine article an object of innumerable counterfeits. These consist chiefly of the extracts of lacteal virus, or milky.juices of plants, liquorice, cheledonium or swallow-wort—known also as celandine—gum arabic and adragant,caoutchouc,sand, clay, and, though last, not least, the droppings of the bovine species. These are a few of the many ways in which opium is falsified.
This drug is "frequently, and successfully, used as a medicine; but too much care cannot be taken in administering it. The quantity should vary according to the distemper, the age and the disposition of the patient. Some persons become quite excited under the influence of even one-eighth of a grain. In most instances half a grain suffices to induce sleep. It is usually given-to assuage pain, to overcome sleeplessness, and . to ameliorate the tortures "of neuralgia. An overdose, instead of soothing the sufferer, makes him worse. It then acts as a powerful stimulant, producing ebriety and a heavy, restless sleep. The Chinese are much-addicted to its use in this way; the intoxication it produces is by far more besotting and injurious than that arising from the use, or rather abuse, of any other stimulant. As a therapeutic,.this pharmacpnTin the hands of the pharmaceutist, becomes a panacea",; and is offered to the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
public under more than four hundred different titles.
In Europe opium is limited to its use as a medicine; the quantity consumed is, therefore, insignificant. Butin Asia,and particularly in China,opium is as necessary and as common to the majority of the inhabitants as tobacco, or coffee, is to their terrestrial fellow-beings. Yet, for ages long, opium was known to the Chinese only as a medicine. It is but quite recently that they began to chew and smoke it for the sake of its intoxicating qualities. As an article of commerce, the Portuguese, to whom the trade was formerly limited, placed great restrictions upon it, and it found its way to the East only in very small quantities, until Watson, an Englishman, counselled the East India company to import it into China. The company followed the advice, and met with such pecuniary success that it monopolized the whole trade. The first expedition was made in 1773, and was followed by others thenceforward. In 1800 ten thousand pounds of the drug had been carried into China. So pernicious were its effects on the people that the Government interdicted any further importation of it. The prohibition has been frequently renewed, but the English have found means to render it almost null, by bribing the Government officials and organizing bands of smugglers throughout the empire. The company pays about one and a half dollars a pound for the opium and receives about ten dollars for it. With such a percentage, it can well afford to bribe and corrupt even celestial functionaries. The violation of its edicts, as well as the disastrous effects of the opium on the people, finally so enraged the Government that, in 183S, it seized upon and confiscated all the opium it could find in the empire. This led to a war with England. The morality or prosperity of a nation, as compared with Englishmen’s pockets, must always be considered as of minor importance. The Chinese were so unmercifully belabored in the war that they gave up all resistance to the importation of the drug. As a consequence, it is to-day used to a fearful extent.
The consumers of opium, whether by chewing or smoking, are numbered by millions in China. It is said that one individual out of every five uses it. In general, they do not begin to smoke it before the age of eighteen or twenty years; but many are found addicted to it even at the age of ten. The women—excepting those lost to all virtue—never touch it. The Government officials and the laboring classes furnish the greatest number of those who indulge in this kind of smoking.
Although there exist imperial edicts against the sale of this drug, the vendors of it are quite numerous. At Pekin, three or four of them can be found on every street. Nor do the shops in which it is sold make any concealment of the fact; on the contrary, a piece of paper, stained by the opium while being prepared for use, is hung up outside the door to indicate to the passer-by the commodity sold within. These dives are frequented almost exclusively by the poorer classes, as the wealthier, can afford to indulge in secret at home. : The-smoking-den presents a most repulsive appearance. It is always a blackened, gloomy, humid hole in the
basement or on the ground-floor of some tenement ’ —when it does not stand alone. The shutters and . doors are closed air-tight! its murky darkness is relieved only by the flickering of a wretched, lamp ...	_
with which the pipes are lighted. Fastened to the . sooty walls are some sheets of paper having on them quotations from Confucius. A score of camp- . beds, covered with mats, stand in a row awaiting occupants. A bundle of straw serves for a pillow.. With his head resting on this, his pipe in his mouth; z . and a bowl of tea close by—rthe first effect of opium	:
is a burning thirst—the smoker gradually loses all . sensibility.	.
The visitor, on entering one of these hovels, ex- .. periences a sense of suffocation and nausea from the fumes of opium. The smokers, however, - ' _ trouble themselves but little about visitors: they . are unconscious of all that happens around them. .	.
At first, though, they are very talkative; their talk soon becomes incoherent muttering, and when, after a short time, this ceases, their eyes assume a dull, glassy appearance—a sign that they are in . elysium.	.
The wealthy smoker’s apartment is . the op- , posite of these poor kennels. It is the best and most elegantly-furnished room of the mansion. The walls are gilded and decorated at great expense, though not always with corresponding purity of taste. The Emperor’s smoking-rooms are so . many palaces. He is ahead of his people in this respect—but as to the smoking, they are his equals —he can’t get any drunker than they can.
Opium-smokers generally cure themselves by committing suicide. To them even such a cure were preferable to the terrible disease they had contracted. Wrecked in mind and body, sunk to the lowest depths of degradation in their own esteem as well as in the esteem of all who knew them, enervated beyond even an effort to redeem themselves; what wonder that they should hide them-	_
selves and their ignominy in the grave?
Did the effect of opium extend only to the unhappy victim of its use, it were bad enough; but . ; it goes further. The whole social fabric suffers by ■ it. Since the time that this fatal drug began to be	.
freely imported into China, the morals of the in-	J .
habitants have daily grown from worse to worse; ‘ discontent, quarrels and assassinations have been on .. the increase.	.
In China there is an album published wherein is pictured the life of the opium-smoker. On 'the . first page the smoker is seen reclining on a rich couch, surrounded by all the luxuries which char- , acterize the most elegant existence. The luxuries \	-
grow less and less through the succeeding pages, till the last one, where the wretched victim is rep- .. resented dying on a rug in the most abject misery, _ " . . after ruining his wife and children by his debauch- .	.
eries. Pictures of this kind are spread throughout	;
the empire by persons who have at heart the in-	.
terest of their country, and who wish to free it from , ‘	?	-
the curse that opium has brought upon it. :. So far, r they have met with no better success than did	;
Hoggarth when, by his pencil, he endeavored to: destroy the passion for gambling in England. .	*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The craving after opium is making lamentable progress in China, and there can scarcely be a doubt that Chinese society, already in dissolution, will, ere long,becompletely disorganized. English economists deny that opium is productive of the deleterious effects attributed to it, and assert that, on the contrary, it is a great benefit to a people like the Chinese who, indolent and apathetic by nature, need some stimulant to arouse their energies. The denial is shameless: the assertion a glaring sophism! The homicidal traffic has no other reason for its defence than the immense pecuniary profits accruing to those engaged in it.
Since the last treaty at Pekin, all barriers to the sale of the murderous drug have been swept away. Day by dav the deadly poison extends itself over the unfortunate nation, and man after man falls a victim to it. Did economists tell us that England’s aim is to enervate the nation that it may the more easily fall a prey to Englishmen’s lust for empire, circumstances would compel us to acknowledge the truth of the assertion.	R.
Washington.
Hine fugit rabies pectora qu® globi
Armorum strepitu moverat ilicet, Vaginisque teguntur
Enses foedere nobiles:
Regum Magnanimus destituit thronum, Et gaudet placidis arboribus locis
Fortuna populorum
Washington Patri® Pater.
Huie servile jugum frangere viribus
Pollenti meritas solvite gratias;
Factorum memores jam
Omnes pectora amantia
Auctori Larium cum precibus dicant.
Elabet sceleris pectoribus reis
Quanta sedulitate
Desperata resarciit!
Lustrabat dubitans instabiles vias
Fati:—prospera sors?—sethera personat
Plausu, quippe secunda
Optabat populo.—Quis baud
Flagraret studio conspiciens Patrem
Vite feliciter ducere vesperam?—
Quasvis ajquiparanda
Nostra, Natio quanta sit?—
Quis sub sole fuit Conditor aemulus
Nostro? qui sapiens, fortis, amabilis, Vel qui dignus amove?—
Auras natus America
Vitales Patri® quis dubitaverit
Flammis ense etiam ponere?. Ab omnibus, Dux praclarus, amaris;
Spiras flamina roboris
Dum sol irradiat culmina monitum, Dum vasto pe^gus flumine separat
Prastantes regiones,
Et dum vivet America.	J. S.
A Benefactor of His Race.
Some unknown writer has beautifully and truly said: “The world’s great healers are the nameless saints of God.” Certain it is that in every age and clime there have been found God-loving spirits to devote their lives to the alleviation of suffering. In-deed, it may be assumed that no evil exists for which the Great Physician does not, in His own good time, provide a healer. Sometimes, it is true, the day when the evil shall be remedied seems long in coming. This was especially the case with deaf-mutes.
With the ancients, poverty was despicable, and suffering proof of the ill-will of the gods. Among the Greeks deaf-mutes were looked upon as a disgrace to humanity, and they were pitilessly put to death. As soon as the Romans discovered a child to be both deaf and dumb, they sacrificed it to the Tiber. Slowly the horrible prejudice against the poor creatures was dissipated; but it was not until the advent of Christianity that a spirit of tenderness began to provide for the comfort of these afflicted ones.
It is now an acknowledged fact that the majority of deaf-mutes are dumb only because they cannot hear; and that the fault lies, therefore, in the organ of hearing, and not in that of speech. But this fact was not at first recognized, and the unfortunate deaf-mute was subjected to all kinds of painful operations of the tongue, throat, and tonsils. It is only in comparatively modern times that this useless and cruel practice was abandoned.
The first result of the change in favor of this afflicted class was, therefore, a painful one. But better days were coming; for, in the beginning of the eighteenth century—on November 25, 1712—was born Charles Michel de 1’Epee, who was destined to be one of the first founders of special institutions for the education of deaf-mutes in all ranks of society. He received an excellent home-training, and was educated for the Church. Though for some time the victim of scruples, which militated against his vocation, peace finally took possession of his generous heart, and he was ordained by the Bishop of Troyes, a nephew of the celebrated Bossuet.
After a time an incident occurred in which PereMichel’s attention was called to the special training of deaf-mutes. He lived in a by-street of Paris, with no associates but his housekeeper and her pet cat and linnet, until one day he went out on an errand, which resulted in, shortly after, filling his house with children. This errand caused him to visit a certain house, where (the mother being absent) he was received respectfully, but in total silence, by two young girls who sat in the room sewing. To all questions he addressed to them they made no answer., Now, the good Abbe was not only pious and highly educated, but his heart was overflowing with kindness towards, every living creature, and the business of his life was to do good amon°' • © © the poor. An English author once wrote of St. Francis of Assisi that he was the friend.of everything that suffered or rejoiced,, and that by this divine right of magnetism everything trusted in him;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	38i
that the magnetism of the heart, that power which nobody can define or ignore, surrounded him like a special atmosphere. These words might well be used in speaking of M. de I’Epde. We may easily imagine, then, his feelings as he sat looking at these beautiful and well-bred girls, so pitifully afflicted; and with what eagerness, when their mother arrived, he plied her with questions concerning their (to him) extraordinary,behavior, for he had never before met with a deaf-mute.
“Ah!” sadly answered the poor mother, “they were both born deaf and dumb.”
The big heart of good Father Michel was filled with pity, and he asked if there were no means of helping them. The mother replied that a priest (the Rev. Father Vanin, who with the Abbe Deschamps, had made some efforts on behalf of the deaf and dumb) had instructed them to some extent, but that since his death their education had been entirely neglected.
The Abbe de 1’Epee had never lacked for work, but here was something special, to which he seemed to have been providentially guided. His thought was, how were these poor girls to learn about God and heaven if they were to live and die without being taught to read? There were no schools for the deaf and dumb, and very few persons who were able to reach their minds; and these persons chose to throw the veil of mystery over their work, and confined their attention to such wealthy persons as were able to pay them extraordinary fees.
We may imagine that just at this time the mind of the good priest worked very rapidly. He said afterwards: “Believing that these two children would live and die in ignorance of their religion if I did not attempt some means of instructing them, I was touched with compassion, and told their mother to send them daily to my house, and I would do for them whatever I might find possible.” This was the inducement which caused the Abbe de 1’Epee to begin his first institution for deaf-mutes. It was established in 1760, and he continued to work indefatigably for the welfare of his afflicted charges until his death, which took place in 1789.
His charitable housekeeper was deeply interested in the undertaking, and next morning, when the girls came, she gave them a cordial greeting. The old cat purred welcome and approval, and the linnet sang more gaily than it had ever done before. The new undertaking was the right thing: that was plain; else, whence all these omens of good fortune? And the kind-hearted woman felicitated herself that the girls would not be noisy like other children; but in this she found herself mistaken.
It was not long before the Abbe began to take long walks on the outskirts of the city, making visits among the poor, and plying them with questions as to whether they knew any deaf-mutes, and if so, where they might be found. Whenever he met one of these unfortunates he took him home, and the house gradually began to look like a school.
It was well, indeed, for M. de 1’Epde that his housekeeper had a big, warm heart; otherwise she might have done much to oppose the good work, even, perhaps, ruin it altogether; but, besides being
a good Christian, she was devotedly attached to her master, and pleased at anything that made him happier. Before the children came, life had been the same day after day. In the morning, after serving breakfast, she had made herself trim, and, with her gold ear-rings, her high white cap, and a gay handkerchief around her throat,.she had gone to market. With her that was the event of the day. Besides, she prepared the meals, and kept the house spotlessly clean; every brass and copper dish was polished until you could see your face in it, and the stone flagging of the little hall and kitchen was swept and scrubbed with care.
The Abbd had his walks, many hours over his books, and spent some time every day in his tiny garden. No weeds were to be found there, and not an inch of ground was permitted to go to waste. From its scant surface it was made, by faithful toil, to contribute to the kitchen herbs and vegetables, and, in their season, a few golden-brown pears, apricots, melons, and purple plums; the voices of the birds and bees filled the air with music, and the • gaudy butterflies, flitting to and fro, were very pleasant to look upon; besides, there were flowers —heliotrope and violets, and big sunflowers, reaching up to look over the wall, and gain a glimpse of the outside world; and in a huge tub there was an orange tree, which grew so tall that it touched the eaves of the house. Surely, this was a delightful and appropriate spot for the instruction of the unfortunate deaf-mutes.
As time went on, more pupils came, and the selfsacrificing priest spent not alone his time and strength, but much money for them. They were all poor, and it did not require a great deal of penetration on the part of‘their benefactor to see that very often they were hungry; and so it happened that the housekeeper was many times called upon to prepare them a meal. Hisincomeamounted to about $2,000 a year; and after allowing $500 for his own expenses, he put aside the remainder, which he considered the inheritance of his children —the poor deaf and dumb—to whose use it was faithfully applied. The people laughed at him, and many of then! did not hesitate to call him a visionary, and ridicule him for trying to teach the “simpletons” at all; yet in God’s good time—before he died—honor and appreciation came to him.
Frugal, indeed, were the meals the care-taking housekeeper prepared at this period: a small omelet was made to suffice for breakfast; the soup was thinner, and not a crumb of the loaf was wasted; there would be scarcely enough to feed the pigeons that came flying down in eager expectancy. Frequently black bread took the place of white; and instead of the fragrant, rich coffee, her selfsacrificing master sometimes requested, her to set upon the table the stone pitcher filled with water. She never demurred at this request, but the complying of it made her look very grim. Occasionally some friend; meeting her at her marketing, as she went about with her eyes sharp-set to see where she could get the most forher money, would send the Abbe some delicacy, such as a bunch of aspara- . gus, a small roast, or something for the soup or
382	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
salad. The housekeeper always prized these gifts, and there can be no doubt that they affoided her more pleasure than they did the master for whose benefit she delighted in preparing them in the most inviting manner.	.
As the work grew on his hands, M. de 1’Ep^e stinted himself in fuel that he might not encroach on the sum set apart for his children. Vainly his faithful servant tried to make his room look warm and bright, keeping the brass andirons and grate at such dazzling brightness that they made the blaze seem double what it was; but as there was not the wherewith to replenish, the handful of brands would quickly burn away to embers; and often the good Abbe came out to the kitchen, breviary in hand, and sat on the oaken bench in the corner and read, and warmed himself over the fire.
This was too much for the old housekeeper. She wept over the sad state of affairs, until she conceived an idea which she at once proceeded to put into execution. She held a conference with the scholars, made , known to them by signs what their beloved Father was doing, and then, having, formed them- in a line—there were forty—she marched them into the Abbe’s presence, where they be.gged him, for their sakes, to treat himself with greater consideration. Verily, such weeping, gesticulations, outcries, articulations, such eloquence of looks and appeal, were never known before. It was a touching scene, and the dear old priest, overcome with emotion, wept and blessed them by turns, while the loyal housekeeper covered her face with her apron to hide her fast-flowing tears.
There has been much argument, from time to time, as to the relative misfortune of blindness and deafness. Dr. Samuel G. Howe, for many years at the head of the Massachusetts Asylum for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind, gave it as the result of his observations that the deaf were deprived of more than the blind. The testimony of all experts in the matter shows that blind persons more easily overcome the obstacles caused by their infirmity than do the deaf and dumb, and it is historically true that more of the blind have risen to distinction than of the deaf and dumb. The effect upon the temper and character is peculiar. The blind are usually docile and confiding; the deaf, suspicious and irritable. This probably arises from the fact that the blind are wholly dependent upon others, the deaf only partially so; the blind have little upon which to exercise their curiosity, the deaf see much which they do not understand, and they are apt to put the worst construction on it, and think themselves the object of ridicule and scorn, as—shame to humanity!—they sometimes are. Itis impossible •to provoke much sympathy for the deaf; on the contrary, deafness excites ridicule rather than compassion. The deaf man or the deaf woman is found in comedy; his mistakes and mishaps are employed . to incite laughter; but the most hard-hearted pity the blind, and every effort is made to provide for their comfort. .	,
These feelings, which are deeply rooted in our own day, were even more current, in the time of the Abb£ de 1’Epee. Strange, and sad, indeed, was
then the lot of the unfortunates with whom he had ' to deal. Speech could tell them nothing, because they could not hear; nor could they learn from books, because they could not read; their condition was that of persons who neither read nor write, i nor hear nor speak; they could not ask for information, and were incapable of understanding those who would impart it. The teacher’s difficulty was to comprehend the difficulty of his pupils, and also how to dilute his instructions down to their capacity for receiving them. Moreover, it should be re-	*
membered that in the last century none of the wonderful appliances and helps to the instruction of the deaf;had yet been discovered. Father Michel was practically working alone in a field hitherto untilled. But he enjoyed his work. Living always among children, he preserved his childlike ways; his face was a picture of benignity, his presence a benediction. He was one of the gentlest of men,	j
and he taught his pupils a great deal besides lan-	i
guage: they were instructed in order, obedience,	•
kindness, consideration for others; they learned	<
their religion, and the path was made clear for them	:
to grow up to noble manhood and womanhood.
The experience of morethan a century has proved that the Abbd de 1’Epde was mistaken in his system of teaching deaf-mutes; nevertheless, the gratitude of mankind is due to him for his large-hearted and disinterested charity, which took pity on those for whom others had no pity—the unfortunate deaf-mutes, who were most numerous among the poor. All that benevolence has done and is doing for the deaf and dumb in modern times is directly traceable to the good works of Charles Michel de 1’Epee. From the streets and alleys he gathered in the un-	j
fortunates, and in him they found a father, teacher,	;
protector, and friend. As he grew old, and his la- . i bors increased, he invited others to his assistance.
It gave him great solicitude that his work should be continued after his death; but so carefully had he trained his assistants that when he passed to his reward, in 17S9, the Abbe Sicard was able to sue-ceed him, and there was no interruption to the work so humbly begun, and so nobly carried forward. Four years later his school was adopted by the French Government, and now exists as the Institution Nationale of Paris. In 1816 a pupil of this Institution, M. Laurent,. Clerc, consented to come to the United States with Dr. Gallaudet, the founder and first principal of-the American Asylum; and he became, like De 1’Epee in the Old World, the father of the deaf and dumb in the New World.
Let it be remembered that there was no school in all the wide world for deaf-mutes until one was established by the Abbe de 1’Epde, in 1760. At present Australia has 2 institutions; Austria-Hungary, 17; Belgium, 10; Brazil, 1; Canada, 7; Denmark, 4; France, 67; Germany, 90; Great-Britain and Ireland, 46; Italy, 35;. Japan, 2; Luxemburg, 1; Mexico, 2; the Netherlands^ 3; New Zealand, 1; Norway, 7; Portugal, 1; Russia, 10; Spain, 7; Sweden, 17; Switzerland, 11; the United States, 55; Bombay, 1. All this in one hundred and , twenty-five years as the direct result of the work _ of one devoted man. , .	.	.	’	•
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	383
The memory of the good Abbd de 1’Epde is still, and will ever be, held in veneration. In Paris, on the anniversary of his birth, a dinner is given to the deaf and dumb; and if, on this festive occasion, they forget to pray for the soul of their benefactor, they may be sure that he looks upon them smilingly from his seat among the blessed in God’s kingdom, and that he does not forget to pray for them. Blessed his work! blessed his memory! “The world’s great healers are the uncrowned saints of God.”—The “Ave Maria”
Art, Music and Literature.
—Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly, the well-known poet and prose writer, is engaged on a “ Life ” of the famous Jesuit, Father Barbeliri.
—The second volume of the translation of Ros-mini’s “ Psychology ” has just been issued. It is worthy of all attention. Rosmini is the strongest antagonist of the Kantian philosophy, and is a close follower of the philosophical teachings of St. Augustine and the Christian Platonists.
—The following instructive incident is told of Turner the celebrated painter: Lord Egremont once invited the artist to stay a week at his seat in Sussex, and paint two pictures for him of some favorite bits of scenery on his estate. On the first morning of his visit his lordship asked Turner what he should like to do, when the great painter replied that he would like to go fishing. For three ensuing mornings the same question was asked, Turner always replying, that he would like to go fishing. At last his lordship could not restrain himself from expressing some anxiety as to his pictures, as Turner had intimated that he was going away on the morrow. Turner then asked his lordship to proceed upstairs to his room, and nothing could exceed the surprise and delight of Lord Egremont when the painter showed him the two exquisite pictures he desired, and which, by rising each morning with the sun, he had completed before proceeding on his daily fishing excursions.
—The sorting of Archduke Rainer’s valuable collection of papyri has led to further discoveries of the greatest'interest. In the Greek section are a number of fragments attributed to Aristotle. In the old list of imperial papyri, written in Greek, are specimens attributed to Marcus Aurelius, Severus Alexander, and Philippus the Arabian. There are others of Carus and Licinius. Numerous historical papyri establish the hitherto disputed date when the Emperor Maximinus the Thracian began his reign. It is clear from their contents that he ascended the throne at the end of March, A. D. 235, while during the early part of the same month Severus Alexander was still at the head of the state. Among the rare Latin papyri are two receipts of the Actuary Sergius, dating from A. D. 398. They are the oldest-dated Latin documents in existence. In the same group figures a decree of a provincial governor dating from the fifth century.- It is an order to four soldiers of the fifth legion to proceed
to Arsinoe el Foajum for the Easter-festival, and grants them a remuneration. A Graeco-Latin papyrus of the same period contains a report on certain documents of the Prefect Augustalis. In the Arabic section there is a revolutionary proclamation dated A. D. 867. This part of the collection further includes ten well-preserved letters in Arabic, dating from A’. D. 812.. They, are orders from. a task gatherer for writing material and papyrus -rolls. They show how at that time papyrus was an expensive and rare commodity in trade, having been superseded by cotton and linen fibrous paper.. According to these letters, a roll of papyrus about two and a half yards long cost something over 2 shillings.— Vienna Cor. “London Telegraph?
College Gossip.
—The students of the University of Pennsylvania are preparing to put on the stage a Greek play, “The Acharnians” of Aristophanes. The production is set down for the fourteenth of May.
—Miss Boston, to College Graduate:—“Can you recall the names of the different muses, Mr. Grounder? There were nine of them.” College Graduate:—“The muses? I don’t know the club. Must be a new organization.”
—The origin of the expression “ takes the cake” has been attributed to Macaulay’s criticism on Robert Montgomery’s poems. But a writer in the Nezv York Sun informs the public that in Aristophanes’s “Knights,” line 277 (Kock’s edition, Berlin, 1882), Chorus addressingPa-phlagon says:' rp 8'a.vat8sta. ztapsih^d 7}p£"po$ 6 ~L>papou<;—“If: he conquers you in shamelessness, zve take the cake” •
—The celebration of the fifth centenary of the University of Heidelberg next August will be a gigantic affair, over 20,000 old students being expected, as well- as many other guests, deputations, etc. The preparations have already commenced. Victor von Scheffel, himself an old student of Heidelberg, and the celebrated author of many’songs, has written a jubilee hymn, for which Vincent Lachner has composed the music.
—The movement for the higher education of women, says Wx^Home Journal^ has already shown results in introducing a new stock of recitation jokes. , The former supply was getting ancient. The new. Vassar book—“Two College Girls”—tilts the following: It happened during a history recitation that somebody quoted, “ III fares the land to hastening—to hastening—” and could get no farther. “ Who can finish it? Who can finish it? ” cried the professor, and, catching Kitty’s steadygaze, he said, “ Miss Morris? ”
t: ‘ To hastening ills a prey,
Where wealth accumulates and men decay.’ But I just happened to see it in ‘Familiar Quotations,’ yesterday. This was the only reason I-knew,” said Kitty, blushing. “And who wrote it?” asked the professor, smiling. “Ibid.” “ I beg your pardon.” The professor’s pet alarm was deafness. “ It said Ibid.” He was very near ask-ing her the date of “ Ibid’s ” birth, but he refrained. ?
384	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MV seHOWE
Notre Dame, February 27, 1886,
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE HO THE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre.Dame, Indiana.
—We are pleased to announce that several valuable donations have been made to Science Hall during the past week, for which the generous friends who made them have the grateful acknowledgments, not only of the Director of the Scientific Department, but also of all the students who attend class in Science Hall. '
First in order comes the equipping of the metallurgical laboratory by Mr. J. D. Wood, an enterprising and successful miner of Challis, Idaho. Mr. Wood is a thoroughly practical man himself, and shows the interest he takes in practical education by contributing towards the advancement of a branch of knowledge in which he has been specially interested for several years past. He purposes putting in the metallurgical laboratory a couple of furnaces similar to those used in the best smelters in the West, and will send on the plans from Omaha in a few days. Immediately on receipt of the plans the work will be commenced, and will, we doubt not, be completed in a short time. In addition to this, Mr. Wood has kindly promised to send a collection of ores for assaying, and a number of choice mineral specimens for the Museum. It goes without saying that Mr. Wood’s thoughtful kindness, in the matters referred to, will be duly appreciated by all the many friends he made during his short stay at Notre Dame.
The next contribution comes from an old and highly-esteemed student of Notre Dame—-Mr. Wm. Rumely, of ’71, of Laporte, Ind. Mr. Rumely is now general superintendent of the large manufacturing establishment of Rumely & Sons, and is favorably known throughout the country as an inventor and mechanical engineer. He kindly do
nates to the mechanical laboratory a number of valuable castings, of various tools and electrical ma-chines,—most of which he has designed himself,— besides presenting some drawings that will be of special interest to our young pattern makers and machinists.
Mr. Geo. Mason, of the Excelsior Iron’Works of Chicago, Ill., the generous donor of the “ Mason Medal,” is also, entitled to special thanks for the kindly interest he has always manifested in Science Hall—particularly in the mechanical laboratory— and for valuable assistance rendered in various ways.
In view of the substantial assistance they are receiving from all sides, the professors of Science Hall feel greatly encouraged in their work, and trust ere long to have a building as thoroughly equipped in every department as any similar institution in the country, and to point to results in keeping with the appliances they hope soon to have at their command.
Presentation of an Interesting Work of Art.
Through the happy conception and generous activity of a number of the old friends of Notre Dame, a magnificent bust of the venerable Founder, Father General Sorin, was recently executed by a rising young artist of Elgin,’Ill. This furnished the occasion for a very pleasant incident in connection with the festivities of last Monday—Washington’s Birthday—when this splendid piece of art and appropriate souvenir of the venerable Founder, was formally presented to himself and, through him, to his cherished foundation—the University. At half-past eleven o’clock on Monday morning, the parlors of 'the University were filled with representative bodies of the students, including the various military organizations in full uniform, and delegates from other societies, members of the Faculty and a number of visitors—ladies and gentlemen—among whom were Mr. and Mrs. J. Wile, of Laporte; Mrs. H. Hug, of Indianapolis; Mr. J. Adler, of South Bend; Mrs. and Miss Meehan, of Covington, and others. In the centre of the room stood the. bust on its elegant pedestal, well concealed from the view by the soldierly forms of Captain Combe and Lieutenants Cusack . and De Haven, of the Hoynes’ Light Guards. Mr. Jacob Wile, the prime mover in the enterprise, after escorting the venerable Superior to the seat prepared for him, addressed him.as follows:
“Very Reverend and dear Father General!
“ On behalf of a few of your numerous personal friends, the honor and pleasure of thus addressing you have been , conferred upon me; and in the discharge of this pleasing duty, permit me to present to you, with the compliments and good wishes of the donors and through you, the honored and beloved Founder of this great Institution of learning, to the University of Notre Dame, this bust of your own good self.	.	.
“Accept it, dear.Father General, as a slight token and testimony of the good feeling we have always entertained for you, associated with our heartfelt wishes that you may long be spared to your friends, who rejoice With you in your prosperity in the blessing of health and life, that you
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	385
may live long as the bright shining head of the Community, •to whose care Notre Dame University and St. Mary’s Academy, which owe so much to your devotion to the cause of education, have been entrusted. And when the eve of life shall have dawned upon you, may your days upon earth, in never-failing health and prosperity, be counted as numerous as those of the oak, from which this bust is carved! will ever be our sincere prayer to our Heaver-ly Father for you.”
In the mean time the bust had been-exposed to view, and when Mr. Wile concluded his address, Very Rev. Father General arose and expressed how completely he had been taken by surprise. Though deprecating the subject of the artist’s work, yet he sincerely appreciated the sentiments which had prompted this act on the part of his friends, who in time of trial had shown themselves devoted to Notre Dame and its great institution. Rev. President Walsh followed in a few, appropriate remarks, accepting the gift for the University, commending the fitness of such an enduring memorial of one to whom Notre Dame owed so much, and expressing his thanks to the generous donors and their representative, Mr. Wile, an old, tried and true friend of Notre Dame.
Music was then furnished by the Band, and some time spent in inspecting the artist’s work. The bust is made of oak, about 22 inches in height, and is an excellent likeness of the venerable Superior. It rests upon an elegantly carved and decorated pedestal, 34 inches in height, and the whole forms a beautiful ornament and a meritorious work of art, while presenting an interesting and enduring souvenir of the Founder of Notre Dame.
Celebration of Washington’s Birthday by the Thespians.
“ Breathes there a man with soul so dead Who never to himself hath said:
‘ This is my own, my native land?’
• • • • • • •
If such there be, go, mark him well, . For him no minstrel’s raptures swell."
When Scotland’s illustrious poet gave expression to the truth contained in the above lines, he was, no doubt, convinced that what he said was of universal application. Nor was he mistaken. Patriotism —or love of country—is a virtue of such practical importance in the social order that without it no man can be a good citizen or worthy member of society; neither can he flatter himself that his name will be mentioned with respect or love after he has passed away from earth.
Hence, in the work of education, which supposes hot only the furnishing the mind with a certain amount of information, but also, and essentially, the developing and bringing into action all that is good and noble in the heart, the chief of the social virtues—patriotism—ought to be cherished and sedulously cultivated. Now, we know of no better means of strengthening this spirit of patriotism in all hearts than by the observance of well-established customs, whereby public manifestations of honor and respect are shown to the memory of those who
have proved their love of country by great personal sacrifices.	•
That Notre Dame is not remiss in the discharge of this duty, and that the students of Notre Dame enter with a hearty good-will'into the views and wishes of their instructors in this particular, as in . all others, will be abundantly evident from the following account of the	'
ENTERTAINMENT
given by the Thespians on Monday last, the anniversary of the Birthday of Washington,—the pa-.	..
triot, the soldier, the statesman—the Father of his Country.
Half-past six o’clock on Monday evening found . Washington Hall—as the auditorium of the Acad- . emy of Music is called—filled to its utmost capacity with an audience composed of students, mem-hers of the Faculty and a numerous throng of visitors from far and near. The exercises were ’ opened by the University Cornet Band with a “ Grand Reconciliation Medley,” which, in keeping with the national spirit of the celebration, introduced . , many of the famous old melodies so common before the war. The selections were rendered with correct taste and expression, and elicited great applause. When the Band had ceased, Mr. A. A. Browne appeared upon the stage and entertained the audience for about twenty minutes with a well-prepared oration on Washington. It was an excellent eflbrt, both as to style and delivery. No doubt the theme of the occasion had much to do with the fine display of the natural talents with which the, young orator is gifted. The name of Washington is enough to inspire any genuine lover of liberty with the most exalted sentiments. Washington,	’
“the first, the last, the best” patriot in American history, is also the brightest name in the political history of humanity.	- -
The University Orchestra then played a “German Waltz,” after which came the great event of the evening—Shakspeare’s play of
“julius c^esar”—
arranged so as to permit of its rendition by males 1 alone, and presented by the Thespian Dramatic Association. It is a difficult play for professionals, and doubly so for amateurs. In it there is no ex-.;	:
citing plot to rivet the attention of the audience.
It is a chronicle of facts which occurred in Roman : history, and requires good acting in alb the parts to keep up interest in it. But we can say that, taken as a whole, its presentation on Monday even- . ing was very good. The interest of the large audience was retained from beginning to end. There was, it is true, some tame acting at times during . the play—there was an occasional blunder-^-but . the excellent acting of the principal characters, and . the general good support which they received, more . ; . than compensated for any defect, and crownedthe \ . performance with success.
The role of “Brutus” was taken.by Mr; Frank; , Hagenbarth, who showed a careful study of his \ .	‘
part, and personated “the noblest Roman of them . all ” very creditably. The “ Cassius ” of . Mr. '' - j Frank Dexter was a splendid piece of acting, giv- .
386	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing to the part, as he did, great energy and study. He almost persuaded us that we were witnessing the efforts, not of an amateur, but rather those of an able professional. Mr. Daniel Latshaw assumed the role of “ Marc Antony,” and fully entered into the spirit of his character. In particular he displayed his fine voice in pronouncing the “curse” over the dead body of Caesar, which was given so well as to call forth the hearty applause of the audience. The “ speech,” however, was marred by an indistinctness of utterance and the low tones in which he spoke. The part of “Julius Cassar ” was taken by Mr. S. Murdock, with much truth- and dignity; Mr. J. Kleiber appeared in the dual role of “ Casca ” and “ Octavius Cassar,” both of which characters were faithfully interpreted. Mr. B. T. Becker was very effective in the role of “ Deci us.” It was regretted that an accident necessitated the omission of the scene between “Decius” and “ Caesar,” in which the powers of both actors would have been displayed to excellent advantage. The other characters were as follows: “ Trebonius,” J. Wagoner; “Soothsayer,” H. Long; “Pindarus,” F. Combe; “ Lucius,” P. Chapin; “ Servius,” H. Paschal; “ Titinius,” A.W.Miller; “ Metellus,” C.Paschal ; “ Cinna,” W. Harless; “ Popilius,” J. Keegan; “Flavius,” W. Breen; “ Artimidorus,” J. Rahilly; “Dardanius,” A. A. Gordon; “Cicero,”J. Conlon; “ Varro,” M. White, all of whom gave excellent support to the principal characters, taking the parts assigned them with much credit to themselves and satisfaction to the audience.
The play was splendidly “ mounted,” with the scenery new and appropriate, fresh from the skilful brush of Prof. Ackerman; and the costumes, costly and elegant, procured expressly for the occasion from Chicago. Among the excellent inise en scene which were well produced and gavethriil-ingand effective tableaux, were: Antony’s soliloquy over Caesar; Brutus’ soliloquy in his tent, and the apparition of Caesar’s ghost; and the “ Quarrel Scene ” between “ Brutus ” and “ Cassius.” Thrilling effects were also produced, through the excellent acting of the performers, in the deaths of “ Cassius” and “Brutus.” The Thespians may congratulate themselves on the success of their efforts. They have reflected credit on themselves and on their worthy and painstaking Director, Prof. J. A. Lyons, under whose supervision the entertainment was given. . ,
. We must not forget to mention that between the acts of the play, excellent instrumental music was-rendered by Messrs. Ruffing, Oxnard, Miller, Sack and Fontanel, directed by Prof. Paul. We were somewhat disappointed in the non-appearance of our vocalists, but we hope that on the 17th they will make up Tor the past. .	.
In response to ah invitation of Rev. President Walsh, Mr. Jacob Wile, of Laporte, concluded the exercises with a few remarks. He complimented the performers on the. success of their efforts, and, on behalf of the-audience, thanked, them. for the exceedingly entertainingexhibition they had given. Then, taking the-motto of the society—“ Act well your part as a subject, he spoke briefly, but point
edly, in words of earnest, practical and timely advice to the students on their duty to prepare themselves for an honorable career in after-life. The audience then dispersed to the inspiriting strains of a “ Grand March ” by the Band, and the celebration of Washington’s Birthday at Notre Dame ended pleasantly and satisfactorily to all present.	B.
An Immortelle.
Most Respectfully Inscribed to Mr. George W. Childs, of .	Philadelphia.
BY ELEANOR C. DONNELLY.
On the receipt from him of the “In Memoriam,” or little book intended to preserve., in permanent form, for the perusal of his family and personal friends, the numerous testimonials of esteem for the character, and sorrow for the death of that great benefactor of his kind, .
FRANCIS ANTHONY DREXEL.
Graved on the marble of a Roman tomb, •
These strong, yet simple words, td-day, appear:
Hie facet cinis. pulvis, nihil—“ Here
Are ashes, dust, and nothingness.” In gloom Of Death, no flower of Fame can bloom, And Glory’s torch goes out within the grave.
—Lo! on the covers of this lovely tome,	.
This gracious tribute to the good and brave,
No hand dare write those ancient words of doom,
Hicf acet cinis, pulvis, nihil. Here	.
Is naught of Death’s decay, of mouldering tomb:
The amaranth entwines each memory dear, And dust and ashes may not dim the scroll ■ Writ with the deeds of his glad, glorious soul!
-	Obituary.
—The Washington papers of February the 10th chronicled the demise of Mr. Thomas Bayne, one of the oldest and most respected citizens of Washington, D. C.,.and grandfather of Eugene F. and William H. Arnold, graduates of Notre Dame, and formerly members of the Scholastic Staff. Mr. Bayne died on Tuesday, February the 9th, in the 86th year of his age. He was a man of sterling integrity—a true Christian’gentleman; his good works during his entire life are his best eulogy, but, even in death he was not unmindful of the poor and the.needy. Of a fortune aggregating about $200,000, most of which he bequeathed to his wife and four grandchildren, $1,500 are left to St. Ann’s Infant Asylum,-$2,000 to St. Joseph’s Orphan Asylum, $1,000 to St. Rose’s House of Industry, $1,000 to.St. Vincent’s Orphan Asylum for Girls, $2,000 to the Little Sisters’ Home of the Aged Poor, and $500 to St. Peter’s Church for Masses for the repose of his soul... Mr. Bayne’s funeral took, place on the 1 1 th, with services at St. Peter’s Church, Capitol Hill; of which church the deceased had been a parishioner-and munificent patron the: greater part of his life. , May he rest in peace!,	. f"'f	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
387
Personal.
—Mrs. A. W. Bailey, of Denver, Col., passed a few days at Notre Dame, visiting her son Willie in the Minim department.
—Rev. F. A. O’Brien,* Rector of St. Augustine’s Church, Kalamazoo, Mich., was a welcome visitor to the College, last Monday and Tuesday.
— We were pleased to meet the Rev. M. O’Reilly, the esteemed Rector of St. Paul’s Church, Valparaiso, who came to attend the exercises on Washington’s Birthday.
—Amoner the welcome visitors du rings the week was Mr. William Rumely, ’82, of Laporte, Ind. Mr. Rumely, we are pleased to learn, enjoys the well-merited honor of being a leading member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Since he left Notre Dame, he has distinguished himself by the number of inventions he has made and patented—some of which are exceedingly valuable. Mr. Rumely’s many friends at Notre Dame wish him continued success.
—Prof. John P. Lauth, ’68, visited Notre Dame Saturday and Sunday. The Professor has for several years been principal of one of the best known and most prosperous academies in Chicago. He took charge of it when its prospects were far from bright, and by his zeal, energy and ability, he has raised it to the rank of one of the most successful educational institutions in the city. The Professor has innumerable friends, and he deserves them, for he never forgets the claims and geniality of friendship, or the dignity and character of a gentleman.
—Hon. W. W. Dodge,’74, of Burlington, is one of the leading lights in the Iowa State Senate. The following item respecting him appeared recently in the Des Moines Leader:
“Senator Dodge, of Burlington, on Thursday, Feb. 11, made his first speech on the floor of the Senate. He held that the recommendation of the committee that the bill reducing the number of challenges allowed a defendant was a step backwards, entirely unworthy of the State, and he was not slow in giving expression to some exceedingly strong arguments, and in a manner which showed him conversant with the whole history of legal lore, and capable of expressing his ideas in striking and attractive language and manner.” .
—Hon. P. T. Barry .and wife, of Englewood, a suburb of Chicago, visited Notre Dame Monday evening, and scent Tuesdav with their daughter Mabel, who is a pupil at St. Mary’s Academy. Mr. and Mrs. Barry are held in the highest esteem by a wide circle of friends and 'acquaintances in Chicago and throughout the Northwest. Hospitality, generosity and kind-heartedness reflect a constant sunshine upon their home. A few years ago Mr. Barry was a prominent member of the Legislature of Illinois, and while serving in that capacity he gained the reputation of an eloquent speaker arid efficient law-maker—a man of excellent judgment and marked ability. He is now an honored member of the Chicago Newspaper Union. We trust all his undertakings may lead to the fullest measure of success and prosperity.
—Among the visitors during the.past week were: Mr. J. D. Wood, Challis, Idaho; Mr. N.J. Ander-sonj Layton, Ohio; Mr. P. B. McNaughton, Buffalo, N. Y.; Miss Hastings, Mt. Clemens, Mich.; -Miss Horgan, Miss Doran, Rockford, UI.; :Mr.-and Mrs. Jacob Wile, La Porte, Ind.; Mrs. I..E. Brabrook, Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Lomax, Miss Mildred Lomax, Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Lee, Mr. D. F. Crilly, Mr. W. McGill, Mr., and Mrs. P. T. Barry, and Mr. Geo. Smith, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Wm. Hake and his little son Paul, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Mr. Patrick O’Connell, Niles, Mich.; Mr.. C. Miller, Bloomington, Ind.; Mrs. B. A. Bailey, Denver, Col.; Mr. Thos. Adelsperger, South Bend, Ind.; W. R. Rumely, Laporte, Ind.; Mrs. Hug, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. J.H. Hull, Miss M. A. Hull, Danville, Ind.; Mr. Geo. Nester, Detroit, Mich.;-Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Fitch, Monson, Mass.
Local Items.
—Great Caesar’s ghost!	■
—Bring back that brick.
—The electric lights worked beautifully.
—The Columbians will appear in full force on March 17.
—Our friend John thought it-was Liberty enlightening the world.	’
—The vast auditorium was filled to its utmost capacity last Monday night.
—It has been demonstrated that a ghost does sometimes cast a shadow. .	"	*
—Another blizzard set in last Thursday. Our friend John says, “It’s astonishing.”	.	/
—Messrs. Finlay and Jewett were genial, polite, and attentive ushers last Monday evening.
—Very Rev Father General Sorin presided at dinner in the Seniors’Refectory on Washington’s Birthday.
—The electric light would be very serviceable in the printing office. We hope to see its intro-.duction at a very early day.	.
—Lost.—A part of a clarinet, between the Seniors’ reading-room and the Music Hall. Finder,-please return to Bro. Charles at the Music Hall. ,
—The Hoynes’ Light Guards, Col. Hoynes com- , manding, gave a grand dress parade and drill on the afternoon of Washington’s Birthday. The boys went through the manoeuvres very gracefully _ and correctly, and: delighted the numerous visitors who witnessed the spectacle. ~	-/ ,
—Our best wish for the one who played the low trick on the stage during the play on Monday night is, that he may, before leaving college, become so . _ far refined as to be capable of realizing the meanness	,
of his act. There will then be some hope that he : may possibly be deterred Uorn doing anything- . meaner.	>	.	. ”	;
—Notre Dame, Ind., has many objects^ofjnter? J . j est, but the two greatest are its founder, Father
388	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Sorin, who, in 184T, made its humble beginning in the unbroken wilderness, and Father Neyron, who, at the age of 95, is the vigorous demonstrator of anatomy in the medical department. Perhaps he is the only living man who saw and was actor in the wonderful career of Napoleon I, from his rise to his fall.—Ypsilanti Sentinel.
—There promises to be quite an interesting contest among the young machinists of Science Hall for a gold medal offered by Prof. A. F. Zahm, of the mechanical department, for the student who will exhibit the best work in June. There is now a number of strong competitors in the field, but it is the careful, persevering workman that will carry off the prize.
—The fourteenth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Wednesday, Feb. 24. P. Jacobs and S. Smith were elected members. Essays were read by C. P. Cav-aroc, F. Long, AL Mulkern, F. Goebel, L. Schute and T- Fitzgerald. .Recitations were delivered by E. Dillon, D. Regan, AL O’Kane, E. Darragh, P. Levin, A. Adlesperger and W. Houlihan. Public readers for this week are: Alasters Newton, Fisher, Prudhomme, J. Wagoner, C. Shields, Spencer, Cavaroc, Alulkern.
—In the University Afoot-court, held Feb. 20, the case of Adams vs. Barker was called before Judge Hoynes: the action was one in assumpsit. The counsel for the plaintiff was Air. V. Koudelka, who made his first appearance before the court on this occasion. D. Byrnes appeared for the defendant. The witnesses on behalf of the plaintiff were Alessrs. Burns and Harrison; on behalf of the defendant, Messrs. Ancheta and Goulding. The jury was composed of Alessrs. Cartier, Nester, J. O’Donnell, Jewett, Talbot, and Jeffs. C. Finlay acted as clerk, J. Conlon as sheriff.
—The 2d regular meeting of the Philodemic Association was held Wednesday, Feb. 24. A spirited debate took place on the-question, “ Resolved That the Liquor Traffic should be Prohibited by Congress,” in which Messrs. D. Burns and J. Wagoner upheld the affirmative, and Messrs. L. Alathers and F. Hagenbarth the negative. After a brief reference to the different arguments brought forth, the President, decided in favor of the affirmative. A committee was also appointed to determine the character of a literary entertainment to be given publicly in the near future.
—The reception tendered to the Hoynes’ Light Guards by Prof. Edwards, on Wednesday evening, was one of the most enjoyable social events of the year. The Military appeared in full uniform, and the other guests in full evening dress. United States flags were used in profusion to decorate the chandeliers and walls of the reading-rooms, and portraits of Sherman, Sheridan, Grant, and other heroes, were placed in conspicuous positions to show our young aspirants to military fame the possibility which lie within their reach. Music, refreshments and a speech from Col. Hoynes added to the pleasures of the evening. .
—A meeting of Co. B. of the “Hoyne’s Light
Guard ” was held on the 21st inst. The following officers were elected: Captain, C. West; 1st Lieutenant, E. Benner; 2d Lieutenant, G. Cartier; Secretary, E. J. Darragh. The organization chose for Major, Captain Combe, of Co. A., and for Adjutant, Lieutenant Cusack. E. J. Darragh, R. C. Newton, and M. B. Mulkern were appointed a committee to draft a Constitution and By-Laws. A vote of thanks was tendered Col. Hoynes and Major Combe for favors received in connection with the organization. Having appointed a committee, consisting of C. West, E. Benner, and G. Cartier, to act in union with Major Combe in the selection of the uniform, the meeting adjourned.
—The Junior Baseball Association held a meeting on Feb.15, for the purpose of organizing for the second session. The officers were elected as follows: Rev. AL J. Regan, Director; Bro. Alarcel-linus, President; G.Myers, Secretary; J. Courtney, Treasurer. Jos. Courtney and W. Wabraushek were chosen captains, and selected the following players: J. Courtney—G. Cartier, A. Cooper, P. F. Fehr, C. West, AL Luther, H. Robinson and J. Hayes; Substitutes: N. Arts, H. Warner; Scorer: M. B. Alulkern: N. Wabraushek—E. Benner, G. Myers, E. Dillon, L. Preston, E. Porter, F. Nester, J. Fitzgerald, and D. Regan; Substitutes: F. Smith and J. Shields; Scorer: W. Borgschulze. The members selected new uniforms which will be purchased of Wright & Ditson, Boston, A'lass.
—Thursday afternoon, at 4.30, the whole Senior department filed into their refectory and sat down to the most satisfactory oyster dinner of the season. It was the Baseball Banquet; and after the Epicurean disciples had done justice to the good things, the boys marched to the Senior reading-rooms where preparations had been made for a grand bazaar and hop. Excellent lemonade was constantly on tap, free, gratis ; ice-cream sold for ten cents per dish, and cigars as much apiece, the proceeds going'to the baseball fund. From six till nine, Terpsichore swayed the throng; later all adjourned to the “ Gym.” where a gratuitous distribution of cigars made everybody happy and contented to retire. Rumor says that the supper, cigars, etc., netted something like two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00). The grand success of the enter- -prise is due to the active energy of Bro. Paul.
—A meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was called by Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., on the 24th inst. The Rev. Director stated that the oh-ject of the meeting was the reorganization of the Society on a different basis from that on which it had been heretofore ‘conducted. Among the requirements for membership in the future aie that the Society approach Holy Communion in a body on the first Saturday of each month and on great fes tivals; that they attend Mass on every other Saturday, and the regular society meetings on Sunday evenings. While all Catholic students are invited to join, yet none are wanted who do not believe they can, or who do not intend to live up to the spirit as well as the letter of the Society. The Chair appointed a committee consisting of Messrs.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	389
Browne, Sheridan and Goulding to draft a Constitution and report at the meeting to he held next Sunday evening for the purpose of organization.
— Professor Gregori has just completed his magnificent, full-length, life-size portrait in oil of the late Most Rev. Martin John Spalding, seventh Archbishop of Baltimore, and Delegate Apostolic to preside at the Second Plenary Council. The portrait is one of Gregori’s very best. Those who saw the Archbishop here in May 1866 recognize the features of the distinguished prelate and pronounce them very true and life-like. The Archbishop is represented in cassock, rochet, mozetta and baretta, with a document in his hand as if passing from one council room to another. With wonderful skill the artist has succeeded in giving apparent motion to the body—a most difficult feature in painting. The keen eye of the great prelate seems to search one’s innermost thoughts. In depicting the-rich velvet of the mozetta, the delicate meshes of the antique lace rochet, and the soft texture of the merino cassock, the artist has sustained his high reputation as a skilful delineator of the delicate substance of textile fabrics. We understand the public installation of this chcf-d"* oeuvre in the Bishops’JGallery will be made the occasion for commemorative exercises in honor of one of America’s truest citizens and greatest prelates.
—The Director of the Historical Department returns thanks to Most Rev. Archbishop Ryan, of Philadelphia, for a valuable addition to the Bishops’ .Gallery, or Memorial Hall; to Rev. Father Tighe, of Chicago, for an interesting manuscript; to Miss M. Cobb, of Los Angeles, for a facsimile of Washington’s Account Book, illustrated with several portraits; to Rev. Father O’Brien, of Kalamazoo, Mich., for a copy of the Regulations for the diocese of Detroit, sent, in 1856, to Rev. C. Chamville by Rt. Rev. Bishop Lefebvre, with his signature and seal; Copy of the first circular letter addressed by Bishop Lefebvre to his clergy; to Rev. Father Kirsch for a souvenir from Washington’s headquarters at Newburgh; to Professor Gregori for three ring settings taken by him from an ancient Roman tomb; to Rt. Rev. Bishop Vertin for Grammar of the Otchepwe Language,—by Bishop Baraga; Catholic Prayerbook and Catechism in the Otchepwe-Indian Language by Bishop Baraga; to Prof. H. for autograph letters . of Longfellow, William Cullen Bryant, and Halleck; to Rev. Father L’Etourneau, for “ Controversy between Vahey and H. W. Spalding”: Milwaukee,1873; “Catholicism Compatible with Republican Government”: New York, 1844; “The Catholic Church of To-Day,” a lecture by Rt. Rev. Bishop Baltes; Pastoral Letter of Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger; Sketch of St. Joseph’s Church, Columbus, Ohio; Reasons for “ Becoming a Catholic,” by J. R. Williams, Member of the Virginia Bar; Catholic Church in America, lecture delivered in the Catholic University of Ireland, by Thaddeus Butler, D. D., of Chicago; Pilgrims of Maryland, by Rev. John McCaffrey; Golden Jubilee of Pius IX, lecture by Rev. F. E. Boyle; Providential Mission of Pius IX, Rev. John J. Keane.
—The Thespians gave their forty-second an-., nual celebration of Washington’s Birthday on the evening of Monday, Feb.,22d. The following is the
-	programme:	.
-	PART I.
N ational Airs........................N. D. U. C. B.
Oration of the Day..................-A. A. Browne
Overture—“Potpourri” (Su/j/e)....N. D. U. Orchestra
part 11; v '
“JULIUS CAESAR.”
A Tragedy in Five Acts.
Dramatis Personce.
Julius Ciesar..........................S. T. Murdock
Brutus...............................F. J. Hagenbarth
Cassius..................................F.	H. Dexter
Marc Antony..............................D. Latshaw
Casca......................................J. Kleiber
Octavius Ccesar..........................M. A. Dolan
Trebonius..................................J. Wagoner
Decius.....................................B. Becker
Pindarus...................................F. Combe
Lucius.....................................P. Chapin
Servius....................................C. Paschal
Titinius.............................L...A.	W. Miller
Metellus...................................H Paschal
Cinna..............'.......................W. Harless
Popilius Lenas.......:.....................J. Keegan
Flavius....................................  W.	Breen
Clitus (Soothsayer)........................H. Long
Artimidorus ...............................J.	Rahilly
Dardanius................................A.	A. Gordon
Cicero.....................................J. Conlon ■
Varro..............................................M.	White
Coelius................................Albert Gordon
Nemius.............................................R.	Snapp
We present some of the press notices of the entertainment that have reached us. The South Bend Daily Tribune, of Feb. 23, says:	'
“The Forty-Second Annual Celebration of Washington’s Birthday, by the Thespians of Notre Dame, occurred last night, and consisted of literary, musical and dramatic exercises of the usual high order of merit. The entertainment was given in the College Academy of Music, before one of the largest audiences that has gathered there since the building was constructed. The venerable Founder of the institution, Very Rev. Father Sorin, Father Granger, President Walsh, and other members of the Faculty, occupied seats of honor fronting the stage, and the entire force of students was present, besides a large number of visitors from the city and elsewhere. The seating capacity of the spacious auditorium, gallery and all, was wholly occupied. The exercises, in charge of the popular President of the Association and veteran Director of amusements at the College, Prof. J. A. Lyons, passed off smoothly, and were highly interesting throughout, displaying the watchful at tention to details that always characterizes the Professor’s work in this line.
“ The exercises began promptly at half-past six o’clock by, a medley of national airs by the University Cornet Band, under the direction of Prof. Paul, followed by the oration of the day on ‘ Washington ’ by Mr. A. A. Browne, a young gentleman of fine presence, who possesses a clear, ringing voice, and speaks with graceful gesture. Eloquently he recounted the deeds of the great patriot, and touchingly referred to the manner in which Americans honored and revered his memory, though nearly a century had passed since his soul took its flight from earth. The oration was frequently interrupted by applause from the enthusiastic students. At its close, the audience was favored with a violin solo.from Prof. Paul, and then came the principal feature of the entertainment the tragedy of Julius Ctesar, which is a great favorite at Notre Dame.
“The play was put on with appropriate scenery and costumes, and the characters were all well taken.. 'Some of the young men, particularly those in the characters of Cassius and Marc Antony, displayed considerable dramatic talent. The parts were all well committed, the prompter’s
390	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
services being seldom called into requisition during the progress of the play. All in all, the entertainment was one of the best of its class ever given at Notre Dame. A gentleman who was present, and who has witnessed nearly evert dramatic performance at the college for many years, remarked that he thought it excelled all former efforts of the Thespians Pleasing music was rendered by members of the orchestra between the acts, and at the close of the performance, Mr. Jacob Wile, of Laporte, complimented the young men upon their success, in a brief speech. About half-past nine o’clock the large audience filed out ot the hall to the music of a stirring march by the Band.”
The South Bend Times of the same date had the following:
“ Notre Dame, as of yore, still retains her time-honored reputation of ‘Rendering honor to whom honor is due;’ and, consequently, fi om the beginning of this session the students and Faculty, besides the many friends of the Institution, hailed the auspicious anniversary and adequate celebration as a something well deserving the r attention, and it truly’ was; for, considering the time the students had for preparation and the difficult play they’ rendered, all conceded that they did well, indeed. The entertainment began at 6.30 o’clock, and long before that time Washington Hal 1 was well filled and many were unable to find standing room. We have had the pleasure of witnessing many entertainments at Notre Dame, but a larger or more appreciative audience than last evening we have never before seen there.
“ The oration of the occasion was delivered by’ Mr. A. A. Browne, of Texas. Mr. Browne pictured, in eloquent words, the grand and untainted life of the ‘ Father of his Country,’ and how the name of Washington was, to all, whether old or young, rich or poor Americans or exiles from foreign lands, an exhilerating theme. The speaker was received with well-deserved applause. The play given was ‘Julius Ctesar;’ and when we come to consider its rendition from an impartial standpoint, and .how the different characters were taken by’ college boys, and that they have only recreation for practice and rehearsal, the manner in which ‘Julius C^sar’ was rendered last evening is a credit both to University’ and students. The principal parts were taken as follows: Cassius, F. H. Dexter; Brutus,F. J. Hagenbarth; Marc Antony’, D. Latshaw; Julius Ciesar, S. T. Murdock. They all appeared perfectly’ at home on the stage, and rendered their respective parts in a- very’ creditable manner. There is one thing we noticed with admiration last evening —that there was a splendid support, in fact, the best we have seen there. Between the acts the Band played some very' fine selections, which contributed much to make the entertainment enjoyable. A large number from this city’ were present at the performance, and by’ them as by’t' e other spectators, the memory' of this splendid performance will long linger pleasantly’ with them.”	-
The South Bend Register contained the following notice of the performance:
“ Washington’s Birthday’ was the occasion of a very’ interesting entertainment by' the Thespian Association of Notre Dame University' last evening. Prof. Lyons was, as usual, the moving spirit in the enterprise, and under his direction the exercises moved smoothly' to the finish. The first part of the programme included national airs by’ the University' Band, a song and chorus by' the Choral Union, the oration of the day by A. A. Browne, and the overture by the orchestra. The second part was the tragedy' of‘Julius Caesar’ in five acts. Mr. Browne’s oration briefly' sketched the early day's of the Republic, and touched upon the character and services of Washington. It was an eloquent address and well delivered. In the tragedy’ the parts were all thoroughly' committed and well acted, and the costuming and stage setting were in perfect keeping with the character of the play. D. Latshaw’s ‘Marc Antony’ was the best thing of the play'. The commodious Music Hall was filled with people from a distance, from the city, the country' round about, and the University, fully one thousand being present At the close of the play, Jacob Wile of Laporte, addressed the students briefly, complimenting them on the excellence of their entertainment, and urging them to ever act well their parts.”
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ancheta, Ashton, Aubrev. Akin, V. Burke, M. Burns, D. Bvrnes, Becerra, Bowles, Brvar, Ba'es, Baca, A. Browne, F. Brown, Breen, P. Burke, Condon, C. Crowe, J. Crowe, Coady, Congdon Craig, Chapin, Jno. Cusack, Jos. Cusack, Waiter Collins, G. Crilly, Fred Combe, Cassidy', Cooney, Dohany, Dempsey, De Haven, Dexter, M. Dolan, Fogarty, Finlay, Forbes, Ford, A. Gordon, A. A. Gordon, Griffith, Goble, P. Goulding, J. Gallardo Glenn, Hamlyn, Hagerty, Houck, Hampton, Hagenbarth, Harrison, Judie, Jackson, Jewett, Jess, Jeffs, Koudelka, Keys, Kreutzer, H. Kenny, J. Kenny, Karst, Kleiber, Larkin, H. Luhn, W. Luhn, Murphy, S. Murdock, A. Miller, Moon, McDonald, Meagher, Neill, Nancolas, O’Rourke, Ott, O’Connell, P. Prudhomme, C. Paschel, H Paschel, P. Paschel, Padilla, T. Ryan, E. Ryan, Remish, E. Riley', Rothert, Rochford, Regan, Rheinberger, Shaide, Stubbs,. Saviers, T. Sheiidan, Shields, Stiasser, Soden, Sack, Snapp, Triplett, C. Williams, W. Williams, -White, Wilson, Zeitler, Howard, Emmons, Latshaw.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adlcsperger, Adams. Austin, Arts, Ackerman, Akin, Brabrook, Baur, Brownson, Boos, Bowles, E. Benner, F Benner, Bunker, Borgschulze, Curtis, Colina, Courtney, Cleary, Cooper, Chute, G. Cartier, D. Cartier, Cavaroc, Clarke, Coles, Coa-i. Chaves, Corbett, Dougherty, Duffield, Dillon, Darragh, Dickinson, Dungan. Decker, Dunning, Ewing, Epple, Frain, Finchk, Flood, Fehr, Fisher, Fitzgerald, Fitzharris, Fontanel, Grothaus, Goebel, Galarneau, J. Garrity’, Gordon, Hoffman, Houlihan, Hayes, T. Hake, A. Hake, Hiner, Hoye, Flail, Inderrieden, Jewett, P. Jacobs, N. Jacobs, Jeffs, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Levin, Luther, Lesh, Long, McCourt, McConn, Meehan, Mueller, McIntosh, G. Myers, Mulkern, Mitchell, Macatee, Mohun, Mulberger, Noud, Nussbaum, Nations, Oxnard, O’Connor, O’Kane, Portillo, Press, Prudhomme. Preston, Ratighan, C. Ruffing, A. Ruffing, Robinson, Ramirez, L. Scherrer, L. Smith, S. Smith, F. Smith, H. Smith, N. Smith, Shields, Senn, Spencer, Stattman, Servis, Towner, Tiedrich, Vanselow, Valasco, Walsh, Welch, Wabraushek, Wagoner, L West, Woodman.
.MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bailey, Bull, Barger, Ciarcoschi, E. Connors, J. Connors, C’bbs, Chute, Campeau, L. Doss, Dewald, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Farmer, Fontanel, F. Garber, E. Garber, Grant, Griffin, Haney, Healy, Hillas, Huiskamp, Inderrieden, Jewett, Jones, J. Kintz, A. Kintz, O. Kintz, Keeffe, Klaner, Kellner, Landenwich, Mainzer, McIntosh, Morgan. McGill, McCourt, McNulty’, Martin, Murphy’, Mason, H. Mooney’, S. Mooney, M unroe, Mitchell, Nester, B. Nealis, C. Neabs, Nussbaum, O’Neill, Paul, J. Peck, Piero, F. Peck, Quinlin Ramsey, Riordan, Steele, Stone, Sullivan, D. Sweet, G- Sweet, W. Smart, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Taft, Tillenburg, Williamson, Rousey. -
Class Honors. .
[In the following list may’ be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Messrs. Sheridan, Mathers, Browne, Saviers, Goulding, Dolan, Burke, Ancheta, Murdock, Kleiber, J. Wagoner, Latshaw, Craig, Fred Combe, C. Combe, Baca, Brownson, Goebel, Courtney, Ewing, P. Wagoner, Rothert, D. Bvrnes, W. Burns, Cleary, Stubbs, Hagenbarth, C. Crow?, Hull, Harless, Magu’re, White, W. Cartier. Congdon, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Hamlyn, Hagerty, Newton, J. Crowe, Mulkern, P. Bu-ke, Meagher, Crawford. Houck, R. Byrnes, Conlon, Bolton, De Haven, Keegan, O’Donnell, Bryar, C. West, L Chute.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
391
Saint Tflacy's Acabemy.
One Mile West of N~otre Dame University.
—The Misses Catharine Doran and Mary Horgan, Class ’68, have paid a welcome visit to St. Mary’s.
—The members of the Astronomy Class rejoice in the acquisition of a new telescope, the gift of Miss Mary Ducey, of Muskegon, Mich.
—Rev. Father Kirsch, of the University, gave a learned lecture to the members of the Graduating and First Senior Classes on Thursday, at 2 p. m.
—Laura Griffith drew the Roman mosaic cross, but yielded her claim to Grace Regan—the “Miss Eastlake ” of “ New Arts.” Those who drew with them were the Misses E. Balch, Barry, Bragdon, Clifford, Duffield, Hertzog, Keyes, McEwen, Nester, Prudhomme, Parmelee, Sheekey, Smith, and Snowhook.
—The use of the Air Brush ” has been successfully adopted in St. Luke’s Studio, and the pupils of the Art Department return cordial thanks to Mother Angela, Directress of the Christian Art Society, who first drew their attention to the subject, and who has kindly presented the apparatus. As a fair specimen of the delicate and life-like work produced in pastel with the air brush, a very superior portrait, enlarged from a photograph—of the mother of Miss Mary Fuller, of Marysville, Cal.— may be seen in the Studio. Several heads in crayon, by Miss Philomena Ewing, have been admirably executed with the instrument. It is found to be an invaluable accessory to art, but does not pretend to take the place of pencil or brush, and its success depends upon the talent of the artist, like any other art work. The time given in the Studio to work with the new apparatus does not interfere with; that devoted to free hand drawing.
—On Tuesday evening “New Arts”- was en-■ acted by the members of the Junior and Minim departments, with the following cast of characters:
Prologue.......
Madame Affable Miss Eastlake... Mi'S Holmes..., Mrs. Fairbanks.. Miss Clark.....
....... .Dot Lee Lillie Van Horn .... Grace Regan .Hannah Stumer . Belle Snowhook .Fannie Hertzog
Miss Rosecommon..................Maigaret Ducey
Miss McPherson......................Marv Lindsey
Mbs Faraday...........................Edna Burtis
Miss Carson............................ F.	Steele
Miss Copeland............................Laura	Griffith
Miss Everett..............................Belle	Pierce
Miss May..............................Hattie Smart
Miss Carloman .............................P. Balch
Miss Grundy.............................F. Spenser
Miss Fish..................................T. Balch
Miss Toby..................................M.Cox
Miss Delema. -.............................A. Odell
Ladies of the Reception: the Misses Caddagan, Blaine, Kendal, Prudhomme, Keyes.
—-The last number of Rosa Mystica- was issued on St. Valentine’s day. A note was made of this, referring to the origin of the peculiar letters sent, on that day. The pagan feast of Lupercalia was
formerly celebrated on the day in an interchange of letters not promotive of morality. The pastors of the Christian Church, finding it impossible to exterminate the evil custom, succeeded, by the direction and zeal of St. Valentine, in diverting the channel of thought and sentiment, and turning the correspondence of the day into a source of edification. The paper closed with
A VALENTINE TO THE SAINT OF THE DAY.
I.
St. Valentine, thy life divine Should guide our wayward feet From human love to that above, Where all pure treasures meet.
11.
How many lines of “Valentines” Will stand'the test of years?
How many a tongue, of old or young, When thy blest name appears,
Hi.
Can tell why fame embalms thy name, So tender, yet so high ?
Ah, few 1 but we, great Saint, to thee Will not love’s boon denv.
IV.
St. Valentine, thy prayer be mine;
That love for God shall prove The magnet blest, in every breast Controlling every love!
—The facilities afforded to the pupils in the acquirement of general information,—that is to say, familiarity with current topics not belonging necessarily to the branches they pursue in the Academy,— have been increased by public readings, on Thursday evenings of every week, in the readingroom. One is selected to entertain the others by reading, aloud on some appropriate topic, the listeners, meantime, being employed in needle-work, etc. Tributary to this most important fund,—that is, general, useful information—are the weekly literary societies and parlor receptions, as well as the library readings on those days when pupils are free from class. The legitimate result of study is to awaken a deep desire for knowledge. Unite this laudable desire with an ingenuous docility that is ready to discard all useless knowledge — such as that which is unworthy the. attention of the wise and virtuous—and the young lady possesses the dispositions requisite to form, in due time, a solid, healthful intellectual growth. School reading is o	o
far from an indifferent matter, as some would virtually.imply. To eat wholesome food at table, yet to take poison between meals will not ensure the effect of nutrition. The evil of works written by those who have no thought save that of entertaining, regardless of the means, is not forestalled by the perusal of text-books on science, etc.; furthermore, matters of history in close detail are not always essential to good scholarship.
“Where ignorance is bliss, ’tis folly to be wise,” and on the same principle,that we should avoid the disedifying gossip.which forms the staple of some circles, and the bulk of current periodicals and literature,so should we avoid dwelling unnecessarily on disedifying history. Health will 'not come from , breathing the damps of underground caves. The
392
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
pure, fresh air of heaven, warmed and enlightened by the sunshine, is the only safe element to breathe. Worthy reading bears the stamp of Christian purity of morals. Pretty language will not counteract pagan or infidel principles, and it is well for the growing young intellect to be deeply impressed with this truth.
Bidicule.
To be made a laughing-stock of does not reflect so much discredit upon the one ridiculed as upon those who make him their victim. Ridicule is far from reason, and circumstances calling it forth, are arbitrary. From the Incarnate Truth, the blessed Saviour of mankind, down to the least of His followers, who have suffered persecution for justice sake, laughing-stocks have been more frequently made of virtuous and worthy people than of any other. St. Francis of Assisium was “ hunted with shouts and yells, and pelted with mud and stones.” A personal friend of a distinguished prelate of the present century asserts that so severely was he persecuted that he did not venture out of his own door. A passage was made through the neighboring houses, and by this means alone could he escape those who were lying in wait to pelt him with mud and filth. This was in the enlightened nineteenth century, in ■proud Great Britain p while the laughing-stock of the rabble was the most amiable and learned man of the age.
True, it is the low-minded and vulgar who make others the object of ridicule; yet often those who pretend to refinement set them on. It would be well if those who find in themselves the disposition to disconcert and annoy others to remember that there are few things more clearly calculated to show bad breeding—few vices that should he more earnestly combated. What has made the entrance into some institutions of learning well-nigh a terror to many? The dangerous “jokes” played by heartless pupils on new-comers—as if it were incumbent upon them to test the power of endurance. The inexperienced and thoughtless—who form by far the great majority of the human race—naturally look with distrust upon one who is ridiculed, and, in their shallow inferences, misjudge the character of the object. Eternity alone will reveal the punishment meted out to those who, by their silence, (often the most powerful assent) encourage others to cast contempt upon persons whose ’influence would otherwise be exerted for good.
Ridicule is the last resource of a weak cause. Those driven to its employment are, by the very . fact, sure to be distrusted by those whose confidence is worth having.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
, Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Alwein, M. Andreus J. , Barlow, Bruhn, Butler, Brady, Bubb, Blacklock, C. Brown, Baschamang, Beckmann, Carney, Chaves, Considine, Clag-- gett, Coll, Cox, Carroll, M. Dillon, A. Dillon, E. Donnelly, . Dart, Desenberg, B. English, P. Ewing, Egan, Fullerj Fehr,
Farnsworth, Fitzpatrick, Fenton. Griffith, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, Guise, Green, A. Heckard, Hummer. B. Heckard, Henry, Kearney, Kearns, Kingsbury, Kennedy, Lang, M. Lyons, Livingston, Laskey, Lawrence, Moon, Munger, J. McHale, M. F. Murphy, S. McHale, L. Meehan, Morse, M. McNamara, Monahan, Neff, H. Nagle. North, H. Nester, Otero, Patrick, Riedinger, Rend, C. Scully, S. St. Clair, M. Scully. G. Stadtler, Shields, Shephard, Stafford, Stocksdale, Thornton, Trask, Wolvin, White, I. Wynn, F. Wynn. 2d Tablet—Misses A. English, Hass, Levy, N. Meehan, Rose, Robb, Walsh.-
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence— Misses L. Bragdon, M. Coll, M. Clifford, M. Cox, M. Duffield, L. Griffith, F. Hertzog, A. Keyes, M. McEwen, L. Nester, O. Parmelee, C. Prudhomme, G. Regan, E. Sheekey, M. Smith, B. Snowhook, F. Steele. ■ 2d Tablet—Misses M Barry, E. Balch, T. Balch, A. Odell, H. Stumer, H. Servis, H. Smart.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, L. Caddagan, Kendall, M. Lindsey, E. Qualey, H. Rhodes, F. Spencer, J. Wallace. E. Burtis, D. Lee.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class —Misses Barlow, Bruhn, Shephard.
2D Class—Misses Carney, Horn.
2D Div.—Misses Guise. Morrison. Van Horn.
3D Class—Misses Dillon, Fuller, Munger, M.F. Murphy, Rend, Snowhook, Scully, Wolvin.
2D Div.—Misses Brown, Fehr, Fitzpatrick, Griffith, Haas, Kearnev, L. St. Clair.
4TH Class—Miss Brady, A. English, Egan, Lauer, Regan, Shields
2D Div.;—Misses Barry, H. Coll, M. Cox, A. Duffield, A. Donnelly, Keyes. I. Wynn, Walsh
5TH Class—Misses Beckmann, M. Duffield, E. Donnelly, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, Lawrence, A. Livingston, Nagle, Smart, Stadtler, Servis, Thornton.
2D Div.—Misses Allnoch, Clendenen, Chaves, Clifford, A. Cox, Margaret Ducey, B English, Fenton, G. Faxon, Kearsey, Levy, M. Murphy, Parmelee, S. St. Clair, M. Smith, H. Stumer.	.
6th Class—Misses Bragdon, Bubb, Claggett, Carmien, Considine, Carroll, Desenberg, Farnsworth, Hummer, A. Kennedy, Kearns, McEwen, Moon, J. McHale, L. Meehan, E. Nester, Odell, Patrick, Qualey, Robb, Spencer, F. Steele, Sheekey, Trask, White, F. Wynn.
2d Div.—Misses Andreus, Blacklock, Campeau, Caddagan, Dart, Heckard, Hertzog, Henry, Kendal, C. Lang, Morse, C. McNamara, M. McNamara, N. Meehan, S. McHale, Neff, Pierce.
7th Class—Misses Burtis, Blair, E. Balch, T. Balch, M. Coll, Lyons, Monahan, North, Prudhomme, Stockdale.
8th Class—Misses E. Blaine, M. Lindsey.
9TH Class—Misses Lee, Wallace.
HARP.
ist Class, 2D Div.—Miss M. Dillon. ‘
2D Class—Misses Fitzpatrick, Shephard.
violin.
Misses Brown, Carney.	-
.	guitar.
5th Class, 2d Div.—Misses Otero, Servis.
6th Class—Miss Egan.
counterpoint.
Miss Bruhn.
harmony.
Misses Barlow, Horn, Shephard.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Miss Bruhn.
2D Div.—Misses B. English, M. F. Murphy.
2D Class—Misses S. St. Clair, A: English, H. Guise.
2D Div.—Misses L. St Clair, S. McHale, R. Fenton.
3d Class—Misses L. Walsh’, G. Stadtler, M. Cox, N. Donnelly, F. Robb. .
4TH Class—Misses L. Levy, C. Brown, F. Wynn, M. Chaves, M. Barry, I. Wynn, G. Regan. '
5TH Class—Misses I. Bubb, E. Allnoch M. McNamara, N. Meehan, L. Bragdon, M. Beckmann. -