^TiWn’iEeflWSTK
’PIS^’Q^SI	• Vivt-QV^Sl •Q^AS/\Oi\iT\/F^/S*
Vol. XXX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, May 22, 1897.
No. 32.
The Liberator.
{May Tj : 18/7—1897.) HERO’S clay is this; what monument, Midway in the advancing century That comes from Genoa, shall tell of thee,
O’Connell, and the patriot cry thou sent Forth to the justice-loving Parliament
Of ages: thou wouldst make the guiltless free, And break the walls where captive Liberty Lives down her unavenged imprisonment:
In Italy—the land that last did gaze
Into thy dimming eyes and saddened face— Or in the far-off Isle thou dreamed of then, No rarer cenotaph need yield thee praise,
Nor grander tombstone mark thy resting-place, Than the imperishable love of men.
“Clifford Westmore Lake.”
The Law of the Land*
JUDGE T. E. HOWARD, ’6j.
(CONCLUSION.)	...
HEN the American colonies were established, the laws and courts of the mother country, so far as needed or applicable to the new situation, were adopted by the colonists; and when our government was formed we found ourselves in possession of all that was best in the laws and forms of government of the old country. This legacy from the old land included a complete separation of the three departments of a free government: the legislative, the executive and the judicial. The theory of our national and state governments is, that these three departments are co-ordinate and equal, each in.’its own
* Lecture delivered before the Faculty and students in Washington Hall on Friday, May 7.
sphere, and that they are mutually independent; the one of the other. '	’ •
Over these three departments of government, however, the people have placed a supreme law to which they are all alike subject. That is the Constitution. Legislatures, governors and courts, all bow in strict obedience to the word and the spirit of the Constitution; In this supreme law each department finds its own rights pointed out and the limits of’ its own power distinctly marked, so that none shall invade the province of another. : -
To the legislature is committed the duty of framing new laws, including the abolition or amendment of old laws. The enactments so framed constitute the statute law; Where-the statute is in conflict with the common law, or with any former law/the statute prevails. In this way, the common law has been very much modified; while the equity side of-our law has • been' greatly enlarged, both by original enactments and by the adoption of the precepts of the civil and the canon law. The Constitution, the statute, and the common law, as so modified, constitute the Law of the Land; This law,.as so established, it is the duty of the judiciary to administer.	- • - *
The power of . our courts in the administration of the law, is, perhaps, greater than that of the courts of England. The British Parliament is said by English lawyers to be omnipotent: that is, it may enact any law it sees fit to enact. The American Congress or legislature, on the contrary, as we have seen,-is bound by the limits marked out by the Constitution. Congress may enact any law authorized by the -Constitution of the United States; the legis- ! lature may enact any law not forbidden by the-Constitution. The English courts, however, may not question an act of Parliament, except when the act plainly has a meaning not intended by
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Parliament. If the statute enacted by Parliament is plain in its terms, and clearly applies to the case in hand, the courts of England have no discretion but to enforce it.
While our courts likewise have power to determine whether the legislature in fact intended that the law in question should apply to the case in hand, as, for instance, to determine whether an act of the legislature impliedly repeals or modifies a former law, yet, with us, the power of the court goes also to the question as to whether the law is in fact valid, as being not in conflict with the Constitution — the organic and supreme law. To our courts is, therefore, committed the interpretation of the Constitution and of the laws—a most sacred trust, and one upon the proper exercise of which must depend the security of our free institutions.
The courts of this, as also of other states, are of two classes, those of limited and those of general jurisdiction. Courts of limited jurisdiction are: Justices of the peace, one or more of w’hom are elected for each township; mayors, or chief magistrates of cities; and boards of commissioners, who are, in certain respects, courts for the people of the several counties. The questions that may be considered in these • courts are limited in many respects by the law, and extend only to the boundaries of their respective territories. Their judgments,' except where otherwise provided, are, in general, subject to appeal to a higher court
Our courts of general jurisdiction are the circuit courts, with jurisdiction throughout their respective counties, and . for many purposes throughout the state; the superior and criminal courts, of like jurisdiction with the circuit courts, but established only in certain densely populated counties; and the appellate and supreme courts.
The Constitution names only the circuit and the supreme court, and these are, therefore, sometimes styled the constitutional courts. The Constitution, however, makes provision that the legislature may establish other courts; and under the authority so given the legislature has established criminal and superior courts, and also the appellate court.
The circuit court is the true representative with us of the English court of common pleas. It is _ the original court for the trial of all property rights between citizens. To this is added jurisdiction over criminal cases, which in England were tried before the Queen’s Bench. To; the circuit court ‘ isbesides,. given the ~ jurisdiction of the court of Chancery, and of 3
all probate matters and questions relating to estates of deceased and insane persons and to orphans.
Our circuit courts, consequently, exercise the jurisdiction of the English court of common pleas, of the Queen’s Bench, of the Exchequer and of Chancery. The presiding magistrate of this court is both a judge and a chancellor; and has, therefore, power to try all questions, whether of law or equity, that may be tried in any of the English courts, except the court of admiralty. Having, besides, the power to declare a law invalid which he finds to be in conflict with the Constitution, the jurisdiction of the circuit judge is much more extensive than that of any English judge or chancellor.
The jurisdiction of a superior court is quite similar to that of a circuit court, except that it does not usually extend to criminal causes or probate matters, nor to certain other matters named in the act organizing the court. Such court, while in a sense of general jurisdiction, must, nevertheless, look for its jurisdiction to the statute creating it.
The criminal courts have jurisdiction in their respective counties of crimes and misdemeanors. The superior and criminal courts were organized for the purpose of relieving the circuit courts in populous counties of the large amount of business with which they would otherwise be burdened. They do not essentially differ from circuit courts, except as provided in the statutes of their creation.
The appellate court was established primarily to afford relief to the supreme court. This court consists of five judges, who sit at the capital of the state to try appeals from the circuit, superior and criminal courts in certain . classes of cases named in the acts organizing the court.and defining its jurisdiction. In the cases in which it has jurisdiction, the decisions of the appellate court are final.
The supreme court, as its name implies, is the highest court of the state. To this court are taken appeals from all decisions of the circuit, superior and criminal courts of the state, except only those that are given by the statute to the appellate court. The court consists of five judges, and its sessions are held at the state capital.
Neither the supreme nor the appellate court has original jurisdiction of causes: that is, an action cannot be started in either of these courts. The suit must first be brought in the circuit, superior or criminal court, where it is tried and a final judgment entered. If either
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
party is dissatisfied with .the result in the trial court he may appeal to the appellate or the supreme court. On the appeal the case is not tried .over again. Instead of this, the clerk of the lower court makes out a transcript of the proceedings had at the trial, including also a copy of the evidence, when necessary. This transcript is examined in the higher court. If it is found that the decision of the lower court is based upon a correct application of the law to the facts of the case, the judgment is affirmed; otherwise, the judgment is reversed, and the case is sent back for re-trial, or for other proper action. In other words, the supreme or appellate court; in making an examination of the cause appealed, determines whether the law has been properly applied to the facts found in the trial court. The supreme or appellate court does not try the facts, does not call witnesses or listen to evidence, but considers the law of the case. This law the court declares in the form of a written opinion. These opinions are then published for the use of the courts and the people , of the state. *
As the supreme legislative power rests in the general assembly, and the supreme executive powei* in the governor, while much inferior legislative power rests in boards of county commissioners, common councils and. other bodies, and much inferior executive power rests in various township, county and state officers; so, also, while the judicial power is distributed to many courts, yet the supreme judicial power rests in the supreme court. In that court, finally, must be decided all questions regarding the laws and the constitutions of the state. From the decisions of this court there is no appeal, except to the people themselves, who are the ultimate source of all authority in the state, whether legislative, executive or judicial.
The distribution of power in the-general government is quite similar to that in the state. Instead of a general assembly, there is a congress; instead of a governor, there is a president. In like manner, there are lower United States courts and a supreme court, with powers corresponding to those of the state courts.
The United States courts have jurisdiction only of questions arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States. As, however, the United States or Federal' law, as it is called, prevails in every state, together with the state law, it occurs that the lines of jurisdiction between the state and the. Federal , courts are
523
sometimes closely drawn, insomuch that occasionally a case may be tried originally in either court.	’	*	'
The theory of our government in this regard requires that all domestic concerns, all matters . relating alone to the people and the property of the state, should be governed by the state law. This is what we understand bv local . self-government—the dearest boon of every liberty-loving people. It may be'laid down as a maxim of freedom that the nearer the government remains to the people the safer will be their liberties. It is only when the local authority is unable to protect itself that any outside authority should be suffered to interfere. What the people of the school district, or the board district, can do for themselves, that they should be allowed to do. Sb each township, each ward, each town or city,'each county or state, should attend to its own affairs; and if it is able to do so, no other power should molest it in the free ■ exercise of this absolute right of local self-government. It is the chief glorv of the common law that its courts have jealously guarded these rights of the people to care for their own domestic concerns.
But in an extensive = republic like ours, made up of forty-five great states, it is impossible that, there should not be many interests common to the people at large. Commerce with foreign nations, and commerce among the states . themselves,* for example, involve questions which do not concern any one state alone, but! the people of the whole republic. We are a nation as well as a union of states. While, therefore, the people of each state form, one close bond of unity, yet the. people of all the states taken * together also form • one close bond of unity. The motto of the general government is verjz happily chosen,— E pluribus lamm—many in one. Each unit is distinct; yet all the units are joined together to form another and larger unit which, in itself, is just as distinct as any one of the lesser and component units. This larger unit—the great Federal Republic—has, as we have seen, its own constitution, its own laws and its own courts.
The theory of the Constitution of the United . States is that the people have granted to the general government certain powers necessary for the common welfare of all the people; and that all power not so expressly granted in the* National Constitution is reserved to the people and . to the states. From this it results, as wze have seen’, that the courts will declare ho law of-Congress valid, unless there is found 'warrant
1
*
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
524
for the law in the Federal Constitution. On the other hand, any law enacted by the State Legislature will be declared valid, unless it is found to be in conflict with the state constitution, or with the United States Constitution, or laws or treaties thereunder. In other words, a state law is valid if not forbidden; while a Federal law, to be valid, must be authorized.
Sometimes it may occur that an action is tried in a state court, and even taken on appeal and decided in the supreme court of the state; and yet may after that be transferred to the supreme court of the United States. In such a case it is not the full cause that was tried and determined in the state courts, but some question arising in that cause under the laws or Constitution of the United States that is taken to the United States supreme court.
The question so taken to the supreme court of the United States, is called a Federal question. For instance, a man may be arrested for peddling without obtaining a city license; he is fined before the mayor, but appeals to the circuit court. In the circuit court he is again fined, and appeals to the supreme court where the judgment of the circuit court is affirmed; then his attorney may make application for a transfer of the cause to the supreme court of the United States, by alleging that the peddler sold only by sample; that the goods which he sold in South Bend, Indiana, for example, were at the time of sale located in the city of Chicago, Illinois; that, therefore, the question of commerce between the states is involved. As we have seen, Congress has sole control of commerce between the states, and accordingly the peddler’s case may finally be decided by the supreme court of the United States. Ordinarily, however, all causes relating to our * domestic relations, to our local self-government, to the rights of property and the rights of the citizen, are tried and determined in the circuit court; or, at farthest, are appealed and decided in the appellate or supreme court of the state.
If a case is to be appealed to the state supreme court, the party intending to take the appeal must begin his preparation at the very beginning of the trial in the circuit court. If he thinks the complaint of his opponent is faulty, he must object to it at once, by filing a demurrer. If the court overrules his demurrer, he must at once except to the ruling; so that the court may have an opportunity to correct its ruling if wrong. The fact of excepting to the ruling of the court is taken as a notice that the party will appeal to the supreme court.
This appeal, however, is not taken until after the final judgment in the case. The party appealing then goes to the clerk of the court and asks him to make out a full and complete transcript, or copy, of all the papers, orders and rulings in the case, and, in certain cases, of the evidence a|so.
These transcripts finally reach the hands of one of the judges of the supreme court. He takes them to his private work room in the state Capitol, and there sits down by himself and wrestles with the questions presented for his decision. The judge reads over the transcript. He takes up the written arguments, or briefs, of the lawyers on each side, which are sometimes almost as long as the transcript itself. He turns to his books where similar questions have been discussed by men learned in the law, or decided by other courts in America, in England or elsewhere. He finally comes to a conclusion, from the best study he can give the case, as to how it ought to be decided. His work is then but half done; for he must not only decide the case, but he must show that his decision is correct. To do this, he sits down to write out what is called his opinion. This opinion consists of a short statement of the facts of the case, followed by an argument, generally giving authorities to show that his opinion is right.
Afterwards, during the sessions of court, when the judges come together in consultation, each one, in turn, reads an opinion which he has prepared. After the opinion is read it is taken up and discussed by all the judges. If anything is found that needs correction the correction is made; and if a majority agrees to the opinion it becomes the judgment of the court, and is so handed down and printed in the reports. The discussion and consultation, also, very often take place before the opinion is prepared. If, as sometimes happens, a majority do not favor the opinion as read, the case is turned over to one of the majority who prepares another opinion. Sometimes, too, one or more of the judges can not subscribe to the opinion of the majority, and so he dissents, sometimes also writing an opinion of his own, which is called a dissenting opinion. The dissenting opinion, however, has no binding force, and is only the judge’s individual view of what the judgment of the court ought to be.
After the opinion goes down, it often happens that the losing party, being dissatisfied, asks for a re-hearing of the case. This involves a re-examination of the whole case. Occasion
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ally, when good cause is shown, a re-hearing is granted and a new opinion prepared. Naturally, however, the court, having first catefully considered its opinion, seldom finds reason for changing, and the original opinion stands. From what has been said, it is clear that the chief part of the work in an appellate court is done in private; and the daily life of a judge is that of a recluse or scholar, delving in his books or records, or engaged in putting his ideas upon paper, or finally in discussing law questions with his brother judges.
The supreme judges have some public work, however. In cases of importance, when public interests are involved, or when the questions to be passed upon are complicated or intricate, counsel on either side will ask for an oral argument, which being granted, a day is fixed for the public hearing in the supreme courtroom before the full bench. But even in such a case the judges, in preparing their opinions, do not dispense with the written briefs or arguments of counsel. The oral argument may, and does, serve to aid in determining what the decision should be; but the study , and examination of the records and briefs, and the preparation of the opinion of the court, are still left. The number of opinions and decisions prepared by each judge must, of course, vary with the character of the cases; but, on an average, each judge will prepare from seventy-five to eighty opinions in a year.
I have thus attempted to give you a rapid and, of course, a very brief outline of the law of the land in which we live and of the courts that expound and enforce it. Only in a free state is the judiciary an independent, co-ordi-dinate and equal department of the government. This department of the government may be compared to the balance wheel which regulates, guides, moderates and equalizes the movement of a complicated piece of machinery. It serves as a check upon any imprudent act on the part of the legislature or the executive. It stands for the vested rights of property and of men, on the one hand, and in opposition to all forms of violence, oppression and wrong on the other. It is the particular guardian of the Constitution.
All men are fallible—liable to make mistakes and fall into error—but in so far as it is possible for mankind to secure the right and withstand the wrong, it may be said that the institution of a wise and upright judiciary is, for the.welfare of states and peoples, the very highest and noblest result of human wisdom.
Varsity Verse.
.	THE GRADUATES’ CAKE..
IN Italy—a legend tells,—
Full many a noble lady dwells
In convent so severe,	.
That but for fragrant flower that falls
From o’er the stem stone convent walls One day in all the year,
There’d.be no means to evidence
The several nuns on earth or hence.	.
A high stone wall—proposed ’tis true— Divides us, maidens fair, from you,	'
That dwell in old St. Mary’s;
But every year a certain cake, ■	..
That graciously you deign to make, .	-
By aid Of kindly fairies,
Is wafted to the “ Staff ” to tell
That all our cloistered friends are well. : ’
I know not if the kind of flower	•
Reveals each nun’s ascetic power, By its symbolic tale;
But I would think your gift confesses
To graces that each maid possesses In nearly equal scale;	,
For then, assuredly, our land
Would lack not women nobly planned.
C. M. B. B.
AN INFANT INDUSTRY.
Down on Mott street there once lived a yellowish pair, One Hoo-Ray and his wife named Rah-Hoo, And the two “washeed” clothes with commendable care, And so gathered in shekels a few;
The which,' when more copious, they’d use for their fare ’Cross the seas, in a twelvemonth or two.
Now, a Chinamen’s holiday happ’ning along, ■ They gave up all work for the day,
And made very merry in laughter and song	.
With a neighbor named Hip-Hip-Hoo-Ray, •	.
But the laughter was stopped by the fireman’s gong, For their laundry burned up, sad to say. ’	•
Then this “heathen Chinee” and his almond-eyed wife Didn’t give up all hope of returning	. .
To the Flowery Kingdom to end well this life, Though their collars and 'shekels were burning;
But down on the Bowery, ’mid squalor and strife, The pair a large fortune are earning.
The first thing they did was to paint ’cross the door, “College yells made to order within,”
And onto a phonograph nailed to the floor ■ They fitted a funnel of tin;	.
Then spanked all their children—some sixteen or more,— And the phonograph “funnelled” it in.
If on any bright day you are down on that street You will hear Charlie .Halfback’s “Hi! Yis!”
For the football-haired “ rooters ” here hourly meet x To buy a collection of cries;
Then with bed slats in hand the wise couple replete Their low stock from the sixteen wild sighs. ' F. W. O’M,
526	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Betrayed by a Friend.
PATRICK E. REARDON, ’97.
It was a cold, bright morning in the middle of December; the wind was blowing the snow in all directions and the shadows of college buildings and large evergreens hung heavily on the snow. George Greene stood at his room window and gazed thoughtful^ on the football moleskin that hung in a corner of his room. Now and then, he would look on the drifting snow and dream of the good time awaiting o	o
him. His imagination then stretched itself, and George was soon in a sleigh talking to Miss Higgins about football.
“ But no,” murmured George, “ she must not ’	-O’
know it. I’m afraid of Captain Tucker.”
George had played “sub” on the Varsity, and his picture was prominent in the group on account of his massive black hair and handsome face. The students admired him, and the girls used flattering expressions whenever they saw George or his picture. George was a great football player, but unfortunately there were eleven other students better than he, consequently he was a “sub.” This fact caused him more grief than his companions thought. The idea of telling his friends, and especially Miss Higgins, that he played “sub” was most painful to him.
The cold winter passed slowly along, and George would now and then break from the study of logic to think of how he could deceive his friends. They knew that he played football; but how to keep them from hearing that he was a “sub” was his great problem. The evening before the logic examination George was aroused from one of his reveries by a slight knocking at his door.
“Come in!” shouted George in his good-natured -way, and in walked Captain Tucker of the football team.
“Hello! at your logic? ” asked Tucker, as he advanced towards a - divan.
“Yes; and Ifind it hard. Help yourself to the cigarettes,” said George, as he closed the transom.
Tucker stretched himself on the divan and set his-feet on a chair near by. He was a typical -football 'player, and a fit subject for one of the comic papers. -His bright red hair, parted in the; mjddle, hung over -his forehead and down over his ears. Pieces of. adhesive plaster decked his nose, and a large scar above his left
eye showed that he had received harsh treatment. The contrast between the two students was evident, and Captain Tucker, as he looked at George, said: “George, if I were as handsome as you I’d never play football.”
“Well,”said George, “I don’t care for looks;
I care more for the game.”
“ It has made a man of you at any rate,” said Tucker, and he helped himself to another cigarette. “ I’m going down your way this vacation,” he continued, “ and I may call to see you.”
“ Be glad to have you,” said George. “ I assure you a good time. The folks know all about you, and our town has the football craze.”
“Then, I’ll call. We’ll make the trip together. It will be time enough to return by the fifteenth.” '
George liked the idea of having the captain visit him, but he feared he would be discovered and so lose Miss Higgins.
- “If you come,” began George, “don’t—don’t tell my friends that I played ‘sub.’”
“‘Sub’! well, what of it?” asked Tucker, laughing at his friend’s foolishness, o o
“You—well you see, I’ve been writing to Miss Higgins about football, and she thinks that I’m a Varsity man.” ’
“You’ve played in some of the big games and you’re wearing N. D. on your sweater— that surely is enough proof.”
“I know; but Miss Higgins hates the word ‘ sub,’ and if. she hears that I was one, well—”
“Yes, I understand. But don’t worry; I’ll never tell her. Cheer up, old man, and you will win yet. I’m going away in the morning,” continued the captain, “ so good-bye; I’ll let you. know when I’m coming.”
Captain Tucker had scarcely left the room when George fell into another reverie.
“Tucker is the only-person in the college living near Cold Spring, and he is secured. This time tomorrow night I shall be’on my way home,” thought George, as he marked his name on the. moistened window-glass.
The following afternoon,George bade farewell to his companions and started for his home. The journey was tedious, but the end justified the means. His fame as a football player was established in the little town of Cold Spring. George was anxious for fame, and whenever he played in any of the big games he would send an account of it to his friends, and they in turn gave: him. fame. .	.
. The members of the Occidental had prepared a banquet in his honor, and here George was well
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC-
attended by the ladies. The reception was an elaborate one, and George, as he looked about the large banqueting hall, was dazed by the display of ribands and crescents. In response to a toast, he spoke of the advantages of football over all other exercises, of its manliness, and he cleverly refuted that old argument, held by the public, that football is brutal. He thanked the members for their kindness, and ended his speech by presenting the club with a large picture of the Varsity. This was the second one he had given away in the last few weeks.
Miss Higgins would sit for hours and admire the group of athletes that stood on a beautiful easel in a corner of her reception room. In the evening she and George would talk of the different players, and before vacation was over she knew the history of each player, and delighted in telling her friends about George and his college companions.
Captain Tucker came, and with him Fred Harris, a friend of George and a “sub” on the Varsity. Harris spent the holidays with Tucker and came with him to spend a day with George. It was the last day of vacation, and Miss Higgins was entertaining George and his friends.
“Yes, I have heard all about you,” said Miss Higgins to Tucker. “George has been very kind to me during the holidays. I have learned all about football, and next season I shall be able to criticise. I do wish you had come earlier.”
“ I promised to spend a few days with George, but you understand how difficult it is for one to get away from home,” said Tucker.
“Mr. Harris seems to have had no trouble; he doesn’t look at all worried,” she commented.
“ Why should he? ” asked George. “ He lives in Mexico and has been with Tucker during the holidays. He is leaving no home, or—”
“ Oh! yes; I remember you speaking of Mr. Harris. You were a substitute on the Varsity, were you not?” she asked Harris, who was as sensitive on this point as George.
“Yes, I was unlucky enough to be a mere ‘sub.’”
“ Lucky, you mean,” said the captain. “You have had more fun in deceiving people than I have had in not. deceiving them.”
“ It may be fun, but I didn’t find it so,” said Harris.
“It must have been hard; I would not like to deceive my friends in that manner,” said George boldly,
527
“I maybe prejudiced,” said Miss Higgins, “but I do hate deception.”
“ Well,” said Harris, “ it was only in fun that I deceived them; and that in order not be caught in a lie. In the beginning, I told a young lady that I played football, and she immediately spread the news that I was a Varsity man. I saw no other way out of it than to deceive.”
“Then, there is an excuse for you,” said Miss Higgins.	'
George did not like the subject, and frequently tried to bring it around to something* else; but it was of no avail. Miss Higgins, when once started on the football question, would talk unceasingly, and George feared evil results.	.
“ If Harris were only on to it,” thought George, “ but he’s not, and there is danger.”
“ It is even a great honor to be a ‘ sub,’ ” said Harris. “ The team could not succeed without some of them, and especially—”	.
“ Especially the ends,” .interrupted George.
“You remember the game we were in the backs,” said Harris to George.	'
“Why, George was in every game. Were you not, George?” asked Miss Higgins.
“Not every game,— he was a ‘sub,’ you know,” answered Harris.
The Story , of Man.
MICHAEL W. OSWALD, ’98.
Of all the animate and inanimate beings of this wide universe, man is by far the superior, because he is gifted with intellect and free will. By reason of his twofold nature, he belongs to two worlds—the spiritual and the material. All that is good and beautiful in life is so through, the intellect or free will. These two noblest faculties, if equally well trained; make man perfect, and render him worthy of the great dignity that is added to his very name. As the poet has it, they correspond to the two principles that reign in human nature,—
“ Self-love to urge, and reason to restrain;
Nor this a good nor that a bad we call;
Each works its end—to move or govern all: And to their proper operation still
Ascribe all good; to their improper, ill.” , >
These two powers characterize man as a free and intellectual being. While the one enables him to acquire knowledge from the various branches of learning, to admire the wonderful harmony of the created objects ’ in hatureyt’o converse with the learned men of the world, •
528	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
to look with the philosopher into the diverse ways and habits of mankind and to dig deeply around the obscure foundations of the first principles and causes; or, highest of all, to contemplate, with the theologian, the immensity and majesty of the one, eternal, infinitely perfect and unchangeable Being,—God; the other moves him to regulate his actions with regard to his last end and to live an honest life.
By means of the intellect and free will, man is lifted above the material and raised to the level of spirits. These two strongholds of human nature are so well fortified that they •can never be subdued. Whenever, in the history of a nation, unrestrained passions brought into human affairs a long train of miseries, and placed man’s highest glory in a degraded animal nature; the intellect was only darkened and the will weakened; but the flickering lamp of man’s intelligence could never be extinguished. Well, then, did Hamlet exclaim:
“ What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! how infinite in faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! inaction how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the world! the paragon of animals!”
Man is master over all the other objects in nature. In his hands alone have been placed the rights of an infinitely good Creator and Preserver. For this reason, also, he is the only creature that “looks through nature up to nature’s God.” As Pope says:
“ He pursues that chain which links the immense design,
Joins heav’n and earth and mortal and divine:
' Sees that no being any bliss can know,
. But touches some above and some below:
Learns from this union of the rising whole The first, last purpose of the human soul, And knows where faith, laws, morals, all began;
All end—in love of God, and love of man.” •
Hence there can be little as interesting to the sincere lover of humanity as the history of man in all its forms, times and places. History is5 full of useful accounts of events that repeat themselves in our own days. It is for this reason that history may be considered the most efficient branch of learning, to educate not merely the mind but the heart.
The chief purposes of historical studies are to raise the mind above itself by bringing it into contact with the views and experiences of othier men. History tends more than any other study to educate man, because it broadens his knowledge, strengthens his own experiences, and elevates his character; and in this, rather than in the knowledge of - books dr abstract
• sciences, does education consist. Bacon exhorts »- -	\	- r	n	•	•	..	«	•	% i ,
the otherwise noble lives of the great men, and us to read history if we wish to become wise. His advice is in perfect harmony with the old. maxim, “ Tell me with whom you go and I will tell you who you are; ” for, while other sciences give us a knowledge of man’s own accomplishments, or of things that interest him, history leads us at once into the society of learned and holy, patriotic and religious men. It narrates events that are of the greatest importance to the human race. It contains many and varied notions whence man can draw material for his own advancement. Not, however, a mere narration of facts and events is the object of history. It shows, above all, the connection of causes and effects, for which reason it has ever been regarded as the best teacher of the future. Combining these ideas, history has been defined to be a methodical record of the important events that concern a nation, showing the connection of causes and effects.
After the internal development of institutions, political or religious, and their external influences have been pointed out, history proceeds to trace the moral, intellectual and material advances and retrogressions of man in the course of time. It delineates characters in all stages of life and sets them up as an example for posterity. The men that are great on account of their self-sacrificing interest for the common good, have always found an undying praise and a most famous sepulchre in the minds of men. Every student gathers, from the literatures of the various nations at least some lines about the heroes of ages, that he treasures up in his memory, such as,
“Miltiades,thy warlike deeds are to all Persians known, But still thy valor lasts for aye enshrined at Marathon; ” or the touching words of the patriotic Leonidas when he defended with his. two hundred Spartans the impregnable Thermopylae:
“ Go, tell the Spartans, thou that passest by, . That here, obedient to their laws, we die.” . Again, what could more strikingly affect us than the advice which Abderame has given when he called upon mortals to learn from him how to appreciate worldly grandeur and this transitory life:
“I have been caliph,” he says, “for fifty years and have enjoyed all that men can possibly desire here on earth. Being desirous to know the number of days in which, during this long space of time, my heart was truly satisfied, I found it upon exact enumeration to amount to fourteen days only.” -
The one flaw that is too frequently found in.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
529
which stifles the very brain of all the fool people that boast of their little knowledge ability, lies in pride—in reasoning pride.—
“All quit their spheres and rush into the sky.
Pride still is aiming at the blest abodes;
Men still would be angels.” .... o
The history of man, with all its vicissitudes, shows that the noblest work was never done on earth and that the purest has seldom preserved consistency. Now and then came a wise and good man who sowed noble thoughts and plans in the field of time, but ignorant people who came after them could not appreciate the deeds of their learned forefathers, and thus disregarded them until they were forgotten. Thus,
“ In human works though labored on with pain,
A thousand movements scarce one purpose gain.”
History finally teaches us that the highest standard of social life is liberty regulated by laws in harmony with the will of God. Though,
“ In faith and hope the world will disagree, Yet all mankind’s concern is charity.”
Book Notes.
Juvenile Fiction Series. Benziger Brothers: New York, Chicago, Cincinnati.
This series of books should fill a long-felt want in our literature. It has hitherto been devoid of really good reading for little children, and we have been forced to content ourselves with the trash served up under the name of children’s stories. These books were usually the work of very mediocre writers, who, in seeking-to be intelligible to children, have become so very silly that their works can never do anything towards furnishing intellectual culture; and their stories have always dealt with the same good little boy or girl whose like existed nowhere under the sun.
Benzigers Brothers’ series promises to differ radically from all previous attempts in the line of children’s literature. In the first place, the title-pages of the three works received bear the names of our most illustrious Gatholic story writers, and are written in English which, is simple and at the same time pure. Then the characters are real flesh and blood creations. The boys and girls in the books have their faults just as real ones do, and the childish method of thought seems to have been admirably imitated. The binding is tasty, though we think the effect would be better if all were in the: same soft tints, and the glaring orange
brown of “The Fatal Diamonds” were changed to a more quiet shade. The books are “ The Fatal Diamonds,” by Eleanor C. Donnelly; “ My Strange Friend,” by Francis J. Finn, S. J., and “The Boys in the Block,” by M. F. Egan.
—University ’students pursuing the courses of Physics and Engineering will welcome with delight a work recently sent forth from the press of that renowned publishing . house, Longmans, Green & Co. The book is entitled “ Introductory Course in Differential Equations,” and is written by Prof. D. A. Murray, B. A., Ph. D., of Cornell University. The work is intended to give briefly an explanation of some of the methods used in solving differential equations. Students who have completed . an elementary course in the integral calculus. ' will have all the preparation necessary, to enter upon the study of this work. The author’s . experience in the class room suggested to him the need of a work of this character. Many students of Physics' and Engineering that have not the time to study the advanced works treating this important subject, will find in the present volume all that is necessary for . them in their particular line of work. The author has arranged the, subject-matter in twelve chapters treating of the Formation of a Differential Equation, Equations of the First Order and of the First Degree, Equations of . the First Order but not of the First Degree, . Singular Solutions, Applications to Geometry, Mechanics and Physics, Linear Equations with constant Coefficients, Linear Equations with Variable Coefficients, Exact Differential Equations and Equations of Particular Forms, Equations of the Second Order, Geometrical, Mechanical and Physical Applications, Ordinary Differential Equations with more than' two Variables,. Partial Differential Equations of the First, Second and Higher Orders. In each chapter are given many examples selected with great care for the express purpose of exemplifying tht principles stated in the texti Another very valuable feature is the great number of references to standard advanced works, where the student may find a more complete exposition of certain subjects that necessarily must be treated less fully in primary works. The many historical and biographical-notes give an additional interest to the work. Professor Murray’s book is clearly the first of its class, and is worthy the .widest , adoption; it should be in the hands of all engineering students that have not the time for an extender! course in differential equations.	..
530
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
wwraow.
Notre Danie, May 22, 1897.
Publistjct) there 5aturtan iuriiuj iEcrm JThnc at 39. Hnibcrsitii.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Staff.
JOSEPH A. MARMON;	ARTHUR W. STACE, ’96;
JAMES BARRY, ’97;
ELMER J. MURPHY, ’97; SHERMAN STEELE, ’97;
JESSE IV. LANTRY, ’97;
JOS. V. SULLIVAN, ’97; PAUL J. RAGAN, ’97;
CHARLES M. B. BRYAN, '97;
THOMAS B. REILLY, ’97; JOHN A. MCNAMARA, ’97;
WILLIAM C. HENGEN, ’97.
FRANK IV. O’MALLEY,
FRANCIS J. F. CONFER LOUIS C. M. REED,
* Reporters.
JOHN F. FENNESSEY,
—Card.—Manager O’Malley and Captain Powers of the Baseball Team wish to thank the Alumni and friends of Notre Dame for the kind reception and support accorded the team on its recent trip to Chicago.
—It has been officially announced that the “triple” competitions^—the dreaded of every student—will be held on Wednesday and Friday of next week. It may not be amiss to state that these tests are the last of the year for determining the winners of medals, premiums and honors, and that they are, as their name implies, of very great importance in fixing the average of each student. Promotions will depend, to a great degree, on the result of the “ triples,” and it is in the power’of every student even yet to decide his success or failure during the present scholastic year. The final examinations, too, are coming off in a few weeks, and the‘thought of it ought to spur us on to greater effort, to finish the year well, to satisfy ourselves, and to leave behind a good impression.
—Our defeat last Saturday at the hands of the clever basebalP players of Chicago University was entirely unexpected, and must be attributed in great part to “ stage fright,” It is
the only game our team has ever played outside the home grounds, and the presence of a strange grandstand took all the verve and confidence out of our players. The support our men received from their friends was magnificent throughout the game, but it could not counterbalance the effect of new scenes on the wearers of the Gold and Blue.
We lost to Chicago; but we have learned, if we are wise, two important lessons from the trip. We have learned to be less affected in foreign fields,—to be more at home before a strange crowd,—and it is to be hoped that the fact of the Faculty’s kindness has been fully impressed upon our minds. Our errors in the future will be errors of necessity, not of choice, and there is hope that, despite all past misfortune, our banner will for the future float unsullied and unconquered.
— Few that live in the world are aware of the great work being done throughout the country for the education of the deaf-mutes of the land. The Daughters of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, who have charge of this work, were founded by the Jesuit Fathers during the French Revolution of 1789, and they inherit this mission from two of the greatest saints of the Church, St. Vincent de Paul and St. Francis de Sales, apostolic teachers of the deaf-mutes of Europe, and from the Abbe de L’Eppee, who made the instruction of deaf-mutes possible and successful. Notable among the institutions that have undertaken this work and carried it on successfully and nobly against the direst hardships, is the Ephpheta School for the Deaf at St. Joseph’s Home, Chicago. The good done by this school is inestimable. 'Its objects are to provide a home and education for deaf and dumb youth, to give them Christian training; to teach them a profession that will secure their maintenance in the future, and to give them a solid education that they may be able to take their place in the world as intelligent men and women. It is a commendable work; a work that should be encouraged by all that have the cause of Christianity and education at heart; and when it is remembered that there are in the United States alone upward of sixty thousand men and women shut out from all ordinary communion with their fellows, it becomes a grave problem,—a problem that, fortunately, seems to have' been-successfully solved by such insti-tution^ as the. Ephpheta School of Chicago,

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Our First Defeat.
Last Saturday Notre Dame was defeated by Chicago by a score of io to 2. The result was a great disappointment to our team, to the student body, and to the Faculty. Judging from reports which came to us through the Chicago papers we considered our team fully as strong, if not stronger, than that representing the University of Chicago. The reports erred, or else Chicago played an extraordinarily clean, snappy game. Notre Dame was defeated fairly. The treatment accorded us by the Chicago team equalled the high standard which we had a right to expect. There were only two features objectionable to Notre Dame. The umpire, as Mr. Stagg and Captain Clarke admitted, was severe on Notre Dame in calling balls and strikes; Gardner, the Chicago catcher, exhibited rank unfairness in coaching at third, yelling for one of our infielders to throw the ball to third when it should have been played to first. Notre Dame understands that Mr. Stagg would be the first to deprecate such ungentlemanliness in one of his players, and only mentions it here as the sole unpleasantness in the game. The kindly feeling shown by the Chicago players themselves has won for them the friendship of the Notre Dame students. The game itself abounded in brilliant plays. Follen easily carried off the honors of the day, with Daly a close second. Powers caught his usual careful game, and enthused new spirit into our boys at critical times. Capt. Clarke is the best pitcher we have met this year. He pitched a careful game, which merited, and received, excellent support from his team. Adkinson on second accepted nine chances, some of which were difficult, without an error. Powers' home run after Brown had reached first on a hit saved us from a shut out. Hindel took Lynch’s place on second in the fourth inning, and his coolness did much to inspire the infield, and prevent it from repeating the misjudgments of the first inning. We still, however, believe we have a better team than Chicago. We should like to test the truth of this assertion in another game. We trust our manager will succeed in securing another game from Mr. Stagg, and we have the utmost confidence that with our lately acquired experience we shall be able to play a better game, to avoid another case of “rattles,” and; with Gibson pitching such a game as he pitched Monday, to win.	:
S31 ■
Notre Dame came’first to’bat. Brown, Hin-del and Powers went out inrquick succession through infield hits. H. Clarke got his base on balls. Herschberger sent an easy one down to Brown who made a clean play, and threw the ball to Lynch. Lynch was in such a hurry to make a double play that he muffed the ball, and Clarke went to third, and Herschberger went to second. Gardner made another easy infield hit, but the team went to pieces and could not handle it. H. Clarke crossed the plate, and Gardner made first. Adkinson hit to Lynch, who did not use his judgment, and consequently failed to retire a runner, and let Herschberger score. Adkinson stole to second. Gibson made a bad throw to third, and Gardner and Adkinson scored. Sawyer was hit by a pitched ball, and stole to second. Abells hit'to Lynch, who made a bad throw to third, which resulted in putting Sawyer forward another base. Sawyer was put out at the plate after G. Clarke had been thrown out at first-by Hindel. Hagey struck out. Score, 4 to 0.
Two “ pop-ups ” and a grounder retired Notre Dame in the second. Chicago got one hit, but it did no good, as the one who - made it was thrown out at second. Daly made a fine catch in this inning. Two strikes out and a “pop-up” put Notre Dame out in the third. Gibson failed to handle Adkinson’s grounder in time to retire the runner at first. Sawyer sacrificed. Abells was hit by a pitched ball. He ventured off first, was caught between Lynch and MacDonald, and was finally put out, but not until Adkinson had scored.- G. Clarke also got his base on balls. Hagey made first on an attempt to retire G. Clarke, who got to second on Shillington’s error. Merrifield knocked , a foul which Powers captured. Hindel got a hit in the fourth, but still Notre Dame-was unable to get a man as far as second. Daly and Follen made a couple of fine catches in Chicago’s half; Follen’s was one of the features of the game. Brown let Gardner’s grounder go through him, but as Gardner was thrown out at second by Powers the error did not prove to be costly. Neither side scored in the fifth. Score, 5 to 0.
In the sixth Notre Dame went out in one, ' two, three order. Merrifield fouled out. Clarke . knocked an easy one to the infield, but-got.to first before the ball did. He made second on Shillington’s error. Herschberger’s sacrifice put Clarke on third, and Gardner’s hit brought . him home. Score,.6 to 0.	'	.
The seventh inning was the one bright spot
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
533
for Notre Dame. Brown made a single, and went to second on Hindel’s sacrifice. Powers came to bat and waited for a good ball. When it came he met it, and the ball went sailing over the. left field fence. It was a home run, and the hearts of the Notre Dame supporters were filled with hope. Their hope was in vain, however, for there was not another score made by the Varsity during the game. Sawyer got hit by the ball again in the seventh, but was put out when he attempted to go to second on Abell’s grounder. G. Clarke hit to Shillington, who threw to Hindel retiring Abells. Hindel threw the ball to MacDonald, and'the only double play of the game retired Chicago. Score, 6 to 2.
Notre Dame could not score in the eighth, although .MacDonald got a hit, which was so slow that it could not be fielded in time to retire, him. Hagey was hit by a pitched ball, but was put out at second when Merrifield hit to Shillington. With one man on base H. Clarke sent the ball out into left field. Follen made a brilliant dash after it, and got to the fence just a second before the ball did. Follen reached up; the ball struck his hand, and his elbow struck the fence at the same time. The force of his elbow striking against the fence jarred the. ball out of his hand, but he caught it again before it touched either the fence or the ground. The umpire thought that the ball had hit the fence, and based his decision on that .opinion. It was one of the finest catches ever made by a player on Marshall field, and it was too bad that Follen could not get official recognition for it. As soon as he captured the ball he threw it to second, and two men would have been out if the catch had been allowed. As it was, the next man to bat made a hit and brought in Merrifield. Gardner followed up by making a home run, and three more men trotted across the plate.
In the ninth Notre Dame got two hits, but they were in vain, for Powers got out on an attempt to come home, and Notre Dame had met her first defeat.
THE SCORE:
Notre Dame	A.B.	R.	H.	S.H. P.O.	A.	E.
Brown, 3d b.	4	I	I	0	2	->	I
Hindel, r. f., 2d b.	3	O	I	I 5	3	0
Powers (C.), c..	4	I	2	0, 4.	4	0
Paly, c. f.	4	O	I	b 2	1	O
Shillington, s. s. -	. . 3	O	O	0 1	4	3
; Follen, kf. \	3	O	O	01	0	I
McDonald, 1st b,	3	O	I	0 7 -	2	0.
_ Lynch, 2d b. '	; 1	O	O	0 . 2	1	0
. Gibson, p. ' .	;	3	O	O,	b .0 .	1	2
Murphy, r.f;.	2	O	0	0 b	0	I
	■	—	■ ■■	■	—	J ■—	■ ■	—		
Totals •	/	/ 3°	2	6.	I 24	18	id
U. of Chicago	A.B.	R.	H.	S.H. P.O.		A.	E.
H. Clarke (Capt.), p.	4	3	I	O	0	4	O
Herschberger, c. f.	4		0	I	0	1	O
Gardner, c.	5	•7	0	0	6	1	I
Adkinson, 2d b.	4	-7	0	O	5	3	0
Sawyer, r. f.	1	0	0	I	0	0	O
Abells, 1 b.	3	0	I	O	12	0	0
G. Clarke, s. s.	3	0	0	O	0	0	O
Hagey, 1. f.	3	0	0	O	1	0	O
Merrifield, 3d b.	4	I	0	O	1	3	I
Totals	3i	10	6	2	27	12	2
Summary:—Earned runs, Notre Dame, 2; Chicago, 2. Home runs, Powers, Gardner. Stolen bases, Powers, Daly, Abells, Sawyer. Double plays, Shillington to Hindel to MacDonald. Bases on balls, off Gibson, 2; off Clarke, 1. Struck out by Gibson, 3; by Clarke, 5. Time of game, 2:00. Umpire, Comstock.
Notre Dame, 6; University of Nebraska, 5.
The game with Nebraska on Monday was a good exhibition of ball playing up to the eighth inning when the work of the home team became decidedly bad. Eight inexcusable errors in these two innings gave the visitors four unearned runs, and almost lost the game for the Varsity. Hindel put up a strong game at second until he caught the infection in the eighth, and spoiled a fine stop by making a wild throw to first. The game was featureless. It was a pitcher’s battle throughout, as the score will show. With ordinarily good playing by the fielders of both teams the score should have been even smaller than it was, as the visitors made only three hits and were given but three bases on balls. Gordon held the Varsity down to six hits, and gave only two bases on balls. Nebraska played a clean, gentlemanly game and won the friendship of their opponents and of the spectators by their manly, sportsmanlike conduct throughout the game, which was good-natured and free from bickering. There is no doubt of Nebraska’s cleverness on the diamond. They have strong individual players and their team-work is beyond the ordinary: They have a very effective pitcher and their batting abilities are by no means to be omitted in any mention of the team. . .	.
In the first inning Brown got to first on balls, but was retired at second on Hindel’s grounder to Creigh. Hindel attempted to steal to second but was put out. Fleming went out on a “pop-up.” Kindler was the only man of the visitors to get to first. He struck out, but Powers, for the first time this season, allowed the ball to go past him. The following two men
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
were easy outs. In the second inning Powers made a clean hit over third base. Daly was hit by a pitched ball. Shillington made a bunt and got to first on Gordon’s error. Follen struck out. MacDonald hit to Creigh, who failed to handle the ball, and Powers scored. Gibson struck out and Brown flew out to Packard. Friel made a clean hit to left. Cowgill hit to Hindel, but Friel got in Hindel’s way and prevented him from fielding the ball properly, and Cowgill made first. Before the ball was safely in the hands of a member of the Varsity Friel started for home. MacDonald recovered the ball and threw wild to.Powers, and Friel scored. The three men next to bat went out on infield hits. In the third Notre Dame made one run owing to errors by Kindler and Packard. Nebraska failed to score.
In the fourth Follen hit safely. MacDonald sacrificed to Kindler * Gibson got his base on balls. Brown made a safe hit, bringing in Follen. Gibson stole to third base, and came home on Friel’s passed ball. Hindel knocked an easy one to Kindler and made first on an
* For the sake of our critical “Admirer” we tried to describe this play in other terms. The editor, however, said that we would have to be more concise or lose our position, so we chose to be concise. Here is the play described as “Admirer” would doubtless have us describe it.
While Mr. Follen was on first base (see Spalding’s Guide for definition of “first base”) Mr. MacDonald took his place in the batter’s box. (This is not a dry-good’s box, nor a driver’s box, nor even a box on. the ear, but just a plot of ground on either side of what is called the “plate.” For definition see “Guide”). Mr. Gordon one of the players on the Nebraska team, threw the ball over this plate; but Mr. MacDonald held his bat (not the birdlike animal commonly known by that name. See “Guide” for definition) over the plate and the ball struck it. The ball bounded back from the bat, and Mr. MacDonald had made what is called a “bunt” (This “bunt” is no relation to “bunting,” a kind of cloth used for decorative purposes, although scientific baseball bunting often results in the use of the other kind of “bunting” to decorate the quarters of the successful baseball “bunting” team). The bunt that Mr. MacDonald made sent the ball in the direction of Mr. Kindler, who picked up the ball and ran to first base with it. It is usual to throw the ball to first base, but Mr. Kindler happened to be the first baseman, so he carried the ball ther.e. By the act of touching the base, Mr. Kindler put Mr. MacDonald out. (See “ Guide ’ for the definition of “ out.”) In the meantime, however, Mr. Follen reached second base without being put out. Mr. MacDonald had generously sacrificed his chances of making a tally (see definition in Guide ”) for the sake of helping out his friend Mr. Follen.	,
We are sorry the editor will hot let us describe each play this way, but still we shall .carry out the wishes of “Admirer" as far as possible,and shall not use “heady” of “hoodoo” in the wrong sense again. '	J
533
unsuccessful attempt to retire Brown. F eming^ and Powers struck out. Nebraska again failed to score.
Neither team scored in the fifth, sixth or seventh inning owing to the snappy playing of both teams. In the eighth Shillington hit safely over third base, and made second on Follen’s sacrifice. MacDonald made first on Cowgill’s error, and Shillington came home. Gibson struck out. Brown made' first on an attempt to retire MacDonald, who got to second on Kindler’s error. MacDonald attempted to go' down to third, but was put out. Benedict hit.safely in the visitor’s half. He attempted to steal second, but was thrown out by Gibson who fielded Kindler’s grounder. Creigh made first on Shillington’s error, and Kindler went to second. Robinson hit to Hindel who threw Creigh out at second. Kindler came home on Powers’ wild throw to third. Friel hit a hot grounder to Hindel who made a fine stop, but threw wild to first. Before the ball got-back' into the diamond Robinson scored. The next man to bat struck out.	1
In the ninth, after two men were out, Powers made a single, and stole’ to second. Daly made a two bagger, and Powers brought in Notre Dame’s last tally. In their half the visitors made two runs which were due to errors by Hindel, Shillington, Fleming and Brown. When Nebraska was finally retired the score was 6 to 5.
the score:
Notre Dame	A.B.	R.	H.	S.H. P.O.	A. E.
Brown, 3d b.	4	O	I	O 2	I- 2’ -
Hindel, 2d b.	5	O	O	0 4	7 3
Fleming, 1. f.	5	O	O	0 0	0 1. .
Powers (Capt.), c.	5	3		0 8	
Daly, c. f.	4	0	I	0. 1	0. 0 ,
Shillington, s. s.	5	1	I	0 2	3- 2 .
Follen, r. f.	3	1	I	1 0	0-0 •
MacDonald, 1 b.	3	0	0	I IO	o', i: ;
Gibson, p.	3	0	0	0 0	.2. 0 -
Totals	37	6	6	2 27	15 n
Nebraska	A.B.	R.	H.	S.H. P.O.	A. E.
Benedict, 2d b.	4	I	I	0 4	b 0 '
Kindler, 1 b.	4	I	O	i 7	0 2:
Creigh, s. s.	5	O	O	0 . .1	42
Robinson, r. f.	4	I	O	0 0	0 O’.
Friel, c.	4	I	I	0 11	O 2
Cowgill, 3d b.	'J	O	O	0 2	2 I
Reider, 1. f.	4	O	O	01	O O'
Packard, c. f. (Capt.)	4	O	I	0 1	O I
Gordon, p.	4	I -	O	0 0 <	IL ■v
Totals	^55 31 27119
Summary.:—Earned runs, Notre Dame, r. Two. base hit, Daly. Bases stolen, Gibson, Brown, Hindel, Powers, Cowgill, Packard. Bases on balls, off Gibson, 3; off Gordon, 2. Bases on hit’ by pitched ball, Daly. Struck out-by Gibson, 9; by Gordon, 9. Passed balls, Powers. Friel. Time of game, two hours. Umpire, Cross. .
534	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—Slivers has had his picture taken.
—Cummings’ “colts” are to play a Niles team tomorrow.	•
—Dr. Thompson is expected from Chicago tomorrow to review the boat crews. ■
—The Carrolls had their first swim Wednesday evening. The water'was too cold for great pleasure.
—Lost—A small gold, red-enameled Maltese cross. Finder, please return it to B. C. Sanford, Carroll Hall.
—Tomaso dropped one of those round camphor balls into his pocket, and said innocently: “A rolling stone gathers no moths ‘
—The Carrolls played an unfinished game with'St. Joseph’s Hall" Sunday, the feature of which was Eddy Herron’s pitching.
—Mr. George Cypher of Brownson Hall held • the winning ticket in the bicycle raffle that was arranged for the Athletic Association.
—We hope. the.band will soon favor us with a few of those delightful lawn concerts for which they have been so noted in years past
—Hunter and his wheel have been again abroad and with the usual result. Nothing further need be said; the reader will understand.
—Herron discovered a stained-glass window in the reading-room. Upon closer examination, however, it looked very like, wood] painted black. •	:
—Professor:—“ What is the land of art and song/
Student (coached by Willie)—“ Germany, Professor.”	,
—A most welcome visitor of last week was Mr. Walter Mattox (student ’90-93), who is now successfully engaged in the jewelry trade at Bryan, Ohio.
—The Elocution Contest will come off on Wednesday evening, June 9. This year’s exhibition promises to be more interesting than any in previous years.
—The University Band entertained us with several sprightly marches on Thursday morning, but.the rain cut short what promised to be a first-class concert.
—Rev. Thomas Hartnett, pastor of St. Malachy’s Church, Chicago, was the welcome guest of Father Morrissey for a few days during the past week.
—All the friends of Father Corby will be pleased to hear that he has recently been chosen Chaplain of “ The Legion of Honor,” a ■ prominent organization»in this country.
—The bicycle riders, had the Prefect’s permissionfora ride to Niles Thursday, but they forgot to ask the weather, man. Accordingly it rained, and the ride is put off for.a week. ,
—Have you seen the new assignment of
crows which came to the mailing department of the Scholastic a few days ago? Come around and you will see a regular, full-fledged Rookery.
—Now that Gawge has won the wheel, we expect to see the three little boys from Butler Keounty take a prominent part in our thirty mile sprints. Peter is a villainous scorcher; everyone knows Walter’s ability, and Gawge— just wait until he wakes up!
—The Astronomers went over to the Observatory Friday night, and cultivated a closer acquaintance with the heavenly bodies. Judging from the noise they produced on their return, they must have come back from their observations heavily laden with knowledge.
—The Minims play the Union Stars of South Bend tomorrow. It promises to be an interesting game, as all the games played in St. Edward’s Hall are interesting. The Minims have already ’ won two games from South Bend teams by scores of 24-20 and 27—11 respectively.	,
—The Crescent Club Orchestra of eight pieces, under the leadership of Mr. A. Roy Crawford, has been practising regularly, and will soon be a feature of our popular dancing club. They will make their first. appearance this evening in the Carroll reading-room.
—In the neighboring vicinity is a bowling alley, and although it is not the finest in the country it serves well its purpose. The pins, it is true, are nothing more than Indian clubs, but
• the big iron ball that goes thundering down the alley, always scatters them, making it very interesting—especially for the one who has to pick them up.	;
—The Grays and the Blacks, the strongest teams in St. Edward’.s Hall, have already begun the series of five games to be played for gold ; medals. Last Thursday the Grays won the first of the series by a score of 15 to 13. The bat- • teries were, for the Grays, George Weidmann, | Spillard, Freeman; for the Blacks, McMaster,' ? A. Phillips, F. Phillip.	|
—The carpenters are already putting the roof on the north wing of Sorin Hall, and the masons are fast reaching the top floor in the south wing. When completed, Sorin Hall will be one of the cosiest and prettiest buildings os the University. .The Sorinites will then need only a campus, a tennis court and a handball alley to make their life at the University all that can be desired.
—The Oratorical Contest, which is one of the principal events of the scholastic year, will be* i held on Wednesday evening, June 2, in Wash- j ington Hall. The list of speakers and of their ; subjects will be published in our next number, but we will anticipate by stating that the contestants for this year’s medal are men of high ability both in the composition of the oration and in the delivery thereof.
—Tennis .has become very popular during the last few weeks. Over on the Brownson ;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
535
campus there are two new clay courts; the Juniors have another; Brother Cajetan has just had a new one rolled on Saint Edward’s campus, and as we go to press Mr. Mannon and Mr. Murphy are raking, cutting, mowing, plowing and pushing a turf court into shape down near the post-office. This court will be completed within a few days, provided there is no delay in the consignment of rakes ordered last Thursday.	.
—There are still four weeks of work before Commencement day arrives, but that does not prevent the students from planning homegoing trips. A number of the Eastern men have decided to go over the Lake Shore as far as Cleveland, then by a Lake Erie boat to Buffalo, and the remainder of the trip by rail. This will make a very pleasant journey, but we have doubts of its ever occurring-. On Commencement morning they will make a beeline to the railway station and get home in the shortest time possible.	,
—Truly, the amount of slang used by the small boy of today is astounding. If his vocabulary increases much more he will need to carry an interpreter with him. A few days ago we heard a student say, “ Let’s pike down the peeker to the pumpereel to get a drinkereena,” which in English means, “ Let’s go down the road to the pump to get a drink.” This habit of adding “ ee,” “ er ” and “ eena ” to the ends of words is a new one, and its effects are startling, as the above sentence shows. The system was perfected in St. Louis.
—The final competitive drills in the Military Companies will be held on May 29, a week hence. These competitions will decide the winner of the gold medals, consequently, much interest should be aroused. Immediately after the last competitive drill the medals will be awarded. On the same day there will be a competitive drill for the sword which was presented to the Battalion on Washington’s Birthday. This year the companies are well officered and, therefore, well drilled, and the final competitions ought to be very interesting.
—Work on the new St. Joseph’s Hall is progressing rapidly, and when the students return in September they will find one of the prettiest buildings at Notre Dame erected down near the shops. The structure will be three stories high, with lavatories, refectory, etc., on the first floor, study-hall and private rooms, on the second, and the dormitories on the third. During the summer the present St. Joseph’s Hall will be torn down; and the ground it occupies, together with the present campus, will be used as a campus by the students of both St. Joseph’s and Sorin Hall. There vvill be ample room for baseball and football fields.
—Several of the. Minims, chaperoned by Brothers Cyril, Augustine and Guy, mounted their little bicycles last Sunday and turned them toward the St. Joe Farm. The trip is a
pretty long one, but the sturdy little fellows flew over the road like “scorchers” and finished the run in about an hour. When they reached the farm, they were treated .like princely visitors, as they are, and owned the whole place—barns and stables and kitchen and all—for about , an hour or so. The roads were very smooth, and on that account the trip was doubly delightful. They enjoyed the hospitality of the St. Joe Farm immensely, but they were glad to return to Notre Dame, nevertheless.
—As announced in our last issue, the hay-stacker-hook-and-ladder chute was given a trial on Thursday, and worked to perfection. Hemlets and Pat got into the chute, along with a few other sections of old rubber hose, and were shot up to the roof of the Infirmary in a trice. At this juncture, however, an accident occurred which came near ending fatally. The men below, who were manipulating the shooting apparatus, let go for a moment, and the stacker dropped to the ground with an indigo blue thud. Pat was left hanging' on the water spout, with Hemlets clinging for dear life to his suspenders. All was consternation for a moment till several of. the Minims, who happened to be passing at the .time, rescued the luckless firemen from their awkward predicament.
—When the Carrollites saw half of Sorin Hall and a wagon load of baggage collect on the steps last Thursday afternoon, they sent a representative over to find the cause of all- the excitement among the mortar boards. Some one told the Carrollite on the wheel that Steel-etto was going to be married in South Bend that evening and that ’97 was going to attend in a body. As it is not very difficult to believe anything like that of Steeletto the report soon . spread all over the campus across the way; but, as Steeletto would say, we are sorry the Carrollites were mistaken. The class simply went down in a body to have a group picture taken in cap and gown. Mr. McDonald finished the plate for the students immediately after the sitting, and they are all very much pleased with it. Flow could it be anything but pleasing!
—A Scholastic reporter, being a little “ shy ” on news, strolled into Brownson Flail the other evening to see what he could see. But everything was quiet save W------’s necktie. It is true Eezy K. smiled sweetly; but as long as Eezy’s smiles can not be readily reproduced on paper, his attempts to assist, the reporter in filling the columns were as useless as was Duffy’s armful of puns. Dixie was busily-engaged in transferring his freight to his old seat in “bald-headed row,” and Lan Johnders was perusing a few “ likely ” magazines. Hans Schneider Krantz Wynne was probably the most contented man in the room, having just received a copy of the Stuttgart Bladder.- But as the reporter was looking for something
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
536
more exciting he soon withdrew empty-handed.
—Something should be done at once to prevent the men and boys of South Bend and elsewhere from fishing in St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s Lakes. Both these beautiful bodies of water contain many fish; but unless these are taken care of they will soon be mere fishless ponds. As the lakes are the private property of the University it should not be a difficult matter to keep these outside persons away from them. Many of the students and not a few members of the Faculty enjoy two or.three hours fishing, and to these it is not at all pleasant to see “ rank outsiders ” carry off big strings every day. Many fish are also shot by men and boys as they lie in the shallow water between the island and the shore at the north end of St. Mary’s Lake. Stock both lakes, keep outside parties away, and residents of Notre Dame will have a chance to enjoy one of the best of sports.
■—About six weeks ago, Robbie gathered his little friends about him, and told them that he was soon to be the. recipient of a nice large barrel of crisp crackers with little holes in them. The little fellows’ eyes grew big, and Ollie was heard 'to say, “ Gee whiz! ” But the crackers failed to materialize. Each week Robbie assured his incredulous playmates that the long looked-for delicacy would soon arrive. When any naughty boy would forgetfully go to strike Robbie, he was wont to say, “ Remember the crackers,” and the naughty boy would immediately put his threatening fist into his pocket and shyly say: “ I didn’t mean it, Robbie.” Well, at any rate, the crackers came at last, and Robbie and his playmates were in bliss for the next week. A few days ago Robbie wrote to his papa telling him that the crackers had failed to arrive, and yesterday he received an answer stating that a second barrel had been shipped—bright boy, that!
—The fine weather of the last two weeks has resuscitated the noble Greeks, and they are again playing their national game with all the vigor of yore. The right noble president secretary, general manager, etc., now wears a handkerchief tied around his head to confine his chestnut ringlets, which formerly had the habit of getting into his eyes at inopportune times, especially when the score was close. Demosthenes Schermerhorn is as eloquent as ever, especially when Carvy and Dupe are around; and the latest addition to the society— a full-fledged Athenian named Hoolihan—gives promise of a brilliant future. Everybody regrets the treachery of Aristotle Cincinnatus Butler and Epicurus J. Geegan, who have joined the Trojans in Sorin Hall, but just now the society are felicitating themselves upon the advent of Bro. Hugh’s colts, who but recently knelt before the shrine of the god Handballos, and received the mystic shibboleth from his Right Nobleness.	.
Roll of Honor.
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Arce, Brennan, Bennett, Bryan, Byrne, Costello, Crilly, Confer, Delaney, Geoghegan, W. Golden, Lantry, Murphy, Miller, Mingey, Medley, McNamara, McDonough, F. O’Malley, F. O’Hara, Pulskamp, Piquette, Reilly, Sullivan, Sanders, Steiner, Spalding,
’	BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Armijo, Arizpe, R. Brown, E. Brown, Baab, Brucker, Bouwens, Baloim, Bommersbach, Crawford, T. Cavanaugh, Corby, Campbell, Crowley, Cullinane, Conway, J. Cavanaugh, J. Casey, Dreher, Davies, Dowd, M. Daly, Duffy, Duffy, Donovan, J. Daly, Dooley, Davis, Ellison, Fetherstone, Foster, Fox, C. Flannigan, Follen, Fehr, Farrell, Franey, M. Flannigan, Falvey, Fleming, Grady, R. Garza, C. Garza, Gilbert, Guilfoyle, Guerra, C. Gray, Hoban, Hengen, F. Hesse, Howard, E. Hake, L. Hake, Hanhouser, Henry, Haley, J. Hesse, Hay, Hartung, Hindel, Jelonak, Kidder, F. Kaul, I.'Kaul, Kraus, Kearney, Koehler, A. Lyons, Landers, T. Lowery, Lutz, J. Murphy, Mullen, Morris, Mulcrone, W. Monahan, Meyers, Martin, Miller, McCarrick, McCormack, McNichols, C. Murphy, McGinnis, McConn, McDonald, McKenzie, Niezer, Nye, F. O’Shaughnessey, M. O’Shaughnessey, O’Hara, Pickett, Paras, Powell, Quinn, Quandt, Reed, Rahe, Steams, Smoger, Stuhlfauth, Summers, Schermerhorn, San Roman, Schulte, Spalding, Scheubert Thiele, Thams, H. Taylor, Toba, Vogt, Weadock, Ward, Welker, Wieczorek, J. Wimberg, H. Wimberg, Williams, Wynne, Wilson.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Abrahams, R. Armijo, P. Armijo, Beardslee, Becker, Berger, Breslin, Burke, Burns, Brand, Cornell, M. Condon, Coquillard, Cowie, Curry, Curtis, Conklin, Darst, Dellone, Davidson, Devine, Dinnen, Drejer, Dugas, Delaney, Elliott, Ellwanger, Fennessey, Fox, L. Fish, A. Fish, Funk, Frank, Friedman, Fleming, Girsch, Grossart, Garrity, Hoban, Houck, Herron, Heffelfinger, Hinze, Herbert, A. Kasper, F. Kasper, Keiffer, Kelly, Kiley, Kirkland, Klein, Kilgallen, Krug, J. Kuntz, Land, Leach, Lovett, Lyle, Maher, Mohn, Mooney, Morgan, Morrissey, T. Mulcare, J. Mulcare, T. Murray, R. Murray, J. Murray, Moxley, Mueller, Merz, Michels, McCallen, McDonnell, McIntyre, J. McMahon, O. McMahon, McMaster, McNamara, McNichols, McManus, T. Naughton, D. Naughton, Nolan,“Noonan, Nast, F. O’Brien, O’Malley, O’Neill, Ordetx, Padden, Pohlman, Powers, Pulford, Putnam, Pyle, Page, Quinlan, Reuss, Richon, Sample, Sanford, Schaffhauser, J. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Schmidt, Schmitt, E. Sheeky, J. Sheeky, Shiels/ Shillington, Shea, Slevin, Stengel, Sullivan, Swan, Szybowicz, Swiney, Schwabe, Taylor, Wagenmann, J. Ward, Wolcott, H; St. Clair Ward, F. Ward, Waite, Walsh, Watterson, Wells Wilson.	.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Masters Abercombie, Abrahams, Allyn Arnold, Beardslee, C. Bode, F. Bode, Bosworth, Butler, Burton, Brooks, Blanchfield, Casparis, Clarke, Cotter, Cowie, Coquillard, Cressy, Cunnea, Craig, Davis, Dorian, Dugas, Dougherty, Dessauer, Ebbert, Engelmann, Ervin, Edgarton,, Ellis, Fetter, Frost, Freeman, Frain, Fleischer, Griffith, Garrity, Hall, Hart, Hubbard, Hinsey, Jonquet, Kasper. Kelly, F. Keogh, R. Keogh, Lawton, Lovell, Leisander, Le-clerque, E. Manion, P. Manion, Moore, P. McBride, L. McBride, J. McBride, Willie McBride, E. McCarthy, G. McCarthy, McConnell, M. McMahon, J. McMahon, W. McMahon, E. Monahan, S. Monahan, R. McMaster, B. McMaster, C. McMaster, J. McGeeney, E. McGeeney, Mathesius, Paul, F. Phillip, A. Phillips, G. Quertinmont, E. Quertinmont, Rennolds, Rees, Ryan, Redpath,. Robbins, Spillard, Steele, Shields, Strauss, Strong, Seymour, Tillotson, Trentman, L. Van Sant, J. Van Dyke, R. Van Sant, F. Van Dyke, Veneziani, Welch, G. Weidmann, F. Weidmann, Wilde, Weber, Wigg,