ESQUIRE SLACKS EXCLUSIVELY AT GILBERT'S
OPEN EVERY EVENING 'TILL 9 (Take Michigan St. Bus)
GILBERT'S
"The Place to Go for the Names You Know"
813 So. Michigan St.
FREE COPY
OF THE NEW
SPALDING
SPORT SHOW
BOOK
Alive with sports action and gags by the famous sports
cartoonist Willard Mullin.
Twelve pages packed I with amusing facts and situations illustrated in the typical humorous Mullin style. Millions of sports fans have enjoyed this annual publication of the cartoons that have been popular newspaper sports page features. You don’t want to miss it! Send for enough free copies today to give one to each of vour group.
the slacks that have taken the campus by storm I
custom-styled
with "finga-tip" adjustment
exciting new idea in slacks, are built for comfort and tailored for superb good looks. The ingenious waistband adjusts instantly.
Horizontal hip zippers — which operate with magical fingertip ease—"let out" or "take in" the waistline of your stack, enabling you to adjust your trouser instantly to conform to the shape and ^»ze of your existing waist, line, thus assuring perfect fit and trimness at all times.
STMDVHGi
fits perfectly, means feather-light comfort while studying or loafing. Once you've worn SLEEX, you'll never wear any other slacks. Relax and be smart in your first pair today.
Rubberized inner waist* band keeps stacks snugly against body. Eliminates ne* cessity of belt. Prevents shirt from "hiking up." Gives you more than a full inch of extra stretch whenever you need it.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS. INC. \ 161 Sixth Avenue, Dept. N.C. New York 13, N.Y.
SLEEX $20.00
CHICO SLACKS $10.95 to $25.00
In a handsome selection of luxurious gabardines, flannels and .fancy weaves.
* Trade-Mark
SLEEX*
America's Most Modern Slack
A product of
ESQUIRE SPORTSWEAR CO.
i he Scholastic
LETTERS
Editor:
In a recent Scholastic, weighty with sage statements you said, in tone ex cathedra, that any poor N. D. freshman who braves the perils of U. S. 31 to make a bewildered appearance at a Saint Mary’s Sunday Tea Dance would be not only unfortified by tea, but in “competition” with all of the 4,999 other ND’ers clamoring for the restricted supply of fabulous Saint Mary’s girls. You clearly implied that the proportion is ten Notre Dame students to one of Saint Mary’s. This is true theoretically. Actually, few girls see even five of their ten men.
Consequently, for the enlightenment of your freshmen and the edification of the upperclassmen, we request that these erroneous statements be publicly retracted in the Scholastic and the situation remedied completely so that each girl gets to know her ten men. When this has been accomplished every girl will be only too happy to furnish as much tea as her ten men can possibly consume. Seriously,
Ann Sayre Mary Lou Ryan Helen Ong B. A. Leong
St. Mary’s College
We zvon’t retract the statements, .girls, but ive'll be over for the tea.—Ed.
A Joke in Bad Taste
Editor:
In your issue of Sept. 28 you published a letter addressed to your office to which my name was affixed. I assume that it was my name due to the fact that I am the only John Murray residing at the present time in Dillon Hall.
I had always been under the impression that Scholastic was an intelligent publication with an eye for the
Mass Schedule
Saturday, Oct. 6—Feast of Saint Bruno.
Sunday, Oct. 7—21st Sunday after Pentecost. Colls. 4.
Monday, Oct. 8—Feast of Saint Bridget.
Tuesday, Oct. 9—Feast of Saint John Leonard.
Wednesday, Oct. 10—Feast of Saint Francis Borgia. Colls. 2, 3 at choice.
Thursday, Oct. 11—Feast of the Motherhood of the Blessed Virgin Ajary.
Friday, Oct. 12—Mass of the season.
SUNNY ITALY
A NOTRE DAME TRAD/r/ON
“Rosie’s." Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles

David Kempler
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
We carry a large showing of fine
Watches and Jewelry...
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Sendee.
111 South Michigan Street
Whenever you have work to do And want to make an "A ” or two Don’t groan, don’t gripe, Don’t quake, don’t toil Call right up and Rent-a-Royal.
LATE MODEL OFFICE TYPEWRITERS ON EASY TERMS ONE MONTH $4 THREE MONTHS $9 free Delivery, Pickup and Service
RQYAb TYPEWRITER CO., INC.
TELEPHONE 2*3336
4
309 E. JEFFERSON BLVD.
Oct. 5, 1951
3
sensible. That there is not a bit of sense in the letter is plainly evident and I would like to take the opportunity at this time to deny the truth of it at least as far as I am concerned. I did not compose the letter noi- did I ever contemplate its composition. It is obviously the work of some professional practical joker who revels in the embarrassment of his fellow students. To say that something is mentally lacking in the makeup of this individual is perhaps an understatement. Nevertheless if that is the manner in which he chooses to amuse himself he might do better to display it upon a more grateful recipient than myself.
John Murray Dillon Hall
TFfi sincerely regret having caused Mr. Murray any embarrassment. However, it is impossible to check on the validity of the signature of every letter we receive. Instead we’re forced to rely on the honesty and courtesy of those ivho do write letters for publication. Evidently that was a mistake this time. We fully concur with Mr. Murray’s observation that something is lacking in the person who did sign Mr. Murray’s name.—Ed.
MANHATTAN SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
and
NECKWEAR
are featured in a grand array
at
Spiro’s
in South Bend
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of Manhattan shirts, neckwear, underwear, pajamas, sportshirts, beuchwear and handkerchiefs.
4
Top of the Week
All the pretty girls on campus, last week . . .
The Irish Start Anew
Last Saturday’s Hoosier homicide out on Leahy’s lot has caused a lot of the self-styled experts who figured the Irish were in for- a repeat of the 1950 nightmare to sit up, hide their pre-season prognostications and take another peek.
There weren’t too many of the top dog sportswriters and ’casters up in the stadium press box last week, but after that Indiana fracas, you can bet your last bus token that the Arch Wards and Harry Wismers will certainly be on hand up .in Charlie Callahan’s greenhouse come the SMU and Purdue encounters.
By Jack Hynes
“What do you make of it?” we asked. >
“Ya got me, Mac,” she replied with a wintry little smile.
She did inform us, however, that the Slim-Jim Kentucky Colonel type was the fastest seller, with the Lord Hemp ward-heeler type running a close second.
I tell you there is something sinister in all this. I just hope L. A. “Speed” Riggs doesn’t learn of it. Meanwhile, have a cigar.
Verily, Verily
The Notre Dame prof who comes' in late is rare; in fact, he’s in a class by himself.
interhall phones, those who are in the habit of calling up fellow serfs in neighboring halls are finding that their index fingers are just so much useless material. But Low-Overhead Lomasney, a rising young entrepreneur from Alumni Hall (Alumni Hall is notorious for its rising, young entrepreneurs) has come up with a few solutions to the problem.
Low-Overhead is offering, at very reasonable rates, several communication devices for his campus clientele. He is well supplied with large, mono- . gram blankets and smudge pots for sending trans-campus smoke signals.
And Lomasney is also featuring surplus semaphore flags (government inspected) and guaranteed-to-fly carrier pigeons (also government inspected), both at amazingly low prices. Don’t wait, see Low-Overhead Lomasney today.
Bon Voyage
■I don’t know about you, but we’re off to Detroit and Briggs stadium. Meet you between the halves?
Bottom of the Week
Some of that new Freshmen and Sophomore blood isn’t going to hurt the greenshirts’ chances, either. A few of the Irish youngsters were in the Hoosier backfield more than some of the Hoosiers were. Ask sophomore Neil Worden; he’s from Milwaukee and he oughta know.
Spell It Out
Cheerleader Jack McGlinn and his stadium seven were busy making like a feature act from Barnum and Bailey’s all afternoon, flipping and skipping all over the place, and generally working themselves up into an Irish stew.
Although Jack and his hyperthyroid colleagues exhibited some new cutups and cheers for the assemblage, the best one we heard was carried by a small group sitting in back of us, who, after the 42-0 mark had been reached, began chanting —“Rickety-rick, Rickety-rack, let’s go back and hit the sack.”
Have a Cigar
Don’t look now, and we hesitate to speak of it, but there is a growing trend on campus toward cigar smoking. While whiling away a few precious study hours (study hours are always spoken of as being “precious”) last week in a cafeteria kaffee klatch with a few of my gangster friends, I noted that more and more ND men are taking up the cheroot as their new nicotine social.
We queried the girl at the cigar counter about the matter.
Farley to Lyons — Over
With the dials removed from the
. . . they were all • with somebody else.
5 0 SMOOTH DANCING
. . . is the sure way to new friends . . . fun . . . popularity!
ANALYSIS
LESSON ... just DIAL 7-1517
Looking forward to a good time at school this year ... a chance to forget your studies a few hours each week while you relax and enjoy yourself? Then . . . right now is the time to. start on your way to becoming a SMOOTH DANCER! Do as many students have done each year... let an experienced George Davis instructor introduce you to the sure way to new friends and popularity. You can be a good dancer in no time at all!
Special Notre Dame Rates!
CORNER MICHIGAN AT MONROE
DIAL 7-1517

Oct. 5, 1951
CalencCar
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
OCTOBER 5
DETROIT—The young, hungry Irish go after their second win over the young and mediocre Detroit squad. Only too much overconfidence could make this anything but a decisive Irish win and an important tune-up for next week’s intersectional battle with SMU. The game will be broadcast over WSBT starting at 8:15.
PALACE (through Oct. 12)—His Kind of Woman has Bob Mitchum and Jane Russell sharing top billing and in spite of it all, the picture isn’t half bad. The companion feature, Chain of Circumstances, runs only 68 minutes and that’s the best thing that can be said about it.
GRANADA (through Oct. 10)—Lizabeth Scott again plays the beautiful bad girl in Two of a Kind with Edmond O’Brien. This time she and O’Brien drop their scruples in an attempt to take a wealthy elderly couple to the cleaners. The picture may be unique in that the plot is complicated with a double triangle pitting Scott and Terry Moore in opposite corners. Mask of the- Avenger, the companion feature, just swashbuckles all over the place with duels, chases and ladies in distress.
OCTOBER 6
PALAIS ROYALE—The second Victory Dance of the year gets under way at the game away location at 8:30. Gene Hull and his Lettermen will provide the music and the price is still at the new high of §2.	'
WASHINGTON HALL—Those two campus favorites, Marjorie Main and James Whitmore tread the Washington Hall boards in Mrs. Of Malley and Mr. Malone.	.
OCTOBER 7
AVON (through Oct. 9)—Paul Douglas is the old pro footballer who can’t believe his plajnng days are over in The Guy Who Came Back, co-starring Linda Darnell and Joan Bennett. A rather somber movie throughout, it provides an interesting insight into the pride of the career athlete. The screenplay is adapted from a story by ND grad William Fay.	’
OCTOBER 10
COLFAX (through Oct. 17)—Esther Williams, Red Skelton, Howard Kell, Ann Miller and Keenan Wynn blend their talents in MGM’s latest Technicolor musical, Texas Carnival. The lavish production offers each star ample opportunity to display his individual abilities against a Texas background, and the whole thing turns out to be a fairly good job.
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING GUARANTEED «
126 NO.MICHIGAN ST.
tyw...
* PIPE RACKS
♦ BILLFOLDS
* ZIP RING BINDERS
* BRIEF BAGS
or MOST ANYTHING in LEATHER GOODS
It’s
HansX Rintzsch e>kcp
Michigan at Colfax
Why Pay More?
LONG PLAYING RECORDS
(33 1/3 R.P. M.)
30% Off
Factory New! Every Record Guaranteed!
For FREE Complete Catalogue and Price List, write to:
RECORD HAVEN STORES (Dept. C)
520 W. 48th St., New York 19, N. Y.
If in N. Y. C. visit our Midtown stores: 1125 Sixth Ave. - 1145 Sixth Ave.
1211 Sixth Ave.
6
The Scholastic
Vol. 93 October 5, 1951 No. 4
The Notre Dame
o II asttc
'T^ditorials'/
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO...........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY...........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO......Assistant Sports
WILLIAM H. FRASER..........Photography
LEON GARDNER.................Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER.............Advertising
C. T. HULL.................Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN.............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
We're Still the 'Fighting Irish'
In last week’s cover box we stated that “whether or not the Irish can whip the Hoosier’s experienced outfit is a question.” Well, after the first half in last Saturday’s fracas there wasn’t much question about it. Indiana really took a bezting. O	»
It’s not our place to analyze football games but there are a few things about the Indiana game that deserve mention. The support from the student section of the stadium was great. The cheers that rolled out onto the field left nobody in doubt about the attitude of the Notre Dame student body.
And the team was fired up too. There was plenty of bench spirit. In short, it was pretty obvious that the Irish were out to win a football game. They sure did.
But there are nine more teams on the menu. Most of them will be rough. Last Saturday’s game assured the nation that N.D. would be no push-over. Any over-confidence on the part of Purdue. Michigan State, etc., has probably been dispelled. They’ll all be waiting for us again, knowing that we’re good and wanting to beat us more than anyone.
So it’s up to all of us to stay fired up. There’s a rocky road ahead but it is not an impossible one. At least not to the team and student body who served notice to the nation last week that they’re still the “Fighting Irish.”
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Everybody’s hat was off to the Irish last Saturday. In the stands the students roared their approval and on the sidelines even Frank Leahy was enthused. It was a great day for the head fooball coach of the Fighting Irish as his youthful team trounced Indiana, 48-6. It was a rough day for the headman, too, though. Every football game is. And Frank Leahy is an interesting study during a football game. Pacing the length of the Irish bench, admonishing, praising, observing. After a game he is almost as tired as any of his players. This week, on page 26, Scholastic presents a sequence of pictures of Frank Leahy during the Indiana game. Take a look at them. We think they’re a fine study. The shot we used for the cover summarizes everybody’s feeling after the game. Our hats are off too. To the team and to Mr. Frank Leahy.
—Photo by Jerry Sheehan.
Oct. 5, 1951
And We're Still Fighting for a Seat on the Last Bus
About 100 of them, milling and shoving like cattle for the privilege of being a sardine on the last Saturday night bus. How would that be, for a first, and only, impression of Notre Dame Alen? No, this isn’t a blast at you sardines. But, we’d like to raise this question: Why can’t something be done to make that last-minute ride more civilized and enjoyable?
Scholastic approached the Northern Indiana Transit Co. with this question. Their answer was that they are already providing extra buses on the Notre Dame run late Saturday night, and can and will add more if they are needed and suitable arrangements can be made.
Two suggestions, then. First, that the Student Council contact NIT and formulate some plan for easing the campus student’s Saturday night transportation worries. Possibly a special schedule of non-stop buses could be set up for the last half-hour, leaving the downtown area every few minutes for a flying trip to the campus. Such buses would be in addition to the regular Notre Dame buses, and could leave from some point that was not right in the center of traffic. There would be no trouble in filling these buses, and nobody would have to ride back to Notre Dame in a vehicle piled three deep with passengers.
Secondly, the Student Council should notify the bus company every time permissions are extended till 12:30. According to an NIT representative, this is not being done now, and sometimes results in trouble for those who like to start back after midnight.
Under the existing situation everybody gets back, it is true, although you can always see some of the troops frantically hopping cabs as the witching hour approaches. But if the above suggestions, or something similar, were carried out, no longer would we be traihpled into the pavement at the comer of Michigan and Washington, nor would we be confined to four square inches of space for a lurching 10 minutes. It might be all right for the guys in the third layer, but those of us on the two bottom strata would like a change.
7
in hoc mundo...only the
. M.
has the soft collar that
wort wrinkle... ever!
. .. which means the Van Hensen Century shirt is the only shirt in this world (and probably the next!) with the collar that stays neat and wrinkle-free for life—without starch or stays!
One-piece patented collar can’t be ironed or folded wrong . .. always linen-soft round your neck! See the Van Heusen Century shirt in regular or widespread collars,
$3.95 to $4.95
Van Heusen
“the worM’s smartest” shirts
Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N.Y.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
BETTER READING IS A PRICELESS ABILITY
Suppose your reading rate and comprehension were boosted 100%, or more. Think of the hundreds of hours you’d save—just this year—for more learning, earning, and fun!
Lifetime Skill
Find out now how easily and quickly you, too, can further develop your reading skills for a lifetime of increased reading profit and pleasure.
Start Benefiting Now
A limited number of enrollments can be accepted this month. Call, write, or stop in for free information and literature.	.
TUNE IN WHOT (1490) for the Foundation for Better Reading CONCERT HOUR EVERY NIGHT AT 10:30
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSALLE	3-0077
(Open evenings 'til 9)
3
The Scholastic
•I'
Dame	® II ast ue
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 4
OCTOBER 5, 1951
Detroit-Bound Seniors Set for Lost Weekend
u Game, Reception, Dance Fill Docket
Senior Class President George Sweet . ; has announced the calendar of events that will greet the Senior-trippers upon r their arrival in Detroit tonight. Of course, the University of Detroit-Notre Dame football game at Briggs Stadium ? at 8:30 will head off the list. Next, the U. of D., which, apparently, leaves nothing undone, will hold a reception ! ; at the Fort Shelby Hotel for all NDers. £ It is not known how long this will last.
Anticipating a hectic Friday night, the schedule next calls for a Saturday J morning filled with nothing but sack. After lunch, at 1 o’clock, the seniors, if they have nothing else planned, will embark on a side trip to Greenfield y Village in Dearborn, a Detroit suburb about seven miles away. Greenfield Village is a model community of workers’ homes, engineered and laid out by the late Henry Ford. It contains, among 6 other interesting exhibits, a completely 1 reconstructed model of the tool shed that was the beginning of the mighty , Ford Motor Corporation of today. This v building contains the first motor-car Henry Ford built. This trip will continue the greater part of the afternoon and the trippers will return to the Hotel Irving at 5 p.m.
| Sunday to Recuperate
That night, a dance at the Supper Club of the Imperial Hotel will be held, and again all Irish are invited. No time limit has been set on this dance thus far.
Sunday, at an indeterminate time, the Seniors will attend Mass in a body at St. Aloysius’ Church in the heart of downtown Detroit. On Sunday afternoon there will be activity of a recuperative nature for those who were more socially minded during the previous two nights, and sight-seeing for the rest.
International Relations Holds Discussion on Communism
The first in a series of five discussions on Communism in theory and practice, sponsored by the Committee on
DR. WALDEMAR GURIAN Leads the First of Five
International Relations, will be held Oct. 11 at 8 p.m. in Room 101, Law Building. Topic of the discussion will be “Establishment and Development of the Communist Power in Russia,” with Dr. Waldemar Gurian as discussion leader.
The four remaining discussions will be entitled: “How the Soviet Union Organized Its Satellites Empire,” with Stephen Kertesz as discussion leader on Oct. 18, “Communism in the United States,” with Paul Bartholomew as discussion leader on Oct. 25, “The Communist Party in France,” with J. B. Duroselle as discussion leader, Nov. 8, and “What Must Be Done Against the Communist World Danger,” which is to be held Nov. 15, with all members of the committee participating. Meetings will be held in the Rockne Memorial.
Father Barry Named NFCCS Moderator
Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., assistant prefect.of religion, has been newly appointed as moderator of the Notre Dame NFCCS unit. He will succeed Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., who will remain as adviser to the campus NFCCS Inter-American Affairs chapter and the regional IAA Commission.
Also appointed as an NFCCS moderator is Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C. Father Putz, at present working with . YCS-, will assume additional duties as adviser to the National Catholic Action Study Commission, which is headed by Notre Dame.
Father Barry, who just this fall was appointed Assistant Prefect of Religion, has been a member of the faculty since 1946. For the last two years he has been doing vocational work for the Holy Cross Congregation and previous to that he was Prefect of Discipline.
Father Putz, new CAS moderator, has long been associated’ with Notre Dame Catholic Action work, having started the first YCS cell on the campus.
Chapters Make Headway
At the regular NFCCS Council meeting this week, Father Cunningham, the retiring moderator, suggested how the federation might be able to benefit clubs which affiliate with it.
Also the Apostolic Chapter and International Relations Chapter heads announced that their groups had made considerable progress in organizing and developing projects for the year. However the proposed Press and. Science groups have not yet begun to form.
Two new officers were also appointed to the Council at the meeting. George Vosmick was made recording secretary and Joe Nash became special co-ordinator whose duty will be to represent the Senior Delegate at NFCCS functions he cannot attend.
Oct. 5, 1951
9
Well-Sponsored WND Appoints Baier Head Ad Time Salesman, Knott Program Director
A personnel shift at WND early this week saw Sophomore Jay Baier named as head “time salesman,” while Tom Knott, the author of the “Story of Storyville” program, was named program director to fill the vacancy created by Baier’s new appointment.
The head time salesman position is a new one at the campus station, necessitated by the spreading commercial role played by WND. The new financial obligations being undertaken by the station—such as the Thesauras transcription service, contracted for last year, and the United Press news wire, which will soon be in operation—all point to the need for a large and well organized commercial sales group.
Baier will head such a group, under the direction of WND Manager Jim Adler.
Knott, the new program director, has gained the reputation on the campus station as a top script writer. He is responsible for all the “Story of Story-ville” scripts and also wrote the “Campus Digest” in the latter part of last semester.
For the first time in the station’s history, WND’s “spot commercial” schedule is completely filled, announces Business Manager Adler.
Every station break during the evening hours is now scheduled. “Nevertheless,” says Adler, “it should be remembered that many of our sponsors have WND on trial. If their advertisements bring results, they will continue buying time on WND and the station will continue in the fine financial position in which it presently finds itself.”
“Open House” was the order of the day last Saturday at. WND, as the station threw open its doors and welcomed all football weekend visitors into the studios during the afternoon broadcast of the nation’s football scores.
Only a few guests wandered in to watch sportcasters Bob Dougherty and Jim Gannon in action—but the project was in its first week and a better publicized and more smoothly run visitor’s program is expected to be arranged for the weekend of the Southern Methodist game, station manager Bill Ryan announces.
The idea of the open house is to give visitors to the campus an opportunity to see the station at the height of its activity.
For those who don’t feel like negotiating the long climb to the upper reaches of the Fieldhouse, head engineer Ted Byrne has rigged up a speaker that sends the WND Saturday after
10
noon broadcast .of music and football scores out into the area in front of the studios.
The Football Scoreboard, which takes to the air every Saturday afternoon at the close of the Irish football game, is a service made possible by the station’s Western Union ticker.
The ticker will also keep WND listeners informed as to the details of the World Series games every afternoon.
Student Tuberculosis Tests To Be Given Here Oct. 15-19
For the fourth consecutive year- the South Bend Tuberculosis League will sponsor X-ray checks for TB Oct. 15-19 in the basement of the Dining Hall. The tests will be given from 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. and from 5 to 7 p.m. Oct. 15-18, while the time for X-rays Oct 19 will be 9-11 a.m. and 12-3 p.m.
In addition to the students, all adults in the area are welcome; Dr. Eagan of the Infirmary strongly urges everyone to take the test.
These tests are the only feasible way to discover tuberculosis in its early stages. Sometimes the X-rays show evidence of other diseases. Previous tests indicating good health are not evidence that a person is free from TB.
At this testing station one case of TB was discovered in 1948 and one in 1949.
Those who wish to take the test (it is voluntary) should report to the basement of the Dining Hall, where their names and addresses will be taken. They will then be X-rayed, and in a few weeks will be notified as to the results of the test and their present condition.
ARO Doubles Size; Now Largest ND Unit
The Air Force Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, under the command of Colonel Melie J. Coutlee, has doubled its last year enrollment and now is the largest military unit on the campus.
A change has been made in the curriculum with the introduction of World Political Geography for the first year basic students. Upon completion of this course the Air Science II Cadet will have a better understanding of the
countries of the world. Three addi-tional options have been added, giving & the AROTC cadets entering the ad- ® vance courses the opportunity of select-	|
ing from five different fields: adminis-	'
tration and logistics, communications, comptrollership, flight operations, and general technical.
During the summer term the AROTC moved into new quarters located on the main floor of the Social Science Building, with rooms 111 and 112 being converted into the Administrative Offices and rooms 108, 109, 110, and 127 being used as classrooms.
The number of staff personnel also increased with the assigning of seven officers and nine airmen, making a total of 23 assigned personnel.	?
For the first time at Notre Dame the entire advance class of AROTC Cadets will be attired in the new Air Force blue Uniform. The Basic Ca- j dets will still be issued the Army type clothing this year, but it is anticipated	'
that they, too, will be in the blue uni-	I
form at the beginning of next year’s । class.
The Corps is offering many extracurricular activities, such as the Air Cadet Club, Arnold Air Society, Rifle Team, and a Cadet newspaper.
Vetville Socialites Plan Stag, Hen Parties, Weekly Dances
The first activity on the Vetville Social agenda this year, one which might interest the men of the family, is the	,i
Sports Smoker (stag) which, it is	I,
hoped, will be held every other week 1 of the football season. The program is expected to consist of Notre Dame movies, a talk by a member of the coaching staff and the serving of refreshments. The first smoker was held last Wednesday as a trial; if the com- j mittee considers it successful, it will be continued.
The better half of the family is not forgotten, however. A bridge party for the wives is scheduled to begin at 8 o’clock every other* Friday night. The admission is only 25 cents and prizes will be awarded.	s.
Vetville activities are open to all married students.
This year’s football season will see the very popular Victory Dances in the Vetville Recreation Hall repeated. Whether the team plays at home or away, the hall will be the scene of dances starting at 8:30 p.m. These dances are not restricted to Vetville residents; all married students are welcome. Refreshments will be served. The admission is 25 cents.
The Vetville Gazette, official news organ of the community, began publica-
The Scholastic
iff
h h'
I' tion for the year yesterday. The Ga-il zette contains news about Vetville resi-dents and other married students, and k will also include feature articles. The paper is published every other Thurs-| day by the wives of Vetville.
I All married students who did not register at the Drill Hall are requested to see Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., 333 Badin Hall, and fill out a registration 1 card.
y	--------------
ND Historians Collaborate On College History Text
Two historians at Notre Dame have ■ collaborated in the writing of a new ।' textbook for use in history departments of colleges and universities throughout the United States.
The new book, A History of the United States of America, was published this month by the Fordham University Press of New York City.
| Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., & head of the Department of History, 4 and Dr. Aaron I. Abell of the history | faculty assisted in the compiling of J	historical data and the assembling of
j textual matter. The text is a complete
United States history, including the 'f postwar era following World War II. j Other collaborators in the new text | •	included A. Paul Levack, a member of
■'=	the faculty in the Fordham University
Graduate School; Lawrence J. Mannion, of the Fordham University School of Education; and Rev. Bernard J. Fleming, of Cardinal Hayes High
| 1 School, New York City.
if Hynes Accepts Membership On ND Commerce Council
p Eugene J. Hynes of New York City, I	Chairman of the Board of Wilson
Brothers, has accepted membership on the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce at Notre Dame.
The University made the announcement in conjunction with the fall meet-* ing of the council early this week. The council is composed of 32 prominent business executives from all over’ the United States. Edward J. Quinn, a partner in the Murphy, Lanier and Quinn accountant, tax consultant and auditing firm of Chicago, is Chairman 1 of the Notre Dame council. Vice-Chairman is William R. Daley, President of Otis and Company, Cleveland, 0.
Mr. Hynes has been Chairman of the Board of Wilson Brothers, men’s wear ' manufacturers, since 1943. He also is i President of the Sheboygan Chair Com-1 pany, Inc., Sheboygan, Wis.
Oct. 5, 1951
Sophs Sign Al Trace Orchestra for Cotillion; 'Southern Serenade' Oct. 27 Formal's Theme
The orchestra is Al Trace, the theme “A Southern Serenade,” the affair, the Sophomore Cotillion. Just three weeks from tonight, Sophomores will promenade their belles at the Palais Royale for the first Notre Dame formal of the 1951-52 season.
The next afternoon, Oct. 27, they will treat those same fair ladies, in a special section reserved for the Cotillion-goers, to the Notre Dame-Purdue game. Saturday evening will bring with it a Victory Dance, and the next morning the weekend will close with Sunday Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
Tickets for the dance, which include both bids and favors, are now on sale for §6.00 in the Dining Hall. Until next Friday they will be available only to Sophomores; after that, any upper-classmen will be able to purchase one.
“Southern Serenaders” may also purchase tickets for the Purdue game with their bids. These tickets, available in pairs, will place1 the men and their dates in a special reserved section.
Rooms Getting Scarce
Although most of the rooms in downtown hotels are already reserved for the Oct. 27 weekend, accommodations for the girls are available in South Bend
private homes. Dance co-chairmen, Jerry Sheehan and Walter Vaughan, however, advise Sophomores who intend to bring dates from out of town to act quickly.
Two men in each Sophomore hall have a list of private 'residences with rooms for the nights of the 26th and 27th. In Cavanaugh, the men to see are Ron Mealey, 438, and Jim Brady, 145; in Lyons, Vern Essi, 408, and Leroy Bazany,- 406; in Morrisey, Bill Woodward, 20, and Ron Mazzoli, 428.
The Cotillion itself is slated to begin at nine Friday evening and continue till one the next morning. The Notre Dame men attending will be given 2 o’clock permissions as well as car permissions for the entire weekend.
Tuxes for the dance can be reserved from Ed Connors or Mike Laughlin in Cavanaugh Hall. Jack Simons of Morrissey is handling the blind-date department, while Jim Bernhart and Ed Snyder are taking care of ticket sales.
Other committee heads are: Dan Fagan and Clem Mawicke, publicity; Dan Kennedy and John Keenan, favors; and Ted Kintner and John Reidy, decorations. Managing the financial and business ends are Don Hoffman and George McDonough.
VAUGHAN, FATHER CAREY, SHEEHAN
Southern Serenade and Al Trace Only Three Weeks Away
11
JIM MUTSCHELLER
The Captain Introduces . . .
Classes Sponsor Pep Rallies; Juniors Next
Student Council members made provisions for the various classes to conduct the pep rallies for the remainder of the football season at the Council meeting Monday night.
The Juniors were given the SMU rally, the Seniors took the Purdue game, which was designated as Homecoming,
5,000 AT THE PEP RALLY “It'll Be Close, But We'll Beat the Hoosiers"
and either the Sophs or the Freshmen will handle the final one with Iowa. Different sites for the rallies are an innovation this year, and the Juniors will hold the next rally in the Badin Bog. Other sites have not been decided upon as yet.
Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., VicePresident in charge of Student Affairs, explained why the interhall telephone system had been removed. He pointed out that the telephones had been installed originally so that incoming emergencies might be handled in an efficient manner. However, the students abused this privilege by cluttering up the lines with interhall and intrahall phone calls so that operators were not able to get through with emergency calls. Father Carey informed the Council, though, that in the near future more cable is to be installed so that the interhall system can be returned and handled more efficiently.
Ed Sullivan and Tom Hampton won the flower concession bid for all the dances this year in a close election by the Council.
VICTORY DANCE
The second Student Council Victory Dance of the year will be held tomorrow night from 8:30 to 11:30 in the Drill Hall. Tickets are $2 a couple, and residence permissions have been extended till 12:30 a.m.
CHAZZ SCHUBERT
. . . ND’s Secret Weapon
Raza Club Elects Officers; Plans Banquet Next Friday
The La Raza Club held its second meeting of the year last Sunday. New members were introduced and election of club officers was completed. Officers for the coming year are: Jaime Castiello, President; Frank Schwab, Vice-President; Enrique Lopez, Secretary, and Modesto Roubert, Treasurer.
Preliminary arrangements were started for the annual club banquet to be held next Friday (El Dai de la Raza). Three committees were organized: social, athletic, and cultural, headed by Alfonso Garcia, Jaime Saenz, and Don Rellins respectively.
The 'dub also discussed plans for a dance to be held later in the year and the possibility of renewing a program over WND, as in former years, consisting of Latin-American music.
Italian Clubbers Get Rolling, Plan Banquet, Bowling Team '
Italian Club members held their first meeting Monday evening, Oct. 1, in the Law Building. According to Club President Dick Viola, the turnout for this meeting was the most favorable in many years. Tentative plans were -set for a banquet and the organization of the bowling team got under way.
Viola also announced that new members will be admitted to the club this fall.
Another meeting was called for next | Monday.	i
12
The Scholastic
Moot Court Competition Starts in November; Farley and Spalding Aim for Nationals
Milt Farley and Joe Spalding, winners of the Dean’s Award for 1951, are the current idols of the Notre Dame Moot Court participants this Fall.
Farley, from Richmond, Va., and Spalding, a native of Morganfield, Ky., entered into last year’s competition for the Junior Division of the Moot Court which, at the time, was comprised of a field of thirty-two entrants. The duo spilled the other thirty participants by the wayside during the year and emerged victoriously with the honors.
They thereby gained the right to represent the Law School in the National Moot Court Competition.
If Farley and Spalding are successful in the Seventh Circuit finals competition which is to be held at Chicago in the latter part of November, it will mark the second consecutive year that Notre Dame has sent a team into the National Finals at New York, where the winners from each judicial circuit converge for the ultimate honor, the national championship. The Seventh Circuit, the district to which Notre Dame is assigned, is composed of the Law Schools at Indiana, Northwestern, Illinois, Chicago, DePaul, Chicago-Kent, Loyola, Wisconsin and Marquette.
work obtained in the classroom with the practical work done in the courtroom.
Jury of Peers
It is under, the supeiwision of Professors E. F. Barvett and R. E. Sullivan. Court cases are argued before a jury in a Senior subject taught by Judge J. Elmer Peak of South Bend.
This entails the fabrication of a hypothetical situation involving one or more points of law and then preparing a brief of the case, incorporating cases, and holding for the law as one or the other side sees the law in support of its contention on appeal.
There are two “attorneys” on each side and the case in argued orally from the briefs which are submitted to three judges; one a faculty member, one a local attorney, and the third the senior law student who made up the factual situation presented. In the course of the oral argument, questions are asked of the attorneys regarding their contentions and opinions on the matter before the court.
After the conclusion of the arguments, the court retires to decide the issues in the light of the arguments presented, and brings in its decision, first regard
ing the law, and secondly, the winners of the argument who will advance to further competition.
Cash for Winners
The winners are determined on the brief which they submit, their ability to answer the questions asked of them, and the presentation of their oral arguments. The sum total out of a possible 900 points determines the winners—the two highest advancing. .
At present, the award consists of a plaque which contains the names of the winners and a $50 cash prize for each of them and a $25 cash prize for each of the runnersup. The cash prizes are donated by the Notre Dame Law Association, and the Alumni group of the Law School. In addition, the participants in the Freshman, Junior, and Senior Divisions each receive a certificate of participation acknowledging their efforts. The senior entrants who participated in each of their years in Law School receive an honor gavel. .
Official name of the court is The Supreme Court of Hoynes, named in honor of the distinguished Dean of the College of Lavr during the early part of the century, Col. William Hoynes.
The Award was established in the • Spring of 1950 by Dean Clarence E. Manion to better recognize the efforts of those men who participate in such competition.
Moot Question for Moot Court
The runnerup in last year’s competition, Emmett Fitzgerald of Alton, Illinois, is counsel on the brief for the two Notre Dame entrants and is assisting in the preparation for the oral argument of the case to be presented in Chicago. The issue itself involves a point of law which is unsettled at the present time: “What are the rights and privileges of a witness before a Congressional investigating committee as presented within the frame of a subsequent criminal prosecution for refusing to testify?”
The witness’ refusal is based upon a variety of reasons, including the ulterior motives of the committee, the television and radio broadcasting of the proceedings, the Roman holiday atmosphere, the impertinency of the questions, and the fact that the testimony is repetitious of previous appearances before the committee in less circus-like surroundings.
New competition for the Dean’s Award for the coming year will open the first week 'in November. A voluntary organization of the College of Law, the Moot Court has as one of its principal aims the coordination of the theoretical
Oct. 5, 1951
EMMETT FITZGERALD, JOE SPALDING, MILT FARLEY “What Are the Rights and Privileges of a Witness . .
13
Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund Inaugurated To Meet New $25 Million Building Campaign
By Canon Law, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, must retire from office in 1952. It is in tribute to his administration that the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund has been initiated to bring the University’s program — $25,000,000 within a ten-year period — abreast of its schedule.
The $3,000,000 sought this year will equal 40 per cent of the total still needed, while two-fifths of the time will have elapsed since the Foundation’s goal was set in 1948.
Solicitation of alumni and non-alumni friends for the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund is just getting under wav, after a summer spent in laying organization groundwork among the Chairman Cities (229) and the Local Alumni Clubs (122). .But as of Sept. 28, contributions since July 1, which will be incorporated in the Testimonial Fund, amounted to $138,452.59. These have come from 1376 alumni and from 220 non-alumni friends of the University.
On the calendar year basis of the regular Foundation program, from Jan. 1 to Sept. 28, the total amount received is $394,096.30, from 5728 alumni and 1474 non-alumni friends.
Other Buildings Planned
The above figures do not include the additional gift of $673,533 from Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy to complete the Liberal and Fine Arts Building, or the $1,200,000 art collection announced as the gift of Mrs. Sally Fisher, the donor
of the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial Residence Hall and the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Student Loan Fund.
To date since 1948, $7,000,000 has been given to Notre Dame by alumni and friends. These gifts have intensified the need for the other projects in the long-range program — heat, water, sewage disposal and the like.
Some of those projects included in the University’s long-range program are: an auditorium, memorial library, three replacement residence halls, Student Union Building, additional LO-BUND buildings, and a priests’ residence.
The Notre Dame Foundation realizes that, from the viewpoint of students, parents, and alumni, the proposed Student Union holds the most popular appeal.
History Department Features Duroselle
The Department of History will begin its series of lectures and discussions on Tuesday evening, Oct. 9, with a lecture on “The Catholic Social Movement in France Today” by Prof. J. B. Duroselle, visiting professor at the University under the auspices of the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations.
The lecture will be given in room 101, Law Building at 7:45 p.m. Tuesday. After Professor Duroselle gives

his paper, the topic will be open for discussion from the floor.
Professor Duroselle’s topic is one of deep interest for those who are ac- | quainted with the great steps made by Catholic Action in France in meeting the challenge of Communism among the French working class. Some of the more striking elements of the current Catholic Social movement have been the formation of Catholic trade unions, the organization of priest groups who work in the factories, and the participation of French Catholic intellectuals in the movement for better social conditions.
The general theme for the monthly ■ History Discussions for the year will , be Democracy in Education through -J the various periods of history under the question, “Who Shall Be Educated and How Shall He Be Educated?” Dr. Duroselle’s topic will touch on this aspect of the French Social Question, but will be more particularly directed * to the Social Question generally.
The Discussions will concentrate more on the question of education in ’ the particular periods of history, since the ideals of education in those periods are greatly dependent on the subject and character of the persons to , be educated.	'
Seek to Enroll More Students in Scapular
Plans have been made to enroll in	,
the Carmelite scapular any members of	I
the student, body who have not been • previously enrolled. Anyone interested may see one of the student chaplains.
The Carmelite scapular is one of the
SCIENCE BUILDING AND MORRIS INN
Expansion and Improvement Eat Up Funds
14
The Scholastic
most sacred devotions of the church. Its historical origin is in the vision in /	1251 of our Lady to St. Simon Stock,
। to whom she said, “Receive, my be-।	loved son, this habit of Thy Order:
!	This shall be to thee and to all Car-
melites a privilege, that whosoever- dies clothed in this shall never suffer eternal fire.”
! Our Lady did not mean that anyone i| dying in mortal sin will be saved, for that is impossible. But anyone clothed | in the scapular will not die in mortal sin. The sign of Mary’s privilege is either the cloth scapular or the scapular medal.
Every Thursday afternoon members i	of the Notre Dame family are invited
-.t	to attend a vocational holy hour in
Sacred Heart Church. Priests, Brothers, and students all assemble for an hour of prayer for the special graces needed to select one’s proper state in life.
•	Begun on the feast of the Little
Flower and ending next Thursday, a novena is being held for the sick friends ■ and relatives of Notre Dame students.
Throughout the month, adoration is being held in Sacred Heart Church in honor of the rosary.
Dr. Chaikey, Dean Baldinger Attend Biology Discussions
Dr. Donald T. Chaikey, professor in the Biology Department, will take part in a panel discussion Oct. 12 at a two-day conference on Medical and PreMedical Education sponsored by the > Dental and Medical schools of the University of Illinois at the Illini Union building in Chicago. Dean Baldinger of the College of Science will accompany Dr. Chaikey, who will engage in a , K panel discussing “Biology as a prerequisite for medical education.”
Devil Swaps Homs for White Tie, Keeps Tail In University Theater's Modern-Style 'Faust*
The first University Theater production of the 1951-52 season, “Faust,” will be a free verse adaptation of the Goethe classic. It is scheduled to open on Oct. 21 for a four-night run. The system of ticket distribution will be announced shortly.
The director, Prof. Leonard Sommer, has decided to costume the play in contemporary dress. Mephistopheles, for example, will appear in white tie and tails during one portion of the play. The basis of this decision was the theory that sophistication can seduce souls and, consequently, even the devil would use sophistication to his own ends.
The direction entails some departures from the usual performances seen in Washington Hall. The devil’s entrances and also those of other characters are not always made behind the traditional proscenium arch, nor are all scenes of the production played on the stage proper.
The play is divided into scenes instead of acts and only one intermission will be provided. In fact, not all scenes will be designated by the closing of the front curtain.
Settings Indicate Mood
The settings of the six scenes are
challenging the technical director, Mr. John Tumpane, and his stage manager, Sophomore William Hank. Each setting will consist of stylized pieces utilizing black cyclorama drapery as background, and each will be in a different color which, with space lighting, will aid in interpreting the moods of respective scenes.
This drama is what Prof. William Eisen, director of the University Theater and producer of the play, refers to as the classical offering of this season. Other types of dramatic production will be presented by the other three plays to be presented this schoolyear.
Placement News
Peter J. Wachs, class of 1930, personnel manager for Chance-Vaught Aircraft, Dallas, Texas, will be on the campus Friday, Oct. 12, to interview prospective January 1951 graduates in the fields of physics, mathematics, and aeronautical, mechanical, electrical, or civil engineering.
Moreau Seminary Actors Put On 'Falstaff1 Production
-	Thespians at Moreau Seminary put
on their production of Falstaff for the * benefit of their faculty and fellow seminarians recently. Falstaff is made up of the comic scenes which form the sub-plot of Shakespeare’s Henry IV. Last week’s show had been put on by the same group earlier this summer. [	The casting, begun last spring, was
a conducted by Father Leo Ward, C.S.C.
Father Ward chose William Clark for the role of Sir John and Duvall McCarthy as Prince Hal.
The three performances, Sept. 26, Sept. 30, and Oct. 3 were open only to the faculty and students of the Sem-\ inary.
“FAUST" IN REHEARSAL The Finished Product Is a Long Way Off
Oct. 5, 1951
15
SchalG^iie, fudl . . .
Majority Vote Student Union as Next Project On University Foundation's Building Program
Three years ago this week, the Scholastic asked a cross-section of the student body what new building they thought Notre Dame needed most. This week the Scholastic again polled the students on the same question. The majority opinion then and now was the same — a Student Union building is desired most of all.
Since 1948 four new projects have reached the construction stage: the Science Building, Fisher Residence Hall, Morris Inn, and the O’Shaughnessy Arts and Letters Building, the need for all of which was cited by the students at that time.
Now, besides the Student Union, emphasis is placed on the lack of an adequate fieldhouse and auditorium, residence halls, and library space.
In this week’s poll, 185 ND men — nearly four per cent of the student body — were asked: “What should be next on the University’s building program.” It was very nearly the “Student Union, 2-1, over all other buildings combined,” as 99 went on record as emphatically in favor of that as the Foundation’s next project.
“He just stepped out for a drink, Father.”
The different reasons for this choice were almost as numerous as the votes for it. Some samples:
Ed Vlaun of Alumni: so students can find entertainment other than that provided in town.
Phil Brehm of Lyons: for a central meeting place for all students.
Dick Moran of Cavanaugh: to combine the present facilities which are scattered around in places like the Huddle and the pool hall, and to which many other badly needed facilities could be added.
Jim Butler of Howard: with a dance hall and lounges, to add much to the social life at Notre Dame.
Some reasons were somewhat personal. Dan Murphy of Dillon wants a Union because he’s “getting sick of sitting around the ‘caf’ all day.” Off-campusite Ed Lewis likes the building but not the name. A Tennessee man, he’d prefer it to be called the “Student Confederacy,” for obvious reasons.
“I remember something like this being asked four years ago,” says John Moran, an old ND veteran from Sorin, “and nothing seemed to come of it.” Not
to be discouraged, however, he still wants the Student Union.
A fieldhouse and/or auditorium of some type was next on the popularity list, receiving half as many votes as the Union.
Clinton Core of Farley calls the present fieldhouse the “biggest disgrace on this campus,” and wants a comfortable, spacious, and generally well-planned new one.
Badinite Dan Marselek favors the fieldhouse as “a place for intercollegiate wrestling, boxing, gymnastics, etc., all neglected sports at Notre Dame.”
Walsh men Bob Wurstner and Ron Wilder phrased it differently: “Let’s have a scoreboard with a surrounding fieldhouse.”
A demand for new residence halls was next loudest. Twenty students considered more accommodations most important, nine of them specifically condemning the present St. Ed’s Hall. On St. Ed’s, Jim (B-P) Canyons declared, “Tear that relic down or else leave it up and use it for a museum.”
“Personally here at Farley,” said Walt Guglielmo, “I have all the residence facilities I could want. However, my heart goes out to the ‘peasants’ in St. Ed’s, Sorin, and Badin.”
Seven students preferred a new library oi' a new shelter for the University’s art treasures.
Only a couple of polices declined to commit themselves, and one each cast a vote for a priests’ residence (one of the Foundation’s future projects), an additional dining hall, and a remodeled Huddle.
As usual, a few radical suggestions were proffered, such as transparent pillars in the church, an Irish Culture Building, and a new radiator system in St. Ed’s (not quite in the Foundation’s line) because, says Bernie Smyth, the present one “dink donks all night long.”
Bengal Bout Members Approve. Constitution ,
On Monday, Oct. 8, at 7:15 p.m. in Room 104, Law Building, the Bengal Bout Club will hold its second meeting. Mt. Dominic Napolitano of the Physical Education staff and boxing coach of the Bengals, will be the guest speaker.
All students who have participated in the Bengal Bouts are eligible and are invited to attend this meeting.
On the agenda are approval of the club constitution, choice of a name for the club, election of officers, and plans for a club smoker in the near future.
16
The Scholastic
Uhlmann Offers $300 Prize In Marketing Essay Contest
Announcement has recently , been made jointly by Richard F. Uhlmann, President of the Uhlmann Grain Co. and Carl E. Bostrom, president of the Chicago Board of Trade, assuring the continuation of the Uhlmann Awards Contest for 1952.
This contest, an annual affair, is now in its third year. Its purpose is to stimulate a broader interest among college and university students in the United States and Canada in the marketing problems of the grain trade. In doing so, it will develop and maintain a better understanding of the important part played by the Chicago Board of Trade in the world economic picture.
The subject for the 1952 contest is “An Analysis of Some Aspects of Grain Marketing Activity.” Graduate and undergraduate students of all recognized schools and colleges in the United States and Canada are eligible to enter the competition. Lecturers and instructors working for advanced degrees are also eligible.
* There will be awards in each class of competition. There will be first, second, and third prizes of $300, $150 and $75 respectively, as well as four honorable mentions of $25 for each of the two groups, graduate and undergraduate. No entry fee is required.
All manuscripts must be submitted to the Educational Advisory Committee, Room 666 Chicago Board of Trade, by May 1, 1952. Copies of the rules governing the contest may be secured by writing the Awards Committee or the Public Relations Department of the Chicago Board of Trade.
Civil Commission Announces Exam for Government Posts
The United States Civil Service Commission has announced a new examination for Junior Agricultural Assistant covering many government positions, among which are those of economist, agronomist and botanist.
The majority of positions to be filled are located in the Department of Agriculture and the Department of the Interior in Washington, D. C., and throughout the United States. The beginning salary for these positions is $3,100 per year.
To qualify, applicants must pass a written test, and, in addition, must have completed a four-year college course leading to a bachelor’s degree
Oct. 5, 1951
in the optional field for which they apply. They may also qualify on the basis of a combination of pertinent college study and appropriate experience totaling four years.
Students who expect to complete their courses by June 30, 1952, may apply. The age limits, waived for persons entitled to veteran preference, are from 18 to 35 years. Full information and application forms may be secured at most first and second-clas; post offices, from civil service regional offices, or direct from the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C. Applications must be received in the Commission’s Washington office not later than Oct. 23, 1951.
Two Weeks Left to Apply For Nov. 5 Med School Test
The Medical College Admission Test will be given Nov. 5, 1951 for those wishing to entei’ med school in September 1952. All who wish to do so must apply by Oct. 18 at the latest. Application blanks can be picked up in the office of the Dean of Science.
All prospective dental students should consult the bulletin board in the Chemistry Building for information on the Dental Aptitude test.
Sheehan Becomes Member of U.S. Commerce Committee
Professor John H. Sheehan, Head of the Department of Economics, has been appointed to the Foreign Commerce Department Committee of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States.
The committee, composed of leaders of industry, commerce, finance and economic consultants, serves in an advisory capacity for the National Chamber on American Foreign Policy Affairs. Professor Sheehan has been assigned to a special Subcommittee on Southeast Asia, concerned with the economic problems of that area.
Professor Sheehan, an alumnus of Notre Dame and of the University of Wisconsin, spent sixteen year’s in private business before becoming a member of the Notre Dame faculty in 1938. During and since World War II he has served as arbitrator in industrial disputes and as participant in the American Foreign Policy seminars of Brookings Institution. *
From 1948 to 1951, Professor Sheehan served as associate editor of the Review of Social Economy, the official publication of the Catholic Economic Association, resigning this year to accept the presidency of that organization. In May he received the 1951 Award of Merit from the Marketmen’s Association.
Zhe Whole Zhing Megan...
... a couple of weeks ago when strange rumblings started to be felt throughout the 1,700 acres that comprise the University of Notre Dame. At first the tremors were disregarded. It was felt that they were just minor disturbances caused, perhaps, by the daily get-together of Mr. Leahy’s enthusiastic lads. But when mysterious fissures began appearing in the ground around the vicinity of Farley Hall, even the sceptics began to take a more serious view of the affair. The whole thing reached a dramatic climax when an unwary Frosh was swallowed up by the earth last week and hasn’t been heard from since. It was obviously a time for action!
The administration was equal to the occasion. It rose to the heights. It quickly pressed the cream of the Geology Department into service and ordered them to leave no stone unturned, no possibility unexplored, no expense spared. The cream of the Geology Department was equal to the occasion. They rose to the heights.
Now, after days of exhaustive tests
JACK WARD, BILL FRASER, JOHN ENGELS . . . from the basement, a rumble . . .
Text by CHARLES HANDS Photos by AL MUTH
and surveys, it can be reported that another of Notre Dame’s seemingly un-solvable mysteries has been solved. It has been no small task, but it has been done. Reports indicate that the disturbances originated from the basement of Farley Hall where the offices of the Juggler, the campus literary magazine, are located. Once this had been established, the solution was easy. The simple fact is that Juggler is in the throes of a renaissance.
Strictly speaking, renaissance isn’t quite the word for it, because renaissance implies a rebirth, and the Juggler has certainly never been dead. Quite the contrary. In the past couple of years the Juggler, unlike the movie, has been better than ever. The fiction, book reviews, essays, poetry, et al, have consistently been well worth the reading. But the fact remains that this year something new is being born. The Juggler is flexing its muscles.
EDITOR JACK WARD
. . . a visionary flexes his muscles . . .

Circulation Is Expanded
Until now the Juggler has been published solely for student consumption. Circulation was confined to the campus, the closest it ever got to the public eye being the magazine rack of the ca^ But this year, under the direction of Business Manager Bill Fraser, the Juggler is branching out and going places. Present plans call for the sale of this year’s issues in the better book stores — all two of them — of South Bend and the surrounding communities. If all goes well, it is even hoped that the Juggler will find its way into the homes of some of Chicago’s more literary citizens.
One possible result of the Juggler renaissance could well be a renaissance within the student body, instead of the disappointing lack of interest in the magazine over the past several years. Possibly this is due to the widely-held misconception that the Juggler is primarily intended to serve as an outlet for the creative talents of staff menu bers only. Nothing could be further from the truth. The staff of the Juggler is primarily a reviewing body whose main function is to decide which of the manuscripts submitted by the student body should be accepted for publication. They are guided very ably in this selection by Mr. Frank O’Malley of the English Department.
But in recent years the lack of student literary output has forced the staff to abandon the policy of review and selection, and to adopt a policy of strenuous writing. Without their own contributions, they would have become a staff without a magazine. Last year,
The Scholastic
18
I 1
ASSOCIATE EDITOR JOHN ENGELS
. . . a poet moves up the ladder . . .
for example, the Cap and Bells department was handled by the present Editor, Jack Ward, and a very healthy per-। centage of the poetry was written by I this year’s Associate Editor, John Engels. In addition, it was a rare issue indeed that didn’t contain an essay or short story by Messrs. Yerex, Brophy, and Clements. Since the latter three are now numbered among the alumni, the present regime must carry a double load unless the students come through and make the Juggler a student publication in the real sense of i, the. word.
)
Anyone a Contributor
Another parallel misconception that has been seen lurking around the campus is that the Juggler exists of the - English majors, by the English majors, and for the English majors. The feel-* ing seems to be that there is little possibility of breaking into print unless, sandwiched in between the I.D. card and the laundry certificate, the wallet holds an honest-in jun, paid-to-date, , countersigned card testifying that the bearer is, indeed, one of the esthetics. ► This bit of nonsense was in all probability started when it was discovered that the majority of articles published were written by English majors.
The answer, of course, is not that the English majors are the prodigal sons, but that they have shown their ‘ interest in the welfare of the Juggler by submitting a disproportionate number of manuscripts. As it turned out, enough of those submitted were of a calibre high enough to be accepted. The surest way of breaking this apparent monopoly would be for the ma
jors in other fields to contribute their share of writing. A number of them are bound to have the prescribed wallop.
The expansion planned by the Jtig-gler is no small step. Instead of being just another student activity, it will now become a representative of Notre Dame just as truly as the football team is a representative. It is no secret to the general public that Notre Dame has a habit of excelling in athletics. Unfortunately, the academic achievements are not as well publicized. The muscle-flexing of the Juggler is one of a series of attempts being made to correct any impression that may exist concerning a deficiency in the literary side of Notre Dame life.
Obviously, however, the Juggler is going to impress no one if it falls short of being a magazine of considerable merit. This is where the student body comes in. Manuscripts — good manuscripts — are always in demand, and it is up to the student body — the whole student body, not just one segment of it — to whip a few of them together.
Quality the Prerequisite
Perhaps there are a few Commerce
men who still poetry chasing their heads; or Engineers who on occasion to
have some vestiges of the money around in perhaps there are some lay the slide rule aside try their hand at bat
ting out a short story. Maybe it is the
THE JUGGLER STAFF . . . from the rumble, a renaissance . . .
future Educator who has an impulse every once in a while to review one of the books he has just read; or maybe the prospective Economist or Sociologist has an essay buzzing around the room that he’d like to get rid of. If it’s funny or serious, ironic or satiric, farcial or intellectual I if it’s the brainchild of a Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, or Senior; if it’s good, the Juggler can and will use it.
Of course, the editors don’t expect to be the recipients of any world-shattering stories — stories that will qualify for some prominent anthology a couple generations from now. If it’s that good, send it to the Atlantic Monthly and get paid for it. But the fact remains that good ones are needed. If you’re dubious as to how good the stulf you write really is, send it in and find out. The staff reads and considers everything submitted.
That just about wound up the report that the cream of the Geology Department submitted to the Administration. True, they inserted a few asterisks and a rather complete bibliography that was left over from the preliminary survey of the new Science Building excavation, but since footnotes such as
these contributed little to the solving of the mystery of the fissures around Farley Hall, they are hardly worth the relating. Nonetheless, our hat is off t^ the Geology Department for doing such a fine job of unraveling, and to the Juggler for flexing its muscles.
Oct. 5, 1951
19
Radio Workshop Presents New Programs;
70 Students Take Part in Activity's 3rd Year
Irish Theatre Group Will Perform Here
There are many popular misconcep-1 tions about the University of Notre Dame Radio Workshop. It is an extracurricular activity of the department of speech and only indirectly affiliated with WND. Mr. Jerome A. Fallon of the Department of Speech is the director of the Radio Workshop and of WND also.
Mr. Fallon originated it in 1949 to provide useful training and experience for students interested in radio careers.
About 45 Notre Dame students and nearly 25 from St. Mary’s are taking part in the workshop this year. Meetings are held in room 240 Main building Tuesday and Thursday afternoons at 4:15.
The Workshop is primarily concerned with Radio Dramas because they feature almost every type of acting. The main production is the presentation of a half-hour weekly show on WHOT in South Bend.	*
The problems encountered in the Workshop are similar to those met by the big radio productions. Work is now being done at Notre Dame comparable to that done by many of the best workshop groups around the country.
For South Bend Stations
A great deal of ingenuity is required of students in the group. Much of the sound effects and equipment is made by the students themselves. The University does not subsidize either the workshop or the campus station, WND. -
This year, Mr. Fallon, assisted by members of the workshop and the staff of the radio station, will present several programs for South Bend stations.
WSBT will broadcast Dateline, Notre Dame at 9:30 Saturday morning.
Soon a half-hour bi-weekly program featuring members of the General Program of Liberal Education will be offered under the supervision of Mr. Otto Bird, head of the Great Books Course.
Dean Lawrence H. Baldinger of the College of Science, will supervise the production of The Notre Dame Science Review featuring members of the College of Science faculty. It will be offered for 15 minutes every other week.
The first workshop show appeared in May, 1950, on WHOT, and with the exception of vacations has been presented every week. Members of the St. Mary’s Radio Workshop began taking part in April, 1950 and will collaborate again this year.
Show Rehearsed Ten Hours	'
Each half-hour show is rehearsed between eight and ten hours before it is deemed ready. The programs are tape recorded by the Audio-Visual Dept, and sent to the stations or school groups using the production. In the case of WHOT the programs are sent by direct wire to that station’s studios. New high-fidelity recording equipment is now available for the Workshop’s use.
Many of the students find that training in the workshop offers enough experience to enable them to work as announcers, writers and producers in the campus station. Several of the former members of the group have found employment in commercial radio. One, a St. Mary’s student, is employed by NBC in New York. Other members serve on WND and have worked on their local stations.
On the evenings of Oct. 16 and 17 the Young Ireland Theatre Company . will perform at Notre Dame. On each / of the two evenings the group will present two of the better known short -plays of Irish drama. The plays will be The Rising of the Moon by Lady Gregory and J. M. Synge’s The -Shadotv of the Glen.	‘ ■
Tickets for the performances will be on sale Oct. 9 and 10. They can be purchased at the Washington Hall box * office or in the Dining Hall lobby during the noon and evening meals. Student prices will be 50c and 75c. All seats will be reserved. The plays are -open to the general public at the same y reduced prices.
The troupe’s appearance at Notre ? Dame is a part of the University’s : Concert and Lecture Series.	■■
The Young Ireland Theatre Company . has been touring this country for several months on a trip arranged by the International Theatre Exchange.	y
Three Years Old	v
The group was organized in 1948 by Ronald Ibbs and some actors and actresses from the Gate Theatre, the ; Abbey, and Radio Eireann. Ibb’s idea « was to form a native Irish theatre -group which could exhibit the literary f and dramatic talent of the country. -Up to this time much of Ireland’s £ stage talent was leaving home for the greener pastures of England.
The plays are under the direction of j, Eric Bentley, well known critic, trans- s-lator, editor, and teacher. Mr. Bent- p ley’s name is well known in many g; lands. He has directed plays in Ireland, | the United States, Germany, and ® Italy. He is a Fellow of the School $ of Letters at Indiana University, an g advisory editor of the Kenyon Review, g and a contributing editor to Theatre § Arts.	B
Science Dean and Pre-Meds | Attend Meeting at Indiana U. |
In an effort to aid fellow students 8 and pupils in their pre-medical educa- 1 tion, Dean Lawrence H. Baldinger, of 3 the College of Science, will be accom- 1 panied by students Fred Schlichting, s president of the Aesculpians, and James 1 Reid, pre-med senior, in a trip Oct. 20	3
to the Indiana University Medical cen- 1 ter in Bloomington, Indiana.	3
They will attend a conference insti- 3 tuted for the purpose of reviewing and 1 discussing the problems of the pre- 2 medical student and their* possible solu- J tions.	’	I
'	TAe Scholastic Is
20
Students Begin Elections of Holl Councilmen To Assure More Democratic Representation
In all the campus residence halls last night students on each floor voted for the man they wanted to represent them on their hall’s council. The winner on each floor, besides being that floor’s representative on the hall council, will be a candidate for hall president.
The students will choose their hall presidents next Thursday night from the floor leaders. Within a week thereafter, the three or four elected councilmen in each hall will select others from their hall for membership on the council.
The purpose of establishing a council consisting of both elected and appointed members is to insure the council of having men willing and able to work, though not elected.
The Dillon, Alumni, and Morrissey hall councils will each consist of at least seven members; Walsh, Howard, Cavanaugh, Lyons, Zahm, Farley, and Breen-Phillips will have six men; and Sorin, Badin, and St. Edward’s five members each.
Manion Directs Elections
Hall council elections are under the direction of Student Council Vice-President Jim Manion, assisted by Sophomore V-P Bill Podin and a special Blue Circle committee.
This committee distributed ballots and information concerning the election and the purpose of the hall council to the students on each floor Wednesday night. The ballots were collected last night, and results will be posted on each floor. Next Thursday’s presidential elections will be conducted in the
same manner.
Once a hall council is set up, it will hold an open meeting at least every two weeks. Minutes of these meetings, or when meetings are cancelled, notification to that effect, must be presented to the Student Council and posted on the main bulletin board and at the mailboxes in the hall. The hall rector or someone designated by him must attend each meeting.
For Competition and Cooperation
The hall presidents will gather bimonthly to discuss their halls’ various projects and to propose action to the Student Council.	.
According to Jim Manion, competition among the halls will be the key to the whole setup. Other* objects of the hall council system, as stated in the Hall Councils Constitution approved last year by the Student Council, are:
To provide an effective channel of communication between the rector and residents, and between the hall, as a campus unit, and the Student Council;
To cooperate with the rector in administering all hall activities, i.e., religious, academic, athletic, and social;
To act as a service organization for the rector and hall residents, to further in any way better living conditions in the hall.
Can Override Rector
The hall councils will have the power to carry out any action they see fit, as long as it does not conflict with the powers of the Student Council or with University regulations. Should
a rector ignore or reject a proposal by the hall’s council, the group may then present the matter to the Student Council for action.
In past years the hall councils have, for the most part, existed in name only. Under the new plan, it is hoped that the councils will actually and actively represent the residents of their halls, and that any student who has a sound idea or a legitimate complaint will be heard.
Talent Scouts Seeking Star Performers for Benefit Show
Talented?
The Lydick Cub and Boy Scouts are arranging a variety show for Oct. 26-27 and have appealed to Notre Dame for volunteer entertainers. Eight acts are needed for the two-and-a-half hour program, and the scouts are especially looking for an instrumental solo and a hillbilly combination.
The show will be held in the Lydick School auditorium, located approximately seven miles west of South Bend on Quince Road. Lydick merchants are the sponsors.
All ND stars of stage, screen, radio, television, and parties who are willing to give a benefit performance of their talent are asked to contact Neal Kempf by phoning 2-6996.
TICKETS AVAILABLE
Tickets are still available for the Iowa game Nov. 24 and two away games, Pittsburgh and Southern California, Oct. 20 and Dec. 1, and may be purchased at the Ticket Office in Breen-Phillips Hall.
Practical Experience in Every Technique
Oct. 5, 1951
21
because of Kain...
by ED VASTA
The Notre Dame Man is truly a remarkable creature — a creature fraught with talent. Take for example his ability to arise early in the morning, dress, wander down the hall for a morningcheck, attend mass, return to his room, undress and crawl back into bed without ever knowing that the phenomenon occurred. Or consider with what poise and accuracy he is able to plop two or three wadded napkins into his roommate’s half-full glass of milk. He can write book reports without ever opening a book; he can make trips to town for six months without ever spending a nickel for bus fare; he can wrangle, angle, argue, alibi, cajole, subdue and pacify the most unreasonable professor and yet remain unconcerned about the whole matter. But the one talent that in all the aeons of time has never- been brought to a fuller perfection, the talent that has made the Notre Dame Man peerless among collegiate circles, is his fantastic ability to gripe. In' this he is truly inspired — a veritable giant.
Acquiring the art of griping is no easy task. It begins in the first weeks of school with a few miserable moans, is soon followed by a discreet retort here and there, finally to end in the senior year with verbal explosions reaching magnificent, indeed, grandiloquent proportion. Everything is attacked by the accomplished griper. And when it seems that nothing is left unmarred by the student’s searing har-rangues, he turns, with an impish glee sparkling in his eyes, upon the weather. It is with awe that a novice watches a senior sloshing across rain-soaked Badin Bog, sees him suddenly stop, throw up his hands to the turbulent skies and deliver such a tirade that the very stars must burst with humilia-
tion. But it happens to everyone at some time or other. It can be no other way, for Notre Dame is situated in Indiana and Indiana definitely has weather.
Whether complaints about the various other phases of college life is justified is doubtful, but complaints about the weather are inevitable. What can be more disconcerting than waking up to mild sweater-weather, discovering by noon that it is a two-coat day and by nightfall expecting a team of hearty Eskimo dogs to deliver the mail. On one occasion in the scholastic year of 1950-51, and this is the unadulterated truth, two of Notre Dame’s students, in a brisk walk from Badin Hall to the Commerce Building, experienced weather which began as a slow, steady drizzle, was soon followed by a gale of pelting sleet which changed immediately into a torrential thunder-shower, turned into light snow flurries, and finally ended in a burst of brilliant sunshine. Any wonder that the age-old victim of ND gripers is fickle Mother Nature.
Scholastic this week has decided to go to the very heart of the matter. In an attempt to discover just why climatic conditions are as they are, the United States Weather Bureau at the St. Joseph County airport was called upon.
The visit to the Weather Bureau was in many ways surprising, for one would expect to find there several jaded meteorologists sitting around flipping coins to forecast the day’s weather. However, except for the two pilots matching pennies in the passageway, there wasn’t a coin in the room. Think of all the jokes that could have been used in this article about weathermen flipping coins! And so, for the benefit of all, let it here be said that the men at the South Bend Weather Bureau do not flip coins — they use a dart board. A big, blue and gold dart board with a large bullseye circumscribed around the word RAIN in dripping red letters. Over the years these people have become quite adept at dartthrowing and consequently we have been having more and more rain. Unless some inexperienced personnel are transferred here soon, this individual is going to start building his ark!
Some Interesting Data
Some interesting information concerning the topography of Indiana in general and South Bend in particular has been found in a bulletin published by the United States Department of Commerce. For example, concerning Indiana, the bulletin states that, “the northern half of the state has a slope more westerly than southerly.” Now this is interesting. For one thing it explains the incident which occurred here several years ago when an unsuspecting student stepped one slippery winter morning from the door of Alumni Hall. Before he could fully regain his senses, he found himself involuntarily sliding a bumpy, jagged course toward the Rock. He whizzed past Dillon, careened off the steps of the dining hall, gaining speed with every foot, until he reached the steps by the Rock. Over these he sailed like a ski-jumper and dove into the lower-
a:

$ g
level burst cases
sidewalk where he crashed and into flames. Undoubtedly more of this sort are on record.
g
I
4
It
was also discovered that the
5
muddy, crooked creek known as the St. Joseph River comprises the sewage system (the Bulletin euphemistically termed it the “drainage” system) for the entire St. Joseph valley. This River dumps its contents into Lake Michigan where it passes through the Chicago River, thence to the Mississippi and down to New Orleans. Had this information been available during last year’s student trip, there would have been more than a few dead carp and empty beer cans floating down to the Chescent City. As a matter of fact, this information can still be useful to
4
S
22
The Scholastic
anyone who gets the urge to “crash outa this joint.”
There is a passage in the government’s apologia - for - Indiana - climate which offers much fruit for comment. To quote it directly: “On calm, clear nights the numerous ravines and valley bottoms often experience considerably lower temperatures than the slopes and tops of the surrounding hills, the difference in spring and fall being such as to result in frost, and even damage from freezing, on the lower- areas, while the higher ground escapes harm.” To this reporter’s knowledge, the last “calm, clear night” on record occurred a few hundred years ago when an unsung Indian saw the moon for the first time at the age of 76. He is reckoned to have died at the age of one moon, but this information is doubtful due to the notoriously alcoholic character of this Indian.
As for the “ravines and valley bottoms”’ referred to in the Bulletin’s statement, this no doubt is an allusion to the basement of Lyons Hall. By the middle of this winter at least 30 students inhabiting this home-for-intro-verted-moles will be proclaiming the verity of the remainder of this statement. There is an incident which occurred some 15 years ago, never before been revealed, that best illustrates Lyons Hall’s situation. It seems that one typical January day it began to snow. It snowed all night and the next day until the entire pit behind the hall was filled to the level of the first floor windows. This was then followed by several typical days of freezing rain until everything had turned to a huge, glacier-size ice cube. The basement of Lyons became a veritable cold-storage bin with some 30 sophomores slowly freezing to death inside.
Unable to escape from their adobe refrigerator, the men lived on cokes and candy until the machines were
empty and then decided to wait for the spring thaw. Three typical months later the spring thaw came, and it was at this time that the rector of the hall decided to find out just what was going on down here. After all, those men hadn’t made a mass check for three typical months? He donned an old polar- bear skin which he kept around for these subterranean excursions, grabbed a pick-axe and worked his way down to the lower level. The sight he saw there was appalling! A dozen or so men were lying around doing absolutely nothing! Of course, on closer-inspection he discovered that they had been blackened by frost-bite, and were suffering from malnutrition, anemia, leukemia, arthritis, gingivitis, beri-beri and rickets and so he quickly ordered them to the infirmary. There they remained until recovered, at which time they returned to their hall and were campused for the rest of the semester — they still hadn’t made their mass checks.
State Well Watered
And now, to turn from the serious to the lighter side of the weather, let us consider the more flagrant violation of human comfort — namely, rain. The bulletin, in several diplomatic understatements, alludes to this Hoosier dilemma in several ways. In one place it says, “precipitation is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year.” In another there is written, “on the whole, except in seasons of drought, the entire state is well watered.” Well watered! We’re drowning out here and they say “well watered!” Anyway, Georgie, a female meteorologist from the halls of Ohio University, managed to explain, between darts, just why it rains so much around here. Using the technical language of the profession, here’s the scoop!
It seems that we are situated in the precise path of the prevailing westerlies. Prevailing westerlies doesn’t refer to the shoot-’em-up horse-operas which are shown constantly in South Bend to the delight of the critical-minded natives. Rather it means that any time a smidgen of weather decides to go somewhere, it manages to detour through this area. Up in the northwest somewhere a lot of grumpy, colddry weather accumulates, and, growing weary of its stagnant existence, begins to move toward ND to catch Saturday’s game. In the meantime, somewhere in the southwest an angry tribe of warm-moist weather decides to meet the colddry weather at the stadium. Timing their speed with uncanny accuracy, they manage to meet at a spot exactly
over this campus, which is a lot less crowded than Joer’s.
Now when anything cold and dry meets something warm and moist there’s bound to be trouble. At first there is a gigantic clash with prolonged rumbling and blinding flashes. What is known among our circles as a wall or front is created between the opposing forces with each one frantically calling up reserves. Finally the cold di-y overpowers the warm-moist, forcing it to condense and then the whole rotten mess plummets to the ground and sops up everything in sight. This, among the people who know, is what is known as rain. This phenomenon occurs with startling frequency and since a warm and moist never knows when a cold and dry is waiting in ambush for it, it can happen at any moment. As the bulletin states, “on the whole precipitation occurs on an average of slightly less than one day in three.” (The phrase “on the whole” refers, of course, to Notre Dame.) It also states that “there are 75 clear days to 173 cloudy days.” This leaves a remainder of 117 days which we assume are the days when the meteorologist feels beastly rotten and not up to dart-throwing.
A final word of warning to those of you who raise plants. Remember that the first killing frost occurs around Oct. 15, so if anyone should have a nice healthy flowerbox of marijuana growling in his room, don’t take chances! Use it up before youi- whole crop is ruined I
It is hoped that the information. recorded here will once and for all dispel the griping about the weather so evident among us. As proud as we are of our talents there is really no reason why anyone should spend his time griping. I never do.
Oct. 5, 1951
23
Fish Free Till Spring; Cancel Fall Contest
Believe it or not, all you Notre Dame anglers, there are bass up to eight pounds to be found in St. Joseph’s Lake. Rev. Beorge Baldwin, C.S.C., says you had better believe it though, for an eight pounder was hoisted out of the lake this summer. And that’s not all. The good Father himself pulled a six-and-a-quar-ter pound beauty out of the lake.
Although there will be no fall fishing contest as there have been in previous years, a casting tournament, or casting-lessons under the direction of Mr. Barney Van Lue, expert caster who is noted for his direction of casting exhibitions for the South Bend Bait Company, is under serious consideration, Father Baldwin reports.
The reason for the discontinuation of the fall fishing contest is that the bass are not biting very well in the autumn, as they are preparing for hibernation during the long winter. However, says Father Baldwin with the look of the anxious angler, there will definitely be a spring contest.
Father Baldwin has announced the winners in last year’s spring fishing contest. The top five fishermen, their catches and prizes were:
1st—Don Dombroski, 4% lb. bass, trophy;
2nd—Dombroski, 3% lb.’ bass, casting reel;
3rd—Odilio Diaz, 3% lb. bass, glass rod;
4th—Diaz, 3% lb. bass, casting reel;
5th—Roger Kotoske, 2% lb. bass, tackle box.—Bob Rust
Wrestling Club Makes Plans
At a meeting held this week, Charles Paquette was elected temporary chairman of the Notre Dame Wrestling Club and committees were appointed to draw up a constitution for the club and to see about obtaining a charter for the organization.
The club consists of men interested in wrestling with or without previous experience.
Under present plans, attempts will be made to schedule matches with, local high schools and perhaps a few college teams.
Those interested may secure additional information at the club’s meeting, every Wednesday night at 7:00 in the light apparatus room of the Rockne Memorial.
24
COUNCIL AGENDA
The agenda for the next meeting of the Student Council next Monday at 7:15 p.m. in Room 100, Law Building, is as follows:
1.	Photo concessions.
2.	Charity Chest Report.
3.	Dining Hall Report.
Maritain to Deliver Series Of Lectures Starting Friday
Jacqeus Maritain, eminent Catholic philosopher, will deliver a series of lectures on “Some of the Aspects of the Problem of Evil” this month.
The lecture will be the first in a series to be held each Friday, and are open only to advanced graduate students in the Department of Philosophy and to members of the General Program.

parties ahead
rHMKSGMMj
Get set now for the best time ever!
• Wintertime can be such a gay time if you’re a good dancer. And, anyone can be a sought-after partner the Arthur Murray Way. You see Arthur Murray has an exclusive method that makes learning to dance as easy as A-B-C. The whole secret is in his “Magic Step To Popularity”. This is the key step to all dances and is simple to learn. So come in now and prepare for the gayest winter season you’ve ever had in your life.
ARTHUR MURRAY
2 FOR 1 RATES NOW Dances Thursday, 9 p. m. You are welcome.
SPECIAL NOTRE DAME RATES Phone 2-3339 for FREE LESSON
ND Hams Jump Frequency;
Now Sending Out New 'Arc' : >
The Notre Dame Amateur Radio / Club announces the forthcoming of its r . new bi-weekly publication, the Notre Dame Arc, early next week. The news- ’ letter -will contain articles pertaining t'; to the club and amateur radio. Also articles will be submitted by club members on phases of amateur radio with which they have become familiar.
A copy of the news-letter will be posted on the main bulletin boards throughout the campus and delivered to the club members.
Anyone who is interested in amateur radio may attend the next meeting, to be announced in the first issue of the Arc.
The ND hams are affiliated with the c Civil Defense program of the South :: Bend area and are members of the -L Military Amateur Radio System.	?
NO CHARGE
120 E. Wayne St.
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports J
Victorious Irish at Detroit Tonight
Underdog Titans to Meet 'Surprise of '51'
By FRANK RONNENBERG
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, overwhelming victors in their opening game against Indiana last Saturday, will be seeking to drive the football forecasting fraternity deeper in the hole tonight when they take on the University of Detroit before an expected sellout crowd of 58,000 at Briggs Stadium. Tonight’s contest will mark only the second time these two teams have met on the gridiron. The Irish were easy 27-0 winners in their first encounter back in 1927.
Rebuilding Job
A feverish rebuilding campaign has been the keynote of Detroit football activity this year. A new head coach, two new assistant coaches, and a rugged schedule that includes a five-game Missouri Valley Conference slate plus independents Notre Dame and Villanova, marks only the beginning.
Earl “Dutch” Clarke, in his first year at the helm, is faced with the task of replacing six of last year’s
starters, including practically the whole center of the Titan forward wall.
At the pivot position, a senior letter-man Jack Dooling, will start and it is a good bet that he will finish. Last year he played behind the AH M.V.C. center John Packo.
The Detroit backfield was seriously weakened last week when halfback Jim O’Leary, the fleetest ball carrier on the club, seriously injured his shoulder during the Toledo game. Tony Bartolo, a second-year man, who averaged five yards a try in 28 rushes last season, is expected to handle O’Leary’s left half j'ob. Starting at the other halfback
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP (Offense)
DETROIT NOTRE DAME Beirne .......LE________1_______ Mavraides Kerins .................LT_ Poehler
Gondek .......LG........... Burns
Dooling ........ C........ Hunter
Campe ........RG...... Varrichione Kutz .................RT_ Toneff
McLachlan	....RE___ Mutscheller
Neveux .......QB........... Mazur
Bartalo ......LH________ Petitbon
Horwath ......RH......... Barrett
Groggins '......FB........ Worden
Kickoff time: 8:15 EST.
JACK DOOLING A Good Bet to Finish
post will be Ron Horwath, who sparked Detroit to its opening game. win with a three-touchdown spree.
Quarterback Question Mark
The quarterback position is the question mark in the Detroit offense. Dick Neveux has the inside track with experience and a fine passing record on
INDIANA FALLS BEFORE IRISH WRATH
Worden Goes Up and Over
Hoosier Goes Down and Under
j
i I
i
I
I
i
i i i
i I J
i i
Oct. 5, 1951
25
STAN GONDEK
Speed and 230 Pounds
his side, but he is being hard pressed by Denny McCotter a sophomore, who was a sensation during the Spring workouts. Pile-driving fullback Mike Goggins rounds out the Titan backfield and does a good job of it. Goggins, in
his third year of varsity football, has never dropped below a five-yard rushing average.
In the Titans’ favor is the fact that the majority of replacements are lettermen who saw considerable service last year. The Detroit club is by no means a green one — nine seniors and two juniors will comprise their starting line-up tonight. At the end posts Coach “Dutch” Clarke will probably start Ed Beirne and Rod McLachlan. Beirne is a junior and a pass catching specialist. Last year, in a game against Duquesne, Beirne set a new Detroit record for pass yardage with 131 yards. McLachlan, a senior, is the best defensive end Detroit can call on, and generally spends most of the game in the backfield of the opposing team.
Seniors at Tackle
Two seniors, co-captain Joe Kutz and Dan Kerins will handle the tackle spots for the Titans. Kutz is a 60-minute player who made the jump from the reserves to a first string job during last season. Kerins was voted an honorable mention on last year’s All M.V.C. team and his two years of varsity play make him one of the most experienced competitors on the team.
At the guards Detroit will have two 60-minute men, co-captain Jack Campe and Stan Gondek. Campe, a veteran of two years, is the ablest blocker on the Titan line. Gondek combines the qualities of 230 pounds and exceptional speed to make him the roughest man in the starting array.

DAN KERINS
Will Handle the Tackle Spot
In summarizing Detroit’s football team, it can be easily seen that their main difficulty will be lack of depth. The entire forward wall of the Titan team may have to play 60 minutes, and in this day of two and three platoons, they can’t expect to keep pace.
You know all about the Notre Dame football team. Rated by the experts to finish up anywhere from 17th to the ashcan, the Irish turned on a confident, perhaps over-confident, Indiana team last Saturday and easily anni-(Continued on Page 30)
_	.	...	■■ _ __ _ -_______________ I
FRANK LEAHY'S SATURDAY AFTERNOON
Notre Dame Harriers Open Vs. Wheaton
Splinters fiomih^PressboX
By MICKEY CARROLL
The Notre Dame Harriers face strong Wheaton College tomorrow noon, in the first of only two home crosscountry meets scheduled this season for the Irish runners.
An experience-laden ND crew is set for the race, which will go three miles, beginning and ending at the Grotto.
The Irish will be paced, according to Coach Alex Wilson, by Sophomore Jack Alexander and Senior Benny Almaguer. "Those boys figure to lead the way,” Coach Wilson stated, “but the entire squad is looking good this year. The boys have another year of experience and growth now, they’ve all rounded into shape well, and it looks as if we should have a successful season.”
Why only two home meets this year? “It would be nice if we could run at home every week,” said the coach, “but our commitments this year make that impossible. We’d like to be home on all home football Saturdays, but we have obligations with other schools which force us to be away most of this year.”
Gil Dodds Coaches Wheaton
“This Saturday’s meet against Wheaton should not be an easy one,” Wilson added. “I suppose,” he said, “we should win all of them. That’s what you’re supposed to say, I guess. But Wheaton, although I don’t know anything specific about them this year — always comes up with a strong squad.”
“They’re coached by Gil Dodds — who was a pretty fair runner himself — and should give Notre Dame an interesting time.”
Questioned while the Irish Harriers were showering following one of their usual weekday practice grinds, Coach Wilson pointed to the charts that indicated the progress of this year’s team.
He looked at Senior Bob Fieler’s record — a full month faster than last year. “The boys all look that way,” Wilson said. “They’re probably a good month ahead of 1950, and the added age and experience should forecast big things for them.”
The seven-man squad which will oppose Wheaton tomorrow is long on experience. Three Seniors, three Juniors, and a Sophomore is the way it lines up.
Making up the Senior contingent are veteran runners Benny Almaguer, Bob Fieler, and Con Tetrault. Johnny O’Connor, George Helfenstein, and Harry Snyder represent the Juniors, while Jack Alexander, a Sophomore, is the lone underclassman on the starting team.
During the course of last Saturday’s grid battle, chances are that Indiana quarterback Lou D’Achille muttered to himself more than once, “Now I know how Williams felt at Bloomington last year.”
Leahy’s Lads sure surprised an awful lot of people Saturday, but probably the biggest shock came from watching the fine work of the defensive team. It
JACK ALESSANDRINI
Leahy’s Play Diagnostician
was their game for the most part. The score, 48-6, is a little deceptive, but remember it was the defensive platoon that set up four of the seven Irish markers on the basis of their alertness. Indiana made an awful lot of mistakes in that first half but it was more than luck that enabled Notre Dame to take advantage of them. No matter how sloppy the Hoosiers’ play might have been if it hadn’t been for the alert, hard-rushing defensive squad the score would have probably been three or four touchdowns lower.
Defensive Stars
Outstanding on defense was Dick Szymanski who personally set up two of the scores when he intercepted a D’Achille pass and recovered Bill Dozier’s fumble — both deep in Indiana territory. Another stellar defensive performance was turned in by Jack Alessandrini whose diagnosis of plays was brilliant.
By Jack Varley
Offensively, Neil Worden and John Lattner, who had a nine-yard average on four carries, looked very good. Worden certainly ought to be the solution to Leahy’s pre-season fullback worries. You know, the “Flops of ’50” (the honor bestowed upon us by the AP) certainly could earn the title, “Surprise of ’51.”
Coach Leahy, himself, was so surprised that he sounded almost optimistic after the game.
“The results of the contest with Indiana were much better than we had anticipated. I feel very happy over the play of this fine Notre Dame team. Indiana made several mistakes and Notre Dame was fortunate enough to capitalize on them. John Mazur did a wonderful job of quarterbacking; his play selection was especially outstanding. The effect of this victory will be very helpful to our morale. It will help carry us through the next ten weeks.”
Suggestion
Oh yes, and in passing we have this suggestion to Frank Leahy and John Mazur. Don’t let the boys score any more than six touchdowns . . . that foot of Menil .Mavraides gets tired, you know.
WND
Congratulations to WND on their improved sports set-up. Under the direction of Jim Gannon WND has set up plans to broadcast all home basketball and baseball games and a couple of away basketball tilts. Then, within a couple of weeks the local station is adding a United Press news wire to furnish their listeners sports news and feature stories. At the present you can get all the latest in sports every night at 10:15 on the “Sports Final,” a 15-minute program of Western Union ticker coverage. They also come on every Saturday afternoon after the game with the scores of all the gridiron battles across the country.
Prediction of the Week
Tonight, the Fighting Irish invade Briggs Stadium for a tussle with the Detroit Titans. The only thing that can keep Leahy’s lads from massacring the Motor City gridders is Frank Leahy himself. . . . Notre Dame 41, Detroit 6.
Oct. 5, 1951
27
Notre Dame’s Dollar a Year Nan
THE BUSINESSMAN
16, Million for Improvement
On coming Fall Saturdays the Fighting Irish will be taking to the gridiron here and around the country in hopes of regaining their vaunted rank amongst the pigskin .elite of the nation.
On the Irish side of the field, on these Autumn Saturdays, one of the Leahy board of strategy, a dark-haired youthful looking .coach will be corralling linemen as they come off the field and checking the tactics of the opposition’s linemen and devising counter measures.
The dark-haired, handsome looking man isn’t really a coach—at least not by profession. Coaching is more of a hobby with him for by profession he is a multi-millionaire business man.
Freddy Miller has been playing the role of Notre Dame’s dollar-a-year coach s:nce 1946, dropping down to help •out his alma mater between the tasks of running several vast business empires and fulfilling similar coaching duties with a professional football squad.
All-American in ’28
Miller, one of America’s most successful and dynamic business executives, with most of his enterprises located in Milwaukee, flies down to Notre Dame each weekend in what is, more than anything else, a labor of love.
One of a long list of famous Millers at Notre Dame, Fred is among other things, president of The Miller Brew
28
ing Company of Milwaukee, producers of Miller High Life Beer; head of a Wisconsin lumber firm, valued at over five million dollars; chief executive of an investment company; and top man in a Florida real estate firm.
But on each Thursday of the Fall, Fred leaves these duties behind and flies down to the university and stays through Saturday assisting Leahy as advisory coach in practice sessions and during the game.
Fred prepared himself adequately not only for his business career but also for his hobby, during his undergraduate days here at Notre Dame from 1925 to 1929. It was early in the 1926 season in the game at Minnesota sophomore tackle Fred Miller got his first chance to distinguish himself in Notre Dame football annals. In the opening quarter of the donneybrook with the powerful Gophers, the Irish’s AllAmerican tackle candidate, Joe Boland, fractured his leg attempting to block a punt. Rockne then sent young Miller in to bottle the gap; and so successfully did he bolster the Irish line that his play in this victory over the Gophers, and in the subsequent 7-0 win over Army won him honorable mention on Walter Eckersall’s All-American team. The year 1927 brought more honorable All-American mentions to Miller and in 1928, as Irish captain, he was named to the International News Service’s first team.
The following season, 1928, was Notre Dame’s worst year under Rockne, in which they won but five while losing four. Still Fred Miller led his squad to some glorious victories in that otherwise sad year including a 7-0 triumph over Navy before 120,000 fans in Chicago’s Soldiers Field and a 12-6 win over Army in one of the most brutal brawls in the Irish-Cadet series described as “all fight, fight, fight; guts, guts, guts ... a sanguinary struggle.”
Fast, Agile, and Determined
After each of the Irish’s .four losses that season the scribes of the day typed the same comment—“Captain Miller was great in defeat.”
As football linemen run, Freddy was not a big boy. Far from it. But he was fast, agile—and above all—determined. Also, a smart lad, he was an outstanding play diagnostician. Watching Miller stalk and nail runner after runner,
BY RUDY UNGER
fans always felt that the little guy knew instinctively where the opposing back was headed.
Much more than just a football hero in his undergraduate days, Fred while majoring in Business Administration, earned the highest scholastic average of any member of the Irish squad, and in doing so walked off with a Cum Laude Degree. Active in the Student Activity Council, which formulated and carried out student policies, Fred was honored with the school’s Dome award for “being one of those most active, worthy, and representative of his class.” Those college days here at Notre Dame heralded what was to be expected of young Fred Miller in years that were to follow.
That same intelligence and determined vigor that he displayed in football, studies and activities, Fred carried over into business life.
In 1936 he broke into the brewing business when he took over his mother’s post as vice-president and director of the board of The Miller Brewing concern. About the same time, he took over the management of the gigantic Carl Miller lumber empire, which he inherited from his father and through another inheritance from his father became the head of the Carl Miller Investment Company and a Florida real, estate firm.
THE ALL-AMERICAN
“Captain Miller Was Great In Defeat"
The Scholastic
Heads Milwaukee Brewers
Then, in May of 1947. Fred took over the presidency of the brewery. His first act in that capacity was to inaugurate a 16 million dollar improvement and building program for the company. That program, just recently completed, has given the Miller Co. the finest and most modern brewing set-up in the beer industry.
Aware of this young man’s dynamic ability and ingenuity, Miller was elected by the Milwaukee brewers to head their association. And to round out his long list of presidencies Fred was elected president of the Notre Dame Mopp-gram Club in 1948.	_
In order to properly run all his vast and widespread businesses, and in keeping with his sporting nature, Fred took to flying. Now, he flies to Milwaukee each weekday morning in his private Gruman Widgeon plane from his home in Oconomowoc, Wisconsin, and in the fall, flies down to the university on weekends and wings northward again on Sundays to Green Bay or Milwaukee. Notre Dame’s dollar-a-year coach’s flying ability came in handy for the Fighting Irish in 1949. The week before the Navy game in Baltimore, Coach Leahy came down with a severe cold and was unable to accompany his squad east. However, the day of the game, Leahy had recuperated sufficiently to gain his physician’s permission to leave home and not wanting to let his team play alone, the Irish coach was anxious to be in Baltimore. So Fred strapped Leahy into a seat in his plane and they were off for Baltimore, arriving in plenty of time to enable Leahy to lead a surprised Irish squad out onto the field to a lopsided victory over the Middies.
Father of Nine
Miller and Leahy are more than mere coaching associates. Between them there exists a warm friendship that had its beginning back at Notre Damn in 1928 when Miller was winning AllAmerican honors and Rockne was grooming a sophomore tackle Frank Leahy to take the graduating Miller’s place.
Leahy may be way out ahead of Miller when it comes to coaching laurels, but Fred’s out in front in a personal race the two are conducting: which is to see who of the two can first field his own football team. Fred, at present, has nine children, but Leahy remains close behind with seven.
Recently Fred bought into the Green Bay Packers Football Club and has taken on the duty of acting as advisory coach to Gene Ronzani’s team, which splits its home schedule between Green Bay and Milwaukee.
Oct. 5, 1951
State's Spartans Show Class, Blast Michigan; Iowa, Southern Cal Impress With Easy Wins
By TOM FOOTE
While the Irish were humiliating Indiana’s Hoosiers last Saturday, Notre Dame’s remaining 1951 grid opponents could do no better than account for three wins while losing five and tieing one. Michigan State, Iowa, and Southern California registered triumphs with little difficulty and Navy was held to a tie, but Detroit, Southern Methodist, Pitt, Purdue, and North Carolina all bowed to their respective opponents.
After the smoke of Saturday’s battles had cleared away, one fact became even more certain — namely, that the Michigan State-ND clash of November 10 will be one of the greatest collegiate grid battles of the 1951 campaign. The Spartans solidified their claim as one of the nation’s top teams by overpowering the University of Michigan’s defending Big Ten champions, 25-0. Held to a 6-0 halftime advantage by the battling Wolverines, the Spartans unleashed their highly touted ground attack in the final two periods to rout their traditional rivals. With Dorow, McAuliffe, and Pisano leading the way on offense, the Spartans also demonstrated a rugged defense that kept the Wolverines well away from the MSC end zone all afternoon.
Middies Miss Field Goal
Iowa’s Hawkeyes soundly outplayed the Kansas State Wildcats but lacked a strong scoring punch in being held to a 16-0 triumph over the weak Kansans. The Hawkeyes ran up a total of 560 net yards gained but were thwarted on many occasions from scoring by a stubborn Kansas State goal-line defense. Southern California enjoyed a breather and coasted to a 41-7 victory over the San Diego Naval Training Center.
Navy, who is reputed to be a greatly improved team this year, got off to an inauspicious start by being forced to come from behind in the final quarter to gain a 7-7 tie with an underdog Yale eleven. An attempted 35-yard field goal by the Middies in the last three seconds barely fell short.
Tonight’s opponents of the Irish, Detroit’s Titans, were administered a crushing 33-7 defeat at the hands of the University of Houston last Friday night. The Cougars completely dominated play, and, by downing the Titans so decisively, greatly lessened the attractiveness of tonight’s game in Briggs Stadium.
One of the future Irish opponents who looked good in losing was the
Southern Methodist Mustangs who were defeated 7-0 by Ohio State.- In holding the Buckeyes to a mere touchdown advantage, the Mustangs demonstrated they are still a top team. Especially significant was the sensational passing of the Mustangs’ Fred Benners who completed 21 of 29 passes for 211 yards although his team was held scoreless.
Samuels Paces Purdue
Pittsburgh’s Panthers took advantage of a blocked kick and an intercepted pass to take a 14-13 halftime lead over Duke, but the Bulldogs smashed open the Pitt defense in the second half to gain a 19-14 triumph.
A rugged Texas team made Purdue’s inaugural an unsuccessful one by pounding out a 14-0 decision over the Boilermakers. Although Dale Samuels completed 12 of 22 passes for 114 yards, the Boilermakers couldn’t dent the tough Texas line when they were in scoring position, and that led to their downfall at the hands of one of the nation’s top teams.
After holding a first-half lead, the North Carolina Tarheels succumbed to a ferocious final period onslaught of the University of Georgia that netted the Bulldogs three touchdowns and a 28-16 triumph.
Basketball Team Practices Under New Coach Jordan
The 1951-52 basketball version of the Fighting Irish under the tutelage of their new coach, Johnny Jordan, opened practice sessions this week in preparation for a tough 26-game schedule beginning with St. Thomas at St. Paul, Minnesota on December 1.
Jordan warns that despite the presence of several returning lettermen and ■ the newcomers from last year’s outstanding Frosh team, the season is going to be a rough one. The slate, the largest in the history of the university, includes such powers as St. Louis, Kentucky and Indiana. Adding to the worries of Jordan is the loss of high-scoring Dan Bagley and play-maker Marty O’Connor. .
According to the new Irish mentor, it’s going to be a hard task to pick the men for the top berths. The over-all height is good with only a few of the (Continued on Page 32)
29
Irish Meet Detroit
(Continued from Page 26) ■
hilated them 48-6. It was a surprising game to watch and even an unbelievable one to those who watched Notre Dame stagger through last season. The Irish took the opening kickoff and marched down the field in 10 plays for their initial score. The score was set up by a John Mazur to Jim Mutscheller pass good for 40 yards to the Indiana five-yard line. Bill Barrett went over for the touchdown.
It was a very humble beginning and gave no warning to the 56,000 people who packed the Notre Dame Stadium, of what was to come in the second period. But then, too, few of the assembled crowd had ever heard of Neil Worden, the pint-sized sophomore fullback the Irish turned loose on Indiana in the second period. In this wild, hectic session Notre Dame, combining recovered fumbles with intercepted passes and a shoddy Indiana defense, romped
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
SHEEDY was a big walrus-flower. "All I ever get is the cold shoulder,” he blubbered. So his roommate said: "Tusk, tusk,you old soak—try a new wrinkle on that messy hair: Wildroot Cream-Oil! Non-Alcoholic. Contains soothing Lanolin. Freeze your hair from annoying dryness and loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-nail Test!” Now Sheedy’s really in the swim! Just sealed his engagement to a pretty young flapper—and he’s aboat to wisker off to an ivory-covered cottage, So water you waiting fur? Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil Hair Tonic at any drug or toilet goods counter! And ask your barber for ' professional applications. "Now,” you’ll say, "Ice sea why there’s snow other hair tonic like Wildroot Cream-Oil!”
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
ttttafniRM
OIL
miDBOOT
to five touchdowns and an overwhelming 42-0 halftime lead. Worden scored four times on runs of twelve, four, one, and seven yards during the rout and each time Indiana came back upfield a little slower. Finally, after John Lattner had made the fifth touchdown the transition was complete.
Hoosiers Change
Before a completely awed crowd, the Hoosiers had been changed from a supremely confident team to a beaten, despairing team. And that made the second half anti-climactic. The Hoosiers came back to score when Notre Dame drew 30 yards in penalties, but nobody took them seriously. D’Achille, their main offensive hope, was being rushed unmercifully, his passing was erratic and the Notre Dame defensive forward wall stopped Gedman and South Bend’s own Bobby Robertson before they could get started. Notre Dame scored again late in the fourth quarter when Del Gander went over from five yards out.
Tennis Tourney Continues; Layering Ousts MacMurray
Due to the bad weather and scheduling difficulties the annual tennis tournament has been progressing very slowly. The finals will not be coming up for two weeks more at least.
Farrell (1.) Takes Another Match
The only change of any note in the past week of play was the elimination of sixth seeded Bill MacMurray, a Junior, by Paul Levering in the fourth round, 6-2, 6-4. MacMurray has, thus far, been the only one of the top eight seeded players to be eliminated.
Wally Clark, seeded second, looms as the greatest obstacle in the path of defending titlist, top seeded Jim Farrell. Clark, a Freshman from San Francisco, reached the quarter finals this past summer in the National Junior Tournament at Kalamazoo, Michigan. In doing so he defeated Ken Angyl, runner-up in the campus tourney last year and number one varsity man.
The presence of a dark horse in the tourney might be found in the person of Maurice Reidy, Freshman from Denver, Colorado. Reidy has made it known by his play that he is a threat to all comers. He is well known in Junior tennis circles and is remembered by Walter Langford, tennis coach, for his play in the 1948 Western Junior and Boys Tennis Tournament, held here on campus. .He is scheduled to meet third seeded Don Crowley in a fourth round match which should throw more light on his ability and chances in the tourney.—Joe Durkin
The Scholastic
30
Matey's Sub Par 281 Takes Golf Title; Maresco Second
The follozving story on the results of the annual campus golf tourney is belated in order that the scores of all the contestants could be tabulated.—Ed.
Exhibiting the same fine play that carried him to the semi-finals of the N.C.A.A. collegiate golf championship this past summer, Tom Matey, Notre Dame junior, annexed the University Open golf crown a week ago Sunday with a brilliant three under par 281. Matey led his closest rival, Joe Moresco, also a junior, by 15 strokes as the tourney closed. Both members of the ND golfing squad played precision golf in gaining theii- titles. A pair of promising sophomores, Joe Springer and Paul Minnich, took an even 300 swings apiece to share third place honors.
The weather conditions for the entire four days were excellent and the course was in top shape. Of the 67 men who started the 72-hole medal play grind there remained 21 survivors, and of the 21 who finished the 18-hole per day tour, ten are members of last year’s golf team. Tom Veech, captain of the 1951 squad, and Bill Fischer, 1952 commander, had relatively dismal showings as they took 303 and 321 counts respectively.
The winner, Matey, and Moresco, the runner-up, have already received the personal trophies which are awarded annually to the number one and two men in the tournament by Mr. William A. Burke. Mr. Burke is the son of the late William J. Burke, who founded the present 18-hole University course in 1927.
In addition to the personal award Matey will have his name engraved upon the large silver trophy that is in the golf shop. This trophy, donated by Mr. William J. Burke’s widow in 1936 bears the name, score, and year of each annual champ.
Ed Gschwind Phil Everists Tom McMahon Bill Fischer ... Jim Britt ....
John Wendling
.78 82 77 82—319 .77 79 82 82—320 .78 83 77 82—320 .76 82 85 78—321
.81 76 85 85—322 84 81 79 79—323
—Pat Lally
Army ROTC Plans Exhibit
The Army Engineering Corps ROTC unit, is preparing an exhibition to demonstrate their ability. The exhibit, under the direction of Captain Bohm and Master Sgt. Clendenen, will be located in the Social Science Building and is expected to be ready during the latter part of October. Bridges, hand tools, rigging and demolitions will be included in the exhibit.
Victory Dances Ahead
YOU’LL HAVE MORE FUN!
YOU’LL BE MORE FUN! If you’re a
Good Dancer
Special SPEED COURSE $5.95
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bld?.
Special GROUP LESSONS $1.00 Limit 5 Pupils
The individual scores of the finalists - are as follows: c.				
_ Tom Matey 			73	68	71	69—281
Joe Moresco 			69	74	76	77—296
Joe Springer 			74	79	76	71—300
Paul Minnich ....		74	80	75	71—300
Frank Marzof ..		75	74	72	80—301
Larry Eaton 			75	77	72	78—302
Tom Veech 			71	79	73	80—303
Jim Jacobs 			81	78	72	72—303
Jack Powers 			.74	78	79	74—305
Tom Schweitz ....		71	80	76	82—309
Mike Doyle 			82	80	72	77—311
Jim O’Connor ....		75	78	76	82—311
Joe McInerney ..		74	79	77	82—312
Jim Terry 			80	79	79	77—315
Jim Kintz 			79	83	76	79—317
COSETTE BENBOW in charge of all NOTRE DAME enrollments
Enroll in one of Adaire's special student arrangements now. Be prepared for the next dance. These outstanding values can only be offered for a short time, so act now. Call 2-0166 for an introductory lesson. Act today and forget Washington Hall tomorrow.
Lowest Rates
216 S. Lafayette Blvd.
ADAIRE
DANCE STUDIO
Expert Teachers
Call 2-0166
Oct. 5, 1951
31
Basketball Team
(Continued from Page 29)
boys under the six-foot mark. But, at the same time there are no giant centers except for 6’9” Rich Wise, a freshman from White Plains, New York. However, it will probably take quite a bit of seasoning, before Wise is ready for varsity competition.
Assisting Jordan this season will be John Dee who played here in 1946. The plan at the present is to use several different offensive patterns and a shifting man to man defense.
Freshman and general tryouts are now in progress in the Drill Hail.
Interhall Football to Begin Next Week; Nines in Action
While the varsity was slamming the Indiana Hoosiers into submission last week-end, their “little brothers,” members of the various interhall teams were drilling hard in the fundamentals of football, in hopes that they might do a similar job on their respective opponents.
The regular interhall schedule doesn’t begin until the middle of next week, but meanwhile many teams were learning how to play “guts football” by means of various scrimmages. Giving an indication of the fierceness with which these boys play, last week one of the Sophomore halls met helmet to helmet with the varsity “B” team and came out on the short end of a mere 7-0 score.
Again this year Mr. Dominic Napolitano is in charge of the tournament and as in the past, it appears as if he will be directing another successful season for the gridiron men.
Baseball
A little beyond the fields used by the gridders, some energetic young men were tossing another ball around last week in anticipation of the annual Fall Baseball tournament which is being headed by Mr. Ernie Ezekely.
Seven teams have signed up for the double elimination series, and four of these took the field last Monday for the opening day ceremonies initiated on the interhall diamonds.
•The championship will be decided on a winners vs. winners, losers vs. losers setup, and in this way the games can be completed before the boys have to swing at snowballs instead of baseballs.
There will be a new interhall champion since last spring’s winner, Sorin Hall, did not enter the league this Fall. Sorin took two straight games from Dillon Hall last May with Fred Wall
32
ner, former Irish guard, doing most of the hurling assignments.
A week of practice has shown that there is more baseball talent on the campus than suspected, and spectators will have proof of this before the championship is decided.
The teams entering the tournament are listed according to numbers, Lyons being No. 1; Cavanaugh No. 2; Farley No. 3; Morrissey No. 4; Dillon No. 5; Breen-Phillips No. 6; and Walsh No. 7.
The schedule will begin as follows:
Monday, Oct. 2: Teams 1 vs. 2; 3 vs. 4.
Tuesday, Oct. 2—Teams 5 vs. 6; loser of 1 and 2 vs. loser of 3 and 4.
Wednesday, Oct. 3: Winner of 1 and 2 vs. winner of 3 and 4; winner of 5 and 6 vs. 7.—Thomas Moore
NOTRE DAME GYMNASTS
The Notre Dame Gymnasts will hold their inaugural meeting Monday evening, Oct. 8, at 7:00 in Room 1, Rockne Memorial. All University men interested in Gymnastics are invited to attend and help plan the activities for the Club’s second year.
Makes a Man Love a Pipe and a Woman Love a Man
College Parade y!
——gj;
Murphy: “What’s that in your pocket?”	;
Mike: “Shh. It’s dynamite caps. I’m | waiting for Pat. Every time he comes y by me he slaps me on the chest and ; I breaks me pipe. Next time he does it, ’ he’ll blow his hand off.”
A man went to the doctor, his ear torn and bleeding.
“I bit myself,” he explained.
“That’s impossible,” said the doctor. “How can a man bite himself in the ear?”	J
The man said, “I was standing on a ' chair.”
Filled with Christmas spirits, the drunk weaved his way to his car, opened the rear door by mistake, and laboriously climbed in.
“Hey, you!” yelled the officer on the beat, “you’re in no condition to drive.”
“Oh shtop botherin’ peashful citizens. If you want to do something useful, why’n’t you catch the guy who shtole my shteering wheel ?”
The mayor of Reno states that the new liquor laws must be enforced. He said that a city ordinance states that no saloon shall be located nearer than 300 feet from a church. He is giving violators three days in which to remove the church.
R
Two men were working on the White House lawn, each supplied with a small push cart upon which was a garbage can. They walked along picking up papers with a long spear. One spied a scrap of tissue paper and started to spear it, when suddenly a gust of wind came up and blew the paper into the White House through an open window.
The man became frantic and rushed into the building. He returned shortly and said: “I was too late. He had already signed it.”
oys best friend
is his mother...*
“What a splendid fit,” said the tailor as he carried another epileptic out of his shop.
■
“I thought you said that girls’ legs were without equal.”
“No, I said they were without parallel.”
■
First burglar: “Where ya been?”
Second burglar: “Out robbing Dillon Hall.”
First burglar: “Lose anything?”
■
If exercise will eliminate fat, how in the world does a woman get a double chin?
“Mother, Poppa wouldn’t murder anybody, would he?”
“Why, certainly not, child. What makes you ask that?”
“Well, I just heard him down in the cellar saying, ‘Let’s kill the other two, George’.”
The small boy had fallen into the stream but had been rescued.
“How did you come to fall in?” asked a bystander.
“I didn’t come to fall in,” the boy exclaimed, “I came to fish.”
Sometimes a pinch of salt can be improved by dropping it into a glass of beer.
“You’re looking good today, pal, who’s your embalmer?”
■
Did you ever stop to think what might have happened to American History if the British soldiers at Bunker Hill had had bloodshot eyes?
Oct. 5, 1951
33
~lhe l$ack
— ------------------- By Bill Riley
Two weeks ago in this space some of the reasons why the Catholic press remains largely unread were explored. The exploration was very brief; pointed out as obvious faults were these: the endless parade of vital statistics, meaningless to all except the few directly concerned; more clever (that is to say, more colorful, more direct, more pungent) writing; finally, a reduction in pietism.
Last week a gentleman by the name of Burrell, who lives in Morrissey Hall, and who seems to be concerned about the status of the Catholic press, was enough interested in these comments to write a letter to the Scholastic. This in itself, seems to mark him as one of the few who are attempting to make their feelings known on subjects of some importance.
However, I think Dave Burrell misunderstood what I was trying to say. Perhaps I did not make myself clear.
I do not consider either Time or the New Yorker to be the “very substance of things hoped for in the field of journalism.” We could all gather around and kick the dead dog concerning what is wrong with either of them. Time and the New Yorker both lean far too far towards the “oh nuts” or wisecracking side of journalism. Time is far too impressed with its own infallibility. The New Yorker deals chiefly in trivia, sticks to short fiction that is as formula-ized in its way as is that which is known as the “boy-meets-girl” story and which appears, changed to an astonishingly small degree, in the various slick magazines. This, however, is not the point at all.
The point, it seems to me, is this. The Neiv Yorker editors, the Time editors, the editors of any other magazine whose circulation runs into six or seven figures, are aiming at a market. They are using certain techniques — call them tricks if you want, it doesn’t make much difference — which cause their audience to buy the periodical more or less consistently, time after time.
Another point of importance, it seems to me, is that they succeed in capturing the attention of this market very well.
The market for Catholic publications is the Catholic population of this country. That market is not being reached.
34
It will never be reached at all fully by sending high school kids out selling subscriptions. It will never be reached at all fully by appealing to the conscience of Catholics, saying, “you should buy this Catholic paper because you are a Catholic.” Generally that line of approach will be about as effective as saying “you should buy the New Yorker because you live in New York.”
Commonweal ?	-
I would like to take the magazine Commonweal as a case in point. If its function is to inform and mentally agitate the more educated and more intelligent Catholic, it is succeeding, partially. It contains sound ideas, well-reasoned arguments, concerns itself with questions of importance. Generally it is well-written.
It has about the most foreboding layout of any magazine extant. It is printed on yellow paper. A drab yellow. It features line after line after line of unbending print. One opens the magazine and unless he is really eager, or is already a consistent reader, is frightened to death. This is not, I think, a matter of taste. It is a proven fact that this type of make-up will frighten most readers off. It would neither be compromising its intellectual core, nor pandering to an American audience to liven it up a little.
The Purpose Is Communication
It is a little more delicate question as to what Dave Burrell meant by “pandering to an American audience.” It would seem to me that the purpose of writing, publishing, as well as talking, is to communicate ideas. If you have the truth, which we must assume the Catholic press does, at least ultimately, then the necessity of fulfilling that purpose is made even more overpowering.
It seems to me that we should be very careful when we use a word as strong as “pandering.” If you are not communicating, you are using a lot of newsprint in a very useless way. To write cleverly (again, pungently, colorfully, interestingly) is not pandering. To avoid dull, drab make-up is not pandering. To attempt to broaden your audience, and therefore broaden youx-influence and therefore broaden the ex
tension of the truth is not pandering, vt
It is not pandering to try to educate more Catholics rather than to stick to ’j youx- own private little intellectual W elite, using youx- own abstruse termin- ^4 ology, and trying to demonstrate your W intellectual excellence by the use of W colorless, ultra-conservative layout. & Rathex- there may be a little shakily- | i grounded intellectual pride. It seems | to me that too many editors are afraid i that theix- magazine will become “popu- ‘, lar.”
Chazz and Jack
I’m not so sure that even the most discerning can find any connection between the preceding paragraphs and those which will follow, probably because there is none intended. I just feel impelled to write about the gyrations of what seems to be about 90% of the WND program staff, that is to say, Chazz and Jack.
From a station which had been noted fox- little besides a wealth of records and a sports staff with an almost maniacal preoccupation with minoxleague baseball scores, springing perhaps from a near deification of the newly installed Western Union ticker, the appearance of such a combination Chazz and Jack is especially heartening.
Chazz (known outside the airwaves by the prosaic name of Charles Shubert) and Jack (none other than the columnist whose humour column, more or less curtailed, graces the front half of this magazine) seem to believe that WND can do more than play records and tell us eagex- listeners how the New Orleans Pelicans fared. They have adopted a style which is becoming increasingly populax- on a national scale and are doing a successful job at it. Theix- scripts — if indeed they have scripts — are well-written. I have heard rumors around and about that at times these scripts have a slightly larcenous tinge but will refuse to ’ believe them until Gene and Ray or somebody else brings suit.
In a way it seems a shame that lack of sleep caused Shubert and Hynes to discontinue theix- early morning show. It would be even more of a shame if for any reason or reasons theix- freshly humorous evening show should be curtailed or cease to exist. They are good enough and have had enough initiative to turn out a show that most of us would have foredoomed to failure if we had been consulted a couple of years ago. Perhaps it has been partially theix-success which has boosted WND into a spot much highex- in student estimation than it occupied at the beginning of last year.
The Scholastic
THE DI EONT
DIGEST
M.E.’s AT DU PONT
Diversity of chemical products spells opportunity for the mechanical engineer
Students of mechanical engineering sometimes assume there is little opportunity for them in the chemical industry. In fields where products are made in more or less standardized equipment, this may be so.
But in a company like Du Pont which operates in many fields of industrial chemistry—where products are made at pressures over 15,000 pounds per square inch as well as in vacua low as two millimeters of mercury—mechanical engineers are in heavy demand.
What jobs do they fill at Du Pont? Literally hundreds, not including the normal run of mechanical engineering work such as design of standard equipment, scaling up from blueprints, etc.
For example, here are some of the problems encountered in the manufacture of nylon yarn alone:
1.	Nylon polymer, a poor thermal conductor, is melted by a contact sur-
The compression stages of these 50 ton/day hypercompressors {15,000 p.s.i.) for nitrogen., hydrogen, etc., were designed by Du Pont mechanical engineers.
face grid at 550°F. The polymer decomposes slowly at this temperature, and there is a major heat-transfer problem. Many types of melting grids had to be designed before one proved satisfactory.
2.	The molten polymer is pumped to spinnerets under pressures over 1000 pounds per square inch. With nylon as the only lubricant, the pumps must operate continuously at 550°F. Specialized problems in sealing, gasketing and materials of construction are inherent in this operation.
3.	The melt is forced through multiple holes (diameters of 7 to 22 thousandths of an inch) in a special alloy disc. They must be made to conform to “jeweler’s specifications.”
4.	The emerging fibers are cooled in a specially designed “air conditioned” chimney. Precise control is essential in this critical operation.
5.	The fibers are wound on spools at surface speeds around 1000 yards per minute. Design calls for constant change in speed so that there is no localized stretching or relaxation of the fiber.
6.	Finally, the fiber is drawn about 400% and wound on spools traveling at 5000 feet per minute. Bearing lubrication and dynamic balance presented important design problems.
These are but a small part of the mechanical engineering problems arising in the manufacture of a single product by only one of Du Pont’s ten manufacturingdepartments. Literally hundreds of other products, ranging all the way from cellulose sponges to metals like titanium, present similar challenges. So long as new processes continue to be sought and old processes improved, there will be important work for the hand and mind of the mechanical engineer.
Ralph C. Grubb, B.S.M.E., Tennessee *51t and Paul D. Kohl, B.S.M.E., Purdue *46, study characteristics of a super-pressure pump {75,000 p.s.i.) designed by Du Pont engineers and made in Du Pont shops.
Heat-transfer problems in the design of new fiber-spinning equipment are investigated by J. C. Whitmore,	Virginia *44,
M.S.M.E., Delaware *49, and L.B. Collat, B.S.M.E., Georgia Tech *50.
Uniquely designed adapter for a screw extruder under study by Ralph J. Covell, B.S. M.E., Purdue *49, and John F. Bowling, B.S.M.E., Purdue *41. The adapter heats, filters and forms polymer into filaments.
Send for your copy of “The Du Pont Company and The College Graduate.” Describes opportunities for men and women with many types of training. Explains how individual ability is recognized and rewarded under Du Pont plan of organization. Address: 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
sES.U.S.P*rOFK
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTKY
Entertaining, Informative — Listen to "Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
Oct. 5, 1951
35
DIVISION U-’W VEHSITY LIBRARY WTRE DANS IO
THf BIGGEST
—No Unpleasant

After-taste
Always Milder
Cooler Smoking
— added to the world’s most famous ABCs —
St-' f Bi
I— WCIGARETTE HISTORY i
0(Jy W(j
4 20th Ce^^ry-Fox Production

'CHESTERFIELD IS THE ONLY CIGARETTE of all brands tested in which members of our taste panel found no unpleasant after-taste."
From the report of a well-known research organization
Always BuyCHESTERFiltD
•	Copyright 1951. Liggett 6. M\ers Tobacco Co