
9

Everyone's Watching the 1949 Irish ...
And unless a drastic case of over-confidence sets in, most experts believe that Notre Dame’s 1949 football team will go undefeated. But no matter what their final record is, you’ll want to remember such men as Leon Hart, Jim Martin and Emil Sitko, as well as the rest of the team. There’s no better way of getting all the facts than by reading the SCHOLASTIC’S Football Issue.
Due to roll off the presses December 9, the 68-page edition will be devoted exclusively to football: there’ll be a four-color action cover, biographies of the players and coaches, stories of all the games, all the final statistics, exclusive features and plenty of pictures.
If you’re a subscriber to the SCHOLASTIC, you’ll get the issue free. But if you aren’t, place your order now, so you’ll be sure of getting the real-story of the 1949 Fighting Irish. It’s an issue worth buying and an issue worth keeping. Send 50c to Football Issue, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.	'
And for a complete record of all Notre Dame activities, order the SCHOLASTIC Specials: Football Issue, Basketball Round-up and final review of the year. You can get all three editions by sending $1.00 to the same address.
You’ll Get All the Facts in the Scholastic Football Issue
2
The Scholastic

I
Letters
We have received a few letters lately that were unsigned or tagged with Name Withheld. Before zve consider any letter tor publication, it is necessary that we have the name of the writer. If you want your name withheld, sign the letter, and ask that your name not be printed.
Girls and Boys
Editor:
Is it true that the girls that work on the campus are primarily looking for husbands? If not, why is it that the girls from the Main Building invariably are in the Huddle during a class break, chatting, giggling and trying to look pretty? Conditions in the Huddle are bad enough without their adding to the confusion. How about it ladies—get your coffee on the half-hour.
T. O’Brien
Off-campus
Our Main Building correspondent reports that many of the office girls are already married and that there usually aren’t more than three or four of them in the Huddle at any one time. Perhaps the croivd comes to see the girls and not -vice-versa.—Ed.
A Great Event
Editor:
On the evening of Oct. 31, 1949, a great thing happened to me, and as a matter of fact to a majority of the students on campus, even if they didn’t know about it. We were served a new kind of gravy on our mashed potatoes that evening at dinner. For nigh onto four years I’ve been eating in that chow hall and the gravy has always been the same, regardless of what it went on— beef, ham, pork, or tube steak. But last Monday eve as I was sitting there eating my meal, I thought that something was wrong, or should I say, different. Then it came on me—the gravy that is, because some spilled on my shirt front. Not until then did I realize that right before my eyes was something that I’ve awaited for over three years. So, I now wish to extend my thanks to Mr. Ford (probably the only thing he has ever been thanked for) or to the person responsible for this small change in our diet. I’m going to frame the shirtj
George McCullough
216 Dillon
Af the tnoi/ons her hus6an/ ajoaf/mak&.
Akni/eAroWSrs parser dk/yuafo
"Arrow Shorts an ufofs nee/ef
So(je/some!”She. pfoufo/.
femember my/de is af stoke/*
No chafing center seam
If you have a deep seated conviction that something is creeping up on you, your trouble is ill-fitting shorts.
For real comfort below decks, see your Arrow dealer for Arrow shorts and you'll have the best seat in the house! $1.25 up
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
It's ADLER'S for
ARROW
a
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
Nov. 4, 1949
3
Researchist Dr. Kuttner To Address Law institute
Dr. Stephan Kuttner, internationally famous researchist in Mediaeval Canonical Law at the Vatican, will address the third annual Natural Law Institute in the College of Law Dec. 9 and 10.
Dr. Kuttner is Professor of the History of Canon Law at the Catholic University, Washington, D. C. He will speak on “The Natural Law and Canon Law” at the Institute which is being sponsored by Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati, Ohio, businessman.
Born and educated in Germany, Dr. Kuttner was appointed by the late Pope Pius XI as research associate of the
ATTENTION, FACULTY
All members of the faculty who want to receive the JUGGLER this year are asked to turn in their names to the Publications Department, by a card or in person, no later than the end of next week. The JUGGLER will be mailed free to all faculty members who request it but those who do not hand in their request now must pay the regular subscription price.
CARBON ARC PICTURE
On Thursday afternoon, Nov. 10, in the Law Auditorium, a technicolor motion picture will be presented for the members of the Audio-Visual classes and a repeat presentation for the student body and faculty. The film is titled “Carbon Arc Projection,” the first motion picture produced to demonstrate the optics of motion picture projection and the carbon arc’s unique position in the broad science of light, sight and color. Showing for the Audio-Visual classes will be at 1:15, and for the student body and faculty at 3:30 p.m. in the Law Auditorium.
Vatican Library. He has been on the staff of Catholic U. since 1940 and has been Honorary Consultant of the Library of Congress since 1943.
Engineer to Address ASME On Underwater Bikini Blast
The St. Joseph Valley and Notre Dame student branches of the ASME will hold a joint meeting next Thursday at 8 p. m. in the Engineering Auditorium to hear a talk by Mr. Forrest Nagler, Chief Me
chanical Engineer of the Allis-ChalmersW; Manufacturing Co. Mr. Nagler will talk on “Bikini, The Human Side.” A film, entitled Navy Crossroads, will be shown as a supplement to the talk.
Mr. Nagler, who received his B.S. degree in hydraulic and marine engineering from the University of Michigan, worked for the Allis-Chalmers Co. from 1S06 to 1929. Between 1929 and 1942 he worked for several engineering and , research companies, including the A. 0. Smith Corp., and Canadian Allis-Chalmers, Ltd., of Toronto. He has been chief mechanical engineer with Allis-Chalmers . since 1942.	!
Inventor of the Nagler type of axial flow high speed hydraulic turbine runner, Mr. Nagler was associated with the atomic bomb experiments.
DR. NUTTING TO SPEAK
Dr. Willis Nutting, Professor of History, will talk on the proceedings of the theological conference held in St. Louis this Summer in the Cavanaugh Hall reading room this Sunday morning at 10:30. Dr. Nutting attended the week-lond conference and delivered a paper concerning Liturgy and the family.

McGREGOR CORDUROY SPORT SHIRTS
7.95
Styled and tailored by McGregor, your assurance of a perfectly fitting, comfortable sport shirt. These fine pin-wale corduroy shirts have in-or-out shirt-tails, convertible collars and come in a wide selection of good colors . . . washable, of course . . . ideal for any casual wear. Get yours tomorrow!
California Styled Corduroy Jackets .... 9.95
‘the week
by ^ack McGoldrick =
" Top of the Week
ND surgeons to perform Lansing, Mich., operation tomorrow.
On Wisconsin
Everyone remembers last year’s antiHarry Stuhldreher demonstrations at the University of Wisconsin, after the Badger coach failed to produce a victory. Last week, following Dillon Hall’s 6-0 loss to Morrissey, hall coach Pete W Varda returned to his room to find a large “Good-bye, Pete” sign on his door. We understand he will accept a position as Dillon athletic director.
Note to Editor
Last week, after reading Li’l Abner, Kerry Drake, and Grandma on the local comic pages, we glanced through the Scholastic, and noticed the severely critical editor’s note which had slipped into the WEEK. You may 8 have a point there, Ed., and the WEEK has chastised our poll takers for forming such a limited student impression of the Juggler. Had we known Thomas Wolfe was contributing this year, we would have had our subscription in long ago. But with regard to that Juggler ad on the inside back cover, we have a letter from Confucius Nieman of the Harvard Journalism school. This Confucius says: “good publisher not let fe full page ad influence editor’s notes.” (Our low opinion of McGoldrick's intelligence is confirmed by his quoting a Harvard man. Come, McGoldrick, have you no pride? Ed.)
Shades of the Seven Blocks
After looking over tomorrow’s football schedule, the WEEK is ready to predict the upset of the year. So far, the WEEK has predicted that the Dodgers would win the series, that the 8 Germans would win World War II, and we have lost on the parlays six weeks in a row: Tomorrow, Fordham’s Rams take on the Army powerhouse at West Point. Even though both teams are undefeated, bookies have made Army a 30 to 40-point choice over the men from Rose Hill. However, by the use of the infallible system of comparative scores, we have figures to prove that the final score will be Fordham 242, Army 0. (This is the same system by
which a New York sports writer, after a couple of drinks, proved Trinity College of Connecticut to be 71 points better than Notre Dame.) If you care to follow this line of reasoning, here it is:
Last week, Fordham beat Georgetown 42-0. Previously, Georgetown had beaten Boston College 10-7, thereby making Fordham 45 points better than B.C. Since B.C. beat Wake Forest 13-7, and Wake Forest lost to SMU 13-7, those two games cancel out, leaving Fordham 45 points over SMU. (Still with u's?) SMU beat Kentucky 20-7, and Kentucky blasted Mississippi 47-0. This should make the Rams 105 points better than Ole Miss, who beat Memphis State, 40-7. Memphis’ 21-14 win over Kansas State, and K. State’s 27-13 victory over Colorado, makes Fordham 160 points better than Kansas U., who lost to Colorado 13-12. Kansas then
If You Can Walk Well Teach You to Dance the GEORGE DAVIS WAY
•	Incomparable Low Rates
•	Private Studios and Main Ballroom
•	Friendly, Congenial Atmosphere
•	Personally Trained Staff
FREE Trial Lesson
Stop in or Phone
3-8229
Northern Indiana’s Largest Studio
106 W. Monroe at Michigan
turned around and whipped Oklahoma A. & M., 55-14, giving Fordham a 201-point edge over A. & M. This same A. & M. team tied TCU, and TCU beat Indiana 13-6. (We’re back in the big time again). As any fool can plainly see, Indiana’s rout of Pitt, 48-14, makes Fordham a 246-point choice over Pitt. The Panthers beat Northwestern 16-7, raising oui' point total to 255. By beating Michigan 21-20, N.U. made Fordham a mere 256’points better than the Wolverines. Since Michigan only lost to Army 21-7, we subtract 14 points, giving us tomorrow’s score of Fordham 242, Army 0. Simple, isn’t it?
Question of the Week
Q. Why do Notre Dame men appear to have such a varied wardrobe? (Submitted by Euphemia Leukemia, South Bend.) '
A. Because the laundry sends back a different shirt every week. (That was an easy one.) Any readers who wish to submit a question of the week should send same to THE WEEK, 35 Sorin Hall.
Bottom of the Week
Weak WEEK last week.- (It isn't getting any better, either.—Ed.)
Alice and George Davis
SPECIAL SHORT COURSES FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
Studio Hours: 10>10
I Nov. 4, 1949
Entertainment
NOVEMBER 4
COLFAX (through Nov. 12)—As prettily sentimental as a Christmas card is Come to the Stable (Legion of Decency Rating A-l). With Loretta Young and Celeste Holm as its stars it does for nuns what Going My Way did for priests. Don’t try to compare them, though, in any other respect. It is a fresh and cheery film that comes as a welcome breath of entertainment after a drought of seamy-sided dramas. On this you can’t go wrong.
PALACE (through Nov. 5)—Richard Conte hits real stardom in Thieves Highway (B), a tough and realistic picture of California truckers. He turns in a fine piece of acting with a superlative assist by Lee J. Cobb. Italian importation Valentina Cortese makes a sultry debut.
GRANADA (through Nov. 10)—Cowboy pictures are generally pretty good, no matter how stupid the plot may be. This one, however, The Fighting Kentuckian (A-2) is just plain awful. John Wayne usually shows wise judgment in his choice of horse-operas. This time something happened.
STATE (through Nov. 5)—My Gal Sal and Hangover Square are fair-to-middlin’ reissues.

NOVEMBER 5
EAST LANSING—Four weeks ago all roads led to Lafayette for the Purdue game. Tomorrow, lanes point northward for the Michigan State battle in East Lansing. Considering the Spartans’ record this should be one of the best games of the year.
AVON (through Nov. 8)—Hollywood finally discovers the 4-H clubs in The Green Promise (A-l). Walter Brennan, Robert Paige and Marguerite Chapman are involved in the rather slight plot. Farmers should eat this one up.
WASHINGTON HALL—After an auspicious start in Sitting Pretty, Lynn Belvedere slumps to a slow trot in Mr. Belvedere Goes to College (A-2). Clifton Webb is his inimitably arch self in the title role. The picture is highly diverting except when a certain lass named Shirley Temple comes on the scene. Hei- girlish giggles nearly wreck the picture.
NOVEMBER 9
AVON (through Nov. 15)—MGM forgot its lavish musicals long enough to put out The Doctor and the Girl (A-2). A moderate little drama, it scores with its sincerity. Glenn Ford, Janet Leigh and Charles Coburn are fine in the stellar roles.
NOVEMBER 11
STUDENT TRIP—A large contingent of ND’ers will pack their bags, board the Pennsy train and be off for the annual student trip. This year their destination is NEW YORK. These trips are always a highlight of the year and many a tall tale has been the result of them. Oh, yes: the Irish play North Carolina there also.
1 Here is no name more famous for -/favQf than Beech-Nut
ere is no chewing gum more dependable for line flavor and uniform high quality than...
Beech-Nut GUM
/fs d/ways %efresh/ng
Beech-Nut BEECHIES. the Gandy Coated Chewing Gum in three varieties: PEPPERMINT. PEPSIN and SPEARMINT
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 November 4, 1949 No. 7 --------	----------------------------- |-------Disce Quasi Semper Victurus
"	Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON
a	Associate Editors
KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR
WALTON R. COLLINS News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI_________Assistant News A. J. S CRIB A___________Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT_______________.Sports WILLIAM RILEY.....____________ Assistant_Sports
RICHARD CULLEN_____________Photography
LEON GARDNER_________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER____________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO_____________Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY_______________Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE_______________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor. Box 185. Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Lou Garippo plays Joe Salva-। tore, a thick-witted Italian gangster, in the University Theatre’s production of Whistling in the Dark, the last performance being scheduled for tonight. And when Lou plays a character, he goes all out as the cover picture shows. Equipped as sinister as possible—pulled down hat, bags under the eyes, thin moustache, drooping cigarette, flashy suit and shirt, bruised knuckles and a genuine “cap pistol”— he’s enough to make anyone but the hardiest Chicagoan quiver with fear.
Whistling in the Dark opened last Tuesday as the first production of 1949 school year for the University Theatre. - There's a review of the show on Page 12.—Photo by Jim Ferstel.
Nov. 4, 1949
From the Editor’s Desk..
Fifty Million Temptations
Last week a millionaire offered Jefferson Military College a $50,000,000 endowment. Being in dire financial straits, the executives would have liked to accept the offer. But there was one small catch. Il the College accepted, it could only take in white. Christian students to the exclusion of all others.
W hen the story broke in the newspapers, protests began pouring in at the 147-year-old prep school. Arguments for and against the agreement reached a peak when the son of the donor and a trustee of the college said that such a practice was not any different from that ol such Universities as Southern Methodist, Texas Christian and Notre Dame.
Father Murphy, Vice-President in Charge of Public Relations for Notre Dame, answered very easilv in an article in the South Bend Tribune. He simply quoted facts. Over seven per cent of the students at Notre Dame are non-Catholic. he pointed out. and those that aren’t don’t have to take religion courses or participate in the Catholic services. Furthermore, he stressed the fact that there are students from all the states and many foreign countries who are of many races.
A charge like that of the college official is easy to make, but it doesn’t stand up well against the facts. Following American democratic principles. Notre Dame is far from a closed corporation.
Earlier this week, the Mississippi school decided to say "no” to the millionaire. Many individuals, applauding its stand, sent in contributions to help put the college back on its financial feet.
There probably couldn’t be a much bigger temptation for an American educational institution than that thrust on Jefferson Military College. We congratulate the school for following real Christian principles and not the bogus ones of the millionaire.
High School Antics
During and since the war. the average age of the Notre Dame student has ranged far above twentv-one. -However, with the decline of the number of veterans, the age level is reaching pre-war normalcy. Whether the conduct of students will follow the age trend is one of the big problems of the University this year and next.
Although such conduct is far from universal, there have been a few instances of childish antics by some of the Freshmen. At the Freshman picnic, for instance, a few of the new men spent the afternoon by hurling wisecracks and generally making themselves obnoxious. There have been a few instances of the same nature- on busses coming back to the campus since then.
There isn’t too much to be alarmed about yet, but if the trend grows, a lot of the good done by the older students is going to be destroved. The administration felt that some of the disciplinary restrictions could be relaxed after the war without any danger. It was right. But whether such a system will work for the younger men depends a lot on the present freshman and sophomore classes.
The initiation systems at other Universities arc supposed to indoctrinate the new men. Their results are very7 doubtful. Here at Notre Dame, there arc no initiations. Instead, the freshmen are brought risfht into the student communitv. It’s about time those few men of o	•
the Class of ’53 who are still acting like high school children grew into Notre Dame men.
7

Do You Know?
There are only 44 shopping days left before Christmas. You will want an adequate supply of Christmas Cards.	d
Do You Have Them?
We have a very large selection of Religious, humorous and Notre Dame cards. HAVE THEM PERSONALIZED.
O’
The Perfect Gift . . .
For Students and Alumni —
THE COLLEGIATE BLANKET
★	Notre Dame colors.
★	100% Virgin Wool.
★	Large Chenille Monogram
★	Individualized with owner’s name and year.
Place your order TODAY in time for Christmas
MAIL ORDERS ACCEPTED
Notre Dame Book Store
Notre Dame,
Indiana

8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame ScHol(JStlC
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 7
NOVEMBER 4, 1949
North Carolina Jaunt Draws 700 ND Men
By CHARLEY DULLEA
One week from today some 700 Notre Dame men will bid farewell to dangling participles, irregular conjugations, and exasperating electrons, toss a toothbrush and a change of dice into their Gladstone bags, scatter- their meal tickets to the four winds, and make off for the City of Light, New York, and the North Carolina game.
Buses will leave the campus at 2:15 p. m. to convey the waiting horde from the circle direct to the Pennsylvania R. R. Station at 700 South Main St. The train will definitely leave, regardless of the outcome of the bituminous snarl, as the engine to be employed is a Diesel. Eighteen cars will be in tow, including a lounge car, two diners, and an observation car.
Once at the station, the nomads will board as quickly as possible, since the train must leave by 3 p. m. in order to get behind a fast, through “limited.”
After a night in the Pennsylvania’s deluxe, reclining coach seats, the travelers will arrive at Penn Station at 7
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS SPEAKERS
Lectures by Professor H. Sauermann, of the Universities of Frankfurt and Chicago, will be given here next Tuesday and Wednesday nights. The lectures are sponsored by the Committee on International relations, which was recently established at Notre Dame in conjunction with the Rockefeller Foundation. They will cover the general field of “Social Changes in Germany and International Economic Cooperation,” and will be given at 7:45 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Lounge.
On November 15, Professor Bernard Brodie, of Yale University, will speak in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. He will lecture on “American Foreign Policy in the Atomic World.” This talk is also sponsored by the Committee on International Relations.
A jointly sponsored lecture by Professor H. Butterfield, of Cambridge University, will be presented two nights later, on Nov. 17, in the Engineering Auditorium at 8 p.m. Professor Butterfield will speak on the “Tragic Element in Modern International Conflict.” He will lecture under the cosponsorship of the International Relations Committee and the Department of History. Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., Head of the Department of History, will act as chairman for this talk.
a. m. Saturday. Thence they will proceed to the Church of St. Francis of Assisi, where Mass will be celebrated. After that, it’s every man for himself until the following afternoon, with band members adjourning first to the Embassy Hotel.
Up in Yankee Stadium, at River Ave. and 161st St., the Irish will be seated between the 45 and 50 yard lines in the lower grandstand down the third base line. The band will be placed behind the students so that the crowd will be able to get them in full force. In connection with this, Student Council prexy Bill Kirchner urges that all those making the trip know the songs and cheers. A number of North Carolina students will be present and a “representative showing” by the Notre Dame section is looked for.
Saturday night means New York and all that goes with it—Radio City, the Paramount, Shubert Alley, Roseland, 52nd Street, Greenwich Village, and, perhaps, Grant’s Tomb. Thus, it will be a heavy-eyed but happy crew that will assemble in Penn Station Sunday afternoon for the long trek back to Wal-green’s, the Colfax, and Bearskin.
The train will leave at 4:30 p. m. and is scheduled to arrive in South Bend at 7 a.m., or a little earlier, Monday.
Candidates Still Few As Frosh Vote Nears
Only a few candidates have yet appeared in the field for freshman class offices. Nominations closed yesterday and the campaign is expected to reach its height before the voting next Wednesday.	’
Running the election committee is Mike Jacobs, of Alumni Hall. He will conduct a freshman meeting in the Engineering auditorium next Wednesday evening at 7:30 to acquaint the first-year men with their presidential candidates. The candidates will each give a short talk on- their respective tickets and platforms.
Three parties have indicated their intention of joining the race. However, none of them has a party name as yet.
Tom Reedy, from Chicago and Farley Hall, heads a ticket that includes: Jim Gibbons, Farley, for vice-president; Bill Gaudreau, Breen-Phillips, for treasurer; Al DeCrane, Zahm, for secretary.
Four Breen-Phillips men have formed another group, sponsoring Jim Brewer for president; John McCormick for vice-president; Bob Frandsden for treasurer, and Bill Jacobitz for secretary.
A third party is running Lamont McLaughlin, of B-P, for president, with Dick Seifert, Zahm, aspiring to the vice-presidency; Roy Deak, B-P, to treasurer, and Bob Biever, Zahm, to secretary.
St. Edward’s also boasts candidates, with Vincent La Puma from Brooklyn and Cleveland’s Gerry Marshall both being pushed for president.
The election will be held in the dining hall basement between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., and from 2 to 4 p.m. next Wednesday. Freshmen are reminded to bring their student ID cards when they come to vote.
Chairman Jacobs urges every freshman to attend next Tuesday’s rally and become acquainted with their candidates. He reminds the candidates themselves to prepare a short speech to he given at that time.—Jim Cdrrig -
. 9
Nov. 4, 1949
0
New Rocket Engine Passes Firing Tests
A rocket engine, the first ever to be built and tested at Notre Dame, was successfully fired last week in the Department of Aeronautical Engineering. The test, which took only a few seconds, was conducted by the Notre Dame volunteer aviation unit of the Naval Reserve. The experiment was conducted by Prof. W. D. Drinkwater and Robert DeFrees, graduate student, of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering.
The rocket, designated 25-1, has a thrust of 25 pounds as compared to the V-2 rockets tested by the Navy which developed thrusts of more than 2,600 pounds. Professor Drinkwater participated in the tests conducted at the White Sands, N. M_, proving grounds.
Commander J. H. Kimpler, volunteer project officer of the Ninth Naval District, Great Lakes, Ill., was present for the tests. DeFrees and Professor Drinkwater were assisted by other members of the Notre Dame unit; the test firing was also observed by other students in the department.
The brief test schedule followed days of careful preparation and preliminary tests. Installation of the engine and the testing equipment took six days prior to the firing. Further tests would be made with the present model, Professor Drink
water announced, in an effort to get a more accurate record of its thrust. Other rockets, he added, are already in the planning stage.
All computations of rocket and jet power are made in pounds of thrust rather than horsepower. The power of the thrust increases with the acceleration of the rocket. The approximate ratio is: at 375 miles per hour, one pound of thrust equals one horsepower.
Month of Poor Souls Begins With Novena
During November, Month of the Poor Souls, Masses will be offered daily for the deceased friends and relatives of the students. In addition, a special novena of Masses for the Souls in Purgatory began yesterday and will continue through Nov. 11.
Names of deceased persons were placed by the students in the boxes on the pamphlet racks in Dillon and Cavanaugh Halls. These names were then placed on various altars where the Masses for poor souls are being said.
A plenary indulgence applicable to any poor soul was gained by anyone who, on Nov. 1 or 2, went to Confession received Communion, made a visit to the church, and said six Our Fathers and Hail Marys.
To pray for the dead, by the way, is a spiritual work of mercy.
Shakespearean Play Here Next Thursday
The comparatively new, highly interpretive and equally renowned Margaret Webster Shakespeare Company brings Julius Caesar to the Notre Dame campus next Thursday, Nov. 10. The epic tragedy will be presented in Washington @ Hall at 8 p. m. '
The Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., chairman of the Committee on Student Entertainment, has announced that all seats for the single show will be reserved. Tickets are on sale in the lobby of the Caf and may be had for the respective prices of $1.80, $1.50, and $1.20.
Heading the cast of notable performers in Miss Webster’s outstanding group d are Louisa Horton, Kendall Clark, and David Lewis. Miss Horton, a widely experienced young actress, has had leading roles in such Broadway successes as Soldier’s Wife, and the hit production, Voice of the Turtle. She will play the role of Portia, Brutus’ wife in Julius Caesar.
Kendall Clark, 14-year theater veteran, will portray Mark Antony. In his career he has played such parts as Major Robinson in Home of the Brave. The last three seasons he played with Tallulah Bankhead in The Eagle Has Two Heads, and stage managed her recent revival of Private Lives.
Aero Engineers adjust sand-bagged model rocket engine for first test last week.
David Lewis, highly acclaimed for parts in Macbeth and Hamlet in Miss Webster’s company last season and Take It As It Comes, The Streets Are Guarded, and Little Women on Broadway, will play the part of Brutus in this production.
A unique feature of the play is that it will be enacted in modern dress. “This is not done as a ‘stunt’ nor with the intention of drawing any specific parallel, with a particular dictatorship, either of the present, the recent past or the possible future,” writes Miss Webster, but rather, “we shall try honestly to interpret what seems to us Shakespeare’s thinking in terms which bring it closest to our own minds and our own society.”
Organized in 1947, the Margaret Web- Oi ster Shakespeare Company has brought * outstanding productions to cultural centers (mostly colleges) in 34 states and three Canadian provinces. For this, her . second season, Miss Webster had, by popular demand, chosen two Shakespearian plays—The Taming -of the Shrew and Julius Caesar—but eventually she hopes to include the works of Chekhov, Sheri- 6 dan, Moliere, Shaw, and other great dra- -j matists in the repertoire of hex- unique I company.	a
10
The Scholastic
Natural Law Institute To Unveil New Plaque
The history of Notre Dame’s Natural Law Institute will live through the ages, recorded in bronze.
At this year’s annual Natural Law Institute, to be held Dec. 9 and 10 in the College of Law, a bronze plaque measur-ing three feet in diameter and featuring the seal of the Institute will be unveiled and dedicated.	r
Directly below the seal, this quotation from Blackstone will appear:
“This law of nature being coeval with mankind and dictated by God Himself, is
on the various decoration themes for their respective halls. As yet no decoration rules have been announced, although a maximum expense limit has been set for each hall. A complete list of decoration rules and regulations will be issued from the Student Council office next week.
The decorations are to be set up on Friday, Nov. 25, and, if tentative plans prevail, will be judged as in previous years by a committee from South Bend.
Last year the judges awarded first prize to Howard Hall for its creation, “Mr. Leahy Builds His Dream House,” with second prize going to Badin Hall.
PUBLICATION POSTPONED
Several students have asked SCHOLASTIC for information on how they can subscribe to the “Morning Star,” the Catholic daily planned for Chicago. On the day of the publication of the story in SCHOLASTIC, it was announced in Chicago that the group has delayed the publication of the newspaper because of unforeseen obstacles. When and if final plans are completed and the paper is actually printed, SCHOLASTIC will give its readers all information.
of course superior in obligation to any other. It is binding over- all the globe in all countries, and at all times. No human laws are of any validity if contrary to this: and such of them as are valid derive all their force and all their authority, mediately or immediately, from this original.”
Individual bronze tablets denoting the sponsor, the speakers, and the speaker’s subjects of each year’s Institute will be mounted on the walls of the Law Building facing the main entrance.
The plaque and the historic tables are the gift of Mr. Alvan A. Gould, Cincinnati, Ohio, businessman and sponsor of this year’s Institute. The seal was designed especially for the Institute by Frank J. Hanley of the University’s Department of Fine Arts.
Council Names Trojan • Tilt for Decorations
The Student Council has named the Southern Cal game, Nov. 26, as Decoration Day, the Irish equivalent of Home-coming Weekend. The Trojan encounter will also be the occasion of the return to Notre Dame of the famed Four Horsemen and Seven Mules, to celebrate the 25th anniversary of their rise to gridiron immortality.
The hall councils will meet to decide ® Nov. 4, 1949
Polio Victims Return; Vetville Resumes Activity
After a period of forced inactivity due to an outbreak of polio, which claimed the life of John Bellis, Notre Dame’s Vetville activities are again in full swing.
In keeping with the recommendations of Dr. Robert Egan, University physician, and county health officers, all village programs were curtailed, and residents were urged to use caution and to take their recreation in town as much as possible. Now, after the return home from the hospital of Harry Williams and Mrs. Paul Gustafson, Vetville’s second and third polio victims, and no report of any new cases, the outlook is brighter, and it is hoped that the threat is over.
Juniors Enjoy Potawotomi Picnic
Juniors and their dates grab a bite to eat
at their Saturday picnic in Potawatami.
Accordingly, the village social functions have been revived, after the forced layoff, and many new plans are being made for the coming winter, under the direction of the Vetville Council and Mayor Leo “Zeke” Zuckowsky.
The Friday night bridge club has been resumed, as have the Great Books Seminars, conducted by Father Paul Bailey, C.S.C. A square dance is planned for Saturday night in the Rec Hall. And baby sitting opportunities are again open for Notre Dame students.
Future plans of the council include conversion of part of the Rec Hall into a children’s playground for the winter months, and a children’s party tentatively set for Thanksgiving and one to be held around Christmas.
11
FROM THE BALCONY RAIL . ..
Civil Service Exams
University Theatre Starts Season With Mystery Comedy — Verdict: Not Half Bad
Offered Future Grads
Job-hunting January and June grads have an opportunity to take a competitive examination for civil service em-
By KEN THOREN
The University Theatre opened its season last Tuesday afternoon with Whistling in the Dark, a mystery comedy by Lawrence Gross and E. C. Carpenter. The verdict: not half bad; in fact, rather good.
The play is the story of a gang of hoodlums, their imprisonment of a crime novelist, and their demands upon him to create the perfect murder. The plot is rather thin and hard put to extenuate itself over three acts. The cast, however, overcomes the play’s deficiencies to bring the production across the winning line.
Pat McAteer, as the Edward Everett Horton-ish novelist, is excellent in the leading role. It’s a difficult one that calls for modulation. McAteer has improved greatly in comparison to his efforts of last year. Another actor who has profited by last year’s experience is Jack Powell. As the ringleader of the gangsters, he underplays the part very well.
Lou Garippo, Larry McDermott, Mickey Carroll and Otis Jordan are all convincing as the mobsters. Jordan, of the entire cast, does the best job in overcoming the dead spots that the heavy set created. His resonant voice is the clearest projected. As for the female side of the roster: Jo Ann Smith makes a pretty heroine but is very weak as an actress. Although Eleanor Thompson remains mute
throughout the play she manages to instill some characterization into her role as the maid. Rosemary Donnelly is never seen but presents a pleasant voice as the telephone operator.
Last Tuesday the play’s first act was slow. Then, in the second act, it began to pick up. The final third was well worth waiting for. The cast seemed to have dispelled its jitters by that time and had begun working as a unit. The result was evident in the number of laughs garnered from the audience. If the entire play could have been as good as this third act — and we have every reason to believe that it will be by its final performance tonight — we would be unstinting in our praise.
The sombre set was just right for the play’s tone. The lighting, as in last year’s productions, was imaginative. The play’s direction, by Francis J. Hanley, was fluid even though it lacked pace in the opening moments. One of the kinks which was disconcerting to us, but which has undoubtedly been ironed out by tonight, was the moving shadows offstage. They reflected on the two entrances and frequently attracted our attention.
As an entity, the University Theatre seems to have lost some of its high school theatrics so prevalent last year. Its followers hope that this season will see it come into its own. Whistling in the Dark is a good start. ;
ployment which pays starting salaries of $2,974 and $3,350, the Testing and Guidance Department announced last week.
Those jobs which pay $2,974 include that of bacteriologist, landscape architect, mathematician and statistician, and are open only to men with comparable training in the colleges of Science and Engineering; a social science analyst, for which A.B. men are eligible; and a legal assistant’s position, open to law students. Commerce men are qualified to compete for the junior management assistant’s post, which pays $3,350.
Three-Hour Exam
Candidates will be given a three-hour written examination in the South Bend Post Office, on a date to be announced later. If the candidate passes the exam, he’ll be given a three-month trial period, and if he proves satisfactory, will be given permanent employment with the civil service commission. The opportunities for advancement are many. There will be regular salary increases, generous vacation and sick leave, and an attractive retirement plan.
Applications must be turned in to the South Bend Post Office not later than Nov. 8, and students who wish to compete are asked to see Mr. William Dooley in the Alumni office for further information.
'Here's to Crime.' Left to right: Pat McAteer, Larry McDermott, Jack Powell, Lou Garippo, Otis Jordan, Mickey Carroll.
Pat McAteer and Jo Ann Smith, imprisoned by gangster mob, discuss some possible methods of escape during second act.

12
The Scholastic $
Theater to Present ’Holiday' in December
Embarking- on its second dramatic venture of the year, even before Whistling in the Dark had finished its current campus run, the University The-atei- announced plans yesterday to present Holiday shortly before Christmas holidays. A comedy by Philip Barry, Holiday will be produced Dec. 12, 13, 14 and 15 in Washington Hall.
Tryouts for the new play will begin Monday, Nov. 7, according to William J. Eisen, director of the Theater. All interested students, Vetville wives and University office personnel are invited to try audition readings at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall.
Concerning the tryouts, Professor Frank J. Hanley, director of Holiday, had this to say: “So many good people turned out for Whistling in the Dark, that some of them who weren’t cast will form a nucleus for our new play. But roles are still open for Holiday. The comedy has five feminine and seven male parts, and all students, Vets’ wives and Administration office girls interested in dramatics are urged to try out.”
Philip Barry, author of such noted stage successes as The Philadelphia Story, Without Love and Hotel Universe, has scored a sparkling, delightful hit with Holiday. It is a skillful comedy of manners, concerning an oft-repeated question: “should a young man marry for love or for money?”
Father Hesburgh Delivers Opening Religion Lecture
“Function of Theology in the Univer-a sity” was the topic of a lecture by Rev.
Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., last Friday evening in the auditorium of the Law Building. Afterwards the student audience participated in a discussion led by Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C.
This discourse, presented by the Department of Religion, was the first of six faculty lectures by prominent theologians on the general subject of “Sacred Theology and the Church.”
On the evening of Nov. 18 in Wash-inglon Hall, the noted Dominican theolo-£ gian Rev. Walter Farrell, O.P., will speak on “Theology and the Modern World.” Father Farrell is the author of the Companion to the Summa.
Scheduled monthly from January through April, the four remaining lectures include such topics as “Theology and Science,” “The Church as the Mystical Body of Christ,” “The Mission of the Church in the Modern World,” and “Church and State.” Admission to these lectures is free.
® Nov. 4, 1949
Lilienthal Discusses Bright Side of Atom, Stresses Beneficial Study by AEC Units
By JACK POWERS
Reasserting his faith in the ability of man to cope with his greatest problem, David E. Lilienthal, Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, spoke in Washington Hall last Thursday on the “Brighter Side of the Atom.” Mr. Lilienthal stressed the beneficial, nonmilitary uses of Atomic Energy being studied under* the direction of his Commission.
At a press conference earlier in the afternoon, the AEC chairman said that his trip to the Notre Dame campus was in keeping with his policy of visiting colleges where research is being carried on with some relation to the atomic field. He commended the work of Dr. Burton and the ten graduate Fellows who have scholarships in atomic research; he also commended the general advance, in the development of strength in atomic knowledge, made by the University.
Beneficial Uses
’ Speaking of the more beneficial uses of atomic energy, Mr. Lilienthal said that the midwest is the capital of peacetime atomic development. At the Argonne National Laboratories outside Chicago, the main effort to get ahead in constructive atomic fields is being made.
The former TVA head termed this project “a unique instance of cooperation.” More than 30 universities participate in the work at Argonne, including the University of Notre Dame. The §6,000,000 plant, he said, is probably the world’s largest “training in advanced atomic knowledge.”
Mr. Lilienthal pointed out that a large segment of the people doing research are devoted to peacetime fields. He said that was the real aim of his Commission. The A-bomb, he pointed out, is a deterrent to aggression. While we cannot deprecate its destructive potential, we must realize that the bomb is only one side of the atomic picture. The AEC chief expressed confidence that our “benign, humane and progressive type of democracy can develop uses for atomic energy beneficial to man.”
Better Sense of Balance
In his address Tuesday evening, Mr. Lilienthal stated that “oui- physical safety and steadiness of nerve ... require that we try to obtain a better^
sense of balance in regard to the atom.”
While it is difficult, he admitted, for the average man to get perspective in regard to atomic power, we must re- • alize that there is a bright side to the picture, too.	.
“I am not urging blindness to the fantastic destructive power of the Atomic Bomb,” he declared, ‘ but the Bomb need not be the greatest atomic development.”
The atomic energy chief emphasized the point that the student, teacher and technician can help the rest of mankind see the atom in perspective — part good and part bad.
Peacetime research has led to great “forays into the atomic unknown,” Mr. Lilienthal said. “The potentials in medicine and biology are tremendous. Already, radio-active isotopes and tracers have proven of value in the treatment of heart disease, cancer and brain tumors.
“If we think only of the dark side of the atomic picture, we could lose out on one of man’s greatest opportunities,” he added. The atomic age could be the “golden age” for mankind.
Mr. Lilienthal pointed out that we can’t survive on knowledge alone. Man must have faith: faith in himself and his capacity to do good, and faith in God and His desire for the welfare of mankind.
'Inter-American' Topic For Town Meeting Here
A ND Town Hall meeting entitled “Inter-Americanism Before Universalism” will be held Nov. 21 in the Law Auditorium. All campus organizations dealing with international relations have been invited to attend.
The meeting will be a preliminary to the NFCCS Triregional Inter-American Action Congress to be held at Mundelein College, Dec. 4.	0
The main event of the Town Hall meeting features a panel of six speakers, three on each side presenting their views on the political, economic, and cultural aspects of “Inter-Americanism Before Universalism.” Frank Schwab will be the chairman of this panel.
Further information regarding this meeting can be obtained from Don Zehnder, president of the ND Inter-American Affairs Club.
13
Don Wolfe
elective
By Robert T. Stock
The following narrative presumes some familiarity with the Sherlock Holmes stories of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Any reader not equipped with such knoivledge would do well to continue on to the magazine’s less demanding pleasures. He will not be the poorer.
TT was a cold, wet morning in midMarch. Sherlock Holmes and I had breakfasted and were warming ourselves before a cheery fire which was blazing in our Baker Street rooms. The Jezail bullet between my third and fourth thoracic ribs was giving me dull pain, as also were those in my shoulder and leg. I thrust aside the morning papers and devoted my attention to a framed portrait of Irene Adler which hung on the wall before me. From this I turned to the opposite wall where there was an unframed drawing of Billy the Kid, and thence to the ceiling on which was pasted a poorly executed lithograph of Dred Scott.
“You are quite right, Watson,” said Holmes. “It was an abominable way in which to settle the dispute.”
I was startled. Holmes was once again attempting to read my thoughts. It is an uncanny thing to have a man break into your unspoken musings with an appropriate comment, as he so often did. Uncanny and dashed annoying.
“Holmes,” I replied, “this trick of reading my thoughts is an abysmal joke at best and the sooner you cut it out the better I’ll like it. You have been positively beastly ever since Les-trade made a monkey of you in connection with the Adventure of the Bronze Bottle Opener.”
14
“Watson,” said Holmes in a cold, precise, unemotional voice, “you have been at the tantulus again or I would smack you across the face for that remark.”
“And by the way,” he added, “when you write about this, get in something about the cold, precise, unemotional voice I just used. That’ll go over big.”
I regret to add that Holmes tittered when he said this. Although I have not often mentioned it, Old Birdbrain, as Gregson called him, tittered quite a lot whenever he thought of something that would look especially good in Collier's. It is a hideous sight to see a great hulking man acting like a blushing school girl.
“But let me explain how I interpreted your thoughts,” Holmes went on.
“All right, I suppose nothing will do but I listen oi- you’ll sulk all day. Go on.”
“TTIELL, when you looked at Irene Ad” ler’s picture with a slight frown on your face, I knew you were thinking that to me she will always be THE woman and therefore a constant danger to your place in my heart. Then you glanced at the portrait of Billy the Kid and the frown deepened. You were thinking that America must be a lawless land if men such as he are allowed to flourish within its borders. That
led you to shift your gaze to the lithograph of Dred Scott, calling to mind the celebrated Supreme Court case in which he was involved, the outcome of which, if I am to judge by the positive scowl that crossed your face, you thought to be a terrible mockery of justice. At that point, I agreed that the court’s decision was indeed an unfortunate one.”
rpo say that I was amazed at his reasoning would be a flat lie.
“Holmes,” I said, “incredible as it may seem, you have got the thing completely wrong. Your comment made absolutely no sense to me at the moment it was delivered, and the subsequent explanation of youi* reasoning shows clearly that you were as far from the truth as Bombay is from Chicago, Illinois.
“When I looked at the portrait of the former Miss Adler with that slight frown you remarked, I was thinking that she would look a good deal better if her nose were straightened. It bends considerably to the north. Then you noticed my frown deepen when I veered to the opposite wall. It did so for the simple reason that when I saw the likeness of the American outlaw snarling at me, I quite naturally snarled back at him. Then I glanced at the ceiling and found another of the point-
The Scholastic

less portraits we have hanging all over the place. I can see no possible value in pictures of General Sherman, Katherine Parr, Davey Crockett, Lillian Russell, Attila the Hun, and Connie Mack. My frown became a thundercloud as I resolved to throw the whole clutter out into the street tomorrow. Now, you see?”
With that I sat back and savored my triumph with, I am afraid, something of a smirk on my lips. Underneath, however, I felt a trickle of anxiety running through my heart. Holmes had been going more and more to seed of late. Ever since the start of the Adventure of the Bronze Bottle Opener, to which I have alluded above, his deductions had been totally inept. I was beginning to worry. Was a great man drifting to oblivion? Little did I know how much the events of that day were to aggravate my fears.
BUT Holmes, gallant soul that he was, refused to be daunted by these evil portents. Instead, he stared at me for a moment, and then said, “Obviously you are lying, Watson.”
I was trying to think of a suitable retort for this when suddenly my companion jumped to the window he sat facing. Following his gaze, I came a upon one of the strangest sights I have ever seen. Several blocks from our lodging a man was running in our direction, not a young athletic man such as one would expect to be indulging in this form of exercise, but an elderly man with side whiskers and a great paunch. The exertion was plainly killing him, for he panted as he ran and thick foam covered his lips. He ran blindly, banging into lamp posts and knocking down small children as V he came. Finally, after three policemen had screamed and fainted at the sight of him, the apparition reached our doorstep and pulled frantically on the bell. .
. We heard a confused mumble of conversation, as Roscoe, the page boy, opened the door, followed by the sound of size 14 overshoes upon the stairs. Before we could rise to admit our unannounced guest, a tall, heavy man _ with a crimson face threw open the W door and catapulted himself into the room, breathing laboriously as though under great stress, and muttering frenzied monosyllables as he waved his arms in the air. (“Erp, ip, wop, flur, glis, drob!” he said.)
Our visitor rushed back and forth, sobbing wildly, apparently in the depths of some bottomless grief. At last, unable to contain himself, he began to beat his head savagely against the wall, jarring loose several selections
Nov. 4, 1949
from our picture gallery and sending them crashing to the floor. With a sudden lunge he projected his cranium entirely through the partition and into the next room. Fearing serious damage to our quarters, Holmes and I dragged our unfortunate caller back into a chair.
“Now, my dear fellow,” said Holmes, “just what is the trouble. You seem to lack cheer.”
“There has been a murder done, Mr. Holmes,” he sobbed. “My cousin, Lord Niblick, was crushed by a safe last night and his house ransacked. A priceless rhinestone was stolen. The stone, worth enough to buy New York, had been entrusted to my cousin’s care by a personage too high to mention who planned to use it for that very purpose! Our family faces ruin and disgrace if the stone is not recovered. The police have been unable to find a trace of the foul fiend who did the deed. You must help me, Mr. Holmes! You must find this heartless monster! You must! You must!"
He becomes more and more agitated with each word, until finally he jumped up and, since the walls were in splinters, . began to pound his head against me. Holmes separated us and dropped him back into his chair. Frankly, I began to have grave doubts about the man’s sanity (the client’s, I mean; I knew Holmes was potty the first time I saw him).
“Calm yourself, sir,” bellowed Holmes, “or I shall be forced to have Watson eject you into the street. Please tell me the whole story from the beginning. First, what is your name?”
“ML name is Swamp-Development Van Slobber. I live at Weems, Brisket-W isket, Elbowing-in-the-Scrim-mage, .Rustyneck, Scissorshire.”
“Wait,” commanded Holmes. “From the telltale smudge of licorice behind your left ear, I deduce that your name is Swamp-Development Van Slobber. You live at or near’ Weems, Brisket-Wisket, Elbowing - in - the - Scrimmage, Rustyneck, Scissorshire.”
“What an amazing deduction!” cried Van Slobber. In his astonishment he leapt to his feet and ran around the room on all fours. After knocking over most of the furniture (including our enormous gasogene), he fell exhausted in a heap and began his narrative.
“My cousin, as you ihay know, is one of the more prominent men of England, a man of great wealth and high in the councils of his government. Last night he returned home late from a small social gathering — a reunion of his class at Eton, I believe. It was about one o’clock in the morning. We know that because his watch was stopped at 1:07. We know also that he was in a boisterous mood when he entered his bedroom, for he carried a flagpole under his arm.	’
“But as he crossed the threshold all his gaiety abiuptly vanished as someone brutally assaulted him with a club and then, as he was falling to the floor, pushed a safe over on top of him. His head was smashed in. It was awful.
“It was a terrible deed, Mr. Holmes. The body was discovered—”
Here he was suddenly interrupted by a tremendous clatter on the stairs. Mrs.
15
Hudson, our landlady, burst into the room, hotly pursued by the gigantic Hound of the Baskervilles. She circled the apartment twice, swinging at the dog with a bottle, and then galloped out through the open door, screaming, “Ye’ll have to get rid of that beast, Mr. Holmes!”
TTOLMES smiled gently, stepped to -“■ the door, and shot Mrs. Hudson in the back of the head as she stumbled down the stairs.
“I wouldn’t part with that hound for the world,” the great man sighed as he rejoined us. “But pray continue, Van Slobber.”
Our guest went on. “As I started to say, my cousin’s body was discovered this morning by a maid whose hair immediately turned white. A thorough search revealed that the rhinestone was gone. And so I have come to you, Mr. Holmes. You must find the murderer! You must return the stone to the august presence of him who planned to use it to retrieve Britain’s lost fortunes in America!”
This time his agitation was so great that he began to beat me against his head. The fellow was really becoming quite tiring.
“Quit that, you lout!” I shouted.
After a brief struggle Holmes and I forced the man into the straight jacket we keep handy for such occasions.
.“I will do my best to aid you, Van Slobber, you can be sure of that. Now just compose yourself foi- a few minutes. Watson, be a good fellow and ring for Roscoe, our faithful page boy.”
I did so, and within a few moments our faithful page boy, a former captain of the Irregulars, appeared.
“Roscoe,” directed Holmes, “I desire all the information we have on Lord Niblick in my extensive file system. I believe you will find the clippings on him in commonplace book No. 8079-J on the sixth floor of warehouse 17.”
Roscoe forthwith sped out on his mission. We could hear his roller skates clicking over the sidewalk.
While we waited for his return, Holmes sat musing as he blew softly on his battered old sousaphone. Our visitor sat stiffly in his straitjacket, counting his fingers over and over again, while I prayed for our faithful page boy’s quick return. Holmes is simply not a musician, his opinion to the contrary.
Finally, Roscoe, our faithful page boy, was back, lugging a huge book of newspaper clippings. He dropped the book in front of Holmes and, bowing respectfully, left the room.
Holmes opened the book, glanced
16
briefly at a page, and then tossed it aside, killing three cockroaches.
“Will this help you find the killer?” asked our client.
Stretching his long, straight legs about twenty feet out in front of him, Holmes quietly answered, “Mr. Van Slobber, I have already found the killer.”
I was astounded. I have never ceased to marvel (in print) at my friend’s exploits, but this seemed to me to be the greatest performance of a long and brilliant career. How could Holmes solve a case without even leaving his easy chair — except to quiet his client? It was miraculous! Perhaps,
I wildly hoped, this was the beginning of an ascent to new and greater heights.
“But, Holmes,” I stammered, “there are no suspects! How . . . how could you know?”
“Were you not a complete idiot, Watson, the solution would be obvious.”
I restrained an impulse to strike him a heavy blow in the eye.
Then, to my utter amazement, Holmes turned to our client, pointed his forefinger at him, and solemnly announced:
“Mr. Van Slobber, you murdered your cousin!”
The man turned ashen gray.
“Yes, Van Slobber, you!” thundered the great detective. “Your cousin discovered you ransacking his room in an attempt to find the rhinestone. Panic-stricken, you killed him. Then, because a burglar had evidently stumbled on the safe and its precious contents earlier in the evening, you came to me
to find the stone for you. Clever, Van Slobber, since, if the burglar was found, you would receive the stone as rightful heir, and the burglar would be executed for your cousin’s murder. Clever, Van Slobber, but not clever enough.”
“I don’t know what you’re talking about!” he protested in hysterical terror.	-
&
“You will soon know, Van Slobber. w You have made one fatal mistake which will send you to the gallows.”
Holmes’ tone was cold and menacing.
“But what was that mistake, Holmes?” I demanded.
“In a moment, Watson,”' he replied. “First, let me assure you, Van Slobber, that when you told me that the rhinestone was to be used to buy New York for Britain, I refused to accept such a i statement. As you obviously did not know, I am extremely conversant with the officials of our government. I refer especially to my brother Mycroft, who on certain occasions, such as pleasant rf’-ernoons when everyone else is out of town, is the government. Thus I would have been among the first to know if such action were being contemplated.
“Ruling out this possibility, it becomes clear that the stone was private	_
family property. A single glance at	£
my files sufficed to show me that you were Lord Niblick’s only living relative. In the event of his death the stone would devolve on you, his sole heir! You wanted that stone; you intended to buy New York for yourself! You determined to either snatch the stone or kill your cousin and inherit it. You attemoted theft, found it gone, were surprised in the act by your cousin, and murdered him. It is all quite £ clear. I discerned the. whole pattern of your nefarious plot while waiting for our faithful pare boy, Harry, or whatever his name is to return. It was then, as I exn^rtlv played bv sousaphone. that I detected vour final mistake, the key to this whole puzzle.
“Your mistake. Van .. Slobber, was this: you forgot to shine your shoes this morning. There is blood all over them, your cousin’s blood!"
A thrill of horror knifed through my heart.
“/^OOD LORD, Holmes,” I shouted, That’s not blood! It’s catsup from the bottle Mrs. Hudson was swinging at the hound when he chased her in here!”
Holmes’ jaw dropped. His head fell into his hands, his sousaphone into the fireplace. I felt keenly his chagrin at this moment. Failure, bitter, abject
fContinued on Page 29)
The Scholastic
Bay Stater to Give Commencement Talk
The Honorable John F. Kennedy, prominent member of the United States House of Representatives from Massachusetts, has been named to deliver the principal commencement address for January graduates at exercises to be W held Sunday, Jan. 29, it was announced Wednesday by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
Mr. Kennedy, a resident of Hyannis-port, Mass., was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1947 from Massachusetts’ Eleventh Congressional District. He was a student at the London School of Economics in 1935-36 and received a bachelor of science degree with cum laude honors from Harvard University in 1940.
From 1941 to 1945 Mr. Kennedy served with the United States Navy. During the course of the war he was awarded the Navy and Marine Corps medal and the Purple Heart.
After his discharge in 1945 he was a corespondent for International News Service. During his time as a newspaper correspondent, Mr. Kennedy covered such events as the San Francisco Conference of foreign ministers, the British election of 1945, and the famous Potsdam meet-’■Q ing-
In 1946 Mr. Kennedy was chosen as one of the ten outstanding young men in the United States by the United States Junior Chamber of Commerce. Also, he is the author of Why England Slept, published in 1940.
Farley Hall Cat-astrophe! Homeless Feline Moves In
[p It’s a cat-astrophe!	•
I stepped out of my room for a minute and in strolls this kitten. Then when I returned, it greeted me with a “meow.”
But I pity the purr thing, and would like her to have a good home. Perhaps some Vetville family would like a good mouser(?).
After all, if she is allowed to wander loose on the campus, some big, vicious sparrow might come along and heather up. Or worse yet, suppose she ambles into the zoology lab!
“Baseball” (I call her that because it takes a lot to feed the kitty) would make a fine pet. Although she got to Farley Hall by way of a Saturday night pickup, she’s really not that type at all. She sleeps all afternoon and loves to take showers late at night. She’s curious but well-mannered, clean, housebroken (so far), and doesn’t have sharp claws.
As - for her pedigree, I think she is Persian—of the alley variety.
Although the Notre Dame rules don’t
□
mention pets, Baseball is a female, and there is a rule against that. So she has to leave.
Please, won’t somebody give Baseball a home before the rector has cat-fits?
—Don Carbone
Geologists Go to Illinois For Two-Day Field Trip
Two Geology professors, Dr. R. C. Gutschick and Dr. Erhard Winkler, and eleven Geology majors took part in the annual Tri-State Field Conference, held in La Salle, III., and vicinity. Leaving last Friday afternoon in three cars, the group arrived in La Salle early in the evening.
Saturday morning the group visited the first of five field stops, which included quarries, strip mines, state parks, and stream valleys. The highlight of the conference was the annual banquet and discussion, held on Saturday night in the dining rooms of the Hotel Kaskaskia in La Salle.
At 8:45 Sunday morning the sixth stop of the trip was made at the La Salle Quarry. The seventh and last point visited was Mathiessen State Park. The conference broke up here at noon.
After lunch, the Notre Dame group made its own field trip, visiting several other points of interest. The thirteen Notre Dame Geologists arrived home late Sunday evening.
Men in charge of the Sophomore dance, 'A Night in Old Erin,' include, front row, left to right: Hank McCormack, Ed Noonan (co-chairman), Jim Garvin (co-chairman) and Dave Lajoie. Back row, left to right: Ollie Golden, Jack Moran, Ed Goerner, Brian Duff and Bob Peckels. Not present: Ed Vasta, Jim Kelleher and George Sweet.
Buying Rush Imperils Cotillion Bid Supply
Bid sales for the Sophomore Cotillion are booming. Exhaustion of the entire supply of 450 available bids is expected shortly. Surprisingly, the ticket rash was early. During the first four- evenings, two hundred tickets were sold.
It has been announced that the Iowa game is a complete sell-out. The sophomore class was allotted a section for Cotillion-goers, but by this weekend the ticket committee expects complete sale or a recall on all available tickets by the University.	.
Two petite, dark-haired queens will reign over “A- Night in Old Erin.” Queen Joanne Dugan, 17, a graduate of Central Catholic High School in Toledo, Ohio, will be escorted to court by co-chairman Jim Garwin.
A former St. Mary’s College girl, Shirley Klocke, 19, of Aurora, HL, will share the dual throne. Ed Noonan, the other co-chairman, will escort her.
Both of the queens are working girls. Miss Dugan is secretary to the Superintendent of Toledo Catholic Schools. Although Miss Klocke is at present working in an Aurora department store, her chief interest is radio. She sings on a-local evening program in Aurora.
Nov. 4, 1949
17
'Old' men congratulate ‘49 Novices
New Novices
Nine Notre Dame Men Get Cassock Of Moly Cross Order After Retreat
By ROBERT L. ROMAKER
In nomine Patris, et Filii, et Spiritus sancti — the Mass begins at the foot of the altar, and with the beginning of his First Mass some day will begin the priestly career of nine Notre Dame men. For they are the men in the present Novitiate class of the Holy Cross Fathers in Sacred Heart Novitiate on Miami Road, South Bend, the former home of Paul Hoffman, European Recovery Program Administrator. These are the men who have spent one to four years on the campus; just long enough to decide their vocation. These are the men of whom Notre Dame is proud and who someday will include the school in their Masses. But first they must spend a few years training. Let’s follow this training into the novitiate.
The novitiate is a place where a young man begins his religious life. Here, he devotes his time exclusively
to the intensive practice of holiness and sanctity. He is called a novice.
The novice begins his year by making an eight-day retreat. Then for the first time he receives his Holy Cross cassock. During the first year, the novice spends almost as much time on his knees as you and I do on our chairs. He prays, meditates and studies; emphasis is placed on spiritual growth. He stands with his soul bared before God.
Novitiate Life Intensive
Father Collins explained that the novice gets up at 5 a.m. and goes to bed at 9 p.m. Meanwhile every moment of the day is occupied. He reads no secular magazines and doesn’t listen-to the radio. He keeps silence except for an hour after the noon and evening meals. On Sundays and holidays
the rule of silence at the noon meal is relaxed and the novices are allowed to speak. Otherwise they’re completely secluded from the world.
Father William Craddick, c.s.C., former- prefect of religion out here at school, has charge of these young men in seclusion. In silence and relaxed calm under Father Craddick’s direction the novice goes through intensive spiritual training while studying the principles of the spiritual life, vows and rules of the community. Here in the novitiate the religious foundation for the priestly life is laid.
When the year’s training ends, the novice takes the temporary vows of poverty, chastity and obedience. These must be renewed every year for a period of three years until they are taken permanently at the end of the third year.
Although it is against rules of the Holy Cross order to identify them individually, there are nine ND men in the above picture.
18
The Scholastic
Now the novice is ready to return to Moreau seminary to resume his studies. Usually he comes back to Notre Dame to take an arts and letters course with a philosophy major. Four years of theology at Holy Cross college in Washington, D. C., completes his training and the ND man is ordained and ready to say his first Mass.
“Lest you think that all novices become priests, let me explain,” Father Collins warned. He said tha’c soma novices have chosen to become Brothers. After completing their training period the Brothers will be assigned to various community activities and services. Father Collins cited as examples the Brothers in the book-store, post-office and fire department.	t
Some of the Notre Dame men in the novitiate were well known while they ware here on campus. Others were quiet and unassuming. A star tennis player and a track captain who competed with the Canadian Olympic team are among the well-known. - A man who completed only one year here on the campus is one of the quiet lads. He, by the way, is a” Negro candidate for the Holy Cross Fathers.
Besides the Notre Dame men, there are about 25 others in the novitiate. They come from many states, the District of Columbia and Canada. About one-third have served in various branches of the armed forces. One of them is a former Air Force captain who flew 17 missions in a B-29 over Japan. Several more wear the Purple Heart.
“We have a man from Amherst who holds an A.B. and M.A. degree,” Father Collins pointed out in discussing the educational level of the candidates. He continued by saying that the minimum age for* entrance is 17. Yet this year’s class has an unusually high number of college men. Besides Notre Dame and Amherst there are men from Marquette, Fordham, Minnesota, Harvard, Boston College, St. Jerome’s, Loyola and Oregon.
Slavonic Club Elects
At the last meeting of the Slavonic Club of the University of Notre Dame the following officers were elected: president, Edward Cech, Wahoo, Neb.; vice-president, Max Gabreski, Oil City, Pa.; secretary, Jack Fraier, Cleveland, Ohio; treasurer, Donald Wentland, Michigan City, Ind.
The Club is making plans for a special musical program for sometime during November to commemorate the centenary of the death of the composer Chopin. This program will be open to all students and to anyone interested from the South Bend area.
Poll Asking 'Who Is Right in Steel Strike?' Discloses Split Opinion Among Students
The Scholastic stuck out its neck this week and selected a national issue for the student poll. The question, as posed, was: “Who is right in the Steel Strike, and why?”
As might be expected, there were a number of quite definite opinions on both sides, but many of the students approached did*a bit of “fence straddling” and refused to embrace either labor or management wholeheartedly. In general, the campus opinion seems to be split on the question.
Decidely pro-labor was the opinion of Angelo Dentamaro, of Hartford, Conn., and Lyons Hall. Said Dentamaro: “The union is right because the government mediation board stated that management should pay the pension; and as long as the board found that management should and could pay it, it ought to comply.” In a similar vein was the comment of Rodney Forbes, Columbus, Ohio, and Howard Hall, who said: “The union made large concessions in accepting the board’s findings; and now the companies are trying to get even more out of them.”
Throwing his weight behind management in the dispute was Jack O’Brien of Alumni Hall: “Management is right. Labor, by its actions sets up a ‘vicious circlei by asking for an expenditure by management which must be reflected in consumer cost. The unions are asking for too much.” Nor was there any doubt about the stand of Bob O'Connor, another Lyons man, from Englewood, N. J.: “The union has gone too far and is
Irish Wit Lectures on Campus
Law Auditorium audience listens to Seumas MacManus, noted Irish humorist and story teller, who spoke a week ago last night under the auspices of the Irish Club.
making excessive demands. It all boils down to the fact that they want something for nothing.”
Among the fence-straddlers Badinite Eugene Hoffman from Henderson, Ky.: “I believe that labor has the right to strike as long as it doesn’t endanger the welfare of the country.” J. M. Carroll, of Breen-Phillips Hall and Springfield, Ill., feels that “labor is striking for too high an increase, but management should otter a substantial gain.”
Walt McGovern, of'Alumni Hall, suggested that the pension plans be con-tributary, with the workers and the company sharing the burden. “In view of the present economic situation and its dangers to the country,” he continued, “the workers should return—then meditation should be carried on.”
Lawyers Plan Winter Theme For Ball at Indiana Club
Remembrances of good old winter time will be brought back when the Law Club holds its annual ball, on Nov. 18, in the main ballroom of the Indiana Club. Typical winter-time sights, such as gently falling snow and snowmen, will carry out the theme of “Winter Wonderland.”
Vince Scully and Gene Matthews, co-chairmen of the formal, have announced that Mrs. Vincent Scully and Miss Marilyn Luyckx will reign as queens.
The weekend of this gala affair will be rounded out when all will go to the Iowa game. Seating arrangements have been made.
Nov. 4, 1949
19
NFCCS Offers $500 Prize In Octave Poster Contest
NOVELTY JEWELRY GIFTS FOR ALL THE FAMILY
SEND HOME A MUSICAL POWDER BOX WITH VICTORY MARCH OR ANY OTHER POPULAR TUNE
GIFTS WRAPPED AND SHIPPED TO ANY PART OF THE WORLD


Some talented Catholic college student will win a $500 prize in a poster contest conducted by the NFCCS Mission Commission under the patronage of the Franciscan Friars. The winning entry will be the official poster for the college observance of the Chair of Unity Octave in January, 1950.
The eight-day unity octave, Jan. 18-25, is a period of prayer* for the conversion of all peoples to Christ. The poster will be used to make students conscious of the need for their prayers.
The poster entries will be judged- according to: conveyance of the theme, originality, design, color, legibility and simplicity. The judges will be Satevepost illustrator Arthur Brown; the Very Rev. Eugene Figuerca, Vicar-General of the Franciscan Friars of Atonement; Rev. Vincent Donovan, O.P., noted author; and artists Arthur Hawkins and Adolph Treidler.
All entries must be in full color on heavy 18 x 24-inch drawing paper, and must be in the mail by Dec. 8. Entries become the property of the Franciscan Friars of Atonement, Graymoor, Garrison, N. Y. Entry blanks and detailed information may be obtained by writing to the College of Mount St. Joseph-on-the-Ohio, Mount St. Joseph, Ohio.
rJF
c
(ADVERTISEMENT)
Q
Arthur Murray Expert Can Make You a Popular Partner
I ! i
Well whadayuh knoiv—it says, ‘whenever you’re in doubt just call for PHILIP MORRIS!’ ”

hilip Morris smokers don’t need a "crystal ball” to tell them this is the one cigarette proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder, than any other leading brand.
That’s why there’s No Cigarette Hangover when you smoke Philip Morris.
Let America’s Finest Cigarette convince you!
^philip MORRIS
Lovely Charlotte Robertson, typical Arthur Murray instructor can show you the secret of good dancing in one lesson. “Thanks to The New Arthur Murray Way,” she says, I can make anyone a popular dance partner in almost no
ARTHUR MURRAY OF SOUTH BEND
120 E. Wayne. 2-3339
20
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Irish, Spartans to Match Grid Power
Four of Notre Dame's Future Foes Win; MSC, Iowa and USC Show Scoring Power
By FRANK RONNENBERG
Chandnois vs. Sitko In East Lansing Duel
By RAY FITZGERALD
Notre Dame’s opponents, as a whole, appear to get less formidable with each passing week. The results of last Saturday show that while four of Notre Dame’s five remaining opponents won, in only a single case did they come up with a very convincing win.
At East Lansing, Mich., 35,000 spectators watched the Michigan State Spartans pulverize a docile and outclassed Temple team, 62-14. Oddly enough it was Temple that scored first, following a Michigan State fumble early in the first quarter. The Spar-W tans evened the count by the end of the period and then went on a 34-point rampage that left Temple badly beaten and behind 41-14 at halftime. Throughout the second half Michigan State attempted to keep the score down, but the reserves racked up three more scores. Lynn Chandnois, Spartan halfback, paced the victors with two long touchdown runs and 149 yards gained rushing.
The Tennessee Vols not only crushed North Carolina 35-6, but they added insult to injury by conclusively proving that Charlie Justice is North Carolina’s football team. The Vols successfully shackled Choo-Choo, and when he left midway in the third period because of an injury, Carolina was behind 35-0. The Tarheels finally scored on a sustained drive late in the last quarter.
The Iowa Hawkeyes forgot themselves for nearly three periods last week, but when they woke up it was with a vengeance. Trailing 24-6 late in the third quarter, Iowa roared back to win from the University of Oregon, 34-31, largely on the strength of a piledriving fullback, Bill Reichardt.
The University of Southern California tried on one of Notre Dame’s victims and found Washington University a tighter fit than the Irish did. U.S.C. jumped off to a 20-0 lead, but at the end of the third quarter they were
trailing 28-27. Washington ran out of steam in the fourth period, however, and U.S.C. came out on top, 40-28.
Southern Methodist needed all the breaks, including a costly fumble by Texas on their two-yard line late in the, fourth period, to whip the Longhorns-7-6. S.M.U. didn’t penetrate into Texas territory until late in the third quarter, but when they did, Kyle Rote carried them to a touchdown.
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
RUSHING
Coutre 		Carries 	 41	Yards 428	Average 10.4
Sitko 			 45	362	8.0
Spaniel ....		 25	189	7.6
Barrett ....		 33	153	4.6
Landry ....		 30	137	4.6
Zalejski ....		 13	90	6.9
	PASSING		
	At- Com-		
	tempts pleted	Yards	Average
Williams ..	.... 48	28	528	.583
Mazur 		....	2	1	17	.500
Ernie Zalejski takes pass from Williams
Michigan State, once a midwest football doormat, but now a razzle-dazzle touchdown machine, will match gridiron tricks with eleven highly talented gentlemen from the University of Notre Dame tomorrow in Macklin Field Stadium, East Lansing, Mich. More than 50.000 fans will be there to see if the aforementioned gentlemen are really as good as the papers say they are.
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN STATE Wightkin ..........E--------- Carey-
Martin ............T_ J----- Coleman
Oracko ............G......... Bagdon
Grothaus ..........C________ Lumsden
Wallner ...........G.......... Mason
McGehee ...........T....... Cappaert
Hart ..............E........ Minarik
Williams ..........O__________ Dorow
Zalejski ..........H...... Grandelius
Coutre ............H...... Chandnois
Sitko _____________F______ Blenkhorn
Game time: 2 p.m., EST. (1 n.m. here)
MICHIGAN STATE RECORD TO DATE
3	Michigan .............. 7
48	Marquette ............. 7
14	Maryland .............. 7
42	Wm. & Mary ........... 13
24	Penn State ............. 0	'
62	Temple ............... 14
193 Totals ........................ 48
Notre Dame, 197; Opponents, 32.
Michigan State, winner of five straight after* the 7-3 setback in the opener, played “run-to-the-gpal line” with Temple last Saturday, beating the Owls 62-14. Other wins were over Marquette (48-7), Maryland, for the southern school’s only defeat (14-7), William and Mary (4213), and Penn State (24-0). These scores
Nov. 4, 1949
21
(.
prove two things: Michigan State can be scored upon, and Michigan State can roll up the points. Notre Dame isn’t bad on offense either, so there’ll be fire and brimstone at Macklin Field tomorrow.
Chandnois. Sitko Duel
Michigan State’s answer to Emil (More than a Mile) Sitko will be Lynn (also more than a mile) Chandnois. Both men are more than just newspaper AllAmericans. They really have the stuff. The Flint, Mich., flyer has an average of around seven yards per try rushing this year, and a four-year average of 6.1. But he’s not all offense. Chandnois has intercepted 17 enemy passes in his four year football career. Three of these came from the wayward arms of Notre Dame flingers in last year’s ball game. Lynn Chandnois is a man to be respected.
Chandnois is not the whole show for the Spartans. They have another halfback named Ev Grandelius with a 5.9 ground gaining average, and a 200 pound fullback, Frank Waters, who has five touchdowns this year. Either Bob Ciolek or talented Al Dorow will handle quarterback chores.
Michigan State’s line will be big and tough, with the exception of Don Coleman, 174 pound tackle, who will be just tough. Other line standouts are guards Ed Bagdon and Don Mason, and end Bob Carey, who has the happy faculty of catching touchdown passes with much frequency.
Zalejski Stages Comeback
Last Saturday in Baltimore’s Babe Ruth Stadium, a Notre Dame halfback with the big number 12 on his back,
5 romped for three touchdowns in the 40-0 | rout of Navy. Thus did wavy-haired Er-
nie Zalejski emerge from his two year football eclipse, and what’s more important, Ernie convinced himself that his carved-up knee could stand punishment. A surprise starter, he showed why he was rated as the greatest back ever to play high school ball in South Bend, and why Coach Frank Leahy has stayed with him through the last two disappointing years.
The game itself wasn’t much, although ND sounded as sharp as ever. Bobby Williams put on a good show in front of the home town fans, and both the first and second string backfield was impressive. The Irish scores went this way: Zalejski on a 48 yard pass from Williams; Coutre on a 91 yard run (and a beauty); Sitko on a 15 yard dance through center; Zalejski on a 28 yard pass from Williams; Landry on a 14 yard run; Zalejski on a 78 yard run off tackle. Sitko and Coutre don’t get to play much
Edward Bagdon
these days, and neither back got many chances to carry the ball. Both made long runs, though, Coutre’s 91 yard touchdown dash, and Sitko’s explosive 48 yard run which set ut the 3rd TD.
Irish Line Work Good
The Irish forward wall allowed more sizable gains and more first downs than is their custom, but they held when it counted. Toward the end of the ball game, Notre Dame had some weird combinations out on the field. At one time, three quarterbacks were in the same backfield on offense, and Bill Flynn was at tackle. Del Gander, the much thought-of Chicago sophomore, got into his first Notre Dame ball game against Navy. Gander, a fullback, had been out with a broken wrist. If Swistowicz is still unable to play tomorrow, Del will be a big help to the Irish offense.
Lynn Chandnois
Harriers Race Today In Indiana State Meet
Last Saturday, the cross country team finished a fairly successful dual and triangular meet season by trouncing Villanova and Navy, but they’ll be back to work this afternoon when they fight for the Indiana State Title at Purdue. £
If the boys still look fresh after the beginning of their open meet season this afternoon, Coach Doc Handy plans on letting them go to work again tomorrow in the Loyola Invitational Meet in Chicago.
Ever since 1943, Indiana and Notre Dame have taken yearly turns at wearing the state crown, and this season the Irish are due again. However, Indiana has a good team, and tradition is liable £ to be overlooked.	~
Purdue’s Bob Rodebaugh looks like the best individual in the race, but the Boilermakers, a 20-38 dual meet victim of the Irish don’t have enough team strength to be considered as contenders for the title.
Last Saturday’s meet was an easy one for the Irish harriers. They scored a low 28 points while Villanova was edging Navy 55-56 in their own private war. Villanova’s Browning Ross and George Thompson, both established stars, took ** the first two spots, but it was all Notre Dame from there on down the line.
Benny Almagauer was third, while Jim Kittel followed him across the line in fourth position. Other finishers included Connie Tetrault, sixth; George Gross, seventh; Jim Kelly, eighth; Bob Fieler, tenth and John Mohar, twelfth. Mohar, a sophomore who just recovered from an ankle injury, was running his first race for Notre Dame.	A
The Scholastic
Bill Leonard Lands Prep Coaching Job
Bill Leonard, last year’s track captain and one of the finest distance runners in ND’s history, received his B.S. in Physical Education last June and wasted no time in going to work. This fall, Bill is a coaching the track squad of his prep al-vma mater, Nott Terrace High School in Schenectady, N. Y.
Nott Terrace is a perennial track champion in the East and to retain the school’s mastery over other eastern squads is the task that has befallen Bill.
So far this season, Bill’s team has won one meet and captured second in the N.Y.U. cross-country run. Stiff competition lies ahead for the Leonard cinder-A men in the Manhattan and Fordham meets in New York City.
A good deal of the Schenectady school’s fame is due to Bill for, while in prep competition, he won New York State’s mile championship for three consecutive years. He broke the state record his last time out when he was timed at 4:29.
In his senior year, he also won the New York State, Syracuse and Manhattan cross-country titles. To top off that year, he ran second in the National In-A terscholastic mile in Madison Square Garden.
When Bill entered Notre Dame in 1942, he did it in no ordinary fashion; he was the first freshman to win a varsity monogram in 25 years. This was due to the relaxed wartime collegiate rules.
While gaining that letter, Bill, along with three other Irish speedsters, set a new world’s record for the four mile indoor relay. Then came the call of serv-9 ice and it was 1945 before Bill returned to the campus.
He picked up where he left off by winning seven consecutive indoor mile contests before dropping one in the Chicago Banker’s Mile.
Bill went on to set a new university mile record with a torrid 4:15.7 and became one of the nation’s top collegiate milers.
Last year he broke the Notre Dame-Purdue Indoor Mile record when he was clocked at 4:21. He wound up his brilliant career at ND by taking the Cleveland Knights of Columbus Mile for the second year in a row and as a result took permanent possession of the tourney’s mile trophy.
In years to come, Bill hopes to turn out many track greats and perhaps a few who will go on to Notre Dame and carry on in the Leonard style.
—Rudy Unger
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box by Kalph 'Wright
Ernie, You Babe
When South Bend’s Ernie Zalejski scored three times against Navy, there were a lot of happy people at Notre Dame. They were happy because Ernie’s touchdowns meant much more than 18 more points for the Irish. At best, those touchdowns may have indicated that one of the greatest football prospects in ND history has found his old running form. At least, they stand as proof that Ernie is quite a football player when he’s right.
To most students, Ernie represents a sort of South Bend myth; in fact, he’s often been called just that. But to the folks in South Bend, Ernie Zalejski is the greatest high school player of all time. And they think he. could be just about the best running back in the collegiate ranks too. Ernie came to the Irish squad in the middle of the 1946 season, right after he was discharged from the Army. He got his first real chance against Tulane that year. He ran all over the Green Wave, but injured his knee doing it. Ever since, the South Bend lad has been hampered, physically and mentally, by recurrences of the old “trick knee” jinx.
Movies of the 1946 Tulane game and some sparkling runs in scrimmage sessions at Cartier convinced us that much of what we’d heard about Ernie was true: that the ex-Washington star is a breakaway back of extraordinary ability.
We bow in admiration to a fellow who has battled a bad knee for three years to show people he could play a fine game of left halfback for Notre Dame. And who proved he could do it last Saturday.
Bouquets
Bouquets to the Department of Athletics, the Student Council and the interhall officials.
To the Department of Athletics for sanctioning a varsity rifle team. Having riflemen to compete against other schools is a big step in filling out our incomplete varsity athletic set-up. We understand that deserving members of the rifle squad will get minor sports letters. Now, if we could only get those boxing and weight-lifting teams going this Winter.
To the Student Council for showing the movies of the road games. We’re sure the student body appreciates their efforts.
To the interhall officials for their new arrangement for scheduling interhall football games. Every Saturday the league officials make out the schedule for the following week. This is much better than a long-range schedule that has to be changed a hundred times because of holidays, class difficulties or something special doing on campus. It allows the various teams to decide when they themselves would like to play their games.
Two of the Best
When Notre Dame meets Michigan State tomorrow the lucky people who have tickets will see two of the finest four-year backs in the country on one field. The two, of course, are Emil Sitko and Lynn Chandnois (pronounced Shad’noy). Here ’ are two boys who have carried the ball against the best of them for four seasons, and carried it a long way too. In fact, both Sitko and Chandnois have gained over one mile on the ground. Unofficial figures have Sitko with a rashing total of 1876 yards and Chandnois with 1858; both have averaged well over six. yards per carry. Everyone at ND knows about the redhead — he’s an all-time Irish great by now. Chandnois is just now-getting the publicity he deserves. Besides his fast and powerful running, he’s a sharp southpaw passer and one of the outstanding defensive backs in the country.
Prediction of the Week
This may turn out to be what the Tulane game was supposed to be — the game of the year, that is. Michigan State has played one really good team (Michigan) and lost. But they’ve played a lot of pretty good teams and won handily. If the Irish can push the Spartans around like their other foes, they’ll have to be at their best. We expect the East Lansing folks to have something to cheer about, but not too much. We’ll have to see it before we believe anyone can hold ND to less than four touchdowns. Notre Dame 35, Michigan State 14.
Nov. 4, 1949
23
Tips on Touch Ball For Badin Bog Pros
With many touch football games going on around campus, Scholastic thought some of the Badin Bog pros and others might like to know a few of the official rules for the game.
By JACK MEANEY
In many ways touch football is similar to tackle or regular football — scoring is the same, the field is the same size, and in general the basic rules are the same. But there is more of a difference between tackle and touch than the mere difference between knocking the opponent down in one and just touching him in the other.
Probably the first thing you would notice about a touch football gridiron is the yard markings. The field is divided up into 20-yard zones. Crossing from one zone into another is an automatic first down. For instance, if.you have the ball on your own 18-yard line, all you have to do is pick up two yards and you have a first down since you cross the zone line. But supposing you had the ball on your own 22-yard line. This time you’d have to go 18 yards for a first down up to the 40-yard • line and into another zone. You get four tries just as in tackle.
Touch teams -are made up of nine men on a side. Tackles belong to tackle football only. You won’t need any shoulder pads or helmets either — rules specify no protective equipment or spiked shoes. If you get winded or tired you can’t take time out but you can be replaced by a substitute. Time outs are taken only for injury to a player while substitution is unlimited. Periods are 10 minutes long with one
minute between each quarter to change goals and a 10-minute rest period between halves.
The chief offensive weapon in touch is the forward pass; it can be thrown from any point back of the line of scrimmage with every man on the team an eligible receiver. An incomplete pass in the end zone is counted as a touchback only in the case of fourth down.
Touch is mild compared to tackle and the rules are designed to keep it that way. Unnecessary roughness, or overexuberance, is worth 15 yards to the other team. There’s only one way you can block and that’s with both feet on the ground. Leaving your feet to throw a block or blocking from a stance is out. Violation of this rule cost 15 yards also. Another way of losing 15 yards is to ride over the man opposite you by pushing his head in the dirt — use of hands on the head is also forbidden.
Who’s got a football?
Kampus Keglers Organize Two-League Competition
The Kampus Keglers, a student-run bowling organization, held their first meeting on Oct. 19. Jim Jennewein acted as president. It was decided that the Blue and Gold leagues of last year be continued. There are eighteen teams in each league, each team having from five to seven members, with five allowed to participate in a match.
Each team will play every other team in its league once for the league ranking. Then all 18 teams in one league, .from the first team down, will play the teams of similar rank in the other league for the overall ranking.
All matches will be played on Sundays, starting Dec. 4. The election of officers will be held on Nov. 3. The organization, believed to be the largest one of its kind in the midwest, hopes to have a representative in intercollegiate competition. The Kampus Keglers, numbering almost 250, is one of the largest student organizations on campus.
Football Mentor Field Packed With Grads
A recent Scholastic stoiy about Notre Dame grads in the coaching field resulted in numerous inquiries about other exIrish now tutoring gridders.
Most conspicuous of those not mentioned in the story were Jim Leonard, — Hughie Devore and Harry Wright. Leon- -ard, head man for mighty Villanova, was recently voted coach of the week by sportswriters. Devore, old ND mentor, is still at St. Bonaventure, of course. One of the most highly-regarded young coaches around, Wright now teaches Irish gridiron tactics to the boys at Portland. Harry previously coached the powerful Rochester Aquinas high school eleven.
Some of the other Notre Dame head coaches are: Joe Gavin at Dayton, Wally Fromhart at Loras, Ken Overbruner at Milton College, Wis., John Law at Mt. St. Mary’s, Emmitsburg,. Md., R. J. Bran-cheau at New Mexico State Teachers College, Bob Walsh at St. Benedict’s in Kansas, Paul Patten at St. Lawrence, Canton, N. Y., Tom Hearnden at St. Norbert, West De Pere, Wis., Joe Kuharich at San Francisco and George Melinko-vich at Utah State Agricultural College.
Emil Sitko powers for 14 yards and Notre Dame's third score against Navy. It's Emil's seventh touchdown of the season.
Touchdown number five against the Middies comes on this end sweep by fullback Jack Landry from the Navy 14-yard marker.
24
The Scholastic
Varsity Rifle Team Approved by Krause
Notre Dame will have a varsity rifle team.
That’s the latest word from Director of Athletics Edward W. Krause.
Last week the Notre Dame Board of Athletics approved the formation of a Jrifle team to compete with other colleges and universities. The board named Captain J. M. Daly, U.S.M.C., as head coach, and he will be assisted by Staff Sergeant J. -J. Sova, U.S.M.C. *
Membership on the rifle team is open to any sophomore, junior or senior student. Officials are now drafting regulations for the awarding of University monograms; the letters will be those given for minor sport competition.
All students interested in trying out for the team should report to Captain Daly at the University rifle range on Wednesday, Nov. 9, between 2 and 4 p. m. Rifles and ammunition will be furnished. The range is in the rotunda of the Stadium near Gate 15.
Coutre, Sitko Lead Irish Ground-Gainers
Notre Dame’s red-haired All-America A backfield candidates, Emil Sitko and Larry Coutre, continue to set the pace among Irish ground-gainers at the halfway mark in the schedule. •
Averaging over 20 yards per try the last two games, Coutre has galloped for 428 yards and a 10.4 average for the five games to date. Sitko boosted his mark to eight yards a carry with 362 yards in 45 rushes.
Coutre tops the pass-receivers also; A Scooter has taken in six passes for 133 yards while Bill Wightkin has caught five for 123. Bob Williams, doing practically all of the ND throwing, has a remarkable completion average — over 58 per cent.
The punting is still close to the best in the country. Williams has booted 15 times and averaged 42.5 yards per kick. Little Bill Barrett kicked eight times for 344 yards and a’ 43 average.
Bill Gay remains among the nation’s best punt return men with 149 yards W on nine runbacks.
The Irish have done most of the kicking off this season, but a few of the backs have done well in bringing back kickoffs. Emil Sitko leads with 62 yards on three returns. However, Mike Swistowicz hauled back his only chance 55 yards.
Coutre and Sitko have dominated the scoring end, too; Emil has 42 points and Scooter has 36. Steve Oracko ranks third with his 21 extra points.
® Nov. 4, 1949
Touch Football Opens Play
Interhall touch football really got moving the past couple of weeks with plenty of action in both brackets.
Ernie Szekely’s touch football tournament featured two tie games, both overtimes, between Sorin and Howard Gold. Sorin had previously downed the Dillon Engineers, 18-0, whereas Howard won on forfeit from Farley Gold. Other games saw Walsh take Farley Blue, 24-6, Dillon drop Alumni, 12-0, Zahm win over the Dillon Engine men, 26-0, and Cavanaugh move ahead on a forfeit triumph over Howard Blue. The
Linemen rush passer in Badin Bog thriller
touch football tourney is on a doubleelimination basis; tie games such as the Howard-Sorin affairs must be played off. Those two halls will play again this week, and if another tie results, a coin will be flipped to determine the "winner.
The eager men of Farley Hall are conducting a league of their own for all residents in that freshman hall.
Phy-Ed Men Defeat LaRaza in Soccer
The soccer players from the Physical Education department are gloating this week after their first triumph over the La Raza Club in recent years. The Phy-Ed men won last Sunday, 5-2.
Two weeks ago the Latin-American boys had won, 2-1. In both games, the boys displayed a skill at soccer that would do justice to any college varsity team.	■
Engineers Pace Volleyballers
Dillon’s Engineers took two wins the past week as the interhall round-robin volleyball tournament got underway.
The Dillonites defeated Farley Gold in two of three games, then won on forfeit from Farley Blue. Rhode Island fell before Howard, 2-1, but came back to take Morrissey by the same score. The La Raza Club also won over Morrissey, 2-1, while Farley Blues had a first-round bye before it lost on forfeit to the Engineers.
The volleyballers are under the supervision of Mr. Frank Maxwell.
Cav Drops B-P, 7-0
In a battle of Eastsiders, Cavanaugh’s Cavemen displayed too much power for their Eastern neighbors as they beat back Breen-Phillips’ Bruins 7 to 0.	’
Although they tallied only once, the Cavemen rushed and passed for over 200 yards with quarterback Shelton completing 75 per cent of his tosses. He had good protection but the Bruins pass defense was admittedly weak.
The lone B-P thrust came near the end of period one. After trading fumbles and punts, the Bruins took a Cav punt on their own 49 and drove to the Cavemen’s one-yard stripe before being shackled.
Cavanaugh appeared to be going all the way in the second period. Taking over on their own one and employing a varied attack, it moved to the visitors’ 39. But here the half ended.
Nothing much happened in the third period with penalties and punts dominating play. Whenever the Cavemen threatened, the B-P boys stiffened and held.
However, in the fourth stanza, Cavanaugh got its touchdown machine in high gear. After being pushed back to their own five, quarterback Shelton began puncturing the Bruins’ secondary
25
at will with his accurate heaves good for a first down on B-P’s three. From here Clancy lunged across. Voss kicked the extra point.
The big ground gainer in this drive was a 20-yard pass to slim-limbed Willie Gorman who, aided by key blocks, took the ball on the Bruins’ 44 and pranced to their 14 before being nailed.
Cavanaugh functioned well as a unit especially in the second half where B-P lacked the all-around polish of their Western neighbors.—Jack Keane
Unbeaten Farley Tops Zahm, 12-0
Playing alert football, Farley Hall lengthened its unbeaten string by dumping an in-and-out Zahm club, 12-0. Vic Riley and Tony Carnavale scored for the winners.
The game was a see-saw affair with both teams threatening many times, but, in the end, it was the Farley heads-up playing that clinched the victory.
The first score came in the second quarter as Vic Riley climaxed a long Farley march with a line-smash TD from the four.
Late in the third quarter, after the Zahm attack had failed to capitalize on a Farley fumble, came the play of the game. After setting Zahm back to their own forty on a nice punt, Farley scored again. The play was a reverse statue of liberty, with Farley end Tony Carnavale stealing the ball from the Zahm passer and going all the way for the final score. The game ended with Zahm’s revived aerial attack still threatening.—Bill Riley
Muscatello Leads Walsh Win
Walsh Hall played its first game and moved right into the Western Division lead by toppling Dillon, 13-0, on two last-period touchdowns.
Coach Paul Schlafly’s Walshites outplayed heavier Dillon most of the way, but couldn’t score until early in the last quarter. Tom Muscatello started the scoring drive by spearing an enemy pass on the Dillon 48. Charley Mauch paced a ground attack to the three-yard line where Dillon stiffened and threw them back to the six. Then Quarterback Augie Gentilucci tossed to Bucky O’Keefe for the TD.
A few minutes later, Mauch grabbed a weak Dillon pass on the Gold Coast eleven’s. 25. After one first down, he broke through Dillon’s right side and went the final 13 yards. Jean Kreuz booted the 13th point.
Walsh’s left end, Muscatello, was the outstanding man on the field. He made at least 50 per cent of the tackles and shone on the offensive, too.
—Ralph Wright
26
Morrissey Ties Alumni, 7-7
A penalty-harassed Morrissey team had to come from behind in the closing seconds to gain a 7-7 tie with a game Alumni outfit. The contest saw Lady Luck first smile benignly on the lads from Alumni and then have one big laugh at their expense.
Alumni scored first midway through the third period, when Stewart, an end, scooped up a blocked punt on the Morrissey 45, cut for the sidelines, and' romped into the end zone untouched. Soisson calmly drop-kicked the extra" point, and Morrissey trailed, 7-0.
Morrissey drove to the Alumni 30 as the quarter ended. There the attack bogged down, and Alumni took over. After three plays got two yards, Alumni booted to the Morrissey 49. Aided by a 15-yard penalty, Morrissey scored six plays later with George Marget hitting paydirt from two yards out on a quarterback sneak. The conversion attempt was blocked, but Alumni was detected offside and Morrissey got another chance. Prebenda then put the ball through the middle of the uprights to keep Morrissey in the fight for western division honors.
HEROES OF PAST
•
What Former ND Stars Are Doing Today
By RAY FITZGERALD
In 1935, the University of Notre Dame and Ohio State got together for a nice quiet game of football. They beat each other’s brains out for four quarters, and when the blood had settled, Notre Dame had whipped Ohio State 18-13, in the most exciting football game of all time. Ohio State obviously had all the power that day. Time and again they surged down the field and twice they scored. The other times, a courageous Notre Dame line that had the strange habit of playing both defense and offense, stopped the Buckeye attack. The Irish would take over on downs inside their own 20, run three futile plays, and send a lanky fellow back to punt. He would kick the ball some 55 yards up field and the .same procedure would start all over again. These maneuvers went on for three periods, and then in the last period the lanky gentleman decided to quit kicking. He started throwing, and with teammates Milner, Pilney, Puplis, etc., scored three touchdowns in the last 12 minutes.
That lanky gentleman was Bill Shakespeare in his greatest day as an Irish backfield star.
Morrissey was superior in all departments throughout the game, and was deep in Alumni territory on four occasions, only to be stopped by penalties at critical times.—Jim Brislin
The interhall football standings through November 2:
EASTERN LEAGUE	€
W. L. T.
Farley .................. 2	0	0
Breen-Phillips .......... 110
Cavanaugh ..................... Ill
Zahm .................... 12	0
St. Edward’s ............ 0	11
WESTERN LEAGUE
Walsh .................... 1
Morrissey ................ 1
Dillon ................... 1
Alumni .................   0
0
0
2
1
Gaines Yesterday
Farley vs. Breen-Phillips Walsh vs. Morrissey
Game Today
St. Edward’s vs. Zahm
When Bill graduated, he dropped football like a hot potato, and went searching for employment. He found it with a pneumatic tool company. It didn’t sound quite as exciting as three last-quarter touchdowns, but Bill didn’t seem to mind. He stuck with the company and now, 14 years later, is still with them. Bill is in the export department, and spends a great deal of time traveling on company business in South America and in Europe. Sounds better than last-quarter touchdowns, at that.
Bill was married in 1941 and makes his home in Staten Island, New York. He has two boys, neither of whom plays pro football yet. Bill, Jr. is six, and Warren is two.
Always a man for travel, Bill got his wish in World War II. He was an infantryman in Europe with the 106th Co. Inf. He and his comrades went on a guided tour of the Battle of the Bulge, and saw many sights, many of them Germans with rifles.
He doesn’t get to see many football games nowadays, because of his foreign jaunts, but does keep in shape playing handball and golf. Bill shoots in the middle 70’s, putting him 20 strokes ahead of the ordinary golfer. But, । Bill Shakespeare never liked to be a i run-of-the-mill athlete. He proved that in Columbus, Ohio, on a chilly October * afternoon in 1935.
The Scholastic
Names Make Neats
Compiled by DAN BRENNAN
Dr. WALDEMAR GURIAN, professor of Political Science at Notre Dame, addressed members of the Junior Association of Commerce in South Bend last week. The subject of his talk was “Soviet Foreign Policy.” . . .
An explanation of the methods of printed advertising was given to Professor BROOKS SMEETON’s class in advanced advertising and public relations by E. S. Lanning recently. Lanning, who is copy chief of the MacDonald-Cook Advertising Company, outlined the planning, creation and production of an advertising campaign. His address was one of a series planned for the class. . . .
One of a group of panel leaders at an Indiana conference of higher education at Turkey Run State Park on Nov. 2, 3, and 4, will be Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. Participants will include leaders of some 30 colleges in the sta.e, and topics for discussion will include coopera-W five activities among colleges, the ability of society to support higher education, function served by higher education, enrollment and the principles which should be the basis of higher education. The conference is sponsored by Depauw University at Greencastle. . . .
Professor EUGENE KORMENDI, artist in residence at Notre Dame, addressed the Northern Indiana Artists, recently in his studio, speaking on the technique of sculpturing. He gave a demonstration of his work and later showed some slides illustrating some of his work. At present he is working on a Madonna for a New York college. . . .
American women received bouquets from Professor ALFRED L. SCANLAN as he addressed the women’s conference of the United Auto Workers, CIO, in South Bend recently. He praised women £ for their support of then' husbands and sons in long strikes and for their part as union members. . . .
JEROME J. O’DOWD of Fort Wayne, a Notre Dame graduate of 1942, has been appointed chairman of the credentials committee for next month’s National Young Democratic convention. Mr. O’Dowd was elected to the Indiana legislature in 1946 and will serve at the meeting Nov. 17 to 19 in Chattanooga, Tenn. . . .
LEONARD F. SOMMER, instructor in speech at Notre Dame is now directing the South Bend Catholic Theatre Guild group in the production of Mrs. Moonlight. The play will be presented in South Bend early in December. . . .
The principal speaker at the Founder’s Day exercises at the College of New Rochelle recently was FRANK O’MALLEY, professor of English at Notre Dame. . . .
Dr. KENNETH N. CAMPBELL, associate professor of chemistry at Notre Dame recently took part in the third annual research conference sponsored by Smith, Kline and French Laboratories, Philadelphia pharmaceutical house. The conference brought together 33 scientists, who have been cooperating on research projects, for a two day survey of current problems. . . .
FRANK SCHWAB will be the chairman of a panel which will discuss several aspects of Carlos D’vila’s book, We of the Americas. The discussion will be held on Monday, Nov. 21, in the Law Auditorium. . . .
Rev. GERALD B. PHELAN, head of the Department of Mediaeval Studies, and Professors WILLIAM F. ROEMER and HERBERT L. JOHNSTON, of the Department of Philosophy, attended a meeting of the Indiana Philosophical Association held in Indianapolis last Saturday. . . .
A review of Rev. Theodor Haecker’s Tag-und-Nachtbilcher, written by Dr. EVA-MARIA JUNG, librarian of the Mediaeval Institute, appears in the current issue of Renascence, a critical journal of letters edited by Professor John Pick of Marquette University. Renascence is the official organ of the Catholic Renascence Society.
CO-HOP DANCE
The Co-Hop organization will sponsor their last dance of the fall season tomorrow night from 8 to 11 p.m. at the Progress Club in South Bend.
Myron Walz and his orchestra will provide the music and the admission is 75 cents per person.
PIPE SMOKERS
A splendid assortment of Nationally known pipes featuring Hardcastle Pipes —the pipe with Personality.
Stop in today
ONLY $1.89
ALSO: CANASTA CARDS BOXED—$1.95
HansARintzsch (uqqaq# e> hop
138 N. Michigan
HEADQUARTERS
For Your
ATHLETIC APPAREL
N. D. BLANKETS
56 x 72 & 72 x 84 $7.95 & $19.95
Use Our Lay-away Plan For Christmas
MANHATTAN BOWLING BALLS
Fitted and drilled in our own shop.
Immediate Delivery
SONNEBORN’S
SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ave.
South Bend ’ Phone 3-3702
Nov. 4, 1949
.27
Masses for the Week of Nov. 5-11
Saturday, Nov. 5—Semidouble—White—Fifth day within the Octave of All Saints: Gloria, 2nd Coll. Holy Spirit, 3rd Against Persecutors of the Church: Creed; Common Preface.
Sunday, Nov. 6—Semidouble—Green—XXII Sunday after Pentecost; Gloria; 2nd Coll. Octave of All Saints; Creed; Common Preface.
Monday, Nov. 7—Semidouble—White—Seventh Day within the Octave of All Saints; Gloria; 2nd Coll. Holy Spirit, 3rd Against persecutors; Creed; Common Preface.
Tuesday, Nov. 8—Greater Double—White—Octave Day of All Saints: Gloria; 2nd Coll. Four Crowned Martyrs; Creed; Common Preface.
Wednesday, Nov. 9—Double of II Class—White—Dedication of the Archbasilica of The Saviour; Gloria; 2nd Coll, (in low masses only) St. Theodore, Martyr: Creed: Common Preface.
Thursday, Nov. 10—Double—White—St. Andrew Avellino, Confessor; Gloria: 2nd Coll. St. Tryphon and Companions; Martyrs; Common Preface.
Friday, Nov. 11—Double—White—St. Martin of Tours, Bishop and Confessor; Gloria; 2nd Coll. St. Mennas, Martyr; Common Preface.
NOTE: Missa Recitata in Our Lady Chapel every Saturday, 6:40 a.m.
Compline and Vespers—Dillon Hall, daily, 5:20 p.m.
Vespers—Howard, daily, 5:30 p.m.
Compline—Sorin, five days a week, 6:45 p.m.
Compline—Walsh, 11:00 p.m.
(Everyone is invited to attend any of these services)
Blswnrtlj’s
Arrow “Par”
Spread Collar
Officers of Utica Club Named
Holding two meetings last month, the Utica Club of Mohawk Valley has completed organization for the new year. Tom Walsh, Bernie McLally, Phil Aquino, and Bob Reilly were elected to the offices of president vice-president, secretary, and treasurer, respectively. Plans for a Christmas dance were initiated when Dan Callan was appointed chairf man of a dance committee. The dance will be held in Utica during the Christmas holidays. Plans for a club bowlingteam were made and Paul Quinn was named director of the pinmen.
Last Sunday, the club held a Communion breakfast in the Coral Room of the LaSalle Hotel after receiving Communion at the 8 o’clock Mass in Dillon Chapel. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, c.s.c., officiated at the Mass. Professor John H(p Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, and Father Hesburgh gave short talks on the further development of campus clubs after the breakfast.
Mascot Mike of Notre Dame
Bv Leila B. Rostiser
An Ideal Gift For Any Child
Follow the fascinating adventures of the famous mascot of Notre Dame from timorous puppyhood to the time, as a full-grown Irish Terrier, he backs up the big Army Mule. Feel the thrill that comes when the “Fighting Irish” win. Written especially for the younger children but so well written by the authoress that you yourself will enjoy it immensely.
The book is a perfect gift for any child (an ideal gift for Christmas) —send a copy to your little brother, or sister, your nephew, your young cousin. Books are’available at the Notre Dame Book Store on the Campus, or through the office of the Publishers. The Dunne Press. Louisville. Kentucky.
Widespreads have spread like wild fire! Seems everybody likes this famous Arrow collar style that looks so good with the Windsor knot tie!
Sanforized (Shrinkage less than 1%) and Mitoga cut for comfort.
See the “Par” here today with French cuffs.
Alen’s Shop . . . Alain Floor
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
28
The Scholastic
The Bungling Detective
(Continued from Page 16)
failure had ones again overtaken him.
“Shall I send for Lestrade to take over the case, old fellow?” I said. “You need a rest.”
“You,” he snarled, “can go to blazes for all I care.”
“Holmes,” I pleaded, “youi- manner, it’s so cold and unemotional. You are not effusive . .
* # $
And so now Sherlock Holmes is raising bees in Sussex. There he lives out his life in peace, far from trying cases and galling disappointments. Sometimes, as he potters about with his buzzing little friends, we can hear him mumbling softly to himself, “I could ^have sworn that was blood,” he says. Then he starts giggling and I have to give him a sedative.
What happened to our client, you
ask? (You will recall, I hope, that I dragged in a client somewhere in this sorry mess.) His part in this affair was most unfortunate. When Holmes realized his failure, he immediately left the room, purchased several bee hives, and boarded a train for Sussex. Remembering our friendship, I went along to help him get settled in his new home. We completely forgot about Van Slobber. He was discovered two weeks later, still in his straitjacket and dead from starvation. It was, as I say, unfortunate. The police, meanwhile, ferreted out the real murderer, a man named Schnauzer, I believe, and returned the rhinestone to its noble owner. It was used, as every schoolboy knows, to buy New York — just as Van Slobber had said it would.
But Holmes does not know that, and we will never tell him. It is better that he continue to cherish all his delusions. I am sorry that his career had to end on so unhappy a note, but such
is often the lot of great men. There is now an infinite, foreboding sadness about Holmes’ life. As his brother Mycroft so wisely put it:
“Maybe he ought to be locked up someplace.”




Ml
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
€
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 NORTH NILES

EXECUTIVE CAREERS IN RETAILING
• Prepare to step into a responsible executive position in the retailing field: buying, advertising, fashion, personnel. Specialized training, exclusively for college graduates, covers merchandising, personnel management, textiles, store organization, sales promotion, and all phases of store activity. Realistic approach under store-trained faculty. Classes are combined with paid store work. Students are usually placed before graduation. Co-educational. Master’s degree. Limited enrollment. Write Admissions Office for Bulletin C.
RESEARCH BUREAU FOR RETAIL TRAINING
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH . Pittsburgh 13> Pa.
fitted formalwear
you can be easily, inexpensively, dressed in the latest fashion, correct formal attire for every formal event— without maintaining a large formal wardrobe! Next time you plan to "go formal” use our rental service. Gingiss Brothers in Chicago fit the proper suit to your measurements, send it out freshly cleaned and pressed.
All formal accessories ... to rent or sell ... ,
TUXEDOS — $7.50 Coat and Trousers
Accessories $1.00 extra
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
115)6-11792 North Main St.
Second Floor—Upstairs • SOUTH BEND’S OLDEST CUSTOMTAILORS AND CLOTHIERS”
w Nov. 4, 1949
Button down
Winsocki
button down
If you’re an Oxford man—and what college man isn’t when it comes to shirts—you’ll find Van Heusen is your smartest course in button downs. Whites, colors . . . and with wide-spread Van Britt as well as the regular button-down collar... . $3.65.
Van Hensen’
"the world’s smartest’
shirts
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N.Y.
It’s Adlers for
Van Heusen
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
Band Announces Plans^ For N. Carolina Game
The Notre Dame Band with a traveling' unit of 107 members will leave for New York aboard the student special on Friday, Nov. 11. Upon arrival, the band will stop off at the Embassy Hotel. They will then go to Yankee Stadium to take part in half-time activities at the Notre Dame-North Carolina game.	*
During half-time activities, Mr. H. Lee Hope, director of the band, will introduce a show built around a dance routine. This will be the first time a Notre Dame band has ever presented this type of show.
This will also be the first time a Notre Dame band will present the new marching maneuver, the “shuffle pace,” in Yankee Stadium. Further activities of the band will include the spelling out of ~ DIXIE, N.C., and N.D.
Appointment of Thomas Goodpaster to the postion of No. 1 executive assistant to the director was announced by Mr. Hope. Goodpaster is a graduate student from Springfield, Mo.
Mr. Hope announced also that rehearsals for the Iowa game had been completed a week ago. He expressed the desire that rehearsals for the game with Southern California be completed as _ soon as possible, since the coming of cold B weather makes rehearsals most difficult.
The fact was revealed that the idea for “Our Hoosier Heritage” occurred to Mr. Hope during the summer. He wrote the special musical arrangements for a historical pageant, “Pioneer Glory,” at Purdue Stadium. He was interested to see its possibilities with the band and has since incorporated it into the band and made it this season’s theme. It is believed that this is the first time an en- 0 tire season theme has been produced by ~ any college band.—James W. Murphy
A.I.Ch.E. Hears Gurian
Members of the A.I.Ch.E. heard a very interesting talk by Dr. Waldemar Gurian at their second meeting of the fall semester held last Wednesday night in the Chemistry Building. Dr. Gurian’s topic was “Background of Cold War Re- _ lations Between the U. S. and Soviet 9, Russia.”
Preceding Dr. Gurian’s lecture there was a short business meeting at which plans were announced for a student plant trip and for a student problem project. It was also decided that future meetings would be held Thursday nights every third week. Another- feature of the program was a movie, “To Greater Vision,” distributed by the Bausch and Lomb Optical Company.
The Scholastic ®
30
^Confraternity of Rosary Drive Opens This Week
If you shuffle by 117 Dillon or 107 Cavanaugh this week, you may notice several of the fellows parading in to sign what looks like a king-size guest book. Get in on the deal; follow suit.
but you’ll be passing up a lot of good points.
As for these points, called indulgences, there’s where you really strike it rich. A score sheet in that special bulletin tells all about indulgences and lists a
flock of ’em that you can win.
It’s a big deal, man, played- by smart folks all over the world. So don’t be a deuce. Cut yourself in now by signing-up with the Confraternity of the Rosary. It’s your best bet.
You won’t have to ante-up a cent, and if you play your cards right you’re sure to cash in. Should you fail to fulfill your bid, you won’t gain anything, but neither will you lose. It can’t exactly be called a game of chance, because whoever deals himself in and concentrates on what is in his hand is a sure winner. Nor is it like a pyramid club—here everyone does win.
’ 1to -things ^ry 1 manshould know!
Hunt up that special Religious Bulletin they dealt you Monday; the rules are all in there. Then go scratch your full John Henry in one of those “guest books.”
Instead of cards you use a rosary— but first have it specially blessed by Fathers Grimm or Murray, or by one of those priests who sport those lily-white habits. If you ever played before, you can skip these preliminaries and start right in.
The object is to say each decade three times—that is, fifteen decades or three rosaries—each week for life. If you sit
out a hand now and then, you won’t lose,
Famous Manhattan
SPORTS SHIRTS
available in
South Bend at
Men’s Shop—Street Floor
3
This is a water boy. Does thirst things first. Gets pail when coach hollers. Has his own money but sponges off the team. JTins special cheers for his handsome ”Manhattan” Sportshirt.
This is a "Manhattan” Sportshirt.
Tailored to make the most of the man underneath. In a wide range of fabrics and a world of colors.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Copr. 1949, The Manhattan Shirt Co.
& Nov. 4, 1949
31
SHUTTERBUGS
Let us suggest proper equipment and interesting subjects that would appeal to your friends.
Order Your
PHOTOGRAPHIC
Christmas Cards Now
10 tor $1.00 — 25 for $2.25
AULTCAMERA SHOP
(Inc.)
122 S. Main Phone 3-5041
SPAGHETTI HOUSE

415 North Michigan
Capitol Releases ND Record Featuring 16 Man Glee Club
The Capitol Record Company has released a single ten-inch record featuring the Notre Dante Glee Club, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, singing The Victory March and Notre Dame We Hail Thee.
The two school songs are on one side of the new record and are backed up with songs by the U.C.L.A. Glee Club on the other side.
The master record was cut in Maj’’, 1948, by 16 members of the campus singing organization in the Chicago studios of the Capitol firm.
So far this year, the ND warblers have given performances at the Clay Township Polio Drive variety show and the South Bend International Relations Institute.
Geology Club Meets
At a business meeting last month, the Notre Dame Geology Club reviewed its revised constitution prior to submitting it to the Student Council. In a special election, Donald Riley was unanimously chosen to fill the recently vacated Treasurer’s post. Further plans were discussed for the coming Tri-State Field Trip and Dr. R. C. Gutschick explained the American Association of Petroleum Geologists’ new recommended curriculum for Geology Departments. Refreshments were served after the meeting.
Phone 3-0903
---------f
Going to the
DANCE?
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES No Deposits for Students
Tuxedos $6.75 Full Dress $9.00 All sizes: Shorts, Stouts, Regulars, Longs, Extra-Longs
Free Alterations for Personal Satisfaction
LOGAN
107 Norih Main Street
Oliver Hotel
South Bend, Indiana
The Scholastic
32
Autumn Theme Livens St. Mary's Soph Ball
Over one hundred and fifty couples danced to the music of Gene Hull and his dance band at the St. Mary’s Sophomore Cotillion last week. The dance was held in the gaily decorated Louis XIV ballroom in Le Mans Hall.
Artistry in Autumn was the theme of the affair and was carried out by the autumn colors in leaf patterns around the dance floor and behind the band stand. A small figure of Jack Frost was at work with his paint brush in one corner of the ballroom. Seasonal favorites, such as “Autumn Nocturne” and “Falling Leaves,” highlighted the band’s selections. The refreshments, featuring cider, further carried out the fall theme.
For Appointment Phone 3-0678	5 Barbers Manicurist
CYR’S BARBER SHOP "South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop”	-
SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT W. E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
Starlight Roof to Be Site Of Met Club Formal
New York’s Met Club will hold their annual Christmas Dance this year on Dec. 26 on the Starlight Roof of the Waldorf Hotel. Harry Arnold and his orchestra will provide the music.
Bids for the formal, which will cost $6 per couple, go on sale Monday night through the Met Club’s hall representatives. The dance is open to all club members. Time limits for the evening are from nine to two.
Joe Moschellla is the dance chairman for the affair. John O’Brien is chairman of the ticket committee, with Ken Thor-en heading the publicity committee, and Andy Walsh in charge of entertainment.
From the makers of the tooth powder exclusively NAMED in Reader's Digest—
Now! Amurol in Tooth Paste!
WORLD CHAMPION PIPE
JON STOKRE
Rough Finish $5.00
wet heel No tobacco waste. Keeps constantly lighted if properly smoked. By merely turning the bottom sciew a few turns your bowl is refilled. No jamming or bitter soggy heel. Works like magic. Smoke the pipe ten days and if you do not feel this is the greatest pipe in the world, please return it for a full refund.
ONLY AMUROL OOES ALL SIX!
1. Stops growth of acid forming bacteria.
2. Neutralize! and prevents formation of tooth destroying acids.
3. Helps dissolve gluey film on teeth.
4. Strengthens nature's immunity to tooth decay.
5. Adheres longer to tooth surfaces for better therapeutic action.
6. New patented base releases ammonia at maximum strength.
YOUR SCHOOL EMBLEM carved as a Pipe Head, $5.95,
SCHOOL INITIALS PIPE
with your school initials carved on bowl .......... X —
“lour Dentist Knou-s”
HOUSE OF ROBERTSON
‘ 205 North 9th Street BOISE, IDAHO
The Paste with the Good Taste
AMMONIATED
DENTIFRICES
A murol Tooth Powder For those who prefer an ammoniated powder Large economy size, only 49*
•A
Nov. 4, 1949
33
Absorbent filters in Medico pipes ond holders have 66 baffles that stop flakes and slugs... absorb juices ... reduce tongue bite .. . give you the utmost in smoking pleasure.
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY FINE QUALITY) Specially selected imported briar Pipes.
Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... L A/so Frank Medico "Standard"...
America's Outstanding Dollar (V) Pipa
Frank Madlco Cigarette Holders I] & >2
MEDICO
FILTERED SMOKING
S. M. Frovilc & Co., Jnc. • Fifth Avonuo, Now York 2z
15 PHOTOS $100
for
• FRIENDSHIP • APPLICATION
Size x 3%-
Copied from your favorite photograph.
MAIL $1.00 and PHOTO to
"PROcopy"
Box 115-A Greenville, Ohio
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY
Joe the Jeweler
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
Roughly Speaking
by Ken Xkoren MMMHi
No Ants
Last week we applauded the Seniors for their fine square dance. This week our praise is extended to the Junior class for last Saturday’s picnic. The whole shebang couldn’t have been any better. From start to finish it was planned and executed with perfection. When a relatively simple affair like a picnic can be so well done just think what those Juniors will do when they can get their teeth into something big.
The day was beautiful with the Fall weather adding just the right nip to the air. Busses to and from St. Mary’s and Potawatami park erased the transportation problem completely. The picnickers arrived to find volley-ball nets hung, and footballs and baseball equipment ready and waiting for use. It didn’t take long before things started to roll.
When even the athletically inclined got pooped, the organized races began. The sack races and three-legged races offered some of the best laughs of the year. By the time they were completed the sun had all but left the sky. Chow’s on!
A delicious meal of beans, hotdogs and dining hall cake was gobbled by all. After dinner the crowd huddled together' to enjoy a short program of entertainment. A quartet and John Broderick offered some melodies. Then Father Barry gave a few very welcome words. When it comes to impromptu speeches, his are hard to beat.
The throng was just getting in a mood to bellow when the bells tolled. The picnic was over.
Yessirree, it’s hard to surpass that Junior class. Ever since they started at Notre Dame they’ve been the bunch to watch. They’ve claimed success in every endeavor they’ve undertaken. We could go on for the whole column, but out of deference to the freshmen, sophs and seniors, we’ll stop. Incidentally, the fact that we’re a member of the Class of ’51 has no bearing upon the material printed above.
Love That Sign
A sudden flurry of publicity always swamps the campus before a social event. Right now the second year men are decorating the halls and other spots with ads about their approaching
Cotillion. We’ve noticed that these posters, reproducing scenes of Old Erin,
are unusually well done. You’d like to
have one to decorate that dead wall in
your room.
Therein lies the rub. Too many would like them; in fact, too many are taking them. There’s always a few who must sneak around at night, dethumbtacking the posters from bulletin boards. They apparently forget the hours that were put in making these signs. Plenty of hard work is spent on them. It’s wasted effort, however, when someone steals them before they’ve had a chance to achieve their purpose of advertising. Any social chairman would be glad to give the culprits the posters — after the dance is over. This is a problem that every class, every organization, has to put up with. That old golden rule might be the solution.
WND Bullseye
WND has come up with a hit in their new “live” show starring Dick " Marshall and Bill Carey. It’s on every Wednesday night from 7:30 to 8. We opened our window the other night at that time and were surprised how many other hall radios were tuned in, too. We’re not sure that all the listeners liked the program, but we know we did.
It’s an easy, informal half-hour of idle banter, songs and laughs. The two emcee’s sound like two roommates 9 shooting the breeze. They remind us of the type of chatter practiced by Dave Garroway. It’s that style; you’re never sure of what’s coming next and often not certain whether the participants know either. Let’s hope WND comes up with more “live” shows. They are the mark of a true campus radio rather than the endless stream of records they now depend on.
'Cercle Franca is1 to See Films
The French Club of Notre Dame, eso-terically known as the Cercle Francais, will hold its November meeting Tuesday evening at 7:30 in the Audio-Visual Center, Room 219 of the Main Building. Election of officers, French songs and conversation will comprise the evening’s activities. Jim Wieland will also show movies of his trip to Europe last summer. All students are invited.
The Scholastic
34
'Tbe Juggler
of NOTRE DAME
Legend
KI OW above the altar was carved the statue of Madame St. 1 ” Mary and this minstrel did come before this image right humbly.
Sweet Lady, said he, scorn not the thing I know, for with the help of God I will essay to serve you in good faith, even as I may. I cannot read your hours nor chant your praise, but at the least I can set before you what art I have.
Then commenced this minstrel his merry play, leaping low and small, tall and high, over and under. Then he knelt upon his knees before the statue, and meekly bowed his head.
Most gracious Queen, said he, of your pity and charity scorn not this my service.
Again he leaped and played, and for holiday and festival, made the somersault of Metz. Afterwards he did the Spanish vault, springing and bounding, then the vaults they love in Brittany, and did as best as he was able. Then he walked on his two hands, with his feet in the air, and his head near
the ground.
Thus long did this minstrel leap and play, till at last, nigh fainting with weariness, he could stand no longer on his feet, but fell to his knees.
Lady, said he, I worship you with heart, with body, feet and hands, for this I can neither add to
nor take away. Now I am
your minstrel.
Then he smote upon his breast, he sighed and wept, since he knew no better prayer than tears, nor no better worship than his art. ..
%
Notre Dame’s famed •
Literary Magazine
NOW ONLY
75c
A YEAR
Subscribe now through your Hall Agent or through Publications, Box 185.
35
Nov. 4, 1949