PROFESSIONAL CARDS
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L- E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON.
M. D.	M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
314 J. M. S. BUILDING	TELEPHONE 4-360
Phone	Residence
3-2805	4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
X-Ray Examination hours by	609 J. M.S. Bldg.
APPOINTMENT	SOUTH BEND, IND.
Every operator ......in this....... telephone exchange must speak four languages!
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE EYE, EAR, NOSE, THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE S-2S74
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
OFFICE 4-S66!	RESIDENCE S-4O8O
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X-RAYS	■
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND. .
DRS. PROBST AND S1NGLER DENTISTS
.	SOS SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
Each operator in San Francisco’s Chinatown telephone exchange must speak English plus at least three of the five Chinese dialects—Som Yup, Soy Yup, Heong Sow, Gow Gong and Aw Duck—in order to handle calls. For the average Chinese understands no dialect hut his own!
Since there is no Chinese alphabet, the 36 page directory, listing 2200 subscribers, can’t be printed in the usual way. It is handwritten—then reproduced by engraving and printing processes. Subscribers are listed by streets, instead of alphabetically. And operators must almost know the book by-heart, for the Chinese seldom call by number—but by name and address.	.
Here is a Bell System exchange that in many ways is unique. But it is just like thousands of others in giving good service to telephone users.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I COLLEGE PARADE
RAYMOND J. KELLY ==
Pan Americana
The growing interest in the Latin-American countries which has been reflected on the Notre Dame campus in the work of Pax Romana, in lectures of various members of the faculty, and in the movie now in production, inspired Minnesota University’s Pan-American Unity Conference, held April 14, 15 and 16. The Minnesota Daily brought out its Pan-American edition which was devoted entirely to stories and articles concerning our neighbors to the south.
Though much was made of the history of South America, the educational and industrial facilities and the political and economic aspects of close co-operation among the nations of the Western Hemisphere, the Parade was most impressed by a description of South American athletic facilities, especially for tennis. A new kind of surfacing for tennis courts has been developed and is spreading rapidly throughout the Latin-American countries. The court itself is made of red, pulverized brick. The lines, instead of chalk which must be put on several times a day, are ribbons of steel which need only to be swept to be ready for play. Dam clever, these Pan-Americans!
❖
The real low-down
After the Pan-American issue, the readers of the Minnesota Daily were treated to the true story of life in South American countries. Max Shulman, who dashes off a column now and again for the Daily, saw fit to devote himself to his forte, Pan-American relations. He is eminently qualified to discuss this topic because he has relations all over PanAmerica.
Max quoted at length from a letter he had just received from his cousin Sam who works in an Adam hat store in Caracas, Venezuela. The letter said in part:
“Dear Sam: (He thought Max’s name was like his own.)
“The country down here is indescribable. Let me describe it to you.
“The natives down here, called pesos, are a happy carefree lot, fond of dancing and light wines. At break of dawn they roll out of their tortillas and go out to till their dew-spangled fields.
-“The chief crop is ‘gauchos,* a grain
closely resembling the North American copra. When the gauchos are ripe; the pesos go out and harvest them. They add water to the harvested gauchos and make a mash which they allow to ferment for a month. When the mash has fermented sufficiently they strain it and drink the resultant liquid which is called ‘sterno.’ After they have consumed all the sterno they repair to a local sanitarium where they take the Keeley cure until the next harvest.”
Much more of the happy life of the Pan-Americans was related in the letter which I still have. If you want to l arn more about our southern brothers come over to Sorin and do some original research in my wastebasket.
❖
Senior Ball
The annual senior blow-out is almost upon us again with all its usual financial distress. However, the Parade would like to issue a warning against drastic methods of bolstering faltering pocketbooks. For the benefit of “Sunny Jim” Lauer-man whose hairs are growing grey, worrying about the problem of importing a wife, and for the benefit of other distressed persons, the Parade would like to recall a story about one lad who pawned his nice suit of clothes to get to the dance one year. Just before he left in June he redeemed it and brought it home in his suitcase. While he was
busy about the house, his mother began to unpack the bag. She found the pawn ticket on the coat and called:
“John, what is this tag on your coat?”
John lost little time in calling back: “Oh, I was at a dance the other night and checked my coat.”
A moment later mother came across the trousers tagged in the same way. With a puzzled tone, she asked: “John, what kind of a dance was that?”
♦
The college novel
When a better story about college life is written the locale will still be Princeton. For some reason, Princeton has managed to get more than its share of attention from novelists, probably because it raises them itself and encourages their bookish leanings. Scott Fitzgerald brought Princeton to the attention of book-reading America first but now another son of Nassau, Harvey Smith, has put his college experiences in print in “The Gang’s All Here,” issued last month.
It gives the stories of the 60 members of the class of 1916 of old Nostalgia. They have all returned to Alma Mater for the 25-year reunion and “Tubby” Rankin, the class secretary, relates the routine biographical data—politics, religion, activities, occupation, and war record—of each. Then “Tubby” throws off his responsibility as class secretary, tells the real story of his classmates and leave for Tahiti to join Adelbert L’Hom-medieu X. Hormone who was expelled after three months at Nostalgia but is still the best known and most envied member of the class.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
’	—	■ — ■ By GEORGE MILES ■	■	■
These are days when it is definitely perilous to lose oneself in thought as one goes goes one’s way about in the lush greenness of the campus. To meditate on the soothing effects of nature is to invite destruction in any of a hundred ways. Golfers who take a few practice swings before heading for the course are exceedingly proficient at knocking out teeth with a single clout, and wild-slugging softball players break bones with precision and finality. But the greatest danger of all comes in the form of the new, panzer division of grass cutters which sweep up and down the land with absolute disregard for life, happiness and the pursuit of indolence.
*
Two fellows we know traveled to Kentucky during the Easter holidays in order to spend the vacation at a Trappist monastery in the town called Gethsemane. Up to this moment, neither one of the pilgrims has started to dig his grave, but both are allowing their hair to make uncontrolled progress down their necks.
*
For a long, long time we listened with envy to all those calls that came from the throats of passers-by as they walked near the rooms of friends. For a long, long time we felt a tinge of jealousy in our heart and a draft of despondency in our soul when we heard a voice from the quadrangle cry “Hallo Phorkyas, hallooo, you old philanderer, hallooo!” And there were many times that we fought to hold back tears as some faithful chorus of young men shouted to a popular associate “Wake up Finnegan. Finnegan, get up you rascal, and put on your dancing shoes!” But now we are not so perturbed. We know, at least, that there are other fellows in the same state of isolation. Last week we went by a student as he turned toward the hall we call home and commenced to shout. He yelled his own name.
*
Of late, shouts of another nature have been rising to the ears of the Alumni Hall tenants. Some coarse creatures from rival senior halls make a habit of telling the Alumni men that they are sissies and lacking in courage. But we feel that the villi-fiers will regret their words if they continue. There are a few’ brave fellow’s in the deluxe living place, and unless the ruffians stop provoking them, they are going to shout right back.
*
We remember way back when table-cloths were as distant from the University Dining Hall as griddle cakes are today. And we recall with what complete consternation they were received. At the time we were convinced that such an innovation would allow for a prolonged period of conservation and fruitition. But, as usual, we were wrong. And even if we had anticipated further refectorial refinements, we would never in a trillion years, have guessed that they would appear in the form of paintings from the University art collection. We refuse to be skeptical about even the most fantastic possibilities for the future. We can easily allow that the day will come when draperies line the walls and there are snug booths for intimate student cliques. You can form your own opinions about the duration of mystery-balls.
*
With the arrival of spring and the completion of theses, some of the seniors are turning to other fields. Some have taken up the ancient game of “potsy” and others have banded together to collect handy sayings for universal cliche week.
*
The men of the Commerce School who have Accounting as their major subject washed their faces, put on clean shirts last week and went to a convention of colleagues who specialize in cost accounting. Several “big” men discussed debits and credits, and every one had a grand time. All are agreed that the speakers knew their stuff.
*
When it was announced that the decoration motif for the senior ball is based on tales from the “Arabian Nights” we were surprised and a little perturbed. Not that we have any objections to the harem-scarem furbishes intended, but we felt certain that the committee would hit upon something original like a ship setting or a reproduction of an island in the moon. As things stand now, some gay and frivolous dancer is liable to step on a magic rug and pass away. Pass away or pass out.
NEW DEAL IN NEWS By Fitzpatrick & Maguire
South Bend, Ind., April 22—In a surprise move designed to catch his opponents off guard Pat Flanagan, Notre Dame senior, entered the Oliver Coffee Shop last night and ordered a cup of coffee.
* * *
Nome, Alaska, April 21—Promising one of the most exciting Senior Balls in the history of Notre Dame, D. G. Sullivan, the flying corsage salesman, today sold triple gardenia corsages to two eskimos who expect to be in the vicinity of South Bend on May 2. Among the thrills in store for those who attend, D. G. promised that he himself will give an exciting exhibition of dive bombing in the Rockne Memorial with his new second hand Stuka, a gift of the German government. Also included on the program is a delayed parachute jump by Young Tom Pilgrim, the Hollis, N. Y. daredevil, who will jump from one of the highest bars in the big apparatus room.
*
St. Mary’s Lake, April 24—(Special from Frederic B. Slurp, Sleepy Eye, Minn., correspondent of the London Times). Joe Glumpf, the sandwich man, today tossed anchor in the middle of St. Mary’s lake to make preparations for selling tea at the Senior tea dance next week. On the way over from Sicily Joe stopped off at the Brooklyn Navy Yard to have his battered cake of ice repaired but after seeing the new spring models, he decided to trade it in. He now has a new 35 foot cake with a built in cigar lighter and a portable flower garden.
* * *
Notre Dame, Ind., April 23—Wm. John Gunther Daly, author of the much talked about best smeller “Inside Mishawaka,” returned yesterday from his recent lecture tour to begin work on his new novel “As the Swallows Fly.” He was accompanied on his tour by the famed philosopher, J. Clifford Buckley.
• * * *
Washington, D. C., April 24—It was revealed in statistics released by the United States government today. that . practically all the soldiers in the new ' U. S. Army will be men.

The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
APRIL 25, 1941
Number 23
May 2, Seniors Will Dance to Jurgens* Music In Arabian Setting of Memorial
Dick Anderson to Play at Tea Dance
There will be no Scholastic on May 2; there will be an issue of Scrip and there will be a Senior Ball.	•
When gate receipts are counted, favors distributed, and lobsters eaten, perspiring press agent Bill Hawes can settle down and look back on what he calls “the only Senior Ball in Notre Dame history.*’
Senior Ball Chairmen Essick; Malaney, and Hopkins discuss plans with Class President Dillon.	.
Together with publicity man Hawes seniors w*ho attend the ball will remember a candlelight supper, the Philadelphia Philharmonic Orchestra, a tea dance, and the ball itself.
Those who attend the tea dance wall leave either scared to death or laughing their heads off. For publicity notices promise the most unorthodox band of all time. From the Town Club in Michigan City will come Dick Anderson and his wildmen — once known in Chicago as Gene Cook and his Cookies — to play for seniors at the Chain O’ Lakes Country Club. The dance will begin at 2:30, end at 5:30.
Anderson features Drummer Virgil Ebert composer of Michigan City’s favorite song, “Someone Is Caring.” The number is based on the feelings of “draft widows.”
So far Dick Jurgens has not been drafted; he will appear at the ball with his entire band. Jurgens, in interviews with Music Chairman Bill McJunkin, has declared his intention to make his repertoire all-request.
Queen of the Ball, Anne Benson will come from Royal Oak, Mich., to lead the grand march with General Chairman Larry McLaughlin. From Pittsburgh, Pa., Annette O’Connell will come to follow Miss Benson and Mr. McLaughlin on the arm of Class President Charles Dillon.
Arabian with a capital “A” will be the decorations in the Rockne Memorial. Four “Punjabs” as big as the original in Little Orphan Annie will serve as doormen, says effervescent Mr. Hawes. The walls will be covered with three tones of cloth — gold, pumpkin, and rust. On the ceiling Arabian colors will hang, draped into the shape of a huge tent. Shields with spear and scimitar will be placed about the walls. An Arabian canopy will be erected at the entrance to the ballroom.
Patrons for the ball will be: Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Kennedy, Mr. and Mrs. L. J. McLaughlin, Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Dillon, Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Hawes, Mr. and Mrs E. M. Kralovec, Mr. and Mrs. M. I. Shea, Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Malaney, Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Hennessy, Mr. and Mrs. I J. Lucas, Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Barr, and Mr. and Mrs. R. Meade.-
Senior Ball Committees
Tea Dance—James McNulty, (chairman) ; Ray Williams, Tom McManus, Jerry Froelich, Mike Keogan, - Gene Ryan, Ed Graham.
Arrangements—Joe Callahan, Frank Lavelle, (co-chairmen); Jack Powers, Pat Putnam, Walter Brodbeck, Ray Clark, Bob Schlayer, Ed Kunkle. • "
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
LAWRENCE McLAUGHLIN, ’41
Senior Ball Chairman '
MISS ANNE BENSON Senior Ball Queen
Schoolmen Read Papers In Annual Disputation
Last night in Washington Hall, the Schoolmen held their annual philosophical Disputation. The thesis was: “Thomistic Personalism Is True Internationalism.” Papers were read by five members of the group.
Joseph Callahan, president of the Schoolmen, acted as chairman of the Disputation. John MacCauley spoke on “What Thomistic Personalism Is Not.” Thomas McGee on “What Thomistic Personalism Is.” Cyril Garvey on “What True Internationalism Is Not.” And George Meltzer on “What True Internationalism Is.” Thomas Hirschauer read a paper on “The Importance of Philosophy Today.”
The Rev. John F. McCormick, S.J., head of the department of philosophy at Loyola University of Chicago, and former president of the American Philosophical Association, offered a few remarks at the end of the Disputation.
Decorations — William Malaney, (chairman); Matt Burns, George Schreiber, George Zeller, Dick Whalen, Doug Haley, Bruce Hebenstreit.
Music — William McJunkin, (chairman) ; George O’Connor, William Marshall, Larry Majewski, Bob Osterman, Jack Lucas, Frank Wemhoff.
Publicity — William Hawes, (chairman) ; Tom Carty, William McGowan, John Patterson, Ray Kelly, Don Maguire, Dan Broderick.
Dinner — Hawley Van Swall, (chairman) ; Frank Santos, Ed Shevland, Bob Leonard, Tom Talty, Tom Vincent, James Tinny.
Patrons — John Ryan, (chairman); Maurice Stauder, Frank Link, Clarence Marquardt, Bob Pohl, John O’Brien, Dan Bradley.
Invitations—John Debitetto, (chairman) ; Bob Wardell, Ed Buddy, Al Vandervoort, Bob Way, Tom Geselbrecht, Jack Mullaney.
Programs — Frank Hopkins, (chairman) ; John Mortell, Dick O’Connor, Frank McDonough, Chet Kwecien, Dave Powers, Frank McKelvy. .
Favors—Howard Essick, (chairman); Martin Shea, Don Kralovec, Jim Hannigan, Frank Carey, Dick Meade, Ed Gallegos.
Tickets—Bob De Moss, Jim Walsh, (co-chairmen); Mike Lambert, Joe Guiltinan, Clarence Ryan, Jim McGovern, Warren Deahl, Clifford Buckley.
—John Patterson
C. A. S. Holds Picture Sale
Of Great N. D. Athletes
Pictures of great athletes of the past and present at Notre Dame, have been secured by the Catholic Action Students group. They are on sale now at 50 cents per set of 12 prints, and may be secured from John Walsh, of 348 Lyons, or Adrian Padon, of 1 Lyons.
Included in the set are such notables as Knute Rockne, George Gipp, and Frank Leahy. As these pictures were made for framing, they are very suitable for room decoration.
Accountants Visit Here
For Regional Conference
Approximately 80 public and private* accountants from Illinois, Michigan, Indiana, and Ohio gathered at Notre Dame for their Regional Cost Conference last Friday and Saturday. This conference, sponsored by the South Bend Chapter of the National Association of Cost Accountants, was also open to the 120 junior and senior students of the Accounting Department here at Notre Dame.
Notable speakers present for the conference included Mr. Victor H. Stempf, National President of the National Association of Cost Accountants; Mr. E. A. Kracke, associated with Haskins & Sells accounting firm in New York; Mr. Logan Monroe, Cleveland, Ohio, and Assistant Treasurer of the Eaton Manufacturing Company; and Mr. John L. Carey, Executive Secretary of the American Institute of Accountants.
'43 Primary Vote Results
Eight sophomores have won the right to two more weeks of campaigning for offices in next year’s Junior class as a result of primary elections held Wednesday.
William C. Costello, Gloucester City, N. Y., and James J. Maher, Newburgh, N. Y., received 107 and 96 votes, respectively, for the office of president.
Oliver H. Hunter, Erie, Pa., polled 14 votes to win a starting position for the vice-presidency, while William J. Brady, New London, Conn., won the other berth with 101 vtotes.
James M. Purcell, Larchmont, N. Y., received 129 votes for the office of secretary and Donald A. Potter, Indianapolis, Ind., received 83 votes.
In the race for the office of treasurer, . • William T. McCaughey, Chicago, Hl., - received more votes than any individual when he polled 186 ^otes. James C. Downey, West Palm Beach, Pla., won second position with 86 votes. Final elections will be held May 7th.
Fr. T. McAvoy Gives Paper at Milwaukee Meeting
• The Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the history department of the University, is in Milwaukee, Wis., attending the 34th annual meeting today of the Mississippi Valley Historical Society. Father McAvoy will deliver a speech on “The Catholic Church on the Indiana Frontier, 1790-1840.” Father McAvoy is the author of The Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789-1834, published last year. .
THE
MUSIC WEEK SCHEDULE
Last year during Music Week the walls of the field house echoed the superb tones of the violin of famed Albert Spalding. Next week another Music Week and new echoes. Following is a schedule of the events for the week. For a complete story see page 13 this issue.
Sunday, April 27- at 8 p.m.—The Notre Dame Concert Band.
Monday, April 28,at 8 p.m.—Miss Rose Bampton, soprano, soloist with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra.
Tuesday, April 29, at 8 p.m.—The Notre Dame Glee Club and the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra in a joint concert*
Wednesday, April 30, at 8 p.m—The Augustana College Choir, Rock Island, Ill. The program of the choir is in four parts. The first is sung by the all-girl Jenny Lind Chorus. Their selections will be: The Twenty-third Psalm by Schubert-Saar; Slumber Song by Gretchan-inoff-Aslanoff; The Witches’ Carnival by Fletcher. The second part is by the all-men Wennerberg Chorus. They will offer: Traume by Wagner; My Lovely Celia by Monro-Davis, and Land-Sighting by Grieg.
The third and fourth parts are rendered by the combined choir. They are: Good Friday Music in a Catalonian Church by Nicolau; What Can Life Be But a Shadow by Bach; Sleep, My Little Jesus by Macfarlane; Hail, Gladdening Light by Wood; and part four, Jesus and the Traders by Kodaly; A June Moonrise by DeLamarter; The Silversmith arranged by Schindler; Matona, Lovely Maiden by DiLassus; Tonerna arranged by Lundholm; Nunc Dimitis by Tschesnokoff; Gloria by Cain.
Friday, May 1, at 8 p.m.—The Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra under the baton of Eugene Ormandy.
—Robert LeMense
Joe Kaltenbach Returns
For K. of C. Minstrels
The Martins and the McCoys will be reckless mountain boys again on May 5 and 6 when Joe Kaltenbach performs in the Knights of Columbus old fashioned minstrel show. With Joe will be his partner, Tom Delia, to throw him off tune with the guitar. He-of-the-quick-come-back, Jack Whelan, will act as interlocutor for the show. Pure, good “gay ’90” fun will be featured throughout the show.
Also promised for the show are a few “Hellzapoppin” stunts in which members of the audience take part. The Rev. Engene Burke, C.S.C., is supervising the musical background for the show.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	7
U. S. Maritime Industry Offers Jobs To Engineer Graduates
Employment opportunities for graduates of engineering colleges are opening up rapidly in the maritime industry and information about jobs is available upon application to the United States Maritime Commission at Washington.
They fall into two categories: ship operation and ship design. The greater number are in operation in which the graduate can become a ship’s officer traveling to the ports of the world. A national competitive examination will be held early in June for qualified men who apply to the Commisson before May 10, 1941.
Appointments will be made from this list as engineer cadets in the merchant marine. After three months’ service, the cadet may take an examination for Third Assistant Engineer. With his license obtained the engineer can be appointed as a cadet officer. Many cadets officers are being promoted to licensed officer positions after one voyage.
Ship Design
Due to the launching of the shipbuilding programs by the Maritime Commission and the expansion of Navy shipbuilding, it is now possible also to utilize the services of graduates from approved engineering schools in the ship design field.
The Maritime Commission has initiated a training program which will afford a limited number of recent graduates of recognized engineering schools the opportunity of receiving a one-year training in Maritime Engineering or Naval Architecture. Candidates are selected from Civil Service registers and appointed on probation as trainees at an annual salary of $2,000.
Six months is spent in the design and plan approval sections of the Technical Division at Washington, D. C., and six months as junior inspector in the shipbuilding yards. At the successful termination of the one-year training, permanent assignment in the Technical Division or in the field service is made according to the aptitude of the individual.
Ship Operation
Due to the expanding need for marine engineers, the Maritime Commission also has provided training for graduates of accredited engineering schools to enter this branch of the service. Three months’ service as an engineer cadet- at sea aboard a steam vessel qualifies engineering school graduates to take examinations before the Bureau of Marine In
spection and Navigation of the U. S. Department of Commerce for a position paying from $160 to $210 per month. Promotion will be made to Second Assistant Engineer of those qualifying at a salary of $180 to $220 a month, and from that rank to Chief Engineer at a salary at more than $300 a month. The path has been shortened under existing regulations. so that the engineering school graduate may step quickly into a well paying position with stability of tenure assured.
Candidates for cadet training who are placed on the eligible list will be assigned to one of three schools, either at New York, New Orleans or San Francisco. Preliminary training at the school takes from four to eight weeks, and the cadet is assigned to a position aboard ship which will qualify him for license examination. Cadets are paid the minimum of $50 a month. In some cases, bonuses are also paid and subsistence and quarters are provided in addition to pay.
It is necessary, however, that all applications for this training be on file with the United States Maritime Commission not later than May 10, 1941.
Additional information may be obtained by application to the Supervisor of Cadet Training, United States Maritime Commission.
University Board Holds
Spring Meeting on May 2
The spring meeting of the University Board of Lay Trustees will be held on the campus, Friday afternoon, May 2, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, . C.S.C., president of the University, announced this week. Members of the Board, many of them well known in industry and civic activities throughout the nation, will be guests of Father O’Donnell at the Philadelphia Symphony Concert in the evening, which will be preceded by the usual Board dinner. The Board will advise the administration in regard to the endowment portfolio of the University.
Guest Speakers
Dr. Hobart H. Willard, professor of Chemistry at the University of Michigan, spoke on “Ultraviolet Fluorescence and Its Applications” in Chemistry hall Thursday evening. Members of the St. Joseph valley section American Chemical Society, who sponsored the program, attended a dinner in Hie Notre-'Dame dining hall before the lecture.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By William K. Mulvey
“We were doing the American Way at Cain Park.” — Pass the salt. — “Or was it Our Town?” — Milk down. — “I
Vern Witkowski
played Mr. Webb in Our Town.” — Doin’ any skiing over Christmas vacation, Bud? — “No, I met her during the production of the American Way. She was. ...” — Have y’heard Les Brown’s latest?
These are some of the difficulties Notre Dame’s number one (ask him) thesp’an encounters when he tries to impress his dining hall companions with his more recent successes in things theatrical. His name is Vernon Witkowski, or, if you prefer the stage handle, you might try lisping Whit Vernon. Of course, if you are an intimate of his, or, if you are in a particularly ugly mood, you may refer to him as just plain “Ham.”
His list of achievements is rather impressive, if one has the time and stamina to listen and absorb. The least sensational of all his accomplishments was being bom in Hamtramack, Mich. (A very detailed map will tell you that that has some connection with Detroit.)
After waddling through an unimportant infancy and skipping about in an uneventful childhood, he arrived at De-
* troit University Prep in the full blossom of adolescence — cracking voice, first long trousers, etc. It was here that he first realized that the “world is filled with a number of things.” One of those things must have been made for him; he decided it was the stage.
High School gave him his histrionic start; then Notre Dame slowed him down. He found Notre Dame dramatically destitute and consequently sold himself to the South Bend Community Theater where he gained prestige in acting, directing and other things. Eyen this failed to satisfy our insatiable young actor; so he turned to radio in his spare time. At the Campus Studios, ■ he developed a small workshop. He has
been responsible for the more respectable productions of the series entitled The Radio Stage.
During vacations Vern made up for all the time lost during the school year. He spent two summer seasons with the Wayne Workshop and one season with the Cain Park Theater in Cleveland. Even during vacations he supplemented his stage work with radio. WWJ of Detroit is the station. At the delicate age of 19 he portrayed Scrooge in a Christmas Eve production of the Dickens’ perennial. Now those who have been fretting over the lingering illness of Lionel Barrymore may relax and rest assured that the Scroogian tradition is in good hands.
With this background in the theater, it is obvious that post graduation days will not find him in his father’s clothing business. This coming summer, he has the rather formidable title of Production Manager at the Cain Park theater. This may mean that he is head office boy in charge of stuff, or it may actually be as important as it sounds. After the summer season, he will take advantage of a year’s scholarship to Catholic University’s graduate school of speech and drama. By 1942, he will be haunting NBC, CBS and Broadway. Some day we may hear from him — a postcard perhaps.
"Rerum Novarum" Jubilee Celebrated this Year
Pope Leo XIII initiated a great new phase in the life of the Church 50 years ago by issuing the first of the impressive series of Encyclical Letters on economic questions. In spite of war 1941 will witness international jubilee commemorations of this event. May 15 will be celebrated through the United States by meetings testifying to the tremendous importance of Catholic teaching on social justice and charity for the future of the world and the private salvation of individuals.
When Pope Leo wrote Rerum Novarum in 1891 he astonished a liberalis-tic world which had long identified Catholicism with reaction. He showed that the teaching of Christ and of Christian philosophers on the questions of wealth, wages, unions and the class struggle surpassed the most modern in its deep sympathy for the oppressed, its burning thirst for justice, and above all in its clarity. The present Pontiff desires that the celebration of the 50th anniversary should be universal- and based on effective desire among Catholics to make this teaching a living real
ity. Plans are being made for appropriate commemoration at Notre Dame.
, Frosh Oratorical Contest Begins on April 30
The freshman oratorical contest preliminaries will be held in the basement of the Law Building on Wednesday, April 30, and Thursday, May 1, at 4 p.m., Professor William J. Coyne, director of the contest, announced this week.
The preliminaries will be run off according to the following schedule: Wednesday, April 30, at 4 p.m.—Joyce, J. F. ; McDonald, D. P.; O’Dea, James; Wilson, J. D.; Thursday, May 1, at 4 p.m.— Haley, Harold; McCabe, P. H.; Patterson, Charles; Slevin, E. R.
Any student whose name has been omitted should see Mr. Coyne or some other member of the Department of Speech.
K. of C. Ball at Palais
Tonight is Patriotic
Tonight the Knights of Columbus and their guests will again celebrate the annual Knights of Columbus Formal at the -Palais Royale. Dancing to the music of Charlie Agnew and his orchestra the crowd is expected to make the affair the biggest and best so far. The advance ticket sale bears out this prediction.
Long hours of planning and decorating will be recognized tonight when knights and their guests enter the patriotically decorated red, white, and blue, ball room. Numerous unusual features have also been planned that have promise of being as colorful as the surrounding atmosphere.
Among those who will occupy the po-cition of honored knights and their guests are: Richard Kerigan, chairman of the Formal, and his pretty southern belle, Rita Fallot of St. Mary’s, who will reign as Queen of the Formal; Robert Sullivan, Grand Knight, and his guest, Mary Keough of Cleveland, Ohio; Howard Korth, publicity chairman, with Rosemary Blanton of St. Louis, Mo. ; Steve Graliker, arrangement chairman, and Heddy Lamarre of South Bend; Harry Gottron, program chairman, accompanied by Joan Gall of South Bend; Robert Sass, reservation chairman, with Doris Tacke of St. Mary’s; James Fayette, music chairman, escorting Joan Birder also from St. Mary’s; Raymond Kelley, honorary chairman, Kay Le Vas-seur from St. Mary’s; Ralph Gerra, honorary chairman, Helene Deirham, St. Mary’s; Edward Reidy, honorary chairman, will escort Hope Vay of Lakevrood, Ohio.—Elmer D. Silha
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
"Dome" Near Completion Says Editor McCarty
Photographers’ cuts are stacked high in the Dome office, and in approximately a month the 35th edition of the Notre Dame annual will be in the hands of the students. Only the Knights of Columbus Dance and the Senior Ball remain to be covered before the writeups of the school year of 1940-41 are finished.
This year’s Dome will have several innovations. In place of the usual embossed Dome on the cover, the cover this year will be a Kodachrome inlay of the Dome covered with cellaphane. The cover will be in beige.
Following the pattern of Life magazine, the captions under pictures will consist of two or three lines, instead of the usual few words. There will be a candid shot on every senior page, and the captions for these pictures will be written by Frank Wemhoff.
The primary color this year will be black, with secondary colors of terra cotta, blue and green. According to Editor Neil McCarty, the book will tell the complete story of the school year, with informality as a keynote.—Bill Welch
A department of civil engineering, a pioneer effort among Catholic institutions, was inaugurated at Notre Dame in 1873.
Name Various Winners for Art Exhibitions
Seven art students from South Bend and vicinity won awards for exhibits in the sixth annual High School Art Survey conducted under the auspices of the University of Notre Dame.
In the exhibition, which opened April 16 and will run until April 30, are several hundred pieces of art by students in Indiana, Ohio, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin. Notre Dame’s fine arts department is sponsoring the event under the direction of Prof. Stanley Sessler. The exhibits are now on display in the Wightman Art Galleries of the University Library.
Of the four divisions South Bend students succeeded in gaining three firsts. John Bencsics, Washington H.S., was awarded first place in the painting section for his, “Dice Game.” James Hathaway, Central H.S., won a first in the drawing division with his, “Carefree.”
In the commercial design section, “Illustration” by Mary Lou Kuhn, Riley H.S., received first honors. Other local art students gaining awards were: John Czencz, Riley H.S., second in commercial design; Joan Yeager, St. Mary’s academy, Holy Cross, Ind., second in paint
ing; John Vogel, Central H.S., fourth in commercial design; and Martha Leeds, Riley H.S., fourth in creative design.
The Survey’s Outstanding Award was given to Robert Moyer, Lakewood high school, Lakewood, Ohio, for his work which was adjudged outstanding in all fields.
Other winners were: paintings, Robert Moyer, third; Janey Dods, New Trier, H.S., Winnetka, Ill., fourth; drawings, Bob Hohl, Lakewood H.S., second, Elmer Marhanka, La Porte H.S., La Porte, Ind., third, and Tom Tucker, Cranbrook School, Bloomfield Hills, Mich., fourth.
Additional awards went to: in commercial design, Vladimir Sova, Boys’ Tech H.S., Milwaukee, Wis., third; and in creative design, Joan Baumgartner, St. Ursula Academy, Toledo, Ohio, first; Lois Ann Carter, St. Ursula Academy, second; and Betty Thunhorst, Lakewood H.S., third.	'
Judges of the exhibit were: Mr. James Cloetingh, of Cloetingh and Deman Studios, South Bend; Mr. Francis W. Ker-vick, head of the Department of Architecture of Notre Dame; and Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, director of the University’s Art Department.
Professors Stanley Sessler and Francis Kervick look on as Mr. James Cloetingh of South Bend pins ribbon on a zoinner.
South Bend Tribune Photo
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
110 Paintings of Early American Bishops, Cardinals and Laymen Hung in Dining Halls
A dining hall innovation—the hang-ging of 110 oil paintings—awaited the students returning from the Easter vacation. The paintings, 56 of which are in the west dining, hall and 54 in the east, are portraits of early American bishops and archbishops, cardinals, popes and distinguished laymen.
Paul E. Byrne, University librarian, originated the art project, and the Eev. John Bednar, C.S.C., directed its accomplishment. When the Eev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, gave permission for the project' he remarked that paintings were meant to be exhibited where they could be seen and associated with life.
The paintings of bishops filled this capacity formerly when they were a part of the Bishops’ Memorial on the upper floors of the Main Building. This memorial was a collection of portraits, vestments, mitres, crosses, rings and other articles associated with the history of the early American bishops. This material, along with 400,000 letters and documents, was collected by Prof. James F. Edwards, University librarian from 1879 to 1911.
In- 1917 the paintings were put in storage in the present library and were later moved to the tower of the Law
Building for further storage. The paintings of foreign bishops and cardinals, and those of the popes, were obtained through donations.
Most representative painter is Luigi Gregori, who did the frescoes in Sacred Heart Church, the interior of the dome, the Columbus murals in the Main Building and other paintings and murals about the campus. Many of the portraits, however, are by Gregori’s pupil, Paul Wood, whose picture depicting Father Corby giving absolution at the Battle of Gettysburg hangs in the Wightman Art Gallery.
The problem of adapting pictures and frames to the dining hall walls has not yet been completely solved. The final collection in the halls will be of bishops only, and the frames will be painted black to harmonize with the walnut woodwork.
Further plans under consideration for decorating the halls consist in the hanging of flags and draperies to introduce new texture and color to the halls. The flags would represent all the states and the foreign countries represented here by students. The draperies would be hung in three alcoves of each dining hall and would help greatly in absorbing the • noise prevalent at meal time.
John A. Lynch
University Glee Club
Visits Eastern States
Notre Dame’s barnstorming Glee club .. returned to the campus over the weekend after a 2,500-mile bus trip which s featured concerts in New Jersey, Massachusetts, and New York, and an audience -which included the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., bishop of the army and navy diocese, and the Metropolitan concert star, Giovanni Martinelli.
Under the capable direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, the club appeared at Montclair, N. J.; Beverly, Mass.; Eome, N. Y.; Binghampton, N. Y., in special con- . certs and climaxed the extensive eastern trip during the holidays by joining the College of New Rochelle Glee club in a concert at the Roosevelt Hotel, New York. Included in the select crowd of 500 on Saturday afternoon, April 19, were Bishop O’Hara and Mr. Martinelli.
At the 18th annual Notre Dame Night performance in Chicago’s Palmer House >. last Monday night, Jack White of the : glee club was offered a position on the > staff of Radio Station WLS after he ?-gave the narrating dialogue to “The => Song of the Free.” The club sings at ft Battle Creek, Mich., tonight.
Accompanying the Glee Club of 35 -members on the eastern trip was Jack 2 Molloy’s 12-piece orchestra which pro- . vided the background for the singing. The -orchestra plans to remain organized dur- ? ing the summer months and is likely to appear at Virginia Beach, Va.
—Bill Scanlan
A typical corner in the Dining Hall today
Six N.D. Students Attend Conference at Monmouth .
Michael Lambert, Larry Walsh, Don- g aid Kralovec, Homer Ferguson, John > Duggan and George York were the six. ? members of the Economic Round Table X? who represented Notre Dame at the .ft Mid-West Conference of International & Relations Clubs which was held at Mon-mouth College, Monmouth, Ill., April 18- W-19-	1'
Three papers were presented by the Notre- Dame delegation: Mike Lambert spoke on “Shipping in the Defense Pro-gram,” Larry Walsh had for the title W of his paper “Russian Influences in®;. Latin America,” and Don Kralovec pre-WJ sented a paper on “Democracy in In-^^ dustry.”
There are some indications that th®gfc Conference, comprising some 250 dcleiK-gates from over 75 Mid-West collegers, and universities, may possibly be heldgC^ here at Notre Dame in the spring oOfe 1943.	®
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Sorinites of Old Days Moved Westward to St. Mary's when Stile was Torn Down
OUR DAILY BREAD
The passing of the stile marked the end of an era at Notre Dame, the beginning of the new century. The day the fence was torn away and the gate and steps carted off there was ushered from the scene the last stamping-ground of the true Sorinite. To the other students, the Sorinite was a godlike fellow with fabulous endowments: a mustache, permission to smoke, a private room. Sorinites led the school. It was they who first broke through the prairie that lay to the west of the campus and engineered those many paths that meandered up to, the stile, onward to the gates of St. Mary’s. It was the Sorinites who pioneered the “short mile” to the west.
The stile was a boundary, and the day it was taken away there set in an era of expansion unequalled in Notre Dame history. With the fence gone, the Sorinite was no longer content to sit by the rbad and watch the red sun sink behind St. Mary’s towers. The Sorinite would go on, on to St. Mary’s. The frontier moved westward. The Sunday dance at Le Mans Hall was now inevitable.
The break on the western wall, and the consequent invasion of Notre Dame men, led to the eradication of many established traditions. With their crossing the road Notre Dame men encountered new social contacts, and there came a new doctrine of culture. The old was no longer good enough. The hallowed words that had once echoed across Brownson field were heard no more. A new cheer took the place of “Rah, Rah, Nostra Domina.” To the alumni, this was a catastrophe. One wrote: “The other day I heard the new college cheer. It’s choppy; it’s yawppy; it’s like the ‘whiz boom’ business of the average college cheer. For a rousing, individual, expressive cheer give me our own ‘Rah Rah, Nostra Domina!’ It was good enough for us, why isn’t it good enough for the young ones ? When my boy goes to Notre Dame I’d like to have him give the same yell his father gave, and I hope his grandson may follow his example.”
While a. social upheaval disrupted the old Notre Dame another force was thundering away in the commerce school. Volcanic Brother Cyprian, who was the commerce school, roared through his lectures like exploding T.N.T., and year after year maintained his reputation as one of the best accounting profs in the
country. One day a Swedish boy walked into his class, sat down. Brother “Cyp” sounded off, trying to pound a bit of accounting into the student’s head. He failed and exasperated finally he shouted, “Get out of here and stay out, you big ninny!” the student got out, enrolled in the science school, became a chemistry instructor and the greatest coach football we ever had.
Another character at Notre Dame in the early days was. Brother Augustine, the college baker. He came across country from California’s gold mines, was accepted as a postulant, and one day heard Father Sorin mention the school’s financial difficulties. He turned about and casually said, “Down in my old trunk there’s a bit of gold and you’re welcome to it if you want it.” It turned out to be four thousand dollars.
Among the lay professors who came to Notre Dame was Maurice Francis Egan, well-known author and editor of the early Twentieth centuiy. To “The Lilacs,” a little cottage on N. Notre Dame Ave., he came, and there on many a week-end afternoon gathered the intellectuals of the middle west.
After his stay at Notre Dame — he utilized pai*t of the time by writing a book on manners after observing Notre Dame table etiquette — he went to Washington and was subsequently appointed minister to Denmark. He occupied this position at the time of the United States purchase of the Virgin Islands.
A character who bounded in and out of the Scholatic in the early days was Mrs. Partington, who wrote letters to her.son Isaac, a student. An example: “Dear Isaac: You may come home during the hallow days. I guess they are pretty hard to fill up at schools — boys especially — and in these hard times it is hard to fill them up anywhere. I’ve tried to, and for the purpose have bought two (2) turkeys, and one goose and by the time you get here I’ll have another.”—Don Heltzel.
“SCRIP” NEXT WEEK
“The Scholastic” will not appear, next week, but will be published again on Friday,-May 9.
The last number- for the 'schoolyear of “Scrip,” campus literary quarterly^ will appear on Friday, May' 2.
LITURGY
Fact finding has attained the eminence of a fad. . . . Facts in themselves are only bits of information. . . . The meaning and power behind the facts is what counts. ... No fact has so split the world apart as the empty tomb. ... It is the symbol of ultimate hope or ultimate despair.... “If Christ be not risen again, your faith is vain, for you are yet in your sins.” (1 Corinthians 15,17.)
“We cannot but speak the things we have seen and heard.” (Acts 4,20). . . . So replied Peter and John when the Council of the Jews forbade them to preach the resurrection of Christ. . . . Their trust was in the authority of God, not men. . . . Their courage to confess Christ was from the grace of Christ.
St. Paul desired only “to know Christ and the power of His resurrection.” (Philippians 3,10). . . . The Church is the living witness to this example and this power for 2,000 years. . . . The Church exists to impart the divine life of grace to individual souls.... They are bom with Christ and Christ in them.. .. The Liturgy unites them with the mystical life of Christ in the Church.
The five weeks after Easter are the most important in the Church calendar. . . . They represent the time of Christ’s several appearances to His disciples. . . . It was then He revealed to them the true nature of the heavenly kingdom. ... It was the moment of commissioning, of conferring power.
The Gospels of these Sundays are all from St. John, the evangelist of the divinity of Christ. . .. The first three regard the revelation of the kingdom, the others refer to the coming of the Holy Ghost. . .. The infant Church celebrated Easter for 50 days. . . . No fasts, no kneeling were observed. ... It was a continuous period of jubilation, a time only for Alleluias.
The Liturgy of the saints developed later. . . . The Solemnity of St. Joseph (Wednesday) is one of those happy additions. __As he was guardian of Christ’s sacred humanity so is he guardian of Ghrist’s mystical humanity, the Church. . . . His power of intercession* inspires every confidence. -	-	• -
* (Mass Calendar on page 19)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
maintain laboratories for this as well as those for industrial research.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN. Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distnnuwr of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—^Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. HIE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University • of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to The Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
The Character of Chemical Research
By Laivrence G. Hess
An art aims at excellence in achievements, but the true characteristic of a science is a search for an understanding of the causes or reasons for things as they are. Chemistry is the branch of science which has for its object the study of the composition of matter and the changes which it undergoes. Research, a diligent examination in seeking facts or principles is a tool of science.
Chemical research has been recognized as existing far back as history records. The ancients observed changes in nature and understood some of the properties of a few of the metals. Although the alchemists did not succeed in making gold from other metals with their “philosopher’s stone,” they did develop processes for subliming, distilling, roasting, and crystallizing which play an important part in the laboratory and in industry today. Our knowledge of the fundamental laws of chemistry required numerous observations of the composition of matter and the changes occurring in nature.
The present status of chemistry has resulted from research. Theories are formulated in the mind and experimentation in the laboratory either confirms or disproves the theories. Each postulate which is proved or disproved leads to a greater knowledge of the intriguing science, chemistry.
Chemical research is usually under taken with a definite end in view. The research worker first makes a thorough study of all available library material on the theory, the reaction, or the substance in which he is interested. This is
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER. Art Editor
THOMAS F. CARTY Photo Editor
followed by experimentation in the laboratory. The laboratory work is not, as some might believe, a matter merely of pouring together two or three things and watching the mixture sputter and turn various colors. It is, however, a well organized, preconceived plan carried out under exacting conditions. This is necessary if one is to draw any definite conclusions from the results of his labors. Research must not be haphazard and one must be prepared to accept negative results.
Chemical research is inconsistent in that one problem may be solved in a day or a week and still another problem may require several years or longer. It has its heartaches when the research problem does not turn out as one expects but there is nothing that gives a chemist greater joy than the completion of the task he set out to do. Persistence, patience, and hard work are rewarded by the realization that some bit of knowledge has been added to the ever broadening field of chemistry.
The chemical research of today may be divided into pure research and industrial research. The two divisions have no sharp demarcation and differ mainly in the magnitude of the operations. Colleges and universities, the strongholds of pure research, are largely responsible for the advancements in our knowledge of chemistry as a science. Industrial research of the modern chemical industry is responsible for the advancement in our knowledge of chemistry as a useful tool for more enjoyable living. Some industries, realizing the value of pure research, also
The underlying principle of chemical ; research and of all science is the search / for truth. The search is often motivated ; by the challenge of the unknown. Imagination and inquisitiveness also play their part. The most intangible, that < which is just beyond the senses, has al- f. ways defied the research worker. The S very small, the atom and micro-organisms, and the enormously large, the universe, have also challenged.
The public has always appreciated the material contributions of the chemist. Napoleon offered prizes for contributions of chemists of his day. Monetary and honorary awards are today granted to research workers for brilliant work in their respective fields. The Nobel prize includes'a purse of about $40,000 and is awarded, without regard to nationality, for the outstanding contribution of the year. The Perkin medal is presented to the American chemist on the basis of outstanding service to chemical industry and the Nichols medal to the author of a 27 scientific paper which has an important influence in stimulating research.
The public by its acceptance of new products show their appreciation of industrial research. The chemical industry itself readily accepts research because it is an integral part in any organization that is interested in efficiency and in keeping alive. A recent advertisement in a chemical company’s publication stated, “The research chemist may hold the nucleus of a new industry, a brighter tomorrow for thousands of people. More jobs for many, more complete living for all, for behind every 10,000 chemical wage earners there are 300 research workers.” It is recognized that the industry of this present day, which is marked by many rapid developments, soon falls behind if no active research
program is sponsored. Research not only provides newer and better products but also through the development of cheaper production methods diminishes their ultimate cost to the consumer.
A short review of a few results of chemical research will readily call to mind the general benefits derived from industrial and pure research. Notable in the field of research is the synthesis of rubber and rubber-like materials. Synthetic rubbers differ widely in composition from natural rubber but tests prove many more durable. They are slightly higher priced than natural rubber but are of great importance in that they would be available should national emergencies cut off the supply of the natural product. One synthetic rubber is known (Continued on page 26)
8? a*.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
National Music Week at Notre Dame
April 27 to May 3
By JOHN LARSON
National Music Week, beginning next Monday, April 28, will once again make it possible for us at Notre Dame to enjoy much good music. Our own band, glee club, and symphony orchestra will, of course, be responsible for a substantial part of the week’s music festivities. Unfortunately, their programs are not yet available at the time of this writing. But whatever they give us will be, I think, well chosen and well performed. Their programs will occupy the first few days of the week, and on Wednesday we are to have a concert in Washington Hall by the Augustana College Choir, a group which we are entirely happy to welcome here. The Augustana choir has merited high praise from all sides—all of it, we understand from those who have heard the group, well-deserved.
On Thursday evening, May 1, Rose Bampton, well know soprano, and the South Bend Symphony Orchestra, which will play a major work under the direction of its conductor, Edwin Haymes, will share the platform for the evening’s music. Miss Bampton will sing the following program:
. With Orchestra:
Pace, Pace, mio Dio, from “La Forza del Destino”...............-....Verdi
II. With Piano Accompaniment:
Hat dich die Liebe beruhrt.Marx An Ocean Idyl.............Brooks.Smith
To the Children..........Rachmaninoff
White Horses of the Sea.-Elinor Warren
Brooks Smith will accompany Miss Bampton in the last group.
The week will come to a close with the following program played by the' Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Eugene Ormandy:
Variations for Orchestra on a Theme
by Haydn...........Johannes Brahms
Symphony No. 7 in A Major
Op. 92.........Ludwig van Beethoven
Reflections in the Water..Claude Debussy “La Valse,” a choregraphic
poem.................Maurice Ravel
Finlandia.................Jan Sibelius
* * *
Somewhere back in 1940, there brewed a whispering campaign about New York that the Philadelphia Orchestra was
slipping badly. Virgil Thompson, present music critic of The New York Herald-Tribune, was violent in his denial of this rumor. He made clear in one of his columns that the orchestra is one of the best that exists anywhere, that the sounds emerging from the instruments of its players are in every way worthy of the superb musicians who play them.
Perhaps there is nowhere such a string choir as exists in the Philadelphia Orchestra. Its tone is smooth, vibrant and lush. There is no forcing of the tone, no hoarseness, no throatiness. The brass choir, too, is a remarkably flexible thing, capable of the most varied effects.
There are, in all probability, other conductors more highly paid and more widely advertised that Eugene Ormandy. However, there are few musicians who conduct an orchestra with such a straightforwardness, with such vivid understanding and dependable architectonics. Ormandy’s every gesture is sensible and effective. The resultant musical performance is, in consequence, sensible and effective beyond all comparison with many of his more drastically temperamental and showman-like colleagues.
The central European style of orchestral conducting is a military, authoritative, energetic business. At the same
Mr. Eugene Ormandy, conductor of the Philadelphia orchestra
time, it is capable of a tenderness in soft passages and of a majesty in loud tones that is not to be equalled by any other tradition of conducting. It is the musical language of the striking musical masters from Haydn through Schonberg, although it seems curiously to have been brought forth both for and out of Handel. Possibly the Handelian is its most easily exportable form. Mr. Ormandy is an admirable disciple of this style of conducting. His authority is authoritative, his gentleness is gentle. He happens also to have inherited from his Slavic predecessor a superb choir of rich Tchaikovskian string-players. He has toned down their somewhat dynamic violence and emphasized their lethargic throat tones—always keeping their rare and finely blended dark coloration.
* * #
Ormandy, who was born in Budapest, took most of his violin training at the Royal Academy in that city. He first came to America as a boy of about 17 years, taking a job as an obscure violinist in New York’s Capitol Theatre. He had his first experience as conductor, here, being asked to conduct three movements of the Tchaikovski Fifth Symphony. Success followed immediately. Soon he was asked to conduct at Robin -Hood Dell in Philadelphia.
Finally came a big opportunity. Ormandy was asked to conduct, as a substitute guest-conductor, the Philadelphia Orchestra in place of Arturo Toscanini who had fallen ill. Ormandy himself says of the occasion: “Players were cooperative and audiences were cordial. It seemed even then like the climax of my career to lead (if only for two weeks) such an aggregation of musicians as the Philadelphia Orchestra, in place of so distinguished a conductor as Stokowski and as substitute for the great Toscanini.”
In 1936, after being permanent conductor of the Minneapolis Orchestra, Ormandy was invited to share with Leopold Stokowski the conductorship of the Philadelphia Orchestra. Two years later, he was made musical director of the orchestra, since Stokowski wished to be.
(Continued.on page 26) .	.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Following Radio Addresses were delivered in Chicago on April 21, in Celebration of Eighteenth Annual Universal
' Notre Dame Night
w
The world is in deeper shadow than when we met on Universal Notre Dame Night a year ago. War-ridden Europe is still reaping the harvest sown in age-old feuds. Our own beloved country — as yet at peace, as we pray it may remain — is preparing for whatever- the morrow may bring.
As always, Notre Dame is cooperating with the government, and Alma Mater salutes especially tonight her sons in the various camps throughout the country. I am proud of all of you.
I believe in preparedness. I want our country to be strengthened so that it can meet any attack from without. As true Americans, let us support our Chief Executive and the legislation already enacted by Congress for the defense of our shores. And may the spirit of fraternal charity characterize the discussion of future legislation, in accordance with our traditional way of life.
We hear a great deal at present about the danger from without. In my opinion, however, the deadlier enemy is the enemy from within. He is American in name but in little else. He is the so-called “educator” who divorces education from religion and morality. He is the exponent of a sterile system in which God has no place, either as a Father in heaven or as the fountainhead of the natural rights of man that government must respect. He is the patron of everything planned, from “I.Q.” to parenthood and, if we permit him to continue, we will become a nation of “planners” without substance to the plan- Little wonder that innumerable children know more about “Mickey Mouse” and “Harold Teen” than they do about God, Himself!
Our. Founding Fathers were men of deep religious conviction. Moreover, they had the courage of their conviction in the certainty that natural rights are God-given and are worth fighting for. They gave expression to such in the Declaration of Independence:
". . •. that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with inalienable rights ”
This doctrine was later incorporated in the Ordinance of 1787:
THE FORGOTTEN WORD
By Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame
"Religion, morality and knowledge being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged.”
The principle of democracy, therefore, demands the recognition of God, with accompanying basic morality. If America is strong from within, under God she can withstand any thrust from without.
I still have faith in our country and in the American way of life. I have hope in the American people who, once aroused to danger, can act and act effectively. I have love for the American heritage that the end of man is God, and that any system of government or education that does not accept God as the beginning and end of all human activities is a violator of the natural law.
Rights and Duties Are Correlatives
Accordingly, let all of us — Catholic, Protestant and Jew — resurrect the forgotten word: DUTY! It has almost passed into oblivion in the overemphasis that has been placed on rights during the last two decades.
Rights are fundamental; rights are sacred, and they must be preserved. But when we speak about rights let us not forget duties. They are correlatives; they are intertwined. You can not have the one without the other, any more than you can have water without oxygen and hydrogen, or bread without flour and yeast. Right to “life,” yes; but duty to God, Who made such life. Right to “liberty,” yes; but duty to do what you ought, duty to respect the dignity of your fellowman because of the sacredness of his personality. Right to the “pursuit of happiness,” yes; but duty
THREE LOYALTIES OF NOTRE DAME MEN
By the Honorable Frank Walker, Postmaster General of the United States
Your gathering here this evening to do honor to my Sacred Office suggests the thought of my address. Alumni of Notre Dame University, you are the beneficiaries of endowments, measured not with the figures of the accountant but in terms of the lives which Christian charity has consecrated to God.
both to Church and civil authority, duty of patriotism, duty of sacrifice, duty of X social justice, but a program that is both social and just. In a word, “inalienable .. rights,” but also inalienable duties.
Religion, Heart of Notre Dame Education ■
By prayer and example let us restore DUTY to its rightful place in American -life, so that the philosophy of hate so rampant in the world today will not take possession of our country.
Another Notre Dame Night is closing. From without comes the voice of Sorin, / beloved founder of the University, ask- ~ ing if we have preserved his legacy. The v answer is yes, so far as prayer and human ability permit. For religion is still the heart of Notre Dame’s program • of education — the very core of its curriculum.	?
From Log Cabin to University City is a tremendous step, but under the f Mother of God it has been accomplished. Both the graduate and undergraduate divisions of the University are sound academically. Research work foi* •: ’ the benefit of humanity goes forward in > the first division, while training of the whole man is still emphasized in the second. Your troops, beloved founder, ? are seen daily at the Holy Table, some T. fifteen hundred strong, while perpetual < adoration, visits to the Grotto, and fidel- < ity to Holy Mass are the very life of the present generation of students. Modestly i-and quietly Notre Dame is doing her f part for God and country, in accordance with your basic instruction of training young men in not only how to make a living, but, what is more important, now and always, how to live so as to die well.

Into your education there went not only the talents, the abilities, the labors and ®. the prayers of your Faculty, there also went the hopes, the aspirations and the longings of countless Christian souls, Your education is not a mere personal possession in the sense that you may use j||| it only for-personal'advantage and com- j||k
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
fort. Emphatically it belongs to the Christian body, human society. Notre Dame was born out of the resolve of noble men of God to fix Christian truth along with all other truth in the lives and institutions of men by training for society Christian leaders. Your responsibility is to reflect that Christian truth in your social attitudes and contacts. Over your University campus significantly there hangs your gilded dome, a symbol of Notre Dame’s ideal, that life without Christ is ugly life, filled with the things which corrupt and ruin. When you took your parchments from the hands of your Alma Mater, you stepped into a world of men, where there were wrong things for you to make right, dangerous movements for you to oppose, noble undertakings for you to sponsor. As alumni of Notre Dame your success must come from the force and the reach of your enlightened Christian leadership. Yours is the task of making your world a better world, a Christian world.
No Time For Faint-hearted Leadership
This is not the time for faint-hearted leadership. However much our attention is fixed by the events of the day on the impotency of other leaders of men, brave Christian leaders are concerned more with discovering how to bring about a better day. It is undeniable that much in the world needs righting, that barnacles must be washed from many of our institutions, that in the laboratory of life unsound principles must be laid bare, that clear heads must replace muddled heads. It is a day of opportunity for the Christian leader, young and courageous in the strength of truth. We do not need leaders who will try to make an appeasement with the injustices and the false philosophies of the time, who will compromise right with wrong, truth with falsehood. True it is that injustice and ugly materialism are entrenched behind great armaments and sponsored by great institutions of learning. All this matters not. Truth is strength and the Christian leader unfolds the banner of truth.
What is the radical trouble with our world? Let Pope Pius XII give the answer: “The Gospel tells us that when Christ Our Lord was nailed to the Cross there was darkness over all the face of the earth. It was a mournful parable of what has happened before now and continually happens when men lose their faith in religion. A great darkness falls on them: and in their blind self-confidence they banish their Divine Redeemer and make Him an outlaw from their daily lives and still more from the life of the community. They weaken their
sense not only of belief in Christ but of belief in God. The result is that all the rules and canons, by which private and public life has been regulated, fall into disuse. The cries and maxims of laicism become the basis of all civil relations. . . . This goes so far that the individual citizen, the life of the family and the commonwealth as a whole are removed from the kindly wholesome influence of God and of His Church. Then day by day the symbols and the symptoms of those errors which corrupted the heathens of old, declare themselves more plainly and more lamentably. And all this in parts of the world where the light of Christian civilization has shone for centuries: “Darkness came on when they nailed Jesus to the Cross.”
Your work is to labor mightily, incessantly, without compromise in bringing Christ back into the life of the world. How can there be salvation without a Savior? There "is only one Savior given to man, Christ Jesus, Our Lord. When the world returns to Him, the freedoms of man will be secure, neighborly intercourse among the nations will be inspired by justice and charity, human solidarity will banish all thoughts of class-strife, with enthusiasm men will make new significant achievements in science and art, a meaning will be given to life itself. It is true that Christ came
CHRISTIAN EDUCATION A BLESSING
By the Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, D.D., Archbishop of Chicago
Through this program, Notre Dame alumni everywhere — and they are everywhere — through the United States, in the Far East, the South American Countries and in the tragic spots of war-torn Europe, all — and I, on behalf of all, express to the President and Faculty of Notre Dame and to its student body, our unchanging faith in the sublime, intellectual and spiritual mission, which for a century, has brilliantly distinguished our University.
“The World Today Is a Sorry Sight”
Tonight, we are fortunate, to draw fresh inspiration and courage from that deep, yet sparkling, Christian culture that streams through the soul of Notre Dame.
It has been contended that there are in the world only two ultimate, ordering forces — the sword and the mind, the North and South poles of activity, the pivots upon which every movement must turn.
IS
to give us life everlasting and it is also true that when men in humility and earnestness accept His Gospel, they build -their fairest social structures. To bring Christ into the life of the world, as the inspiration of private and public life, this is your work, your responsibility.
Do Not Yield to What Is Wrong
And all this .you will do if each of you in his own sphere is boldly and courageously an enlightened Christian leader. It does not matter if your position in society is humble. The tragedy would be if you were to yield to compromise with what is wrong and not Christian. In the Consecration of a Bishop, the pastor of the flock, the Church prays: “May he never call good evil or evil good.” Opportunely we may say this same prayer over you today. Our fear is not that Christian truth will fail but that the enlightened courage of Christian lay leaders may fail. To us and to Notre Dame you owe it to be in this day of opportunity fearless, courageous Christian men who will not make friends with error or give sympathy to wickedness in their unceasing effort to bring the erring to truth and the wicked to righteousness. Yours is the task of dissipating the darkness which hangs over the world and letting shine on it the bright sun of truth which is Christ.
The world today is ‘a sorry sight.’ All the decent, noble, values and virtues that seemed, only yesterday, vital to civilization, lie now shattered in the dust of defeat and torn by the triumph of' a mechanized force. Nation after nation of liberty-loving, God-fearing people have witnessed the corruption of their freedom and the desecration of their sacred altars and sacramental life. For each one who has died on the battlefield, hundreds have died - in their hearts, in their homes, on the- streets and ‘on the hillsides. In the pretence of ‘peace’ and ‘stable social order/ families are being broken, wives separated from husbands, children kidnapped from their parents and routined, while yet innocent, to act as the small parts of a State machine. These children are constrained to recognize no human parents, to acknowledge no brother nor sister — but only to move as senseless automatons in a soulless, automatic State. The State is their father and their mother — their schoolmaster — their (Continued on Page 24)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Plays on Cartier Field Against Western State Nine Tomorrow
All-American Overmire to Hurl Against Irish
Back from an extensive road trip featuring games with powerful Big Ten representatives, Notre Dame’s baseballers entertain Western State college tomorrow afternoon on Cartier field in their home debut.	-
Coach Charles Maher leads one of the most powerful baseball aggregations in Western State’s history against the Irish tomorrow in the second of a two game series. The first was played on the Kalamazoo diamond Wednesday afternoon. Since taking over at Western State Coach Maher has an impressive record of 33 wins against 24 defeats and has annually produced outstanding nines.
Notre Dame, however, has proved a jinx to the Kalamazoo team, winning 21 and losing but six since the series originated. The Michigan squad came out on top last year, 9-6, as Frank Overmire, State’s hurler, held Irish bats well in check until late in the game.
Overmire Is State Threat
Overmire, who will probably start against Notre Dame tomorrow, is the mainstay of the Western State pitching staff again this year. After winning eight out of ten games last year, he was named by the Amateur Baseball Congress as a member of the All-American amateur team which participated in the
Coach Maher plans battle strategy with his star
Western State battery.
Objective...
beat
Notre Dame. ’
international series in Cuba. Overmire was undefeated in this series and twice hurled against the Cuban team which won the championship, tying the first and winning the second. In his final 1940 appearance the Western State hurler twirled a perfect game against Iowa Teachers. He faced only 27 men, kept them all back of the plate and won the decision, 1-0.
Then N. W., Purdue and Michigan State
A strong Northwestern squad will provide opposition for the Irish here on May 2, and on May 3 Notre Dame journeys to Evanston for a return game with the Wildcats. Coach Stan Klores, who led the Purple to a co-championship of the Big Ten in his first year as coach, has built his 1941 squad around seven returning lettermen. Bill DeCorrevont, who as a sophomore last year clouted .369, heads the outfield candidates, while Hank Clason and Steve Meschuk form the backbone of the pitching staff.
Purdue’s potentially powerful Boilermakers perform on Cartier field on May 6 in an attempt to cop the 1941 series which started earlier this year in Lafayette. The opener at Purdue, a pitchers’ duel, ended in a ten-inning, 3-3 tie. The game was called at the end of the tenth because of darkness. Although the Boilermakers have dropped games since then they are improving rapidly, and are confident of upsetting Notre Dame on her home diamond.
Formidable opposition will be offered by Michigan State at East Lansing on May 7, as Coach John Kobs has just .. brought his team home from a spring training jaunt with a record of five victories in seven starts. Though the Spartans are not particularly strong in the . pitching department, they have a team of potent sluggers. On the southern trip just completed the team batted .281, < which is good hitting for a college team. >
- —Ray Donovan	-
Softball Schedule Lists	,
Six Games For Week-end
Depression born, the answer to the need for an inexpensive game that could be safely conducted in the recreational centers that the administration instituted for idle youth, softball has today a following that threatens to usurp the popularity of baseball..	.
Softball made its entrance on campus recreation fields at the time when the sport was confined largely to the Midwest. It’s popularity grew slowly but -steadily, and last year when it became evident that the student body was inter- C ested in the sport The Scholastic an- ; nounced its first softball tournament. Despite the inclement weather of last . April and May, the event proved to be a successful outlet for student interest. .
The second tournament sponsored by The Scholastic begins tomorrow. Games are scheduled for Saturday, Sunday and Monday afternoons at Badin -field and Freshmen field, which are lo- ? cat;d south of the Law Building. Athletic Director Frank Leahy has provided . equipment and The Scholastic has graciously consented to provide some of : its choicest referees. It is an elimination ; tournament; one defeat eliminates a team. Teams must be ready to play ac- > cording to schedule. Each team is limited to 15 men. The manager of each < team must present the referee with the j complete lineup before the game. Team § managers will be notified of new schedules.
This week’s complete schedule follows: fe.
At Badin Field
Saturday, April 26—Subway Bulletheads vs. All Stars. Time 2:00.	fe
Sunday, April 27—Rogers’ Rangers vs. H Ranchers. Time 2:00.	W
Monday, April 28—Dan’s Flashes vs. S&-Howard Recreationals. Time 4:00.
At Freshmen Field
Saturday, April 26—Courtney’s Killers vs. Morrissey Mudhens. Time 2:00.
Sunday, April 27—St. Ed’s A.C. vs. Alumni Alibabbi’s. Time .2:00.	||p.
. Monday, April 28-^Kokomo All Stars ys. Zahmbies. Time 4:00.	.	-	O?'
B
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Splinters From the Press Box
■ —	—	- JIM NEWLAND	—
Assistant football coach Joe McArdle sat on our left and Johnny Druze on our • right. It was the annual testimonial dinner for the Notre Dame fencers. We mentioned Notre Dame has outstanding potentialities for a boxing team next year. “I’ve seen college fighters in the East,” McArdle said, “but nothing that could even equal the material here.”
“Me too,” said Druze.
❖
Sammy Neild, Jr., captain of this season’s golf squad, holds the campus record for the William J. Burke course. . . . Sam, four years ago, was one of the outstanding junior golfers in Rhode Island. . . . Senor Sam thinks he is shootin’ ’em farther and straighter this year than ever before. . . . Gene Fehlig, sophomore golfer, is the third of three brothers from St. Louis, Mo., to report for Irish golf. . . . Fehlig will defend his University golf title next fall. . . . He defeated Neild in last year’s tourney.
❖
Although Wally Ziemba, weight man; Joe Prokop, low hurdler, and Wilbur Riordan, middle distance runner, are working hard for starting berths on the football team, Track Coach Bill Mahoney expects commendable performances from his track forces. ... Jim Delaney, one of the outstanding shot putters in Notre Dame track history, has tossed the iron ball 52 feet in practice. . . . Dippy Evans, a former South Bend Riley high school track star, will be missed when local dash men line up for outside competition, as will Herky Be-reolos and Ed Sullivan. . . . Delaney, incidentally, may participate in the forthcoming Penn relays.
Coach Jake Kline’s baseball squad, woefully lacking in mound talent, must face teams who have had the benefit of competition south of the Mason-Dixon line. . . . Notre Dame teams do not train in the South. . . . Irish teams, nevertheless, have always performed creditably against this sort of opposition. . . . The local baseball team’s schedule, which dates back to 1901, is replete with big scores. ... In 1901 the Irish toppled the Boilermakers by a score of 25 to 14. . . . In 1937 Kline’s nine shut out the Purdue opposition, 15 to 0. . . . Subby Nowicki is the only pitcher available for action who worked on the mound last year.
St. Ed’s A.C. softball team is looking forward with unusual gusto to the SCH0-LASTiC-sponsored softball tournament which started today. .. . Its team is composed of Frank Quinn, “Red” Carnes, and Ed Riska of basketball fame. . . . Steve Juzwik and Ray Ebli will also perform in the St. Ed’s lineup. . . . What’s in a name? ... A glance at the tournament roster will reveal the following teams: Subway Bulletheads, Courtney’s Killers, Rogers Rangers, Dan’s Flashes, Morrissey’s Mudhens and the Howard Recreationals.... The Scholastic staff is indebted to Athletic Director Frank Leahy for his kind use of softball equipment for the tournament.
*
One of the largest Notre Dame track representations in more than 10 years is expected to see action in the N.C.A.A. track carnival in Palo Alto, Calif., in ■ June. . . . Ray Roy, Keith O’Rourke, George Schiewe, Dick Tupta, Oliver Hunter, and Jim Delaney are all possibilities. ... If you don’t succeed, try, try again. . . . Fehlig, Tupta, Schiewe, and Roy broke the all-time Notre Dame indoor record in the mile relay recently. . . . But the mark does not count as a record because the quartet finished second.
❖
A ten-year tennis record at Notre Dame shows 30 victories, 47 defeats and one tie. . . . Their first winning season was last year. . . . Despite this mediocre record, tennis coach Walter M. Langford, may give the university one of the outstanding tennis squads this year. . . . A dismaL season was predicted for the fencing team, this year, but the Irish, under Langford, won seven out of nine bouts. . . . This record included a 17 to 10 victory over Chicago’s Big Ten champions.	'	•
❖
Notre Dame’s baseball squad is made up of players from 17 different states. . . . Coach Jake Kline has been the head baseball man for seven years and his team have amassed a record of 78 victories and 47 defeats. . . . There are five monogram winners on this year’s team, Capt. Andy Chlebeck, Bernie Crimmins, Chuck Farrell, Ray Pinelli, and George Sobek. . . . The 1940 record shows 9 victories and 8 defeats.
N. D. Golfers Victorious r In First Two Matches
Slamming out its second straight win in as many meets, the Notre Dame golf team, paced by Sophomore Gene Fehlig, defeated Illinois, 15-12, on the campus links last Monday. Notre Dame won the morning rounds, doubles matches, which were played in the rain. Illinois copped the first three matches of the afternoon singles before the Irish combination of Fehlig, Conry, and Wolf got going to win the match by scoring identical 3-0 victories.
This Notre Dame victory may prove many things. The Illini are rated among the cream of the Big Ten, and a victory over them should prove that this year’s team has something. As Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach, commented: “We hardly expected to give these Illini men a test. But a victory over them ’ leads me to believe that we have promising golfers especially among the sophomores.”
The summaries:	*'
'	Doubles
Holstrom (78) and Reed (79), Illinois, defeated Neild (76) and Conroy (77), Notre Dame, 2-1.
Fehlig (81) and Schreiber (78), Notre Dame, defeated Welsh (78) and Wolfley (79), Illinois, 3-0.
Buzick (78) and Usinger (79), Hinois, defeated Fisher (76) and Harrigan (82), Notre Dame, 2-1.
Singles
Holstrom (76), Illinois, defeated Neild (79), Notre Dame, 3-0.
Welsh (73), Illinois, defeated Fisher (74), Notre Dame, 2%-%.	’
Buzick (81), Illinois, defeated Schreiber (83), Notre Dame,
Fehlig (72), Notre Dame, defeated Usinger (78), Illinois, 3-0.	.
Conrey (75), Notre Dame, defeated Wolfley (82), Illinois, 3-0.
Wolf (75), Notre Dame, defeated Reed (77), Illinois, 3-0.
Playing at Purdue last Saturday, the Irish in their initial test defeated the Boilermakers, 19-8, with Captain Sammy Neild leading the field. Tomorrow the Irish meet Butler at Indianapolis. On April 28 they journey to Madison to meet Wisconsin. Michigan entertains the Irish on May 5.—J. B. Powers	...
Joe McAardle’s B.C. nickname has followed him to N.D. He is known on the squad as “Capt. Bligh.”
End coach Druze won 12 high school letters and captained four teams during his Irvington, N. J., high school career.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
ByALDELZOPPO ■■ ■
Charles Farrell is trying to make a comeback at Notre Dame. Regular first-baseman on the baseball squad last season, Chuck has been forced to fight for his old position this year because of a shoulder injury incurred while playing “B” team football last fall. Farrell had no intimation of the seriousness of the football injury until, after answering Coach Kline’s call for baseball candidates, he tried to throw a baseball and found his arm was dead. Chuck then went to several doctors. One told him that his baseball playing days were over. But the others encouraged him with the news that heat treatments and light limbering of his throwing arm might restore its snap. Since that time Chuck has been spending most of his aftemooons under Scrap Young’s heat lamps, and day by day he has found it easier to whip the ball across the diamond. So despite the fact that Don Hengle and Jack Tallett have been impressing Jake Kline with their play around . first-base, it looks like Chuck will be playing that position for the greater part of the 1941 schedule.
Those who have seen Farrell play baseball might be surprised to learn that Chuck never played first-base before coming to N.D. In fact, basketball was Chuck’s best sport at St. Anthony High. And at that institution, as captain of the cage team in his senior year, he set the single game individual scoring record by marking up a total of • 28 points in a league contest.
Chuck, nevertheless, did play baseball back home, patrolling the outfield for one of the better sand-lot teams in Okmulgee, Okla. But it was not till he came
out for freshman baseball at Notre Dame that he decided to see what playing first-base was like. Because he always felt that height was essential for the making of a first-baseman, Farrell had no serious intentions of ever playing that position when he tried out- for the freshman team. But after practicing at first-base for a little while, Chuck found himself taking to the new position so easily that when several of his teammates encouraged him to forget about going back to the outfield, he accepted their advice and concentrated on perfecting his play around the initial sack. By the time he was a sophomore Farrell was a full-fledged first-baseman.
With hard-hitting captain Larry Doyle on first, coach Kline used Farrell sparingly in the early part of the 1939 season, calling upon the Oklahoman occasionally to do some pinch-hitting. Farrell’s pinch-hit homer against Michigan State placed him in solid with Jake, so when Larry Doyle became ill during the latter part of the season, Chuck was called upon to fill in'at first. The valuable experience acquired in his sophomore year stood Farrell in good stead the following spring, permitting him to win a first-string job with very little difficulty. Chuck admits he enjoyed only a moderate amount of success last season, makes no attempt to conceal his weak hitting record. Several times last year, however, Chuck showed signs of coming out of his shunp, his three-run homer against Ohio State serving as ample evidence of his potential hitting power.
Chuck is determined to make his last season at Notre Dame his best, and with luck in.ios baiting average and an escape from injuries — coupled with his determination he will probably succeed.
Irish Netters in Opener Against Detroit Tomorrow
Tennis enthusiasts, eager for their first glimpse of the 1941 Notre Dame tennis team, may satisfy this desire tomorrow afternoon by strolling to the clay courts just south of the Engineering building. A University of Detroit team, from which little trouble is expected, will furnish the opposition.
The return of Dan Canale, of Bengal Bout fame and number one Irish net-man, along with Captain Jack Joyce and sophomore Olen Parks should supply enough talent to fire the enthusiasm of the most lackadaisical fan.
On the court Canale is the same competent, apparently indefatigable figure he is in the prize ring. Smooth-stroking captain Jack Joyce, possesses all the qualifications of an ideal leader. Olen Parks, heavyweight of the team, whips his 200 pounds about the court with unbelievable effectiveness. -
After the above-mentioned trio, sophomore George Biitner and last year’s three monogram winners, Jack Walsh, Norm Hoeckler, and Joe Garvey loom as Notre Dame’s leading hopefuls.
Following the opener with Detroit the locals face the gigantic task of subjugating Western State, a team boasting an 11 year domination over the Irish. Gene Russel, State mainstay, and Dan Canale should provide a most interesting singles match.
Hitting the road for the first time on May 2, Notre Dame should easily dispose of Indiana. At Lexington, Ky., the following day, the odds will again ride on the Irish who last year overwhelmed their Blue Grass adversaries, 8 to 1.
On the last leg of their journey, the Notre Dame team will engage the University of Chicago before returning home. In the past the Windy City racquetmen have been 100% successful against the most brilliant Notre Dame efforts. Undaunted by this record, however, Coach Langford optimistically asserts : “Chicago lacks its great individual stars of past years. It may be our turn.”
The complete schedule follows:
April 26—Detroit at Notre Dame.
29—Western State at Notre Dame. May 2—Indiana at Bloomington.
3—Kentucky at Lexington.
10—Chicago at Chicago.
14—Michigan at Notre Dame.
15—Michigan State at Notre Dame. 17—Northwestern at Evanston.
22-23-24—State Tournament at Richmond.
—Frank L. Kunkel
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Debate Team Returns
With Average of .736
The first affirmative speaker for the University of Alabama was raving about the totalitarian menace and the fifth column activities — suddenly — sabotage, the house lights went off, shots were heard and screams, then lights again and on the stage appeared a gentleman who was immediately identified as the best known dictator, toothbrush mustache and all. The “dictator” and “sabotage” were merely dramatic effects used by the Georgia debate team to emphasize their point. Milton Williams opening for Notre Dame said, “I was going to say we were glad to be here.” The debate on the North and South American alliance proposal was non-decision held at Tuscaloosa, Ala., first stop for the debaters and Coach William J. Coyne on their Easter tour of the South.
Milt Williams, climaxing four brilliant years of debating on the tour, substituted for William Meier who was stricken with laryngitis before the debate. Thomas Grady who was finishing up an enviable
three year debating record was Williams’ colleague. Date of this surprise snow was April 11.
Next stop for the debaters was Emory University at Atlanta, Ga., where John O’Loughlin, ending two years of debating, and Milt Williams upheld the negative in another non-decision debate. The same day, April 14, chemical engineer * Tom Grady took on two Georgia Tech debaters.
The final debate of the tour at'Cincinnati, Ohio, on April 17, Williams and Grady defeated a Xavier University team in a decision debate. Mr. John Holden, president of the Ohio Association of Secondary Teachers of Speech, acted as critic judge.
The varsity squad ended the season by winning 14 out of 19 debates and compiled a .736 average. The “B” squad debaters, all of whom earned debate keys for the first time, were Fredrick Holl and Thomas McGee, seniors; Mark Lies, a sophomore, and Edward Meagher, a freshman. The “B” squad won eight out of ten debates.
—Robert LeMense
19
Mass Calendar: Apr. 27-May 3
Sunday, 27—Second after Easter. Second prayer, St. Peter Canisius, Confessor, Doctor, 3d, for Peace. Preface of Easter.
Monday, 28—St. Paul of the Cross, Confessor. Second prayer, St. Vital Martyr, 3d, for Peace.
Tuesday, 29—St. Peter of Verona, Martyr. Mass: Protexisti (Common of one martyr in Eastertime). Prayer proper, 2d, for Peace.
Wednesday, 30—Solemnity of St. Joseph, Confessor, Patron of the Universal Church. 2d, prayer, St. Catherine of Siena, Virgin. Credo and Preface of St. Joseph (throughout octave unless otherwise indicated).
Thursday, May 1—Sts. Philip and James, Apostles'. Credo, Preface of the Apostles.
Friday, 2—(First Friday). St. Athanasius, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor. 2d prayer, St. Alexander- and Companions, Martyrs. Preface of the .Cross.

Style Catches On! Varsity Shoes
Designed
for Men
William F. Hooley, Jr., 252 Cavanaugh Hall Campus Representative
New Spring
Shades for
Styles and Playtime
or Dress
00
Others $5.85 to $10.50
130 WEST WASHINGTON AVENUE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
20	THE
Gridmen Need More Speed;
Play Old Timers May 10
With spring practice well on its way, Coach Frank Leahy is pretty well satisfied with the team’s progress. The boys have been working hard — and things are coming along fairly well,” Mr. Leahy said. “But,” he was quick to
Leahy — will try his boys against Piepul and Company.
assert, “there’s plenty of hard work yet to be done.” Mr. Leahy said that what the team needed most was more speed. “The boys will have to learn to move faster, get under way quicker,” was his comment.
“'When they’s learned that,” Mr. Leahy asserted, “I shall feel much better about next season’s prospects.”
Mr. Leahy said that the members of the first and second teams had not yet been decided upon. “Nothing is definite as yet,” he said. “Everybody still has a chance.” There have been no further cuts in the squad — in fact, according to Mr. Leahy, several of the boys who were cut are back out and some of them are doing very well. Mr. Leahy said that when the squad was cut, he told'each man that if he wished he might come back out and he would be given a second chance to prove himself.
Ebli, Early, Pea«enelli Shifted.
There have been a few changes in the lineup. Ray Ebli has been changed from end to tackle, a position which Mr. Leahy thinks better suits his abilities. Bill Early has been changed to quarterback and John Peasenelli, who had been doing
well at left half, is also calling the signals now.
End of Spring Drills in Sight
Often postponed, the date of the annual “Old Timers” game has finally been set for May 10 and will close the varsity spring practice season. The game had originally been scheduled for April 26, the last Saturday in the month, but since the departing seniors could not start practice until after Easter, this date did not give them enough time to train properly. The date was then reset for May 3, the following week. That weekend, however, was already rather full, for not only was the Michigan-Notre Dame track meet scheduled for that Saturday, but it was also the weekend of the Senior Ball. Saturday, May 10, appears to be the final • decision. It will be a regulation game and will be held in the University Stadium. Bill Cerney will coach the “Old Timers,” assisted by last season’s captain, Milt Piepul. Practice started Monday, April 21, and both Cerney and Piepul hold high hopes for their “boys.”
—John F. Fallon
Art Gallery Receives
Four Outstanding Pieces
University of Notre Dame’s Wightman Memorial Art Gallery has been greatly enriched recently by the addition of four outstanding pieces, the gift of Peter C. Reilly, trustee of the University, and a resident of Indianapolis.
In this collection are two large paintings: one the “Duchess of Orainien,” by Peter Paul Rubens and Theodore Van Thulden, and the other “A Mountaintop in Norway,” by A. Diejen, painted in 1903.
The portrait of the Duchess of Orainien, painted by Rubens and his pupil, Van Thulden, is a good example of the close relationship between the work of the master and the apprentice. It is also a very valuable source for observing Rubens’ technique and will be of great interest to students of the history of art. The figure of the Duchess was painted by Rubens and the background was done by his assistant.
Peter Paul Rubens was, perhaps, the greatest master of the Baroque period. He employed a number of young men as pupil craftsmen to work on his numerous commissions. At one time he had as.many as fifty apprentices working on his series commemorating the marriage of Henry of Navarre and Mira de Medici. These 21 large canvas panels are
now in the Louvre or were until the outbreak of the war.
Van Thulden did not meet Rubens until the latter was nearly a middleaged man, but he remained as his helper until the death of his teacher. Rubens employed the young man to complete his series of paintings for the French court and late Van Thulden returned to Paris to decorate the royal apartments of the palace of Fountainbleau and the Luxembourg for Louis XIII. Prior to his death in 1676 Van Thulden was elected Master of the Antwerp Guild, but his popularity did not survive like that of his teacher.
Also included in the gift to the art collection are two bronzes, one of Joan of Arc, and the other a Pieta figure of Christ, entitled “Dead Christ” by An-dreson.
Paul Dubois, creator of the equestrian figure of St. Joan, was a student of Toussaint and made his debut in the Salon in 1863 by exhibiting a statue of St. John. Probably his most famous work is the statue of Jeanne d’Arc, which
stands before the Cathedral at Rheims. So far as is known there are three replicas of this work, the one now at Notre S". Dame, one in Paris, and one in Strass-bourg.
Joan of Arc — in bronze

St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s lakes are about 24 acres in area.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
"As We Danced On," By Mike Keegan is Ball Song
“As We Danced On,” composed by Michael Joseph Keegan, is the title of the official song for the Senior Ball of
1941. “Mike” is an Alumni Hall senior, hailing from Granite Falls, Minn. He expects to get his degree in Commerce in June, if all goes well.
As a musician, “Mike” is best
Michael J. Keegan known for his spirited renditions of “Boogie Woogie” and “Sweet Sue,” but those who remember the get-togethers in old Freshman Hall know that he
can play in a highly satisfactory manner almost any number you can name.
In composing “As We Danced On,” “Mike” had the melody in mind for some time, but had some difficulty in putting words to it. After four days of diligent work, however, he succeeded in finding the ones he wanted, with excellent result.
Bandman Dick Jurgens selected “As We Danced On” over four other songs which were also submitted for consideration, and is arranging it to fit his orchestra, for the Ball. Jurgens spoke very highly of the song. Those who have
Important occasions—like Senior Ball— are heightened by correct clothes. Come in We'll be glad to help you arrange your Spring wardrobe.
Made - to - Measure Suits and Coats — Sport Jackets and Slacks. Fabric and styling to your own choice.
RENTALS—Tails, complete ________________________$6.50
Tuxedoes__________________________,___$5.00
PARKER-WINTERRO WD 115^2 N. Main Street (upstairs)
JOHN SIEVERT	JACK RYAN	MILT PIEPUL
234 Alumni	337 Walsh	337 Walsh

heard it agree that he couldn’t have made a better choice.
—Dan Broderick
"The Sea Hawk" Comes
To Washington Hall
With the swash-buckling adventures of Errol Flynn and the sly intrigue of London court circles Warner Brothers’ screen version of Rafael Sabatini’s nov-11, “The Sea Hawk,” comes to Washington Hall on Saturday night. A Disney cartoon and an RKO news will support the feature.
South American Officer
Speaks on Cooperation
Next Thursday evening at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall, a Colombian Naval officer of Irish descent, Lieutenant Commander Carlos Fallon, M.C., retired, will present the candid thoughts of South American respective to United States’ attempts at inter-continental cooperation. Commander Fallon will also give an accurate description of Fifth Column activities in the Latin American nations and a prediction of the future of the cooperating Americas.
Commander Fallon is now stationed with the Colombian consulate in Chicago. He has made numerous successful speeches throughout the midwest on the South America that he knows so well.
The commander will be introduced by Professor Walter M. Langford of the Spanish department following a rendition of the Spanish song “Perfidia,” known in English as “Tonight,” by William J. Brady, Zahm hall student and friend of the Commander.
—Mark G. McGrath-
Approximately 800 students receive employment aid from the University, department.
A TIP TO HELP YOU
ENJOY THE
SENIOR BALL
Step right down to the Shoe Den for Men and slip your feet into a pair of Kuehn’s sport shoes- and you’ll “dance your date off her feet.” You’ll enjoy their good looks and outstanding value for the rest of the summer. They’re good shoes —fitted by shoe men.
Others $3.95 to $12.50
120 South Michigan
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Confraternity Begins Today at St. Mary's
This week-end the paths to St. Mary’s will be trod by some 200 Notre Dame men. All will have the same date, the third annual Regional Catechetical Congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. Theme of the Confraternity is “The College Student as a Parish Leader,” and the parish of Notre Dame will be represented by several students who are now campus leaders in Catholic Action.
The three-day conference of the 600 delegates of the Catholic universities
THE OLIVER
DINING ROOM ■ AND - COFFEE SHOP
and colleges was begun with registration today at 3:30 o’clock, followed by the opening of exhiibts. These exhibits included confraternity stage and radio scripts, liturgical vestments, religious posters and art, new Catholic books and a National New Testament Committee display.
Subject of the first discussion, at 4:30 o’clock this afternoon, was “Replies to Press Misrepresentations of Catholic Doctrine.” Concluding - remarks were made by the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne.
Tonight Jerome O’Dowd of Notre Dame will give a report at the first gen
eral session of confraternity activities > since last year’s meeting.	£
After Mass tomorrow morning at I 8:15 o’clock, to be celebrated by the i Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice- j president of Notre Dame, theme of dis- f cussions will be “Teaching Religion to K Public School Children.” Then reports t on the teaching of religion by college | students and members of the C.Y.O. will ( be given. One of the reports will be by ’< John McCabe, president of the local St. [ Vincent de Paul Conference.	i
“Discussion Club Demonstration and . Institute” is the Saturday afternoon theme, and Walter Brennan of Alumni Hall will preside. Charles Cavanaugh of . Dillon Hall is to present a three-minute report, and Gene Geissler, past president of the C.A.S. on campus, will speak on “Catholic Action Clubs;” John Hennessy of Alumni Hall on “Organized . Activity of the St. Vincent de Paul Society;” and John Specht of Lyons Hall ; on “The Notre Dame Speakers Bureau.” i
The Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C.. di- [ rector of the Youth Department of the | National Catholic Welfare Conference, J Washington, D. C., will deliver an ad- f dress Sunday morning, “The Individ- t ual College and the Federation.”	I
*
Notre Dame will have a major role $ in the concluding discussion on the dis- ? tribution of Catholic Literature. Gene ■ Geissler will preside. Walter Brennan ; will outline the general history of the Notre Dame Student Commission for • Decent Literature; Louis Kurtz of Lyons f Hall will speak of the distribution of f literature to army camps; Tom Carty $ of Alumni Hall, on free distribution of { Catholic literature to public places, and | Robert. Nenno of Lyons Hall, on the j Notre Dame Vigilance Committee. *
The confraternity will close on Sun- » day evening with solemn benediction of l the Blessed Sacrament. The Most Rev. J Joseph H. Albers, D.D., bishop of Lan- % sing, will be celebrant, and the Moreau Seminary choir is to sing.	|.
,	—John E. Lewis J

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Be nonchalant! Be correct!
IN A NEW
SOCIETY BRAND
TUX OR TAILS *45 Upwards
GILBERT QUALITY
TUX	TAILS
•21	‘25
TNt MOOtHM
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
WRANGLER NOTICE
The Wrangler* will accept applications for membership from students in the classes of 1942, *43, and *44. Participation in some campus forensic activity is required. Applications should be addressed to John Hennessy in 211 Alumni Hall.
Novelist - Politicians
Censured by O'Malley
“The Political Perversion of Art” is the title of one of the articles featured in the April issue of the Review of Politics, edited by Dr. Waldemar Gurian. In this article Mr. Francis J. O’Malley points out that Politics should mean the “whole character of man’s life in society.” In an England of another day, writers like Dryden, Butler and Shelley concerned themselves with political themes as do more modem writers like T. S. Eliot, Virginia Woolf, Sinclair Lewis, and Maxwell Anderson.
There is a tendency in artists to abandon the truth and reality of art itself for free play among the various political and social solutions of public crises.
Upton Sinclair and Ernest Hemingway, among many others, are men more interested in publishing their political and social viewpoints than in writing sincere novels. These men “do not appear to realize that before they can become great again as artists, empowered to create man and his destiny, they will have to unearth and repossess'reality.”
Attempts to become politicians, reformers, or evangelists render many ineffective as artists. “When writers lose their sense of themselves as artists, their .grasp of their true ends as novelists and poets, they cheapen and vulgarize themselves immeasurably.”
There is included in this same issue a very fine article concerning “Modem Wars and Catholic Thought” by Don Luigi Sturzo. Also contained in this issue is Mary Cogan Bromage’s “Linguistic Nationalism in Eire,” in which Mrs. Bromage relates some of the reasons for the return of the Irish to their ancient tongue.
Prof. Mortimer J. Adler of Chicago University writes the second in his series of articles entitled “A Dialect of Morals.” Reviews in this issue include one by Jacques Maritain on a book, Nature and Functions of Authority by Prof. Yves Simon. This book is a reprint of the Aquinas Lectures, delivered at Marquette University by Dr. Simon last year.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian reviews Mari-tain’s Tragedy of France, and Dr. F. A. Hermens reviews John Schumpeter’s Business Cycles. A review of The Catholic Church in Indiana 1879-1834 by the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., is also included in the issue.
Dr. Gurian, editor of The Review of Politics, has announced that special student rates are still available for the magazine. Copies may be obtained in the Review's office in Science Hall for 50 cents instead of the regular 75 cents.
Thomas F. Carty
Flowers
OF
Distinction
For the Night you will long remember — your Queen of . the Senior Ball will be complimented if you let us help you with her flowers.
WILLIAMS
“Just West of The Oliver”
CAMP MOCCASINS
Brown or White
SPIKED GOLF
KINNEYS 134 S. MICHIGAN 29 Years in South Bend
24
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CHRISTIAN EDUCATION A BLESSING (Continued from page 15)
leader — their dictator and their God!
Against this mad world dream of perversion and brutality, I lift my voice in tribute to a great university which has cultivated, through a century, that other ultimate force of “mind,” or, as I would prefer to name it, the human soul. There has been in the quiet, intense process of
CHANGE OF SCHEDULE
Effective April 27th
Effective Sunday, April 27th, 1941, South Shore trains will operate on Daylight Saving Time instead of Central Standard Time.
All trains will continue to operate as before except they will leave and arrive on Daylight Saving Time.
For complete information call
C. W. VEACH City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office: 301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
this cultivation, no ritualistic, blind loyalty to anyone or to anything.
Notre Dame has asked of her students an intelligent, free, loyal belief in the existence of a God Who is not a blind force but a real Person, of a Creator, who has endowed men with certain inalienable rights, among which are'“life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” We of Notre Dame are convinced, just as the Founding Fathers of America were convinced, that the admission of a personal God is a prerequisite for the sincere acceptance and the vigorous defense of American, and human, liberty; we are convinced that reality of a Divine Power is the foundation of all reasonable morality.	.
It is no weakness of uneducated insecurity or uncultured superstition that urges us to resist and to attack the insidious rationalism, materialism and communism that make of God only a name and of man only a machine. It is the strength of knowledge, the power of truth, that grasp and hold the spiritual reality of an Almighty God and the indestructible dignity of a human soul. To that Supreme Being we give our humble worship and our constant awareness; to that human soul, we pledge our recognition of its individual rights, its fortress of freedom.
The alumni of Notre Dame, scattered throughout America and throughout the entire world, unite this evening in pledging themselves anew to the triple loyalties which they have learned from their
“Come On Chilian”
LET'S DANCE
Late recordings of Dick Jurgens, Artie Shaw, Sammy Kaye, Larry Clinton, Gene Krupa, Kay Kyser, and hundreds of others. 20 and 25 cents each.
- Largest stock of records in South Bend. List Free.
POP'S RECORD SHOP
232% S. Michigan St. Room 5
Eczema, Skin Itch, Athletes Foot, Golfer's Itch, etc., yield quickly to the use of
"33" LOTION
Guaranteed
219 E. Indiana Ave.
or at
FORD HOPKINS CO.
Oliver Hotel South Bend, Ind.
Alma Mater — loyalty to a personal God, loyalty to the obligation of respecting every man’s dignity and his rights, loyalty to truth as a criterion of action. These are the loyalties from which the free men of the world must draw strength and enthusiasm to conquer the force and brutality which atheism, injustice, and deception have begotten to ‘ corrupt the peace and harmony of mankind.
Finest
Cm Bay
ABSORBENT FILTERS]
GENUINE FILTERS FOR
MEDICO PIPES PACKED ONLY IN TMS RED * SLACK DOX
MEDICO
Filtered Smoking in FRANK MEDICO Pipes, Cigarette or Cigar Holders is bringing extra joy to armies of smokers. It’sthe wisest dollar you ever spent
IFFLE SCREEN INTERIOR
pat-dE
WITH
"CELLOPHANE EXTERIOR
You will always find a big stock of
FRANK MEDICO
and other leading makes
of pipes at
RUvQNERS CIGAR Q0 STORE
IIO-WE main SOUTH IEHU, IHOMNA


&■
Opposite Oliver Hotel
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER, N.D., ’23, Prop.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Man-Marketing Clinic
Open to N. D. Seniors
All seniors of Notre Dame, especially those living in Chicago and surrounding communities, as well as interested Alumni, are invited to participate in the meetings of the University Man-Marketing Clinic, held each Wednesday evening at 7:30 at DePaul University, Chicago.
Miss Dorothy Dockstader, personnel director of DePaul University and chairman of the executive committee of the Clinic, has extended the invitation. The purpose of the Clinic is to assist university graduates, or prospective graduates, who are interested in helping themselves find jobs for which they are qualified.
The Clinics are open forums where graduates of all universities meet with a group of executives to discuss ways and means of applying merchandising principles to marketing their own services, such as manners of writing letters of ap
plication, assembling of a portfolio, or problems of the personnel interview. The Clinic meets every Wednesday night, except during August and December, on the 15th floor at the DePaul University building.
To date, graduates of more than 100 universities, extending from coast to coast, have participated in the Clinic. There is no charge to anyone. Executives from radio, banking, publicity, manufacturing companies, newspapers, magazines/ accounting firms, universities and research organizations, as well as others, have participated in the Clinics of the past.
Edward F. O’Toole, Chicago attorney and national placement chairman of the University of Notre Dame, is a member of the counselor staff which also numbers representatives from such midwest-em universities as Northwestern, De Paul, Chicago, and Loyola.
—Bill Scanlan
25
Round Table Tryouts
The Economic Round Table will hold membership interviews next Monday and Tuesday, April 28 and 29. Any interested member of next year’s junior or senior class is invited to try out. Announcements containing time and place of interviews have been placed on hall bulletin boards.
We Want to Buy
Used Shotguns, Revolvers and Golf Clubs
BERMAN'S
SPORT GOODS STORE
108 N. Michigan Tel. 3-6620
Custom and Normal-Trod serie* $7.00
Again DOUGLAS has captured the Thrift Price — Style Market — Scores of new Spring models—alive with Style. Rich browns, sporty two-tone tans that are "tops” in style this season. And remember, Douglas Down-To-The-Wood — Up-To-The-Arch construction assures better fitting and greater comfort.
CORSAGES
SOUTH BEND FLORAL CO. 114 S. Michigan Street
W.E. PETERS
(Over Clark's Restaurant)
WATCH REPAIRING JEWELRY REPAIRING
•
Resetting and general replacement work is our specialty.
Shoes
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET	/
Open Saturday Evenings	/
Smart New Spring Styles in Lady Douglas, $3.85 and $4.95
AMERICA'S BEST KNOWN SHOES
See the New Bobby Jones Woods and Irons
3 woods, $7.50 and up 5 irons, $9.75 and up
Sonneborn's Sport Shop
We restring Tennis Rackets
121 W. Colfax Ave.
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC WEEK AT NOTRE DAME
(Continued from Page 13) relieved of his responsibilities with the orchestra he had created.
The present schedule of the Philadelphia Orchestra is a crowded one. The Philadelphia audience hears 28 Friday and Saturday concerts and ten in a Monday series. Moreover there are concerts for the youth of the city, as well as ten
W1
F'-iSK Ik*.
I
>■1
3
Here’s the refreshing | treat von realty go fot-- | delicious do«biewwi go t
Right in	gum. ol ?
feat’s ^^^^Svfentuntochew
-



New York concerts each season. In addition, there are concerts on tour in the middle of the season and in the spring. Ormandy counts it a great pleasure to be able to bring the music of a great orchestra to the cities of the middle west and 'south where orchestral concerts are somewhat rare occurrences.
Relative to the present world chaos, Ormandy has written: “In these times,
when the torch of war is destroying so much of beauty and worth in the old world, it is an especially sacred duty for us in the new world to cherish and protect things of the spirit. I hope that the Philadelphia Orchestra may bend itself to that task for many years to come, and that I, too, may continue to do my share.”
CHEMICAL RESEARCH
(Continued from page 12)
as “Neoprene.” This substance is of special interest to us in that work done here at Notre Dame led to its preparation. The late Father Nieuwland had chosen as his research field the study of the properties and the reactions of-the gaseous substance, acetylene. For 25 years he studied and classified the possible transformations of this substance. He discovered a controllable process for the combination of two molecules or units of acetylene. This process aroused the interest of a commercial concern which later developed the procedure for the industrial preparation of the synthetic rubber, neoprene. Thus, through his knowledge of the required primary materials and certain reactions which they undergo, Father Nieuwland was respon-
THE ARISTOCRAT OF ALL PIPES
DUNHILL PIPES
Imported from England. A pipe that has been the choice of the most discriminating pipe smokers for centuries. In many shapes.
$10
Conveniently Located in the Lobbies of ,
HOTEL HOFFMANN HOTEL OLIVER HOTEL LA SALLE
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
sible for the ultimate preparation of neoprene.	•
In the field of medicine innumerable advances have been made. Syntheses of new products and products formerly obtained only from natural sources, and, therefore, dependent on nature, have given cheaper materials to combat diseases.
Research on existing drugs has provided more suitable products. New insecticides have provided new methods of preventing ruin of crops. Petroleum products now include motor fuels and lubricants never realized before the advent of chemical reasearch in this field.
In the every day world synthetic resins and similar products are rapidly replacing older materials. These add beauty and durability to objects of daily use. Variations in the composition of glass enable the research worker to prepare linen-like threads which are woven into usable fabrics which are fireproof and possess great durability. Nylon which brings women hosiery with fewer runs is prepared ultimately from air, water, and coal. From these primary materials the industrial research chemist obtains compounds which, when combined in a
MANSFIELDS
You could shut your eyes and pick any Mansfield that landed in your lap; they’re all the same superb-fitting shoes they’ve always been. Nothing different but the styles, and they’re as different and bright as tomorrow's sunrise.	$5 to $6.50
MAX ADLER
Michigan and Washington
s MAX ADLER x.
Put Your Best Front Forward
For the Senior Ball and those Extra - Particular Activities, wear Arrow. You’ll find Arrow Dress Shirts smartly correct and comfortable. With tails wear Arrow Lids, with Tux, Arrow’s Shoreham.	.
It’s ADLERS for Arrows!
“Breathes there the man with soul so dead, Who never to himself hath said, ‘Hmmmm..’99
That windowful of eyefilling Arrow shirts would stop any guy in his tracks! Newest of the new is the
Arrow Sussex Shirt with the low, wide, and handsome collar.
Sussex gives your tie a chance to shine... fits without a wrinkle . . . like all Arrows rides comfortably low on the neck . . . and is flattering to every man.
Sharpen up your neckline with this authentic new collar. In whites, colors, and stripes. $2 up. Arrow Ties $1 and $1.50
ARROIV SHIRTS
28
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IT’S 1 WHITE
PALM BElfH
for
making the right impression
—on the right people—at the right time. Wrinkle-resistant, washable, softer to the skin...
and grand mixers with odd
slacks and sports coats. At your clothier—today
a 7.75
Palm Beach Evening Formals (white jacket and black trousers), $20. Palm Beach Slacks, $5.50. And by the same makers,the new Goodall Tropic Weight —tops in lightweight worsteds—$25.
GOODALL COMPANY • CINCINNATI
$3250 Prize. Contest. See your clothier for details.
certain definite manner, form a substance which may be drawn into threads and woven into cloth. It wasn’t by mere chance that such a combination was found but by long hours devoted to the study of the properties and composition of the desired product and definite laboratory reactions. After the problem was solved on a small laboratory basis the process was next carried out on semi-commercial scale and the product finally produced commercially in large lots. The threads are shipped to another factory and woven into stockings. Suspenders and belts are now prepared from synthetic materials and show great elasticity and long-life. One of the latest developments is the use of rayon to prepare automobile tires which outwear the ordinary tires whose carcasses are made of cotton fiber.
The advancement of the past has been great but just as great advancements will follow in the future. Since chemical research deals with the transformation of matter, the possibilities from a human viewpoint, are unlimited. Who can say what may come from the test tube of the research chemist?
• FOUND: Fountain Pen. Owner please apply 213 Walsh Hall.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
29
Aeronautical Engineers
Study World War Planes
Four airplane engines of the type used in the first World War are included in the equipment of the Aeronautical department of the College of Engineering. Studied with these pre-blitz powerplants are two Franklin engines commonly used in today’s light-planes.
In his office on the third floor of the engineering building Mr. Frank Newton M. Brown, head of the aeronautical department, sits at his desk amid models, airplane wing sections, and complicated looking meteorological instruments. Mysterious as it all looks to the ground-lubber, everything has a definite and valuable use. The wing sections are used to study structural construction methods; the meteorological instruments are very necessary to the study of the atmosphere as an aid to flyers.
Across the room is a glass ball with a tiny electric light in its center. It is marked by black strips and looks like a mapless world globe. Projected upon a paper cylinder placed around the globe, the shadows of the strips help the students visualize the position of meridians and parallels on aerial maps.
A propeller cut in sections, airplane compasses, altimeters, and airspeed indicators, with their insides visible for study, a two dimensional smoke
tunnel, and instruments used in celestial navigation that are handled with almost reverent care, proved that the study of airplanes and their navigation has come a long way in America since Kitty Hawk.
Jack Sprague
The MEN’S Comer
Pax Romana Students Plan Southern Trip
Pax Romana was founded ten years ago to coordinate the national Catholic College Student federations throughout the world. This year, on its tenth anniversary, a jubilee celebration will be held in South America as part of the Pax Romana program of the Inter-American Catholic College Conventions to be held successively in various major cities of South America.
The itinerary of the trip of 25 U. S. and Canadian Catholic College students to these conventions has been outlined in Scholastic, (Feb. 14, p. 10), but the nature of the discussions was but recently explained in detail to the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., leader of the movement at Notre Dame, in a letter received from Mr. Edward J. Kirchner, vice-president of Pax Romana, functioning at the organization’s temporary world secretariate at the Catholic University in Washington, D. C. The information supplied should be of par-
FOR THE
SENIOR PROM
and
TEA DANCE
Improve Your HAT-I-TUDEt
with a New LEE Water-Bloc*
THE
UNIVERSITY-GAB
If hats could talk, The University' Gab could boast, “It takes three times as long to make me—Pm a Lee Water-Bloc and I have a gabardine band and binding to match —ahem—all for five bucks!”
LEE also makes:
Aetna, “The Insured Hat,” $3.50.
Look for the Lee Hat signs
LEE
BATS
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
Palm Beach
Tuxedo
Coats and
Shirts
$2.50-$3.00
$1.00
Studs and Links___$ 1.00,
Hose
.50

30
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
New-^gg^z? Shoes
Durable, comfortable, and smart . . . smart in a husky, two-fisted way that typifies Brogandi leather. Yes, Mister, Brogandi is tough as a traffic cop, yet soft as a glove on your foot. These Douglas Shoes have that sturdy out-door look that goes well with tweeds and campus clothes. Make friends with a pair today.
*Brogandi ia an axcluaive tannage of John R. Evans & Company.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Smart New Spring Styles in Lady Douglas, $3.85 and $4.95 Open Saturday Evenings
ticular' interest to anyone interested in the Spanish language, South America, or Catholic student activity.
In his report Mr. Kirchner outlined the program, method and purpose of the Inter-American conferences. Every group meeting will start immediately with the concrete discussion of ■practical problems which each student federation has to face. The C.I.D.E.C. or Ibero-Ameri-cano confederation consisting of Catholic students from all Spanish-speaking countries, Portugese-speaking Brazil, Puerto Rico and the Philippines, will furnish a week of similar conferences on July 28, concurrently with the opening of the Pax Romana conferences. The North American delegates will have held daily discussions of their Catholic student life on the journey from New York to Colombia.
; With each group so well fortified with i knowledge of the peculiar problems of j its own country the students will proceed in the following manner: A student leader will briefly introduce the discussion by raising certain general problems relative to the special problem of the evening; delegates of the various countries will then outline the special difficulties they have encountered in meeting this problem and the new methods they recommend to correct them; then will follow the group evaluation of the reports presented with final recommendations for general attack upon the stated difficulties and, if possible, particular advice to delegates. Notice that these conferences constitute a study week not concerned with numerous lectures of administrative problems. Each discussion will be upon some silent problem in the national and international cooperation of the Pax Romana organization and the method of reaching and enlisting each individual Catholic College student, or similar problems in the method of action for each group—both within the Universities and without. One discussion will be held on the Catholic student’s mission in the field of International Peace with special attention to: The directions of Pope Pius XII regarding permanent peace; the role of student federations in studying and spreading Christian principles of international peace; and the duties to which the Holy Father has called all in the Catholic Student War Relief.
Besides the panoramic vista of South American life, the opportunity to study and participate in international Catholic Action, and, incidentally, the luxurious ocean voyage which this trip offers, North American students will have the unique opportunity of having personal acquaintance with the leaders of the Catholic student movement of all the

THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
31
countries of the Western Hemisphere. Naturally it is desired to limit the North American group to from 20 to 25 of the most capable students, who will be able to represent, at its best, the Catholic student life of the two North American countries. Both men and women delegates will take part.
Anyone desiring a circular with complete information on the journey or any further information on any phase of the movement may write to Pax Romana,
Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., or see Father Cunningham in his first-floor Dillon Hall office.
—Mark G. McGrath
To Speak on Plywood
“Plywood as Building Material,” will be the topic of David S. Betcone, midwest representative of the Douglas Plywood Association, when he speaks in the Architectural building of the University, Tuesday afternoon at 1:20 p.m. The lecture, which is open to students of the University and all South Bend architects, will be illustrated with a sound and color movie.
Closing for the Season April 30th
Noise makers, novelties and fun. Skating, 7:30 to 12:00
Will reopen in September.
AL WISH'S
Playland Roller Rink
h While you're keeping J fit... pause and
A Variety of Pipes«=-A Variety of Prices—-
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow .............$1.50
Yello-Bole Regular.......1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial..... 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless .... 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor_____4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran.......5.00
Hollydourt ............  3.50
Sasieni................. 5.00
Comoy __________________ 5.00
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
fatMKrt to	'
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
.	212 S. Michigan St.
.	Phone 4-8251	.
—
There's something about Coca-Cola,—ice-cold,—that stops thirst in its tracks. Its delightful taste brings you the experience of complete thirst satisfaction. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that
refresfeswithice-coldCoca-Cola. YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue

Its Chesterfield
Everybody who smokes them likes their
COOLER, MILDER, BETTER TASTE On the movie lot or wherever you go, the Right Combination of the best tobaccos from our own Southland and from distant Turkey and Greece makes Chesterfield the one cigarette that truly Satisfies.
Note how many more smokers are enjoying Chester.field’s definitely Milder, Cooler-Smoking, Better Taste.