Mm! A cicfO/ieHe. tkato to I
WINSTON
tastes good—like a cigarette should!
FINER FILTER!
AND DRAW SO EASY!
THEY TASTE SO GOOD!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C
K i x c _ b Q? s

WINSTONS are so easy-drawing!
There’s no effort to puff! Winston’s finer filter lets Winston’s finer flavor come clean through to you. The full, rich flavor is all yours to enjoy!
■ Smokers who go for flavor are sure going for Winston! This filter cigarette really tastes like a cigarette. It’s the filter cigarette that’s fun to smoke!
New, king-size Winstons are easy-drawing, too! Winston’s finer filter works so effectively, yet doesn’t flatten the flavor. The full, rich, tobacco flavor comes through to you easily and smoothly.
Try Winstons! They taste good like a cigarette should!

T E R
V 0 R
'Scholastic
--------------
Vol. 96 FEBRUARY 25, 1955 No. 14
semi-annual clearance
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
• Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
•jOHN ADAMS ................... News
ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ........  Copy
CHARLES McKENDRICK ...............
.................... Assistant Copy JOSEPH CONNOLLY ........Features KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager PETER STURTEVANT.... Photo Editor JIM FITZGERALD ..................
A ___________ Photography Coordinator
JIM GULDE ...... Head Photographer
JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
QUALITY SALE
MEN'S SUITS, TOPCOATS, OVERCOATS, CASHMERE COATS, SPORT COATS
including group by
Society Brand... Three-G Eagle... Burberry... British-R
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad' dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Buck Harriss. Jerrold Hilton, Jack Hough, Francis Hurley, Ed Joyce, David Kubal. James Lenox, Jim Loeffler, James McDonald, John McMahon, Joe Mocarski. James Murphy, Arthur Price, Thomas Quinn, Dick Rust, Jim Steintrager, Paul Underkofler, Ray Walsh.
SPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit Eckl, John Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Ray Lescher, Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, Joe Norton, and Bob Parnell.
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran Sheffer.
l^OT our entire stock, but an outstanding quality selection including groups by America’s leading clothing makers. While we do not have every color and pattern in every size, you will find variety and a good choice due to the usual large Gilbert Stock. Shop evenings at Gilbert’s — Store hours are 9 A.M. to 9 P.M. Monday through Saturday.
I^Our Cover: The Notre Dame man usually romps through the home football season, Christmas vacation, and even the exam periods with much gusto. Then the Mardi Gras comes and goes as the last period of hilarity before he settles down to the serious season in the school year—Lent—and he sees its relation to his student vocation.
Photographer John O’Brien catches the spiritual side of the Notre Dame man on this week’s cover.
•
^GILBERTS
809-817 S. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
3
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
calendar
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
“Chicken In the Rough”
% Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.30
FEBRUARY 25
GRANADA (for one week)—The novel that gained a blood and guts rating for its “frank” insight on rugged and seemingly incorrigible Marine life in World War II comes to the screen in Battle Cry, starring Van Heflin, Aldo Ray, and Nancy Olson. There is no sugar coating of the “screened” events which give this film a tone of authenticity. A character study of some pretty tough subjects.
COLFAX (through March 3)—Many Rivers to Cross means much merriment to be mused via perilous terrain and danger-fraught Indian capers. Robert Taylor and Eleanor Parker provide the subjects for the “man-chase” that provides just about every situation imaginable in the wild, and woolly West of that time. Entertaining to say the least.
AVON (through March 1)—When two little kids forsake a venture for a pet dog for the warm companionship of a small lost child, half the countryside comes to life thinking the well meaning “rascals” to be The Little Kidnappers. J. Arthur Rank comes through with another heart-warmer for all the old softies.
Joe Nabicht’s
Restaurant
PALACE (through Feb. 28)—Hold your hats, fine people! Judy Canova, the Carolina Cannonball is coming to town! A weak Timber jack falls flat on its face. Better wake up Clem; he won’t wanta be a-missin’ Carolina.
FEBRUARY 26
WASHINGTON HALL (usual times)—Jack Webb and Ben Alexander do a little checking, that’s all. Dragnet, bud.
Open Sunday
213 N. Main
FEBRUARY 27
RIVER PARK (through March 1)—There's No Business Like Show Business and Princess of the Nile hit town for re-takes. Tighten your belts, boys, it’s a long way to Easter.
STATE (ditto)—Here’s a good one you might have missed originally— Vera Cruz with B. (the bull) Lancaster. You can stay for The Black Dakotas if your popcorn doesn’t run out.
MARCH 1
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—The Jordan-men start hoopin’ them in for the last time on the home court as they go against DePaul. Let’s give the seniors a crowd and game they’ll remember.
PALACE (one day only)—Don’t ask me how they expect to do it, but the management is playing host to Gene Autry and his whole barnyard full of stars, including his “hosses” Champion and Little Champ, Pat Burns and that stellar aggregation of songsters, the original Cass County Boys. Reckon Gene’s hosses are house-broken?
I
DRRWTURBOW
\pPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS —;
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
-- EYES EXAMINED --
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
MARCH 2
WASHINGTON HALL (7:30 pan.)—Now that the erudite seniors have learned the-secret of how to handle women, they will get-a- chance to learn how to “Find a Woman.” Father Hesburgh will do the “expostulating” at the second lecture of the 1955 Marriage Institute. Tickets may be purchased at the door. A coffee hour will follow in the Student Center.
RIVER PARK (through March 5)—If you want a re-see of a possible Academy Award winner, you have it in On the Waterfront, with Marlon Brando and Eva Marie Saint. To make the trip out really worthwhile, they’ve scheduled Phffft to round out the bill. . . . and with that closing remark, I too say Phffft for another week.
1
The Scholastic
letters
Night Lights Again
Editor:
Some time ago there appeared a letter in the Scholastic pointing out the rather apparent fact that the ND students do not support lectures, concerts, and a various other programs presented by the University and the Student Senate. In addition attendance at the various clubs on the campus is poor, especially in the Engineering School.
Without doubt the students themselves are at fault, although part of the blame lies with the University. Many students claim they do not have the time to attend these functions and perhaps foi- some of them this is a legitimate excuse. But ^how do they account for the fact that in "many cases it is the students with the higher averages that do attend these extra-curricular activities. Surely this is not due to natural intelligence alone.
Being a senior I have noticed that with 12 o’clock lights I can now attend more functions than in previous years and still return to the hall with a few hours’ studying time before the University turns the lights off. I am convinced that - if we had one o’clock, or better yet, all night lights, attendance at the extra-curricular activities would increase greatly. Of course, with all night lights other advantages would result, but this would be one important one. Another policy of the University that discourages attendance is the many evening examinations that are permitted. Many criticize the state universities for their so-called policy of mass education, but after attending Illinois, I would say there are * more evening tests on this campus than —at Champaign.
William Yario 209 Alumni
Campus Car Policy Outlined In Reply to Senate Request
The University has outlined its policy concerning the admittance of automobiles to the campus.
All faculty members with the rank of instructor, or higher, are permitted to .— enter and leave the University grounds at any time. All essential personnel and special outside personnel are granted passes which are recognized during working hours.
Students and parents are permitted to drive cars on campus at the beginning and end of the school year, when excessive luggage makes it necessary.
Taxicabs are allowed on campus when they pick up or discharge members of the faculty. -
^February 25, 1955
Enjoy yourself... refresh with Cake
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OB TW COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA PRESENTS THIS WEEK’S JOE HARRIS
BASKETBALL FORECASTS
FRIDAY, FEB. 25
Duquesne over Cincinnati Missouri over Oklahoma UCLA over Southern California
SATURDAY, FEB. 26
Illinois over Ohio State
Iowa over Michigan
Navy over Army
Northwestern over Wisconsin
Notre Dame over DePaul
Purdue over Indiana Seton Hall over Iona College
MONDAY, FEB. 28
Illinois over Michigan
Michigan State over Indiana Minnesota over Iowa	•
Wisconsin over Purdue
Coca Cola Bottling Co. of South Bend
TUESDAY, MARCH 1
Holy Cross over Dartmouth Notre Dame over DePaul
ENGINEERS
Electrical and Mechanical
Representatives of the
Detroit Edison Co.
Will be on campus
FRIDAY, MARCH 4,1955
Contact Placement Office
Will also interview Sophomores and Juniors interested in Summer employment
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition
“Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
X Trethewey JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JALS. Bldg.

COMPAAfY
March 10 and 11

Boeing has many positions open for graduating and graduate students. These opportunities are in all branches of engineering (AE, CE, EE, ME and related fields). Also needed are physicists and mathematicians with advanced degrees.
Fields of activity include DESIGN, RESEARCH and PRODUCTION. Your choice of location: Seattle, Washington or Wichita, Kansas.
A group meeting, first day of campus visit, will precede personal interviews. Details of openings, nature of assignments, company projects, etc. will be explained. Married students are invited to bring their wives.
Come and learn about these excellent opportunities with an outstanding engineering organization—designers and builders of the B-47 and B-52 multi-jet bombers; America’s first jet transport, the 707; and the BOMARC F-99 pilotless aircraft project.
For time and place of group meeting and for personal interview appointments—consult your
BUEf/VG
A/PPLAA/Y COMPAA/Y
SEATTLE • IS/CH/TA
The Scholastic
samusiic
Volume 96, Number 14	Notre Dame, Indiana	February 25, 1955
•Herling Talk Opens Management Meet
John Herling, nationally syndicated labor columnist and author of a weekly newsletter on labor affairs, delivered the opening address at Notre Dame’s third annual Union-Management Conference today. Herling discussed “Key National Issues in Industrial Relations” p.t the opening session at 10:30 a.m. in Washington Hall.
As was announced earlier, Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell will address
the conference at the afternoon session at 2:30. Mitchell will outline “The Labor Department’s program for 1955.” More than 650 representatives of management, unions, education and the public are expected to hear the two speakers. Three panel discussions will discuss trends and development in the industrial relations field.
“What’s ahead in Collective Bargaining?” will be the subject of the first panel discussion to be presided over by Robert H. Moore, regional director of the Federal Mediation Service in Chi-
cago. J. Noble Braden, executive vicepresident of the American Arbitration Association, will lead a panel discussion on “Arbitration of Discharge and Disciplinary Cases.” “Some Recent Decisions
MR. JOHN HERLING
“Let’s Get Together” ^February 25, 1955
of the National Labor Relations Board” will be analyzed by a panel headed by Nathan P. Feinsinger, permanent umpire of the General Motors-UAW contract in Detroit.
Annual Senior Retreat To Be Held Mar. 18-20
The second annual Senior Retreat will be given by Rev. Gervase J. Brinkman, O.F.M. in a series of seven conferences beginning Friday, March 18 and ending Sunday, March 20.
The list of suggested topics sent to Father Brinkman by Chairman of the Retreat, Norman Hipskind and his committeemen—Don Yeckel, Frank Maier and Frank Tonini—includes: “Vocation, Prayer, the Catholic Fellow in Service,” “The Catholic Man in the Business World,” and “Temperance.”
Chairman Hipskind wishes to emphasize the fact that this series of conferences will not be just a mission or a day of recollection, but, a retreat in the strictest sense of the word.
Father Brinkman was ordained a Franciscan in 1935, and has served, among other positions, as assistant Re-treat-Mastei- at Mayslake Retreat House outside Chicago for four years. In September, 1947, he was appointed Catholic Chaplain of Poliet-Stateville Branch of the Illinois State Penitentiary, the position which he holds at the present time.
As a member of the American Prison Association, he has served on the National Commission for the Study of Prison Riots in 1953. Father Brinkman was also president of the American Prison Chaplains’ Association from 1952-1953 and president of the American Catholic Prison Chaplains Association from 1952-1955. “The senior class is very fortunate in having the services of a man as well qualified as Father Brinkman,” said Hipskind. “With such a great amount of experience in dealing with men, Father Brickman is ideally prepared for making this retreat as successful as the one given last year by Father Lord.”
These seniors will be excused from Saturday morning classes so that they will be able to devote all their time to the retreat.
MR. PAUL BUTLER
Chief Democrat Speaks
Butler Tells Academy Of'Chairman's'Job
Paul M. Butler, newly appointed National chairman of the Democratic party, addressed the Notre Dame Academy of Political Science on Friday, Feb. 18.
Butler stressed the importance of participation in politics for the educated college man. Speaking on “My Job as National Chairman,” Butler went into a behind-the-scenes description of the workings of the Democratic party. He further related the policies of the newly formed party magazine, the Democratic Digest.
The National Democratic Chairman answered questions proposed by his audience concerning his new job.
Jim Irwin, vice-president of the Academy, acted as toastmaster for the supper meeting. Irwin introduced club president John Marchal, who described Butler’s climb to the top post in the Democratic party.
The Academy of Political Science has brought big-name politicians to speak before its recent meetings. The Academy plans to have Michigan’s governor, G. Mennen Williams, as its guest in the near future.
New TV Station Holds Ground-Breaking Rite
Dreams became reality last Tuesday morning when Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., president of the University, broke ground for the University’s new TV station, WNDU-TV. Father Hesburgh, assisted by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, uprooted a small portion of turf on the site of the old Vet-ville Recreation Hall.
A battery of photographers and movie cameramen caught the action as Notre Dame took first steps toward bringing TV to the University’s campus.
The Thomas L. Hickey Construction Co., a South Bend firm, was awarded the contract to construct the brick studio. The new building’s architecture has been styled to match the other campus buildings.
The simple, one-story structure is so designed that additions can easily be made whenever the need arises.
The new building will house the major studio, an 80 by 60-foot center room with all its necessary components, station offices, prop rooms, an artist’s workshop, news and sports departments, and an AM studio which eventually will seat radio station WHOT.
The new station, estimated to cost around §750,000, will operate on RCA’s latest TV equipment with provisions for
telecasting color programs ovei- the network. Three cameras will be used in the station, two of which will be field-chain cameras that can be used outdoors. Microphones on boom stands will be used for sound pick-up.
A sound film recorded the groundbreaking ceremonies. Portions of this film will be used in a dedication program which will be aired by the station shortly after it goes into operation sometime in late July.
New Lenten Privileges Here; Daily Evening Mass Offered
Notre Dame men will be treated to new Lenten privileges it was announced this week by Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion.
An evening Mass alternating between Sacred Heart Church and the Dillon Chapel will provide faculty, students, and employees an opportunity to hear Mass during the Lenten season.
In order to receive Communion at the evening Mass, the recipient must abstain from solid foods for a 3-hour period and from liquids for one hour.
An explanation of the Notre Dame dispensation was also given this week in the Religious Bulletin. Faculty, students, employees, visitors, and residents are dispensed from the general law of fast and abstinence when eating on campus. Off-campus students also enjoy this dispensation.
Moot Court to Open Second Round Debate "
Nineteen law students will argue on constitutional law questions before simulated appellate courts during the second round of Moot Court competition March 9. The public is invited to the sessions which will be held in Rooms 100, 101, 102, and 104 of the Law Building.
The Court gives the law students a chance to practice before an appellate court and to prepare appellate law briefs. Judges for the contest will be a practicing lawyer from South Bend, a staff professor, and a senior law student.
Eight contestants will qualify for the semi-finals to be held on April 21 and 22. - Of these eight, four will be selected for the finals which will be held next September. From the school finals winners will go to Chicago for regionals and, if victorious, to New York for the *" national finals.
Last semester’s winners, James Kelly and John Houck, along with alternate Armand Deatrick, recently competed in this year’s regionals at Chicago. After winning over students from Northwestern and Indiana Universities, Kelly and Houck were defeated by the representatives from the University of Chicago.
Quiz Bowl Entrants Make First Start
Shown above the four students, with their advisor, who made their first start in this year’s intercollegiate Quiz Bowl contest last night. Seated left to right are: James Cantrill, Prof. Leonard Sommer and Pat DiPasquale. Standing, in the same order, are Francis Newman and Chuck Doherty.
NEW PLACEMENT DIRECTOR
Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C. has been named this week to succeed the late William Dooley as director of the Placement Bureau.
Father Mendez is at present the Director of Student Aid and Coordinator of Summer Activities. He will continue in these capacities.
Theater Tryouts End Tonight For Musical, 'Seventeen1
Tryouts for the University Theater’s next play Seventeen were held in Washington Hall last night and will continue tonight at 7:30, according to Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., director of J the play.	,■ "
Seventeen, Sally Benson’s musical 5^ J adaptation of Booth Tarkington’s story, will be the University 'Theater’s annual musical production. It was chosen because of its universal appeal to people of all ages.
Dr. Eugene Leahy, musical director, will handle the choral work and Allen Powers will supervise the choreography.
The cast will be announced on Sunday, Feb. 27. Rehearsals will begin ! Monday night.	I
The Scholastic S
Rockne's Nudge at Outset Launches Bengals; I Record Crowd Expected for Bouts Mar. 10-16
The twenty-fourth annual Bengal Bouts will be held again this year in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, March 1016, with an attendance expected to be well over 7500.
But boxing has not always been on such a scale at Notre Dame. Its beginnings here date back to 1923, when the late Knute Rockne determined that the sport should be a regular inter-collegiate activity. From 1924-1926, intercollegiate matches were held. After Coach Rockne’s death, the sport was put on an intramural status, under the sponsorship of the Student Council.
In 1931, these matches were organized into a tourney, under the guidance of the Scholastic and for the first time admission was charged. Two thousand fans attended and the matches showed a $500 profit, which was sent to the Holy Cross missions in Bengal, India. Thus was the beginning and the naming of the Bengal Bouts.
The bouts were taken over in 1946
by the University’s Knights of Columbus, Council 1477, and are presently under their sponsorship.
During this period, the Bengal Bouts Award was originated to honor an individual connected with boxing as “the 'man who has done the most for his profession” in the past year. In 1954, the award went to Kid Gavilan. Others to receive the honor include: Barney Ross, Tony Zale, and Chuck Davey. The recipients customarily appear on the night of the finals to accept the award and to referee one of the final matches. This year’s winner has not yet been
BOB BROWN
* Pushes Bengal Purse ^February 25, 1955
Besides the Bengal Bouts Award, trophies are given to student fighters and are generally donated by campus organizations or by individuals. Such is the Father Ryan Trophy which is given to the outstanding boxer in the preliminaries who does not reach the semi-finals.
Over the years, two men have been more responsible for the success of the bouts than any others. One, Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., has been the guiding hand for the fights for many years and he is acting again this year as general chairman. The other is Dominic Napolitano. “Nappy” has been director and trainer of the Bengals since their inception in 1931.
Bob Brown, a finance major from Council Bluffs, la., is promoter for this year’s event. Last year he was publicity chairman.
Other members of the committee are Tony Silva, assistant promoter; Bob Hilger, tickets; Bob Simkins, publicity; Paul Mansfield, trophies; Walt Kavanaugh, program; Neil Naber, concessions; and Maurice Reidy, accountant.
Over 100 individuals turned’ out in January to train under “Nappy” for the bouts. It is the largest turnout in the Bouts’ history hut by the end of the nine-week training period, it is expected that the number ■will be down to around 65.
There are nine divisions in the Bengals, ranging from the 127-lb. class to the heavyweights, with all bouts being three three-minute rounds. The participants are all Notre Dame students, some of whom have been Golden Gloves or armed service champions in the past.
Knights of Columbus to Hold Communion Breakfast Sunday
The Knights of Columbus will hold a Communion Sunday this Sunday at the 8 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church, Grand Knight Lou Basso recently announced. A breakfast will follow in the Faculty Dining Hall. A speaker, however, is not yet chosen. There will be no charge.
An initiation is scheduled for the early part of March. All those wishing to obtain membership should see Vince Raymond in the K of C office in the basement of Walsh Hall from 4 to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday.
An important meeting will be held next Monday at 7:45 p.m. in the council chambers. The trustee’s report and the building corporation’s report will be presented.
FATHER HESBURGH “ . . . what then. Father?”
Fr. Hesburgh to Talk On 'Winning the Girl'
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will present the second in a series of six lectures next Wednesday for the 1955 version of the Marriage Institute. More than 800 seniors, and many of the University’s graduate and married students are expected to hear Father Hesburgh speak on “Finding and Winning the Girl.”
In his lecture Father Hesburgh will speak on the background, the normal stages, and the purposes of courtship. After discussing the proper approach to choosing and winning the girl, he will give the dangers involved in courtship, accentuating the fallacies of “love at first sight,” infatuation, rushing the courtship, and making the final choice too soon. He will conclude with a discussion of the mutual responsibility of courtship.
In his studies and teaching, Father Hesburgh has specialized in the subjects of Christian Marriage, Catholic Action and in the theology of the modem period of the Church. He is the author of God and the World of Man, -Theology of Catholic Action, Letters to Service Women, and several pamphlets.
Father Hesburgh’s interest in the servicemen, veterans, and their families led to his appointment as chaplain to the married veterans and their families here in 1945. He was named head of the Department of Religion in 1948 and was appointed executive vice-president the following year. In that post he also served as chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics at the University until his appointment as president of the University in 1952.	’
1855
A Century of Progr
St. Mary’s Looks to the Future
1955
“The site ... is in the highest degree healthy, situated on a beautiful table land, which rises boldly from the St. Joseph’s river, and surrounded by the most beautiful woodland countries of the west; it has every advantage of quiet and seclusion for the education of youth.”
The above reads like a modern Chamber of Commerce blurb about the wonders of Michiana. Actually, it is a quote from the catalog of St. Mary’s College for the 1855-56 school year. That was the year when the school, called St. Mary’s Academy at the time, moved to its present location across the Dixie wagon-trail from Notre Dame.
Anniversary Ceremony Tomorrow
Tomorrow, educators from all over Indiana will converge on St. Mary’s to participate in ceremonies heralding the 100th anniversary of the College’s Indiana Charter. The theme of this centenary was recently summed up in a unanimous congratulatory resolution passed
Wintery approach to majestic LeMans Hall
by the Indiana General Assembly: “Saint Mary’s College has, for one hundred^ years, to the benefit of the State of* Indiana and the nation, graduated women in the fullest sense—intelligent, humane, articulate and feminine— whether their careers are in science, business, their Church or as wives and mothers.”
Sisters of Holy Cross founded the school in 1844 at Bertrand, Michigan; but that once-prosperous trading center soon lost its importance. So on Feb. 28, 1855, the State of Indiana approved the* Sisters’ request to build a school north of South Bend. This Charter empowered St. Mary’s to grant degrees, thus making it the first Catholic women’s college in the United States to receive such power.
The first catalog outlines the campus life. Board and tuition cost the exorbitant sum of §35 per session; and there was a special §6 fee for the course in making artificial fruits and flowers. Highlight for musically-inclined pupils was a semi-weekly class in Gregorian^ chant.
The disciplinary regulations wouldn’t appeal to many twentieth-century belles. For example, “Pocket money must be I deposited in the hands of the Prefect of ’ Discipline, and subject to her discretionary application.” Or, “All letters written and received (will be) examined by the Superioress.”	/
Despite the financial and disciplinary, problems, St. Mary’s gained immediate^' popularity with its student body. After all, its educational opportunities for young women were almost unique in in America’s pre-Civil War days. Even f through the ravages of the war, the I school grew steadily and continued to draw students from all parts of the nation. Under Mother M. Angela, first ; Directress of Studies, who guided the j school until 1870, St. Mary’s developed fl a curriculum acclaimed by both Catholic JI and non-Catholic educators.	J
Four other dedicated Sisters, all	•
highly capable educators and under-	|
standing counselors of women, maintained the gradual development of St. Mary’s curriculum to keep pace with educational advancements during the next quarter-century. Graduates of the ( school also did their share to advance the I cause; in 1879 they formed the firsts I Catholic women’s alumnae association E in America.	. I
10
The Scholastic^'
!ss Across
if
1
; In 1895 Mother M. Pauline assumed the office of Directress of Studies and during the next 36 years she directed a vital period of development at the school. Mother Pauline became the first president of St. Mary’s College in 1903 when the charter was amended and the academy designation was discarded.
Expand Curriculum
Although the original Indiana charter had authorized the school to grant degrees, this authority was not exercised for 40 years. Prior to 1895, in keeping with all women’s academies of the time in Europe and America, St. Mary’s offer-the primary grades, senior school and classical training—the education expected of women in those days—without granting degrees. But when Mother Pauline assumed office, she announced that St. Mary’s would expand its curriculum to include courses leading to a Bachelor of Arts degree. When a graduating senior qualified for a degree in 1898, it marked the earliest uninterrupted granting of degrees by a Catholic women’s college in the country.
While emphasizing the study of liberal warts—still the foundation of a St. Mary’s education—the college curriculum was further expanded after World War I to include newer courses that were becoming popular in many colleges.
In the following decade of the 1930’s St. Mary’s added a five-year college nursing course to its catalog, offering a Bachelor of Science degree in addition to the nursing certificate. In conjunc-
Past: St. Mary’s of 1855
the Dixie
tion with several midwestern hospitals operated by the Sisters of Holy Cross, St. Mary’s is able to train college graduate nurses.
First and Largest
In 1944, with the approbation of Pope Pius XII, Sister M. Madeleva, the current president of St. Mary’s College, inaugurated the Graduate School of Sacred Theology for Laywomen and Sisters; it offers both Master’s degree and Doctorate in Sacred Theology. This pioneering advance in Catholic education was the first such school for women ever established.
Today, St. Mary’s is the largest Catholic women’s resident college in the United States. It accepts students of all races and creeds without discrimination. Currently, representatives from 36 States and nine foreign countries have swelled the enrollment above the 800 mark.
A faculty of approximately 90 resident and visiting professors, supplemented with frequent lectures by visiting scholars from all parts of the world, maintain St. Mary’s high academic standards. There are 24 fully-staffed undergraduate departments, ranging from classics to journalism and from philosophy to physics. As at Notre Dame, students receive two years of directed training in the liberal arts before choosing their major fields of specialization.
The physical growth of the campus has kept pace with its academic development. LeMans Hall, a tasteful combina-
Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C.
tion of offices, residence rooms and classrooms, was built in 1926 at a cost of §1,250,000. In 1939, a model house was erected as a laboratory for students in the home economics department. And in 1941 the college marked the centenary of the founding of the Sisters of Holy Cross with the construction of a 90,000 volume library—a far cry from 1855 when one Sister moved St. Mary’s entire “library” down from Bertrand in her arms.
Now two more huge structures are being added. The first, a 30-room Science Hall costing §625,000, has been in construction this past year and is scheduled for dedication in April.
Tomorrow’s day-long centennial ob-(Continued on page 16)
Future: Sketch of Moreau Fine Arts Building
ND Band Will Present Concert Here Sunday
The Notre Dame Concert Band will present a concert of modem contemporary works, Sunday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall, Band Director H. Lee Hope announced recently. Among the selections for the performance are excerpts from the movie Tap Roots, two works by William Schuman, American Symphonette by Morton Gould, Opus 99 by Serge Prokofieff, Divertimento by Vincent Persechetti and the world premiere of Ancient Spirits, composed by Dan Clifford, a graduate student at the University.
Highly Artistic Endeavor’
“The Band has been prompted to put on this concert because of added and growing interest in contemporary music, not only here at the University, but also at many other colleges throughout the United States. We consider it a highly artistic endeavor on our part,” Hope said.
Tap Roots will be conducted by John Giambruno, a senior in the Arts and Letters Music Course and assistant director of the band. The music, composed for background to the Civil War movie, was written by Frank Skinner, president of the Julliard School of Music.
The George Washington Bridge and
AFROTC Shooters Second in National Meet
Notre Dame AFROTC sharpshooters snared second place in the 34th Annual William Randolph Hearst Competition of the Air Force Class recently, with a score of 939 out of a possible 1000. Bob Burns, second from the left in the top row, won the national individual scoring championship, topping 1224 competitors. Standing in the top row from left to right are Capt. Leo Petersen, USAF; Burns; Mike Kelly; John Schano and M. Sgt. Bernard Dickerson, USAF. In the bottom row, left to right, are Ken Woodford; and Art Guterding.
the Newsreel Suite are two works by William Schuman, the American composer. Schuman, who lives in New York City, composed the selection which he calls The George Washington Bridge while watching the bridge being erected. “It makes use of impressionistic devices and contemporary sounds . . . wonderful sounds!” according to Hope. ■
The Newsreel Suite is another musical impression by Schuman. It includes “The Horserace,” “Monkeys at the Zoo,” “Fashion Show” and “Parade”.
The second and third movements of Dan Clifford’s Ancient Spirits, composed three years ago, will be played for the first time publicly. They are entitled “Conquistadores” and “Tumult”.
The 55-member Band, after giving this special concert, will prepare for its nine-day Easter tour of the East, and return to the University to present its annual spring concert.
'Lucifer at Large' ND's Entry In Play Festival at Indianapolis
Lucifer at Large, a play by Frank P. Ford, has been announced by Director Frederic Syburg as Notre Dame’s entry in the one-act play contest to be held in Indianapolis on March 26 and 27. The Catholic colleges of Indiana •will compete in the contest which takes place at Marian College. Awards will be pre
sented for the best actor, best actress, and best play.	।
The ND selection is a modern morality play based on the conflict between man and the devil and the devil and God.
There are five parts in the play and all but a minor role have been filled. Lucifer ‘will be played by Gene Leyval, Fats by George O’Donnel, Mr. Superbe by Mike Kennedy, and You by Phil Donahue.
Sociology Club Visits Prison on Field Trip
Thirty members of the Sociology Club witnessed the classification of the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City on Feb. 15, reported Senior Phil Chinn, president of the club. The prison is the maximum security institution of^-this state.
After viewing the classification procedures the members, constituted mainly of juniors and seniors majoring in sociology, took an excursion of the physical facilities at the prison.
“This was another step,” said Chinn, “in the club’s attempt to make sociology become more alive through the workshop technique. The members agreed that this was the most informative and interesting field trip ever undertaken by^ the club.”
From the viewpoint of the members on the trip the classification of the new admissions to the prison proved an interesting spectacle. The classification board decided the prisoner’s residence, either cell block or dormitory, the type of prison job or schooling he should be given, and the degree of security that would be needed for his particular case.^
Tour Physical Facilities
The new prisoner, who had already undergone about a 30-day orientation program, was brought before the board. The students looked on as the board assigned him his sleeping quarters and job.
The tour of physical facilities included such sites as the workshops, dormitories, dining hall, cell blocks, and death house.
John M. Martin, professor of criminology and penology courses here in the Department of Sociology, acted as faculty moderator on this trip.
Phil Chinn also announced the recent innovation of an informal coffee hour for club members and faculty of the Department of Sociology. It is held every Wednesday at 3:30 p.m. in the basement of the O’Shaughnessy Building.
12
The Scholastic
* Scholastic Sports
CAGERS IN DOUBLE HEADER AGAINST DE PAUL
"Wilson's Tracksters Travel to Bloomington After Cracking Three Marks Against Spartans
by BOB
Smarting from a staggering defeat to Michigan two weeks ago, Notre Dame surged back into the winning column last Saturday by thoroughly trouncing ^lichigan State 61% to 42% as three Wecords fell and another was tied.
Tomorrow the Irish invade Bloomington for a meet with Indiana. The Hoosiers have a fast, well-balanced team this season with most of the
squad back from last year.
Jim Lambert, one of the country’s best milers, and the Olympic decathlon man 'Milt Campbell, who does just about everything, are the boys expected to give Notre Dame the most trouble. Asked to comment on the meet, Coach ^llex Wilson replied, “All I know is that they beat us last year, and this year they’ve added Campbell.”
Of the three records that fell in the Fieldhouse last week, the 440-yard dash was the first to go. Kevan Gosper of Michigan State did it with a time of :49.2 breaking the Notre Dame Gymnasium record of :49.3, held by Notre Dame’s Coach Wilson since 1932. It
. BYRON BEAMS
“He Has a Chance . .
EARLY
STATE’S ED BRABBAM One of His Two Firsts
also broke the N.D.-M.S.C. dual meet record of :50.4.
Powerful Byron Beams, a sophomore footballer, bested another dual meet record as he catipulted the shot 51 feet 10% inches, nearly three feet better than the old mark. Coach Wilson was very pleased with Beams’ showing and thinks he may some day be shooting for the world’s record “Sure I think he has a chance of breaking the record. He’s only a sophomore,” he quipped.
In the 880-yard run Al Schoenig streaked across the finish line in 1:53.1 to break the 1:53.7 Fieldhouse record he set at the beginning of the season against Purdue. The dual meet record also fell with Schoenig’s efforts.
Another record was equaled in the 60-yard low hurdles. Notre Dame’s Jim Baker tied the :07.4 time that has been standing since 1939.
Bill Squires, Al Schoenig, and Jack Gits tied for first in the mile run as they romped to an easy win. Schoenig grabbed an early lead and set the pace all the way, although Squires was right in back or beside him most of the time. Gits, with a tremendous finishing spurt, caught Squires and Schoenig and the three of them crossed the finish line, hand in hand, far ahead of the closest but tiring Spartan rival.
(Continued on page 15)
Irish in Home Stretch; Stephens Tops Record
The Irish will face the Blue Demons of DePaul, one of the top ranking teams in the midwest, tomorrow night in the Chicago Stadium. DePaul, still smarting from their four point defeat at the hands of Kentucky last week, will be out to bolster their sinking hopes for a tournament bid. The Irish, on the other hand, will be out to run their winning streak over DePaul to. four games.
The two rivals will meet each other again on Tuesday in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
Jack Stephens broke the all-time Notre Dame scoring mark during the past week, surpassing Dick Rosenthal’s 1,227 points.
The Irish main hopes will fall on the continued offensive improvement of Bill Weiman. Weiman has been scoring well lately which has added more balance to the Irish attack, something lacking in the earlier part of the season. He paced the Irish against Tulsa with 17 markers.
Leading the Blue Demon offensive attack will be Ron Sobieszczyk, 6-3 junior guard, who has been averaging
RON SOBIESZCZYK
Meyer’s Court Commander
^February 25, 1955
If
Letter than 17 points a game this season. Sobieszczyk’s aggressive brand of ~play has brought him much respect from rival coaches. Ray Meyer, DePaul mentor, calls him one of the best players in the midwest.
Teaming up with Sobieszczyk at the •other guard position is an old Notre Dame nemesis, Jim Lamkin. Lamkin is the second leading scorer in DePaul history behind George Mikan. The hard-driving guard has been playing his usual “take charge” type of ball.
Ken Jasky, junior center, is a rugged rebounder and his defensive play has improved over last season.
Forward Bill Robinzine has provided the spark for the Blue Demons this year. Playing his first year, Robinzine Jias averaged 15 points a game, and his sharp play has set up many more scores.
Biddy Basketball in Prelims
Frank Blum rounds out the starting five at the other forward position. The 6-4 senior is a fine rebounder and has a ten-point per game average.
• Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing
Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202
South Bend, Indiana
ENGINEERING SENIORS...
North American Aviation Los Angeles will interview here Tuesday, March 1,1955
BILL WEIMAN
Tops On Tulsa Hit Parade
Biddy basketball will make its Notre Dame debut in the Fieldhouse in a preliminary game to the Notre Dame-DePaul encounter on March 1.
The Dunes Sportland and Dixie Dairy
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 2^-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
teams of the Gary CYO Biddy Basket-.W ball League will vie for the Indiana statdHf championship at 7 p.m.
The winner of this game will travel J's to Huntington, W. Va. for the national | ; tournament on March 24.	■ I
Edward “Moose” Krause, Director of Athletics, will present the trophy to the winning five immediately prior to the ■. varsity contest.	' $
Biddy basketball has a smaller court, lower baskets, smaller ball, and shorten 4? playing periods. All players must be^~ under twelve and less than 5-6.	—
The court can not be over 60x40 and; the basket is eight and one-half feet,' instead of the usual ten. There are four periods of six minutes each in this abbreviated version of basketball.
Higa, Profaci Return To Defend Fis+ic Titles^?
Only Sal Profaci and Harry Higa will:
return to the Bengal ring this year from the 1954 champion’s list. Tom Magill’ >4 and Jim Walsh, the only other chainpions still in school, have decided to by-: pass the ring Avars this year.	’
Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano, the.
man behind the Bengal scenes, feels that; g 1 this wide-open fight wall entice more en-y fz trants. “Nappy” feels that this scarcity^ -
of returning champions has always^1
proved to be beneficial to both the fighters and fans, since the boys tend to open up more in the prelims in anticipation
ft
of making the finals.	gF :
Higa gained the 127-pound title last year by decisioning John Palumbo in the g’’--finals. Palumbo will be back again this year, but may move up to a heavier class.	;
Higa is known for his aggressiveness and clever counter-punching. His speed and ability to slip punches have always proved valuable to this Hawaiian battier. His stamina proved to be the deciding factor in last year’s championship gj. g°-	IJI
Profaci gained an early lead in last K? year’s finals and hung on to beat battling KJ Joe Muldoon in the 142-pound title fight, Profaci’s best punch is a straight right wf/ that he delivers with real quickness. ~
Sal has been working on his endurance this year because he had a hard time going full steam for three rounds last
year. “Nappy’s” road work and calisthenics have proved to be just what the doctor ordered for Profaci.
The prelims will run on March 10, 11, and 12. On March 14 the survivors of the initial reounds will enter the semifinals. Then on March 16 the final 16 bouters will mix it up before a full house and the honorary referee who will also receive the annual Bengal Bout Award.
»i
14
The Scholastic9\
(Fencers Boast Good individual.Team Marks
Notre Dame’s fencing team left today for Detroit where the squad will meet three teams over the weekend.
Detroit University, an undefeated squad that Coach Walter Langford rates as Notre Dame’s stiffest opponent of the season, will meet the Irish fencers tonight.
Wayne and Lawrence Tech will furnish the competition at a triangular tomorrow. Both of these teams should he easy going for the Irish, who now hold a 6-3 season record, according to Langford.
In Notre Dame’s most recent outing at Columbus, Ohio, last Saturday, Coach Langford’s men had a hectic afternoon in two close matches that were decided by identical 14-13 margins. The Irish ^iosed out the host Ohio State fencers and then dropped the second match to Wisconsin.
The Irish had to win all three final bouts in the Ohio State scrap to overcome a 13-11 deficit and go on to win. The Wisconsin defeat marked the third loss of the season for Notre Dame. All three losses this season have been by identical 14-13 scores.
Last Friday night in Cleveland, the Irish had a field day, defeating Case, g?l-6, and Fenn, 17-10, in a dual match. wDon Tadrowski (epee), Tom Dorwin (sabre), and Gene Gasse (sabre) starred for the Irish by registering six wins in as many bouts with the Cleveland fencers.
The epee squad has now gone twentyseven straight meets over the past three seasons without a defeat.
Tadrowski (22-4) and Jerry Isaacs, anothei- member of the epee squad (18-4) Continued to lead their teammates in individual records.
Gene Gasse and Co-Captain Jim Waters (foil) have 18-8 records.
Following their three engagements this weekend, the Irish will face Illinois on March 12 in the Fieldhouse.
Gymnasts Battle Navy Pier After Absorbing Pitt Defeat
The Notre Dame gymnastic team will match their stunts against Navy Pier at Chicago tonight at 7:30, in an effort to snap a two meet losing streak. Coach Ray Runkle expects to use the same lineup he employed in last week’s meet against Pittsburgh and cautions that, “Navy Pier could veiy well prove to be an even tougher opponent than Pittsburgh in view of their respective records.” Considering the 45-35 beating the Irish received from the Panthers last
week-end, “it appears as if they have theii- work cut out for them.”
Last week at the Fieldhouse the match was decided in the first two events, as the Panthers clawed the Irish deeply, 12-4 and 9-7 to grab a 21-11 edge.
Grimm added six points to the Irish total for his work on the parallel bars to assure them of their sole win of the afternoon, a 9-7 victory. However, the flying rings event wound up in a 8-8 deadlock, as John Ray provided the clutch drive for Pittsburgh with six points.
Ray contributed 16 points to the Pittsburgh cause, participating in three of the events. On the other hand, Grimm tallied twelve times for the Greenshirts, while Dan Healy and Ev Hatch each counted ten times to pile up 32 of Notre Dame’s markers.
PATENTS PENDING
An entirely new concept in cigarette filtration. A filter tip of purified cellulose, incorporating Activated Charcoal, a filtering substance world-famous as a purifying agent, notably for air, water and beverages.
PRODUCT OF
Track Meet
(Continued from page 13)
Junior Bernie Allard, a lanky high jump specialist, captured the event with a six foot, three inch leap. He also finished second in the high hurdles and was among the leaders in the low hurdles, but tripped on a hurdle that was knocked into his lane toward the end of the race.	’
Notre Dame’s only other firsts were in the two mile run and the mile relay. Bill Squires, the Irish’s brilliant distance runner, won the two mile and almost lapped the last State man. He started in second place and held that position until the ninth lap when he broke away from the pack and sped to an easy victory.
I
5
1
1
i
9
15
February 25, 1955
EDDIE'S for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS
STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
AQUIW
LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Walsh, Former ND Center, Accepts Post Under Brennan
Bill Walsh., former ND All-American, has retired from professional football to return to Notre Dame as a line coach under Terry Brennan.
Walsh has been offensive center for the Pittsburgh Steelers for the past six years. He was a teammate of Brennan’s while playing at Notre Dame.
He assisted Brennan in spring training last season and would have joined the coaching corps then, but Pittsburgh had no one to take his place. Pittsburgh has no replacement for Walsh and no one else has even scrimmaged at the pivot post, so outstanding has been his play.
Walsh, 27, finally decided that Pitt had obtained center strength in the league draft and wished to quit before he suf’ fered an injury. He currently weighs 240 pounds.
Brennan expects Walsh to report by March 14 as spring drills begin on March 28. Walsh joins Bill Fischer and Johnny Druze in the line coaching department.
Brennan still must name a freshman coach to replace Frank “Blackie”
Johnston, who recently took a job a South Carolina. He is especially anx________ ious to secure a topflight man who wiir '(i attract talent to Notre Dame.
Century of Progress j
(Continued from page 11)	.1
servance will feature ground-breaking V j ceremonies for Moreau Hall, a $1,000,000 Ti fine arts building. Its 116 rooms will incorporate studios, workshops, classrooms and two theaters all designed an<^ equipped specifically for use by the vari^
ous fine and graphic arts departments. £
The largest “room” is a 1200 seat theater-auditorium.
St. Mary’s has come far in its century, in size and academic stature. And, on the eve of the centenary, Sister Madeleva—observing her 21st year in the presidency of the College—is kneedeep in plans for the next 100 years,
beginning with this unprecedented ex^j-p pansion program. She has always work^j,-
ed to keep St. Mary’s prudently in touch • with its times. For, as she emphatically states, “Private education must progress, X. or see itself succumb to ineffectual 3K atrophy.”
For its bright past and, perhaps, even ip brighter future, the Scholastic salutes ?P St. Mary’s College—“dedicated to the Vi whole woman, to what she is and what £l she can be.”	B
MORE DATES
while
Learn the new steps now
PARTY — DANCE EVERY THURSDAY
lesson, you’ll be dancing with new sureness and grace. It’s tun at Arthur Murray’s and there’ll be a world ot dancing fun, ahead lor you. Come today to your nearest Arthur Murray studio from 10 a. m. to 10 p. m. tor a free dance analysis. Visitors are always welcome.
MORE COMPLIMENTS
MORE FUN
Arthur Murrays pre-season rates are in effect!
OOD dancers are always m demand. You will be, too. once you've had a -ourse at Arthur Murray’s. Your expert teacher-partner will show you the tamous Arthur Murray Magic Step .vhich makes it easy to Waltz, Fox Trot, Tango, Rumba and Samba. From your first
ARTHUR
120 E. WAYNE
MURRAY
Ph. CE 2-3339
16
GUIDED MISSILE
SERVOS AND ELECTRONICS
ROCKET ENGINES
Address inquiries to Manager, Engineering Personnel
TEST EQUIPMENT
for today...tomorrow ...and YOUR FUTURE
Bell Aircraft Corporation—designer and builder of the X-l, the first supersonic aircraft and the X-1A, holder of top speed and altitude records—sets the pace for the aviation industry in research, design and development.
Bell Aircraft engineers have won universal acclaim for outstanding work in guided missiles, advanced
control and guidance systems, electronic components, rocket engine assemblies and servomechanisms. .Bell Aircraft is one of two companies in the U. S. that is producing complete guided missiles like the B-63 Rascal, a pilotless bomber for the U. S. Air Force.
Today there is a secure and rewarding personal and professional
of Bell Aircraft for scientific and engineering graduates with imagination and foresight...young men who can apply their ralents to our particular problems...who are interested in helping to shape tomorrow’s developments in all phases of aeronautics and avionics.
Write for complete information or make an appointment through your Placement Office. Our representatives will be on campus.
ENGINE TEST
March 7 and 8
^February 25, 1955
17
the back page
by Don Yeckel
Crisis
Other than what I read in the papers, I suppose I don’t know very much about contemporary problems and movements of history. The evidence that the newspapers give is fairly plain—we live in troubled times, troubled as perhaps no other age has ever been troubled. Vastly improved methods of transportation and communication have shrunken our globe to a fraction of its former size, and we have found that this proximity to friend and enemy alike can be wonderful, but at the same time upsetting and very frightening.
But one can’t read modern Catholic literature without finding reference to deeper currents of crisis that face modem man, currents that lie underneath the pages of the daily newspaper. Popes, bishops, Catholic thinkers —all agree that the age in which we live is absolutely
crucial to the development of civilization. A new world is emerging, they say, a world that can be the best—or the worst—ever known on earth.
What kind of crisis is this? Christopher Dawson has called it a “crisis of Culture”: “Western civilization today is passing through one of the most critical moments in its history. In every department of life traditional principles have been shaken and discredited, and we do not yet know what is going to take their place. . . . One thing is certain—the old order is dead . . .”
And Cardinal Suhard has called it a “crisis of growth”: “The sufferings affecting the entire globe, the dangers threatening its future, the great currents sweeping through it, are less the consequences of a catastrophe than the first signs of an imminent birth. Or, more exactly, the present unrest is neither a sickness of the world nor a decadence, but a crisis of growth, and as such it is a . .. crucial moment, when new values are gradually replacing the structures of the old.”
And so great forces are at work, struggling to shape this new world in their own images. Catholicism is one of them. We cannot under-estimate the power and hatred of her enemies. To overcome them and so to shape this new world in the image of Christ, the Church needs a new strength, a new vitality. It is more than a question of survival. It is a question of God, of human dignity, of restoring all things in Christ.
Where will this new strength and vitality come from? There’s really only one place from which they can come— from you and me. Like it or not, young men and women of our age and education are going to be called upon to uphold
the Church in her struggle with Atheistic Communism and Secularism. The Church expects a great deal from her Catholic college graduates.
The Holy War
Charles Peguy has a wonderful little essay called La Guerre Sainte, the Holy War. I’d like to quote the whole thing, because he sets forth so well the responsibilities, the obstacles, and the goals that are given to us:
“If while speaking of the ages of faith one means that during the centuries which were centuries of Christianity, centuries ruled by the law of love, centuries reigned over by grace, . . . that faith and belief were . . . blended in common with the blood that flowed through the people’s veins, one would be right. If while so speaking one means that this was an understood thing, . . . receiving not only assent but a public, solemn, official celebration, one would be right. And while saying that today things are no longer so, once more one would be right....
“Our modem faiths have perforce become private, I mean non-public in the sense that they generally no longer receive public celebration, the celebration of people and State, and thus have become non-solemn, non-official. It is therefore permissible first to ask oneself if our modem faiths and beliefs, that is to say Christian ones steeped in the modem world, . . . have not received a singular beauty, a beauty so far unacquired, and a singular grandeur in the eyes of God. The question of knowing whether our modem sanctities, that is to say, our Christian sanctities, those
&
modem sanctities, plunged in the mod^ em world, in this vastatio, in this abysJ of incredulity, of disbelief and unfaith* fulness of the modem world, isolated like beacons vainly assailed during well-nigh three centuries of raging furious sea, are not, will not be, the most pleasing in the eyes of God is an everlasting question.—Assailed on all sides, tried
on all sides and by no means shaken, ® our modern beliefs, chronologically mod-ern, isolated in this modern world, knocked about by a whole world, un^% tiringly assailed, indefatigably beaten* inexhaustibly beaten by waves and § tempests, these beliefs end by making, Q by constituting, by erecting a splendid g monument to the presence of God. For- M ever standing, alone in a whole world, g standing in a whole sea inexhaustibly S stormy, alone in the entire sea, intact, gf whole, never in any way broached, our p modern loyalties, faiths and beliefs end r by making, constituting and erecting splendid monument to the presence or ft God.	^11
“To the glory of God.	fjO
“And above all, I insist upon it, this
is a monument such as has never been j seen. Perhaps it is not for us to say | that our situation is new, that our f straggle is new. But, after all, who cannot see that our situation is new, T that our straggle is new? That this modem Church, that the modem Chris- S.
tianity,—Christian and steeped in the V. modern world, Christian and moving*; across the modem world, the modem lr period,—has a sort of great) tragic beauty of its own, almost the great | beauty not of a widow but of a woman ||K who alone holds a Fortress—intact for the Lord and Master, for the Spouse.— F I
“Miles Christi, today every Christian | 'll is a soldier; the soldier of Christ. There are no more quiescent Christians. Those Crusades which our fathers waged a.^g^B' far as the lands of the Infidels, . . . to-~ w' day, those Crusades have come to us and we have them at home. Our faiths are ^1 citadels.—The least among us is a sol-dier. The least among us is literally a ||H crusader. Our fathers like a flood of | people, like a flood of armies, invaded the infidel continents. Nowadays, on the contrary, it is a flood of infidelity that holds the seas, the high seas, and that |ffl continuously assails us from all sides, All our houses are fortresses, in periculoJ^L mart, in peril of the sea. The holy war*- 1 is everywhere. It is ever being waged.—
“All of us stand in the breach today. I We are all stationed at the frontier. | The frontier is everywhere.”	|
So our goal is no less than “a monu
ment such as has never been seen.” Our
responsibilities are no less than those of a Crusader. Our opposition is no
: less than “a whole world.”
And what are we going to do about it?
18
HUNTKD AT AV« MARIA PRES.*
A Campus-to-Career Case History

>
s
Manager Ray New explains the importance of good service to one of his assistants

His individual training” paid off
When Ray New—Business Administration, Buffalo. ’51— started with New York Telephone Company, he never suspected his work would face him with problems of this sort—
64My job as business office manager is to see that the customer gets the best possible service. One of my assignments took me into a section of Manhattan that had a large Puerto Rican population.
44 Frequently our people would get somebody on the line who couldn’t speak a word of English. So I saw to it that each of my representatives learned a few standard Spanish phrases—enough to get somebody to the telephone who could speak English.
44There are no two days alike in this
You’ll find these things true of college men, like Ray New, who go into telephone work. They’ve been well trained, they enjoy their present jobs, and they’re headed for responsibilities and greater rewards. If you’d be interested in a similar opportunity with a Bell telephone operating company, or with Sandia Corporation, Bell Telephone Laboratories or Western Electric, see your Placement Officer for full details.
work, with new problems coming up all the time. The best part of it is that the training program here is tailor-made to the job. First you get a general background in the business, then you go into what I call ‘individual training.’ That’s where your own special abilities are developed and you’re encouraged to think out new ways to solve everyday problems—like the one I just described.
44Right now I’m Business Manager in charge of an office doing S250.000 worth of business a month.”
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
©Liccett & Mras Tobacco Co.