Mow! A
WINSTON
tastes good—like a cigarette should!
THEY TASTE SO GOOD»
FINER FILTER!
AND DRAW SO EASY!
Fl lt F fl a E R
V 0 R
R J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C


WINSTONS are so easy-drawing!
There’s no effort to puff! Winston’s finer filter lets Winston’s finer flavor come clean through to you. The full, rich flavor is all yours to enjoy!
■ Smokers who go for flavor are sure going for Winston! This filter cigarette really tastes like a cigarette. It’s the filter cigarette that’s fan to smoke!
New, king-size Winstons are easy-drawing, too! Winston’s finer filter works so effectively, yet doesn’t flatten the flavor. The full, rich, tobacco flavor comes through to you easily and smoothly.
Try Winstons! They taste good — like a cigarette should!
K 1 * G
G CD s
including group by
OFF
bum
semi-annual clearance
QUALITY SALE
MEN'S SUITS, TOPCOATS, OVERCOATS,
CASHMERE COATS, SPORT COATS

Society Brand... Three-G
Eagle... Burberry... British-R
2 OFF
OFF
J
j
OT our entire stock, but an outstanding quality selection ’ including groups by America’s leading clothing makers. While we do not have every color and pattern in every size, you will find variety and a good choice due to the usual large Gilbert Stock. Shop evenings at Gilbert’s — Store hours are 9 A.M. to 9 P.M. Monday through Saturday.
^GILBERT'S
809-817 S. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
February 11, 1955
Cramming
for Exams?
Fight “Book Fatigue” Safely
Your doctor will tell you — a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot. black coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam ...or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
HEf large economy size A Or (for Greek Row ond zjil* Dorms) 60 tablets —
no^oz
AWAKENERS :
S -:e '933	j
SAFE AS COFFEE
Notre Dame Men
Remember your:
•	Mother
•	Sweetheart
•	Relatives on VALENTINE’S DAN with a corsage or a dozen roses from SOUTH BEND
FLORAL
114 So. Michigan CE 3-8227 out of town floral service
Get Your Copy of
THE GURIAN MEMORIAL ISSUE
of
Zke Review of Politics
Articles on
The Character and Achievements of Waldemar Gurian
Late editor of the “Review of Politics,” internationally known authority on Russian and East European affairs, and Professor of Political Science at Notre Dam?. 
by Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C. Frank O’Malley John U. Nef Hannah Arendt Jacques Maritain Philip Mosely
M. A. Fitzsimons Hans Kohn B. Szczesniak
Special price for students $1.00
On sale at the Bookstore and the Review of Politics office in the Social Science Building
Scholastic
Vol. 96 FEBRUARY 11, 1955 No. 12^
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Darnel Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
JOHN ADAMS ................
ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant PAUL J. LaFRENIERE .........
Charles McKendrick.................
........._____________ Assistant	Copy JOSEPH CONNOLLY  _____....Features KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER       Circulation PETER STURTEVANT______ Photo Editor JIM FITZGERALD ________....’
___________ Photography Coordinator JIM GULDE _...... Head Photographer
JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
News>
News
Member of Catholic School Press Association, As- I sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national 1 advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., ■ 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.	g
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-^h, dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.	K
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, John Boyle, Joe Connolly. Buck Harriss. Jerrold Hilton, Jack Hough, Francis Hurley, Ed Joyce, David Kubal, James Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Janies McDonald, John McMahon, James Murphy, Arthur Price, Thomas Quinn. Dick Rust, Paul Underkofler. Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, and Ronald Weirs.
SPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin. Bob Early. Kit Eckl, John Glavin. Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Jack Kirby. Ray Lescher, Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, | Joe Norton, Bob Parnell, and Bob Ruhl.	3
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran | Sheffer.
COVER—Long nose, flashing sword and | the gift of writing beautiful verse have I made Cyrano de Bergerac an intriguing i character for a long time. With tireless spirit the University Theater has worked to bring him and his story to life next Thursday. The story of how Gene Gorski and his collaboi’ators have ; labored appears on page 16. Drawing by Charles Plogman.
The Scholastic ■
4
the week
by Jim O'Shea
Top of the WEEK
Tragedy of the spring semester: Goldblatt Brothers have said “Au Revoir”. . .
The Question is—
Why in the world do they call this column THE WEEK? It’s been bothering me for some time, now. I keep wondering just what WEEK it refers to. Was it last WEEK, or the WEEK before, or the WEEK before that, or what? Seems to me they ought to start calling this column “the MONTH.” That’s about how often the Scholastic goes to press, anyhow. If the issues were any less frequent, we’d be competing with the Dome as a student annual. Oh, well, it’s nice to get back into print for a change, anyway.
But Baby, it’s cold outside—
' Many moons ago, a group of the more | hardy variety of St. Mary’s girls got !l||	together and decided to pray a novena.
4 The idea behind the whole thing was to .1 get God to shower down some snow for the Winter Carnival. It hasn’t stopped snowing since. I do not know whether or not the girls have ended their novena, A but I’m worried sick that they might start another one, if provoked. It’s 'i frightening! I have always believed ' that the man who writes the WEEK |:	should make it a point to jap St. Mary’s
V	girls, but now I’m not so sure. I’m
j	afraid that any minute they might get
1	angry and pray a deluge down on my
j	head. I’m not a very good swimmer.
1
i.	The exam saint
' £ Speaking of prayers, by the way, a t new patron saint has been added to the list at ND. He’s Saint Joseph Cupertino, i'	and he’s the patron saint of examina-
[	tions. Saint Joseph, it seems, had a
j pretty rough time in school, and whenever he took an exam, he prayed that God would let his professors ask only / the questions that he had studied. God । granted his wish, and St. Joseph Cuper-| tino got a pretty fabulous average, I ! guess. At any rate, if you pray to him £ before an exam, St. Joseph can intercede I for you and get the right questions put on your exams.
r' The process doesn’t work for everybody, though. There	still isn’t	any
’	patron saint for guys who don’t	study
|	at all. (damit!)
t
j	The Last Lap
I But enough of this talk about (ugh!) J	studying. After all, it’s a brand new
I semester, so why spoil it with talk of
L ® February 11, 1955
books? Besides, for a lot of us seniors, it’s the semester we’ve all been waiting for. The semester foi' fun and frolic— the semester that doesn’t count on your final average! The boys have been waiting for this one for a long time. One Fisher Hall man on the Dean’s List isn’t due back until some time in March. The men with girls across the way have been trying to cram all the dating time they can into one semester—it’s the “big push” before graduation. They pack lunches early in the morning and head for the Dixie, and you don’t see them again until lights out. Other* seniors, without romantic commitments, are spending their evenings downtown, enriching a couple of enterprising fellows by the name of Joers. In short, it is a semester of gaiety and laughter, the semester of few classes and fewer worries—or at least it was until something terrible happened.
The Administration, you see, has taken steps to see that senior's don’t get as much fun out of this semester. A new decree from some committee or other provides that seniors with an 85 average or better in any subject don’t have to take the final exam in that subject. This, at first glance, seems like a harmless rule, but it’s not. It’s diabolic! The effect it’s having on seniors is tremendous. We don’t know whether to go wild or not. The question is: “Should I study and get out of exams, or should I go down and have a beer, and take my exams like a man?” No one seems to know the answer. I personally recommend the latter course, and I intend to follow it, and disrupt this devilish scheme—that is, if someone will join me. It won’t be much fun to take exams all by myself.
Flub of the WEEK
This WEEK’s flub was committed by a Saint Mary’s girl, whose name I cannot mention, for reasons of personal safety.
It seems that one of the troops wrote to this young lady, asking her for a date—two weeks in advance. Her reply was a true classic. “Dear John,” it read, “I received your letter inviting me to go out with you two weeks from now. Thank you ever so much for the invitation, John, but I’m afraid I won’t be able to make it. I think I’m going to have to study that night.”
(Now there, my friends, is a girl with foresight!)
A Valentine ’
Since St. Valentine’s Day is next Monday, I’ve decided to commemorate the occasion with a few lines of trite doggerel, which I dedicate to my	i
“friends” across the Dixie. Here they	;
are.	’
Oh, belles of St. Mary’s, my love I	;
present you.	i
The insults I fling are unable to	’
dent you.	■
I’ve baited and stabbed you, I’ve	i
laughed and I’ve scorned you,	1
And deep in your sides, I’ve maliciously thorned you.
But still you’ve been sporting, and friendly to boot—
When what I deserved was a poke in the snoot!
You’ve been lovely and kind, and you never complain,
And I’ve always tried to afflict you ! with pain.	j
It’s a sin and a shame, girls, that j I’m such a jerk,
But it’s only because fate has dealt me a quirk.
For although being mean to you really bereaves me,
When I’m kind and sweet to you, nobody reads me.
And although I’m revolting when I’m such a snob,
Unless I continue, I’ll be out of a job.	j
So if you’ll	excuse me, I’ll shed a	I
sad tear,	|
And go on being nasty—the rest of the year.
(I should have put that on another page. I hate to let anyone know I wrote it.)
The Safari
I hear the “Safari to Chicago” had a rather dry oasis for a camping ground. ’Tis a shame, lads, that there wasn’t enough liquid refreshment to brighten up the. caravan. Even the hardiest Arabs can’t subsist on dates alone, (yuk-yuk!)
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . but not good-bye.
5
^FARLUJ^OiDICK. by AL CAPP
calends
FEBRUARY 11
STUDENT CENTER (9 ’til 1)—The Spirit of the Mardi Gras becomes carnate tonight in the form of 500 festival seeking couples who will glide to the rhythms of the “Commanders” at the annual Mardi Gras Ball. You’d better polish your Mambo because there’s going to be plenty a-paradin’ around the ole dance tonight!
PALACE (ends tomorrow)—Many good leopard, rhino and crocodile clashes make for an exciting and entertaining sojourn West of Zanzibar with a couple of unknowns, Anthony Steel and Sheila Sim. J. Arthur Rank gets a pat on the back for this African safari. Women’s Prison should get life.
I, s‘
BUT MV NAME
IS
PRUDENCE
FEBRUARY 12
FIELDHOUSE (2 to 4 p.m.)—“Dad and His Boys” give out with the beat at the big Mardi Gras Jazz Concert. Bobby Brown’s “Spotlighters” and the “Forget-Me-Notes” get in the act too. Attention Dixieland enthusiasts: Hold onto your bonnets, the Fencing team doesn’t want a cluttered turf for its match afterwards. Tickets at the door.
DRILL HALL (7:30 to 11:30 p.m.)—The 1955 iMardi Gras Carnival opens its 25 booths with the official ribbon-cutting by University officials and guests at half-past. The annual pre-Lenten splurge will feature a St. Mary’s encore called the “Roaring Twenties” (I hope that doesn’t refer to Juniors!) and a group of Hawaiian entertainers for local sun-starved wahaniies. Mr. Joseph LaFortune has generously promised to double the take-in, gang, so let’s see some spirit at the booths!
WASHINGTON HALL—Roman Holiday starring Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn.
g
FEBRUARY 13
STUDENT CENTER (4 to 7 p.m.)—Darndole Cupid should get a lot of practice as the sociably select swoon at the “Sweetheart Social” with music by Don Gels. I have sure-fire Valentines for sale to those who are yet dubious about then- dates.

ATALLT1MES.7 NOW, I WILL BE A CREDIT TO the department; ON THE FRONT
PAGEZr-fiET
FEBRUARY 14
WASHINGTON HALL (8 p.m.)—Noted author and theologian, Frank Sheed, will return to the University to deliver a lecture on “New Apologetics.” The lecture is being sponsored by the Department of Religion and all are invited to attend.
FIELDHOUSE (7:30 to 11:30)—Mardi Gras Carnival continues as the fun-seeking Irish bid for new festival proceeds record.
COLFAX (through Feb. 18)—James Stewart and Ruth Roman star in Far Country. The good outdoors gets a NOT so good, mill-run story treatment but achieves some strong values in its wild north individuals. Corinne Calvet adds a little glamour—much mush.
SPECIAL ADVICE:
FEBRUARY 15
FIELDHOUSE (11:30)—Mardi Gras Carnival comes to a close with the awarding of the grand prize automobiles and other gifts.
ONLY A CREAM DRESSING GROOMS ) HAIR THE NATURAL WAYf -------'
ABSOLUTELY NON-AICOHOLIC. WITHONPf NATURAL INGREDIENTS!
BUY AMERICA'S TAVORtTE!
FEBRUARY 16
WASHINGTON HALL (8 p.m.)—Fr. Harvey and his fine theatre group presents their first of the year and one guaranteed to entertain with a capital E. Cyrano de Bergerac will traipse the playhouse stage in the form of one Gene Gorski, while the fair maiden Roxanne will be played by Miss Gayle Baumer from St. Mary’s. The play will run through Sunday and tickets may be purchased before each performance at the door.
RIVER PARK (one day only)—The Mikado comes back with its original film cast. Worthwhile.

FEBRUARY 17
PALACE (through Feb. 23)—Ten Men Wanted and Women’s Prison. Randy Scott is the whole story in the “kill-everybody” Western topping the bill. That second one should get life.
6
The Scholastic ®
Edi tot '$ Ptye
At Least $15,000!
Support the Mardi Gras! It will take an anticipated minimum of $50,000 —and probably more—to rebuild and decorate the basement of the Student Center following the plans outlined in the January 14 Scholastic. It has definitely been decided to decorate the main lounge in a rathskellar motif. The money to do the whole job will, if this year’s Mardi Gras earns at least $13,000, come from the student-raised funds matched by Mr. Joseph LaFor-tune. There is already $26,000 available from last year’s proceeds matched by Mr. LaFortune. The first Mardi Gras, in 1948, made a profit of $35,000; let’s try to make at least $15,000!
Help Wanted!
The failings and supposed failings of the University Library come under fire fairly often in bull sessions around the campus. But they rarely get beyond that stage, for few complaints, questions or suggestions for improved service are brought to the attention of Mr. Victor Schaefer, the director of the Library, or the librarians.
Mr. Schaefer has expressed the desire for anyone with complaints, questions or suggestions for improved service to see or communicate with him. This would aid him greatly in seeing the Library’s deficiency in its service and enable him to attempt some method of improvement. Mr. Schaefer believes the Library’s job is to give the best possible service to its users, especially undergraduate students.
In order to secure information that would be helpful in improving the service, the Student Senate will soon install a Suggestion Box in the Library. If students and faculty members will use this box, Library conditions will probably improve. Anyone who wants an answer to a complaint or question will receive it if he includes his name and address.
Among the complaints students often voice in student discussion is that every book requested at a given time was out. This is often the case, for several students may want the same books. And, since there is no limit on the number of books a person may withdraw, one person may have all the desired books. To avoid this, the Library would like to have some advance notice from professors about books they will be recommending for student research. This information would enable the Library to mete out the books to more than one person. Until this cooperation is secured, the Library will continue its policy of putting the person on a waiting list and inform him when the book is returned. If the record of the book cannot be found, Mr. Schaefer urges students to demand that they be traced, since it is the Library’s duty to know where the books are.
Fines are a control measure, rather than a punitive one. Since higher fines were instituted, the number of overdue books has appreciably decreased, according to' Mr. Schaefer.
Another means of avoiding the problem of finding all desired books withdrawn is to enlist the librarians’ help in finding other suitable books. All too often this is not done, though the service is available.
If there is definite need for more copies of a book or for a book not in the Library, it is prepared to purchase books provided they are of substantial worth and valuable to have in the Library. Here is another place where help is needed—in the recommendation of books.
Undergraduate students are not allowed free access to the stacks for several reasons. The Library handles a large volume of books every day and it wouldn’t be feasible to allow this free access. There has to be a system of control whereby all books withdrawn will be checked out at the desk. Books taken from the shelves for perusal might be misplaced by not being returned to the right place.
The Library is still in the process of reorganizing its physical setup. When this is completed late this semester or during the summer, Mr. Schaefer plans to open the stacks to student access as far as possible. He intends to start with the senior class and go down through the classes as far as efficient operation is possible. Perhaps this plan won’t work, but Mr. Schaefer wants to attempt it on a trial basis.
At the present time the policy of the faculty’s unlimited use of books is being discussed and an attempt is being made to establish a policy that will not violate the equal use of Library resources by faculty and students alike. It has been a long-time privilege for professors to withdraw books without any time restriction. Whether or not this privilege is being abused to a great extent is the subject of investigation.
There are almost 385,000 books in the Library. The better circulation and use of any of them can come through your criticism and advice.
7
February 11, 1955
IF YOU PREFER A BLEND
OF STRAIGHT BURLEY
Only Holiday gives you this custom blend for Mildness
Yes, five famous tobaccos skillfully blended into a mixture of unequalled flavor, aroma and mildness. These fine tobaccos selected from all parts of the world, are blended with a base of cool-smoking white burley. . . . Each tobacco adds its own distinctive flavor
and aroma to make Holiday America’s finest pipe mixture. We suggest you tiy a pipeful . . . enjoy its coolness, flavor and aroma... and see for yourself why more and more men who smoke mixtures are switching to Holiday as a steady smoke.
Only Holiday gives you this Heat-Sealed Wrap-Around Pack!
Holiday tobacco leaves our blending line with just the right moisture content for a cool, no-bite smoke. You can be sure every pouch will be that way when you open it, because Holiday is the only mixture which has the Wrap-Around pouch. No other pocket tin or pack will pass the “Goldfish Bowl” test. Try it yourself—it’s absolute proof that the Holiday pouch is sealed air-and-water tight, guaranteeing you a fresher, cooler-smoking tobacco. HOLIDAY
SMELLS GOOD—SMOKES GOOD
AMERICA’S FINEST PIPE MIXTURE!
Try Edgeworth— choice cool smoking white burley in the air-tight pouch. America’s finest pipe tobacco.
SPECIAL OFFERS
Get this new polished aluminum stem “Park Lane” pipe with interchangeable imported briar bowl and exclusive ‘’‘‘dri-dome” which traps moisture to insure a dry, cool smoke—along with 2 full-sized pouches of Holiday Tobacco. If your dealer cannot supply you, use this handy order blank.
Name._______________________________
Address______________________________
City State__________________________
Mail with $1.50 to Park Lane, Lams & BrotherContpany, Inc., Richmond, Va.
CM-2
The Scholastic
senousm
Volume 96, Number 12
Notre Dome, Indiana
February 11, 1955
‘CARNIVAL BALL USHERS IN WEEKEND FAIR
Bazaar. Jazz Concert Highlight Mardi Gras
A carnival air will pervade the Stu-• dent Center tonight as 500 Notre Dame men and their dates dance to the melodies of The Commanders from 9 to 1. The semi-formal ball will open the 1955 Notre Dame version of the festivities held annually in New Orleans.
At 11 p.m. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University, or Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, executive vicepresident, will crown Miss Ann Lee Tyler as “Queen of the Mardi Gra^ Festival,” and Miss Judy O’Brien, £ “Queen of the Mardi Gras Ball.” The home of Miss Tyler, the date of Festival chairman Tom Hayes, is Elmwood Park, Ill., and she is presently a sophomore at Rosary College, River Forest, Ill. Miss - O’Brien of River Forest, is a junior at Barat College in Lake Forest, Ill., and is the date of John Weithers, chairman of the Mardi Gras Ball.
Tomorrow afternoon from 2 to 4 p.m., a Dixieland Jazz Concert will be held in B the Fieldhouse. Included on the program will be Don Gels and his orchestra, Bobby Brown’s Spotlighters, the Forget-Me-Notes, and additional entertainment. A triangular fencing meet between Notre Dame, Buffalo, and Kentucky will immediately follow the concert. Tickets will be available at the door.
Cardinal Features 35 Booths
In the evening a ribbon cutting ceremony by either Father Hesburgh or ) Father Joyce in the Drill Hall at 7:30 p.m. will officially open the carnival. From then until 11:30 and again Monday and Tuesday nights, 25 booths 'will be open. These booths, sponsored by 20 campus clubs, three residence halls, Vetville, and St. Mary’s, will give students an opportunity to buy refreshments and participate in various games, while at the same time aiding the Campus Charity Chest and the Student Center Fund.
February 11, 1955
MISSES ANN LEE TYLER AND JUDY O’BRIEN
I Heard Them Say “Come To The Mardi Gras”
Other highlights of the Madi Gras will include the annual show presented by the girls of St. Mary’s whose theme this year will be ‘The Roaring Twenties.” Also a “Sweetheart Social” will be held in the Student Center Sunday afternoon from 4 to 7 with music by Don Gels and his orchestra. On Monday night a group of Hawaiian entertainers from a Chicago nightclub will be present to add to the festivities. And Tuesday night at 11 o’clock the carnival will be officially closed with the presentation of the grand prizes by Father Hesburgh.
Besides Hayes and Weithers, the chairmen of the various Mardi Gras committees are: Chuck Collins, jazz concert; Bob McAuliffe, business manager;
HUDDLE NOTICE
Beginning tomorrow evening, the Huddle will remain open from 8 to 11 every Saturday night.
Tom Armstrong and Jim Baker, carnival co-chairmen; and Harry Edelstein, grand prizes.
Cai- permissions and 2 o’clock residences have been secured for the ballgoers. No corsages will be permitted.
Tom Hayes, general chairman of the Mardi Gras, announced that dance favors will be presented for the first time at the Carnival ball.
'Arabian Nights' Theme Wins ; Junior Prom Bid for Madigan
John Madigan of Dillon Hall has been j named winner of the Junior Prom Theme I Contest held the past two weeks. Fol- j lowing Madigan’s idea, “A Thousand and One Nights,” this year’s Junior Prom-Goers will “trip the ’light fan- ! tastic” amid the splendor of an Aladdin’s j Lamp Land.	j
As originator of the novel conception, j Madigan will work on the decorations j along with the Decoration Committee -headed by Nick Mavigliano and will receive a free bid to the affair.
9
Grant Increase of 55 Percent Is Announced; Foundation Obtains Over Two Million Dollars
Notre Dame received a total of $2,-289,113.94 in gifts and grants during 1954, it was reported recently by Kev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation. This figure represents an increase of approximately 55% over the 1953 total of $1,470,851.13.
More than half of Notre Dame’s lay alumni contributed a total of $503,352.54 to their alma mater during the past year. These 10,135 alumni donors represented 50.1% of the University’s lay graduates as compared with 47.7% who participated in the 1953 alumni fund. The average alumni gift was $49.64, while the contributions of honorary alumni accounted for an additional $400,000.
Notre Dame received $675,171.83 from non-alumni friends during 1954, according to Father Cavanaugh’s report. Included in this category were the contributions of 179 American corporations and foundations, many of whom earmarked their gifts for the University’s Distinguished Professors Program. Government and industrial research grants during 1954 amounted to $710,589.57, an 18% increase over the previous year’s total of §602,734.18.
All unrestricted gifts to Notre Dame during 1954 were assigned to the University’s Faculty Development Fund, Father Cavanaugh noted. These unrestricted gifts, coupled with corporation contributions to the Distinguished Professors Program, totalled $456,215.21. Under this program, corporations from coast to coast are being invited to underwrite the addition of 45 eminent scholars to the Notre Dame faculty.
Among those who already have been added to the Notre Dame faculty are Ivan Mestrovic, the celebrated Croatian sculptor; Rev. Philip Hughes, the noted British Church historian; Dr. G. F. D’Alelio, former vice president of the Koppers Co., recently appointed head of Notre Dame’s chemistry department; Rev. Martin D’Arcy, S.J., renowned British philosopher and theologian; and Dr. Charles Brambel, internationally recognized biologist and biochemist, who will head the University’s Department of Biology beginning in September.
Also, Dr. Robert C. Turner, former presidential economic advisor, who has been serving as a visiting professor in the College of Commerce; Dr. Joseph Becker, research physicist at the Bell Laboratories, also a visiting professor; Dr. Vladimir Seidel, noted mathematician ; and Dr. Fritz Fischer, German historian.
Celebrated figures who have lectured
at Notre Dame since the Distinguished Professors Program was established include Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas, historian Arnold Toynbee, Sir Richard Livingstone and Dr. A. P. d’Entreves.
The Notre Dame Foundation was established in 1947. Since that time, the University has received more than $14,-700,000 in gifts and grants. During the same period seven major buildings were erected on the campus and the student body has grown from approximately 4,700 to 5,400.
SELECTIVE SERVICE TEST
Application blanks for the Selective Service College Qualification Test may be obtained at the Department of Guidance, Room 251, Main Building.
The test will be administered on April 21, 1955 and applications must be postmarked no later than midnight Monday, March 7, 1955. Students intending to register are urged to do so as early as possible.
University TV Station Appoints Chief Engineer
The appointment of George B. Smith as chief engineer of WNDU-TV, the University’s commercial television station, was announced here recently by Bernard C. Barth, vice president and general manager. The station will begin operations in mid-summer, Barth said.
Smith is a veteran of 17 years in radio and television and has supervised the construction of several radio and TV transmitters and the installation of a great variety of studio equipment. Since May, 1953, he has been associated with television station KEDD, Wichita, Kan., as its chief engineer. Smith has held key engineering posts at KGUL-TV, Galveston, Tex., and WSB-'TV and WAGA-TV in Atlanta. He also served briefly as an engineering consultant at XELD-TV, Matamoras, Mexico.
Prior to his entry into television engineering, Smith owned and operated radio station WGAP, Maryville, Tenn. During World War II he was an electronics engineer at the Oak Ridge atomic energy plant. A native of Morristown, Tenn., Smith attended the University of Tennessee. He is a member of the Institute of Radio Engineers and the Society of 'Motion Picture and Television Engineers and has been a licensed amateur radio operator since 1938.
Longtime ND Figure, J Fr. Ill, Passes Away $
Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C., a resident of Notre Dame for 70 years, died late last Friday at the age of 84.
He came to the university as a youth of 15 in 1885 and nine years later he was ordained. Father Ill went on to serve 60 years in the Congregation of Holy Cross, longer than any other priest. He was one of the few persons living who knew the founder of the University, Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C.
In 1887, as a seminarian, he taught German, and subsequently became the head of the Department of Modern Languages until October 1939. However, he remained a member of the faculty until 1952.
Father Ill, a beloved man on the campus, spent most of his 60 years as a priest at Notre Dame. But at one time £ he was president of St. Joseph College, Cincinnati, O., -where he completed most of his collegiate education. He also taught one year each at St. Edward’s University and the University of Portland.
Father Ill was also an avid sportsman. He witnessed the first Notre Dame football game against the University of Michigan in 1887, and missed few thereafter in the many years of his life. He also was a regular spectator at most of the home basketball and baseball games.
He saw the erection of every residence hall on the campus and was instrumental in introducing private rooms for college students. Sorin Hall was the first on campus of this type.
Funeral services for Fathei- Ill were held last Monday with Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., officiating. Father Ill was buried in the Community Cemetery on campus.
National Resources Meeting Discusses Economics of War
A group of nearly 500 civilians and military personnel met at the University Monday to begin a two-week National Resources Conference, being conducted by the Industrial College of the Armed Forces.
Classes are being held Monday £ through Friday to condense a ten-month course on economic mobilization in the event of war.
Classes, taught by members of the University faculty and held in the Engineering Building, are locally sponsored by the Committee of 100 of South Bend and Mishawaka, the city of South Bend, and Notre Dame in cooperation with the Ninth Naval District, the Fifth Army, and the Tenth Air Force.
10 -
The Scholastic ft
Senior Class Selects Bishop Sheen 'Patriot*; Awards to Be Given at Feb. 22 Exercises
Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, known to millions through his weekly “Life Is Worth Living” television program, has been named recipient of the “Second Annual Patriot Award” in balloting by Notre Dame’s Senior Class.
The noted prelate, who is auxiliary bishop of New York and national director of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith, follows FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover, who received the award last year. The award was established in 1954 to honor “an outstanding patriot who exemplifies the American ideals of justice, personal integrity and service to country.”
Presentation of the plaque and scroll, emblematic of the award, will be made to Bishop Sheen in “absentia” at the 106th Annual Washington’s Birthday Exercises of the Senior Class on Feb. 22 at 8 p.m. in the Drill Hall. Bishop Sheen’s television commitment will prevent his attending the convocation, but he is expected to send an acknowledgment of acceptance.
General Kenney to Speak
Gen. George C. Kenney, formei- commander of allied air power with the A Fifth Air Force in the South Pacific and Far East during World War II, will deliver the major address of the evening. General Kenney is now retired from military service and is currently president of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation. Rewarded for his service, Kenney received the Distinguished Service Cross with three oak leaf clusters, the Silver Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Purple Heart. General Kenney retired from the Air Force in August 1951 as a full general. He is married and the father of two children. General Kenney was previously awarded an honorary degree by the University and was a speaker at June commencement about ten years ago.
The Senior Class will continue the tradition of participating in the Washington Day Exercises. The 850 seniors will meet in the Fieldhouse at 7:15 p.m. - on Tuesday, Feb. 22. Roll will be taken at that time. The seniors will pass to the Drill Hall where they will enter in procession to the music of the Notre Dame Band. James Ehret, chairman of the event, will act as master of ceremonies.
Dick Burke, president of the Senior Class, will make the presentation of the “Second Annual Patriotism Award.” Burke will also read Bishop Sheen’s message of acceptance. Continuing a century-old custom, the Senior Class will
present an American flag to the University. The flag, which will be flown for the first time on the seniors’ graduation day, will be presented by Joe Daley, president of the Student Senate. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vicepresident of the University, will accept the flag for the University.
The Notre Dame Band will play two selections from the George Washington era during the course of the program.
The patriotism award is the second recognition that Notre Dame has given
BISHOP SHEEN
Patriot “in absentia” . . .
to Bishop Sheen. He was given an honorary degree in 1941. The 60-year-old prelate was ordained to the priesthood in 1919. After several years’ study in Europe, Bishop Sheen returned to the U. S. where he assumed the preaching job on NBC’s “Catholic Hour.” Regarded as an expert on Communism, Bishop Sheen wrote strongly against the evil long before it gained international attention.
Has Written Best Sellers
His work as an author has continued to gain recognition ever since he began writing in 1925. His more recent books, Three to Get Married and Life Is Worth Living have been national best sellers.
Last year’s Washington Day Exercises gained the support of 96 per cent of the Senior Class. Legitimate excuses accounted for absenteeism. This policy will again be followed this year. Seniors who will be unable to attend are asked to submit a written report to the Washington Day Committee in 123 Walsh Hall before Feb. 16.
James Ehret, a Program for Administrators senior from Chicago, is chairman of the committee. Sars Ford, a senior political science major from Bridgeport, Conn., is in charge of the physical facilities. Tom Bosse, a senior journalism major from Decatur, Ind., is head of publicity.
The entire student body and the faculty of the University along with St. Mary’s and the general public are invited to attend the exercises.
No ROTC uniforms will be required and all are requested to wear suits and ties for the ceremonies.
Fennelly Will Address IRC Conference Here
John Fennelly, an associate of Paul Hoffman in the Marshall Plan and other international relations projects, has been named to give the opening address before the Regional Conference of International Relations Clubs. The conference will be held here Feb. 26 and 27 under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame International Relations Club.
Fennelly, now associated with Glore, Forgan and Co., Chicago investment banking firm, has lectured widely on international relations.
Twenty Schools to Participate
Following the opening address, delegates from approximately 20 midwest-era colleges and universities will participate in a series of discussions on various problems in current international relations. Discussion topics will include East-West trade, tariff reductions, air power vs. land and sea power, “co-existence” with the Communist powers, admission of Red China to the United Nations, and the value of a rearmed Germany to the West.
In each discussion period, a paper on the subject will be read by one of the students and a general discussion from the floor will follow. An advisor from the Notre Dame faculty will sit in on each discussion. Faculty members with special knowledge of the discussion topics will be asked to participate as advisors.
Also on the agenda of the conference is a banquet at the Oliver Hotel and a mixer in the Student Center.
Approximately 200 students from four midwestern states are expected to attend. The midwestern region includes Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Michigan.
All sessions of the conference will be open to the Notre Dame student body, according to Jack Goetsch, Notre Dame IRC president and general chairman for the conference.	-.
Kassa
& February 11, 1955
11
Labor Secretary Mitchell's Talk to Keynote Union-Management Conference Here Feb. 25
“Constructive Industrial Relations” will be the theme of Notre Danie’s third annual Union-Management Conference to be held in Washington Hall Feb. 25.
Highlighting the conference will be an address by Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell and three panel discussions. Secretary Mitchell will discuss “The Labor Department’s Program for 1955.”
During World War II, Mitchell was director of the Industrial Personnel Division of the War Department where he dealt with labor and manpower problems affecting army contractors. On Oct. 9, 1953, he was appointed to the Cabinet by President Eisenhower.
Over 650 Expected
The problem of “What’s Ahead in Collective Bargaining?” is the subject of a discussion to be led by Robert H. Moore, regional director of the Federal Mediation Service in Chicago. J. Noble Braden, executive vice-president of the American Arbitration Association, New York City, will be moderator of anothei-panel which will consider “Arbitration of Discharge and Disciplinary Cases.” The third panel will explore “Some Recent Decisions of the National Labor Relations Board” with Nathan P. Fein-singer, permanent umpire of the General Motors-United Auto Workers contract’ in Detroit, serving as chairman.
More than 650 midwest industrial executives and union officials are expected
seven Workshops in Writing Slated for Summer Sessions
Seven workshops in writing will be conducted jointly by the Departments of English and Journalism during the summer session, the University announced recently.
The first series of workshops, June 20 through July 8, will include Writing Short Fiction, Teaching Students to Write for School Papers and Yearbooks, Writing Radio and Television Scripts and School Public Relations.
The second series, July 11 through July 29, will include Layout for School Papers and Yearbooks, Writing Magazine Articles and Writing Poetry.
Academic credit will be given to students enrolled in the workshops, according to Thomas J. Stritch, head, of the Department of Journalism, who has been appointed director of the workshop series. Other faculty members who will conduct the various sessions include Profs. Edward Fischer, John Nims, Richard Sullivan and James Withey.
to attend the sessions which are sponsored by the University’s Department of Economics in cooperation with the College of Law and the American Arbitration Association.
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., chair-
JAMES P. MITCHELL . . . for Better Relations
man of the conference, remarked that since the establishment of the UnionManagement Conference, participants have come to regard it as one of the foremost annual meetings of its kind.
Freshmen Choose Chairman, Committee Heads for Frolic
Operations for the highlight of the freshmen social season, The Freshman Frolic, have been started with the appointing of the dance committee.
In selecting the chairman of the dance the freshman class officers interviewed some fifty applicants for the job and after much discussion chose David McMahon.
McMahon then chose his eight committee heads. They are: Frank Manze, business manager; Pat Kiley, ticket chairman; Gerry Pastula, entertainment; John Higgins, publicity; Nick Bartolini, refreshments; Bob Duffy, decorations; Henry McCarthy, Communion Breakfast; and Dave Kubal, accommodations.
The date of the dance has been set for Friday April 29, and will be held in the Student Center. The band for the dance is yet to be decided on but should be announced shortly.
Soranno Will AHend || NY Advertising Meet
Jack Soranno, a senior in the College V of Commerce and a marketing major, I will represent the University at the B Fifth Annual Inside Advertising Week 1 to be held in New York, April 17-22. n
Soranno will be one of the 75 students 1 from the leading universities in the U.S. ’ to participate in the Inside Advertising j Week. Sponsored by the Association of § Advertising Men and Women, the five- | day program will give the visiting stu- i dents a clear picture of the advertising i business and its place in the merchan- \ dising of American products.
During their stay the participants j will visit some of the top business organizations and will hear addresses i of company presidents, advertising managers, and other leading executives.
Among the firms contributing to the Inside Advertising Week are: General Electric Co., Esso Standard Oil Co., National Broadcasting Co., and Me Graw-Hill Publishing Co., Inc.
On their return to their respective ; universities the students will be required to make a written report of the । trip and submit it to the Association of Advertising Men and Women. This re- J port plus the special committee’s ob- ] servations of their stay in New York will be used as the basis for the selection of the Outstanding Advertising P Student of America. The winning student will be awarded a scroll while his < university will receive a cash prize of $100 to be used for promotion of the advertising department.
Soranno was chosen to represent S Notre Dame in the Fifth Annual Advertising Week on the basis of his grades and his general overall ability * in the field of advertising. Members on the selection board were Dean James P McCarthy, Assistant Dean Edmund * Smith, and Profs. Ronald O’Neill, John Malone, and G. Herbert True. Runners- f up for the award were Dick Huether, John Gits, Tim Norton, and Jerry Hig- । gins.	;
MARRIED STUDENTS
A recent decision of the Local Council of the University requires all :> students who marry after Jan. 31, I j 1955 to live off-campus, even ’ though they do not have an established home in the locality of the University. This directive is not retroactive, however.
It was also decided by the Council that undergraduate scholarship I aid and other financial aid, except that applying toward tuition, is to be limited to unmarried students.
The Scholastic Pl


12
Piastre to Conduct Longine Symphonette * ln Varied Semi-Classical Program Feb. 21
Mishel Piastre will direct his famous Longine Symphonette at the Drill Hall Feb 21 at 8:15. This presentation by the Concert and Lecture Series will feature the Symphonette performing a program of semi-classical music.
Since its inception in New York in w 1941, the organization with a repertoire V ranging from classical to lighter selections has copped the Musical America magazine’s “Top Award” five times belt. sides being acclaimed as the finest concert ensemble in radio for five con-■ secutive years.
Try to Play Original Score
The policy of the orchestra from its beginning has been to play every piece of music as far as possible from the origi-nal score. Its more than 2500 compositions have provided entertainment for listeners of the CBS radio network in the United States and Canada besides countless others in the concert-tour circuit.
Opening the program, the Sympho-. nette will play the overture to The Marriage of Figaro by Mozart, followed by Mishel Piastre in unison with three violinists playing the Aria by Bach and the Finale from Violin Concerto in E minor. Continuing its rendition of the " semi-classics the Symphonette will present Valse Triste by Jean Sibelius. The first half of the concert will close with the playing of four movements from Don Gillis’ Symphony No. 5Vi.
■* The Symphonette will return after intermission with the playing of Rococo Variations by Tschaikowsky featuring a solo by cellist Richard Kay. The performance will continue with the beau-tiful White Peacock by Griffes and Brahms’ Two Hungarian Dances. Mishel Piastre and the Symphonette will conclude their performance with the Emperor Waltz by Strauss.
Advance ticket sales are now in progress in each of the residence halls until noon of Feb. 21. Student tickets may be purchased for $.75 during this advance sale only. All ticket prices will be $1.50 at the door the night of the performance.
• ........................................
ATTENTION JUNIORS!
Invitations for the Junior Class Parent-Son Weekend being held March 18, 19, 20, will be out next Monday. All juniors whose parents do not receive an invitation please notify Dan Devine in 324 Dillon Hall.	i
February 11, 1955
Faculty and off-campus students may obtain tickets in the dean’s offices of the Engineering, Commerce, and Law
MISHEL PIASTRO “Time Honored” Maestro
Buildings, respectively; Room 345 of the O’Shaughnessy Building; Father Sheehan’s office in the Biology Building; and Mr. Boyle’s office in Nieuwland Science Hall.
AFROTC Cadets Named For Engineering Award
Two AFROTC cadets were nominated recently for national awards made annually by the Society of American Military Engineers.
Cadets Thomas A. Sutherland and Walter J. Gill, both electrical engineering majors, were nominated by a local board of officers to be considered for the two awards presented every year to the “Outstanding Engineering Student of his Group in the AFROTC unit.”
Forty awards, each the Society's Gold Medal with Key Replica, are presented. Twenty are awarded AFROTC students in the next-to-last-year of their engineering course, the remainder to twenty in the last year of the same type of course. Status of class year is stipulated this way instead of in the terms “junior” and “senior” year, so as to make those eligible who are enrolled in both the four-year and the five-year engineering courses.
Cadets Sutherland and Gill will be competing with two other nominees from every other college or university that has the AFROTC program. On this basis, there will be 187 other units or 374 other AFROTC candidates majoring in engineering in the contest.
TUTORING
All students who wish to tutor during the present semester must register at Room 140, Main Build* •ng.
Aspiring tutors must be on the Dean’s List or have a 90 average in the particular course and a letter from their professor to the effect that they are qualified to teach it.
The rate for tutoring is. $1.50 for undergraduate and $2 for graduate students.
Clergymen Contribute To Book on Apostolate
Leading members of the hierarchy and distinguished laymen are contributors to Bringing Souls to Christ, a symposium on methods of recruiting and winning converts to Catholicism. The new volume has been edited by Rev. John A. OBi-ien, a leader in the convert movement in America and author-in-residence at Notre Dame. It has just been published by Hanover House, Garden City, N. Y.
Francis Cardinal Spellman in the introduction recommends the book as one which “shows how every Catholic can do something by his example, by his words and works to bring Christ into the minds and hearts of those who know Him not, the noble and Christlike objective of the lay apostolate.”
Chicago’s Cardinal Stritch heads the list of eleven contributors to the volume with a chapter stressing the necessity of an inquiry class in every parish. Among others who have contributed to the volume are Clare Boothe Luce, U. S. ambassador to Italy; Boston’s Archbishop Cushing; Bishop John J. Wright of Worcester; Bishop William O. Brady of Sioux Falls; Monsignor Thomas J. McCarthy; Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C.; Rev. Edward F. Garesche, S.J.; Anne Haverty; and Edmond LeBreton. In addition to editing the book, Father O’Brien has contributed a section on the crusades for souls that have been conducted in many dioceses. He also summarizes all the significant developments in convert work in recent years.
According to Father O’Brien, the volume covers every important phase of the convert apostolate and is designed especially to. show how every Catholic lay person can interest a churchless neighbor in his faith, bring him to an inquiry class and help him enter the Church. While pointers are given for priests and religious, the work seeks primarily to enlist the layman and to show him how he can win at least one convert a year, Father O’Brien said.
Il
FATHER PUTZ AND INSTITUTE COMMITTEE
Ready Program for Annual Senior Marriage Series
Fitzpatrick, were just added to the list of speakei’s. They were not previously scheduled. The Fitzpatricks, with theii^ family of nine children, live in St. Leo’s parish on the South Side of Chicago.
Mr. Fitzpatrick, a lawyer, served with his wife in the Pre-Cana Conference at which they were lay speakers. They have been active in the Christian Family Movement and are past presidents of the movement in Chicago. Their talk will attempt to show how all the preceding lectures can be integrated to • constitute a plan for life that will make! for a successful marriage.
The 1955 Marriage Institute student committee is headed by Eon Kueber, chairman. Edward Kelly handles special arrangements; Rick Hicks, publicity and promotion; and Don Robinson, printing. Pete Gantert is the financial manager, while Paul LaFreniere, representing the Blue Circle, handles ticket sales. Phil Powell is taking care of the physical set-up and coffee time, and" Dick Burke, president of the Senior class, is acting as advisor. The Blue Circle will handle the ushering.
Marriage Institute Tickets Go On Sale Feb. 16; Seven Sessions Open Primarily to Seniors
Tickets for the seventh annual Marriage Institute will go on sale next Wednesday and Thursday in all the senior halls from 5 to 7 p.m. Off-campus seniors and graduate students can purchase their tickets in the bus shelter from 12 to 1 p.m. on the same two days.
For the price of one dollar all seniors, graduate students, engaged and married students will be entitled to hear a total of seven lectures to be held in Washington Hall, the first one-beginning Feb. 23. Upon conclusion of each lecture a question-and-answer session will take place. Following this session there will be an informal coffee hour in the Student Center where the visiting speaker will be invited to meet the audience.
For Better Preparation
The purpose of the Marriage Institute was adequately expressed by one of the proposed speakers, Frank O’Dowd, upon accepting the invitation to talk at the Institute. He said, “This graduate (class of 1942) and his wife will be motivated toward the assignment by our mutual love for Notre Dame and inspired by our understanding of Our Lady’s great desire to have ‘her men’ well prepared for marriage and family life.”
The Institute is made possible through the united efforts of the Department of Religion and the senior officers. Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., representing the department of Religion, is responsible
14
for the Institute’s being able to present the program of distinguished speakers that it does. Father Putz also acts as advisor and counselor on the topics.
Begun as an elective course on Christian marriage the Institute was attended by 30 or 40 seniors during its initial year. It achieved increasing popularity until last year more than 850 seniors attended the lectures.
Program Topics Listed
The following schedule gives the list of topics and the respective speakers, each of whom is an expert on his particular subject:
Feb. 23—Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd, Male and Female Psychology (emphasis on how to understand women).
Mar. 2—Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Finding and Winning the Girl.
Mar. 8—Dr. Louis B. Leone, M.D., • Doctor's Point of View (preparations for marriage, honeymoon, pregnancy).
Mar. 15—Rev. Thomas B. McDonough, Sex in Marriage (discussion of sex morality and what is allowed and what is forbidden in marriage).
Mar. 22—Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe, Love in Marriage (elements that make for a lasting marriage).
Mar. 29—John J. Kane, Ph.D., Social Pressures and Family Life.
Mar. 31—Mr. and Mrs. Petei- Fitzpatrick, Success in Marriage and How to Be Happy with Children.
The concluding speakers, Mr. and Mrs.
ND Faculty Members Give Poetry Readings
Three Notre Dame faculty members will be among five midwestem poets to read from their works in a series sponsored by Indiana University Center this _ semester.	"
John Frederick Nims, associate professor of English, will open the series tonight, from 8:30 until 9:30 in the downtown Y. W. C. A. on Lafayette Blvd. Professor Nims returned last fall from a two-year Fulbright Scholarship in Italy, and will include in his readings poems written there in addition to his translation of the works of St. John of the Cross and his two published volumes, £
Ernest Sandeen, associate professor w of English, will read some of his poetry Friday evening, Feb. 18; and on the following Friday, Feb. 25, John Logan of the General Program, whose first volume of poems will soon be published by Grove Press, will render selections from his collection.
On successive Fridays, March 4, and March 11, two Chicago poets, Galway Kinnell and Pulitzer prize-winnei* Gwendolyn Brooks will appear.
This series presents verse recitations, and commentaries by these outstanding American poets. The poets will offer their views on the recent developments in American poetry as well as reciting from their own works.
All those who wish to attend may do so by paying a $3 registration fee which will cover the five lectures. Programs of poetry recited and bibliographies will be made available at the door.
- The Scholastic Di
Irish Speakers Embark on Busy Schedules; e Varsity Debaters Trek to William and Mary
Competing in the Marshall-Wythe Invitational Tournament, the varsity debate team begins the second semester at William and Mary College, Williamsburg, Va. Feb. 11 and 12. Charles Doherty and Pat Curran, Oskaloosa, la., sophomore, will advocate diplomatic recognition of Communist China, while I Allan Riley and Dick Schiller will defend the negative.
The squad, which compiled a first semester record of four undisputed first places and two ties for that honor, will meet the outstanding teams in the East. Included among them are the University of Pennsylvania, Harvard, Princeton, Penn State, Ohio 'State, Georgetown and Virginia. Notre Dame will attempt to add to the four permanent trophies, 10 » certificates of “superior” and 40 awards of “excellent” acquired last semester, the most successful one in its forensic history.
On Friday evening, Feb. 11, Team President Doherty will participate in a forum discussion of the United Nations as an instrument for world peace. The
Announce Committee For Parents Weekend
forum will be moderated by Sir Percy Spender, K.B.E., Q.C., Australian Ambassador to the United States.
Feb. 10, Gerry Garvey will defend Notre Dame’s Indiana State Oratorical Championship at Franklin College. His topic will be “The Lamp Is Yet Lit,” an analysis of present-day problems in the light of past solutions. That same evening Jack Martzell, Paul Coffey, Jerry Brady and Richard Ninneman will debate the Indiana Home Rule bill now before the legislature. Their audience will be the annual convention of the Indiana Office Managers Association, to be held this year in the Hoffmann Hotel. Emphasizing the fact that all four are freshmen, Prof. Leonard Sommer repeated his invitation to all those interested in debate to attend the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday meetings held at 4:30 in the Student Center forensic room. He pointed out that 28 freshmen had been used in forensic activity during the first semester.
Rounding out an extensive weekend schedule four other team members will discuss the Chinese Communist question before the Center Township PTA on Feb. 10.
At the invitation of the Sierra Club of Detroit, Gerald Garvey, Jerry Brady, Pat Curran and Paul Coffey will debate the causes of juvenile delinquency on Feb. 15. Moderator for the group will be Joseph Saunders, senior from Amarillo, Tex.	'
Frank Sheed, Noted Author, Will Lecture Here Monday
Mr. Frank Sheed, noted lecturer and publisher, will speak on “The New Apologetics” next Monday night at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Sponsored by the Department of Religion, the lecture will be open to both students and faculty. There will be no admission charged.
Famed as a lay theologian, Sheed was bom in Australia. After his graduation from the University of Sydney, he went to England where he founded the international publishing house of Sheed and Ward.
An author of note, he has written numerous books, among them Map of Life, Communism and Man, Theology and Sanity, and Sidelights on the Catholic Revival.
During the past 25 years, Sheed has given more than 3,000 addresses, both indoors and on street comers, in England and America.
Dan Devine, Junior Class president and general chairman of the annual Juniors’ Parent-Son Weekend, recently announced the committee for this March 18-20 event.	'
Ed Spengeman, class vice-president, is in charge of hotel reservations while Clem O’Neil, class secretary, is handling Dining Hall arrangements. Publicity and program chairman is junior treasurer Jack Casey.
Dick Lewis represents the Blue Circle and will be in charge of campus tours. Representatives have been selected from the various colleges to be in charge of “open houses” at each of the schools. They are: Phil Agee, Arts and Letters, Jim Kraemer and Jack Engler, Commerce, Al Vitt, Science, and Fred Brins-kelle and John Gschwind, Engineering.
Invitations will be sent to all parents around Feb. 14. The first 65 who return these invitations will be accommodated at the Morris Inn. The remaining parents will be housed in downtown hotels.
Besides the college “open houses,” plans for the weekend include: a tour to LOBUND and the rest of the campus, a parents’ and sons’ lunch in the Dining Hall and the President’s Dinner 'Saturday evening with Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, as the principal speaker.
January AFROTC Grads Get Commissions
Mid-year graduations brought mid-year commissions to these five Air Force ROTC cadets in informal ceremonies recently. Col. Milton M. Towner, professor of Air Science, congratulates, from left to right, 2nd Lieutenants John P. Lee, Joseph A. Boivin, Robert N. Burns, Robert E. Ready, and Paul F. Mooney. Lt. Ready has been assigned to the National Guard in the District of Columbia; Lts. Lee, Boivin, Burns and Mooney are scheduled for pilot training in May.
February 11, 1955
15
The well-worn stage of Washington Hall has been the scene of Notre Dame theatricals for many years. Each of these productions has presented a myriad of difficulties to fevered directors who, by ingenious methods, have moulded them into smooth-running performances.
Next Thursday’s offering of Cyrano de Bergerac, too, presented a list of seemingly insurmountable obstacles for Director Edward Doyle. The Renaissance cavalier Cyrano is best known for his ponderous nose; this must be delicately shaped and molded on the actor before each performance since few actors have such a nasal edifice by birth.
Need Swordsmanship and Poise
But Cyrano was more than a nose. He was a master swordsman and consequently every actor who takes his part must handle the steel blade with realistic dexterity. The imitation Cyrano must exhibit a debonair manner, a melancholy wit, and an air of intellectual superiority, for the real Cyrano had all of these.
However, the shaping of a Cyrano is not the only difficulty concerned in the drama. The five-act play requires a large amount of stage scenery, the training of the big cast in 17th century customs, and the acquisition of a voluminous amount of Renaissance costumes and accessories.
Director Doyle and the University Theater staff waded into the problems more than two months ago. The first j bit of luck was in getting veteran Gene ; Gorski for the title role.
Many talented actors have appeared i in Washington Hall, but few more ver; satile characters have ever graced the ; Notre Dame stage than Gorski who gave stellar performances in Kiss Me, Kate
I 16
Cyrano
More Than a Nose
By GERARD
and The Lady’s Not For Burning last year.
This may be Actor Gorski’s last University Theater performance as he graduated this February from Graduate School.
To fix Gorski’s nose, a series of operations will be necessary. The first will entail softening nose putty, by working it in the hand, and applying it to Gorski’s own nose. The second operation is the most tedious—forming the nostrils and shaping the curve, making it two and three-fourths inches from tip to lip. After the lines and bumps are most delicately set, the putty dries—and Cyrano, 1955 Washington Hall, comes to life.
To achieve the Cyrano characterization, Gorski has been reading, studying pictures, and listening to music of Cyrano’s era. He has had extra daily practices with the director to learn the interpretation of Cyrano’s numerous antics. At one time, he is a being from a
TICKET PRICES
The following admission prices have been announced for the performances of Cyrano de Bergerac: Public—$1.50 and $1.
Students—$.75 and $.50.
Faculty and employees—$1 and $.75.
different planet; at another time, he is a belligerent dictator; again, he speaks the soft words of a lover. These changes demanded voice control, hours of practice, and detailed study of the character.
Gorski’s practice schedule included one thing that the other actors do not have—a workout in “the Rock.” Cyrano is a master swordsman, not just a bluffing blade swinger. Gorski swam, did calesthenics and a number of other muscle-stretching exercises, and took fencing lessons from Jack Mooney, past captain of the Notre Dame fencing team.
The other actors’ schedule was not as strenuous as Gorski’s, but they, too, had to learn some of the mannerisms of the 17th century—the right way to use snuff, the graceful bow made to the ladies, the way to use a handkerchief, the sweeping gestures with a large, felt hat, and the ability to wear a sword easily.
Director Doyle has had previous experience with a number of Rosand’s other plays and has had to continue his re-

POTTEBAUM

search into 17th century music, art, and customs for this production.

Doyle’s goal in Cyrano is to “make	B
the people in the audience feel as though	|
they were living with Cyrano: they	I
should smell the bread in the oven, taste	j j
the meat hanging from the rafters, and £ , drink the brandy standing in the cupboard.” That takes three qualities Doyle | looked for in each actor: inventive abil- , ity, imagination, and physical stature.
Paperwork Came First
Doyle has had to consider limitations of the Washington Hall stage, too. The area of the stage that every person in the audience can see, including those next to the radiators, had to be deter- — mined; then the action on it had to be ™ devised.
For Cyrano, Doyle diagrammed the stage on paper, using a one-inch scale. He then went through the whole play, using the diagrams as his stage and pins for his actors. Before the rehearsals started, he was sure where he wanted 1 the actors to go.
During the first week of rehearsals Doyle worked on stage with the actors, while his assistant recorded their actual movements and the timing of the turns. W He often had to scurry from one actor to another, demonstrating a love scene with a Romeo of the 17th century or a big deal in a corner card game.
Once the blocking was completed, Doyle moved off the stage and directed from i the seats on the main floor. His assist
ant remained backstage, using the diagrams to prompt the actors.
This was the most difficult and trying phase in directing the play. The actors had great aspirations about how they would act their parts, and this wasn’t always the right interpretation. It had to be corrected. They had difficulty “imagining” sufficiently for the first few weeks. Perhaps the tall stool that was used for a rich-looking chandelier, or the two chairs used for a doorway, or the blank wall used for the balcony where a lovely girl stands, did not create the most favorable atmosphere: at this point, the stagehands were still building the sets—the sets that they will hide behind during the show.
The sets for Cyrano de Bergerac were not easy to build, but the diagrams, of the stage helped solve some of the problems of building them.
Edward Garzero, from St. Mary’s College Speech Department and one of Mr. Doyle’s assistants, has designed the (Continued on page 20)
The Scholastic
Four years ago this last Fall, a young man had just completed a shaky, yet successful first Victory Dance season as a trumpeter in Gene Hull’s band. A year later this more confident musician had purchased leadership of the band from his partner who was graduating from Law School. This year the now composed trumpet blower is enjoying his third and final year as 9 leader of the finest of all Notre Dame student orchestras.
This historical sketch refers to none other than Notre Dame’s Mister Music, Don Gels. The danceable music of his 16 Lettermen has gained the applause of all campus dancegoers.
However, the musical “Dad,” who will receive his degree in Business Administration in June, was by no means a newcomer to band circles his initial • year under Hull. During his high school days at Mt. Carmel in Chicago, Don directed a seven-piece aggregation.
Soft-spoken Don forgets about austerity on the stand when he goes into his jazz numbers. He started in the art as a soloist in Hull’s big jazz concert during his freshman year. “I like Dixieland jazz a lot,” Don says. “My favorite is the Saints. We also try to throw in modern jazz and semi-classical numbers like An American In Paris P and Street Scene.”
Speaking about the types of music currently popular among the dance bands, Don mentions, “We try to style our pieces after a combination of currently favorite styles. We don’t want to be repetitious of any particular one, though.”
Commenting on the latest crazes in tropical and jazz pieces, Don feels, “The fellows don’t go for them too much;
February 11, 1955
Dad and His Boys
By FRED ECKART
they want slow, danceable music and that’s what we try to give them.” But variety in rhythm is lacking by no means when Mr. Music and his Lettermen start rolling with favorite Charlestons, rhumbas, and waltzes.
What is perhaps the most baffling part of the Gels aggregation is the practice habits of the Lettermen. The whole band meets for combined practice only once a week—on Sundays in the Vet Rec Hall. Arrangements are then blushed up and numbers prepared for the coming engagements. Individually, 12 of the 16 band members are with the Concert Band and consequently practice practically every day. Gels is also the Veep of the Concert Band.
Many of the band members work with local bands during the summer respites; sax soloist Ed Pistey played at resorts like Cape Cod while guitarist Gene Bertoncinni was a student of Johnny Smith, the foremost jazz guitarist in the country at New York City’s Birdland.
Sedate Don, who is planning a career in music merchandising and public relations with large music houses, has hints from the masters on all his coat sleeves. He has brushed know-how from such famous leaders as Ray Anthony and Billy May, whose bandstands he shared during their visits here. He feels his biggest engagement was the Champions’ Ball last year when he shared the bandstand with Count Basie.
If ever there was a band man it is Gels. Once while the band’s drum was in transit to an engagement in Chicago the pedal broke. During the evening in their spare moments, Gels and his vocalist alternated beating the big bass drum manually to aid the busy drummer.
Four years ago no one could predict the course of Gels’ career. Today no one can help but see why he’s been so successful. He’s Mister Music right down to the last note.
As a soph in ’52.
17
THE INSIDE SCOOP ON,
a pseadn^historieal essay t
Ordinarily, when a bunch of guys from all parts of the United States pack up their collective belongings and move away to college, they begin to wonder just what they’re getting themselves into. There is undoubtedly something disquieting about just getting on a train and moving into a strange city. It is even more disquieting when the city happens to be South Bend. “What strange quirks of fate,” the senior is liable to ask himself, “are responsible for the happening of this odd city about me?” The freshman may put it even more bluntly—“What’s with this place, anyway?”
It is with the purpose of answering these questions that the Scholastic publishes this article. As a special public service to the many students who find “our town” a little bit confusing, we present an attempt to dig out the deepest secrets of the city to the south. Here, then, is the whole panorama of catastrophic events contributing to the build-up of the Michiana metropolis—a general history of the city of South Bend.
Explorer La Salle and His Hotel
“It All Started . . .”
It all started, fellas, in umpteen hundred B.C., when a group of primitive people called the mound-builders moved into the St. Joseph River valley. They were called “mound-builders” because they got a big kick out of building mounds (which, by the way, is neither here nor there). At any rate, they all gathered at the south bend of the river, and decided to settle down and build mounds. They did. This, fellas, was the beginning of our town. Some centuries later, the mound builders packed up and left, leaving their mounds behind them. No one knows why. It is my personal opinion that they began to realize just what they had started, and they decided to get out before it was too late. They haven’t been seen since.
The next band of settlers to enter the glorious (I got that adjective from a Chamber of Commerce article) St. Joseph valley were Indians, members of the Pottawatomie Chapter of the Miami Confederation. They settled down and started growing corn. The
Pottawatomies lived in peace for a few years, and then the Iroquois, led by a fellow named Snapping Turtle, came i along and decided to muscle in. This " precipitated a war between the Miamis and the Iroquois.
Big Indian War
Everything went along fine, as Indian wars go, until the decisive battle was being fought. The Miami chief, Frost-on-the-Leaves, chickened out, when he saw that the Iroquois were getting the better of the struggle, and de- g cided that he’d better do something, " quick. So, into the battle he strolled, carrying a peace-pipe, which he offered to Snapping Turtle. The latter, who went down in history as the greatest Indian weed-fiend of all time, accepted, and the war ended. It is again my personal opinion that the Iroquois did not consider the place worth fighting for, so they just quit. Thus ends South Bend’s first struggle for survival.
This just about ends the Indian era of domination, too, for soon the first i white man was to arrive on the scene. In 1675, Father James Marquette, the famous French missionary, paddled up the St. Joseph river, and stopped at the south bend settlement to talk to the Indians. Then he paddled on. Smart fellas, those missionaries.
On Comes LaSalle
Four years later, Rene Robert Chevalier, Sieur de La Salle, on one of his ' many tours of inspection, stopped off to trade with the Indians, and to use the portage. Having traded successfully, he continued his exploring, all the way down to Texas, where he was murdered by one of his men. This has nothing to do with South Bend, but I bet it makes a more interesting story.
After La Salle’s visit (by the way, they named a hotel after him), nothing -of any importance occurred until 1820. In the meantime, the Pottawatomies > kept growing corn, I guess. In 1820, however, Pierre Navarre arrived. Pierre Navarre was a trapper, scout, fur trader, and general handyman, of French descent. While Pierre was paddling down the St. Joseph, a cute little Indian girl caught his eye, so he tied up his canoe, married the girl, built a trading post and had six children. Already, South Bend had begun to grow.
The Scholastic .
CERTAIN LOCAL CITY
» south bend—by jlm o'shea
Navarre built himself a little cabin on the banks of the St. Joe, and lived “L there foi- quite some time. The cabin • has been preserved as a relic, probably because no one has ever been able to figure out how in the world Pierre got six children into it.
In 1823, things really began to pop. Alexis Coquillard, a tall, handsome Frenchman, arrived on the scene, and decided that Navarre’s fur trading monopoly should end. Alexis ended it simply by building a bigger trading post, and getting all the business. This • didn’t seem to bother Navarre, who was happy with his several acres of corn and his children, but it did bother Lathrop M. Turner, who arrived in 1827 and built an even bigger trading post. These two trading posts were the original beginning of South Bend’s “Great White Way,” which hasn’t changed much since.
Lathrop M. Turner was the first citizen of South Bend who knew how to read and write. It seems that culture was already permeating northern Indiana. Turner and Coquillard, although great rivals when it came to the trading business, turned out to be great ' friends when it came to developing their little settlement. I decline comment on whether this was good or bad, but the Turner-Coquillard friendship resulted in the city of South Bend—you draw the conclusions.
Southhold to South Bend
On March 28, 1831, Lathrop and Alexis bought a tract of land from the United States government, the land around their trading posts, to be exact. They called it Southold, and set up a post office in an abandoned cupboard at Turner’s trading post. The post office didn’t have to be any larger, because, as I mentioned before, Turner was the only inhabitant who could read or write. Later on, the name of the settlement was changed to South Bend, and that, fellas, is how our town began its modern era.
At this point, Pierre Navarre moved out. Pierre and his whole tribe of Pottawatomies decided that the whole thing was too much for them. Pierre died a short while later—probably of a broken heart.
Nothing much happened for a few years, I guess. I keep wondering what
happened to Coquillard and Turner after the Indians left. Who did they trade furs with? Not that it matters much to me, but it looks like South Bend might have strangled the business of its own founders.
The Hoosier Veep
In 1845, however, things started popping again, as South Bend greeted the arrival of a man who has been greatly honored—by South Benders—ever since. I speak of that noble gentleman, Schuyler Colfax. Schuyler Colfax arrived in our town with the intention of becoming a political bigwig. Somehow, he succeeded. Schuyler got his stai-t in South Bend by buying a newspaper. I guess it’s pretty easy to get a start anywhere, if you feel like buying a newspaper. Anyhow, Schuyler’s intention was not to make his paper a good newspaper, but to make it a Whig newspaper. This, he did. Soon, loyal Whigs all over the middle west were reading Schuyler’s newspaper, in order to find out how to think. Schuyler’s journal became the most influential political paper in the district. As a re
“We No Wantum This Place.”
ward for his efforts, Schuyler was sent as a delegate to the Whig conventions in 1848 and 1852.
Being a delegate helped 'Schuyler even though the Whig party was in its death throes. He met a lot of influential people, and it was probably through their advice that Schuyler espoused himself to the cause of republicanism. In fact, Schuyler became so violently republican that the Republi- ■ cans elected him to Congress in 1854.
To be awfully blunt about it, Schuyler Colfax wasn’t a bad congressman. As a matter of fact, he must have done pretty well at first, because he was re-elected quite a few times, and he was even made Speaker of the House three times in a row. If Schuyler had quit then, while he was ahead, no one would have anything to talk about. But Schuyler didn’t.
As the Civil War ended, U. S. Grant came marching victoriously home and decided to get himself elected president of the United States. As we all know, Grant succeeded, and when the final results came in, Schuyler Colfax found
February 11, 1955
19
himself in the office of vice-president. At the time, fellas, there was a lot of railroad building going on all over America. The Grant administration thought quite a bit of railroads, so railroad building was encouraged by generous government subsidies. A bunch of the boys in the Senate got together, and decided to get in on some of this easy money. They invested in a construction company called the Credit Mobilier and got some nice fat government contracts. The Credit Mobilier corporation didn’t do much when it came to building railroads, but it did pay some fantastic dividends.
When the scandalous goings-on were discovered, of course, Schuyler Colfax was a little bit embarrassed, so he fled back to South Bend with tears in his eyes, crying that it wasn’t his fault. I don’t know how many people believed him, but he moved out of South Bend a short while later, and went to Minnesota, where, presumably, he lived on his winnings.
So ends the saga of Schuyler Colfax, our- town’s greatest political figure. Now for some of the economic heroes.
Enter the Studebakers
South Bend was still a struggling little community in 1852, when Henry and Clem Studebaker arrived, and decided to settle down and build wagons. Henry and Clem were just about the world’s greatest wagon-builders, as anyone (from South Bend) null tell you. Their wagon industry began to grow and grow and grow, until the time came when the sign of wealth in the middle west was the ownership of a Studebaker wagon. Naturally, Henry and Clem got rich, and as they did so, they poured money into South Bend, in the vain hope of doing something with it. They should have invested in A.T.&T.
In 1855, a South Bender named James Oliver invented the chilled plow. They named a hotel after him.
It should be quite apparent, by this time, that our town was becoming quite an industrial center. As a matter of fact, says the Chamber of Commerce, there is no city of more diversified industries for its size in the U. S. According to the best references, South Bend manufactures automobile and aircraft accessories, men’s underwear, shirts, ties, hose, girls, lathes, punch and drill presses, more girls, wooden toys, fishing tackle, pretty girls, rods, deep well pumps, electrical equipment, skinny girls, structural steel, ball and roller bearings, pipe fittings, ; fat girls, tools, wallpaper, home laundries, athletic supporters, printing, cal-; endars, ugly girls, folding paper boxes, ; paint and varnish manufactures, medi-ocre girls, woodworking plants, munici-f 20 £
pal equipment, radios, strange girls, machinery, millwork, and (would you believe it?) girls.
As you can see, the city of South Bend was fast becoming a bigger dot on the map. It was the industrial hub of Indiana, and it still is (they tell me). And then, as time progressed down into our century, a great thing happened, a thing that was to make South Bend renowned and honored the world over.
And then ND
I purposely forgot to mention earlier that a man named Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., a great man to be exact, came to South Bend in 1842, with the purpose of founding a university. It is to Fr. Sorin’s everlasting credit that he had enough sense to move far out of town before he started building his university. This fine institution, the University of Notre Dame du Lac, became justly famous for its wonderful educational facilities and for its magnificent football teams. The city of South Bend, it seems, had enough sense to grow outward towards Notre Dame in the years between 1842 and now. Hence, South Bend has achieved fame and glory as “the city next to Notre Dame.”
And that, fellas, is the history of South Bend, Indiana.
CYRANO
(Continued from page 16) Cyrano sets so they will fit backstage and go through the doors, because there isn’t enough room backstage for all the sets.
To economize on space, a four-way unit set piece has been built, under the supervision of Mr. Fred Syburg of the Theater staff, who is technical director for the show. This structure is a rectangular affair used for the balcony of a theater, a seven-foot fireplace, a battle Scene, and an outdoor balcony of a house. It is strong enough to walk on, easily moved on large rollers, and small enough to slip snugly through the double door that is in the center of the backstage area.
The remaining sets will be regular ‘flats’ and will be finished with the effect of picturesque 1640 France by busy stagehands.
All parts of the costumes were designed by Garzero except the exquisite wigs, which were professionally made. Costume changes will probably be made by exact directors until curtain time.
And so, after the many difficulties of production have been put aside, which most likely will not occur until opening night, the University’s players will present to local theater-goers an evening of adventure in Seventeenth century French romance.
H UH Mike Chatter
Like anything else useful, or abuseful, WNDU interest has a history. In fact, considering the quality of its broadcasting, it might very well be said to be a criminal history.
Tradition has it that the local network had its beginnings when two embryo W Marconis attached a string between two tin cans and then held it tight and spoke through it. Gradually the static server evolved until it took on the call letters WND and operated from a spacious studio located between two punching bags in the Bengal Bouters room of the Fieldhouse.
Early in 1954 the campus station emerged as a full grown operation and changed to the present call letters of " WNDU. It occupies the most modern of studios in the penthouse of the O’Shaughnessy Aims. However the transmitter setup was still, for the most part, the same as it had been for the primitive structure in the Fieldhouse.
Something Like a Milestone
Today this column celebrates a milestone in WNDU history. Actually it’s not exactly a milestone, but something more like a two-hundred-and-fifty yard- 0 stone. What has come to pass is that the WNDU transmitter has been moved to a central location on campus, thus permitting only the very best in campuswide reception of the “Student Voice.” Now, this not only permits the germ-free animals at Lobund to hear the late afternoon news, but also prevents the programming from becoming distorted every time a uranium prospector stumbles through the heat tunnels where the 0 wires are laid.
No longer will the “Student Voice” be referred to as the “Student Whisper,” although after hearing some of the campus talent it wouldn’t be a bad idea if WNDU developed laryngitis on a few occasions. Fortunately this year’s programming has been making these occasions much less frequent.
As an example of the progressive type of radio format this year, there is A WNDU’s exclusive broadcasting of two * of the basketball team’s away' games. These will be the DePaul game of Feb.
26 and the Marquette contest of March 5. These will be announced by Joe Daley who, despite a myriad of other functions, has developed a style of sports broadcasting which has a verve and accuracy which is highly unique in the collegiate field. You can have these games only on WNDU—Bill Byrne
The Scholastic
The Showcase
Well Wire the Money
By DAVID KILKEARY
The story I’m going to tell may seem to some people a bit of phantasy, or at least unlikely to happen; this I don’t mind. In fact I wish it were phantasy; then I should be able to sleep nights.
My wife and I married late. She was thirty-seven. I was forty-two. We had never expected a child. That’s probably 1 • the reason we loved him as much as we 1 did. He was our life. Some people said that we spoiled him. Maybe we did. But that doesn’t matter now. Nothing matters now. He had a lively young life. Got into the usual scrapes in grade school. Even got expelled once. He was on the high school football team. He was planning to go to college when the war came. He still could have gone —except he went down and enlisted in the army. I don’t know exactly why •'^he did it, I don’t think he was the patriotic kind. I guess he just liked to be in on everything. Didn’t want to miss anything. He was always that way.
He was sent to Fort Dix for his basic training. From there he went to Europe. He was in the Sicily landing; all through Italy, and toward the end of the European war was in France. When the Germans surrendered I thought he would be home for good. He should have been in the States for a long rest. He should have been. But he wasn’t. Instead he was sent to the coast to embark for the Pacific. I think that he wanted to go. Why, I’ll never know. We didn’t hear from him for three months.
i News at Last
| Then one morning we received a letter 7^ from him. He said that he was wounded. That’s all. No details. Said that he was being sent home. The news that he was going to be sent home overshadowed the fact that he was wounded. I knew that in time he would be better. The human body has wonderful recuperative powers. He was coming home— that’s all that mattered. After that letter we spent two weeks in yearning. Yes, that’s the right word. We yearned for him. You see he was our whole
^'February 11, 1955
life. The only child that we had. We wanted to give him so much. We wanted to see him so much. The thought that he would be home soon was all we lived on for those two weeks.
Every time the phone rang we jumped. Literally jumped to answer it. Finally the call came. It was from the Army hospital in San Francisco. And it was from our son. He said that he was going to get a long leave. He was coming home. He asked me if he could bring a buddy of his home with him for a few days. His buddy had no folks, he said. My wife said that he could bring anybody—anybody as long as he came home as soon as possible. She even made me tell him to be sure and fly home. Not to take a train. It would take too long. She really loved our son. He said that he wanted to take the train, but I convinced him he should fly. In fact I said that I’d wire him the money as soon as I’d hung up.
Too Much Trouble
Then he said that his buddy was wounded pretty bad. In fact, he said, his buddy was disfigured in the face and he had lost both his legs. It was all right with me to bring his friend home. I didn’t care. But when I asked my wife she said that she couldn’t stand to have to take care of the other boy. She said that we knew how she felt about crippled people. They make her too nervous and jumpy she said. When I told our son what she had said he wasn’t mad. That wasn’t like him. He used to raise a ruckus when he was refused something. But he promised to forget when I told him that maybe it would be too much trouble and bother taking care of a cripple for a few days. I reminded him that I’d wire the money for the trip home. We expected him home the next day. We were preparing to go out to the airport to meet him.
We were preparing until we received a telegram. It was from the War Department. It said that our son, a quadruple amputee, had fallen out of the seventh-story window of the San Francisco Hospital.
Campus Station Introduces Literary Discussion Series
A program featuring the discussion of popular literary masterpieces has recently been introduced on campus by WNDU. The production, entitled: “Speaking of Books,” is presented at 7:15 on Monday nights. Each week, faculty members of the English department present an interesting and informative talk about one of the great works of literature.
The Odyssey of Homer and the Confessions of St. Augustine have already been reviewed by Professors. Richard Sullivan and Ernest Sandeen, and Mr. Otto Bird, respectively. Future presentations include the Aeneid, Moby Dick, Don Quixote and selections from Shakespeare.
“Speaking of Books” originated from students’ requests for a literary-type program. WNDU, with the co-operation of the Department of Speech, consequently inaugurated this new series, the aim of which is to instil] within the student an interest in the great masterpieces of literature. Should student reception of this type of production be favorable, additional air time may be given toward further literary presentations.
The series is produced by Robert Swanson as a Department of Speech series under the direction of Mr. Jerome A. Fallon.
MANUSCRIPTS WANTED
“The Showcase” is accepting original student-written fiction for publication. Submit all manuscripts to The Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Valentine ’Sweetheart Social* Sponsored by Senate Sunday
“The St. Valentine’s Sweetheart Social,” a Senate-sponsored dance, will be held in the LaFortune Center, Sunday from 4 to 7 p.m. Music will be provided by Don Gels and his Orchestra-
Admission will be $.50. Girls from St. Mary’s, St. Joseph Nurses Academy, and the Junior Daughters of Isabella have been invited.
A showing of the St. Mary’s Mardi Gras skit will be a feature of the dance. The skit scheduled for pei-formance at the annual festival on Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday—will be a take-off on the Flapper Era. •
Because the dance will be held during the dinner hour, a provision has been made for refreshments, according to Jim Sherer, Senate social commissioner.
21
LOBUND Group Cited for Dental Research; Find Certain Bacteria Cause of Tooth Decay
Scientists at Notre Dame’s LOBUND Institute and the University of Chicago have been cited by the Chicago Dental Society for collaborative research demonstrating that certain bacteria cause tooth decay. The eight-man research team will share a §500 prize awarded annually by the Society for excellence in dental research.
A plaque emblematic of the achievement will be presented Monday at the first general session of the Society’s 90th midwinter meeting in the Conrad Hilton Hotel. Dr. Frank J. Orland, director of the Zoller Memorial Dental Clinic at the University of Chicago, will accept the award in behalf of his colleagues. The presentation will be made by Dr. Samuel Kleiman, president of the organization.
Working on the theory that tooth decay is caused by germs normally found in the mouth, the research team studied a group of germ-free white rats ovei- a period of 150 days at the Notre Dame laboratories. These animals, uncontaminated by any microorganism detectable by modern science, were inoculated with a strain of acid-forming streptococci and a rod-shaped bacillus. Dental decay resulted in all these animals whereas other gernrfree rats, even when fed a highly cariogenic diet, failed to show any trace of dental caries.
In the prize-winning research paper to be delivered at the meeting, Dr. Orland reports that new studies are already underway on the Notre Dame and Chicago campuses to determine if other strains of bacteria will produce dental caries in rats that were previously germ-free. The research, which was supported in part by the Office of Naval Research, will be reported in the March issue of the Journal of the American Dental Association.
TRYOUTS FOR ‘SEVENTEEN’
The musical, Seventeen, an adaptation of Booth Tarkington’s novel, is next on the list of productions for the University Theatre, Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., recently announced. The theatre is currently rehearsing Cyrano De Bergerac.
Tryouts for Seventeen are scheduled for 7:30 p.m. on Feb. 24 and 25 for singers and dancers. A chorus of 12 or 14 singers is needed. Those who are unable to make the tryouts are urged to contact Father Harvey any Monday, Wednesday, or Friday.
Other members of the research team include Prof. James A. Reyniers, founder and director of the LOBUND Institute; Dr. J. Roy Blayney, former director of the Zoller Clinic; Prof. R. Wendell Harrison, bacteriologist and University of Chicago vice-president; and Profs. Philip C. Trexler, Robert F. Ervin, Helmut A. Gordon and Morris Wagner, all of the LOBUND staff at Notre Dame.
Fr. O'Donnell Chosen Asst.Founda+ion Head
The appointment of Rev. Thomas J. O’Donnell, C.S.C., as associate directoi-of the Notre Dame Foundation was announced here today by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
Father O’Donnell has been associated with the Foundation since January, 1953, when he was named assistant to the director, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. During 1954 the Notre Dame Foundation received gifts and grants totaling §2,289,113. Since the Foundation was established in 1947, the University has received more than $14,700,000 from its alumni, friends, corporations and foundations.
Prior to joining the Foundation staff, Father O’Donnell served for a year as associate editor of The Catholic Boy, a youth publication of the Holy Cross Fathers. From 1947 to 1951 he was a faculty member at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C. He also served for three years as assistant superior of the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Seminary in Washington.
Father O’Donnell, a native of Chicago, was graduated from Notre Dame in 1941 and was ordained in Sacred Heart Church on the campus on June 10, 1945 by Archbishop Amleto Cicognani, Apostolic Delegate to the United States. In 1950 he was awarded a master’s degree in speech and drama by the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C.
While in Washington, Father O’Donnell was active in radio and television work and served for a year as consultant to the National Catholic Community Service. He is the author or co-author of several religious publications including “To Wear a Halo” and “Greetings,” a pamphlet for Catholic young men about to enter the service.
Symposium Discusses U.S. European Policy
Four foreign affairs specialists are participating in a symposium on “The Fate of East Central Europe: Hopes and Failures of American Foreign Pol
icy” in the University’s Law Auditorium today.
Speaking on various phases of the ' problem are Representative Alvin M. J Bentley of Michigan, a member of the^ House foreign affairs committee; Prof. ? Philip E. Mosely, director of the Russian Institute at Columbia University; Robert F. Byrnes, director of research at the 'Mid-European Studies Center, New York City; and Nicholas Spulber, lecturer in economics at Indiana Uni- "
versify.
The symposium is sponsored by Notre Dame’s Center for Soviet and East European Studies and the University’s^ ( Committee on International Relations. । Dr. Stephen Kertesz, professor of po- ' litical science at the University and former Hungarian minister to Italy, is presiding at the sessions.
Congressman Bentley, a member of f the U. S. Foreign Service from 1941 to i 1950, will speak at 8 p.m. tonight, the । only remaining session, on “American Ideas and Concepts for a Free East Central Europe.” He was the most seriously wounded of the five congressmen shot by Puerto Rican terrorists in their at-^ j) tack on the House of Representatives / last March.
“American Policy toward East Central Europe, 1941-47” was the subject of Professor Mosely who served as a State Department officer and adviser from 1942 to 1946. He advised the i| American delegation at Moscow in 1943	,1
and Potsdam in 1945, as well as the | Council of Foreign Ministers meetings^ in London and Paris.	- |j
Byrnes discussed “Containment, Lib-	1
eration or Coexistence?” He formerly	f
taught history at Rutgers and Swarth- s more and is the author of numerous ar-tides on foreign affairs.	|
Spulber’s topic was “The Problems of | East-West Trade and Economic Trends	«
in the Enslaved Countries.” Formerly	1
associated with the Massachusetts In-	I
stitute of Technology, he holds a doc-	.1
torate from the New School for Social > J Research.	■
GRAD STUDENTS’ DANCE
The Graduate Students' Association will sponsor a dance on Saturday, Feb. 19, at 8:30 p.m. in the Veterans Recreation Hall. Admission per couple will be $.75 for members and $1 for non-members.
22
The Scholastic & i’
, . Notre Dome Galleries Swelled by Donations: Works of Art Include Paintings, Lithographs
Eighteen paintings, two lithographs, and an etching are among the recent acquisitions of the University galleries, according to an announcement recently by Curator' Paul Byrne. The works of art have been presented to the University by eight donors, Byrne said.
Mrs. Consuelo Cuneo Bowes, Libertyville, Ill., is the donor of “Jesus Leaves for Jerusalem,” a painting by Lelio Orsi (1511-87).
Three paintings have been presented to the Notre Dame galleries by Dr. M. L. Busch of Huntington Park, Calif. They are “The Holy Family” by Garofalo (1481-1559); “St. Jerome” by Cornelius Massys (1508-80); and “Marriage of St. Catherine” by Giuseppe Maria Crespi (1665-1747).
A Rouault etching, “The Crucifixion,” is among six works given to the galleries by Joseph Shapiro, Chicago, Ill. His other gifts include “Still Life” and “The Circus,” two colored lithographs by Max Ratin. Also donated by him are Wanno’s “Study in Line and Color,” “The Watcher” by Adolph Gottlieb, and “Figure and Flowers” by Frank Kleinholz.
Lewis J. Ruskin, Chicago, Ill., recently donated four paintings to the University. They are “The Vision of St. Bernard” by Juan de Valde-Leal (1631-91); “Madonna and Child in a Garland of Flowers,” the work of Peter P. Rubens
Alumni Association Announces Recently Elected Directors
ITwo attorneys, an engineering executive and a hotel official have been elected j a directors of the Notre Dame Alumni I|	Association, according to an announ'ce-
j ment made recently by James E. Ann-strong, executive secretary.
a Elected to three-year terms on the 5 University’s alumni board are Patrick J. § Fisher, Indianapolis, Ind., attorney; J. !'	P. Canny, general attorney of the Erie
Railroad Co., Cleveland, O.; John W.
1 Brennan, vice president for engineering of the American Blower Co., Detroit, Mich.; and Joseph E. Whalen, treasurer a and general manager of Hotel Fort Des Moines, Des Moines, la.
Other Notre Dame alumni directors include Daniel Culhane, Chevy Chase, i Md.; Dr. Leo D. O’Donnell, Pittsburgh, Pa.; John F. Saunders, Boston, Mass.; s
| Rt. Rev. Msgr. J. B. Toomey, Syracuse, I N. Y.; James L. Ferstel, Wilmette, Ill.;
. Robert H. Gore, Jr., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; John E. McIntyre, South Bend, Ind.; and Joseph I. O’Neill, Jr., Midland, Tex. .
February 11, 1955
(1577-1640) and Daniel Segher (15901661); “Hagai- and the Angel” by Domenico Feti (1589-1624) ; and “Portrait of a Lady” by Benjamin Foulion (15591612).
Mr. and Mrs. S. J. Schatz, Chicago, Ill., are the donors of Domenichino’s (1581-1641) “Portrait of Cardinal Guido Bentivoglio” and “Rachel and Jacob” by Giacinto Gimignani (1611-81).
Another Chicago donor, Robert B. Mayer, has presented to the galleries Giannicola Manni’s (1470-1554) “Madonna and Child” and “The Holy Family with Saint Francis” by Innocenza da Imola (1494-1550).
Morris I. Kaplan, also of Chicago, is the donor of “Portrait of a Bishop” by Girolamo da Santa Croce (1520-49) and Andrea del Sarto’s “Madonna and Child with Saint John.”
“A Sermon Before a Bishop” by Louis Boullongne has been presented to the University galleries as the gift of Dr. Hans Rosenwald, New York City.
Union Carbide Awards Research Scholarships
Notre Dame students who show a particular interest and exceptional promise in research will be eligible for full four-year scholarships provided by the Union Carbide Educational Fund beginning next September, the University announced recently. Two members of the current freshman class will receive scholarships as well as two freshmen enrolling in September. A pair of scholarships will be awarded each year thereafter so that a total of eight Union Carbide Scholarships will be in effect at the University eventually.
The selection of the students and administration of the scholarships will be the responsibility of Notre Dame’s Committee on Scholarships and Prizes. Each scholarship will cover the full four-year undergraduate tuition plus an allowance, set by university officials, for necessary books and fees. In addition, each scholarship carries an annual grant-in-aid of $500 to the University, plus a $100 allowance toward the expenses of a faculty advisor.
According to officials of the Union Carbide and Carbon Co., the purpose of the scholarship program is “to help make a college education financially possible for students who need or deserve such support and who are interested in future careers in business and industry.” The company also wishes “to encourage and give limited financial aid to a cross
section of American colleges, technological institutes and universities of traditionally high standing.”
Since the Union Carbide Educational Fund was established in 1953, 376 scholarships have been assigned to 45 educational institutions. Other institutions selected along with Notre Dame for the most recent grants include Cornell, Duke, Earlham, Haverford, Kenyon, Princeton, Randolph-Macon, Southwestern, Stanford and Pennsylvania.
Edmund Smith Plaque Awarded to Culhane
Martin Culhane, a senioi- in the Program for Administrators, was awarded the Dean Edmund Smith Plaque at the annual semester Commerce Forum banquet held recently.
The plaque was awarded for presenting the outstanding speech to the Commerce Forum during the first semester. The title of the speech was “The Guaranteed Annual Wage.”
At every meeting of the Forum a new topic of national or international business interest is presented by one of the senior members of the group. The “outstanding speaker” plaque was originated by Dean Smith and is awarded at the end of each semester. It is awarded on a competitive basis by scoring the seven different speeches delivered by the members at their Wednesday evening meetings. The entire membership of 30 Commerce men scores each speaker individually. The person with the highest score receives the coveted plaque.
Dr. Turner Impressive
The other speakers for the first semester were Ronald P. Smith, Roy Belknap, Walter McKenna, John Ryan, John Dwyer, and Paul Murphy.
Another highlight of the dinner was the speech delivered by Dr. Robert Tur- ; net entitled “The Future Business Out- ; look in the United States.” Dr. Turner ; was a guest at several of the Commerce ; Forum meetings and is considered one i of the country’s top analysts in govern- i ment-business relations.	i
He was a former presidential economic j advisor and is now a teaching professor at Indiana University. He taught in the Department of Business Administration of the College of Commerce during the first semester under the Distinguished Professors Program.
The Forum’s incoming officers for the second semester were introduced at the banquet. They are: Richard Cook, president; John Dwyer, vice-president; Ronald Smith, publicity chairman and secretary; and Thomas Coleman, program chairman.
23
Parker-Wintenwd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115 ¥2-117 ¥2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready-to-wear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Winterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115’A-117’A No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Enjoy yourself...
refresh with Ceke
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
Coca Cola Bottling Co. of South Bend
START PLANNING YOUR 1955 VACATION NOW!
Travel and study ABROAD
Earn full college credit and enjoy a thrilling trip through Europe or around the . world via TWA—take up to 20 months to pay with TWA's "Time Pay Plan"!
See all the sights. Live in London, Paris, Geneva or Rome and study from 2 to 6 weeks at an accredited university. You do both during one trip on a university-sponsored tour via TWA—world leader in educational air travel. And you can take up to 20 months to pay with TWA's new “Time Pay Plan.’’
Choose a tour dealing with a special field such as music, art, languages—visit the Orient or go around the world.
Sabbatical-Year Travelers: Special arrangements are available for travel and resident study! Mail the coupon today for details!
Fly the finest
1 am also interested in:
Sabbatical-Year
Travel [
Name____ Address. City____ State___
TWA’s “Time
Pay Plan'
□
COCA-COLA PRESENTS
THIS WEEK’S
BASKETBALL FORECASTS
Friday, Feb. 11
California over Southern California North Carolina over Virginia San Francisco over San Jose State UCLA over Stanford
Wake Forest over South Carolina Seton Hall over Boston College
Saturday, Feb. 12
Alabama over Georgia U.
DePaul over Bradley
Detroit over St. Louis
Duke over Navy
Duquesne over Westminster (Pa.)
Fordham over Georgetown
Holy Cross over New York
Iowa over Indiana
Loyola (Chicago) over Creighton
Minnesota over Illinois
Northwestern over Michigan State Purdue over Michigan
Wisconsin over Ohio State
Position.
LZone.
Phone No,
TUANS WOULD AIRLINES U.S.A. • EUROPE • AfRICA • ASIA
John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director, TWA Air World Tours Dept. CM-FE, 380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.
Please send me information on the Flying Educational Tours to be offered in 1955.
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
STRUGGLING IRISH AWAIT BUTLER REMATCH
Squires, Schoenig, Allard Shatter ND Marks Seek Feeney Trophy Prepping for Tomorrow's Meet at Michigan I” Indianapolis Outing
Record-shattering feats of miler Bill Squires and two other Irish stalwarts paced the Notre Dame thinclads in their first indoor dual track meet of the sea
son to an easy 84-20 victory over Purdue last Saturday in the Fieldhouse.
Tomorrow, Notre Dame’s track squad will engage in a dual indoor meet with the Michigan Wolverines at Ann Arbor. Coach Alex Wilson’s lads should find Michigan tougher competitors than Purdue, for the Wolverines boast one of the best track teams in the Big Ten Con-
AL SCHOENIG
One of the Three Record Breakers
their victory over Kansas last weekend, snapping a streak of 34 consecutive meet victories for Kansas.
Notre Dame will hook up in an indoor meet with Michigan State on Feb. 19 in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
Junior miler Bill Squires broke the meet, Fieldhouse, and Notre Dame indoor marks as he ran the fastest mile in Irish track history. His record breaking time was 4:10.7, three seconds faster than the previous fieldhouse record which he set last winter. Squires set
such a torrid pace that he broke the tape 60 yards ahead of his nearest competitor, Vic Blumenthal of Purdue. Jack Gits of Notre Dame finished third in the event.
Co-Captain Al Schoenig also entered the Notre Dame record books by running the fastest half mile in Notre Dame’s track history. Consequently, he also set new meet, Fieldhouse, and Notre Dame indoor marks in the fast time of 1:53.7. This feat broke the old low record of 1:54.9.
The third record-breaker for Notre Dame was ace high-jumper Bernie Allard. He set a new meet record with a jump of 6 feet 3% inches, breaking the old meet record of 6 feet 3 inches. In addition to this fine showing, Allard also placed first in the 60-yard high hurdles.
The Irish gained first places in every-thing except the broad jump, and swept a total of seven events.
Others copping firsts for the Irish in their respective events were: Byron Beams in the shot put with a toss of 51 feet 9% inches; Frank Hall, 60-yard dash; Ross Matson and Jim Redmond (tie), pole vault; Bill Keegan, 440; Jim Baker, 60-yai’d low hurdles; Jun Daly, two mile; and the Notre Dame mile relay quartet of Co-Captain Jim Pitcavage, Bill Copeland, John Dunnigan, and Bill Keegan.
Summary:
Broad jump—AI Paschen (P); Frank Kinsinger Mark ^oe (P). Distance—22 feet % inch.
Alile run—Bill Squires IND); Vic Blumenthal (P); Jack Gits (ND). Time—1:10.7.
60-yard dash—Frank Hall (ND): Alex Pestrichella (ND); Tom Rohrer (ND). Time—:6.7.
Pole vault—(tie) Ross Matson (ND) and Jim Redmond (ND); (tie) John Stevenson (ND) and Jim Lynne (ND). Height—12 feet 3 inches.
440-yard run—Bill Keegan (ND); Bill Copeland (ND); John Dunnigan (ND). Time—:51.5.
60-yard high hurdles—Bernie Allard (ND); Jim Baker (ND); Jim Spencer (P). Time—:8.2.
Shot put—Byron Beams (ND); Ben Zajeski (ND): Frank Kauffman (ND). Distance—51 feet 9% inches.
880-yard run—Al Schoenig (ND); Al Porter (ND); Dick O’Keefe (ND). Time—1:53.7.
60-yard low hurdles—Jim Baker (ND); James Spencer (P); John McDonnell (ND). Time—:7.5.
High jump—Bernie Allard (ND); Dick Cowdin (P); Dave Burke (P). Height—6 feet 3% inches.
Two-mile run—Jim Dalv (ND); John Michno (ND); Neil Wallace (ND). Time—9:41.
One-mile relay—Won by Notre Dame (Pitcavage, Copeland, Dunnigan, Keegan). Time—3:25.4.
By DAVE DAVIN
Coach Johnny Jordan’s current campaigners go back on the road Monday night when they tangle with the Butler Bulldogs in Indianapolis. The game will be the second and last of this season’s home-and-home series with the Hoosier quintet.
Notre Dame reopened last Saturday as part of a double header against Loyola in Chicago. They clipped the Ramblers 91-83. And some 8,000 fans saw a new face on the Irish squad as Paul Hornung, one of Terry Brennan’s quarterbacks, made his basketball debut. He
LLOYD AUBREY
Another Potent Pivotman
dunked in one field goal and added seven more points to his total against M.S.C.
Captain Jack Stephens continues to lead the Irish from the floor with a 21.5 average. Lloyd Aubrey, junior center, has been dusting the nets at a 15.2 clip to place second. Aubrey sprained his ankle in Chicago and had to favor it throughout the second half of the Loyola contest.
Burly soph forward Johnny Smyth has been battering the backboards consistently all season. Smyth has recently

February 11, 1955
25

JOHN SMYTH
Never out of Focus
started wearing glasses in games and his average has picked up slightly since the addition. He currently holds third place on the scoring card with a 14.9 average. Jack Fannon, veteran forward, returned to action over the weekend with a bad knee. Lee Ayotte, however, has seen heavy action since the exams.
The Irish could get a handsome Valentine Monday in the form of the Al Feeney 'Memorial Trophy. This nonretiring award is presented to the winner of the Butler-Irish basketball game in Indianapolis each year. An innovation of the “Nap-town” Notre Dame Club, the trophy is dedicated to Mr. Feeney, civic and sports-minded mayor of the southern Indiana city from 1948-50.
Bob Plump, current high Bulldog scorer, will lead the five against the Irish. Plump, a freshman, was the sensation of the state last spring when he sparked miniature Milan to the Indiana high school crown.
Rely Heavily on Freshmen
To date the slender guard has a 12.1 average and looks headed toward breaking the school scoring record of 18.6.
In the first Irish-Butler tilt Plump led the Bulldogs with 14 points.
Close behind Plump is center Don Holloway with 11.3 points per game. Holloway is also second' to Wally Cox in total points scored with 135.
Anqther frosh, Cox has a 9.9 average. He has been suffering from a mid-season slump and only recently returned to the line-up.
:	Ted Guzek, third freshman of the
‘ starters, is a hard-driving forward. To date he has compiled over eight points ‘ per game.
; Forward Mark Peterman scored nine • points against the Irish last time and j has an average just under eight points.
; 26
Fencers Face Kentucky, Buffalo Saturday; $ Carry .500 Mark After Second Iowa Loss
Notre Dame’s fencing team will take on squads from the Universities of Kentucky and Buffalo in a triangular match here tomorrow afternoon. The contest will start at 4 p.m. in the Fieldhouse, immediately following a charity concert by the University’s student dance band.
Although the Kentucky team should be easy prey for the Irish fencers, who currently hold a 2-2 record, the Buffalo squad was undefeated in its first seven matches, and Coach Walter Langford expects the New York team to offer the Irish stiff competition.
In their most recent appearance, last Sunday in the Fieldhouse, the Notre Dame fencers were knocked off for the second time this season by the University of Iowa, a squad that had never beaten the Irish until this season. The lowans took the match by a narrow 14-13 decision, the same margin of their earlier victory over the Irish at Iowa City four weeks ago.
Both the Notre Dame sabre and epee teams defeated their opponents, but Iowa’s foil team overpowered the host squad, 7-2.
Tadrowski Wins Three
Don Tadrowski, epee, had the best afternoon with a 3-0 individual score, boosting his season record to eleven wins in twelve bouts. Co-Captain Jim Waters was the only foil man to defeat the lowans as he took two of his three bouts.
Other Notre Dame fencers with 2-1 scores against Iowa were Co-Captain Tom Dorwin and Gene Gase in sabre, and John Brogan in epee. Jerry Isaacs, epee, who went into the match ■with an
BOBBY PLUMP
A Product of “Hoosier Hysteria”
TOM DORWIN AND JIM WATERS
Senior Swordsmen Co-Captain Irish
unblemished 8-0 season record, dropped two of his three bouts to Iowa opponents.
The other Notre Dame win this sea- • son was over Northwestern, 15-12, in a dual match at Evanston on Jan. 29.	1
'The coach expects quite a bit of im- ■£; provement from his team as the season progresses. This year’s squad lacks the ' balance, depth, and individual strength f-of recent teams, and the sabre squad particularly has not lived up to the Notre Dame fencing tradition of brilliant sabre teams, he added.
Wisconsin, Illinois, and Detroit are shaping up to be the fencers’ toughest opponents on this year’s schedule. Since . these matches are a few weeks away, \ Coach Langford expects his team to J shape up in time to give them plenty of competition.
After tomorrow’s match, the squad will take the road for engagements with Case and Fenn at Cleveland on Feb. 18, and Ohio State at Columbus on Feb. 19.
The epee team remains undefeated in activity covering the past two seasons.
The Notre Dame fencers opened their season by bowling over Michigan State, 18-9, in the triangular match at Iowa City that saw the Irish lose to the fj lowans the first time this season.	*
Iowa had previously lost to Michigan # State, but the Irish have learned the hard way that pre-contest odds mean nothing in Notre Dame-Iowa athletic competition.
Coach Langford attributes the Notre Dame losses to a generally inexperienced team and to the many bouts lost by a single touch.
• The Scholastic T

A Word to the Wise
The Scholastic, along with the University officials, has received many comments from fans across the nation on the conduct of the student body at the Indiana TV game. Sportswriters wonder why any team risks coming to the Fieldhouse for a game. They tab the treatment as “very tough to take.”' The practice of introducing the opponents had to be discontinued two years ago when the “Who’s He?” chant became overpowering. This year the conduct has improved slightly after some coaxing from the administration, but the reputation continues to grow after that one TV appearance. Jack Clowser of the Cleveland Press expresses the expert’s and viewer’s opinion in this letter to “Moose” Krause, Director of Athletics.—Sports Editor
MR. ED KRAUSE, Director of Athletics, University of Notre Dame
Cleveland, Ohio.
Dear Moose:

I hesitated for' some time before making up my mind to write this letter, matter of great importance to Notre Dame. I don’t think I have to prove to associations with the University have made me deeply interested in its welfare.
To get to the point at once—I was somewhat shocked, while watching the
but
you
TV
finally concluded it’s on a that my close and pleasant
of the Indiana-Notre Dame
basketball game, to see the violent reactions and the unmerciful booing the student bodv gave to those officials. O	j	O	y O
For two days, I debated whether to write to you about my feelings in the matter. But so many people have mentioned the very same thing to me, since then, that I’m convinced it is something you can’t afford to let slide.
It is my earnest conviction that, to hundreds of thousands of television viewers all over the nation, the jeering and booing of the students must have struck a very unpopular chord. The kids not only directed their feelings at the officials, but at the Indiana players, too.
' The TV camera showed many closeups, during time outs and while players prepared to shoot fouls, of the
students. Some of them, on their feet, were shouting and gesturing, waving their fists at the officials, and *	j	O	O	O'	O	'
ducting themselves in EXTREMELY unsportsmanlike manner.
con-
The same thing occurred several times when Indiana players, particularly big Don Schlundt, had a foul
caHed on him. You would have thought Schlundt is a deliberately rough and foul player. The abuse the
stu-
dents heaped on him was most marked. It clearly showed in every closeup by the camera.
I believe in calling a spade a spade when officiating is flagrantly poor. In fact, I recently wrote a strongly criticizing some of the officiating in the football game with Southern Methodist, because I thought of the penalties called against Notre Dame that day were very unjustified.
But to my mind, the basketball officials were doing a good job, showing impartiality, and so forth.
Moose, I realize this is a difficult thing to control. But for the sake of Notre Dame, before you ever
piece some
have
another garde televised, PLEASE take steps to make the students realize they are hurting their university by that
type of conduct. I strongly feel that it calls for a student assembly and some words of warning authorities.
There was absolutely nothing .unsportsmanlike about the conduct of Notre Dame’s players, good reason why the student body shouldn’t follow their example.
Then the players would feel as proud of the true Notre Dame spirit as the students are fine teams.
by Notre Dame
and there is no
proud of their
a
Kindest regards,
O J
Jack Clowser
P. S. In case anyone to whom you might show this letter might wonder about it, I happen to be the guy who was honored by having his story on the 1952 Notre Dame-Oklahoma football game reprinted in The Dome. In other words, I have very deep regard for the University, and I mean everything above as constructive criticism.
Ai
$ W February 11, 1955

Johnny Jordan
Crowd Again Acclaims Touring Swedish Troupe
Notre Dame students and local followers, 4,000 strong, jammed the Drill . Hall last Tuesday night to watch a per- j formance they will not soon forget. ]
Members of the Swedish Gymnastic I team treated their appreciative onlook- I ers to an array of dazzling acrobatics f that amazed and surprised the audience.
The Swedes, making the 16th stop of a nationwide tour that will carry them j to leading colleges and universities ■
by Paul Fullmer
The Irish have proved one thing on the hardwood this season at least. At the beginning of the year it looked like the old maxim, “As Stephens goes, so goes Notre Dame,” would hold all year. Lloyd Aubrey and John Smyth, however, came to “Junior’s” rescue and the Irish looked like they could go all the way. This certainly hasn’t been the case.
We grant that this year’s squad is inexperienced and everyone is willing to give them the benefit of the doubt. Johnny Jordan’s outfit, however, hasn’t jelled as yet and has given no indication that it -will. The Sugar Bowl looked like it was going to be the beginning of a nice streak, but again the eagers faltered and fell rather sadly in the last period against Michigan State Monday.
Stephens, Smyth, Aubrey Carry Load
• Notre Dame has three top fight players who can hold their own in any competition. Stephens, Aubrey, and Smyth are well respected in every enemy ''camp and the defense always concentrates on their maneuvers. Stephens has been rated as one of the
best by all coaches and sportswriters, with DePaul’s Kay Meyer stating that, “I wouldn’t trade him for any other guard in the country.” Aubrey overcame a very poor start to really round into a polished offensive performer. His hook and jump shot are faultless, and with a few more inches, Lloyd could really rack up the point totals. His never-say-die attitude is vital in the rebounding and tip-in department.
The Michigan State game seemed to be the big one on the second half’s schedule. Stephens referred to it as a “possible turning point in the season” before the game and it probably was, but to our disadvantage. The Spartans had little trouble running away in the final five minutes after our starters had fouled out. Our thin bench couldn’t be blamed because MSC went with their six men all the way. It was our fouling that again spelled defeat, and the officiating was impartial. The unnecessary fouls ruined any chances the Irish had. Let’s hope that the team didn’t lose their hustle when that final 93-79 mark hit the scoreboard. It certainly was a hard pill to swallow and wasn’t what Doctor Jordan had ordered for his off-and-on five.
Everyone Has ND Diagnosed
Scouting reports on Notre Dame all read along the same lines, “Tough around the basket, but weak from the outside.” Consequently the area around the basket looks like the corner of State and Madison on New Year’s Eve. Michigan State kept the center lane blocked so effectively that it was difficult to feed Aubrey, and almost impossible for him to get the shot off.
Jordan doesn’t have an outside shot, and no one knows it better than the opposition. Stephens is the only man who attempts to shoot from more than fifteen feet and he is not the best in the nation. The traffic jam in the center lane would be almost too much for a bulldozer- to budge. Jordan does not deem it advisable to give Lee Ayotte, Steve Rebora, and Joe Morelli, his only other long shot artists, a chance to operate early in the game to loosen up the opponents. It will become increasingly more difficult for the Irish to score with this congestion around the basket.
The slick Spartan offensive patterns gave the Irish a lot of trouble Monday and Jordan’s crew did not have the tricks to use when they controlled the ball. None of the individuals on the bench with potential—Bedan, Morelli, King, or Luepke—have improved since the beginning of the season under 1954’s Coach of the Year.
The potential is there, however, and you can never tell when things will begin to pop. But the spark is flickering.	,
A COMELY VISITOR Betters International Relations
they had lost none of the grace and precision that marked their appearance here last year.
Their program featured 13 events that the 14 men and 12 women executed with astounding ease and facility. Ineluded among their repertoire were syn- 3 1 chronized calesthenics, parallel and high bar wizardry, speed tumbling, and a . ball and dance routine that merited the Olympic championship for women in 1952.
Other highlights of the evening included a baton twirling exhibition by Miss Ann Nita Ekstrom, a native Hoo- । sier from New Carlisle.
Coach Ray Runkle’s Notre Dame Gymnastic club also presented an inter- > | mission trampoline demonstration that'* ‘ri added to the evening’s entertainment.
Interhall Relay Meets
Zahm and Breen-Phillips have qualified for the campus Interhall Relay Meet . to be held March 5. The two frosh halls qualified during the ND-Purdue meet last Saturday.
Other halls will try out during the I Michigan State meet on Feb. 19.	I
The Scholastic	।
28
M, Steaks,Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate ☆
Our Specialty ‘‘Chicken In the Rough” % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.30
Miami Tips Wrestlers; Western Illinois Next
After ripping- off two quick victories in their first two outings, the Notre Dame wrestling team received a 19-13 lacing from Miami University of Ohio.
Tomorrow at 2 p.m. Notre Dame will lock horns with Western Illinois in the Vet Hall.
The Irish scored two pins as did their opponents, but the Miami wrestlers were able to decision the Greenshirts in three of the remaining four matches to cop the event. Notre Dame led 10-8 after the first four scraps.
In the 123-pound class, Notre Dame’s Buddy Day was canvassed for the count in the second round to give the Buckeyes a 5-0 edge. The unusual part of this match was that Day never once
lost control throughout the entire struggle. In the second brawl, it was Miami again, as Jack Mulligan dropped a 5-2 nod to his 130-pound opponent.
Now trailing 8-0, the Irish rebounded off the canvas and surged into the lead. Freshman Bob Pivonka came from behind to score his second straight pin. Then, sophomore Terry Crowley followed with his third consecutive victory to add another five points to the Irish cause, putting them in the driver's seat by a 10-8 margin.
Again the Irish lost control of the wheel, as temporary captain Pat Williamson was handed his first defeat of the season. Miami kept hammering away and took two of the final three matches by decisions of 4-2 and 4-1. Only Jack Armstrong was able to temporarily hold back the rushing tide by launching a fine offense in the 177-pound engagement to receive a 5-4 victory.
Joe Nabicht’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
FOR ST. PATRICK'S DAY GIVE OR OWN AN:
ACTUAL PLOT OF IRISH LAND!
Circle This Date
MARCH 1,1955
You can discuss career opportunities with our representative at this time.
Our THREE-MINUTE STORY is in your Placement Office.
1. A permanent legal TITLE DEED to a
12 square-inch plot on Glengariff Castle Estate, Bantry Bay, County Cork, Ireland!
2. A specially designed 3 color St. Pat-
ELECTRO METALLURGICAL CO.
A Division of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation
DRRW TURBOW \pPTOMETRIST		
		 OPTICAL REPAIRS 		
	Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”	
		 EYES EXAMINED 		
207 W. Washington Oliver’ Hotel Phone CE 4-5777		
rick's Day greeting card!
3. A shamrock lapel pin to wear on St. Patrick's Day!
ACT TODAY—Make Someone Happy on St. Patrick's Day
$1.00
SEND I
"Little Bit of Ireland," May Bldg., Pgh. 22, Pa. ।
Send---------title deeds with accompanying St Patrick's |
Greeting Cards at $1.00 each	I
S	enclosed Each card has Title Deed to ।
12 square-inch plot at land in County Cork. Ireland	|
I
Name— -----,—______-________________■___—------- •
1
Address—-	-	............ -	|
I
City—■■ .—	, ....Zone—.....State-------------- I
— |
24 Hours Service on All Orders Pa. residents add 1%jax j
February 11, 1955
r
But ALL
Some Some Some
like like like
STEAK SPAGHETTI CHOPS like Eddie's.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
nnMEru
FILTER TIP TAREYTON
PRODUCT OF *
Bengal Drills Begin For March 16 Finals
V RENT A ROYAL TYPEWRITER FROM ROYAL
A0tMMd far anr modiina
ROYAL TYPEWRITER CO. 309 E. Jefferson. South Bend
EDDIE'S Steak House 602 S. WALNUT
True Tobacco Taste... Real Filtration Famous Tareyton Quality
The Bengal Boxers return to the campus spotlight March 10-16 to help the Knights of Columbus raise funds for the Holy Cross missions in Bengal, India. This tournament, open to all members of the University, is one of 1 the most popular attractions featured on campus all year. Last year the finals alone drew 4,500 spectators. _	•
The preliminaries will run on March I 10, 11, and 12, the semi-finals on March 14, and the finals on March 16.	1
Nearly 100 glovemen have been work- i ing out for the last three weeks under 1 the direction of Mr. Dominic Napolitano of the Department of Physical Educa- j tion.
“Nappy” also urges anyone interested j in boxing and not already signed up to । report to the fieldhouse anytime be- £ tween 4 and 5:30 p.m. Because there । are five weeks of practice yet to go, there is still ample time to learn the fundamentals and get in shape for the 1 bouts.
All those who still want to enter must obtain a medical exam slip, and then report to the boxing room in the Fieldhouse.
This year, as in the past, one of the most outstanding men in professional boxing will be on hand to make the A final awards to the champs. Kid Gav-ilan was selected last year, as the man who had contributed the most to boxing, to make the presentations.
------------ j
Interhall Relay Swim Meet ! Scheduled Next Wednesday
Mr. Gil Burdick, swimming instructor at the Rockne Memorial, announces an -Interhall Relay Meet to be held next Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. in the Rock pool. Gold medals will go to the winning team.
The order of events will be a 200-yard crawl relay with four men racing 50 yards each; a 200-yard back relay with four men racing 50 yards each; ' a 150-yard sweat shirt race with six men going 25 yards each; a 150-yard medley relay with three men racing 50 yards each; a 150-yard butt relay with ft six men racing 25 yards each; a 200-yard breast stroke with four men racing 50 yards each; a 150-yard ping pong relay with six men racing 25 yards each; a 300-yard obstacle relay with six men racing 50 yards each.
A complete list of contestants must be turned in Feb. 15, the day before the meet. Anyone competing must swim for the hall of which he is a permanent resident, Mr. Burdick stated.
The Scholastic O
Intramural League Enters Final Round
The Intramural Basketball League swings into its final round of play next week with most of the division titles still undecided. Winners in each division will move into the Fieldhouse, later this । month, for the tournament which will eventually decide the champion.
- The teams each played three games , £ last semester and then were seeded for second semester play. There are four teams in each division and a team plays each member of its division once. Altogether there are 44 teams in both the afternoon and evening leagues.
Dillon (Blue) and Dillon (Gold) appear to have the nods in their respective divisions. The Chicago Club just about , sewed up their division with a 53-49 win over the Rochester Club. The Air Cadet Club and the Toledo Club are still battling for a play-off berth, as are Indianapolis and the Villagers. The Villagers appear to have one of the strongest teams this year, after dumping Badin 34-25.
The Minneapolis Club, fresh from a resounding 64-18 victory over the Milwaukee Club, will battle with the Kentucky Club, who are defending champions.
In all four brackets of the evening league, a campus hall team is in first ® place. Farley, another strong quintet this year, has decisive wins over the Wisconsin and Metropolitan Clubs. The Seniors of Walsh have trounced the St. Louis Club and also the Syracuse Club. Howard and Breen-Phillips have played ; only one game in the second round, but appear to be the strongest in their respective divisions.
f Gymnasts Travel to Indiana Kfter Northwestern Defeat
Notre Dame’s gymnastic team, travels to Bloomington tomorrow to tangle with Indiana, their fourth straight Big Ten opponent. The Irish will be looking for victory number two against two setbacks.
Last week Notre Dame was beaten at Evanston by a scant four points, 50 to 46, at the hands of a rising Northwestern gym team. Just two weeks previous A to that the Wildcats had bowed at Notre I Dame by an almost identical score.
Captain Rocco Tannone paced the Irish to an early lead by winning the trampoline. Reggie Grimm got N.D.’s only other firsts on the parallel bars _ and the side horse.
Northwestern was behind most of the way, but finally won as Bob Lester tumbled to a first place in the last event. I Baumann finished second for the Wild-1 ; cats in this event.
। February 11, 1955
Style 87582	by Peters distinctive shoes for men
»8"to»17«
As advertised in LIFE and ESQUIRE
ALSO ask to see the new WESBORO Shoe* for young men. Own a complete 3-palr WtStOKO SKOt WMMOH for a* little as $23.85.
ENGINEERS, SCIENCE MAJORS
A representative of the Du Pont Company will be on this campus
February 17 and 18
to interview Bachelor and Master degree candidates majoring in
CHEMISTRY CHEMICAL ENGINEERING MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Contact your placement office for an interview appointment
BETTER THINGS EOR BETTER UV1NG - - - 1H8OUGH CHEARSIRY
51
Passengers Wanted DRIVING FROM SOUTH BEND TO CHICAGO EVERY WEEK-END
LEAVE South Bend about 5:30 p.m. Friday night.
LEAVE Chicago about 9 p.m. Sunday night.
DICK JULIAN 311 WEST MARION STREET Phone 2-9249
Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
arvi
126 N. Michigan St. Ph. 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
STUDlHTS-C/f/> n,\ Nnu!
$1,000.00 IN CASH PRIZES
For the Best Essay— (250 to 500 Words) On The Subject
“How I Would Increase the Popularity of Cigarillos”
Johnston Leaves Irish j For South Carolina Job & j |
Frank “Blackie” Johnston, freshman / football coach under Terry Brennan, re- ; signed Wednesday to accept a position , j as assistant line coach at the University < ; of South Carolina. He will leave im-	i r
mediately for Columbia and Monday’s	| ;
opening of winter practice.	< .J
Johnston played varsity ball at Notre
Dame in 1949 and 1950. He was in the	$	i
Anny from 1951 until 1953, when hegj | returned as assistant freshman coach	>	.
under Brennan. He moved up to fresh-	■	' ;
man coach when Brennan succeeded	j	j
Frank Leahy.	’	j
No successor to Johnston has been	j	■
named yet, but the announcement will	,	/
probably be forthcoming before spring 'I practice opens.	j
Johnston is 25 and unmarried. He , i received a degree in Physical Education i * in 1953.	<) ’ f
RULES
I.	Only bonafide students of accredited colleges are eligible to compete. 1st prize $500; 2d, $200; 3d, $100; plus four $50 prizes.
2.	Essays must be accompanied by one (1) KING EDWARD CIGARILLO bond, or reasonable facsimile thereof.
3.	Only one entry accepted from each student.
4.	Contest now open. Closes April 30, 1955. 5. Mail entry to Box 3097, Jacksonville, Florida. Decision of judges will be final. All entries become the property of...
JNO. H. SWISHER & SON, INC.
Makers of King Edward Cigarillos
You don’t hove to inhale to enjoy a Cigarillo
ENGINEERING SENIORS...
North American Aviation
Los Angeles
will interview here
Tuesday, March 1,1955
Mark Easily Trims Crowley In Freshman Handball Final
Tom Mark beat Bill Crowley 21-9 and 21-7 to win the Freshman handball tournament recently. Mark bested some 20 entrants in individual contests of three matches.
The usual gold medal was awarded to Mark, and Crowley received a silver token. Third place went to Andy Van-Coutren.
Last week the campus open class tournament opened in the Rockne Memorial.
Matches are scheduled for every fourth day with competitors coupled according to a seeding system.
Ernie Szekely, moderator, expressed a desire to form a doubles tournament if the singles tourney proves a success.
Cadets Hold Blue Lead; Ahern Rolls Top Series
Aii* Cadet Club held onto their first place spot in the Blue League of the Campus Keglers Sunday as they took three out of four from the second place Accounting Club in the position bowl-off. Detroit moved into the second place spot by taking three out of four from theC Irish Club.
A.I.E.E. lost four out of six to Toledo but managed to stay in first place in Gold League action. Third place Met Club took four of six from the Detroit team, allowing Cleveland to move into Detroit’s third place spot as the Ohioans beat La Raza four out of six.
High score for the day was the 587 pins dumped by Detroit’s Ahern. Torda’s 552 for Cleveland gave him second place.
The Scholastic

32

HEY GUYS!
Look at this
T-Bone Steaks
*1.25
with spaghetti French Fries and ALL THE COFFEE YOU CAN DRINK Tuesday and Thursday
A real saving for
N. D. STUDENTS ONLY
All this at the z
ALBANO
Spaghetti House
415 N. MICHIGAN
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
AQUINAS LIBRARY ui BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
ATTENTION
Engineering Graduates
and
Sr. Engineering Students
Majoring in electrical, mechanical and aeronautical engineering and in physics and math.
Start your career with Sperry, leading engineering company enjoying an enviable record of stable, consistent growth through the development of new and better products since 1910
Following are some of the engineering fields Sperry is engaged in:
Electronics — Microwave — Radar — Servo-Mechanisms Computers — Aircraft Navigation — Electronic tube development including Klystrons — Fractional H. P. motors and transformers — Communication equipment Loran — Sonar — Fire control equipment — Controls for Guided Missiles — Technical writing —Standards engineering work, digital computers, solid state devices, etc.
•	9 graduate schools available in vicinity of laboratory for further studies through company paid tuition refund program.
*	Modern lab facilities and equipment available to you for the further development of your technical education
•	Association with top men in the field
•	Top Rates
•	Full employee benefits
•	Modern plant, in suburban area, 45 minutes from the heart of New York City	'
•	Convenient transportation
•	Recreation facilities and congenial friendly associates
•	Adequate attractive housing available
•	A satisfying, well paid career awaits you at Sperry
SUMMERTIME POSITIONS OPEN
FOR STUDENTS IN JUNIOR YEAR WITH GOOD ACADEMIC RECORDS
Our engineering department heads will be available Feb. 24 and 25 to give you full details and tell you about the high level engineering work Sperry is engaged in.
Please arrange for appointment at your placement office.
SPERRY Gyroscope Co.
DIVISION OF THE SPERRY CORP.
Marcus Ave. & Lakeville Rd.
Great Neck, Long Island, New York
i
February 11, 1955
33
the beck pege
by Don Yeckef
He says they are “no more ‘artificial’
than many means that man has used to
attain spiritual ends.” Let’s grant him this assumption. His argument still cannot stand. The issue here runs deep
er than means. It involves the ends of
birth control, whether natural or ar
tificial.
What are the ends that he gives? I suppose they are the ends that most would give. He lays down this principle: “If a married couple, whether for reasons of health, emotional stability, or financial straits, have decided they do not want children at a certain time, birth control is a ‘positive’ duty.” Now “reasons of health” can certainly be valid reasons for the practice of the ■natural means of birth control. “Emotional stability” might fit in here too. That expression, “financial straits,” really stumped me though.
Why should “financial straits” stop a couple from having children? I could think of three reasons. First, the expense of a child might keep the couple from enjoying the luxuries or even the necessities of life. Secondly, the couple might feel that their financial position will not allow them to raise their child properly. Or thirdly, the financial hardships involved in raising a child might make him feel insecure and unwanted.
Undoubtedly, many people practice birth control for the first reason—but most of them don’t admit it. I honestly don’t think, however, that this clergyman would support such an excuse. I do •think, though, that he—and probably most supporters of birth control—would argue for the second two points.
What about the second point then? Does it offer a sound reason for birth control? No, not if one grants that the
I suppose that my curiosity was first aroused by the position of the article, and not by the article itself. Why on earth should a Protestant clergyman’s “religious case for birth control” appear in the Medicine section of NEWSWEEK? Probably, I thought, because a discussion of some profound religious controversy had used all the space in the Religion section. I turned to the Religion section and found a lengthy article on Bingo. This amazed me so much that I read both articles thoroughly.
Now, of course, I read the articles on birth control with all sorts of Roman Catholic prejudices in the back of my head, but I somehow failed to see that the “case for birth control” presented by this “leading Episcopal spokesman” was a case at all—religious or otherwise.
The clergyman starts, as he has to, by defending the “artificial” means used by “scientific birth control.”
purpose of marriage is the procreation and education of children. Marriage implies procreation. This means that God has given us the tremendous privilege— and duty—of cooperating with him in the creation of human beings. Marriage implies education. This means that God has given us the further privilege—and duty—of raising these human beings so that they will know Him, love Him, and serve Him, and achieve their eternal salvation. This doesn’t seem to require that we be able to provide cars or television sets or even a college education for our children before we are justified in bearing them. At least a few people without college educations have probably gone to heaven; and perhaps even the Negro slave and the Russian peasant managed to teach their children enough about God to help them achieve salvation.
O.K. How about the third point then?
I think the argument goes this way: If we have a child, and we can’t really afford it, the child will inevitably sense this. He will feel that he is a financial burden to his parents, and this will make him feel insecure and unwanted. This is how juvenile delinquents are made.
And so, our birth-controller in Newsweek says, “. . . parents must think through the responsibility of having children in the light of all factors operating in their particular situation from time to time. If the answer at a particular time is that they should be having a child, then they have a positive ethical responsibility to . . . carry out this intent...”
Now this strikes me as being remarkably similar to the process of buying a
car. You weigh carefully all the considerations—present salary, future sal- q -ary, down payment, monthly install-ments, etc. When the time is right, you ( buy. Of course, if one miscalculates in buying a car, they merely repossess it from you. With a baby . . . What do they do with babies when you can’t keep • up the payments?	7
Well, our friend says that is just a * 1 i chance you have to take. Maybe so. I | wonder, though, what you tell your little | boy when he asks, “Daddy, can I have a / g little brother?” I suppose you have to say, “I’m sorry, Junior. Your mother and I just couldn’t work it into the I budget this year.”	1
And, it’s very questionable	whether	I.
financial instability produces	juvenile	I
delinquents in the first place. On the | contrary, it would seem that this contin- $ ual balancing of human life against g money is itself one of the principal | causes of juvenile delinquency. The most (Q g hard-headed experts in juvenile crime null agree with Judge Samuel S. Lei- ; bowitz of Brooklyn (quoted in U. S.
News and World Report) : “People wor- s ship new automobiles and television sets i 4 instead of God, and naturally the chil- J dren follow suit. If we can re-create	~
the older ideals, when children were	a
taught to worship God and to respect j others . . . could anyone doubt that the present wave of serious delinquency * j would thereby be checked?”	g
And what’s all the fuss about “finan-cial straits” anyway, particularly from a clergyman? Doesn’t it say something ; in the Bible about the birds of the air ’ q and the lilies of the field?—“Therefore	1
do not be anxious, saying, ‘What shall 7 we eat?’ or, ‘What shall we drink?’ or, ‘What are we to put on?’ . . . for your Father knows that you need all these things. But seek first the kingdom of God and his justice . . .”?	O ' M
You might ask me why I’ve'gotten so worked up over birth-control. Part of the reason is the relevance of this issue > for our times, and particularly for Catholic college students and potential fathers. However, I suppose my immediate motivation was a personal dislike for birth control. I was bom in 1933, during the depths of the depression, and I can’t help thinking about where I’d be if my parents had applied the principles of “scientific birth control.” Just think of it—poor, non-existent me, an existen- . f tial victim of the Dow-Jones industrial averages for 1932.
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition “Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the
Italian accent on Fine Food
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
34
The Scholastic
r
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Jim O'Hara (left) works out a problem with a member of his crew
His territory:
TWO CITY BLOCKS

James O’Hara. Stevens Institute of Technology (M.E. ’51), is an installation foreman for the New York Telephone Company. His present assignment is two city blocks between 45th and 47th Streets in the middle of Manhattan.
• • •
44It doesn’t measure very big horizontally,” Jim says.44But vertically it makes up a lot of telephone business—7500 telephones to be exact. My eight-man crew does everything from installing a single telephone to working on complete dial intercom systems for some of the nation’s biggest businesses.
44 I’ve got to know about each of these jobs that my men do. My training with the telephone company took me through the installation, repair and testing of the various types of telephone equipment and service for which I am responsible. I even had a chance to do a little experimenting of my own and developed a new way of preventing oil seepage on automatic switching equipment. I understand it’s being written up for use throughout the Bell System.
t6That’s what I like about telephone work. Even two city blocks are full of opportunity. ”
You’ll find that most other college men with the tele-phone company are just as enthusiastic about their jobs. If you’d be interested in a similar opportunity with a Bell System Telephone Company—or with Sandia Corporation, Western Electric or Bell Telephone Laboratories, see your Placement Officer for Lull details.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
I
UCWTTX
© Liggett & Mras Tobacco Co.
IN THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD NO CIGARETTE
; LIKE CHESTERFIELD
:hS
$1
PUT A
CHESTERFIELD

You’ll smile your approval of Chesterfield s
smoothness — mildness — refreshing taste.
You ll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s
iv,
I
quality — highest quality —low nicotine.

