	Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.	-
Vol. XVII. 4	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA MAY 31, 1884.	No. 38.
The Mountaineer.
For changing years of smiles and tears
My foot has pressed
The mountain’s crest,
And still I love the breezes blowing
From piney hill and laughing rill;
From shady dells
Where soft bluebells
And scented herbs in tufts are growing;
The lucid spring where wild vines cling
And rocks are set
With mosses wet;
Herds in far valleys faintly lowing, The mountain sheep on crags so steep
No man may dare
To venture there,	'
And sunny lakes beneath me glowing.
But, best of all, when thunders fall,
When fierce winds sweep
And lightnings leap
I love my own wild mountain dwelling;
The frowning clouds and swollen floods, The crash one hears
When fiery spears	■
Some tree king in his pride are felling.
Then in me springs the thought that flings
Most brilliant light
On vale and height, For from the first hour Liberty
Opposed her brand to tyrant band, She sought on high A spot to die
Or lift her throne forever free!
Marion Muir.
The Portrait of Columbus in the National Library (Madrid).*
In reply to a Memorial by Dr. Angel de los Rios y Rios, on “The Most Ancient Portrait and the Dress of Christopher Columbus,” Dr. Valentin Carderera expressed the opinion that it might be advisable to attempt the restoration of the painting in the National Library, which represents the discoverer of the New World, and which by its antiquity, style, and other marks, was likely to give
* Translated from the Boletin de la Real Academia de la Historia, Madrid.
rise to important conjectures and shed new lights on the subject. To effect this purpose he indicated the process to be followed—the usual one with scraper and certain corroding liquids—suggesting that the restored part should be removed from the picture until, if possible, reaching the original painting, but proceeding cautiously and at first removing only the less important parts. Of this picture a very good copy was first made, because, above all things, it was important topreserve what existed already, and if any discovery should be made, comparisons might be more evidently instituted.
The charge which it is the good fortune of the present writer to hold in the National Library imposed on him this care, or, rather, responsibility. The first operation was allowed to go no further than a close examination, which, if it resulted in the certainty that the original had been subjected to arbitrarv retouching which disfigured it, the original, both as to drawing and coloring, was to be restored as far as possible. The boldness of this [supposed] abuse was nothing new nor to be wondered at, because in former times the art of restoring was thus understood; consequently, the correction was natural and necessary. Keeping in mind, therefore, the observations of Senor Carderera, and consulting, amongst others, Don Salvador Martinez Cubells, restorer of the Museo del Prado in this citv,—who has distinguished himself so highly in this kind of work—there remained nodoubt whatsoever that the portrait of the great Admiral, as it appeared in that picture, was what might be called a genuine superfetation. The dryness' of the coloring, the hesitation in the lines, the indecision in the drawing, and certain lines of an ancient drawing that could be faintly distinguished beneath the more modern picture, made the conjectures of Senor Carderera not only probable but certain, especially considering the incongruity of the dress, an outlandish costume adorned with furs, better suited for a Muscovite than for the bold navigator who was accustomed to pay but little heed to the inclemency of the ocean, and who weathered other storms, not less fierce, that were reserved for him by fortune.
Senor Cubells began his essay at the upper part of the picture by the words indicating the name and quality of the personage, and the letters as they were removed showed the first signs that a change had been made. Beneath the substantive
594	Z2Y5- NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
inventor—unwisely used by the poor Latinists of that age—appeared the abbreviation for repertory and continuing the operation, in place of the line, Cristcf. Colombas nori (sic) or^^s inventor, appeared the following: Colonib. Lygur. novi orbis reptor. The difference between the last two words is very important: the impropriety of the one sets the exactness of the other in the clearest light. Invenire means to happen to find; rcperirc is to find what was sought. From such a beginning what might not be expected? Such a silly correction by the epigraphist-would be alone sufficient to raise suspicions against the painter of licenses in the style.
And, indeed, in proportion as the ancient original was gradually cleared away, the disfigured countenance recovered new life and a natural existence; and when, after days of slow and careful work, the desired restoration was made, the surmises entertained from the start were fully verified. The plate accompanying this page—carefully engraved by D. Jose Maria Galvan, who enjoys a well-earned reputation on account of his previous works,—gives a good idea of the difference existing between the ancient picture—a copy of which appeared in our last issue—and the restored portrait. The eyes, the nose, the under lip, the oval of the face, give an entirely- different character to the countenance; its first expression of melancholy and disdain giving place to one of repose and gravity conformable to the firmness of soul and the lofty aims of him who, to the amazement of all ages, whether instinctively or consciously, fulfilled the obscure prophec)* of Seneca.	'
We leave to such competent critics as Carderera the appreciation of all these differences and altera’ tions, and will only give expression to some ideas that suggest themselves to our ordinary judgment at sight of the restored picture.. That it comes from Italy and is of the XVIth century there can be no doubt. It is painted on wood of the black poplar, a material not used in our Peninsula, and so porous that it was necessary to remove the moths that had built their nests in it, and to bind it fast with clamping-irons to-keep it together. According to the opinion of competent judges, it does-not belong to any Spanish school; the style of drawing and coloring, reminds one of the Florentine, to which belonged Cristofano del Altisimo, or of that of some of the pupils of Brohcino; hence the difference to be seen between the engraved portraits and this on wood—a difference almost as great as e ©
what is noticed between the works of those artists’ who preserved something of the stiff and dry style of the painters that preceded the renaissance, and those who, like Raphael himself, profited by the lesson given them by Michael Angelo when he enlarged the forms into the colossal head painted with such wonderful readiness in the Farnese.
Another strange coincidence: The picture of the National Library was obtained in 1763, together with a portrait of Hernan Cortes of the same dimensions, material, and origin. A companion picture of both is that of Magallanes, which is preserved in the Museum of the Academy of Fine Arts in this city.	.
The celebrated Bishop of Nocera, Paulo Jovio, was both a writer and an artist. Near Lake Como, in a delightful and verdant valley surrounded by fertile hills, on the very spot where Pliny the Younger had his villa, he established a museum where, besides other precious objects, he had a large collection of portraits painted by the best known artists of the day. The fame of this gallery brought Charles V to visit it, and it was resorted to from all parts by copiers sent by princes and rich people who took a pleasure in decorating their palaces with the images of their ancestors, or of those personages whose deeds were subjects of admiration and applause to posterity. Thus was formed in Florence the no less celebrated gafiery of Cosmas I- de Medicis, and in imitation of it the splendid collection of three hundred and twenty portraits copied in Rome by order of our own Marquis de Villafranca, Don Pedro de Toledo, and the- series in the palace of Altamira and in other palaces which are well known.
It is not necessary to reproduce the Memorial written by Senor Carderera and published in the VIHth vol. of the Memorials of our Academy in 1852. All the reasonings and conjectures so learnedly and appositely brought forward there, as the author passes in review one by one the-portraits of the illustrious Genoan which during the last three centuries have been given to the world either in ©
paintings or engravings, go to prove that there is no genuine portrait of Columbus taken from life; that by means of the biush or the burin a number of apocryphal ones have been invented. But, on the other hand, though, more or less altered according to the caprice of each painter or each epoch, there are none worthy of mention amongst them that do not bear some traces of one single primitive type, and which do not show a certain family likeness. Even though one differs from another in the hair, the lines of the eyes, the contraction of the mauth, the prominence of the cheek bones, or in the entire expression of the countenance, still there is something common in all; unless, indeed, in such as have been puiposely disfigured, or, which is worse, have been purposely invented by bestowing on him features that belonged to another, or that, being purely allegorical, belonged to nobody. All —and this is a singular coincidence—look towards the right; in all, with one solitary and ridiculous exception, the nose is aquiline, the oval of the face' is prolonged, and the expression is one of reflection and calmness rather than of radiance and boldness, as might be thought suited to a man in whose brain was the fire of inspiration, and in whose soul was the resolution to execute a great enterprise.'
One of the most ancient documents to which appeal might have been made was that preserved in the palace of the marquises of Malpica, in Madrid, —but this, unfortunately, exists no longer; but we know, in the first place, that it bore a great resemblance tp our portrait, only differing from it in the obscure color of the cloak, a trifling accessory; and, in the second place, that it was copied from the picture in the Florentine gallery, which, in its
I__________________________________________________________________________________________________
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
595
turn, was taken from the museum of Paulo Jovio. Now, if the portrait in the National Library agrees with that of Malpica, and the origin of the latter is known, it follows necessarily that ours has equally high claims as to origin, and consequently is of equal authenticity, and of no meaner genealogy. And the value of this inference is not diminished by the circumstances suspected by Carderera, that there figured in the museum of Jovio two portraits of Columbus taken at two distant periods of his life. In the one which came from Spain he wore the Franciscan habit spoken of by the pastor of los Palacios; the other, in civil dress, and without those anachronisms of finery and pomp with which it was afterwards outraged by unskilful hands, under the impression that they beautified or ennobled it.
In my opinion it seems incontestable that Paulo Jovio secured an authentic likeness of the discoverer of the New World. The proof of this is in its transfer to the Florentine gallery; tradition affirms it, as'does the editor of the “Eulogies” of P. Jovio, who reproduces all the portraits from the museum of that prelate; and, moreover, we are induced to believe it on account of the importance of the personage; for it is not only probable but quite certain that one who was so anxious to glorify the memory of the great men of ancient times, placing beside them the most illustrious of his own contemporaries, would not forget Columbus, who, after his return from his first expedition, and in the period that elapsed between his second and third voyages, was the object of so much admiration and of universal applause. Neither is it an unfounded supposition that there were two pictures, as mentioned above. If the portrait reproduced in the “Eulogies” (editions of Basilea, 1578,) represents its subject in the Franciscan habit and the print of Capriolo (Rome, 1596,), with his tunic and cloak similar to ours of the Library, what clearer proof need we of the existence of both copies? Nay, more: does not this very difference of dress argue also a difference of time,—the first confirming the assertion of the pastor of los Palacios, and the second showing the change of fortune of the Admiral some years after his first discovery?
Two different species suppose a common genus; two variations, a previous text from which one or both differ; which of these is preferable as being most like the original? The answer is not doubtful when we apply the principles of right criticism. Let us apply them to the matter in question. The abate Francisco Cancellieri, in the frontispiece to his Italian work entitled “ Historical and Bibliographical Notices of Christophei' Columbus” (Rome, 1809), has a small print representing the glorious discoverer, which in dress, countenance, and other particulars, perfectly agrees with our painting; notwithstanding its smallness, this similarity is noticed at a glance.
It is true that this writer, appealing to the testimony of others, attempts to prove that Genoa was not the native place of Columbus, but the little town of Cucarro in Monferrat; and that the Admiral never signed himself Christof herens^ neither
in his letters nor in any other document. The desire of distinguishing one’s self carries many to such extravagances; the most incorrigible manias are those of the learned. There are yet to be found those who maintain that the baptismal font of the author of Don Quijote is in Alcazar de San Juan. Butin illustrating his work by the portrait mentioned, Cancellieri does not defend an individual opinion, and he judges it authentic, because, without doubt, it was held as such in his day, and because—and let this circumstance be carefully noted —he found it in the house of one of the relatives of Columbus, in Cucarro.
On the other hand, in the already-mentioned Elogi Storici of Columbus and Andrea Doria, which are beautifully printed by Bodini of Parma in 1781, there is an engraving of a medallion copied by the editor from the prints of Fresherius and Teodoro Bry. To this we all tided above when we characterized as ridiculous the form of the'nose, which, instead of being aquiline, as described by Oviedo, Herrera, and D. Fernando Colon (Columbus) in their histories, is by caprice made flat; by which, and by the addition of a bushy head of hair, with a three-cornered cap and wings, and a rich great-coat, which but ill becomes the modest simplicity of the celebrated navigator, they have originated a false type which has not been wanting in imitators.
These two documents, apart from the others cited by Carderera, are sufficient bases for comparison. In the one likeness there is nothing repugnant to the critical sense; it comes in a direct line from the museum of Jovio; it agrees with the description of the original as given by conterhpora-ries; and it makes no display of artificial adornments, which are entirely out of place and not in keeping with the character of the subject. In the other, the countenance, features, bearing, dress, all are in opposition to the historical subject, as are the armor, frills, bushy hair, moustache and imperial with which others represent him,—a style not used in the time in which he lived.
These inventions carry their own condemnation with them; chronology proves a species of alibi against them, and teaches us to deny all authority to the anachronisms to be found in abundance in many ancient codices, which at a first' glance betray the date and country wherein they were written.
It would be useless, and would stretch out our article to too great length, were we to add other reasons to those given in favor of the legitimacy of the portrait of Columbus in the National Library, whose recent restoration shows that it is one of the most ancient known; and which, by its material, form, countenance, and other distinctive circumstances, offers a clearer character of authenticity than any.that are preserved in our private museums.
It was the misfortune of the great man ‘who now occupies one of the brightest pages in the history of mankind, that during life he was the target of jealousy and ingratitude, and in death he finds not a fixed and becoming asylum for his mortal remains, foreign speculators even trafficking in their fancied possession.
I
I
!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	\
But no: Providence interposes these clouds before the sun of human glory, that its rays may not be too resplendent, and that science and virtue may more speedily and surely conquer immortality by the way of misfortune. .Let us admire in Columbus the courage that animated his privileged soul: and let us contemplate in his image the scin-filiations of that inspiration that lighted up his-mind, for these are the most precious legacies bequeathed to us with his memory.
C. R.
Lines.
w. II. JOHXSTOX.
A child gazed on the ocean wide, And wondered, in his earnest way, What might lie hid beyond the place Where on the sea the blue sky lay.
He saw the stately ships go out Until they seemed to fade away;— He saw the ships come in from where Upon the sea the blue sky lay.
He saw the ships, and looked in vain For glimpse of what might hidden lie Bevond that mvstic line where met
The restless sea and calm, blue sky.
As stood the child in wonder wrapt Upon the mighty ocean’s shore, So stand we on the beach and seek The sea of knowledge to explore.
We venture not upon the main,—
Perhaps the roaring waves affright Our childish minds; the task, perchance, Seems far beyond our infant might.
We see the ships of others fade Beyond the limit of our view, And, safe upon the solid earth, We -wonder at those venturing few!
Anon, we see the ships return,
And wonder what their freight may be;
With ceaseless care we seek to hear
The secrets of the hidden sea.
We ask in vain,—we never know
The fortunes of those ships while gone;
And so we gaze on other barks,-
And watch and wait and wonder on!
The child could -wonder;—and, mayhap, An ass a sort of wonder feels.
When blinded by the flying dust Cast from some nimbler ass’s heels.
• Then let us not with infant eyes
These venturing vessels wondering view, But sail ourselves,—yet not, indeed,
An oft-sailed course again pursue:
For ’tis the way of bleating sheep
To follow blind the well-trod way;
They go where’er a leader goes, Where’er he choose to stop, so they.
But let us each pursue our course, And search ourselves the broad unknown—
Find things unfound, see sights unseen, To other’s gleanings add our own.
And let the wondering ones on shore
Watch our ships as they stately ride
Beyond that line encompassing
Naught else than man’s conceit and pride.
Advantages of Study.
The road to knowledge is beset with difficulties which can only be overcome by study. As without battle there can be no victory, without arms no battle, so also without study there can be no knowledge. Although God has endowed man with rea-son that he1 may understand the beauties in the order of ideas, that by its power he may rise above the stars and penetrate far beyond the universe of things, yet how little can be done by this mental power, be it ever so great, when it is not trained, nourished and strengthened by study! In this case it docs not increase but it decreases; it does not extend itself but shrinks together: it re-mains always at the surface of things and never enters the mysterious depths of science. It may, perhaps, for a moment shed a faint glimmer; perhaps, too, a transient splendor which may cause surprise and dazzle the eyes of superficial men, yet if it is not exercised by study its glance is like that produced by straw-fire, and is quickly extinguished. Without study, then, the mind loses in extent, profundity and clearness; without study no serious, solid and extensive knowledge can be acquired. The young man, therefore, deceives himself, who, because he has been gifted by Almighty God with great talents, thinks he need not study. Talent is not knowledge; it is but the instrument by means of which we can obtain knowledge. In order to acquire this we must make use of the instrument; we must train our talents,—we must study.
All men of genius without exception loved and cherished study. It is difficult to determine to which they are more indebted for the name and fame thev have gained,—to their talent that God had so richly bestowed upon them, or to the earnest study by which they endeavored to cultivate this great gift of the Creator and to profit thereby.
The learned naturalist Buffon does not hesitate to assert that for the most part the masterpieces of literature and science are to be attributed to diligence and study. Study, therefore, in spite of talent, is indispensable for the acquisition of knowledge; and the success, the capacity of a scientific learned man is not to be estimated by his natural faculties but by the industry with which he pursued study. From the foregoing it follows that with application and industry we can do a great deal even with moderate capacities. It may well be said, that everyone possesses inborn talent enough to accomplish great things in the domain of the intellect, provided he studies hard. This is confirmed by daily^experiehce. Suppose two students of unequal capacity and application: one of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
597
whom possesses great talent but is not diligent, while the other has moderate faculties but is indefatigable at study. What is generally the result? Whilst the talented student goes every day backward, the other goes forward. Every difficulty which the latter overcomes augments his mental power, and as he overcomes new difficulties his mind grows daily stronger, until finally he attains a certain height in the domain of science. The talented young man thought, perhaps, in his youthful levity, that on account of his great talent it was sufficient to touch his forehead with his finger in order to produce wonders of learning. Yet how bitterly is he deceiving himself! He sinks visibly in wisdom, science and esteem in the eyes of his fellow-men. This is no exaggeration; it is, unfortunately, but too often verified. Often has it happened that students whose spring was full of blossoms, which promised abundant fruits for their coming life, have, through want of application, al-• lowed these blossoms to prematurely wither. They deceive and wound their family, society, and themselves. Their ignorance will, later on, be a disgrace to their talent, and the reality of their life a bitter scoff at their former hopes. Let us then be convinced that work and study do more than talent, and that they are indispensably necessary for the cultivation of the mind.
Study promotes the exercise of virtue. This is evident from numerous examples of most virtuous men, among whom we content ourselves with citing Cardinal Newman, who owes his conver-the to the Catholic Church and his promotion to sion Cardinalate principally to his indefatigable study.
Not every study, however, is good and effects virtue. Voltaire, too, studied a great deal, but the object of his study as well as the intention by which he was thereby guided were mean. From this we see that study does not consist in virtue itself but affords us only considerable means to acquire it. One of these principal means is: it keeps man—especially the young man—far from ■ the occasion of sin. A certain scholar was wont to say, “Immorality, incredulity and idleness form one circle; the beginning of which is, where you please.” From laziness originate the two vices—immorality and infidelity-—the one of which corrupts and disfigures the mind, the other the heart. Reciprocally, immorality and incredulity beget laziness. Therefore it is that St. Jerome advised the young Nepotian: “ Semper te diabolus occupatum inven-iatE And it is for the same reason that experience approves of the following proverb: “For one devil who torments a busy man there are ten who lay snares to an idler.” Even the pagans are of the same opinion, and we seem to listen to the words of a Father of the Church when Florace says:
“. . . . et ni
Poscas ante diem librum cum lumine; si non Intendas animum studiis et rebus honestis Invidia et amore torquebere.”
Study is a cause of great joy. There is a difier--ence between pleasure and joy. Pleasure is of a
frivolous nature, and is not always found in study; joy, however, is a noble feeling, which generally is only stimulated by toil. It is a flower which has its root in duty, by its nature grows, and is nurtured therein, and develops its fragrant calyx when duty is entirely fulfilled. For there is nothing that causes more joy than to realize that we have ourselves overcome difficulties; that we have brought new light upon obscure questions; that, after long researches, we have hit upon new discoveries.
It is related of Archimides (212 B. C.) that he was just taking a bath when he discovered a principal law of hydrostatics by means of which he found the mysterious fraud of the goldsmith out who had stolen a considerable part of the gold from the crown of the King Hiero. He was so rejoiced that he immediately ran to his residence, crying continuallv: Etw/.a, zbpr,7M—“I have found it!” Such joy will the student experience who, with diligence and perseverance, overcomes the difficulties which present themselves.
Art, Music, and Literature
—The representations of plays of Shakspeare at the Royal Theatre, Berlin, during the past year, exactly equal the combined number of representations of the plays of Schiller and Goethe.
—The Duke of Albany, who was an intimate personal friend of the ill-fated French prince imperial, is said to have gathered together a large collection of Bonapartist souvenirs, with a view to writing a biography of the prince.
—An English novelist declares that the evil of o	_
novel-writing at the present day is the competition of educated, rich, but incompetent amateurs with the writer who has neither the name of a Wilki Collins nor the check-book of the incompetent amateur.
—Charles Villiers Stanford, the composer of the new opera, “ The Canterbury Pilgrims,” is, like Balfe and Sullivan, an Irishman, pur sang. He was born and educated in Dublin, and is the great-grandson, maternally, of the late Lord and Lady (Pamela) Edward Fitzgerald.—Home Journal.
—Thirty-two unpublished letters by Montesquieu have been purchased by the Bordeaux Municipality, being part of the collection of manu- ' scripts of Lamontaigne, secretary of the Bordeaux Academy prior to the revolution. They relate to the affairs of the Academy, to the war in Bohemia, and to his “ Esprit des Lois? which, he mentions in one of them, he was occupied upon for eight hours every day. The letters will be published soon.	’	-
—Madrid must be an earthly paradise for the bibliophile. The National Library alone contains 600,000 printed books and 30,000 MSS.; while the university boasts of nearly 137,000 books and an equal number of MSS. Then the priyate collections are numerous and splendid.- The Duke of Os-suna’s possessions move students of the Elisabethan
598	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
drama to jealousy. He has 3,000 MSS. plays, including many by Lope de Vega, of the great age of the Spanish theatre.
—George Peixotto, a young American artist, son of the American Consul at Lyons, has lately painted two portraits of Cardinal Manning, which are well spoken of. One of these, a half-length, is for St. Thomas’ Seminary at Hammersmith, England, and the other for St. Charles’ College. Mr. Peixotto is to do a full-length for the Cardinal’s official residence at Westminster. The father of this young artist, Mr. B. F. Peixotto, before he entered the diplomatic service of the United States, was a highly-esteemed merchant and citizen of Cleveland, Ohio. He has strong literary tastes, and has done a great deal of good journalistic work.
—The roll of royal authorship in these days is not easily exhausted. To the names of the Queens of England and Roumania, the Empress of Austria and the Princess Alice may he added; among the princesses, those of the sistej- of the King of Spain, who has just published the poems of Paz de Borbon, and of the Princess Beatrice (“ Birthday Book.”) Among kings and potentates the present king of Sweden is well known as a scribbler of verse; the King of Portugal is an accomplished translator of Shakspere (writing under the name of B. Plato); the late King of Saxony was a celebrated Dante scholar and translator; the Sultan Abdul Aziz was said to possess the hereditary gift pf the sovereigns of Turkey for the subtle and plaintive forms of Turkish poetry; the Shah of Persia not only writes a wonderful scrawl (which thousands have seen on exhibition at Madame Tussaud’s), but is skilled in Persian • metres. Everybody remembers the “ Jules-C^sar” of Napoleon III, and the best history of the late Civil War is that written by the Comte de Paris, heir to the throne of France. Rudolph, Crown Prince of Austria, has perpetrated his “Travels,” and.the Prince of Montenegro is a ballad-writer of the first excellence. The most remarkable linguist of the age is Prince Louis Lucien Bonaparte.
Scientific Notes.
—A marine insect or worm, the torredo, has honeycombed, seventy feet of piling at a large steamship pier in New York, making the pier too weak for safe use. '
—The Mexican Government has arranged for the planting of two million trees in the Valley of Mexico within four years, and the formation there of national nurseries in which the study of scientific forestry may be pursued.
—Many months ago the medical press was crowded with articles to show the action of a so-called new remedy in heart-disease—extract of lily of the valley. But a bookworm in Rome finds that the remedy was highly esteemed in Germany for the same malady prior to the year 1821.
—The latest investigations of M. Bloch into the rapidity of perceptive power seem to show that studied vision is quickest in its operation, and
auditory perception occupies the seventy-second part of a second longer. Touch requires the twenty-first part of a second longer for transmission than a visual perception.
—The finest rubies are found in Ava, Siam, and Peru; others are found in India, Ceylon, Australia, Borneo, and Sumatra. The Burmese mines have long been famous; the working of them is a royal monopoly, and the king has, among other titles, that of Lord of the Rubies. The Brazilian ruby is declared to be a pink topaz, inferior to the true ruby, yellow in its natural state, and colored artificially.
—The International Congress of Geologists, which met for the first time at Paris in 1878, and again at Bologna in 1881, will hold its next meeting at Berlin toward the end of September next. Preparations for its reception are already being made. The government offers to defray the travelling expenses of a number of prominent geologists. An exhibition is to take place in connection with the congress, to which the German museums of natural history are expected to contribute many interesting objects. •
—Messrs. Reinach and Babilon, on commencing excavations on the site of ancient Carthage, have found between the harbor and the citadel, at a depth of fifteen feet, whole series of wells, cisterns and foundations, originally of the Punic period, but which have been altered and restored during the Roman age. At a depth of twenty-one feet, the original ground was discovered, so that it would be necessary, in order to lay the whole of ancient Carthage open, to. remove on the average seven feet of earth over a superfies of many hundred hectometres, a quantity of material sufficient to partly fill up the Lake of Tunis, putting an end to the existing unhealthy conditions, and gaining land fit for agriculture and cultivation.—Home Journal.
—In order to accumulate electricity for the production of the electric light, M. J. Rousse has arranged batteries which differ from those of M. G. Plante. At the negative pole he places a sheet of palladium, which, during the electrolysis absorbs more than 900 times its volume of hydrogen. At the positive pole he uses a sheet of lead. The electrolyzed liquid is sulphuric acid at 0.1. This element is said to be very powerful even when of small dimensions. Another secondary element which has also given good .results is formed at the negative pole of a slender plate of sheet-iron. This plate absorbs more than 200 times its volume of hydrogen when electrolyzed in a solution of ammonium sulphate. The positive pole is formed of a plate of lead. Both these batteries were previously briefly noticed by.
—M. Forquignon has given in the Ann. de Chim^ et de Phys., a record of extensive researches upon malleable iron and the reheating of steel. Among other conclusions be attaches special importance to. the following: (1) Malleable iron always contains, amorphous graphite; ( 2 ) A casting may lose carbon and yet remain brittle if the original quantity of graphite is not increased; (3) A casting maybe-come malleable without losing any sensible portion
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
599
of its carbon; (4) If silicium is added to mangane-sian castings they arc improved by reheating; (5) Hydrogen and nitrogen may unite with the carbon of a casting so as to make it malleable without reduction of graphite; (6) The breaking load is more than doubled, sometimes quadrupled, by annealing; (7) Ductility generally increases with the resistance to breaking, but after a certain limit it has a slight tendency to diminish.
—Recently, the Rev. Pere Shirion, S. J., read before the Societe Scicntijiquc of Brussels an interesting paper on the curious red sunsets which for six months puzzled the learned and unlearned of all parts of the world. The learned Jesuit examined and rejected, one by one, the theories which explained these curious displays by the aurora borea is, the zodiacal light or showers of cosmic dust. He concluded by claiming- them as the result of the eruption of Krakatau, «the most terrible, perhaps, which history has recoided.” It appears probable that the red twilights were really caused by the dust and vapor cast up by the same terrific volcanic agency which raised the floor of the Straits of Sunda and inundated the Island of Java. These light bodies seem to have been ■ caught up by atmospheric currents which dispersed them over the whole surface of the globe, the extreme minuteness of the particules and the play of electrical forces seem to have been causes which held them so long in suspension in the upper strata of our atmosphere.
College Gossip.
•—In the opinion of the Dartmouth^ work done upon a college journal ought to be taken as an equivalent for a certain amount of class work in English, •
—The Greek letter fraternity, Sigma Chi, has been suppressed at Wesleyan, and the Faculty has forbidden the badge of this society to appeal" again in that institution.
—Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland, is about to purchase a valuable lot on Euclid avenue, Cleveland, for the erection of a large Catholic theolog-J	^>0
ical college,—Ex,
—The following excuse was written to a Southbridge school teacher: “Tomie stade home, cuz he had no close, and thats excuz enufF, god nose.” Tomie was “ exkused.”—Peck's Suh.
—A druggist, dependent largely for his support on the patronage of Yale students, advertises as follows: “ Arnica sticking-plaster, splints, bandages, and other baseball goods.”—Crimson. .
—“What do you think of Fielding?” asked a Boston girl of a Harvard graduate. “ Oh, its important, of course, but it don’t amount to anything without good batting.”—Bates Student.
—Franklin and Marshall has received $10,000 for the erection of an Astronomical Observatory; Oberlin, $50,000 for a School of Music; and 'Yale, $50,000 for the erection of a new dormitory. —Ex.
-Ex-Governor Leland Stanford, of California, intends to devote some millions of his immense fortune to the foundation of . a California college to be named after his son, who died recently in Italy.
—Catholic schools in Paris are prospering, despite the attacks of the Government. The schools taught by religious are more largely attended than ever; the standard of teaching is higher than the governmental infidel schools, and the discipline is better observed.
—According to the last regulations, the study of German has been made obligatory for all students in the University of Tokio, Japan. Formerly German and French were optional subjects. Lectures, however, on nearly all subjects are delivered in English, both by foreign and native professors.
—It is reported that a western editor is endeavoring to establish a chair of practical journalism in our more prominent colleges, on the ground that a large per cent, of the students embrace journalism as their future profession. This would be of an immense advantage to our college press as now instituted.— Virginia Magazine.
—The following are some of the scores made in the Inter Collegiate games of Eastern colleges on Saturday last:—100-yd. dash, 10 1—5 sec.; 2 mile bicycle race, 6 min., 45 1-5sec.; 1 mile run, 4 min.,45 sec.; the best running broad jump was 2r ft., 354 in.; the shot was put 36 ft., 3^ in.; the hammer was thrown S3 ft., 2 in.; the best running high jump was 5 ft., 93/ in.; half-mile run was made in 2 min., 5J4 sec.; 1 mile walk 7.35.
—President White tells the Cornell Alumni Association that he sees real improvement .in university life within the last fifteen years. He thinks that many follies and absurdities, which used to pass unchallenged because public opinion outside of college was not brought to bear upon them, have been scorched and shrivelled out of existence by popular indignation uttered through the press. Fie expects to see the maltreatment of fellow-students, the annoying of professors, and the attempts by classes to discipline the faculty entirely eliminated very soon from the colleges.—Home Jottrnal. ■
—In a recent speech, President McCosh, of Princeton, said: “ We teach every branch of high learning taught in any college in America. We have to make some studies elective. The obligatory studies are the old branches which have stood -the" test of ages, which trained our forefathers, and are fitted to enlarge the mind and prepare young men for their life-work. Among these we have now and mean to retain the classical tongues, especially Greek, as opening to us the grandest’literature of the ancient world, and especially the language of the Greek Testament. On this subject we are-unanimous. For myself, I am very willing that colleges, should introduce other and new degrees, such as Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Literature. But we wish to retain the old degrees, with all their significance. It is not honest to change the meaning of those titles. Let us have a degree which indicates that the possessor is a man of culture,”
6oo
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, May 31, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate tor the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84.
J. A. McIntyre, ’84.
El^ier A. Otis, ’84.
James Solon, ’84.
W. H. Bailey, ’84.
C. A. Tinley, ’84.
W. H. Johnston,’ 85.
C. F. Porter, ’85.
—The “ Class-Annual ” of ’84 will be ready for sale and distribution some time next week. The book is under the immediate charge of an editorial committee, which has now the hearty approval and co-operation of the entire Class. It will contain class reminiscences and prophecies, essays, sketches, poems, stories, descriptions, athletic and society records, local hits, conservative jokes, etc. The book is printed on superfine paper, in excellent type, by the Register Printing Company of South Bend. Copies may be had by addressing Rev. T. MaHef, Notre Dame, Ind.
-—The “reviews” have now. begun and everything indicates a lively spirit of preparation for the final examinations, which occur about two weeks hence.. The short time intervening- calls for extra . exertion on the part of those who have not studied ; very seriously during the session, if they wish to remedy,-at least to some extent, their remissness of the past. Much can be done, with industry and application, even in a few weeks, and each, student
should try and do the best he can and so give evidence to parents and friends that his term at college has not been wholly without fruit. Besides,—and it is a thought that should have its influence—each one’s best interests are at stake; for every hour of the present should be duly profited by, in order that fitting preparation be made for a future career.
—The Rev. A. A. Lambing, of Pittsburgh, has inaugurated a movement which should meet with a hearty and generous encouragement from the Catholic reading public. His wish is to form a “Diocesan Catholic Library” in which shall be collected and preserved the important historical data bearing upon the history of the Church in the United States, much of which is gradually being lost. He addresses himself to leading Catholics in the country to send him such works as relate to the’ history of the Church and other data or information, whether local or general, in regard to the same as they may be possessed of. He begins himself by contributing his own valuable historical Library, and it is to be hoped that clergy and laity will cooperate in the undertaking. Such an enterprise is sure to pave the way for a complete and perfect history of the Church in our country., ‘
—The Scholastic lately took exception to some silly criticisms from correspondents of the Perniris Monthly Stenographer, of Detroit, Michigan, which brought forth an editorial of several columns in the following number, tn reply we say that the Pernin-Duploye can bear no comparison with the Pitman system. . Pitman’s is far superior to it in many respects. Just as simple in its parts and combinations, Pitman’s is fuller, briefer —better planned, better constructed, and of course gives better results. The Duployd system, while lacking characters for distinct sounds, even in French, is, as Armand Lelioux says, “barbarously simple,”, because confined to ah imperfect groundwork, with very little provision for necessary contractions, and none at all for such groups of letters as we find represented in Pitman’s phonography. The anti-angle mania is one of Duployd’s great defects, making the. joinings difficult, and illegible when made. As to Mr. Martin’s challenge to Thos. Allen Reed—he might as properly have challenged Cardinal Newman to. a contest in English composition and rhetoric. Besides, as was. shown by Mr. Reed, the challenge for “ 100 pupils, each side” would be, for many reasons, impractic- ’ able, supposing an inclination to accept it.
THE NOTRE DANE SCHOLASTIC.
601
Correspondence.
The following correspondence between the Librarian of the University and the Court of Spain explains itself. It may prove interesting in view of the light thrown upon celebrated portraits of Columbus and several of his friends. The article from the Boletin is translated in the present number:
■ Madrid, 5th May, 18S4. J. F. Edwards, Esq.
Sir:—In answer to the letter you haxe addressed to His Majesty the King, my August Sovereign, I have the pleasure to write you by His Royal command. His Majesty was much pleased by your letter, and, desiring to render you the service you asked, ordered me to look to the matter. I addressed myself to our savant and historian, Don Pascual de Jayangos, and I have the pleasure to send you a copy of his answer by which you will see what there is about your question. I also send you by this post two numbers of the “ Boletin de la Real Academia de la His-toria,” with portraits of Columbus. I remain, Sir,
Yours very sincerely,
Count Morphy,'
Secretaria particular.
DE S. M. EL Rev.	.
April 24, 1884.
To the Most Excellent Count de Morphy.
My Dear Sir and Esteemed Friend:—To the questions proposed by the Librarian of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., concerning the portraits of Columbus, Santangel,’Perez and Deza, my answer is this: *,
As far as I know, there is no portrait known of the treas- , urer Luis de Santangel. The same may be said of Father Juan Perez. As to the friar Diego Deza, who was Archbishop of Seville from 1502 to 1521, and afterwards of Toledo from 1521 till his death in 1523, there is one in the chapter room of this latter city. Some years ago there appeared one of Christopher Columbus which is believed to be original and the same that Paulo Jovio, Bishop of Nocera, had in his celebrated museum. Already in 1851 Don Valentin Carderera, in publishing his Informe sobre los retratos—“ Information as to the Portraits of Columbus, his Costume and Arms,” suspected that the one in our National Library was the prototype of the others that are to be found engraved in various works; and although he did not venture to assert it positively, he suggested that, the said portrait having been subject to many restorations and - repainted frequently, the modern painting should be removed by means of acids, and what was hidden beneath should be brought to light. This operation, entrusted to the restorer Cubells, .was entirely successful, and the result was to confirm the surmises of the erudite archeologist Dr. Valentin.
You will find both subjects treated of at length in the Boletin de la Real Academia de la Histpria, which I take the pleasure of sending you, with the letter of Professor Edwards, and if in any other way I can be of service to you, you know that you can dispose at will of	’
Your humble servant arid affectionate fiiend, ■
Pascual de Gayangos. :
Letter from Very Rev- Father General Sorin to the Minims. •
Utah, May 21, 1884.
My Dear Children:	.	"
I begin to miss you very much. It is no wonder: a full ■week has elapsed since you last visited me. I commence to fear never to see my young “ Princes ” any more. This is -our fourth detention on our journey, and we may meet half a dozen more ere we reach Salt Lake City—150 miles distant from us yet; we should be there forty-eight hours ago. Detention on a railway is nearly as unpleasant as in a large
college room. But our “ Princes ” scarcely know, except from hearsay, the meaning of this wretched .word.. I trust none of them will ever realize its annoyance, either on the premises of Notre Dame, or among the wonders of the far West, or in any station through life. Still, you must pre- -pare yourselves, even from your very first steps into life, to meet what is unavoidable beyond the Palace and the precincts of our happy Princes” at Notre Dame; for, sooner or later, disappointments and deceptions will overtake you as they do us here, as they have, every day for a week, even in this charming season of May. The “ Eternal Spring,” so beautifully sung by the Roman poet, has no actual realization in this New World no more than in the Old one; not even in this marvellous and unknown yet far, far-ending land where the setting sun s’en va chez Thetis ral-lumerses feux amortis. It is a vision of another New World where all our aspirations will be forever more than filled and overfilled. Ver erat should read erit ceternum. But this not to be seen this side of the Golden Gate. You are too young to understand the propriety of such untimely moralizations. The life of the “Princes” is a happy little period, an undisturbed dream of future enjoyment which I do not wish to shorten or to trouble as long as they grow in innocence as in years. In the knowledge and love of God they become daily more and more the beloved children of God; their spotless hearts, now properly cultivated and guarded, form a rich parterre upon which the angels— yes, God Himself looks with delight. Oh! the happy age when the future model Christian is formed at his pious mother’s knee or in the angelic school of faith! Oh! the precious years spent in the atmosphere of baptismal purity, not in the fear but in the love of God; when each day brings an increase of Fatherly love from above tipon the precious young heart whose every prayer is taken up to Heaven and secures all that is needed for the present and future 1
Do not trouble yourselves, my dear little “ Princes,” with the apprehension of future pending evils from which you cannot protect your lives better than by raising now, higher every day, the lightning-rod of innocence and purity you have already so firmly fixed in your hearts. Let all your little daily duties be discharged with a view befitting a noble and princely heart—viz., that of securing for yourselves and those you love best all the blessings needed for time and eternity. You owe much to your worthy parents; you have it in your power to repay them with interest for all and even more. Happy children! happy parents!
Your devoted friend, E. Sorin, C. S. C.
Since writing the letter, the disappointments mentioned have been happily ended. The Very Rev. Father safely reached the terminus of his journey, Salt Lake City, and will soon be homeward bound.	•	.	.
The Astrological Outlook for the Republican Convention.
On the 3d of June next the planets and the Sun are all in Northern signs. The Moon, however, the true index of the vagaries of popular opinion, has already advanced two days journey past the autumnal equinox, and will consequently remain in Southern signs during the twelve days following. She will form oppositions to each of .the other heavenly bodies in turn during this period, and several interesting complications may be expected.
At the outset, with the Moon in Libra and Mars lingering in the last degree of Leo, everything will be dignified and serene; and the “stalwart” wing of the party will be in high feather. But on the 4th the Moon enters the baleful House of the Scor
(602
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
pion, where she subsequently forms oppositions to Neptune and Mercury, and Mars is taken captive iby Virgo, who will tie his hands for the next two imonths. After the 4th we shall hear no more of ;the “stalwarts.”
The conjunction of Saturn and the Sun cannot fail to exercise a most malignant influence over the •proceedings, which will last during the whole time •of the convention.
On the 6th, when the Moon forms the opposition to Mercury, debates will wax warm. The capitalists will be pitted against the popular element. If a nomination should be made on this day, it will probably be Blaine. But if no nomination be reached until the 8th, when the Moon is in opposition to Saturn and the Sun, scenes of the wildest confusion may* be expected, and the dark horse will be revealed.
Ladies, who generally have some political intertest to bring before a convention, either Woman’s Suffrage, or Temperance, or what not, should be ■careful to avoid the 1 ith, when the Moon is in opposition to Venus, because on that day they will find it impossible to obtain a hearing. The 3d itself is the best day for them, as Venus is then at her greatest brilliancy, and besides there is nothing' like taking time bv the forelock. The House ■of Cancer, which Venus occupies, is favorable to fhe Temperance cause.
It should never be forgotten that Neptune is the ■significator of the coming President. Hence, if the nomination can he put off till the nth when the Moon is in trine with this planet, the party will have some chance of electing their nominee.
It is rather remarkable that all the planets are peregrine during the time of the convention. Jupiter has just entered Leo, the house of the Sun, which, being of a fiery character, indicates that the “ bosses ” will have more trouble than usual during the following campaign, in securing obedience to the party lash. The trine of Mercury ' and Neptune with Uranus indicates a deep undercurrent of popular feeling, which will come to the surface in a quite unexpected manner.
Georgium Sidus.
Exchanges.	.
—The Haverfordian is slowly pegging out; one rnoie issue, and it will be non est.
—We really have not time at present to review the Virginia University Monthly. We have only hurriedly skimmed over what we can easily see is • deserving of careful reading and of careful thought. The contributors, however, seem almost too. ambitious in their choice and treatment of subjects. The two essays of the May number—“Hamlet” and “ The Nonetude Method”—are neither of them well adapted for a college periodical. The exchange notes,'we are sorry to say, are conspicuous by their absence. Give us a better-rounded volume for June!
—Says the Hesperian Student:
“The Scholastic casts the weird light of its ridicule
over some of the poetry that has appeared in this paper. We plead guilty of the dire offence, but had repented long before the Scholastic lit up our idiocy for the benefit of the college world. We are guilty in company with many others [so you are!], and our remorse only proves that we are more conscientious than the other criminals. We came near writing a penitential psalm that would have filled up the whole of one issue: but after getting out something over 2,000 lines, the crank broke!”	.	'
We are deeply pained to hear that the. editor “broke.” We are “broke,” too!
—The Alabama. Monthly for May contains the following:	•
o
“ Since the above was written, in comes the Notre Dame Scholastic with the report of the ‘ Exchange-Editors’ Convention.’ A vote of approval must certainly be returned to the talented reporter if he did not make one or two right serious mistakes. The speech of the chairman (not chair-woman), Mr. Twde.v-man, is worthy a place in literature. . . .”
The Alabama-\-wa.VL then goes on to remark that the delegates of the next convention, even at the cost of making a new committee, must give the Acta Cohtmbiana a chance. But why not leave it serve on Chairman Lantern's Committee on BaldHeaded Jokes?” Give us your advice by return mail.
—The Wooster Colleo-ian has reduced its weight to 3,300 pounds—the Dr. Tanner of college journalism. “ Making Memories ” is a prize poem. There used to be an old conundrum, “ What makes more noise than one little pig under a gate?” and its unfailing answer (if we remember) was, “Two little pigs under a gate.” So, if we were asked to name what is worse than a college poem, we would answer, a college prize-poem. For example, in this gem we are told:
“ Still with lingering fondness gazing,— Where we thought ’twas desert waste,— So ’tis full of springing fountains . Which our lips forgot to taste.”
“ Faith and Knowledge in Science and Religion,” “How we Take it” [never behind the bar, we hope], “ Greatness, What is it? ” go to make up the weight of the essav. It’s not fighting-weight, we are happy to say. That $100,000 libel suit has cast a tender melancholy over the mild-mannered Collegian. On the contrary, the Scholastic, including our wicked self, is piously exhorted to refrain from all controversy over the never-to-be-forgotten M. Luther
—-It is fast becoming the desire of our life to see the State University of. Columbus, Ohio. It must be a grand place; so we judge from its journals. There is first the Lantern, with a Mrs.--------for exchange editress; its endless reports of the “Horton” and the “ Snorton,” and the “ Alycone ” Literary and Debating and Calisthenic Societies, and its real old genuine petrified jokes that have been handed down from Seth to Noah, and from Noah to Barnum. A valuable paper, our old friend of the Lantern. But, alas! the places that knew it once shall know it no inore, forever!—the Lantern is non est. Whether the editors, like the directors of a zoological garden, have rented their wares to the summer circus, we know not. Perhaps it became offended when the Convention placed it as Chair-.
. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
603
man of the Committee on Bald-Headed Jokes. But it shouldn’t hold us responsible for that; why, some people even deny that there ever was an “ Exchange-Editors’ Convention”; so it shouldn’t be mad over that. Perhaps the best explanation is that it has found too powerful a foe in its new rival—the Weekly Critic. Ah! that Critic and the guileless boys who run it! What delightful, rustic simplicity, what elegant taste, what novel ideas are expressed in its make-up! A college paper with a patent inside two weeks old, is a pretty fresh thing even for an agricultural school to formulate! But here is the Critic, with manly, earnest editorials, and we wish it success. Verbum sap.! give us a rest on the Lantern !
For a number of years he has held with honor and credit the position of Prosecuting Attorney for his county. The following, from the Catholic Columbian, will be read with interest and heartily endorsed bv his numerous friends at Notre Dame:
“Mr. W. J. Clarke, late Prosecuting Attorney of Franklin County, has formally announced himself as a candidate for the Probate Judgeship. The gentleman is eminently-fitted for the position, and having hosts of friends, his election is a foregone conclusion. No better man could be selected, or one that will bestow more painstaking effort on the duties of the office.”
Notice.
Personal.
—Charles V. Larkin ( Com’l), ’79, is engaged in business at Wheeling, W. Va.
—Walter Wilstach, of ’67, is one of the most prominent lawyers of Lafayette, Ind.
—Ed. Gall (Com’l), 82, is in the wholesale wall-paper business, Indianapolis, Ind.
—Thos. Hooley (Com’l),’72, has the chief management of Hooley’s Theatre, Chicago, Ill.
—Jesse Houck (Com’l), ’79, is a leading merchant in one of the principal cities of Oregon.
—T. Quinn (Com’l), ’76, is book-keeper for a large manufacturing establishment in Philadelphia.
—Albert Kramer, of ’75, is associate editor of the Michigan Volks-Blait, of which his father is chief, in Detroit.
—John Gillespie (Com’l), ’74, is happy and prosperous in directing the Burlington Insurance Co., of Burlington, Iowa.
—Chas. Forestal (Com’l), ’70, is Junior partner in the firm of Forestal & Son, wholesale paper dealers, Philadelphia, Pa.
—-J. Francis Smith, formerly one of Prof. Gre-gori’s art pupils, has been visiting the College this week. He has an excellent position in Denver, Col. —teaching drawing and painting.
—W. P. Breen (Valedictorian), ’76, is the law partner of Judge Wethers, at Ft. Wayne, Indiana, and commands an extensive practice. He has a brother in the Junior department.
—During Very Rev. Father General’s stay in Denver he was the guest of Rt. Rev. Bishop Macheboeuf, by whom he was entertained in a regal manner. The Bishop is a compatriot and an old-time friend of Father General’s.
—Cards of invitation have been received to the nuptials of David J. Wile,’70, and Miss Hattie Adler, at Elgin, III. The ceremony will take place on Wednesday, June 18th. The groom has the heartiest congratulations and best wishes from his numerous friends at Notre Dame.
—W. J. Clarke, ’74, is one of the prominent citizens and leading lawyers of Columbus, Ohio.
We are pained to announce the death of Aristophanes. The body will be laid out in state this afternoon in the Greek class-room. Charles Francis Adams and his friends are cordially' invited to view the remains ere they- are deposited in their last resting-place. Funeral will take place Monday morning.	’84.
Local Items.
—Triples next week!	.
—“You might think!”
—Only three weeks more!
— Our aquatic men are harder at work than ever.
—New cement walks are being laid to the Juniors’ Campus.
—The Euglossians are preparing for their Annual Oratorical Contest.
—Lovers of the antique should read the funny column of the “ Annual.”
—The Thespians will reproduce “ Louis XI,” on the Tuesday eve, June 24.	.
—The Juniors expect to enter for the University’’ baseball championship.
—Prof. Ackerman is engaged in decorating the ceiling of the Columbus corridor.
—The Convention of the State T. A. U. will be ‘ held here on the 2d day of August.
—A commodious hat and toilet room has been added to the Juniors’reception-rooms.
—The Devotions of the Month of May- will conclude this evening with solemn services.
—Scaffolding has been put up around the Dome and the work of gilding will soon begin.
—The contest for the Mason Medal is very close and exciting. The “triples” will decide it.
—Some of the Seniors are preparing an entertainment for the benefit of the reading-rooms.' -
—To-morrow (Pentecost Sunday), Prof. Paul’s choir will render another beautiful Cecilian Mass.
—On next Tuesday- evening the portrait of Dr. Brownson will be unveiled in the College Rotunda.
—The Total Abstinence Union now numbers over 110 members. May its shadow never grow less!
—The Grads, are burning the midnight oil, pre-paring for the terrible ordeal of the examinations.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .
—Our friend John says that trips to the farm have a tendency to develop the total abstinence movement.
—Lay of the Skiver:—Of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these: “I’m collar’d again ! ”
—Mr. T- Francis Smith has been taking sketches of the University buildings, grounds, etc., during the past week.
—Tommv’s moustache is like the square root of a negative quantity—it’s imaginary, or, at least, you can’t find the root.
—In most of the classes the session’s work has been finished, and the remaining three weeks will be devoted to reviewing.
—Next Wednesday evening there will be an en- • tertainment given under the auspices of the Senior Reading-room Association.
—Oh, no! the house is not on fire or there’s no man being murdered that I know of; they’re merely having a meeting of ’Sq.	■
—An orchestra of 25 pieces will accompany the Cantata of “William Tell,” which is now in course of preparation for Commencement.
—Last Thursday, the Botany, Zoology, and Surveying Classes went on a grand excursion to Barron Lake, Michigan. Full report next week.
—Yesterday was “Decoration Day.” The graves of the soldiers buried in Notre Dame cemetery were decorated with appropriate ceremonies.
—A small article of gold was found, last week, on the avenue near the Post-Office. The owner can have it bv calling at the Manual Labor School.
—There was a look of chastened melancholy, that might have melted the heart of a drummer, on the faces of the 3d delegation for “ rec.” and the ' circus.
—Great interest has been manifested this year in the Courses of Christian Doctrine. There are six gold medals given, to be decided by the competitions.	,
—The wood-work in the Exhibition Hall is being elaborately finished. The auditorium will present a fine appearance on’ the occasion of the St. Cecilians’ entertainment, about the 7 th prox.
—In the Class-Room:—Mr. C.: “I know it, Prof., but I cannot explain myself.” Prof. : “ Ah! console thyself, young man, you are not the only inexplicable thing in this world!” ^Red-lights.)
—The Garrity Medal, to be competed for by members of the Orpheonic Association, is a real gem of good taste and workmanship. The Or-pheonics express their thanks to the generous donor.	.
—Mrs. J. B. Inderrieden, sent a rare and beautiful holy water font to her sons, R. and C. V., of the Minim department, to present to the studyhall. The generous lady has the thanks of the Minims.	■
—A “French and Latin Dictionary,” lately received from the Bindery at South Bend, awaits an owner at this office. Said owner may have it by
proving property and paying costs of this advertisement.
—Rev. Father L’Etourneau is busily engaged beautifying the premises around Mt. St. Vincent. New shade trees have been planted, nice walks laid out and everything done to make the place a “ thing of beauty.”
—The work of beautifying the Juniors’ Campus is being carried on with artistic taste and skill: when finished, it will be “ a thing of beautv.” The old sand-hill, that used to be such an eye-sore, in the western part of the Campus, has been levelled, and in its stead appears a beautiful parterre, with graceful curving cement walks encircling oblate spheroids of grass-plots, flower-beds, etc.
—The following extract is taken from an extended notice of the “Life of Joseph Haydn” which appeared in the N. T. Freeman's Jotirnal:
“Father Toohey has well interpreted von Seeburg’s graphic biography. Evidently in perfect sympathy with Haydn’s genius, and von Seeburg’s manner of appreciating it, he has made a book which will delight all readers of taste and discrimination, . . . Professor Lyons, the publisher, has done his part carefully, and we must express our gratitude to him, as well as to Father Toohey, for this interesting and suggestive book, which is published at Notre Dame, Ind.”
—Sunday evening last, the Junior branch of the T. A. U. held their 2d regular meeting. A much larger number was present than at the last meeting, there being many new members. After the general business had been transacted and new members elected, several speeches were made. C. Porter and F. Dexter spoke on “Intemperance;” and Masters Ewing and Hagerty briefly stated the names of those who had done most for the cause of temperance. Mr. J. Solon, being present, was requested to speak. In a vigorous and very interesting speech, he vividly pictured some of the evils caused by' habits of intemperance. The President, Ft. Regan, expressed the thanks of the Association to Mr. Solon for his interest in the society, and after congratulating the members on their increase of numbers, the meeting adjourned.
—The closest, most exciting, and one of the best games of the season was played last Monday'- between the “Actives ” and the “ Atlantics,” representing the Junior department and Manual Labor School, respectively. The victory was won by the “Actives” in the 2d inning, when they succeeded in scoring eight runs of the thirteen tallied. Hite-house and Burns formed the battery' for the “ At-lantics,” Yrisarri and Nester for the “ Actives.” Six of the “Atlantics” struck the air three times before Yrisarri. An analysis of the detailed score shows that each club made about the same number of errors and base-hits. Captain Nester was willing to divide everything evenly' but .the runs. The game abounded in fine features, the most noticea-O	'	*
ble being Nester’s base running, Yrisarri and Hitehoiise’s pitching, and Hetz’s fielding. The score at the end of the ninth inning stood: “Ac- . tives,” 13; “Atlantics,” 12.
—Excursion of the Senior T. A. U.—Last Sunday morning, Rev. President Walsh, Director of the Senior Total Abstinence Union, fulfilled
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
60
5

the promise made to the members some weeks before and provided for them the pleasure of a visit to St. Joseph’s Farm. The sun was shining brightly, the birds were warbling their most beautiful songs, the sky was clear, everything giving token of a fair day. At 9 o’clock Mr. Shickey’s teams were on the ground, and the capacious wagons were soon well filled with a joyous band of excursionists. A few minutes later—accompanied by Fathers Walsh, Kirsch, and Rezd, Bros. Marcellinus and Remigius—all were started on their way. The cultivated lands, the growing crops, the verdant fields, the beautiful expanse of country, at times opening to the view, were so attractive that the time was scarcely felt until the farm was reached.
Many places of interest were visited, until the bell announced that dinner was ready, when all repaired to the refectory, where a sumptuous table was awaiting them. Course after course of good things was served up till all were satisfied. After the repast, Mr. Solon arose, and in a few words thanked the Rev. President for the favor the society had received, and assured him that the pleasure the trip afforded had been fully attested by all, and that the day would long be remembered as among the most enjoyable spent by the members while at Notre Dame. Father Walsh in reply said that if this would be a day to be looked back upon with pleasure by the N. D. T. A. U., he assured them the authorities were equally as well pleased to grant the favor of which they were so proud; he said that all feel a deep interest in the success of the society; that all are pleased with the work it is accomplishing, and he hoped it would long continue to flourish and its members even to surpass their former efforts. Father O’Hanlon, the genial chaplain of the farm, was then called on, who delivered a short but very neat address, delighting all 'by his wit and humor. Father Kirsch next favored the society with a speech, during which he called to mind the different societies of the University and the object of each, and noticed that none had in view the accomplishment of the object of the T. A. U., that it was a pleasure for him to be with its members, and he hoped the society would increase every day.
After leaving the dining-room, the cigars were passed around, a quiet smoke was taken, after which different places of the vast St. Joe Farm were visited. At half-past 4 p. m., the bell announced the hour for supper, and all betook themselves again to the refectory, where an inviting meal was partaken of. At half-past 5 o’clock, the home trip was begun; and again, with wit and humor, the time was enlivened until the excursionists were in sight of Notre Dame. On arriving, all retired to the Senior reading-rooms, at the same time expressing their unbounded appreciation of the generosity of the Rev. President, the Director of the Association. The members of the so'ciety return their thanks to Bros. Marcellinus and Remigius for the active part they took throughout the day to make the trip as interesting and enjoyable as possible for all.	M.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta, Aguilera, Alvarez, Arce, Baca, Bowers, Brosseau, Barron, Becerra, V. Burke, F. Burke, F. Combe, J, Carroll, Coll, Cusack, Crawford, Cus-sen, Creel, De Groot, De Wolf, A. Dennis, Delaney, Daily, F. Diaz, A. Diaz, Ewing, Feltz, Fogarty, Farrell, T. FenIon, E. Fenlon, Grothaus, Gonser, Goulding, Gutierrez, F. Gallagher, J. Gallagher, Howard, Johnston, Kavanaugh, . Kaufmann, Kolars. Kleiber, Lechuga, Lucas, McCarthy, McErlain, McCabe, McKinnery, Marquez, C. Murdock, J. McNamara, T. McNamara, McLaughlin, Madden, Mahon, Neeson, G. O’Brien, Ott, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, O’Kane, C. Paschel, Pour, Proudhomme, Rudge, Rogers, Reach, Rui, Solon, Steis, Slattery, Spangler, Spencer,' Steele, E. Smith, J. Smith, Sanchez, Uranga, Warner, Wilson, Ziihnle.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Arnold, Anchondo, Armijo, Aguilera, Borgschulze, Berthelet, Barela, Brown, Breen, D. Cartier, Courtney, Curtis, Chaves, Cavaroc, Clarke, Costigan, Dorenberg, Dexter, Ewing, Eisenhauer, Fitzgerald, Fehr, Fendrich, Fierro, Foote. Finckh, Gimbel, Hagenbarth, E. A. Howard, Halligan, W. Henry, Houlihan, Holman, Hagerty, Holbrook, Jensch, Johnson, R. Lewis, G. Lewis, • Leony, Luther, Monschein, Miller, Menig, Mason, Major,' Mug. Martinez, McDonnell. J. McGordon, C. McGordon, Norfolk, O’Brien, C. Porter, Perley, Parres, J. Proudhomme, E. Proudhomme, Partillo, Rogers, Regan, Reynolds Ruffing,* Sedberry, L. Scheuerman, M. Scheuer-man, Schott. Schaefer, Stubb. Talbot, D. Taylor, Trepanier, Uranga, H. Warner, W. Wagoner, Wabraushek,* Williamson, Y risarri.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, J. Addington, H Addington, Amo-retti, Boos, Crotty, Cole, F. Coad, ,M. Coad, Cummings, Dirksmeyer, Devine, J. Devereux, A. Devereux, Dunford, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Fulwiler, Garrity, R. Inderrieden, EKelly, La Tourette, Landenwich, Lewis, B. Lindsey, C-Lindsey, M. McCourt, E. McGrath. T. McGuire, McPhee, McVeigh, Meehan, Morrison, M. O’Kane, Otis, O’Connor, D. Prindiville, R. Papin, V. Papin, Quill, Sumner, Sokup, Schmitz, L. Scherrer, Uranga, West.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Class Honors.
[ In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]	-
PREPARTORY COURSE.
Messrs. R. Aguilera. De Groot, Fox. Gonser, Cussen’ McErlain, Lister, Pour, Gibert, Lucas, Creel, Gonzales, J' Manga, Marquez, J. Anchondo, Becerra, O’Dea, Kauffman’ Orchard, Hausberg, J. McNamara, F. Combe, Kleiber’ Sanchez, Feltz, Halligan. Regan, Finckh, Sedberry, Bar* rons, F. J. Howard, Hagenbarth, Schaefer, Luther, E. S* Ewing, Martinez, Barnard, E. Porter, Tarrant, G. Cartier’ Cavaroc. Holman, Crilly, Lane, Jensch, C. McGordon’ Cleary, Loescher, L. Anchondo, W. Manga, Fierro, G' Moye, A. Moye, Barela, R. Lewis, G. Costigan, W. Wright’ • W. Murphv, Trepannier. Houlihan, E. Benner, Leony, Perley, Coleman, Major, D. Cartier, FI. Gibson.
The Chicago and Alton are now running the most elegant equipment in the world between Chicago and Kansas Citv, and Chicago and St. Louis. In addition to the finest day cars and palace reclining-chair cars and Pullman palace sleeping cars, they have recently added Pullman palace buffet sleeping-cars between Chicago and Kansas City on the Denver Express both ways, and Pullman buffet parlor-cars between Chicago and St. Louis, on day trains both ways. .	,
6o6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Saint fflary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—At the regular Academic reunion Miss B. Johnson read a selection from Father Ryan, “A Thought”; and Miss E. Todd one from an anonymous author, entitled “ Sometime.”
—The birthday of Manuelita Chaves was celebrated by her friends on Saturday. The most valuable gift she received was a poem addressed to her by her little friend, Mary Dillon.
—Cordial thanks are extended to the generous donor of “ The Catholic Dictionary ” of the “ Doctrine, Discijjline, Rites, Ceremonies, Councils and Religious Orders of the Catholic Church.”
—The Misses O’Connell, Kearney, Horn, Dillon, Duffield and Shephard, of the Third Senior Class, and the Misses Richmond and Wolvin, of the First Preparatory Class, received 100 in lessons.
• —Those who drew for the Roman mosaic cross were the Misses Chaves, Cox, Fehr, Halsey, E. and S. Jackson, Lord, McEwen, Quill, Richmond, Sheekey, Schmidt, Snowhook, and Wolvin. The last-named won the prize.
—Among the visitors of the week are: Justice Scully, Mr. Scully, Mr. Gannon, Mr. Hildreth, of Chicago; Mr. F. A. Crittenden, of Evanston, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. McVeigh, of Covington, Ky.; Mrs. Peter McCourt, of Oshkosh, Wis.; and the Misses B. and K. Spenser of Port Huron, Mich.
—On Saturday, in the Vocal Music Hall, the final Music Lecture of the session was delivered. Illustrations of primitive barbaric music were played by the assistant Directress of St. Cecilia’s Society. The grandeur and appropriateness for Church service of the Gregorian chant was explained.
—Competitions in the Junior Preparatory Class were very spirited. The leaders in Arithmetic were the Misses Best and Roddin; in Geography, the Misses Otis and Campeau. The esprit de corps which marked the defence of each leader resulted in great profit to the members of the Class; much information being elicited which, but for the laudable emulation, would have been lost.
, —A strong spirit of honorable emulation is ■ manifested in the Classes of English Composition. That of the Second Senior Class is particularly
■ noteworthy. The general subject—“ The Stat iis of Composition in the Scholastic Course ”— was given. Ideas were suggested, and, within three quarters of an hour, nearly every member had written more or less successfully upon the subject proposed.
—On Saturday, in the Chapel of Loreto, Rev. Father Spillard kindljr celebrated Mass for the Children of Mary and delivered an excellent sermon for their edification. The proposition, which served.as his text was,“That which we see frequently we come to admire; what we admire
we come to love; and that which we love we strive to imitate.” The Children of Mary present their very grateful acknowledgments.
—The Feast of the Ascension, 1884, will be set down in the history of four little girls at St. Mary’s as “ the happiest day of their lives,” for it was that of their First Communion. The faithful heart can well understand how sincerely Napoleon Bonaparte ranked the day of his First Communion above any other of his life. When asked which was the happiest, the questioner expected to hear him mention the day of some great military victory; but, no: there was something sweeter than victory in the memory of that warlike commander: it was union luith God. This precious boon was his on the day of his First 'Communion. The triumph of battle was nothing to that; the adulation of courtiers, the accumulation of territory, the augmentation of power was worthless in comparison. The happy children wish to make a warm acknowledgment to Rev. Father Shortis and the Prefect of Studies for the excellent instruction given by them, and the care bestowed in preparation for the great event. As usual, the First Communicants enjoyed the honoi* of breakfasting at the pastoral residence, and taking dinner and supper at the table of the Superior. On Friday they were permitted to spend the day at the Sisters’ House at Notre Dame, and they found it a delightful supplement to the memorable 22d of May, 1884.
—The present is the most important part of the year to pupils who have been applying themselves in earnest. Many are working from the bare motive of self-improvement; many to please their parents and teachers: some for proffered prizes, and a few for the real enjoyment which they find in . study. All are looking forward to the close with lively interest, some with almost painful suspense, so ardent are their endeavors to compass treasured hopes; to win, perchance, some precious prize; examination to them is the pending trial. Who shall be victorious?
Not all will bear away first premiums. Gold Medals will not be worn by everyone who will leave St. Mary’s in June: no, not even by all who have labored with praiseworthy diligence and who have been blessed with a high degree of success. Shall the last-named number themselves among the defeated? Far from it! Improvement is a reward more precious even than gold, and .the young lady who can look back upon a well-spent year will press to her heart an invaluable treasure in the record of the ten months, whether the gold medal, the class honor, the smile of congratulation greet her or not.	}
At no time of the year is there a greater opportunity of showing magnanimity of spirit than at present. The highest prizes will no doubt go to the most deserving, for those who are capable of teaching, are the proper judges of comparative merits. Shall those less favored repine? But suppose the case that some awards may be misplaced—what an occasion is presented the one disappointed to prove her virtue. She loses nothing of her acquire

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ments because another has won the reward she hoped to gain. If really noble, whatever the struggle may cost, the disappointed competitor will be the first to cordially congratulate the one who has received the prize.
If envy and jealousy are thoroughly despicable, in the same proportion a generous readiness to honor the decision of competent judges and to forget self in the joy of another is beautiful.
On the contrary, how narrow and pitiable the spirit of one who sees another wear the prize and who begrudges her the satisfaction. Will such a one be a source of happiness in her own home? Undoubtedly she will sow her own path with thorns even in the hallowed prccints of the fireside with those most loved around her.
No better lesson will anyone derive in the period of her scholastic career, than that of overcoming selfishness. She'may sufier cruel disappointments; no one may notice her; lower premiums than she imagines she deserves may fall to her lot, but if she stifles murmurs, not only respecting her own awards but those of others, the snow-white record of her clear conscience will be presented to the celestial council, and the priceless stamp of angelic worth, carved on the fine gold of spotless charity, by them will be accorded, and the prize will sweetly rest upon her heart, anti draw down upon her and all who belong to her untold benedictions.
Oomposition..
If one branch of an advanced course be more important than another, we should say that that branch is literary composition. Grammar and the studies which follow may well assert their impor tance, but of what use are they except as the foundation of the art of perfectly expressing our ideas? Of what value are the rules of Grammar and the figures of Rhetoric if the pupil fail to frequently apply them in the exercises of the Composition Class? The theory of Arithmetic is very useful, but suppose the learner to be in full possession of the -principles, rules and definitions, and yet to be quite unable to make their application in the working of examples, of what use to him is his knowledge?
Many complain of the difficulty of literary composition.. If one be able to converse well, she should certainly find it quite as easy to express her thoughts on paper.	-
Composition is classed among the “ Fine Arts,” and most deservedly. How can our emotions and ideas be more effectively presented than in graceful, flowing, earnest language? It mav be said that not everyone can become a good composer,—it is true that all may not hopeto be experts; but if all were to develop the talent in this direction with which God has endowed them, a more elevated social standard would become established, and conversations would naturally assume an intellectual character. The habit of arranging our ideas in the most perfect manner would ennoble the whole range of our in
terior life, and we would draw nearer to Heaven,, by the very fact of developing and cultivating the latent powers of our spiritual being.
One reason why young persons, as a rule, are-not good composers is because too little. time-is ordinarily devoted to it. In some schools it is optional with the pupil whethershe writes compositions or not. The lover of composition naturally reads much, and carefully, in order to arouse ideas, and to familiarize herself with the best authors.
Our studies, when well arranged, may be compared to the wheels in some delicate piece of machinery when they are in perfect order. If we are well acquainted with the office and the action of the wheels we will not be liable to get the machinery out of order; if not, we will,ten to one,destroy the action at the first attempt to use the apparatus. Skill in literary composition may be compared to this knowledge, for without it all the other information we may possess will be very sure to do us little good in after years.	'
- S. St. Clair.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. '
rst Tablet—Misses Adderly, Beal, Black, Bruhn, C. Bab- -cock, Cummings, Campbell, Cirkel, Calkins, Dunn, B. English, Fuller, Fitzpatrick, Ginz, Gove, Gavan, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, Heckard, Helpling, Hale, Keating, Kearns, Kenny, Kearney, Legnard, Lintner, A. Murphy, McHale, Mooney, McCarthy, Neu, Newman, O’Connell, Quill, Reilly, Ramsey, Ryan, Reynolds, S. St. Clair, Sheridan, Sheekey, Scully. Stackerl, Todd. Tynan. 2d Tablet— Misses A. Babcock, Billing, Call, Carney, L. English, Fen-drich, Horn, Johnson, Williams.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	’
1st Tablet—Misses Best, Bailey, Chaves, Cox, Dillon, Eldred, Fehr, Halsey. S. Jackson, E. Jackson, McEwen, Richmond, Regan, Schmidt. Sheekey, Snowhook, Wolvin. 2d Tablet—Misses Brown, A. Duffield, Lord, M. Murphy, Roddin.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
1st Tablet—Misses Chapin, English, L. Johns,-V. Johns, Lindsey, Murray, Paul, Papin, Reynolds, Schmauss.
.	Glass Honors-
Logic—Misses Ginz, Dunn, Gove, Papin, Call, Ramsey,. Sheekev; Astronomy—Misses Gove. C. Ginz, H. Ramsey, Dunn, S. Papin, Call, Duffield, Cummings, Todd, Sheekey; Trigonome'ry—Misses Call, Johnson; Algebra—Misses Heckard, Danforth, Kearney, Carney, Sheekey, L. English, O’Connell, Campbell, Stackerl; Ramsey, Williams; Arithmetic—Misses Carney, Kearney, Danforth, Heckard, Ducey, Ramsey, Sheridan, S. St. Clair, Stackerl, L. English, Campbell, Black; Literature—Misses Duffield, Papin, Gove, Ginz, Call, Ashton, Sheekey; Ramsey, Rosing, Stackerl, Dunn; French—Misses Call, Bruhn, Sheekey, Castenado, O’Connell, Crawford, Rosing, Adderly, Morrison, Malboeuf, Moshier, Snowhook, Richmond, A. Duffield. Regan, Barry. Brown; Rhetoric—Misses Heckard, Carney, Danforth, M. Ducey, L. English, Munger, Rosing, Black, Helpling; Physical Geography—Misses Kearns, Lintner, Mooney, Richmond, Fehr, Halsey, Taylor, Snowhook, Regan, E. Jackson; Geography—Misses Campeau, Otis, Best, Cox, Stumer, S. Jackson, Malbceuf Lord, Lea-high, Roddin; Preparatory Arithmetic — Misses Best, Roddin, Otis, Richmond, Chaves, Hetz, Malbceufj Haney, Brown, Newman; Ewing, McCarthy, S. Jackson.
6o8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
University of Notre Dame,
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Pieras in H nor of the Bles-ed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
St. Joseph’s Co., Indiana.
THE spacious and elegant College buildings—ten in number—afford ample accommodations to 500 resident students, distributed among
THREE DEPARTMENTS
under separate and careful management. The above cut represents the main or central structure, 230 feet in length by a maximum depth of 155. Since the destruction of the old College, in 1S79. Notre Dame has been rebuilt on an entirely new plan. The buildings are supplied with all the modern improvements and conveniences, and no effort or expense has been spared to meet all the requirements suggested by the experience of the previous forty years. Every facility is afforded students for acquiring a knowledge of
CLASSICS, SCIENCE, MUSIC.
MATHEMATICS,
LAW, FINE ARTS.
Thorough Preparatory and Commercial Courses ^including Phonographv and Telegraphy) are among the distinguishing features of tire institution.	_
The grounds are unsurpassed in extent and beauty, more than fifteen acres being set aside for the Students’ play-grounds alone.
THE MINIM DEPARTMENT, for bovs under 13, is entirely separate from the other departments of the College, and is, nrobably. unique in design and in the completeness of its equipments. Catalogues sent free on application to
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C., President.
Notre ttame, Indiana.
BUCKENDORF,
FLORIST.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALWATS ON HAND.
ALSO,
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON S T.,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
EUGENE F. ARNOLD (Class of’78).
XV. H. LAND vol GT.
ARNOLD & LANDVOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law.
470 Louisiana Avenue, N. W., WASHINGTON, D. C.
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New University of NotreDame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.
Price, -	-	- gilt, $1.25; plain, $1.00.
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUN-
TRY WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP TH ATTHE
CHICA0O,ROCKISLMID4PACIFICR,Y Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, N ewport N ews, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, N ash vine, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express Trains.	.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, .
At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE,	E. ST. JOHN,
Vice-Pres. 4 Gen'l M'g'r,	Gen'l Tkt. 4 Pass. Agt,
CHICAGO. '