
f,lfl,'1i•-~~~i[',·•:,.:,l 
r,.·: ~]Jaiins(~'·athers;.f~;~raryre1Jgi~ comm~-.:_·=·.
(--=~~~~~ca9()~C8.fing ~e ~8~ ·..-.'. l= :--~e:·i~the ~~..-on #Je campus. in tf:te parish. on ta4lo ·_ =-_.: ;·· .arid T.V. Dispelling uncertainty and~peace, eel& ·. _= ;._; .brating the ~-of the people of God-and-speaking on · · ;--·issues thatconcem theChurch. · · · · · : ·: · 
!_·_·As-~ indivicfual. you· can ~elop and sbare.your·taients -:_ ::! ·__ ·_wt~~ &·a-~of ~e O>mmunity. -you \\till ex..·= i .=_ perience the ~couragement and support-of fullowPaulisis,: . :: 
;._: We~~in~~~-~are~ -. :-· · ·· · : · =. 
:Fer mom lnformalion ~ · .Father·Donald c. Campbell, -. 
-~Room ........ : . ·.
. 

..I.Ina-:-: 
':. Pcmlist-.-Bllliers.--­
-·-.; 

. ... 
. . 
. . . .• 

415 West59tliStreet-· :: . NewYork.NY 1~~ .. 
With the money you save on our clothes you won't have to reverse the charges when you 
call Gail or Amy or Julie or... 
Wrangler Sportswear. Wremember the"W" is Silent. 
Get your money"s worth at 
Lion's Den, South Bend . Gilbert's, Mishawaka Robertson Bros., South Bend 
R. K. MUELLER, INC. Downtown 233-4200 218 S. Michigan St.  
PARTY STORE Liquor Beer & Wine Champagne Gourmet Foods if we don't have it-we'll get it U.S. 31 South, Niles Mich. 1 Block No. of Ind. Line 683-9875  
YEAGER MOTOR Ca., Inc. BUICK--OPEL--VOLVO • SALES • SERVICE • PARTS • ACCESSORIES "Where customers send their friends" 215-225 South Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 288-2531  

MAY 4, 1973 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
scholastic 


4 letters 
ANALYSES 

5 fly me to mishawaka 
6 "i don't come here just to drink" 8 lafortune renovation: consider the community 9 to teach a problem child 
IO experiment in community learning 

FORUM 

12 on governance and the university 
14 life as a p.o.w.: a conversation with capt. richard c. brenneman 
21 keys, crises and keenan; the life of a rector 

THE ARTS 

23 "there were only the ik" 26 good grief, charlie brown! 27 margaret mead: growing up successful 28 week in distortion 30 the last word 
katy sullivan & peter mccabe tom leahy joe runde buddy vespole pat ro·ach 
daniel j. koob 
paul colgan & michael melody 


rev. robert griffin 
michael melody betsy dwyer katrina wehking johnson 
t. j. clinton kerry mcnamara 
VOLUME 114, NO. 15 

The opinions expres,,ed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for 
national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Le.-.:ington Avenue, New Ymk, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and e.-.:amination periods, the ScHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from the ScHOLASTic. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unwlicited material becomes the property of the ScHOLASTIC. 
editor: kerry mcnamara / art director: jim purvis / production manager: jim pauer I assistant editors: greg conti, jim gresser, terri phillips, joe runde, jack wenke I business manager: joe meyer / circulation: roger burrell I faculty advisor: frank o'malley I staff: pat ahasic, paul bolduc, jim bullock, 
t. j. clinton, paul colgan, janet cullen, bill cumbellich, jim delong, kevin dockell, betsy dwyer, tom enrico, chris fahey, tom gora, don jaspers, pat keefe, kathy kelly, bob kincaid, mike king, tim gochems, juan manigault. mike melody, leo j. mulcahey, mark nishan, kevin o'mara, bob quakenbush, pat roach, mary siege!, tim standring, sally stanton, theresa stewart, katy sullivan, bubby vespole, mark wenig / business: gus brown, jim hoban / art & photography: earl hawkey, michae! lonier, terri lustic, don nollet, nan smith. 
illustrations: cover illustration, illustration on 22 by nan smith / photo on 6 by Orville Andrews / photo on 16 courtesy of the South Bend Tribune / photo on 30 from files. 
copyright @ I 973 scholastic / all rights resE:rved / none of the contents may be reproduced without permission 

letters 


COMMUNITY RECONSIDERED 
Dear Sir, 
When Ed Goerner wrote to me be­fore Christmas, I learned that an important but small advance in the quality of university governance was made. The Academic Council had accepted his motion that the Provost of the University not be appointed without the concurrence of the elected members of the Council. Two days ago I returned from Africa, picked up The Scholastic (13 April), and to my amazement read of the Council's volte face. I must confess that having seen the issues facing Christians throughout central and southern Africa, I was despondent to think that the· principle of self­governance was still being denied and was so gratuitously absorbing energies at Notre Dame. 
The governance of Notre Dame profoundly affects the nature of our university community as well as the quality of our Christian witness in the wider society. For these reasons the Academic Council's decision is a tragically defensive tensing of in­adequately established authority. It is tragic in that it reflects an au­thoritarian mentality, fearful of the open processes which establish con­sent. Itis tragic because it denies an increasingly clear theme in Chris­tian theology which calls men to build communities of human dignity through responsibility. It is defen­sive in that it seeks to shore up an imperfect pattern of governance. This pattern was established with every good intention in earlier decades, but it is essentially at variance with the nature of a university commu­nity and in conflict with the ideals of Vatican II. It is also disdainful of 

mankind's groping towards a self­consciousness that reveals the dig­nity of the· human person as inti­mately affected by the modes of governance at every level of his ex­istence. 
The reversal of the Council's deci­sion is particularly distressing in that the burdens of oppressive gov­ernments lie heavily on universities and lands across the world. Yet with all its imperfections, the Constitu­tion of the U.S.A. has provided a context within which one might hope to see the flowering of Christian practice as a clear witness within the wider secular society. Notre Dame must seriously seek to fulfill that calling and develop its witness to the growth of Christian commu­nity around the central tasks of a university. The alternative is simply to reflect the values and powers of the wider society and sink into me­diocrity. 
These issues are not those of real­ity v. Utopia, but of trends and di­rections. A key indicator of direc­tion IS the mode of university gov­ernance. We have inherited a struc­ture that is understandable in terms of the Roman Catholic Church's earlier reliance on clerical responsi­bility, and in terms of the evolution of corporate management in West..: ern capitalism. We have inherited, too, a range of administrative prece­dents and splendid examples of ser­vice which have risen well above these constraints to give Notre Dame a reputation for Christian concern. But we have now reached a point where the flawed structures of the past put grave obstacles in the way of our further development. Either the search for truth and wisdom takes place with the administrative leadership of men imposed by fiat on the learning and teaching commu­nity, or a renewal of structures is re­quired to provide for the processes by which consent evolves to inform and bolster the necessary authority 
of university officers. For the mo­ment, Notre Dame has chosen to re­
assert the old patterns of adminis­trative authority. In this the dual 
· yet supportive claims of university and Christian community have been denied. All this is serious enough, but an additional perspective may not be out of place. Fr. Hesburgh, as Presi­dent, has used his deserved and weighty reputation to block an im­portant reform. Fr. Burtchaell, as Provost, judges the matter is not urgent. Professor Norling is re­ported to see the issue in terms of the natural hostility between those who give orders and those who take orders. Here in Oxford, with all its warts, there is incredulity that the issue of a university community's responsibility for its own governance should still be a matter of serious debate within an institution of the stature of Notre Dame. I suspect the same incredulity would be found on many campuses in the United States. Having again witnessed the crip­pling poverty of the Third World, and the totalitarian absurdities of Southern Africa, I find it demoraliz­ing to see this issue at the center of the stage, and the energies of a good man and fine teacher like Ed Goer­ner being squandered by the puerile manei:ivers of the administration. Peter Walshe St. Antony's College Oxford 
Sir: 
Further to the Goerner Letters (Scholastic, April 13, 1973), Hes­burgh's appointment of Burtchaell without prior approval of the Fac­ulty of the University simply re­reflects the truth of Shaw's old saw: that·to talk about a "Catholic Uni­versity" is a contradiction in terms. 
Alien though the concept is to American universities in general, and Notre Dame in particular, 'tis high time that the governance of each and every university was placed in the hands of those to whom it rightfully belongs: the Faculty. 
Basil R. Myers 
Professor and Chairman 
Electrical Engineering 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
analy-ses 


Fly me to Mishawaka 
"If I had wings, no one would ask me should I fly...." We've all heard that song and perhaps pitied that poor person who has wings as he "feels them" but still can't seem to get off the ground. Now, thanks to the Notre Dame Flying Club, the question is no longer, should I fly, but why in the name of Lindbergh don't I? 
Though many people are not aware of it, the Notre Dame Flying Club has been in existence for a year and a half. Originated by two students from the Aerospace De­partment, Walt Szwarc and William Cotter and also by Professor A. L. Soens of the English Department, the club's main goals are to stimu­late campus-wide interest in avia­tion and to provide inexpensive fly­ing for those who wish it. The three initiators of the club intended it to be multipurposed, providing not only the benefits already mentioned, but also a ground school for those interested in learning to fly and social functions at which pilots could get together and share their experi­ences -"hangar flying" -and at which the general public could dis­cover what a pilot is really like. (Do they really have little wings on the back of their heels?) 
The Flying Club is open to ·any student, faculty member or em­ployee of the University of Notre Dame. The prospective member is offered a free flight -in the left or the right seat, whichever suits 
MAY 4, 1973 
him -with one of the Flying Club pilots. Inexpensive instruction is available; the Flying Club has its own Certified Flying Instructor and hopes to increase the ranks in the coming year. The instructor's fee is six dollars per hour which is two dollars less than the usual rate. A two-seater Cessna 150 can be had for $10.50 per hour, a rate well below the usual $16 per hour, and a four­place Cessna goes for $16 per hour while the usual rate is around $21. Overwhelmed by these discounts? -the ground school is free and taught by a qualified Federal Avia­tion Administration instructor. Mem­bership in the club itself is a mere $5.00 per semester. 
During the club's ground activi­ties, i.e., its biweekly meetings, films are shown. (Amelia Earhart Goes to Rome???) The films shown, usually two a meeting, are pertinent first to aviation education and sec­ondly, to general interest in various aspects of aviation. Other ground activities include field trips, such as the one which the club made with the campus members of the Ameri­can Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics to the Wright-Patter­son Airforce Museum in Dayton, Ohio. Even the airborne make merry -the club holds parties and get-togethers. 
Speakers are also presented by the Flying Club. This year they have had two speakers from the E'.A.A. One spoke about home-built airplanes and the other about the 
F.S.S. -flight service stations. 
The Flying Club is even helping an earthbound bug get up in the air. They are building a Volks­p!ane, which is a Volkswagen­powered airplane. This plane, when finished, will contribute to inexpen­sive flying and it is being built in conjunction with the A.I.A.A. 
A final entry in this list of club functions is the Flying Team. The team will participate in intercolle­giate competition and they belong to the National Intercollegiate Fly­ing Association. 
Membership in the club ranges from novices to even those with commercial flying licenses and in­structor's rating. There are approxi­mately 35 members, 20 of whom are flying members. (Beware of Flying Members! ! ! ) Since the club's inception, six members have flown solo flights and two, after going through the Flying Club's ground school, have obtained their pilots' licenses. 
The Flying Club hopes to even­tually purchase a plane, though at the present time they do not own one. Working with a Fixed Base Operator in Elkhart, the club pur­chases flying time during which the entire fleet of planes at Elkhart is available to them. (Elkhart's FBO is Ed Johnston, who has been very good to the club.) Charging the same low rates that they would charge -if they owned their own plane, the club wants to show just how many hours they can accrue and they are accomplishing it even with a membership which they feel is smaller than this University can support. 
However, there are a few restric-­tions. Presently, club members are not allowed to make solo cross­country flights at night, though local night flying is permitted. But the plane can be reserved -for cross­country flights over a period of days, if the member promises to pay for four hours daily of flying time whether he utilizes it or not. Of course, if he flies longer than four hours he must pay for the overage. 
William Cotter is this year's Fly­ing Club president. The other club officers are -treasurer, Fred Lax and secretaries, Tricia Sheperd and Judy Ravenhurst. Professor A. L. Soens is the Faculty Moderator. Committee chairman are-Cliff Wal­ton, National Intercollegiate Flying Association (Flying Team); Bob Hendricks, fl)'ing instruct9r and head of Flight Safety and Operations ­Committee; Sean Hanrahan, Volks­plane Committee; and Ralph Skow­ron, Communications and Publicity Committee. Any of _these persons may be contacted regarding O ques­tions about the club. 
Flying is exhilarating and unique. Ask any pilot, or look out your win­dow the next time you·are traveling in a jet and imagine how you would feel "if you had wings." Better yet, ­join the Notre Dame-Flying Club and get a real taste of the skies. 
-katy sullivan & peter mccabe 

''I don1t come here just to drink.11 
It's packed again to,night. People tripping down the front steps going neither in nor out give that impres­sion immediately. -"Can I see your bar card?" We can't even get in; it looks like there're three people sit-­ting on the stool. Push, man, push. "I;m a Senior" (spoken with sym.:­pathetic indignation). Why are there so many people here? "And your student I.D. too." 
-~'You sure drink a lot for a skinny girl." "I have to, to keep from eat­ing." -"Great, how _about--another_ beer?"-"Sure, fat man." "I-don/t think I . . . are: you _always this quick?" -"Only in crowds." "Yeah, well if that's the case, honey, you can buy your oum beer." "No wait ... lemme buy yoU one . ..." 
Once past the rather obstinate doorkeeper, one is in the Senior Bar. And being in is the first sensation that strikes the sober victim. You are so in, it seems impossible to get out. At first, mutual oppression i$ the only mood of the place. But upon sinking deeper into the crowd, the smoke, and the suds, a much more interesting character emerges. 
After a few initial shoves, one acquires his bar legs and proceeds determinately towards the bar. "I'll get the booze, you put up the quar­ter, if there aren't too many." The bar is flooded, by people and smoke mostly. But the, "Hi Mary. Yeah, 
drink. I don't corne he:re just to do anything. I come here just to do everything. But .I-usually end up do­ing nothing. Does that make sense to anyone ."but me?-That's one good thing about this place; everything I say nULkes no _sense. When you think about it, that : nULkes sense. You gonna buy rne a beer for that? Sure I'll be back next week. I like the lighting. Ha, ha, ha." 
All the rooms in the bar, both up­stairs and . downstairs, are crowded beyond : 'capacity· on Wednesday -night.. Seniors seem to consider it a natural right to start their _week­end a couple of days before anyone else.• To them, Wednesday is not the middle of the week; it is the _begin­ning of the end of it. In any case there seems to be a desperation to start . enjoying something. And to 
celebrate it together. 
"But what • could I possibly have to say to a girl I've never met and know nothing about? On the other hand, what would I have to say to a ·girl I knew everything about? Maybe I could go up and gross her out. I've seen that work before. For­get it. I probably couldn't do it anyway. But what do I mean, noth­ing in common with? We're both domers, aren't we? In fact, every­body here is a darner. Why if we met in a Paris cafe, we'd be like 
... fine ... you ... later,"-but the . brother and sister (an unfortunately close ceiling and acne-colored light­good analogy). As soon as we leave ing are just as responsible. -this place, we'll probably feel closer "No,· I don't come here just -to than we ever did , while we were 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

here. How does this make sense then? All these people crowded _to­gether, embalmed in beer, sweat, and smoke, and yet how many actually know another? Doesn't anyone real­ize they are Seniors? Maybe they all do. Maybe _that's why Wednesdays are always crowded at the Senior Bar." 
"Yeah, I come every Wednesday night and play a game or two of hockey. "Cause it's fast, man. And it's simple and it looks good if you win. The thing of it is, you gotta keep your stick close to the goal and let the other guy make his own mis­takes. And the banks -you gotta hit 'em just right -so the'lJ either bounce once or a lot. Actually I don/t like to play unless there are a few girls around. Somehow it seems ridiculous if there isn/t a mixed audience. Reminds m.e too much that 1'111, at Notre Dame." 
"No, you know what they do. They schedule the cheap beer early in the evening so they can make the most of the advertising but still not get caught with· a lot of sales. I heard they made a four-thousand-dollar profit first semester. Now it seems to me_ that if they really wanted to be fair to the senior, they could sell at their total cost of fifteen cents a beer for the rest of the year. They've made enough by now to come out more than even. So why should they soak us like Nickie's or Louie's? Be­sides,, 'Celli doesn't-have to p·ay off the cops, or I don't think, at least. Lemme see, that means if I came here .with three bucks I could get twenty beers instead of only twelve. I'm thirsty. You're buying, aren't you?" 
. As it gets closer to one o'clock, the tempo of the place increases. The downstairs and upstairs corridors are packed, but still moving with some degree of efficiency. It .now seems that people are making an effort to crowd themselves. They have experienced the mass of bodies slowly shifting positions and now are attracted to the movement. There is something there. It's not warmth, it's heat. It's not together­ness, it's a mob. But most important-

MAY 4, 1973 
ly, it's not static. It's always escap­ing, not the people, just the time. 
"I figured it out last night, Brian. All you really want is somebody to come back to next year, when you visit. That's not enough for me. It's this place, this perverted school, that you're having the romance with, not me. And I won't be part of it now or later. So when you drop me a line saying you'll be down for a week­end next fall, don't expect me to be ready." 
"Right now we're all alumni, I suppose. This part of the year is like our first reunion, except with all the advantages of being here. It's a time in· our lives that will always be im­portant to us. Memories from now will be remembered most. But it's also like we missed something. Some­thing that college was-always sup­posed to be like, eluded us. And now we must have it before it's too late. I look at all the beautiful girls and think how I could have spent four years here and never even got to know them. Sure I'll miss it, even if I hated it while I was here. And it won't be just for the good times either. I'll remember the times when I fell into the despair that strikes everyone around. twenty. It was those times that I was forced to look at myself the clos_est. And it ·was then that I became a man. Maybe 
that's a little heavy for the Senior Bar, but maybe that's why I like it here." 
Every time one goes to the bar on a Wednesday night, he is assured of seeing someone whom he doesn't · really know but feels close to any­way. The bar makes these new ac­quaintances old friends in a second. People whom you have met only once, and might not see for the rest of your life, bec01pe important and memorable. The bar gives you a chance to shape their identities and store them away as a part of N.D. that will always mean much to you. For when we later note Notre Dame, it will not be for the library or the stadium. Instead we will remember who we got drunk with at a football game. Or who it was that made a night easy° to pass at the Senior Bar. You see, everyone who takes a drink at the bar is a romantic. Everyone who drinks there, drinks to a living nostalgia. Certainly this is true at mqst bars. But at the Alumni Club, this is the main attraction, not the pool or the girls, or the hockey or the booze. We drink to a light­hearted romance with the dome, even if we do sell OUT football tickets and have never been to a basketball 
game. Sorry, Last Call. 
tom leahy· 


LaFortune Renovation: 
Consider the Community 
THIS ?!OTHER'S DAY, 
::~// -~\1;~ 
GIVE TO MANY, IN HONOR OF ORE. 
Your gift to CABE in yourmother's name, will providefood, health service, and self-help development pro­grUlS !or needy mothers and their children overseas. 
CARE will provide a specialftother's Dey card which will be mailed directly to ~ mother, or to you, as requested, informing hero! your thought!ulness. ftini­ll\lll donation 12 per name. 
Send~ ftother's naae and 
address with your cheek to: 
CARE-ftother's Daya9!
220 So. State St. . 
Chicago, 60604· ·· 



Two Considerations: 
Point for consideration: the com­munity. Not just any community. Simply, the community. Not the Notre Dame community. Or, the South Bend community. Not ·the American community. Not even the Christian community. Simply, the community. 
What moves the community? What motivates it? Molds it? Holds it together? Simply this:· the people intellecting and willing together for the common good, realizing that the common good in some way bears out their own personal good. The ways of bringing about this good and add­ing to it qualitatively and quantita­tively. And, in striving after quali­tative and quantitative gains, the people of the community niake mis­takes and they learn from them. 
Community for consideration: the Notre Dame community. It is an educational community. The mem­bers of the community are about the business of providing or getting an education. It is, in essence, an occu­pational training ground -a place to train the members of the com­munity for a life in a larger commu­nity. 
The renovation of LaFortune is the first chance for the Notre Dame community to mak~ a substantial contribution to itself. Begun under the auspices of the School of Archi­tecture almost two years ago, the 
LaFortune Renovation Project has 
become a real foray in qualitative self-improvement for the Notre Dame community. This is the first time that any job of this magnitude 
will be undertaken by people in~ide the community -. by the students 
themselves. Though the major work is being done by three fourth-year architecture students, the project in­volves the whole community. The Renovation Project opened up a manned suggestion office in La­Fortune earlier in the year, and thus made itself open to anyone with an idea. 
According to one of the architec­ture students, Ken Knevel, the· com­munity is "dissatisfied with the work of outsiders." As examples of unsat­i s f a ct o r y work he mentioned O'Shaughnessy Hall and the Library. He cited the LaFortune project as the beginning of a movement toward self-sufficiency in the Notre Dame community. If there are mistakes, they are the community's mistakes, and the community can learn from them., The completion of a project such as the LaFortune Renovation will give the community what it has asked for as well as-a feeling of self-imp.rovement and the satisfac­tion that comes with it. 
Consider again the comm~nity; consider the community of· Notre Dame. Then consider the La.Fortune Renovation. Under the guiding hand of Ambrose Richardson, chairman of the School of Architecture, Ken Knevel, Ron Blitch and Roxanne Jabbra have begun work on the project -the first major qualitative work done by the Notre Dame com­munity itself. It provides the begin­nings for Notre Dame's maturing utilization of its status as an educa­tional community to improve itself to further the common good of itself and the . individual good of its members. 
-joerunde 

THE SCHOLASTIC 

Some time back in 1972, the St. Joseph County Pro­
bate Court applied for federal assistance under the pro­
vision of Title I of the OMNIBUS CRIME CONTROL 
AND SAFE STREETS ACT of 1968 in order to create 
a program that would enhance law enforcement ser­
vices formerly provided without federal aid. The result 
of the court's action was the preliminary conception 
of what is presently the PDEP -the Parent-Delinquent 
Education Program. The program would concern the 
problems of junior high school students, such as truant 
behavior, the conditions contributing to this behavior 
and a planned approach to correcting these undesirable 
situations by utilizing all available college and com­
munity resources. 
The development of the program reflects the grow­
ing, if not emergent, need to cope with the increasing 
incidence of juvenile delinquency and scholastic failures 
among the youth of South Bend. The need for this 
type of program was brought to the community's at­
tention by the recent study of John Feldhusen. Dr. 
Feldhusen, who is Chairman of the Educational Psy­
chology and Research Dept. at Purdue University, asks 
in his study that educators, city officials and juvenile 
judges work together in providing more opportunities 
for these "pre-stigmatized" children. 
More specifically this program is aimed at: 1) Youths with personal problems (emotional, social, or physical) that limit or impede normal scholastic and social development, 2) Youths with scholastic failures or learning disabilities that react to their attendant frustrations with a negative social behavior, 3) Youths that are affected or influenced by the other two groups' behavior and are beginning to show incipient identifica­tion with them. 
In December, 1972, the grant application made by the Education Department of St. Mary's College was chosen from a field of numerous other grant applications made by various institutions in St. Joseph County to be the recipient of the allotted 30,000 dollars of federal funds. St. Mary's Dept. of Education was to combine its re­sources, as propounded in the grant application, with those of other community groups, private and public, in a jointly conducted program of prevention and re­habilitation. 
It was the contention of those in St. Mary's Educa­tion Department, who authored the grant application, that the youths in the community who develop pre­delinquent tendencies as evidenced by incorrigibility and truancy in the schools, misdemeanor acts in the community, and lack of parental control in the home, were not supported by a unified plan of action to aid them in rehabilitation. The members of the Education Department planned to utilize the funds and resources, therefore, to implement a community high school proj­ect and parent delinquency education program, which they felt to be of highest priority within the functional environs of. this geographic area. 
·The program was scheduled to begin in January, 1973, and to continue for 50 weeks through January, 1974. The program would ultimately take in 25 boys and girls of 12-15 years of age. The students would enter the program upon referral from the public and private school systems and the probation court. The program was allowed five rooms in the basement of 





MAY 4, 1973 
To Teach ·a Problem Child 
Holy Cross Hall at St. Mary's for classrooms and an 
office. 

The program is headed by Sr. Maria Concepta Mc­
Dermott CSC of the Education Dept. at St. Mary's, who 
is the project director. The program director is Sr. 
Mary Laurus CSC who functions in a capacity similar 
to that of a school principal. In the grant application 
the teaching staff was to consist of four master teachers 
whose qualifications would be at least a B.A. and teach­
ing experience, and from 6-10 student teachers from the 
Dept. of Education at St. Mary's College who would be 
completing eight hours of teaching credit. This staff 
~ould be supplemented by numerous teacher aides from 
various education courses at St. Mary's 
One of the basic aims of the PDEP Learning Center at St. Mary's is to create an atmosphere in which every child learns. The teaching philosophy adopted by the teaching staff of the learning center is the philosophy propounded by Dr. William Glasser in his books, Reality Therapy and Schools Without Failure. The Glasserian Method is implemented by way of Individualized In­struction and Progression for each student. The staff and administration of the program were formally in­troduced to Dr. Glasser's theory in a Glasser workshop that was conducted during the third weekend of last December at St. Mary's College by Dr. DeWolf Roberts, an experienced disciple of Glasser and practitioner of the Glasserian Method. 
So, during the first week of this past January some unsuspecting pioneers ventured forth from that· special coziness that homes so often adopt during the holiday season and braved the insensitive Indiana winter to re­turn to South Bend to help give the five rooms for the learning center a crash renovation. By January 15, 1973, the school was physically ready and the staff of the program began interviewing prospective students. The first few weeks of the program certainly had its share of trials and frustrations due to a lack of organi­zation that ineluctably haunts any inchoate program. By the first week of March, however, the learning cen­ter's enrollment reached its capacity of 25 students and an encouraging harmony began to appear wh~re frus­trating chaos had formerly prevailed. 
'9 

It naturally took our students a while to become 
acquainted with a school so different from those they 
previously attended. Most of our s~dents ca~e to the 
program because they were failures m the public sch?ol 
system in one way or another. In the PDEP learnrng 
center, however, there is no such thing as failure be­
cause as Glasser states: "All that children learn by 
failure is how to fail. .." (Schools Without Failure). In 
his books, Glasser also stresses the importance of teach­
er involvement with the students in order for the stu­
dents to realize their own need to behave responsibly. 
The center's program ·of individualized instruction cer­
tainly lends itself to this kind of involvement. 
After 3½ months in session, it is still rather difficult 
to judge or predict the ultimate success of this inno­
vative educational program. One might easily suc­
cumb to the temptation to criticize the PDEP on the 
same grounds on which the Head Start Program is of­
ten attacked: that the good behavior that is positively 
reinforced and rewarded in school is often treated 
differently in the home, thus causing the work of the 
school to be fruitless. The PDEP has greatly limited 
this possibility, however, by the simultaneous develop­
ment of a home program for parents that complements 
the school program. 
Perhaps one indication of the PDEP's progress can be seen in the results of a recent evaluation made by Dr. Feldhusen of Purdue University. Commenting on the center in a letter to the PDEP's project director, Sr. McDermott, Dr. Feldhusen writes: "We were· certainly impressed with the excellent job you and Sister Laurus ·have done in implementing the Parent-Delinquent Edu­cation Program. What a marvelous job of translating from paper description to reality. You are extremely well organized and providing valuable therapy and edu­
cation for the youngsters." 
Despite such a propitious evaluation there is still 
much to gradually overcome. One often tends to despair 
when he realizes that new problems arise more quickly 
than old ones are resolved. There is that redeeming 
moment, however, when one realizes that he has ac­
tually succeeded in favorably changing just one child's· 
behavior. Those moments are rare, but their satisfac­
tion_ is similar to that which an artist must feel when 
he has captured that fleeting glimpse of reality in one 
form or.another. It is the ineffable satisfaction of those 
rare moments that seems to make the PDEP worth­
while. 
.Bubby Ve_spole· 
Experiment 
One of the most popular generalities in which theorists of this campus seem to enjoy losing them­selves is the elusive one of "Notre Dame Community." Its existence or nonexistence, authenticity or hypocrisy, relevance or irrelevance seem to provide topics vague and varied enough to suit most tastes, and enough theoretical discussion to permanently pidgeonhole the concept in the realm of cloudy intangibles, never to b_e touched by men. Of course, talking about the theory 1s much more popular than trying to reconcile it with real campus life, and the rhetoric of the "Christian Community" often bears little resemblance to the re­ality of the flesh-and-blood Notre Dame. That fact is as well known and seems to be as unchangeable as the topic itself. Much shining talk plus little substantial action equals Notre Dame Christian Community, or so it often seems. 
Nonetheless, a modestly innovative experiment has been going on this past semester that demonstrates that that equation may not be necessarily true, that substantial action can be taken to make the abstraction something real. A unique experimental course, the re­sult of cooperation between students in Morrissey Hall and the Notre Dame economics department, may have touched on some of the ways to bridge the gap between the theory and practice of a university "community." 
The experiment began late last November during the confusion of preregistration for second semester. Dr. Thomas Swartz, an economics professor and mem­ber of the hall fellows program in Morrissey, had earlier expressed an interest in teaching an Econ course within the hall for hall residents. During preregistration Junior Joe Gaziano, the leader of the section of the hall to which Swartz was assigned as fellow, called the professor to see if such a course in introductory economic principles could be arranged for the students in the section for the spring semester. Swartz said yes, and convinced two other economics professors· to join him in teaching the course: Ken Jameson, another Morrissey Hall fellow, and Frank Bonello. The three faculty recognized the opportunity to explore a special kind of learning situation, and designed a course format to take advantage of the opportunity, incorporating a mixture of formal and informal contact between teachers and students very different from the trad­itional classroom setting. The enrollment in the course was limited to students from the two sections in Mor­rissey to which Swartz and Jameson were assigned as fellows, about thirteen students who would meet with the three professors once every two weeks for class. The class would meet for a two and a half hour lecture beginning late in the afternoon, then proceed to the home of one of the professors for dinner, and finish with a discussion of the material presented in lecture. Swartz, who is a Danforth Associate, applied for and received a grant from the Danforth Foundation to help 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

in Community Learning 
take care of the costs of the dinners. And so the ex­
periment was begun. 
The course became a uniquely relaxed and co­operative learning arrangement. A cohesive friendli­ness began to form which held the group together, despite a diversity of backgrounds and interests. The "course group" came to include not only the students (who ranged from arts & letters freshmen to upper­classmen in majors as varied as premed, architecture, government, and English), and the three economics pro­fessors, but also the assistant rector of Morrissey, and the wives and families of the professors as well. Con­versation was free and relaxed among all, and indeed often received significant boosts from the in­telligent and articulate faculty wives (Mrs. Bonello has a graduate degree in Economics, Mrs. Jameson is a psychology professor at St. Mary's, and Mrs. Swartz is a first-year Notre Dame law student). Students shared responsibility for the course in an active as well as a passive way, not only being required to do the readings and write a research paper, but as a group to host two of the dinner meetings. In a modest way, the experi­ment proved that there can be generated a tangible sense of what the atmosphere of the idealized univer­sity community would seem to be -a co-operative association of people learning together. 
Econ 227 grew out of the same sort .of considera­tions which prompted some halls to set up hall fellows programs in past years, beginning with the inception of the stay hall system six years ago. The fellows pro­grams, which seek to bring faculty members into the hall to meet students in a situation other than that of the classroom, recognize what is perhaps one of the basic flaws in Notre Dame's ideal university comrimn­ity: the fact that regular contact between students and faculty outside of the traditional setting is exceedingly rare. The tendency has long been recognized for the campus to devolve into two sectors: "learning places," th~ classroom buildings and laboratories where stu­dents spend their working days; and "living places," the_ dormitories, where students spend their free time_ and have their friends. The educational philosophy which spawns programs like the hall fellows sees this process as detrimental to the purposes of a university education._ "Look at the Notre Dame tradition of the hall as a zoo," said Swartz "... the hall's function is seen as purely residential, completely removed from the· student's academic experience. The halls ought to be the beginning of an educational function as well." Father Tom Chambers, Morrissey Hall rector, said of _ the program there that, "the idea is for the student to see that the_ faculty is not just in Nieuwland Science 
Hall, or O'Shaughnessy Hall, or the Hayes-Healy Center." Indeed, if the historical and theoretical foundations 
MAY 4, 1973 
of the university, as a place to meet learned men, pro­vide a justification for faculty contact outside the class­room, then more modern circumstances call for it as well. The classroom atmosphere can easily reduce the teacher and the student to little more than their func­tions in the learning game: educator and educated, master and slave, opponents in a fight for grades. "There's a tendency, among underclassmen especially, to see the faculty as sort of weirdo eggheads, to think, 'what does that guy do, think about the theory of marginal productivity, or read Victorian novels all the time?'" Swartz said "Students should be able to see that their professors are human beings, like them­selves." 
The idea of extracting professors from the O'Shaughnessy woodwork is neither new nor unique. Professors who undertake on their own to meet with students outside the classroom are happily enough not uncommon, and the same philosophy that is reflected in the fellows programs in the halls has been evidenced in formal programs as diverse as the experimental col­lege proposal a couple years ago and the present prac­tice of inviting faculty into the student residences for weekend mass or on special occasions. But still the problem of bridging the educational chasm between learning and living remains for the most part unsolved. Simple social contacts between students on the one hand and faculty members and their families on the other will remain artificial and contrived so long as the meetings are devoid of a purpose in which both parties can participate. And at the same time, the educational experience of the classroom will remain incomplete un­less it can somehow be integrated into the living ex­perience of the university as well. If a Notre Dame education is to be not only the accumulation of factual knowledge but the development of a taste for acquiring that knowledge as well, the gap must be bridged. It may be that the experiment of Econ 227, a group of students living together and at the same time learning together, points toward a possible way of solving that problem. 
Pat Roach 
forum 

In the SCHOLASTIC of April 13, we reprinted two letters by Professor Goerner of the Government De­partment, in the hope that they might incite a public_ discussion of the question of University governance. 
The response thus far has been minimal. We feel this to be revelatory of a highly regrettable lack of concern for what is, in effect, the most important prob­lem facing us at this time --our concept of a·University and the proper relation between its parts. 
The article that follows is one of the very few re­sponses we did receive. Its opinions are the author's -own. However, we share his recognition of the urgency of this issue for all of us. For the question of Univer­sity governance entails our very understanding of what a University is; and as long as we continue to shirk a discussion of our self-conception, we continue to stand on uncertain ground, and all our efforts lack meaning.. 
The Editorial Board. 
On. Governance and the· University 
Da.niel ·J. Koob 
Young. as I am; ifl may· give advice, 
I'd say it would be _best if men were born . 
perfect in:imsdorn; but thatjailing this -_ 
(which often 'jails). it can°be n·o-dishonor 
to learn from others when,they·ipeak:gooa·sense.· 
· Haemon to his pr.ogenitor~ Creon, in Sophocles ­
___Antigone_119-'J23. ·_ -;. _· '· · __ _, 
. . . ;: , , ...-, ,' ' :' "; . _. ., .:. . 
--> ~•• 
All that follows arises from a careful .study of Aristotle's Politics I, ii-vi and ill, vi-vii and, as such, is obviously open to_ a. more·-profouncf-and -truthful in­trepretation. (One ·might also compare this text wi:t}l _ the Letter of Paul to Philemon in the New Testament and Simone Weil, The Need For Roots). I assume, but have not confirmed, that the Politics is also the con­text out of which the Professor of Government, Mr. E. 
A. Goerner, speaks in using the term "despotic" (des­p~tes)--_to :h~e and describe the "achajnistf.iti.on's'\:__ ~­
-rule of the faculty-an·d U~~versity as a.whole.· (Cf. "_Qn University Governance: The Goerner Letters," THE SCHOLASTIC,, April 13, 1973, pp 10-11). 
* * * ' 

There is nothing particularly opprobrious about be­ing a despo·t and certainly nothing slanderous about being called "despotic"-if that is what one is. Despotism is merely a lowly, but still acompletely legitimate form of_rule. ·For example, every good fath.er must be a despot with his ioung children .. -So must every thinking being be a despot in his relation to his body.· So must every genuine master be a·despot with those under his care who are genuine (i.e. natural) slaves. To be a despot is not to be a tyrant: (tyrannos). Far from it! But the misuse of despotic rule; that is, the perversion of despotism, as well as the perversion of political rule (politeia) is -tyranny. 
An example of tyranny is where a father's legiti­mately despotic rule over his -immature child makes no gradual adjustment toward· political rule_ as the child matures toward adultho~d, but continues to give his (let us assume good-intended arid good in fact) dictates without allowing for the1·e to be any give and take, any obligation to persuade, and any dependency· o~ having won consent from the maturing child. Such a 'father' is no longer adespot;' but rather, is a tyrant. And any good, self-respecting son who finds himself in such an unfortunate situation-wisely abandons such a perver­sion of fatherhood ·and "leaves ho_me,11 ~ we say. ( Cf. Sophocles Antigone, especially froin line 627 to the con­clusion, for a tragic description of the consequences of househ9ld tyranny.). -
Buf how can, a geiluine,:legitimate relationship exist between such a-father and his mature son? The answer is that this is impossible without the father realizing· (in this ·example of despotic rule),.that the uihole aim of his -despotism, rightly understoo_d, is to achieve;,:so far as this is possi~le, a political rule, that _ is, -a rule·orand by_ consenting peers. 
Now·any one who has thought·an instant about this knows there are a variety of regimes which are pro­perly called "political," much as our several examples above illustrate there are a variety of despotic regimes. Among the political regimes are kingship, aristocracy (rule by the_ best) an·a a third which is a mixture of the preceding regimes ·together with a democratic ele­
-men_t ("polity"). But the essential feature of every po­
-litical regime is that there be accountability by its officeholders before the gathered body of peers, whose consent is the prerequisite for the existence of the var­ious offices and thus the powers of the officeholders to execute and achieve, to implement, through their par­ticular decisions, the common and agreed-upon under­standing of what constitutes the commonly aspired­after good of the community. (Cf., e.g., the English · Magna Carta of 1215.). Without this accountability, those in positions of power do not rule by consent ­and this·means by speech and persuasion and accounta­bility -before their peers; rather, they rule by force·­and intimidation. Rule by force and intimidation is 
~ ­

THE SCHOLASTIC 

clearly legitimate when it is exercised over those who These difficulties arise as a consequence of there are deficient in the deliberative capacities which are being two distinct, however complimentary, paths from the prerequisite for political rule, as the exercise of the single Source for the two kinds of authority at play these capacities makes possible the intelligent consent· here due to·Notre Dame's aspiration to being a Chris­constitutive of peership. The relationship, to repeat, of · · tian University. immature children relative to their fathers, of livestock .The authority represented by the Christian Logos . and pets.and slaves relative to their masters, of the is (apparently) mistakenly identified by the current body relative to the-mirid, and of. students-relative to "administrators" with their own persons as members of their master-teachers are all varying examples of _non-the C.S.C. order of priests. In fact, however, these political, but legitimate, that is, despotic, rule. It is C.S.C. "administrators,".and clerics generally, are mere-clearly illegitimate, a perversion of despotic rule, and ·iy singled out for special service as preachers of the therefore tyranny when force and intimidation· prevail Christian Logos and otherwise privileged distributors where speech and reasoning:could prevail were they ·· · -of It's graces as duly ordained "technicians of the given the opportunity. (It should be u·nnecessary to · Sacred." This authority-path rightly names and under­point out but should, nevertheless, be emphasized that stands its Source as 'God," (here) specifically Christ -· for obvious reasons -greater deliberative excellence• ·Jesus. Allegiance to this authority and the confirma­is required for political rule to be possible within an tion of its presence in a particular man presupposes academic community than for political rule in a house-faith in Christ Jesus, and this is hardly a unique gift to hold.) priests. 
Mr. Goerner's letters, in my reading, are, therefore, The authority-path represented by the activity of. stating and, thereby (cf. Aristotle's Politics I, v: being a scholar-thinker is the authority which comes 1254b20-24), demonstrating that he, at least; is a ma-with the disciplined and weH-directed exercise of man's ture man and -what is more -a free nian and a_ essential being, and this means his excellence as a scholar, and that for· others to attempt to rule him thinker. The Source of the thinker's authority is rightly despotically, that is, without his consent with respect named and understood as "Being," as that by which to the governance of his activities as a· scholar and· all that is Is. The presence of such authority in any thinker, is rio~ an_ example ·of despotism (i.e.;a legiti-particular man can only be confirmed by other men mate rule), but an example of tyranny. It follows that who, as students (young and old) aspiring after a closer he is calling the present "admi~istration" and, in par-union with this same Source, that is, as men in search ticular, the Reverends Hesburgh and Burtchaell, tyrants of Truth, experience that they derive guidance for their -with respe~tto himself. own thinking toward this end by the presence of a par-
This is the implicit conclusion from what Mr: Goer-. ticularly gifted thinker-speaker in their midst. Such ner-explicitly ~ays about the apparent majority of the thinkers grateful students rightly honor with awards. faculty and, in particular; its representativ_es on the In conclusion, it is superfluous but perhaps here, at "Academic Council." These men, by_ their recent vote Notre Dame, still necessary to add that believing and (Tuesday, March· 27), admitted they are still deficient thinking are essentially distinct activities, indicative of as mature men and, especially, as free men and scholars the essential separation in the paths they take from and and, ·as such, they are properly (i.e., legitimately) ruled toward the common, but differently named and differ-by despots. By their vote, these men confirmed that the _ entiy understood, Source which gives them both rise. · 
-Reverends'Hesburgh and Burtchaell are right in their Consequently, these activities may or may not be pre­assertion that they are; themselves without peers, at sent in the same person. However, if the same person least among the faculty.· And, consequently, the Rev-._ . is both a believer and a thinker, he is each, that is, he erends Hesburgh. and Burtchaell may rightly rule the , can perform each activity and, (thereby) evidence the faculty and University as a whole_ without the require-. . . presence of the authority peculiar to each, only at dif­ment .of consent and ·accountability before the faculty. ferent times, as these activi!ies are distinct. Notre 
, \Vhich woµld be concomitant upon recognizing the fac-Dame's· Founder, Father Sorin, for example, presumedly ulty as peers. By their vote, the "Academic Council" ad-"was a scholar-thinker as well as a man of God. I am mitted that the faculty-as a whole and, in particular, sure the same could be said of a ·number of priests on 
. th~ gathered body of their highest representatives do this campus today, as well as of a number of lay not_-· as such body -constitute a peer for these two, • .faculty. men~ who are, consequently, misnamed "administrators" 
Failure to ~aintain th~se distinctions makes ·any' 
and bette_:r; called, therefore, "despots." Likewise, it fol­. dis_cussion <?f governance within a Christian University
lo_ws,,the ."Academi~ Council" is misnamed ~s such and , · fruitless. 
is better· called, assuming their deficience is not per­. m~nent,. the '.'Academic Children." ::All ·that precedes is not undermined by the special, two-part mission this University aspires to realize, that. : . . is, its·commitment to include. the Christian Logos as · . .the highest among the several objects it deems worthy . · 
A 1967 graduate of Notre Dame, Mr. Daniel J . .of serious·study and its.commitment which holds that 
Koob· is finishing -a dissertation in Government for this .Logos is the speech which most essentially com-·:-·­
·Claremont Graduate School while employed as a • . prehends its being. as a Whole. ·The difficulties which 
'Part-time Instrztctor in the Collegiate Seminar Pro­
arise because of this special, mission are-merely of a . 
·gram at Notre Dame. practical and, therefore, derivative nature. 
MAY 4,· 1973 . . 
Life as a POW 
A Conversation with Capt. Richard C. Brenneman 
Most people have ambivalent atti­
tudes on Vietnam POW's ranging 
from hero worship and joy for their 
return, to feelings that they are po­
litical pawns or liars. Apart from 
these considerations we felt that 
they, specifically Capt. Richard C. 
Brenneman, have something to say 
of interest to the people of the Uni­
versity. We approached Capt. Bren­
neman in this way. We wanted to 
find out what it is like to be a POW 
for 5½ years in North Vietnam. 
We have taken a certain liberty in 
rearranging a two-hour conversation 
into a short presentation~ What we 
have included is representative of 

the entire conversation.. Some of ~the questions may seem confused or 
out of temporal order, but you will 
find his comments follow according 
to their subject matter. 
We found Capt. Brenneman most 
interesting and _very easy to talk 
to. The interview could have easily 
lasted all day. He had been up until 
4 in the morning celebrating Dyngus 
Day, a Polish celebration of the end 
of the Easter season, but he was still 
attentive and eager to talk to us at 
what must have been an early hour 
in the day for him. _ 
Captain Richard Charles Brenne­
man was shot down over North 
Vietnam on November 7, 1967. He 
was flying in support of a formation 
of F-105 bombers. His F-104 was hit 
in the aft section by a heat-seeking 
missile. Immediately following ejec­
tion at 20,000 ft., he saw the plane_ 
explode less than 300 ft. away. 
His copilot landed in a rough 
rock formation called karst. Capt. 
Brenneman chose a smoother land­ing in an adjoining valley where there were a few villages. After con­tacting air rescue, he was forced into 

_hiding by local villagers who had come loohing for him. He was cap­tured about a half hour later when they accidentally stumbled over him while they were running for cover from the air rescue. His copilot was rescued in what Capt. Brenneman called a "Cecil B. DeMille produc­tion" of machine-gun fire and drama. He also told us he had his flight suit cut off with a machete because the villagers were so isolated they didn't know what zippers were. 
He stayed in several camps, one of which, Son-Tay, was the site of the famous abortive attempt to res­cue POW's. 
Scholastic: Were you put into soli­
-tary confinement at any time or were you usually with several other Americans? 
Brenneman:-I had only about five and a half months solitary myself : . . [ Several people] like myself fared pretty well. Some: people had several years. 
Scholastic: What was your cell like and your cellmates? 
Brenneman: Well, I lived in a lot of different places, sometimes different rooms within [the same] camp. I varied from one room at Sori-Tay, where I could touch both walls with my hands and it was six inches longer than I am tall. So this room was six feet by five feet or · like that. I lived in_that a couple of times 
and after the raid at Son-Tay they were forced to put us together in large groups in Hanoi. There we had .fairly large rooms, although we had 
_a lot of people in it, 57 people in one room. It's about 20 by 60 [ft.] if you could imagine, I think someone fig­ured out that you end up with 21 inches per man to sleep in. We would rather have it that way than be liv­ing in small groups or alone. That's when we could occupy our time a lot better, usually you were sharing your education and so forth. 
Scholastic: When y_ou were in soli­tary, I imagine, there wasn't a win­dow in the cell. 
Brenneman: No, there was a vent but it was bricked up so no air could come through. 
Scholastic: I would imagine that you knew every brick in that cell. 
Brenneman: Well, yes and no. To spend my mental time looking at every-nook and cranny would be a waste. Most people would put their thoughts on something that would have a benefit after we leave. One of my good friends wanted to be an architect, go to architecture school. And he spent about 99% of his time up there dabbling in floor plans, different methods of construction, searching out people that had some information. Somebody had a course in strength of materials, [so you] find out everything that guy knew! Well, there was an architect up there. You would pick this guy's brain apart. [You have to] spend your.time on something, many times 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

tangible, sometimes fantasy, just as an exercise, a mental exercise. 
Scholastic:. [Were these exercises ones of memory, or rather, what were the sources of these exercises ? ] 
Brenneman: We worked with the re­sources we had within ourselves be­cause the gooks supplied nothing, they actually went to lengths to make efforts to the fact that we would have nothing. Writing mate­rials were taboo. If they found any they took them away. They were very careful about anything. They let you bring nothing into the room. They went to ridiculous lengths to get every scrap of paper out of our hands.... As far as writing mate­rials went, we would make ash ink out of cigarette ashes.... We would write on the type of sanitary paper we had, which is kind of like our brown shopping bags. Boy, they don't know what Charmin is or any­thing like that. They would come in and take it away and we would just start over. Everything that we did was generated from within ourselves. For instance, you are working on a degree in government. Well, we had a guy out there that had a master's in double E [ Electrical Engineer­ing], so we would have courses in electronics, everything that he knew. It's one of these things, it sounds like a joke here, "Sit down and tell me everything you know" but up there that's the way it was.... It is interesting when you are in a void like that. 
Scholastic: I take it, talking to the other guys was very important? 
Brenneman: Yes. 
Scholastic: How does one stay hu­man then, in solitary, without be­coming a vegetable? 
Brenneman: Well, the big thing is of course keeping the mind active. It depends, of course, on your educa­tion. The more educated the person is, the better he is able to take the time such as solitary confinement be­cause you have more to rely on.... 
think everybody had their own personal way to pass solitary. Some people wrote poems to their wives or others, huge volumes, thousands of lines and they memorized the whole thing.... I kind of have an interest in engineering, so to speak, .and I would just pick a project. OK, for the next three .months my project is, well, my favorite one was to de­sign a city mentally, and occasion­ally I would take some pieces of red wood tile and make scratches on the concrete floor. 
Scholastic: Did you ever break to the point of some night just getting extremely frustrated even with a city project, to the point of beating on the doors? 
Brenneman: No, it never came to that that I know of, not for myself anyway.... You can just kind of condition your mind that you are going to be there for a while and you rely upon yourself. 
Scholastic: So you could live then in a way in memory and imagination. 
Brenneman: Yes, imagination is a big thing there, you might even call it fantasy you know, design a city, nobody comes home and designs a city. It passed the time. 
Scholastic: Did you plan day by day or did you plan three months in ad­vance? What was your concept of time? 
Brenneman: We were prepared to stay there a very long time. To them it was pretty clear we weren't going home, and the gooks, if they had their way, would never have re­leased us because they, the Com­munists, are famous for keeping prisoners. I don't know, maybe it is in the Communist doctrine that keeping prisoners is a benefit. Ideally, they would have kept us forever probably, if that is what they wanted. 
Scholastic: [If you were to teach a] freshman course, what would be the importance ... of communicating [by tapping on the wall] or the activity of the mind? 
Brenneman: That probably is of the highest importance because even many times when you lived in a room by yourself in solitary con­finement there was a man in the room next to you just by physical limitations.... So you would com­municate [by tapping on the wall] with the guy next to you or by other means to the people around you. . . . [W] e placed a lot of im­portance on it. They, of course, diq everything to keep you from doing it and if they caught you they would lean on you for it but it was amaz­ing the tenacity with which people clung to it. No matter what the cost. I had a friend of mine who had a little trouble with the guards and they pulled him out to put him in solitary confinement. Next door was another fello~ in solitary confine­ment. [He was] there about ten minutes [getting] the feel of things. Pretty soon there is a rap on the wall and they start talking. My friend asked the other what he was in there for and he said, "Com­municating." It doesn't matter. They are going to make him live alone, who knows how long . . . a little tough stuff for communicating ... doesn't bother him. [Within] ten minutes . . . another guy is living next door to him and he is talking, knowing the consequences could be very severe for him if he gets caught again. 
Scholastic: Some way you had to talk to your fellow prisoners regard­less of . . . the consequences. 
Brenneman: Yes. We had such a mutual support. Well, you can imag­ine what it is like living alone even though you will only be able to talk to someone ten, fifteen minutes out of the day . . . just to know that the guy is next door and is okay and nothing else. Just that little idea, the thought-there is a fellow American, I care about him and he cares about me and we are pulling together. It Scholastic:· Wliy do you think they was of prime importance living in would try to set it up in order that this void, so to speak. you couldn't communicate in terms 
of tapping on -the walls and [letting] Scholastic: In other words, the em­orie of 'the guys [stand] up in front ·of the group? ·
phasis on communication was [most importantJ to you? . Brenneman: Well, I think they real­Brenneman: Right. ize that if· we are allowed to work
· we were
'' 

within ourselves they can have no in­Scholastic: Insofar as [solitary] fluence on us ·whatsoever from their free tnentally' ' was getting to you there was some­point of view. You can imagine, say, thing to turn to, in some supportive a · teacher· who walks into· a class­way, which, I imagine, [ is J·. why room where rio one will listen, you people would get thrown into soli.: · can stand up there all day. No one tary for the sake of just saying is · going to listen. You can make hello. · rules· and regulations that no one can talk and-when they do talk they Brenneman: [Yes] but they would get rapped ·on the head a few times. risk it. Pretty soon . there is a· quiet class­
room. Wheri ·[the students] can't get up and leave they are either going to talk and get a few· lumps or [ sub­mit]. · 
They resented the fact that when they put: us in large groups that a man could stand up and speak to the whole group, and we don't think any­thing about that in America. It up­set them· tremendously. -They came out with all kinds· of camp regula­tions: · One man can't speak to the whole group. No man can stand up in front 'of the whole group, and· all kinds of things' like this: Why are they ·doing this?·Well, ifyou realize 
. ' 

what was happening, here we were in their · eyes, prisoners -in their country, and. we_ are exhibiting free­doms that we ·take for granted back here, which they don't · even think of. [I] t irked them; the fact ·that we would do something like this, and they, even the basic guard,· realized this was a:-freedom we have that he doesn't and. he is very upset at the fact we are doing this· right there in their own country. 
Scholastic: Did· they resent ·[these freedoms] or [were· theyJ ·strange to them? 
Brenneman.:-No,. they-. actually re~ sented it. They would do all kinds of things. . ·. . ·!'OK, 'tonight is' movie -•night." One man would start telling the movie · and· they· would look through the door and see·that one man was speaking ·in front 'of the group. They would bang on the door and turn off the lights. Sometimes open the_ door and· bring in someone,· camp officials; who would read ,vhat would amount-to the riot act.. One· 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

man can't do this. Lot of harass­ment because they really resented the fact that this was normal in our society and it wasn't in theirs. There is nothing they can do about it, and that [is] what we call freedom. 
Scholastic: Insofar as you .could do that [standing up and talking freely to a group plus those conversations on educational topics], would it be appropriate in terms of your ·experi­ence for me to say you,_were free? 
Brenneman: We were free mentally. The Vietnamese realized this; they could never, with their level of so­phistication, as low as it is, they could never control our minds. That upset them a little more. 
Scholastic: Since they could control your movement . . . . Do you think that mental capacity represents· a greater freedom than, say, your free-/ dom of movement or doing your own thing? 
Brenneman: Yes, I think if you can maintain your mental facilities, it is much more important than the phys­ical. You can ·blot out the physical in a way.... [I]f you could think of something else; ·you· became less aware of your physical surround­ings. 
Scholastic: What was the role of religion? 
Brenneman: Well, religion played a big part to many people up there. Many people were very religious be­fore they came there, and turned to that as a source of strength: Col. Reisner was a very religious man and as ·a result I think this is what-maintained him.... He went through a lot of hell. This· undoubt­edly helped him, because people who talked to him by tapping on the wall always got words of a religious na­ture. It definitely helped. 
Sch~lastic: It seems that over there you had to live without the things we take .for granted every day. You couldn't go to San Francisco [he w~s planning a tripJ. If you were to come out to Notre Dame and teach a freshman course about what was really important, what you had to have but couldn't live without, what would you like to talk about for a s·emester? 
MAY. 4, 1973 
Brenneman: If you were talking about living with your basic needs you could eliminate about 99% of what we have. Really the only thing you are seeking, as far as essence, is: you need a temperature span in which you are comfortable, you need the basic amount of food to live on, enough to maintain a basic health; this is all you need and this is all we had. The minimum necessary. You just don't need anything and they kept us at a_ minimum for a long time. A handkerchief. For a long time we had to guard small pieces of cloth to use. If they found them, they would take them away. It was basic. You really don't need· a handkerchief. What do you need a handkerchief for? You can get by without one. 
Scholastic: What about the. electron­ics, the stove, and · other conve­niences now that you have. been away from them for so long? Is there any change in your attitude towards them because of your ab­sence from them? 
Brenneman: No: I guess I am a good capitalist; I like nice things. 
Scholastic: How do you react to ad­vertising . . . the kind with this se­ductive woman trying· to sell you a bottle of perfume or something? Do you react, "Oh my God, who needs it?" 
Brenneman:· Well, I have always looked at-advertising with a tongue­in-cheek attitude. I've never been one to fall for a·lot of words printed on a paper for advertising. 
Scholastic: Do·· you find it whets your desire for all--these things? 
Brenneman: Well, I do have a big de­sire just basically to increase my standard of living, an attempt con­sciously or unconsciously, to make up for the last five and a half years. I plan on going big into stereo and I'm going to drive a nice car, a lot nicer than I would have driven at age 31 had I not been shot down and so forth. I can have all the things I have always desired but haven't been able to have. 
Scholastic: I take it, just for exam­ple, that going to San Francisco isn't really that substantial, even though it would be a good party, that in a way all this other stuff is much more important. 
Brenneman: Yes. Life itself becomes a little more important for the peo­ple that have gone through what we did. 
Scholastic: I was wondering in what form they tortured you. 
Brenneman: Well, they employed several techniques; some fast, some a little slower. One of the predomi­nant means is what we call the rope trick. It has various. modifications. They would figure-eight a nylon strap between your arms, pull it be­hind you and use it as a cinch. They would just keep tightening it down until it pulled your shoulder blades together. This would involve, many times lying on your side and hav­ing someone jumping on your high shoulder. That in itself was very painful. Then they would place you on the floor with your legs crossed, and then they wrapped the strap over your shoulder from this mass of webbing on your arms, down around your legs, and literally pulled your head down into your groin area. It makes kind of a ball out of you. Sometimes they would roll you around in this position pulling your arms and legs. and kicking you. That's a rather fast-acting torture. 
:· :"Life itselfbecomes _: a little more important.'' 
'' The intent of Resistance is al'li)ays there. You are going to endure all you can. '' 
he lost face.... They were con­stantly making errors. They don't have the sophistication. 
Scholastic: .Do you think that they realized they were probably working with the most highly educated POW's ever? . 
Brenneman: Ah, yes, I think they realized that very quickly, and as a result that is one of the ways they lost face and they were constantly antagonistic towards us for that. They were-many times you could tell they were -very ill at ease around you because they knew that you could put.tllem in a situation of 
. which they were completely ignorant and they kind of lost face because ·they didn't have an answer. 
Scholastic: Do you think the ones that you met were their first string? 
Brenneman: Boy, if they were, that country· is a lot worse off than peo­ple give it credit for.... 
Scholastic: Could these conflicts with the guards be a difference in culture? 
Brenneman: They are shielded from information. Because the Communist publications are controlled so much that everything that they are given is slanted in a certain way. For in­stance, I remember in Son-Tay, they called one of the prisoners in for a quiz. They would want to talk about things related to the war but they would slur into just about anything. You might end up on any subject just to stay away from what you didn't want to talk about. This one guy happened to mention that we sold wheat to Russia. The Vietnam­ese became very upset and irate. Why? He wanted to know why. He­would slam his fists on the table and shout that this was a lie. That it was impossible. That Russia would never have to buy wheat. A socialist agri­cultural system would never fail so 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Scholastic: It would seem that be­cause of the methods of torture your body would be totally subject to an­other's control. He could· even kill you if he wanted. What goes through someone's mind knowing your body is subject to another's total control? 
Brenneman: Well, you just hope for the best is what it amounts to. You realize that anytime they can just take a pistol and it's all over. But that doesn't alter usually· what you do. 
Scholastic: When the guard had the ropes around your arms behind your back and you were experiencing pain, what ran through your mind? 
Brenneman: The intent of resistance is always there. You are going to en­dure all ·you can. 
Scholastic: Was it then a contest be­tween you and the guy on the other end of the rope? 
Brenneman: It would be in a way, I guess. He is trying to inflict pain and you are trying to resist up to the point that you would lose the mental capacity you would need to [verbally] extract yourself from the situation . . . when questioned fur­ther. 
Scholastic: In some ways, then, given what you said, it is an a­symmetrical relationship between you and the guy that held the rope and so far he has control of your body. But by your reactions, you can manipulate him [when] he can't hurt you. 
Brenneman: Yes.... You realize you are antagonistic up to a point. You always felt that you could. be an­tagonistic up to a point short of physical abuse. Sometimes· some of the guys went too far, but normally we tried to just avoid them. Out of sight, out of mind sort of thing. It was constant harassment ... leave us alone, let us sit out the war. 
Scholastic: I take it they were. us­ing what we may call Russian tech­niques of interrogation? Trying to make you Communist in some way, make you doubt what you were do­ing; but they did it very naively. 

Brenneman: They weren't trying to make us Communist as much as they were trying to convince us that their side of the war was right; which they never succeeded in. They would . shy away a little bit to accusations of brainwashing to make us Com­.· munists. They were very sensitive about that.... They are so un­
sophisticated, they could never in­

Scholastic: What I am really trying . 
to ask: what gives a guy the strength , to resist? ' 
Brenneman: That's a very intangible point. It's something that's ingrained into you.... You believe in what you are doing, this sort of thing. Sometimes it probably just comes about because of an antagonistic at­titude toward your captors.... They do eyerything they can to make your life miserable. Many people become antagonistic for that fact alone.. .-. Even if their fellow Americans did that to. them they would become 
antagonistic and end up hating them for it. 

doctrinate anyone verbally, any av­erage American; they just couldn't do it. It is impossible. I had one as­sistant camp commander. He didn't know about the Berlin Wall when you mentioned it. And then he tried to explain it, you could see him thinking. He has to think up some reasons for its existence. One of them was· that it was to keep the criminals within the country. Well then do you expect me to believe that they are just going to let the criminals run loose in the country and then build a wall to keep them · in? He began to realize after a while that that wasn't a good answer, so 
it was an obvious lie. Russia, when they bought wheat didn't publicize to the other Communist countries that they had to buy wheat from Canada and the U.S. They wouldn't say anything like that. Instead it would be · something to the effect that the Soviet Union had entered into a trade agreement to exchange certain agricultural products with the U.S. and. Canada, following a policy of cooperation with other for­eign countries. Even if ·the average Vietnamese could read, he doesn't know what is going on by reading that. When you tell them they were buying wheat because their crop failed, they got very upset. This is an affront to their system which is touted to be so perfect. 
Scholastic: In that case, having you in North Vietnam must have been terribly upsetting to your interroga­tors? 
Brenneman: It was, and you hit it exactly on a point that in these· little quizzes would be a major point of contention. They would profess many times that they had a clear, quote­unquote, picture ofthe United States. They would tell us in their arrogant way that they knew everything about the United States because they had been given official publications by their country. And they would be completely erroneous. "We under­stand your system," they say. 
Scholastic: Did they keep on switch­ing off interrogators because you knew more than they did? 
Brenneman: Many times they did, yes. It was obvious that these quizz­ers made these big biunders that they lost so much face that it. was obvious they had to switch . off to be able to save face. I· mean some­times it was downright hilarious. I remember one time that I was called in for a quiz. They were going to play. a .tape. Some American had .made a statement someplace and they wanted you to hear it. They set the tape recorder. down and plugged it in... _. This time the tape recorder didn't work. So the first thing they would do, and this actually hap­pened, was that they would try and straighten the cord. The obvious problem is that the cord is kinky. and the electricity couldn't get through so they were straightening. 
MAY 4, 1973 
the cord, and you were laughing your head off because you couldn't help it. Then they realized they had done something wrong, that they were losing face and you were laughing at them. Terrible! You are laughing at them. One of the worst ways to lose face. 
Scholastic: So when you came back you had a new quizzer? 
Brenneman: Yeah, well many times it was just ridiculous things like that. 
Scholastic: Did you run into any anti-war Americans in North Viet­nam? 
Brenneman: I did not personally. The camp I was in, some of the times they would come around and tell people that they were going to meet so and so. But, we would re­fuse to the point that we were will­ing to take torture to refuse. 
Scholastic: You [hadJ mentioned that POW's were tortured to get them to see Communist delegations. Did that ever happen to get POW's to see Americans? 
Brenneman: I can't remember any specifics because I never lived with anyone who was tortured to see Americans. However, I believe some­one was. 
Scholastic: How did the majority of the prisoners s_ee those propaganda statements that they were forced to give? Did they think that most peo­ple would realize thaey were given· under great strain? 
Brenneman: Oh, it ·should. be obvi­ous, in many cases. For instance, . Tanner. They told him to write a war crimes confession. So he gave them a confession. He had Clark Kent as a CIA agent or something like that. Ben Casey was his flight surgeon. And they read this thing at the Bertrand Russell War Crimes Tribunal. You can imagine them standing up in front of the world and reading this thing. It is obvious to any American and probably a ·whole bunch of foreigners real quick what had happened. It had tremen­dous recourse on him back in Hanoi. . . . He hurt them bad in their pro­paganda. If you want to hurt a Com­
mie real bad, get him in his propa­ganda. He hurt them so bad he might now look upon it as worth it. 
Scholastic: You were kind of un­lucky in getting captured. 
Brenneman: Yeah, it was kind of my own fault for maneuvering into the position, this small village, to get a good landing. I made a decision. I could have been dashed to death on the side of Karst Cliffs. I made a decision and it turned out to be a bad one. 
Scholastic: ·what was your impres­sion of the North Vietnamese? 
Brenneman: As far as prisoners they looked upon us as political posses­sions. It is said [up thereJ tlJa.t prisoners should be kept for this reason alone. Prisoners have political value, so that kind of states their attitude right there. 
Scholastic: The Vietcong claim that the people that they held were crimi­nals, not prisoners. 
Brenneman: Yes, that's what they claimed. . . . They always used the word criminals and we always said prisoners. They shouted at us and we shouted at them and it would go on forever. They never gave up, we were criminals to the last day. We never gave up. We were prisoners of war to the last day. 
Scholastic: Did you get the impres­sion that North Vietnam was some­how a people at war? How did that fit against the background knowing what was going on back here in the terms of division and disorder? 
Brenneman: Well, on your first point, they have mobilized an entire nation for war. There's no doubt about that. They call it a people's war. With a population of 17 million they just about have to use all of their resources . . . and then con­sid~ring their technology, in an ox­cart society they are certainly_ going to need it. 
Scholastic: Did it grate upon you that everyone back here was just going about his job? 
Brenneman: Oh, not really. 'Had I left and the col,llltry was so engaged in war that you couldn't buy a car 
· Scholastic: What I was wondering Scholastic: Finally, what question now comes in a way from this oc­would you like to answer that no cupational thing. It strikes me that one ever asked? What would you ask there are two ways of understanding . yourself? a military career. _There is one where you talk of the brave warrior.' You Brenneman: Well, many people have know, the guy who does noble things:· asked me what· I think of ·people for the sake of his country. . ·. . . like-Jane Fonda. and Tom Hayden: There is another way... where .you -This.is a point the· gooks ':themselves talk about it as an occupation: I had problems conceiving. These peo­don't know which fits in terms of ple shot-offtheir· mouths a lot, pro­your military experience. vided lip. service for the gooks and 
.. caused us a lot._ of harm. But ·the Brenneman: Well, I'm highly patri..:· thing is that up there even though otic, although I'm not very educated we were r~ceiving the bad en~ of the in the actual fields .of government . _deal,· we \Yere 'still proud of the fact and that. I know what I like_-~nd that they had· the right to do that. I know what other countries· have. That is sorrietlifog that tlie ·:~forth I want to maintain what we •have. Vietnamese couldn't conceive of: .. Our basic• freedoms arid ·the like the fact 'that someone back here are what I am speaking of. Like to-. could spea~ out against the wars.-.. day, I can sit here -and talk to you Even though what they were saying· 
and say anything I want~ and we we didn't ·agree with,· I think every didn't have to have a political· cadre man up· there was prou(l to defend come in here and write it all out in that ability. 
or things such as steak at the meat 
advance and rehearse it like they do counters anymore, it would have in the Communist countries: :t could Schola_stic: In a .way then, you:· had worried me more. But I knew things a lot in common with Jane Fonda
see it even as a prisoner in North 
.:.-­

back. here were in a normal situa­though you probably thought · she
Vietnam. 

tion, which we desired it to be. No . was ·an idiot. · . one wants to have a war where the 
Scholastic: Could you see yourself

common man gets hurt. No· one. · Brentieman: Yeah. I don't agree with
going back to Vietnam anp _doing it 

wants to have a war anyhow, but if what she says but I am willing to go
again?

you are going to have·one, let's hurt back there to defend her right to say 
as few people as possible..... Ameri­it Ideally; i ·would try ·to· convince cans are little bit restless: They -Brenneman: I could. see myself, but· her:~f the errors-of her ways as thea policy_is that·our government would• 
don't want a war that is going to not send me back to that area' for . Comriluni~ts·wotild say it. It is kind 
drag out. It is hard to see how a pf· ironic in_ a way .that we are de­
obvious reasons.· · -· 
country halfway across ·the world fending-:· thjs-basic' freedom, [ even can have an effect upon u~. But I though] it is hard to see at the time. 
Scholastic: Does the South Vietnam-. 

feel that the Communists thought if We _are serving.her, in.t}le fact that 
ese. farmer_ really appreciate ·what

they could push a button and have . we·:'~re· 'defending her_ rights '·and it · is being_done forhim in Saigon·?:-:-/ · 
us with a minimum of'recourse on would. be nice· on her-part and the
-. 

themselves, they would do it. Of-this people like that if they would realize there is no doubt'in my inind.' . -Brenneman: I.don't think that.many th_at some of the things they are do-. 
people in South Vietnam . realize_ ing hurt us in our situation. Scholastic: Is it-fair to·say.that you what they are gaining. !_think that are the type of guy that chose the · iri· a way they have sonie freedoms·. Air Force as a ·career and .ilicif this down there.'that ·the Vietnamese_ in [getting capture.d]'is oni;f the.risk~: · the.riortli don't have. They take for of such a career; while. a.' -guy who . granted many of these freedoms and 
works. at GM...takes T other," chances . seldom -think' about them. Even: and risks? though it is a highly restrictive so­
ciety, due to the nature. of the war, . Brenneman: Yeah, r·think s~. The it is forced to be in many cases. The·· _:· ;~:·_· ·· Paut:C-olgantype of people who go into a mili~ Communists , in North Vietnam are· tary career are aware of these risks, so· tightly controlled tha·t I think-if particular:ly in flying. It doesn't take they tried to imp6se0 :their ·control 
---.;Mi.chael Melody:-~: 
a war to have an attrition rate; For immediately on the South· Vietnam­instance, in the Navy for a career ese that they would run into· trou­man going for twenty years in c1via­bles immediately because the.South· tion aboard carriers, probably 60% Vietnamese have some rights .that of his ·graduating class .will -die : ip. they don't realize-that they-0 have· · · t·;,-,-~: :,:" <:-··., · , some sort of aircraft accident during uriti~. someone tries to take:· t,h,e_m , ·· :-~~-_-.,-:the twenty years.. away. -._. , : 

· 'THE SCHOLASTIC 

Several weeks ago, I was asked by an administra­tive person at Notre Dame whether I would like to 
Keys,

be the resident chaplain next year in one of the women's dormitories on campus. Immediately, in my mind, I could see the scene: the immense bulk of myself, at midnight, surrounded by sweet young things wearing 
Crises

flannel nigh ties, their hair up in curlers and their faces smeared with N oxema, handing me freshly made taffy apples. Or else all of us together, me in my Dr. Dentons and them in their quilted kimonos, making popcorn. 
and Keenan;
In my six years at-Keenan, I have always. tried to make myself available. to any of the young lovelies . who wander into· my digs.. My shoulder lives .in readi­ness for any demands that might be made of it, espe­
The Life of a Rector
cially by girls who wish to weep. My old, withered cheek has practically no other ambition, except. for· saving face, than to be,.eroded to the bone by coed kisses paid as the tribute of youth· to tottering age. 
But somehow, the notion of living as a kindly, some­
Rev. Robert Griffin
times intercessory, grandfather figure in a hall full of women ·ruled over by an impudent nun does not seem an adequate fulfillment of the energies that have been given me as an ordained priest. At the moment, I know of no impudent.nuns who are presently ruling . over the dorms at Notre Dame;. hopefully; there never will be impudent nuns who serve as rectors in this place; and at the first sign that any nun, already here,. has turned impudent, she should be sent home in dis­grace at once to explain her impudent self to her Reverend Mother. But with· my luck, if I should be-· the Lord and.His cross as the paradigm for the sacri-. corrie a ·woinen's chaplain, impudent nuns would be flee required by nuptial love. You sense that emotion sent for from every motherhouse in the country. to keep has gripped the bride to the point of teardrops; the the Fat·Elf·from Keenan from mischief. groom-has been stirred into transfiguration, and a 
My point-is this: in some way, proximate or remote, huskiness creeps into your own voice as you speak; 
. any priest who serves as a counsellor to ·young people, and just at the instant that the angels should start whether,they be men or-~omen, serves in adim way• .their singing, there is a knock on the door telling you as a father figure. To b·e a father means to have a· of waterfights cresting into Niagara on the third floor. share in the authority of the household.and a respon-Or else, a penitent has come to you for confession. sibility for fundamental needs. A grandfather·may live : · For ten years he has been away from the sacraments, as a beloved member in any·family, and that grand-. -an alien to heaven; but now, with the persuasions of parent's whims may constantly be indulged as he slips grace, he is speaking the words asking for reconcilia­money to the children, or. intervenes when the tempers tion,, and the violins are tuning up for the Hallelujah of fathers and s<;>ns turn _nasty. But ultimately,_ that Chorus. Suddenly, in a doorway a· kid stands, wrapped grandparent is only a guest at the family feast; and in a towel, dripping with water, asking for th~ his inter:cessions, whether mischievous or merciful, ·spare key to his room. are subject to the scrutiny of the father, whose care . Water.fights and lost keys are the reality a rector for the needs of the family are duties imposed on him has in ·place of buying groceries. For brief periods py God. By r_eason of the discipline of the.Church, I of my-life, I have had the care of young children .. You will never be a grandfath~r, nqr do I want to function . ., take them·to the moVies, for example; then you have as a grandfather-type serving iri a chaplain's role. All to see· that they get to the restroom so that little my life I have been invited out to dinners where I : ·. · · Christina will not wet her pants on the bus; or you have been adopted as some child's uncle. But there is .; : ·stand guard at the ordering from a menu in a restau­a rieed in me as urgent as, breath to live out the role . ·rant, so"·that young Frankie will eat something more of:the father-who pays_for the groceries,• and Jakes out:.. than french fries at dinner. It is your fidelity to the 
.the garbage, and is responsible for the growth ot his · demands of nature in children that teaches them to children in stature and in grace before the.eyes of trust you, because in case of catastrophe they will men. . blame their wet drawers and their tummy cramps on So then, I resist the suggestions of administrators. , you. It is your fidelity to the needs of students in 
, who would free me from the annoyances of a Tector's . · the small crises of life-the replacement for a burnt­
, -~ H < -~ ­
life so that I might serve more fully as chaplain to ... ·..out light bulb, the gift of a cigarette when the nicotine a university. Believe me, I know·:by now wha.t' the. ·: need threatens madness, the reading of a term paper annoyances of a rector's life are lJ.ke:-You: are-'insthe ~.... to correct the pronouns-that suggests to them that midst of counselling a couple in preparation for mar-:,.· , · _you can be called upon when heartbreak strikes their . riage. You have reached _a dogma_tjc. cli~ax reyealinf lives. 
MAY 4, 1973 
But my services to students are trivial compared to their courtesies and attention to me. It is these attentions and courtesies that create for me an identity as a person, and a sense of belonging-as an important, respected, and beloved member-to a family. Do I have to tell you of my need for feeling important? Even bums on skid row need to feel important in some­body's life, even if it's only their probation officer's. Must I confess my need to be respected? No man could be happy if he has only the self-image of himself as a fool. Do I need to tell of my need for love? Then let the flowers tell you also of their need for sunlight. Let the grass tell you of its need for rain. 
I am sometimes embarrassed to admit how much like a father I feel in my role as rector of Keenan, for no one is more pathetic than an unneeded or un­wanted parent. But the dependency lies not in the fact that the Keenanites regard me as father, but that I regard them as family. There is always an elemental source from which men gather their strength and compose their energies. It may be from the tangled web of an oedipal love for mother; it may be from the illicit joy of a lovers' tryst in Soho. But in the great and natural order of things, a man's reality should be­gin in the life he shares with his wife and sons and daughters. For me, for several years now, my wife and sons and daughters have been Keenan Hall. Any cele­bration of the Eucharist over which I preside is, among other things, ?-self-recognition of my place in the Keenan community. Any grace or insight I have communicated in the past six years has been modified and influenced by the people I have lived with day after day, who have given a fresh scope to my knowl­edge, a new dimension to my understanding, and a place where my love can go. 
I fully acknowledge that my capacities are insuf­ficient for my obligations in Keenan. I know of a family where there are ten children. After the birth of the tenth child, the parents decided there would be no more pregnancies. "Even as it is," the.father ex­plained, "I am not sure there is enough love to go around." As rector, I know my own love has never gone around far enough, and that is why there is a deep sense of my.own guilt and failure when a Keenan boy I scarcely know cracks up on drugs. There are students in my hall right now who are suffering from loneliness, rejection, or defeat. If I knew who they were or how to get to them, I might be able to help their needs a little bit. But I don't know. So students get drunk, mess up on drugs, or flunk out of school, and only when there is wreckage to be viewed, moral and physical, d0 I understand that someone has been crying for help, and I haven't been listening. Those are the lonely moments in the life of a rector, when his only recourse is to renew his commitment and pray for a new birth of awareness. If he is really depressed, as he should be, he will bawl out the hall staff and blame them for not letting him know what the hell is going on. But in his deepest self, where deceptions are not allowed, he knows, like the captain of a ship, that the responsibility for the sinking is really his own; and when the band strikes up "Nearer My God to Thee," it is the burial hymn for the solemn obligations he has failed in. 
Once every year or so, someone asks me to write, as in the present instance, about what it means to be a rector at Notre Dame. I am not sure, year after year, that the answer is always exactly the same. But what I have written represents, at this point of my life, what I have been feeling for some time. Perhaps the answer, for a priest, is a faulty one; perhaps a priest should need only God and the opportunities of service, and the brothez:hood of his religious community. But I acknowledge that in my love of Keenan and in my love of the people of Notre Dame whom the Keenan experience has taught me to understand, that the energies disciplined by celibacy have made their armi­stice. Nothing is the exact substitute for another; three hundred students, half of whom are drinking on the weekend, are not the equivalent to a partner in marriage. But neither, through a partner in marriage, could I have a share in the lives of three hundred sons belonging to other parents, but who sometimes also belong to me. 
Other children I have, who are not from Keenan, belonging as they do to Farley and Badin, Walsh and Zahm, Cavanaugh and Stanford, the North Quad and the South Quad, St. Mary's and the world. Being rector of Keenan, I have often said, is like owning the house after years of paying rent. If I am able to love these other children, it is because I have been taught to love by kids of my own who have also brought home their friends, and because I have a place of my own intended for friendship and comfort, hospitality and service. 
As a rector, I am not the most impressive creature alive, but I can learn to do better. With God's help, there is nothing I cannot improve upon as counsellor, friend, policeman, or janitor. I can learn how it is that a·boy can be left free to make his own mistakes, yet be sheltered from the folly that leads to his own destruction. 
The one thing I could not easily do is to give up being rector. 
I think I love Keenan enough even to do that ... but I sincerely hope there is no one who will ask it of me. 

THE SCHOLASTIC 
the arts 

''There were only the IK'' 
Once, the Ik ( Colin Turnbull, The Mountain People, Simon & Schuster, 1972, $7.95) were a hunting and gathering tribe. Setting their own pace, they wandered in the area now bordered by Uganda, Sudan and Kenya. Kidepo Valley in Northern Uganda was their favorite hunting area. Since ethnographic data does not exist for this period, Turnbull reconstructs what their life must have been like in terms of the gen­eral characteristics shared by hunt­ing and gathering groups. In this, he implicitly relies upon nis earlier work among the BaMbuti Pygmies of the Congo (The Forest People). In general, hunters and gatherers live in harmony with the world around them. They do not attempt either to plunder or dominate the environment. They seem to live in a gentle sympathy with nature; a friendliness which is reflected in the tribe's .inter-relationships. This way of life and the virtues appropriate to it are conditioned by the necessity of the hunt. On the whole, one must use gentle, almost feminine adjec­tives in describing this way of life. Such were the Ik, formerly. 
For various reasons, the Ik were forced to give up this way of life. The rise of independent nation-states in Africa following World War II artificially enclosed them. The Ik were, more or less, stuck in Uganda. They could no longer freely follow the game. Worse still, the Kidepo Valley, their major hunting ground, was turned into Kidepo National Park. They could watch the ani­mals, but it was illegal to hunt any of them. Thus, the Ik became farm­ers of unfarmable land; there was either too much rain or too little: Either way, the crops failed. Turn­bull's book is the description of the 
. adaptation made by the Ik: Sur­vival of one's Self is the only good. 
Now, the Ik seem hardly human, if at all. The very young, cast out by their families at the earliest pos-
MAY 4, 1973 
sible moment, slowly starve. The old, emaciated ones, cast off to starve by themselves, die neglected and alone. The younger ones (pre-teen and teen) if they are fortunate, can cunningly crawl up behind an older person and actually steal the half­chewed food out of his mouth. Hus­bands and wives spend their days privately searching for food. They do not cooperate in the search or share any that either of them finds. For the Ik, eating, unlike defecating, is a private affair. Marriage was no longer to anyone's advantage, and in effect, had ceased to exist. Chil­dren, at best, were disadvantageous, since the mother could easily starve to death during pregnancy. There was no reason to create more com­petitors for the severely limited food supply. Yet, there were good years; these were between 15 and 19. In these stomach-glutted years, one could, with enough effort, find food. In these few years, one could eat and eat, get sick, and then eat some more. The words for good man and full stomach have become synon­ymous: 
The word for "good," marang, is defined in terms of food. "Good­ness," maramgik, is defined simply as "food," or, if you press, this will be clarified as "individual posses­sion of food." Then if you try the word as an adjective and attempt to discover what their concept is of a "good man," iakw anamarang, hoping that the answer will be that a good man .is a man who helps you fill your own stomach, you get the truly Icien answer: a good man is one who has a full stomach. There is goodness in being, but none in doing, at least not in doing to others. 
(page 135, italics his) 

A more graphic example can be seen in the fact that the Ik can no longer distinguish in any hierarchi­cal fashion between copulation, mas­turbation or defecation. Turnbull once noticed two young men mastur­bating one another, each gazing into the distance for signs of food. The younger women, not being naive, charged for their services. The sole standard is individual pleasure at the cheapest cost and least expendi­ture of energy. In the competitive search for food though, sexual desire was almost totally superfluous. 
Yet, the book is more than a cu­rious piece of ethnography. 'furn­bull, unlike many anthropologists, tries to immerse himself in the way of life of the people with whom he i~ living. He does not bring method­ological presuppositions to bear which, in turn, distort his observa­~ions. In a way, his whole being be­comes a sensory organ. Insofar as he is able, Turnbull sympathetically becomes like the people with whom he is living and his descriptions are trenchant due to this. Given this approach, Turnbull's book, in many ways, becomes a struggle for his own soul, for his own fragile hu­manity. He tries to feed some of the doomed ones, and realizes that this is untoward interference. Yet, after he is robbed (the Ik built his hut in such a way as to make this a rela­tively easy matter), he encourages several Ik to steal back his belong­ings. On the whole, like the Ik, Turnbull survives, for the present. Yet, perhaps, like the Ik, he also feels doomed. 
The spiritual agony which this entire experience engendered can only be somewhat appreciated by the reader -unless he has met an Ik. Turnbull felt his own values dis­solving; after living with the Ik, everything seemed conventional. Turnbull despaired of discovering a sharable good in whose splendor one can live with other men. The work ends ~ith a comparison to the United States. Turnbull does not think that bourgeois society is really 


MAY GRADUATES: 
ASSOCIATES PERSONNEL SERVICES was recently formed as a subsidiary company of ASSO­CIATES CORPORATION OF NORTH AMERICA 10 better service the ever-increasing need of pro­fessional personnel seeking College Graduates to enter superb management training pro­grams. Currently we are representing several large companies seeking professionals in the following fiields; ACCOUNTING, DATA PROCESSING, SALES, ADMINISTRATION, AND TECH­NICAL AREAS. 
Now is the time to start giving serious thought regarding your future. We ask that you let our Professional Staff of Personnel Analysts assist and guide you in this very important period. If you are currently seeking to make a desirable career move, please call or come in confi­dence to: 
Licensed Employment Agency 

ASSOCIATES PERSONNEL SERVICES, INC. 
Family Financial Center• 1030 E. Jefferson Blvd.• South Bend, Indiana 46604 • Phone 219/233-2131 
very different from the Th. This very point has caused consternation among critics (New York Times Book Review, November 12, 1972). 
· Regardless of the critics, Turn­bull, on other levels than the one he offers, provides an insightful basis for reflection. One could fruitfully wonder about the vocabulary we use in describing or talking about sexual intercourse. We no longer distinguish between "having sex" (something possessive in a solitary or singular way such as one 1ULS a bike or ice-cream cone) and "mak­ing love" ( a creation, an art that in some way stands apart from the maker). Given the current vocab­ulary, we no longer choose to differ­entiate between our having sex and that of other species. The word love seems to have once pointed to such a distinction. Children, as we now talk about them, are, at best, incon­venient and a drain on scarce re­sources. 
On another level, the Ik: lead lives chained to necessity: the necessity of staying alive. This is precisely the life led by the other animal 
species. The difference between man 
and the other species, in this case, is that man can choose to live like an animal; a wolf has no choice in the matter. Thus, the Th were ani­mals; in some important way, they were not truly human. They had only a human form. The Ik:, as Turnbull graphically presents them, are like ravenous beasts fighting over the last, rotting hyena carcass. They are at war with one another in that one person finding food and voraciously consuming it implicitly wills the death of all the others. They live in a world that exists for nothing more than the gnawing cry of each individual's stomach. Yet, eating -consuming food -is in­deed a solitary event. In our culture, it is generally considered gauche to take food out of another's mouth or to eat off another person's plate. But can men, eating together, celebrate the goodness and the generosity of the provider of the feast? For ex­ample, in the Mass, each participant receives a particular host, but all the participants share in the com­mon celebration of the God-man who is the provider of this particular feast and all other feasts. The indi­viduals, in this case, really make little sense apart from their recon­
ciliation and union in the whole, the God-man who is common to all of them. The alternative is re-pre­sented by the Ik. This way of life seems naturally to lead to Turnbull's anguished lament: "It should have been easy to ask someone for help, but there was nobody, there were only the Th." 
· Yet, the type of solipsistic, self­gratifying life that they lead is not an anomaly. I know a -freshman who conceives of hall life in this very way. He will do his thing, regardless of the effect upon others. Only a threat, ultimately a physical one, will deter him from acting. If he decides that his thing at a partic­ular moment is waking up his roommate, then the roommate has two choices. He can either become a slave or eventually fight. In either case, it is a matter of seeking a subjective good (utility) which even­tually issues into a struggle -at least psychological -for survival. There is no sharable good (at best a common interest or pleasure) ; any friendship between men is impos­sible. It's a very atomized, lonely 
life. · The Ik: are all around. 
-michael melody 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


irJ Manhattanville College
Summer 1973 · 
Studies in Quantity and Quality of Life SESSIONS II AND 111 The Journalism Institute SESSION 11 The Publishing Institute SESSION 111 
Manhattanville Offers: 
• 
Day and Evening Courses in Art, 1vfusic, Sciences, Humanities 

• 
For Undergraduates, Graduates, Qualified High School Students 

• 
Interdisciplinary Programs, Teacher's Certification Courses 

• 
Coeducation, Air-conditioned Classrooms 

• 
Residential, Recreational and Cultural Facilities 

• 
Summer Studies in Italy and Spain 


For brochure write: 
Director of Admissions, 1-fanhattanville College, Purchase, N.Y. 10577 914/946-9600 
___________________________________________. 
An important announcement to every student in the health professions: 
NEW SCHOLARSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY. 
THEY COVER TUITION AND RELATED COSTS AND PROVIDE AN ANNUAL INCOME OF $5,300 AS WELL. 
If a steady salary of $400 a month and paid-up tuition will help you continue your professional training, the scholarships just made pos­sible by the Uniformed Services Health Professions Revitalization Act of 1972 deserve your close attention. Because if you are now in a medical, osteopathic, dental, veterinary, podiatry, or op­tometry school, or are work­ing toward a PhD in Clinical Psychology, you may qualify. 
We make it easy for you to complete your studies.You're commissioned as an officer as soon as you enter the pro­gram, but remain in student status until graduation. And, during each year you will be 

MAY 4, 1973 
on active duty (with extra pay) for 45 days. Naturally, if your academic schedule requires that you remain on campus, you stay on campus -and still receive your active duty pay. 
Active d1.lty requirements are fair. Basically, you serve one year as a commissioned officer for each year you've participated in the program, with a two year minimum. You may apply for a scholar­ship with either the Army, Navy or Air Force, and know that upon entering active duty you'll have rank and duties in keeping with your professional training. 
The life's work you've cho­senforyourself1·equireslong, hard, expensive training. Now we are in a position to give you some help. Mail in the coupon at your earliest convenienceformoredetailed information.

r----------------7
:~:t Forces Scholarships C• CN•'l,S I 
Universal City. Texas 78148 I I desire information £or the following f program: I 
Army nNavy [lAirForce Medical70steopalhic O Dental I Veterinary OPodiatry• I 
~ Other (PJe...especiCy).----, 
. I 

Name---(-pl_eas_e-pn-·n_t)____ f 
Soc. Sec.=--------I Addre:s,;________ I 
City_________ I 
Stat.,_____,. P----II 
Enrolled at________ II (School) To ,traduate i11-------,,----I 
(Month) (Year) (Degree) I 

Date or birth Month) 1Day) 1Year) I
I "Podiatry nut available in Air ForceProgram. I
L ________________J 


Good Grief, Charlie Brown! 
Is the study syndrome getting rarely has the opportunity to ex­"You're a Good Man, Charlie you down? Have you forgotten what perience. Perhaps it is because Brown," is not limited to the color­colors look like in the grayness of Schultz is able to see and draw that ing-book crowd, but has something early morning risings or all-night little kid that was and continues to for everybody. There is violence with crammings for finals? Have your be in all of us -a.11d needs to be let Lucy's demonstration of the power sneakers or saddle shoes forgotten out every on~e in a while. It is of a fist. There is romantic advice: how to dance? coaxed out of us with Snoopy's ham­"Never discuss marriage with a 
If exam time has spoiled your ming it up and Lucy's operatic voice, musician!" There is psychological spring by subjecting you to any of not to mention the "Peter Rabbit" intrigue: "People who eat peanut the above symptoms, allow me to book reports. The audience partici­butter sandwiches are usually lone­prescribe a surefire remedy. Take pates. It claps, it laughs, and sighs ly." Whether it is the surprise set­a break and go over to the Saint for poor Charlie Brown and his all-ting of the theater's lobby, the songs, Mary's Little Theater to see the mu­1.oo-honest friends. Stay awake! You watching· the expressions on the sical comedy, "You're a Good Man, may be called upon to help fly a faces of the cast or the person next Charlie Brown," currently being kite.... Jo you, you're bound to be enter­performed by the ND-SMC theater Directed by Charles Ballinger, the tained and touched by the spirit of people. cast includes William McGlinn as celebration in little things and 
"You're a Good Man, Charlie Linus, along with Debbie Tirsway as little kids. Brovm," is not your typical Irving Patty. Aubrey Payne played a less If I had to answer one of Lucy's Berlin song and dance routine. Based lumpy, though still pathetic, Charlie questionnaires concerning my rating on the popular Charles Schultz comic Brown constantly confronted by the of this performance, ". . . on a scale strip, this play has the simplest of determined voice and expressions of of one to one hundred, using fifty as structures abounding in geometric Grace Hartigan as Lucy. Andrew the median and seventy-five as above spotlighted appearances of the "Pea­Schilling's Schroeder took on a puz­average . . ." as an enjoyable eve­nuts" characters atop brightly zling Prussian air for a so-called ning, I'd have to play Patty and give painted blocks or in the aisles. little kid while Cliff Fetters' Snoopy it a rating of one hundred and ten. There is a unity between the char­songs and dances brought down the acters and the audience that one house. -betsy dwyer 
............ ··.·· 
.· . . . ... . ... . ~ 
.. 
. . · ·.. 
. ·-. 
. . . 
:-. -. 

·...... .Art:f>rofessor Artfru•r Leipzig: ..:<.=.-~·. 
·. ·. 

:.'/\..-GOOD TEACHER 
/=·,=·..·=... A good faculty is a collection of good teachers in all their variety. 
A full range of summer undergraduate and graduate courses, special institutes and wor~shops. Residence halls available. 
2 sessions: June 18-July 20 and July 23-August 24 (day and evening) 
Call or write for the Summer Bulletin: Summer Session Office, C.W. Post Center, Long Island University, Greenvale, LI., N.Y. 11548 ._; 
.(516) 299-2431 . . 
(=?\=:/=:....:;,,_·==··.·=.:,.=,.--==.= .. ·· ·c W POST CENTER.··= =.. =··.. 
~~~~~i~}:i~{\~lJ!,viMER SESSL()NS:,,,:JJ 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

BT,ackberry Winter: My Earlier Years) by Margaret Mead; William Morrow and Co., Inc., N.Y., 1972; $8.95. 
Bl,ackberry winter, the time when the hoarfrost lies on the blackberry blossoms; without this frost the ber1ies will not set. It is the fore­runner of a rich harvest. 
Blackberry Winter can be read as the fascinating story of a woman's and a scientist's early life and ca­reer. Certainly Margaret Mead makes the description of early anthropolog­ical field research vivid. She studied under such well-known pioneers as Franz Boas and set off for her first field trip in 1925 with all the equip­ment then necessary for research­"spare glasses, cotton dresses, a cam­era, pencils and notebook" (p. 134). The works which resulted from her earliest research are familiar titles 
-Corning of Age in Samoa) Growing Up in New Guinea, and Sex and Temperament in Three Prirnitive Tribes. Yet, this is not just a profes­sional autobiography, but a deeply personal narration of how Margaret Mead came to her profession and of her personal qevelopment through­out her early career. 
Margaret Mead is unique in her accomplishments, all the more as­tounding because she became well­known as a scientist at a time when women were not expected to be "lib­erated." In Margaret Mead's family, the role of women was that of active intellectualism. Her grandmother was graduated from college after the Civil War; her mother was a doc­toral student at the time of her birth. Margaret Mead was expected to aim for intellectual accomplishments as well as a life as wife and mother. In this family, "being brought up to be­come a woman who could live re­sponsibly in the contemporary world and learning to become an anthro­pologist, conscious of the culture in which I lived, were almost the same thing" (p. 2). 
Besides the description of a scien­tific career, Blackberry Winter is in­triguing as it tells of Margaret Mead's view of herself as a woman. She is not a militant feminist (as her mother had been) for she shows great pride in the contributions women can make became of their sex. 
MAY 4, 1973 
(I)f we are to have a world in which women work beside men, a world in which both men and women can contribute their best, women must learn to give up pandeling to male sensitivities, something at which they succeeded so well as long as it was a woman's primary role, as a wife, to keep her family intact or, as a mish·ess, to comf01-t her lover. Because of their age-long training in human relations-for that is what feminine intuition really· is-women have a special contribution to make to any group enterprise, and I feel it is up to them to contribute the kinds of awareness that relatively few men . . . have incorporated through their education (p. 189). 
MargaretMead idealized her grand­mother, who taught her "ease in be­ing a woman without masculine pro­test or feminist aggrievement" (p. 53). From the description of her grandmother and all through the autobiography, Margaret Mead shows concern and interest for her sisters, daughter, granddaughter, and women friends in a way never shown when she writes of her father or hus­bands. It appears that "sisterhood," though she does not use the word in the popular sense that it is used 
Margaret Mead: 
Growing 
Up 
Successful 
today, is very valuable to Margaret Mead. This is well-expressed when she is telling of her close relation­ship to her younger sisters, though they were very different from her. 
' 

· · · With the money , 
y.ou save on our . clothes you can · exert yol!r m.ale prerogative and pay for her Jethro· Tull tickets for 
a change. 

Wrangler SportsW8ar. 
Wremember the"W"is Silent 
' . . 
Get your money's worth at 

Lion's Den, South Bend Gilbert's, Mishawaka Robertson Bros., South Bend 
Thinking about the contrasts pe­tween my sisters led me also to thmk about the other women in my moth­er's family and of the way in which, o-eneration after generation, pairs of ~isters have been close friends. In this way they exemplify one of the basic characteristics of American kinship relations... (p. 70). 
The story of Margaret Mead's early research involves the story of her friendships with other women scientists and scholars. ·In college Margaret had a small circle of close friends and, finding that men were "perplexed" by them, Margaret and her clique developed a conscious style of relationships to other women-a kind of loyalty governed by the en­joyment of contrasting personalities and a bond of common interests. "'Never break a date with a girl for a man' was one of our mottoes in a period when women's loyalty to women usually was-as it still is­subordinate to their possible rela­tionships to men" (pp. 108-109). 
Margaret Mead's decision to study sex roles and child-rearing practices in the South Pacific was a result of a struggle with her advisor Franz Boas. He thought that Polynesia was too dangerous for a woman and urged her to study American In­dians. Chafing under his protectionist attitudes, she compromised by study­ing the topic he suggested, adolescent girls, but insisted on pioneering field work in Polynesia. She tells of gain­ing finances for the trip by. telling her father that Boas was restricting her to the American Indians. Her father, who had never been able to 
control Margaret either, reacted against Boas' seeming ability to do what he couldn't. 
l\fy father, rivalrous as men often are in situations in which someone else seems to be controlling a person whom they believe they have the right-and may have also failed-to control backed me up to the point of saying 'he would give me the money for a trip around the world (p. 130). 
She is not proud of this manipula­tion but it is an indication of the
' . 
way Margaret hammered out a ca­reer in spite of the paternalistic at­titudes of men toward women's as­pirations. 
Margaret Mead's three marriages were all founded on professional in­terests as well as emotion, but none of these was enduring. Her first hus­band, Luther, was a graduate stu­dent and minister. Their marriage was peaceful but they grew apart when she went to the South Pacific. Rea, a psychologist Margaret met during field work, was a working partner in research. This relationship was much more stormy and Mar­garet indicates that Rea was not happy with her complete dedication to her work; she was unwilling to bend to his ideal of a wife. "(W)hen it came to intellectual matters, I was not prepared to make use of femi­nine wiles" (p. 188). Margaret tells little of her marriage to Gregory Bateson, also an anthropologist, which ended in divorce sometime after the war. Gregory Bateson is the father of Margaret's only child, a daughter Cathy, who was born after 

IMI: all thedope\4011'1 need for a--=-== trip. 

she had almost given up the possi­bility of having children. 
It is part of Margaret Mead's con­tentment with being a woman ("I was always glad that I was a girl" p. 

243) that entered into· her wanting . and expecting a child. "My closest models, my mother and my grand­mother, had both had children and also had used their minds and ca­reers in the public world. So I had no doubt that, whatever career I might choose I would have children, too"
' 

(p. 243). Her happiness over her pregnancy is merged .with her de­scription of the work she was doing before Cathy's birth. 
Just as she immersed herself in the lives of primitive peoples, Mar­garet Mead entered totally into the experience of having a child. Cathy's birth was documented and filmed and attended by a young, rising pediatri­cian, Ben Spock. Though the birth of her daughter was a joyous event, Margaret Mead treats it very scien­tifically (yet not as analytically as she has written of her husbands). The one person of whom Margaret writes with total emotional joy is her granddaughter, Vanni. Margaret Mead says this autobiography con­cerns her life to the advent of World War II, but the chapter "On Being a Grandmother" seems to unite Mar­garet'·s childhood and the anthro­pologist so well-known today. Mar­garet Mead glories in Vanni and her exploring two-year-old mind. With unbounding delight, Margaret Mead sees reflections of her own child­hood her sisters and mother in Van­
' 

ni and, at the same time, feels a spe-­cial sensitivity to all children. 
For seeing a child as one's grand­child, one can visualize that same child as a grandparent, and with the eyes of another generation, one can see other children just as light­footed and vivid, as eager to learn and know and embrace the world, who must be taken into account­now (p. 284). 

Perhaps the real charm of this autobiography is not that it claims to tell the "real story" and it cer­tainly is not an ordinary life history. It is, however, a very feminine auto­biography, in which Margaret Mead seems to be saying that women can be scientifically productive and par­ticularly insightful because they are women. 
-katrina wehking john.son 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

week in distortion 
In the beginning, many Mondays ago, there was an SLC meeting. And the voice of Father Riehle was heard over the assembled multitude. And the word of Father Riehle was this: "I wouldn't stay in one of those places overnight." He was talking of off-campus housing. He addressed the multitude further, saying that students chose to live in bad housing, that this was their chosen life-style. He did not speak of money, which is needed to procure good housing. He did not speak of difficulties in getting to campus from the other side of town. He did not speak of discrim­inatory landlords who will not rent to students. 
Another man rose and addressed the multitude. He was a landlord. He said that many landlords were living on Social Security, and that they would have to go without eating for a month to pay for repairs to the houses they were renting out, and this is why the houses were in such bad shape. 
No students spoke, but all agreed that the problem had been thorough­ly discussed. 
We imagined how they must have decided how to solve the problem: Scene: A smoke-filled room. Lights come up gradually to reveal: 
ADMINISTRATOR I: But they'll never stand for crowding! They may have demonstrations, and you know wha;t that means. ... 
OHORUS: BAD PUBLIOITY! ! ! 
ADMINISTRATOR I: . . . and you know what that means. ... 
OHORUS: LESS MONEY! 
ADMINISTRATOR II: I've got a p"lan! We'll kick them off campus, and . .. 
CHORUS: BAD PUBLIOITY! ! ! ! 
ADMINISTRATOR II: ... but wait! We really won't, though, we ju.st say we will. Then they'll all want to stay on campus, and they'll even want to rmt up with overcrowding to stay on campll,8. And you know what that means. ... 
OHORUS: BAD PUBLIOITY!! ! 
ADMINISTRATOR II: No, no, no! You've got it all wrong! It means more money! 
OHORUS: MORE MONEY, MORE MONEY! (Ohorus members caper about enthusiastically.) 
ADMINISTRATOR I: And if we do it to the juniors every year, we can do the same thing year after year after year! And we'll never have to build those new dorms, ever! And we'll save . ... 
OHORUS: MORE MONEY! MORE MONEY! (Ohorus members are ecstatic at this point.) 
Jim had a couple of stories to tell. He's moving off campus. 
He had almost signed the lease at one house; then the landlord found out that he was a student. The deal was off immediately. 
He has a house in a black neigh­borhood. The neighbors watched him move in, and seemed somewhat dis­approving. "Maybe," Jim noted, ''they were thinking, 'Here goes the neighborhood.' " 
The freshman reads the card in­forming him of ms room: "Room 42., Engineering Hall." 
Upon his arrival Dr. Hofman, the rector, assigns him a bunk and row number. The freshman feels lost at first in the rows and rows of bunks, but it isn't long before he strikes up a few simple linear re"lationships. 
Some time before the room picks Father Miceli, Cavanaugh Hall rector, sent out a newsletter with a list of rooms to be forced. He also added that it would be interesting to see how much "Christian spirit" re­mained in the hall and whether peo­ple would be willing to pull others into their rooms, though it would mean overcrowding. 
It is "I :55 AM and, all is quiet on the southern quad. Suddenly., a small metal door in the ground o-pens. All around the campll,8 the same scene is repeated. ls it a revolution? No. Is it sabotage? No. 
A thousand freshmen climb up from their rooms in the steam tun­nels on the way to breakfast and their 8 :00 o'clock classes. 
A few of the maids were gathered in a group near the elevator. It was the day after roompicks, and they were discussing the room overcrowd­ing to take place next year. It seems that they were assigned the same number of rooms to cover next year; though many of the rooms would contain extra beds. They weren't happy at having that much more work to do. 
I ran into the Ohristian Spirit a few days "later. 
"Hey, Chris, I heard things have been really bad down at Lyons. Have you been doum, there "lately?" 
"No, I haven't." 
"I shouldn't have asked; that's kind of obvious." 
When we first looked at the notice, we couldn't believe that two-thirds of the seniors were going to be forced off campus. 
Michael Carl Goetz suggested that maybe two people could be assigned to each bed; one taking classes dur­ing the day and sleeping at ·night, while the other did the opposite. 
We told him to keep quiet about it. We were afraid someone would take him seriously. 
Mary and Joseph k:nocked at the door. It was "late and they were very tired. 
The door opened. "What do you want?" 
"We were ju.st wondering if 1.oe could stay here maybe?" 
"Sorry, we don:t have any room here," said the Notre Dame adminis­trator as he shut the door of the Ohristian Oommunity. 
The Ohristian Spirit told me yes­
terday that  he'll be  living  off  
campus.  
t. j. -clinton  

the last word 
Another year approaches its close. The cycle again repeats itself. And despite the reassuring sense of ac­complishment which comes with having "survived" an­Gther year, there is an uncertainty which is all-per­vading. At times one is forced to wonder whether spending four years (or more) at Notre Dame really makes sense; or whether it isn't just a delusion -a golden dream of grandeur, advancement, wisdom. One must hope that Notre Dame is not, and never will be, an enormous learning factory, a "think tank" for the effective training and patterning of members of an on­going socio-economic system. One must hope that we are here to learn, to grow, to discover -to become more human; rather than simply to be "prepared" for a still uncertain future, to "find our niche in the system." But until we ask these questions privately and grapple \"Vith them publicly, our progress is without direction and our accomplishments uncertain. As the year ends, it is important that we look back and attempt to make some .$ense out of all that has transpired. And this rE:trospection is an unsettling thing; for we often have no answers for the questions which agitate us. If we look ahead, we encounter the same uncertainty. Unclear as ·to where we have been, we are, at times, even more confused about where we are going. 
There is always a certain excitement inherent in un­certainty. The excitement seems less than consoling, though, when time appears relentless; when all those things which we once thought to be forever a part of us pass before our eyes and slowly add themselves to that vast catch-all of memorabilia that is our past. For­tunately, these things stay always within our grasp; and, at times when the present seems to make no sense and the future holds no promise, they provide much­needed comfort. 

It has been a good year, all considered. If one can shake off the uncertainty -chase out the demons that haunt our retrospection -the good memories are al­most endless. Even the most pressing doubt can be dis­pelled by an autumn afternoon, and the glory of spring (when it finally arrives) is such that one can never be truly pessimistic. The good times have been plentiful and unforgettable -and even the bad times add in their own way to the mellow but happy tone that the year acquires as we look back upon it. 
What has perhaps made it so special is the people. I again wish to thank Greg and everyone on the staff for their help, friendship, support, criticism and, most of all, their concern. I wish them well. 
Summer approaches. It's time to relax, to look back on what has transpired, and to make plans for newer days. 
kerry mcnamara 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
f · 
. ( 
hll/.. • 
..,' .\, . 
-\~,«]:. 


Hit the deck in shorts and a tee shirt. Or your bikini if you want. 
,,_ You're on a leisurely cruise to remote islands. With names
.­

like Martinique, Grenada, Guadeloupe. Those are the ones you ·ve heard of. 

A big, beautiful sailing vessel glides from one breathtaking Caribbean jewel to another. And you're aboard, having the time of your life with an 
•-
\ intimate group of lively, fun­loving people. Singles and couples, too. There·s good food, ··grog:· and a few ple~ant 
comforts...but there ·s little resemblance to a stay at a fancy hotel, and you·11 be happy about that. 
Spend ten days exploring paradise and getting to know congenial people. There·s no · other vacation like it.
----· 

Your share from S245. A new cruise is forming now. Write Cap ·n Mike for your free adventure booklet in full color. 

Narre  
Address  
z,o  
Pr-one  
P.O. Box 120. Dept. M1am1 Beach. Flo~1da 33139  

TURN THOSE USELESS SKILLS INTO HAND50ME BUDWEISER® PATCHES 
For example, if you can hug cans pretty good, you can wear a Budweiser World Champion Patch. Just hug, next to your person, a record bunch ?f empty Bud~ cans. Record to beat is 38. 
BUDWEISER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS? WHAT'S GOING ON? 
Oh, happy day. At last someone is doing something positive about the current world shortage of champions. 
Budweiser is sanctioning five absurd events in which college youths can set records and earn wonderful, big Budweiser patches 
(7"x6", washable, genuine colors). 
Besides the breathtaking BUD,,CAN HUG above, there are four other ways to be a World Champion. Get details at your favorite beer store where you see the "Budweiser World Championship" display! 
Do one, beat the record, tell us about it on a postcard and get your marker pen ready for inscribing your particular specialty beneath where it says "World Champion." 
TO GET YOUR BUDWEISER WORLD CHAMPION PATCH 
(EVEN IF YOU DON'T SET A RECORD), JUST WRITE YOUR NAME, ADDRESS AND WHAT YOU DID ON A POSTCARD. 
SEND IT TO 

(Maybe you've detected that this is not an official, rigid-rules "contest." But it is a lot offun, even if you can't break the records. You can, though, can't you?) 
NO PROOF OF PURCHASE REQUIRED. OFFER VOID WHERE PROHIBITED BY LAW. ALLOW FOUR WEEKS FOR DELIVERY. OFFER EXPIRES DECEMBER 31, 1973. ANHEUSER-BUSCH. INC • ST. LOUIS . 















