

NEWS 01 
FIGHTING FOR WORDS Daric Snyder 
Scholastic examines the battle for First Amendment rights at Vmcennes University. 
· s more ethnically diverse now than ever before; ity students feel at home under the Dome? 

CONCERTWITH A CAUSE Claire Sobczak 
The Notre Dame Glee Club raises funds for one of their 
own. ­

ENTERTAINMENT 21 
MUSICAL MELEE Mike Laskey 

Scholastic profiles three up-and-coming musical performers -Tom Schreck, Bajawalla andJosam Scott-battling to be the best. 

SPORTS 30 
CALLING ALL BOOKSTORE BALLERS Nicole Domer 
Scholastic takes a look at three of the teams competing in the largest 5-on-5 outdoor basketball tournament in the world. · 


HUMOR 36 
LUMBERJACKIE Erik Powers 
Erik Powers examines the drastic implications ofIrish short-_ shorts. 

From the Editor . . . . . . . . 2 Campus Watch . . . . . . . 18 Staff Editorial . . . . . . . . . 4 Snapshot . . . . . . . . . . . 20 News Notebook . . . . . . . 5 Cribs ......· ....... 22 Scholastic Opinion . . . _. . . . 9 Point/Counterpoint . . .• • • 40 
21 APRIL 2005 . SCHOLASTICMAGAZINE 



Vol. 146, No. 12 •APR 21 2005 


SCHOL8STIC 
Editor In Chief 
Mo Ertel 
Managing Editor Lauren Wilcox 
Executive Editor 
Christopher Meskill 
Executive Copy Editor 
Doug Schlarman 
Executive Copy Assistant 
Regina Gesicki 
Executive Design Editor 
David Redenbaugh 
News Dave Poell, editor Darlc Snyder, assistant 
Arts and Entertainment 
Claire sa"bczak, editor 
Mike Laskey, assistant 
Sports Nicole Dorner, editor Michael Kim, assistant 
Design 
Amy Meyers 
Jana Stewart 
Julie Ruffin 
Tekla Sauter 
BethAnn Visceglia 
Photography Brenna Mannion, editor Kristin Keve, assistant 
Distribution Bryan Lowery 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 

COVER DESIGN 
DAVID REDENBAUGH 
Disce Quasi Semper Victtm,s Vive Quasi Cms Mo1-itzm,s 
Published biw~ekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed atAve Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556.The entire contents of 
Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2005 University of Notre Dame. All 
rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either· in whole or in part,_may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher.You give me that funny feeling in my tummy. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsollcited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, 
Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published 
in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. She specializes in eggs. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number.All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate Is $35 per year.Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request.The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
21 APRIL 2005 



DOUCHE ... 
I mean Deutsche.We love golf ... and hygiene. 

THAT MYSTERIOUS SMELLAROUND CAMPUS 
It's probably mulch, but it 
doesn't matter. It's nasty. 

ROOM PICKS 
Watching dormmates turn into catty 7th­graders about a room is oddly fascinating. It's like a reality show, yet even more petty. 

O· 
"SIN CITY" 
Brittany Murphy is 
supposed to look strung­out and dirty. Oh, wait, she already does. 


HALF-NAKED 
SUNBATHING 
The palest campus in the nation attempts to fry some melanin back to the surface. 

SCHOLASTICEXECUTIVE STAFF 
ath-lete (ath'let') n. a person trained in exei-cises, games or contests requiring physical strength, skill, stamina, speed, etc. 
The definition of athlete, unfortunately, does not include any details about sociology, economics or biology. It makes no reference to attending classes, studying for exams or writing research papers. These, however, are the expectations of every student at this university, regardless oftheir extracurriculars. So why does the sign over the gate oftheJoyce Center read "athletes only"? Are athletes a special breed of students who are released from their academic obligations? Shouldn't the sign read "student athletes only"? Some certainly treat their quasi-celebrity status as a "get-out-of-school-free" card. For instance, senior Chris Thomas trivialized the importance ofclasses last Wednesday, April 13, at the men's basketball banquet. According to a campus publication, Thomas bragged about taking only five credit hours and using his subsequent free time for late-night endeavors. While we hope Thomas was joking, the academic apathy of some student athletes is not a laughing matter. For some ofNotre Dame's :fittest, bar hopping is a nightly ritual, as routine as homework or classes to other students. Student athletes flex their social muscle at these bars and clubs, often getting their drinks on the house. How hyped are these student-athletes? Meanwhile, the university reinforces these notions ofNotre Dame fame. Why are student athletes given the best registration times? The university claims that this ensures that their classes will not coincide with their practice schedules. Butother students have time constraints due to their activities. They, however, are not given the same leewaywith the registration pro­cess. Should not the student body president, arguably one ofthe busiest students on campus, be extended this same privilege? Additionally, student athletes are not only informed of the best classes, but also are automatically placed into them. One thing that was overlooked in the media onslaught following Tyrone Willingham's dismissal was his reinforcement ofthe team's acadei,nic integrity. Despite his lackluster results on the field, Willingham emphasized the importance ofeducation and a well-rounded student athlete. After the Willingham firing, Bob Davie, ESPN analyst and former Notre Dame football head coach, said, "We have got to give these kids a chance to graduate." Despite Davie's doubts, manyNotre Dame student athletes do excel in both fields. Consider MaryBoland, a senior on the women's soccer team who led the Irish to a national championship while earning a 3.90 GPA in psychology. Former Notre Dame defenseman T.J. Mathieson earned a 3.835 GPA in aerospace engineering while playinghockeyfor the Irish as well guitar in a country band. Some student athletes even manage two majors, such as junior guard Megan~ Duffy, who balances psychology and computer applications with basketball. · While academic apathy tends to afflict a few of Notre Dame's student athletes, there are many who are striving toward excellence every day in the classroom ~nd on the playing field. This is certainly not a call for major renovations to the athletic department. Ignoring that a problem exists, however, is just as misguided; so perhaps changing the sign in theJACC would be a step in the right direction. . 
4 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
21 APRIL 2005 



With Honors 
Enriching Notre Dame's best and brightest 
CURTISLEIGHTON 
n the past five years, many majors within the College of Arts and Letters have created honors programs. These departmental honors tracks establish a concentration within a certain field, and, unlike the Arts and Letters and Science Honors Program, students can apply to the departmental programs at any time during the course of their four years of study. According to Mark Roche, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, the programs emphasize student-centered learning: "The more active students are 

any prospective employers that you're capable of sustained, high-level work," Varga says. The requirements for these honors programs vary slightly according to the field, but they often include taking one graduate-level course or attending supplemental lectures and readings. The advanced classes are a valuable chance to get a glimpse at post-graduate studies. 
The honors programs are especially valuable for students considering graduate studies. Many graduate schools require a long writing sample of their applicants, 

in the learning process, the more likely and honors students often submit their they are to learn well," Roche says. thesis as an advanced, specific sample of 
Induction into the honors track de­their academic prowess. Roche, however, pends upon a departmental selection emphasizes that, "the programs serve process. After a receiving an invitation to the purpose not only of sending more the program or soliciting an application, students on to graduate study, but also the department assesses the student's aca­ensuring that our students have the best 
Finish that paper you got 

demic history and previous academic ex­possible learning experience." 
5. 
an extension on.· 

periences. Accepted students are required Not all departments in the College of 
Don't let "eventually" turn into 

to complete a "capstone project" -a 40 Arts and Letters offer honors programs. 
"never."

to 80 page thesis paper -under the di­The philosophy department, was the rection of a faculty advisor.Junior Eileen first to establish an honors track about 
4. 
Power shower ... a lot.

Varga, an English honors student, believes 15 years ago. Currently, american stud­the thesis allows students to do the kind of ies, English, history, philosophy, political 
Do it now, because you parents 

aren't going to stand for beer offered to undergraduates. "Even if you Russian & German language and litera­in-depth investigation that is usually not science, psychology and the Romance and 
cans in the bathroom. aren't considering applying to grad school, ture departments have honors tracks. I think the completion ofa thesis can show Classics and theology have recently 
Steal dishes and silverware 

approved programs. Most departmental 
3 
from the dining halls. 

honors programs began in the last five 
• Better stock up for summer,

years. The College of Arts and Letters 
especially if you are in search of 

eventually hopes to offer an honors track an apartment.
in every department for students willing to pursue the heavier course load and . 
Use all $100 ofyour printing 

senior thesis. 
quota.
2.
The number of students in depart­
If you still have all of it, print

mental honors programs is growing 
1,000 blank documents and take 

with history and political science among off with the paper.
the majors that graduate the largest numbers of honors students. In 2004, 
Climb the scaffolding.

20 seniors graduated from the history 
I 
o When else are you going to

honors program, compared to eight the previous year. 
get a chance to ch!II with Mary The College of Arts and Letters rec­

atop the Dome? But watch out ommends that students interested in the 
for those pesky security guards. honors track apply during the second 
(For best results, attempt after semester of junior year. By this time, 
completing No. 4) · most students have taken enough classes in their major to pursue a specific thesis topic. D 


21 APRIL 2005 SCHOLASTICNEWS 5 
NEWS ;-'--'---------------------,
fS€1".101.:.'AST:IG 
. (· .... · ..· '·--·-. 
;/-:.:,\~ 
<:·::•:-~r.:.<:: . 

Strength and Support 
Wabruda bands together as brothers 
AMYMEYERS 
In 2000, David Moss, Ph.D., the assistant vice president for student affairs, was very disappointed with one specific as­pect ofthe Notre Dame community. Moss noticed that, while some black men served as leaders for athletic teams, very few held leadership positions in more mainstream student activities. He doubted that this shortage of black male leadership came from a lack of competency; instead, he came to the conclusion that these students were not applying for leadership positions because they did not "automatically feel welcome" to participate. To combat the problem, Moss started a new organization for black men on campus, calling it "Wabruda," which is Swahili for brothers. Wabruda began as a support group, where four members met in Moss' office once a week to share stories and build relationships. Now, the organization boasts about25 active members and works to pro­vide service and leadership opportunities for these young men. The group's activities range from a professional workshop with the Career Center to the Karamu dinner date to the Busara Roadtrip with their fe­male counterpart group, Shades ofEbony. One of the activities that Moss and the members are most proud ofis their recent "Black History Brain Ball" with South Bend elementary students. Also, on the first ofevery month, each member dresses up in shirt and tie to publicize the club and to show his fellow students that he, too, belongs in a professional world. While the organi­zation hopes 
to continue its con­centration on profes­sional development and its new signature events, Wabruda President Ceshino Brooks-Devita em­phasizes that the club is "a support network" A WABRUDA MEMBER practices his interviewing skills with a member 
of the Notre Dame Career Center at the club's professional development 
for its members, who 
workshop.
are in the minority on Notre Dame's predominantly white cam­pus. The group still meets every Sunday in Moss' office in the Main Building, and after reciting the group's motto and praying, the members discuss a variety ofsuch topics as race and gender relations, current events, potential internships and jobs and personal experiences. Whenever a club member sees another club member around campus, he bends his arms across his chest to form an "X," a symbol of brotherhood and unity. 
"Every student needs to find his or her place in the Notre Dame fabric, and meeting once a week to just chill can be as important as professional development," Moss says. 
One issue that is of particular impor­tance on the Notre Dame campus is the assumption that all black male students are athletes, specifically football players. 
"We have a member ofour group with a 
3.8 GPA, and he still is assumed to be an athlete," Moss says. Freshman club member William-Da­vid Williams emphasized that "the. stereotype wouldn't really be a bad 
thing without the assumption that athletes aren't smart." As a recent walk-on to the football team, Wil­liams can attest to the intelligence 
of Notre Dame's football players. ·· While he does love being a part ofNotre Dame's oldest tradition, he is a "scholar first." Williams is not the only athlete in Wabruda, but because oftheir busy schedules, only a few other athletes participate in the group's activities. Still, the Wabruda membership has 
,,,;/:-'>:~ 
grown to include Darrell Scott, the current senior class president. 
On the Notre Dame campus, the as­sumption that "black" is synonymous with "athlete" seems to immediately apply to male students, while female students more frequently escape such labeling. Because of the unfortunate stigma ofsubstandard in­telligence thatis typically directed only to­ward male Notre Dame athletes, as well as other issues that apply only to Notre Dame men, Moss says that the organization will continue to accept only males as members. However, the group is far from exclusion­ary. Wabruda often collaborates with the all-female Shades of Ebony organization. Also, each Wabruda member brings a fe­male date to the Karamu dinner date, and at the dinner the members and their guests discuss gender roles and issues, especially regarding dating. Moss, Brooks-Devita and Williams all remarked thatnon-club mem­bers are not only allowed, but encouraged to attend many oftheir events. Williams, in particular, noted that "there is not enough interaction [between different races] on the Notre Dame campus." 
The organization hopes to expand its membership through word-of-mouth and tables ·at Club Activities Night and continues to promote leadership roles and act as a support group for black men at Notre Dame. Wabruda members hope this increased visibility will allow them to strengthen the image ofblackmen atNotre Dame. D 



ii
I 


For many American students, the full implications of the First Amend­ment escape them. In a recent study funded by the John S. and James L. Knight foundation, three out of every four high school students stated they took the amendment, which protects the freedoms of speech, religion and press, for granted. In addition, only half ofthe students surveyed felt newspapers should be allowed to print without government approval. One ofthree felt the rights cov­ered by the first amendment go "too far." Yet, what happens when these rights are infringed upon? Students at Vincennes University found just this out. The Trailblazer is the student news­paper at Vincennes University, a small public school in southwestern Indiana. According to Fred Walker, Jr., professor emeritus ofjournalism at Vincennes and founding director of The Trailblaze1; the paper is produced in a classroom environ­ment through the university's journalism program. The publication is fonded pri­marily through student activities funds, though it receives small amounts directly from the university anci through· adver­tisements. Walker founded The Trail­blazerin 1964 and directed the newspaper through 1992. During Walker's time with the publication and in the years that fol­lowed, The Trailblazer printed regularly without much trouble. "We were hardly interfered with," Walker says. "People were sometimes unhappy with what we'd do, but nothing ever happened." In recent months, however, The Trailblazer has faced the most pressure that it has seen in Walker's many years with the publication. Several years after Walker stepped down as director of The Tratlblazer, Michael Mullen, a tenur-ed-professor of English at Vincennes, became the publication's advisor, as well as the chair of the journalism department. Mul­len granted his journalism students as much freedom as possible in producing The Trailblazer. The publication printed several controversial reports, investigat­ing the low enrollment of the schooland questioning the qualifications of the university's interim president. Walker, the former advisor, praised such stories, arguing the paper had no responsibility in "cheerleading for the university." The 
publication also started producing an 
April Fools' issue that lampooned the 
university and various aspects ofstudent 
life. The 2003 April Fools' edition, which 
jokingly mentioned a Christian group on 
campus throwing a keg party and also 
poked fun at other campus institutions, 
upset leaders ofthe student body. Around 
1,700 copies ofthe paper were stolen from 
distribution locations around the campus, 
and the Student Senate of the university 
began threatening to cut funding for the 
paper. 
The publication faced heat from the 
school's administration as well. The edi­
tors ofthe paper, along with Mullen, were 
called into a meeting with MaryTrimbo 
-the Dean ofHumanities at Vincennes 
-andwarned abriut their recentincendi­
·ary stories. The following day, a memo 
from Trimbo commanded that The Trail­
blazer not produce another April Fools' 
edition th~ next year. Throughout the 
following year, the newspaper continued 
to receive threats of decreased funding. 
InApril of2004, Mullen permitted stu­
dents to produce another April Fools' edi­tion ofthe paper, which .proved to be the breaking point for those opposed to the paper. In May of2004, Trimbo informed Mullen that he would beJtransferred back to the English department by the univer­sity and would no longer serve as advisor to the newspaper, The administration claimed the move was necessary to fill an · empty position in the department dur-. ing a time when budget cuts prevented . hiring a new professor, but Mullen soon · discovered he would not receive the pay increase that comes with this change in 
position. In addition, he found that there , 
was no formal grievance process available 
to him; his only option w-as to go through 
Trimbo. 
In September, Mullen filed a civil claim 
against the university in response to his 
transfer. The university failed to respond 
to Mullen's claim for reinstatement to his 
old position and reimbursement for his 
financial losses by the transfer:-As such, 
·Mullen filed a lawsuit in federal court 
.. on Februarr 2, 2005, M:ullen's lawyers 
argue that the transfer violated his First 
Amendment rights offree speech and his 
14th Amendment right to due process. 
Mullen's cause is supported by former 
and current staff ofThe Trailblazer, as well 
as the new advisor to the pub­lication. Beyond Vincennes, others are standing in support of Mullen and The Trailblazer. 
"The transfer is more than suspicious," Dr. David Sumner says. "It looks like he was removed based on the issues with the paper." Sumner serves as Executive Director for the Indiana Collegiate Press Association (!CPA), an organiza­tion of over 40 college publications at 25 schools in Indiana (including Scholastic). Mullen also serves on the board for the organization. 
· ''One of the major goals of the !CPA is to foster a free press and free speech in our schools/' Sumner says. "The Vin­cennes situation is troubling, and we're doing what we can to support The Trail­blazer.'' In January of 2005, !CPA sent a letter, published in the Indianapolis Star, calling for Mullen's reinstatement and a thorough investigation ofthe newspaper thefts. The organization also wrote di­rectly to Trimbo inMay 2004 in the wake of the transfer, asking her to reevaluate the situation. !CPA nevet received a re­sponse. . 
Even with Mullen's current transfer away from the journalism department, The Trailblazer has faced further trials. After the 2004 April Fools' .edition, the Student Senate-followed through with its long-standing threats of budget cuts. A $6,000 reduction in the publication's budget hobbled the paper. Students with The Trailblazer claim the pressures to avoid contrpversial stories remain, and with newspaper thefts still unsolved, the potential for further vandalism is high. 
Supporters and staff of The Trailblaze~ hope that success in the Mullen lawsuit and public awareness of the situation will aid their cause. "The administration needs to absolve itself from in its sins," Walker says. "The press just shouldn't be interfered with." D 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
21 APRIL 2005 
SGH0LASTIC' 9PfNlON] 
:...-;ARI__ ___
AN_NE..._J.W_AT_K_INS 

A Day·in the Life
Solely listing the activities that I engage in everyweekfrom Monday through Thursday does not provide an ad­equate description 
J of what college can really be like for me. I am a black woman on Notre Dame's campus, and because of this, my life is drastically different from that of most Notre Dame students. As a multicultural student, my opinions and experiences relating primarily to issues of racial or ethnic diversity at Notre Dame are as unique as I am: This is my "minority experience" under the Dome. It seems that the reaction of most stu­dents to the status of multiculturalism on campus can be categorized in three ways. There are some Notre Dame students that are upset because they feel that the level of racial and ethnic diversity is lower than what they had hoped for when they signed their commitment to the university. There are other students who see Notre Dame as being more racially and ethnically diverse than what they had experienced in their home communities. The third group be­lieves racial diversity here is "satisfactory," and they also might believe that there is no "racial problem" here. I occupy a category all my own, since I knew Notre Dame was predominantly white, and this is one ofthe main reasons I am here. When I was looking for a college four years ago, I specifically chose not to go to a predominantly black university, as I knew that the world I would be entering into af­ter college would not be mostly black. I realized that I should step further out of my comfort zone and continue to learn both about other c_-11ltures and about myself. Each individual person views racial issues through a different lens of experience, but on some level, most people realize that race and ethnicity still shape our culture. We do not live in a cqlorblind society; we still are asked to check boxes designating our ethnic heritage on applications. There still are shows, movies and commercials targeted to the "fill-in-the-blank" commu­nity. TothinkthatNotreDamewouldhave escaped this phenomenon is naive at best. I would say that in America -and spe­cifically at Notre Dame -the discussion of race and ethnicity is a discussion about 
21 APRIL 2005 

racial tension. I say this not just because 
the minority population of Notre Dame 
fails to reflect that of the country. Rather, 
I mention it because inclusion does not 
necessarily mean acceptance, and I think 
that establishing a larger minority student 
population would be only the first step in 
addressing the goal oftnie racial and eth­
nic diversity at Not,re Dame. 
Notre Dame has ,"race issues," and I am not just speakingof the fact that itis mostly white. I am speaking about the fact that there is minimal inclusion ofminorities in positions ofprestige or power. I am speak­ing about the fact that there are few female and minority professors, and even fewer are tenured. I recently took a class centered on examining the contributions, challenges and experiences ofwomen of color in the United States. It would have made sense to have a woman of color leading the class; this, however, was not the case. I am speak­ing about the fact that when I look at the staff photographs hanging in many dorms, itisusuallythecasethatwhiterectors,resi­dent assistants and assistant rectors stare back at me. At the same time, the cleaning staff consists of mostly black and·-.Latino faces. I am speaking about the fact that I have attended exactly one Mass presided by a black priest. Yes, I have learned much from many of the white priests, rectors and professors on campus; but I feel that ifNotre Dame trulywants to strive toward real racial diversity -and not just token racial diversity -then it must include minorit,ies in the many arenas where. they are currently denied access. It might be a bit. eas~er to be the only black student in a class (as I usually am) ifit did not seem like Notre Dame only supported my-presence within the homogenous atmosphere of Notre Dame. Yet, it also would be great to see more white students wanting to experience our cultures with us. I often have found it difficult to get non-minor­ity friends to attend cultural events on campus, and their usual excuse is that they might feel out of place being one of few whites in attendance. This feeling ofbeing out ofplace is what minority students face every day when going to class. We all have unique cultures, and we should be able to share our particular heritage with every­one. Stepping out ofyour comfort zone is the only way to learn and have new experi­ences. Growth is an active process. 
Misunderstanding, apprehension and apathy contribute to the race problem on campus, allowing racism to be expressed very covertly. Yes, there are many blatant forms of racism being expressed at Notre Dame; however, I think most of the rac­ist incidents that occur are so subde that they go largely unnoticed by the masses. When you are the target of racism, the story changes, and the racial tension on this campus becomes abundantly clear. I was standing with a group ofwhite females when a white male approached us and in­traduced himself to every girl but me. On the other end of the spectrum is the "Mexi­can Party" a girl on my floor attended, for which she and her friends dressed up as their "favorite Mexican" (read: favorite stereotypical Mexican). This is. racism, and it does occur here. 
· Inmany ways -and perhaps in more ·ways than not-minority students are just . like white stugents, and as we sign off on ·· loans or write those hefty tuition checks to Notre Dame,"'e want to feel just as much a 

here because I improve its diversity rating . part of the Notre Dame family as everyone 
in The Princeton Review. 
However, the campus' strai~ed race re­lations are not entirely the fault ofNotre Dame as an institution. Racial tension at Notre Dame has much to do with the interaction of our student body. I ap­plaud the efforts ofMulticultural Student .Programs and Services (MSPS), an office that sponsors and coordinates such cultural events as Blak Images, Asian Allure, Blak Koffeehouse, Fiestang and Latin Expres­sions. !tis an all-too-often occurrence that these events draw a sea of minority faces. In many respects this is great, because it allows minority students to take pride in the various aspects of our cultures while 
· .else. The only means through which sig­nificant changes in race relations at Notre : Dame can occur is Jhrough the collective and continual work ofthe university com­munity. Personally, I am optimistic about the emergence ofsuch groups as Sustained. Dialogue. Additionally, I applaud Scholastic and Student Government-both ofwhich support diversity initiatives -and I admire the tireless efforts of many other groups that are working toward the betterment ofthis university. We still have a long way to go, but ifwe work together, we will get there sooner. . 
SCH0LASTICOPINION 9 


-I \ <:.,~~; Ffs:f ~Si> -)~':•T•c~) -~·;r
c~~­

f·o-·1~~.-'··.··.--·~\ ---(~·; 
•

. . ~STORY1 1 • • .I • J 
t•._)L,< i_'... -) \jr:(;_;C ·.. r--..:j .... '. ,•-,, .. --,.. ... J {_;r<:\:> ·•·(.'__,.-•s..,-'
____J_-_•-·.,
Fri}tl~1;11n, 5ti~~i.~i Oul/\c\~ . .e)· . A :·. NoJr~ pa,n~.JS r1or7-~.t)hn1c-f1l.ly_ ~l\'7fSe-n_ow ~PN1 ev~r: 8ef~r-~; ~~t/do ')"lmpnt{ .:: -.. •·.\. '.jo::.·x/ (<~.stu9ent~ 'ft.el· af0~ 901~.:-~~gs.l.~,~}theJJ.gmer1f:::==·/: ·<;..:::ci;'-"'''/ ,.'t:"-~"";<f~.~--....\·:, c(:==~~i.'L:(-
Cci DTAVE•;;:~t::;,~•~~:~n~;"{;~'J,;: :~::::,;:!;~:~d:i';~i:,~;"~f~/~: ~~!~:~:::::~:: ::~•;;1~'i~::d !~~
\• n graduate Adrniss~on~ sent out its : :___ i_·_:j final acceptance and reJect1on letters to ._. __ --,--all applicants for the Class of 2009. As ,_:... always, a select few of the applicants ) received congratulatory fat envelopes -3,478 to be exact-while the majority of Dorner-hopefuls were forced to cope with the ego-damaging blow ofrejection or the cruel uncertainty of wallowing in 

waiting list limbo. The ratio of admitted students to those denied admission has remained fairly constant throughout the years. What has been changing for the university in more recent years, however, has been the rising number of accep­tance letters mailed to those applicants who have been categorized as "histori­
cally disadvantaged," a term used by universities nationwide to refer to ra­cially diverse applicants. Now, more than ever, the Notre Dame student 
body is composed of mounting nurn­hers ofblack, Asian-American, Latino and Native-American students. 
DRIVING TO DIVERSIFY 

According to Dan Saracino, director of admissions for the university, "When we talk about affirmative action at Notre Dame, we act affirmatively; we act ag­gressively." And Notre Dame's admission numbers echo this sentiment. For the past two years, Notre Dame's acceptance rate of minority students has remained at a constant47 percent, with 956 admits from the Class of 2009 and 885 admits from the Class of 2008. Despite the growing 
number ofminority students admitted to the university, however, a greater question remains. Do minority undergraduates feel as though they are an integral part of the mystical "Notre Dame Experiem:e"? Or does the unique landscape of the campus 
in which approximately 85 percent of undergraduate students are Catholic and 25 percent are the sons and daughters of Notre Dame alumni -result in senti­ments of disenchantment, exclusion and frustration? The responses to these ques­tions, while not uniform, do shed light on the unique nature of Notre Dame 
-7-.f~,-~-~ -;;_~-;-:-c·,7 
SCHOLAST1c;c:9VERSTORY
\)>-\:\ ·-···, / ·;_) 
students with the opportunity to live and learn within an accepting community. 
Throughout the course of the past 25 years, Notre Dame has attempted to transform itself from a bastion of privilege for white Catholics to an elite academic institution that recruits the best and the brightest students, regardless of race, ethnicity or socioeconomic status. This, however, has not always been the case. Ac­cording to the Office oflnstitutional Re­search, the entering Class of 1980 was 92 percent Catholic, and minority students constituted a meager 4.9 percent of the 
"What you see at Notre Dame, now more than ever, is true diversity." 
-Dan Saracino, director of 
undergraduate admissions 
class. Throughout the '70s, '80s and '90s, the minority population of the incoming freshman class fluctuated yearly, peaking at 16.6 percent in 1994, only to fall back to 14.5 percent the following year. 
Starting in 2000, however, the percent­age of incoming minority undergraduates once again passed the 16-percent mark, and it remaining above this level ever since. Between 2002 and 2003, the uni­versity increased the number of admitted minority undergraduates from 320 to 419, which stands as Notre Dame's greatest one-year increase in the enrollment of minority students to date. However, ac­cording to Saracino, such strides would not have been possible without the con­certed efforts ofthe Office ofAdmissions to actively recruit promising minority students. 
Gil Martinez, the assistant director and diversity recruitment coordinator for the Office ofAdmissions, presides over these recruitment efforts. "We have a search list that we do in the early Spring and try to get our name out there to those [minority] lirninary SAT or National Merit Scholar-~.,-~): 

ship Qualifying Test] and a certain self-recorded grade point average," Martinez says. A staff of four minority student coordinators works with Martinez, and 

\ each student establishes personal contact fl with the students on the search list, an-U swering any questions the student may have concerning application forms and [:_J deadlines. "I think the personal contact I/ with students is a very key factor. We[... ] f shepherd them through the [application] process," Martinez says. 
The application process can be ex­trernely lengthy, especially for those minority students whose socioeco­nornic status requires them to apply 
for financial aid. At times, ethnic di­versity overlaps with socioeconomic diversity, as is cited in the 2003-2004 
U.S. Census Bureau, which surveys household incomes nationwide. The average non-Hispanic white house­hold income is $47,800 per year, an amount exceeding that of the mean black household by $18,200 and that of the mean Hispanic household by $14,800. However, Saracino notes the increasing availability ofneed-based financial aid for Notre Dame students. According to U.S. News and World Report for the 2003-2004 academic year, 48 percent ofNotre Dame students received need-based financial aid packages, the average amount of which totals $23,412. "What you see at Notre Dame now more than every before is true diversity. By that I mean socioeconomic diversity as well as ethnic diversity," he says. Saracino feels that Notre Dame's commitment to need-based financial aid largely adds to its success in recruiting minority students. "We are telling the story of Notre Dame in other places of the U.S. and in the world than before. 
We're reaching communities that hadn't heard that Notre Dame was a possibility before," Saracino says. 
However, Iris Outlaw, the director of Multicultural Student Programs and Activities (MSPS), fears the stagnating percentage of minority students enroll­
21 APRIL 2005 

r 0 



ing at Notre Dame. The goal for the university's affirmative action program is to eventually have 25 percent of each class made up ofhistorically underrepre­sented students. "We did a strategic plan for the division five years ago. That very first year they had 22 percent. This year is going on the third year ofbeing around 22 percent," Outlaw says. 
In perhaps the most substantial push to create a campus environment where qualified minority students comprise 25 percent of the student population, Notre Dame holds its annual Spring Visitation Weekend. Each year the university invites and accommodates a group of about 150 admitted minority students to campus, most of whose families typically would have been unable to make the trip due to financial concerns. "Our goal is not to sell you on Notre Dame if you shouldn't be here. Our goal is to help you learn about what Notre Dame is so you can make the right choice," Saracino says. Overall, Spring Visitation has been successful in its attempts to bring.in the best minor­ity applicants. ''About 60 percent of this year's attendees will confirm with us," Martinez says. 
Unfortunately, a student's happiness with Spring Visitation does not always translate to his or her overall satisfac­tion with Notre Dame's campus life. For Justin Gray, a black freshman from Atlanta, Ga., who attended last year's Spring Visitation, the transition from his predominantly black home community to a campus where less than five percent of the undergraduates are black has been trying. "I think partially that the Notre Dame experience is one that is built on the pre-Notre Dame experience," Gray says. He feels that the majority of stu­dents attending Notre Dame must make substantial transitions to acclimate to col­lege life. However, for minority students who have grown up in communities that mirror their ethnic backgrounds, the experience is even more difficult, as they also must adjust to a mostly white campus community. Additionally, Gray feels that certain elements central to the average student's enjoyment of Notre Dame -dorm parties, football games and Catholic Mass -fail to satisfy those students who do not come from a traditionallywhite, Catholic, up­per-middle class environment. "I don't think I'm getting a college experience," Gray says. "I'm looking more for [an] outlet [ that] I don't find [here]. At a school that is 85 percent Catholic Caucasian, I think a lot of the organizations on campus cater to those people in the majority. It's more so­cially depressing than anything else." 
In the case ofNakya Reeves, a black freshman from Mable­ton, Ga., the image of diver­sity that the university tries to project during Spring Visitation does not accurately reflect the reality of the cam­pus environment. Reeves is a member of a group known as "Spring Viz Tricked My Ass" on the popular college website www.thefacebook.com. Reeves believes that the large number of minority-based activities during the weekend, in addi­tion to the close contact that the prospects have with cur­rent minority students and minority alumni, contribute to a Spring Visitation attend­ee's misconception that the university is more diverse than it really is. "You see it as, 'There are way more minorities than I thought.' But when you come [to Notre Dame] you realize that some of those were alums, and that putting them all in the same room makes them seem more numer­ous," Reeves says. Administration officials, how­ever, have listened to those students who share opinions similar to that of Reeves. This year, Spring Visitation commission­ers tried to emphasize that the substantial (" -'\ exposure to individuals in Notre Dame's 



_) 
) 
~ 
; 
( ____.: 
\ 
/. 
I minorityculturewasnotrepresentativeoflwhat a student experiences on a regular basis. 
CREATING A NICHE 
j Although events like Spring Visitation have brought increasing numbers of mi­-. . nority students in recent years, statisti­, cally speaking, Notre Dame has had the 

\,.:_) most success in its recruitment ofLatinos, 
who currently average between 10 and 12 percent of each incoming class. "[Lati­nos] typically tend to have that connec­tion with their faith, and 
~) they see the 

( community as "Once I got here, I realized that I'm a minority and that this hole you and their connec-basically say, tion with the place takes a lot of changing and a lot of getting used to." 'You got in 
'Q'"'S__J.,.,.u_n_io_r_L_ak_o_t_a_M_o_w-,-r_e_r,_w_-.:-,_h_os-'e-fa_m_ily 
Catholic faith in a very vis­ible, straight­forward way," Martinez says. JudeAnne Jasso-Murad is a freshman of Mexican heritage from Olathe, Kan., and has established a deep connection with activities that bring out both her Latino heritage and her strong Catholic faith. "My parents and relatives are thrilled and very proud to see that I am embracing my cultural heritage at college," Jasso-Murad says. She currently participates in the Latino dance group, Ballet Folklorico, and is a member of the student group La Alianza, which provides students with an outlet to celebrate their Latino culture. For sophomore Johanna Sioson, a na­tive of Orange County, Calif. ·and the president of the Filipino-American Stu­dent Organization (FASO), the transition to Notre Dame proved to be one ofrela­tive ease. "My freshman year I was with a lot ofgirls who were all very supportive of everything I did. For other people on campus, the adjustment was really hard, and [some non-minority students] really didn'tknowwhere [the minority students] were coming from," Sioson says. Being a resident of a highly diverse area, Sioson notes that she did not think ofherselfas a minority until arriving at campus. "Once I got here, I realized that I'm a minority and that this place takes a lot ofchanging and a lot of getting used to," she says. 
is of the Cheyenne River Sioux tribe and lives on a reservation in South Dakota, is one of the few Native-American stu­dents at Notre Dame. Despite the fact that Native-Americans make up less than one percent of the student popula­tion, Mowrer feels that Notre Dame has much to offer her. The biggest attrac­tions for Mowrer turned out to be Notre Dame's Catholic affiliation and the university's strong sense of community. "I knew that Notre Dame was a Catholic school. Also, I come from a small town and enjoy community life, and that's what Notre Dame is known for," Mowrer says. Upon arriving at Notre Dame, however, Mowrer discovered the difficulties inher­strong friendship base of predominantly white males. "For me, playing sports on the quad with the guys was the best way to overcome any anxiety I had about being ~ . an international student. You can com­

f
municate with others through sports," . .
[]
Keita adds. . 
. 
THE DIFFICULTY OF DIFFERENCE 
Testimony from both students and administrators demonstrates that black 

a
students frequently experience perhaps the greatest difficulty adapting to Notre Dame, especially in the wake of recent 
I
debates over affirmative action. "Unfor­
tunately, ifyou're black, everybody knows you're black, fJ, and they can just pigeon-r 
because of -SophomoreJohanna Sioson your color,"' 
ent in attempting to identify with other Native-Americans. "Native-Americans are different from other minorities be­cause we are separate tribes, and each tribe is almost like a separate ethnicity. I didn't really find any solace with the Native-American community here on campus, and tha~js mainly why I've been as outspoken as I have been as a Native-American on campus." Just this past year, Martinez's office designated Mowrer as the first coordinator for recruiting Na­tive-American students. 
ACCLIMATING ON ONE'S OWN 
Not all students who are ethnic mi­norities feel compelled to join an ethnic organization to feel comfortable at Notre Dame. Sophomore Keita Miyamura, an international student from Osaka, Japan, attended high school in Portland, Ore. prior to his enrollment at Notre Dame in the summer of 2003. "The fact that I lived with an American host family for a year helped me adapt to the Notre Dame culture in terms of living in the dorms, because I had four host brothers and sisters who are around my age. Also, I know how the school life goes," Keita says. A resident ofAlumni Hall, Keita has embraced the residence life culture that Sar a c in o 
says. Sopho­
more Krystal Hardy is a black sophomore from Selma, Ala., and says that she constantly feels the pressure of being a black student within such a homogenously white campus en­vironment. "I know that I have to work extra hard. Every time I say something in class, I feel like it has to be well sup­ported," Hardy says. She adds, "When I present myself in public, I have to dress well and carry myself in a way that won't enforce stereotypes that others might have about me." 
For many black students, the all-hal­lo.wed Notre Dame experience eludes them. Gray finds it difficult to conform to certain Notre Dame traditions, specifi­cally that of dressing up as the typical, green-clad, Fightin' Irish-obsessed foot­ball fan. "Coming from the South, I was brought up in the football tradition of the Historically Black Colleges and Universi­ties, which is much different from what you get here," Gray says. Hardy agrees: "I think that I have the Notre Dame experience most ofall academically," she says. "In terms offootball games, football tradition, Irish Catholic and things like that, I d_on't relate to it because I'm from a whole different background," she adds. In addition to being racially and ethnically diverse, black students at Notre Dame of-

s_s_o_c_e_nt_r_a_lt_o_N_o_tr_e_D_am_e_,_an_d_h_e_h_a_s_a_t_e_n_a_r_e_re_l_ig_i_ou_s_ly_d_iv.,_e_rs_e_,_as_m_a_n_y_b_la_c_k_s__,
__1_· 
y 12 fCHOLASTJCCOVER-STORY 21 APRIL 2005 
!l \-/~ -~--J 
------y (, ,) r··--:-.) '--------\ (_) r-------..-,) '~--------'r· (_j r·--....J (,__ \

;-7----j ~--(j 
--i-1-=------~~~~------------~,-----~L-=-------=---=-----=---=-----=---=---=---=-----:,-!!l@@~c'Tuo~~=s§~©STORr~-----.-----.;.------~L-..=============---, 
~ 

in the student body are Protestant. Hardy community. "From my experience, when broken?" Outlaw says. Outlaw comments feels that many black students' religious a student buys into an ethnic group, that that, in several instances, she has seen 
~

. diversity increases their feelings of dis-becomes a platform from which they this attitude transformed by a student's \ connectedness at Notre Dame. "I think can then venture off into other areas experience while studying aboard. "Even 1 that [being from a diverse background] of involvement on campus," Moss says. the students who are most limited, once 
----does give you a different Notre Dam~ Chandra Johnson, assistant director of they go abroad and come back, it's like experience, because [my experience is-Cross-Cultural Ministry, firmly agrees the world has been opened up to them," 1r,, not] defined by dorm experience and by with this approach. "Involvement with a she says. 
( Masses, and [I] just don't feel the same cultural group builds a sense of ethnic Since her arrival at Notre Dame in '-..../ thing." pride and cultural pride. It strengthens 1991, Outlaw has witnessed what she As a result, black students such as the entire sense ofcommunity," Johnson calls a "paradigm shift" in the attitude Hardy and Gray embrace their relation-adds. Current senior class president Dar-of majority students, and she credits the ~---'"-ships with members of their own race and rell Scott, who is black and also a member student body as a whole for being moreIview cultural organizations and support of Wabruda, can attest to the accuracy involved in multicultural initiatives. "Be-groups as essen-fore this decade, you tial outlets for ex-might have had a stu­pression. "I would dent body president f,,_· 
definitely say that who was indifferent 
branching out about the subJ. ect. 
,,,.--­
' 

and participat-But they weren't the l 
) 

ing in multicul-ones that were really 
\ 

·­tural clubs and pushingthediversity organizations on issue and wanting to campus make me make a change," 
( 
\
feel most at home. Outlaw says. 
HI didn't do that, The push for di­I'd definitely feel versity awareness on very isolated and campus comes from misunderstood," a collaborative ef-Hardy says. Both fort between student Hardy and Gray CULTURAL DANCES FROM THE EAST Asian Allure 2004. government, MSPS, sing in the pre-Campus Ministry's dominantly black gospel choir "Voices of both statements. As a freshman, Scott Cross-Cultural Ministry and a diversity­of Faith." In addition to various creative walked on to the track team and believes training program headed by Moss. Start­outlets for expression, black men and that this experience prepared him for ing next year, student government will women each have their own support clubs, life at Notre Dame. "I think it's essential implement a Minority Affairs Commi.ttee known as Wabruda and Shades of Ebony, that you feel that you're a part of Notre to supplement the Diversity Committee, respectively (for more on Wabruda see which primarily focuses on promoting Amy Meyers's story on page 6). tolerance on matters ofrace, class, reli-
David Moss, Ph.D. is the assistant "I've talked to a number of indi-gious affiliation and sexual orientation. director for student affairs and the viduals who look at Notre Dame as Newly elected Student Body President faculty coordinator of Wabruda. As David Baron thinks that the committee 
an entity to be survived rather than 
an administrator who primarily han-will be highly beneficial for the campus 
en1·oyed."

dies black students' issues on campus, community. "We hope for the commit-Moss echoes several of the sentiments -David Moss, Ph.D., assistant director tee to be used as an active voice of the offered by Hardy and Gray. "I've talked of student affairs minority communities on matters to a number of individuals who look at such as minority recruitment, tenure Notre Dame as an entity to be survived ofminority faculty and the creation of rather than enjoyed. They understand the Dame in order to like Notre Dame," a diversity designation," Baron says. work of the alumni connections and all Scott adds. Moss' diversity-training program the things that will happen as a result of involves a two-day presentation that is having a Notre Dame diploma, but 'the BRIDGING THE GAP includedineachstudent'smandatorycon­actual experience itself doesn't reach the As the director of MSPS, Iris Outlaw temporary topics course, which is part of same level of euphoria that, say, a white attributes the controversial nature of the the freshman physical education require­middle-class white student might have campus debate on diversity to the makeup ment. Each year, approximately 100 stu­on campus," Moss says. He believes that of the student body. "A great deal of our dents apply for the position of diversity minority students first need to feel a sense students are homogeneous in their experi-educator, whose job it is to speak to the of community within their own ethnic ences, and I think that consequently that contemporary topics classes on issues of group before they are able to feel com-leads to them thinking that everything diversity both nation-and campus-wide. 
fortable within the larger Notre Dame is fine, so why change anything ifit's not From this pool, Moss selects a group of35 ) ( 
____________________________________z;;;;;;;=;:...._----!======;;;..--~(-d___) 
21 APRIL 2005 
sci°~:~CCOVER ::~tj 13 


diversity educators. Moss praises the work of the diversity educators, commenting, "It takes the issue of diversity out of the living room and places it into the class­room." Currently, Moss and students on the Campus Life Council are exploring new ways to give students more exposure to issues ofdiversity. "Right now it's lean­ing toward creating a series of courses in various departments that would meet a certain requirement, and then the student would have the option oftaking that par­ticular course," he says. 
BUMPS IN THE ROAD 

Notre Dame has experienced a substan­tial amount of difficulty in its attempts to compare its multicultural progress to that ofcomparable universities, especially because of the university's non-urban location of South Bend. According to Outlaw, "Most of the schools that are Catholic via Jesuit or Roman Catholic are in urban settings. So even when we look at benchmarking ourselves, we look at schools like Vanderbilt, Duke, Georgetown and Dartmouth." While Notre Dame differs in many ways from these academic institutions, comparisons · between Notre Dame and Dartmouth are beneficial in the sense that both institu­tions rank among the top 20 most selec­tive universities in the U.S. News and World Report's "America's Best Colleges." Additionally, both are located in non-ur­ban areas; have endowments well within $1 billion of one another (Dartmouth: $2.45 billion for 2003; Notre Dame: just 
. short of $3 billion for 2003); and have I been forced to coordinate sustained ef­/1 forts to increase minority enrollment.Joe UCassidy, the assistant dean ofstudent life . at Dartmouth, previously served as the director of student activities for Notre 
EXPRESSYOURSELF Students celebrate Filipino culture at Fiestang. 



SINGING PRAISES ON HIGH Voices of Faith Concert. 
pencil a little for me?' And sometimes we just can't," Cassidy says. 
Despite increasing levels of minority enroll­ment, Notre Dame cur­rently finds itself facing a difficult problem. As is traditional, the university tries to balance its duty of maintaining a rich Roman Catholic identity while striving to reserve a quarter of each incoming Dame from 1987-2000. "Within the past five years, both schools have made substantial strides in the area ofminority recruitment," Cassidy says. Both Notre Dame and Dartmouth provide a venue in the spring to attract promising students from either historically or socially disad­vantaged backgrounds. However, Dart­mouth's numbers exceed those of Notre Dame; for the 2003-2004 academic year, 27 percent of Dartmouth's students were minorities. Additionally, Dartmouth's Office of Pluralism and Leadership has separate advisors to address the needs of minority students. 
The drive to diversify that has con­sumed upper echelon schools like Dart­mouth and Notre Dame in recent years has created bidding wars between univer­sities for promising minority students. "If you look at institutions with the largest endowments, we're all putting more and more into financial aid, but this is mak­ing it harder to attract candidates. One school might make the student a better offer, and he or she will ask us, 'Can you sharpen your 
class for legacy students. Add this to the essential responsibility of maintaining a critical mass ofminority students who are mostly first-generation Darners. In past years, statistics have proven the difficul­ties inherent in maintaining this delicate balance. To its chagrin, Notre Dame is one of only three universities ranked in the top 20 ofthe U.S. News and World Re­port that does not also rank among the top 100 most diverse schools (the other two schools being Washington University in St. Louis and Vanderbilt). However, it is the hope ofthe university that its Catholic tradition will enhance rather than hin­der its ability to admit students from all backgrounds. Gil Martinez credits the Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., outgoing university president, with the basis for this concept. "In his particular administration, there was a focus where he felt that if we're really to be truly C_atholic, one of the things we need is to do what we can to give all segments of society an opportunity to become educated and then to educate once they leave," Martinez says. 
As a whole, the campus community is progressing with its goal of making the Notre Dame experience accessible to all those who wish to attend the university. Whether or not students choose to em­brace that experience is ultimately up to them and will come from their desire to make Notre Dame their own. Otherwise, for several minority students the motto will be, as Moss puts it, "It's better to be from Notre Dame than to be at Notre Dame." . 
. 14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORV-.··\ 
.,;;..;:_,,,;:,.:.J \ .:./ 



• 
Writers 

• 
Advertisers 

• 
Photographers 


~'''<"'"4~ Have thoughts or ideas? 
/~~

~\J\J~ Think about it over the,~ir~ summer, and stop by our 
t/!b!& J§J table at Student Activities ,:0c,,,2cc::2Jc,>~l• Night next fa 11. 
r: 
E-mail Scholastic for an application at scholast@nd.edu 
published since 1867 


bagels delivered to classes Big Wheels available fo1· racing quarter dogs for the Quarter 
Dog Eating Contest 
SUPPLIED BYALECWHITE 
760 
De-stress with the Best 

With impending exams and the stress of 
8

finding a summer job, many Notre Dame students desperately crave a late-semester break. Luckily, Student Union Board's (SUB) 
120 

AnTostal Festival, running from April 16-28, 
provides a much-needed respite from work. 
4 plasma TVs used throughout 

Supplying everything from Ken Jennings 
the weekend 

to carnivals to Cubs tickets, AnTostal is a procrastinator's dream. But remember, while 
I 5 0 0 seats available for The Walkmen concert at

you're chowing down at the Late Nite Grill, 

SUB is responsible for: 
Q&A 
With Notre Dame's o\¥n late-ni~~! ~o~t
1,r~';;t't"'' rc"J 
~M=.=,ke=····-1
~r J j 
Peterson 

His face bas been posted on walls around campus. His voice bas been 
broadcast across 
campus cable. His name is Mike Peterson, host ofNDtv's 
"The Mike Peterson Show," Notre Dame's only late-night variety show. Peterson, a sophomore staple ofNDtv, started the show earlier in the year and bas gone wild with idea, hosting the season-finale ofthe series in front ofa live audience at JVasbington Hall. Scholastic got the chance to sit down with Peterson and talk show biz. 
How long have you been working with NDtv? 
I've been working since the beginning of freshman year, when I just signed up at activities night. I'm now a sophomore, so it's going on two years. 
Have you been treated any differently since you began hosting the show? 
I've been recognized a couple of times, 
Legends, a substantial upgrade from the previous 
capacity of600 
[but] mostly just friends have come up to me, [shouting], "It's Mike Peterson from 'The Mike Peterson Show'!" But they al­ready know me, so they're just kidding. 
What has been your favorite moment 
from the season? 
My favorite moment was interviewing Sergeant Tim McCarthy. When we came up with the show last semester, we were sitting at a football game, and he came on. I love those ridiculous puns, and it's just so absurd, but it's so funny. I turned to my friend, and I said, "We have to get him; he's the guest we have to get." So then we finally got him for the season finale, which was just last Friday, [April 15], so that was pretty amazing. 
Who is your favorite late night host? Why? 
Jon Stewart of "The Daily Show" is by far my favorite. Out of the four or five major guys on the networks, it's Conan [O'Brien]. I'm kind of into politics as well. I really like how [Stewart] points out the absurdities in all of politics, and he's just got this deadpan stare that he uses in response to things that, on a news show, will be treated as really serious and really important. They'll show the clip 
of something and then it will cut back to him, and he'll have this deadpan stare. He completely brings out the absurdity and rips apart all these people on all sides of the political spectrum. 
Any big plans for next year? Just more of the same. Hopefully bigger 
shows, more live shows; but other than 
that, just more of the same hilarity. 
What are you studying and how do you balance all the schoolwork and activities? 
I'm an FIT and political science double major. It's definitely not easy. I guess I just don't sleep. It was pretty tight there for awhile. 
What else do you enjoy? · That's kind of an open-ended question. I'm doing what I love, I guess. I feel like I would be boring if I didn't come up with something else. I love Steelers football. I just love being here. I love being from Pittsburgh. But I'm doing what I love, so there's not much else that I need. 
-Regina Gesicki 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
21 APRIL 2005 


HUDDLEMart 


FOOD COURT 

NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICE 
CA 


Welcome, Gipplings, to this school year's final installment of "Campus Watch." But please, hold your applause -and your tears of painful separation -until the end ... 
The mud from the annual Scholastic vs. The Observer April Fools' mud-slinging fest has long been slung, so the Gipp won't say much about it ... except for this one subtle observation ... 
The discerning eye will catch some very slight similarities. 

SCHOLASTIC'S 2003 SARCASTIC  THE OBSERVER'S 2005 APRIL FOOLS' ISSUE  Take, for example, the giant Adidas logo superimposed on our very own Golden Dome (pre-scaffolding, of course). The  
coincidence is truly baffling. For now, the Gipp will just go with  
the old adage: Imitation is the highest form of flattery ...  
The Tipster of the Week Award is a no-brainer for this issue.  
Our loyal tipster of merit submitted a tale almost as boggling  
as the coincidence above ...  
A couple Saturdays ago, "Albert" stumbled back to his  
dorm room a bit run-down and weary from some late-night  
festivities. Albert insisted to his friends that he was fine, but  
apparently his stomach disagreed in the form of what our  
tipster calls "digestive fireworks" (quite a Gipp-worthy image,  
I have to say). A passing RA overheard Albert's esophageal  

eruptions and came in to have a little chat, but Albert kept insisting that everything was under control -all while calling the RA by the wrong name. Chalk it up to creativity, because Albert's imagination was in full effect. When one friend mentioned that someone in the room happened to be a reporter with The Observer, Albert was convinced a story was being written about him (it's not that bad, is it?) and demanded that he confiscate the nonexistent notepad. Albert's reality continued to flutter away as he grew alarmed, thinking he might have been intimate with another man that night. Still no word on if he actually had been, or if he is from Zahm, which would explain everything. Then, Albert's piece de resistance: Somehow, our hero became convinced, beyond any shadow of a doubt, that he had killed one of his friends with a machete. Albert could not be persuaded otherwise, and spent the night wondering how he acquired the weapon. To quote the man himself,"%&#$! Where did I get a machete?!" 
The Gipp noticed that the tipster never actually specified what left poor Albert, "less than sober," 'cause the Gipp has never seen a drunk kid do that. The Gipp is a little suspicious and asks that Albert and the tipster acquire more of this substance and bring it to him immediately for confiscation and inspection ... 
Speaking of illicit activity, the Gipp hears that a woman involved in "commercial trading" at the library had to be subdued by four NDSP after being "rude and quite impolite" with the library staff. The Gipp kind of hopes that "commercial trading" is something exciting and dangerous, but he doubts it. According to the tipster, the woman fought with NDSP for a good 20 minutes, was tasered while being escorted off campus and was slapped with a "no trespassing" order. So, next time those mean "cool kids" ask you why you're in the library instead of partying it up, be sure to tell them that the ole 'brary has some pretty darn wild times as well. You animal ... 
To wrap things up, the Gipp got several tips about the equally wild times at this semester'.s Sorin Society dinner, held for donors who give $1,000 or more ... . Apparently buses were used to take the members between on-campus locations, including from the Basjlica after a Mass to North Dining Hall. Yes, this is actually one of those rare times that it really takes longer to drive than to walk ..-. 
The Gipp hears that the lovely ladies of Harmonia also performed ,i"host of family friendly tunes, like "It's Raining Men," and high­culture hits, like "Livin' On A Prayer," for the esteemed donors. One of the tipsters who says he bought a copy of Bon Jovi's "Slippery When Wet" when it first came out on cassette (Don't worry, sir. I won't judge you.), described himself a,s being "delighted and appalled and confused all at the same time" upon hearing an old favorite. Here's a quandary: What did ND stuc:lents do pre-Bon Jovi??? 
Another tipster informed the Gipp that fog created by dry ice for a production of "The Laramie Project" set off smoke detectors, sending the play's mostly student audience and the donors, who were being entertained simultaneously in _theDPAC's concert hall, into the same frigid evening. Upon returning, the students were sure to help themselves to the modest treats set out for the donors, including asimple fair of bacon-wrapped scallops and lob.ster tempura. The Gipp hears the lobster received a four-star rating ... 
Well, the Gipp's never been one for teary goodbyes, so, in honor of our new pope, he'll just say auf wiedersehen. For the under­classmen, we'll see you next year for another fun-and-exciting go-round. For the seniors, go out in the world and make the Gipp proud. Uncle Gipp can't wait to hear about the stupid stuff you do as alumni. 

18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 21 APRIL 2005 


1,.1 i=-t'CJ-----------------------. 

Concert With a Cause 
Universityof. 

Glee Club holds benefit concert to help one of their own battling cancer 
CLAIRESOBZCAK 
he men's swim team shaved the'ir 
heads over two months ago for 
. the Big East championships. Their hair must have grown back by now. But walking around campus, an unusually high number of bald-headed students is still noticeable. Contrary to popular opin­ion, the men's swim team is not the only group on campus that can be identified by their shaved heads. The Glee Club also has adopted this ritual of male bonding and solidarity. But unlike the swimmers who go bald for their sport, the Glee Club members all recently shaved their heads in honor of one of their own, Cole Barker. 
Barker, a senior and dedicated Glee Club member, left school last November after he was diagnosed with a malignant brain tumor. Since then, Barker has spent six weeks at the Mayo" Clinic undergo­
. ing experimental radiation therapy, and he is currently receiving chemotherapy treatment in Sioux City, S.D., near his home in western Iowa. Recognizing their inability to alleviate the strain ofBarker's draining treatments and mounting hos­pital bills, the Glee Club officers wanted to find some way to help out their ailing friend. "Cole has been such a great friend to everyone in Glee Club. He is the kind of person who will go out of his way to make anyone welcome and comfortable. We knew we couldn't just sit around and 
T
do nothing while he is battling cancer," 
former Glee Club president Paul Sifuen­tes says. 
So-the Glee Club took action, and on April 10, the men had their chance to honor Barker and his family through a special performance entitled "Brothers in Song: A Benefit Concert 
for Coleman J. Barker." that is Notre Dame.
"We knew we
When asked how the I am still touched by officers came up with couldn't just sit around how much the com­the idea, Sifuentes says, munity has embraced
and do nothing while he 
"We have a gift in our the Barker family and music and our song, and i.s battling cancer:' treated Cole as their we wanted to use these own son." 
-Paul Sifuentes,
gifts to show Cole how Over 560 people much we appreci-attended the concert 
ate him and that we will always support him. A benefit concert in 
his name seemed like the perfect idea." Barker and his par­
ents, Nancy and Randy, attended the event, which 
featured a medley of Barker's favorite songs as well as cameo speeches by cancer survivors Deb Patterson and 
Paul McDowell. Also among the speakers was Dan Patterson, Barker's supervisor at 
South Dining Hall and personal friend. Deb Patterson and McDowell reflected 


HEALING THROUGH SONG The Glee Club bands together to support Cole Barker. 
on their experiences overcoming cancer, while Dan Patterson and Glee Club friends recounted stories oftheir favorite memories ofhim. Rudy Reyes, a graduate student and member ofthe Glee Club who helped organize the program, praised the performance, saying, "This event embodied the spirit 
at the Marie P. De­
pr~sident 
Bartolo Center for 
the Performing Arts, 
and monetary contri­
butions from dorms, 
families and other 
organizations around 
Notre Dame and South Bend totaled $10,000. A portion ofthe proceeds will be used to assist Barker's treatment, and the rest will be used to fund cancer awareness through the Americancer Soci­ety. Barker spoke at the end ofthe concert, thanking his friends and family, cracking a few jokes, and conducting the Glee Club in "Notre Dame, OurMother." The Glee Club members ended the production by giving Cole the bag ofhair that they had shaved off. "At least now we can all be bald together," Sifuentes says. 
Barker is currently at home and will soon complete his first chemo treatment. He plans to return to Notre Dame next fall to complete his senior year. Until then, the Barker family will continue their support oftheir son, with all the help that friends will offer. "The entire Barker family has been amazing through this whole process," Reyes says. "It has been a joy to be affiliated with such optimistic and hopeful people as the Barkers. The benefit was incredible, and I am honored to have been a part ofthe experience." . 

21 APRIL2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 19 





22 SCHOLASTJCCAMPUS LIFE 



Dave Matthews Band" 
posters, purple and 
black drapes, a "To­
kyo Express Landing 
Zone" sign and vases 
of fresh flowers, .all 
add to the room's warm 
atmosphere. 
All three girls are very vocal about their ideas on multiculturalism on cam­pus. "I know Notre Dame is striving to improve diversity on campus, but at the moment there is still much room for improvement," So says. In talking about the different cul­tural and ethnic groups that aim at sup­porting diversity, Munoz says, "It is great that people are so willing to support their cultures togeth~r, but I also think that it is important for non-minorities to realize that they need to also participate in cultural awareness. Otherwise we will never have a unified student body." 
As a Caucasian, Carqn is not a racial mi­nority at Notre Dame, but she too empha­

.. sizes the importance ofcultural openness at the university, as well as all over America: "I enjoy being from Canada, yet living here and getting to experience the blending of many cultures that America is known for," she says. "From an outsider's perspective, it looks like minorities here can be alienated and segregated, yet I now know that 
many people throughout this campus and country are dedicated to break­ing down those barriers." 
Caron, Munoz and So epito­mize the cultural openness that this university is striving to attain, and their humble abode represents their flair for multi­culturalism and unity. The girls have implemented their room as not only an expression of their cultural backgrounds, but also as a creative outlet that connects them despite -and because· of -their differences. D 

21 APRIL 2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 23 

''Picaresque'' Performers 
The Decemberists come of age 
SUPPLIED BY WVFI 
Artist: Decemberists Album: "Picaresque" 

Unlike the Decemberists' past work, "Picaresque" is the ba­roque triumph of a team. The 
singer-songwriter minimalism of the 

"5 Songs EP" is gone. What remains is frontman Colin Meloy's nostal­gia for the arcane underbelly of the seafaring era. This nos­talgia is the simple heart powering the album's complex body. And the Decemberists walk the tightrope of convolution like experts. Their smart, sprawling nar­ratives never fly apart into shaggy-dog bedlam. Their esoteric, lavish instru­mentation never bloats to cacophony. In the end, "Picaresque" is a rollicking, histrionic timewarp to a world belong­ing to Morrissey. 
·"The Infanta" opens the album literal­ly parading down memory lane. Double 
"Interpreter of Maladiest' 
By Jhumpa Lahiri _ 

Lahiri's remarkable Pulitzer Prize­winning collection of stories speaks to anyone who has ever felt like an out­sider, whether in a foreign country, in a valued relationship or even at home. Combining elements of both Indian and American culture, Lahid explores with insight the effects that the inevi­table changes of life have on relation­ships and the strength that enables us to adapt. The stories in "Interpreter of Maladies" are brilliant individually, but when read together provide the reader with a stunning view of the spectrum ofhuman emotion. 
-Regina Gesicki 
suicide gains a chamber-pop treatment in "We Both Go Down Together." On first listen, "The Sporting Life" sounds like Bowie fronting the Stooges, but it's really about a dimming star of track and :field. 
One of the strongest songs in the 
Decemberists' corpus, "The En­
gine Driver," tackles unre­
quited love with jangly, 
languid guitars, a 
weeping accordion 
line, feather-light 
vocal harmonies, and 
, l a nod to "Wichita Line­
/.man." Despite its Britpop 
f bounce, the weakest link 
'/is "16 Military Wives" for its 
limp-wristed, heavy-handed dose of dimestore liberalism. The extravagant nine-minute epic, "The Mariner's Revenge," tells the tale of a stepson's payback -in the belly of a whale, no less -ina rare style. Closing the album with "OfAngels and Angles," 
"Fear and Loat~ing in Las Vegas" Sy Hunter S. Thompson 
Since his suicide two months ago, Thompson's work has made a sudden return to the national consciousness. Four of the writer's books recently have shot into the Top 100 List at BarnesandNoble.com, with his 1971 classk "Fear and Loathing in Las Ve­gas" leading the way. A sardonic explo­ration of the American Dream, "Fear and Loathing" chronicles Thompson's drug-laden misadventures while on an article assignment in Las Vegas. This landmark work is a mind-bending read, gripping in its unique blend ofhalluci­nation and social commentary. 
~Mike Laskey 
// ' 
~/ ~ 
~ 
..... _,.=;;:,,._. ~ ~
·-,..·.-:,-,.,-c ....... 
*****
-CDREVIEW 
Meloy pen~ a short, guileless coda of 
mournful acoustic simplicity. 
The stories inMeloy's songs, removed 
from reality as they may be, traffic in the 
antique themes ofaffection unreturned, 
the yearning for fatherly approval, rav­
aged innocence, the pain of lovers 
parting and Republican war-monger­
ing. Bygone diction lightly peppers the 
songs without smothering them. The 
album is ironic in its tension, as it often 
alternates between dour substance and 
sugary style. Meloy's Dickensian rock is 
at once too self-aware, too poppy, too 
moping and too sincere to deserve the 
charge of precious, quasi-intellectual 
pretension. 
The Decemberists holed up for 
months in a musty Baptist church 
in Portland, Ore., emerging into the 
sunlight as a slick troupe -a glitter­
ing rock Gestalt -newly aware of its 
legion talents. "Picaresque" is exquisite 
testimony to the Decemberists' coming 
of age as a band. . 
"Invisible Monsters" 
By Chuck Palahniuk 
"Invisible.Monsters," the third novel by the nihilistic author of"Fight Club," once again demonstrates Palahniuk's talent for twisting words to create a wasteland of self-medication and self­hatred. Through a series ofchronologi­cal jumps, bitter sarcasm and a scathing perspective on modern vanity, "Invisible Monsters" tells the story of an aspiring model dealing with a freak accident that leaves her with half a face. This gruesome yet hilarious tale will ':!n­velop ·a reader all the way through to Palahniuk's requisite twist ending. 
~Doug Schlarman 
24 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
21 APRIL 2005 


-·····--~-~,..,,,..,.,.,..,.,,.,,..,....._.,.,....,,.,,..,.....,.,.,..,...,,.,.,.,.,,....,,,,.,,.,,...,..,..,.,,.........,.........,...,.,...,_,......,,.,,d!'· 
8}1i~~~ti4J

If the raucous screams and outlandish costumes of the first few rounds of Bookstore Basketball have not been enough to draw you courtside, the intensity of the final rounds certainly will inspire you to cheer on your favorite team. The semifinals will be held on Saturday, April 23, and the finals will take place on Sunday, April 24. Over 600 teams made up of Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross students, staff and faculty participate in this outdoor 5-on-5 tournament, the largest in the world. Channel your it's-almost-summer energy into cheering for the participants of this unique competition. 
MFrBta~ SI . s 

Head over to the Snite Museum ofArt before May 15 and check out the work of Notre Dame's very own artists in residence at the Annual BFA and MFA Candidate Thesis Exhibition. On display are their portfolios, which include cutting-edge multimedia works, installations, paintings, drawings, sculptures and samples of graphic design. The Snite is open Tuesdays and Wednesdays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and Sundays from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
8}/jj 

Are you still trying to recover from the emptiness that the end of the football season brought to your life? Give the sport that the rest of the world calls football a chance. To pass the time while you eagerly anticipate donning "The Shirt" and/or green paint, bring your friends to Alumni Field and support the No. 17/12 Notre Dame men's soccer team and the No. 1 women's soccer team on Friday, April 22. The women will 
face the full national team at 6 p.m., and the men will take on Mexico's highly touted under-17 squad at 8 p.m. 
@}/jicn~/(g 
Bored and itching for a rollicking good time? Drop by the Hesburgh Library, Coleman-Morse's study lounge, Bond Hall or virtually any other building on campus to see sleep­
deprived, shower-deficient, generally rundown Notre Dame 
students. "Reading Days" proves to be a biannual festival of fun, with everyone playing a part, even those who swore 
this semester would be different. Facilitated by the faculty, 
administration and procrastination, Notre Dame students will attempt the impossible and accept the challenge to cram four months into four days, united with the common goal of 
success! Make sure you're a part of this tradition. 
8}/i~
Have you bought or illegally downloaded all of the "Music from 'The O.C."' mixes? Do you religiously watch "The O.C." every Thursday night, not for the melodrama but for the 
music? Let go of that sell-out guilt and head to Legends for Irishpalooza 2005 on Saturday, April 23 for a live installment 
of quality Indie rock. The Walkmen, who made an appearance this season on "The O.C.," join Brooklyn-based, guitar-heavy Ambulance Ltd and alternative pop-rocker Michael Tolcher in closing out AnTostal. The doors open at 8 p.m., and the music 
begins at 9 p.m. 
:_Compiled by Regina Gesicki 
"The Moon is Down" 
By John Steinbeck 
Considered by many to be Steinbeck's most influential novel, "The Moon is Down" examines the effects of Nazi occupation on a small town in an un­named country. After a traitor leaves the town unprotected, a series of unfortu­nate events allows the Nazis to invade. Steinbeck describes how the town stood strong despite efforts by the German regime to bring an untimely end to the town's humble, coal-mining way of life. "The Moon is Down" depicts the Nazis as absent-minded and frail, giving hope to those nations that suffered under similar circumstances at the time. 
~Chris Meskill 
"Lighthousekeeping" By Jeanette Winterson 
A superb addition to Winterson's port­folio, "Lighthousekeeping" tells the tale of Silver, a young orphan who is forced to move in with Mr. Pew, the keeper of the Cape Wrath lighthouse. Pew, a sto­ryteller at heart, imparts the yarns ofhis long life on to Silver and, consequently, the reader. Pew's story of Babel Dark, a deceased preacher, develops in tandem with Silver's story, dichotomizing the darkness of Dark and the lightness of Silver. Winterson's novel tells of the two characters' parallel attempts to seek ful­fillment through love while stressing the value of living and telling one's story. 
~Mo Ertel 


21 APRIL 2005 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 

iSG:H0llASTIG ENTERTAINMENT."""·-----------------:------.J 
" -Musical 
elee 


ND's bands battle it out at Legends 
MIKELASKEY 
hile the University of Notre
W
Dame is renowned for many 
ofits unique characteristics, a flourishing student music scene is not one of them. With limited performance ven­ues and opportunities, South Bend is un­able to offer a supportive environment for student bands that college hubs like Bos­ton and Philadelphia provide. However, at AnTostal's Battle ofthe Bands, scheduled for Friday, April 22, at Legends, 10 ofthe university's own student acts will attempt to dispel the notion that there is no room for rock 'n' roll at Notre Dame. 
This year marks Notre Dame's Second Annual Battle of the Bands, the reincar­nation ofan event that the Student Union Board (SUB) dropped from its program­ming three years ago. This former event, entitled NAZZ, was held for 14 years before a lack of funding and dwindling interest led to its demise. Last year, the Notre Dame Class of2007 President Bill Andrichik, St. Mary's College and Holy Cross College came together to bring the Battle back to campus. Andrichik was a leading figure in the event's reintroduc­tion and is heading up the program's organizational efforts this 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 

year. "Before SUB discontinued the event, it used to take place at LaFor­tune and Legends, and it wasn't always the best attended," Andrichik says. Last year's Battle, which was held at the Stepan Center, was a relative success, but the new venue and a dramatically increased bud­get have heightened expectations for this year's show. "This year, our class decided to continue the event, and we were able to bring SUB back into the picture. We also talked to Legends, because we wanted to hold the event at its original location, which is a much better venue than Ste­pan," Andrichik says. "Last year, we had about 200 people there at any one time. This year, I wouldn't be surprised ifthere were between 300 and 400 people there at any point. It's a heavy programming week, but hopefully people will be able to stop by Legends some time between 6 
p.m. and midnight." 
With SUB's financial assistance and the availability of Legends' own sound equipment, the program's budget has essentially quadrupled in the past year, expanding from $3,000 to over $12,000. "The money we've come up with is going toward hospitality food for the bands and volunteers, tent rental and prizes for the winning bands. We're also bringing in a professional emcee from Indianapolis and have arranged for campus celebrity judges," Andrichik says. The Battle's winning band will receive $350 in prize money and their own show at Legends next year. The 
runner-up will win $150. 
With ample funds and an improved venue secured, the Battle's organizers set out to find 10 bands to fill the pro­gram. Posters advertising the event 
first appeared in March, precipitating the submission of audio samples from more than 20 bands. A panel of the event's organizers met and listened to the samples, ultimately picking 
their favorite 10. "We made our se­lection based on lyrics, musician­ship and overall feeling," Andrichik 
ROCKING OUT Bajawalla will fight for the title of ND's best band. 
says. "It should be really competitive for the top spots, as we had a tough time get­ting the list down even to 10." 
The bands clamoring for the top spots will have to contend with last year's cham­pion, as guitar-slinger Tom Schreck will take the stage in defense of his title. In last year's Battle, Schreck appeared solo, playing acoustic guitar and harmonica. Looking for a new sound, Schreck will be joined by four additional musicians this year to play what he refers to as "electric folk rock." 
"I wanted to do something different this year, so I had a bunch of my friends join me, and we formed a band," Schreck says. "We're recreating and reinterpret­ing some of the stuff that I've already recorded. It's a fun thing to do." 
While Schreck can frequently be found performing on campus, whether with the Glee Club or in solo shows at Reeker's, this year's Battle of the Bands will serve as an unusual opportunity for the musi­cian. "This is a bigger deal [than playing at Reeker's]. It's a chance for everyone who plays music on campus to see each other," Schreck says. "Not like it's an intense competition, but you still want to play your best." 
An English and music theory major, Schreck regards his music as more than a hobby. "[Music] is my life," he says. "I'm not even giving myself an option to do anything else [after graduation]. I'm just going to keep writing songs, and who knows where I'll end up." 
One of the bands seeking to knock Schreck from the top spot is Bajawalla, a group new to the Battle composed primarily of alumni. Peter Miller, the group's drummer and trumpet player, finds himself with Bajawalla after play­ing in a wide assortment ofother student bands during his four undergraduate years, often in the company of his cur­rent Bajawalla group mates. "Our music has evolved into a pretty eclectic mix of pop rock, surfer rock, soul, funk, R&B and hip-hop;'' Miller says. "We've been compared to Maroon 5, J ackJ ohnson and Jason Mraz, among others." 
· Like Schreck, Bajawalla has high hopes 
21 APRIL 2005 


1SGH0CA.STl6 ENTERTAINMENT i--------------------: 
for their future. "We sent out music to a bunch of record companies all over the country last year, and we heard back from a couple of people over winter break," Miller says. "The responses we received were kind of too late, as most of us ha~ started grad school or jobs. The pro­duction companies that were interested wanted us to drop what we were doing and move to Chicago. But we decided to wait until we had finished a year ofwhat we were doing, and then go to Chicago and play there all summer long. We'll evaluate our situation at the end of the summer." 
A four-year veteran ofthe Notre Dame music scene, Miller admits that finding opportunities to perform is often diffi­cult, as open venues on campus are almost impossible to get and South Bend does not cater particularly well to student bands. "As South Bend really isn't a college town, it's a little harder to move things off cam­pus. When we first started playing, a lot of bars weren't used to student groups performing there, as there weren't many groups that played off campus," Miller says. "But there are definitely places in South Bend that are very welcoming to student groups." 
Miller hopes the Battle will provide a valuable chance for campus bands to gain exposure. "I think a lot ofpeople will be surprised at how good some of these bands are," Miller says. "The Battle of the Bands gives campus bands that haven't been heard yet a chance to be heard." 
This year's Battle ofthe Bands also fea­tures bands that aren't looking to turn music into a career, but are groups of friends who simply enjoy play­ing together. Josam Scott, a five-piece cover band, is one of these groups. "We're really excited to play in the Battle of the Bands. It's one of the last times we'll get to play together, as most ofthe mem­bers of our band are graduating," sophomore drum­mer Karl Kosam says. "After this year, we're pretty much broken up, so we just want to go out with a bang." 

Performing everything from Led Zeppelin and Lynyrd Skynyrd classics to The Darkness' "I Believe in a Thing Called Love," Josam Scott has encoun­tered a good deal of popularity, often being featured at off-campus parties. "We've had a lot of success because we play songs that people know and can get into," Kosam says. "We don't play hard stuff or anything angry, and we have a lot fun. I think people get a kick out of that, especially at parties." 
No matter who emerges as the win­ner on Friday night, the Battle ofthe Bands should provide a refreshing look at the wide variety ofthe musi­cal talent that exists at Notre Dame. As Schreck simply puts it, "Anyone who complains that there's no music scene at Notre be there, because this is it." D 
BRINGING THE NOISE The Battle hopes to jump start Notre Dame's lagging music 
21 APRIL 2005 



iSGR0~SffilC J::NTERTAINMENI~-­

Logs from Abroad 
Three students share abroad experiences 
Z SARAHSOBCZAK 
0 
C 

Imagine living in the· heart of one of and biggest streets in London.z the world's most cosmopolitan cities, Every morning we walk 40 0 
..J completing your daily routine while minutes through London immersed in British culture, and then (or, depending on the events of the whimsically jetting off to Spain or the previous night, wake up later and take the Greek Islands for a weekend. Sound like · bus or tube) to reach the classroom build­a dream? It doesn't have to be. As a cur­ing, which is located right off ofTrafalgar rent student in the London Programme, I Square, one ofthe city's major landmarks. get to live this dream every day. Although Around the corner from the classroom I was nervous at first, living in London for building is the National Gallery, an the past four months has been the most enormous art museum with treasures exciting experience of my life. from Van Gogh, Monet and many oth­
Living abroad, I've had to adjust to ers. Within a few blocks are Buckingham some lifestyle changes. My housing Palace, West End Theatres, Parliament situation in London is definitely differ­and Piccadilly Circus. Needless to say, ent than in the dorms. All Notre Dame our location is prime, and there is always students live in one building, located just something to do. four blocks away from Madonna's house, London is a city that never sleeps, and I might add, and men's and women's flats countless pubs and clubs tempt you to go occupy the same floors. Every flat is out every night of the week. Unfortu­
equipped with a kitch-. nately, a pint of beer is generally around , en, and making dinner £3, which is nearly $6! Amidst all of the
i ..·· ' \ '· ·, ' 
:" every night has been excitement ofLondon, we somehow man­a major adventure age to fit in a full schedule ofclasses. Each 
'\ ;. • 1 
• in itself. Students student has to choose three one-credit live within a block fine arts classes that serve as a window of five pubs, and into the cultural mecca of London. · the flats are a 10-Undoubtedly, one ofthe best aspects of minute walk from being abroad are the many travel opportu­
· Oxford Street, nities. In the past three months, I've been one ofthe busiest to eight cities in seven different co:untries. 
<( SAMANTHARANERI 
studying in London this semester include skiing the Swiss Alps, traveling through the Greek Islands and witnessing the Pope's funeral in Rome. I will never forget going on the "Sound ofMusic" tour in Salzburg, being trapped in a mafia-run taxi in Bu­dapest, eating ta pas while overlooking the Mediterranean in Barcelona or relaxing on the roof of our hotel in Athens with the Acropolis behind us. 
This past semester in London has been a constant adventure. Although I will be broke and exhausted come May 18, when I return to the United States, living in London has been an amazing experience. I'll miss my daily walk down Bond Street, going to a play every week, weekend trips and, most importantly, the fabulous girls ofFlat 10. SamuelJohnson, a famed 18th­century poet, was right when he said, "If you are bored of London, you are bored of life." D 
..J 
co As the semester draws to a close, ::, w despite my full course load at 
a. the Universidad de Las Americas Puebla, I have thoroughly enjoyed my time in Mexico. Between camping in the mourttains among the "cascadas" (water­falls), traveling to the picturesque colo­nial city of Guanajuato, seeing 'ancient ruins and visiting an indigenous town, I've been able to experience countless aspects of Mexican life. When most people talk about their trips ~o Mexico, Cancun often is brought up as the ulti­mate spring break locale for its beauty and party scene. But compared to real Mexico, featuring locales like theYucatan peninsula and Playa del Carmen -the beach area a few miles away from Cancun 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
known for its sparkling clear water, white sandy beaches and hippie-trendy bars and lounges -Cancun's appeal is minimal. Who needs oozing crowds of spring breakers, skyscraper hotels and inflated pric;es when you can buy a one-liter pina colada for $6 in an even more beautiful area ofMexico? 
I love the versatility of Mexican life. One weekend I can relax on a fabulous, pristine beach, and the next weekend I can step out ofmy comfort zone and travel to the indigenous town ofCuetzalan, where the people still speak Nahuatl, the Aztec language. Mexican culture is simply alive, and there is a ceaseless amount of new experiences in which to take part. From taking a temazcal -a traditional Aztec sweat bath -to braving the wonderfully chaotic experience ofthe mercado on the weekend, th~ possibilities are endless. The _streets ofMexico are full of people selling everything from meat, fruit and vegetables to shoes, bracelets and an array ofTeat.her goods -all at amazing prices -and the travel opportunities are unimaginable. Many of my travels have brought me to the sites of such ancient ruins as Teotihuacan, Monte Alban and the Mayan ruins of Chichen Itza, where I was on the spring equinox. When you are just one of over 60,000 people from all over the world who come to receive the energy from a shadow phenomenon on the' main temple, visible only on the spring equinox, it's difficult not to feel 
21 APRIL 2005 


with them is almost up, I realize how attached I have become to my students, and they to me. I will miss singing our lesson songs with them in English, and I'll never forget how they would greet me with a thousand kisses on the cheek (the common greeting in Mexico) and asking me, "Maestra, maestra, how do you say this in English?" 
more importantly, I will return with a wealth of memories, new friends, fluency in a foreign language and an appreciation for the deep and diverse Mexican culture. D 


<( · MICHAELROSSMAN 
Q z <C C) ::)  W:en I told my friends that I would be studying in Uganda uring the 2004-2005 aca­demic year, they reacted with surprise. I  
was bombarded with questions of "Why  
Uganda?" but I had my reasons. I am an  
economics major, and wanted to study  
Ugandan economic development for a  
semester, taking a leave of absence to do  
so. The program is not offered through  
Notre Dame, and no one I know has had  
the opportunity to experience Ugandan  
life. I try my best to give a picture oflife in  
Uganda in e-mails to friends, but life here  
is so different that I often feel my efforts  
are inadequate.  
Experiencing Ugandan life can be  

• overwhelming at times, with so many new aspects ofa relatively unknown culture as­sailing me daily. I live with a host family, to which I have become very close, and my stay with them has proven to be one of the greatest and most constant ways I have been able to experience Ugandan life. Although they try to make me gain weight with the ridiculous amount of food they feed me, living with my family has been rewarding and constantly entertaining. My "siblings" know a lot about the Unit­
ed States, but their misconceptions about 
life in America can be rather humorous 
attimes. As ~idenced by my 14-year-old 

brother, who delights in bursting out into Britney Spears every now and then, there is no doubt that the American culture largely influences Ugandan life. My brother ex­emplifies how well people in Kampala, the city in which I'm based, know American music and movies. But there still are a number of cultural differences that have taken some time to adjust to. I have met quite a few Ugandan friends but still feel a little awkward when they hold my hand for long periods of time, which is completely normal here. Taking a class in one of the Ugandan languages has helped to break down barriers, and it's always amusing to see people's reactions to a mzungu (Cauca ­sian person) speaking their language. Even when I speak English, I find myself picking up many of the linguistic idiosyncrasies here and sounding more and more like a Ugandan. 
As great as living here has been, this semester has left me with far more ques­tions than answers. Although the absence of many material comforts that are com­monplace in America -toilet paper, refrigerators and more -has not been a problem, it has been difficult to see so many children in the rural areas who are malnourished. Visiting a woman who is near death because ofAIDS also was a try­ing experience. Exploring Rwanda, par­ticularly the Genocide Memorial Museum, also was an intense experience, as the worst actions ofhumanity were evidenced there. Additionally, it has been difficult to take classes concerning economic development, where we learn about the negative effects of handouts to impoverished people. I still have trouble resisting the countless students asking me for school fees, or the handicapped beggars on the street, know­ing there isn't the same economic safety net in Uganda that exists in America. 
Despite the difficulties of living in Uganda, it is a beautiful place, and I have been able to have a uniquely African experience; I mean, I have been nearly killed by a hippo and have come down with malaria. Addition­ally, there is so much cultural diversity in this one country, let alone the entire region or continent. Being here truly has been an educational experience in every way pos­sible, and it will certainly be an adjustment coming back to my beloved Bend. D immersed in the 
Mexican culture. 
Although the semester has flown by and I have little time left in Mexico, I plan to make the most of the next few weeks. This weekend I will be traveling to Taxco, the "silver city," as well as to Puerto Escondido, one of Mexico's few remaining areas of virgin beaches. And while I'll miss my intranational travels when I return to the United States, it is the town of Puebla that I will miss the most. Work takes up a portion of 

i~I.l;__RTAINMENt7 

my week, but nothing compares to the times I've been able to go out with my friends. Some of my favorite memories have been dancing and hanging out with friends from Notre Dame and Mexico until the bar closes down. With places ranging from the most fancy or "fresa" clubs to more casual bars that feature live music, there is no excuse to stay in 
at night.The Mexican nightlife is thriv­ing, and partaking in it is essential to the Mexican cukural experience. 
In the end, though, it is the Mexican people that have shaped my time abroad. I teach English at a public elementary school three days a week, where I have the opportunity to work with the children of Puebla. I teach classes ranging from second-to fifth-graders, and at a school that lacks the many educational resources Americans take for granted, my students appreciate that a "gringa" has come to teach them English. Now that my time 
21 APRIL 2005 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 

elcome to the first installment 
of"ND Zone". I hope you en­
joywhatnextyear's issues have in store. But for now, let's get right down to business. 
What better topic to start with than home sweet home -or, to be more specific, home court advantage? This edge that coaches and players alike crave has been known· to break perfect records and give teams that are going through a slump that desperately-needed confidence to make it to the end of the season. Think about the Notre Dame/ Boston College men's basketball game that took place only two months ago. The smug Eagles went home crying after a 68;..65 loss -their first of the season. Do I need to remind you of the Notre Dame/Michigan football game? The storming ofstudents onto the field speaks for itself. 
I experienced the effects ofhome court advantage more recently at the women's Big East Basketball Tournament. As part of the pep band, I waited outside of the Hartford Civic Center until the Rutgers/Villanova game ended. When the final horn sounded, ending the game, a girl in the Rutgers pep band came up to me and said, "You're Notre Dame, right? 
Please beat Connecticut. We can't beat them on their home court!" Curious, we walked into the Civic Center to find out exactly what she meant. Even with the Rutgers fans cheering for Notre Dame, our fans were outnumbered 10 to one. Our cheers were drowned out almost be­fore the game began. The rest is history -we lost to Connecticut, who ended up winning the Big East Championship 
over Rutgers. 
Now there is talk oftransforming the 
student section in the Joyce Center so 
that, instead of being bunched up in a 
small group at one end of the court, the 
students will be evenly spread out at the 
floor of the arena, right in the middle 
of the action. After all, other schools 
have their students as close to the ac­
tion as possible so they can cheer on 
their school. I _personally suppprt the 
potential change. 
However, there are many people who 
feel that home court advantage is noth­
ing but a widely spread superstition that 
increases the enthusfasm offans cheering 
for their team during a home game. For 
every example of the benefits of home 
court advantage, I can give you two other 
examples _of how home court advantage 
had little to no effect on the outcome of the game. In the first round of the Na­tional Invitation Tournament, our men's basketball team suffered a season-ending loss against Holy Cross, at the J.A.C.C. no less. In football, the losses to both Boston College and Pittsburgh in Notre Dame Stadium remain sources ofagony for students and fans alike. Plus, travel­ing hardly relinquishes the team's ability to win the game. Look at the 17-14 vic­tory against Tennessee in Knoxville; I can't say I've ever seen that much orange in my life, and yet the Irish somehow managed to come out victorious. 
So what's the big deal with home court advantage? Why is it still sought after and seen as the extra advantage over the other team? I guess that it's the thought that counts. When the athletes are at home, they know the fans will be with them until the end. Having an enthusi­astic group of cheering fans to pick you up w~en you are down can be one of the best confidence-boosters out there. When the home team is winning, the fans make sure the opponent feels fool­ish for ever being optimistic about the outcome of the contest. After realizing how dedicated their fans are, the home team will use their home court advantage to the fullest. . 

The Rant Box 
With a new Scholastic sports staff, changes will appear in the sports sec­tion, namely, the discontinuation of"Stat Zone." However, we have added a new col­umn to fill the gap. We bring you "The Rant Box." Here, you will get the chance to write in with your thoughts on a recent game. It doesn't matter ifyou're compli­menting, complaining or critiquing, as long as you have something to say. 
Here are a few examples for you to ponder over: 
Dear Scholastic Sports, The April 17 baseball game against UConn was awesome! Our boys are doing a great job with the clutch hits they keep on getting. I just wish we'd do a betterjob keeping our opponents from scoring. -John Smith 


30 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 21 APRIL 2005 · 

;;,SGH01:.ASTIGSPORTS7----------------------, 

I I HEYESON 
~~~FALL 

Nikki Westfall is a sophomore international business and business law major and a goalkeeper on the 2004 National Championship women's soccer team. This East season Westfall gained a starting position when fellow goalkeeper Erika Bohn was sidelined due to injury. She clocked 127 minutes of playing time and helped the Irish to a 6-0 record when she was in goal. 

What have you· learnedfrom your experiences this year? 
This year in particular has taught me all the different aspects that go into preparing for a game. Not only did we go through intense training to prepare us physically for the championship game, but we also met with our sports psychologist before every home game in the tournament to help prepare us mentally for the game as well. 
Ifyou couldplayany other sport, which one wouldyou play, and why? 
I would probably say basketball. I've always thought it was a fun sport. Some of us even go to the gym to shoot around on our days off. 
How did it feel to win the NCAA Women~ Soccer Championship? 
It was the most incrediNe feeling; I still don't think it has really sunk in yet. I am so happy for my team and so proud of them. Everybody worked so hard to get us to that point, and nobody deserved to win it more than us. 
Ifyou could be on a reali-ty television show, which one wouldyou choose and why? · 
Probably "Road Rules" because I would love to do some of the challenges they get to do. It seems like it would be a lot of fun. 
Do you have any pregame superstitions? 
Well, as a team we have specific, confidential songs we listen to and dance to before every game. Even when we're on the road, we pack speakers so we can have our pregame music. 
-Nicole Dorner 

,c.=.cc;~"''=~=c...c:.--"'-"11=2>..'c.,;;:rkl "'-'-"-~=-=""-(-"'..,J,~i' 
Our Calls 
Men's Baseball 
OPPONENT:VILLANOVA WHERE: FRANK ECK STADIUM WHEN: FRI, APRIL 22, 6:05 P.M. EST, 
SAT, APRILL 23, 3:05 P.M. EST SUN, APRIL 24. 12:05 P.M. EST 
With a 7-6 record in Big East play 
and coming off a losing series against Pittsburgh,Villanova is having a hard time keeping up with the conference. The Irish, on the other hand, are sitting on an 8-4 conference record and an I 1-3 record at home. The Irish will capitalize on Villanova's current troubles and take two out of three in the series. NICOLEDORNER 
SPORTS EDITOR 
The Irish have won six of their last seven games and they need to rely on timely hitting to continue their hot streak.The pitching staff could use all the support they can get, considering sophomore pitcher Jeff Manship may be out for the rest of the season with a finger injury.With a definite need to prove their post-season worth, I see the Irish sweeping the series against Villanova. 
MICHAELKIM 
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 
Key to the Game: 
AWELL-ROUNDED EFFORT The entire Irish lineup needs to step up for these three games, instead of relying solely on junior outfielder Cody Rizzo's hot streak at bat. The teams are pretty evenly matched, so the slightest of mishaps must be capitalized on by the Irish. If the Irish work as a team and everyone gives I 00 percent, they will rise above the Wildcats. 
Well, there you have it -you know what to do now. E-mail your thoughts to scholast@nd.edu, and they may be published in a future issue of Scholastic. We want to hear what you have to say! D 
Hey! I was really disappointed in the women's lacrosse game against Georgetown on April 
16. We need to make those goals count, instead ofjust shooting and hoping it goes in. Also, we need to work on our defense! They wouldn't have scored all those goals on us if our defense was playing as well as they can. -Jane Doe __ Dear Sports Edit01; The Ultimate Frisbee game with Villanova was intense! I'm glad we were able to take them down with only a few seconds left in the game. But I was thinking that ifthey were to be a little more aggressive with their throws and not just laterally pass the Frisbee between each ot!Je1; they would be so much bette1: Uli<'ll be the league's best in no time! -A huge Ultimate fan 
21 APRIL 2005 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 31 


s~t 
l 
Sp~f, 
MICHAELKIM 

The 76th annual Blue-Gold Game has been highly anticipated since the hiring of Head Coach Char­lie Weis (ND '78) and his all-star staff. Ticketsales have proven this, as 150 press box seats, 1,000 seats at a morning brunch with team members and 1,200 VIP seats all sold out in just over 24 hours. Irish football fans and students will get a firsthand look at the new offensive and defensive systems as they are implement­ed under simulated game-day conditions on Saturday, April 23, and speculations abound about the changes. Sophomore Brandon Reichardt from Morrissey Hall expects to see a more focused team. He also anticipates the reserve players who registered minimal playing time last sea­son to step up and take on more respon­sibility. "It should be fun and interesting 

PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT Sophomore quarterback Brady Quinn finishes out a play. Quinn is the expected starter for the 2005 season. 
to see all of the new ·coaches and what direction they have the team headed in," Reichardt adds. The game will serve as GAME 
. a great opportunity for players to show what they have learned in spring practices INFORMATION in a full-speed scrimmage. Startingposi­tions have yet to be announced, but this is not the only aspect of the Blue-Gold 76th Annual Blue-Gold Game that is still a work in progress. 
Game 
The game also serves as a training day for ushers in their yellow-clad jackets, 
When: Saturday, April 23, 2005 
giving them a glimpse of what they will face next fall. Cappy Gagnon (ND '66), Where: Notre Dame Stadium coordinator of stadium personnel, says Kickoff: I :35 p.m. EST 857 ushers hailing from 15 different states will be present for this year's game. When 
All proceeds benefit the
asked about possible attendance figures, 
scholarship fund of the Notre
Gagnon says, "I would not be surprised if the crowd exceeded 30,000, considering Dame Club of St.JosephValley the hype and forecast for good weather." 

The current record is 35,675, when For-.. ---------------------------------~ mer Head Coach Gerry Faust made his coaching debut in 1981. Zorich (ND '90) and Joe Theismann The Blue-Gold Game is a derivation (ND '71) to serve as honorary game ofthe original "Old-Timers Game," dat-coaches. Players will have the luxury of ing back to the days of Knute Rockne both interacting with proven winners in 1929. The original game featured and gaining valuable input to improve past Notre Dame football stars playing their play. against current varsity players. Over the Alumni have been eager to make the years, the game lost its novelty and in-pilgrimage back to their alma mater for terest when the varsity squad won 29 of the game, excited for the new direction of the 36 games, including the final three the football program.Ma1rfofthem use games, with scores of 72-0, 33-0 and this game to reunite with old friends and 39-0. The former players were unable to ·debate the team's chances-next fall. Jeff compete with.the youth and dexterity of Hunter (ND M.B.j\:: '93) :vvill be driv­.·. Irish players.· Ad.~itionally, NFL, teams -. : . ing from Troy, Ohio; tci :witni;:ss _the new ..· with.fori:ner Irish'players on their r~sters. ·.· ·cc:>aches in action;.He:also ~ill introduce ... . banned\hendrom playing-in the,Cgame: 4_is,three ~ons to Notie'Pame:·"I hope for fear of injury. A.reform was.made in · that all thi-ee learn to love Notre Dame 1968; when Ara Parseghian transformed · .like Ido;" 1:Iunter._says. Hunter's middle · the gai;ne into a scrimmage amongst the chHd,: Paxon, desp-erately .wants to play v_arsity'players. The format has b.een kept _football for t~e Irish: He hopes. to.meet ever since. . . . . .. -Tim Brown; His favorite player. While the This yea.r's Blue-Gold Game will c;all older generations of ~rish .fans come to · upon the spirit of the glory days ofIrish relive past glory, new generations ofirish 
• football, with Weis hoping to restore the supporters-will discover the tradition:·of team: with the spirited persona that-once .Notr.e bame football; . helped them garner national respect. In ~ven though the new season is five order to reconnect with this tradition, • months away for the Irish faithful, it 
·Weis invited former players Joe Montana ... feels as close as this Saturday. . (ND '78), Tim Brown (ND '87), Chris 
32 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 

21 APRIL2005 . 
¼SGP,,IOIIASTIC 


The Minority Report 
Student athletes demonstrate how Notre Dame sports break down racial barriers 
MICHAELKIM 

lations between minorities an=d on-minorities at Notre Dame 
ave been delicately maintained, 
especially in the athletic arena. The back­
lash of the firing ofNotre Dame football's 
Former Head Coach Tyrone Willingham 
aggravated this delicate balance, causing 
some minority athletes difficulty in ac­
climating to Notre Dame's fairly homog­
enous atmosphere. Despite this mounting 
racial tension, however, athletics can be 
one of the best ways for student athletes 
to develop genuine teamwork and camara­
derie, regardless of cultural barriers. 
Although it may be intimidating to be the only minority player on an all-white soccer team, senior forward Candace Chapman makes the task look easy. Chap­man grew up in Toronto, Canada as the child ofimmigrant parents from Trinidad · and Tobago. She has put a positive spin on being the only black female on the squad, saying, "It's nothing negative." Chapman adds, "We joke about me being the only minority on the team and also joke about 
[me] being Canadian as well." 
Freshman Jenny Shin, an up-and-com­
ing female rower, seconds Chapman's 
sentiments and feels that her Chinese 
descent does not impact her teammates' 
treatment of her. She feels that her fellow 
rowers embrace their cultural differences 
through humor, and she knows that they respect her enough to never cross the line when joking. "I'm sure that if I felt it was offensive, they would stop," Shin says. 
However, not all teasing at Notre Dame is good-natured. A particularly damaging stereotype is the presumption that all black students at the university are athletes. Se­nior hurdler on the track and field team Salim Nurudeen, as a black man, feels this stereotype carries deep implications. "This, to me, is the same as someone saying, 'African-Americans aren't smart enough to get into Notre Dame without athletics'," Nurudeen says. He emphasizes that these seemingly trivial assumptions severely damage race relations, especially at a university as homogenous as Notre Dame. 
Despite the much-criticized demograph­ics ofNotre Dame, many minority athletes feel the university adequately prepares them for a real-world setting. Nurudeen believes that Notre Dame's demographics echo the diversity found throughout the United States, feeling that it is necessary to experience this sort of environment in order to prepare for post-college life. "Af­rican Americans make up 10 percent ofthe population. In away, the situation prepares you for how it will be in the real world." Shin agrees and relates Notre Dame to her suburban Seattle home, finding many similarities between the two: "Many ofmy friends back home are not minorities, so I'm used to this setting," she says. 
Notre Dame's unique spirit of inclu­sion helps foster a family-like atmosphere throughout the entire campus, but for these minority athletes, entering into a team atmosphere is what has allowed them to turn this mission statement into a reality. Chapman admitted that she was intimi­dated when she first arrived on campus, but felt quickly embraced by the Notre Dame community through its various clubs, or­ganizations and especially her relationship with her teammates. "I think I maybe had an advantage because I was coming into a team atmosphere with girls I already knew I had to interact with, rather than coming here by myself as a regular student," Chap­man says. For Shin, it definitely made mak­ing friends easier. "It helped in the sense that I didn't have to go completely out of my way to find people to make friends," Shin says. "It was easier knowing that I at least had people I could talk to." 
The competitive nature ofNotre Dame athletics sometimes overshadows the personal side. One of the true marks of a successful team is the chemistry among its members, regardless of ethnic origin. Mi­norities may be in a precarious spotlight, but they are an important part of the life and legacy of Notre Dame. D 

WE ARETHE CHAMPIONS The members of the Notre Dame women's soccer team celebrate their 2004 National Championship. As one of the only minorities on the team, senior Candace Chapman (right of the plaque) felt that being a part of a sports team helped her adjust to Notre Dame. 

"SGH0liASTIG }PQB.T.:U-------------------­
Calling All Bookstore Ballers 
Annual basketball tournament displays the good, the bad and everything in-between 

NICOLEDORNER 

It is that time of year again for Notre Dame to host the 34th annual Book­store Basketball Tournament. As the world's largest 5-on-5 tourney, people from various parts of the university come out to support this long-standing tradition. Students, faculty and staff all participate in one of the three brackets: men, women and co-ed. They form a team of five members, give themselves a clever name and, in some cases, dress to fit their aliases. To get a closer look into Bookstore Basketball, Scholastic followed three teams through their first game. Each of the three have completely different styles and reasons for playing. So without fur­ther ado, here are the teams: 
Alpha Gamma Drunk 


Here's to a good time 
Bookstore Basketball's main purpose is to have fun with your friends and this team does just that. Alpha Gamma Drunk consists of five seniors: Wyetta Palmby, Molly Savage, Rachel Kemp, Natalie Bustamante and Karla Bell, and their number one fan, Liz Tran -who zoomed around the court on rollerblades cheering on her friends. 
Alpha Gamma Drunk is a small group of friends that started in 2002. It's mod­eled after a sorority-type environment, 
'i 
but the group does nqt bring in any new pledges. 
When they arrived, all five donned Los Angeles Lakers jerseys with Kobe Bryant's number on the back. When asked for a reason that they wore them, Palmby smiles and says, "We think [the jerseys] are hot!" At game time, however, they all took off the Lakers jerseys, reveal­ing their team shirt. 
fident, saying, "We're going to be awe­some in the women's league!" Hopefully this confidence will shine in their next game. 
Nothing But Nets 
Building Student-Teacher Bonds 
To some people, professors are those old people who you have to listen to as they drone on for three 
Before.the game, they hours a week. To others, "stretched" by break they are people that you 
"I wish they 
dancing at courtside. really want to get to know Kemp says, "We're not would stop at­better. What better way in this to win, but to have to do that than shoot
tacking me when
fun!" After a few more some hoops with them? break-dancing moves, I have the ball:' Meet Nothing But Nets, a they were ready to play team that consists of all basketball. clarinet players in Notre Their opponents were -Karla Bell, Dame's band, with se­The Blue Barracudas, led niors Kevin Leary, Erik
Alpha Gamma Drunk 
by Rich Dube. Unfortu­Smith, Emily Chaten and nately for the girls, the Adam Schilmoeller and 
Barracudas were there to win. Looking at the other team, Dube said, "We are going for the shutout. We'll probably win." 
Setting the pace, the Barracudas quickly jumped out in front. At the 11-point halftime, Alpha Gamma Drunk trailed by seven. During her halftime pep talk, Bustamante paused for a second and said, "How dare they take us seriously!" 
Empathizing with her 
teammate, Bell said, "I wish they would stop attacking me when l have the ball." The girls shared a few more en­couraging words before they went back on the court to play. This time, their opponents realized that they were just hav­ing fun and relented a bit. The Barracudas allowed each girl to score before the game ended with a score of21-11. 
Alpha Gamma Drunk 

U GOT A BAD DRAW (From left to right) Chris Devitt, Eric Laumann, took the loss in stride· Dan Stevenson, Brady Quinn, Scott Raridon and Chinedum Ndukwe. Bustamante was still con~ 
Assistant Band Director Emmett O'Leary. This is O'Leary's first year at Notre Dame, and reflecting on being approached about playing in Book­store Basketball, he says, "I was excited; I was feeling good. Now I just have to go out there and execute." 
The team was thrilled with O'Leary when he agreed to play. Smith considered him the "leader, motivator and mascot" of the team. The team they played was called 
Your Championship is Our First Round, 
captained by Steve Dias. This team had brought their own group of fans, all of whom were very impressed that the as­sistant director was playing. 
When the game began, the teams were very evenly matched, with almost no score left unanswered. Chaten attributed this performance to "switching to zone. It really helped us out." Finally, Your Championship took the lead at halftime with a score of 11-8. During the short break, O'Leary talked to the team, say­ing, "We're kind oflackluster right now; we really need to pick it up ifwe want to win. I'm really excited about a comeback though." After a few more encouraging words, they were ready to start the sec­


34 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 
21 APRIL 2005 
ond half. 
Nothing But Nets held their own with O'Leary making an over-the-shoulder basket in addition to great defense by everyone. In the end, however, Your Championship pulled away from Nothirfg But Nets and won with a final score of 21-14. 
After the game, the team still had high spirits, shown by Leary jokingly commenting that their next opponents should "cut the tall guy's legs off; he's too tall." When asked how it felt to play with a director, Schilmoeller said, "Itwas a great way to get to know a professor more personally by playing some basket­ball with them instead of just knowing them inside the classroom." 
O'Leary had a great time and said, "It's a great thing to get involved in. There's so many levels of enthusiasm here. I just wish it could've lasted longer." 
U GOTA BAD DRAW 
In it to win it 
There will always .be teams that are playing to win. Enter the No. I-seeded team in Bookstore Basketball -U GOT A BAD DRAW. The team consists of team captain Chinedum Ndukwe, along with Chris Devitt, Eric Laumann, Scott Raridon (who subbed for Ndukwe), Dan Stevenson and Brady Quinn. 
BADDRAWwears professional jerseys, as if they were an official team. Devitt says, "We wear the uniforms so that we not only look good, but so we also look and play like a team." On the backs of the jerseys, each player has a nickname of some sort: Devitt is the "Replacement," Laumann is the "Professor," Ndukwe is "God's Gift," Stevenson is "He Hate Me" and Quinn is "Pretty but Smooth." Ste­venson says, "The nicknames have spe­cial meaning. For mine, I'd gotten into a 

NOTHING BUT NETS (From left to right) Emily Chaten, Emmett O'Leary, Erik Smith,Adam Schilmoeller <!~d Kevin Leary. 
'i.SCHOl1ASTIG SPORTS~---------------~----, 
scuffle  in  last  
year's Bookstore  
tournament.  
People  were  
writing to  The  
Observer that I  
ruined the game,  
so I got booed a  
lot. I'm really just  
a peaceful person  
though."  
When  he  
asked  why  he  
isn't playing in  ,·  
the tournament,  
Ndukwe laughs and says, "They  . . :::: . . ~:_:  •-,­-··. '~~ :_ .'  
couldn't pay me  ..,___  ..~ \_•-,.~~-,s,=.~~--"'---~-'-"--'-~----~-~~~  

enough to play ALPHA GAMMA DRUNK (From left to right) Wyetta Palmby, Karla Bell, Rachel Kemp, Natalie Bustamente, Molly Savage and Liz Tran.
this game. Who knows though -Imight be back for a later game." In­as we have fun playing basketball, it'll be stead ofplaying, Ndukwe acts as a "coach" a great experience -win or lose." 
. 
to his team, shouting advice and cheering 
on his team when they needed it. 
BAD DRAW,the winner from last year's tournament, realizes that they have a lot to live up to. Laumann says, "There is a lot of pressure on us this year. We were ·all freshmen last year and didn't realize how big ofa deal Bookstore Basketball is here. Even so, we're still out to have some fun while shooting a few hoops." 
Their opponents, The Diamond Dick Podell Experience, led by their captain, John Rowlands, were not worried about the challenge. When asked about his thoughts on the game, Rowlands says, "We only have one goal; oust the No. 1 team." 
The game went very smoothly for BAD DRAW Dominating the competition with each member playing his A-game, they kept the opponent from ·making · important shots while ringing up their own baskets. Finally, the dust settled, and BAD DRAWcame out on top with a final score of 21-8. 
After the game, BAD DRAWgathered for a group huddle and congratulated each other. They also gave some comments on how they can improve for their next 
:.Top_10..
>> ·i~.· ·: 0: <:::: ,,t,anfNames</<·:'.
-··.':-< ·, -. -. . . . . . \:">>-·.·=­
.·.• :itis nameslike:1:hes~·tha{push .. :tlj:e'·hmna:n 11:nagt~a'.don\~o··· the· : iiiri:it (funo part:icular;ofcjer): :: . 
.. ··, . •' ·-. •· .· .; ' ·.··.·· ., ·. 
:.. ··•·<::•7.•_lmetrily/titµte:~Jfr~:?,.~:th~face~.~~f·; .. : 
· <·B~·Wehacfa~r~iti¥e:natri/o~:S~.:P~t's, but 
game. They left with smiles and a few 
::•.•:'.;/t\}•:~b~g~tl}~ef1J;t1fft}!·i\i\\::?.•.i..:\
jovial shoulder jabs, but they know thatit · will not always be this easy. Quinn says, "We have a long way to go for the cham­pionship. We just need to take things one 
)l,fJ;1!1Slit:~.
game at a time." Agreeing with Quinn, Laumann says, "We have some work to do, but as long 

21 APRIL 2005 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 35 



; 
'! 
;I 

LISTE -ING 
"Milk that's passed its deadline is the most fun I have these days:' 
-overheard student 

"Now onto why were dinosaurs so successful, and the classic question: Does size matter! According to the spam mail I've been . getting, it does:' -overheard history professor 
"Florida is where old people go to die." 

-English professor 
"I can't wait til we get to the top. I'm gonna give her a high five!" 
-Overheard construction worker ad­miring Mary on the Dome 
"Jasmine is totally hotter. With Ariel, it's all scales d_ownstairs:' 
-overheard student, debating the hotness of Disney characters 
Sunday, muddy Sunday: 
No, it's not"Swamp Thing"; these students were getting down and dirty at the mud volleyball tournament. These two truly have never looked sexier. 
36 SCH0LASTICHUMOR 
I00 Years Ago 
Fun with Botany Spring has sprung at Notre Dame and it is easy to see flowers blooming all around campus. However, it seems that in 1905, Scholastic writers were more concerned with a different type of flora -a species indigenous to a nearby all-female campus: 
"The consummate flower ofperfect maidenhood, the 'queen rose ofthe rosebud garden ofgirls,' is undoubtedly in this twentieth century the typical convent pupil, and one will be loathe to believe that there can be anywhere a more efficient or more successful staffofgardeners than the Sisters ofthe Holy Cross. These young ladies [. .. ] of St. Mary's Academy clothe their thought in [. .. ] a lucid, chaste and individual sryle." 
So if the greenery lately has you thinking about the birds and the bees and the flowers and the trees, you're not alone. Just remember, when searching out the most perfect flower, the best place to look is the convent. Be careful not to cross-pollinate. 
-Doug Schlarman 
21 APRIL2005 





JSGHl01:ASJ;IG HUMOWl----------------, 

Who--wears-shtlrt>shOr-ts:?.·-­
1do, that's who 
ERIKPOWERS 


In the spring a young man~ fancy lightly turns to thoughts oflove. 
-Lord Tennyson Alfred

Aglance around Notre Dame's campus makes Lord T&A appear correct. Since the temperature climbed above zero degrees centigrade, there has been in­creased holding ofhands -barehanded handholding ­which is much more sensuous than its mittened counterpart. And one can barely jog around the lakes without tripping over a balding pre-med student extending a ring toward a weeping girlfriend -which is peculiar, because in grade school I don't remember many girls romantically dreaming of growing up to be proposed to by a man kneeling in gravel and duck feces. I witnessed a more bizarre display of public affection walking on South Quad late one Monday night. A couple had eschewed the customary canoodling locations -such as a dimly lit dorm room with the stereo on and the roommate kicked out -for the cold, cracked, concrete front steps of South · Dining Hall. I only caught a snippet of their conversation, but I believe that it went something like this: (Shady Dude): You know, Brady Quinn might've stepped here today on his way to Grab 'n' Go. (Shady Dudette): Take me now! But this is not the norm. It appears that most springtime intergender relations are much more limited in scope. Or, rather, are limited to males scoping out the other gen­der. The men I talked with would not admit to having a fiancee or sharing the same side of a two-seat table in South Dining Hall, but spoke glow­ingly about a staple of this season's fashion: Daisy Dukes with "Irish'; written across the bum. "They're glorious," Phil McNicholas, who will be a Stan­ford resident assistant starting next fall, says. "I can observe the beauty that is a girl's backside with the excuse ofmaking sure that I, as a business major, still have the capability to read." Student Body President Dave Baron admitted to having two thoughts when walking behind a girl wearing such cloth­ing: "Ketchup" and "rubber shorts." It was unclear whether Baron was referring to ·a recipe for vulcanized barbeque or lewd impulses, but an inquiry produced no evidence of pend­ing cases in which he is accused ofsexual harassment. Interested in the impact of the shorts on gender relations, I pursued the matter further at its source: the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. I approached an apparel manager but, intimidated by her walkie talkie, official polo and excellent posture, I managed only one question before terminating the interview. "Could you_t~ll me where the washroom is?" I asked. 
"It's over your shoulder in that direction," she said, point­ing menacingly. 
Shortly thereafter, I mustered enough courage to inter­view another bookstore employee, coffee shop worker Emilie Kretschmar. 
"How many pairs of girls Irish shorts does the bookstore sell in a given day?" I asked. After a long pause, Kretschmar said, "This is an extreme guesstimate -on an average day, I'd say five to 10." 
"Do you notice any trends among the purchasers?" I asked. "I'd say the majority of purchasers are teenage girls with blonde hair," Kretschmar said. "Or sometimes brown." 
"Are you familiar with the fingertip rule?" I asked, wonder­ing in the meantime why redheads weren't buying the shorts. "Meaning your shorts must extend as long as your finger­tips?" Kretschmar replied. 
"Yes," I said. "It's a staple with many Catholic high 
schools. Would you say many graduates of Catho­
lic high schools attend Notre Dame?" 
"Yes, probably the majority," Kretschmar said 
while fidgeting. 
"Do you believe that these same students would 
assume that any item they would buy from a 
Catholic university's bookstore would be compli­
ant with the religion's draconic code of law?" 
"I think the bookstore should try to reinforce the 
principles.of the university," Kretschmar said. 
"Is it ethical for the university to sell shorts that 
do not comply with the fingertip rule?" I asked. 
"Is the fingertip rule in du Lac?" Kretschmar said. 
Indeed, the fingertip rule wasn't. Premarital sex? 
Banned. Carnivorous fish? Banned. Registered and unregistered firearms? Banned. But female clothing which induces the coveting ofcurrent neighbors' future wives is OK so long as the bookstore can charge $32 ·a pair, plus tax. Perhaps this kind of paradoxical behavior is to be expected from a university with a French name and an Irish mascot. 
But are the shorts to blame for the dysfunctional nature ofNotre Dame relationships? Did someone really become an unapproachable sex symbol upon donning a pair of "Irish Daisy Dukes"? I investigated by borrowing a pair from a female Scholastic employee. After putting them on, I made a number of discoveries: (1) I felt more like a flamingo than a sex symbol, and (2) my boxers stuck out the bottom. None­theless, I made a trip to the dining hall, winking eyes and shooting smiles at any girl that I passed. No one stopped to talk to me, although one girl held up her hand like she was talking on her cell phone ( even though it remained sticking out ofher pocket), and ifyou were walking by then and lis­tening, you would have assumed she was gesturing strangely but talking to me. 
Notre Dame gender relations can improve, but unfortu­nately, as I discovered, cross-dressing isn't the way to do it. . 

21 APRIL 2005 SCH0LASTICHUMOR 37 
TuE STUDENT AcTIVITIES Orr1cE SALUTES ITS 200~ INDIANA· (OLLEGIATE PRESS AssOCIATION AWARD WINNERS: 
Scholastic magazine -2005 News magazine of the Year Editors: Mike Borgia andAnnie Robinson 
Staff -Best editorial or essay, first place; best single issue, second place; best overall design, second place. Phil Hall -Best sports photo, first and second place; best news photo, first place; best photo essay, first place; best illustration, second place, best editorial or essay, second place; best feature photo, third place. Nick Kolman-Mandie -Best feature story, first and third place. Jennifer Osterhage -Best news story, first place. Chris Meskill and Mike Borgia -Best sports story, first place. Ryan Greenberg -Best informational graphic, second place; best cover design, third place. Lauren Wilcox, Annie Robinson and Jennifer Wadkins -Best in-depth story, second place. Beth Murphy -Best entertainment review, second place. David Redenbaugh -Best single story or story package design,.third place. Brenna Mannion -Best news photo, third place. Erik Powers -Best column, third place. Mike Borgia -Best news story, third place. Jim Ryan -Best in-depth story, third place. Tracy Evans -Best entertainment review, third place. 

Dome yearbook -runner-up, 2005 Div. I Yearbook of the Year 



Editor: Robyn Mandolini 
Tara Dane and Soquel Harding -Best album/portrait section, first place. Nicole Phillips -Best student life section, first place. Kristin Clark -Best organizations section, first place. Charles Kennedy -Best news event photo, first place. Staff -Best execution oftheme, second place, best overall design, second place. Beth Kopko -Best academics section, second place. Sarah Schneider -Best news event photo, second place; best sports photo, third place. Billy Gallagher -Best feature photo, second place. Veronica Rivero -Best sports section, third place. Moira Madden -Best special section, third place. 


Juggler magazine -runner-up 2005 Literary Magazine of the Year 
Editors: Liz Melly, Mercy Bachner-Reimer 
Meagan Call -Best hand-drawn illustration, first place. Mairead Case -Best short poem, first place. Mercy Bachner-Reimer -Best rhymed poem, first place. Liz Melly -Best short story, second place. Staff -Best single issue, second place. Design staff -Best overall design, second place. Ally Klutenkamper -Best photo illustration, second place. Design staff(Matthew Searle) -Best cover design, third place. 
;sG:HOU\STIC NEWS 

The Legacy ~f John Paul II 
R. SCOTTAPPLEBY ho could have predicted," a
W
non-Catholic political scientist 
from Harvard exclaimed, "that the world's leading advocate of religious 
freedom in the final decades of the 20th century would be the pope?" And a "conservative" Pole, at that! 
Yet defending the inalienable right to choose one's own beliefs and religious 
practices is part ofJohn Paul Il's formi­dable legacy to the world. No government or society can abrogate this right by coerc­
ing people to join a particular church or other religious body, or bypenalizing them 
ifthey choose to do so. Indeed, no church -including the "one, true Church," the Roman Catholic Church, according to 
John Paul and every other Catholic bishop 
-can justly collude with the state or any 
other civil authority to compel religious 
belief and practice. 
It was all the more astonishing that this teaching was proclaim~d for 26 years, to hundreds of millions of people in more than 100 nations, by the successor of men who had ordered and approved the persecution of heretics and insisted that 
religious freedom is a form of "madness." Anyone who paid attention to Karol 
Wojtlyla before he became the 263rd successor to St. Peter would have seen it coming. As archbishop ofKrakow, Wojtyla 
participated in the Second Vatican Council (1962-1965) and contributed significantly 
to the debate that produced the historic Declaration on Religious Freedom. 
The document's Latin title -"Dignita­tis Humane" -became the clarion call for John Paul Il's papacy. "Dignity," the qual­ity of spirit that emanates from our share in God's perfect goodness and eternal life, is the defining characteristic ofhumanity. 
21 APRIL 2005 
Possessing dignity is not dependent 
on one's race, religion, income, family background or on any other contin­gency; life alone carries it. Therefore, depriving individuals of basic human rights on such grounds is always un­just and the ability to discern one's path to God -the fundamental ex­pression of the radical freedom that 
accompanies human dignity-is the basic human right. 
John Paul II inhabited and de­veloped this teaching of Vatican II, which reversed centuries of Roman Catholic policy. Before John Paul Il's papacy, this doctrine stated that arightly ordered state must be Roman Catholic, with non-Catholics enjoy­ing rights or being deprived of them at the whim of Catholic authorities. 
JOHN PAUL II His profound influence will forever be John Paul II further explained that remembered. 
religious freedom is the path to true peace because it is the path to God. Peace and human flourishing are inseparable according to Catholic theology, and both require the freedom ofthe human person, 'Yhich finds its fulfillment in striving to­ward ultimate meaning, toward God. The · evils ofthe 20th century, the most perni­cious of which the pope had personally 
encountered in Nazism and Soviet state socialism, were rooted in the attempt to replace God with a totalitarian state. The results were carnage, the violation of hu­man dignity and the reduction ofhuman beings to objects-literally, in the case of the Holocaust. The rivals ofGod today are different and subtler, John Paul warned. They include the love of material goods, wealth and personal power. 
How do we fend off these "pseudo-re­ligions" of totalitarianism, consumerism and. materialism? By nudging the world and its governments toward policies and laws that promote, or at least do not inhibit, the quest for the true God. In such a world ofreligious competition for souls, Catholi­cism will take its chances; the Church need not be supported by the state, but it must not be restricted or persecuted ,by it (as in China, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and elsewhere). 

Not everyone warmed to the pope's mes­sage. For example, during a papal visit to India, some Hindu leaders accused him of using "religious freedom" as a justification for attempting to convert Indians to Ro­man Catholicism. And despite John Paul Il's path-breaking dialogues and prayers with other religions, he never wavered. on Catholicism's claim that Christ, and Christ alone, is the sole redeemer of hu­mankind. 
Yet one cannot appreciate John Paul Il's many remarkable achievements -not least, his inspiration ofPoland's Solidarity Movement, the labor union whose non­violent protests eventually destabilized the regime and triggered the collapse ofcom­munism in Eastern Europe -unless one understands the pivotal role ofhis defense of religious liberty in remaking both the church he inherited from the Second Vati­can Council, and the world he inherited from the enemies ofhuman freedom. No small feat for a "conservative" pope! . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 39 



POINT/COUNTERPOINT 
-~-·.-$ S P R I N G V I S I TAT I O N ~~;!i'zy~~
II!!!!!!!~--­

When I came to Spring Visitation, I ·. was not seriously considering coming to Notre Dame. I figured I would just get flown in to have a fun stay away from home. My expec­tations for Notre Dame were exceeded when I arrived on campus and consequently fell in love with the scho~l. I don't feel like I was tricked by Spring Vis; I think it provides an open, honest forum for prospective minority students. Spring Vis offers several outlets for questions, and the ad­ministration does not tell its Spring Vis student coordinators to lie to the prospective students. In fact, Spring Vis features a student-only forum, which allows current students to discuss all aspects ofthe university openly with the prospects. Student hosts, alumni and regular Notre Dame students all are available to_ a~swer questions. For this reason, the claim that Spring Vis 1s deceitful is without merit; it is likely that these ~~dents are angry with themselves for not capital­1zmg on the opportunities that are available for learning about diversity at Notre Dame. I feel like the weekend is a positive op­portunity for all minority students. I was able to establish friendships with students from across the nation, all ofwhom I could relate to when I arrived at campus as a student. When I visited, I felt like a part of the Notre Dame family because of the spirit ofwelcome shown to me. Every Notre Dame student I talked to wanted me to come to Notre Dame, and I still feel completely at home. So sure, I'm the only Asian in my seminar class, but what does that matter? I didn't expect anything differ­ent. Why do people complain about diversity when we as "diverse" students, have this great opportunity to sho; our heritages here, whereas at an extremely diverse school these demonstrations would seem ordinary? ' I was so moved by Spring Vis Weekend that I decided to volunteer this year. I was a student host for the weekend and part of the student forum. I answered all the questions tr~th­fully, and we even told the prospects that the weekend does not represent the typical Notre Dame weekend, nor does it reflect the cultural diversity at Notre Dame. Spring Visitation is a profound experience that can be the start to a wonderful journey at Notre Dame. I can say honestly that I still feel that this is the place where I belong, and I, as a multicultural student am an integral part of the Notre Dame family. D 
40 SCH0LASTICCOUNTERPOINT 
Iattended Spring Visitation weekend two years ago. fortunately, when I actu~lly arrived at Notre Dame a enrolled student, I experienced a rude awakening. Tb 
my story, and this is why I think Spring Vis is not at all it is hyped up to be. 
When a prospective student arrives at Notre Dame Spring Vis, he or she is treated to a short video depicting, it is like to be a minority studentat Notre Dame. Ofcoun shows a completely positive family atmosphere. This is wl first noticed something was wrong. Although there see to be many different minority and white students ir separate sequences, the black girl in the video always the same person. It was as if they coul find any other black students to take pa1 
the obviously staged video. 
True diversity involves member · every different demographic w, ing and functioning toget . This is not the case at Spring . because on this weekend, there ar white prospects taking part in the evE only the minorities. In fact, not even minority students are in a truly diverse envii ment, as they are split into different sub-grc for lunch. I felt that the weekend was exception patronizing. The fact that the D:niversity simplywoul, 
to _the stud:nts abo~twhat it is like to be a minority stu< at t~1s school is appallmg. When asked how much ofan imJ ~arietals, race relations, the dating and party scene, acade life and other things had on minorities at Notre Dame, m of the student coordinators would tell strained stories minimized the negative aspects ofstudent life. Although might seem like ''good salesmanship," it is a condescenc and dishonest tactic. No student, regardless ofhis or her r wants _to be fed lies; we ~11 deserve an honest and real reJ sent~t10n ofour pros~ect1ve school. Unfortunately, Spring provides a skewed view of ni.ost elements of this univer: 
If race relations or campus diversity are ever to impr, · reforming Spring Visitation weekend would be the• step in the right direction. 


Un­.s an Lis is that 
: for ;vhat ,e, it .. Len I med 1 the . 
was 
ldn't · 
~tin 
'.S of ork­
her. . · Vis, eno ,·. :nts, 
the ron­mps Lally dlie :lent pact :mic Lany• that this · 
ling. ace, Jre­·Vis sity. ove, first 
. 





