


news 05 
05 Easy Being Green 
\JD\ \~) ;fd:-1
l 
Molly Slavin 
Web sites offer information that helps students recycle, both on and off campus. 
16 Cover: Looking for Trouble 
Daric Snyder 
Students may feel like sitting ducks for crime, but does their behavior make them easy targets? 


13 ·culture 
14 Home Away from the Dome 
Meagan McGinley 
Scholastic reviews many of the options for students looking to live away from the dorms. 
20 Campus Chatter: Jesus Cab Jen Wulf 
A reporter rides along with the man who drives the Jesus cab, bringing people home safely while living the love of Christ. 

s orts 25 
27 The Other Football's Four Horsemen 
Brittany Lash 
Four key players keep Notre Dame tradition alive on the women's soccer team. 

32 humor 
35 Choose Your Own Night 
Maddy Zollo 
In the tradition ofchoose-your-own-adventure stories, readers can pick from multiple options to make a noteworthy night. . SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 I 1 


EDNOT 


CHANGE IS GOOD 
"\i\Then my co-editor Doug and I proposed a full redesign of the magazine at the annual campus media retreat in August, the eight seniors on staff shot us some hesitant looks. 
"You want to change it? All of it? Again?" was the general response. I can't say I blamed them. Since my freshman year, the magazine had already undergone two facelifts, each of which required a substantial recovery period on the part of the designers. Even Michael Jackson would find us excessive. Or masochistic. Or at least confused. 
But despite these initial reservations from the staff and, frankly, ourselves, Doug and I tried to stay positive. We are not having an identity crisis, we told ourselves. Change is good. And change to color is about as exciting as it gets for a student magazine that has been full of black and white photos for 140 years. 
The entire staff very quickly embraced our technicolored dream, and we began the design overhaul in the midst ofthe annual move-in confusion. Our aim was an edgier, younger look that better represented our collegiate readership. 

AN OPEN MIND 
This inaugural issue of the 2007-2008 Scholastic also supports another change ­
a change in perspective. We are only two weeks into the school year, and already many students have found themselves victims of crime off campus. So when news editor Daric Snyder approached us with his idea to investigate student security in South Bend's northeast neighborhood, we expected to read about the city's dangerous crime rate. Instead, Daric reports that overall crime in the area has actually been on the decline. It is only during the few weeks at the beginning and end of the school year that students are more likely to find themselves victims of theft and burglary. 
Surprised? We were too. 
This evidence suggests that the solution to the recent town-gown tensions begins with a change in attitude. Students need to consider what makes them vulnerable to crime during this time ofyear -partying excessively, leaving valuables in plain sight, and antagonizing neighbors -and work to improve the situation. 
Scholastic wishes you a safe and colorful start to the academic year. 

Amy Meyers Doug Schlarman Co-Editor in Chief Co-Editor in Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 

Viait·the
~ 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN




STUDENTS 
and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Bautista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources-in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu 


Easy Being Green 
Web sites help students recycle 
Molly Slavin
'Gogreen!" is the ubiquitous battle cry, but what is Notre Dame· doing about the current environmental craze? Two campus groups, Students for Environmental Action (SEA) and Recyclin' 
Irish, are dedicated to encouraging both students and the university to continue to improve their commitment to the recycling program. 
Every dorm room on Notre Dame's campus is supposed to include a small blue bin for personal use, and each hall has large bins to collect the recycling from the smaller receptacles. SEA's Web site offers a detailed explanation of how to correctly prepare items for recycling in the dorm room. The Web site also notes that the recycling facility these items are taken to has little opportunity to sort the objects once they are there, so they stress the importance of putting the items in their respective correct bins. 
Notre Dame's Web site http://green.nd.edu/recycling.shtml offers statistics on how the recycling program has grown since its inauguration in 1990. The percentage of tons of waste recycled has grown, with 9.65 percent being recycled in 1992-1993, up to an all-time high of 62.13 percent in 2003-2004, and with the total for 2005-2006 (the last year available) standing at 59.05 percent. 
However, there is always room for improvement. "The main problem is education, since most students don't know what is recyclable and where it goes, so we're trying to teach students what can be recycled and where to put it," says Thomas Furlong, the co-president of SEA. "The university is thinking about going to single-stream recycling, which means everything is put into one bin and sorted by a contractor." 
For students who live off campus, St. Joseph County offers the opportunity to recycle to all residents for only $1.97 a month. Both Recyclin' Irish and SEA's Web sites present tips on how off-campus students can recycle. Recyclin' Irish has a map oflocal recycling centers, and SEA provides a basic history of the recycling program in South Bend and explains how to set up this service. Tenants must simply check with their landlords before they contact the recycling center to set up the curbside service. 
Even with student and university initiatives, progress can only be made by individual awareness and efforts. By striving to consistently ·recycle, encouraging fellow students, and checking to see that dorm recycling is maintained, students can take an active role in campus environmental efforts. + 
For more information, check out SEA's Web site http://www.nd.edu/~sea/ Recycle.html, or Recyclin' Irish's http://www.nd.edu/~ndrcycle/. Aftr checking in with landlords, tenants must contact TVaste Management at (574)299-0500 to receive an information packet on what can and cannot be recycled. 
SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 I 5 

NEWS 
Expensive course packets cause sticker shock 
for students and faculty 
Eric Gomez 
Film professor Christine Becker is perplexed. As a member of the Film, Television, and Theatre =::::::;::1't:n:c:1t;:k:°/J!!J!::::t:r:·:::;:::::L:;
.. . . . ,·· . . .. -· . -. ·. -. . . .... •, . 
submitti~g her course packet re~ding list to the College ofArts and Letters with the :ConfideJce that the university copy centers·would·handle_ the rest...The mostOshe .had·to w~rry about ·in years past '!})_~re delays .in cours~packet prinfi~gs and telling students whethe~ to pi;k up the.~~;ackets in the.LaF'oriuke ·student Center or the Decio Faculty Hall. ··. 
She wis not pr~paredfo~whatsh~ w~uld rec~ive ibis year aft;r submitting her usual cours~ pack~t requests; e-mails informing her that the c~sts ofmany ~jher requests had at least doubled in pric/ The on&.outwardly 
' . . ,. ·,:, .. 
discernible difference between thisyear and last is that in the wake ofa c~ntroversial ~losing ofthe Copy Shop in LaFortune, the university hastightened its copyrightpo/iry and is noW distributingl'.ourse packets in a new exclusive partnership with the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore.· 
' 
\ 
\ \ 
' -··-·------·:•~---:--~_..., ....~_.... .. • .. \ •, --; . 
>'--.. 
. --:----... 

NEWS 
Much ofthe material Becker has worked 
with in the past has come in the form of 
course packets. No copy shop Becker 
frequented had charged her copyright 
fees, and coming to Notre Dame in 2001 
proved no different. Working primariby 
through the independently owned copy 
shop in Lafortune until its recent closing, 
Becker had never had a problem with 
course packet pricing until this semester. 
The most dramatic increase was in her 
FTT 301 History of Film I course packet 
whose sticker was raised 57 dollars due to 
new copyright pricing. That brought her 
18-article packet's price from 20 to nearly 
80 dollars. One article alone was quoted 
at adding 11.32 dollars of copyright cost 
to the packet, an expense she couldn't 
justify handing down to students already 
paying upwards of 15,000 dollars in 
tuition per semester. Despite the valuable 
contribution it would have made to her 
course material, she had to drop it from 
her course. "I find it hard to tell my 
students, 'All thirty ofyou need to give me 
$11.32 for one article,' without being able 
to explain the rationale behind it." 
Historically, course packets have offered 
a variety of advantages to the professors 
who use them in lieu of textbooks. The 
ability to choose which specific articles 
their class will read over the course ofthe 
semester gives professors editorial control 
over their classes' reading material, 
allowing them the freedom to specifically 
tailor their course material to the class 
itself. Though this enhances the overall 
academic experience, some courses 
require course packet materials merely 
because the course is not taught anywhere 
else or is taught so rarely that no textbooks 
exist on the subject. Such classes are 
becoming more common, particularly as 
more upper and graduate level courses 
with titles such as "Witchcraft and Magic 
in the Contemporary World" and "Media 
Stardom and Celebrity Culture" appear at 
Notre Dame. In addition, course packet 
materials are igenerally significantly 
cheaper than textbooks. 
Becker's concerns with the higher 
costs of course packets reflects a larger frustration among Notre Dame faculty and students with the situation as it stands. College of Arts and Letters Dean Mark Roche says, "There is clear faculty recognition that there was a price change. Faculty are always supportive · of lower costs because they are sensitive to the costs passed down to students." To remedy the issue, he has already 
announced the convening ofa committee whose purpose is to determine how new copyright policy and complaints over the rising costs ofpackets can be reconciled. He does, however, believe that some faculty are mistaken in thinking that the bookstore selling course packets is the only factor behind rising prices. The surprise many professors feel, Roche says, "could possibly be ascribed to sticker shock on the part of faculty who might not know the actual price of copyrighted material." Roche contends that the recent clarification in copyright policy is what is actually behind the course packets' higher costs. 
On a sleepy corner ofthird floor offices in O'Shaughnessy Hall lies the central hub ofcourse packet production. The internal Design, Copy and Logistic Services are still responsible for the production and packaging of most course packets but are now additionally responsible for obtaining copyright clearances for every text they copy. After confirming the prices with professors and obtaining the clearances, they produce the material and pass on the packets to the bookstore for wider distribution. Copyright clearance fees are generally set by publishers and vary dramatically. 
While some individual authors maintain control over their own copyrights, most . published material has the copyright turned over to the publisher. Robert Becht, the Arts and Letters director for budgets and operations describes the process as largely facilitated through the Internet. "Copyright clearances are available instantaneously online, probably about 75 percent of our copyrights are done that way. You can also go to individual publishers or clearinghouses to obtain copyrights," Becht says. Neither he nor Roche, however, is aware of an acting body that enforces academic copyright infringement, stressing that the sometimes exorbitant copyright fees being passed down are originating at the publishing level. "The packets would have become more expensive no matter what. It is a consequence ofdoing business today," Roche says. 
Professors are not as clueless on copyright policies and the publishing industry as some would suggest. Most professors work in disciplines that require publication in order to advance and apply for tenure. They are aware that publishers who produce their work need money in order to stay in business, and in some cases are actually the direct beneficiaries of collected copyright fees. The cases in which authors make money from copyright clearances are actually more rare than many think. Becker describes the process in saying, "You get royalties on books, but as far as I know, people who write articles for journals and anthologies don't get money for that. It is essential for establishing a reputation in the field, and publishing is part of our salaried duties, but we are not often compensated beyond that." Roche reiterates the realties of publishing as an academic from his many years of experiences as a scholar and professor. "I'm going to give you a ball park figure," he says. "90 percent of faculty members don't make any truly 
I' 
substantial profit from their publications. They do it for the intrinsic value of sharing the knowledge. I can't recall encountering a faculty member who could retire on royalties." 
Therealities ofthe publishing world still leave i:nany more questions unanswered for the students who now have to pay more for course packet materials and the professors who often feel guilty passing these prices on. Roche emphasizes that the committee will try to guide faculty members so they can make appropriate judgments in selecting course material in light of the costs to students. Yet it may still be valuable to ask: Should professors at one ofthe nation's top universities have to determine course material based on any criteria other than intrinsic academic value? 
Anthropology Chair James McKenna recognizes the problem of putting a price on academic resources by noting that given the essentiality of course packets for a variety of professors, "It will be quite a change, and a detriment to our students if we are forced by way of exorbitant, if not outrageous, total costs and mark-ups to cease their use." For many professors actively involved in the publishing world, it also remains unclear as to who is profiting from new stricter copyright clearance polides such as those at Notre Dame. "The question I and many professors asks ourselves," Becker says, "is 'Where is this money going?' That is something I, and I think a lot ofother published academics, would like to know." It is a question whose answer might leave many people with that familiar feeling of surprise as the credits roll. + 
SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 I7 
NEWS 
FROSH·O The Class of 2011 is the most impressive LAFORTUNE NIGHT Lafortune kicked off the year ART BEAT On Sept. 6, more than 300 artists filled incoming class in the university's history, with the average with an open house, featuring free food, musical South Bend's streets and sidewalks with color and student sporting a 1390 SAT score. performances and prize giveaways. creativity for th_e city's 5th annual Art Beat. 
Crepes at NDH. The 
best place to eat your feelings. 
Notre Dame Football. 
Just look forward to the Duke game, I guess. 
Campus sprinklers. At this point it's basically performance art. 
Spencer from "The Hills." You have no discernable talent and you look like a turnip. Hush. 
8 I SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 




Holy Moreau 
ND founder takes step toward sainthood 
Mike Laskey
The Venerable Basil Anthony Moreau, C.S.C., founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, will be beatified in Le Mans, France, on September 15. Beatification will bring Moreau closer to being 
officially proclaimed a saint in the Roman Catholic Church. 
The Rev. Peter McCormick, C.S.C., is one of the newest ordained members of the Congregation of Holy Cross. McCormick is the rector of Keough Hall and the director of Campus Ministry's Freshman Retreat program. He sat down with Scholastic to talk about Father Moreau's life and legacy. 
What about Father Moreau stands out to you? 
Moreau founded Holy Cross after the French Revolution, when the school systems were decimated and the church was struggling in many ways. He recognized those needs and founded Holy Cross out of that desire to serve God's people. So for me today, my hope and prayer is to have that same type of zeal. 
What most attracted you to the Congregation 
of Holy Cross? 
From a ministerial perspective, Holy Cross is a diverse community. We work in Africa, Chile, the United States and elsewhere. We work in parishes, universities and homeless centers. The opportunity to work in those diverse ways under one brotherhood really inspired me. 
How does that diverse work continue Father Moreau's mission? 
In Father Moreau's early days, he sent his young religious all over the globe, even when he did not have that many to be sending. We, as a community now, strive for that very same thing: to simply meet the needs of the Church. + 

NEWS 


THE SHOW Lupe Fiasco, rising rap star  PEP RALLY A limited number of Georgia Tech  SUBWAY GUY Jared Fogle, the Subway spokesman who  
and devout Muslim, performed at the Joyce  pep rally tickets caused officials to turn away  lost 300 pounds on a diet of the restaurant's sandwiches,  
Center Friday to open The Show 2007.  eager fans ready to cheer on the Irish.  appeared at the Notre Dame-Penn State game.  


·Don't Hold It In 
passiveaggressivenotes.com gives people a chance to air their dirty laundry 
Lisa Schultz 
Was yesterday's post-it from your roommate seeping sarcasm? Annoyance? Hatred? Share it with the world on passiveaggressivenotes.com, a blog dedicated to sharing memos "from roommates, neighbors, coworkers and strangers." The invitation for perturbed people to air their dirty laundry guarantees hilarity. For example, here's a pair of notes from September 1: 
"Don't put your rotting donair pizza in the composter!! From: The Vegan" 
"Where else is it supposed to go, soylover? PS bacon is life" 
If you seek guidelines for what qualifies as passive-aggressive, click the WTF? link at the top of the homepage. Pretty much anything written with a tone of frustration is welcome. Keep in mind, however, that content with conflict is best so people can take sides in their comments. Think Team Vegan vs. Team Bacon (and then those moderate Team Tolerance commenters) and relate it to your own dorm room drama. + 
Ways to ease the "back to school" transition 

Spend at least IO hours a week in Fun Tan to fight the South Bend blues. 

Decorate your dorm room in Hello Kitty gear to look like your childhood abode. 

Sleep until noon, skip your classes, and carry one book to appear studious. 

Just eat. A lot. It helps. 

Call your rector "mommy" to create a familial bond. 
SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 I 9 
Notre Dame students have riseri{~p i11anger,:6t~f;;;;;t{fit{ ~~:~~Ie~!:~;~p~~~~~1~~,r~:~~J1t~t1s~~ff~;~ 
created to fight the city coundl's actions;boasts1norethfi11"{l1(\ 2,300 members. It is obvious that theirish fedin s9mef~y,:f?:;L victimized by the greater South .Bend. co1mnunjry.. YVe:ii'~t;j}i: being targeted. We are being fined. We musffight l:iag:X ·••·•• :· 
These thoughts are not completely without n1er,i'.t,I11.i?.a§f/)i,Il{; years, starting with the original off-campus dis9rq_{!rlf.h,?ll~e;J ordinance of summer 2005, .the. So~th l3~nd Gii:yc,(}ohi1c:iJ;,:csM •.•.•.··•·•··.,.4 ~as chose1: ~tu~ents not only as the sour~e oft~hsi?,I]:·l~~'/i1'.t!Fr,1iJU .. . •· .. i~/ illegal activity 111 the area, but.als~ as a lucrat1ye~~Rt:ni'.%,}fr:~i.t•t. ;.:',;j~tij J'· .;f of revenue. The pro_posed 20?.7 ord~nance-WO)J1dJwn~i'sr1i:t.tl>;:\>~.f}tI·.,a~~ .··~·>{ 
500 ~ollars per "~oc.ia·l .·ga.the·r.·mg···•.•· W.l··...·t···.1.•~.. .. u····..t·.·.·.·• ... a.·.'.P .. .. •...•··.is.;·. :.·.'.·~:·:..··;·;·\F.·."·;.li.. e)fr'\j.···.·.;·(·i~'.•.;, ;;1 ~J Yl . . ... • .. .
o.. ...···e.·.····r.··.·.l•.·.n ..• .. ...·'." .. ., .·.·· ·. ·.·.·• 
1
~r~f.i;!f:i.:1:;:!~.:if.:·T.::.}.. ··;·····d.ty····:.. .•. •.··.·.r....·.u.•.e ....·.·.:.•.: .;'·\·h·.:.: :1 ij.!f ••On~ .'·. .·.• ··.·
n·t.··h.·.o.(·.I.· ...~.l.•r···.t.·.·•.: ... B. ..•. :.:·;·i·:·;;h·e·•·:·a·;·\,'•s··· .. .. 
been clever enough to figure awayto t~ke aJv~qtag~\qf/fli; 'i ·fl ,1nW1 661
y 
;~!~~;~c::tt1:t:::;~:;~~~1~:~:~:s1,tt1iiyt;t(~\~tff J'
l 11i~n) 704,4 
to escape th.e. opp~e.ssiveforces o.f ~.• ···.e·s•·•L··.·•···· ....••·••·.··•···...b.• ..·•.·•·.· .. ...•·.·.·.r··.··.e.· (()&N · . ·
...·.·.i.... £.·.·e ....;·.•.u·.t•.. ...·:·c.·.··.·.,e·p.·•.•.·t.·J·Y.);§.have bee~ met with the.•even .str··.1.c.t.. e··.r···.'.·.·. £..o.. ~.·c··.·.. e.:··.s···•·.·· ..·....0....·.•.·.f•··/·(.:.t¥.e.'./..:·. . · 
Bend Police Department. ... .· > : ;,j :r j i.l 
In the end, however,ifNotreDanie students/ould ' to be better neighbors to their South l3e11cF1~fo4f?rJai'., city would have no basis for·. its .. argume~t;}i(ijfr 'ct fine students if they are creating n9is~:.J'~&iilJtb1lt parties ifthe parties are obviously occµrri4f)ij_;§ih~ you can have your fun if you doi1't flau.nt tt:/i<;~{};; .i;i . 
Are students off campus c:iftentimes d~s.rliptiy~? f , there consistent problems wid1underag~ 4#pJ911.g?~ ,'k do these problems negatively affectthe;lft(!lcif:Soµ;,. .· .• residents going about their daily l'Outinedil:.Tndtibitably;.· •i ···. ;;.:-;( H·r ... >\:.'·).
Until students stop misbehaving;espe.c}aJly..in.off~cim~p~s;-c?:f&:K .. ,:;ii~'1:• 
houses and duringfootbalhyeekends; theif cr1es of persecutioiT .. ~--­at the hands of the South and the SouthBend City '-'VUU'-UUL.•F, u,,..,,~,...,.,,,,Y. unjustly peirsecm:eu 
10 I ScHOLAs 

.Corby Night 

Men ofNotre Dame ... Is God calling you? Join us. 
·Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame for an hour ofprayer, pizza, and informal discussion. 

Wednesday, Sept. 19, 8pm at Corby Hall 




vocation.nd.edu 
Questions? call 1-6385 
THE TRADITION... 


Now hiring 
•
writers 
.designers copy editors photographers 

Late night transportation options seem inadequate 
Sarah Barrett 
fter a night off campus, there 
are only a few ways to get home. 
Calling a cab is an option, but the 15-minute wait for a three-minute ride sometimes doesn't seem worth the two dollars. A friend might have a car, but there might not be anyone fit to drive. If the weather is good and the distance not far, walking might make sense. But recent off-campus security concerns have sent many walkers searching for a safer choice. 
Students at scores of other schools across the country -from Boston College to Northwestern University ­have a transportation option that Notre Dame students lack: an evening shuttle service that takes students to and from campus. 
In years past, Notre Dame student government has proposed this service as a cornerstone for projects aiming to unite the students with their community. In 2004, student body president Adam Istvan metWith the Board ofTrustees to discuss aNotreDameSafeBus.Theboard endorsed the concept but responded with several criticisms -from liability concerns to SafeBus becoming a vehicle for underage drinking off-campus. 
A
In the face of numerous detours, SafeBus never materialized and was soon cast aside (next to predecessor SafeRide) as a failed attempt by student government ­to further off-campus safety. 
In2005, SouthBend's public bus service TRANSPO opened "the sweep," a new route circling Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College campuses and extended hours to accommodate the demands of the ND/SMC community. Director of Administrative Services Dan Skendzel encourages students to take advantage of TRANSPO's increased student services to access the surrounding community. 
"The university is entering the third year of an agreement with TRANSPO that allows university students, faculty and staff to ride any of TRANSPO's routes at no charge," Skendzel says. "We did this for many reasons, but two primary reasons stand out: first, to provide the university community, including students, a safe and economical connection to various destinations in South Bend/Mishawaka; and second, to encourage the environmental benefits of using public transportation versus individual vehicles." 
TRANSPO's new hours run from 7 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday and until 2:30 a.m. Friday and Saturday evenings. These extended hours have made evening travel from campus much easier, yet TRANSPO's services are not widely used by students on late weekend nights. Buses do not pick up at local taverns or many student-heavy neighborhoods in the community. 
Notre Dame Security Police and the South Bend Police Department do not respond to off-campus transportation requests, but remain committed to student safety. NDSP Director Phil Johnson's frequent e-mails containing crime alerts and safety tips remind students that we are ultimately responsible for our own safety. While these reminders typically come post­incident, they relay important_ common sense instructions that are too often forgotten at 3 a.m. on a Saturday night. As for a final reminder from Johnson: "We are not immune from crime." With this knowledge and the use of available transportation options, off-campus ventures can end safely. + 
SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 I13 



CULTURE 
Lafayette 
Neighbors enjoying a beverage on the porch step wave to a passing neighbor rolling an empty keg down the sidewalk in front of senior Eri Tsukamaki's Lafayette apartment. She and four roommates moved in this semester aftel­Kramer Properties started renovating the complex last year. 
Undergraduates comprise the majority of tenants in the Lafayette apartment complex, which Tsukamaki says contributes to the community atmosphere. "I do worry about safety though," she says. "I would never walk alone in this neighborhood, and I saw a homeless guy dumpster diving the other day." 
Renters mainly complain about parking and noise. "My bedroom is right on the street, so any day it's not Sunday or Monday, it's loud," roommate and senior Shannon Morrison says. 

Turtle Creek 
Turtle Creek has become more 
· subdued under the enforcement of new management, but remains a student favorite. "It's really close to campus, relatively cheap," senior Sara Redgate says. "We got to select our apartment, so we got new carpeting and linoleum." 
Once hailed as a haven for off-campus parties, students now question whether infamous events like Rally in the Alley will even take place in light of increased police presence in the complex. "There's been a couple of break-ins, so the cops are around more now. The parties are still great, until they get busted ... which happens regularly," Redgate says. 
Would she recommend it to adventure purists? "As long as you see the apartment first and aren't scared to get it trashed," she says. "But we've had good experiences here. I thinkwe're going to host Kegs and Eggs next weekend." 

Oak Hill and Dublin Village 
While Lafayette and Turtle Creek historically offer lax environments for collegiate bonding, students are increasingly seeking upscale homes, and for a price greater than just rent. 
Getting an Oak Hill condominium requires more than patience on a waiting list. "You have to get approved by the Homeowners' Association to live here, 
· which means that you need a connection or a solid reference," says senior cross country runner Dan Curran. "I knew the landlord's sister, so that was a sweet deal for me." 
Oak Hill manager Sherry Scott says, 
"Typically, parents buy a condo and hold onto it until their children become eligible to move off campus. We get a lot ofathletes and graduate students because it's quiet. It's a great environment where everyone can come together and just hang out without having to deal with the stress of the party world like over at T.C." 
The Oak Hill Homeowners' Association works hard to prevent the complex from gaining a reputation of student housing. 
"They're kind ofelitist," Curran says. "No pets, no wild parties. They fined me 25 dollars for not taking my trash from the porch to the dumpster. It's quiet and clean because they enforce it." 
Despite his objections, Curran does enjoy having a bedroom in the finished basement and a quiet place to rest before tearing up the track. "It's a nice place and ifyou are willing to give up some freedom, it's a good fit." 
Dublin Village, one ofnewest darlings vying for the Irish limelight, offers students like senior Steve Buchanan a chance to rent or buy a townhouse and host friends in some of the classiest homes in town. 
Indeed, the cherry-stained hardwood floor, stainless steel kitchen and marble countertops are emblematic of the luxurious image real-estate agent Steve Smith wants to portray. "These are townhomes. People own the land, there's 

no condo association, and they're very 
luxurious and brand new," he says. 
Naturally, such an upscale place attracts 
a wide range of tenants. "We have a mix 
offaculty, coaches, full-time South Bend 
residents, alumni who use it as their 
second · home, investors who sublet and 
students who live here," Smith says. "We 
attract a more serious student. This is 
true residential living." 
Like Oak Hill, Smith finds that parents buy the houses before giving them to their kids to live in. Buchanan proves an exception -he owns his home and plans to rent it to students after he graduates. "Last year no one really knew much about this place," he says. "But now people think it's the nicest living there is around 
campus." 
Paradise has its price, of course. "The 
worst thing about living here is the feud 
between us and the board members," 
Buchanan says. "They're trying to crack 
down on noise on football weekends." 
His roommates recall raucously bashing a pinata from the balcony last Cinco de Mayo, but generally, Dublin Village parties are calm and invitation-only. "It's a house, not an apartment. I own this place, you know? You take care of it." 
Despite their atmospheric differences, 
both the newer lavish complexes and the 
older bastions of the collegiate tradition 
offer students the chance to burn their 
own boiled water, have siblings spend the 
night, and discover beautiful neighbors 
a stone's throw away. Here's a toast to 
choices. + 
SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 I 15 
COVER STORY 
Mike* is drunk. 
It is the first Thursday night ofthe semester 
and students are wobbling out of Club Fever 
like little cups of Jell-O, desperately trying 
to call for cabs. This may take a while. 
Forget it though, Mike's going to walk. With the already long and growing queue for cabs, he can probably cover the ground between downtown and his front door a little quicker -and save a few bucks too. 
But he's not going to get very far. 
Soon after heading out on hisown,Mikehas company again. They are not his friends. 
Three men chase him down and grab him. They threaten him, claiming to have guns. Two of the men restrain Mike's arms while the third frisks him for valuables. Taking his wallet, keys and phone, the men disappear 
as suddenly as they emerged. 
*Name changed to protect identity. 
16 f SCHOLASTIC f 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 



COVER STORY 
Another year -same old story. Off-campus crime has unnerved Notre Dame students for far longer than the threat of a losing football season. This fall has proved no different, as students returned to campus to· discit>ver news of students shot at Club 23, robberies and break-ins. Since 2000, Scholastic has dedicated three cover stories to the ever-pertinent issue of off-campus crime. Here we go again. 
But wait. Let's take a different approach this time. What if I wrote that South Bend's northeast neighborhood is safer than it was a decade ago? What ifI told you that most crimes against students off-campus could be easily avoided? What if! let you know that some ofour neighbors only tolerate students because at least we're not drug dealers? 
Would you buy it? Would you keep reading? 
Still here 
South Bend Common Council President Timothy Rouse grew up in South Ben.d's northeast neighborhood. A lifelong South Bend resident, Rouse lives about a mile away from Notre Dame's campus. "I never viewed it as one of the dangerous parts of South Bend," Rouse says. In years past, the neighborhood thrived with a mixture of residents from a diverse set ofbackgrounds: working and middle class families, university faculty and students. Local businesses dotted the neighborhood, particularly near the Five Points intersection of Eddy St., Corby St. and South Bend Ave. (SR 23). Most houses in the neighborhood were owner-occupied, helping to keep the neighborhood relatively stable and crime free. 
But the northeast neighborhood has seen a great deal of change in the last few decades. When the Studebaker manufacturing plant in South Bend shut down in the 1960s, the local economy entered a decline. In the 1970s, more houses in this neighborhood became rentals, enabling a flux of new residents with little connection to the community. Crime began to climb. At the same time, several student-geared bars popped up near the Five Points intersection, much to the displeasure ofthe neighbors. Students ofdecades past raised ire with their neighbors with nights ofraucous noise and careless littering. The years ahead for the wounded neighborhood would only get worse. 

In the 1980s and 1990s, crime began to take over the once­quiet neighborhood. Drug trafficking and gang violence marred the area. "It was a war zone," Mark Kramer, ownet of Kramer Properties, says. Notre Dame Apartments were a hotbed for drugs and violence, with several shootings in the early 1990s. The shooting death of police corporal Paul Degugh in 1997, only blocks away from Notre Dame, enflamed the neighborhood. Something needed to be done. 

Taking it back 
Fed up with the crime, residents of the area organized to fight the encroaching danger to their homes. Neighborhood crime watches formed, the police increased their presence, and investors began to take more interest in the area. So did Notre Dame. 
"Therewas a time when the university didn't have an interface with the area," Rouse says. Students and professors lived in the neighborhood, and football fans parked in its streets and 
Back to School August 2007 
Stadium Club break-ins 


COVER STORY 
People are ~disorganized and excited for the sem.ester. Safety falls behind seeing friends, buying books and getting settled. And there's a pretty good chance there's an iPod in an unwatched apartm.ent or car. 
yards, but Notre Dame remained relatively disconnected from the northeast neighborhood. During Rev. Edward Malloy C.S.C.'s tenure as university president, Notre Dame began to reach out to the area south of campus. 
With help from the university, Kramer's company was able to purchase and renovate the once-volatile Notre Dame Apartments for exclusive renting by students. The university, working with local residents and the city of South Bend, founded the Robinson Community Learning Center in 2001. The center, a popular volunteering site for Notre Dame students, offers a variety of youth and adult education programs. 
Notre Dame also began to purchase available properties in the neighborhood. The Northeast Neighborhood Restoration Organization, an alliance between the city of South Bend and the University of Notre Dame, as well as the Madison Center and two local hospitals, pushed for further revitalization of the area. New homes were built. Plans for a "college town" development materialized and started working their way toward reality. 
Nothing out of the ordinary 
Through the efforts of northeast neighborhood residents and Notre Dame's continued investment in the community, neighborhood ,crime rates began to decline in the '90s. While crime across the United States and throughout South Bend also dropped, the northeast neighborhood's turnaround was particularly impressive. 
The neighborhood's renewal stood out in comparison with the rest of the city. South Bend Police public information
1 
officer Captain John Williams says, "It's one of the quietest ...l neighborhoods in town." Common Council President Rouse 
agrees, noting that other parts of South Bend are responsible 
for the worst of the city's crime. 
For Notre Dame students feeling like they're caught in the middle of a crime wave, this may be a bit ofsurprise. 
Capt. Williams says that a small surge in crime at the start of the semester and around breaks in classes is "nothing out of the ordinary." "That's been going on for years," Williams says. But why? 
Think like a thief. Distracted students are moving back into the neighborhood and their possessions are in clear sight. People are disorganized and excited for the semester. Safety falls behind seeing friends, buying books and getting settled in. And there's a pretty good chance there's an iPod in an unwatched apartment or car. · 
Senior Maggie Wickett was a victim of this phenomenon in August. Wickett, a Stadium Club resident, was in her apartment when she got a distressed call from a friend, whose car had just been broken into. Wickett grabbed her keys and headed to her car, ready to console her friend. When she made it out to the parking lot, however, she found one of her car windows shattered. Her iPod, which had been in the glove compartment, was gone. An iPod cord, which had been in plain view in the front seat, was also missing. Wickett then noticed a car two spaces down from hers had been broken into as well. It was hard to believe. 
"I lived here all summer, and never worried about crime," Wickett says. "It's ironic that now that people are moving in around me, things are starting to feel unsafe. Students are not vigilant in making sure to keep their things safe. I think considering the crime, kids are going to be more careful as the semester goes on." 
SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 I 19 
COVER STORY 

Abandoned homes on university-owned land are scheduled for demolition. The land will be used in the Eddy Commons project. 
Soon after the theft, Wickett brought her car to be repaired at Triumph Auto in Mishawaka and told the mechanic her story. He wasn't surprised. "He said, 'It's that time of year again,"' Wickett says. 
But what about the shooting of two students outside of Club 23 on August 21st? "[The shooting] was a very unusual occurrence," Rouse says. Crime statistics for the surrounding area support his claim. 
(Not) Blending In 
The beginning of the semester is not the only cause of student-targeted crime off campus. According to Kramer, who rents to hundreds of students in the northeast neighborhood, many students leave themselves open to crime by failing to blend into the neighborhood. He explained that by leaving kegs, gameday signs and party garbage (the ubiquitous red Solo cup) in front of their houses, they broadcast to criminals that careless students live inside. "I've had a property on St. Pete's for 15 years that hasn't seen a single break-in," Kramer says, "because the students who've lived there have always been thoughtful about what they left outside." 
Thoughtful students or not, Kramer has taken many precautions to safeguard his renters. Each of his units are equipped with ADT security systems, deadbolt locks on outside doors and keys for every bedroom door. Wherever possible, Kramer Properties has also placed security fences around houses and motion-sensing outdoor lighting. 
Beyond the unavoidable vulnerability ofmoving and careless students remains another concern that fuels crime against students. "There's a perception -not that it's correct," Rouse 
says, "that kids that go to Notre Dame are extremely wealthy. So, they become vulnerable; they become targets." Alcohol only increases the danger for students. Drunk students are even easier targets. 
They may also be a threat. 
While loud, crowded house parties might be signs to criminals that careless, possibly wealthy students reside within, such gatherings are also disruptive to neighbors. After having worked for decades to restore a sense of peaceful community to their neighborhood, some northeast residents believe that rambunctious student behavior is running contrary to their efforts. 
South Bend's Common Council, in an attempt to do something about the conflict, introduced what has become known among students as the "party permit ordinance." The measure, first introduced by Al Kirsits and co-sponsored by Rouse, is undergoing revisions before possibly being voted on Monday, Sept. 17. Earlier versions of the regulation would have required renters living in a "boarding house" of two or more to register a party of more than 25 guests. Registration would cost 15 dollars and would be required 10 day business days in advance. Rouse could not divulge details of the "fluid document," but assured that newer versions were much less restrictive and more positive. ­
Rouse says the ordinance's goal is not to provide a new way to punish students, but rather to encourage "proactive collaboration" between students and their neighbors. Students are not taking time to even meet their neighbors, nevertheless let them know when they may throw a party. If the first interaction between neighbors stems from a costly noise violation, the relationship is bound to remain antagonistic. 
20 I SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 
COVER STORY 

Rouse recalls growing up in the neighborhood and attending 
parties. While a permit would have been unheard of at the 
time, responsible planning and strong communication with 
neighbors avoided conflict. The new ordinance's objective is 
not to chase students out of town, but to encourage them to 
be better neighbors. Whether it can succeed is an unanswered 
question. 
"We're not going to go to a party and start counting heads," 
Capt. Williams says of the proposed ordinance. "There are 
not enough of us. If they're breaking the law, we do what we 
have to do, but we're not going out of the way to harass those 
students." 
Kramer agrees with the police about the enforceability of the measure, noting that city council members are simply trying to do their part in addressing a community problem. "Students can do a lot more on their own toward improving community relations," he says. This past Sunday, Kramer held a block party on the 1000 block of Notre Dame Ave. hoping to encourage his tenants to meet their neighbors in a positive setting. "It went well," Kramer says, adding that he plans to have more events around the neighborhood in the weeks to 
come. 
After all, it was cooperation and healthy community 
relationships that helped residents fight crime and violence 
in the northeast neighborhood in the 1990s. The current 
situation is not nearly as bleak as it was then, though some 
residents fear the area is heading back that way. To calm 
that fear, it is up to the students to heed the call to be better 
neighbors. + 

.·coMMON 
SENSE
,·. '' ,. ' 
SAFETY 
TIPS 



Sober·up 
·AccJrding to police; a studeritis.:far .. more1~kely to be inv~10~d in:a crime . 
. ' . ' . . ' . . ' : 
. . . 
while drurik. • 
·. Gef:a 
ride · 
.•It;s··~()lworththe"7alk;.. A.¢abis· .·•··•·.thre'e cldllars, aridTltANSPd.. il···.·· .free.i<"/ 

·.•·p~t:fne.iPbcla¼ay.· 
yaiuflbles act as inagne~s f()rcrim.e, ·. ·. · ·.· .• whet;her}>p'. y<>u. or)nY()ir ~a:t.C. 
••.•••1\zt~:~{·\9-~e.:•11~••igHJ:>.c).r.·s•·· _.·· ·. 
.. ·· A.tti~ily C<:>lllII1U:I1ita.t1ng:neiglihors· .··.··areless:suscepiible,to ctillle, asw~n... .•.. as aypi4ilig'otli;r, con.fronta{i;Iis\ 
iiti~~t> 
·shah e·O .:ca 
.·.. ·....:, ,,.-..· ,.,.,_ ...,.,_·;,,-:.., :.: ·-•-~., .·/ •:'. ,_ 
'.;.,'. 
··.·•••\tjµlc{:4"~.J~\i11:il11,. .B:~gd-n:iiy~fiI:Jlec 
SCHOLASTIC f 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 I 21 
CULTURE 


DEPT. OF TRANSPORTATION JESUS CAB, SUPERSTAR 
Surrounded by images of our Lord and Savior, several college students gather together, chattering excitedly. 
It is about midnight on a Thursday, but this is no late-night trip to the grotto. This particular group is deciding to embark on a voyage to Club Fever, one of South Bend's most famous -or infamous -late-night destinations. 
· And they'll be riding in the Jesus cab. Jesus cab proprietor, Scott Cavinder, has been driving Notre Dame students since September 2005. He admits that three days after he took his first load of patrons he was informed that he was a legend on campus. "It's a calling; it's my life's ministry," Cavinder says. During his two years of driving, he says that he has brought four people to Christ and regularly counsels troubled students. "I don't preach, I'm just there," he says. Although his regular patrons often refer to him as "Jesus," Cavinder's physical likeness to his hero begins and ends with his long brown hair. The button-bedecked beret and dangling cross earring are all his own. Although he affirms that he has a very strong personal relationship with Christ, he is not affiliated with any particular religion. "I'm just an old pot-head saved by grace," Cavinder says. Given his spirituality, a cab full of inebriated twenty-somethings seems 
to be an odd place for Cavinder. "I just tell them it's between them and God. I just show them the love of Christ," he says. 
Thursday night, sitting shotgun in the Jesus cab, I watched Cavinder in action. The phone never stopped ringing, but despite a long list of customers requesting his services, he still took a cabful of partied-out students through the Taco Bell drive­thru before dropping each off at their dorms. The Jesus bobblehead on his dashboard was a testament not only to his faith, but his commitment to his job. It wobbled precariously as the Aerostar rumbled across God Quad to drop a girl at the front door of Badin despite disapproving glares from NDSP. 
His rare dedication has won him many student admirers. A group of Saint Mary's girls have his daughter's picture hanging on their fridge. There is also the girl who went to breakfast with him at 5 a.m. and bared her soul, and the guy who paid for his two-dollar cab ride with a 20 dollar bill and didn't ask for cnange. 
"It's extremely fulfilling when you find your purpose in life," Cavinder says of his fusion of cab driving and evangelization. "I can get people singing 'Amazing Grace' before they get to the bar." 
-Jen Wulf 
22 I SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 


CULTURE 


On Stage Now running at the South Bend Civic Theatre, "Buddy: The Buddy Holly Story" is not only a show with numerous great tunes, but sharp and provocative as well. This performance shows how deeply Holly influenced popular music in our day and is bound to be a good time. (Dates: Sept 13-16, 20-23 Fridays at 8 pm, Saturdays at 3 and 8 pm, Sundays at 3 pm. Tickets range from $15 to $18. More information can be found online at www.sbct.org) 
Art Be on the lookout this fall for some new exhibits at the South Bend Regional Museum of Art (SBRMA). Starting next month, the SBRMA will feature contemporary artists from the Midwest whose displays include a diverse range of works in painting, printmaking, photography, video and more. In addition, the SBRMA will feature an impressionist exhibit and works by Anthony Pontius, whose innovative techniques delve into the realm of surrealism and explore connections in human history. (Dates: Impressionist exhibit Sept. 8 -Feb. 23; Anthony Pontius Oct. 13 -winter break; local artists showing Oct. 20 -winter break) 
Comedy Check out comedian Carlos Mencia live at the Morris Center this month. One of the most popular comedians in the country, Mencia broke onto the scene in 2005 with a debut on Comedy Central and has since been featured on HBO, "The Tonight Show," and other NBC and Comedy Central shows. He will be in South Bend on September 30 at 6 pm. Tickets are likely to sell out quickly, so visit www.morriscenter.org to reserve your seats. 
Recreation Contrary to what most people think, South Bend does have outlets for outdoor recreation. In fact, the city is home to the East Race, the country's first-ever artificial waterway designed for river rafting and kayaking. For $4 per ride, per person or $12 for an entire day, it's a cheap and fun way to spend the weekend while the weather is still warm. For more information, call 574-299-4768 ex. 245 or visit the South Bend Parks and Recreation Web site at www.sbpark.org/parks/erace.htm. 
Coffee and Conversation Ever been in the mood to get off campus and catch a breather? Try the Chicory Cafe _downtown. Located less than a block away from the Blarney Stone (more commonly known as Finnegan's), this coffee shop has a quirky, yet relaxing atmosphere that is a pleasant break from the campus environment. Also, their occasional open-mic night can be an outlet for those wishing to express their creativity through spontaneous onstage singing, comedy, poetry, music or magic acts. + 
SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 I 23 

Marques Camp 
Notre Dame largely owes its legacy to a few individuals. Knute Rockne is almost certainly at the top ofthis list. So are the famed "Four Horsemen" as poetically penned by sportswriter Grantland Rice. We've had the 
privilege ofclaiming leading men Johnny Lujack, Paul Hornung and Joe Montana as fellow brethren. 
Certainly, we cannot claim such a legacy at this particular historical juncture with nary a national championship since Reagan's last days nor a bowl victory since Clinton's first term. Humbled by rival USC five years running, blown out by nemesis Michigan twice in recent years, and suffering five consecutive home defeats to middling Michigan State, we certainly aren't invoking the dominating tradition ofold. · Why then does Notre Dame football still receive so much coverage? Obviously, our annual win-loss records share no correlation with the number of headlines we receive. Notre Dame is an autonomous, money-making juggernaut, the likes of which we rarely see in sports. Our football legacy has become so culturally relevant that we transcend the sport of football itself. Cultural relevancy means money-and as we all know, money is king. 
However, it seems that this long-standing cultural relevance has lent itself to a pop culture absurdity. We have arrived at a place inhabited by a few largely irrelevant, nonetheless famous, celebrities. We now occupy a zone populated by the likes of Paris Hilton, Britney Spears, Michael Jackson and Mike Tyson. We are famous for being famous. A 2-10 Notre Dame squad will receive just as much 
.-if not more -coverage than top nationally-ranked teams, analogous. to the manner in which Spears receives more coverage than Carrie Underwood. 
Because of this fact, most of the sports world simply hates our football team. They hate that a mediocre Notre Dame still receives mqre coverage than their local team. They hate that all of our home games are nationally televised. They hate that our coach is an arrogant know-it-all who has yet to beat a good team, and that he plays mind games with the media, fans and his own players by keeping coy about the identity ofhis starting quarterback. 
Yet without a love-hate relationship with the rest ofthe world, we might even lose our irrelevant celebrity status, eventually plummeting into the abyss ofmediocrity where nobody gi;ves a damn about what we do anymore. Perhaps this was a factor in the canning ofTy Willingham three years ago in favor of Charlie Weis. More than a coach, Weis is an image. 
Certainly, Willingham is one of the most upstanding coaches in all of college sports, a coach any institution would be proud to employ. But a mediocre Willingham is a largely irrelevant figure in the eyes of the media. Weis, on the other hand, is boisterous and cocksure. A mediocre Weis still makes headlines, such as he did three weeks ago in this quarterback dilemma, which is enough for him tokeep his job. No matter how often we continue to be outclassed by elite teams, Weis always assures us thathis coaching genius will single-handedly rebuild Notre Dame's winning ways. Weis is the type of coach that the university wants 
---a headline-grabbing, money-making, supremely confident individual. After all, as .so clearly demonstrated by Ms. Spears, any publicity is good publicity. + 
EDITORIAL 
..... 

SPORTS 
The Other Football's 
The formidable four of women's soccer D 
return for a shot at national title glory r OUr Horsemen 
Brittany Lash 


Outlined against a warm 
September sky, the Four 
Horsemen ride again. 
In lore they are known as Famine, Pestilence, Destruction and Death. These are only aliases. Their real names are: Hanks, Weissenhofer, Cinalli and Bock. 
Forming ·an ausp1c1ous combination ofNotre Dame legend and Notre pame legends-in-the-making, the No. 13 Irish women's soccer team uses the names of the biblical Four Horsemen as the nicknames for their scrimmage practice squads. When they break off, one might see Pestilence scoring a goal on Death, or Famine hungry to defend against Destruction. 
Coach Randy Waldrum laughs about the names for his practice squads. "The players get a kick out ofit," he says. What Waldrum may not realize, however, is that his playful use ofthe Four Horsemen legend resonates far beyond the names of the practice squads, and, in essence, symbolizes the best his team has to offer for this season. 

Presenting Notre Dame's newest Four Horsemen: junior forward Kerri Hanks, sophomore forward Michele Weissenhofer, junior midfielder Brittany Bock and senior forward/midfielder Amanda Cinalli. 
KERRI HANKS 
Hanks is the brightest star returning on this year's Irish squad, but she earns the name of "Destruction" for her utter demolition of nearly 50 school records. After a 22-goal, 22-assist season in 2006, Hanks became the second player in Division I history, along with Mia Hamm, to finish a season atop the national rankings in both goals and assists. She joined men's soccer standout Joseph Lapira as a recipient of the 2006 Herrman Trophy honoring the player of the year in college soccer, becoming the only pair ofrecipients from the same 
school in the award's history. Of Hanks, Waldrum says, "Kerri gets 
all the recognition for scoring goals and 
she's been a pure goalscorer all her life. But what also should be realized is that she always is playing with those expectations 
and a lot of pressure. Her role simply is 
to score goals -and that's why she takes such great pride and responsibility in always trying to improve her game." 
The pressure cooker hasn't boiled the two-time All-American yet, as she looks 
to have another outstanding season 
-albeit with one change from last year. Coach Waldrum readily admits that the youngest-ever recipient of the Herrman 
Trophy would have preferred a different 
trophy at the end of the year. 
"Kerri doesn't like talking about the award . . . she would have gladly ex­changed it for a [national championship] ring," he says. Waldrum praised Hanks 
for her selflessness in downplaying her individual accomplishments, and 
focusing instead on what she could do with her teammates. 
MICHELE WEISSENHOFER 
Sophomore forward Weissenhofer earns the role of "Death" not for any harmful tendencies or flagrant fouls, but for her death-defying flip throw-in that startles defenses and powers the ball into the middle of the action. Already this season, her mighty throw set up the game-winning header goal by freshman Lauren Fowlkes against Virginia on August 23. 
Waldrum is· continually impressed by the effectiveness of the throw -and its effect on fans. "I looked up our team on YouTube, and there were a lot of videos of Michele ·flipping!" he says, laughing. Still, he classifies the throw as a weapon, and looks to allow her to use it whenever field conditions pei:m--!_t it. 
Aside from her scene-stealing throws, Weissenhofer is deadly accurate with 

SPORTS 

Senior midfielder and forward Amanda Cinalli runs for the ball amidst opposing team members from the University of North Carolina on August 19, a game the Irish tied 2-2. Cinalli is the solo captain of the 2007 women's team and winner of the 2007 Francis Patrick O'Connor Award. 
her feet. The fearsome foursome combined to score 87 percent of Notre Dame's points last season, and Hanks and Weissenhofer were the top two in the nation in most points earned, with Hanks earning 66 points off 22 goals and 22 assists, and Weissenhofer with 53 points off 18 goals and 17 assists. The Soccer America National Freshman of the Year sometimes appears to pull goals "out of thin air," according to Waldrum, and will be a key facet in the Irish attack this year. 
BRITTANY BocK 
Waldrum calls~Bock a "future star," as well as someone who would be a bona fide star already on any team without the depth of talent the Irish posses. However, with the departure of graduated midfielders Jen Buckowski and Jill Krivacek, Bock fills the role of "Famine" -eager to finally feast on the opportunity to step up and shine. 
She proved last season that she is reliable under pressure, tying the team lead for game winning goals, with six. She is also an experienced international player, representing the USA in the U20 World Championships in Russia last year and has traveled to both Europe and South America in her playing career. Although she says she'd love to spend her life traveling, her most important travels are right in the middle ofthe field, where Waldrum says, "She is great off the dribble and can spring teammates with a wide assortment of passes." 
AMANDA CINALLI 
Cinalli is the 2007 solo captain of the Irish, only the second solo captain in the team's history. For this she is "Pestilence," infecting the team with her spirit and ability to lead. Evidence of this infectiousness lies in an honor given to her by the Notre Dame athletics department: the 2007 Francis Patrick O'Connor Award, for traits such as inspiration and team spirit. 
"She's very inclusive," Waldrum says. "She can appeal to all the different personalities on the team. You don't normally have too many players that can relate to all the different personality types, but she can. She's been very smart about surrounding herself with a group of players that she's brought in on her own to help her with the leadership. We didn't ask her to do that; she did it on her own." 
Cinalli will unify an otherwise young and growing team and will utilize a core of experienced players to guide the team to their end goal: the national championship. 
With these new Four Horsemen, the 2007 Irish squad will have a <:harging force to be reckoned with. While kinks are worked out in defense and newer players step up, these four veterans will honor the legend for which they are named, bringing an apocalyptic end to many teams' seasons this year. + 
SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 I27 



~ .-:··.,-:::i.. , ' . 
-,, ~ ­
·, ,}ii· ..·,·.·., ·: 
• ·· .r·.fl:~ey~'liisli,.:=; ··::.~:•r~:r:.~~:;~t==:::.;!ia'::lt:? 
,.•.·. (_·~-looking,,to<'improve on· last year's stro11.~ 'offensi!e )layer," Brqwn, .. iri. every game since sh~ ._a:i;riv~d . :· _ · ! first-round exit from the NCAA says; ."and .she'.11 get better an~· ._at Notre Dame three year~ ·ago. ·· ·. · _:: . · t · Journament. But this will likely better.''.·. · ,-··-1 '. She ho_lds the school record' at _,,r'"'.take some quick growth on the Significant contributions have· 3.$,,0 consecutive games played ~nd . athletes' part. __ _ · come fro:m _elsewhere in . th~_ . countilig. _ _ ·--->. . -:'T~~ of the -14 -players on this _freshman.i.#~ss ._. as_--w,ell. __ 1,VI1::gan/ ._. · "It's ' : ju!!t • very _different -·than /, :,.,_;~ 
year:'s roster. -are fr~shmen or •· Duiiife'--,,!ias\, ~ap117g'.•·,.increased;,,,r·whe'.9 Icaine in as a freshman. It's}{)?~ _, _,_ _'< ~~phoni<>res, and injuries to playip.g tirn,e; appea_rlllg inJiine.o(_ fun/to -be with· girls that are new ~J:{J;tfj (-:f:·-preseason All-Big East junior•,,,,-. the' 1S·games the te~~ ha~played._ ·-~-:tf.the. gam.e,. to_ experience__ j!Q_WJ ,:}i~ 
1' · Mallor.ie · Croal and sophomore · "[Sl:ie is] probably ouibestst~ic~:v.?:l;h.ey're growing,'': . Tai:,p.tif. says.. ·,fil :,: .'· :: : ,, > Christina Kaelin make the team defensiye player," Coach ;Brpwn "It's a lot inore responsil:>ility, but
..• .• :M . ' ,.. even more dependent on input says, "[but she] has to woi:~qi\her' :.a lot of fun/' . , , , ·. . . l 
1 
x_ _:_,_:_t_:.·.·_C: 
J.> .ct. !i:.mrt!g!:,i:th~;s!;:, ~•t P•:,:!1~~tl::!."';~;;,Ih;;•:. ro~: :~:~ j;~;:i:;a,~ ·~~ 
,.. ,. . . _ .. _.-__ _ stepping up. · . _ hard-woi'.king outsi,de_: hitter spot" three matches, all to top725 ranked 
1
:\it};ll;A'::':~'::::·;!1:t!e0~ ~~~eh~::e;~~~:tt;i!~;;~~:: : ­
;::at~~:eto~ci:t:: ;::~:;:~-r~~;e~dr:!kei;~~:: r:/;:\;:'.;': .•f.-11 '·1yi• school _recrmts last year and, .1=4¢, absentefpf Croal and,;Kaelm. _-and , are _comnutted to .."(6,tking_,./ 
1:;II''\0x. ts\· c.it~~1::,~;1~.~1fii;J:S:t~ili1~iit;~;l.:~':i
: :::·,;: .··,~while: ':bC?tP. have 11,<;i~M •l:\,_~Jp:•;::•··:t\.d1:i~_nna Stasiuk"<•-:: :~!l~re" take_p: they hope to m.~k~iri:o the::~eM: 


IRISH EYES ON... Alex Yoshinaga 
Alex Hellmuth 
Alex Yoshinaga is a senior captain ofthe}rish men's sitting out for a season soccer team. After sitting out last season with a collar­gave me a different bone injury, he is back on the field and already helping perspective. I found out the team. Against No. I-ranked UCLA in the season-what it was like to be 
. opener, Yoshinaga scored the game-winning goal three a part of the team, no minutes into the first overtime period. Known for his ·matter if I was on the versatility in the midfield and his creative style ofplay, field or sitting on the Yoshinaga is looking to lead the Irish to another record bench cheering for the breaking season. other players. It was a 
really great learning How did it feel to score the gam.e-winning goal experience, but I am against UCLA? happy to be back. 
It felt pretty awesome. We scored really early in the game and unfortunately let UCLA back in As you head into a long season, what are som.e of the the game during the last few seconds [of the :first team's goals? half]. We knew we had made a mistake, so we went After beating the No. 1 team, we have a target into half-time determined to score, and after a on our back, so every game we play is going to be culmination of passes in the midfield, I was able to a battle. Our goal is to play one game at a time in :find the net. order to go undefeated at home, to win the Big East 
regular season, and hopefully to win a national .Conversely, what happened against No. 7-ranked championship, something that we came very close Maryland thatyielded a 3-0 loss for the Irish? to last year. 
I think the game against Maryland was an issue of overconfidence. We were still on cloud nine, so to What do you have to do personally to ensure your speak, after our win against UCLA, and going into team's success? a game too confident is never the right strategy. As a captain, I need to keep everyone focused 
on one game at a time. Being a captain takes more Aftersittingoutlastseasonwitha collarbone injury, doing than talking, so I need to lead by example are you excited to be back playingwith the team.? and guide my team through the big games against 
I am so grateful to be back on the :field, although Indiana University and University of Connecticut. 
FROM THE PRESS BOX 
Brittany Lash Speaking of Michigan,The Irish face an unprec­the Wolverines' epic loss to edented amount of Appalachian State removed a intimidation this season as dubious honor from the Irish The Irish men's and women's they become one ofthe:first teams record books.The preseason No. cross country teams began in college football to play in two 5-team in the Associated Press their season by dominating 105,000+ capacity.stadiums back­college football rankings, the the Crusader Invitational in to-back on the road. Penn State's Wolverines fell all the way out Valparaiso, Ind. The men's squad Beaver Stadium set an attendance of the rankings after their 34-32 won for the fourth year in a record for the second-largest loss to Appalachian State on Sept. row, while the women avenged crowd in their stadium's history 1, dropping 20 spots. The fall out a second-place finish last year. at the Sept. 8 Notre Dame game, ofthe top 25.is the largest single­Junior Chris Rodriguez won packing 110,078 white-dad fans week fall in the poll's history, the individual 6K crown, and into the stands. The Irish travel beating the previous record held sophomore Beth Tad took third to the Big House at Michigan by the Irish after their 17-15 loss in the women's division. Both . Stadium on Sept. 15· for a to Northwestern on Sept. 3, 1995. teams compete in the National showdown in front C>f 107,501 The Irish dropped 16 spots from Catholic Championships on Sept. fans ... No. 9 to No. 25... 14 here at Notre Dame. + 


lsPORTS 

···?/ : ii .·: 
,·.. ,.. · 


SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 200T I 31 
Listening In ... 
J:,-/like,the dress I wore to Fever, y'all?" ·· · · ·. · · · -overheard student on Friday afternoon 
~yClausen and Jesus have the same initials. It was meant to be." ~-possibly misguided female student 
~y;re lucky l1?idn't drop them off in Goshen and leave them to fend ~hemselves. 
-frustrated taxi driver 
p!1:'.(,::;:1:~'§_ping to pay the DJ 20 dollars to play a song from 'High School 
(t.\M·-··sical'." 
-overheard embarrassing student at Finnegan's 
~l~m not ~nterested in you~ c!~b. I'~ just here for the free stuff." ~-senior student at Act1v1t1es Night 
Forty Years Ago ... 
I guess Notre Dame is getting a lot stricter. That's what people keep saying as they bemoan the actions ofGestapo police officers who arrest them for breaking the actual law and whatever. Compared to the good old '60s, Notre Dame in 2007 is a "1984"-style police state. Come hither, and listen to the blase attitude of the Feb. 23, 1967 issue of Scholastic toward, well, illegal narcotics. 
''Just as grass comes in to the campus, so could other drugs. But they don't. The Notre Dame studentgenerally avoids all drugs but grass. There is no known case ofheroin ever being used. STP is condemned as ''stupid," "too dangerous." LSD, though it is used by perhaps a dozen, is usually condemned. In one case, a student decided to use LSD, and told hisfriends. They gave their opinion ofthe drug and announced that ifhe took it again, they would refuse to associate with him." 
They had limits back in the day, okay? You can smoke all the weed you want, but keep your crazy LSD off of our Catholic campus, you hippie. Sometimes, a little policing is needed. 
-Doug Schlarman 

32 ISCHOLASTIC ( 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 
HUMOR 

Adventures in Suburbia
Loyal Giplets! First, I must begin with an apology to you ever-so-green freshmen. The municipal services of this fine town have thrown all sorts oflegal jargon and scary threats in your direction, generating the idea that Notre Dame will curtail its partying ways. Not on the Gipp's watch, my friend. Not so. No mere police action can turn Notre Dame into a bubble filled with gooey nuggets oflove and Jesus. The seminary is across the lake. And even they know how to party. The Irish practice good ole' fashioned Catholic liver exercise, and the evidence follows: The Gipp is here to report to you that despite the looming ordinance and loose gun laws, your fellow Darners have still found a way live up to this era of bacchanalia and prayer we call Our Four Years at Notre Dame. Our first story begins with a moment of complete discombobulation, -as a young man awakening post-long­night-of-drinking; opens his eyes in a room decked out in pinks, pastels and Britney Spears. In this situation, the Gipp would recommend that, before shouting out, "This isn't my dorm," one should perform some reconnaissance. Especially since Spears hasn't been hot since her pigtails and plaid skirts took a back seat to her two skin-stretching natural births and crazed lifestyle. But because that would have been the smart move, our real man of genius shouted out something along the lines of, "This isn't my dorm room", or "What'd you do with my roommate!" before the thought passed through his head that maybe she has a dog ... or better yet ... an unknowing set ofparents in the next room. Personally, I cannot imagine a greater walk of shame than one done in front of parents. Just pray in thanksgiving that our poor innocent party goer wasn't a professor's daughter. Imagine the awkward, "Mom, don't cry" plea from the innocent daughter. And the sound of that cocked shotgun from Dad. Well since it wasn't Club 23, our unfortunate comrade was merely booted out into suburban South Bend with his skivvies and a 10 minute wait for a cab. 
Lesson learned? Well, upon discovering that she had an Algebra II quiz on Monday morning, Joe Cradle-robber vowed to only light up his nights with good old fashioned 18-and-up fun. As there is always an equal and opposite reaction to any action, there is some good to come from this ... well ... bad. Townie-lover boy has inspired the first installment of Gipper Law: 1.) Thou shalt leave the high school girls to the high school guys. 
How would you have known the difference between college girls and high school girls? How else? Pigtails and plaid skirts. All high school girls wear uniforms. It's illegal not to. Also, just make a mental note when she mentions how excited she is about the prospect of a state championship this year. Take her beer, and flee the force of those beautifully innocent eyes. Despite the knee-slapper of a story that might follow, Gipper law prohibits this practice in the future. You can do better. Or you can at least do older. And thus signs out the Gipper, reminding you to deny 'til you die, tip your waitresses and call your mother. Much love. + 
SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 I 33 
SENIOR PORTRAITS! 
Sign up on the Internet NOW @ 
www.LaurenStudios.com 
to ensure your place in the 2008 DOME Yearbook 
(Use the school password DOME to access the Notre Dame Schedule) 

Who:  Class of 2008 Students  
When:  Pictures taken Now-Sept. 21  
Where:  La Fortune 108  
Why:  To be in your 2008 Notre Dame  
Dome Yearbook  


L_______;_____________H_U_M_O_R 
Choose Your Own 
Night at ND 
Maddy Zollo 
----------------------------. 
It's a Friday night and you are delicately sipping a Natty 
• 
while. watching "The Hills." Heidi's hot, what else can 

you say? Although it is a riveting piece of award-winning ! television, it's time to go out. The question is, to Madison ; 

• 
Street or down the hall? Your roommate, Patrick, wants to • ; hit up the dorm party to steal beer and meet hot freshmen : i girls. -------~ -J 


, . -----·-CijSJ•lifJ$L)•
• Head to the dorm party 1111 
• ~------­
1-Y --·--·--------------. · -. -·-:-·---­
After hearing the section party is an Anything But 
Clothes/party, you decide to stay.. -A freshman· wearing 
only a Franzia box is guarding the door. Patrick tells him : 
•. he should shave his thighs. 
Patrick and Franzia Boy start arguing while you go i change -ABC parties are your favorite, and hey, you can ; I go practically naked. Then it hits you: why don't you just lIgo naked and show everyone where the real party is? \ 
START HERE. 
We've all read those "choose your own adventure" books (who could really forget R.L. Stine's Give Yourself Goosebumps series), so why can't you choose your own campus adventure? 
First things first: Are you the type of person who stays in on weekends or the type that goes out? 
.....•~ Ciifii?-· 
. : 
:. •e 
• 
: 
• 
: • 
. · -· -• --------------,--T--­
The kid in CoMo on Friday and Saturday? Yeah, that's you. You like to use weekends as a way to catch up on schoolwork, work ahead, or discover the wonders hidden in the library. If you feel adventurous you may go to a DPAC event or hang withthe RAs on duty. Sometimes you may even be same-siding and holding hands with 
· your girlfriend in thedining hall, feeding each other shrimp poppers. ResLife loves you, and you'll make a lot ofmoney post-med school. Congratulations. 
The End 
----·----•-•H-~-~--------·---------------------"'"·--·­
: -------------------------------·------,
1 
• l Screw dorm parties. After suffering through a ride of · : ! Christian rock in Jesus cab, you arrive at Madison. •••. What,was once the old swim house looks like it never 
changed, except this time there is no jerk with dyed blond hair manning the door and charging five dollars. Inside 
•--·--------
------~'body shots are going on to your left and pong is to your , , , Wear a towel right. ~
CD 
•••••••••• L • -------------: ---Shots • 
: dllllP : ••••••••••e••••••••• • 
: While hunting for a towel, two girls wrapped in pieces . : e i-·--------------------------··--·------·-· --------• • of a Twister mat come into your room looking for booze. : e : ! You're fighting your way through the obscene bar line to . : You decide Twister is, after all, America's pastime, so : : • : get in on the body shots when you hear something, then 
• 
you create your own party. A party thatconsists of you i • : •· feel wetness on your bac_k. A girl just puked on you. The : and two hot girls. Score. _ . •J.: • last thing you remember is sitting on the counter trying 

• 
·The End j :---·-·-·-· · · ·-· -· ---------·------· ·····--·····~ 


e -----·-------------· --­: "Who needs clothes?" you decide after four shots of 
• 
McCormicks. As you step out into the hallway in your : birthday suit, girls wearing newspaper pass you with a 

• 
look of shock. 


. People cheerasyou enter t_he party, and yc)Ugrab a beer i 
!1 from the ice-fille=:d trashcan. Suddenly, someone yells that \ NDSP is at the aoor. dl/l!ft~._; 
l__ NDSP iSafte~y~.. C1¦D 
---~-Y~---­
You shotgun another beer as NDSP enters. You are ! escorted out, Reslifed, _almost arrested, and then you are -· · fined within an in()h ofyour life._ Evemtually, you. stumble i back to yourroom to pass out, bufonly after peeing on : ( -the PlayStation 3. . i 
! . The End · ! L.~--.,..;..,.. --------·-·----·------·-----~---------· ---~-----_.1 
: • to squeeze your body into the sink to wash off. Later, you 
• awake outside of Carroll Hall with no pants on. 
:  The End  
e  -------------­ -·----·--------·­ 
:  r---------­ _ .  _  ________  ___  _ .  __  ----,  

•~ . You aren't called the Prince of Pong for nothing, so i you head to the table. After making the perfect rack, you ' shoot, but, unfortunately, that's the only cup you make all · night. You lose at beer pong, you lose at life. 
The End 
•. Esc;~e~st~:on~optio;Hlt;;~gthe s:reena:11 nun, 
you tuck and roll as you hit the grass, probably breaking your arm. You're too stupid and drunk to notice or care. ·· While eating your slice of Sbarro's (a.k.a. cardboard with week-old pepperonjon it) you congratulate yourself on 
· · outrunning NDSP's Segways .. 
________ The End 
SCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 I 35 
Summer. of Unfortunate Events 
Humor editor Elisa Suarez recalls some delightfully awkward moments of the warmer months Elisa Suarez 
Hey, all-Elisahere with the inaugural edition of Happy Ending, the first of what will hopefully become a plethora of editions. Anyway, I'm not here to chat. They're not paying me zero dollars to sit here and type about any old thing. 
Here we are, bright-eyed and bushy­tailed, about to embark on yet another academic year. The start ofschool always has a special place in my heart, right next to the place for Gardetto's Snack Mix. It's the time when you break up with that special someone you metat summer camp. It's the time when you have your brother move you into the fourth floor of your dorm and "forget" to tell him that your building actually does have an elevator. It's the time when you realize that you forgot how to hold a pencil because it's not shaped like a TVremote control or a bottle of booze. It's the time you renew your Diet Coke and Tums addiction from last year. Most importantly, it's the time to sit and reflect on everything you've done over the summer. In my case, it's time to reminisce about the myriad of awkward moments I have experienced over the past few months. 
For some odd reason, I tend to experience uncomfortable moments more often than the average Joe. I like to thinkit's because I'm such a self-actualized, mentally in­tune person that others can't help but feel inferior and/or uncomfortable in my presence. My friends think it's because I dress like and have the social mannerisms of "a 14 year old boy who doesn't know how his body works yet." Thanks, guys. Anyway, here are a few of my awkward encounters: 
Moment One: There was that time the ladyin the grocery store was barking like 
36" ISCHOLASTIC I 13 SEPTEMBER 2007 
a dog with her son. I'm there, just trying to select a type of toilet paper from the wide range of options (for economical reasons I chose the one with texture most similar to a brown paper bag) and then a lady casually strolls by and starts barking. Like a miniature schnauzer. Her son then barked in reply. I don't know why they were doing this, but it was as awkward as that one time at the Engineering Ball. Is 
· this some kind ofnew wave child teaching method that I missed? Remember baby sign language? It was so uncomfortable it reminded me of that time when I joined Facebook because I thought it was eharmony.com. And I kept messaging hot people to take me out. And then the third person I propositioned for a date had to explain to me what was going on. 
Moment Two: Ever gotten that really horrible cramped claustrophobic feeling on a plane? We're talking about the point where you've finished reading the Cross Roads magazine and the copy of "War and Peace" you brought and yet you still haven't left the gate? And for some reason the air conditioning isn't working? And the couple next to you is in the process of breaking up? No? Just a tip . . . don't ever say the words "We definitely need a break" at the beginning ofyour flight. Imagine the amount of uncomfortable silences and whispered bickering both you and I (the innocent bystander) could avoid. How about you wait until baggage claim and then just split like a 'banana wearing track shoes? 
Moment Three: When you go to your 
boss's eight-year-old daughter's softball 
game just for fun because you are so 
incredibly bored. And then somehow your 
boss isn't there and you are just the creepy stranger she doesn't know who came to her game. And somehow that degenerates into you watching her and her friends swim at her friend's grandma's house for two hours. 
Moment Four: When you're in the LaFortune computer cluster on Facebook and start looking at someone's pictures while making snide comments to your friends, only to fully turn around and see that very person behind your left shoulder, a row back. Chance they saw you? 100 percent. Okay ... so this didn't happen during the summer. Or at all. But what ifit had?! That's why I don't look at Facebook, or even talk about it, or even look at others while in the computer clusters. 
_ Well, now that summer's over, I guess I should stop eating pita chips and watching ABC Family for 14 hours a day. It's time to go out there and experience a new 
· cornucopia of awkward moments in the big and beautiful' city that is South Bend. Believe me, I'm already well on my way since I saw that guy grinding on a fence last week at Lafayette. 
Ifyou have any questions or comments, please do not.hesitate to e-mail someone else with your concerns. Unless it's praise, in which case you can contact my direct line at 412-443-3057. Happy-Ending is now accepting monetary donations. + 
) j 
f[j 




