-	” w
Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victiirnss; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 15, 1882.	.	. No. 31.
Even So.
BY ELIOT RYDER.
The keen perceptions of the wounded heart
Are quick to see the falseness of a friend;
And when beneath a trust betrayed we smart, We hotly vow our misplaced love shall end.
Strong are the passions of impetuous souls, And rash the impulses which sway our deeds— Far stronger than the purpose which controls Our hearts, to well supply our Christian needs.
Eager we are to gain the worthless dross Within the seething caldron of our lives, .
Nor heed the golden treasure of the cross, Which, after life is lived, alone survives.
. So, since self-love on earth triumphant reigns, What hope have we of sharing heavenly gains?
Charles Carroll, of Carrollton.
■ It has been asserted that the American colonies, now the United States, began seriously to entertain the design of throwing off their allegiance to the British king soon after the conquest of Canada by the arms of the British and provincial forces. There is, however, no evidence to sustain that assertion; and the probability is, that the colonies, although they each had cause for discontent, had never been united in their complaints until the British Parliament united them by a series of general grievances. The charters granted to the various colonies had been uniformly violated as soon as they began to thrive; and they, in their weakness and sincere attachment to the “ mother country,” had patiently submitted. Yet it is evident that they retained from generation to generation a natural sense of their natural and chartered rights. The descendants of those who had braved the dangers and hardships of the wilderness for the sake of civil and religious liberty, inherited the spirit of their fathers;—what the fathers had gained by patient toil, unbending fortitude, or by charter from the king, their children claimed as their birthright.
In 1764, Parliament, for the first time, attempted to raise a revenue in the colonies without their consent. This led to a discussion of the right in the provincial assemblies and among the people; and the general sentiment appears to have been, that
“ taxation and representation were inseparable.” In 1765,'the. famous Stamp Act was passed; the policy of the British Government being unveiled, a universal expression of indignation and opposition was echoed through the colonies. In addition to these general causes f<?r complaint, each one remembered its own individual grievances. It is only our purpose to trace the causes of discontent in Maryland; and to show that when her sons embarked their “ lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor” , in their country’s cause, they had reason and justice on their side.
The charter of Maryland was obtained by Lord Baltimore, from Charles I, in June, 1632. By the charter it was declared that the grantee was actuated by a laudable zeal for extending the Christian religion and the territories of the empire. Lord Baltimore was a Roman Catholic, and his avowed intention was to erect an asylum in America for the Catholic faith. The province was named in honor of the queen, and its endowment was accompanied with immunities more ample than any other of the colonies. Lord Baltimore was created the absolute proprietary, saving the allegiance due to the crown; license was given to all British subjects to transport themselves thither, and they and their posterity were declared entitled to the liberties of Englishmen, as if they had been bom within the kingdom— with powers to make laws for the province, “ not repugnant to the jurisprudence of England”; power was given to the proprietary, with assent of the people to impose all just and proper subsidies, which were granted to him forever; and it was covenanted on the part of the king, that neither he nor his successors should impose or cause to be imposed any tollages on the colonists, or their goods and tenements, or on their commodities, to be laden within the province. The proprietary was also authorized to appoint officers, repel invasions, and suppress rebellions. The charter contained no special reservation of royal prerogative to interfere in the government of the province. Thus was laid the foundation of a popular government not likely to be willingly renounced when once possessed.	.
No efforts were spared by Lord Baltimore to facilitate the population and happiness of the colony; and in five years it had increased to such an extent that a code of laws became necessary. Lord Baltimore composed and submitted a body of laws to the colonists for their assent; but they,
472	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
not approving of them, prepared a code for themselves. At a very early period the proprietary had declared in favor of religious toleration; in 1649, the Assembly adopted that principle by declaring'“ that no persons professing to believe in Jesus Christ should be molested in respect to their religion, or in the free exercise thereof”; thus meriting the distinguished praise of being the first of the American States in which religious toleration was established by the law. In 1654, Cromwell sent commissioners to reduce the colony to his subjection, who, although they met with no opposition in Maryland, abolished its institutions, and introduced religious discord. They inflamed the Protestants against the Catholics, until, exasperated to extremity, the parties met in an engagement, when the partisans of the proprietary government were defeated, the governor deposed, and a new Assembly formed, by which a law was passed, depriving the Catholics of the protection of law in the community. With the restoration of Charles II, in 1661, tranquillity was restored to the province; but in a few years that tranquillity was again disturbed by a series of petty exactions, originating in the strife and jealousy of the ruling party in Britain, on account of religion. The king’s ministers commanded that all the officers of the provincial government should in future be committed exclusively to Protestants; and not only in this was the charter violated, but also by the appointment of revenue officers and the exacting of imposts. In 1686, James II determined to overthrow the proprietary governments of the colonies, but the more important affairs in which he was engaged at home, during his short reign, prevented the consummation of his threat.* On the accession of William III, a Protestant accession was formed, which, under the authority and approbation of the king, usurped the direction of the affairs of the province, alleging “ a papist plot ” as an excuse foi- their conduct. Lord Baltimore "was deprived, by an act of the privy council, of the political administration; although they could find no fault with him, except that he was of the Catholic faith. With the proprietary’s government the liberal principles of his administration was subverted. The Church of England was established, and a tax levied to support it.
Sanctioned by the authority and instructed by the example of the British Government, the newly-modelled legislature of Maryland proceeded to enact a series of laws which completely disfranchised the Catholics, by depriving them of all political and religious privileges, and of the ordinary means of education. By an act, passed in 1704, and renewed in 1715, it was ordained that the celebration of Mass or the education of youth by a “ papist ” should be punished by transportation to England. These acts were afterwards modified; but the evils inflicted on the colony by the violations of the charter were not removed until the connection with Great Britain was
* About this time Charles Carroll (the son of Daniel Carroll, of Kings County. Ireland, and grandfather of Charles Carroll of Carrollton) came into the colony.
dissolved by the revolution. In 1702, in the midst of this state of affairs, Charles. Carroll, the.father of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, was born. We may readily suppose with what attachment to the royal cause he arrived at manhood. We are informed that he took an active part in the affairs of the provincial government; and in the religious disputes of the times stood prominent as one of the leading and influential members of the Catholic party. On the 8th of September, 1737, O. S., his son, Charles Carroll, sumamed of Carrollton, was	M
born at Annapolis; and at eight years old was	’
taken to France to be educated. He remained there until 1757, when he visited London, and commenced the study of law. In 1764 he returned to Maryland, a finished scholar and an accomplished gentleman. About this period the respective rights of the colonies, and of the king’s government began to be discussed; religious disputes subsided and were forgotten in the new and	1
interesting topics of the time. The celebrated	'
Stamp Act, in 1765, produced a universal excitement, and elicited from men of the highest character and talents in the country the most energetic	a
and decisive expressions of opinion. Among those	j
who came boldly forward in vindication-of the	।
colonists was Charles Carroll of Carrollton.	r
The Stamp Act was repealed, and the excitement ceased; but in the colonies the principle of parliamentary taxation was a settled question. In June, 1768, Mr. Carroll married. . In. 1771-2, his talents, as an advocate of popular rights, were again brought into requisition. The House of Delegates, after an investigation; framed and passed a law regulating the fees of the civil officers of the coloo	- --	.
nial government; but the upper house refused, to concur in it. After adjournment of the assembly, the government issued a proclamation commanding and enjoining all officers not to take other or greater fees than those therein mentioned. The people viewed this measure as an attempt to fix this tax upon them by proclamation, and in that light considered it as an unjust and arbitrary exercise of official authority. A newspaper contest ensued between numerous advocates of the people and of the governor. At length the parties stood in silence, watching the progress of a single combat between the champion of the people, Mr. Carroll, and his antagonist, the provincial secretary. In this controversy, Mr. Carroll’s talents and prin-	f
ciples were brought fully before the public, and received the applause of the prominent men of the	i1
day. His antagonist was silenced, and the gover-	;
nor’s proclamation was suspended on a gallows and	i
burned by the common hangman. This controversy was conducted by the. parties under	]
fictitious signatures; and before it was known who	]
had been the writer to whom the laurel was	/
awarded, the citizens of Annapolis instructed their	1
representatives to address a letter . of . thanks,	i
through the newspaper, to the “distinguished ad-	\
vocate of the rights of his country”; but when it	J
was generally known that “ the distinguished ad-	।
vocate ” was Charles Carroll, “ the people of An-	1
napolis, not satisfied with the letter of their dele-’ •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
473
gates, came in a body to thank him for his exertions in defence of their rights.” Mr. Carroll had evidently made up his mind to abide the issue of the contest, which he foresaw had only been commenced with the pen to be terminated with the bayonet, and he took repeated occasions so to express his convictions to friends and foes. As the great drama of the Revolution advanced, Mr. Carroll’s popularity evidently became more extensive, and his advice and influence were more frequently sought. After the delegates in 1774 had prohibited the importation of tea, a brig arrived at Annapolis with a quantity on board; it was court time, and a great number of people were assembled from the neighboring counties, and sb irritated were they that personal violence was threatened to the captain and consignees of the vessel, and destruction to the cargo. Application was made to Mr. Carroll for advice and protection, by the owner of the vessel. He advised him to burn the vessel and the tea it contained to the water’s edge, as the most effectual means of allaying the popular excitement. His counsel was followed: the sails were set, the colors displayed, and the brig burnt, amidst the acclamations of the multitude.
In February, 1776, Mr. Carroll, then a member of the Maryland Convention, was appointed by the Continental Congress on a commission to visit Canada, in conjunction with Dr. Franklin, Samuel Chase, and the Rev. John Carroll,* the object of which was to induce the Canadians to unite their efforts with the United Provinces in the struggle for liberty; but the defeat of Montgomery’s army, the contributions levied on the inhabitants, and the invincible opposition of the clergy, rendered their mission abortive. Mr. Carroll returned to Philadelphia just as the subject of independence was under discussion: he was decidedly in favor of it, but was not a member of Congress: and the delegates from Maryland had been instructed to refuse then- assent to it. He proceeded to Annapolis with all speed, and in his place in the Convention advocated the cause of independence with such effect that on the 8th of June new instructions were given in the place of the old ones, and on the 4th of July, 1776, the votes of the Maryland delegation were given for the Declaration of Independence.
On the same day, Mr. Carroll was appointed a delegate to Congress, and took his seat as .a mem-her, for the first time, on the 18th of the same month. On the next day a secret resolution was adopted, directing the declaration to be engrossed on parchment, and signed by all the members, which was accordingly done on the 2d of August. As Mr. Carroll had not given a vote on the adoption of that instrument, he was asked by the President if he would sign it; “Most willingly,” he replied, and immediately affixed his name to that “ record of glory ” which has endeared him to his country and rendered his name immortal.
Mr. Carroll assisted in the formation of the Constitution of Maryland, in 1776, and continued in
* Afterwards Archbishop of Baltimore.
Congress until 1778- He served in the Senate of the State for several years, was a member of the United States Senate from 1788 to 1791; from which time until 1801 he was an active member of the Senate of his native State.
For the next thirty years he dwelt in the retirement of private life, in the enjoyment of tranquillity, health, fortune, and the richest reward of his patriotic labors, the veneration and gratitude of his country. After the death of Jefferson and Adams, in 1826, he was the sole survivor of the immortal band who, regardless of the peril, pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor for the liberties of their country, and the sole inheritor of the rich legacy of glory which they had left. But, on the 14th of November, 1832, the -mandate which all must obey, summoned to the tomb the last of the signers of the Declaration of Independence,—that deed of noble daring which gave his country “a place among nations,” and opened an asylum for the oppressed of all.
J. H.
A Modern Musical Genius.
That the Catholic Church did much for art and science in the first centuries, and particularly in the Middle Ages, is now so well known that even her bitterest enemies cannot question it. But it was chiefly the monasteries, which, by their schools, where the fine arts were promoted in every wav, gained the greatest merit. Art and science are not, of course, now exclusively confined to the cloister cell; but they receive -there, to-day the same fostering care as in other ages. We could mention numerous scholars, architects, sculptors, musicians, artists, etc., who, in monastic retirement, far removed from the bustle of the world, and devoted to their scholarly and artistic vocations, have lived and yet live for the honor of God and the benefit of their fellow-men. We will, however, cite an example,—that of the Franciscan monk, Father Singer, whose death at Salzburg, in Austria, was recently chronicled.
Father Peter Singer was the son of a Tyrolese bell-founder, and was born on the 18th of July, 1810, at Haselgehr, in Lechthale. At the age of 17 he joined the Franciscan Order, of which he continued to be a member during 55 years. His talent for music and skill in acoustics, his thorough knowledge of mechanics, etc., enabled him to invent an instrument productive of the most exquisite melodies. The “ Pansymphonicon ”—so the instrument is called—is a large box with two kev-boards and sets of pedals, essentially after the principle of the physharmonica, only constructed out of flutes. Forty registers give to the melody all the variable tones of the French-horn, the hautboy, the clarionet, the violin, the violoncello, etc., while the left hand (the other keyboard) adds either a pianoforte or physharmonica accompaniment, as desired. The tones of the different instruments mentioned are given with such accuracy that it is impossible to hear a more beautiful harmony in any orchestra. Such-
474
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
musicians as Laehner, Meyerbeer and Spohr were as much surprised at the sweetness of the sounds, as practical organ-makers at the simplicity of the medium through which they were obtained.. Father Singer not only invented the instrument, but also brought it to perfection in his cell, unaided. The “ pansymphonicon,” sometimes also called the “ polyharmonion,” supplies an entire orchestra, and has made the name of Father Peter famous everywhere in Germany.
“ Some years ago,” wrote a traveller, “ I paid a visit to this celebrated man. I found him in a large room of his monastery. He is tall and thin, and was dressed in the usual garb of a monk. He kindly motioned me to a leather arm-chair, and then opened the instrument and began to play a short prelude, the music resembling that of a piano; he then pulled a register, and if I had shut my eyes I would certainly have believed myself to be listening to the beautiful notes of a full-toned flute.' Then, with as much surprise, I heard the violin. One could hear now, note for note, the most delicate-toned piano, with brilliant cadences and a high staccato; then, the whispering of a violin. Next came, with incredible similarity, tones as of the hautboy, the bassoon, the French-horn, the violoncello and the organ. I could hardly believe my senses, and I was not at all surprised when the inventor told me that the instrument had cost years of labor for its perfection.”
Father Peter was as modest and amiable as he was clever. He was never tired of playing for the thousands of tourists who came every year to Salzburg. His soul-stirring music would have brought even infidels. and despisers of religion to better thoughts. But however obliging Father Singer was, even to strangers, he was not anxious to explain to them the structure of his wonderful Pansymphonicon. Two Englishmen once induced him to take it apart in their presence, but when they expressed a wish to wait and see it put together again, Father Peter hinted that they would have to wait.
E. A. O.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—Mr. Demetrius Bikelas will shortly publish a modern Greek version of Macbeth and of Hamlet.
—“Irish Essays and Others,” is the title of a new book by Matthew Arnold. Like all his works, this is highly praised.
—Patti’s purse is fuller to the extent of $160,-ooo, it is thought, on account of her thirty-two performances here. No wonder she is not disinclined to return again to America.
—Messrs. Blackwood will soon publish the text of a rare specimen of Ancient Celtic Latin poetry, the « Altus ” of St. Columba, with a prose paraphrase and notes by the Marquis of Bute.
—Fenelon wrote a eulogy on La Fontaine, in the form of a Latin essay, which he gave to his pupil, the young Duke of Burgundy, to translate; it concludes^kh these words,; “Ab, when will the
cleverest of the human race match the admirable talk he puts into the mouth of his animals ? ”
—In a discourse on Longfellow, at Parker Memorial, Boston, the speaker said: “ He was always a human poet. He took the whole world in his arms and kissed it.” If the dead poet could have heard these -words they would have amused him. The death of a great man in this country invariably brings out some speaker that had better have been silent.	_
—Of Strauss’s “Merry War,” the Neue Freie Presse of Vienna says : “ The music is like the fire from a mitrailleuse; one melody succeeds another, and each one has its effect on the audience. The great charm of the music is that, although heard over and over again, it remains always fresh and fascinating. The airs are now common property, and are whistled, sung and hummed by everybody; street musicians and military bands play them, and at every ball one hears lancers, quadrilles and polkas taken bodily from the ‘Merry War.’”	.
—Our young artist and sculptor, Mr. Thos. H. Mullay, has finally succeeded in producing a bust of the late Bishop Rosecrans that is as near perfect as a simple plaster cast can be, and that is saying much. Mr. Mullay was fortunate in obtaining the cast of the Bishop’s face, taken by the late Tom Jones, immediately after the Bishop’s death, and we congratulate him upon the success he has attained in bringing out an excellent representation of the much-beloved prelate. There are two sizes of busts, one about life-size and the other one-half. —'Catholic Columbian ( Columbus, Ohio').
—Mr. James Britten has been elected a Member of the Council of the English Dialect Society. The society has just issued a reprint of a rare black-letter book. The Names of Herbes, by William Turner (1548), edited by Mr. Britten, according to the society’s annual report, “ with the infinite care, the accuracy, and the abounding knowledge which characterize his work.” Mr. Britten concludes his preface to the reprint with the following paragraph“ I may, perhaps, be allowed to draw attention to the fact that the ‘House of Syon,’ where The Names of Herbes was prepared, is within a mile of the place (Isleworth) where this preface is written; and that the Protestant author of 1548 is introduced to the reading public by a Catholic editor in 1882. ‘ Thus the whirligig of Time brings in his revenges 1 ’ ”
Scientific Notes.
—Charles Wyville Thompson, the Chief of the Naturalists’ Department in the Challenge Expedition, died at Linlithgow, last month. Deep sea exploration owed much to his labor and research.
—An improvement has been made in the telephone, by which the full tones of the human voice may be transmitted. By using the carbon in a pulverized form instead of in the shape of a hard, button, and by using a current four times as strong
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	475
as before, the telephone is made to give forth as loud and articulate sounds as those of the human voice.
—Hen* Eduard Strauss, the well-known musical composer and band-master, has been trying the experiment in Vienna of transmitting the sound Of his orchestra by means of the telephone, and writes on the subject to a Vienna journal in the following terms: “ The experiment was brilliantly and surprisingly successful. Four micro-scopes, of Adar’s system, were employed. Eight )	telephones were placed at a considerable distance
I	from the orchestra, in the same house, which dis-
1	tance, however,' was artificially lengthened, by
'	means of cables to four German miles. The tone
I	of the whole orchestra was surprising; the wind
j	instruments, it is true, dominate, and even a
>	stringed orchestra sounds like a military band.
! •	The.flute and clarionet, however, keep their tone
(	and character unchanged. The harp alone sounds
’	almost like a piano, and the side drum shriller
।	than is possible in nature. The' voice retains its
•	full quality of tone.—N. X. Sun.
<	—Padre Denza, a Barnabite monk, is considered
I	the most eminent astronomer and meteorologist in
Italy. Catholic priests are stationed at the head of the astronomical observatories at Kalosca, Louvain, Pueblo, Cuba, Manlia, Calcutta, Tchang-kia-
,	Tchouang in China, and at Zikawei, near Shang-
hai. Father Secchi js everywhere regarded as the prince of modern astronomers. When the English Government determined to have the fruits of the scientific expedition of the Challenger thoroughly examined and analyzed, two Catholic priests, Monsignor Castracani, of Rome, and Father Reynard, a Belgian Jesuit, were engaged to give their services, as being the two most competent men of science in Europe, the one in the department called diatomes, and the othei* in the microscopic analysis of the deposits of rocks brought up from the bed of the ocean. Father Perry, of Stonyhurst, has twice been named head of the national astronomical expedition to Kerguelen and Madagascar. [Will not the editor of The Vidette-Reporter^ who thinks the Catholic Church is opposed to science, v progress, etc., cut this out and paste it in his hat, or give it a corner in his scrap-book? We remember the difficulty we ourselves had in believing that Columbus was a Catholic].
College Gossip.
—A scholar once wrote on his tea-chest, “ Tu L	doces”—thou teachest!—Ex.
r ,	—The Jesuits, it is said, are about to open a new
;	■ school for higher studies in Dublin.
—The first Catalogue of the University of Notre ।	/ Dame was printed by Hon. Schuyler Colfax, ex-
’ Vice-President of the United States.
—The resignation of Prof. Dunbar, Dean of the Harvard College Faculty, will, take effect at the end of the academic year. . ...
■. —The number of -Protestant the.ological stu-
dents in Germany is diminishing so rapidly that it is found difficult to fill vacancies.—Cologne Gazette.
—We hear that Senator Bayard, of Delaware, has been selected to deliver the address at Dartmouth College, at the centenary celebration of Daniel Webster’s birth, which occurs in June.
—Rev. Dr. Kilroy is Chairman of the Stratford Separate School Board. The Separate School buildings of Stratford are a credit to Dr. Kilroy and his people.—Catholic Shield.
Rev. Dr. Kilroy is well known at Notre Dame, of which he is an alumnus.
—A Vassar damsel, visiting Switzerland, writes thus to her papa: “ I tried to climb the Matterhorn to-day; didn’t reach the top; it is so absurdly high; everything is high in this country. Please send me some more money.”—Ex.
Isn’t it about time to “let up” on the Vassar maidens? We shall'repeat no more jokes on them this year from any quarter, or try to get off any.
—Hearing recitations, Colonel Parker says, is not teaching, by any means. Teaching is the bringing- of new ideas into the mind through ob-jects, classifying ideas, comparing them, and combining them into new creatures of the imagination. Rote learning is simply inculcating stupidity, both in pupil and teacher. It will be a happy day for the public schools when all teachers are made to understand these plain truths.—Ex.
—Edward Hanna, an alumnus of the North American College, Rome, lately distinguished himself by sustaining the thesis of the constitutive elements of life, against the argumentation of a young alumnus of the Greek College, who brought forward all the objections of Spencer, Darwin and Tyndall, demonstrating the absurdity of the theory of evolution, as well from philosophic reasons as by paleontologic arguments.
—The recent destruction by fire of Walker Hall, Amherst, involves a loss of about $185,000 —$25,000 on the building itself, $40,000 on the Shepard cabinet, and $15,000 on the physics apparatus, besides the loss of valuable paintings and records. There is an insurance of $72,-000 on the property. The loss on the Shepard mineralogical cabinet is great. It cost the college $40,000, which was considerably less than two-thirds of the value as appraised by Prof. Bush, of New Haven, and the work of carefully re-classifying it had just been completed.
—The London Spectator had the following complimentary notice of a performance of Macbeth at the Catholic College of Beaumont, near Old Windsor, just before Lent:
We never remember seeing private theatricals anything like so effective, or Macbeth on any stage so well rendered. The Beaumont pupils who played ‘ Macbeth ’ and ‘ Lady Macbeth’ with great power, and without a syllable ot rant, surpassed, in our opinion, and surpassed greatly, Mr. Irving’s and Miss Bateman’s rendering of the same parts. If, as was said at the theatre, and we believe with truth, all the credit of this performance was due to the extraordinary power of a certain Jesuit Father—Father Vaughan— for theatrical management, we can only say that the theatres of London have lost a managing genius in Father Vaughan, of the Society of Jesus. Still, Mr. Barff and Mr-‘ , Mullens, to say nothing of several of the other aetc^rs, must-have-very great artistic-qualities of their pwn.r
476	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

UNoti'e Dame, April 15, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the Universify of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including th*e names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, . 50 per Annum. Postpaid. .
hAixtst. EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—The death was announced by cable, on Monday, of Dennis Florence McCarthy, the “ Poet-Laureate of Ireland.” He will be remembered as well for his excellent translations of Calderon as for his numerous original compositions. When the Irish Catholic University was opened in 1854, un" der Cardinal Newman, Mr. McCarthy was appointed honorary professor of poetry. He was crowned as the poet-laureate of Ireland on the occasion of the Moore Centennary Celebration, in 1879. He was present at the magnificent celebration in Dublin, and after Lord O’Hagan had deliv-ered his eloquent panegyric of Moore, the large and distinguished audience demanded that a laurel wreath be placed on the brow of the living bard of Dublin. The British Government, recognizing Mr. McCarthy’s eminent literaiy ability, enrolled his name in the Literary Civic List, as was done in the case of Moore, Scott and other distinguished au-. thors. In the death of Dennis Florence McCarthy Ireland has lost a son of high poetic genius and noble character. May he rest in peace!
—We announced some time ago that the students of the classical department were thinking of producing either a Latin or a Greek play before Commencement, and it gives us sincere pleasure to learn that they have finally decided to bring' out both the “ Captives ” of Plautus and the “ CEdipus Tyrannus ” of Sophocles. The Third Latin Class will undertake the “ Captives,” and the Second Greek will supply the dramatis persona: for tc CE-- dipus.” The Latin play, which requires less preparation than the other, Will probably be put on the boards early in May; the Greek play not till a
month later. The boys are enthusiastic over the matter, and, realizing the advantages which they are likely to derive from the study necessary to the presentation of these two dramas in a fitting manner, they are determined to spare no pains to make the occasion a great success. The most careful attention will be paid to the costuming of the actors, and an effort will be made to put before the audience as faithful a representation as possible of the ancient classical stage. Success is what all are unanimous in wishing and predicting for the enterprising young Latinists and Hellenists.
—It probably never entered the mind, day or night, of any one in charge of the Scholastic, or, for that matter, any other paper, big or little, that he would succeed in making it equally pleasing to all his readers. Such a thing is simply not in the bounds of possibility. If all persons were reasonable, unprejudiced,—if every one had the same likes, and dislikes, the same pursuits, the same hobbies, etc., what would please one would, of course, please all, and vice versa. But this is not the way the world goes, as every one knows, or that it is likely to go. Our minds are as variegated as our faces. It is no surprise whatever for us to be made aware that certain persons now find the Scholastic too exclusive, too undevoted, too serious, and too what not—the Editor too radical, etc., etc. We happen to be different from them; their ways—literary ways—are not ours. Of course, it is too bad, but there is no remedy for it: it is in the nature of things. Though no one is just like anybody else, there are people in the world very different from most others, and as there is no accounting for their tastes, so there is no gratifying them. A paper that would exactly suit some few persons we know of, would be a curious compound indeed. But then only those whose good nature disposes them to look on the bright side of things, to see merits rather than defects, will ever be even half satisfied in this world with anything or anybody. So, while human nature remains complex, while everyone continues to be different in some respects from his neighbor, we must expect to have our views opposed sometimes, and we ought to try to be tolerant.
We desire to say that it is not our intention to try to make the Scholastic anything radically . different from what it is, but the best of what it is, and that we try to be obliging even when there is no other reason for doing what may be requested of us. When there exists a good reason for acting in a manner contrary to what is desired by another or others, compliance is not necessarily a -proof of willingness to oblige.
—Washington Hall has been the scene of many a social festivity, but we doubt whether it has ever seen a pleasanter gathering than the one which assembled to do honor to Notre Dame’s great artist, Signor Luigi Gregori. On Wednesday evening last a grand reception was tendered to the Professor •by the Mignon Club, The most .elegant invita
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	w
tions ever issued at Notre Dame were sent out a few days before to the resident members of the College Faculty, University Band, and the young gentlemen of the Junior Euglossian Club. Elbel’s Orchestra, of South Bend, was engaged to discourse the music, which they did in a manner that fully sustained their reputation as artists. After Signor Gregori, accompanied by Rev. President Walsh, Father Stoffel, Prof. Lyons, Bro. Leander, Profs. Paul, Ackerman and Bro. Aquinas, had entered the hall and taken the places assigned them, M. Leon Gibert advanced and read, in classic French, the following address:
Dear Professor:
The members of the Mignon Club are happy to welcome you among them this evening, and proud to meet so distinguished a representative of Italian art. Permit us, then, to present our respectful salutations, and in the name of the students of the University of Notre Dame, to say: “ Emilia Signore Gregori! Emiva il stimatissimo Professore!" Long before we had the pleasure of meeting you, your name was known to us, for “ the artist is known by his work.” Indeed, who is there, if, not blind, that does not admire those wonderful frescoes which adorn the beautiful Church of Notre Dame? Who can fail to be influenced by those representations which speak to the eye even as eloquently as the finest sermon' to the ear and heart? Every one, even the smallest Minim, may see described upon those walls the most sacred mysteries of religion. Truly, it is popular eloquence! But the finest connoiseurs, the “ dilettanti ” who have visited the Eternal City, and studied the masterpieces of Guido, Raphael and Domenichino, declare that the work of our artist’s pencil is not unworthy of the grand masters of Rome. Ask the visitors to our University why they stop in the vestibule, and seem impressed with some pleasing emotion. They are silently contemplating the life-like picture of the immortal Genoese—the discoverer of the New World, and the graceful portrait of his royal protectress. Isabella and Columbus! noble works of an exquisite pencil, that seem to be,the homage of the Old World to the New.
But the sacred love of country must yield to love of God. What is that painting which so entranced us during the solemn ceremonies of Holy Week? It is the “ Christ in the Tomb.” There is; indeed, depicted the livid pallor of the corpse, the coldness of death, the silence of the tomb. Involuntarily we think of that celebrated “Descent of the Cross,” by Daniel da Voltura, one of the grandest chefs d'teuvre in the world, with the “ Transfiguration” and the “ Communion of St. Jerome.”
Let us leave Rome and its glories, and return to America.
Yes, dear Professor, Notre Dame, embellished by your hands with such magnificent paintings, salutes and thanks you through me. This evening the Mignon Club, in the name of the whole University, again cries out in honor of its great artist: “Long live Professor Gregori!” Yes, you have established an indissoluble bond of union between America and Italy. Even in this country of business and machines, at the door of the bustling, noisy Chicago, your palette has already met with glory and fame. Live, then, at Notre Dame! live long for Notre Dame! continue to enrich her with new works; delay not to reveal to her eager eyes the treasures which Columbus brought to the New World, and once more we shall exclaim with joyful hearts and voices: “ Long live Professor Gregori! ”	’	,
At the close of the address the Professor, in a graceful little speech, returned his thanks for the compliments paid him by the young gentlemen. As the Professor spoke in French, his remarks were translated by President Walsh. Refreshments were served by that prince of caterers, Russ, of South Bend, and at a late hour the company dispersed, all well pleased with the entertainment of the evening.
Exchanges.
—The Cornell Sun has the following kind words of the Scholastic :
The Notre Dame Scholastic comes to us this week in a new dress throughout, which tends to.place the appearance of the paper more nearly on an equality with the general excellence of its contents.	«
Our hope for the Scholastic is that it will some day deserve more fully the kind words of its contemporaries. It is still far different from what it ought to be, and what it could be if all in whose interest it is published were to lend a helping hand. The Scholastic may not have any real opponents, but it has a large number of very lukewarm friends, we have discovered. There are always plenty to find fault, but not so many to do the work.
—The North-Western (North-Western University, Evanston, Ill.), Hesperian Student (University of Nebraska), The College Journal (St. Mary’s College, Ky.), The Adelphian, The College Cabinet, the journal of Geneva College, Beaver Falls, Pa., and Chaddock College Monthly are new and welcome visitors to our sanctum. We find excellent features in each, but we defer noticing them at length till we have become better acquainted with their characteristics. The Adel--phian is published monthly by the students of the Adelphia Academy, Brooklyn, N. Y. It would have been better if the paper emanating from St. Mary’s College, had chosen another title, there are so many College Journals. However, we hope our Kentucky -friends will give their paper such marks of individuality as will distinguish it from all its namesakes; it would be too much to hope that it may “ lead all the rest,” for there are College ‘Journals whose reputations for a high standard of excellence are already well established.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic says: “ Strange girls, these Tennessee girls.” . . . Well, these Tennessee girls may be strange, but you did not reach your conclusion logically, Mr. Editor. Do you recall such a thing as a fallacy of imperfect enumeration? Because t~vo Tennessee girls are strange, you conclude that they are all so. Worse than that—the editress-in-chief and exchange-editor happen'to be one and the same. The editor of the Clionean Argus is as strange. She is a Tennessee girl. All Tennessee girls are strange. Try another syllogism—that can’t stand the test—Clionean Argus.
No, thank you; but if the one who wrote the obnoxious lines,—the present writer had nothing at all to do with them—or any of our confreres, wishes to enter into an argument with the editress of the Clionean Argus, we are in exactly the same frame of mind that Artemus Ward was when he declared that he had no objection to Jiis wife’s relations going to the war. Intellectual arguments are dangerous things for a lady to make use of. The -young ladies of Tennesee Female College have our best wishes for their happiness and success. We are ready and willing to take sides with them, but to enter into a discussion with them we are not prepared.
—We have been much interested in the March number of the Alabama University Monthly, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
especially so in an article on college journalism, from which we make a brief extract:
“ When college students compare their papers with the leading magazines that are now so eagerly read hy tens of thousands of readers all over the country, they may', for a moment, feel just a little ashamed of the quantity and quality of their own publications. But let these young writers remember that some of the most finished articles in the most imposing! magazines of the day were written by pens that were first used in college journalism, and that much of the best work in the great monthlies of the future •will be done by some that are now timidly writing for the college press. We believe, then, that college journalism has much reason to be gratified at what it is now accomplishing and at what, through its instrumentality, will be accomplished for letters in the future. ‘ Despise not the day of small things.’ ”
There are some other articles in the same issue of the Monthly to which we should be glad to refer if time permitted. We have been, and still are, kept so busy with the other departments of the Scholastic, that we have thought of discontinuing our exchange notes altogether.’ It would be with much regret, and we still hope we shall be able to continue them, if not regularly, at least at intervals.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic is as able and steadfast as ever. Its strong, unwavering loyalty to College and principles, together with literary taste and purity of style, give it a deep mark of individuality among the best of our contemporaries. We find in it none of the indescribable barbarism of expression which characterizes so many of the smaller western College papers. Everything is good about it—not least the exchange column, which is always clever, careful and good-natured. The Scholastic for February 25th bravely defended the “ Roll of Honor ” against its' various foes, and we think perfectly successfully, though we hardly like the “ Roll ” ourselves. The Editors state they are to have a new dress of type shortly, and that the little paper will present a better appearance in future. We wish them success to their heart’s desire, for the Scholastic is surely one of the very best papers of the kind we have ever seen.—Rouge et Noir.	.
The above highly complimentary remarks of the Scholastic appeared in the March number of Rouge et Noir. We put the paper aside, thinking it would savor too much of vanity to reproduce the notice, and that it would be in bad taste to make favorable comments on that issue of our contemporary as we were disposed to do in turning over its well-filled pages. On second thought, however, we have concluded to show dur appreciation of the very kind words of Rouge et Noir in the usual manner. We will only say of our Trinity College exchange this month that, the nearer the Scholastic comes to being all that it is, the more fully we shall merit the praise so generously bestowed.
Personal.’
—J. C. Dunlap, of ’65, is Contractor of Public Works at Valparaiso, Ind.
—John C. Cody, of ’62, our first commercial graduate, is settled in Fort Wayne, Ind., where he is the proprietor of a stave factory.
—Charley Kreiter, of ’76, formerly in the employ of the . Denver and South Park R. R., in Colorado, is how in Chicago with James W. Smith & Co., wholesale grocers’;	* ‘	’
'—J. H. Falvey, ’74, and Michael Falvey, ’80, both of Winamac, Ind., were among the visitors to Notre Dame this week. We are always glad to see old students revisiting their college home.
—P. Sullivan, of ’70,- has bepn tendered the position of business manager of the Chicago Citizen. He has been for a number of years editor of our valued exchange The Valparaiso Herald.
—J. F. Park (Com. ’66), is in business at Australia, Miss. He says it would be a great pleasure to get even a look at some dry land again. Australia is about the centre of the overflowed district, and Mr. Park states that underneath the store where he writes there is two feet of water. It has probably subsided since the letter was written. We trust our friend has not suffered any loss or physical injury.
—Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., for some years Prefect of Discipline at Notre Dame, is now attached to St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis. He is enjoying excellent health, and renders valuable aid in all parochial work at St. Bernard’s. We learn that the debt of this magnificent church was reduced $3,500 during the month of March; but this is only what might be expected from the efficient and popular rector, Very Rev. William Corby, C. S. C.
Local Items.
—Young man, ahoy! ! 1
—“Rec” day this week was a glorious one, and was much enjoyed.
—Rev. Father Steihl is announced to lecture on Goethe some time this month.
—The Nashville boys got a puff, last week, in The Daily American of that city.
—The Baseball Association is now the leading athletic organization of the houses.	’
—The Ave Maria received two new subscriptions this week from Madras, India.
—The Tribune Co., of South Bend, has our thanks for a very pretty Easter card.
—The young man from the country thinks he can shoot, so the scorer thought one day.
—The Rev. chaplain of St. Joseph’s Farm is absent for a few days at Huntington, Ind.
—B. Lawrence has been ill for the last week; we hope he will soon “ be himself ” again.
—Prof. Stace has been on the sick list, but we are glad-to hear that he is now much better.
—We shall soon have smaller type for the Roll of Honor, etc. It was promised for last week.
—Rev. Father Toohey, Prefect of Discipline, spent Easter with Rev. D. A. Tighe, of Hyde Park, Ill.	■
—-Master A. S. Colyar has received a number of choice plants and a quantity of strawberries from his home in the sunny South. -
- —It was sb cold some nights at the early part’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. >	479

of the week that an extra amount of bed covering was provided. Come, gentle Spring!
The best thing in the egg line during the week was that barrelful which was liberally distributed among his chums by the gratified recipient.
—The Minims are very grateful to Very Rev. Father General for a basket of beautifully-colored Easter eggs which he sent them on Sunday.
—The Rev. chaplain of St. Mary’s Academy paid a short visit to the College last Wednesday. He is looking well after the fatigues of Lent.
—There was just enough of snow on Tuesday to verify the prediction of our assistant weatherprophet. “ Look out for still more snow.”
—The reception tendered to Prof. Gregori by the Mignon Chib, on Wednesday evening, was the most successful social event of the season.
—One or two of the servers have the habit of sitting cross_-legged in the -sanctuary. This habit is bad enough anywhere, but around the altar it is intolerable.	’
-—All the Catholic students “made their Easter,” the Juniors on Holy Thursday, the Seniors on Easter Sunday. Easter Monday there was conge, as usual.
—Mrs. Thompson had a special dinner prepared for the Lima boys during her late visit to the College. She also visited those sick in the Infirmarv, and left them oranges and other delicacies.
—The baseball games this year already promise to be of unusual interest. The games played during the last week were very good, and closely contested. When will the championship nines begin?
—Those who distinguished themselves in target practice last week were: F. Gallagher, C. Connor, C. Tinley, C. Smith, W. Bailey, J. Donegan, F. Wheatly, E. McGorrisk, R. Becerra, W. Johnson, J. Sturla, W. Flannery, A. Schiml, and J. Marlett.
—The entertainment to be given by the Scientific Association, next Wednesday, of which we have already made mention, promises to be a very brilliant affair. It will have not only a large number of amusing features, but will also be instinctive O'.
in the highest degree.
—The fourth regular meeting of the Scientific Association was held Wednesday, March 29th. Mr. Otis’s essay, read at the previous meeting, was first discussed. Then followed Mr. T. Healy’s instructive. paper on Animal Mechanism, and another by J. McIntyre on the Oyster.
—The Euglossians are preparing to celebrate Shakspeare’s birthday in a fitting manner. At least, we should judge that such is the case from the frequent shrieks of “John Maynard,” “Young Man Ahoy!” “Fire”! etc., that have of late assailed the ears of those passing in the vicinity of St. Ce,cilian Hall. -
—We regret not to have been able to examine the large and choice collection of old engravings and modern etchings on exhibition this week at the Tribune store, South Bend. Our thanks are due to Mr. J. H. Jordan, agent of the owner,—
Frederick Keppel, a well-known art dealer of London and New York,—for his courteous remembrance of us.
—Master J. M. Studebaker, Jr., son of Mr. J. M. Studebaker, of South Bend, has been entered as a student of the Minim department, making the 76th Minim. The Parisian dinner is now secured, and Father General has left it to his little friends to name the day on which they wish to have it. It will probably be deferred until May, when straw- ' berries and other good things are more abundant. •
—Work was begun on the Minim College last Wednesday. The building will be ninety feet long and have a depth of forty feet. It will stand between the' present Infirmary building and the Minims’ play-hall, and will be large enough to accommodate one hundred resident Minims. Useless to say that the “youngsters’’ are enthusiastic ovei" the thought of the fine quarters in preparation for next year.	-
—The 26th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association was held on April the 8th. Masters S. Gibert, A. Richmond, G. Deschamps, F. Lund, M. Wilbur, H. Foote and W. Ayers delivered declamations; G. Tourtillotte, J. Brewster, A. Campau, H. Metz, Fred Fishel, E. Bailey, C. Devoto and J. Kahman read selections. W. Muhlke closed the exercises of the evening with a German speech.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic, a journal published weekly in the English language, at Notre Dame, Ind., in its last number appeared dressed in new type, and the marked improvement in its contents corresponds to its improved appearance. This journal is such a valuable aid in the education of the young, that we cannot recommend it too highly.—Katholisches Wochen-blatt ( Chicago').
—The 30th regular meeting of the St. Cecilian Philomathean Association was held on the 9th inst. C. Kolars read an essay on “ Alexander Hamilton,” and Ed Fishel furnished another on “National Greatness.” Next followed readings by C. Rose, A. Coghlin, W. Johnston, M. Foote, J. Guthrie, C. Echlin, H. Porter, and J. Grever. The following public readers were appointed for the week: W. H. Johnston, G. Rhodius, N. Ewing, J. Grever. A. Browne, H. Sells, and G. L. Castanedo. Well-written criticisms on the previous meeting were read by M. Foote and D. Taylor.	.
—The crews for the June Regatta have been chosen by Captains McEniry and Kuhn, and are as follows:
MINNEHAHA.	HIAWATHA.
W. McEniry, Stroke; M. J. McCue, 2d. D. Corry, 3d. C. L. Pierson, 4th. W. McGorrisk, 5th. E. A. Otis, Bow. .	F. E. Kuhn, Stroke. T. Kavanaugh, 2d. W. Arnold, 3d. C. Van Dusen, 4th. G. Tracy,' 5th.	, ‘ F. B. Devoto, Bow.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
- . 1
The old boats will be used for practice until the arrival of new ones, which are expected about the first of May.. The new boats are to be first-class in every respect, and with all the modern improvements, sliding seats, spoon oars, patent rowlocks, etc.
—The Lerhonnier Library Association is indebted to Dr. McGorrisk, Des Moines, Iowa, for CEuvres de Bourdaloue, 3 vols., CEuvres de Massillon, 12 vols., Theologize Ligorio, 10 vols., Bouvier, Institutiones Theologize, 6 vols.; to Andrew White, President of Cornell University,-for a copy of his Garfield Memorial Address; to Hon. Thos. Ryan, of Topeka, Kan., for the Congressional Globe containing the full text of Hon. James G. Blaine’s Oration on Garfield; to Miss Bigelow, of Detroit, Mich., for twenty-five numbers of Brownson? s Quarterly Review; to Rev. President Walsh for Martial’s Epigrams, in twelve books, with comments by James Elphinstone, Lond., 1782; Rawlinson’s Ancient Hist., 3 vols.; to Rev. D. A. Tighe, ’70, for twenty dollars contributed to purchase books; to Samuel T. Spalding, Lebanon; Ky., for twenty-one numbers of Brownsoi?s Review; to Mrs. Anna H. Dorsey, of Washington, and Mr. Eliot Ryder, of Boston, for valuable papers.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the .names- of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anderson, Armijo, Arnold, J. Berry, W. Berry, Bailey, Barron, Bryant, Browne, Bell, Becerra, Cooper, Cullin, Clements, Carroll, Christian, Conway, G. Clarke, T. Clarke, -Connor, Cleary, Jas. Delaney, J. P. Delaney, Dorsey, Donegan, Drury, Donohue, Ewing, Eaton, Fitzgerall, Flannery, E. Fenlon, T. Fenlon,.Farrell, Fleming, Flynn, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, Grout, Gallagher, Gray, Golonski, Grever, Healy, Jones, Johnson, Kinsella, Kelly, Kuhn, Kuntsman, Kerndt, Kav-. anaugh, Livingston, Larkin, Lannon, Lippman, McErlaine, Minnis, Marlett, McCarthy, McGinnis, McDermott, McIntyre, McDevitt, Morse, W. McGorrisk, Mason, Nash, H. Noble, Noonan, O’Reilly, O’Neill, O’Connor, O’Rourke, Orrick, Otis, Peery, Paquette, Pierson, Quinn, Ryan, Rettig, Rasche, Ruger, Saviers, Steiger, W. Schofield, B. Schofield, Solon, W. Smith, C. Smith, Schiml, Steis, Tracy, Treon, Van Duzen, Wheatley, West, White, Walsh, Yrisarri, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Masters Archer, Browne, Bacon, Bailey, Barron, Buchanan, Campau, Colyar, J. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, Coghlin, Castillo, Chirhart, Dolan, Devitt, Drendel,- Echlin, Ewing, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, Freyermuth, Fendrick, French, M. Foote, Grever, Gerlach, E. Gall, A. Gall, Guthrie, Hoffman, Hess, Hibbelef, Hurley, Howard, Hanivan, Heffernan, Halligan, Jeannot, Johnston, Jones, Kengel, Kitz, Katz, Livingston, J. McGordon,
Metz, T. McGrath, McPhillips, McCarthy, Murphy, Meyer, Neeson, Orchard, Osburn, H. Porter, Peery, Rhodius, Ruppe, Ryon, Schaefer, Sells, Tappan, Taylor, Taggart, Vernier, Williams, Warner, Wendell, Wilbur, Yrisarri, Zeigler, Bowers, Boone, Lewis, Roper.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adams, Ackerman, Berthelet, Brandom, Cummings, Chirhart, Curran, Devitt, J. Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Dirksmeyer, Frain, Fehr, Graham, Hewitt, Hynes, Johnson, J. T. Kelly, J. Kelly, E. McGrath, C. McGordon, Miller, Masi, Metz, Norfolk, Nash, F. Otis, A. Otis, Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Powell, G. Price, E. Price, Quinlin, Rose, Rebori, Stange, Tong, Thomas, Welch, Walsh, L. Young, Roper, Schmitz.
Class Honors. .
[In the following list may be found the names of those’students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
Messrs. Archer, Barron, Bacon, Jos. Courtney, W. Coghlin, Deschamp, Dolan, Devoto, Echlin, French, E. Gall, Jeannot, Katz, C. Murdock, Mahon, Orchard, Snee, Sells, Schaefer, Taylor, Zeigler, Donegan, Garret, Kerndt, McDevitt, O’Rourke, Peery, Paquette, Zettler, Vander Hayden, Steis, Saviers, Rasche, Ryan, Pierson, Nash, McErlaine, Millett, Kinsella, Jones, Falvey, Fishburne, Eager, Drury, Cullin, Concannon, Bryant, Conway, Connor, Eaton, Marlett, Schiml, E. Yrisarri, Ruger, Grever, Heffernan, Hurley, Kolars, Rose.
' List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according, to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—Messrs. Kuntsman, Chelini, Donegan, Concannon, Eager, Bryant, Yrisarri, Grout, Lund, Kolars, Fendrick, Hess, Dolan, Jeannot; Grammar—Messrs. Pierson, M. Falvey, Kerndt, Bryant, Barron, French, Jos. Courtney, Dolan, Mahon, Cullin; Geography— Messrs. Golonski, C. Smith, E. Yrisarri, Fishburne, Kerndt, Echlin, Halligan, Kolars, P. Yrisarri, Devoto, Barron, Kahman, H. Foote; U. S. History— Messrs. Garret, F. Barron, E. Yrisarri, Fishburne; Penmanship—A. West; Arithmetic—Messrs.Echlin, C. Porter, Fishburne, Kerndt, Bryant, Concannon, E. Yrisarri; Book-Keeping—Messrs. Millett, Echlin, M. Falvey, W. Barron, Mahon, Corry, Vander Hayden, Cullin, Pierson, E. Ryan, Sells, Fishburne, Flannery, Treon, McDevitt, Donegan, M. Foote, Bacon, Kerndt, Jeannot, Christian.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
. Masters W. Devine, Devitt, F. Otis, Johnson, Walsh, Norfolk, W. Prindiville, P. Campau, Roberts, Powell, Stange, Masi, Cummings, Garrity.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	4§f
Saint ^}arg’$ ^talking.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. Father General on Holy Thursday and Easter Sunday, the Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier acting as deacon and subdeacon.
—The wealth of floral loveliness, clustered around the Repository on Holy Thursday, was in sweet harmony with the spirit of adoration appropriate to the day, and which drew so many young hearts to pass hours in the chapel. While the tranquil blossoms paid the tribute of their fragrance, those innocent souls offered the incense of their prayers to God.
—On Tuesday, the 27th ult., President Walsh, of the University, addressed the pupils on the “Roman Question.”- The Rev. speaker, in his own clear and brilliant style, not only chained the attention of his audience for an hour and a half, but left them in possession of a rich fund of new and fruitful ideas upon one of the most momentous questions of the present day.
—Visitors: Mrs. Rose Howe, Miss Frances Howe, Baily Station, Porter Co., Ind.; Miss L. Black (Class ’74), Milwaukee, Wis.; Miss E. Rosing (Classr’81), Hyde Park, Ill.; R. T. D’Hart, Lafayette, Ind.; Mrs. P. L. Garrity, Mrs. A. B. Cav-enor, Mr. F. J. Schmidt, Andrew Cummings, Mrs. S. M. Owens, Mr. P. T. Barry, Chicago; Mrs. A. Beal, Laporte, Mr. J. S. Turner, Miss J. Neale, Mr. J. B. Whittier, Miss C. Whittier, R. T.-Johnson, Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Cleis, South Bend ; Mrs. P. Cleis, Miss Cleis, Goshen, Ind.; Miss Carter, Catteraugas, N. Y. ; Miss Z. Papin, St. Louis, Mo.; Mrs. P. Hackett, Ionia, Mich.; Mrs. M. Hackett, Watertown, Wis.; Mr. J. W. Price, Fairmount, Neb.; Mrs. Blaine, Miss Louise Blaine, Miss Ella Blaine, and K. Fenlon, Helena, Montana; Mr. Thos. B. Fenlon, Mr. J. R. Fenlon, Mrs. E. Fenlon, and McGonigle, Leavenworth, Kan.	'	.
—At the regular- Academic reunion of Sunday evening, in the Senior department, Very Rev. Father General took occasion to offer important suggestions, impressing the necessity of perfect propriety on the part of young ladies in their deportment at all times and - everywhere, if they wish to stand blameless and above reproach in society. He resumed the subject on the following evening in the Junior department. In the same vein was his beautiful instruction at Loretto on Monday morning. The integrity and earnest strength of purpose which should nerve the souls of our Christian youth, was the’burden of his eloquent discourse. Finally, on Easter Sunday, in a few terse but impressive sentences he brought forward the same idea, namely, that the youth of our day, the Christian youth, have a double responsibility resting upon them, in order
that the spirit of cold skepticism, now so prevalent, be effectually resisted.
(Selections from “Rosa Mystic a” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly MS. papers edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
The Mother’s Claim to Honor.
BY MISS A. C., OF CLASS ’75.
On the highway I was wandering, Sorrowful, and vaguely pondering On the sad events of life,	"
- Human waywardness and strife.
Lo, I scanned each traveller’s face, But new cause for grief to trace; Turned I then unto the city, With my heart all full of pity,— Pity for the restless yearning In so many bosoms burning.
It was when Columbia’s eagle Drooped his crest, his pinions regal; When the proud flag of the Nation , At half-mast told desolation, And Lake Erie’s wailing sound Seemed to herald woe profound.
Stay! what pageant sad is here? ' ’Tis a catafalque and bier;
Lies he there, our Nation’s chosen, At his heart the life-tide frozen.
Eloquent now grows the splendor Of black drapings, flow’rets tender, Which an orphaned land doth spread O’er the ashes of its dead.
Lo, the concourse nears: it closes Round the casket where reposes Fair Columbia’s lifeless Chief; But another moment brief . And it parts. A matron comes, Hushed the roll of muffled’ drums.
Who is she that claims such honor? Why is it conferred upon her.?
- See, the highest of the land At her coming, backward stand! Ah! that matron was the mother, She to him was as none other. Now, for Garfield’s sake we love her, Since he prized no one above her; Through their tears the people smiled, Blessed the mother for the child..
Filial love! what heart without it Can be trusted? All men doubt it. Yet, in Christian lands, too true, This anomaly we view Men to Christ their worship pay, From His Mother turn away;
Kneel to Heaven’s great King, I ween, And ignore Heaven’s rightful Queen, Mary, next to God, must please us, If we truly love Christ Jesus.
482	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Friendship.
Friendship is the inseparable cord binding kindred hearts together. It is a treasure above all treasures, next to divine faith. Indeed, it is the most perfect mirror of the latter, for without the Christian virtues, no true friendship can exist. Not only does it enhance the beauty and joy of life, but it smoothes the rough places, and crushes the thorns along our earthly pathway. The assurance of loving sympathy makes us insensible to the adverse circumstances which beset our mortal career.
The province of friendship is to ennoble and purify the soul, and when companionship fails to do this, friendship has departed the circle. To the exalting influence of a conscientious and enlightened friend, many a great man owes his success. To the debasing power of a trifling and unscrupulous associate, many a worthless person owes his low position in the social scale.
Who are our friends? A difficult question to-answer. Many pretend to be our friends, yes, our truest friends, so long as the glitter of worldly prosperity sheds its glamour over and around us, but when adversity comes, where are they? Misfortune has kindly exposed their pretensions, and proved their insincerity. They have forsaken us.
Who are our friends ? Those who do not flatter us. Those who gently point out our failings, and who aid us in overcoming them; those who encourage us to bravely resist the influence of the trifler, the disobedient, the irreligious.
Those who pour adulation into our ears, and praise us for our talents, our fine appearance, our youth or any personal advantage, will turn against us when these superficial attractions have departed. We are angels in disguise so long as we make use of our influence, our talents, our wealth to afford them pleasure, but no longer.	’
Alas! that such a beautiful sentiment as friendship should be degraded by dissimulation.
“ O, it is not while riches and splendor surround us, That friendship and friends can be put to the test;
’Tis but when affliction’s cold pressure has bound us, We find which the hearts are that love us the best.
For friends will fawn at fortune’s dawn, While the breeze and the tide waft us steadily on But if sorrow o’ertake us, each false one forsakes us,
And leaves us to sink or to struggle alone.” Friendship, though often abused, still exists in a pure form. It is honest and open-hearted. It is steadfast and enduring. The more complete and unmingled the affections of a friend are, the more determined is she fo make us correct our faults. She renders our imperfections quite obvious to us,-that we may not doubt their existence, and she is sure that our amendment will soon follow. This noble gift of God ceases not to exist when the parties are separated by death. No, it is then purified more than ever. It is nurtured and cherished in heaven ' .Think you friends who have loved us here can forget us in those mansions of bliss? They intercede for us more earnestly than ever. Then friendship is pure, it is holy, it is eternal, since it unites hearts upon earth with hearts in heaven.	L. L.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Cavenor, Claffey, Galen, Hanbury, Walsh, Clarke, Dillon, Wiley, C. Bland, M. Campbell, Chrischellis, E. Call, Donnelly, R. Fishburne, Hene-berry, L. Lancaster, A. Nash, H. Nash, A. Price, Rasche, Simms, Shickey, H. Van Patten, L. Van Patten, Wall, Barlow, Etta Call, Coryell, M. Fishburne, Hackett, Leg-nard, Leydon, McCoy, McGordon, Mowry, Owens, Margaret Price, Mary Price, Rosing, V. Reilly, A. and M. Richardson, Rulison, Thompson, Todd, Thomann, Pease, Sawyer, Wallace, Adderly, Behler, L. English, Fleming, Garrity, Mulligan, Newton, M. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, Williams, Wagner, B. English, Gavan, Green, N. Hicks, Mulvey, Northrop, Ives, Eldridge, M. Watson. 2d Tablet— Misses L. Fox, Feehan, Fendrick, Black, Casey, J. Reilly, Fenlon, H. Hicks, Smith.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Ginz, C. Lancaster, Ramsey, Spangler, Semmes, A. Clarke, Chirhart, Considine, Coogan, L. Heneberry, Martin, O’Neill, Robertson, Mosher, Richmond, Mary Otis, Best. 2d Tablet—Misses M. Dillon, Morgan, Paquette, Ewing, Krick, Chaves, Otero, Robinson, Schmidt, Sullivan, Welch.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses N. Brown, Rigney, Sawyer, Haney, Barry, J. English, Martha Otis, A. English, McGrath, McKenna.
THE SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING, AND
SCULPTURE.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE	•
ist class, 2D div.—Misses Rasche, English, Fox, L. Lancaster, C. Lancaster.	‘
2D class, 2D div.—Misses Donnelly, Beal, V. Reilly, A. Nash, H. Nash, Owens.
3D class—Misses L. Van Patten, M. Richardson, Harrigan, Fishburne, B. English, Dillon, A. Clarke, M. A. Ryan, Mulligan, Gavan, Williams, Watson, English, De Hart, Metzger, Morgan. •
painting in water-colors.
3d class—Misses M. Richardson, Harrigan, M. Fishburne, B. English, M. Dillon, A. Clarke, M. A. Ryan, Barlow, O’Neill, M. Casey, Krick, Clarke, Pease, Richmond, Fenlon.
oil-painting.	.
ist class, 2D div.—Misses English, Fox, Rasche, L. Lancaster, S. Papin, C. Lancaster.
2D class—Misses Vander Heyden, H. Van Patten, A. Waters, Thompson, Legnard, Campbell, Fendrick.
2D div.—Misses Wall, Wiley, Donnelly, A. Price, Rulison, Beal, Mary Price, Margaret Price, Hackett, V. Reilly, A. Watson, Galen, N. Hicks, N. McGordon, L. English, McKenna, A. Nash, H. Nash, Owens, Spangler, Ewing, Wilkins, Garrity, Hanbury, Martin, Davenport.
3D class—Misses Coryell, L. Van Patten, M. A. Ryan, Otero.	.
SCULPTURE.
MODELLING IN CLAY.
Miss Fendrick.
GENERAL DRAWING. /
,	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Simms, Edith Call, Etta Call, Shickey, Thomann, A. Richardson, R. Fishburne, Mulvey, Smith, Eldridge, Ives.	'	.
.	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Mary Otis, Chirhart, Hibbins, Coogan, Schmidt, Brown, Welch, Paquette, Considine, Chaves, Heneberry, Mosher, Coyne, Castanedo, A. Watrous.