


SCHOLASTIC_=---­
Th e Te n th o f N o v e m b e r 2 o'O5 
newS~o4'------­
e THOU SHALT NOT PROTEST TOO MUCH ­
Dave Poe/I Scholastic examines the Catholic Church and its culture of obedience. 
COVER: PERSPECTIVES ON APROBLEM 
Mo Ertel 
An in-depth look at the state of gender relations at Notre Dame 
-MEN ON AMISSION 
Amy Meyers 
Anew, all-male campus taskforce works to fight the causes of rape and sexual assault. 
_Culture 22"--------­
............ 9 HOW "COLLEGE" IS NOTRE DAME? 
Claire Sobczak 
How Tom Wolfe's "I Am Charlotte Simmons" hits home for Notre Dame students 
\..... _ THE BEAUTY MYTH AT NOTRE DAME 
Regina Gesicki 
The impact of beauty ideals on the relationships of women and men at Notre Dame 



-_S_p_orts_32______ 
:.i........... 4t EVOLUTION OF ALEGION 
Michael Kim 
Alook at the history of the raucous students that cheer on the men's basketball team in the Joyce Center 

--JI-u_m_Qr___3_z___ 
-THEY CALL HER FLIPPER 
/-la/le Kiefer 
·what happens when dolphins get their flippers on toxic 
dart guns? 
. . . . . . . . . . . 2 Scholastic Reviews .........25 . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 NDZone ...............32 News Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Gipper ................38 ..............20 Point/Counterpoint ........40 

SCHOLASTIC 
COVER DESIGN 
DAVID REDENBAUGH 
Editors in Chief Mo Ertel 
Managing Editoi-
Lauren Wilcox 
Executive Editor Christopher Meskill. 
Executive Copy Editor Doug Schlarman 
Executive Copy Assistant Regina Gesicki 
Executiv_e Design Editor David Redenbaugh 
News Dave Poell, ·editOr Daric Snyder, assistant -Culture Claire Sobczak, editor Mike Laskey, assistant 
Sports 
Nicole Dorner, editor Michael Kim, assistant 
Humor Halle Kiefer, editor 
Design Amy Meyers, assistant Jana Stewart, assistant BethAnn Visceglia Emma Daugherty 
Jane Lee Victoria Lane 
Copy 
Kate Dresser 
Megan Teigen 
Erin Rogozinski Jennifer Huber Jessica Farmwald 
Photography 
Brenna Mannion, editor Kristin Keve, assistant 
Business Manager Jorge Villareal 
Distribution Bryan Lowery 
Advisor Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Se111per Victunes Vive Quasi Ci-as 1Woritunes 
Published biweekly at the University of 
Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556,The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine Is copyright 2005 University 
of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part. may be reproduced in any manner without written consent 
of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 
5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue.All letters must Include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Schofastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publlcation cannot be guaranteed.J"he subscription rate is $35 per year.Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify 
volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
IO NOVEMBER 2005 
l 
I 

STAFF EDITORIAL 
Charles ·in Charge ••• For a Long Time 
Scholastic applauds Charlie Weis' contractextension 
0 n October 29, Notre Dame gave Head Coach Charlie Weis Tennessee's baton (ND '78) a five-year contract extension that will pay him $30 to $40 million over 10 years. The deal makes Weis 
twirlers: Normally, Scholastic _ 
the highest-paid college football coach in America.
doesn't approve ofbaton twirlers, ­
On November 1, Jason Whitlock wrote a column for ESPN.com 
l 
but hon~stly, those girls were good. ("Why Weis, but not Willingham?") saying that Notre Dame was racist for giving Weis the extension. Tyrone Willingham's first two months as coach at Notre Dame were more impressive than Weis', he argued, but Willingham was not rewarded. Fortunately, few took 
Whitlock's race baiting seriously. A number of sports analysts made 
.·· ·· Und.er.cover cops dr.. e·s·~e.d·• 
the point that few NFL teams were interested in Willingham, while 
as alumni: Those crafty little several recently were seeking to lure Weis. The extension, therefore, ·· .. ~ weasels .:. · · was probably an attempt to ensure that Weis stays in South Bend. It is the opinion of the Scholastic staff that this. is a wise move on the part of the university. Even though, as Whitlock mentions in his 
t 
column, Willingham started out 8-0 against teams with a combined record of 60-43 while Weis started 6-2 against teams that have gone 32-31, it would be very difficult to argue that Willingham was more impressive as a coach. Yes, Willingham was an inspirational figure in his
Ronald Talley: Money 
first year as a coach in 2002, but his team, particularly his offense, was
and money schemes, indeed. ­
painful to watch at times and depended heavily on opponents' turnovers.
j .•Confused? Try facebookcom, Weis, on the other hand, has had a tangible and profound effect on his team, 
as evidenced by the immediate emergences of senior wide receiver Maurice Stovall and junior wide receiver Jeff Samardzija -largely ineffective during the Willingham era -as well as the development ofjunior Brady Quinn into 
a Reisman-caliber quarterback. 
J
Weis' recruiting also has been superior to Willingham's. Yes, Willingham parlayed his successful first season into a top-five recruiting class; however, that-rChristmas candy in · is misleading, since the class's crown jewel, sophomore tight end Greg Olsen, transferred to Miami. Though this recruiting season does not end until Febru­
..··• th.e Huddl.e: I.fit has to be 
ary, Weis already has secured 19 commitments for a recruiting class currently 
.
· ~ there, at least refill it. · . 
considered by rivals.com to be the fourth best in the nation. 
Weis' success on the recruiting trail before and during this season is a testament to his work ethic. Notre Dame fans caught their first glimpse of that ethic early in 2005, when Weis was balancing his duties as Notre Dame's 
· coach with his responsibilities as offensive coordinator for the New England Patriots, then again deep into the Patriots' Super Bowl run. A man with so much dedication to his profession is unlikely to allow his program to relapse j·... -_. Avi.an fl. u: Yes, it's deadly. into mediocrity. 
_...d 
. 
~But have you ever seen Another reason Notre Dame should do everything in its power to keep '\ · Hitchcock's "The Birds"? Weis is_ because he, as those who frequent Notre Dame online message boards like to say, "gets it": Unlike his predecessor, an outsider who of­
Scholastic staff members 
ten seemed content with 6-5 records, Weis is a Notre Dame graduate
would prefer to die less 
who understands the importance the university places on football and is
painfully than death by 
dedicated to maintaining the program's tradition of excellence. Is $40 pecking out of eyes. million too much to pay for the perpetuation of that tradition? Scholastic believes not. @ 
IO NOVEMBER 2005 
(~) &hola.stic News•• •••..•••...•• 
' 



Seeking Approval
... 
President George W. Bush's approval ratings have reached a record low. Can he recover? 
• Kal:e Furlong
Clection Day 2005 marked five years since President George W. 
Bush's controversial victory over Al Gore in the 2000 presiden­
tial race and one year since his re-election win over Sen. John 
Kerry (D-Mass.). It also marked some of the lowest approval ratings the 
president has seen during his tenure in office. A number ofnational polls 
showed Bush's approval ratings hovering around 55 percent shortly after 
his inauguration in 2001, and at 50 percent during the 2004 election. As 
oflate-October 2005, they stood between 38 percent and 42 percent. 
Notre Dame political science professor Peri Arnold was not surprised 
that Bush's numbers were higher at the start of his presidency. "Americans 
are prone to approve highly of their presidents initially," Arnold says. 
The public's general approval of the office of the presidency also leads 
Americans to a "rally effect" in times of crisis. This was evident after the 
terrorist attacks ofSeptember 11, 2001, when the president's approval rat­
ings skyrocketed to 90 percent, the highest rating of any president since 
the Gallup organization first started tracking the statistic in 1938. 
Although it is difficult to compare presidents, given the varying na­
tional circumstances they face during their terms, Bush is not the first 
American leader to face a steep decline in public support. Just as Bush has 
faced considerable criticism for the war in Iraq and the massive amounts 
of federal funds spent on it, Presidents Harry S Truman, Jimmy Carter, 
Richard Nixon and George H.W. Bush lost public backing during the 
Korean War, Iranian Hostage Crisis, Vietnam War and Persian Gulf 
War, respectively. Truman's ratings dipped as low as 24 percent while 
Carter, Nixon and H.W. Bush each saw public approval for his presidency 
hover around 30 percent. 
In Bush's three remaining years in office, a slight decline would not 
be surprising. Yet Arnold doesn't think the president's approval ratings 
are likely to drop below 30 percent. "The president has a core following 
of Republicans who, barring any type of scandal, will continue to sup­
port him," Arnold says. Opinion polls show that most of the Republican 
Party -80 percent -approves of Bush's performance. In addition, 
Arnold points out that a number of past presidents have bounced back 
from low ratings, including Dwight D. Eisenhower, Ronald Reagan and 
Bill Clinton. 
With the nomination ofthe academic conservative Judge Samuel Ali to 
from the Third Circuit Court ofAppeals to the Supreme Court, pundits 
believe that Bush temporarily has placated the extreme right wing of his 
base that so heavily criticized him for his nomination of Harriet Miers. 
Yet if the president's public approval does not see a sizeable increase 
by the end of his term, the Republican Party Hkely will choose a more 
moderate presidential candidate for the 2008 election whose campaign 
platform does not focus on issues strongly associated with Bush's ad­
ministration. @ 

10 NOVEMBER 2005 

.. ······-·~crhticNewosu 0 halt 1\ '-at :::":!:":::::"::::·::::"::::"::::":!::":::t:::1
U ~ V( •1 
eoooeeoooooooooooooooooooeooooeoo 000101 • • • 0 0 • • • • • •• 0 0 • • • 0 • • • ••• 0 •••• 
eoooooooooo•ooeooooooo .
==°:===-====-====-====-====-· riote t 'floo Much
................. .
' 
The Catholic Church's Ultra-Conservative Revolution 
o Dave Poell 
ver since The New York" Times
G
reported the formulation of a 
forthcoming 16-page Vatican document allegedly aimed at banning homosexuals from the clergy, the Catho­lic Church has been attacked by both religious critics and faithful Catholics who perceive such a policy as blatantly discriminatory. In the weeks since the Timesi report, however, anonymous sources within the Vatican have told jour­nalists that the document will not bar any seminarian from the priesthood solely on the basis of his homosexuality. 
Despite the absence ofan absolute ban on gay clergy, the high degree of debate surrounding pervasive Catholic views on gays and other contentious "culture war" issues is just the latest development in the saga of a Church that has been steadily moving toward the extreme right end of the political spectrum since the late 1960s. 
With the exception ofthe Second Vati-· can Council (1962-1965), the issuing of Pope Paul Vi's 1968 encyclical Humanae Vitae (Of Human Life) was the most ep­ochal Church event of the 20th century, and undoubtedly the most divisive. On June 23, 1964, Paul VI first publicly an­nounced the existence of a commission designed to examine the official Church doctrine that banned all forms of artificial contraception. 
In the end, two reports -Responsible Parenthood and The State ofthe Question: The Doctrine ofthe Church and Its Authority 
-were issued by the commission. Bylate June 1966, after a majority of the com­mission's cardinals and bishops voted that artificial contraception was not intrinsi­cally evil and could be affirmed within the tradition and declarations of the Church, the full commission voted 52 to 4 in favor ofResponsible Parenthood, which recommended that the pope change the current Church teaching and deem arti­ficial contraception permissible. 
Under pressure .from the Church's conservative wing that was responsible for the commission's minority report, which called for a reaffirmation of the Church's stance against contraception, Paul VI rejected the commission's ma­jority recommendation to the dismay of Catholics worldwide. An instrumental figure in the politics of this decision was an influential Polish bishop named Karol Wojtyla-the future Pope John Paul II. Although he was one of the bishops ap­pointed to the commission, Wojtyla did not attend the deliberations. Instead he formed his own separate commission to help compose the encyclical. According to Tad Szulc's "Pope John Paul II: The Biography," a Polish theologian who worked with Wojtyla claimed that "about 60 percent ofour draft is contained in the encyclical." 
"I think it's fair to say that [Church conservatives] prevailed with Humanae Vitae, and they persuaded Paul VI that he could not change on this issue. So that was their victory. They lost with the Declaration on Religious Freedom [which contradicted earlier papal documents by decreeing individuals immune from all forms of coercion in matters of one's profession ofreligious faith] and won with the doctrine ofbirth control," Jay Dolan, professor emeritus of history, says. 
A series of studies conducted by the Rev. Andrew Greeley, of the Chicago­based National Opinion Research Center in the late 1960s and early 1970s reports a dramatic decline in the public's estima­tion of Church credibility and Catholic contributions following the release ofHu­manae Vitae. According to Thomas Fox's book, "Sexuality and Catholicism," one of Greeley's U.S. studies reported that shortly before the encyclical, 67 percent of responding priests said they would not refuse confessional absolution to lay people using birth control; five years after this study the figure had risen to 87 percent. Greeley also reported that 60 percent of U.S. priests surveyed rejected the Church's teaching. 
Although beloved for his charismatic personality and strong·evangelization of Catholicism worldwide, John Paul Il's 27-year reign as pope was also character­ized by an incredulous outlook toward the reforms ofVatican II. Aided by Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger (now Pope Benedict 
XVI) -who deemed the Council's aftermath an "avalanche of ecclesial decadence" -and his Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF), John P:;ml II used the power of the papacy to crack down on those who disagreed with Church teachings. "Theologically, his man was Ratzinger, and he was very conservative. During his regime things tightened up ;md theologians were si­lenced," Dolan says. 
John XXIII convenes the first session of 
formation of a papal commission to 
birth control issue still
the Second Vatican Council 
investigate the morality of artificial 
undecided
0 contraception
• 0 
0 
0 
• 
Paul VI publicly announces the 
Vatican II ends with the 
II) &holaJ3tic News•••.•••••• •••• • 
Early signs indicate that Benedict XVI will continue his predecessor's reaction­ary posture toward modernity and secular norms. In the seminal days of his papacy -,,;1/'--~ 
· last April, the new pope denounced "mor­al: relativism" and .declared it the major .. / 1 evil facing the Church. Dolan finds this · . I/
-~--,,--' I
diatribe constitutive of any antagonistic ;:,; ,.,... Ir,, 
, /' ,y·'
strategy. "The thing about a war on relativism and materialism [ ... ] that's a 

Ir~(/
typical jeremiad. They create this enemy out there and it's a stereotype, this evil 

;~~o/'{
force that's lurking in the shadows. Well 
/4 Ii'
what is it? Where is it? Show me it. It's just a way to marshal the troops against this 'enemy,'" Dolan says. ..\ 
One of the most prominent casualties of the Church's demand for theological .. uniformity has been New Ways Ministry, a gay-positive ministry dedicated to the 
THE MENTOR AND HIS PROTEGE: The late Pop·e John Paul II receives his successor, formerly Cardinal 
advocacy ofgay and lesbian Catholics. An 
Joseph Ratzinger. ·· · 
excerpt from New Ways' mission state­
. mentstates that the or.ganizationis .dedi,._.. ,-anti-gay· notifications should not have thrown out," Dolan says ... cated to "work for c;:hanges in attitudes been unexpected. In 1986, Ratzinger Another friend of Dolan's, the Rev. and promote the acceptance of gay and presided over the writing: of a, ;'Lett~r to·:.· _Roger Hajght, SJ., was suspended from · _ lesbian people as full and equal members: the Bishops ofthe Catholic Church onthe :his teaching position at the Jesu.ti:-run ­of church and society." In 1999, however, Pastoral Care ofHomosexual Persons" in Weston School of Theology in Cam­the co-foundersofNew Ways Ministry, which homosexuality is explicitly deemed bridge, Mass., by the CDF in 2000 for the Rev. Robert Nugent, S.D.S., and Sr. a "moral disorder" and complicit in the a scholarly book he wrote called "Jesus: Jeannine Gramick, S.S.N.D., each re-rise of other "disorders": "When homo-Symbol of God," in which he attempts ceived a strongly worded "notification'Y-·: sexual activity is consequently condoned, to reinterpret Catholic doctrines within from Ratzinger's CDF, which pergia,.,. or when civil legislation is introduced i:o the language of a postmodern culture. nentlyprohibitedthe t;\¥o_froµi:erigigi:hg · protect behavior to whic;b..1:19,0.ne.l;ias.any:. "It's not so much being silenced, it's the 
c. :_.in'pastoral ~ni!i~Fi".<:!S with..h6mosexuals .. conceivable right; neither the. Chui-ch :tior" . way it's' done. There's ri.o opportunity to 
· and their families. According to a press . society at large shoul4 ?~.s~rpri_~e~ v.Vhe~ ... pp~s{!nty~ur side ofthe case, and it's done -, release from New Way~ M,inistry's. Web other.distorted notions a·nd practices gairi · ·in avery iiutocratic,-dictatorial, tyrannical. '· sit_$__9.!1.~.-ofJh.e, CDF's directives entails · ground, and irrat1onal and violent reac~-manner. I've talked to Roger myself,· and · 
--that "Gra1nick may not speak or write on -fioiis increase.;' . --. -. -· they don't get an opportunity to meet homosexuality, on the Notification, or on Oddly enough, Gramick and Ratzinger their accuser and their position face to any ecclesiastical processes that led to it. had met under pleasant circumstances face. It's all done by fax or by mail," he Gramick may not encourage the faithful prior to her notification. Dolan tells a sto-says. to publicly express their dissent from the ry of the time the two met on an airplane These claims are corroborated by a official Magisterium, nor protest deci-and engaged in an amiable conversation. press· release regarding the silencing of sions of the Holy See, nor criticize the "Theywere on the airplane totally by ac-Gramick and Nugent: "If Church inves­Magisterium in any public forum what-cident and she described him as a warm, tigators had done their work fairly and soever concerning homosexuality." personable individual. Well, at the same openly during the 11-year trial, there 
To close observers of Vatican policy time he was preparing to silence her. She would be no need for Sr. Gramick and Fr. during the tenure ofJohn Paul II, such had to leave· her religious order. She was Nugent to be discussing their case at this 
The pope's commission votes 
Humanae Vitae is issued,
52-4 in favor of allowing artificial 
disregarding the majority vote 
contraception 0 0 
0 0 


·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · (~) ,Scholastic News 
point. If the facts of the case were open to discussion from the very beginning, there would be no need for the Vatican to 'cover-up' their mishandling of the investigation." 
The high degree ofintellectual confor­mity demanded by the Vatican hierarchy has had significant ramifications on the leadership of bishops and cardinals as well. For the most part, John Paul Il's bishops have been known more for doctri­nal uniformity than pastoral aptitude. Ac­cording to Lawrence Cunningham,John 
A. O'Brien professor oftheologyatNotre Dame, the general intellectual quality of the bishops appointed under John Paul II has been less than stellar. "They tend to be very much 'company men,'" Cunning­ham says. This trend worries Dolan. "I think the question of intellectual freedom and academic freedom in the Church is a real issue. You can't become a bishop today unless you tow the line and stay in step with the official teaching of the Church," Dolan says. Cunningham sums up the state ofauthoritarian vigilance in today's Church with some chilling advice: "Don't think. Ifyou think, don't speak. If. you speak, don't write. Ifyou write, don't sign your name. Ifyou sign your name, don't be surprised." 
One phenomenon of the Vatican's conservative mindset has been the is­suance of controversial declarations by archbishops and cardinals on matters of Church doctrine and science that have been disputed by theologians and scientists alike. During last year's U.S. presidential campaign, a group ofconser­vative bishops, led by Denver archbishop Charles Chaput, entered the political realm and declared that any Catholic who voted for a candidate supporting stem-cell research, abortion or gay marriage was committing a sin and could even be de­nied communion. According to Catholic theology, however, Catholics may dissent 
Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith releases "Letter the to Catholic Bishops Concerning the Pastoral care 
from authoritative, non-infallible teach­ings like the aforementioned issues. Also in 2004, Cardinal Alfonso Lopez Trujillo, president ofthe Pontifical Council for the Family, released a scientific document al­leging that condoms have holes in them and may be one of the main reasons for the spread of HIV/AIDS. And just this past July in an editorial to The New York Times, Archbishop Charles Schonborn of Vienna wrote, "defenders of nee-Darwin­ian dogma have often invoked the sup­posed acceptance ofthe Roman Catholic Church when they defend their theory as somehow compatible with Christian faith. But this is hot true." 
This ideology has also affected today's seminarians. According to a 2002 study conducted by Dean Hoge in "The First Five Years of Priesthood: A Study of Newly Ordained Catholic Priests," Hoge describes seminarians as "firm in their loyalty to Pope John Paul II, their adher­ence to all church teachings about sexual morality and contraception and their preference for tradition and formality in ritual and priestly roles." The Rev. Kevin Russeau, C.S.C., director of Old College, says, "[Seminarians] see the Church hier­archy as very positive and they want to try and emulate it." David Imming, a retired parish priest who entered the seminary in 1957, doesn't believe that the overall intellectual environment of seminary has changed drastically since his day. "We were told what was right and what wasn't right. There were no gray areas, and there was an answer for everything," he says. "And for those coming out of the seminaries today, it's Rome's way or nobody's way." 
Based on his own experience, Imming worries about the development oftoday's seminarians. "Whenwe left the seminary, we were immature in a number ofareas, especially our sexuality," he says. Cun­ningham spent four years in a seminary 
Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith silences New Ways 
himself before deciding to become a professor. "There were probably people in my class who were homosexuals but I don't know that and nobody in my day talked about it. If someone acted out sexually they were just kicked out of the seminary," Cunningham says. 
Recent scholarship also suggests that the intellectual quality of seminarians may be in peril. Based on estimations reported by faculty members in a new analysis of seminary education entitled, "Educating Leaders for Ministry," 33 to 40 percent of seminarians experience significant learning disabilities that pose "special challenges for faculty." 
Yet Catholics still have reason for op­timism with the new pope. "I think it's wrong to think that the way he operated as the head ofthe CDF is going to be the same way he operates as pope. It's one thing to be in the head of a Vatican or­ganization and quite another to sit at the head ofan entire Church," Cunningham says. Just last month at the first synod of bishops under Benedict, the subject of married clergy, a forbidden topic of conversation under John Paul II, was discussed. In September, Benedict met with theologian Hans Kung, who was forbidden from teaching Catholic theol­ogy in 1979 because of his rejection of the doctrine ofpapal infallibility. While promising developments, Dolan thinks 
that some oftheVatican's uncompromis­ing positions may cause local parishes to ignore the Church hierarchy and possibly even deem it insignificant in the future. "The people's church and the bureau­cratic church are like two ships passing in the night, each traveling in a different di­rection," he says. And while unfortunate, this approach may be a viable option for those in the American Church who are discontented. "After all," says Imming, "Rome's a long way away." :0: 
Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger is elected Pope Benedict 
.. 
·11I 
I i• I 
I 

•
Writers 

• 
Advertisers 

• 
Photographers 

• 
Graphic Designers 


0 
Web Designers 
•Valet for Editors 
E-mail Scholastic at 
I ' 0
SCHOL8STC ~ 





·:sru 
.. 
. . . 
• •-~ •• ·' _-: I
: ·~ ..... , .. 10 · 
.. . 

,-... ---­
i r.; 
r • · • · · · · · · • • • • · · ~ 3cholasticCover Story 
I 
I 
Possible Causes of Poor Gender Relations 
To be sure, the transition to coeduca­tion at Notre Dame was far from easy. Aside from the more practical prepara­tions that were made in anticipation of the first female Darners, including the trans­formation of previously all-male halls into liveable housing options for women, Notre Dame found itself facing the more difficult task of incorporating women into a university steeped in both male-oriented traditions and a male-based culture that were 135 years in the making. 
Still, as of the 2005-2006 academic year, there seems to remain a subtle ac­ceptance on the part of the student body of the problem of gender relations at Notre Dame. For the most part, it re­mains ignored, reverberating as it pleases from dorm to dorm, from student to student, from male to female, from female to male. If any-thing, the gender r e 1 a -. . tions is­sue has ·. . · reached an al-most­mythical status, joining the ranks ofKnuteRockne (ND '13) and· Daniel "Rudy" Ruetigger (ND '76), of the Four Horsemen and the Irish Guard -as one of Notre Dame's most transcendenttra­ditions. But just as stories of leg­ends, myths and lore often open without a clear origin attached to the tale, so too does the story of gender rela-tions at Notre Dame unfold in 2005. 
The discus-sion of the status of gen-der rela­tions at Notre Dame is a difficult one, and attempts to pinpoint the primary source of the problem prove to be inconclusive. Some members of the university, for example, think that a large percentage of Notre Dame students attended single-sex high schools, causing them to be relatively inexperienced in situations involving a member of the opposit~ sex. Others argue that 18-to 22-year-olds generally experience some amount of difficulty in relating to the opposite sex. Some blame such technological advances as Instant Messenger and Facebook, believing that students have replaced everyday face­to-face interactions with the anonymity that a computer screen can provide. Still more believe that the Catholic nature of campus stigmatizes sexual relation­ships, thereby making them all the more desirable. Amidst the haze of debate and opinions, there appears to be little room for concrete explanations for the problem of poor gender relations at Notre Dame. What is clear, however, is that what some may find to be the most crucial element in the persistence of poor gender rela­tions at Our Lady's university might not align with the opinions of others. And yet, it is in this discrepancy that Rita Donley, Ph.D., assistant director of the University Counseling Center, locates a larger truth underlying gender relations. "People bring different perspectives to the discussion. What could be true for some people may not be true for every­body," she says. 
It seems understandable, then, that Heather Rakoczy (ND '93), former rec­tor of Pangborn Hall and director of the Gender Relations Center (GRC), when asked to cite the potential source for what some perceive to be the poor gender rela­tions at Notre Dame, takes in a gasp ofair. "Oh, gosh," Rakoczy responds, smiling congenially. "Is that even possible?" But while she seconds Donley's denial of -an overarching truth that char­acterizes the issue of gender relations at Notre Dame, for Rakoczy, two distinct qualities common in ·: high-achieving students 
underlie the problem between the sexes at Notre Dame: competition and perfec­tionism. 
Though seemingly unrelated to the issue at hand, Rakoczy presents some background information on her hypoth­esis: "Notre Dame and other top-notch universities draw students who have been at the top of their class [ ... ] and just re­ally visible leaders in their high schools. But then they come here," she adds, "and they're no longer the big fish in the small pond. They're the small fish, all ofa sud­den, and one ofmany, many small fish." As a result, according to Rakoczy, students, feeling pressured to continue to succeed at the same heights that they achieved in high school, start to compartmentalize, leaving little, if any, room for socializa­tion during weekdays. On Notre Dame's campus, forming friendships and relation­ships, whether they are with members of the same-sex or the opposite-sex, too often seems to come second to the obli­gation ofcompleting that night's reading assignment. "In that sense," Rakoczy says, "I don't have time to make friends and develop friendships and relationships during the weekdays, because that takes time and energy." 
On the other hand, Teresa Phelps (ND '73, '75, '80), fellow of the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Studies and professor of law, on the other hand, is reluctant to locate what she sees as the vast span ofthe university's gender relations in the fact that Notre Dame undergraduates are high achievers. "There are intelligent, high achievers at Dartmouth, Harvard, Yale and Stanford, where things aren't quite as bad as they are here," Phelps says. "The gender relations might not be great there," she adds, "but they're not what they are here." And while there is little empirical evidence to suggest that gender relations at any one university are better or worse than those at any other, there does seem to be a general sense on campus that the gender cliinate at Notre Dame is unique. 

......... ,2 IO NOVEMBER 2005 
• -.­
Effects of Single-sex Dorms 
Senior Ali Wishon, Gender Issues chair for Student Senate, suggests that the university's gender relations problem is complicated by Notre Dame's tradi­tion of single-sex dorms and the issue of parietals -the du Lac:-enforced rule that;,;_ prohibits male and female students from being in the dorm room of a member of the opposite sex after 12 a.m. from Sunday through Thursday and after 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday. Although she does see benefits to single-sex dorms, Wishon notes that Notre Dame's residence hall system "doesn't offer a lot of time for interaction between the sexes. It's not like you can walk right downstairs or walk right next-door and run into a member of the opposite sex," she says. Parietals, for Wishon, are a further cause for concern. "Most socializing occurs after a certain time ofnight between the sexes. It's hard during the day, when you're in class, and during the evening, when you're doing work, to socialize with people." Wishon adds, "When you have a certain time when you have to be out of the room of someone of the opposite sex and there aren't any other options on campus other than Reckers, which is all the way across campus if you live on North Quad, or LaFortune, which is not at all private, it really limits the opportunity for interac­tion between the genders." 
When students do find free time in their hecticschedules to take a break from the rigors of academia, Wishon suggests that one oftheir first instincts, ifthey are studying in their dorm rooms, is to visit a friend down the hall for a few minutes and then return to their studies, rather than to venture outside and stop by the dorm room ofa friend from another hall. And while she sees a number ofbenefits to the sense ofcommunity that exists within the single-sex dorm system, including the security ofsame-sex friendships, Wishon also recognizes that when students be­come too comfortable within the privacy of their single-sex dorms, they become 

@ 8cholasticCoverStory••············· 
reluctant to establish friendships outside interactions with each other that many of their dorm communities, "which can people just want to opt out,'' she says. "It really stress the interaction between the becomes easier to go to a party and hook genders," she says. up with somebody randomly -which I Agreeing with Wishon, Kaitlyn Red­think does happen here -and then you field, former Gender Relations chair for have some ofthat attention, but you don't Student Senate and co-president ofFemi­have to deal with' shme of the fallout of nist Voice, adds, "I think the most basic everybody's opinion [ ... ]I've even heard negative is that single-sex dorms create of a section of men really discouraging a this exotic 'other,' and we see women or male on their floor from dating another men for some people for the first time as woman. They thought that he should be not ofyour own society, not of your own spending time with them," she adds. rank or equality." For her, the emphasis on difference between the sexes 
' 
is too much. Phelps, too, feels as though Notre Dame's single-sex dorms call attention to the contrast between undergraduate men and women. "What single­sex dorms do is create 
a polarized social life in which girls and guys are dates, not colleagues. Whereas if they live together and work on projects together in the dorms, then they might see each other not in such objective ways," Phelps says. Senior Dave Baron, student body president, notices that on those occasions when men and women undergraduates interact socially in a one­on-one setting, no matter what the status of their relationship is to one another -be it friend, classmate, teammate or significant other -the pair is assumed to be romantically involved. "I think it's very unfortunate when it is a situation across campus if, as a man, I go into a woman's dorm and automatically it's assumed that I like somebody there,'' Baron says. "The opposite is true ifa girl comes into a guy's dorm,'' he adds. 
And while the assumptions that Baron believes necessarily proceed from almost any kind of male/female relationship on Notre Dame's campus may seem harmless, Donley suggests otherwise. "I think that kind of attitude puts so much pressure on men and women and their 
What single-sex dorms do . is create a polarized social life ~,\,l..,,, in which girls and guys are dates,
¾~ 

· ·¾,"·· not colleagues.
"" 
!, 
-~~~~~"" ·._-. ,· 

Work Hard, Play Hard 
Dooley's assertions alone seem to be evidence enough to suggest that some­thing is awry between the sexes during the weekends at Notre Dame. However, when coupled with the implications of Rakoczy's belief that Notre Dame stu­dents, who so deeply immerse themselves in their studies, often find themselves act­ing in the opposite extreme on the week­end, the evidence appears all the more convincing. "Monday through Thursday or Friday, I work really hard,'' Rakoczy emphasizes, assuming the mindset of a Notre Dame undergraduate, "and for this segment of time, the weekend, I'm going to play really hard, and I'm going to do all things in extremes, instead of doing anything in balance." And for many Notre Dame undergraduates, a large fac­tor in "playing really hard,'' as Rakoczy 





puts it, is alcohol. known each other for only a very short 
':People use alcohol to loosen :up and time."• As might be expected, given the unwind from a difficult week," Wishon generally stong background w1th which notes, but she complicates the common most of the university's students were college activity on Notre Dame's gender-raised, Notre Dame's Class of2003 over­strained campus. She adds that alcohol ,; whelmingly disagreed with the statement often functions as a "social lubricant" that~ as freshmen, with only 17.9 percent citing lowers inhibitions, allowing the sexes to agreement. Compare that to other highly interact with one another more easily. selective, private universities, where 44.1 However, Wishon adds, "At Notre Dame, percent of the freshman class expresses where it's already difficult to interact with agreement, and Notre Dame seems to set a member of the opposite sex, people itself apart from the hook-up paradigm. sometimes use it in excess," · However, when Notre Dame's Class of 
And whatis the result? Donley notes, 2003 was re-polled as seniors in CIRP's "People start doing things that they might 2003 College Student Survey; the results otherwise not be doing." For Rakoczy, are surprising. Once again responding those "things" that Notre Dame students with their opinion of "Iftwo people really might not otherwise be doing are hook-like each other, it's all right for them to ups -or, as defined by the 2001 Indepen-have sex even ifthey've known each other dent Women's Forum (IWF), "any sexual for only a very short time," 40.8 percent contact~ ranging from kissing to sexual ofNotre Dame's seniors cite agreement, intercourse -in which the participants a roughly 22-percent increase from their expect no further contact." freshman year. While Notre Dame's 
To be sure, some Notre Dame students, numbers must be considered within the including senior Dave Mangold, in his ·. larger context ofthe responses ofuniversi­August 26, 2005, Observer "Yiewpoint," ties and colleges nationwide -including in which he expresses his kudos to the . those at private universities, where 50.2 GRC for "putting themselves on the percent of seniors expressed agreement bleeding edge of absurdity," deny. the -the substantial change in opinion that existence ofa hook-'upculture·atNotre some Notre Dame Dame. For Mangold, "Referring to the • climate of this university as a 'hook-up culture' is simplylaughable. Trust me," he continues, "this is a desperation culture. 

·VVomen and men portray
The perceived malady [of the hook-up culture] that [Rakoczy] cites is the com­themselves to one another only as plete antithesis ofthat espoused by the sexual objects that will sexually clear majority ofstudents." But hooking 

gratify the other person.
up,it appears, is becoming a more and more accepted aspect of the "college experience,'' as 91 percent of females surveyed in a 2001 IWFsurvey perceived the presence ofa hook-'up culture on their campuses -and recent findings suggest that Notre Dame may not be not exempt students experi­from the pattern. ence over the course of their four years 
Each year, Notre Dame is one of 462 as an undergraduate is a cause ofconcern institutions that participates in theCoop­for some. erative Institutional Research Program's Redfield locates her concern for the (CIRP) Freshman Survey, a study that . matter in her belief that when engag-• provides colleges and universities around ·ing in Notre Dame's hook-up. culture, the. country with data that reports, to­"Women and men portray themselves to getherwith a national normative profile, one another only as sexual objects that the attitudes and viewpoints of their will sexually gratify the other person." particular incoming freshman class. One Rakoczy agrees, adding that the hook-up of the opinion polls -which,itshould be culture "runs contradictory to [Notre noted, indicate attitudes, .not necessarily Darile's]mission as a Catholic institution behaviors -is of particular interest:· "If that implores us to honor the dignity of two people really like each other, it's all every human person -ourselv~s and oth-· right for them to have sex even ifthey've ers." ForDonley, though, "The important 
10 NOVEMBER 2005 15 ........ . 
@ Scho[a13ticCover Story••·· .. 
········· · 
thing about people randomly hooking up . is -an&it's not.a judgment on my part,. · and I'm not saying that's bad, people 
shouldn't do that -is that for a certain group of people, that's very satisfying. That's all they want." But, she adds, "I think there's a whole other group of people that really don't want that, but they settle for it, because that's what they think you do when you're at Notre Dame." 
Rakoczy acknowledges, however, that there are those students that choose to ignore the Notre Dame hook-up culture completely, instead establishing intense dating relationships with members of the opposite sex, and she classifies these individuals as mostly falling within the ring-by-spring group. The term ring­by-spring is used to refer to the expecta­tion that a Notre Dame senior, if he or she is in a dating relationship, will have a engagement ring on his or her finger by graduation in the spring. Rakozcy acknowledges that this trend in and of itself may not be harmful. "As recently as I was a student here [in 1993]," Rakoczy says, "there has been kind of an antenna up about, 'I'm going to meet the love of my life and my future partner during this time here, because we have these shared values and it's a Catholic institu­tion."' However, she does see a potential dan­ger for those individuals that choose to partake in the tradition of ring-by-spring. "For some, when you really pour the whole ofyourself into 
a relationship;" Rakoczy notes, "you sometimes miss the diversity of other things that are going on -clubs; friend-· ships and other things." 
While Sr. Susan Dunn, O;P., rector of Lyons Hall, has noticed that a few ofthe 217 women in her dorm casually date, she also notes, "I think casual dating is a challenge here atNotre Dame, even more ii: so than at my previous school where I ~ 
a:
worked, [St. Thomas Aquinas College in w Sparkville, N.Y.]." Dunn adds, "Trying to 8 
u
find time other than for classroom-related 
~ 
or activity-related interactions, just so :5 0 men and women know one another bet­:c u 
Vl 
ter, is particularly. challenging." In fact,,,=-~ 






in Rakoczy's opinion, it seems that much ofNotre Dame's strained gender relations are characterized by the two extremes of the hook-up culture or the ring-by-spring paradigm. "What's missing," she adds, "in my opinion, is that center ground, that middle point, the balance between that would be neither of those two things." According to Rakoczy, a result of the space in-between the two extremes of the hook-up and ring-by-spring cultures, where casual dating and lasting friend­ships between the sexes should be occur­ring, are larger, more dangerous problems related to gender strain on Notre Dame's 
campus. 
A Sexist Mentality 
Baron finds that one manifestation of poor gender relations at Notre Dame is the "it's-cool-to-be-sexist" mentality that some male students maintain. "It's the jokes that people get peppered with time and time again [ ... ] after a while, you just · get desensitized to them, and you come to accept and expect them in the future," he says. Phelps agrees, citing the Stall Notes in male halls as a prime example ofthe tenuous gender climate on campus. One edition of Stall Notes in a men's hall, for example, jokingly listed things that were "okay," by the writer's standards, and those things that weren't. Among those that weren't "okay," however, was women's suffrage. 
While male dorms around campus have been making concerted efforts to tone down the sexism that sometimes exists in all-male environments, Phelps believes that the university still has a long way to go. "The reduction of women to body parts in remarks that go on around campus really shouldn't go on -and I don't mean in a moral sense, but in an emotionally responsible, mature sense, go on among men who are over 18 years old," she emphasizes. "It's just a very childish way of looking at women and judging women, and unfortunately, there's some­thing in the atmosphere here' that tends to perpetuate that," Phelps adds. Baron cites sexism as an expected standard at Notre Dame. "There's a precedent for some­body to make a very off-color joke about a woman, and for that to be funny," he 
-
........ ,16 
says. "In fact, there's traditions involved in that. Various signature events are built on the basis of making fun of each girl's dorm, but because thyre's a precedent, people think it's okay." 
Donley brings up what has become the tradition of the "Dogbook," whose actual title -the "Freshman Register" -is unknown to many undergraduates. "It blew my mind when I came here that the 'Dogbook' was a major factor in dat­ing on campus," she says. "It just freaked me out," Donley adds, taking on the perspective of a female undergraduate, "that, like, I'm in my room and there's a call, and there's some guy that's seen my picture in the 'Dogbook.' And this is his one and only thing he knows about me, basically, and that's what is prompting his date," she says. 
Rape and Sexual Assault 
But beyond the name-calling and ob­jectification that some feel occur at Notre Dame -beyond the snickers that label girls jersey chasers, SMC chicks, sluts and bitches, further than the stereotyping of males as players, jocks, pussies and jerks -is what Baron calls "the most glaring example of gender relations gone bad": rape and sexual assault. But for Rakoczy, "everything from the overt, likely sus­pects ofrape and physical abuse, stalking behaviors, sexual harassment[ ... ] and co­ercion and threat[ ... ] in terms of our cam­pus in particular, create a culture in which women and men don't have the ability to reach out and build healthy relationships." She adds, "And that, ultimately, would be a tremendous gift -if both women and men could graduate from here with the ability to know how to do that." 

Improving the Problem Today 
It was with this foundational objec­tive that, in 2004, the Gender Relations Center (GRC) officially opened its doors. The brainchild of the collective vision of former Student Body President Brooke Norton (ND '02), Rakoczy and Redfield, the GRC -an office out of the Office of Student Activities -works with male and female students to encourage and clear-cut and neatly-packaged items and because the GRC is in its first full year of operation," Rakoczy says, "its identity is constantly evolving.'' While the GRC has largely dealt with issues pertaining to lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and questioning persons, and allies (LGBTQ & A) and their relation to Moral Theol­ogy and Catholic Sexual Ethics in fall of 2005, as cainpus needs have dictated, the GRC plans to tackle a broad span of gender-related issues in the near future. With programs ranging from an eating disorder awareness campaign in conjunc­tion with A Life Uncommon, a student­run support group for those who struggle 

)j
with eating disorders, to Men Against Violence (see P. 19 for more information) to SIT Ins: Social Issues Theater, interac­tive performances aimed to educate the audience on gender issues, the GRC has its hands full. But Rakoczy is optimistic: "The GRC has been able to connect the dots and connect the people that have been doing work in pockets and saying, 'Come on this way!' We're not there yet," she adds, "but I think we're moving much more quickly than I ever anticipated, and I credit that with the fact that so many people have been doing so much good work for so long. The process has been both exciting and overwhelming." Only time will tell if the GRC will be able to accomplish its goals and create a more welcoming atmosphere on campus for men and women to interact. 
_Thirtyyears ago, on the dawn ofNotre Dame's full transition to coeducation, the Rev. Jerry Wilson, C.S.C., addressed Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., former rector ofFarley Hall ancl current assistant vice president of Student Affairs, with sincerity in his voice: "Don't get me wrong, we're happy to have the women on campus and living in Farley Hall,'; he assured her. "But of course everyone has their fingers crossed as to how it will all turn out." And now, 30 years later, gender-concerned administra­tors, faculty and students campus wide find themselves securely tucking pointer finger under middle, then pinky finger under ring, anticipating once again "how it will all turn out." 




NOTRE DM1E RADIO .. WHERE CLASSICAL MEt.1'S CONTEMPORARY ~ EXPERIENCE IT.. 
OASSJCAL COLLEGE ltOCK REGCi..\E CELTIC .BLUES NEWS 

voice of the fighting irish internet radio on air: hip-hop, indie, classic rock, talk shows, sport shows,specialty shows and · in studio performances. visit wvfi.nd.edu to tune in aim: WVFI RADIO 

:.ft,j)Scholastic News 
1 


Give 
,_'., ;: ... ··' and J)ou Shall 

i Receive 
\ 
' 
Fundraising gifts and the perks that come with them 
CALLING CAMPAIGN: Student caller, sophomore Sara Schmal!, asks parents, alumni and friends of the university for annual pledges at the Development Phone Center. 
• Daric Snyder 
ile students and parents 
may cringe at the ever rising 
ost of tuition at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, a great amount of university funds actually come from donations. Notre Dame benefits from one of the country's most generous groups of alumni and donors. This year, the univer­sity received two tremendous donations from alumni Frank Eck (ND '44) and John W. Jordan (ND '69). In February, Jordan gave $40 million to Notre Dame, and this summer Eck contributed $21 million towards an expansion of the law school. 
While these donations draw the most headlines, they're only one part ofuniver­sity fundraising, according to Lou Nanni (ND '88), vice president of University Relations. "Last year, over 50 percent of our alumni gave back to Notre Dame," Nanni says. "The rate at other schools is often much lower." Notre Dame is sur­passed only by Princeton and Dartmouth in alumni donation rates. 
While certain university fundraising efforts are continuous, the university is in the midst of a multi-year "quiet period" between official fundraising campaigns. Official fundraising campaigns, based off long-term strategic plans for university goals, are marked by active efforts to bring in significant donations that usually are characterized by widespread partici­pation from alumni. 
The last campaign, spanning from 1994 to 2000, had a 74-percent alumni par­ticipation rate, according to Nanni. "Col­111 leagues at other institutions are blown!~ away at our levels," Nanni says. Cam­!5; paigns typically last around seven years!~ and include a phase of significant "lead­!~ ership" donations, followed by a strong 
~. ublic campaign for donations, even 
W
'I~-"~.......... ,a 
~ A\ 
I 
beyond alumni. Although details ofthe next cam­
paign are yet to 
be revealed, the 
construction of many new facilities on 
campus in the coming years is likely to 
be a primary focus. 
Even though there is no active fundrais­ing campaign at present, the university continues to oversee several other fund­raising efforts. Notre Dame operates a · student call center that regularly contacts those with ties to the university. "It's very segmented," Nanni says. "Sometimes they'll be calling the parents of former student-athletes. Other times it will be MBA program graduates." Many of the donations brought in through the call 
center are in the $100 to $1,000 range. 
Larger gifts often come through other 
fundraising channels. The university 
established the Sorin Society, with mem­
bership for those who donate over $1,000 
yearly. Composed ofapproximately 8,500 
members, the Sorin Society allows the 
university to foster a closer relationship 
with donors. According to Nanni, the 
university relied on Sorin Society mem­
bers for help in maintaining scholarship 
funds when market declines caused a 
dip in Notre Dame's multi-billion dollar 
endowment. In addition, the university 
raised $1.5 million for partial funding of 
the new Marie P. DeBartolo Performing 
Arts Center (DPAC) with a "seatback 
campaign" to Sorin Society members, 
placing name plates on the backs of 
many seats in the DPAC in recognition 
of donors. 
Beyond the Sorin Society, the univer­
sity maintains two higher tiers of recog­
nition for those who donate even greater 
amounts yearly. The Legacy Level is for those donating over $10,000 annually, and the President's Circle is reserved for those who donate over $25,000 annually. In addition, Notre Dame organizes dona­tion societies specifically for law school alumni, MBA graduates and former student-athletes. 
The university often uses large dona­tions to achieve specific ends. Scholar­ships, institutes_ and even buildings on campus are tied to gifts given to the university. "There's a dialogue for six to 18 months for large donations. Sometimes donors have a set of specific requests for their gift, other times they say, 'I trust you,' and leave us to decide how to use the money," Nanni says. This lengthy dialogue gives the university and the benefactor time to work out the specific details of the gift. Naming rights for a variety of things are often given in recog­nition. Named scholarships start around $100,000 dollars, while nami:p.g privileges for buildings and academic institutes are dependent on the cost of the project. Regularly, a donor puts forward at least 50 percent of the needed funds to earn naming recognition. These large gifts act as a cornerstone· for university projects, leading the way for other donations to reach fundraising goals. 
Lou Nanni believes Notre Dame's mystique and special relationship with alumni helps explain the unusual gen­erosity of its benefactors. "We're really blessed. ·People have such life changing experiences here; as they go forward they want to give back." @ 
10 NOVEMBER 2005 
tre Dame students flock to 
lubs that represent their in­
ividual sociological groups. The Hawaii Club, Women in Politics, Wabruda, the Asian-American As­sociation of Notre Dame, the Texas Club and the Filipino Association of Notre Dame, just to name a few, all represent specific genders, races, geographical locations or ethnicities. These clubs are often part social and part support, allowing members to meet and interact with others oftheir saip.e sociological background while supporting the needs and concerns ofthat group. This year, a new organization with a mission to represent a new perspective came on the scene to address a social ill ofimmense importance: violence against women. 
Men Against Violence (MAV) is a new student taskforce based out of the recently established Gender Relations Center (GRC), co-advised through the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. A organization for social change, the club aims to combat violence, particu­larly sexual assault, from the bottom up by having male students speak to other male students about the importance of preventing such violence. This effort, according to Heather Rakoczy (ND '93), former rector of Pangborn Hall and di­rector of the GRC, "empowers students to have ownership of the effort[... ] and allows meri to own the issue of violence against women as a men's issue." 
"I think the biggest movement we have on campus [to prevent sexual assault and sexual violence] is the V-Day cam­paign, and mostly women are involved," says MAV member, senior Zach Ortiz. 
10 NOVEMBER 2005 
Alex Chapeau 
"Men are often very in­credulous about the validity offacts when they receive them from women." 
One of the group's co-advisors, Alex Chapeaux, a graduate student in chemi­cal engineering, agrees with Oritz. "Communication is key, but often men feel attacked when they hear something [about violence against women] from women," he says. 
As an all-male organization, MAV hopes to break down such communica­tion barriers and expand dialogue among male students on campus. MAV members plan to act as role models, challenging 
PH~ ' ' . 

vJW1t:~ir;
and holding 
Tos BY KRt ·:1:11 .' / ,, • . other male students srEN KEvi:~ accountable for language, beliefs and behaviors that promote violence. Ac­cording to Rakoczy, "Rigid stereotypes of femininity and masculinity can yield adverse effects on women and men" by fostering attitudes that may lead to physi­cal or emotional abuse. By cultivating discourse, the group hopes to take an active approach to violence and prevent it from occurring. Though an all-male organization, MAV hopes to encourage both male and female students to work together against violence. Such a goal means that MAV members not only will understand violence against women as a "man's is­sue," but also communicate with women on campus to better comprehend their concerns. The GRC also is initiating an all-female· group (composed of a dozen students, faculty and staff) to serve as a consultation team to MAV. "Essentially, in order {or this men's movement to be successful, its members must consult with women who face this issue regularly, and make sure they are getting it right," Rakoczy says. MAV currently is composed of31 soph­omore and junior male undergraduates encompassing a variety of majors. Some members were recruited because oftheir leadership roles in other student groups like Pillars or Student Government, and others discovered the taskforce through the GRC or at club activities night. MAV 



·············· @ScholasticCulture 

J 
w 
C: 
:::, 
!::i 
:::, 
u 
u 
I;;
:s 
:c 
u 
Vl 
• Michael o'connor 
he hallway outside 132 Cavanaugh
'[
may look like your Aunt Ethel's 
home in the co1mtry, but this is no rural abode. Rather, it is the home of sophomores Bridget Keating, Jill Martini, Sarah Kurtzman and Katie Guida. This comfortable "wrap-around quad" is one of the most desired rooms in Cavanaugh, due to its private hallway and ample space for decoration. And clearly, these four have made the most of their prime real estate. 
The foursome from "Cavanaugh Park," as the girls fondly refer to their hallway creation, became friends freshman year, when Keating and Kurtzman lived together in a triple and Martini become an unofficial roommate. Guida entered the mix by meet­ing the others in passing while riding her bike around campus. All four say it is their East Coast roots that truly brought them to­gether. Theywere able to claim this coveted wrap-around through Guida's "sweet room pick." Since then, the girls have added their unique decorating skills to an already nicely situated room, whose windows overlook Zahm Hall a~d North Quad. 
"The inspiration for the hallway and room came from Seinfeld," says Martini, drawing ideas from Kramer's idea of"Any­town, USA," which he implemented in one episode. "We've got this hallway, we need a bench," Martini rememgers saying to the otµer girls. Tlie park bench was transported from Harris­burg, Penn., Martini's hometown, and after :; that initial addition fthe room's theme be­, gan to develop. Cur­., rently, Cavanaugh Park features Astro­turf, white picket fences, hanging and potted plants, an ivy lattice, Christmas lights, wind chimes, a brass-knocker on the door, a pinwheel, a gumball machine and two of their closest friends, "Red" the cardinal and "Boltz" the 
•••••.... 22 
10 NOVEMBER 2005 
,~-;:-:.-·_.· 
l 
,r 
I 
metallic dog. "The gumball machine was the latest addition and has definitely been one ofthe more popular things in the park," Guida says. 
In addition, the girls' chimes, featuring a green swirl design -the logo of the Cavanaugh Hall Chaos -exhibit their dorm spirit. At certain times throughout the year, Notre Dame football jerseys made by the Martini family bearing the girls' last names can be seen hanging in their hallway. The girls promise more to come, hoping for additions such as a screen door, a deck onto North Quad and a zip line from the LaFortune Student Center to their room. 
The inside of 132 certainly does not dis­appoint after a walk through the hallway park. The girls brag that the room sleeps nine comfortably and is equipped with such luxuries as a Culligan water cooler, "wel­come" candy bowls and a scrolling marquee that can be viewed from their North Quad window, welcoming campus friends and friends from home. Ivy weaves around their loft ladders, while colorful pastel curtains on the windows and doorframes brighten the decor. The girls also love the location of the room for its abundant sunshine during the day, which greatly adds to the warm, welcoming feeling. "It's nice to come back from a nice, long day of accounting and orgo classes and to relax in a room that actually looks and feels like home," Kurtz­man says. 
The bounty of 132 Cavanaugh seems endless, as the Culligan water flows like fine wine, and the candy bowl is never empty. The girls say they love visitors, and they encourage people to drop by. "A lot of 
10 NOVEMBER 2005 
I'® Scholastic Culture • • • • • • • • • • • • • • · 
~ , 
Frc:,ni Left: Guida, Kurtz~an, M~~ni and Keat,ing pose with their scrolling ~arquee. 
people don't even know the Park is here," The roommates' football 
The girls' bright and 
Keating says. "It is our little hidden trea­
comfortable common sure that we hope more people will stop space, with windows 
jerseys decorate the 
hallway outside room 132. by and see." @ looking onto North Quad 
and Zahm Hall 

LLI 
I 
C 

C 8JJJ]!fj/ffllrf 


:::, 


::c • 
HUDDLEMart 
@
LLI 

HUDDLE1[ VIDEO
::c 
I­



NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 


food.nd.edu ' 
.rl,..,'v. ~? ~ 
~ DomerDollars ~ 


. . .
. . . · · · · i1~ ScholasticCultuie
.-.:::, : . . l 
. 0 
. i 
.en Sc~t~ish lroc~ qu~~tet Fr;nz ~er~inand atriv~d s~ateJide in -004 with th¢ e111ph::(t1c, danceable summer anthem, :"Take Me Out," incl}e rci>ck'~ dep,arture ftom \the :undergrbund and entrance into the inairi.stream was loud}y cqnfirmel Thi grbup's sophorrioreieffoi-t, You


ITTi~~®W I 
Could H~ve i~ So Mu~h B~tter,: relqased jus~ ov~r a year afte~ th~ir 4ebuf, does 
o Mik~ La~kei 
its best tp keep indie ~hei-e itihas ~rrived, with 41 minutes bf rollicking; easily 
• 
. ~
. . : . . . : •: 0 accessibl~, stylish rock : : : l i j l l l l 
. . . 
The album's opening tr~ck, tTh~ Fallen? trU:mpets Franz:Ferdinahd's return !Alb~m: Youicou{d Have It So ~uch)Bett~r to the seine ~ith a p~rfe¢t gqitarJook and ce~sel~ssly pmindirig b~ss. Such a j j Arti~t: F~anz Ferdinand j forceful :Opeiting stafemep.t 11).ighf seem uime¢essdry, sine~ th~ir cbmrilercial 
. . . 
debut carie ~o recently. But {n tlie merci~~sslj, fotgetful ~orld! of pop ~usic, such an Opener couldp.'t h\irt.i i : : : : : : : The r~maihder of the album fol{ows the iead bf"The Fall~n," further ~xplor­ing the danc~-rock a~sth~tic ~hat the banlclea:rly has mast~red.: : : 
One ptobl~m with You Coult/-Hape It So Much :Bett~r is thatFrari.z F~rdiri.and is so intent\on dticking fo th~ir f9rmila that the scings:become hard to distiilguish toward the bitck half c;if th~ alqumi But as l~ng ds th~ngs are ~or~ing! so ~ell for the band, it's:hard to _blame them.: : : : : : : : 
The only b~eaks th~t Frinz :11erd{nand off~rs o:n this persist~ntly driyinglalbum are "Eleanor ;put Youf BoQtS On" a:nd "Fade Togeth~r," two s~ow~r, p~o~domi­nated sotigs. Pf these twQ, "Eleap.or" is rn;ore iiucc~ssful -"'. a B~atles-in;spired ballad th~t suggests th~t Fi:anz f erdjnand is capable ofstretchi!)-g d:eir ~ou~daries beyond the predictabJe d~nce:rock that m~kes ilp t~e remai!]-def: of ~he a~bum. 
Despite th~ album(s pr~dic~ability, Fra~z Ferdit?-and is t!ndehiably g~od at what they d~. There :is plenty oOime fo(the :gro~p to gr~w 11?-usi~ally; Why rush thein? : : \ : : : 
.ol•o eojeo eo eo eo 1•o eo •o .:® eci eb •d eo .ci eb eo: eb eo: eo eo
. . : . . . : . : : : : . . . . . . . 
-~~•~iwi~~~~ 
i .. ! gr::ot an \ntellectµal ~mofgasbord: nexi se1:nest~r, consi~er taki~g a couhe ~hat :offe~s sever~l
I 
: : >< : : : . profound perspectives on today's h~phaiard:state of poli~ical :and mor~l d~bat~. T~ught by~ P~IL ;20415: . : : : genial professqr with a :down-h9me J'exis ac~ent, yot!'ll be exposed to ~he ':"rit~ngs ;ofsever~l MPR!\,LITY.~ND Enlightenm~nt and cont~mp?rary philosqphei-s that W;ill chall~ngefeverythingyou ~hou;ghtyou knet MODERNITY about tqpics: as diverse as: abortio~, duty and t;he ~ffecfs of the :cultt:rral!revoluti?n of th~ '60~. Even ~f 
:
w(th [)avid So!omqn you: consider yotjrself set jn yi:mr ~deologi~al W:ays, :(i,e.; you thiijk ybu IJ?.ight be the love ~hil1 of Ann~ . : : : : Cotilter;or Michael Moor~) yciu g~t to read Nietzscn.e, W;ho was a~ways re~dy to offend $om~thiijg sacre~. : : : : If y~u'r~ ga~e, t_he Magi<;:al Mor~ity and MoQernity tQur is wa~ting to take you :away. ~ ~
-+ Daye Poe/I : : : -. : : : : : . : . : : . . . • • l • i• i • le! ~ • i •: • : • ~ : •j • :o: • l • 
p~~ 13186 -!02! 
11 you freshme:ri wh~ haye noty~t taken your:require1 Un!ver~ity Seminar ~re in lu~k. Mak~ UNIV!='.RSIT'( : it youi first pri9rity to r;egister for Clark Power's Uniyers~ty s:eminar ip. Etj.gli~h, which alsq S~M(NAR IN i serves:as an introductiqn to the!Prdgral):1 o(Liberal ~tudies (PLS) major.\No~ only do yol! . en(Gr~ek texts :ibo~t neiirotic c!iaraciters:an{scandalqus iiltrigue, but you ~lso get~ taste for 
ENGLISH : :
. . . 
the IPL~ major and its fantastic f~culty. P9wei alW;ays ~parks in;teresting class d~scu~siotjs, atj.d by the 
wlth Clark Power : 
end:of the semester your fello~ clissmatesiwilfhav~ be~ome sotiie ofrotjr closestfrie~ds.!Ma¼:e sure t~ seize thts oppor~unity to :experience a worj.derful t~ach~r, prog~am and ~lassroorj:i ati.nospher~.
· ~ Claire Sobczbk 
• ! • !. ! • 1. i • ! .: • ! • • i .i • ! .; !• • 
ENGL . 30320: . • I:~diliddals of all. wa~~s oll~fe bngage ~h the painstalingly btuta\ P:Qcess oflife wttirig, Jpet~er it[ 1s through the pubhi; me:dia of autob10graphyandlnternet:bloggmg or by means ofmore pnvate: w
1v(ET80Ds:· l 
. forinats, lik~ diaries,:lett~rs ahd memdirs. With this fundanient~l understanding in niind) Barbara\ ~ 1 ! 
.SµB~ECTIV!TY :AND 
Gre~n's theoi-y-b~sed course eiamines such aut6biographical litetary~orks as Art:Spiegelthan'; graphic: uu~ / j
AUTOBIOGRAPHY
. . . . nov~l "Mausi' and Virgin~a Woolf's "Sket<'.:h of the Past," as weil as:sorrie more bxpetim~ntai notions: 
wlth Barbara Gre~n of ailtobiogriiphy. -like Frieda Kahlo's sblf-pk)raits arid the photography of Cihdy\ShJnnah and Jo: ~ Speilce. if the co\lrse topi:cs at harid aren't ;enoiigh ~o rriake you ~ant to tegister (or this ~lassi Green's: § encouragingland: open-m~nded approach to teaching will be. So. if y~m've ever wondered how; exactly,: <11 

" 
to map out nOtions of the self and rubjecdvity, sign up fo, G<een's class come ,egi,trati°t1~.... (f3~ 
10 NQVEf1BER 2005 
\ ·~ ­
'. ;:. · • .; · · ·· · @.S.ch0lasticC~lture 

• HTTl':/IWWW.ND.EDUI-.ISSAIIE.W.HTM 
Campus-.celebr~tes lr1t~rnationa!Edt.1c.ation Week 
......... 26 
•LcpurnWilcox 
hilipp. Frener left behind the 
· . mountains ofInnsbruck, Austria, 
to study in the. plains of Indiana for a year. Fr-ancisco Parga Garcia left be­hind the warm weather in Mexico, to live in South Bend's harsh winter for a year. Like the many students at the University ofNotre Dame who decide to study abroad for a semester or year,.Frener and Parga­Garcia are participating in a study abroad. program in South Bend, Ind., through their studies at Notre Dame. And while they are part ofa small group of exchange students studying at Notre Dame for only one academic year, hundreds of other in­ternational students chose to attend Notre Dame for the.entirety oftheir undergradu­ate education. 
During the week of November 14 through 18, Notre Dame will join other educational institutions in celebrating International Education Week (IEW). This event, which is co-sponsored by the 
U.S. Department of State and the US. Department of Education, is celebrated during the same week worldwide as an effort to promote international education and exchange between the United States and other countries. 
Notre Dame has about 1,000 inter­national students from 100 different countries; But the significant presence of international students on campus is sometimes not recognized by students and• faculty. The IEWis an opportunity for all· international students at Notre Dame and the greater South Bend community to learn more about international life. 
"[IEWJ is meant to help people see the rich possibilities for raising awareness and celebrating international presence on campus," says Connie Peterson-Miller, assistant director ofinternational Student Services & Activities. 
Peterson-Miller says that it isimportant to acknowledge that there are many inter­national students at Notre Dame, and it is important to celebrate that the university is a leader in study abroad programs. The entire campus, including students and faculty, is invited to get involved with the IEW. Some events and.activities include departmental and group,-sponsored lec­tures, cultural dinners, as well as displays of international books throughout the · Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
· "We're making a more concerted· effort · this year to have events that are appealing to students during the week," Holly Rivers, program manager of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, says. 
The week officially starts· on Monday, November 14, when keynote speaker Melinda Henneberger (ND '05), a con'­tributing editor of Newsweek; will deliver 
a. speech. about her. reflections on inter­national education and the media. James · Creagan, a former American Ambassador tocHonduras, will also lecture on Monday about careers in foreign service. 
Both Student Government and the Student International· Business . Council (SIBC) will •be sponsoring and participat.:. ing in the Ten Thousand Villages sales, which features fairly-traded goods from developing nations throughout the week in the Lafortune Student Center and O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
The Center for Social Concerns (CSC) and student:government are hosting Eyes on the World: Poster Display, a poster display of 20 to 30 research posters on international issues throughout the-Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. The posters are made by students of Greg Downey, an anthropology professor who teaches a cour'se on cultural· distance and social change for students who have had experi­ences abroad in ·such developing nations as Nicaragu,a, El Salvador, Africa or India. The class .serves as a re-entry course, and the students make research posters· based on their international experiences gained either. by studying abroad or working. in international.internships through the CSG or the Kellogg Institute. 
"To me the goal is to emphasize the educational· component of international education," Downey says. Many students return to Americawith a lotofunanswered questions and loose ends about issues they experienced ·that they didn't understand; 
The goal of·the poster display is "that · 
IO NOVEMBER 2005 
students will see that fellow students do serious research on issues with real world implications," Downey says. He hopes the posters will inspire students to do research and travel. The IEW will conclude with the performance of Asian Allure on Friday, November 18. ,, 
While the purpose of the week is to­increase international awareness at the un'.iversity, sometimes Notre Dame stu­dents from other countries experience barriers when interacting with American students. 
"I think there's not much interac­tion between international students and Americans at Notre Dame. A lot of international students come here know­ing that they would have a language barrier. It's really hard for them to just fit in right away," says senior Sarah Liu, an international student from Taiwan and Diversity Chair for 
at Notre Dame and that the university is devoted to offering these international opportunities. Multicultural Student Programs and Services hosts a first Friday lunch every month to which American and international students are invited. 
Students at Notre Dame are aware of the study abroad programs offered for Note Dame students to learn overseas. However, many are unaware of the in­ternational students studying abroad at Notre Dame. Notre Dame offers vari­ous exchange programs with universities throughout the world to bring interna­tional students to America. IEW empha­sizes the importance of these exchange programs since international exchange is not a one-way street. 
Frener, who is a first-year graduate exchange student studying political sci­ence from the University of Innsbruck 
in Innsbruck, Austria, de-
Student Senate. 
·1 n k there's cided on studying at Notre
I th
Liu says many times Dame for one year because it's difficult for inter­.1nter-of its academic reputation. 

not mUch
national students to Frener says it wasn't too come to Notre Dame, difficult to adjust to Notre so they tend to hang action between Dame since the people he around people who speak has met have been friendly the same · language and international toward him. share the same culture. "TheUniversityofNotre This becomes a prob­students and Dame has tried to get an lem, however, because international image, and some American students Americans a t I think it's very important perceive the tight-knit to do so, because it doesn't communities that some Notre Dame. only add diversity in num­
international students 
form as an implication 
that the international students do not 
wantto include them. 
"The way people approach you is dif­
ferent. You just stick out, and ifsomeone 
can't pronounceyour name, then they 
ask you manyquestions," says senior Isin 
Canturk, an international· student from 
Turkey. Isin also says that many interna­
tional events on campus do not reflect her 
background and perspective, so she does 
not attend them. 
"As long as people are willing to try to 
come to one of these events like a semi­
nar, lecture, show or dinner, it creates a 
dialogue," Liu says. This dialogue helps 
to bridge international and American 
students together by initiating an inter­
action. 
The university created a number of 
initiatives .to bridge the gap .between 
international and American students. 
Peterson-Miller says that she thinks 
things have been changing over the years 
IO NOVEMBER 2005 
bers to the university, but 
it also helps the students and professors to gain some international perspective on certain issues and to learn how people see the same things in differ­ent ways," Frener says. 
PargaGarcia, a junior exchange student from La Universidad de las Americas in Puebla, Mexico, who is studying phys­ics, says that the English language was the most difficult barrier for him. He had never taken a physics class in Eng­lish before arriving at Notre Dame, and though it was difficult, he has adjusted. He says .that he has met many people from different cultures at Notre Dame, especially several people from Mexico and Latin America. 
"The hub ofthe [IEW] is totry to draw students' attention to the many resources available on campus that deal with inter­national issues. It's not just the ISSA and not justthe international programs, there are a host of institutions that work with them," Rivers says. r@) 


· · · · · · · · · · · · · · @Scholastic Culture 

JI 
• 

IS 
otre 
am 
. . 
. '. ·­


fin essay on the similarities between 'fom Wolfe's fictional.<fJupont Vnir>ersity and J\l'otre </Jame 


• claire Sobczak 
rue or False: No other school 
'[
is like the University of Notre 
Dame. After reading Tom 
Wolfe's newest novel, "I Am Charlotte 
Simmons," the answer becomes crystal 
clear: both true and false. Wolfe's book is 
the story ofgolden child Charlotte Sim­
mons and her experiences as a freshman at 
prestigious Dupont University; however, 
it also is a social commentary about the 
realities ofcollege. Every student at Notre 
Dame ought to read this book, not only 
to admire Wolfe's firm grasp on college 
life, but also to appreciate the differences 
between Notre Dame and Wolfe's version 
ofcollege. 
We all begin our freshman year at Notre Dame with at least a hint of Char­lotte Simmons in us. In fact, many Notre Dame students -high-strung over­achievers with National Merit-worthy . board scores thatwe are-are almost her exact replicas. The main difference, how­ever, is in college location, as Charlotte 
~········•28 
Simmons steers clear ofthe Midwest and instead heads for fictitious Dupont, situ­ated in Pennsylvania. Wolfe constructs this setting as a Duke/Stanford/Penn hybrid, yet it is eerie how many elements of the story parallel the Notre Dame ex­perience. Between the party and lecture hall scenes, the unhealthy obsession with sports teams and events, the incessant use of profanity (or the "F-Patois," as Wolfe dubs it), and a predominantly rich, white student body, Wolfe articulates a brutally honest reality to which Notre Dame students can relate. 
But the aspect ofthe novel that is most applicable to the Notre Dame commu­nity is Wolfe's portrayal of college social structure. He creates various archetypal characters, each ofwhich represent a dif­ferent social scene, and every reader will find at least one character reminiscent of the people or groups that they themselves have encountered. Wolfe divides the Du­pont social sphere into three basic groups: the athletes, the Greeks and the nerds. The characters Jojo Johanssen, Hoyt 
( 
Thorpe and Adam Gellin, respectively, represent each of these stereotypical groups and the people within them, and despite obvious variations, the cliques Wolfe creates exist very much on our own campus. 
People view many of the athletes at Notre Dame in the same fashion that Wolfe portrays Jojo Johanssen. An idol­ized member of the Dupont national championship basketbalLteam, he is slid­ing by as an "athlete-friendly" sociology major an_d prefers to associate only with fellow 3thletes. · Hoyt Thorpe represents Notre Dame's party scene, for the lack of a Greek system does not hinder partying at this university. This character is tanta­mount to the Notre Dame stereotype of the chauvinistic finance major planning on using his connections to coast by in life as an investment banker. And school newspaper reporter Adam Gellin and his band of"Millennial Mutants" very much fulfill tlie pseudo-intellectual, ultraliberal stigma attached to the Program ofLiberal Studies crowd. 
10 NOVEMBER 2005 
Wolfe also creates Beverly Amory ­Charlotte's high maintenance, excessively tanned, anorexic roommate from hell -as well as the "Trolls," or girls who sit around the dorm waiting to judge people when they come home on the weekends. The reader will both laugh out loud and cry in private at Wolfe's uncanny ability to place Charlotte in situations many college students have encountered at one time or another. 
Notre Dame may not be considered as wild, as promiscuous or as "college" as schools like Duke or Penn, but if those schools are anything like Wolfe's Dupont, Notre Dame looks good by comparison; this university is not nearly as fragmented or unw~lcoming as the world Charlotte enters.Jocks and frat boys rule at Dupont, and all the students obsess over being con­sidered "cool." Social acceptance means becoming one of the beautiful people -or, rather, having lots ofsex and lots of money. Granted, sex does exist at Notre Dame, despite what the administration likes to think. Twitty girls prance around 
.in their camisole tops and tight jeans, eyes rimmed with black, just as the book recounts, and boys engage in the same ultracompetitive contests to look cool. Still, the degree of social stratification at Notre Dame is not nearly as rigid as the caste system that Wolfe depicts. People are not mercilessly ridiculed for being "uncool" or ostracized for their noncon­formity. As corny as the idea ofthe Notre Dame family sounds, it does help to give Charlotte-esque students here a less trau­matic college experience than the one she encounters at a "real" college. 
Some parts of college life are univer­sal, while others apply only to the Notre Dame experience. This school may have its problems with gender relations and bridging traditional Catholic values with progressive secularism, but the unrivaled strength ofthe community distinguishes Notre Dame from other universities. Reading "I Am Charlotte Simmons" is an eye-opening experience, and college stu­dents in particular should take the time to see how Wolfe's excessive and hyperboli~ world compares to their own. (@) 
@Scholastic Culture • • • • • • · • • · · • · ·· 
' 
' 
. , I 
, -·1 Y'
! --r'":.::J~J 
~--. 
;·1 
10 NOVEMBER 2005 


·············@ScholasticCulture 

An essay on the repercussions of rigid physical ideals at Notre Dame 

o Regina Gesicki 
tre Dame students are ad­
mitted to this university for heir drive, intelligence, self­
discipline and focus. These same quali­
ties, so esteemed by guidance counselors and the admissions staff, are the qualities that can cripple students as they attempt to restructure their identities to fit in on campus. The drive and self-discipline can lead to unhealthy addictions to the elliptical trainer or the weight machines. The focus can force us to segregate our fellow students into narrow molds, label­

ing them either beautiful or not, based 
on insidious images in the media and our culturally enforced gender roles. Naomi Wolf explicated this topic in_ 
1991 with her book "TheBeauty Myth: 
How Images ofBeauty Are Used Against . ­
Women." Wolf focused on the prevalence 
ofmedia images promoting an unhealt4y 
and unattainable female beauty ideal as 
a method of controlling women,· stat­
ing i:hat ''the ideology of beauty is the· 
last on~·iremaining of the old feminine 
ideologi~f:that has the power to con­

trol thosif°'women whom second-wave 
feminism would have otherwise made 
relatively uncontrollable." Concurrent with women's matriculation into Notre Dame was women's entrance into both the workforce and the public sphere in positions of true power. Simultaneously, I according to Wolf, cultural shifts placed 1· the primary focus for women on looks in I order to discriminate against and control 
them. Although women appeared to be 
liberated, they were and are trapped by 
societal pressures for physical perfec.:. , w tion. !~ The beauty myth typically is associ­i 8 ated with WQ!ll~/:1~ F~~;,}Y.Jl,l den,y that !~ when flippipg\µrtiougli"inagaz1nes; one . II ~ sees far more idvertisements employing · 11i ~ the bodies ofhalf-naked, submissive and 
~~~-g:=than those Mth fig= 
of barely clothed and vulnerable men. However, on our campus, this control­ling myth exerts its force over members of both sexes. Men down protein shakes and spend hours lifting, trying to obtain the ideal, strong, defined male body, over­extending themselves both physically and psychologically. Women walk through · the dining hall with near empty trays_ and count calories burned on the step 
··10 NOVEMBER 2005 

@&holwticCulture ·· · · · · • · · ··· · .. 
machine,_tr:ying to obtain the "beautiful" a Nc;,tre Dame student and our highly ideal, .als·d :Weaken,ing .thems~lve~;ho,th ,pu,_glic;:ized athletic tulture, can very easily. physically,: _!lµ~ psychologically? · . ·;, ,.,: . i:i-aiiiform what .is:healthy i~to ;m·eating 
There are·imany unique factors that disorder or an exercise addfotl.on. contribute tq thf: strength of the Notre . .. As Ali Wishon; Gender Issues chair for Dame beauty m~,).~9ludipg.the .11:lli;, ·.. ·Student Senate and founding member ofA versity's emphasis ·on a1hleti~s;j6i'ttadi.:;. · Life Uncommon (ALU),-says, "Any time tion of sip:gl,e;;,sex residence halls and a ·you're g9iµg above and beyond to work on disting\ij_~}\:~_d· '!!omtjiitinent to Catholic your body, that's not good. There are a: lot doctrine. Our own beauty myth is not ofex-athletes who struggle with body im­just about women. It affects the entire age because their identity changed [when population of Notre Dame, causing a . they came to college]." Iri her work with great strain.<?~ g~,nder relations. ·....... ALU, a campus eating disorder support 
:Appt<>;#µiat~ly},5:p'ercent ofeach class group, Wishon indicates thatshe has seen at Notre' i,:)ame participated in a varsity a need for a support system not.just for sport' during high schoqt(fhereis an ·: ;w;omen, but for men:·as well. "With our 
.overvvhe~mil!g gesir'e for mitny·menibers''.: campus atmosphere and th~ type ofStu­of bo~h.s.des tofoa,i11:tain this"identity.by dent body we have, it's e~pecially relevant being· "in shape." But this goal, coupled to talk about eating dis9rders" as well as with the typical overachieving nature of other body image issues," Wishon says. 
· · The disordered self-perceptions, resulting from the futile attempt by both sexes to attain frighteningly unreal physical _ide~ls and act ''.as they.should" 

:places a barrier of communication and understanding be­tween men and wom­en. That barrier is strengthened· by the single-'sex housing arrangements. As an­tlfropology professor Debra McDougall says, "Women are the ones who tend to teach girls about be­ing a proper woman and enforce the cul­tural norms, even if they think they are doing it for men." In a residence hall, the perpetuation ofthese ideals for women, and similar ideals for men, is almost ines­capable if there is no true communication between the sexes. 
.The residence halls provide obvious posi­
. tives during the col­lege experience and foster a sense of ca­maraderie, afeeling 
of a Notre Dame family that is uriparal'-·. 
leled; But .this. :u,nique arrarigemerit has . 
a strong, sometimes negative, effect on 
gender relations. Several ofMcDougall's 
students .have focused on the impact of 
single-=sex dorms in research papers, and 
their conclusions, echo the sentiments 
of many students: "The segregation of 
the residence halls leads to segregated 
seating in the dining halls and seems 
to prevent the formation of close, non­
romantic, non-judgmental male/female 
relationships." This separation also is seen 
in academic settings. It is "very Notre 
Dame," in the opinion of an overheard 
student, when the men line one side of 
the classroom and the women stay on 
the other. 
Due to the narrow image ofmales and 'females, women frequently find them­selves in the throes of a double standard both on campus and in relationships and risk being labeled a "slut" or a "prude" with little hope ofa middle ground. Men, on the other hand, are excused; after all, t-"boys. will be boys." Similarly, in this mold ofwhat is male and what is female, some men think they should major in a professional field simply so they can "sup­port a family," while some women search 
unnecessarily for "a ring by spring." 
The strong Catholic tradition at Notre 
Dame may be the root ofthe segregation 
and strain between the genders. Though 
both men and women should respect the 
bodyas sacred and are expected to engage 
in sexual intercourse only within mar­
riage, "the burden ofchastity seems to fall 
more heavily on women. Sexually active 
women, but not sexually active men, tend 
to be stigmatized as 'sluts' and [...] feel 
more shame around their sexuality than 
men do," McDougall says. 
The seemingly "underground" hook­
up culture on campus feeds this sense of 
shame and misunderstanding. It often 
does not provide men and women with 
the stability to understand that their 
partners likely feel that their bodies are 
"OK," despite what the media tells them. 
In trying to avoid the sinfulness of our 
bodies, we are left with confusion from 
our shallowly rooted experiences. 
w
Wolf may have targeted her book and a: her definition of the oppressive beauty ::, 
!::i 
myth toward women, but atNotre Dame, ::, we have to understand and overcome a ~ 
:s
myth that is unique to our campus culture -one that affects the self-esteem and :I: u . 
Vl i ~ 
relationships of both women and men. 0 

31 ....... .. 




I . ': 
,. · · · · · · · · · · · · · ~ Scholastic Sports
i',, ~· 

It's the most important game of the year -the battle against your fierc­est rivals. Only a few seconds remain in the fourth quarter and your team is up by 10. Everyone is ecstatic. As the clock winds down, the opponent completes a seemingly pointless Hail Mary for a touchdown. As the students around you celebrate the victory, you can only stare at the scoreboard in shock; not because of the glorious victory for your school, but because that "pointless" touchdown pushed your rivals past the Vegas spread, and you lost $100. Many types of people gamble on col­lege sports. Practitioners handle wagers in Nevada, the only state that still allows betting on college sports. Some gamblers excel, making thousands ofdollars in one day. Others wager in moderation, betting only on the occasional big game for the fun, thrill and risk that gambling offers. But there is a darker side to betting on college sports. 
......... 32 
A survey was given to over 21,000 male and female NCAA athletes with questions regarding point shaving-where athletes purposely change the way they play to win money -and other types of gambling. A surprising 35 percent of male athletes admitted to participating in some form ofcollege sports betting, compared to 10 percent-of female athletes. Schools like Northwestern, Boston College, Maine and Arizona ·state all have been involved in gambling scandals. On a personal note, a friend of mine was part of a group that bet on college sports at their Division III school. One of them, a student-athlete, decided to perform badly so his team wouldn't make the point spread, as they were highly favored to win. They were caught soon after the game, and all faced disciplinary action. The student-athlete also was kicked off the team and banned from Division III sports. 
And what does the NCAA have to say? It not only has taken a stance against col­
· efore the Tenness~e game, Dick Ebersol, chairman of NBC . . · Sports, presented the American flag tothe Irish Guard and celebrated the memory of his youngest son, Teddy, who died in a plane crash in Colorado last 
November.. . Eber.sol was joined bywife . 
and former·. volleyball team actress . Susan is' havi_ng quite St. James and an impressive sons Willie . season, Before ·. and Charlie losing to Pitts.:. ( ND .. ' 05)~. burgh last ~un-:­
lege sports betting, but it also has created 
Web sites and other educational tools to 
heighten awareness of the problem. In 
addition, the NCAA uses former student­
athletes who were involved in gambling as 
spokespeople about the issue. I commend 
the NCAA for bringing attention to the 
problem and educating campuses around 
the nation about the dangers ofgambling, 
such as debt, addiction and expulsion. 
Any type ofgambling is a serious issue, 
but gambling on the college level has 
become an increasingly heated problem. 
Gambling is a bad practice that just isn't 
worth the risk. Those that play the odds 
risk getting caught and paying severe 
consequences for their actions. Granted, 
many people thrive on the income they 
amass from gambling, but the reality that 
it could all be gone at the end of one game 
is far too real to be overlooked. ~­
Eber.~ol wa~ instrumental in structuring 
Notre ·name's· football televisionrights 
with NBC; wfoch has been broadcasting 
Irish football since 1991. Lastyear, Notre 
Dame renewed its contract with NBC · through 2010 for a reported $9 million a year ... . · The Notre Dame women's 

@ScholastipSports ·············· 




JlsfJ 1?s. 


OUR CALLS 
SPORT: FOOTBALL OPPONENT: NAVY WHERE: NOTRE DAME STADIUM WHEN: SATURDAY, NOV. 12, 1 :00 P.M. EST 
...........Ni~;,~ ·6'~~~·~~ .................................................• 
. . . . . . . . . ;ip.qrt~. ~c;lit9.r................................................... ' After their win against Tulane, the Navy Midshipmen need one more win to become bowl eligible, but they won't get it this week. Although they have a 5-3 record, Navy hasn't faced any top-ranked teams, and it hasn't beaten Notre Dame in 41 years. Navy will get its sixth win, but it will be against Temple. The Irish will come out victorious yet again, 3 0-14. 
························································ 
Michael Kim ~~~l~~<:1r1~ .$P.C?!~.~ ~~_i~~~ ......................... . Notre Dame is on a mission to gain a BCS bid, and Charlie Weis will be hard-pressed to make sure his team doesn't overlook the Midshipmen. Although Navy has turned things around after an 0-2 start, its wins have come against mediocre teams. Navy will come to play with its triple­option offense, but I don't see the Midshipmen breaking the 41-year losing streak against the Irish. Wide receivers Maurice Stovall and Jeff Samardzija are 
going to have a :field day with the Navy secondary. The Irish win, .....1-~:J?:.............................................. 
Christopher Meskill Executive Editor 
......Th~· ·i~~·t. i:l~~.N;:;y.i;~;t.N~·t;~ ...... 
Dame, Irish Head Coach Charlie Weis was in fourth grade and the Mids' quarterback was Roger Stau­
. . . } bach. No disrespect to Navy's Lamar . \iay,)he Irish had a .15-ga~e :winning·. referi-ingto hispl~y¢rs du~pin.g 
.·;···. • · Owens, but he isn't a Hall of Fame­
._· gtreiik, just two short ofdie ~cliool record. -Gatorad~ dri him after the win. . ·· ....·.· caliber quarterback, nor is he capable of .•• of 17, setin 1986. Their No; 5ranking in "I've done mfrese~'rch, and we . · · · matching the offensive prowess of Brady . the CSTV/ AVCA Division I Coa¢hes Poll will address that later this after-· Quinn. Notre Dame will win this one 
. .· was the highest in school history. During noon," he said_·with. a smirk on . · convincingly, 55-13. ·• their hot run, they knocked off;four top · . ranked teams,.. . . ·. · · · · ··· 
.. /;>Head Football Coachcharlie Weis /(Nb'>os).holds a pres~ ~tirifer~nce every>·. :·su:ncfayafternoon followµiga game'. On!! . ·. ofthe media members asked hiin ifhe saw ariyinteresting things ori film,·sped:fically from the Tennessee game./'Yeah, I saw Trevor Laws and Justin 13rown with a [Gatorade] bucketbehfod me," Weis said, 
0 I ·. · If! 
• • • · of··.•.·a· ·· ••·····:
0 • • • . .·.·.. . •.•.,·• ·•···.··--·



Leg.iq,,@ 

From its humble b~g.ip.r{irlg¾.,/{}~ 
the Leprechaun• Legion;is·riqyv::a}'.~\:{ 
staple at every lrishg~rne/: .... ·.• 

•Michael Kim
Imagine if thou­made. the Legion no­sands of people torious: Digging and were chanting Sloganry. 
your cell phone. Digging and Slo­
. number. Or what C .ganrY. ~~s.~ntiallywas ifthey made fun of ·-.ar:esearch commit-your low standard­tee created to collect ized test score? embarrassing infor­Or screamed your mation: about certain ex-girlfriend's name members of the op­while you were trying posing team. ,Responsi.,­to make a free throw? bilities included researching These jeers, leveyed by the previous games, interviews most fanatical members of and newspaper articles; as well as the Leprechaun Legion -Notre asking friends at other universities for Dame's men's basketball student section humiliating information.. tp .use, against. -are typical of what opposing basket­the Leprechaun Legion, started in'2001, rival players. H'o~e·ver, _so111~. 9f~he ... ball players hear when facing the Irish in when nine students came together one Legion's comments \vent much !?.9-.f.a.r... ·, the Joyce Center Q.A.C.C.). The club's morning in the basement of McKenna For instance, when the Legion disc·o:v'ered: ·,·<'· ·: purpose? To distract the opposing team Hall to talk about their passion for Notre in 2003 that Connecticut's Ben Gordon, and cheer on the Irish, establishing home­Dame basketball. Hoping to set an exam-· who now plays professionally for the court advantage in any way they can. pie for the rest of the student section and Chicago Bulls, was charged with a third­
In the pre-Legion era, the student sec­perhaps make a difference in the outcome degree assault of a 19-year-old female, tion at the basketball games was inconsis­of the games, they began·brainstorming certain members responded in an offen­tent in its enthusiasm, lacking unity and ideas to get the crowd more involved. The sive manner; every time Gordon touched jumping on the bandwagon only when the Legion first made its presence known on · the ball, these members chanted, "You hit team was doing well. "The student sec­campus when 25 of its members decided girls!" In addition, they taunted Dwayne tion would have its moments, depending to camp outside of Gate 11 oftheJ.A.C.C. Wade (now playing for the Miami Heat) on the game," says Nick Iaria (ND '03), for 17 hours in freezing temperatures to for fathering an illegitimate child when one of the founding members of the Le­see Notre Dame play perennial power-he played for Marquette in 2002. gion. "If the game was a big showdown, house Kentucky in 2002. Ushers were Buttheanticsofthemostvocalwithin the place would be better than usual, but flabbergasted by these students but ex-the Legion were successful in distracting still nowhere near where it needed to cited about their dedication. some opposing players. In 2001, West be," he adds. As a result and in order to The Legion also began to organize Virginia's Chris Moss became so agitated boost team spirit, a small ,group within itself much like a business under the by the Legion that he spit on op.e of the 
~ the student section began wearing Kelly · leadership ofinaugural president, Robert .Notre Dime· cheerleaders. •Upon ·west 
Q. 
0 VI . green shirts; making raucous comments Paznorik (ND '03). He and the other . Virginia's next visit i:6 the].A'.C.C., all · 
·u 
f;; towards the opposing players; and cheer­founding members divided the Legion theLegion members that were sitting 
:5 ing fanatically to show their support for · into departments, in.cludingSigns and · in the front row wore raincoats, daring :r: u the Irish. Ballyhoo, Human Resources and Public, Moss to give his best shot.In a post-game However, one department in particular press conference, Moss admitt1d that the 

•0 i)~~:-~:up, which larec would become io NOVEMBER 2005 

Legion affected his concentration, hin­dering his performance in the game. 
The Legion took a big leap when it gained official club status in 2003 and opened itself to the entire student sec­tion just before the opening of the 2004;­2005 basketball season. All season ticket h9lders received a Legion shirt, which was sponsored by Chili's and raised over $4,500 for the Coaches vs. Cancer Foun,­dation. However,.official affiliation with the university meant that some members of the Legion had to tone down the vulgarity of their jeers. Joe Hettler (ND· '05), one of the founding members of the Legion, felt the sacrifice wasn't too · demanding. "Being aclub has limited us in some of the things we can say [ ...] ~ut 
<overall, I think the benefits of becoming an official club have far outweighed the shortcomings," Hettler says. 
Still, some students continued to make insensitive remarks at games.The Legion's jeering elicited criticism from Big East Commissioner Mike Tranghese during the Boston College game in 2005. The Legion yelled "sucks" after the an­nouncement ofthe name ofeach oflrish's opponents; Tranghese called the practice "classless." In addition, Sports Informa­tion threatened to eliminate the club's give-aways and remove acknowledgment of the Legion if the insults continued. 
The university believes it has good reason to prevent such jeers. Jim Mur­phy, crowd control supervisor at the J.A.C.C.,. expressed the administration's concern that "too many kids come to the games who think Notre Dame is the coolest place on earth. If they hear the students chanting vulgar comments, then they think it is okay to chant them, too" He adds, "We don't want to set that 
10 NOVEMBER 2005 
example." 
The original founders were interested in creating any advantage for the Irish to win, but not at the cost of the dig­nity of Notre Dame. As a result, Hettler says Legion ~upporters should focus on cheering for the Irish instead ofinsulting their opponents. As Hettler says, "[The purpose offans] is not simply to just make fun ofor harass the opposing players, and doing so is only one way to help the Irish basketball team." 0 
. . 
OPPOSITE PAGE, TOP: The Leprechaun 
leads the Legion in a chant. 
ABOVE:The Notre Dame men's basketball team attempts to go up for a score. 
LEFT: Loyal Legionaires cheer on their 
favorite squad. . 
~ 
0
· OPPOSITE PAGE, CENTER: The Irish 
C. 
VI
discuss game strategies during a 
u timeout. 
t;; :::i 
0 
:c 
u 
V, 
35 ......... I 
I 


. 
·•., ·: · ···;··-:~ScholasticSp?rfs 
. . . . . . . . . . . ·. 
·The Irish are bowl bqund,
Six Wins £g,ter~.. and chances are goodthey're 
·heading for the BCS
• • Michael Kim 


fjyear around this time, Notre ame became bowl eligible ter winning its sixth game at 
Tennessee, 17-13. However, after losing momentum with devastating losses to 

Pittsburgh and USC, the Irish found themselves face-to-face with Oregon State in the lower-tier Insight Bowl, where they suffered an embarrassing loss to the Beavers, 38-21. 
Coincidentally, Notre Dame once again became bowl eligible last Saturday by beating the Volunteers 41-21 at Notre Dame Stadium to claim its sixth vic­tory ofthe 2005 season. Unlike last year, however, the team is optimistic about its chances of playing in a lucrative Bowl Championship Series (BCS) game. "We should be in the BCS, and we're good enough to be in the BCS," junior defen­sive tackle Trevor Laws says. "Ifwe're not in the BCS, I'll be disappointed." 
I 
Laws seems confident about the team's chances, as evidenced by his Gatorade­splashing prank on Head Coach Charlie Weis (ND '78), performed at the conclu­sion ofthe Tennessee game last Saturday. Usually such a ritual is reserved for a bowl victory. But perhaps Laws feels that pass­ing the biggest remaining test on Notre Dame's schedule was a worthwhile occa­sion to celebrate. After all, having six wins at this point in the season is significant; 
it all but secures the Irish a spot in a bowl game. However, Notre Dame isn't content with a paltry six wins in the Weis era. There are higher expectations to be fulfilled, and ranking among those eight teams in the BCS is as high as it gets, aside from a national championship. However, work remains to be done. Despite the fact that Notre Dame has six wins, the reality is that the Irish need three more to secure a BCS berth. And 1 i Weis doesn't want his team to get ahead I ; of themselves, even if they are heav­1,: ily favored against Navy, Syracuse and !I a: ~ Stanford. "Everyone understands what's 1 o out there, but it's not something that we
re; 
1 !:! need to even talk about because we know 
I.,~
j' ~ that each week helps get you to where you ) ~ end up," Weis says. "They know that they 

:\ ~ _ need to just keep winning." 


·:t .. 
36 
So what's the big deal with a BCS bid? How about a cool $18.6 million -the amount ofmoney that ~ent to each team that earned a spot in one ofthe four BCS bowls last January. And although those . teams have to split the payout with their fellow conference members, Notre Dame is in a unique situation as an independent school that does not belong to any one of the six major football conferences. So while USC has to divide the $18.6 mil­lion ten ways with the nine other Pac-10 teams, Notre Dame doesn't have to split the payout with anyone, and that $18.6 million could go towards paying half of Weis' 10-year contract in his very first season. 
The BCS has four bowls (Sugar, Rose, Fiesta, Orange) to which six conference champions are guaranteed an automatic berth, leaving two at-large teams to fill the remaining spots. In order to qualify for an at-large bid, a team must have nine wins and be in the top 12 ofthe final BCS rankings, which are released in early December. So why are members of the media counting Notre Dame as a shoo­in for one of those bids if they do meet the BCS criteria, especially when there are other teams with equally impres­sive credentials? It is simply a matter of business. Bowl committee members who select teams for their bowls look for the most compelling matchup for their game so that television ratings and ticket sales are high. The fact that Notre Dame is a school that creates a lot ofpublic interest gives the Irish an edge. However, when also considering that Notre Dame has a loyal national following, as well as fans who flock to get their hands on tickets to see the Irish play, it's hard to imagine any other school could bring in comparable revenue. With the Fiesta Bowl having the first pick of an at-large team (as long as Texas and USC do indeed play in the Rose Bowl), chances are great that the Irish will be selected. 
Until then, the Irish know what's at stake. And all that's standing between Notre Dame and a BCS dream is three small wins. 

10 NOVEMBER 2005 

~ 
,~ llstening In 
• @ "I thought there was something seriously wrong with him, but then I realized he was from Boston."
• 
-student overheard on bus ride
• 
to Midway Airport
• 
• 
e"Blood is sure to be spilled, and not all of it fetal." • -Stall Notes regarding the abortion 

• 
debate •

• 
e "Personal foul [...] for adding books to the Bible." 

• 
"No, this one is for too many wives on the field." 


• -fans deciphering a penalty at the BYU /-game 
• 
f> "It's a branch of theology I like to call 'whip me, beat 

• 
me, love me tonight.111 -theology professor


• 
• 
Male student 1: "God, I want to do him so badly." Male student 2: "Don't laugh; he speaks for all of us." -students discussing junior wide receiver Jeff Samardzija 
. . .
•·· 1n the O.ct. 6, 19.78,.js·.su..e.~fS.... chola.s.~ir:,.rea..ders.. co.~denjoy·.
• 
a sly chuckle and a wmk alongside defensive lmeman 

• 
. Bob Golie as he received the highest honor ofthem all: Ii·. · an award from apornography magazine.Join us, won't 


you, as·during the story, Golic's own.mother wrests the ~. magazine from the prying eyes of her son: . 
, . . . . . 
• 
"'She's still trying to prote;t my innocence,'laughed Playboy 
All-American Bob Golie. I guess she figured that I shouldn't be
• 
reading Playboyuntil1'm twenty-one.' 'Imean,' he continued, feigning innocence revealed by a mischievous grin, 'why else
• 
would]be interested in readi?zg Playboy?' One can hardly blame 

• 
Bob Goliefor his anxiozisness, though. It's not every red-blooded 


e•American male thatgets hispicture in the country's mostfanzous men's,nz;gazine -with clothes on, no less." 
i
•I 
.· It would be sooooooo like,the patriarchy to ask us to

• 
enjoy a hearty guffaw, sideburns quivering, at a Catholic man's honorable mention in a dirty magazine. But the second I bring up writing about my own photo shoot with 

• 
. Playboy at Ed Board, all the other Scholastic editors fall silent and avoid eye contact with me. Well, OK, it wasn't actuallyPlayboy, but, I mean, with thatrabbitmaskon,you can't even tell it's me. I guess this just goes to show what along, long way we truly have to have to go. 


• 
.-Halle Kiefer
•' 
0 • • • 
ce-•-•~•-•-•-•-•-• 
Liturgical Choir is starved for affection and has begun to use t-shirts as a desperate means ofobtaining physical contact. 
Or they've found a way to marginalize the rest of us through the use ofclever 



/t/f:c'J 
t::: .
I A•h, fall! The chang­~ ing leaves, the -@; slanting golden· / light, the crisp air ruffling ~~~: through the Gipper's long, .. auburn chest hair. Our nation's .•<· tradition of monthlong holidays means that Gipp fell asleep on , . his front lawn wearing the tattered (:)emnants of his sexy nurse costume __\c'.;and, when he awoke, it was already --..,,Turkey Day. Figuratively speaking, of ,.,,,.,,/:'course.Well, not counting that one year }''tJ'Gipp stumbled headlong offhis balcony ('· '.' and actually did "fall asleep" on Halloween ·• .. and woke up on Thanksgiving. Haha! De­.. ·bilitating head injuries are hilarious. Anywho, -~• .•.•· Gipp hopes you are enjoying the transitioning ;·/.season as much as he is, from the rotting jack-o'­-}'lantern that becomes a hearty stew, a treat which {Gipp spoons out to the wide-eyed neighborhood 't'fhildren before their mothers scream at them to · :_ttrin,·to the stale Halloween candy which converts ~"easily into delicious stuffing that goes great with the tears of unfathomable loneliness ... uh ... not · that Gipp would know anything about that. It's a season Gipp loves, even though his grandfather died in Mild-0-Vember. So snuggle up with the person who you're dating but will never publiclyacknowledge ,' _; a.s your significant other; sip on a warm mug ofFranzia; . _.. ·•. and stare into the crackling fire the freshman next door ;'S:,set in the hallway in an attempt to smoke his roommate } out of sexile, as Gipp regales you with this cornucopia of 
ff hgnominy. 
;ft,iJ' ·· In this tale, which is quite literally from the crypt, our 
fj+L .·main character, pseudonym Ursula Undergrad, finds ·• herself in the midst of tailgating with a bladder full of festive good-cheer. And beer. Also full of beer. In a deci­sion that was both bloodcurdling and highly questionable, Ursula decided to skip the lines at the portable toilets (too predictable) as well as the Bookstore (not humiliating enough), venturing further afield to seek out relief. Oh, what mischievous autumnal spirits (around 80-proof) must have been whispering in her ear to guide her farther and farther away from rational thought and right into, you guessed it, the cemetery. · Here's where Gipp's spoooooooky tale gets really hair­. raising (and pants-lowering). Staggering zombie-like among of tombstones, the sound of 800 billion alumni air, our undergrad found herself crouched 
--_ ' ''. 1·:, • ' ' '' ' 
behind the mausole­um, about to send Jack Daniels and The Captain to · their watery graves. But lo! Will the wonders never cease? The goblins ofhilarity had much more in store that fateful day. Gipp will leave to your imagination what Ursula did next (and it shouldn't take much of an imagination). Suffice it to say that the flowers in front of the tomb were well-fertilized, and the ghosts are still tittering about it today. . . 
Our next story is part of a wave of Fish-y goings-on·· · in dorm which is known at times to be a real Zoo. Aha, oh yes, delicious. After a long night of studying . . . the bottom of a Solo cup, our man for all seasons stumbles back home, intent on donning his PJs and hitting the;: ;c't~~ extra-long twin. Unfortunately, as well as entertainingly; 
t}J;.· '«; this underclassman stumbled not into his own room, but?:, into that of his rector, wherein he flung off his trouser~ 'i and started searching the priest's closet for some jammies./, Now, Gipp has to question at this point: Did he not noticf} the clothes through which he was pawing tended toward' i, the, well, monochromatic? (Black shirt, black shirt, blaclc.~ shirt, black short-sleeved shirt, black shirt ... ) Alternately; ' ; depending when in the liturgical calendar this event toof; place, he'd end up striding down the hallway clad in ric~ purple or verdant green, robes swinging, fashionable rope belt and giant bejeweled cross perfectly matched to som? smoking bronze censers. Not exactly the most inconspicu~; ous ofwardrobe choices. Actually, forget it, nobody woulg have noticed. · =:l 
Rising horrified but probably used to it by now, Father 1 : insisted that the student remove his meathooks from tl1ki , . merchandise and skedaddle, to which the student insistyd ·• · ·, that the room was, in fact, his. Which I'm sure the re~~~r was almost convinced by, right before he slammed the pantsless wonder into ResLife so fast his collar spun. 
The fires died down, the air pungent now with burnt , 1 . •. , whiteboard fumes, and Gipp is feeling pretty sleepy. Or : -:(.r::J is it woozy? Or oxygen-deprived? Well, anyway about it, ' =' •· he's going to slide to the floor now and catch a few winks. ._,: Ifhe's not up in two weeks, be sure to save a plate for him, and until then, he shall remain, 
. I 
. ! 


lI~8cholasticHumor ·········· ···· 

Y.~J~eKiefer
'fhey Callfier !Flipper ••• 
.. a story about in-utero cetacean therapy that gorilla researchers have discovered 
e 
for expecting humans and their babies. that great apes are capable ofcomplex tool Radiant young mothers beamed as they use, citing several gorillas who cracked Well, you sure got me good, dolphins. I pressed their pregnant bellies to tanks open nutshells using rocks and others bow to your superior skill, or else I would, brimming with grinning sea-fascists, who had measured the depth of mud with if I weren't wearing this unwieldy har-communing, communicating ... brain­a stick. But I guess a few squished palm ness you use to control my every move. I washing? Human God only knows what nuts wasn't going to cut it -not when should have realized that a crudely drawn, echo-messages bombarded our American they're going up against toxic dart guns. misspelled sign advertising free bread fetuses ... feti? "Join us. Folks sayit's bet­Then it was the birds and their avian flu, sticks that was pointing to a gigantic ter down where it's wetter. Take it from which quickly was thwarted using the tank on wheels probably was going to be me." And take it we did. same heavy medical artillery that defeated 
-a setup. But damn ifl don't love me some They started in the Gulf first, picking SARS: thorough hand-washing and less bread sticks. off tourists. Overly-tanned blondes look-making out with birds. 
Now, before you guys enslaved human-ing to flee the frigid North and go wild in Oh, but when I think of every time I ity, I have to admit, I hated dolphins as Caho started disappearing off the coast, sat down to a delicious can ofdolphin-free much as the next biped. Dolphins, with their bloodstained trucker hats bumping tuna, YOU BASTARDS ... I'm sorry, I their little smiles and the leaping and the along the sand, faces so badlyblow-darted apologize; I'm just so tired. It's not that clapping: Look at me, Daddy! They're that the Mexican authorities abandoned I don't appreciate all the raw halibut you like manatees with ADHD. They're dental records and instead created a data­feed us. I just ... I just can't leap anymore. ,the-Richard -Simmons of the high seai.i,--.. base oflower-back tattoos. And we looked The hoops are so high. And the tank is so .,;:~ ::_·,. -huge _crimhm1.~=.-seraped ·raw"bY rioogies· '··: away.·Or, in my case, looked directly at it cloudy with our own filth. Ifwe could just : · administered by cackling sperm whales. and laughed hysterically. get maybe an hour a day to walk around 
,· l·· Obviously, it was this attitude of snide The talking horse, the Pollack-painting on our ever-weakening legs ... OH GOD, disregard which now has me bowing to elephant and the water-skiing squirrel: THE ELECTRODES ... you're right, their. superior skills -a fate I could have Like all humans, I w~~.,QJ>,th,terrified and ok, I apologize.Justneed to finish before avoided had humans only been paying tickled by the prosp'ect _of animals with the skin ,9n my fi1;1.gers starts·to-ro,t,.9ff in better attention. the capabilities of man. "Manimals," if I the water. . , . ,-, ·· ...-,.,,,,:,... It all began a few-weeks after the hur-may. And before I found myself treading God help the human inhabitants. oP· ricane hit New Orleans. The British around this giant tank, if someone had South America and Asia. They have newspaper The Observer reported that asked me who was going to wrest domin­dolphins IN THE RIVERS, PEOPLE. dolphins, trained by the U.S. military, ion of the earth from man, my money Ifwe had only known to keep away from may or may not have escaped thtir train-would have been on the pri;mates. They theme parks and circuses ... circi? Unfor­ing facility wearing harnesses containing have thumbs; there are, like, five movies tunately, it's obvious that the infiltration toxic darts, .which the dolphins were about that very thing happening; and we extends · to the highest level of the Bush trained to use against terrorists. can get them to smoke cigarettes, which administration. We didn't pay attention I'm not a high-falutin' aquatic· anti-is a-dor-able while simultaneously very to the greenhouse effect, but look at the terrorist specialist ... yet. However, let wrong. In mid-October, CNN reported facts. The greenhouse effect leads to me break down all· the elements which melting ice caps. Melting ice caps mean perhaps should have been a cause ofcon-
higher oceanic water levels. And who . cern for us: benefits from that? Hmm ... gosh ... I just First, DOLPHINS. can't put my finger on it ... if only I could Second, TOXIC DART GUNS think of ... oh, right. Don't make me say Third, TOXIC. DART. GUNS. Guns. it: you guys. Which have darts. Which are toxic. In the I guess when we started our struggle weeks after the story broke, most people against extremism we hadn't given much laughed it off as a hoax, just like we were thought to extremely smart dolphins supposed to. The reality-the idea that who are going to go to extremes on our the government would tell us about the collective asses for making them dance marine mainmal assassins before they for us at Sea World. I can only pray that 
.</)=Drnphln~ 
a:
were unleashed on the world-is laugh-I can get a hold of a copy of"Free Willy" 0 able, laughable in a high-pitched ._·_._ to garner some kind of favor with them. ::, :iE squeaking tone· which pierce~ into ;i}ll Until then, I remain, :i: i=
... u the deepest reaches of my bram. ··-·:: . ~: A few weeks ago, the NBC affiliate .._) Your grumpy captive, :r: 0 in Cleveland (this is true) broadcast ·r· Halle Kiefer 
~-:.:-::::~:-:•; 
JO NOVEMBER 2005 39 .•••••••• 
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · @ il'oint/Counterpoint 

'f/COUNTER P O1 NT 
What is y~ur perception of gender relations at Notre Dame? 

Gender relations at Notre Dame are less than perfect, and the gender-segregated dorms are to blame. We already know that there 
are significant differences between guys and girls. Separating the sexes only emphasizes these differ­ences and adds to the gender inequalities that exist. College is a time for spiritual, intellectual and social growth. As students, we are supposed to be in the process ofbreaking down stereotypes-and appreciat-. 
· ing diversity. 
By separating the men from the women, we miss out on valuable chances to understand each other and forego the interactions that prepare us for life af­ter du Lac. At Notre Dame, the opposite sex is a sort ofcommodity, a group ofmysterious strangers that are so different and threat­
. ening that· separation is necessary. Frosh-O events consist of forced guy/girl interactions that are for­mal and awkward, to say the least. Freshmen are defined by their gender and given an identity associated with their dorm. Guys are given such "manly" identities as the Mob, Knights, Dawgs or Zahmbies, and girls are given the titles of the Finest, Babes and Phoxes, to name a few. And we all know that we're ready to ta_ke on any identity we can get when we ar­rive at Notte Dame as insecure freshmen. 
From there, the trek across the quad becomes "I'm going to go hang out with some guys," rather than "I'm going to go hang out with some friends." Then there are the moments wheµ you're greeted with curi­

. ous and questioning glances when you walk down the halls of a dorm of the opposite sex. What should be a casual drop in to catch up with a friend becomes a planned event, and ifyou're willing to make the effort, you must have some serious piotives. The separation between the dorms causes men and women on this campus to be looked upon as potential hookups, sig­nificant others or, as scary as it is, :fiances. Whatever happened to just being friends? ~ 
......... 40 
Somemay aFgue that gender relations atNotre Dame are abnormal. However, I feel that this negative characterization is unfair. Notre 
Dame's gender relations may not be ideal, but they are better than those at many other schools. Some may argue that our single-sex dorms cause Notre • Dame students to view the opposite sex in purely . 
. sexual terms or that platonic interactions are .un.::. heard 0£ I think this position fails to account for the gender equality in a~ademics that I have seen on our campus. 
At other schools, there is a feeling that girls must dress themselves up ap.d dumb themselves down to attract men, but anyone who has ever at­
tended class at Notre Dame sees that the .. 
women ofN~tre Dame do not buy into this idea. The men and women of Notre Dame ar~;~qually intelligent .. 
and driven, both in and out of the classroom. ·­This equality can be attributed to the • type of student, male or female, that Notre 
Dame admits. It may also be a product of the very same single-sex housing that everyone blames for our unique gender relations. While it may strain gender relations, single-sex housing provides the arena for men and women to take leadership roles and develop confidence without feeling the constant need to· compete with one another or :fit themselves into societal molds. 
Instead ofdecrying hypersexualized social interac­tions onThursday, Friday and Saturday nights, let's give ourselves credit for the equality that exists in our. classrooms and extracurricular activities. At every college across America, weekends are about poorly­dressed men and well-dressed women getting drunk and hooking up, but few schools bave the academic equality ofNotre Dame. , · · .. © 

10 NOVEMBER 2005 

9/2 Acappella quintet TOXIC AUDIO, described in rave reviews as "the audio equivalent of STOMP." You won't believe your ears! 8pm 
9/9 Classical musicians ENSEMBLE GALILEI and NPR's "Talk of the Nation" Host NEAL CONAN 
in amultimedia performance that includes images from the Hubble Space Telescope; 8 pm 
9/16 An evening with BRUCE HORNSBY, former Grateful Dead band member and versatile rock pianist; 9pm 
9/30 Legendary Irish musician, the "Bard of Armagh" TOMMY MAKEM in concert with his sons, THE MAKEM BROTHERS; 8 pm 
10/6 OPERA VERDI EUROPA GALA NIGHT: An evening of opera's greatest hits; 7:30 pm 
10/13 Traditional jazz with the world-famous PRESERVATION HALL JAZZ BAND; 9 pm 
10/14 Academy Award-winning compos~r and conductor MARVIN HAMLISCH; 9 pm 
Acelebration of Gypsy song and traditional Spanish dance with BALLET FLAMENCO JOSE PORCEL; 9 pm 
10/27 Atlanta's 7Stages Theatre performs Athol Fugard's ground-breaking play about apartheid "MASTER HAROLD"... AND THE BOYS; 7:30 pm 
10/29 Internationally celebrated mezzo-soprano DAWN UPSHAW and contemporary ensemble EIGHTH BLACKBIRD perform Osvaldo Golijov's "Ayre"; 8pm 
11/1-11/2 Modern dance with the renowned MERCE CUNNINGHAM DANCE COMPANY; 
7:30 pm (both nights) 
11/6 Grammy Award-winning Senegalese pop musician YOUSSOU N'DOUR-"The Voice of Africa"-in concert; 7pm 
11/8 Contemporary jazz from Mexico with the ETHOS TRIO; 7:30 pm 
11/9 Classical piani~t KRYSTIAN ZIMERMAN in concert; 
7:30 pm · 
11/27 Austria's world-famous VIENNA CHOIR BOYS in concert; 3 pm 12/1 The PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA, conducted by Hans Graf with violinist Sarah Chang; 
7:30 pm · 
12/9 Classical guitar virtuoso CHRISTOPHER PARKENING and bass-baritone JUBILANT SYKES perform aspecial Christmas ~how; 8 pm 
12/11 Enjoy atraditional Celtic Christmas with award­winning performers CHERISH THE LADIES; 7 pm 
2/4 Arab composer, violins!, and oud master SIMON SHAHEEN in concert with QANTARA; 8 pm 
2/10 Grammy-winning violinist MARK O'CONNOR'S HOT SWING in concert; 8pm 
2/14 Canadian classical pianist ANGELA HEWITT in concert; 7:30 pm 
--·. 
,_ -·. 
,--...::; 
. --­
·.-. 
2/18 THE SOWETO GOSPEL CHOIR, world-' .•· ­African inspirational musicians, in conce. -­
2/26 Premiere classical flautist SIR JAMES f.. ·-· .. LADY JEANNE GALWAY, and the POU . -'• ; CHAMBER ORCHESTRA in concert; 7j. · · -::. ··,.
r. ,,._..., 
3/2 Ireland's most recognized name in tradili :.--·= •.. THE CHIEFTAINS in concert; 7:30 pm / . . 
3/4 Classical guitarist ROBERT BLUESTON WOVEN HARMONY, amultimedia con! the textile art of REBECCA BLUESTONI 
3/9 Grammy-award winnfng musician EDGArn,.;....,.;...:..... . (standup bass) and MIKE MARSHALL (mandolin, guitar) perform bluegrass with classical influences; 
7:30 pm 
3/21 POMERIUM in concert, performing acappel/a sacred music of the Renaissance; 7:30 pm 
3/23 One of Russia\ best-known classical ensembles, the KIROV ORCHESTRA, directed by Valery Gergiev; 7:30 pm 
3/25 Contemporary Irish instrumental band FLOOK; 8pm 
4/1 Britain's leading period-instrument orchestra, the ACADEMY OF ANCIENT MUSIC; 8 pm 
4/21 BILL CHARLAP TRIO in concert, built around the phenomenal jazz piano of Bill Charlap; 8pm 
STUDENTS CAN PURCHASE TICKETS WITH DOMER DOLLARS, PACFUNDS, CASH, CHECK, OR CREDIT! 
Student ticket prices range from $10-$20, depending on performance. 
PRESORTED · STANDARD
,Notre Dame Archives 
U.S. Postage · 
PAID
607 Hesburgh Library 
Noire Dame, IN
Notre Dame IN 46556 
Permit No. 2 







