

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Entertainment reviews and previews, Out of Bounds and a Coming Distractions·pull-out c~lendar of events. · In-depth news and sports coverage. 
Read one for the Gipper! Campus Watch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses. 
Campus Life stories to keep you informed of what's happening o~ campus. Remember: If you see news happeni~g ... you're probably reading Scholastic! 
If you don't have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription! 
x-------------------------------:i---·---­
Please send __ years of Scholastic to: 
Name: 
Address: 
City: ______ State: ___ Zip Code; __ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x _ years = $ ___ 
Please send form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 

CONTENTS 

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MA AZINE 


5 Corbett and DuBay 6 Coughlin and Capua 7 Hungeling and Orsagh 8 King and Lefort 

14 Teaching the NINTENDO Generation 

18 Feel the Force 

20 Out of Bounds 21 Tombstone 
1 

FROM THE MANAGING EDITOR 

Election time has coine to campus once again. Bulletin boards and bathrooms are covered with multi-colored posters offering a myriad of suggestions how best to improve Notre Dame. Idealism is running rampant. If there's a complaint you have about Notre Dame, you can probably find it on somebody's platform. Security is a big issue, especially in the parking lots. On the academic side, there is the question of DART, a student guide about classes, faculty advising and completing the requirements needed to graduate. But the question that seems to be on many minds is that of university social life. 
This is the one time ofyear when people are offering suggestions to the problems about which students constantly complain. Use your vote wisely. Be informed. Talk to people. Ask questions. To help you make an informed decision before you cast your vote on Monday, Scholasticinterviewed the four tickets. The transcnpts ofthe interviews are printed on the following pages. We have endorsed one ticket, but make the decision for yourself. 
ALSO IN THIS ISSUE ... 
In Campus Life, Michelle Crouch profiles a professor who is on the cutting edge of technology in the classroom. Jeff Weghorst takes an inside look at a little­publicized sport, fencing. Although Notre Dame may have lost the national championship in football, fencer Jeremy Siek hopes to lead Notre Dame to the top. Before you head to the movies, check out Scott Johnson's review of Tombstone. And as always, enjoy the weekly features like CampusWatch (with an all new Gipper), Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses. 
FOOTBALL REVIEW ... 
Any off-campus students who have not picked up their copy of Scho/astic's 1993 Football Review, stop by 303 LaFortune, with your student ID, any afternoon between 2 and 5p.m. Extra copies are available for $5. 
-'-Katie Wiltrout 
Sclu,wfk IIpuhlulu4amkly lluouglwut1Michoolyearo:cq,t Lttttrs to Scholutic"""tbt typ,411114 l1teludt 1M wrltn's,..,,,,, 
,b,ri,,g o:IUlli1UJtioll 11114 .,...,..uo,, ptritHb at tlu lbilwrslty of 
iuldtru 11114 plto,u """'""• lbiiotnity sbuln<u 1houLl ilu:bult Nottt D1t11re, Nottt D1t11re, IN, 46556 1uul prb,tt4at Tiu P"l'trs, t1uir y,abe s.:hool11114 colltgt. F11a1lty ....,,.1,,,. shouLf ilu:buk b<c., MUfrml, IN46542, Tiu svl,,criptio,c rate II $25.t>Olytar11114 
t1uir ,upartmt1tt. AU lttttn MUSt i,, slg,u4. N1t11re• will l,1 1,lld; iuw•..,,,mal/abltat $1.25lcopy. Tiu opbiimu cq,r,""4 
wlthh,/,f"l'D" rtqu,,t '" artll/1t but1111a1. 
be Schol,utic ..,, thou oftlu llllthon 11114 t4iton 11114 4o 110t 
Schobutic rturo11 tlu right to njtct lttttn U...t..,, lib,lou, or ,uauarllyrqntU11t 1Mopbiimuoftlu ndirttditarlal1,oa,4of 
ol,,cn11by tlu """•oflM lbiltt4Statt,. Sclu,buticalaowUIt4it Sclu,1,utic or oftlu lbiiotnlty ofNottt DltllU, U. ll4n,beutra­
for copyfittbcg, gnmt"'11tlc11I or .,,t1111tg man ..,.4 Schouutu: 
ttm,, f11a1lty or ,buln<u. Edit.or/J,la 1/g,u4 Schol..,tic rtprtu1tt 
,tylt. Btc11J11tof'l'""''Schobuticca1t1totprb,t11U lttttn_rtaiot4,tlu opbi/Jnc of 1M tlUljorlty ·of tlu o:,a,tlw t4itorud 1,oard. 
MIIJ<IUfflpt...,,wt""'-, AU111twlu:itu4 tlUlttrillls l,tcon1t 1M 
A44rtu all conrspo,ult..a to : 
prop,rty ofScltowttc. · 
TluEdltor Sclu,/,utic Copyrigf<t 1993 SchowticMagabet. AUrigf<u rturot4. R,pro­
LAFortu,u Ct1ttn rhlctimc be wholtor/11partwlthoutwrittnpn,,tlulo,c IIprohib­NotttD..,,.,, IN46556 itt4. 
SCHOLASTIC · 




LETTER 
Dear Editor: 
I am quoted in the December 2, 1993, issue of Scholastic in an article on the . Catholic character of Notre Dame. Unfortunately, one of the quotations, duplicated in bold print, completely misrepresents my position on this important issue. 
I would never have said, "I object to the concept of choosing faculty on the basis of their Catholicism." My entire I I-year record as Chairman of the Department of Theology (1980-91) contradicts such a statement. I am proud of whatever success I achieved, with the cooperation of faculty colleagues and key university adminis­trators, in strengthening the Catholic character of that department. 
On the other hand, I would object to a hypothetical policy that mandated the hiring of faculty on the basis of their Catholicism alone. No Catholic should be appointed to the faculty if she or he is clearly less qualified than other non-Catholic candidates. In such a case, the university may decide to re-open then search, but that is another matter entirely. 
Finally, I regret that in my references to "ethnic cleansing" I did not make clear that this is a comment I have heard from a few anxious non-cathol~c members of the faculty. I regret its use as inappropriate. Indeed, its use in our academic context might be as offensive to Muslims brutalized and killed in Bosnia as the word "holocaust" is for many Jews when applied to abortion. 
(Rev.) Richard P. McBrien Department ofTheology 
3 



EDITORIAL 



vote 
CORBETT 
and 


DUBAY 
Scholastic endorses the ticket ofBryan Corbett and Karen DuBay for student body president and vice president We feel that they best represent what student government officers should, and while none of the tickets presented issue-rich platforms during their interviews, Corbett and DuBay were the most impressive ticket In a election year where the buzzword is "feasible," we feel that Corbett and DuBay's campaign goals are the most attainable, realistic and needed. In their Scholastic interview, they outlined their ideas for the reformation of the DART system, describing a plan in which fewer students would get closed out of necessary courses. While I.M.P.R.O.V .E. seems somewhat idealistic, it builds upon a pledge ofthe current administration that seems to have been initiated, yet still needs more work. I.M.P .R.O.V .E., if enacted, would formalize the all-important networking capabilities upon which many students already capitalize. This program would open these opportunities to those students who don't have as many "connections" as some of their peers. Corbett and DuBay are real people. Both seemed nervous during their interview, but quickly overcame any discomfort and showed strong.and open personalities. Each displayed a wealth of knowl­edge of the job's responsibilities, and addressed our questions without hesitation or any attempt to talk around the subject. They willingly admitted that they have different opinions on controversial political issues, but immediately went beyond their differences to propose a solution. Both recognized that they represent the student voice and promised to fulfill their duty to the students. All four tickets were asked to anticipate specific topics they would

\\ 
II' like to cover in their reports to the board of trustees, and only Corbett II and DuBay seemed prepared to outline their goals. One ticket plans j to abolish such reports along with the rest of the student government i bureaucracy; another plans to address topics that were presented in the past years; yet another hinted at a possible plan, but chose not to
I 
ii ft explain. Corbett and DuBay instantly responded with a proposal to address the growing problem of financial aid. We commend this 
!' 
:\ choice, for although they may be unable to enact change in Notre Dame's financial aid program, they will at least put pressure in the
\1 
right places. Financial aid is a problem that affects every student at Notre Dame and one which should be closely examined. 

However, Corbett and DuBay are guilty of over-platforming. They have seven proposals that they would like to .initiate. Some, such as an on-campus pass for allowing students to occasionally drive on campus, sound good but do not solve a pressing problem f~r the student body. They do think it is important to build on the accomplishments of thepast administration. This kind of continuity is needed because of the nature of the office. A term of one year is short, and the goals that want to be reached are long-term. 
Brian Coughlin and Maria Capua also presented an impressive platform and seem("..d like genuinely nice people. But when it comes right down to it, their "Reg Sheet" can already be obtained through the university ifa student simply requests it. They are encouraging apathy and laziness among the student body by providing a service already available with a little personal initiative. As for their faculty advising system, they admitted almost immediately that it was not "feasible" because it was such a complicated process. 
Coughlin and Capua touched on the problem of decreased study space since the closing of the Security Building. Y.et they never disclosed whether they had any plans to rectify the problem; a ticket cannot win an election by only listing the problems and omitting any proposed solutions. 
Erin King and Deitz Lefort were impressive with their accom­plished backgrounds and their long list of connections. But their slick demeanor and ultra-professionalism are unbecoming of col­lege student government candidates. They may have a promising future in politics, but they are a little too polished for our tastes. We feel that our student leaders. should be approachable, just as this ticket claims to be. But ... 
Two tickets addressed a security issues that affects many students -walking back·from D-2 parking. They both offered similar suggestions to shuttle people from the parking lot around campus. The plans seem feasible, but are they needed? We feel that adequate services already exist but are not utilized by the students. Rather than implementing new programs, students should use those that already exist, such as SafeWalk. Better publicity would accomplish more than expanded service. 
As for David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh, we at Scholastic applaud their goals, but cannot support their"fun" campaign. While most agree that free football tickets and the Grateful Dead in concert would be amusing and memorable, abolishing student government entirely is a little too drastic. Granted, self-important student government officials tend to grate on one's nerves. We have all sometimes wondered exactly what it is that gets accomplished and what it would be like if there were no student government But losing all credibility with and breaking all ties to the administration will not foster more favorable campus conditions. 
We have one piece of advice for the ticket which we have endorsed: please be sure to stand by your committrnent to "feasible" goals and "approachability." We feel that these are realistic and attainable promises now, but power is corrupting. Ifyouwin, consult with the outsiders who are running against you. Notre Dame, while an institution of higher l~ingwith the highest of standards, is just a university. Students do come for an education, but education· goes beyond the classroom. Maybe more fun isn't such a ridiculous · campaign promise after all. D 
1\ 4 SCHOLASTIC 
tt 
r 

E L E C T I O N '9 4 

Corbett and DuBay 
Bryan Corbett, a candidate for student body president, is a junior thought the student needs were from what we have heard. Wedidn't 
from Morrissey Manor, majoring in government. Bryan is from want to have any programs that we knew we couldn't do because 
Murray Hill, New Jersey, and is cuuently junior class president. that's the way we are. So we tried to come up with reachable, 
Karen DuBay, a candidate for student body vice president, is also attainable solutions to some of the problems we've found and 
a junior government major. Karen.from Troy, Michigan, lives in students have found. 
Breen Phillips Hall and is the dorm's co-president. 
Each year the student body president and vice president are Whatis the main goal you would like to achieve as student body : responsible for presenting reports to the board of trustees. Do president and vice president? you have any specific topics you would like to cover in these 
reports? · 
CORBETT: I have to say our main goal would be to listen to the 
students and implement programs which meet their concerns. DUBAY: Actually this is something that we think student govern-When · Karen and I were re X!x~Ts:Ts:7:=-:--Ts:-:---:;-:-------:-:::;7wT;T-:-1&00GG-:-+1111ent hasn't done enough of. searching our platform, w t's the highest level of com-spoke with students from dif . unication there is. Three · ferent dorms, different aca opics that we thought were demic colleges, just to. s eally important was that the what the issues were that the olloquy talked about how we were concerned with. W ant all this financial aid for heard ideas from student life veryone; we want to talk to 24-hour space, Jo career en e administration and say hancement Once we got ow can we do this. They've general consensus of what ev ad these task-forces and col­erybody was concerned with oquies in the seventies and we went and took-our ideas ighties and they still haven't the proper administrative offi ccomplished those goals, so 
~~~be~ ~~~~~ 
sible for implementing them ey're going to accomplish With such a limited term · ·s goal? We've got a real office, you don't have time roblem with that We want to waste on impractical goals. eal with financial aid, we DUBAY: What we tried to do is take the student input and see how also think the possibility of co-ed housing, and with the recent we can reach obtainable goals. One ofthe things that we did was we incident of the Grotto and the rape earlier this year in D-2 we want visited Dr. Pace who is head ofthe Registrar. We sat down for two, to deal with safety and security issues because we think that's a real twoandanhalfhours, withhimandhisstafftodevelopanewsystem pressing concern for students on and off campus. for DART because we thought it was inequitable to a number of CORBETI:Beforewemakeanydefinitivedecisionsonourreports, students. Wealso met with the national alumni board last week, and we would definitely survey the campus and see what students were talked to them about our IMPROVE, which is Internship-Mentor interested in. Last year they did undergraduate education, this year Program to Reach Out for Valuable Experience, an internship-they're doing Catholic character. If those issues are still prominent mentor database collection. What we did with the national alumni among most of the students, there's no reason why we couldn't board was we tried to see what their needs were and what our needs include another report about those, and build on those reports and were, and we found that they were really receptive to what we continued on page 9 . 


E L E C T I O N '9 4 


Coughlin and Capua 
Gracejunior Brian Coughlin is a candidate for student body presi­dent. He is the co-president of his hall and a government and theology double major from Erie, Pennsylvania. Walsh junior Maria Capua, a marketing and Italian double major, is from Fort Worth, Texas. She is running for student body vice president and is the co-president ofher dorm. 
What is the main goal that you would like to achieve as student body president and vice president? 

administrators in each of those colleges, and they've all responded in different ways. We can't really come up with a uniform pattern over the whole campus. It will take time to develop a faculty advising system, so we plan on doing that, but until then we've devised what we call "Req Sheet," and this req sheet will entail receiving this two weeks before the DART period when you get your PIN number. It will have your name, your major or majors and on the left hand column, it will list all your requirements, such as two fine arts, two theologies, two philosophies. The middle column will list what you've already taken ofeach, and the third column will tell you 
discussed is basically that w want to handle the things tha . we know we can accomplish. Feasibility is our main con cem; we care about the bi issues, but we are realisti 
enough to know what we 
andcan'tdo. We'vespentalo 
of time with the university of 
ficials over the last coup! 
weeks, and the three thing 
thatwehavecomeupwiththa 
seem the most feasible. Th 
first is an ~dea that we came u 
with called Safe Ride, whic 
will be an extension o 
SafeWalk, and we'll hav 
probably a CSC van used as 
shuttle from the outer parking 
lots to any dorm on the inner campus. This will alleviate the problem 
of people trying to get on campus after dark with their cars. 
The second one is increased study space. After they closed the 
Security Building, we lost a lot of study space, especially for those 
living on South Quad. We've talked to a lot of people in Support 
Services, and other places around campus, and they've agreed that 
there is a problem and that we should work together to solve it 
And the last one, we've talked to a lot of people that were doing 
the interviews for undergraduate education, and the biggest problem 
that they came up with was faculty advising, or lack thereof. So 
we've decided to talk to a bunch of the different colleges and COUGHLIN: What we've

,.,...,.,.....,..,_..,..---------,-,.------:----,--.,----:--,--.,-"".'"'.'1how many you need to still take. 
is will alleviate the problem f people that come up to gradu­tion and find themselves one me arts requirement short and "dn't know that Every semes­
er we will update it, and you'll et it so you do know. Those are ur three main goals for next ear, and after that we hope to etadditionalgoalsfrom thestu­ent body as the year goes on. APUA: That's great. All that ·n additionto, we've discussed · ust among ourselves, some of e things that Frank and Nikki avedone,andwe'dliketocon­· ue a lot of the things -the ook Fair, the Guide, specific 

ideas. And we want to talk to the people who were in charge ofeach event, and see how they could be improved. This was the first year for anything, and I think they went pretty well. But there's always, you know, ways to improve. 
Each year, the student body president and vice president are responsible for presenting reports to the board of trustees. Do you have any specific topics you would like to cover in these reports? 
COUGIIl,IN: I think the most important issue is a continuing look 
continued on page 9 
6 

SCHOLASTIC 

---------, ·~· -. 
. . . \-. -~_; . / . 

E L E C T I O N '9 4 


Hungeling and Orsagh 
David Hungeling is a junior student body presidential candidate fromAtlanta, GA. He is a government major who lives in Morrissey 
Manor. Matt Orsagh, a resident ofFisher Hall, is a junior communications and theater and English double major who is running for strudent body vice president. He is also from Atlanta, GA. 
What is the main goal you would like to achieve as student body president and vice president? ;' 
HUNGELING:Ithinkthatour,__ 
main goal is to try to get th Grateful Dead to come in con certhereatNotreDame. Thati our primary goal. ORSAGH: Hopefully we c eliminate some of the stuff tha 


we feel is extraneous. HUNGELING: A lesser goal i to try to get froo.football ticke for the students. That's pret much our platform. 
Each year, the student bod president and vice presiden are responsible for present ing reports to the board o trustees. Do you have an spe cific topics you would like t cover in these reports? 
HUNGELING: As part of some of the things that we think that we mightbe able to eliminate, one is the reports to tlie board oftrustees. Withourprimary goal being trying to getthe Dead to come, and also our other goal trying to get free football tickets, we feel that those two things in themselves will keep us busy for the whole year. 
One of the main things that we think has happened with student government is that they'vegonealongorplayed with the rules ofthe administration, and that in doing·so, have been able to accomplish very little of what they've set out -like those reports or doing research for whatever they're trying to accomplish; we think that by playingby those rules that the administration is trying to waste their time and waste everyone else's time, and we're hoping to not go along with a lot of those things. 
What do you feel has ~een the major accomplishment of this year's student government? 
ORSAGH: Gee, I couldn't say. HUNGELING: Well,jtistinreading whatThe Observer says, I hear that we have more yogurt flavors and more salad dressing flavors 
-
___,,thanSaintMary's,soifthatisa mething that this administra­·on has accomplished, I think t that's pretty cool. 
hich student activities do ou think should have in­reased funding? Assuming hat more funds aren't avail• hie, which activities should e faced with cutbacks? 
GELING: I think that 
eceivequiteabitmore money. y doing that we think that we ay be able to attract the Dead ratherbig nameconcerts. We __, · nk that the entertainment as­

pect of the student organiza­tions should be increased. Cutbacks should be made within student government, particularly in administrative costs -"The Guide," I think they give money to individual classes, they give money to HPC; I think all ofthat should basically becut. As I understand itthe money that the Hall Presidents' Council gets normally is allocated to the dorms. Ifa dorm wants to buy a new microwave or renovate a pool table; we.'d like to notdo that. We'd liketogiveitall to SUB, and see if we can't get some pretty cool stuff entertainment-wise. 
How do you see the division of responsibilities between student 
continued on page] 0 



E L E C T I O N '9 4 


King and Lefort 
Erin King is a junior from Howard Hall, runningfor student body president. King is from Seaford.NY, and she is a government major. 

"Iii King is a South Quad senator.
l'i 

'.' i:1 Deitz Lefort is a junior from Sorin Hall, running for srudent body vice president. He is from New Orleans, Louisiana, and is an accounting and philosophy major. Lefort is currently co-president ofhis dorm. · 
What is the main goal you would like to achieve as student body president and student body vice-president? 
LEFORT: Well, basically, when we started back in September, we werebothveryenthusiasticaboutrunning,andofcoursewerealized that we were the best team -we really work well together. We thought we'd be the best acting as a liaison between individuals and the student body as a whole, and the administration. We have an 

extensive amount of expe :7777'.'7,,T'77.T7:'.'77TTTTTTTT77mT:777 egitimate, they weren't 
rience in relation to dealin 
with the administration an 
individuals. It'sabigprior 
ity of both of us. W 
complement eachother' 
actions and personalitie 
well. · 
KING: We also comple ment eachother's experi ence. He's Sorin Hal President, I'm South Qua Senator. I've worked wi the administration, an while he works with the ad ministration based on dorm, I work with it base on a quad and the entir university through studen 
senateandCLC-Campu 
LifeCouncil. Igotodiffer­
ent hall councils each week, and I get concerns from donns as a whole, where it's much less individual, whereas he deals with the individual. So I think that those two experiences complement eachother, and based on that our goal is really to servethe students through the administration with feasible ideas on our platfonn, and 
based on our experience, I think we can really be effective. 
Each year, the student body pr~ident and vice president are responsible for presenting reports to the board of trustees. Do you have any specific topics you would like to cover in these reports? 

KING: Our platform is scheduled to be published Monday morn­ing. We're chiefly interested in a financial aspect of student government. We have a iot of ideas, and a lot of them are very tangible ideas, such as the meal count we 'relooking~t, the loop, and we really want to look at the financial aspect of it. We chose ideas which could really be feasible. Based on extensive research, we want to present that to the university. The board of trustees is responsible for the financial aspect of it. LEFORT: We would not put any thing on our platform without legitimizing it. We've been meeting with various individuals in Food Services, the bookstore, housing, student affairs, student activities to make sure that the issues we put on our platform were 
·ust hearsay and random "deas. What we did was hen we got together back ·n September, we naturally olled random students, d asked them whai were here main interests on ampus. T,o go along with tressing our theme of be­· g a team, and a liaison tween the indivduals as ell as the administration. ere was a growing con-em about laundry in male orins, for example. What e did was we called up ectors and rectresses, and ound out that it's just not easible because of space, limited space. There'slim­ited space in Sorin, Alumni, and Carroll, they don't have the adequate space to include laundry. We looked at removing the laundry facilities in LaFortune, and equally dispersing through all guys' dorms. And what happened was we were going to turn.that additional space into a m1,1sic/CD store, somewhat like Tracks, and we could have a trade-in policy. And we went to Larry Ratliff, in the bookstore, met with him, and to my astonishment, he's been 
continued on page JO 
8 

SCHOLASTIC 

continued from page 5 
include new ones of our own. We wouldn't make any moves until we had a consensus among the studentbody about what they wanted to bring to the administration and the board of trustees. 
What do you feel has been the major accomplishment of this year's stude~t government? 
DUBAY: I think the current student government has done a great job increasing the visibility and accessibility of student government. I think they've brought it more in touch with their columns, different things they've done and by doing this, they've increased student participation. CORBETT: Both of us worked at the book fair this year, and in year's past I have never seen a turnout for a student government program like I saw for that. They did a great job ofmaking the programs accessible and realistic. That way students knew that if they got involved, they would have a concrete benefit from it. They didn't waste their time on unattainable ideals or goals. They had concrete solutions and they got a great participation from the student body. 
Which student .activities do you think should have increased funding? Assuming that more funds aren't available, which activities should be faced with cutbacks? 
CORBETT: The book fair definitely needs to be expanded on. That was a great idea, they just need to increase the amount ofbooks that .they have. They have a lot of older editions, so after the first day the place is cleaned out and no one else goes. So you go there and you get the third edition which nobody wants. But also, our program 
I.M.P.R.O.V.E. assimilates the job bank from this year, it takes that and it expands it to a whole new internship library with a directory ofNotre Dame graduates by majorwho will volunteer to participate as mentors for Nntre Dame students. DUBAY: Just on the monetary issue, the SWAT team -Students With AIDS Training-got $30 this year. These are people who go through three days of training to do stuff. A lot of social services are neglected. I know you're not allowed to give money to charities, but there are a lot of different issues Notre Dame students are not aware of and I think more presentations and more forums in the dorms would be good. From our own experience on senate, we saw that there are studentsbusinesses losing a lot of money. It's good for some people to get experience, but its bad for studentgovernment to be losing the money. 
How do you see the division ofresponsibilities between student government and student union board? 
CORBETT: They're definitely two distinct organizations. Student government is in charge of more of a structure for the student body, while SUB provides, I don't want~ say entertainment, but more of the once~a-year activities. What you are looking for out of student government is something concrete that will be established and will last after you're gone. We'renot here for quick~fix solutions. While SUB is almost a life-line for student activity because they provide the concerts, An Tostal, a lot of the things students look forward to, they're not as concerned with having the continuity throughout the year which you're looking for out of a student government. DUBAY: In the past there has been strained relations between the two,. and this year there has been pretty good relations. That is something we really want to look into. Sometimes there's a competition there; with the money student government allots to SUB we think that they should be able to do what they want within boundaries. This year they haven't had an awful concert losing money. Student government can't lose $30,000 in activities fees for students. SUB is more of the social atmosphere, and we believe that student government is more listening to students and dealing with the administration. D 
. 

continued from page 6 
at undergraduate education. I know there was a report put out to the board of trustees last year, but the university and the board decided that it wasn't;t a wide enough sample of the student population. I think we should continue that; I think that's why we're all here. Things like study space and faculty advising are main concerns that could be involved in studies about undergraduate education. Just dealing with the students as a whole. When you come right down to it, we're all here to get an education. CAPUA: Another thing is also the security issue. That's kind of what SafeRide is for, just to make it safer for everyone, coming around campus. coming from off campus. Anything we do, espe­cially the SafeRide will have to go through the board of trustees. 
What do you feel have been the major accomplishment of this year's student government? 
COUGHLIN: When I look at this year's student government, I see the that the things that came off the best were they knew before they were electedwhat their four main ideas were, and they tried to make them as feasible as possible before they went into office. So, all the studentsknew what they were getting into, when they cast their vote. When Ivoted for FrankandNikki, I voted because I knew they could accomplish the Book Fair, and the Guide, and the job bank, especially. And these were things that I see as their major accom­plishment, fulfilling their campaign promises with, you know, real feasible action. I thinktheBookFair, by far, is the bestthing they've done. I know it's a logistical nightmare, at this point, because we both worked at it, but there are ways you can improve it, and there are ways it can become more organized. But it was a great thing for the students, it saved a lot of students hundreds of dollars, as well as made them hundreds of dollars. And that's what student govern­ment is here for, is to help the students. CAPUA: I think another one of their accomplishments was making it more of a team effort. I mean yes, Frank and Nikki were at everything and did everything, but they had a lot of good people working around them. They dido'thave to be in charge of the Book Fair, they didn't have to be in charge of the Guide, they had a lot of people step forward and say,.yeah I want to help you with that, Ihave from the very beginning, and I want to stick with it, and.they had a lot of capable people around them that they could trust, and they created more ofa, not like, you know two people sayi!)g this is what 
9 




we're doing, and we control everything, but it was just a network of 
people. 
. Which student activities do you think should have increased 
funding? Assuming that more funds aren't available, which 
activities would be faced with cutbacks? 
CAPUA: I'd like to see, like I said my big thing is the security issue. I'd like to see more funding for Safe Walk and more funding for the Safe Ride issue. I know they have trouble right now, they're budgeted and they go over budget occasionally, but I'd like to see them really be able to branch out and more students, you know. I think they don't have an advertising budget, the budget that they have is just to pay the walkers. I'd like to see them be able to advertise, and really make the campus aware that this is a great service for you, and please take advantage of it. So that's what I would like to see. COUGIIl.,IN: When I think of the budget, and how much people · want money for things, I look back on my year-I've been on the budget committee for HPC this past year. Little does the campus know that we have $18,000 dollars to give out, for service alone. That has been widely unused except for certain dorms that know about it. I think instead of taking money away or redistributing, we can make it more aware that HPC and other organizations have this money and ifyou have a great idea and you come and present it to the hall presidents' budget committee then we might be able to help out Ifit's a good idea, it's a new idea and you need to get it off the ground, then the money is there, you just have to know where to go get it. Ifwe make that more accessible and let people know that it's out there. 
How do you see the division ofresponsibilities between student 
government and the student union board? 
CAPUA: Well, I worked on SUB my sophomore year, in charge of special events, and there's kind of, well, when I worked there there was kind ofa gray area again. I think that both groups could benefit a lot more ifthey could work more together. Both groups have a lot ofpower, a lot of money. They can bring some really great speakers and music groups andju•stkindof anything for the university. I think ifboth groups can really work together, they could really have some excellent programming because there's a lot of really intelligent, hard-working people in SUB. But I think SUB is kind of over­shadowed and peopledon'treallyknowall the wonderful things that SUB does. I think that if those groups could work together and formulate things, that they both can create so much incredible programming for the university. a 
continued from page 7 
government and Student Union Board? 
HUNGELING: Well, I think that, in our case, that it should not be 
so much of a division and more ofa collaboration, especially on the 
part of student government's authority to control the budget. By 

them being able to control the.budget and being able to give SUB more money; I don't know that that's a division rather than more like working together. 
continued from page 8 
Director for fifteen years, and said that we were the first candidates to approach him, and we asked him if it was feasible. In a situation with that, as well asincreasing study space at the university, we were presented with a situation where cost exceeds revenue. It's not a benefit to the student body, and it would have never passed the administration. They would have never been able to cover their overhead. The mark-up would have been substantial, and it wouldn't have been feasible. We could have thrown it on our platform, but we wouldn't have been able to come through. And we're providing a service, we want to come through with every­thing. 
What do you feel has been the major accomplishment of this year's student government? 
KING: I think that Frank and Nikki had a specific agenda they wanted to set out, and they've really accomplished a lot I'm up in student government, I work with the legal aid department. They set outan agenda, they told the students exactly what they wanted, in the summer they got all their committees set up, and they really went ahead. And the book fair is such a success, and The Guide, while it was small the first semester, it's a start, and I mean, everyone has to applaud them for effort. The bottom line is they followed through on their promises, and as Deitz stressed, that is our main concern. We don't want these fantastical ideas or broken promises that we'11 never be able to follow through on. Frank and Nikki did research on their platform, we followed through with that, and think it's been successful. , LEFORT: Extensive research, which they did with each issue, before presenting it to you, as well as the student body. What they did,isessentiallytheyranasateamandlegitimizedtheirissues. And it proved to be extremely successful, I mean ihey were a great success this year, and we wanted to follow suit with that. They really paved the way, they really did a successful job this year, and came through with their promises. That's a big priority of ours. 
Which student activities do you think should have increased funding? Assuming that more funds aren't available, which activities would be faced with cutbacks? 
KING: Okay, I'm on the budget committee for Student Government, withSenate,andit'salongprocess·. We'rethereminimwnfour,six, seven hours -it's along day, you know back and forth, everyone has legitimate concerns, everyone deserves money. Obviously you have to make decisions, it's hard to say right now without looking at a budget Even ifit's the same amount of money as last year, the overhead from the previous.year, the amount they had carried over, will be different. Fo~example, HPC had a tremendous amountofit's money carried over from the previous year, so obviously we didn't allocate them as much money, and they didn't ask for as much money. The Club Coordination Council is always getting new clubs. I'm president of the Northern Ireland Awareness Group, and this is the first year we've an increase of money. ·We usually get a token $50, and this year we got $250. But I mean, there over 200 clubs on campus, and with all these clubs asking for mone funding, it's hard to really predict ahead of time, but obviously the Club Coordination Council deserves a lot of money -junior class, the senior class ... This year, the senior class was worried about the senior class formal, ~ause the year before there wasn't that much participation, so they . wanted more money. And we debated that amongst ourselves. We said, well if there wasn't that much participation, why should we give you more money, and it was that banter, that debate back and 

forth. So it's hard to say right now without seeing their concerns, and I would say, each of them deserves money, it's just based on their concerns. . · LEFORT: I'm a member ofthe HPC budget committee, also, and we find that what works successfully is placing a cap, just a real basic cap on each organi:zation as far as what's the lowest amount we could start with, and they we work it from there. We wouldn't make 
· any decision without consulting anyone else from another organi:za­tion. It's just not fair. 
How do you see the division of responsibilities between student government and the student union board? 
KING: What we've also done, in addition to senate budget commit­tee, is worked with the student union board, and I find that it's a real close partnership. Any type, I know through different concerts and stuff, they come to us, they come to senate, and they need, some­times they'll need extra funding or they'll need approval for some­thing. They wanted a certain group on campus, and they wanted to tell us about it, they wanted, they needed an extra $5000 advance­ment for this, and we met with it, and we approved it So I look it at as somewhat of a co-equal relationship. We have to work with eachother, because once again, student union board is providing a service to students, which is just as important as our platform to service . 
. LEFORT: The two really complement one another, extensively. They feed off of student government, we feed off of student union board. And, I mean, obviously, it's proven to be successful. So, we 're going to continue that. D 



Send information for your event to: Jenny Tate, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or ~all 631-7569. 
Thursday 3 
Movie: "Rebel Without a Cause," 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater, 
LaFortunc, $1. Acoustic Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m., LaFortune. 
Visiting Artlslt Lecture Serles: "Own 
Works," Tony Hepburn, 7:30 p.m., Snitc. 


Friday 4 
Hockey: Notre Dame vs. Miami of Ohio, 7:00 p.m., JACC. ~cture: "Recovering the Past: Feminism and the Contemporary Quilt Movement," Elaine Hedges, 7:00 p.m.,. The Little Theatre, SMC. Film: "True Rcmance,'' 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snitc, $2. Movie: "Malice," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Crack Ups Comedy Cafe: 9:00-11:00 p.m., SMC Dining Hall. Notre Dame Encounter Retreat: Fatima Retreat Center. 


Saturday 5 
Storytelling and Readings: "Classic Talcs," 10:30 a.m., Snitc. Swimming: Notre Dame vs. Kansas, 

2:00 p.m., Rolfs. _ Hockey: Notre Dame vs. Miami of Ohio, 
7:00 p.m., JACC. Basketball: Notre Dame men vs. UCLA, 
2:00 p.m., JACC. Indoor Track: Meyo Invitatiooal, 10:00 a.m., Loftus. Film: "True Rcmance," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snitc, $2. Movie: "Malice," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat: Fatima Retreat Cente:-.· 


-' 
l , • • • ,, , • • ' 
. . . -. ,' ' ./ . 


Sunday· 6 
Jpanlsh Mass: 11:30 a.m., Breen­Phillips Chapel. .. Lecture: "Amish Quilts from Northern Indiana,'' Rcbccca Haarcr, 3:00 p.m., The Little Theatre, SMC. Georgine Resnick Faculty V olce Recital: 2:00 p.m., Snite. Notre Dame Encounter Retreat: Fatima Retreat Center. 

Monday .7­
Fllm: "Stella Dallas," 7:00 p.m., "Mascu­line/Feminine," 9:15 p.m., Snitc, $2. 

uesday 8 
Campus Bible Study: 7:00 p.m., Badin Conference Room. Fllm: "Mean Streets," 7:00 p.m., "Goldfihgcr," 9:15 p.m., Snitc, $2. Swimming and Diving: SMC vs. Olivet College, 7:00 p.m., Angela. 


TOUCH 




FOUR 

Wednesday 9 
Fourth Day Meetings: 7:15 p.m., Stanford­Keenan Chapel. Basketball: SMC vs. Calvin College, 7:00 p.m., Angela. 
Movie Theatres: 
100 Center Cinema I&Il: 259-0414 
Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583 

Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090 
University Park Cinema East: 277-7336 
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441 
·. Forum I & Il Cinema: 277-1522 
CAMPUS LIFE 
teach his Transport Phenomena II class. 
Using the Macintosh program Hypercard, he put the information from the course text­book and the transparencies he used last year 




Teaching to the 
on computer screens. Then, since the class 





NI 
0 Generation 
A Notre Dame professor brings interactive computers into his classroom 

by Michelle Crouch 
As the student sits in his 8 a.m. class, his eyelids begin to droop and his head begins to nod. The professor knowingly eyes this student. Then, with the push of a button, he displays the student's class notes on a large screen for the whole class to see: "Well, itseems as though this student has not been paying attention. Hehasn'ttakenanynotes in the last 10 minutes." This scenerio may sound like every student's nightmare, but it is not as unlikely as it appears. The age of the information superhigh­way is dawning, and many teachers have al­ready found innovative ways to incorporate com­puters into their everyday teaching. Engineering professor Eduardo Wolf has paved the way by introducing the first interactive com­puter prpgram for teach­ing t6 a Notre Dame classroom. Indeed, it may be the first program cording to Wolf, no other software is avail­able that is designed exclusively for interac­tive teaching. "They have individual soft­ware designed to help one student learn or for displaying data, but not in the context of a classroom," he said "I wanted to use computers as a teaching tool." 
So, with the help of his son, chemical engineering and art major Jay E.Wolf, Pro-. fessor Wolf designed software to help him involves mostly the solution ofmathematics problems, he created space for the students to solve the problems as he goes over them in class. In this way, the whole class can work through each problem together. 
"Students should learn in class by think­ing and doing rather than just being passive observers," said Wolf, who has been teach­ing for 17 years. · 
Students in the class save their notes each day on a disk, and after eachlecture, Profes­sor Wolf puts the solution to each problem on the server. This allows the students to continue paying attention to the class even if they have not copied down or solved an entire problem, since they can look up the answers later. 
Moreover, the students have the option to print their notes so that they can study away from the computer. By taking these mea­sures, Wolfhoped that a textbook would not be needed. However, he has found that"the students seem to think they have to have [a textbook]," so he has made textbooks avail­able to those who want them. 
Probably the most interesting part of Wolf'.s program is his use ofScreenlink to gain access to any student's computer screen. The click of a button rolls a pair of dice that ran­domly-selects a student and displays his or her screen. 
"My style of teaching is through the involve­mentoftheclass, but this cannot be for the full class when you don't have a means of check­ing what they're doing," said Wolf. "Now I have access to their note­books. This allows me to take care of every stu­dent. I can look over their shoulders all the time :.__ that's not pos­


-

Engineering professor Eduardo Wolf displays a student's screen. 
of its kind in any class­·•He uses his access to the students' computer screens to_make sure 
sible with traditional

they ar~ paying attention and as a points of discussion. · · 
room, anywhere. Ac-: 
teaching. And I can use 


SCHOLASTIC 

their screen as a point of discussion." 
Surprisingly, students in the class seem to like this aspect of the program. "I enjoy the class because it puts us on the spot," said junior Dave Baker. "We have to be alert and awake. You can't sleep through it" 
Junior Jim O'Leary agrees, "It cer­tainly keeps me awake, and the time flies right by." 
Statistics show that students in an in­teractive class retain the infonnation bet­ter as well. One study showed that stu­dents who simply listen to a lecture have a retention rate of about 20 percent. A lecture which includes visual aids in­creases retention to 40 percent, and a lecture with interactive elements (where the students participate) raises retention to 80 percent. 
"I do feel more comfortable with the material now," said Baker. "I think I will remember it better and longer." 
Although the technique has not yet had a full semester's test, Wolf said he could Two students sharing a computer try to solve a problem In Professor Wolf's class. already see the benefits of the program. "I can tell that the students are learning Many of the students have also com­"We're very dependent upon the whole idea more," he said. "For one thing, they're mented on this. "Everyone should have his ofpower and electricity ... we'renotasmuch asking more questions." He also mentioned own computer," said O'Leary. "The prob­in control. If something goes wrong, we that more students participate in discussions, lem with sharing computers is that one per­can!t fix it ourselves. We have to call some-and no one gets up anxiously the minute the son can be strong and doing all the work, one," he said. class time is over. -while the other person can be passive." Despite these problems and concerns, in­

"I'm having fun, and that's the best indica­"But I see a problem in not sharing com­teractive teaching represent a trend for the tion that everything is going well," he said. puters," said junior Andy Sebesta. "It would future. "Many professors have not realized "The worst feeling for a professor is to teach be too much work for one person. When you the potential to do these things," said Wolf. to a class that is unresponsive. It makes the double up, one person can pay attention to "Probably because there isn't any software professor be less inyolved." the concepts and the other can type." yet." Yet this may change soon, as Professor 
·This is not to say that the program is Sebesta's comment points to another Wolf has been already been contacted by a without its problems. The most obvious problem, how much the students can actu­software company that is interested in his difficulty is the room's design. The room is ally concentrate while they are typing on the program. set up so that each student has a desk in front computers. However, other professors at Notre Dame of him and a computer behind him when he "I think Dr. Wolf's biggest challenge is have started to realize the new possibilities faces the front of the room. So when a going to be how much. we learn versus how that computers offer and have begun to student is facing his computer, his back is to much we just type in what he does," said implement them in their classes. the front ofthe room. This makes it difficult O'Leary. "If you are not trying to think "This is teaching for the Nintendo genera­for a student to take riotes on his computer ahead, you can get by just by listening and tion," said Wolf. "These kids are used to because he has to keep turning around to going along with the rest of the class." Wolf picking up a game and figuring it out without watch the professor. Wolf calls this "a major displays students' screens to help prevent a manual, through trial and error." flaw in the design of the room." Unfortu­this problem. Ultimately, it will be up to the students to nately, however, there are no other facilities Students have other concerns about the decide whether they want games brought available. program as well. into the classroom. "I'm sure there will be 
"I heard all this publicity about DeBartolo "It would be nice if the program was more interactive teaching in the future," said being a high~tech facility, but only 30 Macs connected to a mathematics program," said Sebesta, "Andit'shardtosayifthat'sagood have the ability to be interactive," said Wolf. Sebesta. "Now you have to work it out on thing ornot But you can't think a computer Sincehehasaclassof55 students,all but five paper first and then copy it on the screen." (or a professor) can teach you by itself. It of the students have to double up. Baker is more worried about power loss: still comes down to the students." . 

NEWS COMMENTARY 

TIP THE GIPP! 
e-mail: gipper@nd.edu mail: 303 Lafortune phone:· 631-7569 fax: 631-9648


arnpu Watch 

BY THE GIPPER 
GOSSIP,AILEGATIONS & THE OCCASIONALINSIGHT 

Welcom? back faithful Gippe~ fan~! The Gipp has had plenty of time m these last months to whip up an excellent column, one that would tickle your funny bone and fill you with the latest interesting gossip. The Gipp, however, completely wasted this time and is writing this minutes before deadline. That's why he is especially grate­ful to his junior Campus Watchers this week. 
WHY THE GIPP DOESN'T HOOK UP 
Loyal Gipper fans in Pasquerilla East were good enough to pass on the results of a little survey of Notre Dame males they did "for The Observer." 
Given the choice: 
(1) 
To go to an SYR with a pretty woman, unlimited alcohol and a guaranteed hookup with no strings attached; or, 

(2) 
To have unlimited access to the video game Mortal Kombat for a weekend, 66% of them chose number one. 


At first the Gipper was skeptical of these results until he ran into a half dozen guys playing the game during the Superbowl (verifying the results and completely blow­ing his theory that only the love of football was more driving than a Notre Dame male's libido). 
The survey's creators also gave the Gipp a glimpse of the semi-formals of the future: the SEGA® SYR section theme. "What better way is there to ensure that your date will come and stay for the whole night and leave only when he's kicked out?" one of them said. The Gipp loves this idea. Each section would only have to buy its own game cartridge, the dorm's council wouldn't have to buy a DJ, and there would be almost as much conversation as the average crowded­room-with-loud-music party. 
EXCITING INNOVATIONS 
On one particularly exciting af~rnoon, the Gipp was carrying his roommate's dirty·. clothes to the laundry. [Note: The Gipp has far too much free time.] There he ran into three workmen servicing the laundry ma­chines. This immediately excited the Gipp because, in the past, either of the working washers only dampened his clothes enough to settle the dust, and the single working dryer was always about as effective as per­son blowing on the clothes. 

Instead of just repairing the machines, they had installed BRAND-NEW machines with DIGITAL TIMERS. Anyone who has worked with a computer knows this always makes machines work much better. 
But the Gipp still has two complaints. 

First, instead of counting down the time left in the cycle, the counters ought to count up from the time the wash or drying is complete. This would make the Gipp feel a whole lot less guilty when he removes someone's clothes that have been sitting in a dryer for 10 days (although the nagging fear remains that the clothes belong to a 6'6" psychopath who is looking for an excuse to punch someone, especially the Gipp). 
Second, the Gipp still can't figure out why therearealmostthesamenumberofwashers and dryers in each laundry although each wash takes 34 minutes and each dry takes at least 45 minutes. After a quick check on his solar-powered calculator, the Gipper finally understood why there are always lines into Lafortune laundry. 
SUMMER SCHOOL? 
WhHe the Gipper was paging through his favorite independent daily campus publica­tion (it only costs $6 per student per semes­ter), he came across the summer course list­ings. Skimming the titles, the Gipp's eyes caught the title, "HIST 366. Fun, Fun, Fun? Pursuing Happiness in Modem America." The Gipp kicked himself repeatedly after reading this. It makes the Gipp angry to think he could have been reading about the origins of Frisbee instead of trudging through acourse with a mere 8000 pages of reading. . 
Seeking other gems like these, he came across the computer applications section: "CAPP 243. Introduction to Basic: Why People Do the Things They Do." Perhaps it is cross-listed with psychology. 
THE GiPP GETS SERIOUS 
Rumor has it that 12 women went into counseling after last year's Keenan Review. He has yet to hear how many were humili­ated by this year's Event~for-which-all­Keenanites-exist. (Of course the Gipp is especially bitter because he failed to get tickets again.) Why "the Saint Mary's women let Keenan continue to have the event on their campus year after year is beyond this Gipper's little mind. On the bright side, though, at" least it's not Mr. Stanford. 
"YOUR USUAL SPOT, MR. FLYNN?" 
Then there's the question of on-campus parking permits for the C_l,lrrent studentbody czars. As itis now, theycan drive on campus at any time and for any reason. Why do they get special treatment when ambulances are routinely stopped at the campus gates for spot beer checks? '-'It's tradition," replied the student government office's secretary, obviously referring to a misty time (long before the Gipper) when the president and vice-president were required to make fre­quent trips on and off campus for the good of the student body. 
That's all for this week, Gippy fans. Uncle Gipp will be back in seven days with his bitter Valentine' sDay column (mark it in your Shillelaghs!). Meanwhile, stay hip, don't take no lip from a drip, eat a chip with dip, then tip the Gipp. ·. 
16 

SCHOLASTIC 

~-SUBWAY Has A Sandwich 

¦ For .t4_NY Size Appetite!!! 



111111 COME TIii AMIIB 


A FIRESIDE CHAT,r~v 
Come !_earn about the Anabaptist history and culture. Gain a new perspective on the components of the An~baptist religions -the Mennonites, the Amish, and the Hutterites 
... THURSDAY,'FEBRUARY IO • 12:15-1:00PM. NoTRE DAME RooM • LAFORTUNE 

Authentic Amish Lunch Provided 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE MULTICULTURAL ExEcuTIVE CouNC.!JummJ 






SPORTS 


1): Feeling The Force
,, 
Talented freshman Jeremy Siek hopes to lead the Notre Dame fencing team to a Natio.nal Championship 

"I just went down one week and started 
by Jeff Weghorst taldng classes. That's how it started," said 
Siek.
Vader: I've been waiting for you Obi­Throughout his high school career, Siek 
Wan. We meet again at last. The circle jumped around from club to club, coach to is now complete. When I left you I was but a coach, and tournament to· tournament. He learner. Now I ani the master. built the foundation for his present success, Obi-Wan: Only a master ofevil, Darth. claiming numerous accolades along the Vader: Your powers are weak, old man. way. A member ofthe U.S. national team for Obi-Wan: You can't win, Darth. If you fencers age 17 and under, Siek competed in should strike me down, I shall become more the World Championships in Italy and Ger­powerful than you can possibly imagine. many.He participated in the U.S. Olympic Vader: You should not have come back. 
-Star Wars 
l\ Jl'lYbe a long time ago in a galaxy l l'.J_far, far away there were fencers allowed to trash talk, but not these days. Some fencers are so good, so intimidat­ing, that they don't need to talk anyway. Notre Dame freshman foilist Jeremy Siek is just such a fencer. Crossing blades with him? Bad things, man. 
Sporting a 9-1 record and wielding his foil better thari He-Man does his Power Sword, Siek is slicing through the competition.· He's demonstrating the demolition he distributed to the jun­ior circuit in his high school days to his collegiate foes and he's got plenty more to dole out 
The path Siek took to become in­volved in fencing was a little different from that ofLuke Skywalker. It wasn't an R2 unit that showed up at his front door but rather a newspaper. Siek, a seventh grader at the time, learned of a 
local fencing club, the Westminster ..______ Musketeers, and it was then that the· Jeremy Slek, a Washington State native, youngwhippersnapper firstdonnedthe decided to start fencing after reading fencer's garb. about a club In the newspaper. 

Festival this past summer, and he took third 
in Cuba at the Junior Pan~American Games. Siek wields the weapon known as the foil. "There's more people in foil so the com­
petition is stiffer. Also itis technically more 
demanding. It takes more ingenuity to fence 
foil. There's more options of what you can 
do," said Siek. "Saber's too much, in my 
opinion, just straight reactions because 
things are happening so fast Epee, I think 
it's just kind of boring."
How did this phenom end up at Notre Dame?Well,NotreDamecQ~h Yves Auriol, the U.S. Olympic coach for the past four Games, was well aware of what was going on out in Redmond, Washington. Siek was training under the tutelage of Auriol' s brother. It was therefore easy for Siek to make the tran­sition to Notre Dam~ because he could continue his training in the French style that emphasizes finesse and point con­trol. Auriol claims that it would be wrong to label Siek as just a finesse fencer. · "Physically he's a very strong guy ... He's well~built and he's fast. He has a lot of speed. He has all the tools physically, technically," said Auriol. "I think that this year and next year he's going to be a much better fencer." The trick is to put those tools to good use. The fencer's mental game is tested, and Siek may require a little work here. The symptoms were · showing a few weeks ago at a tournament in San Francisco. "I was seeded first going into the finals and fost to the eighth seed guy ... ·which was kind of a schmucky thing to 
SCHOLASTIC 


do. I've been known to do that," said Siek. "Ifyour confidence level isn't high enough then you're just not going to hit. On the other hand if you're too cocky, you'll be sloppy and you won't hit, so you have to find the right balance." 
His coach agrees. 

"He has two or three guys above him that he has a difficult time beating. I know he can beat these guys. Technically he's better than them ... but it can be psychological," said Auriol. "Fencing is a mental game. Some­times there is a guy you know you cannot beat for some reason ... It's difficult sometimes to get away from that ... The confidence level he has to work on." 
Perhaps Siek's teammates can give him the confidence he needs. This is the first time he's been on a fencing team. Fencing for a club just isn't the same. 

"When you're fencing for a club you re­ally don't feel like you're fencing for aclub ... because everything's so individualized," said Siek. "A team event it's different The pressures are different, I'm not really used to that yet." For example, "When the guys are cheering, it distracts me if they yell my name. That distracts me for some reason, so they know not to yell my name when I'm 
fencing because I need the concentra­
tion." 
A uriol claims that this year's foil squad is fl.the strongest on the team. Joining Siek are Stan Brunner, Conor Power, Paul Capobianco and Jordan Maggio. 
"Our foil team this year is very strong, and Jeremy looks like he's the number one guy. This team can do a lot. Winning the nation­als? I don't know ... and Jeremy can be a great leader for us in the next two or three years," said Auriol. 
"When I'm done here, I want to be able to say that I made a good contribution to our team taldng the National Championship," said Siek, hoping to add to the four already won by Notre Dame. 
But fornow it's time to let the weapon do the trash talking. . 



REVIEW & PREVIEW 


by Miranda C. Sanford 
Call 'Em NKOTB 

As if God was answering our youthful prayers, some forgotten idols have been res­urrected. Yes, that's right. The New Kids On the Block have restylized and are now in full swing with their new album Face the Music. No longer boys, now they are "seri­ous." These Marky Mark wanna-be's even created a new name in an attempt to shed their fonner image. Music stores now have them listed under the catchy acronym: 
NKOTB. 
The group's sound has been completely recreated and no longer possesses the bouncy, marshmallow fluff sound of their last album, Step by Step. Instead, NKOTB incorporates adult voices and a "funkier groove" on the new release. Their song cwrently on the radio sounds like a combi­nation of U2' s "Numb" and another typical pop song. They even act like "real men" and throw in "dirty words and a macho attitude" to prove they are mature. The only thing they have acually modified is their color scheme. Gone are bright neon and pastel outfits of yesteryear. Now clad in dark colors and grunge styles, I am so excited by these "men" that I wantto check ifthey have developed facial hair yet! 
Pulling Out the Big Guns 

Janet Jackson recently held a concert in Atlanta atwhich people could trade guns for tickets. The aim was to reduce urban crime by getting gang members off the streets and providing enticing entertainment. Well, Reba McEntire decided to follow suit and offered the same deal at her concert in Tulsa, Oklahoma. People can rest easier because of Reba, a whopping six people showed up"for the offer. Two were women who traded in their husbands' handguns, and the other four simply traded in old, broken firearms. Maybe it is just me, but isn't the target age group off by a just a few decades? 
On the topic of country music, Maureen McConnick, better known as Marcia from the Brady Bunch, has broken into the coun­try scene. The 37-year-old simply stated, "Country has always been my favorite kind ofmusic. Ilovesongs that tell stories." This may be the sole country album I buy ... maybe not. 
Jordan at the Plate 
As if the mega-celeb Michael Jordan has not accomplished enough in his young life, he is now on to a new endeavor-baseball. His fonner plans ofplaying last season with the Hickory Crawdads, a White Sox affiliate in North Carolina, was quickly ended by his father's untimely death. Nevertheless, he recently began working out with the Chi­cago White Sox, and it is possible that he will join them for spring training in Sarasota, · Florida, next month. Sox manager Gene Lemont, who "seemed unenthusiastic about a Jordan sideshow in training camp," said Jordan should begin making flight plans. Whatever happens this season, Jordan has a lot to. prove. Many sports writers wonder whether skill or revenues formed the grounds for his quick addition to the team . since ticket sales for spring training have already doubled those of last year. 


Hall of Famers 
Last Wednesday the Rock and Roll Hall ofFame conducted its most recent induction ceremony in preparation of its opening in Cleveland in mid-1995. Among those se­lected were Elton John, Rod Stewart and the Grateful Dead. Posthumous inductions also included John Lennon and Bob Marley. Some future Hall hopefuls, like Bruce Springsteen, also attended but must fulfill._ 

· the 25-year requirement before their own inclusion. The Hall's publicist said next year's opening would be a ''must see" be­cause inductees and present celebrities will attend. Somehow, I do not think Lennon is going to make it, and I have no interest in seeing Yoko .. 

Spielberg's Glory 

Steven Spielberg has been basking in his 
most recent triumph with Schindler' s List. 
Released only six months after the mam­
moth production ofJurassic Park, Spielberg 
stated that Schindler's is his "proudest mo­
ment," and he would have traded "that 
whole dinosaur phenomenon" for this be­
cause of its importance. After winning 
Golden Globes for Best Director, Best 
Drama and Best Screenplay, no one will 
deny that he has an excellent chance for best 
picture at the Oscars. 
The film itself is excellent on all facets. 
Spielberg revives black:and white fihning 
and makes this a production with sophisti­
cated cinematography. .He stated "color 
shows the textureofobjects, black and white 
reveals the essence." The lead actor Liam 
Neeson does an excellent job as Oscar 
Schindler. One aspect which makes the 
movie's message so powerful is the com­
plete absence· of melodramatic techniques, 
like music. leading up to panic. All in all, 
audiences will be spellbound by this fihn 
and will not notice the long -over three 
hour -running time. A definite four star 
production! 
Up&Coming 

On February 7 the annual "American Mu­sic Awards" are going to be televised on ABC from 8-11 p.m. The awards are not quite as interesting as the potentialentertainmentguests thoqgh. A few performers include Toni Braxton,theGinBlossomsandWhitney Hous­ton. Be sure not to miss it! 
·SCHOLASTIC 



ENTERTAINMENT 


tone 
Old Western story lines take a new twist with this exceptionally entertaining release 
by ScottJobnson 

I cannot think of anything better than a great movie character, a character who dominates the screen with his presence for a few minutes then vanishes, leaving the audi­ence anticipating his next descent into our world. Certainly, there are a number of movies which have been deigned "classics" based on the lead actor or actress' perfor­mance, but I'm thinking more about the ordinary movie immortalized by the second­ary guy, the character who is a little more like you and me. That character is Tombstone's Doc Holliday, played by Val Kilmer. ConsiderStar Wars with Luke Skywalker piloting the Milennium Falcon. No Han or Chewy. Or take Fast Times At Ridgemont High without Jeff Spiccoli? Take Sean Penn's career without Jeff Spiccoli. Even better, imagine lhe venerable John Blutarsky's (John Belushi) antics missing from Animal House. The combination of these actors and their character lights up the screen. Because not everyone can be a womanizer like Otter. People don't fast forwardAnimqlHouse toseeFlounder. No one even likes Mark Hamill. Without these supporting characters, these movies, well, stink. We relate best to the outcast, the slackerorthedrunkard. We live vicariously through their spontaneity, their swagger and their self-reliance.I went to see Tombstone because I didn't want to see art, social commen­tary, Oscar hype or some sad cinematic masterpiece. I simply wanted to escape on a Friday afternoon. When I first arrived at the theater, I expected no more than a good old, gun slingin' western, with great suspense and romance. That is exactly what Tomb­stone was, without Doc Holliday. 
Tombstone is the story of Wyatt Earp, played by Kurt Russell. Earp is a retired peacemaker seeking his fortune out west In their attempts to lead "normal lives," Wyatt and his brothers encounter the "Cowboys," a ruthless gang of outlaws and marauders who run the town. The Earp brothers reluc­tantly become the law and bring justice to Tombstone at the OK Corral. The seemingly typical western plot So what makes Tomb­stone the best western I have ever seen? Two words.DocHolliday. Two more. Badass. Val 
Kilmer's performance in Tombstone was awesome. I'm not talking about Iceman here. His character Chris Knight in Real Genius is a distant second for Kilmer's ca­reer. WyattEarp and his brothers, played by Sam Elliott and Bill Paxton, weren't the brat pack-turned-Young Guns either. They were excellent as well. And, since we all have a romantic side too, Dana Delaney added a beautiful touch. Nevertheless, Doc Holliday alone transcends the bounds of the screen. 
Stricken with tuberculosis, Doc, his per­sonal mystique and his elegant mistress, were forced out west to treat his illness. Yet Doc drinks and smokes constantly. His cigarette dangles from his lips as he plays poker, an "honest man's game." He dons a black cowboy hat, tilted slightly to keep the sun out of his eyes. Leaning against a pole, stoic and suave, he twirls his mustache and rolls a coin around his fingers, never backing down from a challenge. He has an aura of invincibility and nonchalance about him, heightened by his soft, even-toned accent More important than being a pianist, linguist or the greatestgunman in the west, Doc is a loner. As he says, his "hypoc­risy has no bounds." Honestly, I want to be Doc Holliday. Having seeing the movie twice I'll be uttering "I'm your huckleberry" for years. It is hard to relate the full aura and effect without seeing the movie, so here is a little ~ialogue: "Doc, you should be in bed. Why are you here?" "Wyatt Earp is my friend." "I've got lots of friends." "I don't." Simple. It's a tale of two friends. Doc's mistress, like the lovers ofmost of the char­acters I mentioned above, turns out to be, as he puts it, "the anti-Christ." The set and the cinematography were just like any other western. The story of Wyatt Earp has been told many a time. Seeing Doc ride alongside Wyatt, coughing, with a gun in one hand and aflaskin theother,isgreat. Itiswhatmovies are all about. In an interview Val Kilmer said he enjoyed playing Holliday because he "got to choose his own hat And besides, who wouldn't want to play a psychotic who gets to kill the bad guy?" Like I said, a truly great character. Go see "the last run of Wyatt Earp and his immortals." ThosewereDoc'swords. Oras Spiccoli said, "It's awesome, totally awe­some!" . 

ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
News of the Bizarre from the Nation's Universities 
Culinary Artists Honored with Degrees 
. Everybody knows that the quickest way to anybody's heart-man or woman -is through the stomach. Apparently, at some universities, the quickest way to a degree lies through the stomach as well. John and Angela Ninos, owners and managers of the Collegiate Restaurant in Alfred, NY, recently received honorary doctorates from Alfred University for their service to the university community. The Ninos, who ended their education after high school, have operated the restaurant for 40 years. Alfred University honored the couple, notonly for feeding the university community, but for hiring hundreds of students over the years as part-time help. The university sought to express its appreciation for the financial and gastronomical services the Ninos have provided. This sort ofremuneration could mean honorary degrees from Notre Dame to such culinary artists as the · Macri family or, perhaps, CJ., the pub owner. It could happen. 

Prime Number Hysteria Peaks 
Math and engineering majors, as if you are not already drooling at the mouth after reading the last tidbit, brace yourself. A team of scientists using a supercomputer built by Cray Research, Inc., has discovered the largest prime number to date. The number, all 258,716 digits of it, would fill eight pages of newspaper. In case you are interested, the newest prime number equals 2 raised to the power of 859,433, subtracting one. Here's an idea, next time you conduct an expensive experiment, make ithaveapoint; itmakes itso much more enjoyable for your readers. _ 
Despairing Jobseekers, Take Heed 

Good news prospective graduates! A recent survey conducted by Northwest­ern University of employers from 264 large and medium-sized corporations indicates that 1994 spring graduates should have an easier time finding jobs than the 1993 spring graduates. This survey indicates that students with bachelor's degrees can look forward to 2 percent more job openings than last year. Those of you interested in pursuing master's degrees, however, should beware. Job edited by Jenny Tate openings for students holding masters will decrease by roughly 2 percent. Recruiters visiting campuses this year will be increasingly looking for experi­ence, the survey claims. It projects that computer-science majors will be the primary draw (big surprise). So get out there, you business, science and engineering majors. For those of you anticipating that liberal arts degree, well, read any good books lately? 


SCHOLASTIC 

WEEK IN DISTORTION 
A Shorter History of Time 
Examining the merits of Carpe Diem and other time related issues 
by Phan Ngoc Huy 

Time i. s precious since everyone saw "Dead Poet's Society" and learned about the famous "Carpe Diem." Let me share with you a few reflections of mine on time, since I had a lot of it (i.e. time) during fall break to reflect oil it. Time is simply the fourth dimension in our reality space, but it is also a source of paradox. Time has always seemed very elastic to me. Time elapses at its own rythm, or is it mine? When I am enjoying something, like acalculus class, time is too short. And when itgets to boring stuff, such as (insert any TV program), time can be extremely long ­especially during fall break when everybody else is gone and I am among the few who stays here, alone, because I don't belong to any varsity team and! am too shy to make the acquaintance of anybody who like ine is still on campus and rummages around <breath>. So time was very long. How can it be? I came up with an explanation that refers to the relativity th~ry: as my activity level is higher when I am enjoying things, my average kinetic speed is higher. Since no mass is converted, 9-me has to get bigger so that the famous Einstein's law is verified. Therefore, the things around me seem to happen faster to me, t>eca:use my time scale is bigger than theirs, which is true according to the theory. An interesting aside is that if you want to live longer than your neighbor, you have to be hyperactive in order to in­crease your speed and time scale. You now know the truth about all the examples of people saying. of someone, ''Look at him/ her, how can she/he keep doing all these things, and he/she still looks so young!" (may be I should have put "her" before "him," but I won't go into that sort of discus­sion about discrimination. Furthermore, I tried to alternate, but the sentence has an odd number of he/she.) 
And I suddenly realize while writing these lines that I wasted one week of my life by doing nothing, thus increasing my aging process speed! 
On the other hand, time seems to keep accelerating. As far as I can remember, time elapsed more slowly when I was younger. When I was bored, it would seem to me that it lasted a millions of billions of years, whereas now, it would "only" last a (insert the swearing you use most) long amount of time. In fact, just taking the time of saying it (i.e. the swearing), and generally, I would feel immediately better (may be this is not time-related). I kept growing older, so kept time going faster. I am attempting to draw a theory to explain that feeling: 
1. 
I am going totally nuts, as one week of isolation and retreat has been too much for me. 

2. 
I was already insane before that week. (In fact, since I was born a growing number of people have tried to convince me of the truth of that statement). 

3. 
I have a disability that impairs my perception of time. 

4. 
Time is expanding like the entire uni­verse. The following is rated NNS-17: no non-scientist under 17 years of hard-science background.) To use images, my memory has kept pictures of the past And they seem frozen, or at least greatly slowed (like all the flashback sequences in movies) because they are in another time scale. Indeed, since the Big Bang, the universe is growing like a Hubble-gum (NNS-17 joke), that is, faster and faster. And so is time. Assuming that my memory is a window opened on the past (or a camera, to keep the analogy to the flashback sequence), it all comes together: If my time scale is smaller, it appears to me that the past is going slower. · 



OK. Maybe you don't understand any­thing of what I said. Maybe you do, but you think it is worthless. Whatever, let's get to the point: What makes time so precious? 
It has the value you attach to it because it gives you a sense of what you are doing. 
It is normal that idling-literally wasting your time-brings only boredom. You don't accomplish anything you could be content with or proud of. The more fulfilled a life is, the richer it is. Time is more precious, because the more you do, the more you realize you can do and there is so little time to do it That is why you have to pick the moment that suits you best (= Carpe Diem). 
This is not implying "go wild and obey your instincts." Sometimes I wish itwas. It is a matter of choice. As such, it implies maturity and responsibility. "Am I enjoying every moment I spend?" is the question I constantly ask myself. I am using the word "spend" because when time is fleeing it means that I am no more responsible for my choice. I have no control over what I am doing. It is much harder to be happy about something that is happening to me than of something that I decided to initiate. But then, itis no more amatterofCarpe Diem. It is Fate. 
In conclusion: 
¦ Carpe Diem. ( It is trendy to say that.) 

¦ Carpe Diem ( May be ifl say it twice, my number of readers will double.) ¦ -(I won't say it a third time, because 
it might make my last readers quit here.) Why? Because: 
¦ It is trendy. 

II It has been scientifically proven by lab tests that the consumption ofthis product on a regular basis reduces the effect of aging. 
II It might bring happiness. . 




BRUNO'S  PIZZA  
Q 1111  Q1111  
Bruno's North  Bruno's South  
Open for carry out and delivery only.  Accepting reservations on weekends.  
One 18 inch 2-item pizza for $9.99.  Available for private parties and banquets.  
Or one 14 inch 2-item pizza for $7.99  One 16 inch pizza for $8 (dine in only).  
Prices do not include tax.  2610 Prairie Avenue  
115 N. 31 (just North of campus)  288-3320  
273-3890  

"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer free delivery of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 

Scholastic 

Applications are now available for all of the following paid positions on the 1994 -1995 editorial board: 
Editor in Chief Photo Editor Managing Editor Copy Editor · 
News Editor Layout Manager Campus Life Editor Graphic Arts Manager Sports Editor Systems Manager 
· Entertainment Editor Business Manager Departments Editor Advertising Manager 
pplications can be picked up at the Scholastic office, 303 LaFortune, between 2-5 p.m., Monday to . riday. Applications for Edit9r in Chief are due Friday, February 11. Applications for all other ositions are due Thursday, February 24. --· 
o experience is necessary. All majors and years are encouraged to·apply. uestions? Contact Margaret Kenny at 631-5029. 

... < • • ,, .-, • ,,.

Hfl 11rtcJ :f<.rrGh So.;Lt\J,s t;l/.ey.JQ. ho.Ve ccr '· Ye[{ ht_ Av1d /;i ,s ccir ,s park.eat r1~j1,'J oofs,k, !  Le+~ 90 ou~ a"d +IAro(/V. erfVtp+j 6eer l­bo+He.s tAt it-! . ~. c;s D --w;v(d -1oe "----,,::@.. vJ~Me c::J --~ w' r: Res !\ cP  

MAAk Mltc20LA 





:cometo meet your · :.\:match or just to laugh! 
. Frid.ay, Fe_bm 4th 
. -• 


7-:·30 p.m. . 

·.•.,. ':-.~.,.•--,,-•:, .-.-,_;_-_,,/ 7i••·-··••· ~.... ,_ &_lfPAA __.,,I}
1_0/1_.,...,.. .., 
11, 

....... .w,i~ ...··~ .·•~~­
. . 

. · · · .· ."Madame Bovary" & . .·:-Featunng. . . · "Cyrano de Bergeraq!'·:·: .\... .. ·. ·... · $3 admission good for entire week! . ' i.< 1.Hj] -·sun. matinee@ 2 p.m. -all other shows@ 7 p~m.· ·: \_Jl ·All Shows Located At Cushing Auditorium. Receptions will follow_(:. 
.. ·... ·· Events brought to you by:SUB crazy stuf · f and more! )i., : 4 
· · l ,· 
non-~ofit ptgon11ot1on 
, 
U.S. POSTAGE ·. · .. PAID 
Nol10 bOmr,. IN . Pmm,tflo ro 











