THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
There s nothing better for a crisp, quick lunch than a bowl of Kellogg’s Corn Flakes... with plenty of milk or cream and a bit of fruit. Next time you’re in a hurry to make an early class or a
date try it and see how good it is
The most popular cereal* served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Corn Flakes, ALL-BRAN, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee —the coffee that let* you sleep.
CORN F L A I
CORN hakes
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
For College Wear in the great out doors
Distinctive models and new creations designed especially for the college man. . . .
LEATHER JACKETS CORDUROY COATS BLANKET COATS WOOL BLANKETS SWEATERS
It is our honest belief that we have the greatest selection ever assembled for the particular college man that wants a garment that will stand the hard wear; also tailored to fit and in every color and style. Also the prices are truly exceptional.
ADLER BROTHERS
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
194
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
All the Neu) Models
Every new style note is to be found in these new Coats—tailored by famous makers. The single breasted models with notch lapel, double breasteds with the peak lapel, two and three-button models in Alpaca Fleeces, Harris Checks and other popular fabrics and patterns. There’s plenty of snap in these warm, burly coats.
$22.50 to $44.50
The world’s finest
COATS
Tailored by Fashion Park, HickeyFreeman and Charter House in Camel Hair, Packalamb, Damando, Bearly. Priced from
On the Corner
$50 to $150
Max Adler
Michigan and Washington
r.
Aerial view of the tip of Manhattan Island, New York City
THE SKY IS THE LIMIT!
BEFORE the elevator removed this limitation, five stories was the height limit of buildings. Upper floors were undesirable—people didn’t enjoy the long, hard climb to roof-tree quarters. Today there is no restriction. Upper floors are preferred for their light, ventilation and splendid view. Elevators have made buildings of any height practicable. The only limit is in the construction of the building itself.
For more than 7 5 years Otis has led the way in Vertical Transportation—changing the skylines of the nation.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in All Principal Cities of the World
196
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
University men have taken to this stylish Spiro hat
Put it on anyway—it never loses its style—always manages to take rough treatment gracefully. University men like that spirit—and the price that gives so n ach value—
Knox and Stetsons at $8, $8.50, $10 —and other stylish Hats, $4, $6, $7
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
- The Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
197
1872
Chur
Notre Dame -Scholastic
Disce-Quasi'^emper-Victuru.y-VKze-Quas'i-Cra.y-MoriSuriis-
GJ
1928
JOHN V. HINKEL, ’29............Editor-in-Chief
HARLEY L. McDEVITT, '29. .Business Manager
THE EDITORIAL STAFF
DAVID W. SAXON, ’29.....Managing	Editor
VINCENT McINTIRE, '30 Ass’t Managing	Editor
JOHN BERGAN, ’31............News	Editor
JOHN DeROULET. ’29 .....Literary	Editor
THOMAS A. CANNON,
HARRY A. SYLVESTER, JR., ’30.. Sports Editor
CYRIL J. MULLEN, ’30..........The	Week
BERNARD A. WALSH, ’29..The College Parade
JAMES J. WALSH, ’30......Music and Drama
’31..........Club Editor
NEWS STAFF
MURRAY YOUNG. ’29	JOHN H. ZUBER, ’31	PAUL HALLINAN, ’32
MURRAY HICKEY LEY, ’30	CLEMENT K. COLE, ’31	JOHN KIENER, ’32
BAYARD KURTH. ’30	EMIL TELFEL, ’31	JAMES COLLINS, ’32
GILBERT PRENDERGAST, ’30	JAMES J. KEARNEY, ’31	MYRON E. CRAWFORD. ’32
ROBERT C. BALFE, ’31	JOHN D. HICKEY,’31	
BUSINESS STAFF
FREDERICK N. DAVIS, ’30.. Local Adv. Mgr.	HARRINGTON J. NOON, ’29.. Local Cir. Mgr.
JAMES L. RIZER, ’30 .Foreign Adv. Mgr.	CHESTER M. ASHMAN, ’30.. .Foreign Cir. Mgr.
JAMES H. RORKE, ’31	EUGENE J. CARLIN. ’29 JOHN BLANDA, ’31
VOL. VII	NOVEMBER 2, 1928
No. 7
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week_____________________________CynlJ. Mullen____________________198
Next Week’s Events..._________________________________________________199
S. A. C. Open Letter.....o____________________________________________202
Music and Drama......................James J. Walsh.__________________204
? ? ? ? ?________________________________________________„i___________205
The Campus Clubs.................  ....Thomas	A. Cannon.______________206
The Editor’s Page__________________________________________J._________207
Silver Dust (A Sketch)............... John	De Roulet__________________208
Five O’clock Mass_________________ ...Arnold	Williams________________211
Sonnet_______________________________Attache _________________________212
Notre Dame Crushes Drake_____________Harry A. Sylvester.______________213
Splinters From the Press Box__________________________________________218
On the Enemy’s Trail_________________Gilbert Prendergast_____________ 219
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Buildin?.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
■ The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of AO Notre Dame Men 1 • £ £
^^|=========================================================I6^^
198
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The inmates of Howard Hall have begun to venture out again. The trees from the road to the Library are no longer in a state of flux. The relief, however, for all those at the west end of the campus is not only physical, there is also the mental satisfaction that comes with having a vital question answered. A week ago no one was quite certain whether the trees were going up or coming down, and some were even of the opinion that the workmen were amusing themselves. As we were saying, it is a satisfaction to know that the rearrangement was done with the laudable end in view of forming a wind-break to keep the Library from blowing away.
All cotillions that I have ever known of, were written about somewhat in this fashion : Blue shadows mingle with the mauve, . . . figures sift hither and thither . . . youth . . . romance . . . low croonings of a saxophone . . . purple shadows . . . soft voiced young men whispering words of love to their ladies (“Yeh, an’ did I put one over on the prof . . .” “What did yuh think I brought yuh here for, to dance with those other guys?” ... “I could just dance with you forever”—“Don’t try to bunk me, big boy.”) An aura of silver light shines mysteriously upon golden heads and black. (Dr. Marchand’s never-run hair wash; stacomb). Clusters of autumn leaves over head . . . scarlet . . . orange.” (An athletic couple fall heavily to the floor thus carrying out the autumnal motif). Blue shadows’mingle with the mauve . . . the couples silently depart . . . youth . . . romance . . . faint, whispered good-byes. (“Hey, you’re mussing my hair!” . . . “See you in the morning, Athanatius” . . . “Yeh, I’ll be seeing yuh”). Low crooning of a saxophone . . . sweet, beautiful, (like the last song of an asthmatic cat.)
After all, that is not our function.
There had been no righteous outlet for shouting, that is, no pep meeting or game
in two weeks; consequently the students were on the verge of cheering for abstractions, when someone with a highly developed dramatic sense came popping past the dining halls just after lunch. He was not a dangerous looking person, but he rode one of those perversions of nature, a motor-bike, and he had the intent expression of one carrying the good news to Aix. Aix, in this case, being the engineers’ building. He was given a rousing-cheer that lasted at least two minutes. Friday the exuberance became more general. It reached its high-point again, however, at noon. A senile Ford accommodating-four or five young ladies—Babeus Americans as they say in the Latin—was rather aimlessly patrolling the road in front of the dining hall. Those who got close, say that they were wearing red mittens. Maybe the girls were looking for someone, but more probably, realizing the sterility of our lives, they were trying to spread a little sunshine. We last saw them, after accomplishing their purpose, holding intellectual conversation -with the policeman.
Being neither a sophomore, an editor, or a s*veet young thing, we did not witness the delights of the Cotillion itself. We know, however, that Friday night there were the most regrettable vocal efforts in the showers, and the usual gymnastics that accompany the struggle with the dinner coat and its accoutrements—we sadly observe that our emancipated moderns still struggle with this hang-over from the dark ages—. There was the usual bombastic rush of cabs to the scene of action. There was the business of meeting the girls, many of which finally arrived at the Palais with their escorts, while others came in the table d’hote fashion and had to be sorted ...
And then, of course, there was the dance. .	—c. J. M.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
199
NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS
FRIDAY—Scholastic staff meeting, Publications Room, Main Building, 7:00 p. m.—Rochester Club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 7:30 p. m.—K. C. Sousa Concert committee meeting, Walsh Hall, 6:30 p. m.	.
SATURDAY—Football, University of Notre Dame vs. Penn State, Franklin Field, Philadelphia, Pa., 2:00 p. m.—Gridgraph, University Gymnasium, 2:00 p. m.
SUNDAY—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Public Speaking room, Walsh Hall, 10:00 a. m.— Detroit Club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 10:00 a. m.—Interhall football games, 9:30 a. m. and 2 p. m.
MONDAY—Mid-semester tests begin in all classes.—Villagers Club meeting, Hotel LaSalle, College Inn, 6:30 p. m.—Livingston dinner to Monogram Club, Faculty Dining Room, 6:30 p. m.—Scribblers meeting, Scribblers room, Rockefeller Hall, 8 p. m.
TUESDAY—Meeting of the Cleveland Club, Badin “Rec.” room, 7:30 p. m.—Akron Club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY—Monogram• Club Mass and Communion, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a. m.—Spanish Club meeting, Hoynes Hall, 7:30 p. m.—Lecture, “Pike’s Peak,” Washington Hall, by Gilbert McClurg, 8:00 p. m.—Grand Rapids Club meeting, Badin Hall “Rec.” room, 7:30 p. m.—Pep-Meeting, University gymnasium, 6:30 p. m.
THURSDAY—Kentucky Club meeting, Badin Hall “Rec.” room, 7:00 p. m.—West Virginia Club meeting, Badin Hall “Rec.” room, 7:30 p. m.—Indianapolis Club meeting, 8:00 p. m.—Student send-off for football team for the Army game, 12:30 p. m.
' FRIDAY—Scholastic staff meeting, Publications Room, Main Building, 7:00 p. m.—Chicago Club meeting, Lay Faculty Dining Room, 8:00 p. m.— Scholarship Dance, Knights of Columbus ballroom, 8:30-11:30 p. m.
SATURDAY—Football, Notre Dame vs. United States Military Academy, New York City, 2:00 p. m.—Gridgraph, University Gymnasium, 1:30 p. m.— Football, Notre Dame “B” team vs. Northwestern “B” team, Cartier field, 3:00 p. m.
SOUSA CONCERT PROCEEDS TO AID UNION BUILDING FUND
Proceeds of the Sousa concerts which will be given the afternoon and evening of Tuesday, December 4, under the auspices of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights-of Columbus, will go to the building fund of the
local council, according to Grand Knight Edward P. McKeown. This fund which has already reach a total of many thousands of dollars, was started several years ago for the sole purpose of erecting a Union building on the. campus, the structure to be built by the Notre Dame Council and presented to the University for the use of the student body.
The proposed Union building will have lounging and reading rooms for the students, recreational parlors, a swimming pool, bowling alleys, billiard tables, soda fountains, living quarters for members of the local council and graduate students, and space for a haberdashery shop, a tailor shop, a shoe store, a barber shop, and a drug store.
. The officers of the building corporation of the Council are as follows: Professor Edward
• Maurus, president; Professor William L. Benitz, treasurer, and Professor William Shilts, secretary.
MID-SEMESTER EXAMS BEGIN NEXT MONDAY
The mid-semester examinations are to begin next Monday, November 5, according to the Reverend Emiel DeWulf, C.S.C., Director of Studies at the University.
The schedule of examinations is as follows:
Monday, November 5th: Classes taught at 8, 10, 1:15 and 3:15 will have quizzes during the regular class period. Classes taught at 9, 11 and 2:15 will hold regular class.
Tuesday, November 6th: Classes taught at 8, 10, 1:15 and 3:15 will have quizzes during the regular class period. Classes taught at 9, 11 and 2:15 will hold regular class.
Wednesday, November 7th: Classes taught at 9,11 and 2:15 will have quizzes during the regular class period. Classes taught at 8,10, 1:15 and 3:15 will hold regular* class.
Thursday, November 8th: Classes taught at 9, 11 and 2:15 will have quizzes during the regular class period. Classes taught at 8, 10, 1:15 and 3:15 will hold regular class.
Professors will arrange quizzes not provided for in the above schedule.
200
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“DOME" PHOTOGRAPHER AT WORK
Individual pictures of students which
will be used in the 1928 “Dome”, are be
ing taken by a photographer from the
THOMAS KEEGAN
Editor of the “Dome”
Russell studio of Chicago in the Badin hall “rec.” room. Thomas A. Keegan, editor-in-chief of the book, has sent notices to those who are to be photographed, and asks that everyone so notified see the p h o t o grapher at the appointed time to ex
pedite the work.
Seniors in par
ticular, are urged to have their pictures
taken by the photographer as soon as possible. Sittings will be one dollar per senior, and cap and gown will be furnished.
Group pictures of classes, clubs, and other organizations are being taken daily on the Library steps. Signs will be posted in the various halls concerning the time
each picture is to be taken.
DISTRIBUTION OF CARNEGIE TECH TICKETS TO BEGIN MONDAY
The distribution of student tickets for the game to be played with Carnegie Tech this year at Cartier Field on November 17 will begin on Monday afternoon, November 5, when the Seniors will receive their pasteboards. Juniors will get theirs on Tuesday, November 6, Sophomores on Wednesday, November 7, and Freshmen on Thursday, November 8.
Tickets have been selling rapidly for this game and a complete sell-out is expected. All students must apply for their tickets only on the dates specified for them as the Athletic Office must keep an accurate check on the distribution. Tickets will be distributed from 3 :30 to 5 :30 p. m. at the manager’s booth, main gate, of Cartier Field.
WELL KNOWN LECTURERS HERE-THIS MONTH
Three very interesting lectures will be given in Washington hall during the coming month. On November 7, Gilbeit McClurg will deliver an illustrated travel-talk on “Pike’s Peak and the Garden of the Gods.” Doctor James J. Walsh, of New York City, will speak on “Present Conditions in Mexico,” on November 15, and on November 20, Dr. Frederic William Wile, LL.D., well known political observer and writer will deliver a timely lecture.
The coming of Gilbert McClurg is creating much interest as he has appeared at Notre Dame before and his lecture was well received. At the time of this appearance, Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., then president of the University, remarked, “Gilbert McClurg’s lecture is valuable and interesting. His pictures are as beautiful as anything in fairyland. The address is crammed with information expressed in the best literary form, with all the graces of epigram, contrast and sly humor.”
Doctor Walsh will furnish much valuable information in his lecture on present conditions in Mexico. He has come to Notre Dame every year and his lectures have proved to be not only interesting but also very informative. The subject he has chosen to speak about is a very important one because of the close proximity of the Catholic Church to the situation in Mexico.
All who enjoy reading Dr. Wile’s “Washington Observations” as they appear in the South Bend “News-Times” will undoubtedly be interested in his lecture to be given on November 20. Dr. Wile, a former student at Notre Dame, has a distinguished record as a foreign and Washington correspondent and is well known to millions of the radio audience by his weekly talks, “The Political Situation in Washington Tonight” over the National Broadcasting System. Dr. Wile is the author of a large number of books including, “Men Around The Kaiser,” published in five countries and “The Assault-Germany Before the Outbreak and Britain in WarTime.”
THE NOTRE DAME
SOPHOMORE COTILLION SUCCESS
The Sophomores have had their first dance. Guests from many sections of the country came to be partners of Notre Dame men for the Cotillion, which was held last Friday evening in the Palais Royale ballroom, South Bend. The dance was the first formal class function of the year and it was one of the most picturesque cotillions ever held at Notre Dame. The Seattle Harmony Kings of the Cinderella ballroon furnished excellent music for the affair.
The ballroom was decorated simply, with flowered terraces in the background, illuminated by a large lighted N. D. monogram. The program of dances in its cover of blue suede and gold lettering with the University seal will serve as a pleasant reminder of the evening’s entertainment.
The guests began arriving at 8:30 o’clock and by 9:00 fully two hundred and fifty couples began dancing to the melodious strains of the orchestra.
Due to the untiring efforts of the chairmen and members of the various committees the first formal dance of the class of 1931 was an outstanding success from every standpoint.
The patrons and patronesses for the Cotillion were: Mr. and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Mr. Paul Fenion, Mr. Paul Byrne, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Casasanta and Mr. An- . drew Smithberger.
BAND HOLDS SMOKER
The Band Smoker held Monday night in the Brownson Hall “Rec.” room furnished an opportunity for the old and the new members of the organization to become acquainted with each other.
Toastmaster Joe Keefe introduced Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., and Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., to the men. Both praised the work of the band.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the band; William Krieg, chairman of the S. A. C.; Virgil Cline, vice-president of the band, and Ed. Le Mond, librarian, were the other speakers.
Music was furnished by Donovan and
SCHOLASTIC	201
Staudt, who gave a banjo duet, and by Stanley Trafis on the piano.
LAW NOTES	'
Judge Wooten’s condition remains about the same. Professor Clarence Manion is now taking care of the Judge’s class in administrative law.	.
Elmo Wright, of the American Law Book Publishing Co., gave a lecture a week ago Thursday on the use of “orpus Juris” to the jniors and seniors of the law school. The lecture was in connection with a contest sponsored by the American Law Book Publishing Co. The winner of this contest is to receive a set of “Corpus Juris.” As this is the only law encyclopedia over seventy volumes, the ownership of same will be hotly contested. Last year the contest was won by Charles Haskell of Denver, Colo.
Professor A. Claude Horack of the University of Iowa Law College and secretary of the American Law Schools Association, inspected the College of Law a week ago. This work is done to ascertain if the colleges affiliated with the association comply with its standards.
ROGER C. SULLIVAN SCHOLARSHIPS ANNOUNCEMENT
Application for the Roger C. Sullivan scholarship, which will be awarded in January, 1928, must be made in -writing before December 20 to the commitee on scholarships and prizes, Rev. William H. Molony, C.S.C., announced this week. The scholarships consist of three prizes of $250 each, which are to be awarded to three students, one from the sophomore, the junior nad the senior class, on the basis of improvement in grades during the second semester of the year 1927-28 in comparison with the preceding semester. The student in each class whose standard shows the most marked advance will be awarded the scholarship.
All applicants to be eligible must have entered the class in which they are enrolled this year without a failure or condition.
202
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MONOGRAM CLUB HOLDS FIRST MEETING
AUGUST GRAMS Monogram Club President
Forty-six members of the Monogram Club were in attendance at the first meeting of the organization this year, Thursday, October 25, in the University Gymnasium. The meeting was presided over by August Grams, head football manager and president of the club.
During a long business session President Grams outlined several major projects which the Monogram Club will attempt to accomplish this year. The most important of these pro
jects was the erection or location of a suitable trophy room at Notre Dame. The club examined this proposal from every angle, and at the conclusion of the discussion a committee composed of Joseph Jachym, chairman, William Cronin, Daniel Welchons and Oscar Rust was apointed by Grams to confer with University officials on the location of such a room in one of the buildings at some central point on the campus.
A welfare committee consisting of William Brown, chairman, John Doarn, Frank Crowe and John Moran was also selected to look ' after the interests of sick and injured monogram men.
It was decided at the meeting that the members of the club would attend the 6:30 o’clock Mass the first Wednesday of each month in the Sacred Heart Church, and receive Holy Communion in a body.
The Monogram Club is one of the most important and also one of the most active of campus organizations. Its primary purpose is to foster better cooperation and friendship among students who have won varsity insignia in any major sport. The club also assists the University by fostering and sustaining the highest and finest sportsmanship among the student body, and appointing delegations to greet each visiting team on its arrival in South Bend. Each year it also
donates various prizes to be won in athletic competition between the various halls.
The officers of the Monogram Club are: the Reverend James Gallagan, C.S.C., honorary president; August M. Grams, president; Joseph A. Abbott, vice-president, and Thomas J. Quigley, secretary-treasurer. Father Gallagan, although at present a member of the faculty at the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn., was elected to the office of honorary president last June. He was continued in that capacity this year even though located away from the University, because of his interest in the club, and the whole-hearted cooperation he had always given the members while at Notre Dame.
BISHOP FINNIGAN RETURNS TO
NOTRE DAME AS VISITOR
The Right Reverend George Finnigan, C.S.C., D.D., Bishop of Helena, Montana, made’Notre Dame a visiting point last week while he was enroute to a bishop’s meeting at Washington, D. C.
The bishop was celebrant of the pontifical high mass at St. Joseph’s Church last Sunday in honor of its Jubilee celebration. He was accompanied by the Very Reverend Norbert C. Hoff, president of Mount St. Charles College, Helena, Montana.
Bishop Finnigan was graduated from Notre Dame in 1910 and went to Rome, where he continued his theological studies. After his ordination he served in the Mission Band for several years. During the war he was appointed as one of the six chaplains from Notre Dame. Following the war he was made Superior of Holy Cross Seminary, after which he was elected Provincial Superior of the Order. He was consecrated bishop on August 1,1927, at Notre Dame in Sacred Heart Church.
♦ The Scholastic is now on sale * ♦ every week at the newsstand in the * ❖ Cafeteria.	*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
203
❖	❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ »:» ❖ •:» ❖ »:» ❖ ❖ »:♦ ❖	❖ knowledge of this form of raising money for
OPEN LETTER TO THE STUDENT ❖ social agencies. The experience • gained by BODY	* the students is considered excellent training
❖	❖ ❖	❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ for their future work.
The Gridgraph will be staged Saturday afternoon for the Penn State game. If the student body responds as it did for the Georgia Tech game about one-half the seats will be empty. Why? The primary purpose of the Gridgraph is to convocate the student body to show the team and the world that Notre Dame students are in back of the team first, last and always. While the team is on foreign soil giving its last atom of energy for Notre Dame and for us the very least we can do in appreciation and loyalty is gather at the Gridgraph and give all the support it is possible for us to give.
There may be some truth in the accusation that the Gridgraph by direct wire from the playing field is not as interesting as the radio. To meet the demand for radio reception of . the game the S. A. C. is trying to make arrangements to run the Gridgraph directly by radio. Loud speakers will be placed at various positions in the Gym and the board will be used to illustrate the plays as received over the radio. It is probable that the new arrangement will be in working order for Saturday’s game. Bulletins will be posted conveying more definite information Saturday morning.
Think this matter over! Let’s be there to give encouragement when it is needed, let’s sing the “Victory March” together when the team walks off the field. Although the team may be a thousand miles away it cannot help but know that we are with it. —s. a. c.
BOY GUIDANCE DEPT. ASSISTS
COMMUNITY CHEST CAMPAIGN
The University was represented in the South Bend Community Chest campaign just closed by Professor R. A. Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance Department. Mr. Hoyer acted as chairman of the northeast quarter of the city and was assisted by the Boy Guidance students, who devoted two entire mornings to the work.
Each year the Boy Guidance men work in this campaign in order to secure first-hand
BLUE CIRCLE COMMITTEES ARE APPOINTED
Lawrence Moore, chairman of the Blue Circle, presided at the second meeting of that organization Thursday, October 25, in the Main Building.
After a long business session in which many important details of the Blue Circle’s participation in University activities centering around the Carnegie Tech game were discussed, particularly matters pertaining to the assistance the organization will render to the University on the day of that contest, Moore announced the personnel of the following committees.
Traffic Committee — William Loughran, chairman; Charles Law, Sam Colaruso, Joseph Fitzgerald, Joseph Hiss, Joseph Muniz-zo, Frank McCullough, Ronald Sullivan, George Spaulding, Charles Buschemeyer, George Weber, Jackson Hay, Frederick Davis, Frank Fedder, John Moran, Barnard Smith, Gerald Crowley, Harold Duke, Lawrence Fitzsimmons, and John Rocap.
Reception Committee — Joseph Whalen, chairman; Francis McMahon, Robert Rouche, Theodore Haveron, Wiilliam Butler, George Heil, Vernon Knox, and Francis McAnaney.
Gridgraph Committee — Charles Kaiser and James O’Connor, chairmen; William O’Connor, William Cronin, George McDonald, John Kearns, Robert Newbold, Otis Winchester, Cletus Schneider, Edward P. Walsh, John Scanlon, Paul Clark, and Carl Johnson.
Vigilance Committee—Jack Elder, chairman ; Lawrence Mullins, John O’Brien, Francis Dailey, Ross Cefalio, Thomas Casey, and Frank McAdams.
Publicity Committee—John Hinkel, chairman ; Harry Sylvester, and Robert Kuhn.
Decorations Committee—Charles Colton, chairman; Thomas Markey, Robert Tyler, John Burns, Joseph Scales, William Siden-faden, John B. Sullivan, Joseph McCabe, and Paul Cahill.
204
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OUR CONTRIBUTORS
John de Roulet presents a Galsworthian sketch which constitutes parts one and two
of a longer short story.
JOHN DE ROULET Literary Editor of “Scholastic"
De Roulet is one of the senior members of Scribblers, a student in the College of Arts and Letters and is literary editor of the Scholastic.
Arnold Williams, also a senior Scribbler, adds to his reputation with a character sketch called “Five O’clock Mass.” It is claimed by those who know (including McDevitt) that this has
nothing to do with the “Chicago week-end.”
NEW BOOTH STOPS SHOWING OF
MOVIE TOMORROW NIGHT
Patrons of the weekly movie showing in Washington hall each Saturday night, will be forced to seek their entertainment elsewhere tomorrow evening because of the construction of a new projection booth. The new booth -will be completed in time, however, to resume the regular schedule on. Saturday, November 10.
SAXON ELECTED PRESIDENT OF PRESS CLUB
David W. Saxon, of Memphis, Tennessee, managing editor of the Scholastic was elected president of the Press Club at a meeting of the members of that organization Tuesday, October 30 in the Journalism room of the Library. At the same meeting David S. Lehman, of Denver, Colorado, was selected as vice-president, and Donald O’Brien of New York City, secretary-treasurer. All are seniors in the School of Journalism at the University and prominent campus writers.
Plans were also drawn up at the meeting for an entire reorganization in the affairs of the Club.
❖ MUSIC AND DRAMA ❖
On Monday evening, October 29, the South Bend Civic Music Association presented the first of a series of concerts to be given under its auspices. These concerts will extend throughout the winter months and provide the music lovers of South Bend with choice programs by some of the most famous artists in this country.
The opening recital of the season introduced two well-known pianists and harpsichordists, Philip Manuel and Gavin Williamson. The success of these two artists as duo pianists has been most decided, and their rise to prominence has been one of the interesting features of America’s last two musical seasons. In their highly distinctive offering of selections for two pianos and harpsichords, they seemed to justify even the most lavish praise. They are, obviously, complete masters of the technique of their instruments. In addition to this, these two musicians interpret the various selections in their repertoire with a color and brilliance that is exceptional. They succeed in reproducing the most varied orchestral effects with an ease and virtuosity that would be difficult to surpass. The program on Monday evening, which included compositions of Bach, Beethoven, Mozart, and Pasquini, was well received by a rather large audience.
The list of concerts for the remainder of the season is as follows:
November 26th—South Bend Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Frederick H. Ingersoll.
January 24th—Paul Kochanski, violinist, assisted by Andre Thalski.
March 4th—Elshuco Trio and Gladys Swarthout, mezzo soprana of the Chicago Opera Company. .
April 8th—Don Joe Mojica, tenor of the Chicago Civic Opera Company, assisted by Troy Sanders.	■
All these concerts will be presented at the Blackstone Theatre. Subscription tickets for the series may be obtained from Professor Joseph Casasanta, head of the Department of Music at the University.	—J. J. w.
Good afternoon kiddies! It looks as though my prayers were heard! Why, I have to fight my way through the mail all piled up around my desk! Yes sir, I opened five letters yesterday, and seven this morning. Of course, one announced that there are some amazing bargains to be found in the Michigan Street shops; another assured me Bear Cave was the wonder spot in this vicinity; and, a third claimed that, without a Ranger bicycle, the college man could not rate.
* * *
OH, WISE YOUNG MAN—A DANIEL . . .
Poor, dear, Luckless Lad: Although your page in the Scholastic ever seems to be quite full, your closing words on that page (so appropriately designated by a series of question marks) always imply that you are at your wits’ end to secure enough material to fill it. My candid opinion is that you merely want to see how many fools will fall for your line.	—ODELOT.
And here we’d been thinkin’ we’d put something-over ! Maybe, we’d better buy that bicycle after all! As Marco would have it—“Ain’t there anyone here to say, welcome home?”
PHILOSOPHICAL BAD BLOOD
(In a Lighter Vein)
Philosophy I’ve talked and read
Fo7’ hours and hours unnumb wed.
Profoundest thoughts have filled my head
While all my felloivs slumbered.
I think I’d like to spend an hour Discussing things with Schopenhauer.
I’ve tried and tried to figure out
Just why a thing is what it seems.
I’d like some first class stuff about “Our life’s relation to our dreams.”
I don’t believe I should avoid A tete-a-tete with Mr. Freud.
I find “the ain’tness of the which” Intriguing to the nth degree.
I’d think my mind was very rich If I should knoiv just why I be.
I knoiv I shouldn’t make a fuss At dining with Democritus.
The things I’ve heard, the things I’ve seen I always feared would come to naught.
For little does such knowledge mean
Without expression of the thought.
A whole long day I’d talk “sub-rosa” With such a chap as B. Spinoza.
Envoy.
I’ve spent my rhyme.
I’ve used your time.
My dates are al’, disorder.
Philosophy
Has ruined me.
Oil lunacy I border.
—JOESTING PIELIT.
* * *
Dear Laddie: Methinks that the cause of your ill-fortune could be easily traced to your most literal interpretation of that well-known clause—“Hobnails are forbidden.” Brittish brogues may be the order, but, by the prophet’s beard, I don’t think they will prescribe finished worsteds!
Why not call your column “The Corduroy Cordon?” Or does that sound too much like an episode from “Sorrows of a Seamstress?”
“Ex nihilo nihil fit”—
—THE DEVIL’S ADVOCATE.
❖ * $
“TO A TWENTY-EIGHTER”
You can afford to shout,
You of twenty-eight;
You’ve had four years To sophisticate.
In ways of the campus, Of course you are smart.
But why not, “big brethren”
You had a head start?
—THE HAWKEYE KID OF ’32.
* * *
A DISURTASHUN ON SEENYURS
I wish Twenty-Eighter,—tha guy wot got sech a kik out uv seein us Frosh hed west thet Sundae, drest like wy tha gurlz shood be on thei" gard,—wood put thet memoree on tha shelf wit that ainshunt history book. Why do them Seenyurs always dreg out sech unplesunt subgeks? Enyway tha Frosh don’t tri toh horn in on tha Kotilyun! Hay, wy don’t ya name yer kollum the “Weekly Washout” —thass all ut iz!	—rufuntufe, tha frosh.
* * *
(Well, all things come out in the wash; and almost everything submitted, so far, has come out in our “questionable column”—which may explain a lot of things, Rufuntuff, young feller.)
* * *
But we have no more space, and consequently, we must conclude with hardly any dignity and less grace. Just remember, kiddies:
If you, haven’t a mother, a sister, or dad, Just whisper your woe to
—THE LUCKLESS LAD.
206
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
^5HSH5H525H5H5H5H5E5H5E525H525E52525HSE525H | THE CAMPUS CLUBS c25E525H5E5HSE5H5H5H5E5EEH5B5E5E5'E52SE5E525E
WRANGLERS ADMIT NEW MEMBERS
The regular monthly banquet of the Wranglers was held at the Joan Tea Room in South Bend on Sunday, October 20. At this meeting several new members were admitted to the group. The new men are Francis Brown, Edward Phelan, T. O’Dea, and John Knoll.
Father Doherty, a new instructor at the University, was guest of honor. He delivered a very interesting address on “The Value of Humor in Intercollegiate Debates.” His words were indeed of importance to the Wranglers, who have in their club all the Varsity debaters, as too many debates take on the aspect of a dry, stiffly formal recitation.
“The Abolition of the Criminal Jury” was the title of a speech by Francis Brown, a new member, and his address met with the complete approval of the club.
CINCINNATI CLUB
The Cincinnati Club, headed by its president, Bart McHugh, held its second meeting of the year Thursday night, October 24. Because of its limited number of members little is expected of the club along social lines this year, but it can always be depended upon to take a part in all campus activities.
At present the club is stressing a bond of friendship between the members and the alumni, with the end in view that they may interest more fellows from the southern part of Ohio to enter Notre Dame.
GRAND RAPIDS CLUB
The Grand Rapids Club has held two meetings so far- this year. Both meetings have been well attended and the members have displayed the same interest which has made the club one of the most active on the campus in former years.
The officers of the club elected for this year are: Gerald Roach, president; Arnold Levandoski, vicepresident, and Joe Deeb, secretary-treasurer.
At the last meeting of the club it was decided to hold meetings regularly on the second and fourth Wednesdays of each month at 7:45 p. m. in the Badin Hall “Rec.” room.
FOX RIVER VALLEY CLUB FORMED
The first regular meeting of the Fox River Valley Club was held Wednesday night, October 24, in the Badin Hall “Rec.” room. The club is a new organization on the campus this year and it was formed by men living in the Fox River Valley district of Illinois. Any student living within a radius of sixty miles of Aurora is eligible for membership and is urged to join.
At this first meeting of the club a constitution was adopted by the members and an election of officers was held. The following men were elected: Jim Tobin, president; Frank Dailey, vice-president;
By Thomas A. Cannon
Walter O’Malley, secretary, and Bill Chawgo, treasurer. Plans were also discussed for a Christmas dance to be held in Aurora.
PEORIA CLUB
Twenty-five men attended the first meeting of the Peoria Club held Tuesday night, Oct. 23. At this time an election of officers was held and the following men were elected: William Moy of Peoria, president; Bernard Reavy of Galesburg, vice-president; Ralph Dalton of Bloomington, secretary, and Dick Grimm of Peoria treasurer.
Plans were made for a Christmas dinner dance to be held on December 29 at the Hotel Pere Marquette in Peoria. President Moy will act as general chairman of the dance. The chairmen of the other various committees are: Bob Pendergast, invitations; Henry Pruth, programs and favors; Bourke Motsett, music; and Dick Grimm, publicity.
All men living within fifty miles of Peoria, Ill., are requested to attend the next meeting of the club, which will be held Tuesday, November 13.
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB
At the October meeting of the Connecticut Valley Club plans were discussed for a smoker to be held Monday evening, November 12. The following committee was appointed for the affair: John Sullivan, Tim Toomey, Dennis Shea, and Thomas Kenneally.
Invitations will be issued soon for the Christmas dance to be held at the Hotel Bond in Hartford, Conn. All committeemen are requested to make reports to their respective chairmen as soon as possible.
DETROIT CLUB
A special meeting of the Detroit Club was held Tuesday night, October 30. The meeting was called to complete the plans for a banquet which is to be held Wednesday evening, November 14, at the Hotel LaSalle.
The committee appointed by President Stackpole to carry out the arrangements for the banquet are: Edward Nebel, chairman, James M. Carroll, Walter McFarland, Malcolm Trombley, and James Sullivan.
KENTUCKY CLUB
The newly reorganized Kentucky Club held a meeting Monday night, October 29, in the Law Building. Mr. John Cooney, dean of the School of Journalism, who is a former Kentucky man, gave a talk on the reorganization of the club. Father Doherty, C.S.C., also gave a very interesting talk. 1
At this meeting the commanding officers of the club were chosen for this year. They are: Jack Elder, colonel; Bill Sherman, lieutenant-colonel; Gil Kerwin, revenue-collector; and Tom McGinnis, stillhouse watch.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
207
:------ THE EDITOR’S PAGE ---------
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6
It should not be necessary to remind eligible Notre Dame students of the civic responsibility they have next Tuesday, November 6. It should not be necessary because it is taken for granted that each student possessing the necessary qualifications for electors laid down in Article 2, Section 91 of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, appreciates the great civic privilege which is his for the exercise next Tuesday.
For the overwhelming majority of such eligible students it will be their first active participation in a presidential election. To them it will be an interesting experience to be long remembered. To them it will be the real, concrete beginning of their participation in the political affairs of this government as full-fledged American voters. But above all, to them it will mean the fulfillment of one of the greatest and most priceless of heritages handed down to them by the founders of this nation—the privilege to participate in universal suffrage for a chief executive of these United States.
Notre Dame, the University, is neither Republican or Democrat, Prohibitionist or Farmer-Labor, Socialist or Progressive, but is unswervingly and steadfastly non-partisan. She does not in any way attempt to influence the votes of her students. To her it is their own personal affair. To her it is their moral and patriotic right to vote as conscience dictates. To her it is not only their right but their duty to vote as they decide. Notre Dame’s interests are too broad, too comprehensive, too national to become involved in any high-handed, dictatorial political policies among her students. She is above all an educational institution, and concerns herself with politics only to the extent of inculcating into her students that it is their civic duty to vote as their consciences would have them.
s STUDENT CHEERING
‘ ' Favorable comment from all sides was elicited by the student cheering at the Drake game last Saturday. That it was an improvement over the cheering at the Navy contest in Chicago a fortnight before, was admitted by all those who were fortunate enough to witness each engagement.
Whether it was due to greater efforts and coordination on the part of the cheerleaders, or merely a manifestation of greater enthusiasm on the part of the students themselves, is a mooted question. Sufficient to say, however, in volume, tone and carrying capacity, it was one of the finest exhibitions of cheering ever given on Cartier field.
A particularly noticeable feature of the cheering, and one which impressed the thousands of visitors the most, was the splendid applause given especially fine Drake performances. The forward pass play which netted the lowans their touchdown was applauded almost as 'vigorously as if Notre Dame had executed the play instead. But above all, the rising ovation which was given Nesbitt, stellar fullback of the visitors, when he was removed from the contest late in the final quarter, was one of the greatest ovations ever accorded an athlete at Notre Dame.
The enthusiasm so rampant in the student stands seemed to communicate itself in a great measure to the members of the team. Each blue-jersied player, heartened by the confidence the students showed they had in him and the rest of his mates, responded nobly with every bit of his playing ability.
Carnegie Tech with the most powerful team of her history, and one of the strongest elevens in the nation, will be here two weeks from tomorrow. A repetition of such enthusiastic applause on that day will go a longway towards sustaining in each Notre Dame player the confidence which will make him give unstintingly of everything he possesses in a gallant attempt to repulse the invader.
—J. v. H.
—J. V. H.
208	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
LITERARY
Silver Dust
{A Sketch)
JOHN DE ROULET
“■\TO, DEAR, you musn’t!” but some-IXI how he knew instinctively that she
didn’t really mind. After all, another bit of bread and jam wouldn’t hurt you, even though you had eaten four buns already and a small cup-cake along with your tea. Wasn’t he a Sharon—and the only son, at that?
“But, mother, this is my birthday, and I ought to celebrate. Don’t you see?”
“Well, just a small piece then.” Alice Sharon smiled as she spread the warm-smelling, fresh-from-the-oven bread with the rich strawberry preserves. Paul did love jam so, and even old Dr. Parker laughed about the child’s sweet tooth. Or was it Mrs. Sharon that always made him chuckle whenever Paul’s name was mentioned? He was such a sweet child—never consciously willful; but then, the Sharon men never were. They just satisfied their desires, accepting satisfaction politely, but as though it were the only thing to expect. They never had been disappointed, poor dears!—she thought, wondering how many times she had granted the whims of the Sharon males. How many times she had experienced that same sensation you get from petting a puppy that has been bad—a queer mixture of sentiment and a shame for weakness. Yet, she always felt a warm, little glow of pride in being able to supply the Sharons with what they wanted.
“Strawberry jam’s nice, mother! It’s all red, and warm, and soft—like crushed roses in syrup. The real red ones like we have in the garden, mother!”
“Why Paul, what an idea! I know I’ll never be able to eat it again; or even smell the roses for fear of getting my nose all sticky with syrup,” and Alice Sharon smiled
lightly, but caught her breath at the look of puzzled-hurt in his eyes.
“Then we can’t have it for tea, any more? But it doesn’t smell like roses!” and his face brightened. Confidently, he felt that the prob- -lem was solved, and that there would always be strawberry jam and hot bread and tea for him at five o’clock, just as there had always . been. Even before he was old enough to have tea with the “grown-ups,” Paul had envied his father those little, intimate talks in front 1 ' of the fire, when he had been sent off to the nursery to have his chocolate and buns.
“Of course, we shall have it, dear! Mother was only teasing!” Impulsively she bent forward to kiss him. How much like his t f father he looked! The same dark eyes, the same white skin! Even his hair curled back from his forehead in quick, little waves of \ brown, flecked with almost hidden glints of ; sullen copper! His lips were softer, but the ‘ mouth was the same, and even the chin had , * that faint mark of “the devil’s finger.” . -
“Oh, mother, I spilled some on your dress!” and he looked so repentant, as he dabbed at the dark stain with his new handkerchief, that she smothered an exclamation of annoyance and merely said,	»□
“It’s only an old gown, Paul! Nurse will » clean it for me, so don’t worry, dear!” It was awful, she thought, that you felt the emo- -tions of your children so poignantly that you couldn’t refuse them anything, or even scold them. It was so bad for them to feel that 1» forgiveness—everything was theirs for the asking. But Paul was so dear, so helpless, and he really needed her. After all, it was j her own fault, her own foolish vanity which gave her so much satisfaction in granting her boy’s whims, now that his father was 1 ’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
209
dead. Why couldn’t she be sensible like other mothers were? Why couldn’t she scold him for asking for jam, or blame him for spilling it on her gown—one of her favorites? It was so becoming! A strange color—like young willow leaves frosted in moonlight— and it contrasted so beautifully with the warm tones of her arm and shoulders, and with the rich, dark shades of red in her hair. But what was the use! She just couldn’t scold the child! He was dear, never meaning to hurt her—so like his father!
“Paul, dear, come sit on mother’s lap!” She hoped the gesture would convince him of her forgiveness.
“Don’t you think I’m getting pretty old for that mother! I’m twelve now, you know!” Mrs. Sharon felt again that queer ache— something swift and sharp yet always present with its dull, monotonous throb, waiting always to be intensified by the least word.
“I know, Paul; but I hate to, see you grow up! Just this once, dear, and tell mother that you have had a happy day and that you love her more than anything in the world!”
How confidently his cheek rested against her shoulder, and his small nose buried into her neck. She pressed him swiftly, and kissed his hair. Her son—growing up—he’d be going off to prep school before long and then—then—he wouldn’t be her little boy any more! Wouldn’t that ache in her heart ever stop? If only she could hold him like this always, giving him everything he wanted, protecting him! Still that pain burned into her breast! It had been the same when Paul’s father was living, and now—
“Paul, dear,” but the child was asleep, his cheek snuggling so white against her warm, dark skin. The lights and shadows from the fire seemed to stroke his hair and brow so tenderly,—oh, why couldn’t that ache ever stop!
II.
It was pleasant, sitting out on the porch these June days when everything was warm and green and happy in the sunlight. Then too, it was nicer when you knew you didn’t look a day over thirty-two, especially now that your forty-fifth birthday was so ominously near. But Alice Sharon pushed the
thought of age from her mind and smiled happily. Not every woman could sit so quietly on such a lovely afternoon. But she did look at least ten years younger than she really was! Of that she was sure. Why didn’t Paul come home? Six years was such a long time to wait that it seemed a little unjust for the train to be late on the very day she wanted so badly for it to be on time! No! She wouldn’t think about it; she wouldn’t worry. You had to look so young for an occasion like this, and you couldn’t risk the crow’s feet that worrying brings.
But it was getting awfully late! She glanced nervously at her watch and made a fresh resolve that she would not worry. But Paul must have changed dreadfully, for he was twenty-five now, and growing more like his father every day. The same skin, eyes, hair—but he was a Sharon man, and they were all beautiful—her son. Wouldn’t any mother be proud to have such, a boy, she thought, excusing herself for the warm glow of pride that filled her heart. A degree from Oxford—and so handsome—so dear, that it hurt her even to think about him.
Again she felt that ache in her breast. That same stab she had felt so intensely on his twelfth birthday—the last time she had held her son on her lap, the last time his head had rested so confidently on her bosom! Thirteen years had scarcely dulled her loveliness, for they had matured her, emphasizing the sweetness and the strength in her character; nor had those long, slow years dulled the poignant throb of longing in her heart, rather it was sharpened and intensified by the separation. But she mustn’t even think of that! He was coming back to her now; and she would keep him with her, closer than he had ever been before—until—until—. No, she wouldn’t think of that either! There were so many things that she must forget! But she would have Paul, her son, beside her every day, walking with her, laughing, even teasing her—just a little. And of course he would go calling with her, and she would introduce him to her friends, and everyone would exclaim:
“Your son?—My dear!—It’s impossible!— Why you can’t be a day over thirty-five!—
210
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Isn’t it simply marvellous 1”—and they would all be terribly jealous, thinking of their own sons. And Paul, he would be proud of her and happy. How lovely it would all be with him back again!
Best of all, though, would be that hour at dusk. . . . When other mothers would be stirring about their kitchens, she would have Paul with her. Not laughing or teasing, but quiet! Just with her,—and she would say: “It’s two lumps and a little lemon, isn’t it, dear?” And he, knowing that she couldn’t forget, would just smile and say: “No lemon mother, and only one lump please,” and then they would both laugh—very quietly though, for she loved to play “polite-hostess.” They would sit out on the porch in summer watching the bees wheel lazily over the clover, and Paul would listen for the frogs “thrumping” down by the creek. . Perhaps, she would trace the patterns that the leaf-shadows marked on his face, and then she would say: “Paul1, dear, it is so nice to have you home again!”
In the autumn, though, they would sit by the fire. They wouldn’t have to talk—just sit—understanding—happy! And he would hear the flames hissing and sputtering about the log; but she would watch them winking at her from the silver teapot, and even touching Paul’s skin with a ruddy, boyish glow.
What was keeping him so long? How could she help worrying when everything conspired against her? Just the weather he liked best—warm and drowsy with the fresh scent of the flowers creeping in from the garden ! Just the hour she had looked forward to—the sun almost resting on the tops of the green-black trees which lined the road! Why was he so late? She tapped her foot impatiently on the floor, and nervously patted her hair. She felt that there must be a few gray ones although she knew that there were none. Was her gown right? Just the color Paul had always liked so well! A wisp of silk and tulle—like mist on young, green wheat—
frosted mint leaves! Oh, it was too youthful ; his tastes might have changed! She had time to slip into something more mature—if she could only decide!
And then that old stab of pain, burning and twisting into her heart. She wouldn’t run to meet him .... he always hated lavish affection, display .... She would just stand at the top of the steps . . . . and wait .... How beautiful he was,— her son! Swinging up the path with the sun behind him; his chair ablaze with its flares, reflecting the warm red-gold in his own dark hair flecked with queer glints of burnished copper! .... Her son—tall and straight —a man!
“Don’t you think we’d better go in, dear”— she said at last. “It’s almost dark and just a little chill!” Why was he so abstracted? But then, realization was always so flat after expectancy. That was why you planned so— to get the most out of those moments that were never quite---. But she mustn’t think things like that! Paul was with her now; she wouldn’t let him go . . . not . . . till---------------.-'
“But where are your bags, dear? Didn’t you check them through?”
“No, mother—you see I can’t stay but tonight! I met some of the nicest people on the boat coming back, and they asked me to visit them.”
“But you don’t have to go tomorrow, Paul!” No she wouldn’t beg or nag .... he must be kept happy!
“Well, I promised them, mother! You don’t mind, do you?”
“Of course not, dear!”—That old pain . . . twisting . . . tearing . . . searing into her heart!
A cloud of silver dust danced momentarily above the road and then dissolved into the cold, gray mist. A faint wind moaned in the trees.
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
211
Five O’Clock Mass
ARNOLD WILLIAMS
IT IS the middle of the night when the alarm starts its stacatto hammering. You are out of bed almost before it has commenced, for it is four thirty and you must shave, throw some clothes about you, and walk six blocks so as to be on time for the five o’clock mass. The water in which you must shave is tepid, you cut yourself twice in the haste, and there are two buttons off your shirt. Nevertheless, four minutes to five finds you in front of the school hall, which has been used for a church since the old one burned a year ago.
It is dark because, really, owing to the daylight saving time which your city uses, it is only four o’clock. People are coming in twos and threes and entering the school door. It is an entirely different crowd from that which attends the nine o’clock services to which you usually go. There is no buzzing of conversation, no high feminine voices, no young men standing about the door smoking cigarettes and speaking to gay groups of young ladies that come up. Instead everyone goes in as soon as he arrives. Of course, people are saying hello to one another but you note a different tone, one that reminds you of the one used around a dead or sick person.
Inside, you see that a little more than half the chairs—the people of St. Patrick’s have not sat in pews since that June morning when the church burned—filled.
You kneel down, meanwhile noting some of the people in the church. There are the Smiths, Mr. and Mrs. and the three children. Mr. Smith’s vacation begins today and they are going to five o’clock mass so as to be off for the country before the roads are too filled. They mustn’t have slept all last night, for the task of getting three children ready for a trip would hardly admit of being done in less than an hour and a half.
There is Mike Griffin conveniently near the exit. He is in police uniform and has come to five o’clock mass because he must go on
duty at six. Beside him is the druggist at Fountain Square, who must open up early to catch the tourist trade in films and cigars. Farther back there are two men in working clothes, night watchmen at the yards, who have come directly from work. There is also an engineer.
The three young men in knickers are leaving for a day’s fishing as soon as the mass is over. The young women are going hiking.
Besides the Smith children the only other children are three small boys with news bags over their shoulders. A minute and a half after mass is over they will be shouting “Mohn-ing Star Payper” all over the street.
Mr. Beecher is walking in very stiffly. Now, he is unique in that group, for he has no reason at all for going to such an early mass. He is a retired builder, and you suppose that he has become so used to getting up early that lying in bed until time for the eight o’clock mass seems criminal laziness to him.
All the rest are women. They vary in age and size and beauty, but one thing, if their faces do not lie, they have in common—sleeping families at home which they must hurry back to waken and cook breakfast for.
Now mass is beginning. Somehow, it is not the same mass as the later one to which you are accustomed. It has stillness and solemnity and seems less like a social and more like a religious exercise. Perhaps that is due to the total absence of color in the congregation—no bright dresses or flaming cravats or green shoes—or of distracting noises—no suppressed giggles, no scraping of. feet, no infants crying, no late comers trying to achieve their places safely without attracting the pastor’s notice. The only sound is the grating of the priest’s voice as he says the latin prayers half aloud, the hushed responses of the single acolyte, the occasional tinkling of a bell. The bareness of the school hall with its hollow concrete floors and its two faded crepe streamers over the small temporary altar may add something to the primi
212
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
tiveness of the scene. Anyway, the mass seems to flow on like a deep, dark river.
Presently it is the consecration and soon afterwards the communion cloth is thrown over the rail. Nearly everyone receives, but curiously, they all tiptoe up to the rail and back again without disturbing the sepulchral silence.
Then you kneel for the blessing, rise for the last gospel, and kneel again for the prayers, and mass is over. Almost before you
can count ten the hall is deserted. All are in a hurry to get out. No one loiters about the door to light a post-missal cigarette or to exchange news. There is the sound of several motors starting and the sight of many women making most undignified haste towards their homes to awaken their families, to put on the coffee, and to take up the baby. The Smiths are off for the country; the policeman and the druggist make for their stations.
Five o’clock mass is over. .
Sonnet
When I have ceased to love you as 1 do, And empty lies the heart where once you reigned; When I have trod, the path amidst the few Who would not blame you for the love you feigned; When my poor heart is deafened to your charms, Nor my eyes search yours for the love they seek, And when I find no solace in your arms, ’ Nor warmth within the shadow of your cheek, Then shall I be, alas, an earth-worn clod, Stripped of beauty, robbed of cultured thought, A youth less vibrant than the common sod Of which his mortal instrument is wrought. Oh, my complacent mind shall stagnant groiv When you, it’s beauteous stream shall cease to flow.
—ATTACHE.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	213
Notre Dame Rides Roughshod Over Drake; Score 32-6
IRISH LINE SHOWS VAST IMPROVEMENT Mullins, at Fullback, Leads Attack
With the memory of two unlocked for defeats bitter within them, Notre Dame’s fighting Irish rose in their wrath and crushed the heretofore undefeated Drake Bulldogs, 32-6, on Cartier Field last Saturday. Led by Mul
JIM BRAY
Halfback
lins, a driving, slashing fullback, who became a halfback once past the line of scrimmage, the Blue and Gold rode rough-shod over a powerful Blue Devil line to score five touchdowns.
After a scoreless first period, marked by a sensational drive to the Iowan’s seven yard line, where they were held for downs, the Rockmen started the
fireworks. King punted over the Irish goal line and it was Notre Dame’s ball on her own
twenty yard line. Mullins’ spectacular plunging and running and Niemic’s accurate passing took the ball straight down the field to Drake’s ten yard strip, where the reliable Niemic dropped back and tossed a pass to Johnny Colrick, who crossed the goal line for the first score. Niemic kicked goal.
Meyers of Drake fumbled immediately after the next kick-off and Twomey recovered for the Irish on the Iowan’s twentyseven yard line. Plunges by Mullins and Chevigny made it first down on the seventeen yard line. Niemic turned end for nine yards and John Chevigny took the ball on a cut-back and dodged and smashed his way over the goal line for the second score. Niemic again kicked goal, the quarter ending shortly after.
Drake received to start the second half but
failed to gain, and King punted to Carideo, who was downed on his own forty-six yard line. With Chevigny and Mullins bearing the brunt of the attack the Rockmen again marched down the field to the one yard line.
from where Carideo scored on a quarterback sneak. The remainder of the period was fought out in midfield. Several times Nesbitt of Drake broke loose for substantial yardage, but the alert Irish secondary always managed to pull him down before he scored.
Drake lost the ball in midfield to start the
final quarter but the jack cannon t •	Guard
Irish, for once, were
stopped, and Carideo placed a perfect punt out of bounds on the Blue and White’s ten yard line. Jim Bray intercepted a pass cn the Bulldogs’ twenty-seven yard line and then got fifteen yards on two tries off-tackle. “Dinny” Shay turned left end for seven more and just to show his versatility circled the other end for the fourth score.
Following the kick-off, Seiberling flung the first of several long passes in a desperate attempt to score. Forty yards it sailed into the outstretched arms of King, who, taking it. on the dead run, sprinted forty yards more for the Bulldogs’ only score, and the completion of one of the prettiest aerial acts ever staged on any gridiron.
Not to be outdone, young Mr. Nash then duplicated his feat of the first half and intercepted a Drake pass shortly after, only this time, aided by fine interference, he proceeded to tear down the side lines some fifty yards
214	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
for the fifth and last Notre Dame touchdown.
It was a rejuvenated team that gave Drake its first trouncing of the season last Saturday. It was a team that was almost unstoppable on offense and, save for a lapse in the third period, practically impregnable on defense. Mullins was the outstanding player of the day. Playing fullback for the first time he plunged and ripped through the Drake line and once past the line of scrimmage, true to his instinct, reverted to a halfback and pivoted and dodged and straightarmed until the wearers of the royal blue and white wished they had never seen him. Nie-mic, Chevigny and Co. also gave Ossie So-lem’s men plenty to think about, and the line played aggressive, heads-up football all the way through, with Collins and Law outstanding.	.
For Drake, Nesbitt, with his powerful and shifty running, stood out. Captain Holliday was a tower of strength, and Jones and Graustra proved themselves to be as fine a pair of guards as we have seen this season.
NOTRE DAME, 32	DRAKE, 6
Collins _____________L.	E------------ Delmedge
Miller_______________L.	T_____________Shearer
Leppig_______________L.	G Jones
Moynihan _____________C-------------Don Carlos
Law R.	G___________ Graustra
McGrath______________R.	T.-----------Holliday
Vezie R.	E Wensel
Brady________________Q-	B----------------King
Niemic_______________L.	H Barnes
Chevigny R.	H Nesbitt
Mullins F.	B___________Seiberling
Score by periods:
Notre Dame______________0 14	6 12—32
Drake __________________0	0	0	0—6
Touchdowns—Colrick, Chevigny, Carrideo, Shay, Seiberling, Nash.
Points after touchdowns—Niemic, 2 (placement). Drake substitutions—Vonkolen for Seiberling; Myers for King; Wright for Graustra; Iverson for Nesbitt; Nesbitt for Iverson; King for Myers; Seiberling for Vonkolen; Vonkolen for Nesbitt; Imer-son for Barnes.
Notre Dame substitutions—Colrick for Ed Collins; Twomey for McGrath; Carrideo for Brady; Dew for Chevigney; Bray for Niemic; O’Connor for Mullins; Cannon for Leppig; Bondi for Law; Nash for Moynihan; Ransavage for Twomey; Donoghue for Miller; Conley for Vezie; Elder for Bray; J. Riley for Dew; Gebert for Carrideo; Collins for Colrick; Miller for Ransavage; Leppig for Cannon; Moynihan for Nash; Law for Bondi; Twomey for Donoghue; Vezie for Conley; Niemic for J. Riley; Chevigney for Elder; Mullins for O’Connor; Montroy for Niemic; Bray for Chevigney; O’Connor for Mullins; Shay for O’Connor; Cannon for Leppig; Nash for Moynihan; Ransavage for Twomey; Donoghue for Miller; Conley for Vezie; Gebert for Carrideo; Bondi for Law; Velk for Conley; O’Brien for Collins; Dew for Montroy; Provissero for Cannon.
IRISH INVADE NITTANY LIONS’ LAIR
Mr. Rockne’s celebrated football team will make its debut before Philadelphia fans tomorrow when the Fighting Irish take the field against Penn State. The fine showing made by the Notre Dame basketball team last winter when it defeated the ranking Penn quintet, 30-28, has placed the Quaker City sports enthusiasts in a frame of mind wherein they expect great things from Hoosier athletic teams. Historic Franklin Field will be the setting for this struggle, which promises to be one of the most interesting intersectional games of the season.
This game will mark the first appearance of any Notre Dame football team on an eastern Pennsylvania gridiron. Three years ago, State held the Rockmen to a scoreless tie, but the contest was placed in the Lions’ home park at State College. Bezdek’s men may feel at home when they play in Philadelphia, but they cannot feel entirely at ease, for Franklin Field was the scene of a 14-0 setback administered them two weeks ago by the Pennsylvania eleven. A capacity crowd of 70,000 spectators is expected to witness this battle.
MILLER, A BRILLIANT QUARTERBACK
One name which has always been associated with football brilliance is that of Miller. Notre Dame has had its share of Millers : our captain, Freddie Miller; Don Miller, one of the famous “four horsemen”; Rip Miller, that smashing linesman who helped set the 1924 team on top of the football pile for that year, and many others. And now Penn State comes forth with a “Joe” Miller, who has attracted considerable attention in eastern football circles. In years past, Penn State partisans roared out the familiar warcry, “Give us a touchdown, Miller,” the object of the cry being State’s all-American back, “Shorty” Miller. The old cry is again being echoed this year wherever the Nittany Lions go forth to battle.
The veteran fullback, Steve Hamas, who performed so well on Cartier Field two years ago, will again plunge into the Irish forward wall tomorrow. This young giant has been
THE NOTRE DAME
making things warm for all his opponents this season and may be expected to acquire much yardage for his alma mater tomorrow. Cooper French, brother of that famous athlete, Walter French, has been the outstanding performer in the State’s backfield to date. Last Saturday this gentleman tied Syracuse almost single-handed, tossing passes all over the lot and running the Orange team dizzy. Dietrich, Collins, and “Allie” Wolff, the intercollegiate boxing champion, are also highly effective ball-carriers. The Penn State line is big and tough in every sense of that expression. Zorella, Martin, and Parana are a trio of powerful guards; Duvall and Panac-cion, two hard-boiled tackles, and Delp and Edwards at the ends, constitute the bulk of the Lion forward wall. It is a question as to whether McAndrews or Eschbach will start at center.
Penn State’s present record is not particularly impressive. The Lions have defeated Lebanon Valley and Gettysburg, and have tied Syracuse, 6-6; however, they were beaten by Bucknell, 6-0, and by Pennsylvania, by the score of 14-0. There is a psychological- factor which may play an important part in determining who will be the victor in tomorrow’s contest, and that is the fact that Penn State always plays far over its head whenever the Lion squad appears on Franklin Field. Time after time, inferior State teams have bowled over haughty rivals on the Philadelphia field. On the whole, then, a hard-fought battle may be expected.
INTERHALL RACE NARROWING; NEXT GAMES VITAL
As the season progresses the stage seems all set for a three way struggle for first honors in Division I while Sophomore and Lyons, both with clean slates, scrap for top position in Division II. In the freshman section Howard, Off-Campus, and Freshman are making it hot for each other and at present it is anybody’s race, but Sunday’s games should break the tangle and send one team unfettered into the lead. In Division II Corby and Sophomore meet in a crucial contest while Lyons rests comparatively safe for a week at least,
SCHOLASTIC	215
as it is meeting Morrissey which at present is a gocd prospect for a cellar position. One championship at least will be decided next Sunday, for Brownson and Carroll meet for the mythical Main Building title. This game is usually one of the most bitterly fought of the whole season and should be well worth attending.
Last Sunday’s games:
LYONS, 2; BADIN, 0	.
Unable to get their team on the field in time Badin was forced to forfeit what promised to be a great game to the Lyonites.
WALSH, 22; BROWNSON, 6
Romping through the Brownson front wall almost at will, Walsh swamped the first year men Sunday morning, 22-6, leaving the Brownsonites without a victory so far this season. The winners rushed the ball over in the first, second and third quarters by ripping through the entirely demoralized Brownson ■ team. In the last quarter Walsh concluded their scoring by smothering one of Murray’s passes behind his own goal-line for a safety. The Arabs’ only flash of strength came at the beginning of the second half when after three plays they sent Orint over the line with a pass from Stegman.	—P. H.
FRESHMAN, 12; CARROLL, 6
Freshman had just six points more fight than Carroll, Sunday afternoon and after constantly threatening all through the second half, they finally' succeeded in smashing through the Carroll defense for a score in the last few minutes of play. Freshman made their initial touchdown early in the first period to be tied by the Main Building outfit shortly after, when Max went through the line for a score. Several sensational passes by the winners in the last quarter, some of them for large gains, featured the game.	—P- H.
SOPHOMORE, 8; MORRISSEY, 0
Scoring early after a fumble had given them the ball on Morrissey’s thirty-five yard line in the initial quarter Sophomore fought
216
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
fOLFAY
THEATRE »
Home of Paramount Pictures
A Publix Theatre
SAT-SUN-MON-TUES
To one . . . she gave her . . . heart! ... To the other . . . her honor!
NORMA
Talmadge —in—
“The Woman Undisputed”
.4 United Artists Picture, IX SOUND
With GILBERT ROLAND and ARNOLD KENT
desperately to hold its slim lead throughout the first half in the face of determined onslaughts by the Scholars, but reversed the song at the beginning of the second half and were never again in danger. The extra two points were garnered late in the game when a blocked punt was recovered by the Mor-risseyites behind their own goal.
Vitaphone Presentation's JOE E. BROWN*
WINNIE LIGHTNER
JESSE STAFFORD ORCHESTRA
Also
Fox MOVIETONE News
ELECTIONS RETURNS TUESDAY EVENING, Nov. Gtli. No extra charge. Remain as long as the returns roll in.
HOWARD, 7; OFF-CAMPUS I, 0
Both teams evenly matched the ball seesawed back and forth in mid-field until the waning moments of the fourth quarter, when a break gave Howard the ball on the DownTowners twelve yard line, from where a Howard half crashed off-tackle for the only score of the fray. Howard, in consideration of yards gained, deserved the victory, for they outplayed their opponents throughout the first half and held them even all through the second.
CORBY, 2; OFF-CAMPUS II, 0
Unable to find eleven men, the Day Dogs were forced to forfeit to the waiting He Men.
INTERHALL STANDINGS
COMING Wednesday thru Friday . . .
DOOMED—
Uidess they reach the
“WATER
HOLE”
.4 Paramount Picture
Starring
JACK HOLT and NANCY CARROLL
Dangers lurk at the “Water Hole’’ . . . New York and the Arizona Desert! What a contrast to weave into one delightful evening. Zane Grey in Technicolor.
Division I Won Lost Tied
Howard__________________________2	0	1
Freshman________________________2	0	1
Off-Campus I____________________2	1	0
Walsh __________________________1	2	0
Carroll ___________:____________0	2	1
Brownson________________________0	2	1
Division II Won Lost Tied
Lyons __________________________3	0	0
Sophomore______________.________3	0	0
Corby --------------------------2	1	0
Badin --------------------------1	2	0
Morrissey_______________________0	3	0
Off-Campus II__________:________0	3	0
Next Sunday’s games: 9:30—Brownson-Carroll, south of Gym; Howard-Walsh, Varsity practice field. 2:00—Freshman-Off-Campus I, Minims field; Sopho-more-Corby, south of Gym; Lyons-Morrissey, Var-
sity practice field.
—J. H. ZUBER.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
217
RESERVES DROP TWO
Last Saturday saw two Notre Dame reserve teams get into action in well-played games at Winona, Minn., and at Wheaton, Ill., respectively. Both ended in defeat for the Blue and Gold squads, however, but only after the hardest efforts of the somewhat inexperienced, coachless teams had been expended.
The handicap of both squads in being without a coach was the worst difficulty encountered, as both opponents were outplayed in nearly every department of the game.
At Winona, the St. Mary’s College team, which ranks among the best in its class in Minnesota, triumphed 19-7, chiefly by clever forward passing against the weak pass defense of the Irish. Malik was the offensive star, making two runs of forty-five yards from mid-field to the five yard line, once after catching a punt and the other time after snagging a pass. Mahoney was the outstanding defensive star.
Coached by “Vic” Gustafson, last year’s Northwestern captain, the Wheaton College team made the “breaks” count for their 18 to 13 victory before a homecoming, crowd. Joe Savoldi was the chief ground gainer for the reserves, with Nichols displaying clever leadership at quarterback. Wheaton made only one first down throughout the entire game, and was outclassed, though not outscored, by Notre Dame.
PALACE
SUN.. MON., TUES., WED.
Five Acts of Keith-Orpheum Vaudeville w. > THE BRIANTS in ‘A Moving Man’s Dreamphotoplay jack moet i^ aeanche’
THURSDAY The Eternal Flapper Edna Wallace Hopper and Others
IRISH “B” TEAM HOST TO PURPLE
While Coach Rockne and his Notre Dame varsity are engaging Penn State at Philadelphia tomorrow, the Irish reserves will play host to the Northwestern reserves on Cartier Field. The game is carded for 3 o’clock and will not interfere with the Notre Dame-Penn State contest on the University gridgraph which starts at 1:00 p. m.
The teams have met once before this season at the Dyche Stadium in Evanston and a bitterly-fought game resulted in a scoreless tie. Each eleven will be out therefore to establish a definite superiority over the other, and another close game is looked for.
SU^-» TUKS.
“DO YOUR DUTY”
W.tu chakees
B4WSON and CHAREEh
WED.. THURS.. EKI SAT.
MILTON SILLS
—lit—'
“The Crash”
With THEEMA TODD COMING—COEEEEN MOORE in “LILAC TIME
ORPHEUM
SUN., MON. AND TUES.
>ov. 4, 5 and 6
Lili Damita
New E«-opean Sensatimhia “FORBIDDEN LOVE
U F1) THURS-, VRE	SAT’
WH1> .	« - 8 9 and 10
r.s x BUSHMAN and JACQUEE .
FRANCES N. ivroGAx in
“THE CHARGE OF THE GAUCHOS”
One Of the year’s reallyfine^^L-
218
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The GREATEST portables ever made
New Victor
“ORTHOPHONIC”
• JUST ARRIVED!
Another new model "ORTHOPHONIC” Portable [without Automatic Stop]—only $25 GWSrcai.
’04-06 S. MICH. SOUTH BEND
Dorit Experiment • with your Appearance
AT THE BEST MEN’S SHOP
•J»	& i' **• •>	*;* «j«	«j«
❖	The Scholastic is now on sale ❖
*	every week at the newsstand in the *
*	Cafeteria.	❖
❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖ ❖	H. A. S., JR.	*
*♦*
More and more the game with Carnegie Tech takes on added significance. One wonders whether tradition will crash in dust or whether the great game with Northwestern three years ago will be repeated. Tech has the finest team in its history and from the way things look now it seems that they ■will be undefeated, at least until they meet Notre Dame on Cartier field.
* * *
' “Moon” Mullins is deserving of all the recognition that the press gave him. Never having played fullback before, and with only one week’s practice at the position, he turned in a game worthy of a seasoned veteran.
v
You have got to hand it to the line, however. On offense the holes it opened up were large enough to drive the proverbial truck through.
“The grandstands cheer as the back breaks clear;
They rave and they shout, ‘That’s fine’;
But scarcely a soul knows who made that hole
Down there in the muck of the line.” . ❖ * ❖
Joe Nash looked as shifty and fast as most backs when he intercepted that pass and scored.	.
Predicted score for tomorrow’s game: Notre Dame, 13; Penn State, 0.
VARSITY BASKETBALL STARTS
More than forty candidates for Varsity basketball reported last Thursday afternoon to Coach George Keogan. Practice began Monday and will be held three times a week, with daily workouts beginning the middle of November.
The quintet this year will be led by Joe Jachym and Frank Crowe, both forwards. All of last year’s stars with the exception of Bob Hamilton have returned along with several very promising sophomore candidates.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ON THE ENEMY’S ❖ ❖	TRAIL	❖
*	J. G. p.	*
The cream of last Saturday’s football crop of battles was the Army-Yale struggle. It was a battle of titans in which the Army mule kicked the Bulldog all over his home kennel, the Yale bowl, by the score of 18-6. The flying heels and elusive hips of Christian K. Cagle were directly responsible for two of the Army’s touchdowns, and indirectly for the third six-pointer. Both Cagle and Captain Sprague performed in all-American fashion, until the big tackle was forced to leave the game in the third quarter with an injury. To-morrow, the cadets will scrimmage DePauw in preparation for the annual reception accorded Notre Dame at New York.
* * *
Another important contest on the Eastern grid card for last week was the Pittsburgh-Carnegie Tech battle, in which the Tartans emerged the victor by a 6-0 count. These two traditional rivals always put on a bloody fight, and this year’s carnival was no exception. The game simply marks another climb upward on the pari of Tech’s march to football supremacy, confidence, or cockiness, as the case may be.
Sn WW
THE CLOTHES. HATS,
SHOES, SHIRTS, CRAVATS, HOSE AND WOOL ITEMS
DEVELOPED BY FINCHLEY
FOR SPRING WILL
BE EXHIBITED AT
PARK CASTLE TAILOR Wednesday and Thursday November 7th and 8th.
Joe Sheehan, Rep.
FIFTH AVENUE JACKSON BLVD.
NEW YORK	CHICAGO
It was Homecoming Day at Penn State and this factor probably inspired the Lions to achieve an unexpected 6-6 tie with Syracuse. Penn State completely outplayed their visitors throughout the entire game, but not until the final period did they cross the Orange goal.
HOTEL WOOOJTOCE
127 West 43rd Street—Just East of Broadway NEW YORK CITY
In the Midst of Theatres and All Activities
DAILY DATES—NENE El IC Ei ED
/ For One—$*.99— *.59— 3.99
Rooms with Running Water I por	3,50— 4.00
Rooms with Private Rath
/ For One—	3.59— $.99
\ For Two— 5.99— 5.59— 9.99
A Short Walk West of Grand Central Terminal
220
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE CORRECT GUESSERS OF THE DRAKE SCORE WERE
I MORAN
-514 E. HOWARD ST.
ED MULVILLE
246 BADIN HALL
—o—
STOP IN AND GUESS ON THE PENN STATE SCORE. $25 IN MERCHANDISE FREE.
*
.. ■ ■
The Gravure Section of the News-Times contains action pictures of the game.
On sale at the News Stands
THE NEWS-TIMES
GYM SHOES SWEAT SHIRTS
BERMAN’S
“If it comes from Berman’s it must be good.”
SOUTH BEND’S STORE FOR N. D. MEN.
126 North Michigan Street
RADIO	RIFLES
B
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
221
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
“MOM TIME” This is the Chrysanthemum Season
Send your flower orders home through the Notre Dame’s man’s florist
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
Flowers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice.
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE. TELEPHONE 3-5149
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARINGHOUSE BANKS
Save on Socks!
3 pairs of 50c Real Silk Socks
INDIANA TRUST COMPANY
(sub-standards)
for $1
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
This special offer starts Saturday, Oct. 22nd, and lasts through Nov. 10th. They are our regular 50c Real Silk sock (sub-standards) in plain and fancy silk and wool and fancy silk. They’re cheap at 50c a pair—and a real value of 3 pairs for $1—at Wyman’s hosiery counter.
122 N. Main St.
I ■ - - ■	■
WYMAN’S
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
H. M. SAWYER & SON
East Cambridge
(Maiers of Gotaiat Oiled Clethait since IMO)
SAWYER’S Slickers are obtainable at men’s stores, haberdashers and department stores
Get yours—TODAY
Get Into A
FROG BRAND SLICKER
THEY are all over the Campus!
On “Eds” and “Co-Eds”— SAWYER’S Frog Brand Slickers are the predominant feature of a rainy day. Wise upper-classmen know and under-classmen soon learn that for warmth and protection, SAWYER’S Slickers are the best bet.
Mass.
Office: 3-6978
Residence 3-6741
Dr. Leo 1 Quinlan
DENTIST
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
GILBRO’S
Formerly Army Store '	330 S. Michigan St.
CROMPTON’S Blue, Grey or Brown CORDUROYS.$2.95
MONARCH-MADE Sheepskin Lined COATS, heavy waterproof top ...........  $6.48
VARSITY Brand Guaranteed SLICKERS.........$4.95
ARMY FIELD SHOES.$3.45
Double Soles, $3.85,
“— ..........................
Dr. Frank M. Powers
University Physician
;--- "	-...	.... A
PHONE 3-1254
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
261 ASSOCIATES BLDG.
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
223
utnma cum
Does it rain on the Grand Banks?
SPEAK to the trainer, the coach, the doctor, or the physiology professor. Theyll tell you that there is a no more
Rain and sleet and spray are all in the day’s work for Fish Brand Slickers. They’ve covered the backs of deep-sea fishermen for 92 years.
The famous “Varsity” model is built of the same sturdy stuffs. It’s a handsome coat, full-lined, with big, book-carrying pockets that won’t rip. Strap-collar or plain, buttons or buckles, and your choice of colors.
If you want a lighter, dressier slicker, there’s the “Topper”—smartly cut and finely tailored.
Tower’s Slickers are sold everywhere. Look for the Fish Brand mark. A. J. Tower Company, Boston, Massachusetts.
healthful habit than
your daily two biscuits of
kJ o < a i-
Shredded Wheat WITH MILK OR CREAM
When making purchases, remember that our advertisers deserve your patronage.
Z===^===============?
IT PAYS TO LOOK WELL
SOUTH SHORE
BARBER SHOP
Botkin & Campbell, Props.
SIX CHAIRS SERVICE
105 West LaSalle Street
Next door to East Victoria Lunch.
V
224
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE UNIVERSITY LAUNDRY Back of Main Building
Launderers to the Particular Student
PAY CASH or HAVE IT CHARGED to your account
Socks Mended
Buttons Sewed On
y	■	■	-■
Hotel LaSalle Barber Shop
Accomplished Service
SIX EXPERT BARBERS MANICURE
]H[eRE’S a good business proposition! Invest in a Remington Portable and reap dividends in the form of bigger and better rest at night.
Much faster than writing by hand, this little Remington enables you to finish your long reports or theses—not fall asleep trying to finish them. Not only that, but think how
Remington Portable
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
Notre Dame University
Remington-Rand Business Service, Inc. 221 West Washington St., South Bend, Indiana
COLLEGIATE STYLES ARE HERE
Ask to see the Swanky—Hit and Hickoff—all imported Scotch grain—$6.00 and $7.00.
much neater and more business-like they look when typewritten!
Examine the Remington Portable. It is the smallest, lightest, most compact and
most dependable portable with standard keyboard. (Carrying case only 4 inches high. Weighs 8^2 pounds, net.)
Monthly payments.
The Recognized Leader — in Sales and Popularity.
N. D. Men Always Welcome. You’ll be delighted.
BEACON SHOE STORE
114 West Washington Avenue
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
*
Mr. McMurray Waxes Poetic over Tobacco
Carrollton, Texas ■ May 15,1928
Lams & Bro. Co., Richmond, Va. Gentlemen:
Having been a user of Edgeworth for over eight years, I can truthfully say that it is the best on earth. I am enclosing a little ditty that I believe expresses my sentiments entirely:
Old Man Joy and Old Man Trouble Went out for a walk one day.
I happened to pass when they met on the street
And I overheard them say,
Said Old Man Trouble, “She’s as wrong as she can be, There ain’t no fun in anything to me, why
I was just talking’ to Old Man Sorrow,
And he says the world will end tomorrow.”
Then Old Man Joy he started to grin,
And I saw him bring out that OLD BLUE TIN, Then OLD JOHNNY BRIAR was next on the scene, And he packed him full from the
OLD BLUE TIN, And I heard him say as he walked away, “You have to have a smoke screen every day.
When a man gets the blues, and he needs a friend, He can find consolation in the OLD
BLUE TIN, And I jist don’t believe on all this earth There’s a thing that’ll match good old EDGEWORTH.”
Yours very truly, F. H. McMurray
Edgeworth Extra High Grade Smoking Tobacco
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT “ OUR STORE IS THE
of South Bend
The character of the suits and overcoats tailored by Charter House will earn your most sincere liking.
MAX ADLER CO.
South Bend, Indiana
When making purchases, remember that our advertisers deserve your patronage.
Illllll
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Real Folks at Home (The Fire Eater)	By briggs
r
r
O r. UriM CX. Brt. I»
not a cough in a carload

