THE MIDE DAME
SCMOLOSTIC
NEWS
Hughes to Speak at Senior Banquet . . . Commencement Plans Announced . . . Preview of '38 'Dome' . . . Final Radio Show . . . The Week . . . College Parade.
- SPORTS
Basebailers to Play Northwestern ... Spartan Thinlies Here Tomorrow . . . Nickmen Overwhelm Ohio State . . . Introducing . . . Splinters.
ARTHUR J. HUGHES
Welcomes Seniors into Alumni Association
May 13, 1938
2
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
Want to Get Away from it All?
• The fastest, cheapest way to get “from here to there” is via South Shore Line, whether you’re going for a week-end or a summer vacation. There are so many South Shore Line trains that one is sure to be leaving at exactly the right time for your plans — and every one of them “gets you there” in quick time.
Call C. W. Veach, City Passenger Agent, phone 3-3111. or stop in at 301 N. Michigan Street, South Bend, for information about fares, rates and schedules to any destination. We can sell you through railroad tickets, arrange puIlman reservations, and take care of all the other details.
The Palm Beach Evening Formal
Why borrow the other fellow’s tux when a new Palm Beach Evening formal can be had for 020. Single or double-breasted white jacket with shawl lapels... pleated black trousers with satin stripes... unlined and unpadded—but shape-retaining. Immaculately cool though the date and the doings are hot. Easily washed or cleaned...and an outstanding value at
Ask your clothier to show you the new Airtones and whites in Palm Beach suits ($17.75); slacks ($5.50)
EROM THt ii it Bill H » CUbTH
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE AND SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
50Uthnseh°R[
IF IT BEARS THIS LABEL— IT’S GENUINE PALM BEACH
GOODALL COMPANY* CINCINNATI
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188
Vol. 71	May 13, 1938	No. 25
APOSTOLIC DELEGATE TO GIVE BACCALAUREATE SERMON AT COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES
By George Haithcock
His Excellency, the Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, D.D., Apostolic
Delegate to the United States, who will 100th anniversary of the founding of preach the baccalaureate sermon at the Sunday morning, June 5th, in connection with the 94th annual Commencement Exercises.
Terence B. Cosgrove, Notre Dame alumnus and Los Angeles attorney, will deliver the commencement address when the degrees are awarded to the members of the class of 1938 at the closing exercises on Sunday afternoon. Most Rev. Bernard J. Sheil, D.D., auxiliary bishop of Chicago, will pontificate at the baccalaureate Mass which will be celebrated at a temporarily erected altar in the University gymnasium.
The international celebration of the centenary of the Congregation of Holy Cross was held at Le Mans, France, last November and was marked by the reconsecration of the Chapelle de Notre Dame de Sainte Croix at the original motherhouse of the congregation. The Notre Dame celebration in commemoration of the centennial will be a part of the annual commencement exercises.
Mr. Cosgrove was graduated from the Law School at Notre Dame in. 1906. The following year he received his LL.M, degree from the Yale University Law School. After serving for three years on the faculty at the University of Illinois Law school he went to San Diego and opened up a law office, where he remained until 1919.
Since 1919 Mr. Cosgrove has been practicing in Los Angeles. He has had considerable experience in representing muncipalities and political subdivisions and has specialized in municipal and private corporation law.
The Commencement Exercises will open Friday, June 3rd, with the registration of the alumni who are gathering for annual reunions and the three-day activities will close with the awarding of the degrees on Sunday afternoon.
In place of the usual visit of the (Continued on Page 23)
visit Notre Dame in recognition of the the Congregation of Holy Cross, will Solemn Pontifical Mass to be celebrated
Terence B. Cosgrove, ll.b. ’06 To give Commencement address.
Dean Konop to Teach Labar Law Course
Dean Thomas F. Konop of the College of Law will teach a new course starting next September on the subject of Labor Laws. The new course, which is for two semester hours of credit, will remain permanently on the Law College schedule, and will be taught yearly.
Dean Konop, commenting on the moral responsibility and legality of labor law said: “From experience and observation I find that there are many graduates of our law schools and lawyers that pay little attention to the study of this subject. Comparatively a small number are prepared to properly advise employers and employees on their rights and responsibilities. Comparatively few are acquainted with the practice and procedure before boards and commissions which administer the laws.
“It is hoped that the graduates of
KNIGHTS BALL SET FOR MAY 20
By Joseph Miller
The Night of Knights, a perfect evening for all of the loyal brothers, will again be the theme in the celebration of the annual K. of C. Formal Ball. This affair, considered one of the outstanding social events of the year, is to be held on the evening of May 20th, at the Columbia Athletic Club. C. Richard Jenney, general chairman, announced that the song selected for the occasion is “Underneath a Campus Moon,” composed by Arthur Davidson. Charlie Gaylord and his orchestra will play for the dancing between 8:30 and 12:00.
The committee chairmen named by Grand Knight James L. Quinn are: Tickets, Edmund R. Haggar; Music, Robert E. LeMire; Programs, Francis B. Kelley; Patrons, Robert P. Leonard; Guests, Fredrick ' W. Honer-kamp; Publicity, Donald F. Currier; Reception, Timothy R. King; Arrangements, James E. Rocap; Decorations, Paul R. Psik; and Door, co-chairmen Edward Jacobs and James R. Veeneman.
The bids for the dance are two and a half dollar per couple. Tickets may be secured from any member or at the Council chambers. William V. “Spud” O’Brien will sing the featured song at the dance.
The annual K. of C. picnic is to be held Sunday, May 15th. Dewey Lake has been selected as the site by Chairman William Fish. All reservations are to be made by Saturday with either the chairman or with the financial secretary, George Morris.
EDITORSHIPS
The Faculty Board of Publications invites applications for editorships of The Scholastic, the Dome, and Scrip for the schoolyear 1938-39. Candidates should state their academic rating, qualitative average, experience and other qualifications. Letters should be mailed not later than Tuesday, May 17 to the chairman of the board, Reverend Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C., 328 Main Building.
the Notre Dame College of Law will be better prepared and equipped to act as advisers in industrial and labor relations, and to practice before the National Labor Relations Board and other administrative tribunals.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ELECTION DELAY GIVES OPPOSING FACTIONS CHANCE TO STRENGTHEN PARTY LINES
By Graham Starr
Political campaign heat became more intense this week as election days were set for Tuesday and Wednesday, May 17, and 18, five days later than the originally scheduled election date, May 12. In the extra time parties were strengthening old party lines, and trying to snag a few extra members to gain the balance of power.
One of the unique pieces of campaign propaganda of this year was the crossword puzzle distributed by the O’Melia (senior) adherents last week. Some of the 100 squares were already filled in with the words “Red O’Melia for senior class president” in red ink.
After reading the Rocap “press release” last week, the O’Melians made this statement:
“We’ll wait until the Rocap faction solves that crossword puzzle before issuing any press releases.”
A clever poster made by one of the lower class office aspirants depicted the candidates as members of the famous dwarf squad in “Snow White.”
John R. Kelley, in charge of the elections, stated that sophomore finals will be run off on May 17 in Carroll Rec, while the junior and senior skirmishes will take place in the lower lobby of the dining hall on May 18.
Half of the following will be elected on those days:
For the senior class: Richard “Red” O’Melia, president; Carl J. Nagel, vice president; Robert M. Or-tale, secretary; Edward J. Disser, treasurer; Fred Digby, J. R. “Pat” Gorman, Louis Bemish, Daniel Murphy, and Dick Garab, S.A.C.
Jim Rocap, president; Carl Fricke, vice president; Walt Short, secretary; Tom Schriner, treasurer; Bob Hoag, Tom Hogan, Bob Huether, Jim Johnson, and Bill Rieke, S.A.C.
For the junior class: Bob Sullivan and Joe Cummings, president; Benny Sheridan, and Bud Gentner, vice president; Johnnie Flannigan and Bernie Masterson, secretary; Phil Sandmaier, and Bob Brady, treasurer; Bill Coleman and Roy Anton, one year S. A. C.; Tom Donahue, Jerry Donovan, Neil Geary, and Tom Duffy two-year S.A.C.
For the sophomore class: Joe Mulligan, president; George Rassas, vice president; Andy Pinckney, secretary; Bill Wilson, treasurer; Bob Olden-bach, S.A.C.
Ray Quinn, president; Chuck Dillon, vice-president; John F. O’Loughlin, secretary; Edward Shevlin, treasurer; Maurice Ziegenhorn, S.A.C.
John Kelley
“The boys will have to wait.”
Senior-Alumni Banquet To be Held Monday
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University; Mr. Arthur J. Hughes, past president of the Alumni Association; and Mr. John C. O’Connor, Indianapolis, president of the Class of 1938, will comprise the speaking program at the Senior-Alumni banquet on Monday, May 16.
For a number of years the graduates have joined the returning alumni at the annual alumni banquet on the Saturday night of the Commencement weekend. Circumstances of an expanding program have made this increasingly inconvenient. So this year, after conferences of all interested groups, it was decided to hold the Senior-Alumni banquet separately. The Alumni banquet at Commencement will be exclusively for returning alumni, and resident alumni who are members of the returning classes.
The banquet for the seniors will be held in the University Dining Halls at 7 p.m. on Monday.
Mr. William E. Cotter, president of the Alumni Association, is chairman of the industrial committee of the Greater New York Fund, which reaches the peak of its annual campaign in New York City next week, and as a consequence will not be able to attend the banquet. Officers of administration and deans of the Colleges of the University will be guests, in addition to the Class of 1938.
Music for the occasion will be furnished by the Modernaires.
LAST RADIO SHOW TO BE HELD TONIGHT
By John C. Fernedinq
Tonight, silence will reign throughout the audience in Washington Hall, spot lights will be focussed, and the show will be on, introducing the “Little Jamboree,” the last radio program of the school year which will ride the WSBT air waves from 7:00 to 8:00 p.m. (N.D. Time)
The program this year will be under* the direction of Phil McHugh, who will preside as master of ceremonies of the evening.
The “Little Jamboree,” will present a brief review of the entire year-in radio at Notre Dame and will be divided into four sections: Music, Dramatics, Commentators, and Special Events.
The guest stars of the evening will be Elmer- Layden, head director of athletics, and Lee Douglas, local announcer whose famous WFAM “Wax Works” program gently awakes you each morning with a bit of sophisticated swing.
Mike Mandjiak and his famous “Four Horsemen of Swing” who nearly blasted the old ghost out of Washington Hall during their performance in the 1938 Monogram Absurdities, will be on the program with plenty of hot licks from Gene Krupa’s twin brother, Bill Dunham, and a large repertoire of new number on hand. “The Modernaires,” who furnished the music for those dainty 200 - pound lassies, who gracefully flitted back and forth across the footlights during the “Absurdities,” will also be present to stage a real jam session for those student of swing.
The other- half of the music program will lean slightly towards the classical side, starting off with. Tom Tierney, who will sing a few numbers and finishing with several piano selections presented by Bill Mooney, who will play Ravell’s “Bolero,” and Carl Hunn, who will introduce a new tune sent in by Geraldine O’Vaney, an ardent “Little Jamboree” fan.
Individual talent will also be given a chance to express itself during this fast-moving radio review in which the entire staff takes part. Those participating are: Jack Solon, Art Mulhern, Ray Sadalier, Norbert Aleksis, Bob Blake, Walt Hagen, Ed O’Connor, Bob Brown, Burley Grimes, and many others.
At 6:45 tonight the deadline is set for those of you who will want to see this “Little Jamboree” program go on the air, for the doors will have to be closed in order that all directions for the student’s part in the program may be given before time.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
EMPLOYMENT BUREAU IS CLUB WORK
1938 "DOME" TO BE RELEASED MAY 24. 25; ANGULAR DESIGN FEATURES EDITION
The last meeting of the Propeller Club had for its purpose the establishment of something new on the campus at Notre Dame. While Tom Crowley, president of the club, was in New York during the Easter vacation he spoke to the honorary national president, Mr. Arthur Tode. Mr. Tode was very interested in the club and was kind enough to submit the outline of a plan for the formation of an employment agency for the graduating members of the Propeller Club. These plans were submitted to the club for their approval by Mr. Crowley.
After stressing the noticeable absence of such an organization on the campus at present for the commerce men, Crowley laid forth the ideas given him by Mr. Tode. The plan will center about a list of the major commercial business in the country and especially in New York, employing men for the foreign commerce field. Such a list will be sent to the club by Mr. Tode. A form containing the necessary information about the applicant will be sent to the personnel manager of each of these organizations. This will be followed by letters from the individual applicants about three times a year. Personal interviews will be arranged through this means.
The main purpose of such a plan is to give the members a tangible means of obtaining positions when they leave the school. Many of the major universities of the country have such organizations at the present time. Mr. Tode showed that there is a pressing need for this at every university and especially •where so many graduate each year without any plans or hopes of attaining positions and without knowing where to look for employment.
At the same meeting election of officers for the coming year was held. Charles Colgan was unanimously elected as president. It was he that inaugurated the port here on the campus. Joseph Harrington is vice-president; Joseph Leising, treasurer; and Joseph Hanin, secretary.
EMPLOYMENT
The Educators Association is offering summer time employment in sales work to a number of Notre Dame students. The association guarantees a $150.00 income for six weeks’ work. Students interested in securing these positions can obtain additional information by calling at Room 303, Howard Hall.
Originality in design with unique angular patterns and accentuated sketches will be the motif of the 1938 Dome, the thirty-second edition of the campus yearbook published by the Junior Class of Notre Dame. Editor Frank Reppen-hagen announced that Senior Ball pictures were rushed to the publishers in
Editor Reppenhagen
One year of work. . .
Crooks Recital Lures Large Audience
Richard Crooks, famous radio, opera and concert singer, thrilled a capacity audience of 3,000 persons in the Notre Dame Field House last Friday evening with a splendid concert of classical selections whose contrasting themes lent beautiful expression to the program.
Particularly impressive was the German Lieder from Schubert’s “Die Schone Mullerin,” to which Mr. Crooks added in encore “None But the Lonely Heart,” and arias from Lalo’s “Le Roi d’Ys” and Massenet’s “Manon.” During the three series of the program, Mr. Crooks responded to popular applause with several encores, these including Schubert’s “Serenade,” an aria from the Last Act of “La Tosca,” and his own operatic arrangement ’ of “Old Mother Hubbard.”
Mr. Frederick Schauwecker, who assisted Mr. Crooks at the piano, rendered as the third series of the program, Arensky’s “Nocturne,” Rachmaninoff’s “Prelude,” Chopin’s “Nocturne,” and Sibelius’ “La Fileuse.”
Proceeds from the benefit concert were distributed to the music funds of the South Bend Symphony orchestra association and the Music department of Notre Dame.
Milwaukee early this week to start the presses rolling after completion of the final section in the annual book. With the plates in the hands of the publishers, it is expected that the yearbooks will hit the campus in fifteen days for the release dates officially announced as Tuesday and Wednesday, May 24 and 25.
This year’s cover, done in imitation leather with a forceful heavy grain, > will have its traditional color scheme somewhat modified by an egg-shell gray base with a Vandyke brown overtone. Smooth colors are to be featured for the prints and designs in the inside leaves, with proportionate shadows enhancing the pleasing appearance of photographs recording the past year’s activities at Notre Dame. Junior pictures have been arranged in parallelogrammatic series, each page containing two series of twelve pictures, to add a distinctive note of originality to the volume.
Student work, sketches, etchings, caricatures, and candid camera shots will characterize the artistic illustra-
James Raaf . . . soon to tenfold.
tions of the book. The Dome has been divided into six comprehensive sections, including an enlarged index carefully compiled by Paul Helmuth, administrative editor. Index references to individuals in club pictures have also been added.
Staff members who combined their efforts in creating this year’s publication, which surpassed the high standards created in former years, include: Frank Reppenhagen, Editor-in-Chief; Jim Raaf, Managing Editor; Bill Waters, Organization Editor; Mark Mitchell, Sports Editor; John Short-all and Bill Fay, Humor Editors;
(Continued on Page 8)
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
"STEW" ROCHE MACHINE SWEEPS OPPOSITION IN LAWYERS BALLOT BOX BROIL
An avalanche of votes and the backing of a powerful campus-town political
machine swept the entire “Stew” Roche slate into the driver’s seat of the Notre Dame Law club for the ensuing year in a bitterly fought election over
the strong Martin Husung faction last Wednesday morning. Roche, a junior
lawyer from Hart, Mich., spearheaded the entire slate into office. Others carried into office on the crest of the Roche victory were Frank Donlon, Endicott, N. Y., elected vice-president; John Deane, Milwaukee, Wis.-, secretary; Edward Grogan, Bellaire, L. I., N. Y., treasurer; and Ernest Lanois, LaPorte, Ind., S.A.C. representative.
In the S.A.C. election, Lanois, although one of several powerful figures in the Roche machine, scored a surprising win over Harvey Foster of the Husung ticket.
In a statement Wednesday Stewart Roche promised an efficient and active administration stressing activities in conjunction with the annual Hoynes banquet, the Law club dance, and a proposed Law club picnic as well as suggesting several educational features and renewed student interest in The Lawyer, official publication of the College of Law. Roche complimented the Husung faction as well as the Malloy party for making it an
Grogan and Deane
Personality wins for them.
interesting race free from any backbiting and annoying animosities.
The trimphant victory of the Roche slate in the primaries Monday, observers pointed out, resulted from the ■well laid plans of Samuel Borzilleri, Rochester, N. Y., and Theodore Prek-owitz, South Bend, Ind., whose campus-town coalition overcame all ob-stacF^s to eventual victory Wednesday. The Malloy party almost caused a major upset by coming within one vote of the Martin Husung ticket on Monday.
A board of twelve men was selected this week by Professor William D. Rollison, faculty advisor of The Lawyer, to name the editor of the publication. Three candidates this week were discussed for the position. They were Frank Lanigan, Dave Gelber, and John O’Leary.
Roche and Donlon Sam, Ted, matches plus. . .
Dr, Goldblatt to Talk On da Vinci Monday
•
Dr. Maurice Goldblatt, international known authority on matters of music and art, whose judgment in matters of art is accepted as final in the great art centers of the United States, England, and France, will deliver a lecture on “Leonardo da Vinci and his Works,” Monday evening May 16, in Washington Hall.
Recognized authority on the works of da Vinci as well as many of the other great masters Dr. Goldblatt, has been instrumental many times in recovering lost masterpieces and detecting supposedly prized art treasures.
At present Dr. Goldblatt, is director of the Wightman Art Galleries here at the University, and has been connected with the faculty of Chicago College of Music. Dr. Goldblatt also has won success in research in the chemistry of color to aid in his work of judging paintings. The degree of Doctor of Laws was bestowed upon Dr. Goldblatt by the University • of Notre Dame in 1934.
Four years ago, while doing research work in Europe, Dr. Goldblatt discovered about 50 pictures by Andrea Salai, which had been lost for many years. Up to this time Salai was credited with but half a dozen extant works.
Not only is Dr. Goldblatt distinguished as an art critic, but also as a musician. For a number of years he played first violin in the Chicago Symphony orchestra, and has composed a number of works.
MUSCLEMEN CAPERS WOW SPECTATORS
•
An anemic-looking drummer, who played havoc with the battery in the Krupa fashion, an original song about St. Mary’s, and a group of weaving, swaying, and swishing athletes paced by Lou “Piano Legs” Zontini, caused the crowds who attended the four performances of the Notre Dame Monogram Absurdities last week-end to regretfully leave with joy in their hearts and praise on their lips.
The Four Horsemen of Swing w h i r 1 i n g “China Boy” until he cracked, the octette singing “St. Mary’s on a Sunday Afternoon,” the chorus and Zontini in Egyptianella, the thespianic triumph of Joe “One Horse” Race, and the mad capers of Paul Psik would cause those stiff, gloomy lines of Ned Sparks’ dead pan to change into happy curlicues of laughter.
Centering their plot around the idea that Notre Dame is more than a football school and that this should be revealed to the parents of prospective students, continuity writers Ed Fulham and Phil McHugh united the various skits into a smooth-running show.
Not only the boys who appeared on the stage and pleased the audience by their witty performances, but also those unseen workers behind the curtains who kept the events flowing smoothly, deserve every bit of praise possible for putting on as fine a show as Washington Hall has seen in a long time.
Dr, Gurian on Marxism
Already attracting considerable attention is The Rise and Decline of Marxism, the latest book written by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of political science of the University of Notre Dame.
Established as a recognized authority in the study of Marxian doctrines, Dr. Gurian in The Rise and Decline of Marxism carefully probes into the underlying facts which have accounted for the popularity and the following swift decay of Karl Marx’s Socialistic principles. The author, in tracing the movement, points out that Marxism contains within the seeds of its own decay which has led to its inevitable failure to provide for a type of ethical government to which human beings are entitled.
In the preface to the latest edition of The Rise and Decline of Marxism, Dr. Gurian .states that the latest developments further ratify his thesis —a fact which the Socialists are prone to acknowledge although they must realize this themselves.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
WRANGLERS ACCEPT NEW MEMBERS
•
Twelve applicants were permitted to enter the esoteric chambers of the Wranglers, Thursday evening, May 5, in the Law Building, to “have their say,” and thereby be judged as to their eligibility for the campus’ exclusive and outstanding honorary forensic society. Only three yearlings passed the requisite tests.
• Milton Williams, freshman from Elkhart, Indiana; Ralph Gerra, first-year man from Brooklyn; and Jerry Flynn, sophomore of interhall debating fame, were admitted into the society. Membership choice fell upon the shoulders of these three men after a heated controversy within the Wrangler ranks had whittled the twelve prospects down to the successful trio.
A membership committee composed of Vince DeCoursey and Bill McVay, under the direction of prexy Bill Mahoney, had previously made a campus survey for the purpose of rounding up all eligible students for the forensic organization. Membership specifications require of all candidates participation in any activity being of a public speaking nature.
All students desiring to apply for the Wranglers membersip in the fall are urged to gather experience in the public speaking line by trying out for either the interhall or University varsity debating teams.
Senior Invitations
Commencement invitations given each year by the University to the members of the graduating class may be secured at the Alumni Office in the Administration Building beginning Saturday morning, May 14.
Each senior is allowed ten invitations without charge but no additional invitations can be secured. Seniors must call for their invitations in person.
The Alumni Office will be open from 8 until 12 Saturday, and from 8 until 4 on weekdays. Saturday, May 21, will be the last day for securing these invitations.
Four tickets each, for the Mass and for the Commencement, will be given to each senior for members of his immediate family. Admission for other guests of the seniors, for the alumni, and for friends of the University other than these groups, will be without tickets. The use of the University gymnasium provides ample facilities for everyone. The tickets are used to insure preferred seats for the families of the graduates, and will be available Commencement week-end, June 3-4-5.
Varsity-Old Timers Game Recalls Scene of Great Battle to Shadowy Figure
By William C. Fay i
Far below the blue and green shirts were skidding on the wet grass. Rain washed through the stadium puddling everywhere, but the short man in black oilskins and turndown brim was huddled dry in the protected lee where the scorehoard angles against the stadium wall. He puffed at his pipe and crowded up against the wall companionably to make room for me.
“Nice day for the game,, eh?” he observed.
“Rotten.”
“H-m-m. Well, maybe. I suppose it’s all in the way you look at it. Me, I always like a rainy wet game.
The Old Master
Gives a personal lesson.
Seems to me the players fight harder.”
“And never get anywhere.”
“Wouldn’t say that. Take that Navy game last year. Snow’s worse than rain, anytime. But I remember Puplis got away a couple of times in that last quarter.”
The blue and green shirts jumbled again. “They’re not getting away down there.”
“That’s because they’re not blocking. Every team has to.block. That’s why I like a wet field. It’s harder to block; it’s harder to make the plays go. Each man has to block-block-block and keep blocking until finally all the blocks work at once. Then you see a back splash away for a touchdown.” He knocked his pipe out against the wall. “Guess you didn’t see the Army game in ’30, did you, sonny?”
“No, sir.”
“You’d know what I mean if you had. The mud was ankle deep. Schwartz was a mudder, but he wasn’t running in that muck. No score at the half. Brill and Mullins slashed and slashed; but the Army held hard. No score at the third quarter. But that Carideo was a smart boy. He just kept punting the Army deep, and when the Army punted back he had our boys blocking for Schwartz. It was tough going, but they stuck to it. Once
Schwartz was almost away when he fell flat on his pants in a puddle. Then—bang—Army was back in the trenches and Marchie was down under the goal posts with six points. That touchdown was worth six on a sunshiny day. And that’s why I like the rain. It brings out the fight in a team.”
“Think that bunch down there will ever learn to block like that?”
“They might, sonny, they might. They’re a pretty green team. But a green team can develop. Take that ’30 outfit I was talking about a minute ago. They were a green bunch, too—almost lost their opening game to Southern Methodist. But they were a block-block-block outfit, and pretty soon along about the middle of the season they were knocking over this big Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania tackles.”
“They were real blockers—”
“And tacklers, too. Take that same Army game. After Carideo converted, the Army started a little block - block - block campaign of its own. First thing you know Carideo’s kicking out from our own ten, and a guy named King blocks the kick and recovers the ball for a touchdown. There was plenty of fight in that Army team.”
“But Broshus missed the conversion.”
“Missed it! Listen, sonny, that ’30 line was tough. There were seven chests in front of that ball before it got off the ground. I had a pretty good look at that play, but even I don’t know who really blocked that ball.”
“You really liked that ’30 team, didn’t you?”
“Like them, sonny! Well, yes, I guess I did. They were the greatest team I ever coached.”
Southern Cal Men Win
At a brief meeting of the California Club last Monday-night the annual election of officers was held. The new officers elected are: Tom Foye, president; Jim Bernard, vice-president; Tom Murphy, secretary; Dave Bernard, treasurer; and Craig Sims, sergeant-at-arms. All of the new of- ~ ficers except Sims graduated from Loyola High School in Los Angeles. It is the first time in the history of the club that all of the officers have been from the southland.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CLASSICISTS DISCUSS ANCIENT WORLD
Grecian and Roman authors of old were seen hovering above and about the Law building last Saturday morning intent upon hearing every scrap of sound which might drift through an open window. The reason for their mysterious behavior was the fifth annual meeting of the classical teachers of the colleges of Indiana, who had gathered at Notre Dame to compare notes. Present at this year’s meeting were professors from Indiana University, St. Mary’s College, St. Joseph’s College, DePauw University, Indiana State Teacher’s College, Ball State Teacher’s and Notre Dame.
The meeting, under the direction of Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C., was divided into two sessions, one in the morning and the other in the afternoon. The morning session was held on our campus, while the latter took place at St. Mary’s College. Many papers dealing exclusively of classical topics were delivered and discussed at both of these sessions.
These meetings originated five years ago when Professor S. E. Stout of Indiana University sent out invitations to the various Hoosier colleges. It was suggested at this first meeting that similar meetings should be held annually with the members volunteering as hosts from year to year. Despite the fact that there is no formal organization, the members have been so enthusiastic about these meetings that they have been held yearly without difficulty.
Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., of the University of Notre Dame delivered a paper at the morning session entitled “Exposure of Infants in the Ancient World.” Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C., also of this University, concluded the afternoon session with a paper on “St. Basil and Pagan Literature.”
Indianapolis Election
William Barton, a junior in engineering, was elected president of the Indianapolis club at a meeting of the club last Thursday night. After two ballots had been taken the two nominees, Barton and Thomas Bulger, were in a deadlock. The ten o’clock bell was calling and Mr. Bulger withdrew in favor of his opponent who was chosen unanimously.
It was erroneously reported in last week’s Scholastic that Jim Rocap was opposing Barton. Jim is having all he can handle in the political line being a candidate for the Senior class presidency.
Man About the Campus
Clairville Richard Jenney, Jr., who claims the distinctive tag of being the only Notre Dame senior having a town named after1 him—the thriving metropolis of Clairville, Ohio. Chummy lingo has dropped his personal nomenclature to a mere “Dick.” Hails from Cleveland and holds the no. 1 spot among the local rooters for the Indians.
Graduated from Georgetown Prep
in Washington, D. C., then came west to enroll in Dean McCarthy’s Commerce school at Notre Dame in the fall of 1934. An innocent victim of the golf bug, Dick won three monograms in the sport during his prep school days and qualified two years in succession at the National Interscholastic Gold Tournament.
Gave up the links for readin’, writin’, ’n’ ’rithmetic at Notre Dame. Spends a good deal of his time cracking books and figuring out the in-be-tween-the-lines stuff the profs talk about. Extra-curricular activities have lured him of late.
Defeated by a close margin last year in the race for Grand Knight of the local K. of C. Council, but gained consolation in being appointed chairman for this year’s Knights Ball.
Has one ambition after receiving the sheepskin: to prove the old adage that “two can live as cheaply as one.”
THE DOME
(Continued from Page 5)
John Walsh, Activities Editor; John Starkie, Photograph Editor; and Paul Hellmuth, who organized the Administrative and Classes Sections.
Following' the custom of former years, copies of the Dome will be distributed to the students at the Railway Express Office upon presentation of requisite slips which will be mailed on May 20.
EXHIBIT OF ANTI-GOD POSTERS ATTRACTS
By Martin Donovan
A startling awareness of the momentum which anti-God societies and materialistic creeds are making in America was revealed to great numbers of Notre Dame men this week at the Anti-God Exhibit held in the University Library. The exhibit was held under the auspices of the Student’s Activity Council, in cooperation with the Religious Bulletin and the Alumni Association.
The famed exhibit consists of more than 2500 placards, handbill, magazines, photographs, pamphlets and book covers, extensively used by Communistic, Nazi, and atheistic societies in this country. It was prepared under the joint direction of John V. Hinkle, former editor of the Scholastic who is now affiliated with the New York Times, and Rev. Paul B. Ward, C.S.P., of the Pro Deo Society.
This sordid exposure of Anti-God-ism and Anti-Americanism will not soon be forgotten by the hundreds who crowded the library to see for themselves the charges attributed to Communists and all subversive movements in the United States. The exhibit reveals a mere portion of a greater hidden viciousness. Reverend Ward, C.S.P. says:
“The exhibit barely scratches the surface of God-baiting propaganda throughout the world.”
A communistic anti-God alphabet, which consisted of a series of cartoons debunking and ridiculing the Church, was a feature of the exhibit. One of these caricatures depicted a priest as a spider ready to prey upon a peasant; another insulted the Blessed Virgin, one satirized the Holy Bible, and another was entitled “A Proletarian Boot for the Holy Father.”
Many publications of Freethinkers and atheistic societies were shown. All of these works denied the existence of an All-loving Creator, and the great majority of them were distributed by The American Association for the Advancement of Atheism, Inc.
Many German publications displayed proof beyond a doubt the Godpurge now in the incipient stages in the growing German Reich. Mexican schoolbooks and papers depicted the intense radicalism of the present Mexican regime. The most bitter and savage anti-God cries came from the youth organizations. The majority of their battle calls are: “Peace strike,” “Down with the Boy Scouts” “The Catholic Church is the enemy of civilization.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MESKILL TO RUN *39 COMMERCE FORUM
THE WEEK
By Harold A. Williams
The Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel in South Bend is to be the setting for the annual Commerce Forum Banquet which is to be held Tuesday evening, May 17, as announced by Charles T. Brosius, president of the group.
The principal address will be delivered by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University. Other speakers of the evening will be Mr.
Chairman Duncan Heads banquet committee.
James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, and Mr. LeClair H. Eells, associate professor of Finance.
John Zerbst, chairman of the Board, is to act as toastmaster, and Walter Duncan has been selected as chairman of this year’s banquet.
The newly elected officers of the Commerce Forum for the school year of 1938 and 39 will be inducted. The new officers are: Dave Meskill, president; Thomas Reardon, chairman of the board; Phillip Sandmaier, secretary; Raymond Schleck, vicepresident; and Han-y Boesvert, treasurer.
Unlike the hotly contested Forum elections of the past, the year’s elections were marked by extreme peace and quiet. In fact there were no elections. Those who will hold office for next year were unopposed in their campaigning.
The new senior members are Greg Rice, George Neumann, and Joe Rizzi. James Metzler, Phillip Donahue and Herbert Connelly are to be next year’s junior members.
Charles Brosius also announced that the prizes for the Commerce Forum golf tournament, which is being held this week, will be awarded at the banquet.
All members of the College of Commerce faculty are invited as guests of the Commerce Forum.
Letter to a blind date
Dear Evangeline:
I do hope you had a good time at the Senior Ball. I am so glad that your brother suggested that I have you up instead of the girl from home. Please don’t worry about getting the dates mixed and coming up three days early. It really was fun sitting around the lobby of the Oliver trying to think of things to do. I probably would have used those cuts to do something foolish like going to Chicago for a week-end, sleeping in, or playing golf. You did surprise me by bringing your Father and Mother along. I’m glad we took them every place we went; I would have felt terrible if they had to spend the weekend sitting around their suite at the Oliver. I’m only sorry I couldn’t fix it up so they could have gone to the Ball too. It -was silly of your Father to even hint at paying for anything.
I’m terribly sorry I was so busy Saturday night that I had to desert you for such a long time. I didn’t think you missed me, though, because my roommate said you spent every minute I was gone talking about the Hitler-Mussolini conference. I wish I could have joined the discussion because I’m certainly interested in such things. I’m glad we took your advice and stayed in South Bend Saturday night because I heard that the fellows who went to Benton Harbor, St. Joe, and Michigan City, didn’t have a very good time. You’re right when you say South Bend has any other near-by town beat a mile when it come to having fun.
I think it’s perfectly grand that you thought the sermon Sunday morning was the best thing about the whole week-end. You are so different from most of the girls I know. I wish I could have you up for Commencement Week, but they have a rule around here that only the parents of the graduates can come.
Yours truly, Charley.
P.S. I hope that when you have your teeth straightened the dentist doesn’t hurt you too much!
Senior Ball aftermath
The Senior Ball is over and there is nothing left except the memories, the thank-you letter, the picturefavor, the dirty dress shirt, and the stories. We don’t have the space or the nerve to tell all the stories, but we’ll present, as a matter of policy, two typical ones.
A Senior in Alumni received a telegram from his girl which said, “Arriving Friday. Meet me at the sta-
| tion.” The fellow consulted a timetable and found that the girl could
I arrive on six different trains Friday; the first one coming in at 5:15 a.m., the last one at 6:30 p.m. He met each train—and she came in on the last train. Then there is the story about the Senior who invited his fiancee from home She wrote him that she couldn’t come, so he invited an old flame from across the road. The afternoon of the Ball the fiancee breezed in, saying airily that she had changed her mind. We haven’t heard which one the fellow took to the Ball so it remains one of those Lady-or-the-Tiger stories.
That’s about all we have to say about the Ball except we really thought Jack Denny had an excellent orchestra. We take back the mean things we said about him.
“Victory March”
One of our agents reports that he read an article in the Chicago He^hld and Examiner last week which stated that a Communist meeting held in Milwaukee opened with the playing of the “Victory March.”
Guinea pig '
Along about this time of the .year there is always a large number of nervous seniors who aren’t quite sure they’re going to graduate in June. Their graduation hinges on passing a required course, paying their bill, handing in their semester’s work, or getting back on the right side of the authorities. The usual thing. Here’s a story about a Senior whose graduation hinges on the birth of a guinea Pig-	.
According to the story as it was told to us by an excited Commerce man, there is a Senior in the Science College writing his thesis on guinea pigs. The Commerce man forgot the technical title of the thesis, but he said it had something to do with reducing the natal period of guinea pigs by feeding them a special diet or something of the sort. Anyway, the fellow has written his thesis explaining the diet and the way it works, etc. There is only one hitch. He has to prove his thesis with a guinea pig. The experiment is now under way and if the guinea pig doesn’t have babies before June 4 the fellow doesn’t graduate.
Top of the Absurdities
The catchy song “St. Mary’s on a Sunday Afternoon.” We understand even the girls across the road are humming it.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I College Parade
By John A. Callaghan
Ode to the Faculty
I once knew a fellow named Guesser Whose knowledge grew lesser and lesser.
It at last got so small He knew nothing at all, And now he’s a college professor.
—Exchange.
Ode to the Ball
Break, break, break
On thy cold stones, 0 sea;
But I bet you could break for 40 years And not be as broke as me.
—Exchange.
—o—
Ode to the Seniors
I want to be a senior
And with the seniors stand,
A fountain pen behind my ear, A notebook in my hand.
I would not be an angel For angels have to sing.
I'd rather be a senior, And never do a thing.
—Exchange.
Mr. Robert Benchley
In a book called The Early Worm, Mr. Benchley tells some startling things about his career in college. In the four years he attended, he learned the following:
FRESHMAN YEAR
1.	Charlemagne either died or was born or did something with the Holy Roman Empire in 800.
2.	By placing one paper bag inside another you can carry home a milkshake.
3.	Powder rubbed on the chin will take the place of a shave if the room isn’t very light.
4.	The chances are against filling an inside straight.
SOPHOMORE YEAR
1.	Nine-tenths of the girls in girl’s colleges are not pretty.
2.	You can get dressed much quicker in the morning if you take off your trousers and underdrawers at once, leaving the latter inside the former.
JUNIOR YEAR
1.	All women are untrustworthy.
2.	Eight hours of sleep are not necessary.
3.	A good way to keep your trousers pressed is to hang them from a bureau drawer.
4.	The chances are that you will never fill an inside straight.
SENIOR YEAR
1.	Six hours sleep are not necessary.
2.	Bicarbonate taken before retiring makes you feel better the next day.
3.	Theater tickets may be charged.
4.	May is the shortest month in the year.
N. D. MAIL TO HONOR ZAHM EXPERIMENTS
•
Coincident -with the observance of National Air Mail Week, May 15 to 21, the University of Notre Dame will celebrate the 50th anniversary of early aviation experiments made at the University.
To mark this Gofden Jubilee the post-office at Notre Dame, Indiana, has secured the permission of postal authorities to use a special air mail
chachet commemorative of the glider experiments made at Notre Dame by Dr. Albert Zahm in 1888.
For the convenience of philatelists several hundred of these special cachets have been stampd in advance on air mail envelopes which will be distributed under the direction of the Notre Dame postmaster, Brother Theogene, C.S.C.
As early as 1883 Notre Dame was more than nominally interested in aviation. In that year a senior at the University, Albert Zahm, the present director of the Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics in the Library of Congress, read a paper before the Notre Dame Scientific association dealing with the probable trends aviation must take. He discussed various types of motors applicable to flying machines and predicted transoceanic flights in both heavier and lighter than air machines.
In 1888, as a member of the Notre Dame faculty, Dr. Zahm constructed a glider and made experimental flights in it on the campus and on the dunes near Michigan City, Ind. In 1892, while acting as head of the department of mechanical engineering at Notre Dame, Dr. Zahm made numerous flying models and developed model gliders capable of steady and stable flight when launched freely. He constructed a universal anemometer made to record wind movement and drew up plans for the first wind tunnel, now considered indispensable in testing aero apparatus.
Music Notes
By Paul R. Locher
It was Friday night and a magnificent tenor was singing the aria “Le Reve” from “Manon,” an aria which brought back to him pulsating memories. How encouraging it was to have such a genuinely responsive audience. There was that surging feeling of exultation which suddenly
caused audience and time to drift quietly along. Once more it was “Manon!!’ New York! The Metropolitan! 1933! . . . All was strangely still—and then an explosive applause brought time and reality tumbling at his feet. It was Notre Dame—but there was the same enthusiastic response, the same eager expression on their faces. An appreciative audience was calling for encores, and Mr. Richard Crookes graciously acknowledged their tribute with not one, but many, numbers.
Next Tuesday evening Miss Marian Anderson, colored contralto, will present a concert in South Bend. Press blurbs pale before the simple tribute of Arturo Toscanini who once told Miss Anderson, “A voice like yours is heard but once in a hundred years.”
This column has been exceedingly grateful to the publicity staff of both the Columbia and the National Broadcasting systems for press releases and advance programs throughout the past year, and especially appreciative of the brochure containing the history of the NBC symphony orchestra. It is regrettable, in view of the large distribution this brochure will attain, that the introduction, done in characteristic style by Hendrik van Loon, does scant justice to the part played by the Church in fostering and protecting the art of music. Such a cursory comment would not seem to reveal a very keen penetration of the subject, but then Mr. van Loon was never noted for singling out the obvious.
The pre view of the New York World’s Fair was designed to illustrate the cosmopolitan musical atmosphere which will prevail at the Fair. Folk dances, Victor Herbert, Jerome Kern, Borodin, led to Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony, “musical apotheosis of the imperishable ideal of human brotherhood, with its final chorus chanting the lines from Schiller’s “Ode to Joy,” the official World’s Fair song, “The Dawn of a New Day” by George Gershwin, and a great chant of Jean Sibelius’ “Onward Ye Peoples,” which was given its first public performance as the composer’s salutation to the Fair and to The World of Tomorrow.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
< IN THE JUGGLER VEIN h
That great week-end is over, and Englebert the senior has promised Suzybelle that he will study hard for the finals (latest rumor at press time) so that she can prove to those catty girls at home that she did go with a senior and not a junior who had a drag with the authorities. . . . The annual discussions have been going on all week as to who spent the most money, who sent the corsage of three white orchids (at $3.00 per), who put the most mileage on Pop’s car, and whether or not the town girls had the edge on invitations. On the question of “Why girls didn’t attend the N.D. Senior Ball?” these statistics were available, furnished by the sad of heart.
Father said “no”............... 50
Mother said “no”............... 50
Attended Yale Prom............. 40
Attended high school prom......123
Still don’t know why........... 15
“Just wait until Bill gets home1
for them it’s a period of close observation.
Exams are not a fair test of a fellow’s knowledge ... it is impossible for him to concentrate entirely upon his paper ... he must divide his attention between his teacher, his neighbor, and his crib.
Flunking out may be considered a patriotic duty: your fee for an additional semester will keep money in circulation; it will help lift us out of this recession, and staying in school for another year will give another fellow a chance at a job that you had spotted.
Preparation for the exams gives you an easy way out in trying to find excuses for not answering that batch of letters in your desk.
Finally, if you don’t pass an exam you at least know that you’re going to take that course again and should
have a pretty thorough knowledge of it by then.
Here and There
To take our minds off things academic we have the “Absurdities,” in which, on Sunday night, Bunny McCormick stole the show with his impersonation of Sonja Henie. To put the audience aright as to just who he was supposed to be, Bunny announced, at the end of each swirl, performed on size nine brogues minus skates, “I am Sonja Henie.” . . . What are Notre Dame’s “Modern-aires” doing about the fact that Paul Whiteman has a quartette by the same name? . . . Speaking of the comic, we wonder how Boake Carter feels about swinging from a deep, learned talk on foreign relations to chattering about how “big, healthy, and strong just like your daddy” those ‘Huskies’ will make us.”
To carry on in the same vein this bit was picked up, sans name, and perhaps luckily so.
Alumni Bill got a sweet young thing To come to the Ball and dance with him,
But how she ate!
She left her date
Sans food, sans dough, sans everything.
With only one issue of the Scholastic remaining we have to devote some space to exams which come early for seniors (so that juniors, sophs, and „ freshmen can heckle seniors) and late for J.’s, S.’s, and F.’s (so that seniors can get in one last heckle for everybody). Exam time brings with it its dark moments but a philosophical mind can discover a benefit here and there. First of all, a general period of relaxation is assured.
The monotony of class periods is broken up.
An exam in the morning means a show in the afternoon.
You are no longer obliged to take cuts.
It’s help thyself and thy neighbor . . . you help yourself to all you can get from him, and help him to all you can’t get.
There is no need of making a bluff at taking notes.	.
Profs no longer rant and rave . . .
“I’m a’ going back for the ’83 Reunion.”
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C__________Faculty Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT___________________Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA........................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams__________________________________The IPeel^
John Callaghan College Parade
John F. Clifford__________________Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy______________________________In the Juggler Vein
News Staff
Vincent DeCoursey_______________________________________News	Editor
George Haithcock_______________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk________________________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard______________________________Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller________________________________Thomas	Marker
Harry Penrose___________________________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay____________________________Fructuoso	Barreda
Joseph Perkins Richard Anton
Martin Donovan____________________________Edward Huston
George Neumann____________________________Richard Leahy
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli Sports Editor
Frederick Digby________________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe________________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson__________________________Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan Donald Foskett
Eddie Huff
Art Staff
George Elmore____________________________________Art Editor
Tom Powters Ed Kort
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated CoIlesdate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
Vol. 7i	May 13, 1938	No. 25
lective security for democracies against Fascism and Communism?’ Is the omission of the word ‘communism’ significant? Are they willing to die for Communism and not for American democracy?”
The Catholic Press Association refuses to have any part of it. More significant is the fact that they present a counter plan to preserve peace as advocated by the ASU.
“To preserve peace, we urge not an oath never to bear arms in any war; not a restricted collective security, which, by uniting certain nations against others would more easily lead to a reactionary conflict of these groups of nations; not a call for unity of certain classes which would result in class warfare, but the determined and continuous attempt to spread the brotherhood of man under God through all nations and people.”
Thus we have the Catholic purpose as opposed to the ASU, an organization that boasts of a membership of 500,000 students throughout the country.
Progressive move number two was the resolution to include in the organization Newman Clubs of various secular colleges in which the ASU has chapters.
The importance of this move cannot be underestimated. Right under their veiy soap boxes will the ASU have Catholics ready and able to defend their side of the question, ready and able to show up this Communistic organization.
The Catholic College Press Association is, at present, merely an eastern organization. Here in the mid-west we have oui* ASU hot beds in the largest state universities. Here in the mid-west is fertile ground for organization of a militant Catholic school organization. And here at Notre Dame, the hot-bed of anti-Communism, is the ideal place to start a mid-western section of the CCPA. If this could come about, and it easily could, then the ASU and Communism would really have something to reckon with when they start their peace movements-by sending detachments and money to aid Communistic Spain.
On Another Front
THE “ANTI-GOD” exhibit in the Library early this week received intense examination by the student body. There presented • for Catholics to- see were subversive workings of many organizations opposing the Church.
Students were particularly interested in the display portraying propaganda work-going on in universities of this country. It was noticed that nearly every mass meeting, parade, or dipsy-doodle of this nature was conducted by the American Student Union.
Gratifying indeed, then, was word received this week that Catholic students in the east had banded together to protest and possibly fight this Communistic organization that has the word “American” tagged on it.
On a March day in the Centre Club in New York City met representatives from fourteen Catholic colleges and universities. There • was formed- the Catholic College Press Association whose purpose is to supply to all members editorial material dealing with the Catholic side of vital social, political, and foreign issues of the moment.
First progressive move of the organization was to ally itself against the aforesaid American Students Union. Said the CCPA, “We protest against the usurpation by the American Student Union of the title ‘American.’ This year, they are willing to go to war for the ‘collective security’ of so-called ‘democracies’ against ‘Fascism.’ Why did not they word their resolution ‘col-
Progress
TOO MANY people are apt to criticize any new development in a college course from two points of view without too much thought as to whether such course is of a benefit to the student or no. These two are, oddly enough, to criticize because the course is “new” and that it is simply a rehash offl something “old.” Consequently, educators for the most part are rather conservative in adding new courses.
But just recently the College of Law of the University has added a course which one feels can safely pass the two above criticisms and be praised as something appropriately in keeping with the times and of urgent and needful benefit to whatever student may wish to take it. This is the course which is commonly labeled as “Labor Laws.”
At no other time in our history has this-country been subjected to so much litigation as during the past decade and at no other time in our history has it been necessary for attorneys to such an extent represent clients not before judicial bodies but before administrative boards. The questions which such evolution present - and difficulties encountered have not been met with before. There is then a great need for a course which will meet this requirement and still be able to stand up under criticism because it is “new.” These requirements one feels are aptly met with the course entitled “Labor Laws.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Any Sunday Morning
By Stephen Dietrich
Behind the brass rail they moved along, paused, moved again, as if the girl behind the tiled counter at the end were pulling them on a string, jerking it, slackening it then jerking it again. Each tray was relayed, toast and coffee, toast and coffee; sometimes one would take a small glass of orange juice, adding color to his tray. At the end they turned at right angles to the line behind and hoisted their shoulders to dig deeply into their pockets. “Eighteen, eighteen, thirteen, thirteen, thirteen,” droned the girl loudly as she pushed buttons, the machine buzzed, and coins spilled and rattled down the metallic forearm to rest in the fingerless steel hand.
Here they separated and walked towards the tables. One chair was reserved for a mound of black, grey and brown coats, as alike in themselves as the trays. Whoever bought the newspaper took the sports page, while the others contented themselves with less interesting sections, and scattered Hearst’s Sanday effort over the table or squeezed it between the sugar jar and the vinegar bottle. Jim tempted his mouth with brown, flabby piece of toast while he talked to George across the table. He raised a white mug, hiding the lower part of his face as he drank.
Finished, he scraped his lips with a paper napkin, flipped it to the floor nonchalantly and watched to see how long it would be before it would be deposited beneath some other table
or chair. Bored with the slow progress of his refuse, he jabbed two finers into his vest pocket, and drew out a cigarette. Lighting it, he whipped the match through the air until it went out leaving a fringe of blue smoke sifting lazily away.
Behind the candy display, Mary rested her short, chubby forearms on the glass top. Her head came even with her shoulders and she looked as if she were standing on tip-toes. He gazed at her, smiled, but received no answer. Then he said something out of the comer of his mouth to John next to him who looked over at Mary disinteresingly and went back to the Katzen jammer Kids.
A waiter, white-coated, with a dented grey tray hanging from one hand shuffled along the aisle between the tables, and stopped beside the three fellows. He rested the tray on the table and noisily threw dishes on it. Jim pressed the grey glow of his cigarette against the plate, and squashed it out. The waiter looked a name at him with slanting eyes as he picked up the tray and walked towards the truck with it. He slid the dishes on top of the others in his truck. They crashed together. He dropped the knives and spoons into a separate bin. They jangled and clattered. He probably felt better.
One of the three rose from the table and walked toward the water cooler. George called after him and then Jim turned and yelled. John held the three glasses under the spout, and
water trickled into them. He walked back gingerly to the table with the three glasses, keeping his eye nervously on the two glasses in his right hand. Jim took the glass from his left hand and slid Tt across the table saying, “It’s on the house; drink up.”
They sat a while with their legs stretched out, talking. Then all three simultaneously put the heels of their hands aaginst the edge of the table and pushed their chairs back. George distributed the coats, whipped a yellow knit scarf out of his pocket, tied it around his neck, and hunched himself into his overcoat, holding the scarf in place with his chin. On the way out John stopped at a table and talked, bent over, to a boy with short, stubby hair and thick-lensed glasses. A priest, holding a tray of waffles, sausage, orange juice (a large glass), coffee and toast, waited for John to unbend so he could pass. Stubble Hair pulled John by the sleeve, and he straightened up and pressed against the table apologetically. His two friends bumped against the red, brass-studded door and pushed it open. Then it thumped, thumped— closed.
John looked up quickly and, still talking, slid his feet sideways along the floor a few inches. Then with an “O.K.” he turned and on his way out carefully pushed an empty chair against a table.
The cash register’s bell, up at the other end of the caf, kept up a “ding, ding” in time with the thump,-thump of the door.
Mental Ramblings
By Harold “Porto11 Graham
My mind wanders a lot these days. I traverse the old familiar haunts and habits of my home town. This is greatly due, I imagine, to the approaching summer and my anticipation of it and all it brings. I shall go home, and won’t I be glad to get back! Two things I shall appreciate more than anything else, the weather and the renewal of a lot of old customs and traditions that I grew up with.
Those delightful, warm, sunny days! I’m almost smacking my lips. The subsequent chance to go swimming almost daily in the sea. To taste the salty bitterness of it. To feel the itch of dried salt on my back. To get the dazzling penetrating rays of the sun burned into my skin again.
To go out on all-day picnics in a sail boat and feel the cool salt spray. To hear the gurgling of the water as it boils in the backwash of the boat. To visit those unfrequented beauty spots that are better reached by boat than by land, stopping on the way at the deserted castle in the middle of the bay where the Spaniards used to keep their powder until Drake blew it up. From there to the mournful, desolate little island that used to be the Alcatraz and Devil’s Island of the lepers. (No danger of infection now unless one drinks the water of the well or lies among the tall grass that looks so inviting; the lepers were removed eight or ten years ago.)
I can almost see the long sandy beach with the myriads of palm trees
that grow almost on it. Among the palm trees grow the round-leaved bushes of sea grapes. Only the kids like these grapes. (No grown-ups would think of eating them, very much like no grown-up in this country would think of eating persimmons or crab apples.) All year round the beaches are frequented by bathers. As the winter months close in only the darker swimmers stay. The water gets full of jelly fish and these upon contact with the skin cause a very painful burn. Apparently the negroes don’t mind it as much as the whites. The water is never colder than 65°. In summer time the beaches are crowded all day. (Around St. John’s feast day there is always a full moon.
(Continued on Page 20)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Week in Sports
'	- - HI ,
IRISH SEEK REVENGE AT EVANSTON TUESDAY; REUNION WITH WOLVERINES NEXT WEEK
Brushing Up
Next Tuesday the Notre Dame baseball machine rolls to Evanston to tram its batting guns on Northwestern, then returns to Cartier Field to play two games with Ray Fisher’s Michigan aggregation, May 19 and 21. The Irish have been so spasmodic this season that it’s hard to tell just what will happen.
Work in the outfield has been rather , good, but the infield action, while ’ occasionally brilliant, has seen too many errors chalked up for the Notre Dame boys. When asked about the coming events, Coach Jake Kline just smiled and said: “We’re going to try and beat ’em, that’s all.”
May 3, Coach Burt Ingwerson brought his Northwestern Wildcats to Cartier Field and trimmed the Irish in the 14th inning with a three-run rally. Now Notre Dame will travel to Evanston May 17, to try and turn the tables.
The records show that the Wildcats lost five straight games in their trip to the South early this spring. They have lost 10 and won only 4 this season. But, as in any sport, the score boards do not always tell a true story. Meeting stiff opposition was just enough to take the kinks out of the Evanston boys, so they could return North and beat the Irish.
Harry Skidmore, the southpaw who pitched for the Wildcats in the first meet with the Irish, may be on the mound again Tuesday. He will be backed up by veterans Fred Shinke-vich, Jack Woy, Paul Ward, Robert Sampson, Captain Lymper and newcomers Alexis Lustig and John Goldak.
Coach Fisher of the Wolverines has been stressing higher batting averages this season. He, has a strong pitching staff, has suffered a minimum loss by graduation, and has a strong reserve squad. So he has made many shifts and tried all sorts of experiments this season.
As nucleus of the pitching staff, Fisher has Herman Fishman, who led the Big Ten in earned runs and who won two and lost four last year. Herman has trouble 'with left-handed batters but has a good fast ball. He is supported by Burt Smith, improved by a summer of sand-lot ball, and Dan Smick, who alternated at first and on the mound in the last few games.
Captain Merle Kremer, the team’s leading offensive threat, who batted
(Continued on Page 22)
Outfielder Arboit Szvings a potent bat these days.
GOLFERS PLAY LOCAL COURSE TOMORROW
•
Notre Dame’s student body will get its first look of the season at the varsity golf squad when the Irish club swingers tee off against Minnesota’s Gophers on the William J. Burke - University course tomorrow morning in the doubles pairings. The singles matches will be played off in the afternoon.
Father George Holderith’s club men have been forced to shift their home matches to the Coquillard Country Club course on the outskirts of South Bend, but the newly aligned greens that were necessarily tardy because of work being done on the adjacent Rockne Memorial gym have been readied for tomorrow’s home finale.
Minnesota holds a 9%-8% decision over Iowa State.
After Detroit’s very capable squad soundly defeated Notre Dame by 16-11 in the automotive metropolis to open the season, the Fighting Irish played top flight golf to down Chicago, Ohio State, Purdue, and Wisconsin.
(Continued on Page 21)
By Niclc Lamberto
Old Timers, eh?
After viewing with alarm the poor showing made by the Varsity against the Old Timers last Sunday, we are a trifle inclined to be skeptical about the merits of hard, vigorous Spring training. True, the Varsity beat the Old Timers, 7 to 6. The papers carried the score as 14 to 6, but since the last touchdown was made by one Varsity team against another Varsity team it should hardly be counted against the Old Timers.
There have been some notable exceptions in the sporting circles who have violated training rules available and yet have attained exceptional athletic success. The latest violators to turn the tables on those athletes who train according to Hoyle is Joe DiMaggio. Joe trained all spring on spaghetti and reported to Ruppert’s Rifles after the season" had begun. Joe then proceeded to sock out close to a half dozen homers in about ten days, while teammate Lou “Tarzan” Gehrig, who belongs in the good-boy class, went hitless in some 20 times at bat.
To get back to the present tense, take the case of the Varsity against the Old Timers last Sunday. The Old Timers offer a good argument on why not to train. The Varsity had put in about six weeks of hard, bruising spring training. The Old Timers went ‘ through signal drills for about a week. Then they proceeded to taper off with the Senior Ball Friday night, the Tea Dance Saturday afternoon, and the Monogram Absurdities Saturday night. But Sunday afternoon in spite of the sleepless nights before and after the Ball these Old Timers proceeded to outcharge and outplay the boys wearing the Varsity green.
Maybe the Varsity boys were awed by so many big names in the opposing line-up or maybe they felt sorry for the Oldsters ambling around on crutches. That’s one version. Then there is a possibility that they were slightly stale, which may or may not be a more plausible explanation. The player - coach - captain of the Old Timers, Joe Kuharich, summed the situation up rather deftly: “One hour less sleep and we’d have beaten them; as it is, we got a moral victory.”
(Continued on Page 19)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IS
STATE MEET WILL END NETTERS' SEASON
NICKMEN TRY FOR TWO STRAIGHT TOMORROW; POTENT MICHIGAN STATE OUTFIT HERE
By Donald A. Foskett
It isn’t very often that the netmen of Notre Dame face a week’s competition with bright prospects, but such is the case, for once, for the next week.
Today the netmen journey from Lansing, Michigan, where they met Michigan State yesterday, to St. Louis, where they will meet St. Louis University tomorrow.
The Irish team, rounding into the
Captain Kilrain Hopes brighten.
best of form, figures to whip the St. Louis team rather easily. Led by senior Captain Eddie Kilrain, and the sophomore stalwarts, Bill Fay and Charlie Rodgers, the Irish will take the courts reasonably confident of victory. The St. Louis team will have to pull quite an upset to lick them.
More important to the netters, however, is the state meet, at Earlham, which begins on next Thursday and which will last through Saturday. Again, strange as it may seem, the Notre Dame team is favored to capture the team trophy. In order to do so, however, they will have to lick the best that Butler, Indiana, and Purdue have to offer.
The Irish stand an excellent chance of vanning at least one of the indi-( Continued on Page 17)
There’ll be two top-notch track teams battling it out on Cartier oval tomorrow afternoon, each trying to extend its record of dual meet victories to two straight. For, while Nick’s cinder trotters were nicely polishing off a good Ohio State team last Saturday afternoon, a smooth, well-balanced Michigan
KLINEMEN TRIP UP ILLINOIS, 8-2
Paced by their two hard hitting outfielders, Captain Chuck Borowski and Ennio Arboit, the Notre Dame ball tossers cut another notch in their bats last Tuesday afternoon, as they took a good Illinois nine into camp, 8-2. The win was especially significant for the Irish in that it stretched their streak over Illinois; the Illini have not been able to break into the win column once since the present series began in 1930.
Mentor Jake Kline wisely sent Lefty Mike Mandjiak in to hurl against an Orange and Blue lineup that was studded with left-handed hitters. Mandjiak has been having a rather “on and off” season, but he was fairly effective Tuesday in limiting the Champaign club to 2 runs and 5 hits, although he passed six and hit one, while striking out 11. His only bad inning was the eighth in which the Illini scored twice to threaten for a moment.
As has been their custom of late, the Irish ballhawks tallied in the opening inning. Joe Nardone walked, went to second on Jimmy Corcoran’s sacrifice, and scored on Arboit’s scorching single through short. Arboit then stole second and scampered home on Larry Doyle’s long triple to center field. Again in the second the Klinemen counted as Mandjiak walked, went to third on Nardone’s -double, and scored on Stuebner’s wild pitch. Then in the fifth Corcoran singled, went to third on Borowski’s single, and both men tallied on Arboit’s long single. Notre Dame’s final three runs came in the eighth canto. Art Verhoestra singled and Mandjiak did the same; Verhoestra went to third on Corcoran’s fly and scored on another wild pitch, this time by Pa-cotti, relief hurler for the Illini. Then Borowski stepped up and walloped a terrific home run to dead right, cleaning the sacks.
Illinois scored its»only two runs in the eighth, during a streak of Mandjiak wildness. The Irish pitcher hit Cavallo, walked Pacotti, and then Mazerka singled, scoring Cavallo. Pacotfi later scored on a wild pitch by Mandjiak.
, State track squad was taking the Hilltoppers of Marquette over the hurdles to the tune of 82%-55%;
Trackman Francis Keeps breezing along.
and they looked pretty impressive while doing it too.
The Spartan club which comes here tomorrow is about as well-balanced as one could expect to find a track team, with power most evident in the hurdles and the broad jump; these gentlemen from Lansing seem to take a peculiar liking to jumping over something whether it be a sandpit or a hurdle, because in the Marquette meet they stepped out and grandslammed the 120 high hurdles, the 220 low hurdles, and the broad jump. In the 120 event Woodstra stepped down the path to win in 14.7, setting a new M.S.C. field record and a new meet record—he was followed to the tape by teammates Scales and Springer. This same Woodstra repeated a little later in the 220 hurdles, making it in 24 flat, thus setting a new meet record and equalling the field record; again two teammates, Springer and Robinson, followed him in. The Spartans set a new meet record in the broad jump, as Graft leaped 22 feet 11% inches; More and Robinson also placed.
Two foremost State dashmen are Greer and Adcock, who usually run about the same time in the furlong and the century. They finished one-two last Saturday, with Greer taking the 100 in 9.7 and the 220 in 21.7.
State is a pretty potent outfit in the middle-distance runs in which two of her stars set new meet records in the Marquette meet. Waite bested the field in the mile to take that (Continued on Page 20)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
MICHIGAN. INDIANA FALL TO NETMEN
By Mark J. Mitchell
Two weeks ago today, as the shades were lengthening over Franklin Field, Bill Faymonville stood and waited for his last turn to throw the discus. Only one man, Michigan’s Watson, had a chance to beat his newly-set record of 157 feet 1 % inches. Watson threw, and the official measurement came back—152 feet. Bill had won. As he stepped into the circle for his last throw, the discus
fell from his hand, his knees buckled, and he collapsed. The strain was over. The heat was off. Faymonville of Notre Dame was the new Penn Relays Discus champion and record holder.
That is the human side of Faymonville. It had been 48 hours since he had had any sleep — weeks he had been pointing for this meet. And he got what he went after. For that is the Faymonville way.
Besides his record at Penn, this husky junior engineer holds the Cartier Field record, and the C.I.C. championship for the platter throwing event. His shot-putting is hot at all average. Forty-nine feet got him a third at Penn, and he has won the event in almost every dual meet
this year. It is not at all unlikely that he will do over 50 feet before the end of this year.
But the discus is really his big event. He has always concentrated on it, ever since he -was in high school at New Trier in Wilmette, Illinois. And strangely enough, his form in the discus is almost unique — almost, because Levy of Stanford is the one other person in the world who uses it. Up until last year Bill had used the old style, in which the thrower stands with his feet well apart and takes a big step before he throws. Then, last summer, Coach Nicholson watched Levy closely throughout the European trip, and came back to teach the new form to Faymonville. Bill has mastered the small, quick step and the terrific spin, and that in part accounts for his success this year.
However, it is not his form alone which places Faymonville in the first ranks of American discus-throwers. All the form in the world would not make up for lack of competitive spirit. It is primarily the Faymonville fight, which keys him up for every meet, that is responsible for the championships and the broken records. It is that same nervous energy that caused Bill to lose two night’s sleep and reduced his weight five pounds before the Penn meet.
Faymonville’s victory of two weeks ago would seem almost to leave him without further worlds to conquer. For the Penn Relays is just about “tops” among American outdoor track events. But two summers hence a group of America’s finest athletes will be embarking for Japan and the 1940 Olympics. It would not be surprising to find Faymonville among them. And should he be chosen as a member of America’s 1940 Olympic team, you can safely bet that if Bill Faymonville does not recapture the discus championship for America, it will not be for lack of trying.
With the tennis team winning its last two matches, the won-and-lost column presents the best appearance since Coach Pedro de Landero instituted tennis here. After losing their first two matches to Northwestern and Western State the Irish netmen white-washed the Detroit team. Then I
they were shut out by the flawless team from Chicago some of whose players in a recent exhibition match defeated both Don Budge and Gene Mako. Following that match the N.D. boys fell prey to an unheralded Kentucky team. That left them with a none too showy won-and-lost score of 1-4. However, last week’s two victories over Michigan and Indiana brought the standing up to 3-4 with a fine chance for the Professor’s boys to land on the sunny side of .500.
The tennis match with Michigan ended the 14-year lull of competition between the schools in a most pleasant way for the local players. Showing good balance in both singles and doubles the Blue and Gold team gave the Michigan team their first defeat in five matches, 6-3.
The next match for the Notre Dame team was with their state rivals from Indiana U. In a abbreviated meeting caused by the well-known local weather, Captain Kilrain led the team to a 6-0 victory. It was an easy win, and the score might have been even better had the rain not halted the doubles which the Blue and Gold were winning.
The summaries for the two matches are as follows: Michigan: Singles— Fay defeated Percival 6-3, 6-1; Gregory defeated Kidwell 6-2, 6-2; Cohen defeated Rodgers 8-6, 4-6, 6-4; Slat-ery defeated Kilrain 2-6, 7-5, 6-4; Wolf defeated Woolsey 6-3, 6-3; Arnold defeated Talman 6-1, 2-6, 6-4. Doubles: Fay and Rodgers defeated Percival and Cohen 6-3, 6-4; Simon and Gregory defeated Aidwell and Woolsey 4-6, 6-3, 6-3; Morris and Slatery defeated Wolf and Reppen-hagen 6-8, 6-2, 6-3.
Indiana: Singles. Fay defeated Dilberger 6-4, 6-1; Gregory defeated Tuthill 6-0, 2-6, 6-2; Kingdon defeated Rodgers 3-3, 7-7, 6-2; Kilrain defeated Hayrie 6-3/ 6-1; Wolf defeated Scott 6-3, 4-6, 6-3; Arnold defeated Doiris 6-1, 10-8. Doubles: Simon and Gregory deefated Tuthill and Hayrie 6-4, 6-4.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
LAYDENMEN TOPPLE OLD TIMERS. 14-13
•
Elmer Layden’s 1938 varsity should profit a good deal from the lessons it learned in the stadium last Sunday afternoon; for it learned them from a group of football players ,who though they were billed as “old timers,” really looked as smart and shifty and tough as they were when they knocked off such clubs as Minnesota, Northwestern, and Southern Cal last year. The final score of 14-13, in favor of the varsity, can give one only a slight notion of how close the tussle really was.
The game opened under a threatening sky with the varsity kicking off to the Old Timers, who were held for downs; the same fate overtook the Old Timers, and the game remained even until the middle of the first quarter when Bennie Sheridan pounced on a Puplis fumble to give the varsity the ball on the Old Timers’ 15-yard line. After a series of short runs, Hal Gottsacker carried over for the first score of the game. Guard “Chuck” Riffle converted the extra point with a perfect placement boot. The Old Timers threatened late in the same period on a 35-yard pass from Andy Puplis to Chuck O’Reilly, who was nailed on the varsity 15-yard line. But here the varsity held for downs. Shortly after, however, in the second period Andy Puplis picked a Saggau pass out of the air on the varsity 35-yard line, and raced all the way in for a touchdown. He failed to convert.
The second half was played mostly in a downpour of rain which made the going difficult for both teams. The thir period was fairly even with both teams fighting for the breaks. A new varsity club entered the fray, but was unable to score; each team managed to make a first down on the slippery gridiron. But the fourth quarter brought a new group of players and the last of the Old Timers left the game, which now developed into a battle between different units of the 1938 Irish squad. A fourth varsity eleven, quarterbacked by Emmet Crowe, got right to work, taking the ball on downs on their 40-yard line and driving down for another touchdown. Ben Sheridan scampered 29 yards off tackle to the Blue club’s 13-yard line; then Sheridan tried the line two more times; Gottsacker finally went over again. Riffle kicked the point once more, and the score was 14-6. The final score of the afternoon came on a nifty 30-yard run by Halfback Johnny Sullivan of the Blue eleven.
THINLIES PREPARE FOR MARQUETTE'S GOLDEN AVALANCHE IN LAST DUAL MEET OF YEAR
On Saturday, May 21, Notre Dame’s best track team, a team which ranks with Michigan and Southern California as one of the three standout teams of
the country, will compete in its last dual meet of the season against Marquette at Milwaukee. The Irish beat the Marquette team by a 73-31 score in the
GOLF PAIRINGS FOR FACULTY MATCHES
Schedule of second round matches Notre Dame faculty golf tournament to be played before Sunday, May 15, released this week were:
Flight A. Championship: J. A. Haley vs. Rev. F. Fogarty, C.S.C.; Fred Weber vs. Cletus F. Chizek; Mike O’Connor vs. Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C.; Steve Ronay vs. Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C.
Flight A. Consolation: Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C. vs. George Rohr-back; Rev. J. Dupuis, C.S.C. vs. Elmer Layden; Dominick Napolitano vs. James McKenna; Rev. Edward Shea, C.S.C. vs. Rev. J. Reynolds.
Flight B. Championship: Tom Quirk vs. Joe Benda; Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C. vs. Rev. Edgar Misch, C.S.C.; S. R. Price vs. Bill Coyne; Jerry Sechowski vs. Bill Cer-ney.
Flight B. Consolation: B. F. Finan vs. Rev. A. J. Hope, C.S.C.; Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C. vs. Wesley Bender; Stanley S. Sessler vs. John P. Nicholson; Rev. Ed Keller, C.S.C. vs. Louis Hasley.
Flight C. Championship: W. J. Mc-( Continued on Page 19)
❖ opening meet of the indoor season, and they should take the outdoor meet with little trouble.
There have been two outdoor meets with Marquette thus far, and Notre Dame has won both of them. Several of the records of these two meets should disappear next Saturday. Bill Clifford should break the record of :10 flat in the hundred, Dan Gibbs should break his own pole vault record of 13 feet 1% inches, Bill Fay-monville should pass the 141 foot discus mark held by Marquette’s former All - American “Buzz” Buivid, and any of Notre Dame’s trio of two milers could break the record of 9:49.7 in a jog.
If pressed Johnny Francis could break the half mile record of 1:54.1, and either he or Greg Rice can beat the mile record of 4:24.3 held by McKenna of Notre Dame. A duel between Pete Sheehan and Herman “Killer” Carr of Marquette might see Bob Bernard’s quarter mile record of :48.8 go by the boards, and if the mile relay is close, the mark of 3:22.3 may also vanish.
The key men of the Marquette track team are Herman Carr, quarter; John Hohler, half; Maynard Black, sprints; Earl Stolberg, pole vault; Ed Burke, high jump; John Dye, discus; Bob Shurilla, hurdler; and Len Pruski and Ed Papuga, milers. Of course these times are only proximate and subject to change at a moment’s notice.
Notre Dame should sweep the 880 yard run, the two mile, possibly the mile, and possibly both hurdle races if Shurilla is still on the injured list at the time of the meet. The Irish should win the hundred, the 220, the discus, the javelin, and the pole vault.
TENNIS
(Continued from Page 15)
vidual crowns as well as the team victory. The Number 1 doubles team, which finds Bill Fay and Charlie Rodgers wielding the racquets, should enter the finals in the doubles and may win the doubles crown. In the singles Fay, Kilrain, and Rodgers will al have a chance to win, with Fay most likely to go the farthest.
The final matches in both singles and doubles will be played a week from tomorrow.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
MICHIGAN. SPARTANS HOSTS TO GOLFERS
By John F. Clifford
BASEBALL’S LAW OF AVERAGES
The peculiar thing about this game of baseball is its utter dependance on figures—totals, percentages, and averages. A man can go out on the diamond day after day and play beautiful ball consistently, but you won’t catch him hitting the headlines until he has stolen his 500th base, played his 2078th consecutive game or broken his bat on a Texas Leaguer for the 30th time in Wrigley Field. So long as Baseball Joe gets just one hit—enough to sew up the ball game—he is lost in the deep dark oblivion of baseball’s forgotten men. But let him pound the ball four-for-four once a week and Baseball Joe is a made man. He’s acquiring an average—and in so doing he is also acquiring prestige for himself. And so, with the remainder that batting averages are but ONE of the criteria used in estimating a man’s playing ability, we present the records of Jake Kline’s boys so far this season.
Player Arboit.		Games 	 11	AB 41	Hits 24	Runs 8	Average .571
Braddock			 9	27	10	3	.370
Borowski						 12	41	15	13	.365
Nardone	—				 12	46	15	13	.326
Doyle				 11	31	10	1	.322
Carson				 4	11	3	1	.272
Sullivan				 12	45	12	4	.266
Ellis...				  3	4	1	2	.250
Verhoestra			 8	27	6	3	.222
Corcoran				 12	45	9	5	.200
Kovzelove			 6	20	4	2	.200
Oberbruner.				 6	20	4	5	.200
Mandjiak.				 6	13	2	5	.152
Hunthausen			 4	17	9	0	.117
Puplis				 4	13	0	0	.000
LADY OR TIGER
Notre Dame’s fast finishing golf team will go into the state of Michigan twice next week to close its dualmatch season. Michigan will act as host on its beautiful campus in Ann Arbor on Monday; and Michigan State will entertain the Irish at the lengthy Walnut Hills Country Club next Saturday. ‘
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., coach, will lead his six-man squad into Michigan with five wins in seven starts. Notre Dame was expected to witness its first losing season in the nine-year life of the sport here at the outset of the campaign, but only Detroit and Northwestern have been able to clip the Irish colors.
Michigan’s Wolverines have lost to Michigan State this spring, and their . victims have included Purdue and Illinois. Michigan plays a four-man aggregation of Bill Barclay, Ries, Palmer, and Captain Al Karpinski. Barclay was a semi-finalist in the national intercollegiate medal play last year, and a quarter-finalist in ’36. Captain Karpinski was a semi-finalist for the New York state amateur last summer.
Michigan State’s Spartans promise to be Notre Dame’s toughest foe of the year. In addition to out-shooting its state rival, the Green and White has a 9%-8% win over Northwestern, a club that holds a 14%-3% memory over Notre Dame.
Spring football is officially closed; but like life and death, practice seems to go on forever. Traditionally, the Old Timers game has rung down a damp curtain on the vernal football festivities of Coach Layden and his pigskin horde, but some frown-provoking weaknesses always come to light during the annual frolic and demand the immediate attention of the Notre Dame board of strategy —home office. Open or closed, however, spring practice makes one think of the not-too-distant fall season and what can be expected. “Due to circumstances beyond our control” the nation missed Mr. Layden’s predictions for the 1938 season when he took the air during the Universal Notre Dame Night broadcast. What Elmer said still remains a mystery, and, like the readers of Frank Stockton’s famous short story, THE LADY OR THE TIGER?, we are to depend solely on the extent of our imagination to figure out which door Elmer opened for the Irish fans far and wide. Was it the revolving door of National Championship optimism? If so, we can expect the door to swing around and catch us in the seat of the pants with a dull thud! Or was it the customary squeaking of Elmer’s rusty gate of pessimism that went out over the air ways that night? It is quite safe to assume that the latter sees the more logical portal to Notre Dame’s 1938 football prospects as Coach Layden sees them. Entering the fifth year as head coach at his Alma Mater, Elmer Layden is faced with a difficult problem—that of replacing his graduating seniors with the inexperienced Sophomores and Juniors, together with a few Frosh, who have showed great promise this Spring but who have yet to show their stuff under real Irish competition. We won’t go so far as to name next Fall’s starting lineup (as has been the practice among the journalists at the Bend). But we can expect Elmer’s Sophomores to play a principal role in making his adventure at doorbell ringing a bit more rosy.
Tom Brand, West Virginia’s amateur title holder, paces the Michigan State quartet. In avenging a basketball defeat administered by Notre Dame last season, Michigan State troubled themselves to whip the Irish in baseball a week ago, and it appears that they will get further consolation by lowering the greens’ score on Notre Dame.
The Indiana State Intercollegiate Golf Meet originally scheduled for Evansville on May 27-28 has undergone a change in time and place. Purdue will play host at Lafayette in a one-day tournament on Saturday, May 28. Upward of a dozen state schools are expected to be represented, the central location of the host school lending to the attractiveness.
The National Intercollegiate will be shot at the Louisville, Ky., Country Club from June 14 to 18. Notre Dame placed second in this team event staged at Oakmont Country Club, Pittsburgh, in 1937.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
SPARTAN JINX STILL HOLDS. 5-2
IRISH TRACKMEN OVERWHELM OHIO STATE; FRANCIS RUNS HALF MILE IN 1:53.2
By Andy Wilson
In New Haven they talk about the Yale jinx over Dartmouth grid teams, or at least they used to until the Green Indians came down from the north one October afternoon about three years ago and broke a spell which the .Elis had held over them for upwards of 30 years; that afternoon they won their first game in the Yale Bowl by a score of 7-0. A situation much the same seems to exist here in the mid-west, for, on looking back through the records, we find that Notre Dame has won but two baseball games from Michigan State in the last nine starts; which is no discredit to Jake Kline’s diamond teams, for these Spartans have been victimizing just about every major college ball club in this section about as far back. as the present college generation can remember. Be that as it may, the Spartans took the Irish into camp once more last Saturday, outscoring the local ballhawks, 5-2.
Sophomore Nory Hunthausen went to the mound for the Kline aggregation, seeking his third triumph of the season; but it turned out to be the stocky righthander’s first setback, for though the teams were even in hits, the Spartans bunched them at the proper times to collect five runs and the ball game.
The game was remarkably close, when one disregards the run total and looks at the box score. The Irish gathered eleven hits, of which Larry Doyle got three, Johnny Braddock got three, and Joe Nardone got two. The Spartans also collected eleven safeties, with Lavagood, the center fielder, collecting three, and Diblock and Randall each garnering two. The two longest smashes of the day were Chuck Borowski’s triple and Red Oberbrunner’s long home run drive in the ninth. Each club stole two bases. But the Spartans completely dominated the Irish in the fielding department, for the box score shows five errors for Notre Dame to none for State. The State double play combination was also quite effective, completing three twin killings.
Rankin and Hunthausen pitched a pretty tight ball game, with Rankin bearing down in the pinches more effectively. He struck out two, while Hunthausen fanned three; the Spartan hurler allowed three passes to one for Hunthausen.
John Moir, All-American basketball forward, has given up baseball for the year to do some serious studying for the final exams.
Notre Dame scored its first dual meet victory over Ohio State last Saturday at Cartier Field by 81% to 49%. Notre Dame won ten of the fifteen events,
scored nine seconds, and six thirds, thus cleaning up rather thoroughly on the Buckeyes, who have one of the better track teams in the Big Ten.
John Braddock
His three hits couldn't win.
BRUSHING UP
(Continued from Page 14)
Then there was Eleanor Holm. Eleanor broke a few Olympic swimming records while training on champagne before the authorities caught up with her and stopped both champagne and record - breaking. Old Grover Cleveland Alexander, former pitcher with the St. Louie Cards, was frequently in his cups before, during, or after a ball game. Yet this didn’t stop him from becoming one of the best pitchers in baseball.
Prior to Sunday’s game many of the sports scribes said that Coach Elmer Layden had “waxed optimistic” about next year’s prospects. We doubt if Layden ever did “wax optimistic,” but if he did we hope he soon resumes his “Gloomy Gus” attitude.
FACULTY GOLF TOURNEY (Continued from Page 17)
Daniels vs. LeClair H. Eells; H. J. Heck vs. W. A. Farrell; Bill Broderick vs. George Keogan; Devere Plunkett vs. Ed F. O’Malley; Joe Boland vs. Rev. W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C.; Joe Petritz vs. Frank N. M. Brown (Petritz won); Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C. vs. Thomas F. Konop (Fr. Ryan won) ; James Dincolo vs. W. W. Turner.
Flight C. Consolation: H. J. Bott vs. Earl F. Langwell; H. E. Jones bye; Rev. John Reddington, C.S.C. vs. Jim Connolly; Ernie Howard bye; Ben C. DuBois vs. Bob Olson; Bob Cahill bys; Dave Campbell bye; Chet Grant bye (Campbell vs. Grant in third round).
*
Ohio State won the mile relay easily in 3:19.1, despite a fine lead-off by Pete Sheehan and a good anchor leg by Hank Halpin, and swept the 440, one-two-three in :48.5 for a new meet record, but otherwise gave the Irish little trouble. Albritton, high scorer of the meet with 12 points, and Howells, winning quarter-miler, were outstanding for the Buckeyes.
For Notre Dame, Gibbs was high scorer with ten points, but his winning height of 12 feet 6 inches in the pole vault, and his winning leap of 21 feet 8 inches in the broad jump were both merely mediocre performances. Johnny Francis, running with an injured heel, was the star of the day. He coasted in to win a 4:19.9 mile in a dead heat with Greg Rice, for a new meet and Notre Dame record, and then ran the fastest half mile of his life to win in 1:53.2, setting a new meet, Cartier Field, and Notre Dame all-time record. Ed Bernard and Curt Hester followed him closely across the line, both doing about 1:55, and making up for the Buckeye slam in the 440. In the two-mile, Steve Szumachowski turned on the heat and raced past the coasting Greg Rice to win in meet record time of 9:25.4. Altogether in the three distance runs, Ohio State took two third places, both by Whittaker. The severe competition expected from Buckeyes Benner, Sexton, Squire, and Whittaker failed to be severe, and only the Irish half-milers had to run hard for their victory.
Notre Dame took four out of six places in the two hurdles events, in spite of the absence of Captain Bill Mahoney, who is out for the season with a pulled muscle, but just broke even in the sprints. Clifford and Coughlin came in first and third in a :09.9 hundred, and Clifford finished second between two scarlet sprinters in the 220.
In the field events the men in blue and gold lost only one first place—to Albritton in the high jump at 6 feet 3% inches. Beinor and Faymonville finished one-two in the shot, Faymonville and Lynn came in one and three in the discus, Langton and Perry finished one and three in the javelin, Gibbs won the broad jump. Notre Dame’s 13-foot vaulters could do no better than 12-6, but still finished one - two - three, Gibbs, Dean, and Langton, with Lucas of Ohio State tying Langton for third.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPARTAN TRACK
(Continued from Page 15)
event with a time of 4:23.2; later on his teammate, Frey, won the two mile in 9.35.4. Although no Spartan won the 440, in which the winning time was 49.2, the Lansing team placed men in this event and in the 880, a 1.53 race.
The Michigan State field events department boasts such men as the previously - mentioned Graft, More, and Robinson; Haberle, a 13-footpole vaulter; a consistent place winner in the shot; and a javelin hurler, who last week tossed the spear 186 feet 5% inches for a new field record. The squad’s weakest event seems to be the high jump.
Notre Dame and Michigan did not meet outdoors last year, but in 1936 they faced each other here in the N.D.-Ohio-Michigan State triangular meet, in which the Irish finished some 50 points ahead of the Spartans.
CAREER
in Search of Men
Statistics show a decrease of 10% among practicing dentists in recent years while the number of professional men in other fields has increased. This can largely be attributed to advanced standards in dental schools.
Marquette University annually receives the highest rating—A—from the Dental : Educational Council of America. The diploma is recognized in all states.
„ The close relationship of the Dental and Medical Schools at Marquette University is an advantage to students.
Entrance requirements: Two years in a recognized College of Liberal Arts with satisfactory credits in biology, chemistry, and physics.
For complete information concerning opportunities in ' dentistry, write to the Secretary, Marquette University Dental School, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
MARQUETTE
UNIVERSITY
Milwaukee
MENTAL RAMBLINGS
(Con tinu ed from Page 13)
He being the patron of the city there has grown up a superstition that if one goes swimming within the first two hours of the new7 day he will have luck for the rest of the year. Thousands flock to the beaches after the hour of midnight strikes.)
I often think of my sailboat. I am there mentally now. I can almost feel the hot sun on my back of my neck and the cool breeze in my face. The wind fills out the sails and the boat heels over to leeward. Clothes flapping, shirt bulging like a balloon in back and wet with spray in front. Coming about! Heading out of the bay now7. The murky green w7ater of the bay all of a sudden turns a beautiful blue. (The long, heavy northern sw’ell makes the boat buck and jump like a happy colt. We’re headed north, a hundred yards away towards the East towers above us the legendary, historic, beautiful, ruined and almost deserted Morro Castle. The sentry, a relic of olden times long since past w7aves in return to our yell. To the other side of us, a bare quarter mile aw7ay is a longish, narrow isle. That is the one we saw before from the front, “Lepers’ Isle.” We can now7 see on it the caved in buildings. It strikes us as queer that the
TOBIN says:
T	IRISH MIXTURE
O
B	CORKTOWN
I
N«s COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
ENRICHES THE FLAVOR OF ANY TOBACCO
HONEY IN THE BOWL (Yellow)
Honey in Yello-Bole improve* all tobaccos. You spend at least $20 for tobacco in a year—$1 spent on Yello-Bole makes that $20 worth of tobacco taste twice as good 1 Get- yours. Fello-bole
church spire is still up. The sea has w7orked its treacherous way up to its very foundation. Soon it will no longer exist. We drag our eyes away from the tearful sight and swallow hard.
Coming about again! We now are following along the trough of the waves parallel to the shore. More evidence of the Spanish “Conquista-dores”! A piece of the ancient wall that surrounded the city in the 16th century is still up. Atop of it and on the face of the cliff behind it exists the slummiest of slums. The sea comes in during the storm season and washes houses and people away. Others come and build in the same spot, in a spirit of resignation rather than defiance. Soon Uncle Sam will clear this place. There is no beach in this spot, just rocks up to the base of the wall. A place of beauty in nature, hardly affected by the suffering on it.
We follow the winding coast just outside the reefs for two miles or so more. Around a protruding arm of land we suddenly come upon a narrow entrance into a cove of secluded waters. Dashing inside the reefs through the nearest break we prepare to enter the cove if possible. It looks difficult from this distance. Jutting, dangerous rocks off both sides of a narrow but deep channel. Watching nervously at a big breaker that is tailing us, we prepare to ride the boat in on it. Here she comes! Swoosh! We’re inside. The water seems dead now. Quiet and without waves it does not seem part of the ocean outside. We meet lots of boats in here. A speedboat comes dashing straight at us and suddenly turns away in a cloud of spray. All of a sudden the wind appears to slack a little. The red ball of the sun is low and looks enormously large. In an hour there will be little wind and the dusk will fall rapidly. We are approaching the end of the cove and it looks as if we should turn back. But no! Look! What’s that narrow channel there at the left? We follow it and there is the yacht club from where vre started. How is this? you wonder. Nothing, I just forgot to tell you when we left that the city is on a little island of about eight square miles and all we did was go around it in one of my mental ramblings.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
VINCENTIANS BACK AIR TRIP
•
Two major events turned up on the calendar of the Notre Dame St. Vincent de Paul Society during the past week. After the Vincentians were hosts at the regular quarterly meeting of the seven conferences of the Society in South Bend and immediate vicinity, plans were announced for a day of excursion airplane flights by the American Airlines with whom the Society will cooperate.
Ascension Thursday, May 26, a huge, twin-motored Douglas plane, one of the regular twenty-one passenger flagships used in the daily service of the American Airlines, will be at the Bendix Municipal Airport near South Bend assigned to the job of carrying an expected 150 or more Notre Dame students in a series of excursion flights.
In a series of half-hour flights covering nearly eighty miles, the pride of the American Airline fleet will first cruise over the Notre Dame campus, thence over South Bend from where the trip will continue into the neighboring town of Elkhart; its nose will then point slightly northward to circle over Lake Shore and Michigan City before dropping back to the South Bend Airport for another cargo of passengers.
A full crew of pilot, co-pilot, and stewardess will be on hand just as in a regular commercial “run,” except that the airline officials have assigned two ace airmen of the American Airlines staff, who live in South Bend, to handle the controls, and an Irish stewardess of the regular staff to match the Irish customers.
At the quarterly meeting, the St. Vincent de Paul Conferences met for
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SuecMaor TV
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8211
a breakfast in the faculty dining hall Sunday morning, and the seventy-six representatives from St. Patrick’s, St, Joseph’s, Our Lady of Hungary, Christ the King, St. Matthew’s, Holy Cross, and Notre Dame units of the Society joined to hear as many excellent reports from each one of the conferences.
Following the routine of regular business, John C. Hiss, the presiding officer, appointed a program committee to organize a program of the conferences for the remainder of the year. Later in the afternoon representatives from the various conferences attended he first meeting of the newly formed conferences at St. Matthew’s parish in South Bend.
GOLFERS KEEP BUSY
(Continued from Page 14)
Northwestern’s Purple Wildcats, Western Conference titular contender, blasted its way to a 14%-3% conquest over Notre Dame last week.
Notre Dame’s young squad that numbers only three junior classmen among the first six ranked players, without the steadying influence of a senior member, has chipped itself out of mediocrity’s sands, however, and in the remaining three matches it will shoot to maintain Coach Father
Handy? Rath-er/ And fast as well as convenient. When you return to college, go summering, or travel anywhere, ship by the same dependable, helpful route. Special tags and labels—by far the best to use— yours free for the asking. When you phone, tell our agent the exact time to call and you’ll enjoy your train trip immensely.
RESS
RAILW
AGENCY
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
Holderith’s record of “Never a losing team in its life of nine seasons.”
Notre Dame matches drives and putts with Michigan on the University course in Ann Arbor on Monday, and the Irish close out the dualmatch season against Michigan State next Saturday on the Walnut Hills layout, central Michigan’s longest golf stretch.
NEW YORK LAW SCHOOL
Established 1891
Registration Now Open for 1938-39 Morning Course Afternoon and Evening Courses Three Years	Four Years
All courses lead to degree of LL.B.
THE DWIGHT METHOD OF INSTRUCTION
Committed to the policy of small classes so that each student may receive adequate personal attention and instruction.
For further information address:
Registrar, NEW YORK LAW School 63 Park Row, New York, N. Y., or telephone, BEekman 3-2552
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
how to make the most
of your face
IRISH SEEK REVENGE
(Continued from Page 22)
v313 last year will be in the outfield. Bob Campbell and Harold Floersch vie with sophomore Fred Trosko for the other outfield posts. Forrest Eva-shevski, a catching candidate, may be shifted to the outfield because of his hitting strength. Behind the plate Fisher has the veteran Leo Beebe, with Evashevski and Les Brauser as alternates.
Dan Smick will hold down first, with Elmer Gedeon as his alternate. Irvin Lisagor will be on second base, and Walter Peckinpaugh and Don Brewer will take care of short stop and third.
Banquet Plans Set
Editors and staffs of the University undergraduate publications will be guests of the University at the annual complimentary banquet to be held in the Faculty Dining Hall, Tuesday, May 24, at 7:00 p.m.
The Reverend L. Broughal, C.S.C., faculty director of publications, will appoint editors for 1938-39 to The Scholastic, the Deme and Scrip. Prizes will be awarded for best contributions to Scrip, the campus literary quarterly.
The Dome awards will be presented to the four seniors selected for conspicuous endeavor in extra-curricular activities.
The Rev. Charles Miltner, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will be the principal speaker. A surprise element will be introduced by Mr. William R. Dooley, business manager of publications, who will act as toastmaster.
Just out, this sleek new detachable white starched collar. Rounded points, slightly spread for tie knot. If your face is long shaped or square, we recommend the new WALTON.
If you have a round full face, wear the BOYD with medium long graceful points. Handsomely shaped and curved to fit your neck with comfort.
DOWNS 25e
This best seller has sharp square points of medium length and enhances all who wear it. Wear Arrow starched collars. They're smart for special occasions.
ARROW COLLARS
Photo Show in Library
The Art Department of the Univer-' sity has on exhibit thirty photographs representing the work of many outstanding American and foreign photographers. These works are displayed in the catalogue room of the Library. Professor Stanley Sessler has announced that the exhibit will continue until Monday, May 16.
The exhibit includes 23 photos in black and white, and 7 color photos. It includes commercial, landscape, and figure subjects. These photos are considered as excellent examples of the work of some of the best commercial and amateur photographers in this and other countries. Many of them have received awards from the American Photographic Association.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
—♦—
Intelligent service Reliability 34 years' experience are our endorsements.
Optometrists Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
COMMENCEMENT PLANS
(Continued, from Page 3)
senior class to Sacred Heart church, a centennial Mass of thanksgiving -will be celebrated in the University chapel on Saturday, June 4th by Archbishop Cicognani.
The triple dedication of the University’s alumni to “God, Country and Notre Dame” will be observed
in the order of the exercises.
Immediately following the pontifical Mass on the morning of June 5th a new American flag, presented by the senior class to the University on Washington’s Birthday, will be blessed, and at 11 a.m. the seniors will carry the flag in solemn procession from the church for the annual flag-raising exercises.
Awarding of the degrees w’ill take
place at 4 p.m. followed by the commencement address.
The class of 1938 totals 529 members who represent 40 states in the United States, the District of Colum-bit, and South America.
There are 208 graduates from the college of arts and letters, 170 from the college of commerce, 60 from the college of engineering, 45 from the • college of science, and 46 from the college of law.
"ALBERT JUST WON'T BE WITHOUT HIS
MJRD-V8"
by ROGER F. WURTZ *41, WhcoBsia Oetopes
Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
... they’llgive you MORE PLEASURE than any cigarette you ever smoked
Andre kostelanetz
Paul Whiteman
Deems Taylor
PAUL DOUGLAS
to*
... because Chesterfield ingredients are the best a cigarette can have ... mild ripe home-grown tobaccos ... aromatic Turkish tobaccos .. . aged for 2% years .. . pure tasteless cigarette paper .. . and
a blend that can’t be copied
Grace Moore