ft)
$

1
PROGRAM
of the
NINETY-FIFTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT
University of Notre Dame June 2, 3 and 4, 1939
(All events are scheduled on Central Standard Time)
Friday, June 2
Registration of Alumni, the Alumni Office (Rooms available on Friday).
Opening of the Alumni and Class Golf Tournaments—the 18-Hole William J. Bur^Oni-versity Golf Course.
The Reunion Classes for 1939 are: 1889 (The Golden Jubilee Class), 189'*. 1899, 1904, 1909, 1914 (The Silver Jubilee Class), 1919, 1924, 1929, and j934.
7:00 P. M. Concert, Main Quadrangle, the University Band.
7:00 p. M. Reunion Dinner, the Class of 1889.
7:00 P. M. Reunion Dinner, the Class of 1914, Lay Faculty Dining Room.
8:00 P. M. Production of the University Theatre, Washington Hall.
8:00 P. M. Reunion Smoker of the Class of 1934, Columbia Athletic Club, South Bend, Ind.
Saturday, June 3
Continuation, Alumni Registration, the Alumni Office.
Continuation, Alumni Golf Tournament, University Course.
10:00 a. M. Class Day Exercises and Awarding of Prizes. Washington Hall.
11:00 A. M. Softball Game, Class of 1929 vs. the Class of 1934, Badin Field.
2:00 P. M. Baseball, Michigan State College vs. Notre Dame.
4:30 P. M. Dedication of the Knute K. Rockne Memorial Fieldhouse, with an impressive program, to be broadcast nationally.
6:00 P. M. The Alumni Banquet, featured this year by special tribute to several beloved
figures on the faculty who will end their teaching careers at Notre Dame.
8:00 P. M. Musical Organizations’ Concert, Washington Hall.
9:00 r. M. Old-Fashioned Smoker, sponsored for Alumni by the Class of 1929 in the
Brownson Hall Recreation Room.
Sunday, June 4
8:30 A. M. Academic Procession, Main Building to the University Gymnasium.
9:00 A. M. Solemn Pontifical Mass, University Gymnasium.	.
Celebrant, the Most Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne. Ind.
Baccalaureate Sermon, the Most Rev. Bernard J. Sheil, D.D., Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago, Illinois.	.
Music, the University Choir of Moreau Seminary.
The American Flag, presented to the University on Washington's Birthday, will be blessed immediately following the Mass.
10:30 A. M. Tenth Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs, Court Room of the Law Bldg.
11:00 A. M. Raising of the Flag, carried in procession from the Mass, Main Quadrangle.
12:00 M. Monogram Luncheon, University Dining Halls.
4:00 P. M. Awarding of Degrees to the Class of 1939. University Gymnasium. -
Commencement Address, Mr. William Henry Harrison, Vice-President and Chief Engineer of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, New York City.
SPECIAL: On Sunday, June 4, at eight o’clock in the evening, the Laetare Medal for 1939
will be presented to Miss Josephine Brownson, Medalist, whose selection for the honor was announced on Laetare Sunday. Presentation will he made in Washington Hall.


The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188	________________________________________________
Vol. 72	May 26, 1939
No. 26
PREPARE FOR NINETY-FIFTH COMMENCEMENT
Bishop Sheil
A baccalaureate sermon.
Laetare Medal Honors Second Brownson
•
Miss Josephine Brownson, of De- . troit, Mich., will be awarded the Laetare Medal for 1939 in Washington Hall, Sunday, June 4, at 8:00 p.m. Miss Brownson, the 57th recipient of the medal, is president of the Catholic Instruction League, Detroit.
In announcing the award on Laetare Sunday, March 19, the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, said that the award this year is a tribute to ... the pioneering spirit and the long and faithful devotion of Miss Brownson to the cause of religious instruction. It contains at the same time a recognition of a very important section of Pope Pius Xi’s program of Catholic Action. Miss Brownson was one of the first Catholics in this country to organize on an extensive style the catechetical instruction ordered by Pope Pius X in his encyclical, Acerbo Nimis, published in 1905.”
This is the first year, too, that the award has been made to a descendant of a former medalist; for Miss Brownson’s father, the late Henry F. Brownson, was awarded the Laetare Medal for 1892.
Harrison Will Deliver Graduation Speech
•
Mr. William Henry Harrison, vice-president of the American Telephone & Telegraph company, New York City, will address 527 seniors at the 95th annual commencement, Sunday afternoon, June 4th. Thirty-eight other seniors will receive bachelor’s degrees at the end of the summer school, August 1st. Forty-one states, the District of Columbia, and four foreign countries are represented by graduating students.
That morning, the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, will celebrate Solemn Pontifical Mass in the gymnasium, and the Most Rev. Bernard J. Sheil, D.D., auxiliary bishop of Chicago, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon.
Commencement week will begin Friday, June 2nd, when alumni will register in the Alumni Office, and the Golden Jubilee Class of 1889, and the Silver Jubilee Class of 1914 will hold reunion dinners in the University Dining Halls.
The Knute Kenneth Rockne Memorial will be dedicated at 4:30 (C.S.T.) Saturday afternoon, June 3rd. Saturday evening the annual Alumni Banquet will feature a special tribute to these retiring members of the faculty: Mr. Edward J. Maur-us, professor of mathematics, member of the faculty for 44 years; Mr. William L. Benitz, professor of mechanical engineering for 43 years; and Robert L. Greene, professor of pharmacy for 37 years.
The first ceremony on Sunday will be an academic procession to the gymnasium for the baccalaureate mass and sermon. After the mass, traditional blessing of the flag will take place, and the flag will then be carried in procession to the campus flag staff. The high point of the week-end will be the awarding of honorary, advanced, and baccalaureate degrees at 4:00 o’clock (C.S.T.) Sunday afternoon.
The College of Arts and Letters will graduate eight students more than the College of Commerce, 210 to 102. The College of Engineering graduates 73; the College of Science, 61; the College of Law, 30.
Mr. William H. Harrison
Last word to Seniors.
Dedicate Memorial To Rockne, June 3
•
As a part of the commencement weekend activities, teammates of the late Knute Rockne will assist at the dedication of the Rockne Memorial on June 3. Mrs. Bonnie Skiles Rockne and the four Rockne children will also be honored guests at the dedication.
Speakers for the occasion include Frank E. Hering, Notre Dame’s first official football coach and a trustee of the university; Maj. John L. Griffith, representing the National Collegiate Athletic Association; Coach Elmer Layden of Notre Dame, speaking for the Rockne-trained coaches; Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame; Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune and Notre Dame alumnus, who will serve as the master of ceremonies; and Charles E. (Gus) Dorais, coach of Detroit University, who will introduce the teammates of Rockne.
Fox- the musical portion of the dedication the Moreau Seminary Choir will sing Vittoria’s “Ave Maria” and the Notre Dame band will play the national anthem and the Victory March.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
REID NAMES WINNERS OF LETTER CONTEST
THE WEEK
By BILL DONNELLY
By John Willman
“Every letter submitted was a credit to the University,” wrote Mr. Richard Reid, editor of The Bulletin, of Augusta, Ga., in announcing the winners of the contest for best letters of “correction and commendation” to editors of newspapers. He awarded first prize of §50 to William C. Fay, newseditor of The Scholastic, because “his letter direct to a newspaper
News-Editor Fay Wrote to “The Trib”
seemed to me the most effective piece of constructive criticism.”
Fay’s winning letter incorporated his editorial “Cut - Throat Ethics” which appeared in the March 3 issue of The Scholastic. The editorial pointed out that the Chicago Tribune in praising the work of the Euthanasia Society of America was advocating the ethical principles of a totalitarian state — principles which were “obviously inimical to the Tribune’s existence as a free newspaper.”
William L. Piedmont was awarded second prize of §30 for his “Open Letter to the American Press” which ■“demonstrated originality of approach as well as competence in presentation.” F. G. Barreda won third place and §20. “Extension of his study to the typographical field in addition to his comment on the news and editorial features indicated considerable study of the problem,” commented Mr. Reid, donor of the prizes.
The contest was announced in November, 1938, and was open to Notre Dame students of whatever college.
(Continued on Page 22)
Siveets to the Sweetest
Two weeks ago to-day a sophomore from Lyons Hall woke up with the thought beating against his head that he was going to a formal at St. Mary’s that night and he had not yet ordered a corsage. He asked his roommate for suggestions and the roomie said, “Why don’t you try scallions? They’re just in season now and not many fellows get them.” The sophomore hadn’t heard of them before but the fellow who was selling corsages (he had been tipped off by friend roomie) assured him they were just the thing. “Okeh,” said our gullible sophomore, “scallions it will be!”
When he arrived at the dance that night the girl came up to him with a strange strained look on her face and her hand held behind her back. Suddenly she held out her hand. “Here,” she said, “you eat these. I’ve eaten the other two!” The sophomore took the odd bouquet and looked at it dum-founded as the girl turned around and ran off, ahnost in tears. Friend roomie saved the day (or the night), however, by pulling out a couple of gardenias he had arranged to have there as a spare in case the scallions didn’t appeal to her.
•
The Bully
On the rare occasions that celery is served in the dining hall it disappears very rapidly. On the most recent of these rare occasions, after it had disappeared in its usual rapid fashion, the fellows at one table began clamoring loudly for more in their usual noisy fashion. The waiter, fearful of getting a reprimand from John Headwaiter, came frowning up to the table and roared out at the whole crew sitting there, “Hey, who was doing all that yelling here?” “I was,” said Augie Bossu in a deep powerful voice. “Well....” said the waiter, “Well...” and visions of Bossu taking out an opposing lineman and of Bossu personally taking care of a couple of boys from Illinois on Benny Sheridan’s punt return for a touchdown went whirling through his brain. “Well....” he said and suddenly he noticed a little fellow sitting meekly and quietly on the other side of the table. He pointed threateningly at the little fellow and shouted, “Well, the next time I hear you yelling for celery, you little squirt, I’m going to knock your block off.”
Girls Are. Queer
We hear of two fellows who dated two St. Mary’s girls some time before last Christmas and on some whim or other asked them to the Engineers’
Ball. The girls didn’t see them again, hadn’t even heard from them or of them again until last Friday morning when the two fellows called up to ask what color dresses the girls were going to wear. And the girls, for some inexplicable reason, said they were afraid they would be unable to go to the ball.
Nationalism
One of the Ethics profs was discussing Nationalism last week and he was remarking particularly on the fact that when he had studied his
tory his professor had attempted to justify every war in which the United
Bill Donnelly
States had ever fought. “Do they still do that?” he asked. “Have any of you had any courses i n which you covered the Mexican War, for instance?” A student raised his
hand. “Did the professor try to justify the United States in every way possible?” The student shook his
head negatively. “Well, I’m glad to hear that,” the Ethics prof said. “Do you know that he’s the first professor of history I’ve ever heard of who didn’t show extreme nationalist lean
ings in covering that war. I certainly admire his broad-mindedness. What
are you continuing to shake your head like that for? Is something wrong?” The student looked up with a sad expression on his face. “Our professor,” he said, “was a Mexican.”
The Finished Products
Graduation is coming soon. (Cue for sentimental drivel such as—“At long last we must turn over the reins we love so well to new guiding hands, etc., etc.). The seniors are all show-' ing definite signs that they have deteriorated to the point where they can now be shoved out to battle the , universe. The boys from Sorin have recently taken up such games as Red Light and Buffalo Fights, and their favorite game is hiding behind the Sorin bushes with a potent hose to attack the first unsuspecting wayfarer who passes. One fellow from Walsh rode his girl friend’s bicycle home from a date the other night and his hall mates played fire engine up and down the corridor with the thing until the early hours of the morning. The fellows from Alumni have gone back to roller skating.	_
MAY 26, 1939
5
AT LAST — 42% OF SENIORS FIND WORK
By Jack Dinges
Notre Dame is about to see its class of 1939 step out into the world to take its place in industry, commerce and the professions.
Last week in each of the senior halls those of the seniors that were home heard a knock on his door and to their “Come in” was confronted with the following. “We’re making a survey for the Scholastic to see how many of the seniors have jobs. Have you anything definite in view?” If an affirmative answer were given, usually rather proudly, he was asked the general classification of the work. If no job was he going to take Post • Graduate work? If so, in what field?
Results of the survey show that a good many of the men have situations. Of the 164 men who were interviewed, 54 of them or 33% had no definite jobs, 41 or 25% were going to take post graduate work, while 62 graduates or 42% had definite jobs.
The jobs were of a fairly wide variety. There are 15 engineers, one of whom is going to work in South America. There are seven accountants, six men in sales work, two in real estate, two lumbermen, two bankers, two lawyers, a reporter, a coach, a social worker, a sheep herder, a man with a possible chance with Walt Disney and two men with technical positions with large automobile manufacturers. A number of them plan to start from the bottom and work up, some in factories, others will step into family businesses.
Of the 50 post gradautes 30 favor law, while 11 plan to attend medical school, six will take more business training while the remaining few will go into other fields.
Appoint Fay, Foskett. Carty and Meany New Editors of Campus Publications
The annual Publications Banquet was held Monday night in the faculty dining haall. Highlights of the banquet were the various literary awards and the conferring of editorships for next school year.
Honored guests at the banquet were four retiring professors: Professor Pedro de Landero, tennis and fencing coach; Mr. Robert Greene, professor of pharmacy for 37 years; Mr. William Benitz, a professor of mechanical engineering for 43 years; and Professor Edward Maurus, a professor in mathematics since 1895.
William C. Fay was appointed editor-in-chief of The Scholastic, succeeding Mark J. Mitchell. Fay is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and is a resident of Mt. Lebanon, Pa. He has served as a member of the news staff for the past three years, and was news editor during the past year.
Donald A. Foskett, junior in the College of Arts and Letters was
Thomas Carty, John Meaney, and William Fay New editors look pretty serious.
named managing editor replacing’ Vincent DeCoursey. James G. Newland was appointed to succeed Foskett as sports editor. William C. McGowan will serve as news editor and Frank Wemhoff feature editor.
Thomas F. Carty, junior in the College of Arts and Letters from Yonkers, N. Y., succeeds Paul Hellmuth as editor of the Dome. John W. Meaney was appointed editor of Scrip. Meaney, a contributor to the literary quarterly for the past two years, makes his home in Corpus Christi, Texas.
Further literary awards announced by Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., chairman of the Faculty Board of Publications, were the prizes for the best prose and poetry selections. The prose award was divided between Charles Nelson for his “World of God” and John M. Broderick on his selection “Three Evenings.” Donald D. Connors, a freshman, won the poetry prize for his work on “They Will Come.”
A. I. E. E. Election
At the final meeting of the year, held Wednesday evening, May 17, the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers elected officers for the coming year. The officers elected are: Joe Hughes, chairman; Jack Shafransky, junior vice-chairman; Ed Hart, secretary; and Jim Varga, treasurer.
REBUTTAL
Mr. Whitman serves notice on all and sundry that the news of his death last week was a gross exaggeration.
Chicago Club Plans Snite Scholarship
Mr. Stephen Coughlin has been appointed Chairman of the annual Easter Dance of the Chicago Club by the newly-elected president of the club, Mr. Eugene Toolan.
The Summer Dance is to be held as .a testimonial to Frederick B Snite, Jr., now en route to the Shrine of Our Lady at Lourdes, France. A plaque will be presented during the evening to a representative of the Snite family. Surplus proceeds of the dance will be set aside to establish a Fred Snite scholarship at the University.
The dance will be held at the Ter
race Garden of the Morrison Hotel on Saturday evening, June 10.
Notice
Tonight at seven! A special organization of the 1939-40 “Scholastic” Staff will be held in the Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building. Staff members are expected; prospective members, cartoonists, illustrators, photographers are invited. Contributions from any campus source will be welcomed next year.
b
OUR DAILY BREAD
Liturgy
The Liturgy is the unfolding of the mystery of the Word made Flesh. Pentecost, the “Red Easter,” completes the redemptive cycle. Through the sacred humanity of Christ God reached down to lift up all humanity. The power which God exercised through the instrumentality of the humanity of Christ he continues to exercise through the instrumentality of sacrifice and sacrament which Christ established. Pentecost is not merely the celebration of a past event. It is the continuing evidence that the Church is of Christ, is for Christ, is Christ. The Church is the “Holy Mother” at whose breast alone mankind can draw strength and sustenance issuing unto eternal life.
The Liturgy is the expression of the faith and truth of the Church, that is, of Christ. Truths we know and love become part of ourselves, vitalizing ourselves and others for love is diffusive. To love these truths we must know them and obviously we cannot know them unless we study them. Too much attention to the merely negative aspects of the Christian life, or to the controversial aspects, tends toward sterility. The world is clamorous with ’isms. A Catholicism believed, but not practiced, is no match for any ’ism that is believed and practiced.
Mass Calendar: May 28 to June 3
Sunday 28—Pentecost Sunday. Double of the first class with octave of the first order. Sequence. Credo and proper preface throughout.
Monday 29—Double of the first class. Mass proper; the rest as on Sunday.
Tuesday 30—Double of the first class. Mass proper; the rest as on Sunday.
Wednesday 31 — Semi-double. Ember Day. Mass proper. 2d prayer St. Angela. 3d St. Petronilla. Prophecies. The rest as on Sunday.
Thursday, June 1—Semi - double. Mass proper. 2d prayer the Church or the Pope. The rest as on Sunday.
Friday 2—Semi-double. Ember Day. Mass proper. 2d prayer St. Marcel-linns and Companions. Martyrs. The rest as on Sunday.
Saturday 3—Semi - doubles. Ember Day. Mass proper. Prophecies. 2d prayer the Church or the Pope. The rest as on Sunday.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Mahoney, DeCoursey, Colgan and Morris Win "Dome" Awards for Extra-Curricular Activity
By Frank Wemhoff
William Mahoney
Vincent DeCoursey Charles Colgan
The Dome awards were given to four seniors at the annual Publications banquet on Monday evening. These awards are made each year in recognition of outstanding extra-curricular activity. This year’s winners are William Mahoney, Charles Colgan,
George Morris
Vincent DeCoursey, and George Morris.
William Mahoney of Phoenix, Ariz., was track captain, literary editor of the Scholastic, president of the Wranglers, and possessed a high scholastic average.
Nine Hundred Expected at Summer School
Summer School will open Wednesday, June 21. Six hundred and thirty applications have been received and more than 900 students are expected.
Almost 500 of the students already enrolled are nuns—representatives from almost 30 different teaching orders in the United States. The Dominican Sisters, Sisters of Mercy, and Sisters of St. Joseph will send the largest number of students.
The Summer School for Engineering and Science has been lengthened to eight weeks this year — the first time that an eight-week session has ever been used at Notre Dame. The
Vincent DeCoursey, of Kansas City, Kans., was prominent as managing editor of the Scholastic, a member of the Wranglers and of the Bookmen, and engaged in interhall debate.
Charles Colgan from Brooklyn, N.
Y., extended his extra-curricular ac-tivities to the Wranglers, varsity fencing, varsity and interhall debate, and the Glee club.
George Morris, of Detroit, Mich., engaged in Interhall debate, Wranglers, Glee club, and acted as financial secretary of the Knights of Columbus.
Winners of the Dome awards were decided at a conference of 12 juniors selected from such outstanding cam- < pus organizations as the Students Activities Council, Monogram club, Scholastic, and the Managers’ association.
The choices were made this year by the following committee: James P. Cleary, Bernard K. Crawford, Gerard K. Donovan, William C. Fay, Donald A. Foskett, Albert P. Funk, Cornelius E. Geary, William J. Hannan, Joseph H. Mulqueen, Philip J. Sandmaier, Robert E. Sullivan, and Joseph R. Thesing.
longer time will permit a more complete discussion of subjects. The session will begin on Monday, June 5 and continue until the close of the regular summer term on Wednesday, August 2.
Daner Heads Schoolmen
At a meeting of the Schoolmen, campus philosophy club, held May 11, James C. Daner was elected president for the coming year. Richard Leo Fallon, Jr., was elected secretary. In the Fall a vice-president will be . elected from among the Juniors.
MM 26, 1939
7
HOLD ELECTIONS FOR
S. A. C. AND SOPHS
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Graham Starr
BREEN MEDAL WON BY LITIZETTI
Elections for next year’s Student Activities Committee representatives from the five colleges were held by the class of 1940 last Friday. Election of the underclass representatives of the hall will take place next October. Bob Sullivan is the temporary chairman until after the fall election. Results of last Friday’s balloting are as follows: Arts and Letters—Gerard K. Donovan, Commerce—Robert G. Sanford, Engineering—David W. Spraf-ke, Science—Elmer P. Chaput, Law— Robert A. Derengoski.
Next year’s sophomore and junior class elections were also recently held. The class of ’42 will be led next year by Jack Kelly as president, George Sobeck as vice president, William McGrath as secretary and Anthony Do-nadio as treasurer.
The juniors chose Rube Marquardt as president, John Maloney as vice president, Frank Doody as secretary and Howie Essick as secretary.
Prize Winning Prose In May "Scrip"
•
Scrip appeared last week and brought honors to three of its contributors. Assistant editor Charles Nelson and John Broderick, Juniors in Arts and Letters, share the annual prose award for literary excellence; Donald Denniss Connors, a Freshman, walked off with the poetry award. The awards were given at the annual Publications Banquet, Monday night.
Nelson’s work, “The World of God,” expostulates the ideas of the Supreme Being held by leading philosophers of the ast. Broderick in his “Three Evenings” gives a quick but significant glance into the lives of people in a quiet resort town. “They Will Come,” Connor’s contribution, is a saga of our time, and is a finished piece of blank verse.
Felix Pogliano writes, “Dry Hash With Beer,” a story of mountain climbing. Andy Wilson contributes again, this time “Expedition,” a tale of small boys, BB guns, and town toughs. “The Good Little Nigger” by Martin Meyer portrays the love and loyalty of a negro waif and a white dockwalloper. Don Driscoll illustrates this story.
The issue, blue and white to honor Our Lady’s month, is complete with Freshman Sketches and a group of four short poems.
Paul Francis Hellmuth, Springfield, Ohio, art and letters student from Dillon hall, has the honor of being the first editor of the Dome to put out a special copy for the Pope. He has had to take special care in preparing the yearbook as a copy will be placed in the Vatican Library in Rome.
He is vice-president of the Patricians— however his favorite indoor sport at Notre Dame during the freshman and sophomore years was
Editor Hellmuth
.... a devotee of Strauss.
working on the Dome. In his spare time he plays handball, tennis, fishes, builds model apartment houses, or listens to Strauss waltzes. Has a cum laude average.
After he receives his diploma he intends to take law at Harvard. Hopes to be an industrial promoter. He is not in the St. Mary’s league anymore, however.
A brother of his graduated in 1936 and he has another coming here next year
Paul knows about 2,991 out of the 3,000 students kicking about the campus. He has an unusual sense of humor, but is not very talkative as he thinks before he speaks—which is more than some of us can boast ■ about.
He is yearning for the cosmological experience that Professor Fitzgerald stressed. The professor said that it would come, and Paul is still looking for it. Maybe the cosmopolitan issue of the Dome will supply the experience.
Youngstown Donee
The Youngstown Club, at a meeting this week, made plans for a Summer Dance which will be held at the “Mansion” in Youngstown. A club picnic is also on the summer schedule.
The following officers have been chosen for the coming year: Pete Sheehan, president; Bill Hawes, vice-president; Francis Hopkins, secretary; Bill Eaton, treasurer.
A freshman is not without honor except in his own class, judging from the results of the Breen Medal and the Freshman Oratorical Contests. Stanley Litizetti of Helper, Utah, could not survive the finals of the Freshman Oratorical contest yet he bested upperclass competition in the struggle for the Breen medal. Instead William Meier of North Dakota won the freshman meet.
The Freshman Oratorical contest was held on Tuesday evening, May 16, in the auditorium of the Law Building. Besides the winner, William Meier, other contestants to reach the finals were Stanley Litizetti, Peter Scullion, and Thomas Tearney.
Litizetti was adjudged the best of five finalists who survived an original field of 25 entrants for the Breen Medal. Other finalists were John Mead, Robert O’Donnell, John.Hennessey, and William Meier.
The judges for the preliminaries and the finals were Professors Sheehan, Kelly, Dooley, Fagin, Mills, Ro-nay, Staunton, Schuyler, Moran and Cox.
Patricians Elect Wall
Thomas Wall, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and one of the three Latin majors enrolled at the University, was unanimously elected president of the Patricians, Wednesday evening. At the final meeting of the year the Patricians also announced plans for a group study project during the next school year as well as a desire to present one of the plays of Plautus. The Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C., in charge of dramatics, has already signified his willingness to aid in such a production.
The Patricians this year compiled a book containing the papers read and discussed before the group during the past year. This organ will serve as a review, not only for the members of the organization but as the medium for an exchange for similar publications between other colleges. The department of Classics has given its cooperation in this regard and he prospects for the development or -Patrician, as the review is r-" look very encouraging.
Other officers elected inclue J-. ' McCauley, vice president; Thon’ McGee, secretary; and John Meant.. treasurer.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC NOTES
By William Mooney
Imagine a chorus of six hundred voices, a ninety piece symphony orchestra and Kirsten Flagstad. Such was the wealth of musicianship present at Northwestern’s Dyche Stadium, Saturday. In a sheltered section of the stadium, ten thousand people gathered in the afternoon and again in the evening and were thoroughly thrilled. This was the last day of the Ninth Annual North Shore Music Festival.
Marian Anderson was scheduled to sing at the afternoon concert, but because of illness she was unable to appear. Her place was taken by Kirsten Flagstad who sang both at the afternoon and at the evening performance.
Flagstad Greatest Isolde
Miss Flagstad is truly the greatest Isolde of our day. Her opulent voice, and the warm sincerity7 which she brings to every role she sings have distinguished her as a superlative artist. She sings with bronzelike strength, and with sufficient power to be heard clearly and gloriously above the concerted fortissimos of the symphony orchestra. It was the Chicago Symphony conducted by Dr. Frederick Stock. Miss Flagstad not only grasps the spirit of Wagner’s profound music, but also transmits to her listeners the full meaning.
Her greatest triumph was reserved for the evening concert when she sang Brunnhilde’s Immolation, from “Gotterdammerung.” Miss Flagstad’s voice flowed with unflagging power and majesty through the lengthy text. All of her selections were drawn from the works of Wagner.
Phenomenal, Indeed
The afternoon concert, besides featuring Kirsten Flagstad presented the Chicago Symphony and the Children’s Chorus. At the opening of the concert four hundred little girls between the ages of eight and fourteen filled the huge stage. Later they were replaced with four hundred boys of the same age. The excellence of these two groups was truly amazing. It seemed wholly inconceivable that a group so young and so large could be so perfectly trained. Absolute pitch was maintained throughout, and the way in which they responded to their director in phrasing and in dynamic changing was phenomenal, indeed. Mr. John W. Beatty trained and conducted the children.
The evening performance was concluded with the greatest of all Beethoven compositions, The Ninth or Choral Symphony. A six hundred
piece massed adult chorus combined with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra for the last movement, the rendition of Schiller’s “Ode To Joy.” Of the chorus finale Wagner said: “A harsh outcry begins the transition from the third to the fourth movement, a cry of disappointment at not attaining the contentment so earnestly sought. Then, with the beginning of the Ode, we hear plainly expressed what must appear to the anxious seeker for happiness as the highest lasting pleasure.”
It was a day and a night of truly immortal music.
ART
By Dick Metzger
Perhaps the most renowned name in the history of American portraiture is John Singer Sargent. Sargent’s portraits, while net particularly interesting in their color, display facility of brush stroke and sureness of touch.
This commanding technique has given Sargent’s paintings an appearance of having been dashed off in the Halsian manner. But this is far from the truth. Sargent may have sailed into his work with great gusto, but he was never careless or slipshod. On the contrary he exerted the greatest efforts to secure those very effects that oftentimes lend such a casual air to his canvases. He would never allow a painting to leave his studio until it completely satisfied him—no matter how much it might satisfy others. It has been said that Sargent at work was “convincing testimony that genius is the capacity for taking infinite pains.”
Results Justified Method
Sargent’s method of work was rather unusual. He would place his easel beside the model, observe the model from a distance and then approach the canvas, put in a few strokes, and retreat again for further observation. At the same time he kept up an entertaining conversation with .his subject. This method was certainly justified in its results, for Sargent’s portraits are masterpieces. Indeed, they have persuaded some critics to proclaim him the greatest portrait painter of modern times.
Outstanding among his portrait works is his virile portrait of William Merritt Chase; his work entitled “The Three Graces” depicting the daughters of the Hon. Percy Wyndham; his portrait of Mrs. H. F. Haddon; and another of Mrs. Haddon’s sister, called “The Lady with the Rose, My Sister”; and his portrait of the former President Lowell of Harvard, painted in 1924, a year before his death.	.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Fred E. Sisk
Joke of the Week
Prof: “Before you begin the final, are there any questions?”
Freshman: “What is the name of this course?”
—Nebraska Awgwan.
Orchids
During the past nine months that the “Parade” has been passing along
“Scissors” Sisk Takes a last clip.
the way, we have sat in the reviewing stand with our shears in hand to clip out the best “floats.” Now that we have reached the end, we believe that we have a fair criterion to pass out orchids to those college newspapers we have considered the best. Our weekly pile of “rags” has come from every corner of the country and represent Catholic and secular colleges and universities. Because of this wide selection, we have tried to give equal attention and representation to both Catholic and secular papers as well as a varied selection from the East, West, South, and North.
Of the college dailies we have frequently clipped the Ohio State Lantern; its features and editorials are consistently well done. Likewise, the University of Wisconsin Daily Cardinal is in the “better-than-average” class. The Minnesota Daily, each day claiming to be “The World’s Largest College Newspaper,” has an especially attractive lay-out. The Daily Student at Indiana' University presents both national and university news and is one of the best in the field. The Daily Northwestern, the Southern California Daily Trojan, and the University of Kansas Daily Kansan are in the upper class because of their good (Continued on Page 23)
MAY 26, J 939
9
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
About looking back over a lusty, if not too full, theatrical season: According to Notre Dame theatre-goers of long years standing, the University Players, despite only two productions, this past year excited a flurry of renewed interest in student playgoing. Each night of both runnings saw Washington Hall packed to standing-room with an enthusiastic and surprisingly appreciative audience; such a tendency is known to be novel among the greater numbers of students.
Even the desire to join the ranks of the Players has grown; we hope that a heated summer will not sweat away the aspirations of those pointing toward a successful try-out with the Players next fall. When the notices are posted, remember- that the group is not a closed corporation, but welcomes everyone having the remotest suspicion that he has talent to try out, whether he be a junior, senior, freshman or sophomore. The Players is an organization in which seniority rule fades at the snap of a finger. And bear it in mind that this year’s Players, though lauded at times perhaps, is not much more than a cry in the night when reckoning a true picture of campus dramatic ability.
Not Enough Candidates
Notre Dame has more than three thousand students. If there are no more potentially good actors in this number than those trying out last fall, then every estimate of aggregate campus acting talent can be scrapped as so much empty gush. But there are cases of students having done stage work outside the University in stock companies and summer theatres who have not so much as stepped into Washington Hall. Yes, Notre Dame is a mine rich with potentially fine actors.
Getting back to our little retrospect, we cheerfully recall two productions, “Room Service” and “The Queen’s Husband.” . . . Both were appropriately chosen and well received. . . . Between the tribulations of a play producer (Jerry Hogan) and the antics of a queen-ruled king (Ray Sadlier), campus play-goers had theatrical conversation meat for weeks.
We witnessed another significant event during the past year . . . the transferring of the director’s seat from Mr Tom Mills, who now heads the great athletic house to the southwest of the campus, to the Rev. Mat
thew A. Coyle, C.S.C., of the English Department. . . . The final offering of the Players cannot be attended by the student body generally . . . Chekhov’s “On the High Road,” scheduled for June the second ... in the midst of Commencement activities.
Thus we bid farewell to dramatic doings for another year, looking forward to a truly fruitful ’39-’4O theatre season.
RADIO
By Bernard Feeney
Tonight’s broadcast of “College Quiz” at 8 p.m. winds up the fifth season of Campus Radio activities. The local organiaztion headed by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., had as its student directors this year Ray Kelly, Bob Blake, and Ed Grimes acting as president, rice president, and secretary, respectively.
Now that the local microphones are to be locked away in the studio control room until next September it is interesting to make a few observations on the past year. Opening with a Founder’s _	.
Day broadcast on October 13 the local station slowly built up a wide variety of pro-grams. An old standby, the series of talks given by	J
the Faculty, took its usual spot K&MMjsP--each Monday night throughout Bernard Feeney the year. This was supplemented by two other programs of a scholastic nature, the “Politics Forum,” and “Our Economic Outlook.” The former highlighted their season with a quiz on American politics and government, while the latter presented papers in the straight formal style.
Musical listeners were furnished with a varied menu by the Modem-aires orchestra, the Linnets with band and glee club,- and the Italian Club with its “Songs for You.” The Music Department under Professor Pedtke brought the Glee Club, Symphony Orchestra, and a variety of other local talent before the microphone. In the sporting vein was a series of programs by Walt Hagen, while Ed O’Connoi- and Ray Kelly guided the “Periscope of the News.” Quizmaster- Walt Johnson tossed some tough questions to the Inter-hall teams each Friday on his “College Quiz.” And winding up the regularly-scheduled programs was Ed Heinz’s “Men of Yesterday,” featuring famous alumni.
All of these shows were handled by the regular staff of announcers and engineers The men who are eligible to receive keys as recognition of their work during the year are: Norbert Aleksis, Richard Bohn, Tom Carty, Ed Corey, Bernard Feeney, Bill Foley, Fred Fow-ler, Ed Grimes, Walt Hagen, Ed Heinz, Bob Jehring, Walt Johnson, Ray Kelly, Bob Le Jeune, Jim Magarahan, Ed O’Connor, Harry Penrose, Dan Sallows, and Hubert Schlafly.
Interesting special programs of the year included the broadcasting of an actual meeting of the Wranglers, the dramatic productions of the Playmakers, interviews of Paul Maguire and James Armstrong, St. Mary’s broadcasts, highlights of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine Congress, and a dramatization of the life and music of Franz Schubert.
VINCENTIANS
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
The last column of this school year! The most fitting thought that comes to mind is one of sincere appreciation for the help given to the Vincentians. This has been a great year. You will soon i-eceive the report of activities and financial standing; it will give you some idea of what has been done; it will impress you with what you have made possible.
Work Through Summer
Sunday’s meeting was held in the lounge room of the Knights of Columbus in Walsh Hall. The Rev. John Kelley, C.S.C., spiritual director of the Conference, read the financial report. Those with cases were asked what arrangements they had made for the summer- months. Two families will need their regular order of milk supplied by the Conference. The office will see to it that the payments continue during the summer while either a South Bend student Vincentian or the Vincentian Service Bureau takes care of the purchase and distribution of the milk tickets.
The very active Louisville, Ky., Particular Council has taken a list of the N. D Vincentians and written to the pastor in their home parishes. He is expected to have the N. D. Vincentian speak to the parish conference. The talks will be of the same nature as those delivered before the religion classes here at the University.
Best Storage Facilities
A sheet giving the details of the storage facilities offered by the Con-( Continued on Page 21)
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Notre Dome Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Mark J. Mitchell______________________Editor-in-Chief
Vincent DeCoursey__________________________Managing	Editor
William P. Mahoney_________________________Literary	Editor
William C. Fay_________________________________News	Editor
Donald Foskett_______________________________Sports	Editor
Tom Powers______________________________________Art	Editor
Rev. L. V. Broughal, C.S.C..........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Ave.. New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor. Post Office Box 155. Notre Dame. Indiana.
Stat! meetings Wednesday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff 6:30 P.M.: General Staff. 7:00 P.M.
opportunities for the improvement of technical knowledge and of executive ability. But even the editors derive their greatest benefit from the writing they do. In the past year the number of special contributors has greatly increased. This is a hopeful sign, for it shows that more and more students are coming to realize not only what they owe to the school for providing opportunities but more importantly for them, what they owe to themselves to derive the most they can from the opportunities with which they are provided.
And so, without any falsely sentimental regrets that it is all over, we leave you somewhat happily in the knowledge that we have contributed some share, however small, to the heritage of Scholastic tradition, a little sadly in the realization that we didn’t do quite as well as we might have, for the most part calmly, as we write, for the last time, simply “30.”—Mark J. Mitchell.
Vol. 72	May 26, 1939	No. 26
"30"
THIS IS A farewell editorial. By that fact it should be filled with gentle sobs and unbounded thanks. Strictly as such, it won’t be. We are a little sad, and we are extremely thankful. We have good reason to be. And everybody knows it. So we are. This might even contain the much-mentioned last laugh. But somehow we don’t feel that that is important now, either.
All four years with the Scholastic have been good years. In that time we have experienced just about all of the usual failures and successes. The friendships have been pleasant and profitable. The enmities have, we hope, been kept at a minimum.
This past year has seen many changes in the Scholastic. Still, much has remained the same. That, we feel, is as it should be. For, while progress is desirable, there is much here that is worth retaining. Extended departmentalization has made the magazine easier to publish, and we feel, easier to read. Adherence to the traditional format has retained the essential function of the Scholastic, as we see it, to present a clear and accurate reflection of contemporary campus life. In the long view, we feel that the present format is almost as efficient as possible when one considers the status and the function of the magazine. Others will come, who will disagree with this view—and perhaps in the future justifiably. But here and now, we are confident that we can successfully defend the Scholastic as it is.
The scope of improvements was and is therefore limited. We have felt that the most important opportunity for improvement lay in the technique of writing. As a consequence, we have striven to do all we could personally to meet this opportunity, and to impress upon others the necessity for improvement in this respect. We are confident that, purely from an objective viewpoint, an improvement of this nature has in some degree been realized this year.
Corresponding to the opportunity for writing a better Scholastic lies the possibility of valuable personal benefit to be derived from all aspects of working on the magazine, but most particularly from simply writing. The varied aspects of editing the Scholastic present special
Until 1940....
FOR TWO months now the 1939 Bengal Bouts have been history. During this time a few lagging receipts have drifted in, the boxers have received their awards, and all the bills have been paid. The net profit of the 1939 tourney compares favorably with that of its predecessors.
We refrain from laying claim to any new records. That was not what we were most interested in. We do feel that with the aid of our generous friends we have been successful in accomplishing what we aimed for— the performance of a creditable job of promoting and presenting a University championship boxing tournament with a reasonably large profit for the Bengal Missions.
Expenses ran a little higher than we had anticipated, but we felt that in the long view most of this extra money —chiefly for awards—was well spent to provide a firm foundation of good will for succeeding tournaments.
We wish to thank all our kind friends without whose aid it would have been impossible to accomplish anything.
The following is the financial statement of the eighth annual Bengal Boxing Tournament:
Receipts
Finals (General admission) ............$314.75
Finals (Reserved, including patrons)_ 149.00
Preliminaries (General admission)	..........	302.20
Program advertising......................... 160.00
Donation (Mr. Frank.Lloyd) ______________ 50.00	;
Donation (Ave Maria Press).............. 21.00	•
_______— ______.
Total Receipts ..........................$996.95
Disbursements
Awards (Sweaters, medals, etc.) __$173.42
Equipment (Boxing gloves, etc.) .. 117.63
Printing (Program, tickets, etc.) . 101.73
Promotion expense ................. 84.10
Miscellaneous (Postage, stationery, etc.) 11.49
Total Disbursements .................$488.37
Balance (Check to Holy Cross	-----
Foreign Missions, Bengal, India).....$508.58
MAY 26, 1939
II
The Eyes of the Dead
By ROBERT BLAKE
I can’t fall! It’s not my day to fall! I’ve climbed before and have never fallen. I mounted this overhang easily coming up . . . and yet, I can’t get down.
Here I am spread-eagled on this wall, bent backward over this shelf of rock, and I can’t stretch any lower. My feet must not be far from the safe hands of my friends on the ledge underneath. But I can’t see where my feet are, can’t see where to put them—they are in under the eaves, and when I look, there is only the forest so far below it appears smooth and green like a lawn. My feet keep slipping down the wall. I can feel the crepe soles snap and tear on the crystal points of granite — slipping and slipping. There ought to be some knob or crease to stop them. If only I could take the weight off them with my hands. But I can’t find a handhold. There’s not even a dent for my finger tips, not a crack, just the rough stone to scratch at. I can’t hold my feet. They’re going—going out from under me. I dig my chin into the stone, I lay with all my might on the rock edge at the ends of my ribs, I groove the shelf with my elbows and with my finger tips. But I can’t get the shelf with my elbows and with my finger tips. But I can’t get the weight off my feet. They’re slipping and slipping, getting heavier. It’s no use. My elbows are being skinned down the rock. The harder I press with them, the more I am overbalanced, the more I feel as though I am going tear off into space. My chin is bleeding, and my whitened nails are breaking on the granite; I am going to rip them from the ends of my fingers. I can’t hold. (People will say I fell while climbing. They won’t know this overhang. No one could make it without rope and pitons. Why didn’t I bring them? Why? Why? My feet are slipping, becoming heavier and heavier. Nothing to stop them. The abyss behind me is like a whirlpool, sucking me into its emptiness. The rock is leaning, pouring me off into space. Invisible hands are lifting my elbows from the rough stone, pulling my feet, gently tugging my shoulders, stripping me off the protruding rock.
It’s no use. I can’t hold. Why not? It’s impossible. Let go. Save yourself. It’s not real. You can’t fall, not you. It’s a dream.
My foot! O thank God! My foot!
It’s slid into friendly fingers below. It’s stopped. . . .
But the other* ... it keeps sliding. I can’t put my weight on the safe one. It will unbalance me; it will tear my hands loose above. The other foot ... it keeps sinking and sinking—into the quicksand, into the hungry emptiness, pulling my leg, pulling my arms and chin loose, pulling my ribs from the rock, pulling me over backwards.
I can’t hold. I’m going to fall. I might as well let go. I’ll fall anyway. No use frightening myself trying to cling to nothing. I’ll let go and get it over with. The forest looks soft, and too far away ever to reach it. . . . I’ll wake up on the way down. Here goes. . . . “So long, friend. I simply can’t hold any longer . . . I’m going. . . .”
O—oh, how sweet it is to relax, to lie back on the air, to float away from the rock, to peel off like a blood sucker from the end of my toe; to stretch out, to breathe again, to feel the rush of the air in my ears, and between my fingers. How gentle it is, floating on water. I am standing still and the wall is rushing up past me. I can feel the wind as it passes.
But look! The wall . . . I’ve got to get out of the way of the wall It’s coming out to hit me. . . . Ough—the impact . . . right on the side of my face, ohhhh. . . . I’ve bounced from it. I’m flinging away from it—twirling like a doll down through the sky, over and over — sky, rock, forest, wall; sky, rock . . . with my arms flapping. It’s nice, though. The wind is cool under my arms, and against my face ... it burns a little! I must have cut it against the wall. Oh, I did! The bone is showing through my cheek . . . and above my eye. They’ll be awful scars.
I wouldn’t want to slap that granite wall again. But I’ll not. There are the trees. They’re growing higher. I can make out the branches now. The wind is awfully strong, pricking my wild hair aaginst my forehead as I resolve over* and over. The trees are flying at me. I wonder which one I’ll land in
But it’s time to wake up. Wake up! What? Wake up. ... I am awake! This is no dream, I am falling. . . .
The wind, the trees, the twigs— people will say. . . .
Ough! . . . Right through the roof
of the forest. . . . Sounded like a grizzly bear charging through the underbrush.
How heavy I am! I feel as though I had fallen off the hay-ladder again on my back—only higher. I can’t get my breath. I guess I’ll never get it again. I can feel my ribs like broken green sticks jagging through my lungs. And my head is all in on one side, like an egg you hit with a spoon. And I have made a nice little form in the pine needles, even my outstretched arm. There is a branch lying across me and my white hand is sticking out from under it. That will be the first thing they’ll see when they find me.
I can see up through the needles above my face. The sun is streaming like gold through the dust I raise. It is settling on my eyes. I’ve never had dust settle on my eyes before. It’s funny: I can’t blink my lids.
Ha! I scared all the birds away when I came through. But it would take more than me falling out of the sky to scare that curious camp-robber away for long. Look, he’s coming back, tilting his head from that limb. Here he comes closer, alighting on the branch right over my face. I’ve never seen one come this close before. He must know I’m dead. See how pearly and grey his is, with a tuft on his head. So soft underneath. He doesn’t know what to make of me. There’s a rock-chuck peeking up out of his hole, and a chipmunk, twitching his tail and hunting for pine-cone nuts as if nothing had happened.
But look what I did to the tree, stripped every limb on this side. They are cracked in underneath, the bark is gone; they are split and gleaming white at the fracture. And there is the hole in the roof of the forest. I can see the cliff—up there where I was, and the sun-shine, and the clouds going by.
Ow! A fly is walking over my naked cheek-bone. I wish they would find me before more flies come. I’d hate to have the flies lay their eggs in my eyes. '
But look there at my friend stretched across the crack in the rock, laid out against that slim wedge of sky. I feel sorry for him. He’ll think I’m hurt, and be terribly frightened and might fall. To think I was up there, climbing. I had gotten to the top, but it wasn’t much. The (Continued on Page 22)
12
THE NOTkE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Tradition and Progress
By JOHN CASEY
Clem Cressy is one of the carpenters working on the new Breen-Phillips Hall. His father worked as a carpenter for the school for a period of 25 or thirty years a long time ago, so doing carpenter work at Notre Dame is not new for the Cressy family. Clem was sitting on the foundation stones eating his lunch when we approached rather timidly.
“Yeah, I was at school here ’way back in the “Gay Nineties,” from 1895 to 1901 to be exact,” he answered the first question. “Father Thomas Walsh was the president then, and Father Sorin was the provincial. I remember how we all used to stand up when they came into the room.”
Clem has typical Irish features, a well tanned face and eyes that seem to hold a person’s attention when he is talking to him. His talk is slow and deliberate, as if he is thinking over each word and sentence before he utters it. He has hands that really look as if they would be able to handle the plane, saw and square.
“What do you mean by ‘we,’ Clem? What class were you in, and how many years of school did they have here then?” I asked.
“Well, I was what was then known as a ‘Minim.’ We were the grade and older prep school kids, and they kept us in St. Ed’s. The others were in
Mr. Connolly Goes to Chicago....
.... To buy meat.........................and	fish.
Carroll and Brownson, and ranging in age up to about 18 years, I guess. The older fellows in the law school were in Sorin though.
“I remember the Brother that had charge of the Minims,” he continued, “his name was Brother Cajetan. He was a short little fellow and always wore a derby when he went anywhere. You couldn’t tell him from the students but for the derby either.”
He was munching a sandwich that would cause envy in the heart of the dining hall chef. After a slight watering of the mouth I managed to ask him how the food was in the “Gay Nineties.”
“The food was good,” was the somewhat surprising answer. “Sister Martha was the cook, and she really could bake apple pies! The dining rooms in those days were located where the offices and Carroll trunk room are now, and the good food did make them a popular place. One of the favorite pastimes used to be lifting Sister Martha’s pies.”
“What did you do for entertainment, Clem? Did the boys get to South Bend very much?” I asked.
“South Bend saw very little of the Notre Dame boys in those days,” he said. “You had to have a special permission to go to town, and they were pretty hard to get. We had no streetcars then either. It was either walk
or take the hack into town—that was Pat Sheeky’s Hack Line and the fare was fifty cents. Then too there was St. Mary’s, you know. It wasn’t any farther away then than it is now, and the boys weren’t any slower either.”
“But what would you do if you just HAD to get to town?” I countered.
“Well, you could always take a chance and skive out.”
“You mean climb out a window or down the fire escape?”
“Sure. I remember a fellow over in Sorin did that one night, and got back in by a rope ladder he had tied in his room. Only the rector found it and started to sneak in on the fellow himself, the room being up on the second floor. He got about half-way up when the rope was untied—from above, of course! I never did find out what happened to that fellow.”
He finished a couple of cookies and an apple, and settled back to rest the short time remaining of the lunch period. These fellows don’t get much of a chance to sneak a nap between the morning and afternoon sessions. Wonder what would happen if the University should suddenly decide to allow only a half-hour for the student noon meal.
That would be a track meet!
Which thought brought on the next question: “How about sports, Clem?”
“I guess football and baseball were the big sports then,” he replied. “Father Farley was the athlete that I remember particularly. He was good at just about everything. Oh yes, we used to have interclass boat races on St. Joe lake along about this time of the year too.
“Speaking of sport reminds me of one that happened over in Sorin one day. There was a salesman around peddling a patented pants hanger that was guaranteed to press your pants as they hung in the closet over night. He wasn’t doing so well, so he asked one of the students to tip him off on a good market for his wares. He was last seen carrying his load of pants-hangers over toward St. Mary’s.”	’
About this time that odd-sounding “whistle” blew, and Clem and the rest of the men had to get back to work. I can’t decide which I would prefer, but it must not have been so bad at Notre Dame in the “Gay Nineties.”

MAY 26, 1939
13
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
IRISH SEEK STATE GOLF TITLE
IRISH DEFEND STATE TRACK TITLE TOMORROW AGAINST CRACK FIELD OF INDIANA THINLIES
By Frank Aubrey
After a fine dual season in which they won seven meets and lost only two (by one point), the Irish golf team is squared away for two important tournaments. Tomorrow, May 27, Notre Dame will play host to Indiana schools here for the annual state meet. A prospective entry list of 26 teams will struggle for the cup which Notre- Dame has held for the past eight years. The tournament will consist of 36 holes of medal play, 18 in the morning and 18 in the afternoon. Each school is eligibile to enter .. a five man team, and the score will be the aggregate of the four lowest men. Father Holderith, being the de-, fending coach, plans to enter his whole team, those men who actually count, being uninformed of the fact. Thus, the golfers on the Irish squad who haven’t been seeing much action this year will engage in competition potentially at least.
Down on the Purdue course last year, the wooded-campus boys triumphed over a field of five schools. With a break in the exam schedule of other universities, this year’s meet should attract a larger field. Certainly the John Burke course is in fine playing condition and with the Irish golfers continuing their form of the dual meets, Notre Dame golf fans should see some real low scoring.
n In the week of June 26 to July 1, Father Holderith will be coaching his boys from the fairways of the Weak-onda Country Club in Des. Moines, la., the scene of the National Intercollegiate golf championship. The outstanding college golfers in the country will be entered representing 30 to 40 of the largest universities. Defending champ Johnny Burke of Georgetown will be on hand, as well as the Stanford University team which is . defending its team championship won last year at Louisville. Stanford is reported to have sent last year’s squad out into the world, but according to the Palo Alto Chamber of Commerce, another hot gang of clubbers has been recruited from the land of milk and honey.
Louisville’s tournaments found Notre Dame in sixth place behind North Carolina, Oklahoma, L. S. U., and Georgetown. But the list of those finishing behind the Irish is long and (Continued on Page 18)
Their dual meet season completed with one win and two losses, Coach John Nicholson’s varsity trackmen will enter the home stretch of the 1939 season tomorrow as they compete in the annual State meet on Cartier Field.
This meet annually brings together the
Gres Rice
Meets old foe tomorrow.
Nield Buries Gophers With Sub-Par Golf
Up in Minneapolis this week, in fine golfing weather and on a fine course, the Irish golfers played fine golf to hand the Minnesota team a fine trimming. All in all it was a fine day for the Irish. With Sammy Nield clicking off two sub-par 70’s, the boys warmed up to their game and played just about their best golf of the year. Minnesota was hot and it took all the Sheehan to Hagen to Bennett combination had to hold the Gophers in
Doubles Results: Sheehan (75) and
cream of Indiana trackmen, and the competition should be as strong as ever. For the past few years Notre Dame and Indiana University have been the leading contenders for the State title. Notre Dame is the present champion and should give the Hoosiers a tough battle in this year’s meet. The only time the Irish and the Hoosiers met this year was an indoor meet, which Indiana won, 44-42.
Third Time’s the Charm
Feature of the meet tomorrow afternoon’should be the meeting of Captain Greg Rice of Notre Dame and Captain Mel Trutt of Indiana in the mile run. Trutt beat Rice by a yard in the dual meet last winter, although Greg later beat the Hoosier captain in a two mile race at Madison Square Garden.
A week from today the Irish trackmen will travel to Milwaukee for the Central Collegiate Conference meet. Notre Dame holds this championship as well as the indoor C.C.C. championship. Last year the Irish had a fairly easy time at Milwaukee, leading Michigan State, their nearest competitor, by nine points. This will be the last meet for Nick’s 1939 squad as a unit. Notre Dame’s chances of holding the C.C.C. championship this year are dimmed considerably by the fact that both Marquette and Michigan State, two of the top entries in the meet, defeated the Irish in dual meet competition this year.
Hagen (74 lost 0 to 3, to Cromquist (70) and Getten (75); Nield (70) and Bennett (73) split 1% points with Cooper (70) and Knutson (71).
Singles: Sheehan (73) — 2% to Cromquist (72) — %; Nield (70) — 2% to Getten (74)—Bennett (71) 3 to Cooper (79)—0; Schaller (72)— 2 to Knutson (73)—1; Hagen (82)— 0 to Gerrish (77)—3. In a special match in the singles in the morning, Schaller (77) beat Boyd (78) 2% to %.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
KLINEMEN BATTLE HAWKEYES TODAY AT IOWA; END SEASON AT MICHIGAN STATE NEXT WEEK
By Pete Sheehan
The Irish will conclude their “Big Ten schedule” with a week-end doubleheader at Iowa and will ring down the curtain on the 1939 season next Friday when they will try to avenge a previous defeat at the hands of Michigan State before a crowd of Commencement visitors.
Iowa swept both ends of a doubleheader from Northwestern last weekend to give them undisputed possession of first place in the Western Conference standings. Harold Haub, ace pitcher, who held the Wildcats to three scattered hits while shutting them out, will probably get the call this afternoon and will, no doubt, be opposed by Norv Hunthausen who will be seeking his sixth victory in eight starts. Last year Hunthausen defeated the Hawkeyes, 2-1, in a ten-inning battle on Cartier Field.
Bill Vogt, Andy Kantor, and Artie Manush are the offensive threats for the corn country team. Last year Manush collected five-for-five as the Hawkeyes trimmed the Irish 13-9 but found Norv Hunthausen’s offerings a little more difficult to solve on the following day. Art is the son of “Heinie” Manush, and if baseball runs in the Manush family the Irish better be extra cautious every time the slugging outfielder advances to the plate.
Derrickson Opposing Hurler
Paul Derrickson, Michigan State mound ace, conqueror of the Irish in a previous game this campaign, will probably be Coach Kob’s choice against the Irish next Friday. However, Derrickson’s victory was gained by his mates’ batting power rather than by his pitching skill, as the 14-9 final score will prove. Casimir Klen-icki and George Owen each batted in three runs against the Irish and will receive plenty of attention from the Notre Dame board of strategy.
This will be the final appearance in a Notre Dame uniform for Captain Joe Nardone, Catcher Art Ver-hoestra, and first baseman Larry Doyle. These boys have figured prominently in the success of Coach Kline’s teams during the past three seasons. Verhoestra’s position will, no doubt, be the hardest to fill for good catchers are scare even in the majors.
Sophomore Ray Pinelli leads in batting followed by Chet Sullivan, Red Oberbrunner, and Joe Nardone. These are the only players who are batting over .300 with the exception of Farrell and Brennan. The former has collected four hits in eleven times at bat and the latter has a perfect average—one out of one.
Match Play Continues In Faculty Tourney
With play progressing slowly in all flights, the Faculty Golf Tournament moved into the semi-advanced stages tills week. Due to the fact that many matches have not been played, it appears that the final rounds will be far behind schedule.
In Flight A Championship play, the final match is pending between Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., and the winner of the match involving Mike O’Connor and Elmer Layden.
In the Flight A Consolation, Bill Cerney and J. Arthur Haley still have their first round match pending. The winner of this will be pitted against Cletus Chizek. In turn, the one who emerges on top of that trio will be matched, in the finals, against the strong Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C.
In Flight B Championship, the prospects are high that a good match will be furnished in the final round by John McKenna and Fred Weber. No consolation matches have been played in this flight.
In Flight C Championship, most of the first round matches have been finished. The winner of the Wesley Bender and Jerry Sechawski battle will be matched, in the finals, against the winner of the match between Joseph Petritz and an unnamed opponent. In Flight C Consolation, only one match has been played. There Rev. Frederick Gassensmith, C.S.C., defeated LeClair Eells.
Flight D Consolation may be close to the lowest in ability, but it has been significant that more interest has been shown there than in any other flight. In the conclusion, Ernie Howard, who defeated Edward Quinn, 3 and 2, will face James Dincolo, winner over DeVere Plunkett, 3 and 2. In the only Consolation match of this round, Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., defeated Harry Thilman.
At the present rate, it appears that it will be some time before all of the matches in the tournament will be played. According to word from those in charge, something will be done soon to speed matters a bit so that the professors may play their matches in time to pack their duffles and leave on their respective vacations.
BROWNSON TAKES INTERHALL TOURNEY
Interhall competition for the year was brought to a close with Brownson winning the annual spring track meet. Running in conjunction with the interhall meet was the Freshman telegraphic meet with Michigan which saw the final running of the year for the frosh.
Competition in the interhall meet was fairly well monopolized by the freshmen with the four first year halls taking the four top places. Following Brownson’s 41 points came Cavanaugh and Freshman with 33 and 31 respectively. The outstanding performances of the afternoon were provided by Schiek in the 220 and the 100; McNevin winning the half-mile and the mile, and Markwell, capturing the high hurdles and placing in two other events. Bill Mahoney, freshman coach, who conducted the meet, was pleased with the promise shown in some of the winners and is adding them to his already healthy crop of material for Coach Nicholson next year.
Wilson Scores for Walsh
The usual field-day turnout of the “Gentlemen from Walsh” was prominent by its absence. Their lone point in the scoring was the worst shown in years. This one point was won by “Splinters” Andy Wilson who after a 7-lap dark-horse performance in the two mile faltered badly in the last lap and came in fourth stopping the clock at 15 minutes and three seconds.
The freshmen meet being run off with the aid of Western Union went to Michigan by a 84-64 score after some “varsity” achievements by both teams. Schewe pulled up with a 21.3 winning time in the 220, Prokop won both the century and the 220 low hurdles in fine time and Roy kicked off a 50.1 quarter. In the field events Brosey heaved the shot for a winning toss of 46 feet while O’Rourke took the high jump at 6'4". However Michigan piled up their points as they swept the mile, 880 and the discus, a 144 foot sail forecasting ample replacement for their present star, Watson. Coach Mahoney taking over the freshmen as their first coach since the death of Johnny O’Brien revived the custom of telegraphic meets and with organized workouts has moulded a large and strong team to serve as varsity timber next season. After . looking at the results of the meet Nick smiled and remarked, “It looks pretty good.”
I
MAY 26, 1939
r k
NICKMEN LOSE TWO; RICE SETS RECORD
INTRODUCING
By Eddie Huff
FAY WINS STATE TENNIS TITLE
Two successive Saturdays and two successive defeats is the latest reading on the track meter at Notre Dame. But it was not inglorious, this kind of defeat and for Greg Rice and Bill Faymonville it was only incidental to the establishment of two new track and field records.
On Saturday before last the Irish followed Coach John Nicholson to East Lansing where they met a surprisingly strong Spartan aggregation. The final score was Michigan State 70, Notre Dame 61. But the Associated Press handed first place in its report to the brilliant feat of the Irish distance ace, Greg Rice, in accomplishing the two-mile run in the record time of 9 minutes 6.4 seconds. The diminutive Senior conquered his own National Intercollegiate record. Faymonville tossed the discus 159 feet to beat his old record, and Curt Hester tied the meet record by finishing the 880 in 1 minute and 54 seconds. In the other events, Yovono-vitz of Michigan State won the 220 low hurdles in :24.3, and the 120 high hurdles in :15.1. Greer was slow in the 100 yard dash, finishing ahead of Saggau with :10.2. Saggau took the 220 with a time of :22.1, and Halpin of the Irish captured the 440 in :50.5. Rice won the mile in 4:23.
In the field events, Michigan’s Arrington won the broad jump and high jump with respective marks of 23 feet, and 6 feet 2 inches. Bremer threw the javelin 186 ft. 6 in. to win for the Spartans. Beinor won the shot-put with a heave of 47 feet 3 inches, and Dean topped the cross bar at 13 feet to grab a first in the pole vault.
Back on Cartier Field the Irish set their cleats against Marquette last Saturday, and came out with a bad shiner, and an armful of new marks. The Milwaukee visitors set a few marks themselves and carried eight first places to win 77-54. Bud Fay-monville’s East Lansing mark wasn’t enough, for the Monogram president threw the discus 163 feet and 9 inches to establish his best distance, surpassing the Penn Relay heave. Marquette’s Shurilla made a record in the 220 low hurdles in 23.5 seconds, and Earl Stolberg added eight inches to the old field record in clearing the bar in beautiful style at 13 feet 9% inches Little Greg took two titles with a 4:21.1 mile, and a slow 9:43.5 two-mile ran. Bob Saggau got his first local mark in finishing the 220 dash in :21.4, and Marquette’s Foster cleared the 120 high hurdles in 14.9 for a new record.
Chuck Bennett, who is reminiscent of Ponce de Leon, is another resident of Florida with the wanderlust. But whereas Ponce was looking for a drink, Chuck is looking for a golf putter.
When “Birdie” connects with a responsive sink-’em stick he will take his place among intercollegiate elite. Right now he is the campus’ best long-iron hitter and no relative of Annie Oakley.
Chuck never has dropped all three points that comprise a match of intercollegiate play, and he has con-
tributed a bushel of points to the Notre Dame team score in two years.
The true story of Bennett’s accomplishments are, however, iced away in the archives. Jut what Chuck’s winning percentage is . . . how many times he copped the Florida open . . . these remain to be questions. For Chuck Bennett’s restraint is not newspaper modesty but the real Hatfield.
Chuck is one of the most consistent match players in the history of Notre Dame golf. He seldom registers below 73, but he never goes above 75. He is quick off the tee, never bothering to get in the technical number of hip wiggles, and he seldom lines up his putts before bumping them.
His low score for 18 holes is 65, but he doesn’t remember the round. His Floridan drawl used to get him in the rough during classes of public speaking. And just when Bennett was due to hang up a perfect attendance record in Father McGinn’s Economics class once, Father popped an amazing question to the unassuming
Led by the brilliant playing of Bill Fay and Sophomore Jack Joyce, the Notre Dame Tennis team brought the 1939 net season to a successful dose last week-end in the annual Indiana Intercollegiate Tennis tournament at Earlham College, Richmond. After battling through furious quarter-final and semi-final matches, Fay defeated his teammate, 3-6, 6-1, 6-1, 6-1, to capture the singles crown.
Despite the fact that he dropped the final match, the spectacular playing of Joyce was by far the outstanding feature of the tennis carnival. The slim sophomore from Spartanburg, N. C. (whose infected hand kept him out of all the important team matches earlier in the spring) consistently thrilled a huge crowd by his blistering back hand drives and mixed drop shots to topple Ed Lindsay, defending singles champion from De-Pauw University, 7-5,1-6, 6-0. In the quarter-finals he narrowly escaped defeat at the hands of Harold Churchill of Indiana, 3-6, 6-4, 6-0.
In the semi-finals Joyce defeated Don Maris, of Earlham in probably the hardest fought singles match of the tournament. Maris had reached the semi-finals with an unexpected victory over Whitney Gregory of Notre Dame.
Fay, last year’s runner-up, following a first round bye, defeated another teammate Joe Lewis and Young of Anderson easily, and toppled King-don of Indiana 6-3, 6-3, in the semifinals. Fay lost only 25 games in 12 sets in winning the title.
The Notre Dame team failed to suc-cessfuly defend their doubles crown, won last year by Fay and Charlie Rodgers. Ed Lindsay and Paul Souders of DePauw toppled Victor King-don and Gil Haynie of Indiana to capture top honors in these sets.
A brief resume of the tennis season shows victories over Wabash, Detroit, Indiana, DePauw; losses to Michigan State, Western State, Chicago, Northwestern, Michigan and a tie with Kentucky at Lexington.
Chuck, “Have you been in this section all semester, Bennett?”
As he makes the campus rounds, Chuck does not pass for a golfer because he is not one of the “Knobbys of Walsh,” but once he displays Iris free wheeling on the tee you know that you are watching high-point Chuch, the Economics major who will likely pursue torts at one of the East’s prominent colleges of law.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By ANDY WILSON
The best Notre Dame tennis team in years monopolized most of the honors in the annual Indiana State Tennis Tournament, held last weekend at Earlham College in Richmond. Two Irish doubles teams reached the semi-finals, and three men reached at least the quarter-finals of the singles, with Bill Fay and Jack Joyce, rated Number One and Number Three respectively on the Irish squad, turning in the outstanding performances and meeting each other in the finals. After the team’s somewhat disappointing failure to win more than half of the matches on the season’s schedule, due chiefly to the loss of Joyce for over a month, this showing was very satisfying.
During the year the Irish won four and lost five matches. They were undefeated, and not even close to defeat until their fifth match, with Kentucky. Joyce suddenly developed a painful irritation in the palm of his right hand, a kind of fungus growth. Being so bothered, his game dropped off, he lost his singles, and Kentucky managed to get a 4-4 tie. The sore has been on Joyce’s hand ever since, and is only just healing. So he was in no condition to play, and left the team weakened all down the line; for in the last five matches, Notre Dame’s Number Four, Five, and Six players all had to be advanced to meet the Number Three, Four, and Five men on the opposing team. This arrangement cost the Irish a close 3-6 loss to Michigan State, a 4-5 loss to Western State, and their first winning season in years.
Joyce, a sophomore from Spartanburg, South Carolina, in competition again after a month’s layoff, and with a still-sore hand, was the sensation of the State Tournament. His bracket was slightly harder than teammate Bill Fay’s, since it included last year’s defending champion, Ed Lindsay of DePauw; but the remarkable thing was not his actual arrival in the finals, but the manner in which he eliminated his earlier opponents He met and defeated Lindsay, 8-6, 1-6, 6-0 in the third round. Theh, against Harold Churchill of Indiana State, he dropped the first set, 3-6, and was trailing in the third set, 3-5, with the ninth game at deuce, he suddenly came rallying up to win four straight games and the second set, 7-5. He then bore down for six more games— a streak of ten altogether, to take the match, 3-6, 7-5, 6-0. He met Don Maris of Earlham next in the semifinals, dropped the first set 2-6, and found himself trailing 3-5 in the sec
ond set with match point coming up. He beat off the match point, won four games in a row and tied the match. In the final set, after the games went to 6-6, he won the next game after it was twice deuced, and won the final game at love on his own service.
Jack finally met a better man in Junior Bill Fay, runner-up to Lindsay last year. Bill demonstrated his right to the Number One ranking among Indiana college tennis players by stopping the spectacular Joyce, 3-6, 6-1, 6-1, 6-1. Fay played a very intelligent game, as usual, using a good chop-stroke and marvelously-controlled placements to earn his winning points. The games were all close and hard-fought, but Fay had the steadiness to gain and maintain his winning edge.
Next year should be the Big Year at last for the Blue and Gold tennis team, with both Fay and Joyce back, and Canale and Parks, two very capable members of the class of ’42, arriving at a state of eligibility.
•
Another team disappointed in its hopes for a super-fine season because
CELEBRATE after you GRADUATE
THE OLIVER
Dining Room and Coffee Shop
FAMOUS FOOD EXCELLENTLY SERVED
For many years South Bend’s finest food.
The Oliver Hotel
Main at Washington
of physical disabilities was the track squad. The loss of Dave Reidy, a sure doutjle-winner in the hurdles, because of a case of “walking pneumonia,” and of quarter-miler Ken Collins, and broad-jumpers Tucker and Dougherty, all with pulled mus-clest, cost Notre Dame its last two dual meets with Michigan State and Marquette. Both the Spartans and Hilltoppers were conquered indoors by a completely healthy Irish squad. However, we are hoping for a return (Continued on Page 20)
Congratulations...
". . . . and we'll be seeing you11
• Congratulations to the Class of 1939 . • . and thanks for the times you’ve used South Shore Line service. We give you the same wish we’ve given many classes of Notre Dame men before you, “Good luck — and we’ll be seeing you!”
CALL
MR. C. W. VEACH City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan St. PHONE 3-3111 for more information about Fares and Service
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORK. * SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
SOUth^ore:
MAY 26, 1939
17
PLAY CHEKHOV FOR COMMENCEMENT
It is 8 o’clock, the evening of June 2. Commencement guests eddy into Washington Hall to witness the University Players’ first attempt at handling the work of Anton Chekhov the greatest and most difficult of the Russian dramatists. The houselights go out. The house is in complete darkness, as no footlights are used. Suddenly a storm is heard—cannonading of thunder and heavy rain.
The curtain slowly slides back into the wings. We see a room in Tihon’s Inn. It is the middle of night. Rain lashes the windows. Jagged flashes of lightning can be seen through the partly-opened door. There is an awful sense of reality, of human life stripped of all its superficiality. Pilgrims and wayfarers are huddled on rough benches and on the floor. Those unable to find space to lie down are sleeping in a sitting posture.
A young factory hand softly plays a concertina and muses aloud about a place he has heard of, where the land is rich and green and a man can be happy. It is against this background that Chekhov injects his characters—all of them, people “On The High Road” stopping at the inn for shelter against the wind and the rain and the cold; stopping and then going on taking their place in the inevitable scheme of life.
Your
FINAL EXAM
of fine shoes . . .
You'll soon be going home on vacation or to a job, but whatever you do you'll need shoes for this summer. Come in and see our fine line of summer shoes for every occasion.
Crosby Squares $5.50 - $6.50
Other sport, white, white and tan, black, and white, and ventilated shoes----------------------$5:50 to $11.50
120 SOUTH MICHIGAN ST.
Leather Gifts for Graduation
A gift that has individuality when embossed with the graduate’s name or initials in gold.
TOILET CASES UTILITY CASES BILLFOLD SETS
• • •
LUGGAGE MANICURE SETS HANDBAGS GLOVES
All purchases gift wrapped or wrapped for mailing.
V
Hans - Rintzsch LUGGAGE SHOP Michigan and Colfax
the Berkeley by CROSBY SQUARE
in white Buck or white with tan trim
55.50
AMERICAN
Home in a Hurry!
★ Wherever you live, American Airlines’ service out of South’ Bend will land you there in a hurry'.American’s Flagships serve 5 7 major cities of America! Complimentary meals. Stewardess service. Save 10% on round trips. See American Airlines representative, Frank Itzin, 23 Lyons Hall, for details.
AIRLINES
ROUTE OF THE FLAGSHIPS
DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLOS., SOUTH BENO
FLY..
Notre Dame Students
Many future jobs will require a college education and a pilot's license. '
You may now include flying in your education if you have the written consent of your parents. The best way to travel is by air. LEARN TO FLY.
LOW RATES—$3 per half hour lesson. Guaranteed solo, $45.00.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Bendix Field Phone 3-2455
N. D. representative: Ed. Minczewslri,' phone 4-1913.
(8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SEEK GOLF TITLE (Continued from Page 13) prominent, including some of the best country-club colleges in the nation.
The Weakonda club layout is one of the Mid-West’s finest. It’s par is 73, so the total scores made undoubtedly will be somewhat higher than usual. All teams are limited to six men, and the team winner will be determined by the aggregate score of the four lowest men. Last year Stanford’s 601 total was the winning ticket, while the Irish had 620. It will be readily seen that an average of 75’s for two days will bring an even 600. With par being what it is, anything near 600 will be good—with an adjective.
Starting Wednesday, the 28th, the
individual singles play will get underway. Again it will be medal play. Father Holderith ■will un-sleeve several aces this year, men who figure to be right up in the championship flight. Slinging Sammy Nield, Tommy Sheehan, Bill Schaller, Charlie Bennett, and Walt Hagen are all money players, but expect to play just as well at Weakonda with only medals at stake. The Irish are not shouting about it, but a little key-holing indicates that they expect to either cop the team title or finish within a club-length of the team that does. How likely that is we don’t know, but all the old-timers around here will remember that in 1937 at the famous Oakmont course in Pittsburgh, Notre Dame finished second in this same tournament. S-o-oooo—
TEN DAYS
ALL EXPENSE
FOOTBALL TOUR
Notre Dame vs. Army
Saturday, November 4, 1939
NEW YORK
Chicago to New Orleans via I. C. RR. New Orleans to New York via So. Pacific’s S. S. Dixie—100 Golden Hours at Sea. New York to Chicago by rail.
$149.00 includes everything!
Westward Ho! Travel Bureau
Oliver Hotel, South Bend, Indiana Phones 31607—37171—47757
RESERVATIONS LIMITED — MAKE YOURS NOW!
Make Your Getaway The Greyhound Way!
And you save money with the
YELLOW CAB
TRANSFER
Likely as not you can buy your Greyhound ticket home with just the money you get from the second-hand store for last semester’s textbooks—and you know that’s not very much! With fares so low and Super-Coaches so comfortable, it’s no wonder Greyhound is the easy course that everybody’s taking to get out of college ! See your local Greyhound agent— and, incidentally, have a nice vacation!
Travel Service Phone 3-8283
UNION BUS STATION
135 S. Lafayette Blvd., So. Bend, Ind.
Sample One-Way Faras
CLEVELAND____$ 4.95
PITTSBURGH---7.35
PHILADELPHIA— 12.85
NEW'YORK_____14.10
BOSTON 17.00
DETROIT_____ 3.65
WASHINGTON___12.45
ST. LOUIS____5.35
MINNEAPOLIS_ 7.20
RICHMOND, VA_12.25
SAN FRANCISCO.. 34.50
ALBUQUERQUE— 20.95
DENVER 17.50
OMAHA________9.50
GREYHOUND
Phone 3-5151
The Yellow Cab Transfer delivers any trunk to any depot for only
50 cents
Service direct from Campus
Watch for Campus Agents
19
1939
IRISH NINE REGISTERS THREE VICTORIES
•
Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline’s baseball team registered three victories last week-end, upsetting the highly-rated Michigan nine, 5 to 3; mastered Purdue, 6 to 1; and edged out the Michigan City prison squad, 8 to 6.
Masterful relief hurling by Rex Ellis, lanky basketball center who doubles as a moundsman for the base-ballers, led to the triumph over Michigan, a team which had previously knocked off the Irish on the Ann Arbor diamond, 9 to 1.
Ellis took the hill in the sixth frame with two men on base and one out. He fanned the first batter and forced the second to hit an easy grounder and eventually the third out. During the remainder of the game, Ellis allowed but one scratch single. He had relieved Mike Mand-jiak in the sixth.
Notre Dame’s offensive threat was
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8261
led by a two-run, game clinching rally in the eighth frame. Hits -by pinchhitter Chuck Farrell and Lairy Doyle accounted for the triumph. Verhoes-tra, catcher for the Irish, had one hit in two official times up to pace the batters against Michigan.
A pair of Irishmen, Sullivan and Doyle, set the pace as Notre Dame knocked over Purdue at Lafayette. Norv Hunthausen, ace Notre Dame right hander, curve-balled his way to the triumph, allowing four hits. Sullivan, who smashed out three hits,
Getting “eushoesiastic” about new Mansfields!
drove in three runs while Doyle accounted for two via two hits. Captain Nardone, Notre Dame center fielder, got to base three times and scored on each occasion. Hunthausen spaced the Purdue hits well and allowed only one run, that coming in the fourth inning.
Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C., took charge of a Notre Dame squad which won over the prison nine in an unofficial game at Michigan City, 8 to 6. The game was played as part of a’ program when Notre Dame sociology and criminology students visited there.
LEARN TO FLY with jTCcrrcT FLYING SERVICE, Inc.
Bendix Field
STUDENT COURSE, 045.00 Trial Lesson FREE!
Charter trips to anywhere in the United States in Stinson.
See campus representative CHAS. CARROLL 114 Dillon Hall “Our business is in the mf*
Yes, that’s a pretty bad pun, but when you see our new Mansfield Summer Shoes we think you’ll forgive us. Because they’re downright, simply swell. Get your feet into a pair and you’ll be gaga about them too. They’re that good. And so low priced.
Most Styles
Selby Shoes
130 West Washington Avenue
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
20
SPLINTERS (Continued from Page 16)
to shape by all the ‘cripples” in time for the Indiana State and Central Collegiate Conference meets. We still feel that the Irish, with every man in the best of shape, could edge out Wisconsin, Indiana, and Marquette as the second-best track team in the Middle West.
We are looking forward to big things from our record-breaking marvels, Greg Rice and Bill Faymonville, in the N.C.A.A. meet in June. Little Greg, we understand, is going to stay in shape after graduation, aiming at the 1940 Olympics. We would like to see him be the only American ever to win the 5,000 meter run; we are confident that he will at least do better in it than any American before him ever has. Incidentally, we think that Greg, who set a new National Collegiate two-mile record of 9:06.4 up at Michigan State two weeks ago, is undoubtedly Notre Dame’s outstanding athlete of the year—and one of the most outstanding of all time.
Michigan since relations were renewed with that University, but it was Notre Dame’s eighth triumph in eleven games against Big Ten opponents. It has been a pet notion of ours all spring to see how close the Irish could come to the Western Conference championship, if they were conference member. At this writing they are even with the leader, Iowa, in games, having won one more and lost one more than the Hawkeyes, but they are trailing in percentage by .050 points. A double victory this week-end over Iowa means the “championship;” a split makes it depend on Iowa’s final games with Wisconsin The standings, as we see them:
W. L. PCT.
Iowa ..... Notre Dame . Indiana .... Michigan ... Northwestern Minnesota... Purdue ... Wisconsin... Illinois . Ohio State ... Chicago ....
.7
.8
.7
.7
.7
.5
.5
.5
.4
.2
.2
2
3
4
4
6
5
5
6
6
8
10
.777 .727 .636 .636 .538 .500 .500 .454 .400 .200 .166
“Heads or Tails” . . .
With NOTRE DAME MEN it’s always
HILLT*
for the Best
5c — HAMBURGERS — 5c PIES
CHILE
317 North Michigan Street Just north of So. Shore Station
A happy thing for us was the baseball team’s 5-3 win ovei* Michigan Saturday. Not only was it Notre Dame’s first major-sport victory over
I Notre Dame
| SOUVENIRS
=	Dome Plaques	|
E	Letter Openers	e
|	Perpetual Calendars	|
|	Etchings of Campus Views |
50c to $2.00
=	Religious Articles	=
=	Pennants	=
I	SHEAFFER PENS	I
1	Monogrammed at	f
1	NO EXTRA COST	|
=	N. D.	Blankets — $10.00	|
I	Notre	Dame Bookstore	I
|	Badin Hall	=
........  iQ
Introducing
ARROW Sportswear
. . . Arrow, makers of famed Arrow shirts, now gives to the world a cut and sewn sports shirt that will be color fast, washable and Sanfor-ized-shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than i%). Designed to take the stress and strain of active sports, it is also the best looking sports shirt you can find anywhere. In complementary and contrasting colors . . . $2 up-

Come in today and see our new selection of Arrow sportswear—shirts, slax, and knitted pullovers.

MAY 26, 1939
21
VINCENTIANS
(Continued from Page 9) ference this year will be distributed with the annual report. There are definite advantages to be gained by dealing with reputable storage companies, of course. Protection against fire and moths and the like must be brought into consideration. The Conference has carefully investigated and offers the best storage services.
Again, the sincerest thanks of the writer to you all. As usual, the officials of the University have been most generous and understanding, and with a student body so cooperative, have made the Vincentian work what it is. Encouragement at the sight of such work being done has helped the writer very much. To those at the Vincentian Service Bureau many thanks. To you all the best wishes for the summer you want —and the request of a prayer for those Vincentians who will be describing the work in a parish house some warm evening this summer!
GLASSES PROPERLY FIRED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
NOTRE DAME MEN
We invite you to enjoy GENUINE
ITALIAN SPAGHETTI
30c
Delicious Meat or Mushroom Sauce and Real Parmesan Cheese
“SINCE 1914 —FINE FOOD”
Stratigon Restaurant
114 N. Michigan Street
HOW TO TIE A TIE
Then form a preliminary knot, by bringing wide end over narrow end and up through opening at collar. Smooth out the preliminary knot.
1 Arrow, makers of famed Arrow shirts * ... now make neckties. And here tells you how to tie them. First, put the wide end over and under narrow end . . . thus . . .
3
Next, put the wide end through the loop—loosely—and smooth out again. Keeping the knot smooth is important.
A Now make a groove lengthwise in the * wide end by pinching the sides together. This groove—when you pull the tie tight—forms a dimple beneath knot. Arrow Ties, because of their rich fabrics, achieve this drape easily.
’1 and ’l.SO. That’s all Arrow Ties cost. Fine fabrics. Beautiful tailoring. They hold their shape through a resilient feature, tie neatly, wear long. See your Arrow dealer.
The finished job looks like this. Knot not too big — and not so tight it screeches. Tie one of our Arrow Ties in this manner and you have the last word in necktie smartness.
ARROWCRAVATS
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE EYES OF THE DEAD (Continued from Page 11)
wind was so strong and the sides so steep I was afraid to stand up.
I’ll never be able to climb again. I’ll never have the joy of being on the top any more. Yet neither will I have the pain of climbing there, and most of all, never the anguish of having to come down. Somehow they strangely balance, the pain with the joy. But I didn’t know it then. To think I climbed up there, shivered, and sweat, and bloodied my fingers’ ends, when I could have been down here in the peace and the quiet, where there is nothing to do but see through things and understand.
Monogram Election
Steve Coughlin, sprinter on the track squad, was elected president of the Monogram Club to succeed Bill Faymonville, another track ace, at elections last week. Steve Sitko, football quarterback, was named vicepresident while Norv Hunthausen, baseball pitcher, took over the oflice of secretary-treasurer.
The Rev. Charles A. Lee, C.S.C., of the English Department, spoke on the need of more humor in the world today at the annual banquet of the Servers’ Club last week in the University Dining Hall. The new president, Paul Morrison, was introduced at the meeting.
. For
Books	Stationery
Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
REID CONTEST
(Continued from Page U) At that time Editor and Publisher commented: “.... If Mr. Reid’s plan works out one-fifth as well as we think it will, he will again have done his profession a service. Constructive criticism of newspapers is always welcomed, and it is not unlikely that some serious youth of 1938 might place his finer on some sore spot that might well go under the surgeon’s knife.”
The BAVARIAN Room
That’s the answer to “where to eat” when you are celebrating your graduating.
The LaSalle Hotel
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
STOP BAGGAGE-ITIS!*
Technical name for "Baggage bother when vacation bound."
Use this easy, economical RAILWAY EXPRESS cure — pre-tested by thousands of carefree collegians: (1) Pack everything carefully into your trunks, boxes and bags. (2) Lock, strap and label ’em deftly. (3) Phone or drop by the Railway Express office and tell them when to call and where to deliver. THAT’S ALL! Your
baggage is practically home. Charges include pick-up and delivery in all cities and principal towns. And you can send everything "express collect”—at low rates.
So when your holiday baggage is ready, just phone RAILWAY Express to call. You can then board your train without a care in the world!
The Rev. James McDonald, C.S.C., announced last Wednesday that the awards will be made at the Senior Class Day Exercises, in Washington Hall, June 3.

ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
■i	~~	"..... ■■
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
Optometrists and Opticians Est 1903
V i s i t
1839—A Century of Service—1939
506 W. South St., South Bend, Ind.
’Phone 3-6121
THE BOOK SHOP
130 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Railwa^^^xpre s s
agency^^v^Inc.
-	■- See the Railway Express Exhibits at the New York World’s Fair - ■■■
: and the San Francisco Golden Gate International Exposition.

COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from Page 8) campus coverage and usual timely editorials.
In the weekly class our favorites have been the Gonzaga Bulletin from Spokane, Washington, the Loyola Maroon from New Orleans, the Carnegie Tartan, the Xavier University News of Cincinnati, the Tulane Hullabaloo, and the University of Detroit Varsity News.
Into the semi-weekly class we have acquired a steady interest in the Drake Times - Delphic, the Temple University News, the Lehigh University Broivn and White, and the University of Colorado Silver and Gold.
Thus it is that another “College Parade” is rolling into oblivion, and the proverbial “trusty scissors” are on the shelf ready for action next year.
. PALM BEACH
SUITS
*	is part of our
COOLING SYSTEM this Summer
See them here in a grand array of colors, models, and new weaves t155°
In South Bend they’re featured at
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
1.	What summer suit has 1600 open windows in every inch of cloth—to let the body breathe?
2.	What is the coolest color a man can wear?
3.	What is the world’s only washable suit with a weightless shoulder lift?
4.	IFZwZ suit weighs less than 36 ounces in a 37 size?
5.	What does it cost to be cool and comfortable all summer long?
ANSWERS
1.	Genuine Palm Beach
2.	Palm Beach White
3.	Genuine Palm Beach
4.	Palm Beach Airtones
5.	$13.30, the price of the new
PALM BEACH SUITS ($4.75 FOR SLACKS—$18.50 FOR FORMATS) Where can Palm Beach Suits be bought? At your favorite clothier—everywhere at their low nationwide price. Goodall Company, Cincinnati, Ohio.
HOWARD HILL
WORLD CHAMPION FIELD ARCHER
HR. PAUL BYRNE LIBRARY, N3TR
hesterfield
...the right COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos
Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.	. ..they’re MILDER and TASTE BETTER
Oar
HOWARD HILL, World Champion Field Archer, can flick the ash off your Chesterfield with a single shot.
And Chesterfield’s right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos hits the mark every time for what smokers want in a cigarette.. .
© They’re milder refreshingly milder
® They taste better you’ll enjoy every one
® They Satisfy
the blend can’t be copied
When you try them you will knowwhy Chest-erfieldsgivemillions of men andwomenmore smoking pleasure... why THEY SATISFY