Vol. XXV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, April 23, 1892.	No. 33
- The , Death of Priam.
'	.	—JEneid,Bk.II.,5o6--558.
. I.
And thou, perchance, mayst ask, “What was the fate Of Priam ? ” When he saw the ruthless foe Invade the sacred shrines, his weaker limbs He clothes with useless arms, and, quivering, But not from fear, he hurries out to fight.
II.
Uncovered but by Heav’n, an altar stood; Near by, majestic in its solitude, A stately laurel grew, a sign of hope;
Here Hecuba, with all her daughters, like A flock of doves, hurled down along the sky, Took seat, in vain, like phantoms in the arms Of gods protecting. The queen exclaimed, Beholding Priam clad in soldier’s arms:
“ By what dire fate, most wretched husband, art Compelled to don these arms? ” and “whither bound? The time needs not the aid your feeble limbs Afford; my Hector could not do aught here. But come, this altar will protect us all, Or you will die with us.” Thus speaking, she Drew near, and by the altar seated him.	,
•	_ in.	.
But'hold! Polites, one of Priam’s sons, With fear in countenance expressed, flees through The weapons, through the enemy; again Through lengthy corridors, and, wounded; runs Down empty halls; while close behind, with his ■ Destructive weapon raised to strike, the bold And eager Pyrrhus comes.. But see! he grasps Polites with left hand, with the right
He pierces him through with his spear, bedaubed With blood. Before his parents’ eyes their son Expires. But Priam, compassed round with death, With angry accents cries: “Ye gods, if there “Be justice in your hearts, for this crime here, For all his reckless deeds, repay him well With his deserved thanks, and give him just Reward! I see before my very eyes	■
Thee who hast killed my son; aye, and defamed A father’s sight with the corpse of his Beloved child. Not that Achilles, fierce and brave, From whom thou dost pretend a long despent,- -
Was thus against Priam, his enemy.
But he revered the laws and faith of me, The suppliant king, and sold to me the cold And bloodless corpse of Hector, all prepared For burial, and sent me back into
My royal house.”	’	.
iv.
Thus spoke the aged king, And with his weak and trembling arms, his old,. Iron-rusted spear he hurled; but which, repulsed By hoarse, dark air, e’en seemed to loiter on The way, and scarcely reached to Pyrrhus’ shield.
“ O now you will go as a messenger
To see my father; tell the sad misdeeds Of his degen’rate Pyrrhus. Go, fail not Die! die! O die!” So saying, Pyrrhus dragged Him through the clotting blood of his belov’d, That clogged his feet at every step he took Up to the altar; with his left hand seized .
Old Priam’s hair, while with his right he thrust -His sword and turned it in the old man’s side.
v.
This was the awful death which fate
Had long ago decreed for him who, proud And haughty ruler over many lands, Possessed the sway of Asia. The huge Trunk now lies upon the shore; the head, complete In its destruction, severed from the weak And aged shoulders, is a nameless thing!
‘	Frost Thorn,’94.
Some Shaksperian. Comparisons.
Some centuries ago there stood a mansion, as mediaeval romance tells us, whose proprietor and owner was a prince of loving and kindly disposition, governing vast lands and many subjects in a most righteous manner by means of kindness and constancy. His home was all a mighty monarch could desire. No trouble was spared in making it an abode of ease, luxury -and contentment. This prince’s wife left him three children, all daughters, for whom his love
548	NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
was unbounded. His fondness for them was reciprocated by apparent devotion and affection. Years rolled on, and age brought its unsteady gait; day by day the old man mused over the future prospects of his kingdom, of which he must soon be deprived by death. ' He knew not who should be his successor. He loved all three daughters, but the youngest was most dear to his heart. But how could he give to the third before the first and second were served ? That was the question. At last his wandering and childish mind struck upon a plan, the appearance of which was strong, symmetrical and firm; but the foundation was built on the sands of fancy. “I shall,” said he, “try the love which each of my daughters bears me, and the most deserving shall be my principal heiress, and to the others shall be given according to their worthiness. Thus can I distribute my wealth and my kingdom, and for my remaining days spend the time at the homes of my children.”
Thus far had King Lear and his daughters, Goneril, Regan and Cordelia, lived in harmony and in peace. But the black sheep of the flock were too strong, so they drove away the unassuming, but most deserving of all, Cordelia, to —wherever she could go.
Shakspere tells us, in continuing the story, that Lear was unhappy at his first daughter’s house and sought comfort with Regan. But, -like a nation at war with itself, his two daughters joined forces to fight a common foe. King Lear from the parlors of comfort where no hardship is known, is forced to find shelter in that vast house whose roof is the sky and whose walls are the trees. Until then, adversity was an unknown word to him. It was here that he learned to say: “Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend.”
“ O Lear, Lear, Lear!
Beat at this gate that let thy folly in, And thy dear judgment out! ”	■
Hopes dashed to the ground, happiness crushed and home destroyed by the “unnatural hags” whose wolfish greed and selfishness were more characteristic of the demon than the woman, King Lear casts a father’s curse on the heads of his daughters. Thrown into the storm, he feels it not. Nor rain, nor wind, nor thunder, nor fire, nor all the elements joined in one great hurricane to blow and crack their cheeks, could battle against a head so old and white as this. The storms were not unkind to him, for they owed him nothing. He gave them naught, and and they need return him naught. But. to his daughters he gave all, and no return of kindness did he receive. In his affliction, for the first
time he thinks of the misery of others. Then the desire to see his first banished child overtakes him, and he becomes thereafter an unselfish man.
But why speak of the bad when we can contemplate the good? Dire misfortune strengthens the true character, and adversity tempers the the finest steel. When Cordelia is driven away from home, no tear does she shed because her dowry is taken from her; she weeps, but her weeping is of warm tears, burning with love for her poor, dear father whom she knows is in his dotage, and therefore much like a child with little reason. A body that is too well fed breeds boils, and the evil humors show themselves; the good qualities are retained within and become inactive. When that body is deprived of its dainties and has scanty supplies to live upon, then the festers leave that they may give place to the kind of flesh that healthy nature purveys. May we not liken man to this body that becomes festered or healthy according as it derives its existence from a superabundance of delicacies, or from a very limited supply of plain food? King Lear, living in pomp, puffed up by the pride which two daughters kindled with assumed love, and by a third daughter’s never-failing devotion, showed his weakness of mind by distributing his wealth between his daughters, and especially between those whose affections were the vilest affectations. An ostentatious display of false fondness, crocodile tears for the infirmities of a feebleminded old father are the candies and sweetmeats upon which his innocent and dotish pride is fed, till it festers and boils his senses into the rotten, chaotic state of a madman. And so Cordelia, when exiled from her parent’s household, did not hate, but loved him more. But why did she not speak her affection to her father, whom she knew to be weak? Why did she not do as Goneril and Regan did? Had she told her father that she was sure: she loved him more than her sisters, Lear would have . bestowed great wealth upon her. Her sisters said their father was
" Dearer than eyesight, space, and liberty;
Beyond what can be valued, rich or rare; . No less than life.”	.
Cordelia answers with no pretention and says:
.	“ Good, my lord,
You have begot me, bred me, loved me: I Return those duties back as are right fit;
Obey you, love you, and most honor you. • .
Why have my sisters husbands,' if they say
They love you all? Haply, when I shall wed, . That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry
Half my love with him, half my care and duty;
Sure, I shall never marry like my sisters.
To love my father all.” .	‘
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5+9
Such are the sentiments, not of a hypocrite, but of the truest and most loving heart which Shak-spere has among his many noblewomen; for she was strongest when adversity was severest. Adversity deranged the mind of Ophelia and Lear. One was driven to suicide, the other became a raving manic. Portia and Hamlet both sought for justice. Hamlet, deprived of his father in a most cruel and dastardly manner, means to take the punishment of this crime into his own hands, and thereby seeks to “revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.” His course is to assume insanity, as in that condition no one can be blamed for his deeds. He cares not for his own fate, provided he-can avenge his father’s death. In his affliction he takes means most cunning and artful. Destruction to his uncle, if he be guilty, he swears. Very different are Portia’s motives for, and her sense of, justice. Love is the power house of most women. Portia’s new-made husband was to be her idol, and for this idol she bore a burden of cares. She highly appreciated righteousness and true justice. These two qualities—love of man and love of justice—she nobly showed in the character of Bellario’s substitute, Balthazar.
The banished Duke of “As You Like It” I bore the cruel pangs of adversity with resignation. He suffered himself to be ousted by a usurping brother, and accepted the hardships of a poor peasant, outlawed for hunting in the king’s groves. But how can we compare the | queen of all these, that one whose whole life |	was characteristic of love for all others and
|	perfect unselfishness,—Cordelia, to that Duke
J of “As You Like It,” to Portia, Hamlet, Lear, * and Ophelia? She was, in all her motives, much |	superior to each of them. The Duke reascended
I	his throne with joy because he was thereby
i’ restored to wealth and power. Portia, though Ian admirable woman and possessing more legal knowledge than the average person of her sex, was, it seems to me, prompted to act as she did by incentives less praiseworthy than Cordelia. The tongue of Hamlet utters much philosophy, and by it only is his sense of morality protected from a grave covered by the disapproval of many generations. Kind and weak old Lear bestowed his wealth on others that they would flatter and be good to him for his remaining days; while Ophelia, unable to stand the trials of her father’s death and her lover’s assumed insanity, destroyed her own life to end her earthly sorrows. But both were mad.
How veryunlike all these isShakspere’s noble and elevating Cordelia; she was happiest on the recovery of her father from insanity. And tears
that sting and burn the heart, but are inexpressible in words, fill our eyes when her murdered body is carried in the arms of Lear before the eyes of the reader. Like Portia, but much better than she, Cordelia sought for justice for justice’ sake. Portia was a woman of the mind, Cordelia of the heart. It would be the comparison of an albatross to a dove to liken Cordelia to Ophelia; for she bore trials, tribulations, temptations and distress with the heroism of a man and the fortitude of a saint.
F. B. Chute, ’92.
Suspension Bridges.
A bridge is an elevated structure over or upon a depression and between depressed points. Far back in the Middle Ages we see the term used to designate such an object. From the decadence of the Roman Empire nearly until the present time, the old bridge of the Europeans consisted of an outer arch in one span, which included a series of smaller arches. Change and custom have made the term applicable' to objects of various forms, proportions and modes of construction, but serving the same purposes and answering the same ends. However, bridges of a much simpler plan were used long before those of the Romans alluded to above.
The first and most obvious circumstance that would dictate the necessity of a bridge, is the occurrence of a stream, or body of water,in the line of a great public road. The natural features of the vicinity though, and the necessity of keeping the river or water-way open for loftily-rigged sea-going vessels may be sufficient to prohibit the erection of a bridge when it would be otherwise highly desirable. It can seldom happen that it will not be advantageous to construct a bridge with the least possible number of points of support, seeing that by far the most of the contingencies to be provided for and against are most conveniently disposed of by arrangement to that effect. Piers in a water-way intercept the current and impede navigation. They are troublesome and expen-, sive to found and form, and when formed are much exposed to injury. The object of the bridge itself,—a convenient road-over—having been properly provided and the permanence of the structure sufficiently considered; the aim of the bridge-builder should be to use as few piers as possible consistently, with due regard to economy.' Taking into consideration, then, these facts, suspension bridges, being entirely independent of the nature of the obstacle which
55°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
they are intended to span, may be used to great advantage where a roadway is to be carried over a wide river, or in mountainous districts, or where the velocity of the current and the nature of the bed of the water-way would interfere with the construction of piers. In some instances these bridges have been used where the construction of any other system would have been practically impossible.
From time immemorial suspension bridges, of a more or less primitive form, have been used to carry mountain paths over torrents and precipices. In Europe bridges supported by cords or other flexible material were used at a very early period. A simple bridge of this kind consists of a number of cords stretched across the ravine or river to support a timber framework upon which is placed the roadway, the cords or ropes being secured by a number of piles driven in each bank. A bridge on this plan was used in France at the siege of Poitiers. Another form of rope suspension bridge, which was used at a very early date and which was similar in theory to the bridge of the present time, consisted of a mast placed in the stream to sustain the ropes, the height of the mast being governed by the width of the water-way, the main ropes being secured to the mast and shores, and other cords suspended from them by means of blocks and pulleys to support the timber platform. Such an arrangement in all probability suggested the idea of the system now used, and the application of the suspension principle to more important structures may be considered as contemporary with the numerous improvements which have taken place in the manufacture of wrought-iron, upon which metal they are almost entirely dependent.
Towards the close of the last century a number of small structures were erected on the plan of rope suspension bridges, and chains were used to support the roadway. It was about this time that Mr. Finlay, after a series of experiments on the manner of using chains on the suspension principle, laid down the systematic rules now used in the construction of these bridges. In 1801 he took out a patent in this country for a bridge the details of which differ very little from the suspension bridge as constructed at the present time. A great number of bridges were designed upon various modifications of the suspension system, but none of these plans ever came into general use. The most notable of these systems was that of Mr. Dredge, of Bath, who used in combination'with the suspension principle a number of oblique drop-rods attached to the top of towers and fastened
at points, along the platform. Several of his bridges were erected in Great Britain, but the length of the drop-rods was found objectionable as they had a tendency to assume catenary curves.
The American engineers, having been first in the scientific construction of suspension bridges, led the way in improvements, and in this country there are innumerable monuments of their mechanical skill. In no other period of the world’s history could these bridges have been built. It is only within the last one hundred years that the greater part of the knowledge necessary fortheir construction has been gained. The erection of these grand structures has not only employed every abstract conclusion and formula of mathematics, whether derived from the earth or the heavens, but they may be said to rest on a mathematical foundation. The great discoveries of chemistry showing the composition of water and the properties of metals; the laws and processes of physics, from the strains and pressures of mighty masses to the delicate vibrations of molecules, are all recorded here. In their construction every department of human industry is represented, from quarrying and the cutting of stones, the mining and smelting of ores, the conversion of iron into steel, to the final shaping of the masses of metal to useful forms, and its reduction into wire or chain so as to give it in the highest degree the tensile strength which fits it for the work of suspension. Every tool which the ingenuity of man has invented has somewhere, in some special detail, contributed its share in the accomplishment of the final result.	'
A suspension bridge, as now usually constructed, consists essentially of two or more main chains or cables, the extremities of which are firmly moored in the ground, or to anchoring masses termed the abutments, the chains being allowed to hang loosely over pulleys or saddles on towers erected for this purpose on each side of the obstacle. To the main chains are attached vertical rods or chains; termed the suspending chains, which are connected with the platform girders and support the roadway. Local circumstances, and the nature of the traffic it is to provide for, will of course determine the manner of arranging the different parts of the structure, the height of the piers or towers, the number of chains to be used, and the means of connecting them with the roadway, and the other details of the bridge..All this is determined by preliminary surveys and investigations.	.
It is well known that a chain or rope of equal
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	551
section throughout, when attached at each extremity to fixed points of support, will assume the curve termed the catenary, and it is for this reason that bridges erected on this principle are often designated as Catenary Bridges to distinguish them from other forms of suspension bridges. The expression, though, is far from being correct, as the curve assumed by the chains is materially modified by the weight of the platform, which, if uniform and horizontally distributed, would communicate to the chains, considered in themselves as devoid of weight, a curve of the common parabolic form. The chains, however, cannot be so considered in practice, nor is the weight of the platform uniformly distributed, the true curve therefore would be continued between the catenary and the parabola, approaching nearer the one or the other as the weight of the chain or of the platform predominates. 'Again, the result of a load being placed at any point of the platform would have the immediate effect of modifying the state of equilibrium, and the necessary calculations in this case for determining the true form of the curve from which to derive the requisite sectional area to be given to-the different parts of the chain or cable, to insure uniform tension at all points, would involve mathematical investigations of extreme difficulty. But the weight of the load to which a structure should be liable ought never to be but a small fraction of that of the chains and platform combined, and it is found sufficient for all practical purposes to consider the curves as true parabolas, in which case these investigations are considerably simplified. The only limit to the span which may be given to a suspension bridge is such a length of cable as will break under its own weight; but the longest span ever constructed is that of the Brooklyn Bridge which clears a space of almost sixteen hundred feet.
The towers or piers are usually masses of masonry raised in a solid form to the height of the roadway, and carried above it in the shape of columns or pillars, and connected at the top to form an arched opening for the roadway and footpaths. The abutments are usually placed back of the piers, and their form will depend upon the direction of the tension which they are intended to resist. They consist of heavy masses of rough masonry and serve as anchorages for the chains with which they are connected by means of massive pieces of iron imbedded in the masonry.
The most difficult problem with. which engineers had to contend in the construction of suspension bridges, was to. limit the vibratory
motions of the platform caused by the action of high winds or a movable load. In the first, construction of these bridges it was frequently-attempted to give lightness to the structure at the expense of rigidity, the effect being that the rapid transit of a comparatively light loadf or the regular tread of a body of menj would give a vertical or undulatory motion to the platform, and this occasioned many serious accidents. A fearful catastrophe from the latter cause occurred at the bridge over the Maine at Angers, in France, which gave way while being crossed by a body of troops, causing a frightful loss of life. Another accident of this kind occurred near Manchester, England. Heavy winds, likewise, were found to produce the most disastrous results upon these structures. The Menai, and Montrose suspension bridges and the Brighton Chain Pier in England have also been destroyed from this cause. The effect of the wind was found to be of a double nature, causing a horizontal or oscillatory motion to the whole structure, thereby endangering the extremities of the suspension rods; also a vertical or undulatory motion, each portion of the platform rising and falling successively. These two forms of motion are generally combined and give rise to a series of waves crossing the platform diagonally. Much has been done to guard against these casualties by a judicious distribution of the metal in the chains and the adoption of a suitable proportion between the deflection and the span; but without a proper amourit of stiffness in the platform these were found to be of little avail; hence the introduction of a vertical trussing which not only serves to resist the undulatory motion, but distributes the load over a greater length of platform, the oscillation being counteracted by a horizontal bracing of the platform itself, and the whole structures being strengthened by means of chainstays attached to the platform and to the piers and banks.
One of the most notable suspension bridges in Europe is the Freiburg Bridge over the.valley of the Sarine in Switzerland. It was designed by M. Chaley, a French engineer, and erected about 1834. The roadway of this bridge is suspended from four wire cables, each of which is about five inches in diameter and composed of a great number of fine wires firmly connected and wrought to a cylindrical shape by means of a spiral wrapping. The span of the bridge is about eight hundred and seventy feet, and its height above the water one hundred and seventy-five feet. Though the whole structure presents a remarkably light and fragile appearance, it has
552
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
withstood many severe shocks uninjured and is still considered a safe bridge. Another of these structures, with a remarkable history, is the Pesth Suspension Bridge over the Danube. The total length of this structure is about twelve hundred and fifty feet. It was completed in 1849, in which year it was crossed by the Hungarian army retreating before the Austrians and followed immediately by the latter, both armies with their heavy trains of artillery, ammunition and baggage. Of the Austrians alone, over thirty thousand crossed in two days.
The first suspension bridge erected in Great Britain was the bridge over the Tweed at Berwick by Captain Brown. The span of this bridge is about four hundred and fifty feet, and the platform is supported by twelve chains arranged six on a side. This engineer also constructed the Montrose Bridge and the Brighton Chain Pier, both of which were afterwards destroyed by the wind.
The bridge over the Menai Strait was completed in 1825, and has a span of five hundred and eighty feet: This structure was seriously injured in a violent storm which produced so great an oscillation of the chains as to break off the rivet heads of the bolts. The bridge was afterwards repaired and the chains suitably braced to guard against a recurrence of the accident. Some years later when it became necessary to construct a bridge of rigid material at this place for railroad traffic, the suspension system was declared unsuitable for this purpose by Mr. Stephenson, the leading English engineer, and he planned and constructed the famous Britannia Tubular Bridge which stands about a mile below the Menai Suspension Bridge. The problem of the railroad suspension bridge was left for American engineers to solve.
The Wheeling Bridge over the Ohio was among the first of the large suspension bridges erected in this Country. It was designed by'Mr. Eilert, and constructed in 1848. Its span was one thousand and ten feet, and the structure vyas destroyed by the wind in 1854. The first bridge over the Niagara was also designed by this engineer, and erected in 1848. It was a slight structure, and was removed in 1854 after the accident to the Wheeling Bridge, its cables being used in the bridge constructed by Mr. Roebling at the same place. His bridge was at the time of its erection considered to be one of the most remarkable structures of its * kind in the world. This bridge, the span of which is eight hundred and twenty-one feet, and height above the water two hundred and forty-five feet, was the first railroad suspension bridge
ever constructed. John A. Roebling had made bridges a study, and had declared in favor of the suspension principle for heavy traffic when the greatest living authorities had condemned it as costly and unsafe. When he undertook the construction of the bridge for railroad purposes he did so in the face of the judgment of the profession that success would be impossible. Mr. Stephenson, who for some years had held the highest rank among English engineers, condemned the suspension principle and declared in favor of the tubular girder for railroad traffic, but when he came to this country to approve the location of the great tubular bridge at Montreal, it was the Nemesis of his theory that he should pass over the Niagara River in a railroad train, on a suspension bridge, which he had declared to be an impossible undertaking. In this bridge there are two platforms: an upper one for the railroad and a lower one for ordinary traffic, the two being connected by a suitable trussing and the whole supported by four main cables. So great is the stiffness of the roadway that the passage of ordinary trains causes a deflection of only three or four inches. The ultimate strength of the cables is estimated at twelve thousand tons. The bridge was completed in 1854, and has thus far proved a complete success.
Mr. Roebling also constructed the Monongahela Wire Bridge at Pittsburgh and the suspensionbridge overthe Ohio at Cincinnati. The total length of the latter is over twenty-two hundred feet, with a clear span of one thousand and fifty feet. Its two main cables are twelve and a quarter inches in diameter. This noted engineer added to his fame by designing the great structure known as the Brooklyn Bridge, which is, without doubt, the grandest monument of human ingenuity in the world to-day. This bridge, which connects the cities of New York and.Brooklyn,has a span of fifteen hundred and ninety-five feet, the entire length being about six thousand feet. The superstructure consists of a platform about eighty-five feet wide, suspended from four main cables, each fifteen and three-fourth inches in diameter, and composed of galvanized steel wire, having a strength of. one hundred and sixty thousand pounds per square inch of section. The bridge was opened in 1883. Its construction required the infinite patience and unwearied courage by which great results are always achieved.	.
The suspension bridge of to-day is without a rival among the wonders of human skill. It is not the work of any one man or any one age. It is the result of study, of experience and of the knowledge of many men in many ages. It
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	^53
is not so much a creation.it is a growth. It stands before us to-day as the sum and epitome of human knowledge; as the very heir of ages; as the latest glory of centuries of patient observation, profound study and accumulated skill gained step by step in the never-ceasing struggle of man to subdue the forces of nature to his control and use.	0. W. Sullivan.
Attention.
Even presupposing the highest order of natural talent in a student, strict attention is still a necessary requisite in the acquirement of knowledge. Without it comparatively little will be attained, and the best talents will have received at most but a superficial gloss.
Attention is the application of the mind to a subject in order to understand its bearings; and no one can judge a matter correctly without having first learned to be attentive to its details. The hatchet cannot cut unless its edge be applied, nor will the bending ears of grain ever fall before the sharpest scythe while it remains inactive in the hands of the mower.
Objects are sometimes presented to the mind without arresting its attention: one sees them, as it were, without seeing them—passively, without examining them, and hears them without comprehending; but knowledge thus obtained, if retained at all, is always uncertain, superficial and often inaccurate, if not entirely false. Heedless minds—and there are many such— often find themselves, so to speak, beside themselves; they are unable to grasp that which is placed immediately before them.
To acquire habits of attention, whether in the turmoil of public business or in the class-room, is a consideration of the very first importance. We have frequently had occasion to remark that the failure of the understanding is not attributable so much to deficiency of intellect as to want of application. We hear the account given of a thing, or the instructions and explanations of the professor in class, with a distracted mind—our imagination puts on its invisible cap and seven-league bootsr and we are carried off in every direction; and when we do come back to the matter in hand we only interrupt the teacher, perhaps, by some silly questions which have no relation whatever to the matter before us. The consequence is that a subject from which one might derive useful information passes away, occasioning only a loss of time to both student .and teacher.
Without attention, what ought to strike us most forcibly makes but little or no impression on the mind; and if afterwards we wish to recall the facts or turn them over in our mind for the purpose of assisting us in some subject of interest or importance, they present themselves so indistinctly and so irregularly that we no longer recognize their bearing. Whence, then, arises our error? Is it from a lack of - understanding, or from a want of sufficient attention to the instruction? Look, if you will, at any of those men of our age who have attained success in any of the different walks of life—the statesman, the scholar, the lawyer, the doctor, the merchant, the mechanic, the farmer,—and ask them why they have succeeded so eminently in avocations in which thousands of others have miserably failed, and they will invariably answer that it ‘ is by close attention to their business. Some time ago, two gentlemen travelling in a railroad car were discussing the different ills to which human nature is subject. One of them remarking that “he could never rest well at night”; his companion said that he had no trouble whatever on that point; he always slept well, and arose in the morning quite refreshed after a good night’s rest.” “ How is it,” said the other, “that you sleep so soundly?” “Well, then,” said the other, who was, by the way, a son of the Emerald Isle, “ I will tell you: it is because I put my whole attention to it.” Why have we so many failures in business, so many accidents, etc? Why did the ill-fated . Schiller become a total wreck on the Scilly Isles but because her captain did not pay strict attention to his log-book—neglected to take soundings and work his reckonings. By doing so he could tell within a few miles where he was, and thus be prepared to avoid rocks and shoals.
Attention to the smallest details of ourstudies will necessarily enlarge the mind and give it strength and vigor. Time will then be profitably employed, and success in whatever we undertake will almost invariably follow.
Attention enables men in all the great employments of life to acquire a stock of knowledge and experience which, with the Divine assistance, will enable them to meet extraordinaryemergencies and turn them toadvantage.
B.
--------------------
Seeking a definition of poetic utterance which is or may become of record—a definition both defensible and inclusive, yet compressed into a single phrase,—I have put together the . following statement: Poetry is rhythmical, imaginative language, expressing the invention, taste, thought, passion, and insight of the human soul.—W. T. Stedman in the“Centu>y” for April.
554
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
. $ubh'ef)rt> rtng J5«turli«g burins ®tnn at N. B. Snibmitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
’ Notre Dame, April 23,1892.
-The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC now enters upon the twentyfifth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
. Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
, Notre Dame, Indiana.
STAFF.
A Kehoe, ’93;	Hugh O’Neill, 92
Louis P. Chute, ’92.
Joseph Just, ’92;	• Ernest DuBrul, ’92
J. R. Fitzgibbon, ’92;,
T. J. Hennessy, ’94; -	W. M. Houlihan, ’92
H. C. Murphy, ’92:
A Ahlrichs,’92;	Fred B. Chute, ’92
M. A Quinlan, ’93 ;	-
J. J. McGrath, ’92;	F. J.-Vurpillat, ’92
B. C. Bachrach, ’92.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin continues to improve in health, to the great joy of all at Notre Dame. It is hoped that the advent of fine weather will bring to the venerable Founder a perfect restoration to his former health and vigor.
—From far-off Scotland comes the following kindly notice of Notre Dame, which appeared in a recent issue of the Glasgow Observer:
“The-biggest bell in America is that which will ring the hours from the steeple of the College Church at Notre Dame, Indiana. It is the largest on the Continent of America. Eight men can easily stand erect within it, and its tones can be distinctly heard a distance of twelve miles. Notre Dame is one of the finest Catholic educational institutions in the world. It has a magnificent suite of buildings and a splendid sweep of grounds. From it comes the A ve Maria ; and for this reason, if for no other, Catholics should regard Notre Dame with feelings of kindly interest.” .	.
The large bell at Notre Dame has always been a great attraction since its reception in August, 1867; but until a few years ago, it was second to the bell of Notre Dame Church, Montreal, which was the largest in America. An injury to the latter necessitated its recasting, and now our bell here is the largest on the continent. It weighs 16,000 pounds and has been heard a distance of twenty miles.
The Indians.
The greatest blot on our nation is the shameful treatment which* has been meted out to the Indians. The poor red-men, unable to cope with the wiles and tricks of their paler brothers, are slowly but surely being exterminated. They know, as well as we do, that only a few centuries will pass away when they will be a people of the past.
Their hatred against us is aroused by those who look with envy on the little strip of ground where they hunt and fish. Stirred up by these men, they take to the war-path; then they are defeated and driven farther westward. Such has been the case for several centuries past; such, mayhap, will continue to be the case until they are wiped off the face of the earth.
If the saying be true that “the only good Indian is the dead one,” then we should erase the saying, for it is a double-edged sword that . we handle, and which cuts both ways. For who but ourselves have made the red-men'what they are? We sell them liquor, and when they become intoxicated we wonder why the Government allows such brutes to live. We arouse their anger by deeds of injustice to them, and when they resort to arms we wish the Government to send a large army and exterminate them.
But we have a few upright men who understand the condition of the poor Indians, and who strive to have justice done to them. In the history of our dealings with the red-men there is something pathetic which touches the heart of a man who is not bigoted, and causes a feeling of shame in him when he thinks of the wrongs done to the Indians by the white man.
Thousands are ready to deprive them of the land which they now possess. No wonder, then, the red-man is happy when, as he thinks," he leaves this world to go to the “happy hunting grounds.” They move westward and leave no trace behind them, for the great wave of immigration sweeps over the strand where last they trod, and washes away every mark which might show that a noble race of men once inhabited the place.	.	-
They utter no sigh; but in mournful silence move onward towards the setting sun. And when they have shared the fate of the mound-builders, then, and only then, our nation will realize the fact that they have exterminated a race of people who in bravery were never surpassed. But let them awake now and permit religion— the great bulwark of justice and prosperity—to do, unmolested, its good work.	W.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Oan Science Inspire Poetry?
Science and poetry—knowledge, the beautiful, the pleasing, the true, the good; what a host of disconnected ideas flash across the mind! They have come, and with that exclamation, they are gone again. What is science? What is poetry? If I know anything at all about either, that knowledge is, I must say, very limited.
Mere verse-making does not constitute poetry. The true poet should make usforgetthe mechanical part of his work. And this is not the only rule he is to follow; for what is there in such doggerel as
“ I will tell you a story About Jack Anory, . And now my story’s begun;
I will tell you another About Jack and his brother, And now my story is done ”?
Rhymes and airy nothingness. Nor is he a poet who tries to make verse the direct vehicle of- scientific thought. He can only intimate certain facts; others are the very essence of poetry itself. I make a distinction here: we read because we are pleased, or because we wish to learn; but we throw the poem aside as soon as the writer presumes to make himself our teacher.
Poetry must contain lofty sentiments; at times, it maybe straightforward, again it can only.be suggestive; the reader must find pleasure in it; and not merely pleasure, but food for thought. The simplest ocean shell may hold the brightest, the purest pearl; the lowly lyric from a masterhand might well contain some great philosophy. I do not intend any of these remarks to be taken as a definition of poetry; for I have already stated that to define poetry is beyond my reach. Some one has said it is the realization of the ideal; but I believe that there are exceptions to this rule. It is not exact enough nor very clear.
Tennyson is a poet,—of course he is,—but he has mixed science with poetry.- “The Princess” and “In Memoriam” abound in scientific allusions; and still-more remarkable than either of them is “Locksley Hall.” Here we have science and poetry mingling together in one harmonious whole. Read such lines as these, and see in them the dream of our forefathers,-the dream of the men of to-day:
“For I dipped into the future, far as human eye could see, .	.	-	-	'
Saw the vision of the world; and all the wonder that would be; ’	’	.	’	’
Saw the heavens fill with commerce, argosies of magic sails,	•	_ .
Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly bales; . J. -	, • ■
Heard the heavens fill with shouting, and there rain’d a ghastly dew .	.	_	‘ ?
From the nations’ airy: navies grappling in the central blue.”
This is music; ’tis sweet, ’tis pleasing; it is almost a lyric. And yet it contains scientific ideas pure and simple. The air-ship is, to-day, the great problem of science; .it was the problem that people who lived sixty years ago were trying to solve; and here, though it will certainly betray great ignorance on my part, I might say that, until I read “ Locksley Hall,” it never crossed my- mind that men of the twenties were wont to imagine themselves sailing through the cloudy heavens on the wings of science and genius. Yet, at least, 1 should have remembered that half-believed adage that says the old Egyptians knew something about nearly all our late inventions—the air-ship, perhaps, included.
Where there is science, there is food for thought. The thinking man has something to think about; the pleasure-seeker finds music in the verse. Literature, much as we laud it, is but the handmaid of science, or rather, the handmaid of universal knowledge; poetry is but a more delicate, a more refined form of literature.	.	.
In “ Locksley Hall Sixty Years After,” Tennyson goes deeper still into science:
“Yet the moonlight is the sunlight, and the sun himself will pass,”—	.
What is this, if it be not poetry? and still it is but a fact of science put in plain Anglo-Saxon. “Hesper—Venus—were we native to that splendor or in. .	. Mars,
We should see the Globe we groan in fairest of their evening stars.”
Yes, science can, I think, be used by poetry, as a means of inspiration. The matter-of-fact scientist of to-day is not a literary man; he. does not speak—if I may be permitted to use. a modern Americanism—he does not speak “United States”; he does not even write it. His language is the language of ancient Greece and Rome, “held in solution” by what we call English. His book contains the greatest, the grandest and noblest ideas outside of religion, —which, by the way, is science too; for science itself is a branch of knowledge,—but it is cumbersome to us, because of its formulae, its rules, its, etc., etc. The book is to the narrow-minded very uninteresting. They judge scientific ideas by the literature of science; this is wrong. Let the essence of science find its way into poetry, and, I am confident, the intelligent reader will not object.	.
* M. A. Quinlan, ’93. --
1
556	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
_	Exchanges.
—In our criticism of the Spectator a few weeks ago, we objected, in a general manner, to an essay entitled “A Messenger of New Education”; and, as is often the case with those who make general statements, our remarks were not understood. The Spectator wishes us to be more explicit in our charges; and, though we do not desire to enter upon a discussion which cannot but prove unsatisfactory to both parties, we deem it proper, in justice to the author of the essay in question, to point out at least one of the errors to which we referred. Though we think the author’s praise of Mr. Froebel somewhat exaggerated, we do not wish to object to it. Having chosen a hero, it is natural to exalt him.- We do, however, object to the manner in which the efforts of others for the spread of education were depreciated in “A Messenger of New Education,” in which we find such passages as the following:
“ Ever since the Reformation, educational forces have been at work, striving to remove all impediments that hindered the enlightenment of the masses.”
If we are not greatly mistaken, this contains an insinuation that previous to the Reformation no effort was made to instruct the common people; and our opinion is confirmed by the following statement, which cannot be misinterpreted:
“Before the influence of educational forces established by the Reformatiom, and consisting in her churches and free schools, education was restricted to the higher classes—kings, nobles and priests.”
This is one of the old charges brought against the Catholic Church by Protestants, and it is truly surprising that any student of history should make it. From the very earliest ages of the Church, the clergy recognized their obligation of instructing the young. The Council of Vaison, held in 529, recommended the institution of free parochial schools. The Third General Council of Constantinople, in the year 680, commanded the clergy to establish free schools in all country places. A Synod of Orleans, in 800, and one of Mentz, in 813, ordered the erection of schools in towns and villages, and instructed, priests to “ receive no remuneration from their scholars, unless what the parents, through charity, might voluntarily offer.” A Council, held at Rome in 826, prescribed that cathedral and municipal , schools should be established, and that provision should be made for other schools in every suitable place. The Third Lateran Council, in 1179, arid the Council of Lyons, in 1245; passed decrees,to the same
effect. In these schools—which may be classified as cathedral, cloister, and municipal schools— pupils were instructed not only in the elementary branches, but also in philosophy, theology, law and medicine. This is an array of facts that certainly warrant us in objecting to the passages which we quoted from the Spectator. In “A Messenger of New Education” there are many ‘ other statements, the. historical accuracy of which can be questioned on grounds the most uncontrovertible; but we recognize the futility of arguing with those who cannot view history from an impartial point of view, and in this class we are justified, we think, in numbering the author of the essay in question. We have dealt with one objectionable feature of the essay, in order to satisfy the exchange-editor of the Spectator—for. whose excellent column we have the greatest admiration—that we were honest in our criticism of his journal.
—One of our best monthly exchanges from Canada is the Acta Victoriana, published by the Victoria University, Ontario. The March number contained some well-written articles; but by far the best of them was one on “Charles Stewart Parnell,” signed “G. H. L., ’93.” However, we would say that this young aspirant for literary honors should have been a little more reticent about incorporating not only sentences but paragraphs from Hugh O’Neill’s article on “Parnell,” which appeared in the Scholastic, Oct. 24, ’91. The whole article seems .little else than a paraphrase of O’Neill’s. Let us take from each a few selections, and see how much . they differ:	.
O’Neill.—“By the unanimous voice of a united Ireland, Parnell became the leader of the Irish people. He fused their passions, their hopes and their patriotism into a mighty effort.”
G. H. L —“ By the unanimous voice of a united Ireland, Parnell became the leader of the Irish people. He fused their passions, their hopes and their patriotism ' into a mighty effort.” :	. .
O’Neill.—“His kindness was proverbial, and his sense of duty to his country before his fall was as unbending as fate.”
G. H. L.—“ His kindness was proverbial, and his sense of duty to his country was firm as the everlasting hills."
O’Neill.—“ In the moment of danger he was as cool and quick in judgment as he was wanting in fear... .
. He was cool, deliberate, passionless in language, gesture arid delivery until he was roused to an extreme pitch of passion, when he spoke with vehemence and force.”
G. H. L.—“Cool and quick in the moment of danger he never lacked judgment and knew not what, it was to .	:
fean When roused to passion he spoke .with vehemence and force.” -	. .	' ’	•	? •	/ .
... O’Neill.—“He had .a clear head and a calm temper; his ideas clothed themselves, in language always appropriate to.the occasion”’?'. V	.	..
G. H; L.—“ Distinguished for his. clear head and calm ,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	557
temper, he always clothed his ideas' in appropriate language.”
O’Neill.—“To say the right thing is much; to-leave unsaid the wrong is something more. This is the characteristic of a leader of men; and in no man was it brought to such a fine art as in Parnell.”
G. H. L.—“He possessed an important qualification for a leader of men in that he knew how to say the right thing, and at the same time leave unsaid the wrong.”
We could quote many other passages, and criticise severely the whole article; but we never like to strike a man when he is down. We have no ill-feeling toward G. H. L., but simply say he should have given O’Neill credit for the above and other selections, instead of putting them on the world as his own.
Books and. Periodicals.
Mary, Queen of May, and other “Ave Maria” Essays. By Brother Azarias. The Ave Maria : Notre Dame, Ind.
The Catholic reading public will welcome the appearance of these admirable essays in book form. Brother Azarias occupies a prominent position in the field of English literature, and anything from his pen is sure to please and instruct. These essays deal with the relations of the Blessed Virgin with the faithful on earth, with the souls in purgatory and with the saints in heaven. They are calculated to impress the mind of the reader with a deep sense of the dignity and power'of the Mother of the world’s Redeemer and the Help of Christians. The work is a neat octavo little book of about eighty pages, and its appearance reflects credit upon the publishers.
—“ A World’s Affair: A Comedy for Little Girls” is published at’the Office of the^^JThr/fl, Notre Dame, Indiana. It is a well-written and entertaining play, and will be found suitable for all academy and school exhibitions—especially during these centennial years. It has been produced with great success at St. Mary’.s Academy, Notre Dame, and is admirably designed to draw forth the abilities and show the progress of young pupils. .
—A new volume of The Century will begin in May with a number of unusual interest. Three important serial features will be commenced in this number, namely—Senor Castelar’s “Life of Christopher Columbus”; “The Chosen Valley,” a novel of western life by Mary Hallock Foote; and the series of articles describing the architectural features of the World’s Fair, which a well-known architect is to contribute.
. —“Herbert Spencer and the Synthetic Philosophy” is. the subject that opens the May Popular Science Monthly. The writer, Mr. W. Hudson; who. was for some years the philosopher’s private secretary,-traces the development of Spencer’s philosophic thought, and points out the
true relation between his work and that of Darwin. Considerable space is given to anthropology -in this number. A copiously-illustrated article on “Cave Dwellings of Men” is contributed by Mr. W. H. Larrabee. It relates not only to the ancient cave .dwellings of America and’the Old World, but describes also the way in which modern troglodytes are living in several parts of Europe to-day. Mr. David Dwight Wells illustrates “Evolution, in . Folk Lore” by thei modifications in an African legend produced by changes in the surroundings of the people whd-preserved if. Prof. Frederick Starr tells what facilities there are for “Anthropological Work in Europe,” giving the portraits of; a large number, of the most, noted European anthropologists. In . other departments of science are “The Limitations of the Healing Aft,” by Dr. H. Nothnagel”; some considerations as to “Why We Should Teach Geology,” by Prof. A. S. Packard; an illustrated paper on “Dendrites,” a curious, tree-like formation, in rocks, by Stanislaus. Meunier; and one of Grant Allen’s always, delightful papers, on “A Desert Fruit,” namely, the prickly pear. The paper on “Science and Fine Art,” by Emil Du Bois-Reymond; is concluded, as is the one on “Bad Air and Bad Health,” by Harold Wager and Auberbn Herbert. A sketch and portrait of Alessandro Volta, the discoverer of voltaic electricity, are given, and many-interesting topics briefly presented in the departments.	. \
Personal.
—Miss Hattie Nester, of Marquette, Mich., is visiting her brother, Arthur, of Brownson Hall. ‘	s
—Louis Hoffman, ’60, of Wheeling, W. V., was a welcome visitor to his Alma Mater on Thursday last.	’ ’
—The Rev. R. Maher, C. S. C., Rector of St. Joseph’s Ghurch, Richwood, Wis., passed a few days at Notre Dame, during the week, greatly to the delight of his numerous friends. ■	.
—The Rev. Ei Kelly, Rector of St. Thomas’ Church, Ann Arbor, and the Rev. J. J. Gore, Rector of St. Joseph’s Church, St. Joseph, Mich.; were most welcome visitors to Notre Dame on Thursday.	. ;
—Mr. Ambrose J. Hertzog, ’83, has the congratulations and best wishes of his many friends at Notre Dame on his approaching * marriage to Miss Sarah Hunter, which wilt take place on the 26th inst., in St. Francis Xavier’s Church, Alexandria, La;	• .	,
—We are pleased, to learn that Signor. L. Gregori, our former esteemed Director, of the; Art Department and now sojourning at Florence, Italy, is. engaged upon a great painting representing the discovery of America by Columbus, and designed for the approaching centenary
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
exhibition at Genoa. We have no doubt that the work will attract much attention, and prove another of the grand successes which the distinguished artist has already achieved.
—Mr. Leon G. Gibert, ’85, and Miss Maude E. Tobin were united in marriage on the 19th inst. The happy couple have the hearty congratulations of many friends here, with best wishes for many years of wedded happiness.
—It is expected that the Most Rev. Edward Charles Fabre, D. D., Archbishop of Montreal, will visit Notre Dame during the coming week. His Grace will be heartily welcomed should he honor our College home with his presence.
Local Items.
—’Rah!
—Keep off the grass!
—That “Home Run”!
—Billy McGill is here.	.	.
—Good work;.yes, but—
—Remenyi next Monday.
—It was a great game entirely.
—Three cheers for Billy McGill!
—Zeke wanted to play foot-ball.
—Better luck next time, U. of M.
—“Fitz” was right “in the swim.” .
—Hats were to be had for nothing.
—The ground mole is still at large.
—It was the effect of the McKinley Bill.
—Here’s to our friends at the Hoosier slide..
—There is very little chaff in Rye ( Roumaney ),.
—Congratulations for us. Consolations for them.
—Combe played with Columbus! Ha! Ha!! Ha!!!
—The Minims’ “circus” had a “run” of three nights.
—Fitz’s home run! The Newark product is way up.
—“Chass” caught that fly in a very spideric fashion.
—The old students help a great deal sometimes, eh?
—This is the twelfth anniversary of the great fire of ’79.
—The Carrolls are only 5000 stamps ahead
• this week.	.
—The Grand Stand Orchestra should. retire from business.	.
—It was a cold day for • everybody, but particularly for—	;
—Did they strike asnag? Well, rather too much of a one.	:	.
—The game speaks weir for base-ball training in the Minims.
—The “Invincibles” are going to play for a record this season. * . ~	’	. ?
—Some of our contributors are very economical in regard to paper.
—Further inquiries about the removal of the bell need not be made.
—Chassaing scored the game. Look out for him as captain of a nine.
—One equipage was profusely decorated with U. of M. colors. Too bad!
—Will the man with the fog-horn voice please step up and get a chromo?
—Roumaney Rye’s remarks are walking away with him, at least they are rambling.	.
—The gentlemanly behavior of the visiting team attracted universal commendation. *
—The performances of the tin-horn brigade would be better appreciated if they were given only by request.
—Here is how our poet tells of the victory: Six to four, That’s the score.
—Captain Marr’s specials suffered a defeat at the hands of the “Invincibles.” Score, 13 to 8. Time, 2% hours.
—It seems to be fatal to act on the principle, that one is indispensable to the success of team work this season.
—Everyone should attend the great musical event of the year in Washington Hall next Monday afternoon.
—Even the Count and Hughie, and other dignified personages did not disdain to yell themselves hoarse.
—Visitors in carriages were numerous at the base-ball game. Some of them forgot the injunction: Keep off the grass!
—Our landscape gardener is busily at work these days. In a short time the parterre will be a veritable thing of beauty.<
—The Sorin Hall Orchestra, under the able directorship of Bennie, soothed with its dulcet( ? ) strains the feverish excitement.
—“Casty” was engaged during the greater part of the game in curbing steeds excited by the martial strains of the orchestra.
—Rev. A. M. Kirsch shot—photographically speaking—the Chemistry Class some time ago, but the photos are not to be seen yet.
—Very Rev. Father General has the thanks of the “Princes” for the basket of beautiful Easter eggs which he kindly sent them.
—S. Dixon, C. Meyer and C. Teeter deserve special mention for the large number of stamps they have placed to the credit of the Carrolls.
‘—Some time in February a wallet containing a sum of money was lost. If the finder will return the same to the Students’ Office he will receive a reward.
—One little Carrollite the other day went down to the lake to catch frogs. The froggies, strange to say, seemed to believe their lives in danger and kept in the dark. -Meanwhile a Prefeet happened, to. be in the, vicinity; the. form
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	559
and military suit seemed familiar to him; The rest need not be told.
—The Philopatrians will present their “ Cantata ” on next Wednesday evening with an elaborate stage setting and most brilliant costumes. Good judges, who have been privileged to witness the preparations now being made, declare that it will be one of the best of the College entertainments of the year.
—Girsch has the thanks of the Carrolls for the amusement his nine afforded them on Wednesday afternoon in'their vain endeavor to outplay the “Invincibles.” All went, well until the seventh inning, when his opponents thought they would stop trifling. The following is the result: “Invincibles,” 16; First Nine, 6.
—Captain Janssen of the fourth nine met with a reverse of fortune in Monday’s game; something was wrong with his curves, allowing Captain Griffin’s men to cross the home plate 40 times to his 19. The feature of the game was Ashford’s three home runs and a base hit. The game was called at the expiration of' 3^ hours to go to supper!
.. —Work has begun on the spires of the small towers of the church. The big bell will not be taken down until everything is ready for the erection of the massive spire of the central tower. It is expected that the annual. Commencement in June of this centennial year will . witness the completion of the grand steeple according to the original designs.
—Messrs. L. Gibson, G. Sweet and G. Funke-on the bases for the “ Invincibles ”; the battery is N. Gibson and H. Vorhang; alternate, L. Gibson and G. Sweet; Delaney, Short, Mafre, Brennan and Oliver in the field. The third nine played a seven inning game on Monday afternoon. Score, 34 to 14 in favor of Captain Cheney’s nine. Time, 2 hours. This game, it is claimed, is a decided improvement on the last one recorded.
—On Thursday last a delegation of Minims escorted Very Rev. Father General to their play hall where they gave a grand display of calis-thenic exercises in his honor. The hall was decorated with all kinds of bunting, flags, etc. The choice selections by the band enlivened the scene.and called forth words of praise from Very Rev. Father General. Some seventy Minims took part in the programme, and many of them performed gymnastic feats that not only delighted but fairly astonished the venerable Superior and.the Rev. President Walsh as well as the whole audience.
—On Tuesday evening the fifth regular meeting of the St. Boniface Society was duly called to order by President Hoynes; The minutes of the previous meeting were, read and adopted. The report of the Treasurer, Mr. Schopp, showed that’ the society has a substantial footing. The criticism of last week’s meeting.read by the Rev. Director, was something which merited the loud applause which* followed its reading.' The
programme for the evening was opened by Mr. Hoeppe, who certainly deserves praise for his excellent recitation of a poem entitled “Hans Euler.” Thereupon the Rev. P. P. Klein, in an unpretentious, clear and interesting essay, see forth the laws of sociability and pointed out the marks by which one may know the man of true etiquette. The programme was closed by President Hoynes who, after commenting on the strength of German poetry, emphasized his remarks by his masterly rendition of selections from some of the great poets.
Base-Ball. ‘
N. D. U. vs. U. of M.
On Thursday the much-desired game of- ball was played with the Ann Arbor team. The result was another victory for Notre Dame. It -was the first time that Ann Arbor had been defeated this year, and consequently they felt very sore over the game. We understand that they came down expecting an easy victory, and so the fall was doubly hard. The home team, being rather weak in the points, secured the services of Willie McGill, who used to.be a student of the University several years ago. When the Michigan men faced him, their confidence began to sink, and after the first inning the game was practically won. ‘	'
The game opened with N. D. at bat. Kurtz led off with a clean hit to left after several ineffectual attempts to bunt. Gillon followed and reached 1st on an error after Kurtz had stolen 2d. Fitzgibbon stepped up to the. plate with a broad smile on his face and Seymour tped to present him with a base on balls. Fitz was not willin’ and let drive a home run over the left fielder’s head, bringing in three runs. The side was then retired.	•
For Ann Arbor, Spurney was given a base on balls, made second and third on passed balls, but waited till Crawford struck out. Jefferies got to first on an error, Spurney scoring. Jefferies was caught at second, and Robinson struck out, sending the Michigan men to the field. In the second inning, Chassaing got first on an error. McDermott secured a base on balls, advancing Chassaing to second. As McGill stepped to the plate he was greeted with cheers. He showed his appreciation by a two-bagger, bringing in Chassaing. McDermott tried to come in behind Chassaing, but was caught at the plate. Kurtz made a clean hit, bringing in McGill. Gillon made a hit, but was thrown out at second. Fitzgibbon made a single and Combe sent the ball to second, retiring the side. Ann Arbor came up and. was sent back in one-two-three order. The game.proceeded, neither sidescoring until the sixth inning, when Chassaing came trotting in with another run for Notre Dame.
Michigan made a fine rally in the seventh, and it looked almost as though they had. a chance of winning the game. Shields led off
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
with a single. Spitzer bunted, advancing Shields to second, but was caught at first. Pepple made a scratch hit, and Shields scored. Seymour got first on an error, and so did Spurney, Pepple and Seymour' scoring. Crawford then struck out, and Jefferies flew out to Hannin. In the eighth Chassaing made a pretty catch in centre-field when Ann Arbor had two men on bases. Both
tea ms, however, got nothing in either the eighth or ninth. If Notre Dame did not have McGill, they would surely have lost the game. The Michigan men played very good ball, and it was on account of their inability to touch McGill’s curves that they lost the game. The N. D. U. outfield played a very sharp game. The following is the complete score:
Notre Dame.	r.
Kurtz, c........................ i
Gillon, s. s.................... i
Fitzgibbon, 1st b............... i
Combe, 1. f...................... o
Cartier, 2d b.................... o
Hannin, r. f.....................o
Chassaing, c. f.................. 2
McDermott, 3d b.................o
McGill, p....................... 1
i.b. r.o. A. S.H. E.
3 >3 3 1 0 10003 26001 02000 02300 01000 01000
o 1 0 1 o 3 1 U o o
Total...........................
Ann Arbor.
Spurney, 2d b....................
Crawford, c......................
Jefferies, 1st b.................
Robinson, r. f...................
Smeltzer, 1. f...................
Shields, c. f....................
Spitzer, s. s....................
Pepple, 3d b.....................
Seymour, p.......................
6 9 27 R. I.B. P.O.
1 o 3 019 0 on OOI OOI
I I 2 O O O IIO IOO
20	2	4
A.	S.H.	E.
5	0	0
2	0	0
OOI IOO OOO OOO
-3	0	0
I	O	I
9	0	0
Total........................... 4 3 27 21 o 2
Score by Innings:—i 23456789 ' Notre Dame:—3 2000100 0=6 . Ann Arbor:—1 0000030 0=4
Summary; Base Hits: Ann Arbor, 3; Notre Dame, 9. Home Run: Fitzgibbon, 2. Base Hits: McGill, Kurtz. Bases oji Balls: Ann Arbor, 2; Notre Dame, 4. Struck out: by McGill, 12; by Seymour, 9. Umpires: Steiner and Griffin. Scorer: H. C. Murphy.
Kuncrt, Lindekc, Ludlow, Libert, S. Mitchell, McFadden, Monarch, D. Murphy, McVean, McErlain, McKee, F. Murphy, Mattingly, McCarrick," McDonnell, McCullough, Murray, Maynes, .Maisen, Nockels, Newton, O’Donnell, Oide, O’Shea, O’Connor, Palmer, Powers, D. Phillips, Perkins, Patier, Quinlan, M. Ryan, J. Ryan, G. Ryan, C. Roby, E. Roby, Ragan, Sherman, Stanton, Schopp, Stace, Thome, Vinez, Vurpillat, Welsh, Whitehead, Weaver, Wilkin, Zeitler, Zeller.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Ashford, Bixby, Baldauf, J. Brown, Byrnes, Brennan, Bergland, Bearss, Bates, Casey, Curran, Cullen, Carpenter, Cheney, Cochrane, DeLormier, Duncombe, Delaney, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Dixon, Dorsey, Edwards, G. Funke, A/Funke, Fitzgerald, Feehan; Falk, Girsch, Grote, L. Gibson, Gilbert, Griffin, Gerlach, Gillam, Garfias, Gemer, Gerdes, Hill, Hagan, Hilger, Hoban, Hargrave, Hagus, Hittson, Janssen, Kreicker, Kindler, W. Kegler, A. Kcgler, Kerker, Levi, Luther, Lee, Lawlor, Lane, Leonard, Mills, Mitchell, J. Miller, W. Miller, Meyers, Marre, Miles, Mahon, Moss, Major, McDowell, McCarthy, McLeod, Medalie, W. Nichols, H. Nichols, O’Connor, O’Brien, O’Rourke, W. O’Neill, Oliver, Payne, Peake, Prichard, Pope, Rogers, Ratterman, Renesch, Rumely, H. Reedy, C. Reedy, Reilly, Ryan, Sullivan, Stern, Strauss, Sparks, Shimp, Stone, Sweet, Slevin, Smith, Thornton, Thome, "Teeter, Tobin, J. Tong, Vorhang, Washburn, Walker, Weaver,N. Weitzel, B. Weitzel, Wagner, Wensinger, Warner, Winder, Yingst, G. Zoehrlaut.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Masters Ayers, Ahern, R. Brown, 0. Brown, Burns, Blumenthal, V. Berthelet, R. Berthelet, Ball, Bopp, Cornell, Corry, Christ, Curry, Crandall, J. Coquillard, A. Coquillard, Croke, Cross, H. Durand, B. Durand, Du-Brul, L. Donnell, S. Donnell, W. Emerson, F. Emerson, Everest, Egan, Finnerty, Fossick, Fuller, J. Freeman, E. Furthmann, C. Furthmann, Girsch, Gregg, Gilbert, Hoffman, Howard, Holbrook, Hilger, Healy, Roy Higgins, Ralph Higgins, Hathaway, Jonquet, Kinney, Kroll-man, Kern, G. Keeler, S. Keeler, W. LaMoure, E. LaMoure, Londoner, Lawton, Loughran, Lowrey, McPhee, McIntyre, R. McCarthy, G. McCarthy, E. McCarthy, E. McCarthy, McGinley, McAlister, McGushin, Maternes, Morrison, R. Morris, F. Morris, Nichols, Ninneman, O’Neill, O’Brien, Oatman, W. Pollitz, H. Pollitz, Peck, Pursell, Pieser, Pratt, Platts, Ransome, Rose, Repscher, W. Scherrer, Swan,, Stuckhart, L. Trankle, F. Trankle, Trujillo, Weber, Wilcox, Whitej	■
An Important New Publication.
Roll of Honor.

■	SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Bachrach, Brady, Carney, Cartier, L. Chute, F. Chute, Coady, Dacey, Fitzgerald, Fitzgibbon, Flannery, Gillon, Hannin, Howard, Joslyn, Langan, Lancaster, P. Murphy, H. Murphy, Monarch, Maurus, McAuliff; McGrath, McKee, Neef, O’Brien, Quinlan, Rothert, Schaack, Sullivan, E. Scherrer, C. Scherrer," N., Sinnott, R. Sinnott, F. Vurpillat.	. ...
■	>.	BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Arts, Ansberry, Breen, -Burns, J. Brady, Baldwin, E. W1 Brown, T. Brady, Bolton, Brinin, E. J. Brown, Chassaing, Corcoran, Corry, Crawley, Cassidy, Carter, Correll, Chilcote, W. Gummings, Caffrey, Castenadd, Conroy, Cherhart, Coady, Case, Colby, Cullen, Chidester,/Dumford,'Doheny, Dinkel, Devanny, Damsky, Egan, Ellwanger, Ferneding, .Funke, Flynn, Foley, Frizzelle, Flannigan, Fardy-, Herman, Heneghan, Healy, R^ Harris, Hesse, Holland, E. Harris, Henly, Houlihan,. Heer, Hagan, -Henriessy, ; H artman,- -Jacobs, F. Kenny, Krost; Kleekamp, Kearney, ,F. Keough; W. M. Kennedy, Kelly, Karasynski, Krembs, Kintzele, Kearns,
The issue of “King’s United States of To-Day; a Handbook of all the States and Territories,” marks the completion of- a great enterprise. It is a marvellous summary of every fact covering the beginning, the growth and especially the present development and resources of each state and territory. Prof. Greenwood, a prominent educator, says it is “the most complete, compact, solidified, instructive and useful mass of information of all the states and territories that has ever been published.” It is commended in similar terms by such men as President Dwight, of Yale, President Adams, of Cornell, President Patton, of Princeton, Wm. M. Evarts, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Cardinal Gibbons, and many others.. It contains complete maps of every state and territory, arid about 3;ooo.fine engravings; showing the chief objects of interest, including grand scenery, chief ' cities; public .buildings, educational institutions, manufactories, etc. These," with the array of statistics and vivid, concise , narrative,-present a glowing picture with pen arid pencil of the greatriess and glory of our Republic, while the mass of information given is just what is needed for quick reference in every office, store, factory,.shop and home imthe land. -It is sold by subscription, and as the price is only $2.50, it must meet with an iriunense sale..
- Agency may be secured by addressing C. B. Beach & Co., Publishers, Lakeside Building, Chicago. ,,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	561
St. Mapy’s Aeademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The coming of the celebrated violinist, Remenyi, is the subject of pleasant anticipations to all lovers of music at St. Mary’s.
—Much to the enjoyment of the lookers-on, the graceful minuet before noticed was repeated on Monday last with the numbers increased to thirty-two. The young ladies, fancifully costumed, moved through the figures with a grace that won unqualified admiration
—Among the welcome guests of Eastertide were the following young ladies, all former pupils of St. Mary’s: Miss J. Currier, Class ’91, Flint, Mich.; Miss O. O’Brien, Class ’91, and Miss Gertrude Roberts, Topeka, Kansas; Miss H. Nester, Marquette, Mich.; and Miss D. Fitzpatrick, Chicago.
—The usual dispensation from class and study following Easter Sunday was given on Monday, the 18th, which day, proving pleasant and spring-like, was enjoyed in a variety of ways by the eager pupils. Those fond of the needle plied it industriously during the morning hours, while others preferred to spend their free moments taking vigorous exercise in the bright sunshine.
—The ceremonies attending the closing days of Holy Week were conducted in the usual manner, and were of a most impressive nature. The repository, resplendent with lights and fragrant with the perfume of rare flowers, was the lodestone that drew many worshippers throughout the day, and even during the silent watches of the night, to honor its Divine Guest. The sadness inseparable from the services of Good Friday was intensified by the mournful notes of the Stabat Mater sung while was performed the sorrowful Way of the Cross. Previous to the latter devotion, a touching sermon was preached by the Rev. Chaplain, in which were reviewed the indignities and sufferings endured for love of us by Him “who was wounded for our iniquities.”
—A joy peculiar to the great feast of the Resurrection seemed to fill all hearts on Easter Sunday, when the Church in her ceremonies lays aside every vestige of mourning and gives expression to a holy gladness. On every altar and shrine, lately wrapped in gloom, twinkled countless tapers, while the central altar was a mass of tremulous light, fanned by the perfumed breath of choice flowers. The Solemn High Mass was celebrated by the Rev. FatherScherer, with the Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C., as deacon and Rev. M. Donahoe as subdeacon. The discourse, in keeping with the feast and_delivered by Rev. Father Hudson, was characterized by. a warmth and earnestness that lent added weight outs beautiful words, and stirred each heart with happy emotions.
Song of the Page.
Sunny skies, sunny skies,
Over the waters blue, Oft for ye my spirit sighs, Spain, my heart’s with you. Fain I’d fix my tear-dimmed eyes Where thy cloud-veiled mountains rise,
Over the billows blue,
With the loyal hearts, with 'the noble hearts and true.
Vine-clad home, vine-clad home,
Over the sail-winged sea, While in alien lands I roam, Come sweet dreams of thee. -Soon my bark o’er curling foam, Swift shall fly to thee, sweet home,
Over the billowy lea,
To the gentle hearts, to the loving hearts and free.
Surface Culture.
This is known as the age of invention and progress; the old spirit of cautious and slow processes has been superseded by a disposition which seeks only to accomplish the greatest amount of work in the shortest time, and to have it extend over the largest number of things possible.
Men no longer follow only one business, leaving the others for their neighbor, but each must interest himself in three or four, and, as a matter of course, he does not enter deeply into any of them.
A great love for display, without a solid foundation, seems'to be characteristic of the times. The many labor-saving machines of to-day give evidence that the most ingenious minds have turned to something which will relieve themselves and their brothers from as much work as possible. In Washington may be found patents for all kinds of labor-saving instruments from flying-machines down to dishwashing apparatuses, each calculated to lighten, more or less, the labor of men. The result of this is that work is not well done, and we are satisfied with ,what appears right on outward inspection.
We have examples of this in some of the modern hard-wood furniture, which is found,-on careful examination, to be a veneer about a quarter of an inch thick laid on a basis of common wood; also in many of our beautiful gold and silver ornaments on which the precious metals are very sparingly used as a thinicover to some base metal or alloy. Many of the finest
562	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
buildings in our large cities are beautiful on the outside; but should they be carefully examined, it would be found that in a great .many cases the exterior embellishment serves to conceal some inferior work, or a defect in the building, and this may account for serious accidents such as the falling of bridges and other structures. Often also this exterior perfection is introduced into the trades of a country, and especially in the articles shipped to distant countries; but while for a short time this may increase the trade.it will soon be discovered, and'the tide of commerce will turn to other ports.
Not only is this veneering found in what men manufacture, but also in the lives of the men themselves; for what appears to be culture and knowledge is to-day all that is really necessary with many. The prevailing desire is to know a little about everything, and, of course, it is impossible to be thorough in anything; but if a man can converse freely on the most important topics of the day he is considered a smart man; while perhaps his highest source of information is the morning paper.
Formerly, when a man wished to know anything of a subject, he read entire books, and looked everywhere for information; but now by consulting one or two books of reference he may in a very short time gain information enough to enable him to converse with others who have spent a great deal of time in reading exhaustive accounts. In the art of music we have a very good example of this seeming culture; for how many there are who play brilliant compositions and have but a very faint idea of the theory of music, yet they gain the desired praise, and do not care for what they do not know. This is especially common among society ladies; for what is most stylish or the leading accomplishment of the season, the society lady is expected to know, and as these change so very often, it is impossible for her to gain a thorough knowledge of each; but instead just enough is learned to enable the lady to appear to have mastered its intricacies.
This superficial knowledge is not lasting, although it is very convenient for the time. What we learn by studying for ourselves or by earnest research broadens the mind, and not only helps us in the case of question, but in many ways; for, in searching for information on any one subject, we meet with many others equally useful and important, and thus many things are brought before us which otherwise might have altogether escaped our attention. In reading about a subject we gain not only the author’s thoughts, but by these we are enabled to see our subject in ^different lights,
and in this way awaken new ideas of our own, while by consulting reference books we are given only a condensed account from which we evolve very few new thoughts. .
How often we see persons going frequently to church and seeming to be extremely'pious, when perhaps they go only to see and be seen. Again we meet persons who are especially polite, kind and obliging to us, when they have secret hopes that we will do some favor for them. For those who fail to see the real motive of these actions theyjmay prove a source of good, by making them wish to be kinder or more pious; but to those knowing the underlying motives, they are a stumbling-block in the way of moral progress.
This all comes from the eagerness of competition and haste to be rich; but we should remember that contentment is better than luxury and power;, and if we take to heart the trite old saying, “What is worth doing at all, is worth doing well,” there will be no unfinished work in our lives, but all will be rounded and complete.
Mary Moynahan.
Boll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Augustine, Agney, Bassett, R. Bero, E. Burns, M. Burns, Bell, R. Butler, Brady, A. Butler, K. Barry, M. Barry, Buell, Black, Byers, M. Byrnes, Bogart, Bartholomew, Carico, Charles, A.Cooper, M. Clifford, G. Cowan, Crilly, Carpenter, M. Cooper, Culp, L. Clifford, D. Davis,S. Dempsey, Duffy, Dieffenbacher, Daley, E. Dennison, M. Dennison, Dingee, Fitzpatrick, Farwell, E. Field, Griffith, Green, Galvin, Grace, Lucy Griffith, Gibbons, Gage, Haitz, Hellmann, Holmes, Hutchinson, Higgins, Hammond, Hopkins, Hittson, Hunt, Johnson, Jacobs, Kirley, Klingberg, Keating, Kieffer, Kelly, Kasper, Kaufman, Kingsbaker, Kimmell, Kinney, Lynch, Lewis, Ludwig, Londoner, Lennon, Lancaster, Lichtenhein, Leppel, Lantry, La Moure, Morse, M. Moynahan, Marrinari, Murison, Morehead, Moore, E. McCormack, D. McDonald, M. McDonald, McCune, Maxon, McColm, Nacy, Nickel, M. Nichols, B. Nichols, Nester, O’Sullivan, Plato, Patier, Pengemann, Payne, Pfaelzer, Quinn, A. Ryan, K. Ryan, Robinson, Rizer, Roberts, Russert, Rothschild, Reid, M. Smyth, E. Seeley, A. Seeley, A. Smyth, Stewart, A. Schfnidt, Sena, Sleeper, Thirds, Tietjen, Tod, Van Mourick, S. Wile, E.-Wile, G. Win-standley, B. Winstaridley,' Wagner, Wurzburg, Wolffe, Welter, Whitmore, Wolverton, Zahm, Zucker.
v JUNIOR^ DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adelsperger, Ahern, Allen, Boyle, Berg, Baxter, Coady, Cowan, Crandall, Campau, M. Davis, B. Davis, Dennison, Doble, Dreyer, Ford, Field, Garrity, Girsch, Hickey, Hopper, Kasper, Kline, Londoner, Meskill, Mills, Morris, Nacey, O’Mara, Palmer, Ryder, S. Smyth, J. Smyth, N. Smyth, Schaefer, Scott, Tormey, Tilden,White, Wheeler, Whittenberger, Wolverton, Williams.
MINIM DEPARTMENT. ;
- Misses Ahem, Buckley, J. Brown, E. Brown, Dysart, Egan, Finnerty, Girsch, Keeler.Lingard, McKenna, McCormack, McCarthy, Palmer,' J " '	;
1