— Che-
Dotre Dame Scholastic
Disce-pvAsi-sempei?-victvrvs- • vive^vasi-cras-moritvrvs-
Vol. XLIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 27, 1909. No. 12.
CHAMPIONS OF THE WEST.
WHEN you come to tell the story
Of the season’s -varied glory,	-
And the laurels that contributed to bristle up our crest,
Don’t forget the proclamation	.	.
That our football aggregation
Won the right to wear the title of the Champions of the West. ♦ ’Twas an all-star bunch of players;	'
r	They were hustlers, also stayers, —
Played the game from start to finish with enthusiastic zest;
They could be, at need, good losers, But the good old Gold and Blue, sirs, Was not losing — not exactly; we were	•
.	Champions of the West.
Did our rooter-clans foregather ?
Did they whoop it up? Well, rather.
Why, the welkin needed mending at the close of every test;	■
And—a fact of common knowledge—
Football simply owned the college
When the Varsity got home at last, the Champions of the West.
- Take it from me straight, nay, rigid, That the day will be some frigid When our foes dislodge the title we are hugging to our breast;
As we have it, so we’ll hold it,	•
On our banner we have scrolled it,	.
.	And the Gold and Blue henceforward spells the .
Champions of the West.
Mark ye, then, all husky rivals,
We are it, the fair survivals
Of the fittest on the grid-iron; you’re at most but second best.
For we can, despite your bluffin’,	■
Knock the everlastin’ stuffin’
Out of any squad that tackles us, the	.
Champions of the West.	A. B.
178
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
A Review of Our Big Games.
contest the
Thomas Cleary, ’10.
may strike the “rooters” as interesting that Notre Dame played her first big game against Michigan. This was in 18S7. and the Wolverines carried off the victory, 26-0. In a second same year Notre Dame showed
better form, and the Ann Arborites, while again successful, had to fight harder as the 10-6 score indicates. After this the pigskin sport was carried on in a desultory fashion for several years, no game worthy of mention occurring before 1894, with the exception of a tilt with Hillsdale College in 18b3, when we broke even with the visitors (10-10) through the punting of Quinlan at full-back.
In 1894 football at Notre Dame may fairly be said to have begun its career. Rush Medical College was the first to fall before our attack, the snap and vim of the Notre Dame warriors triumphing over the weight and size of the Doctors, who registered only 6 points against IS. We next shut out Wabash 30-0. Captain Keough, Dinkel, Schillo and Zeitler were the men who contributed most to our success in both these games.
Through inability to understand or check the interference of Chicago we lost in 1896 (18-0), though at line-bucking we were superior to the Maroons. In the Purdue game of that year the same cause was responsible for defeat, inability to break up the interference of our opponents, a weakness which was attributed to the lack of a good “scrub” team with which to practise.
The next year Chicago carried off the victory again (34-5). Notre Dame's interference was weak; the men lined up slowly and did not go down fast enough under punts and kick-offs, yet our work was not undeserving of praise in some respects. A 70-yard run and a field goal from the 30-yard line by Kegler, and the magnificent . defense of “Big” John Eggeman were the redeeming features.
The Varsity opened her football season in ’90 by taking the scalp of Illinois (5-0), and the rejoicing at Notre Dame was unbounded. Three times the valiant supporters of the
Gold and Blue were pushed within a few yards of their goal, but each time with all their fighting blood aroused they held their opponents like a stone wall. Captain Mullen and Farley at the ends, by their speed in running down under punts and their splendid tackling, “Big” John Eggeman by his line work, and Fleming who brought us our five points by a field goal, established themselves as the heroes of the fray. The entire team made a very creditable showing, and the hopes of the rooters ran hign.
Our ambitions crumbled when we were crushed by the Michigan machine, 23-0. Farlev and Eggeman again made a good showing, but team-work was lacking. Fumbles were frequent, and the line failed to hold the Wolverines from blocking'kicks. Visions of the State Championship faded when we were defeated by Indiana (11-5). The Bloomington players were heavier and superior in interference, but several flukes had much to do with the final score.
The season of ’99 was in many respects a glorious one for the moleskin men of Notre Dame. True, Chicago ran up 23 punts, while we got only 5, yet it was a source of satisfaction to us to have been able to score at all. To Chicago rooters who expected to see the Maroons register a much larger score, the outcome was a great surprise. Eggeman, the big Varsity center, completely out-played Speed, the star of the Maroons, and Farley too was much in the limelight, making serveral large gains around end and our only touchdown.
The Michigan game of this year was a hard-fought contest, ending in victory for the Wolverines (12-0). Michigan started in fast, and within five minutes of play had made their first touchdown. During the rest of the first half Notre Dame held the Ann Arborites, but in the second half they scored again, and only a magnificent tackle by Farley averted another touchdown. Laterin the season Indiana proved an easy prey (17-0), and we tied Purdue (10-10).
The season of 1900 ^started off wrong. In one of the hardest fought battles ever seen in the state we lost to Indiana (6-0), and gloom settled over the camp of loyal rooters. With Captain Farley playing sensationally at half-back, and Farragher doing gilt-edged work at tackle, Notre Dame at

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC .	179
first seemed sure of victory, but both men -were injured early in the game and our hopes dwindled away.
At Madison we were completely outclassed. The line failed to hold on defense, and as we seldom had the ball in our possession we had little opportunity to show what we could do on offense—54-0 sums up the dismal story. Some of the gloom lifted when we held Michigan down to seven points. Sammon at full-back and Glynn at end were the stars, but every man gave a good account of himself, forcing the Wolverines to fight hard for every foot gained. In the first half a fumble gave Michigan the ball on our 9-yard line, and from there the oval was carried over for a touchdown. The .two additional points were gained by forcing Sammon back for a safety. In the second half we put Michigan on the defensive, once pushing her back within three yards of the goal, but a mighty defense held us from going further.
The following year (1901) witnessed our triumph over both Purdue and Indiana. The Boilermakers put up a strong defense, but were unable to keep our speedy backs from going through the line, while on offense they were very weak. The score (12-6) would have been larger had not Notre Dame lost the ball at critical moments.
The decisive defeat of the Down State Hoosiers (18-5) left us unquestioned champions of the State. The Bloomingtonians were completely outplayed, their one touchdown being the result of a fluke. Sammon added to his glory in this game by a 55 yard run, while Pick at centre and McGlew at quarter delighted the hearts of the rooters.
The game with Michigan in 1902 was a remarkable one. The splendid showing of' Sammon aroused the admiration and astonishment of the Wolverine rooters, and' evoked the comments of the Chicago and Detroit. press. Throughout the battle he was a human catapult, forcing himself through the Michigan line again and again with the precision and force of a battering ram. Michigan scored first in the opening half, but was soon put on the defensive. Aided by Doar, Sammon at one time advanced the ball to the Wolverine’s five-yard line, but there we were held for downs. The terrific struggle of the first half, however, told on our
men, and in the second half they gradually weakened before the w’ell-directed charges of the Yost machine. Michigan secured three touchdowns this half, but she had to fight hard for them. When the whistle blew w’e were defeated, but by no means disgraced. Another hard struggle, in which the brilliant playing of Doar and Sammon was again in evidence, gave us a victory over Indiana.
Northwestern University was our only formidable opponent in ’03. The game took place at the American League ball grounds, Chicago, and was one of the fiercest battles ever waged upon a Western gridiron. In the first half Lonergan, the Notre Dame left-half, ran forty five yards for a touchdown, but the ball was brought back because of holding in the line. The Evanston team kept us on the defensive during the first half. Several times a touchdown by Northwestern seemed inevitable. We were first pushed back to the nine-yard line, and we held them back, but through a blocked kick were shoved back to the two-yard line. A desperate defense followed; a touchdown was averted with the ball only six inches from the goal. In attempting to punt a second time Sammon sent the ball out of bounds on the five-yard line. A third time our goal was in immediate danger, but a third time the Purple’s advance was checked. The ball was punted out of danger, and a mighty cheer went up from the throats of the anxious rooters for the Gold and Blue. Score, 0-0.
Two big games were scheduled in ’04 and we lost both. Wisconsin defeated us 58-0, Purdue 36-0. While Notre Dame fought bravelj' in both games she fought against the inevitable. She was simply out-classed.
The increased strength of the team of ’05 was shown by our holding the Badgers to 23 points. Through a mere accident we lost a fine chance to score. After eluding the interference of the entire Wisconsin team, and running a distance of 60 yards, Silver slipped and fell. Before he could arise he was tackled and a splendid opportunity was lost.
Through the coaching of Barry Notre Dame was enabled to beat Purdue in ’06 for the first time in some years. The only score of the game was made by Notre Dame on a safety. But the score does not tell the game. Touchdowns were made by Sheehan, Beacom and Hurtzell, but they were called
180
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
back because of holding in the line, tripping, etc. Callicrate, after carrying the oval over the line Iw a 60-yard run, was also called back on a foul. The Indiana game was hotly contested, but the Bloomingtonians had a superior team, and we were obliged to acknowledge defeat (12—0).
In ’07 we measured closer to the strength of Indiana, fighting her to a standstill (0-0). “Red” Miller was the star of the game. In blocking punts, breaking up forward passes, spoiling end runs and backing up the line he was always on hand. In the line Lynch, Paine and Mertes did the fancy work, while Ryan and Callicrate filled their back-field positions in the most approved fashion. Purdue proved an easy conquest (17—0), but the score should have been larger. Ryan’s seventy-yard run for a touchdown was not allowed because the linesmen had not moved the lines.
Last year witnessed a triumph hitherto unknown to Notre Dame. We succeeded in crossing Michigan goal-line and prevented them from crossing ours. True, Michigan won, but it was a case of luck, which even Yost admitted. Three field goals by Allerdice netted the twelve points. To one man’s kicking ability the Wolverines’ victory was due, for, outside of punting, Notre Dame was superior to Michigan in every respect. Our only touchdown was made by Vaughan after a sensational run of fifty yards. Hamilton kicked goal. Indiana and Purdue were defeated in turn, and so we ended the season State Champions and one of the best teams of the West.
Varsity Verse.
Yost’s “Practice Game.”
Oh, sportsmen, have you heard the dope?
It surely is a jest,
For “Hurry Up” says Michigan Is Champion of the West.
He says he conquered every team Excepting Notre Dame,	‘
And then he only took her on To get a “practice game.”
Ha! Ha!
“I didn’t care a bit,” says, Yost, “If N. D. lost or won.” '
Of course he don’t recall his words ‘ When that hard-fought game was done;
“I'm tired and all discouraged, and I’m s:ck of it.” His fame
Had got a little jolting from
That “work-out,” “pract’ce game.” Ha! Ha!
Of course he don't ncall his words, . "It makes me dog-goned mad
To think we might have won from them,” And others we might add, “A game like that’s the worst to lose,
It sets one’s heart aflame,
And leaves a worm to gnaw and gnaw.” Expensive “practice game.”
' Ha! Ha!
So, men of sport, what think you now ? . Such action’s small at best,
N. D. alone can rightly hold The prestige of the West.
She struggled hard, her slate is clean,
The just respect her claim,
And Mr. Yost should not forget
That dear-bought “practice game.” Ha! Ha!
G. J. F.
The Parable of “Drawing the Line.”
Said David to Goliath, “I licked you fair and square.
Goliath blandly answered,
“I’m licked but ’tisn’t fair, I wasn’t in condition
Or else you’d not have won.
You don’t deserve the credit, I only fought for fun.”
The Egypt Record-Herald Where Axelson wrote dope,
Said, “ ’ Mongst the All-Jew Victors Young David needn’t hope
To get a place, though able All others to outshine,
There are so many claimants ‘ We’ve got to draw the line."'
F.
Still Champions.
Rah! Rah! The Team!
Still Champions,	.
■ Although Marquette,
You bet,
• Gave our muscle	-
A tussle.
Gee!
That 1000% looks good to me.
Rah! Rah! The Team.	G.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Season of 1909.
Leo J. Cleary, ’10.
The Marquette game closed the greatest season in the history of the gridiron sport at Notre Dame. The circumstances which attended every game were such as to fix the sport more firmly in the category of college contests. We were fortunate in having no serious accidents. Crowds came in increasing numbers to witness the exhibitions on Cartier Field, and everywhere a game was witnessed there was found in the hearts of the spectators a respect and an admiration for the men who battled so nobly, so cleanly, so loyally for the honor of their Alma Mater.
The football history of 1909 has become athletic history. The moleskin warriors who graced the gridiron stage for their brief day have passed in review; they have justly won their right to immortality, and while there lives a student of this year at Notre Dame their praises will be sung. Beginning with the trouncing administered Olivet, and on through the grand triumphal march against Michigan and Pittsburg and the victories over Wabash and Marquette, the team played in a manner which elicited applause at every turn.
Every year Notre Dame has had reason to be proud of men who won the football monogram. Every year some few have deserved more than a passing notice; but never before have we had reason to boast of such an aggregation of stars as composed the ’09 Varsity. This year every position on the team was filled by a player who possessed all the qualifications necessary to entitle him to a ranking among the foremost contenders for a similar position The splendid teamwork and steady, consistent playing of every member was conspicuous throughout the season. All had experience, all knew the rules; and this, coupled with the Notre Dame fighting spirit, made them invincible.
During the season we encountered every kind of play known. Heze Clark had the Rose Poly squad drilled in the science of the forward pass, but the Notre Dame ends proved a barrier to its successful use. The M. A. C. team had a splendid line-up, but the speed and weight of the Gold and Blue
181
warriors proved a stone-wall defense against line plays. At Pittsburg were displayed the results of Eastern coaching. The final score was only 6 to 0, but this is no record of the comparative strength of the teams, for undue penalties were imposed, and Notre Dame played with the disadvantage, of a partial referee. In the banner game of the season at Ann Arbor, Notre Dame clearly demonstrated her superiority in the West. For years the Yost machine had held sway. Michigan had given Svracuse a drubbing one week bef< re which showed her wonderful strength; and competent critics, allowing Notre Dame due credit for her victories, prophesied a close score in Michigan’s favor. Michigan men were in the best of condition, their linemen were heavy and their repertory of plays well rehearsed. Every artifice was employed by Yost’s pupils; but the plays v ere smothered as fast as they were started. Michigan v as out-generaled, outfought and out-played at every stage of the game, and their show of gameness dwindled when they faced a better line-up. The victory over Michigan places Notre Dame far in the lead for Western honors and with a claim to Eastern superiority as well.
Chicago tied Cornell. Harvard defeated Cornell, 18-0. Yale defeated Harvard, 8-0, and conquered Syracuse, 14-0. Michigan piled up a score of 43 against Syracuse. This gives Michigan a higher ranking than any Eastern college. Chicago humbled Illinois and Purdue, and then let Minnesota run up a 29-6 score. Minnesota then took the conference honors by winning from Wisconsin, only to give honors to Michigan by a 15-6 count. By half a dozen scheduled routes Notre Dame may be proved far in advance of all other claimants for football prestige. The games played during the season between the va'rious colleges furnish a splendid opportunity to estimate the strength of all the elevens of the country.
Notre Dame has been undergoing an evolution in football. She has been steadily advancing, until now she seems to rest at the pinnacle of athletic fame, and from the credit given this season’s team alone Notre Dame seems to have been recognized and appreciated by the public. Such well-earned success surely presages a bright future for football at Notre Dame, .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
A Toast.
ym: b.ittk.* arc all oxer and the grrms Will grow attain.
Whe—% late in sun and rain
They ha the line or heaved the forward pass.
< >r fell together in a struggling mass.
And everywhere the colors bright would gleam—
The gohl of sunset and the blue of sky.
A cheer together, fellows, strong and high—
The Team!
The memory of them wdl not pis* away In after years
The anxious waiting and the fears
Before; ami then the joy when won the dax.
Will xet be told when we are bent aid uray.
Let their blight cdors on th’’ breezes stream— The blue of heaven, the go’d of setting sum fine lustv cheer together, boys, just one —
The Team!
Ood speed you, warriors! To us x <m are the best In till the xvorld
In other years when you tire hurled Against the line of life with head and breast. Hit hard xxith dogged patience till you xx rest
A victory, and vour co’ors bright tire seen— The gold of stars that glimmer in the bhtc.
This last one, all together. feHoxxs. warm and true— The Team 1
C.
The Team.
Now that the football season of 1909 is about to go down as history and the men who have represented the Varsity are about to disband, we take this opportunity of extending most hearty congratulations to every member of the squad. The season has indeed been a most glorious one, and reflects credit on each and every player who in any way helped to make us Champions of the West. The victories of the squad have immortalized it as the greatest team ever turned out by Notre Dame.
The name of Coach Longman has been sounded by every sporting sheet in the country, and everywhere are echoed praises for Captain Edwards and his men. Just who is responsible for the showing of our team this season no one can say, and to place the glory achieved upon anyone in part’cular would be hardly fair to the other. All working together under the direction of that great coach of ours brought the splendid results. We introduce each player
to our readers before he retires from the limelight of our championship year.
Captain Howard Edwards.
“Ed” was utility man last year, and at the end of the season he was chosen by his team-mates to captain the 1909 Eleven. 11 is work on the line this year has been consis’ent at all times, and as a leader too much praise can not be given him. fie put forth every effort to keep his men together,
and was perhaps the most conscientious trainer on the squad. Although suffering from injuries which he received early in the season he was in the line-up for every game. He is a strong defensive player, and can earn- the ball and receive forward passes in good style. This is his third year and he will return.
Harry Miller.
After all the papers in the West have lauded the work of Our Red to the skies
W&STisKM GNAMPIO^S
Collins, IC I )immick, 'I' Dolan, (I , '1'	I.\noh, C.	Kelly, G.	I’hilbn ok, G. Matthews, E.
I o'-yntan. Coach Miller, II. Il Hamilton, O. IC Capt. Edwards, G. Ryan, II. B. Vanghan, b'. B. Schmitt, I*. B. Maloney, E.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
184
we can hardly add to his fame. He is a great player of course. The greatest halfback in the West without a doubt, and so the great Walter Camp pronounced him. Even the celebrated Yost, while he watched his own team go down to defeat, said: “It was certainly a treat and took some of the sting of defeat away to watch that Redheaded Irishman shake ’em off.” His brilliant work in the back-field earned him a place on the All-Indiana eleven, for which he was unanimously chosen.
Ralph Dimmick.
Ralph played on the team last year. He was not eligible for all the games. But this 3 ear he was in the harness from the start, and his playing has been such that critics who have seen him declare he is the fastest tackle in the West. He is especially strong on defense, and on his tackle-around plays he carried the ball many yards for his team. “Dim,” says, yes, he will be “on the job” again next year.	’
Pete Vaughan.
Pete is another second-year man. Good at leading interference, a terrific line plunger, and without a peer in handling the forward pass, he was perhaps the surest groundgainer on the team and could always be relied upon in a pinch. Walter Eckersall pronounces him the All-Western full-back. Pete will return again next year.
George Philbrook.
Phil is another second-year man. He was not in the line until late last year. But, as predicted at the end of last season, he was a valuable asset to the line this year. He is big and strong, fast enough to play any position on the line or at end .where he was seen early in the season. This year he alternated with Edwards at guard and tackle, and, like Edwards, he carries the ball well. His best performances this year were at Pittsburg and against Miami., In the latter game he scored two touchdowns after 40-yard runs; Phil will be with us again next year. His home is in. Oregon. '
Lee Matthews.
“Matt” is another contribution of the far West, and his work on the squad has been highly commended by all the critics; at Pittsburg he was easily the star performer. Time after time he baffled the opposing ends and half-backs by his brilliant handling of
the forward pass. But it is not in this department alone that he shines. His ability as a tackler or at piling up interference leaves him without a peer in the West as a defensive end. He is not an Indian except in the figurative sense. He will return next year. He hails from Washington.	.
James Maloney.
Jimmie came out too late in the season to secure a place on the squad, and was content to alternate at the end positions with Matthews and Collins. He is a fast, snappy player, a sure tackler, and is not behind either of the regulars in receiving the forward pass. He is the lightest man on the team, weighing only 135 pounds. He will return next year.
Will Ryan.
Billy has been in every game this year, and his playing has been characterized by remarkable speed and headwork. He scored the second touchdown for his team against Michigan after a sensational forty-yard run. Billy can punt some and play quarter-back too, and catches spies at signal practice. He will be with us next year.
Sam Dolan.
Sam has been the bulwark of the team during the past three years, and his work this year has even surpassed the old standard. His place is at tackle. But when Coach Longman was looking about for a man to back up the line, he wanted a man who could tackle hard, and such a man who knew the game thoroughly, and Rosie was-the man for the job. It was Rosie who stood behind our line and stopped the terrific plunges of the heavier Pittsburg backs. It was Rosie who shifted from side, to side at Michigan, encouraging his teammates and plunging fearlessly into the difficult formations of Yost’s men, and it was Rosie again who was picked unanimously for the All-State team. He will be graduated in June, and his loss will be keenly felt.
Joseph Collins.
Collins is a capable, heady player, and held out well all through the season. His work at end was consistent all through, and he was the surest man on the team in receiving forward passes. In this way he was a steady ground-gainer and a valuable addition to the team. Joe is a junior Law man and will return.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
i85
Edward Lynch.
“Copper” received and merited universal recognition as All-State center, and is one of the surest passers in the West. He is not a star, but is- probably the most consistent player on the team. He is strong in defensive work and can always be depended on. Much of the success of some very clever punting this year was due to his skill and judgment. “Copper” will graduate this year.
Donald Hamilton.
Hamilton’s work at quarterback was one of the wonders of a wonderful team. His speed and sureness in directing plays in the Michigan- game won favorable comment from Walter Camp. He is sure in handling the ball and accurate in forward passes. He is a spectacular player and runs well in the open field. He is clever in returning punts. He developed into a good place kicker before the end of the season. His field goal from the 45-yard line in the Wabash game was one of the prettiest kicks of the year. This is his second year on the team.
William Schmitt.
Schmitt developed into a fast, strong player—the best utility man on the squad. He is good on defense and does fine work in hitting the line. His work at full-back against Miami was a feature of the game. He has played in the same position against Wabash, and contributed materially to pile up the score. “Bill” finishes this year.
Peter Dwyer.
Pete has been the hard-luck man on the team. Earh- in the year he received injuries which have remained with him all through the season; keeping him out of most of the games, and forcing him to quit the games in hich he started. He is one of the best defensive plajers on the squad, and, like Matthews, is a vicious tackler. To the fact that he plays so hard his injuries are attributed. In the few games in which he played he xx on favor xvith many of the critics in their choice for all-star elevens. He xvill be back next year.
Albert Kelley.
“Red ” was not out for the early practices, but when the call for men for the scrubs was sounded a few weeks before the Michigan game, he was one of the first to report. In the first few scrimmages he gave great promise as a back-field man, and Coach
Longman was not slow to recognize his ability. He proved a timely substitute when Ryan was forced through injuries to quit his position. He played in pqrt of the Miami game, and earned his letter in the- game against Wabash. He will return next year and should be a strong bidder for a regular position in the back-field.	~ ’
John Duffy.
John was a victim of circumstances. During his three years on the team he has developed an aptitude at any position. With the possible exception of the quarter-backs, he has filled the bill as substitute in every other position. He has plenty of speed for the back-field and is not too light to hold his own in the line. He will be graduated in June.	.
Luke Kelly. .
Luke is another man who is able to take any position and play it well. He is a hard, sure tackler and a strong lineman. His work at guard in the Wabash game was a feature. He is not afraid .to leave his feet, and when he does he brings something home with him. Luke will return.
Manager Curtis.
Manager and Assistant Coach Curtis is a man whose ability and good judgment are so well known that they have become almost proverbial. Some veiy unjust, and, as later appeared, unwise, criticism of his (Concluded from page 1S6.)	*
186
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
PuOoshcd ;vcry Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
. Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame, Indiana
Notre Dame, Indiana, November 27, 1909.
Board of Editors.
PETER E. HEBERT, ’10 DENIS A. MORRISON, '10 MICHAEL A. MATHIS,'10 THOMAS A. LAHEY, 'll FRANCIS WENNINGER, ’ll CHARLES MILTNER, ’ll JOHN F. O'HARA, ’12
GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, ’10 LEO J. CLEARY, ’ 1 0 LEO C. MCELROY, ’10 JOHN C. TULLY, ’ll ARTHUR J. HUGHES, '11 THOMAS F. CLEARY, ’ll FREDERICK CARROLL, '12
—The team that won for Notre Dame the Western Championship in football has disbanded. The valiant bodj^ of men who donned the moleskins for Hail	the Gold and Blue this year
And	and who through thick and
Farewell, thin, through criticism and through victory, held together and fought together and helped one another to gain the long-desired laurels, has parted company on the gridiron and will not be seen again as a great Notre Dame machine. It is with a sigh of regret that one witnesses its dispersion at the close of Notre Dame’s most successful football season. Taking it all in all, and, with due consideration for the old heroes and credit to the teams that in previous years have bravely battled and stubbornly upheld Notre Dame’s honor on the gridiron, it must be conceded, and it is admitted gladly and without reserve, that this year’s Varsity is the greatest team ever developed at the University. In the intoxication of its great victories and in the excitement of congratulation, there is one point which is apt to be overlooked, but which appeals to the student of men as uppermost: this year’s team is an aggregation of individuals, and if it. worked well
as a machine—and few machines harmonize more perfectly—it was because each man put the best of his individuality into his work, and considered his team-mates as well as himself. We who pride ourselves on a personal acquaintance with Notre Dame’s players were happy to recognize on the field the characteristics for which we esteem them and the qualities which make us love them. The Gold and Blue team of 1909 has disbanded and its wonderful record has become history, but the memory of the men who composed the team will ever be cherished in the hearts of the loval sons of Notre Dame. To Coach Longman whose name has become famous in Western football, to Manager Curtis whose wise arrangement of the schedule is known and appreciated, to the whole team collectively and individually, we extend the heartiest congratulations and good wishes.
—Mr. Yost said of the Michigan-Notre Dame game in the Record Herald of last Monday: “ You must recognize the fact that we went into the game caring Mr. Yost little whether we won or lost. ’ “Didn’t Care.” Shortly after that Michigan-Notre Dame game Mr. Yost said: “What makes me so dog-gonecl mad is that we might have won. Those are the worst kind of games to lose. They leave a worm in the heart to gnaw and gnaw. 0 I don’t know, I’m sick and tired of the whole business; it certainly is discouraging. I take off my hat to the Irishmen. They are regular Indians. I was afraid of them because they have all the qualites of great football players.” And yet Mr. Yost didn’t care. Mr. Yost is a good coach, a good man with a nice sense of the comical. Some evening during the long winter months, when the memories of football are no more, he will enjoy in his own quiet way the humor, by comparison, of these two statements. And every lover of good fellowship and good sport v ill enjoy the joke with him. Apart from victory or defeat, which is in reality a minor consideration, one regrets to find a coach of such well-known ability as Mr. Yost descend to these schoolboy tactics which can serve no good purpose except to awaken the humorous sense.
I
This cartoon is the concept of the celebrated cartoonist Packard for Notre Dame.

188
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
{Continued on page 1SS.)
schedule of games was heard at the beginning of the season, particularly with reference to .the Pittsburg game. The wisdom displayed in picking the games is now so patent that criticism is silenced and congratulations are in order. His work with the second team was of the usual high order that is expected and always received from Curtis, and a full share in the glory of obtaining the Western Championship is due Mr. Curtis.
Coach Frank Longman.
With the great success of the team, and its glorious string of victories going down in the history of Notre Dame, one name stands out which will be linked with the
memory of his great team as long as the University stands. It is that of Frank Longman. However great have been the achievements of the team, its greatness must reflect in full upon the coach. True, he began the season with an unusual stock of material—an aggregation of already strong players. But other coaches have had great players and great advantages, and have failed to turn out great teams.
Anyone who is versed in the science of football or who has a knowledge of the history of the game will not deny that a great team never existed without a coach, and that a team composed of the greatest individual stars of the gridiron, if not properly coached, would be helpless before an eleven made up of even mediocie players properly coached and trained to play together. It is the faculty of making a team or a machine rather than making individual players that measures the efficiency of a coach, and in this department Longman excels. Notre Dame had. eleven great players, and out of the eleven Longman made a great team, — the team beat Michigan.
* *
Too much credit can not be given to the men who received the hard knocks and sacrificed their own interests to train the Varsity men in offensive and defensive wTork. The second team of this year was small numerically, but its spirit more than made up for this. The team under other conditions would have shone brilliantly,- but. was entirely eclipsed by the phenomenal strength of the first team. Brennan is a good, sure passer, and is almost sure of a berth next yrear. Ennis and Bergman, though light, are fast, heady players and fearless tacklers. They should form good back-field and end material for next year’s Varsity. - Moriarty, Attley and Freeze were late in reporting, but showed up well in back-field and line. Murphy was a good lineman, but was put out of the game early in the season by injuries. McGrath, a fast, snappy player, was out of the game part of the season with injuries. Dumphy and Williams are steady, consistent men, and fit in well all around. Figel and Roth are hard workers and deserve a great deal of credit for honest effort and insistence,	J. F. O’H.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	189
There is no more talk about a postseason game with Minnesota.
Query: What is a conference?
* -* * .
In the flush. of victory and the overindulgence in championships, let it. not be forgotten that Corby also won.
. * *
There seems to be some truth to the statement that there is a Big Two in the West that can justly dictate football to the Big Eight.
*
* *
Were Notre Dame to play Yale, what would be the outcome ? Of all the foolish questions 1
*
* *
One of the strongest and most sportmanlike teams in the West is that of the Michigan Agricultural College, a fact which papers seem to have somewhat overlooked.
* ♦ *
If you are one of a Big Two you are half: if you’re one of the Big Eight you are only one-eighth.
*
* *
Notre Dame, 0; Marquette, 0.—And so we are still the undefeated Champions of the West.	’
The Immortals.
EDWARDS
MILL E R .
COLLIN S
MAT T HEWS
KE LLY
DWYE R
MALONEY
S C HM1TT
VAUG H AN RY A N ' DIMM ICK
P HILLBROOK
HAM I LTON
DOLAN LY NCH SCRUB S
The Gambel Co. Concert.
One of the most acceptable concert programs heard in Washington Hall this year was that rendered by the trio of artists composing the Gambel Concert Company on last Saturday. Mr. Ernest Gambel, singularly gifted with a rare quality of voice, did justice to his past reputation in every number he offered. One can hardly choose between his rendition of difficult numbers or the exquisite expression he puts into the old English ballads. Miss Page, as a violinist, is far beyond the usual concert soloist performing on that instrument. There is a voice and an emotion in every throb the strings give forth beneath her magic touch. Miss Page is truly a gifted artist. Mr. Otto Stuermer performed very creditably on the piano, and his selections won well-merited applause.
Local Items.
—The annual cross-country run, held during the Wabash game last Saturday, was won by Scholl, in 31:50, with Jennings second and Johnston third. The wind and cold made the running extremely difficult.
—The Deane Steam Pump Co., Holyoke, Mass., desires to be placed in communication with a graduate of the mechanical engineering course at Notre Dame, who has had several years of practical experience and would be willing to consider an advantageous offer.
—Features of next week’s Scholastic will be the account of the 0-0 game with Marquette, a report of the.Corby-Brownson game, in which the former won the Interhall Championship, the selection of an All-Interhall team, and an account of the reception given the Western Champions on their return from Milwaukee.
—A committee of class presidents has undertaken to pay a worthy tribute to the team that won the Western Championship. The intention is that a banquet be given the victors by the entire body of collegiate students. The object is a most laudable one and the initiators of the movement should have the loyal support and co-operation of every student who is proud of the team’s record.
—The following from the editorial page
190
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of the Catholic Transcript of Hartford, Connecticut is pleasant reading.
“Notre Dame University takes the lead among Catholic schools of learning in providing a course in aviation. Several engines have been built and types of flying machines used bjr successful aviators studied. The biplane is the favorite out at Notre Dame. Aerial navigation is the coming thing, and it is gratifying to note that at least one Catholic college is taking time by the forelock, and preparing to meet the needs of the age as they arise.”
Athletic Notes.
Notre Dame, 3S; Wabash, 0.
Another football adorns the shelf in the
trophy room, and on its sides in glowing-letters is written Wabash, 0; Notre Dame, 38. It means that on November 20th, 1909, our old friends from the Down state college came, saw, and were conquered on Cartier Field, and the decorated oval is preserved to commemorate one more victory for the ’09 Eleven.
The game last Saturday, while it was not the best game seen on Cartier Field, was not without its fine points. In the history of our contests with Wabash it is noticeable that regardless of the showing made by that team against other teams it has always been a strong opponent for Notre Dame, and it was because of this and the crippled condition of our own team that we looked to their coming this year with a tinge of anxiety.
Vaughan and Ryan were both out of the line-up with injuries received in the Miami game, and Dimmick, who has been out since the Michigan game with a bruised shoulder, was also on the side-lines.
Philbrook kicked off to Wabash in the first half, and for the first few minutes of
play neither side seemed to have an advantage; finally, it was Notre Dame’s ball on their own forty-yard line. Two downs brought it past the center of the field and first down. The next two downs netted six yards, when Hamilton executed a perfect field-goal from the forty-five yard line.
, It was the turning-point in the game, and though Wabash maintained a stiff defense throughout, it was evident that their hope
of victory was gone, and all that remained was a possibility of keeping down the score. However, the three points served as a goad to the Notre Dame chargers, and spurred on by constant encouragement they tore through the Wabash line almost at will, ran their ends, and worked the forward pass to great advantage. The score at the end of the half was Notre Dame, 27; Wabash, 0.
The second half started out much like the first, and again it looked as if the scoring was over. The Little Giants’ line, which in the first half seemed helpless against the onslaught of their heavier opponents, braced wonderfully, and for a time Notre Dame was unable to gain consistently. Only for a time, however, and before ten minutes of play had elapsed, Miller, Kelley and Schmitt were tearing down the field on long end
runs and line bucks; Wabash was completely swamped. Collins and Maloney at the ends played havoc with their formations, and all attempts to gain through the line were fruitless. In the middle of the half, Miller was replaced by Moriarty, and Collins gave place to Matthews.
Hamilton surprised the crowd by his successful goals from the field, some of which were made at difficult angles. Hopkins, the Wabash left tackle, w’as injured early in the game and was obliged to quit the field.
The	Line-Up and	Summary.
Notre Dame		Wabash
Maloney	L. E.	Cochran, Elliot
Philbrook	L. T.	Barr.
Kelley	L. G.	McHeyl
Lynch	C.	. L. Lambert
Edwards	R. G.	Elberts
Dolan	R. T.	Cochran, Ryan, Hopkins
Collins	R. E.	Cravens
Hamilton	Q-	H. Lambert, Hawkins
Miller, Moriarty	L. H.	Panhallegan, Yount
Red Kelley	R. H.	Cunningham
Schmitt	F. B.	■ Markle
Touchdowns—Edwards, Schmitt, Philbrook, Miller (2), Red Kelley. Goals from touchdown—Hamilton (5). Goal from field —Hamilton. Umpire—Easterline, Purdue. Referee—Haddon, Michigan. Head linesman—Gohier, Fra^nlin. Time of halves—Thirty minutes.
Championship Gossip.
By Hek (Chicago Tribune).—Nothing, it seems, now remains to make the disparagement of Notre Dame’s victory over Michigan convincing but the declaration that Michigan never did play Notre Dame.
. *■ ♦ •
Sport Thoughts (Indianapolis Nezvs). — Those New York critics, in overlooking Notre Dame, came about as near hitting the mark as they usually do when their opinions have to do with the west.
However, it might be expected that those easterners would find it hard, extremely hard, to give full credit to a western team that defeated a western team that defeated one of the east’s strongest.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Boston American. November 17.—Here’s a little past performance dope which may help some of you football fans figure out how to invest your money on the Yale-Harvard game.
Dartmouth and Princeton played a 6to 6 tie. Harvard beat Dartmouth 12 to 3. Yale beat Princeton 17 to 0. What chance has Harvard with Yale?
Notre Dame. Indiana, beat Michigan 11 to 3. Michigan beat Syracuse 47 to 0. Syracuse held Yale down to a 17 to 0 score. What chance would Yale have against Notre Dame? Don’t all answer at once.
*
* * ’
South Bend News. November 23.—At the close of what is pronounced the best football season since the mles were changed in the winter of 1905-6 Notre Dame is recognized by the authorities as the champion of the west. Eckersall, the Chicago football expei t and critic, while admitting that Notre Dame must be considered the logical champion because of the defeat of Michigan, qualifies the statement by saying that “Coach Yost’s players were not. at their best when they met Notre Dame and if the two teams were to meet next Saturday Michigan in all probability would be the winner."
This is an exceedingly illogical conclusion and, though perhaps not intended, is unjust to Notre Dame. At the time these two teams met and Notre Dame demonstrated its superiority in all branches of the game, straight football, forward passing, trick playing, attack and defense, both had had the same opportunities for development and there is no reason to presume hat subsequent improvement was not common to botl. In the opinion of those who have watched Notre Came and are competent to judge the team has made material impiovement since it rubbed Michigan’s nose in the dust of its own grid-iion and is as capable of repeating the feat today as it was on that happy occasion.
The “dope" is that Notre Dame has not been defeated this year. If the games played had included the members of the conference and the results had been the same Notre Dame would have been champion by performance, but not being a member of the conference must accept a “dope" championship, which follows the defeat of Michigan. While not as satisfactory to the team the honor is as great as though every team in the conference had been defeated seriatim. Notre Dame is recognized as being in a class by itself among the teams of the state and to rank with the best large university teams east or west. In track athletics and baseball Notre Dame has long occupied a prominent position and now its claim to distinction in football is recognized by all.
. * .
* *
Daniel .1. F. Sullivan {Chicago Inter Ocean). November 22).—Decisive proof of the superiority of the west over the east and the humiliation of the "Big Eight”—The Western Conference—were the results of the games of Saturday, which practically ended the football season throughout the country.
The games also settled the championship of the cast—Yale taking the honors by its victory over Harvard. They failed, however, to give he final word on the championship of the West, although they determined that none of the Western Conference elevens can claim better than fourth place in the championship race.
The game that is to be played at Milwaukee Thanksgiving Day between. Marquette and Notre Dame is what leaves the Western Championship still in the air, with Notre Dame, Michigan and Marquette all possible claimants for first place in the West. A victory for Notre Dame over Marquette, and particularly a decisive one will settle the possession of the championship title beyond a question.	-
Such a victory - will mean that Notre Dame has the strongest team in the West, and probably in the entiie country. It has defeated Michigan by a decisive score and the Wolverines conquered Minnesota, which is in a class by itself in the Western Conference. bj- an equally decisive one. That .disposes of all the Western Conference teams as far as Notre Dame is concerned, but that is not all. Michigan also conquered Pennsylvania, which has not been defeated by a single Eastern team, and Notre Dame, therefore, ranks far above Pennsylvania.
Moreover, the Wolverines defeated Syracuse by a far bigger score than Yale was able to run up against the New Yorkers, and Notre Dame has, therefore, a right to claim it has a better team than Yale. Of course, the East, according to its custom, will calmly claim the championship of the entire country for Yale, but there is no reason why the West shouldn’t do as much for Notre Dame. .It is by no means uncertain that either Notre Dame or Michigan could defeat Yale today, especially as the Blue showed it could not gain through Harvard.
But there is a chance that Marquette may defeat Notre Dame Thursday and this would complicate matters in the West somewhat. Michigan defeated Marquette and if the Milwaukee Catholics defeat the South Bend ones, then Michigan and Notre Dame would have a double tie. Michigan would probably be given a shade the best of it if such a condition should be brought about.
A Marquette victory is by no means improbable, but the chances are in favor of Notre Dame. If the Hoosiers win. the ranking of the principal Western teams for the season of 1909 will then be as follows:
1 Notre Dame 2 Michigan	7 Illinois 8 Indiana
3 Marquette	9 Iowa
4 Minnesota	10 Northwestern
5 Chicago	11 Wabash
6 Wisconsin	12 Purdue
Of these teams, the first four are in a class by themselves. Chicago, Wisconsin, Illinois and Indiana are another, and the remaining teams are in a third.
Walter H. Eckersall {Chicago Tribune) Nov. 22. —In the West Notre Dame must be considered the logical champion, because the Catholics defeated Michigan earlier in the season and the Wolverines in turn trounced Minnesota, the champion of the Western Conference colleges.
Notre Dame easily defeated Wabash in a manner so decisive that it goes a long way in demonstrating the strength of the Catholics this year.
Cincinnati Post. November 22.—The football season of 1909 was practically brought to a close Saturday when Yale and Harvard fought the deciding game in the East, and Michigan and Minnesota elevens battled in the West.
Notre Dame has a clean claim to the title on her season’s performance. Notre Dame won from Michigan. Michigan defeated Minnesota . and Minnesota defeated Chicago’ The other Western teams are never considered serious factors in the race.
Cincinnati Times-Star. November 15.—Yale will meet Harvard next Saturday, and the winner of that game will be heralded throughout the East as the football champion of the country. And the victor in that greatest of all contests of the gridiron year will undoubtedly deserve the football championship of the East. But out here in the West there are a couple of football elevens that would like nothing better than an opportunity to mix. up with the winner of that Yale-Harvard match in a battle royal for the pigskin sovereignity. Those two teams represent Minnesota and Notre Dame college in Indiana.
192
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Ine West is more nearly the equal of the East ou the gridiron this year than it has ever been. There were two great East-West contests Saturday, and the West came out on top in one of them and tied the other. Michigan outplayed Pennsylvania and won out 12 to 6. Chicago made it even up G to 6 with Cornell.
Of course, neither Pennsylvania nor Cornell are as strong as Yale and Harvard, but then neither are Chicago and Michigan as good as Notre Dame and Minnesota, for Notre Dame licked Michigan 11 to 3 and Minnesota beat Chicago 20 to 6. So there are only comparative scores to go by in rating the best in the West with the best in the East. And this is rather unsatisfactory. But it's the best to be had. So here you are.
Compare Minnesota with Harvard via Cornell. Chicago and Cornell played a tie. Harvard beat Cornell 18 to 0. Hence. Minnesota's 20 to 6 victory over Chicago doesn't make Minnesota size up half-bad as a worthy rival of proud Cambridge.
The dope comparing Notre Dame with Yale is more roundabout, with Princeton furnishing the link that gives an indirect line of comparison. Lafayette beat Princeton 6 to 0. Lafayette tied Pennsylvania 6 to 6. Michigan beat Pennsylvania last Saturday 12 to 6. And Notre Dame beat Michigan the previous Saturday 11 to 3. Yale trounced Princeton last Saturday 17 to 0. Does that make the Indianians of Notre Dame look puny beside the sons of old Eli? Not by a long shot. .
And yet. when all's said and done, it must be acknowledged that Yale seems to have just a bit the better of everybody else and that Yale would rule a favorite in the betting against Minnesota or Notre Dame just as against Johnny Harvard, but the odds wouldn't be very lopsided. It’s a pity Yale or Harvard doesn't meet either of the two best in the West.
• «-* *
Blaixe Pattox (Indianapolis Star), November 22. —Notre Dame University can now rightfully boast of the champion football eleven of the West. The de-cisibe victory on last Saturday of Minnesota at the hands of Yost's Michigan University eleven gives the up-state collegians the call in the title. Notre Dame won a clean-cut game from the Michiganders, 11 to 3, and since the Gophers established an undisputed championship claim among the conference schools, the result of beating Wisconsin and Chicago, the Catholics can not be euchered out of their grounds.
Although a number of Chicago critics see nothing to it but Michigan for the Western championship, contending that Yost’e men were simply caught napping and in poor form when Notre Dame turned the trick two weeks ago, results have to go for results and the latter eleven has the drop on all opponents for the championship. Aside from defeating Michigan Notre Dame took the Michigan “Aggies” down the line for a 17 to 0 score and this team in turn defeated Marquette 10 to 0. Marquette meets Notre Dame next Thursday and this will give the Catholics a third opportunity to demonstrate the superiority of their athletes over the Michigan men.
It has been many years since a state institution has won such a great distinction as a Western championship on the gridiron, and rival schools even in the State of Indiana are glad to see the coveted title land within the borders of Hoosiedoom.
The rating of Indiana college teams is as follows:
1.	Notre Dame University.
2.	Indiana University.
3.	Wabash College.
4.	. Purdue University.
5.	Rose Polytechnic Institute.
6,	7 and 8. Tie—DePauw University, Earlham Col-
- lege and Butler College.
•. 9. Hanover College.
. -10. Franklin College.
Indianapolis News. November 2.—With all the 1909 football games bearing on the sectional championships played. Yale and Notre Dame are proclaimed the respective champions of the East and West. Neither team was defeated during the season, and the records of the elevens indicate that they are among the strongest that ever represented American colleges. Yale's record probably is the better, as she has won her title in the final game of the season and from her strongest rival, Harvard. On the other hand Notre Dame clinched her title by defeating Michigan two weeks ago. It would be decidedly unfair to detract from the performances of the Notre Dame eleven this year, however. Coach Longman has a wonderful team that has done well everything that has been asked of it. It went to Pittsburg and defeated the powerful University of Pittsburg eleven, that had beaten Carlisle, and minus two of its best men, it decisively trounced Michigan at Anu Arbor. One week later Michigan went to Philadelphia and defeated Pennsylvania, that had shown good form one week previous by running up a big score over Carlisle.
Notre Dame can not be denied, and although the football supremacy of the East has generally been conceded, it looks as if the West has this year developed one eleven that is capable of holding its own with the champion of the East. Comparative scores do not make Yale appear one whit stronger than Notre Dame. * * * * Walter camp, the former Yale player and well-known Eastern critic, saw the Michigan-Notre Dame game and praised the latter highly. He pronounced Miller the best halfback he had seen this year.
Notwithstanding Michigan's defeat at the hands of Notre Dame, Coach Yost, of the Wolverines, is claiming the Western championship title. Yost's statements have the sound of a sorry wail and they are not expected to be taken seriously. Michigan played Notre Dame after the latter had beaten the strong Michigan Agricultural College team by a big score and had also beaten the powerful Pittsburg team after the latter’s victory over Carlisle. Michigan had plenty of warning that Notre Dame was strong and Michigan used her full strength against Notre Dame, while Dwyer and Edwards, two Notre Dame mainstays, did not get into the contest on account of injuries. The Michigan Aggies won over Marquette, 10 to 0, while Michigan defeated Marquette 6 to 5. Notre Dame will play Marquette Thursday and she is confident of running up a big score on the strong Wisconsin eleven in the Milwaukee game.
- * * *
Cincinnati. Times-Star, November 22.—But isn't Notre Dame the real thing out West with incidentally considerable show for disputing with Yale in any argument as to which is really the greatest football eleven of the year? Michigan licked Minnesota Saturday 15 to 6, and thereby became champion of the Western Conference. ‘•Conference,” mind you. But when it comes to the championship of the whole West, there can be no gainsaying the claims that Notre Dame up there in Indiana is It with a capital “I,” and those who saw Notre Dame beat Michigan 11 to 3 the week after Michigan had swamped Syracuse 43 to 0, say that 11 to 3 only represents by about one-half what the real score should have been. Notre Dame should have had at least two more touch downs, but the officials of the game saved Michigan twice by penalties against the Indianians.
So, if Notre Dame.is-that much better than-Michigan, which can swamp Syracuse and which beat Pennsylvania 12 to 6, Notre Dame must be taken seriously. Walter Camp, the greatest football expert in the world, is taking Notre Dame seriously. The report is that he is picking Miller, one of the Notre ' Dame halves, for his All-American eleven.