2
Unsigned letters will not be printed, although names will be withheld on request.' Contributors are asked to be ?s brief rs possib'e.
October 5, 1946.
Gentle men:
I am from New York and I did not receive any tickets for the Army-Notre Dame game simply because I was not told that I had to comply with certain regulations with an application.
The reason I did not do this properly is because the student who came to our meeting did not tell us clearly what to do. If he had why would so many fellows not do it. Certainly not to deliberately give away a few tickets to the Army game. Would you Mr. Editor give away a few tickets? No! Then why would I? Well I didn’t.
I am not taking sides with Mr. Olwell, just telling you that the information James A. Clemens, Jr., submitted was NOT correct. If we students know this, then why do you write a retraction? Because you HAD to? Who is the editor? Your paper should be your own and not someone elses.
In the future I sincerely hope you will collect your material intelligently and not print incorrect copy just because some pressure was applied.
A Graduate Student, William McNulty.
This department has received numerous letters ranging from the scurrilous to the inane regarding the “Scholastic’s” editorial last week apologizing to the ticket office. All the ivriters except Mr. McNulty beat their chests fiercely while cowering behind the cover of anonymity.
As far as coercion being used to force the Scholastic to print the apology is concerned, Mr. McNulty is muttering in his beard about a matter with which he is entirely unfamiliar. In fact, in printing the retraction the “Scholastic" acted contrary to the wishes of University officials, who requested that the matter be dropped without further comment. In spite of this the apology was run because the editors believed that an injustice done to the ticket manager, Robert Cahill, should be righted.
That an error was made someivhere along the line in informing students as to the manner in luhich the' Army tickets ivould be distributed to parents is evident, but the error was made by a student ivho did not represent the ticket office and who did not have any connection with it. Any misinformation given out by this student at the Met Club meet-
(Continued on Page 32)
AQUINAS LIBRARY & BOOK SHOP, Inc.
HEADQUARTERS for CATHOLIC BOOKS and RELIGIOUS GOODS
HOE. Lasalle — just four doors down the hill from Elbel’s Music Store
WHEN STYLE'S n THE PICTURE
W.L.DOUGLASf SHOE CO., BROCKTON 15. MASS.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
a
football
NEWS & PICTURES
...every Sunday
Here’s big news for sport fans! It’s news about an 8-PAGE FOOTBALL SECTION in The Chicago Sun EVERY SUNDAY during the 1946 football season.
This bigger and better sports section will give you a complete coverage of college, prep school and pro football. It will be cram*packed with action and diagrammed pictures, scores and stories.
Be sure to get The Chicago Sun EVERY SUNDAY and see the big 8-page football section, with stories by Warren Brown and a staff of noted sports writers.
CHICAGO SUNDAY SUN
•4
StudleHi P>u*d&....
Bill Lyman
!’
r
;i h !i ‘i 1
i!
i
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1902
Jan. 18: The Almondbury Handbell Ringers gave a two hour recital in Washington Hall Wednesday morning. Students in attendance, because their curiosity got the best of them, were required to use proper ethics and remain seated for the duration of the performance. . . . Jan. 25: Wednesday morning recitals continued this week when Sol Marcosson rendered forth on his violin. Students who rushed the gate (to get out, of course) were severely reprimanded. .. . Feb. 1: Wednesday morning recitals were abandoned this week. . . . March 1: A high-scoring Irish basketball team came from behind to tie Logansport 15 to 15. . . . April 19: The ' Chicago White Sox eked out an 8 to 8 tie with the varsity baseball team. . . . May 24: Beloit shut out the Irish 2 to 0. . . . Nov. 1: Attention was turned last Saturday to St. Mary’s Academy where a throng, estimated to be well in excess of twelve persons, was on hand to witness the laying of the cornerstone for the new and beautiful St. Angela’s Hall. . . . Nov. 22: Because of a muddy field, the football team only beat the American Medical College 92 to 0. Another popular excuse used to explain the low score was that the rules only allowed five points, instead of the proposed six, per- touchdown.
Ah Green!
’Twas only last week when I crawled back from my nap at my 1:15 class, that, upon opening the door of my suite (which I share with two other fellows, a dog, a locker, and a drunk left over from last year’s Illinois game), I found gazing up at me, from an undignified position on the floor, this year’s edition of the Student Manual, hot off the finger tips of that fleet mercury who glides from door to door depositing the messages of “the gods.”
For once in my life I took a second . look at this manmade obstacle to a merry -life (still the Student Manual), and with tears of manly pride in my eyes and an over-sized lump in my throat, I swooped down and lifted it from its ignoble spot —for you see, the “do’s” and “don’ts” and “cant’s” and “musts’s” were bound in GREEN, the color of the Irish.
How much more soothing than the defiant RED of yester-semestsr’s edition 1 Now, the thought of my little green missal will surely draw me back to campus by midnight and will keep me from the seething dens of Mishawaka. Now, I have a companion (my little green missal) to provide me with warmth and pleasant reading on cold and rainy days.
Tom Jackson, Sorin.
X^TUNES
Five Minutes More Careless Cincinnati Lou Tempo's Boogie All That Glitters Is -Not Gold
Copp's Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne St
j<v<) 31 ill ion i:liters Sold . . .THIS IS WHY:
Reduces nicotine and cars * Filters flakes and ;uices * Improves tobacco aroma * Cools and cleanses smoke
PRINTS OF THE PRESENT
Wasted Valor
My girl came out to see me play today And I sure showed the lass what I could do,
I got into the thick of every play
And when I plunged I cracked that line in two;	.
I made some flying tackles that were beauts,
My blocking could be heard across the field;
The other team had ten plug-ugly brutes But through my pressure they ■ were made to yield.
And when I called upon my girl tonight And asked her what she thought of the affair
She said my stockings weren’t pulled up tight
And that I had forgot to comb my hair; She said she liked the ticket seller best Because he wore swank clothes and a bright vest.	—T. E. B.
This One Didn't Work. Either
Unprepared Student—I got so worked up over that Pep Rally last night, Father, that I just couldn’t get settled down to the assignment.
—Bob Thompson, Lyons.
Verboten Verse
Cold water is the best of drinks And fit for prince or king.
But who am I that I should take The best of everything?
Let princes revel at the tap, Kings at the pump make free, Champagne and gin and even beer Are good enough for me.
—Belvoir Castle, O.C.
Local Pet Peeve
The would-be Bing Crosbys who pick study hours to audition in the halls.
—Attentive Abie, Lyons.
Mail or deliver all contributions to THE STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons Hall.
T' hen filter stained trsrn | tars and nicotine. npla^ | ti lth fresh one.
5
COLLEGE PARADE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
ON THE HOME FRONT:
Poring over a conglomeration of newspapers, magazines, etc., we find that the sports writers have finally tabbed Notre Dame as the No. 1 team in the country. Wonder what took the experts so long to discover something every Notre Dame man has known since last spring.
While we’re on the subject of football, we’ll give you the word on the latest scoop . . . rumors are drifting out of West Point that Doc Blanchard is seriously hurt, and (brace yourselves for this one) Davis is in need of an appendectomy, but the Army big guns are trying to stall an operation until the end of the football season. All of us here at N.D. hope these rumors aren’t true; we all want Army to be at top strength when they meet the Fightin’ Irish; the fruits of victory will be that much sweeter.
COMMENTS ON THE WEEK-END:
Orchids to the glee club for the pre-pep rally entertainment . . . another bouquet to the St. Mary’s cheering section for their support. We love ya for it, girls . . . boo-kays to the men who voiced their disapproval of the officials’ decisions whenever a penalty was called against Notre Dame. We agree that in one or two particular instances there may have been room for doubt but that doesn’t warrant an outburst of booing. Let’s remember that an important tradition here at Notre Dame is good sportsmanship at all athletic events, not only on the part of the team, but the student cheering section as well ... a pat on the back for the students who gave those nine injured Pitt men a big hand as they were taken out of the game.
POEM DEPT. . . . dedicated to the thousands of beautiful she-males that roamed our campus last week-end . . .
Blessings on thee, little dame.
Bareback girl with knees the same, With thy silken or nylon hose With thy short, transparent clothes. With thy red lips, redder more Smeared zvith lipstick from the store. With thy make-up on thy face And thy curled hair's jaunty grace. From my heart I give thee joy . . . Thank God that I was born a boy!
❖
ON FOREIGN FIELDS:
The Butler Collegian reports that their prexy requested faculty members to re
frain from giving heavy class assignments until their book store is able to supply all students with books. Not a bad idea. We’re confronted with the same problem here at N.D., and a number of the profs are giving tests when only half the students have books. Pity the students who, after feverishly taking notes for a month, find on the night before a quiz they can’t read their own writing.
A sharp-shootin’ bunch of co-eds at Kansas U. have formed a rifle team— woe be unto us if the gals across the. Dixie follow their example.
In the Parley Voo we read that the girls at Converse College down South Carolina way must pay a fine of 50 cents for each time they cut chapel. We refrain from comment.
(Ed. note: Let’s see, 50x3x4,200—wow!)
The Purdue Exponent has a solution to the problem of the inflated barbershop prices, “For a buck a throw, let it grow.”
Another Headquarters for ARROW
-GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Here—You are always a Guest before you are a Customer
ZOLTAN'S THESAURUS:
Pessimist—one who wears both a belt and suspenders.
Optimist—one who wears neither.
Heredity—something a father believes in until his son in college starts acting like a darn fool.
Love—the feeling that makes a girl think almost as much of a man as she does of herself.
Attention Poets!
Here's Your Chance
Got a spark of poetic genius? Are you the reincarnation of Poe? If so, you may get your verse into the Annual Anthology of College Poetry. The National Poetry Association has announced November 5th as the closing date for the submission of manuscripts for the Annual Anthology of College Poetry. Each effort submitted must be on a separate sheet, and must follow the following statement: The verse entitled “. . .” is my own personal effort. It must be signed, the college attended listed, and the home address given. Contributions should be mailed to the National Poetry Association, Dennis Hartman, Secretary, 3210 Selby Avenue, Los Angeles 34, California. So if the light from- your poetic ideas is setting fire to your hair, here’s a chance to do something about it.
Ifs Adler's for ARROWS
"The Men's Corner"
Home of Nationally Accepted
Merchandise
and
ARROW Products
ON TK COMiEK... MKWMN f NKSHiN&TM
p-: ;'v ■ I' J-. v. :
| Ai Message for Every Veteran -
i
October 1946

Dear Sir:
good job, education
Now that you are back from doing a your concern is to get a good quickly—to make up for the war—
spent years.
The world is still in bad shape; each new day finds fresh trouble. Old values are changing. Your cost of living has zoomed since 1941.
We should like to point out some values which haven't changed. They will interest you.
/Most Arrow shirts (including whites) » still sell for less than $3.50.
2 Most Arrow neckties still sell for $1 and ♦ $1.50.
J Arrow shorts, sports shirts and handker-• chiefs are still reasonably priced.
ft Every Arrow product retains its pre-war 7* quality and workmanship.
F All Arrow shirts and shorts and most Arrow sports shirts are Sanforized-labeled—can be washed with less than 1% shrinkage.
Because of the demand, Arrow shirts are still darn scarce. But if you find one—and we hope you do—we guarantee you and your wallet will be completely satisfied.
ARROW
Shirts and Underwear
ARROW
Sportswear
Sincerely yours
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC. Makers of Arrow products
MAIN AT COLFAX


7
THE WE HE SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Kive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
iiitiiitiiiHtiiimiitintiuiimitiiniiiiiiiiimiiiittiiiiitiutiuttiii'iiiiii
John Defant, Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Ted Weber
H. Smith Keel
llltllHlIllltllllilMllllHltllUtlUKttlHMIIIIMtltltllllMMlllMMIIMItlinil
James Clemens_______________News Editor
Frank Keenan______Associate News Editor
Joe Cheney Sports	Editor
Joe Wilcox _______________Feature	Editor
Jim Ferstel _________Photographic	Editor
Frank Cacciapagilia__Assoc. Photo	Editor
REWRITE
Bob Stock _________________..Ed Snyder
Cover by Jim Ferstel of the Pittsburg week-end Victory Dance, taken from high in the Navy Drill Hall.
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
_______________________Faculty Advisor
Tom Gargan, John Denniston_____Circulation
M.	E. Varga__________________Advertising
PHOTO CREDITS
Pictures on pages 9, 12 and 19 were taken by Frank Cacciapaglia. The fire house feature was photographed by Jack Evans and Wally Kunkle. Picture on page 10 is by Dave Cowden, and the football action on pages 18-19 was caught by Jim Ferstel.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Ute	.
Look Here Cheerleaders
Last Saturday’s home-opener with Pittsburgh made it very evident that not only the football team lacked the punch expected of it. The Notre Dame cheerleaders, traditionally as accomplished in their speciality as the Irish gridders are in theirs, proved disappointing in their season debut.
Returning students, recalling the acrobatics and antics of cheer crews of previous seasons, found the almost passive performance of last Saturday far from conducive to student spirit. To the observer from the stands the yell-men appeared more interested in watching the game from a vantage point than leading cheers.
It must be admitted that among the Notre Dame cheers and yells there are several that do not produce adequate student response. Yet these yells appeared at strategic intervals Saturday and the resultant lack of response gave a poor indication of Notre Dame spirit.
The departure of “Bud” Sitko from the field with a leg injury and without the traditional “He’s a Man” marks the first time in this writer’s memory that an injured Notre Dame man has not received this tribute. Sitko’s reappearance on the bench in a sweat-suit provided the yell-leaders with a second opportunity which they also muffed.
Repeatedly throughout the game a cheer was obviously needed and just as often the ensuing yell originated spontaneously with the student body and only after it was well under-way did the cheer crew show any activity.
This presents a problem that can be solved by the, student body itself. The proposed “new cheer” contest should be pushed vigorously and rapidly. The leaders themselves should realize that more and better timed activity on their part is clearly indicated and required. And the student body as a whole must in justice to the leaders show more spirit and cooperation than was shown last Saturday.	—Ted Weber, Jr.
A Job Well Done
Great things were expected of the halftime activities of the Notre Dame band and here at least there was no reason’ for disappointment. The action-formations made a hit with the crowd and The Forgotten Irishman may well become as much an institution as Clashmore Mike. Mr. Hope, drum-major Jim Kress, narrator Ellsworth Cordesman and each and every member of the 100 piece band deserve credit for a job well done. •
Men — Not Boys
The average age of students here at Notre Dame has advanced until now it is in the 24 to 26 year bracket. This is five or six years above normal prewar age levels when students were usually 21-23 when they graduated. Even greater than the chronological age progress is the ever increasing mental age. No longer do people go to school for the reasons that the family would just like to get them out of the house for a few years, or because the older fellows down the block always did this sort of thing. People nowadays actually go to school to learn something. Hand in hand with this desire to advance moves the self contained attitude of maturity. Students today consider themselves seasoned, full grown, reasonably intelligent young men, and this has proven itself to be true. Any forced departure from this notion is naturally repulsive, and seemingly unnecessary.
This is the basis for all the gripes on the campus at the present time. Of course, some of them are negligible and none of them concerns matters of life or death, but few of them are designed for adults. Those who attended the Victory Dance in the Drill Hall last Saturday night will remember with disgust the various incidents that attracted attention. The chagrin of one married student who with his wife could not leave until the doors of the Hall were unlocked at 11:00 is understandable. One student standing embarrassed before the main door could not gain admittance for himself or several visiting friends because it was 9:35.
This childish regulation of door locking at dances may be necessary for seventeen year olds, but the effect on the older students is to drive them to the places where they should least likely be found.
We appeal to the Administration to investigate these juvenile rules that exist in the latest students’ Manual and amend them wherever possible, with the thought in mind that the men of Notre Dame are truly men.—H. Smith Keel ■
To be included in the 1947 DOME all campus clubs must be registered with the Student Council by Oct 14th.
An assessment will be levied against all clubs organized after that date for inclusion in the DOME.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing: at special rate of postage. Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88. NO. 4
OCTOBER 11. 1946
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
Vets Blast Iniquitous Persecution"
of Religion by Yugoslav Leaders
ND Dining Halls Face Meat Famine
Notre Dame students, whether they realize it or not, are “existing on a day-to-day, hand-to-mouth basis.” So stated Mr. David Ford, manager of the Notre Dame dining halls, in a recent interview as he emphasized the “extremely critical” food situation which faces the University in ensuing weeks.
Most important is the supply of meat, or lack of it. Normally, storage facilities carry a ten-day quantity, but since the reinstatement of OPA controls in early September, this supply had dwindled rapidly, until late this week refrigerators were empty, and whatever meat was available trickled into the kitchens in amounts barely large enough for one meal.
Ford, the energetic and softspoken boss of feeding operations for 4,500 vigorous appetites, blamed what he termed, “the present, unworkable OPA regulations,” as the cause of the present food crisis. He further- stressed his belief that the situation could not be improved until legislation was passed easing the prohibitive regulations and allowing a freer flow of the artificially scarce items.
Though not alone affected by the food shortage, (Purdue, Indiana U., Butler and other Indiana schools were also hard hit) Notre Dame’s position was unique. As the largest boarding school in the U. S., the University was faced with a concentrated food problem. Any shortage was immediately felt by all, simultaneously and to the same degree. Thus, the more than 4,000 resident students were faced together with the daily uncertain supply of meats, fats and oils and related food products, which items constituted the most serious lack.
The spacious storerooms and refrigeration spaces beneath the dining halls, (Continued on'Page 12)
BOY'S TOWN—famed Father Flanagan (center) at the Pitt game last week with Rev. Francis Cavanaugh. C.S.C., (left), and Rev. Howard Kenna. C.S.C.
Boy's Town Priest Attends Pitt Game
Rt. Rev. Msgr. Edward J. Flanagan —the famous Father Flanagan of Boy’s Town—was a campus visitor over the past weekend, yet even while visiting South Bend and Notre Dame, the Monsignor furthered his work of curbing juvenile delinquency.
On Friday night he addressed the Civitan Club of South Bend, non-de-nominational group formed to find cures for vandalism among youths and juvenile delinquency. In this address, Msgr. Flanagan slapped the blame for most delinquency on the parents of wayward youths.
The famous priest, whose work was brought out so well in the movie of some
Trial of Archbishop Contrary to Justice
From Notre Dame this week, as the center of American Catholic education, emanated a forcefully worded resolution, urging the United States Government to do all in its power “to see that the iniquitous persecution of religion and religious leaders in Yugoslavia is stopped.”
Co-signed by the Notre Dame Veteran’s Club, representing 3,500 veterans of World War II, and by the National Commission on Veteran’s Affairs of the National Federation of Catholic College Students (NFCCS), speaking for more than 100,000 student veterans in colleges all over the country, the resolution was telegraphed early Tuesday morning to top goverment officials. Over the wires sped the resolution to the President, to the Acting Secretary of State, to the chairmen of the Senate and House Foreign Affairs Committees, to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, and to the Yugoslav Ambassador to the United States.
Supported by the vast majority of this country’s Catholic college students, the resolution condemned the arrest and trial of Archbishop Aloysius Stepinac,
(Continued on Page 24)
years past, Boy’s Toum, addressed a group of teen agers on Friday afternoon, when he appeared on WSBT’s “Teen Time” program.
Saturday was his day of rest, so he attended the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game, as the guest of Rev. Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. But even during the game, Msgr. Flanagan was thinking about his boys and wondering how they were coming in their fourth football game this season. On Monday, he returned to Omaha.
9
Ve+s Housing Units Open October 15th
By JOE CAMPBELL
The occupancy of the Veterans’ Housing Project will get under way on October 15 when twelve married veterans and their families will move into the apartments in back of Cartier Field and across Juniper Road. The Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, C.S.C., business manager of the project, announced that after the opening date the apartments will be occupied at the rate of three families a day. The thirty-nine units, allowing three families to the unit, will eventually accommodate 117 families.
This move to mitigate the housing problem for married veterans attending the University of Notre Dame is a joint undertaking of the government and the university. The university’s financial contribution amounts to $40,000 expended mostly on sewers and water mains, while the government has assumed the costs of dismantling the housing, transferring it to this location and reconstructing it.
Soon this veterans’ community will boast of an auditorium and a recreation center.
Also planned is a grocery store and a laundry to be run on a co-operative basis by the families of the community. Subscriptions will be sold for this enterprise and dividends paid the subscribers.
Tariff For Army Game Student I rip Announced
Train fare and admission to the Army-Notre Dame game in New York on Nov. 9, will be approximately $35, but those students who return on the special train after the game will receive a 25 per cent deduction in fare, it was announced this week by Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., director of student activities.
Father Kehoe said that the special train to New York will leave the campus sometime on Friday afternoon, Nov. 8. For those students who do not have to spend Saturday night in New York, there will be a special train returning sometime Saturday night.
There have been no hotel rooms reserved, and students desiring to spend Saturday night in New York must provide their own.
Wives of veterans will not be able to buy student tickets for the game, since only 1,000 ducats are available, and this number should be quickly gobbled up by the student body. However, married vets, who have regular tickets for the game, may take their wives on the special train.	—Ed. Snyder
GLEE CLUB OFFICERS—Standing, left to right, Paul Rehkopf, Lou Almasi, Tom Devine, and Ralph Thorson; seated at the piano. John FitzHenry.
Glee Club at All-Time Membership High, Plans Spring Swing Around Eastern Cities
By JOHN WATERS
The Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, last week formally ushered in the new semester with an election of officers. John J. Fitz-Henry, a senior from Scranton, Pa., was elected president; Ralph E. Thorson, junior from Chatfield, Minn., vice-president; Paul Rehkopf, senior from Petoskey, Mich., secretary; Louis Almasi, junior from Tonawanda, N. Y., publicity director; and Tom Devine, sophomore from Milwaukee, business manager. Assisting Almasi with publicity will be Gerard Hekker and Tom Murray, and Devine will be aided by Bernie Lynch, Pete Pesoli, Paul Roise, and Tony Cashman.
This year finds the Glee Club off its wartime basis and an ambitious program has been lined up which promises to make the coming season one of the most memorable in the history of the organization. Tentative plans call for an Easter vacation tour of such Eastern cities as Boston, Philadelphia, New York, Cleveland and Pittsburgh. Between semesters the Club will tour the Midwest with a concert arranged for Indianapolis on March 9.
The Club is loaded with talent and Mr. Pedtke will be able to build the organization around a nucleus of 90 men who have had at least a year’s experience
singing together as a group. In addition, 60 new men are gradually being brought into active competition with the older members for positions in the travelling unit which usually consists of approximately 45 men. This year finds the Glee Club with the most members in its history.
In the past the Notre Dame Glee Club has offered the students and the public musical entertainment at its best. The Club has sung over coast to coast radio hookups on numerous occasions, and has appeared on such well known programs as the Kate Smith show and Vox Pop.
Chemical Engineers Elect Greeley to Chairmanship
Sixty-five members of the student chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers attended the first meeting of the Fall semester last week. At this meeting the new officers for the coming semester were nominated. Bill Greeley was elected chairman; Joe McNamara, vice chairman; Dick Kayser, secretary-treasurer; and Bill Gordon, George Resnick and Jim O’Connor, members at large.
Guest speaker was Dr. Alan Smith, a new faculty member in the Chemical Engineering Department. For his talk Dr. Smith selected the interesting subject, “Soy Bean Products.”
10
Five Vets Attend St. Mary's College
By ED SNYDER
That famous G.I. Bill of Rights, which is providing education for 3,700 Notre Dame men, has found its way across the Dixie Highway to St. Mary’s College, where five ex-servicewomen are continuing their schooling under its provisions.
The quintet, two of which are married, is composed of three former Army Nurses, a former Navy Nurse, and an ex-radioman in the Coast Guard’s Spars. Three of the lady vets are juniors, one a sophomore, and the lone ex-enlisted woman a freshman.
Mrs. Robert Johnson, whose husband is a doctor at Memorial Hospital in South Bend, spent 21 months as an Ensign in the Navy Nurse Corps. She came to St. Mary’s College this fall to work on a B.S. degree in nursing, which she will complete at the end of the summer term in 1947. Mrs. Thomas Harris, a sophomore, working toward the same degree, also lives in South Bend. She spent a year in the Army Nurse Corps as a Second Lieutenant.
Miss Wilma Carnell, the only exenlisted woman among four ex-gold braid, spent three and a half years in the Spars, coming out as a Radioman, Second Class. She saw overseas duty at Pearl Harbor. A freshman from South Bend, she entered St. Mary’s this fall and is working toward a B.A. degree, majoring in voice.
Miss Virginia Melevage of Gary, spent three years in the Army Nurse Corps, two and one half of them overseas in
St. Mary's five lady vets leave Le Mans Hall. Left to right: Wilma Carnell, Ann Giefing, Mrs. Robert Johnson, Virginia Melevage and Mrs. Thomas Harris.
North Africa and France. An ex-First Lieutenant, she came to St. Mary’s College last January and is a junior working for a nursing degree.
Miss Ann Giefing of South Bend, who as a First Lieutenant in the ANC spent two of her two and one half years in the Army with the Third Army in the European theatre, returned to school this fall, and is also a junior in the nursing course.
KC Vaudeville Tryouts Scheduled for Nov. 13
The annual Knights of Columbus show stands out as of paramount importance in the local council's agenda for the coming weeks. Under Jack Galloway’s capable guidance, the show is beginning to take shape. Acts are still needed, however, and the more acts presented, the better the show. Tryouts will be conducted the 13th and 14th of November, with finals in Washington Hall the 20th and the 21st.
It is now factually certain that the Knights’ first-degree initiation will be held Tuesday evening, October 15, with a degree team from the South Bend council administering the degree. Grand Knight, James D.. Sulivan has revealed that, at that exemplification, thirty new members will attain the first degree of knighthood.
Deputy Grand Knight James Webb, has announced a K. C.-sponsored bridge tournament, with dates still uncertain. However, since it is certain to be held very soon, all those interested in participating in a bit of card-table competition are urged to contact Jim in his Badin hall headquarters, or, leave their names at the council clubrooms in the basement of Walsh hall.
Dome Club Picture Schedule Announced
The staff of the Dome this week announced the first schedule of club pictures which will be taken between Oct. 19 and 29.
The staff urged that all members of the clubs be present at the hill on the North side of the Library at the time when their picture is scheduled to be taken. Each club is also requested to submit a list of those in the picture, identifying them from left to right, at the time the picture is taken. Another schedule of pictures will be announced in the near future.
The schedule as released follows:
Club	Date	Time
Boston,	Tues., Oct. 15	12:20
Rochester,	Tues., Oct. 15,	12:30
Columbus, Wed., Oct. 16	12:20
Youngstown, Thurs., Oct. 17, 12:20 Fort Wayne, Ind., Thurs., Oct. 17, 12:30 Toledo,	Tues., Oct. 22,	12:20
Joliet,	Tues., Oct. 22	12:30
Fox Valley, Wis., Wed., Oct. 23 12:20 Connecticut, Thurs., Oct. 24, 12:20 Texas,	Thurs., Oct. 24,	12:30
Rural Life,	Tues., Oct. 29,	12:20
New Jersey, Tues., Oct. 29,	12:30
Two ND Scientists Leave
For National Laboratory
Two scientists of the University of Notre Dame have been granted leaves of absence from their teaching duties to conduct research in atomic energy at the Argonne National Laboratory on the campus of the University of Chicago, it was announced today by the Reverend Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies at Notre Dame.
Dr. E. Lawrence Powers, Professor of Biology at Notre Dame, and Dr. William H. Hamill, of the Department of Chemistry, are now conducting research work in the laboratories.
The Argonne National Laboratory is successor to Metallurgical Laboratories of the University of Chicago, which during the war was the midwestern center of research for the Manhattan District Project, official title of the atomic energy project. Research in plutonium, one of the elements used in the atomic bomb, constitutes the main work of the group. Although still located at the University of Chicago, the work now being carried on is completely independent of the university.
11
SC to Supervise Class Elections
Last Monday night at a weekly meeting of the Student Council, Cavanaugh, Howard and Sorin Halls, as well as the Villagers Club, were given permission to hold banquets, picnics and weenie roasts.
The Student Council now has a Notre Dame Post Office address and for those of you who would like to drop them a line simply address the envelope—Student Council, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. The council will welcome all suggestions and criticisms from the student body. In the event that you cannot reach your hall representative be sure to write.
During the course of the evening appointments were approved for membership in the Blue Circle. F. Gerard Feeney, Senior Law Student will be chairman. The Blue Circle is an honorary organization designed to aid the Student Council in carrying out student activities. It will be composed of three members from each of the halls and three off campus students. The Blue Circle was originated around 1923 by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the present President of the University, who was at that time head of the Student Council. It was then known as the Boosters Club. In 1930 the organization became defunct, but during this semester an effort is being made to revive it.
Since the time for student election of class officers is drawing near, a motion was passed and approved to have election plans set up at the next weekly meeting of the Student Council. As in the past years the Council will supervise the elections.
All student suggestions and criticisms have been taken under consideration and many definite improvements will be found at this week’s Victory Dance. Last Saturdays dance was pronounced a huge success by all who attended, and it is expected that the walls of the Navy Drill Hall will bulge even more at this weeks V-Dance.	—John Noonan
N.	D. DINING HALL
(Continued from Page 9) normally crammed with a ten-day supply of staple foodstuffs, had become dangerously depleted. Meat, consumed at the rate of two tons a day, and ordinarily supplied in huge quantities, was a matter of day-to-day concern. Butter, too, was scarce; and though the supply of wheat was abundant, the lack of sufficient boxcars to transport the grain had caused a shortage here, also.
Despite these deficiencies, however, as well as the skyrocketing prices of poultry, dairy products, and almost every
other commodity, full portions continued to be served. Meat at a pound a serving, potatoes at the rate of 4,000 pounds daily, 1,200 gallons of milk a day (amounting to a daily average per student of 1% quarts), and a weekly 1,000 pounds of butter were heaped on platters in the long march of the tin trays. And from the giant bake ovens every day come 800 loaves of bread, 400 dozen breakfast rolls and all the pastries served in the halls. How long all this could continue, however, was another question.
The gastronomically huge amounts of food, plus the 400 employees needed to prepare and serve it, make the Notre Dame dining halls the largest of the kind in the country. And the preparation, quality, and quantity of this food, especially in the light of country-wide conditions, left Notre Dame men little to gripe about. All of which, nevertheless, lessened not one iota the gravity of the' crisis.
One problem, however—that of congestion in the cafeteria — had been partially solved by the opening of the faculty' dining room to all University personnel, students included, from Mondays through Fridays. There, at the north end of the second floor, complete table d’hote luncheons were served at the surprisingly modest cost of sixty-five cents. Especially important to many was the revelation that the luncheon was table service—and no tipping.
—Frank Keenan
Aesculapians Meet
At the first meeting of the Aesculapians members elected JSugene Barnes, president; Patrick Hughes, vice-president; William Cahill, secretary; Vince Cappalluzzo, treasurer; and John D. Mi-zelle, Ph.D., faculty advisor.
STUDENT COUNCIL OFFICERS—Standing. Jerry Feeney, Dick Stack; sitting. Leonard Bodkin. Bob Uhl, Joe Cheney, and Bill Pelting.
Council Sponsors 2nd Victory Dance
Another Victory Dance sponsored by the Student Council will be held Saturday, October 12, in the Navy Drill Hall. The dance will continue from 8:00 until 11:30. As usual twelve thirty late permissions will be granted to all those attending, and the rule of “no departures” until eleven P.M. will be strictly observed.
Larry Turner has been appointed Chairman of the Purdue Victory Dance and he says “that there will be-no advance sale of tickets. All tickets will go on sale at the door and will be priced at a dollar and a quarter a couple, tax included.” As has been the rule in the past there will be no admittance to the dance after nine thirty.
Last weeks dance was pronounced a success not only by the Student Council but also by all those who attended. In a response to many suggestions offered by the students the Student Council says that provisions are being made to improve the loud speaker system so that those dancing at the rear- of the hall will be able to “keep in step with the orchestra!” It is also expected that a backdrop will be placed behind the band to improve the acoustics. More soft drinks will be on hand and arange-ments" are being made to increase the ventilation and add a volume of fresh air. In response to numerous requests more wax will be added to the cement surfaced floor to make it as smooth as possible.	•
Special busses will leave the St. Mary’s campus at eight and eight thirty for the Navy Drill Hall. The same busses will leave after the dance at eleven thirty-five and will return directly to the “Rock.”	—John W. Noonan
12
From the Apocrypha of Nicodemus
Lo, it was then in the fall of the year of the great liberation; and there didst come unto the city of South Bend, in the state that is called Indiana, a young man, and he was called Ralph O’Rafferty.
Sought there this young man, who hight him from the borough that is known as Podunk, a University, which is called, after the style in that country, an institution of higher learning. And the name of that University was Notre Dame.
Verily, when he did at first arrive upon the plot of ground that was called in those days and in that place the campus, he didst bethink him again in the army, for so long were ths lines and so great was the waiting.
At length the two days of his standing in a single line were accomplished, and he betook him to others, where he waited again, but, indeed, less long. And it came to pass that in the early hours of the morning of September 11th, all his waiting was finished. He had received from a great personage, called the director of ye accounts of ye students, a slip, whereon was engraved “Lodging Certification.” And this he didst present unto the man, an holy prelate, who was yclept ye rector. And ye rector said unto him, Go, thy room is 440; and Ralph didst climb the stairs, and fell into his room exhausted.
He Seeks Ye Rector
Verily, when he saw that his room was indeed a broom closet, he was angry: What, said he have I laid unto that usurer five hundred talents for this? Lo, that approximateth ye amount of ye G. I. Bill. And he besought him the rector.
When he wist what was the young man’s tale of woe, the prelate didst laugh, and didst sneer, and said unto him: Go, therefore, if here it pleaseth thee not; for behold, there are outside the gates ten thousand who do demand entry. And the young man, as he wist not where else he could go, was silent. And the rector presented unto him then two room mates.
Upon the eve of the next day, after his classes, for which the books were not yet arrived in that place, he didst betake him unto the city, and verily, he sought him a bar, that he might partake of the cup that the Lord had blessed, to be of good cheer.
And behold, as he was partaking of
a beverage that is known as a Manhattan having in it a most excellent cherry, there didst approach him a man. Stay, quoth the man. who was dressed in the garb of the civil, but who.hadst around his neck the mark of a Roman collar, art thou of Notre Dame? And the young man, believing truly that this friend would invite him to partake of a gratuitous cup, didst say: Verily, thou hast said it, and the man didst leer, and didst grow red about the visage.
Meeteth Ye P. D.
Said he unto Ralph: I am what men know as ye prefect of discipline; depart hence now, and tomorrow, thou shalt visit me; and verily, I shall make it hot for thee. And Ralph didst swallow the cherry whole.	.
When he saw the folly of remaining further in that place, Ralph departed, and returned again unto the University fearful of his fate upon the morrow, and speculating much upon what excuse he might offer unto the worthy monk who had encountered him in that forbidden place drinking the forbidden drink. And it occurred unto Ralph that he would say unto the man that he wist not what were the laws in that place.
And thus it came to pass that upon the next morning, Ralph presented himself at the office of the prefect of discipline, and behold, it was at an early hour. But the prefect came not, and ere he arrived mickle later, Ralph had made of his finger nails nothing at all. But at the hour of ten the prefect came unto his office, and bade Ralph to enter unto his presence.
Kneeling then before the prefect, Ralph said unto him: August prelate, hold me excused, foi* verily, I wist not what were the rules of this place. But the prefect didst leer at him, and didst light a cigarette, didst puff, and said unto Ralph: Go, pack thy bags, and depart; for behold, ten thousand wait without the gates who are without sin.
Ralph Is Penitent
Then Ralph wept, and implored that the prefect might have mercy upon him, for he would not err again, though Satan might tempt him with ten thousand temptations. Seeing that Ralph wast contrite, and that he wept thus bitterly, the heart of the prefect was touched, and behold, it turned from vinegar to lemon juice, and he consoled Ralph, saying: Go not, for I have compassion upon thee. But I say unto thee,
and unto all men, who may read it in the Student Manual, that he who enters into the forbidden place, of partakes of the forbidden nectar, let him be anathema. For if thou comest again unto me, thou shalt find no mercy in me, and I shall give unto thee a railway ticket, that thou mayest be gone from me forever.
And Ralph thanked the prefect, who had spared him. But the prefect didst puff again, and said: Hold, for I am not done with thee; know then, that thou shalt not depart from this campus nor night nor day, nor for any purpose whatsoever, until I have said that thou mayest. And Ralph was again sad, but didst depart, thinking him truly cursed of the Lord.
At length the days of Ralph’s confinement were accomplished, and he was again free; and thenceforth he waxed wise in the ways of the University, so that anon he knew whereby he could fool the prefect of discipline with impunity; but he didst ever remember what the punishment of the transgressor wast, and he didst play his cards most carefully thenceforth.
16 Matches Scheduled By N.D. Debate Team
Sixteen matches are scheduled for Notre Dame’s reorganized debators this year, the club announced last week. The wranglers held a preliminary meeting to formulate plans on Sept. 19, and their first discussional session last Tuesday. The debates so far projected include three tournaments, ten school, and three exhibition tussles. Also on the agenda is a tentative trip to the University of Iowa for the national tournament.
Frank Finn, general manager of last year’s team, was renamed to that post at the preliminary meeting. Mr. Leonard Somers, of the University speech department, who was responsible for much of last year’s success—28 victories in 38 ' contests, will continue to direct the team this year. Under his guidance Notre Dame swept all four awards for outstanding speaking in the annual National Discussion Conference last year.
ND debating was founded 44 years ago and has functioned every year since except 1943 and 1944, when wartime conditions forced its discontinuance. Meetings are held this semester each Tuesday and Thursday afternoon at 4:00 P. M. in 327 Main.
IS
Fire Department
at Notre Dame
By GERALD A. HEBERLEIN
Anywhere else in the United States “Go to blazes” could be justifiably construed as a left-handed remark, but at Notre Dame it means the local fire house. St. Blaise’s Hall, Notre Dame’s sleek fire department, is one of the few college-owned and operated fire fighting organizations in the country.
Like many worthwhile things in life, the Notre Dame fire department is the eventual by-product of many lessons learned the hard way. During former disasters at Notre Dame the South Bend fire department sometimes managed to come promptly, sometimes not. Then about three years ago, a youthful fire bug, stung with the fiddling Nero complex, staked out for himself the job of burning down the campus piecemeal. Fires broke out in such radical places as the old Scholastic Press and Father Craddick’s pamphlet rack in Dillon Hall. A series of nightmarish fires ensued and every building on the campus was thrown into potential danger. It was then that the administration thought it wise to abandon antiquated bucket brigade methods and to establish a modern fire fighting unit that could roar out to a blaze with split-second timing. In the spring of 1946 the present fire house was finished at a cost approximating some $80,000.
Mainspring of the fire department is Brother Borromeo, who also acts as chief engineer of the power plant. The idea of developing a fire department never crossed his mind until an eventful day in 1939 when he was casually instructed to accompany a deputy state fire marshal on a tour- of the campus. Loyal to his trade the deputy played the part of the alarmist to the hilt. Impressed by fire hazards otherwise invisible to the layman, Brother Borromeo became a deputy marshal on the spot and was put in charge of fire prevention and fire fighting at Notre Dame.
The fire-fighting apparatus at that time consisted of three man-drawn carts and hose. Under repeated pressure University authorities approved the acquisition of a 55-foot ladder and 500 feet of hose. In 1940 Brother Borromeo found it judicious to suggest that a method of transfer be supplied for the hose. All the University could afford at the time was a truck chassis.	-
Brother Borromeo found no sense in wasting time and before long with the help of his assistants in the Power plant and several Brothers, he built an up-to-date seven ton truck with all the latest equipment. None had ever tackled such a project before but they proved themselves competent in the finished job even to the red paint and gleaming brass. By September the truck was ready for service.
The first run, the station’s log reveals, was not to a fire but to help a locomotive in distress. The locomotive, pulling a football special, derailed north of Notre Dame. The fire department was summoned to supply water to the gasping engine which had lost its own supply by leaning over.
With 850 acres of campus and its more than sixty buildings, plus St. Mary’s College and the surrounding settlements nearby to guard against disaster, the Notre Dame fire department has a man-sized job on its hands. Its functions are similar to those of any city fire fighting unit. This includes: fire prevention, careful inspection of all buildings on a monthly basis, rescue and salvage work, investigation of

The chapel is the focal center of the
Brothers' daily religious exercises.
Dish-washing is a stint that doesn't exclude anyone, even the chap-
lain. The Brothers divide the housework equally among themselves.
fires and their causes, repair and maintenance of equipment. Before campus dances, concerts and theatricals all inflammable decorations are checked. In addition, the fire department has to cope with numerous grass fires and to save the cardboard village of Dogpatch periodically from extinction.
Notre Dame in line with other schools throughout the country has adopted the
Uniform Building Code to comply with all the rules and regulations of fire protection. The University buildings are equipped with the latest first aid fire appliances. There is a total of 23,000 feet of one-and-one-half inch hose and 900 fire extinguishers placed throughout the various buildings with 9 alarm boxes at strategic points. Other modern equipment includes the sprinkling system, such as
installed on the stage of Washington Hall, which is set off automatically when a fire reaches a certain temperature. The automatic sprinkling system demonstrated its usefulness in the old Scholastic Press fire. The healthy blaze spread quickly through the ancient structure and threatened to destroy the convent adjacent. A major conflagration reminiscent of 1879 was in the making when a
The old fire house is rapidly qualifying for ruins. It used to Brother Valery gets a kick out of seeing a Coney Island house three man-drawn hose carts.	glimpse of himself in the truck's huge spotlight
15
The truck roars out with its complement of six Brothers. The Fire House also shelters the University garage.
ceiling of water released by the sprinklers helped materially to check the fire.
St. Blaise Hall, a modernistic two-story, tapestry brick structure, is situated on Juniper Road immediately to the east of the Biology Building. At present, it houses a 750 gallon-per-minute pumper, hook-and-ladder truck as well as a smaller unit from the South Bend Fire Department. A new 1000 gallon-per-minute combination pumper has been ordered for spring delivery. The station is complete from power operated doors to a teletype machine which indicates location of fires, an office with complete files and an elaborate telephone system connected with twenty or more stations.
The second story of the new fire station is the quarters for the regular force of the department which consists of seven Brothers, and a fire-chaplain. A miniature monastery, it includes sleeping rooms, a s combination dBpjng and recreation room, and a complete white-tiled kitchen. Brother Emery, an engineer at the power plant, doubles also as a cook. The fire house claims the distinction of
16
being the only one in the country possessing a permanent chapel. Father Laskowski, moderator of publications, has recently been attached to the fire house as its resident chaplain. Tipping the scales at more than 250 pounds, he hasn’t yet found courage to throw all discretion to the winds and slide down the brass pole, but he is rapidly becoming smitten with his job. Inasmuch as the firemen are also religious, all the exercises proper to community life are held in the chapel. Complying with all liturgical requirements it is as beautiful as any on the campus.
The Notre Dame firemen’s schedule is a rigid one. It begins at the crack of dawn with rising at five. Meditation and mass follow in that order. Breakfast is served at 6:30 after which the whole force combines to -wash dishes and to clean house. Visitors often exclaim ovex-the meticulous, almost antiseptic cleanliness of the Fire House. After breakfast the Brothers report to their respective jobs on the campus, either at the steam plant or the Ave Maria Press,
where they put in a ten hour trick a day. Through an alarm system they are constantly in touch with the fire station. In the event of a fire the whole force can be in the truck in less than three
minutes. In the daytime three or four of the lay employees in the power house go on runs.
The Brothers, who are not to be confused with volunteer firemen, are alerted twenty-four hours a day. When a phone call comes in all noise ceases instantly— brooms are lifted from the floor, forks poise in midair, the radio is doused— until it is determined whether the call is an emergency. Before the Brothers retire for the night they go through the fireman’s ritual of stuffing trouser legs into rubber boots so that at the first alarm they can swing down the brass pole fully togged.
Much of the melodrama and glamor of firefighting is dimmed by the fact that on the return trip the entire equipment must be cleaned and hosed down, a task that often consumes two to three hours of earnest application of elbow grease.
The lire chief receives a call at the watch-desk. The alarm board on the wall indicates location of fireboxes.
Brother Borromeo studies blueprints in plotting out safety measures for campus.
Polishing brass isn’t for show. It’s part of the job of keeping the fire truck in tip-top condition. Fire engines are built to last twenty to thirty years, but to do so they must be given scrupulous care. In addition to polishing the brass, the Brothers must keep up with the latest advances in equipment and methods of fire fighting. Every day engineers are bringing out new improvements in engine structure and it’s the Brothers’ obligation to keep up with the latest issues of such journals as Fire Engineering.
A fireman has to be pretty agile to jump on the truck as it swings out in a split-second response to an alarm
Brother Borromeo, who at the moment is busily engaged in supervising precautionary measures for the Married Vets’ development on Juniper Road, is an honorary member of South Bend local No. 362, Firemen’s association, and a member of the International Association of Fire Chiefs. Generally unruffled at the prospect of a fire just around the corner, he becomes a bit irritated when his department is referred to as a volunteer unit. They are full time firemen, he says. But he adds that they don’t get paid.
"Irish Lore" Among Three Radio Shows
By BOB VIERHILE
The Radio Club turned up its volume last week. Breaking the calm that has prevailed throughout the ether for the last three weeks, forty-five club members put their stamp of approval on two fifteen-minute radio shows, started work on a third. Their aim, according to Father Archibald M. McDowell, club moderator, is “to put Notre Dame back on the radio map as soon as possible.”
Long-smouldering “Irish Lore,” weekly sports review, will make its initial appearance over station WHOT next week. In the driver’s seat will be smooth, trigger-lipped Hap Cordesman, veteran sportcaster of last semester. For his gossipy and witty radio column, Cordesman will bring to the mike personalities in the ND sports spotlight, along with a number of yarns that will emanate from behind closed locker doors. Hap will be as-siisted by Bob Uhl, another veteran of last semester.
Until the present sports glitter tarnishes, there will be a second sports show' aired.weekly by WND. This one, as yet un-named, will use the facilities of station WSBT. Bill Boss and Tom Earley will be out on the limb, debunking the goings-on in the world of sports. While Joe Doyle, Jim Janson, George Frazier, Frank Roache, Joe Dawson and Dick Bateman will narrate some of the unusual happenings that have thrilled sport lovers of the past.
Just to prove that there are other things besides football, basketball and track at Notre Dame, Chuck Perrin of Chicago, HI., is producing the first of a series of half-hour variety shows. Perrin is an admirer of all that comes naturally; he extends a strong plea to all who feel likewise. Remembering some of the “unusual” talent that made last se-mesteris K. of C. variety show such a ’ success, Perrin expects to make the curtain raiser a sure-fire hit. Auditions for the program are now in progress. Anyone interested should contact either Don
• Kiene, 325 Morrissey, or Father McDowell, Third Floor, Alumni.
At last week’s meeting, Father McDowell introduced petite, amiable Mrs. Lynn Wilson, wife of the professor of Chemistry. Mrs. Wilson, former associate of the British Broadcasting Corporation, discussed the intricate details of the BBC., compared British and American broadcasting. When asked what she thought of American radio programs, Mrs. Wilson retorted, “That all depends upon how well you like Rinso White.”
17
Irish Seek Third Win Tomorrow Afternoon As Purdue's Boilermakers Invade Stadium
Frank Leahy’s lads go after Number Three tomorrow, again on the home field, and this time the victim is Cecil Isbell’s Purdue, the bruising Boilermakers from Lafayette, Indiana. Like a defendant in a Russian trial, Isbell’s outfit is already counted out by the gridiron jurists and the nation’s sportscribes, but the possibility still exists that they may be able to inflict serious damage or even upset the pigskin dopewagon.
Although flogged by both Iowa and Illinois, Purdue will field a potentially strong team, and unless the Irish polish up their passing sights and improve in the down-field blocking department the ■visitors may make the paper-impressive Notre Darners look as sad as Pitt did for a while last week.
Big wheel in the Purdue machine is Bob DeMoss, pass-pitching quarterback, who had a .470 average last fall and is heading for higher honors this year. DeMoss fires a fast radar-controlled ball, and his open-field running is swift and cat-sure. Coach Isbell, himself a pigskin aerial-gunner from way back, firing them for Purdue in the better days of yore, ■ and picking off Don Hutson as his number one target at Green Bay in later years, is counting on DeMoss to reap a whirlwind in the Rambler secondary.
Purdue’s ground attack will be spearheaded by Ed Cody, sod-busting full
Post-war football and capacity crowds see the return of special trains on the Eddy Street siding.
back. Cody, no relation (so we hear) to bison-killing injun-fightin’ Col. Bill of pony express fame, is none-the-less a hard riding hoghide hugger who likes to ram down enemy fortifications and pioneer new touchdown trails in opponent’s territory. Cody rolled up 847 yards by rushing last year, totalling more than the great Doc Blanchard.
Provided old injuries have recovered, several star Boilermakers will put in an appearance. Billy Canfield, Big Nine pass reception leader in ’45 when he also was runner-up in total offense and punting, is the Purdue break-away boy.
Another likely lad who has been benched with injuries most of this season is Stormy Pfohl, who rung up 13 touchdowns at King’s Point Merchant Marine last year.
Add Smock, Ehlers, Szulborski, Schim-melphenig, Mihai, Bushnell and Galvan and you have the Purdue backs.
In the line Purdue punch is supplied by Dick Barwegen, prewar honors winner, who plays a vicious game at guard. Barwegen is a superior type of Big Nine lineman, rough and tough at 220, and should be a match for Strohmeyer, Ro-vai and Fischer when the contact gets chummy.
At ends Isbell has Weiger, Maloney, Tanner, Hoffman, Heck, and Seput, and may unveil Clyde Grimenstein, who sounds like a refugee from a horror
Mike Swistowicz (55) picks up sever of the Pitt game. Jim Mello is behind Swi
>v
show. Grimenstein played for Army last year, spelling Foldberg, Pitzer and Poole the Cadet all-everything flankmen, and made an impressive record in the - pass-snatching department.
Tackles include French, Habzansky, Karras, Scott (this character scales in ‘ at 250 and wrestles a grizzly bear every । morning on rising), Schotz, Stoelting, O’Reilly, Jeffery and Barbolak.
Besides Barwegen at guard there’s Murray (not the same one from Father Kehoe’s office, but just as persistent), Haverstock, Kaastad, and Hurrie. Kobda and Johnson alternate at center.
Purdue has everything to gain and zero to lose by knocking off the Irish, and if they can field their best eleven they might come close. However if the local lads can keep their eyes on their blocking assignments and off the talent that invades the campus on such gay days $ and if the ND backs can find the holes without the aid of seeing-eye dogs, it may be a landslide.
Incidentally, rumors persist that some Purdue players have been suffering from insomnia. If these gents will kindly contact George Connor’ early in the encounter, he will no doubt supply them with a dose of the Big Sleep.
.	—John O’Connor
18
vet
iwv
yards on a reverse late in the first half >wicz and No. 32 is Johnny Lujack.
Cross Country Team Faces Badgers In Season Opener This Afternoon
;t d i, e
f, n y
's r ), a
d d y 11
it 'S is it
e n iin
l
Band Makes Impressive Showing At Pitt Game
As the 1946 edition of the Notre Dame marching band strutted onto the field before last Saturday’s game, we noticed a new character in their midst. That lui natic in the Kelly green suit was the • “Forgotten Irishman.” Who says there are no Irish at Notre Dame? He’s really Ralph Thorson and will be seen during the coming Saturday afternoon taking the part of the typical ND sad sack.
The boys in blue and gold made an impressive showing, considering the length ' of time they have been together. The half-time show at the Pittsburgh game was centered around “The Seasons” and began as the band formed an hour glass and the grains of sand trickled through to the strains of “Auld Lang Syne.” Then came a huge thermometer and , “We’re Having A Heat Wave.” One of of the cleverest stunts was the tulip ,. which blossomed forth as the band played “Summertime.”
1 Next Saturday will be the last home game until Nov. 16th, and Mr. Hope has a special show planned. Tribute will be paid in a novel way to the Boilermakers of Purdue after which the band will do a series of formations based on the theme “Circus Time” and the Big Top.
—Roy Lang
Clearly pleased with the early season showing of the candidates for the crosscountry team, Coach Elvin “Doc” Handy nevertheless has refused to become optimistic over Notre Dame’s chances of improving their last season’s record of winning the state title and finishing second in the national championships. Handy stated that last season’s record of which any team can be proud and a team will “have to be good to repeat.”
How strong the Irish hill-and-dalers are may be determined in the first meet of the season this afternoon at Madison, Wise., where the University of Wisconsin cross-country squad will be host to Notre Dame. Last season in the national championships, Wisconsin finished right on the heels of Notre Dame, with the finish being so close that the respective positions of the two teams were not determined until the official tabulations were fully computed.
The results of the university interhall cross-country championship held Sunday showed that Notre Dame will be a power to be reckoned with. Several men turned in exceptional times for the three and one-half mile run. On the basis of their performance in this run, Coach Handy has selected the following men to compete against Wisconsin: Jim Murphy, Louis Tracy, Bill Tully, Bob Mitchell, John Lyons, Gerald Johnson and Neil Styers.
The band concludes its “Seasons" presentation with a Monogram and the Victory March. This week a circus motif is promised.
In addition to the Wisconsin dual meet, Notre Dame will compete in three other dual events and the state meet, the Central Collegiates, and the national championship. The schedule is as follows: Oct. 11, at Wisconsin; Oct. 12, Purdue, here; Oct. 26, at Michigan State; Nov. 2, Drake, here; Nov. 9, Indiana State meet at Lafayette; Nov. 16, Central Collegiates at Drake; and Nov. 25, National Collegiates at East Lansing, Mich.	.
First home meet of the Saturday will be tomorrow at 11 a.m., when Purdue, who also will- play U. N. D. in football here in the afternoon, will furnish the opposition. The distance of the event will be three and one-half miles. The only other home meet is with Drake University, national champions last year, over the fourmile course on Nov. 2. This, meet will also start at 11 a.m.
—By Jim Regan
Bob Kelly Leaves School
Left halfback Bob Kelly, star on the 1943 and 1944 Irish grid machines and a member of the 1945 Navy squad, withdrew from Notre Dame this week to enlist in the Army. He resigned from Annapolis in January of this year, and reentered Notre Dame but had not seen action in any of the Irish games this falL
19
IMTKCDLCINC
It’s a lead-pipe cinch that the fairhaired boy of this year’s Irish football team figures to be one James Richard Martin. A newcomer to these surroundings, Jim took very little time getting acclimated. Following 30 months in the Marine Corps, about which we shall have more to say later, “Whitey” reported for Spring practice at Notre Dame last March a sturdier and greatly more experienced center than had captured AllCity honors at East Tech in Cleveland just three years before. But unlike some of the talent on college squads this season, the experience Jim picked up was far removed from the football arena. Nonetheless, although he hadn’t handled a pigskin in over two years, it took him only a few short weeks of conditioning and refurbishing on Cartier field to
prove to Coach Frank Leahy that there was *a definite place for his six-foot two inch frame somewhere on the Irish forward wall. The question was where? The center slot was not exactly wide open; men like Strohmeyer, Wendell, Walsh and Vangen were roping that area off ^s then- own, and the internal combustion thereabouts made it unhealthy to even entertain thought of trespassing. But that fazed the blond Ohioan not a bit. He was fast and he was tall; maybe he could play end. And maybe you think he didn’t begin doing that very thing. By the time Spring practice had reached its finale, the Old Timer-Varsity clash, Jim Martin was well entrenched in the starting left end berth. And there was nary an Old Timer who could move him out of there, though on several occasions they tried their mightiest. Frank Leahy walked off the field that afternoon serenely confident that Jack Zilly had a running mate, and this Fall’s opposition had an end that was going to be difficult, if not well-nigh impossible, to turn. Jim Martin, a rugged, square-jawed individual if ever you
film Magdin
saw one, was watching a dream come true.
For whatever the cynics say about college football there are, and we hope always will be, fellows like Jim Martin. More than once during his hitch in the Marines, he wandered in thoughts back to home and to the University of Our Lady where Jim had always known he would some day play football. Many things happened to the 1st Marines and likewise many things were done by them, but always Whitey Martin burned with an unquenchable desire to give them back their medals and to return home, to play football at Notre Dame.
Yes, Jim knows what action and glory are. He was captain of his swimming team in high school, so it was only logical that when someone was needed to land on enemy-held Tinian to gain information on terrain and Japanese positions prior to the first combat landings, Jim was selected. That’s the real story behind his modest “0, they just had too many Bronze Stars.”
Now, however, his uniform is Irish green with a big 38 on the jersey. And his time is divided between a course in Business Administration and an application of the lessons a tow-head end of another season taught him last Spring. That, of course, would have been Bob Dove who only a few seasons back teamed with John Yonakor to gain nation - wide fame and All - American acclaim. Here’s wishing you lessons well-learned, Whitey, and may those same sports writers, coaches and fans be some day soon singing your praises in three-part harmony too.
—Bob Leander
Leahy Relates Reason for Closed Practices
Many students are probably wondering j'ust why they are allowed to witness football practice only a scant few minutes each season. They think of it as an encroachment upon their liberty. Yet Head Coach Frank Leahy had three definite reasons in mind when he ordered closed practices. Here they are in brief:
First of all, the players get nervous when being watched by fellow students at close range. Among their fellow players, they are more at ease. Secondly, the coaches are reluctant to criticize players in front of students. Thirdly, such a mob of students can hide rival spotters, scouts, or possibly a football fanatic who might take down a few plays
and present them to rival coaches merely for the pleasure attained in doing so.
Furthermore, Mr. Leahy had this to say: “I appreciate the interest the students are showing in the team by wanting to watch daily practices. However, I think that they could derive greater benefit from some active sport in which they themselves could actually participate.”
One argument which the students will no doubt toss at Mr. Leahy will be: Rockne allowed the students to watch practice any time they pleased. That’s a good argument but Rockne didn’t have professional scouts sitting in parked cars at the circle waiting for Notre Dame players to walk off the campus so that they could shove tempting offers under their noses. What kind of a practice could he run if these scouts gained entrance to Cartier Field where they would be able to see not only the “name” players but also the younger fellows who will shine for Notre Dame in coming years?
And how do you think Coach Leahy felt after being defeated by one of the Big Nine teams back in ’42 when the head coach of the opposing team showed him all his plays and told him that one of his scouts had gotten by the gates to Cartier Field every day for two weeks preceding the game? It’s something to think about, fellas. A winning team is what we all want. Remember the old slogan: “Notre Dame is a great place to be FROM!” Would it be without a winning Fighting Irish team?
—Joe Cheney
Sitko's Ball-Carrying Average Leads Irish
Despite a leg injury that kept him from all but the first few minutes of the Pittsburgh game, Emil “Bud” Sitko of Fort Wayne, Ind., still maintained his position as the top Irish ball toter both in net yards gained from scrimmage and in rushing average. Sitko has carried the ball 10 times for a net of 116 yards and an 11.6 average.
Close behind Sitko comes Jim Mello, veteran fullback from West Warwick, R. I. Jim’s average of 7.6 yards every time he has carried the mail comes from 106 yards in 14 attempts.
Bob Livingstone, Hammond, Indiana, and Terry Brennan, Milwaukee, Wise., both left halfbacks, are the workhorses of the Irish backfield with 18 and 17 attempts from scrimmage respectively. Livingstone has 69 yards and a 3.9 average while Brennan sports a 5.2 average and an 88 yard total.
Johnny Lujack, Connelsville, Pa., leads the aerial artists of Notre Dame with 14 completions in 29 tosses, good for 304
(Continued on Page 25)
20
&pliKieM. buun the. PteiA &&&
—	■	■	..	. By jog CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
Notre Dame was lucky that Army wasn’t scheduled for last Saturday afternoon. Army’s football machine would have taken advantage of those breaks that powerless Pitt was unable to do. If Notre Dame expects to beat Army this year, her offense will have to start perking before Army has possession of the ball. In both its games, Notre Dame has performed badly during the first period.
Slippery fingers cost us a touchdown in the first march down the field in Pitt territory. One minute our ends would look like second string interhall reserves •and the next minute they would make spectacular catches. Lujack threw two bad passes but all the others should have been completed. The receivers were trying hard but it looked as if they were trying too hard.
George Strohmeyer played a brilliant defensive game, intercepting two of Pitt’s passes. On the first interception he looked like a halfback cutting in and out for 24 yards. He reminded us of Wally Ziemba, varsity center in ’41 and ’42, who intercepted an Indiana pass and almost went all the way to pay dirt from Notre Dame’s 35 yard line.
The officials looked mighty confused throughout the game. They were in as many huddles as Notre Dame and Pitt combined. When in doubt . . . clipping! The referee and umpire both completed two laterals on one play before either one of them finally called it. . . . From where I sat, it looked as if the conversation might be: “It’s your turn to call this one.” , , , “No, I called the last one. You call this one.” ....
Terry Brennan played an exceptionally good all-around game. His charges through the Pitt line were good for first downs and two touchdowns. George Connor looms as All-American material at tackle. Ziggy Czarobski has been playing a whale of a game at the other tackle position, too. Jim Mello’s cutting in and out for 29 yards and a touchdown in the third quarter brought a loud roar from the student section.
Coach Leahy surprised the second-guessers when he started Jerry Cowhig at left half. Jerry came through with a couple of nifty catches. Watch him again tomorrow. Bob Livingston played his usual charging game catching the first Lujack touchdown pass. Johnny surprised Pitt when he tossed a 45-yard pass to Bob from deep in his end zone. He proved himself a smart quarterback when he decided to run with the ball when his receivers were covered once in
the third quarter. Frank Tripucka’s 59-yard punt which went out of bounds on Pitt’s goal line was as spectacular- a kick as you will ever see. Carideo could not have done any better!
Shavings from the Splinters—
The Fighting Irish have met the Boilermakers 17 times since 1896, winning 11, losing 4 and tying 2. The last time these two teams met was back in 1939 when Notre Dame managed to eke out a 3 to 0 victory. ... We believe that Cecil Isbell, head football coach of Purdue, is the only coach who directs his team during the game from the press box by two-way radio. ... We overrated Notre Dame last week by 16 points. . . . Ed McKeever’s Cornell team gave Davis and Company a run for their money before its reserves ran out. Matt Bolger, former Notre Dame end, upset Davis on his end-around plays but no physical damage was reported. . . . Can’t understand it. . . . Bill Russell sprained his ankle at practice Monday. . . . Purdue guard Dick Barwegen was All-American in ’43. He captained the College AllStars in ’44. Last season he played with the Second Air Force Team. . . . Bob DeMoss, Purdue QB, has completed 21 of 53 attempted forward passes for 193 yards. . . . Pretty fair pitching for a team which isn’t going any place this year. . . . The Met Club will present
Terry Brennan with a $25. gift certificate as “the player of the week.” The voting was close among Brennan, Zilly, and Connor. The presentation will take place at the Pep Rally. . . . Speaking of the Pep Rally. . . . Where has everyone been for the past two Friday nights? . . . And at the game last Saturday the St. Mary’s girls out-cheered the Notre Dame section. Where’s that old spirit? . . . The cheer-leaders didn’t look too flashy but the students didn’t give them much cooperation.
Did You Know Department?
That the St. Mary’s girls held a mock rally across the Dixie Highway last Friday night with different girls representing our players? P.S. They knew all the cheers too.
That there were almost a thousand guests at the Victory Dance last Saturday night?
That Michigan is going to give Army its first beating tomorrow unless Doc Blanchard is in tip-top shape? Michigan has only used four of its 50 some-odd plays this season outside of the basic plays.
The Sports World
The World Series this year has brought about many surprises. Players who enjoyed good hitting during the 156-game schedule are taking back seats to the marvelous pitching that both teams are tossing at each other. . . . Pinchhitters with .225 averages are clipping the ball better than the ones with .300 averages. . . . The Commisioner’s box behind home plate has lost its dignified (Continued on P. 24)
21
AND DO THEY NEED THE PADS!
By BOB VIERHILE
American football has always been a source of amazement or amusement to foreigners who witness it for the first time. Here are the reactions of an Englishman, Malcolm J. Tiebout, after watching his first American football game, the Pittsburg-Notre Dame fracas of last Saturday:
“I watched fifty thousand Americans with their girls swarm into an oval called Notre Dame Stadium to watch twenty-two men in what the announcer described during the interval as a “real old-fashioned game of football.
“Middle-aged cheer leaders from one of the participating schools pranced in front of the crowd waving megaphones, inciting yells like I-R-I-S-H, Irish, or N-O-T-R-E D-A-M-E, Notre Dame. There were two teams present. Nobody paid any attention to the one named Pittsburgh.
“Meanwhile, a free fight seemed to be going on in the center of the stadium. Twenty-two enormous young men in crash helmets were locked "in deadly struggle for an oval football. They wore spiked—cleated is the word the Americans use—shoes, strange ginger kickers which cling closely to the thighs and end abruptly just below the knees, and padded jerseys. They needed those pads. And the crash helmets.
“The object of the game seems to be to pass the ball to some unfortunate player and then for everyone else to fall on him. One of the rules is he must never let go of the ball. So he goes down with a crash. The only thing that moves play towards the goalposts seems to be the instinct of self preservation of the man with the ball. He runs as far as he can before he is maimed or killed by the other players.
“The program seemed sinister. It gave the names of the eleven men of each team. It then gave a list of about thirty “substitutes” for each team. The “substitutes” sat on a long bench awaiting their call to battle. Many of them did not have long to wait.
“First casualty went to Pittsburgh. Horrified, I watched a smart young man scamper across the field with two buckets in his hands. But not as I thought, to mop up the blood. He avoided the prostrate player and was besieged by the rest of the team. The buckets held towels and water for the players still left alive. Six times during the game the buckets are rushed out. If a team, asks for them more often it is penalized.
“Casualties are dealt with by a doctor —who rushes out with a black bag—the
22
umpires, and stretcher bearers, if they are needed.
“American football is played in four quarters. Each team has the ball for four “tries.” If by that thime they have not got to the goal line the other side takes over. Before each “try” the team which has the ball goes into a huddle while the captain decides who shall be the victim to receive the ball—and the subsequent assaults.
“You can assault your opponent any way at all except by “clipping” the back of his legs. That, a chap beside me solemnly explained, is liable to break them.
“Favorite method of attack Saturday seemed to be: (1) Springing like a tiger at the man’s throat, or (2) Just shoving so that sheer weight bore him down. The attacker must keep one foot on the ground as he tackles. After the tackle he is usually all on the ground.
“On the bus coming home from the game there was strange jargon all around. “He got smeared” seemed to mean literally that a player was rolled to earth. “Bullet pass” also had a literal meaning. It meant that a ball was thrown at a man iso hard that it almost knocked him out. It was a favorite pass.
“Next morning in the news there was some talk that several of the players would not be able to play in the next game. And, possibly with good reason. They needed more pads.”
"Tucker Nation's Most Underrated Back"—Blaik
Arnold Tucker, the Army’s quarterback whose field generalship is overshadowed by the touchdown exploits of teammates Doc Blanchard and Glenn Davis, is “the most underrated player in the nation” in the opinion of his coach, Earl Blaik.
Blaik’s estimate of the former Miami high school star who masterminds the intricate T-formation for Army is contained in an article in the November American Magazine. “In my book,” says the Army coach, “this kid from Florida has the play-picking judgment of Harry Stuhldreher, who quarter-backed the Notre Dame Four Horsemen, and the limber passing arm of Sammy Baugh, the Redskin catapult, yet sports writers don’t give Tucker a tumble! I wish we could keep his ability a secret from enemy scouts.”
In his estimate of Tucker, Blaik is supported by Army backfield coach Andy
American Magazine Grid Article Errs
By JOE CHENEY
Sports Editor
George Trevor’s article, “Greatest Backfield in History,” appearing in the November issue of The American Magazine stinks. Mr. Trevor must have gotten his Notre Dame information at the Emerald Room of the Oliver Hotel. The first two or three paragraphs about the Fighting Irish deal with Head Coach Frank Leahy and his pessimism. That’s all right by us. Mr. Leahy is a very modest man!
But when Mr. Trevor began telling about the individual players of this year’s varsity, he flubbed the dubb. He called George S'trohmeyer a 6 feet, 2 inch, 206 pound chap. George actually stands 5 feet, 9 inches and weighs 195 pounds. “Flip” lannucuello is called a “string-bean type.” “Flip” stands 5 feet, 10 inches and weighs 232 pounds. Would you call that a string-bean build? Reading on we find that “Frank” Zilly and Frank “Kositkowski” will be guarding the Notre Dame flanks. To keep the records straight, it’s John Zilly and Frank Kosikowski.
James McGurk is mentioned in the fullback ranks, but according to Mr. Trevor, it’s Joe McGurk. Jerry Cowhig is supposed to have transferred from Boston College. The closest Jerry got to Boston College was while he attended Boston College High School in Dorchester, Massachusetts. George Terlep, a member of the Great Lakes team a year ago, is mentioned as our third team quarterback. Terlep isn’t at Notre Dame. “Emil Sitko sizzled for the Irish in 1938.” Sitko is enjoying his first yeai* as a member of the Notre Dame varsity. I’m afraid that Mr. Trevor is a bit mixed up. Steve Sitko, Emil’s cousin, played for Notre Dame at that time.
We won’t criticize George Trevor’s article concerning Shorty McWilliams because he no doubt had a press deadline to meet. But we would like to suggest to Mr. Trevor that next year he drop into Charlie Callahan’s office and get the correct spelling, at least, of the nation’s toughest spelled varsity—The Fighting Irish.
Gustafson. Recalling the broken-field running wizardy of Charley Justice at the Bainbridge Naval Training Center, Gustafson says that- “Tucker can run like Justice and pass like Alabama’s Harry Gilmer, but you’d never know it from reading the papers.”
At Maa Adtesi Oa
Virgin Wool Gabardine Slacks
£ st £
Fellows, if you’re looking for slacks — Don’t miss seeing the fine worsted Gabardines. Pleated and zipper fronts.
f
ON THE CORNER.... WOMAN ( MSNM6WN
23
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
(Continued from Page 21)
atmosphere. Judge Landis used to watch the game with a careful eye on the umpires and on the players. Mr. Chandler, the new commisioner, kids around during the game with Joe E. Brown and George “Gabby” Hayes, Hopalong Cassidy’s sidekick. Maybe it’s pust as well, but the sports writers are giving Mr. Chandler a bad time.
Ted Williams handed the Boston Red Sox trainer a check fox* $1,000 for himself and his assistants as a World Series present. . . . Angelo Bertelli completed 8 out of 11 passes against the Rockets last Saturday night setting up two touchdowns for the Dons. Byron Nelson, sometimes referred to as “Mr. Golf,” has retired again. This is his third swan song in the last two years. . . . Bet he’s around for the Augusta Masters. . . . “Howie Pollet,” says Dr. Robert F. Hy-• land, Cardinal physician, “pitched almost entirely on nerve and heart from about the fourth inning on in the first World Series game. He was taped from his
LOG-LOG SLIDE RULES
PIPES
KAYWOODE EMPEROR ROYAL DEMUTH
•
DUNHILL TOBACCO
BUSINESS SYSTEMS 126 S. MAIN
Across from the Court House
waist up to his neck.” . . .Jim Costin’s column in last Sunday’s Sunday Visitor on George Strohmeyer should be read by every member of the student body.
Just a guess: . . . .
Purdue, 0.
Notre Dame, 55;
ARCHBISHOP'S TRIAL
(Continued from Page 9)
Catholic Primate of Yugoslavia, as “part of this vicious persecution of religion in Yugoslavia,” and as “contrary to the very nature of human justice.” And with this support it was expected that the resolution would add in no small part to the impact of the outraged protests. of individuals and organizations against the terroristic Tito regime in Yugoslavia.
Charging that the present Yugoslav Government “has embarked on a campaign of murder, unjustifiable force and intimidation, and lying propaganda for the avowed purpose of stifling religion in Yugoslavia,” the resolution called upon President Truman to seek “through his diplomatic representatives in Yugoslavia that, in the interests of world peace, the partisan persecution of Archbishop Stepinac be ended.”
The resolution recounted evidence of “the persistence of such injustice and inhumanity” on the part of the Tito government, and affirmed that “we, as war veterans, resent the continuation of these grave injustices . . . which nullify some of the efforts of our own military campaign in World War II for liberty and justice for all men.” It further called attention to the responsibilities incurred by the United States Government.
BLOCK BROTHERS
The Diamond House of South Bend
•
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS for over 25 years
through its formal recognition of the present Yugoslav Government.
Feeling ran high this week on the campus as the -infamous “trial” of the Yugoslav Archbishop neared its pre® destined conclusion. Bulletins flooded the school, reaching every individual, emphasizing the urgency of the matter to Catholics and all decent Americans alike, and suggesting a plan for future action to combat the insidiousness of Communism here at home.
For that "particular" card on
that
occasion —
I. W. Lower Co.
DECORATORS
130 N. Michigan St.
Noel!
Si vous etes en retard pour demander un cadeau pour la Cherie, il est tres possible que vous ne la receviez pas pour Noel.
The Bookstore
Badin Hall
24
SITKO'S BALL-CARRYING (Continued from Page 20) yards and a .483 record. Frank Tripucka, Bloomfield, N. J., has completed his only attempt for 19 yards.
Leading the pass receivers is Jack Zilly, Southington, Conn., who has snared three passes for 73 yards. Second in this department is Mike Swistowicz, freshman from Chicago, Illinois, with two catches totalling 61 yards.
Figures on Rushing, Passing, and Pass Receiving follow:
Rushing
Player Times Net Avg.
Carried Gain
Sitko ...........10	116	11.6
Mello............14	106	7.6
T. Brennan ......17	88	5.2
Cowhig .......... 5	26	5.2
Livingstone .....18	69	3.9
Passing
Player	Att. Comp. Net
Gain
Lu jack.........29	14	304
Tripucka........ 1	1	19
Pass Receiving
Player	No.	Net
Rec. Gain
Zilly ...................3	73
Swistowicz ..............2	61
Mello ...................2	40
Sitko ...................1	34
Whiting's 281 Wins Golf Championship
Thirteen linksmen, suiwivors of a starting field of sixty-five, teed off on the final eighteen holes Sunday in a battle for the University Open Golf Championship. When the firing had ceased, Dick Whiting, number one man on the varsity golf team was the new champion, closely followed by Everhart Schleck, George Stuhr, and Jim Besen-felder, all members of Notre Dame’s varsity last year. These four men will be the nucleus of Coach Holderith’s 1947 team. The team should be one of the strongest ever to represent the University, and a team whose sights are trained
BOOK HEADQUARTERS
Dictionaries Atlas Stationery Supplies
SOUTH BEND BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan Street
on the 1947 National Intercollegiate crown.
Whiting’s rounds of 68-70-73-70—281 fell two shots short of breaking the record for the tournament, now held by Jack Fitzpatrick of the 1943 team.
The leaders and their scores:
Dick • Whiting: 68-70-73-70—281 Eve Schleck: 70-72-74-73—289 George Stuhr:- 76-73-77-72—298 J. Besenfelder: 71-73-79-77—300 Lou Krueper: 77-75-76-77—305 Bill Breen: 75-76-77-80—308 Dick Seidel: 77-76-75-82—310 Vic Chartrand: 75-73-84-80—312 Jim Erikson: 80-82-77-73—312 Jack Quinn:	77-78-78-80—313
John Cawley: 79-77-80-77—313 Tom Hanlon: 80-81-75-77—313
E. Poehlman: 80-80-78-80—318
25
Putting pep in the good old sweat shirt
AKOM
PEP SHIRT
REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.
Sizes 34 to 48
Spiced with color, spiced with style, spiced with the fullest freedom you’ve ever known . . . that’s the
AKOM Pep Shirt. Exclusive action sleeve lets you
concentrate on your favorite sport or other outdoor activity, unhampered by arm pull. Precision tailored for smart fit, spruce appearance. Fine knit cotton,
fleece-back for comfort. Pre-shrunk, wind-resistant and Aridex treated to repel water. Choose your Pep Shirt from these flavorful colors :
• INDIAN RED
• MARINE BLUE
• CALIFORNIA GOLD
• WHITE
wmsm
cfBend
26

We enjoy good coffee, my roommate and 1 So off to town toe went, for a Silex to buy
But for us to pay cash was such a great expense,
That toe have no choice, boys, . . . “Coffee by the cup costs five cents." “BOX BELOW"
—by Duane Hull, Howard Hall.
ON HER SIDE:
Of course we realize that there are a few cheapskates here at ND but our racket, writing, takes us all over and we meet a lot of fellows in the “investment” business; that is, sharpies who regard the money they spend on a girl as an investment. We have watched these guys making their entrances: you know they don’t just come in. The ceremony of getting them seated, say the Town Club, is something like the changing of the Guard at Buckingham. On the left arm, like a badge of honor, they generally wear one of the better publicized beauties of the semester. They order her a glass of sherry and a bite of supper, as if they were Diamond Jim Brady giving away a bucket of rubies. Everything about them screams, “You lucky girl! Here you are with Coal Oil Jim at the Oliver, and he’s spending a ton of dough to give you a nice evening.”
Well it pleases Kil and me no end to give these fellows a gentle boot in the rear, in print. I think we know to a dime what the usual evening out costs, and here are a few lines of copy that may surprise a few gents. Let’s oil up the adding machine and see how the gal spends more dough than the guy. Say the date is formal. The Casanova then sends his gal a nice orchid from Wy-gand’s. One fin I Then dinner and a glass of wine or two at the Hoffmann. Almost ten smackers considering the few glasses of brew you had. Two tickets for the concert at Adams HS, cheap enough. Now the clincheroo. Ringside at a local Inn. Unless he goes in for the imported bubbly, and he won’t on his §65 per, his tab will be in the vicinity of another ten spot. Another five will cover cabs, tips, shine and even the butts. Add it up, boys, and for one biggie in SB you are thinner by about thirty bucks. Pretty isteep, eh? Even for this town? Well he
thinks so! In fact if he loses the brief struggle to hold her hand later on he thinks the whole deal was bad.
But now let’s look at the SMC or “HER” side of the story. First the clothes. Jim, you know, wore his Tux, the same set of threads that dream the summer away in Larvex and DDT. But in Lulu’s case, she wore an original little thing ransomed from Hattie Carnegie for around 150 smackers. Furthermore she’s a dead pigeon if she doesn't change it in some way each time she wears it. You just can’t wear the same thing •twice, girls. So add another ten on for the change. Her three hour session at the local Arden shop makes her topper look fine, but sets her back about ten. The scented man-killer she dabs behind her ears comes out of a jug that starts at thirty bucks for a small NON-economy size. The mad, mad hat is a special from
NAME YOUR SPORT
SONNEBORN'S has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue	Phone 3-3702
Paris
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE CLEANING	DYEING
Pressing While You Wait
One of Our Specialties: Service Uniforms Expertly Dyed
Conveniently located at
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Across the Street from the Sunny Italy Cafe
John Fredericks for about twelve fifty. Bag, gloves, shoes, furs and jewelry we won’t even consider. Don’t forget if she wears the same pin on her dress too often her friends won’t speak to her. All in all it sure costs her a pretty penny just to sit and listen to Big Jim’s autobiography.
HERE AND ABOUTS:
Herb McDade caught downtown recently without a cent in his pocket. . . . Fred James to be hitched soon. . . . Art Coughlan walking right by everyone at the Victory dance without even as much as a hello. . . . “Red” Prenta-gast patiently waiting for the big throw in Chi. . . . Married couples trying to leave the dance before eleven because the sitter was only being paid to watch their child till eleven-thirty.
ENGLISH DEPARTMENT NOTE:
As long as columnists can say what they want, as long as it is in good taste, Kil and I want to know why SOME English Profs refuse to recognize any work done by a student in the Scholastic. One writer approached his prof and asked him to read his column and then add it to his semester’s work. The prof said , absolutely no! One column, or news story, professor, is equal to about three themes.
27
PROBLEM SOLVED:
Many members of the NY Met Club have wondered who was going to chairman the Christmas dance. This problem seems to have been solved; for the present anyway, by the appearance of one Will Harrs of Alumni, who makes no bones about how much he knows about how a dance should be arranged. In his letter- to the editor last week Mr. Harrs
Flowers for Dances, Proms and all occasions
WIRED ANYWHERE OR DELIVERED
SOUTH BEND FLORAL COMPANY
114 South Michigan Street	Phone 3-8227
Let’s Get Acquainted
FREE... Smokes and handy Cigarette Case * * * to every N. D. man who registers at our store.
FREE...
not only attacked the Met Club’s last summer dance, but also indirectly attacked the fellows who tried to do a good job, namely the chairmen. I was a co-chairman of this dance along with Mike Weinberg, Joe O’Reilly and many others. We did our best to provide the members with an evening of enjoyment at a minimum of cost. Furthermore Mr. Harrs has asked “who is J. Fred Coots?”
Any $5.00 Pipe or $5.00 in Books to every 50th N. D. man who registers.
Offer extended to October 19th
Well Will, J. Fred Coots is a great songwriter beloved by Broadway and Tin Pan Alley. He wrote Santy Claus Is Coming To Town, and countless others including Love Letters In The Sand, both of which are very popular. Mr. Coots brought a show with him. He had the leading lady from the Gay Nineties Revue (CBS), a gag writer from Fred Allen’s radio show, and many others. It is true Will that you can’t hold a glass in one hand and applaud with the other, but that is no reason why you should criticize the dance now, three months after it is over.
CHALLENGE:
I challenge you, Will, to arrange the Christmas Dance as well as we did the Summer Dance. Get the Penn Top, or a place half as beautiful. Charge only six-twenty-five and then provide dancing if even only till one o’clock. Have an orchestra half as good as the one we had for as little as we paid ours. Do all this for the club and I ivill publicly apologize to you.
CLUBITIS:
The Boston Club, (or is that “BarI
stan,”) minus its great politician, Bill -Carey, who now enjoys the pleasure a “sheep-skin” can give, has reorganized. If the past is any basis for what the future holds then we can look for a lot of activity from this organization. . . . The New Jersey Club has sprung to life once again. This club used to be very active and we hope to hear a lot from them during the coming issues. ... A big surprise to the Campus is the Hamradio Club. Already W5LJT, under W. W. Bell is taking the spotlight along with W3LRM and W9NVC under Mike Mc-Nullty and R. F. Burns respectively. If you are interested in joining just drop a card to any of the above at either 213 Cavanaugh, 114 Alumni or 130 Sorin, in that order. . . . The California Club is due to let loose with a scoop in the near future. It is supposed to be something very big. . . . The Toledo, Ohio Club under Tom Francis is trying to boost its membership to over one hundred. If you are from their vicinity
CIGAR STORE on the Main Street Side
Open until 11 P. M.
NEWS CENTER on the Washington Street Side
Open until 9:30 P. M.
BRUGGNER’S
MAIN AND WASHINGTON
Wb
Excellence in glasses is a matter of precision every step of the way — from examination to the final adjustment of the RX to your eyes.
234 S. Mich. St. Ph. 2-4405
28
come on out and attend their next meeting. . . . The Youngstown, Ohio Club will have Al Evans at its helm as it sails through a semester of dances, dinner parties and elbow-bending brawls. This club is not large but accomplishes more than many of the large clubs simply because they stick together. . . . The Rural Life Club met October 1 and elected Jim White of St. Eds president. . . . The Fox Valley Club wishes it to be known that they are not the Wisconsin Club. Fox Valley is the correct title. . . . Cincinnati will have its representatives also. The men from Clifton and the other six hills are determined to have a club that will rival many for the title “Club of the Year.” Incidentally they sure have a town to be proud of. Many a swell week end leave was spent at “Ye Good Ole Metropole.”
ROSES:
To Mr. James Armstrong who never lets a friend down. This past week he spoke at the opening meeting of the Connecticut Club and made two points clear. First all, he said that a club doesn’t necessarily gain renown because it has a large membership. It is rather the things a club accomplishes that makes it a good club. Secondly, Mr. Armstrong brought out the fact that social
life is not all a good club can accomplish. No, it wouldn’t be necessary to pore over text-books at meetings, but clubs could have discussion groups and adopt policies towards world situations. Or at club
AESCULAPIANS present:
SHOCK
Lecture by
JOHN D. MIZELLE
BIOLOGY BUILDING	THURSDAY, OCT. 17
Amphitheatre	7:30 p. m.
election time good politics could- be employed; or even a few members could gain more poise in public speaking. These are just a few things each club could accomplish.
The first thing
your college and social acquaintances see is the way you are dressed ....
Is your suit clean? Are your pants pressed? Are you neat?
In order to make an appearance that will be remembered have your clothes come from experienced and reliable tailors and clothiers.
For your approval and selection we offer more than 500 patterns from which to choose shetlands, tweeds, flannels, coverts, worsted and unfinished worsteds tailored to your measure . . . styled and fitted by experienced people.
Suits, top coats, sport coats, trousers — $50 upwards.
Also the home of Adler Rochester ready-to-wear suits and coats — $50 to $75.
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
115% - 117% North Main Street North of Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND
S
OLDEST TAI LOBS
29
Bu
Items of Interest in the Helds of Chemistry, Engineering, Physics, and Biology
New Plastic Resists Heat, Acids, Electricity
"Teflon," Product of Group Research, is Solving Difficult Problems in Radar, Television and Industry
A group of Du Pont research men were looking for a new refrigerant of a particular type. These men found what they were after; but, as so often has been the case, they found something more—this time an industrial plastic whose unique qualities make it invaluable in many fields.
During the study, the chemist in charge proposed a route to the synthesis of HCF,CF,C1 via tetrafluoroethylene, CF,=CF,. In working with the latter, a chemically reactive gas boiling at -76.3C./760 mm., it was learned that it polymerized to form a resin having unusual properties.
. After evaluation by organic and physical chemists, physicists and electrical experts, a suitable process for the difficult manufacture of this product was worked out by the chemists in collaboration with chemical and mechanical engineers.
Structure and Properties
"Teflon” is made by polymerizing gaseous tetrofluoroethylene to give a solid, granular polymer:
Controlled at this one panel is all the equipment for producing the polymer from which is made “fellon.”
(F	F\ F F F F
C = C ->... C-C-C-C ...
F F/ F F F F
The fluorine atoms in the molecule impart exceptional properties of resistance to heat and chemicals.
"Teflon” has unusual heat resistance. Having no true melting point, "Teflon” decomposes slowly to give the gaseous monomer and a few other gaseous fluorine derivatives at around 400°C. Under certain conditions small amounts of fluorine-containing gases have been observed at temperatures above 230°C. Because of its heat resistance, gaskets and wire insulation for jet engines are now made of this plastic. It is also used in aircraft ignition systems near sparkplugs and in high-temperature heating systems.
The chemical resistance of "Teflon” is such that it withstands the attack of all materials except molten alkali metals. Boiling in acid (aqua regia, hydrofluoric acid or fuming nitric acid) will not change its weight
or properties. For this reason it may have wide use in such applications as tubing and piping for chemical plants and acid-distillation equipment.
Because the dielectric loss factor is extremely low, even at frequencies up to 3000 megacycles, it is an excellent insulating material for currents of ultra-high frequency. Its heat-resisting and aging qualities suggest immediate uses as a dielectric in coaxial cables for color television, and in radar and power fields.
Forms of "Teflon" Available
By use of special techniques the new plastic can be extruded as rods, tubes or wire coating. In general, its extrusion rates are low in comparison to other thermoplastics because of its resistance to softening.
More facts about "Teflon” are in Du Pont Plastics Technical Service Bulletin No. 13. Send your request to 2521 Nemours Bldg. Wilmington 98, Del. "Teflon” is one of the many products which represent the work and skill of Du Pont men, who, working as a team, contribute toward a better America for you and all of us.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
"WILL I STAY IN ONE FIELD
AT DU PONT?"
The first position of a new man at Du Pont is based on his expressed preference and an estimate of his aptitudes and abilities. Subsequent work may be in the same or other fields, as openings present themselves in research, production or sales divisions. Keynote of Du Pont personnel policy is promotion from within on a competitive merit basis.
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Mondays, 7 P. M. CST, on NBC
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CH EM IS TRT «
E. I. OU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO. (INC.) WILMINGTON 9«, DELAWARE
30
NOTRE DOTERS
By JACK FBAIEB and BIIL PFAFF
Arthur Godfrey, in a solicitous mood, recently recommended over the radio that “all you Florida people watch out for that hurricane, batten things down, and get underground.” Either it’s been a while since Mr. Godfrey was in Florida or he spoke without too much reflection. To go underground in Florida requires quite an ability at holding one’s breath and treading water.
translated. (He is terribly handy if you are sitting around on a warm afternoon reading the Book of Genesis in the original and don’t want to get up when you run into a toughie.) A week or so ago Walter Winchell (we tune him in for a good kick in the teeth whenever we feel that damn best-of-all-possible-worlds feeling coming on) called the New York gubernatorial campaign a schlemele-xace (at least that’s what it sounded like on
Specializing in the ' eximination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
For- generations Notre Dame men have carried on the tradition of visiting the Grotto after the evening meal. Thoughtful meditation comes easily in this secluded sanctuary that is shrouded by a verdant wreath of elms, maples, buckeyes and birches. Twilight sifts through the leafy branches and casts myriads of patterns on the earthen pathways and worn stepping stones below. An air of solemn stillness and peace fills the entire area. Here, indeed, is a place where one can find solace and comfort in an ethereal silence shattered only by the clicking of pool balls in Corby.
The Cavanaugh Hall mailman (he lived next door to us for eight months) has started giving us an additional service. The other afternoon he barged right in holding an enticing stack of letters. “You fellas still Fraier and Pfaff?” he asked. We nodded anticipatively flapping our tongues. He smiled benignly and said, “Sorry boys, none of this mail is for you.”
Mandel Brothers had an interesting advertisement in the Chicago Tribune last week. It said “awake refreshed! Sleep on a Bed Board. Slip an “Arco” or “Nature’s Slumber” bed board between spring and mattress of your bed and enjoy revitalizing sleep. Oversoft mattress and saggy springs too often cause you to waken tired, tense, irritable. S'leep on a bed board . . . awake alert. Doctors call them ‘orthopedic’ boards. $3.95, $4.95, $5.75, Mandel’s Surgical Balcony, First Floor, Wabash.” Realizing the potentialities of a little item like this at Notre Dame, we have ordered a gross. Please call only between three and five.
There are undoubtedly all sorts of advantages to having a roommate from Cleveland Heights. The one that just offhand slaps me in the face, is that you always know where to look when you run across a little Hebrew you want
the radio) and I didn’t have any trouble realizing he was insulting people.
The other day the Miami Herald reported that something like fifty automobiles were stolen in Miami during the month, while the Police Department recovered fifty-seven. And yet a car shortage?
Metalists Hear Engineer
The Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals held its October meeting on Wednesday, October 9, 1946. The principal address of the evening was given by Mr. H. J. Babcock, research engineer of the Ajax Electric Company, Philadelphia, Pa. Mr. Babcock, who is a graduate of Harvard University, spoke on “Commercial Application of Electrode Type Salt Baths.”
IDEAL GIFTS
Attractive Elgin American Cigarette Cases and Compacts
126 N. Michigan Street
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street. Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
31
LUGGAGE by...
OSHKOSH GLADIATOR VAL-A-PAK INDESTRUCTO
BILLFOLDS by...
BUXTON ROLFS PRINCE GARDNER
PIPES by...
DUNHILL CUSTOM BILT SPORTSMAN JACK OF LONDON KAYWOODIES
LETTERS (Continued from Page 3)
ing last Spring can not be attributed to the ticket office, nor can any student whose parents failed to obtain tickets because of erroneous information blame the ticket office.
And ice suggest that suspicious Mr. McNulty be' more certain of his facts before again impugning our veracity and motives.—Editor.
Han^- Rintzsch
138 N. Michigan
156 Zahm Hall October 6, 1946.
Dear Editor:
As one of the student body who witnessed Saturday’s game against Pittsburgh, I wish to say that never, since the first time I witnessed a collegiate football game, have I seen such poor showmanship and spirit leadership as was demonstrated by the Notre Dame cheer-leaders.
The rooting sections, St. Mary’s included, would have done much better without these so called cheer-leaders. Time and time again they missed chances to arouse spirit in the students because of the lack of their own interest in what was going on.
The biggest error of the day, I think, was the failure to give a yell or cheer for Emil Sitko when he was leaving the field during the first half, accompanied by one of the trainees or student managers. I saw two of the cheer leaders watch Sitko as he limped by, but that seemed to be the climax of their spirit. Who should be more deserving of a cheer than one of our fellow students and classmates who has been injured while giving his all that the team might bring honor and glory to our school? Those fellows on the field every week are one of us, not strangers. They are out there representing all of us who would like to be out there too, but can’t.
Come on, you dead heads! Get off the dime! If you can’t do any better than your feeble efforts of last week, please toss in the towel and give the chance to some students with spirit. Also try to think of a few cheers that might be representative of the University of Notre Dame, something with snap.
Sincerely,
Bill Cullen, 156 Zahm Hall
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND
• MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street
Evenings by Appointment
Notre Dame, Ind.
Oct. 4, 1946.
Mr. Editor:
On more than infrequent occasions the Scholastic sounds very much like a high school paper- trying to spread the principal’s propaganda. Have any of the staff ever taken Father Brennan’s Logic course? If they have I feel certain the good Padre must have shaken his head in despair when he read the following from the Oct. 4 issue—referring to the band not having made the Illinois trip, “. . . the trip was cancelled, much to the chagrin and disappointment of all concerned.” In the same article these thoughtful words appear, “The spirit in the band has reached a new high.”
Along a different line our Sports Editor, Mr. Joseph Cheney, exhibits a great deal of meditation when he says— speaking of the Cornell-Army game, “. . . don’t be surprised if Davis ends up on the injured list. . . . Matt Bolger is a rugged individual who used to enjoy roughing the boys up whenever he got the chance. He’s playing end for Cornell this year.” Matt Bolger is an ex-Notre Dame man who likes to play his football hard but clean. Could Mr. Cheney be naive enough to have suspected that he was paying Mr. Bolger a compliment.
Sincerely,
Vin Cunningham
P. S. . . . I might add that I am a member of Father Brennan’s present Logic Class.
The following Letter was written to the Editor of the “Daily Illini” and is reprinted from the University of Illinois’ newspaper.
Notre Dame, Ind.
Sept. 30, 1946.
To the Editor:
As an old Illini, living now under the Golden Dome, may I, on behalf of the students and faculty of Notre Dame, pay a tribute to the University of Illinois for the gracious gesture . . . the singing of the Ave Maria and the formation of the Golden Dome between halves of the game last Saturday. It stirred not only the thousand of followers of the Fighting Irish at the game, but also the millions of her synthetic alumni who listen in at all her games.
It was a beautiful and a gracious gesture, and I know I express the appreciation of all the sons of Notre Dame when I say “many thanks!” to Bruce Foote, Director Harding and his assistants, the band, and to all who arranged
32
• With people of note Parker “51” is the preferred writing instrument. And only recently, American pen dealers, by a margin of 3.37 to 1, named Parker the most-wanted pen. More-wanted than all other leading makes combined. • Yet more 51’s are now being shipped than ever before. So see your dealer soon. • Created painstakingly, the “51” cannot be hurriedly turned out. Its point starts writing instantly, smoothly. For the tip is a ball of micro-smooth Osmiridium. • Only the “51” is designed to write satisfac-
torily with Parker “51” Ink that dries as it writes! • Three colors. SI2.50; $15.00. Pencils, $5.00; $7.50. Sets, $17.50 to $80.00. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis^ and Toronto, Canada.
33
Really FINE FOOD
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
TRY OUR
Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, green salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
DR. ROBERT R LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
•
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
the colorful and impressive ceremony. Regardless of the outcome of the game, these Illini always carry off the laurels for Illinois.
I should like to pay tribute also to Doug Mills, Ray Eliot and all his valiant warriors who fought with skill, courage and determination to the end. They showed the typical Illini fighting spirit xx hich has made Illinois famous throughout the land. No team, no coach, no athletic director is held in greater honor or deeper friendship on the campus of Notre Dame than those of Illinois. They symbolize the best in American collegiate sports.	’
As a graduate of Illinois, privileged to spend nearly a quarter of a century on her campus, mingling in friendly intimacy with the students of every faith, wearing still on my lapel the gold K. of C. pin presented by the Acacia fraternity, I shall remain an Illini to the end of the trail. As an Illini, teaching at Notre Dame, I should like to think that I might serve as a bridge of understanding, esteem and friendship between my old alma mater and that of my later adoption. The clash of these honored foes, traditional rivals on the striped field, has become a gridiron classic that fills the stadia of both universities to the overflowing and focuses the eyes of the nation upon the contest.
That is one game I can’t lose for I have two teams on the field and both are mine. A friendly and grateful salute to all the Illini from the Golden Dome of Notre Dame.
John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., ’20. ■ * 1	■ o I-----
Father Burke Speaks At Badin Banquet
By JACK TINKLE
The gentlemen of Badin were at it again. It was a new semester and they were set to make the most of it. And while they were basking in satisfaction the following day, many of the citizens of the other residence halls were revealing a slight tinge of envy green, for the latter knew that the third annual Badin Banquet had been a success.
While all non-Badinites were hitting the books the night of Oct. 2, the denizens of the boghouse (and they don’t mind being in it) were feasting in the Bronze Room of Hotel LaSalle. For them it was, as Father B. J. Furstoss, Badin rector, put it, “Badin, banquet, Burke and beer.”
While the first, second and fourth words are self-explanatory, the third needs explaining. Father Eugene Burke provides the clue. For Father Burke, well-known on campus as a wit and ra
conteur, was the main cog in the entertainment. He provided more than his quota of laughs and also doubled at the piano. While he played old favorites, the.-banqueteers gave vocal assistance. En-. _■ tertainment didn’t stop with Father-^ Burke. Hugh Rafferty had been successful in lining up entertainers from among the Boggers. Under the emcee-ing of l.r Tom O’Brien, Lewie Polk gave a dem- Sy onstration, with a toy model, of how he -learned to fly, Jim Donaghue sang sev- . eral Irish numbers, Frank De Leo gave ! ' his interpretation of several famous fig- Zi. ures, and Stuart Prentice, who hails from Guatemala, played several South ;: American numbers on the piano. John Ford reviewed the history of Badin Hall just to keep the revelers’ minds on the cause of it all, while Bill Braun, mail- f’ man extraordinary for the hall, introduced all the boys, including Three No- 1„-Trump Curry, Passionate Cashin and (his own) “Room Capt.” Phil Russo. y.J
Ed (Moose) Krause, a former Badin- A ite who needed no introduction, gave the Boggers a few inside tips on how he -spotted the Notre Dame-Illinois game . for the press, while Bill Stockman, who /-engineered the whole event, gave a gra- ’ phic description of the woes of the G.I. ■ <’ in France during the recent scuffle overseas.	i-
Last semester Badin, the smallest hall ;5 on campus from the point of view of numbers and the hall with the most “spirit,” staged, in addition to its second banquet, a picnic at Michigan City, Ind. V This semester bigger and better activities are planned, including another banquet and a second “ant-and-sunburn” outing, this time with St. Mary’s playing a part (tentatively).
Teachers Wanted
Universities and Colleges all over the country are asking us for instructors, assistant professors, associate professors and professors. All Fields. Part time instructors also. Salaries $2500 to $6000 and up.
SECONDARY and ELEMENTARY
Hundreds of vacancies including Pacific Coast States and others with high Salary Schedules—$2000 to $3000 and up according to qualifications. Supervisors, Critic Teachers in great demand.
Cline Teachers Agency
East Lansing, Michigan
34
Q. How long is a second?
A. Sometimes it’s 3% YEARS
One second is not always one-sixtieth of a minute — not in telephone mathematics. Suppose, for example, you find a new method that clips just one second from the time it takes to process a toll ticket. Then apply that saving throughout the Bell System where some 115,000,000 toll tickets are handled a month. The time saved every thirty days equals 3% years!
Important? From seemingly minor changes or savings frequently come the major improvements which mean better working conditions for telephone men and women and better telephone service for everyone.
In this industry, even long established methods of operation are never considered beyond improvement. For men with ideas and ability, that viewpoint is a stimulating challenge.
THERE'S OPPORTUNITY AND ADVENTURE IN TELEPHONY
TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Copyright 1946. Liggett k Mros Tobacco Co.