SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Entertainment reviews and previews and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In depth sports coverage.
Read one for the Gipper! CampusWatch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campus.
News articles and Campus Life stories that let you know what’s happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening... you’re probably reading Scholastic!
If you don’t have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give you r parents a subscription!
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:_________________________________________
A d d ress:___________________________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine
303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
1
I	October 15, 1992
SCHOLASTIC
w
s
F E
9 Getting Ready to Show
11 Running Through The Windy City
C A M P U
4 Who's Watching the Kids?
6 A Nation Destroyed
• N <
N M E
15 Running Away
17 Notre Dame Football Today
Cover photo by Nick Spangler
19 Out of Bounds 21 Acoustic Cafe
D E P A R T M E NTS
2	Editor's Notes
3	Editorial
8 Campus Watch
13 Coming Distractions
22	On Other Campuses
23	Week In Distortion
24	Final Word
OCTOBER 15,1992
1
> V. October 15,; 1992;	■ >
D/sce Quasi SemperVicturus
} :4. FoundedJlS^
EDITOR IN CHIEF Patricia K. Doyle <.
MANAGING EDITOR Margaret S. ,Kenny ?
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
David J. Holsinger ;
CAMPUS LIFE :: Editor: Mollie Mudd
:NEWs^?£r$t*;;^:V Editors: K.L Lawrence /’.??' Mark Mitctiell 7:
SPORTS /? "/■:
; Editor: Jim Kuser • . ?: /■, < Assistant Amanda Clinton
ENTERTAINMENT.
Editor: J. Bradley Keck
DEPARTMENTS
EditorfKate Wiltrout
PHOTOGRAPHY??' Editor: Ken Osgood'
</: »•
?• Editor: Chris Blanford
SENIORSTAFFWRITERS
Amanda Clinton, i Pete Mcpil|i^^^^ ?' 'Maricelle
^grapmc'arts'^
; Manag'af?J^e :Erbsty~i;? j
In This Issue
On the cover this week, the Equestrian Club prepares for the start of their competition season. Campus Life writer Theresa Hennessey explains how and when the team practices and what competition entails. Also in Campus Life, Michelle Crouch catches up with a few Notre Dame students who plan on running in the Chicago Marathon on October 25. Good luck to all the participants in their 26:2 mile run!
In News this week, News editor Mark Mitchell looks at the demise of the Potawatomi Indians in the South Bend area during the 150 years that Notre Dame has been here. Also in News, Patti Molloy reports on the state of child care at Notre Dame. Michelle Crouch, also writing for Sports this week, interviews the men’s and women’s cross country teams. Team unity is helping both teams to have a successful seasons. Notre Dame has always been renowned for their football program, and finally there is a book to celebrate this tradition. Notre Dame Football Today takes a look at what Notre Dame football really is, from the players and coaches to all people who work behind the scenes, this books provides a photographic look atNotre Dame football. In Entertainment, Brian Muller and Colin Clary enlighten us about the Acoustic Cafe and Editor Brad Keck provides with yet another fun, fact-filled column with “Out Of Bounds.” As usual, you will find “On Other Campus,” “Week In Distortion,” and the “Coming Distractions Calendar” which even includes events for when we return from fall break.
It’s Never Too Late
For all you freshmen (or anyone else for that matter) who were concerned about being too busy or having too much work to do at the beginning of the semester, Scholastic is always looking for new writers, photographers and artists. If you are interested in working on the magazine, stop by our office on the third floor of LaFortune, room 303, or give us a call at 239-7569.
See You Soon
Hopefully everyone is surviving or has survived midterms and can look forward to a great week off. Scholastic will return the on Thursday, October 29, as we prepare for the upcoming election. See you then!
Patricia Doyle Editor In Chief
Manager:.ChinWang
/ADVERTISING;
!?M^i^;l^reqjRiley;

; BUSINESS ?:?,?j: TMahagerEiteen Shelley ?fe>?
.y5iSTRIBL!tlONMANAGFR ia^an^enM^^

Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc,, Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $25.00/year and back issues are available at $125 jcapy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial hom'd. Manuscripts are welcome. AH unsolicilied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include thewrit er's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholar ic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors aid Scholastic style. Because of space, ‘ Scholastic cannot print all letters received;
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Noire Dame, IN46556
Student Senate Resolution 929303
Whereas, NBC’s Saturday Night Live provided Sinead O’Connor a national platform to commit the patently offensive act of destroying the image of His Holiness John Paul II on 3 October 1992,
Whereas, this act was an affront to all who hold the image of the Pontiff to be deserving of reverence for all he is and represents,
Whereas, college students are the primary target audience of Saturday Night Live,
Whereas, respect for religion is a critical condition for promoting tolerance in a pluralistic society,
Be it Resolved that the Student Senate of the University of Notre Dame,
a)	Calls upon NBC to issue a formal apology and statement of regret that the act was broadcast;
b)	Appeals to the entire Notre Dame Community to join us in this statement of outrage;
c)	Invites other Catholic colleges and university communities to join us in this statement of outrage;
d)	Asks the members of all faiths to express their disapproval of this act of blatant intolerance and impiety.
Respectfully Submitted,
Patrick J. McCarthy
SUB Board Manager
We have reprinted the text of this student senate resolution for you to read and to judge for yourself. As journalists who depend on the freedoms provided under the First Amendment to be able to make this statement, we find it appalling that student senate has neglected to consider one of this country’s most basic principles in making their statement. There are few of us who have forgetten the Ayatollah’s condemnation of Salman Rushdie’s “blasphemous” work only five years ago. Read “point d” once again with the case of Salman Rushdie and Islam in mind, and remember the cries of most Americans against the Ayatollah’s condemnation of that author. The senate finds it perfectly acceptable to censor “blatant intolerance” in the name of “promoting tolerance.” Does the senate mean to say, like many before them, that religious persecution is acceptable in the name of Christianity (or specifically Catholicism)?
This topic may have already been beaten to death, but we feel like making one final point on the issue of the now infamous “Sinead Resolution” passed by student senate last week, Kudos to Monica Yant and The Observer for defending the right of free speech on this
campus. Our editorial, however, is not primarily concerned with the issue of free speech.
The Senate may be right in their outrage at seeing the spiritual head of the Catholic faith destroyed in effigy. We think, however, that it would be better left to the individual students of Notre Dame to make their protests to NBC. It is simply not student senate’s place to make moral decisions for the bulk of the campus. The senate seems to be on an authority trip, deriving a mandate for their actions (in their minds) from their connection to a Catholic institution.
Rather, we would like to suggest that student senate take a minute to rethink their responsibility to their cons tituents and to the campus as a whole. Is it really in the interest of this campus to make grand gestures such as trying to defend the honor of Catholicism when there are far more pressing concerns right under our noses? Student senate has done little to alleviate problems on this campus such as racial intolerance or insensitivity to sexual preference. We encourage the senate to think of real issues at their meetings, and to work toward real representation of students’ interests. We realize that student government is not a real force for change on the campus, norwere they intended to be. They view themselves, for the most part, as an organization responsible for promoting students’ interests to the administration. Any real change on this campus has to have the administration’s approval. It seems, though, that student senators have done little but to try to promote themselves as the “defenders of the faith,” choosing an easy topic and easy gratification instead of trying to address some of the tougher issues which are at hand. Why not push a stodgy administration for change on real issues, acting as the forum for student concerns that they were created to be?
This resolution has certainly generated more debate than any other in recent memory. This is probably necessary, and we sympathize with those members of student government who complain that students rarely voice interests to them to be forwarded to the administration. The “Sinead Resolution,” though, seems to be little more than self-promotion. By condemning an easy and distant target, the senate has committed an act of ultimate self-indulgence. It’s hard to go wrong when promoting something like “religious tolerance.” There’s nothing to be lost, and only the bright light of media attention to gain. As a publication, Scholastic regrets indulging them with yet another article, but we would like to urge everyone to flood their senators with suggestions. Maybe the real work will keep them busy enough that they won’t create any more pointless resolutions in the future.
-Scholastic
When Mom and Dad
Go to School
1 ■ . ■,	. . .
I ’	■■ ■ .	• ■ ■ ■
Campus groups working to improve childcare
By Patti Molloy
a s voters prepare for the election, the issue of “family values” continues to be a leading concern among Presidential and other candidates. Pre-marital and extramarital relations, divorce and abortion are some of the prominent topics of discussion in the national arena. For people ata national Catholic university, these are pressing issues. However, there is another issue related to family values that concerned members of this institution are trying to address on a more local level. This is the need for quality, affordable child care at Notre Dame.
Some Notre Dame faculty and graduate students feel there is a distressing lack of top-of-the-line child care facilities accessible to them, and a number of organizations have been formed on campus to deal with this issue. These organizations include the Give Kids a Chance Coalition (GKCC) and the University Subcommittee on Child Care (USCC). These groups have been working with the administration and the board of trustees to come up with a viable solution to this problem. They feel that, as a leading Catholic university., Notre Dame has an obligation to fill this need for accessible, desirable child care, both because of its Catholic mission and in its role as an institution of higher learning.
Caring for the needs of others is a basic
Christian tenet of which child care is a part. “It is important for Notre Dame as a Catholic university to look at the issue not simply from the perspective of the University’s interest narrowly construed, but in terms of Catholic teaching. When looked at in that
way, it becomes clearer that it is not our selfinterest, but a moral obligation,” said Dr. Todd Whitmore, a professor of theology at Notre Dame. As a Catholic institution, the University of Notre Dame has the obligation to reaffirm its Christian teachings with action.
Daycare at Notre Dame: Report of the University Subcommittee on Child Care (RUSCC) has put forward a five-step argument in which the university’s role as a Catholic institution is tied to the issue of child care. The first argument proposed deals with the “centrality of families and children in Catholic teaching.” “Put children and families first: analyze every policy and program diocesan, parish, domestic and international for its impact on children and families, look at every proposal from a family perspective (2).” This statement, issued originally by the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, states positively the role that Catholic institutions should play in aiding the family and addressing child care issues.
In relation to R USCC’s second assertion, the “need for institutional support for families,” the subcommittee cites Pope John Paul H’s statement in his 1981 Apostolic Exhortation, Familiaris Consortia: “The state and the Church have the obligation to give families all possible aid to enable them to perform their educational role properly. There-
E
fore both the Church and the state must create and foster institutions and activities that families justly demand (3).”
This one statement by the Holy Father embodies, all of the subcommittee’s following arguments: child care is a necessity; institutions cannotreplace the family; Notre Dame, “as a Catholic University [should] provide child care, if at all possible.” Notre Dame’s obligations are so clearly set forth in these apostolic statements that the issue really should not need debate. Asa Catholic institution Notre Dame must provide help for families.
Providing on-campus child care for faculty, staff and graduate students would not only reaffirm Notre Dame’s Catholic mission, but would also aid in its function as an institution of higher learning. Despite Notre Dame’s position asoneof the finest Universities in the country, the fact that it does not provide an accessible child care center on campus compromises the quality of the education its staff provides.
A mother who knew that her child, even when sick, was being well cared for within walking distance of where she was teaching, would be better able to perform her task as an educator than one whose child was some distance away and in a questionable environment, according to an example cited by a GKCC representative.
Notre Dame did help found the Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) on Saint Mary’s campus in 1974, a facility which has risen to rank among the best in the area, according to
the RUSCC (5). However, this center has limited facilities and staff and can accommodate only about 150 children. These restrictions and the need for child care have resulted in a waiting list that is potentially four years long, according to Child Care Needs Report: A Graduate Student Perspective, a proposal made for the university’s board of trustees meeting on February 6, 1992 (1). The ECDC is also off campus and is therefore not easily accessible, nor is it readily affordable.
The main concerns of the USCC and the GKCC are the need for quality and affordability in a child care program. The university cannot sacrifice one to achieve the other, or the whole objective of creating child care at Notre Dame would be nullified. According to these groups, quality is necessary for the children’s well-being and the parents’peace of mind.
Affordability is necessary for the obvious reason that an exorbitant fee would drive parents away. The well-paid could go to other care centers, but graduate students and other staff might have to eliminate child care from their options entirely. A graduate student making less than $15,000 a year, according to the Child Care Needs Report (5,) does not have as many options as a fully-tenured professor. Without an affordable program, many of these students would be forced, as they are now, to abandon the child care option or leave Notre Dame in search of a university that provides it. The loss of quality faculty and staff due to a lack of family aid is, as shown above, a disgrace at a national Catholic university.
Liability is of course, another important factor. However, there are a number of ways around this issue, from utilizing an independent care provider on campus to monitoring the facility closely. An independent provider would either buy, lease or be given facilities on campus but would provide its own liability insurance and be autonomous. In a university-run institution, Notre Dame would provide its own insurance but would be able to monitor the facility more closely. Between these two extremes are a number of options combining different aspects of the two. It is most likely that the university would be able to find the one best suited to its needs.
Child care has become a major issue on campus in the past year, and does not look like it will disappear in the near future. It is something that cannot be ignored because it touches the very heart of humanity’s exist-ence^h^hildren^Q

MM


‘A Nation Destroyed’
150 years before the university, Potawatomi were masters of the land; 150 years after the university, they are gone.
by Mark Mitchell
their last mission.
A s Pope John Paul n said Mass in the Dominican Republic, celebrating the discoveries of Christopher Columbus in the place where he first landed, protestors in Denver, Colorado decryed the 500 anniversary of mass exploitation. In the cinquicentennial year of Columbus’ expedition, there exist two much publicized and very opposing views of the momentous event in world history. Europe and the Catholic Church point to the beginning of an ; - age of unparalleled progress and ■ evangilization; American Indian groups and sympathizers call the same event a hostile invasion of a peaceful continent. Irrespec-, : tive of the opinions about the incident of Columbus’ discovery of America, the occurrence remains, as historian John Garraty . said, “The most important event in the his-j	tory of western civilization since the birth of
| : Christ.”
| As the serendipity of events has it, when , the world celebrates 500 years after Co-; lumbus, the university celebrates 150 years after Sorin; and the two are not mutually ' exclusive events. Beyond Luigi Gregori’s 1	murals of Columbus, which adom the walls
L of the Administration Building, Notre Dame’s past is rooted in contacts with the Indian tribes of the immediate area. For it was a young Blackrobe, as priests were called in the Indian dialect, who was one of j the last missionaries to the Potawatomi of the northern Indiana area, and whose univer-!’	• sity would eventually displace them from
Though Jesuit Father Jacques Marquette passed through this area in 1675, it was not until 1685 that Jesuit Father Calude Allouez founded the Saint Joseph Mission, the first European settlement among the
the area around Saint Joseph Mission and
the Jesuits built a small community there called Fort Saint Joseph which was staffed by Jesuit priests continuously until the outbreak of the French and Indian War in 1761. After the war, the defeated French ceded to Britain major portions of its New World
Potawatomi. Allouez baptized many and
won the affection of the Indian communities holdings in the Treaty of Paris, and mission-
around his mission which was located in the ary work waned greatly. Finally', in 1781,.
IgiiO
lackrobe who •;

area now occupied by Niles, Michigan, according to Holy Cross Father Arthur Hope, author of the book Notre Dame, 100 years. The French provisional government in Quebec gave the Society of Jesus a land grant for
Fort Saint Joseph was burned to the ground . by a band of French militiamen.
Though there were no longer any priests to instruct the Indians in religion, the Potawatomi were faithful to Catholicism, passing the traditions of the religion onto future generations without the aid of a mission, according to missionary documents in the university archives. However, the lack of spiritual direction was the least of the Potawatomi problems at this time. After the War of 1812, in which the American government believed the Indian population to be aiding the British forces, the government made a concerted effort to force Indian tribes into selling their lands to the government. Thus, the Potawatomi were faced with the twofold hardship of not having a religious leader and not having a spokesman to act as their agent to the government.
In the face of these troubles, Potawatomi Chief Leopold Pokagon set out to bring a missionary to his people. In 1825 Pokagon traveled to Detroit and pleaded with Father Gabriel Richard, S.S., to send them, a missioner. Father Edward Sorin recorded in his chronicle the report of Richard who quoted Pokagon as, saying, “We have pre-

served the way of prayer taught our ancestors by the Blackrobe who used to be at Saint Joseph’s.” Continuing, Richard reports that Pokagon finished his plea by dropping to his knees and reciting the Credo, Pater Noster, and Ave Maria all in his native tongue.
As a result of Pokagon ’ s plea, impelled by his tale of Potawatomi faith in the face of hardship, Father Stephen Theodore Badin set out in 1830 for Bertrand, Michigan, the mission’s new location. Badin brought with him a few assistants, and together, they lived among the Indians, teaching and baptizing.
It was Badin who, in 1832, purchased a missionary. Then, in 1842, on his way to book Some Early Local Footprints, by
1882, through
from the federal government former Indian lands to establish a new mission south of Bertrand in

Indiana, called his mission
He new Ste.
Marie des Lacs and he was joined there by Father Louis DeSeille. Together the priests won the affection of the Indian populations, according to Hope. Badin was both a companion for the. Potawatomi and an authority among them. In a dis
Notre Dame Archives
Holy Cross Father Edward Sorin meets with local Potawatomi Indians, as depicted by Luigi Gregorl In a painting which hangs In Saint Edward's Hall. Gregori's murals of Columbus are more famous, though, contrary to popular belief, Sorin had nothing to do with the selection of Columbus as the subject matter; Gregorl simply chose to depict one of the world's most famous Italians.
pute between two local tribes, which arose when. Chief Topinabee killed Chief Nanankoy, Badin called both tribes’ leaders into his log cabin and lectured, “No man, by killing Topinabee, your chief, could restore Nanankoy to life, nor give happiness to his soul in the other world; but mischief would be done by adding sorrow to sorrow, tears to tears.”
Badin was transferred to Cincinnati in 1834 and DeSeilles died of fever a year later. Hope reports that the Potawatomi were be
reft and without spiritual guidance until Father Benjamin Petit arrived in 1837. Petit, a young and energetic man, was also much loved by the Indians and his love was equally great for them. But tragedy struck the Potawatomi again in 1838 when Colonel Abel Pepper of the U.S. Army responded to an Indian revolt ledby Chief Menominie, by forcibly relocating the majority of the Indian population to Kansas. Petit went with his people and died of fever along the way.
Thus, once again, the Potawatomi of the mission of Ste. Marie des Lacs were without
Badin’s lakeside cabin, the firstpedple Holy Cross Father Edward Frederick Sorin met were the Potawatomi whose missionary he had become. Sorin wrote in his chronicle, “[I] was at last a missiorier, as [I] had so earnestly longed to be; and what is still more, half of [my] mission was composed of Indians and the other half of Catholics. [I] set to work with all [my] heart, and day and night were consecrated to [my] beloved mission.”
However, since he sought to establish his
university at the site of Badin’s chapel, Sorin soon moved the mission back to Pokagon, Michigan. Though the university supported the mission to the Potawatomi, Sorin noted in his chronicle that it was becoming a greater burden every year. Yet, Sorin still took time to visit his “beloved Indians at Pokagon.” His chronicle contains a very personal account of visiting a new mission where he was brought to tears by the Indians’ desires to be converted.
But, as a late nineteenth century historian of this region, David Leeper, noted in his
’ active efforts to relocate the tribes and because of pressure exerted by the growing numbers of settlers drawn by the university, there were only 13 Potawatomi families remaining in the area. By 1898, the last Indian family “was rein o v e d , ” Leeper reports.
Though not intentional, the growth of Notre Dame succeeded in speeding the decline of Potawatomi
civilization in this region. Sorin, seeing the slow deterioration of Indian communities here and throughout the United States, set a sorrowful closing note on the Indians in his chronicle, writing, “Poor Indians! They are fast disappearing from the land which not long ago was covered by numbers of their warriors. Before two centuries [havepassed away] they will be spoken of in history as of a nation completely destroyed.” □
Campus Watch
■	T> X/ T TJ T7 r T B T) E D
All bent out of shape because of midterms? Is the beginning of fall starting: to get you down? Never fear, kiddies, the Gipp is here to make you chuckle with tales of degradation and exploitation, goofy news items and gossipy tidbits to fill you with mirth.
RECYCLED PROFITS
The lead-off story this week concerns itself with our beloved Hammes® Notre . Dame Bookstore. You didn’t really think we’d go two weeks without making some kind of snipe about their outrageous plunder of our pocketbooks, did you?
It seems that the latest trick of those wily bookstore capitalists tries to take advantage of our collective environmental conscience. A Scholastic staffer informed the Gipp that the Bookstore is now selling used books for a second time! That’s right, even those perverse dollar-seekers have gone too far this time. Under the pretense of “saving paper from the dumpster,” the kindly bookstore mavens have agreed to buy your already used books for one-tenth of their sale value, only to resell them once again, at a substantially increased price.
For those of you who are still unclear, here’s the story as told by our observant staffer. A book which had the sticker price of $4.95 new was purchased for 50 cents at the end of the semester and resold as a used book for $3.70. The book was then purchased for 50 cents a second time, and resold yet again for $3.70. This means on this one bundle of print, the bookstore has managed to make $6.40, plus whatever the markup on the first sale was. Jeez.
The worst part of this whole deal is that we’re all really stuck with this plan. What
else is there to do with an already used book besides throw it out? Those of us with the tiniest fragment of an environmental conscience will do what we can to keep paper from being destroyed, even at the moral compromise of letting the bookstore make yet another buck on us.
PENDING SEX CHANGES
The rumor is out again: reporters tell the Gipp that a planned increase in the number of female students will force the conversion of yet another men’s dorm. What are the targets, you ask? The rumor mill has St Ed’s, Fisher and Cavanaugh in the crosshairs for the purple chiffon curtain changeover. That’s right, boys, more sets of urinals are going to be sent to the scrap heap in the interest of making Notre Dame a more gender-balanced school.
Of course, the Office of Residence Life will likely deny allegations that yet another
dorm may fall prey to the demons with pink paintbrushes, but it’s bound to come. Maybe this year is the year to work for a co-ed dorm. (The Gipp’s personal recommendation: change half of Keenan-Stanford to women’s housing.) Yeah, yeah, we doubt it, too, but maybe the university will move into the 70s this year — if Tri-Star Pictures has its way, our haircuts will soon be there as well.
TIME TO
MOVE THAT TRUCK
A Scholastic editor told the Gipp this week of her great annoyance at a certain student’s parking habits. It seems that the same vehicle has been occupying the single best parking space in D2 since the beginning of the year. Specifically, this vehicle is a . blue Chevy truck with California license plate V59036. If the owner of that vehicle would be kind enough to contact Scholastic, we’d really like to find out first of all how you got that space and then why you never seem to use your truck. If you did in fact lose your keys, we might be able to spot you the $50 fora locksmith so thatsbmeone else can have your space once in a while.
As usual, the Gipp found his mailbox as empty as Admiral James Stockdale's cranial cavity. Please, please, please let us know thatyou’re reading. Weappreciateall letters (except those from freshpersons asking about the contents of the radiation building). Address all correspondence and death threats to: The Gipp, c/o Scholastic, 303 LaFortune, campus mail. You can also call our friendly answering machine 24 hours a day at 239-7569.
SCHOLASTIC
Getting Ready to Show
The Equestrian Team prepares for the start of their competition season
The club's president, Angela Cutrona guides her horse in the ring.
Theresa M. Hennessey
Mention the name Notre Dame to almost anyone and thoughts of fantastic football supported by years of tradition will immediately come to mind. Although football is the most noted sport on campus, there are other athletic programs that give students a chance to use their talents and abilities. ’ The Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s College Equestrian Team is a group of horse-loving students that spend their leisure time at the stable, practicing their riding techniques and acquiring show-worthy skills to compete in intercollegiate horse shows.
“The team has come a long way over its few years in existence. We were pretty scanty at first, but we are getting much more competitive and the team’s spirit is really starting to build,” said Stephen Hayes, the club's faculty advisor.
The Equestrian Team is part of the Equestrian Club, which is run through Rec Sports. The club is open to any Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College student, faculty, or staff member, and it meets Tuesday and Thursday nights this semester for les
sons. The skill levels of club members range from those who have never been on a horse, to those who already have experience competing in shows. Last year, Larissa Wenning, who had never ridden prior to joining die club, qualified for regional competition, and represented Notre Dame in the Hunt Seat Division.
A maximum of seven people are allowed in each lesson, and they work closely with the instructor on different exercises and techniques, as well as walking, trotting, cantoring and small jumps. Schooling night is Sunday, a time when individuals work on skills acquired during the week.
Notre Dame competes against other schools such as Purdue and Ball State. However, these schools have a much larger club membership from which team members are chosen. Approximately fifty or sixty riders from these schools compete in each show, whereas Notre Dame has, on the average, only ten.
Point riders for each show are designated by the coaches, and their scores are then used toward the school’s regional placement Only eight point riders, one for each division, are used in each competition. This
allows schools like Notre Dame, with smaller programs, to compete fairly with those schools with larger teams.
“A lot of nationally-placed students will tend to ride, with Purdue because of its excellent program. In my opinion, however, at Purdue the sport tends to be primary, and the academics take second place. At Notre Dame, we have a lot of students who have ridden and competed, but Notre Dame is an academic school first,” said Hayes.
“There were times when we have been at a disadvantage because students have not, been able to compete simply because their academics had to take precedence. I don’t suspect, simply because of sheer numbers, that Purdue is ever at a lack of a point rider because they are studying,” said Hayes.
Despite of the fact that the Note Dame team is smaller than its two main competitors, it has done considerably well over the last few years. Active since 1987, the Equestrian Team is a member of the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association. After only its first competitive season, the team finished third in the region. Last year, four students qualified for the regional
■gpy5||^_

petition, and sophomore Julie Barry, the club's treasurer, represented Notre Dame at the zone championships in Cleveland, Ohio. In addition, senior Eric Ivanovich represented Notre Dame at the 1991 National Championships in Roanoke, Virginia, during his sophomore year.
“Even though we have a small club, we obviously have good riders or we wouldn’t be able to compete against big-name schools like Purdue. Notre Dame won two shows last year with an average of ten riders, so we’ve obviously come a long way,” said sophomore Megan Turpin, vice president of the club.
“We are really starting to fill out and get eight members who can collect points in all eight divisions, and that goes a long way in putting us up there,” said Hayes. “ The riders are really coming together as a team instead of as eight individuals. They’re now thinking ‘I have to plan my academics so I can do this,’ and that attitude makes a big difference.”
Unique to the intercollegiate way of com
petition is the fact that the team rides horses provided by the horse show sponsor. “You draw out of a hat, and you are getting on a
Megan Turpin, vice president of the club, concentrates on her jump.
horse you’ve never ridden before. Showing these horses in front of judges is definitely a challenge and probably the best way to improve your riding,” said Julie Barry. “Intercollegiate riders are known to be extremely good riders by the end of their four years.”
“The intercollegiate program is really the best. If you can ride intercollegiate, you can ride any horse that you are put on because you’re used to getting the luck of the draw. You have to go out there and have sufficient skills to handle any horse that they give to you,” said Hayes.
“For the students who are used to showing their own horse, it can be a little unnerving at first because they do not already know the quirks and qualities of the particular horse. This way, they just don’t know. They have to
adapt very quickly,” continued Hayes.
Instrumental in keeping the morale of the
team in high spirits is Leanne Stephens, owner of the Kensington Riding Center on Grass Road, the stable where the club houses the horses used during lessons.
“She helps with the lessons and helps with the team. She has gone to the shows out of her own pocket money, and she has made the difference with some of our jump teams. They’ll talk to her, and she’ll get them psyched, which is her skill as a coach,” said Hayes.
“She really helps as far as organization and planning, and helps make the team more competitive,” responded Megan Turpin.
Hunt Seat coach Cindy Thomson, and Westem/Stock Seat coach Trish Wolf are also assets to the program. “Their patience, knowledge and expertise is certainly recognized,” said Hayes.
Nick Spangler
Junior Erin Montgomery shows Western style.
The cost of the Equestrian Club is $165 a semester, which includes a lesson and use of ahorse each week. An additional $15 is required as a membership fee.
“The club at Notre Dame is able to pay the room and entry fees of the riders, but all other expenses are up to the individual. The equestrian program here is not fully funded by the university as compared to other schools such as St. Mary’s of the Woods. Their students do not have to pay a dime, and in the case of Purdue, lessons are paid for through course credit as part of the physical education program,” Hayes said. . ,.
The first Intercollegiate Horse Show of the season is on October 31, sponsored by St. Mary’s of the Woods. It is free of charge and within driving distance.
“We would certainly like to hear some more yelling for the Notre Dame riders rather than the weak little ten of us, especially compared to Purdue’s crowd of 50 or 60,” said Hayes.
The equestrian team competed in an informal show last Sunday to prepare them for their first competition. The riders were able to practice their techniques and to sharpen their skills before their season officially begins.	□
SCHOLASTIC
OMMBlIjEg
By Michelle Crouch
To most people, running a couple miles is not only unpleasant, but it’s also downright detestable.
Bill Farabaugh, Matt Cronin, Suzanne Vieira and Mike Radford arenot on the track team. Yet they all run between 30 and 50 miles a week. Why? To train for the Chicago Marathon.
Scheduled to take place October 25, the Chicago Marathon is a 26.2 mile fiat run which begins in Daley plaza and winds through Chicago. The last thirteen miles will be on Lakeshore Drive, and the marathon ends in Grant Park. Over 10,000 people are expected to run in the marathon, benefitting the Mercy Home for Boys and Girls.
All of the runners from Notre Dame are seniors, and they have different reasons for wanting to participate in this grueling event.
“It’ssomething I’ve said for years I’ve wanted to do,” explained Farabaugh. “This year I’ve finally decided to try it.” Farabaugh also has an older sister running in it, and he mentioned that all of his other sisters run marathons too.
An experienced sibling was a motivating factor in Cronin’s case as well. “I’m really excited. My older brother ran a marathon this summer, so now I have to show him that
I can do it. I want to beat his time,” asserted Cronin.
For Vieira, running the marathon became a goal and “something to look forward to.” She said, “I figure if a couple thousand people are doing it, so can I.” In addition, “it’s fun and a good way to get in shape.”
Radford said, “It’s a thing I’ve always wanted to do. This is the time in my life to do it” However, he did not decide to participate in the marathon until he went to London last semester with Farabaugh and another student who plans to run. Together they talked Radford into it, and the three of them even began training in London.
“For a while I was unsure,” commented Radford, “But in the last couple weeks, I’ve really gotten into the spirit of it. I’m really excited.”
All of the runners are spending a lot of time and effort training for the marathon. Most Of them began running seriously this summer.
Vieira began running every day in May, then in July she started doing 20-30 miles per week. When she got to Notre Dame, she and Farabaugh began training together.
“It’s good because we encourage each other. I don’t see how you could possibly train alone. It’s so nice to have somebody to talk to,” she said.
They usually run between five and eight
miles, four or five times a week, and they run even farther on Sundays. When they began running, their long run was 14 miles, and they have been adding two miles every week. This past Sunday they ran 22 miles. They will continue this routine until two weeks before the race, when they are supposed to run only short distances so then-bodies can rest for the marathon.
“I think all runners are pretty crazy,” remarked Bill, “If I did not have the marathon to aim for, I wouldn’t be running this much.”
He said, “In a way, you kind of get addicted to running. If you miss a day, you feel uneasy.”
Radford prefers not having a consistent training schedule. “I run when I can,” he explained. According to him, this usually consists of six to seven miles every other day during the week and 10 tol5milesaday on the weekends.
He occasionally runs with other runners. In these instances, they try to keep up a conversation as they run because it “means you’re not winded.”
Croninprefers to run alone: “I train on my own because I can go anytime. I hate waiting forpeople—it’s aburden. I just do it whenever I want”
He began running eight miles every day (continues on page 14)
I
Send information for your event to: Kate Wiltrout, Coming Distractions Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday
15
Video Series: “The Africans,"
Montgomery Theater, Room 107 LaFortune, 7:30 p.m.
Friday
16
Senior Class Trip: Chicago Bulls vs. Seattle Supersonics, tickets available at information desk.
Saturday 24
Tennis: NotreDame Varsity vs.
Alumni, 5:00 p.m.
Football: Notre Dame vs. Brigham Young University, 12:35 pm.
J
Enjoy your fall break! Here’s the calendar of fun-filled events to keep you busy when you return!
I
LaFormrioI^^
239^8128



SM^CjasK^Ol?^
- Z *	- X , /Z \	<■✓ ' ’ fY ,^/y 4> - z" - -z ’ ■ ' /' / A- '	<,
Sophomore Class: ■ 239-5225
ND News Line:
JACCTicketlrforrh
■f
■;■<■< r
■■1
S®ffit;t3Mon®qar<i:.;239-7757 W39-7354

Notre Danie MenuLine: 2834 OOD
•W&kehd:'W

'5^
TouChJFour s,I
■ ■ Dial 239-2500, then press: x 1211 for news headlines x 1212 for local news x 1932 for top pop albums x 1911 for prime time TV
. x 1906 for video releases
x 1600 for local weather
x 1603 for national weather
x-1903 for movie reviews
x 1300 forlocalsports info.
x 1301 for TV sports events
x 1303 for nationalsports report
x 1213 for world news



IW w




£^3

।
ft

bunday
25
Joccer: Notre Dame Women ys. Providence, Alumni Field, 1:00 p.m. Performance: South Bend Symphony Pops and The Platters, Morris Civic Auditorium, 7:30 p.m., Tickets $6-$19. Exhibition Opening: Sculptures of Anthony Lauck, Shite Museum of Art, lp.m.-4p.m.
Monday 26
film: "Gold Diggers of 1935," 7:00 p.m., >nite,$2.
film: "The Masque of the Red Death," >:00 p.m., Snite, $2-.
FAiigiisl
w
Tuesday
Film: "Girlfriends," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "Boyz n the Hood," 9:00 pjn., Snite, $2.
Discussion: "Sculptures: A Personal
View," Anthony J. Lauck. The Snite Museum of Art, 12:10 p.m.-12:55 p.m.
Wednesday 28
No events scheduled.
Movie Theatres:

i|Ss^
lOO^C^^C^ I3SSB9MI
Scottsdale Theatre
291-4583
Mat
|fr^SculpturetExhibiton:2EighteenTsteel‘sculpuife[ofrFrederick^eckmm^
&
Town &. Country Theatre.
M 259.9096 '-7
University Park Cinema East:


University Park Cinema West: 277:04417'' : T;




(continuedfrom page 11) this summer, and he has tried to continue that since he has been at school.. He is refraining from any longer distances in his training because he has very weak knees and joints which have prevented him from running in previous marathons.
Unlike the Boston Marathon, runners in the Chicago Marathon are not required to qualify or to have previous experience ! runninginamarathon. Inaddition,thereare stations serving Gatorade and water every i	two miles and lots of support—people are
; usually lined up cheering for the runners along all 26.2 miles. Thus, the Chicago |	Marathon is recommended as a good “first”
I	marathon.
! None of these runners have had experi-j ence running in a marathon before.
' “All of my friends just laughed when I | told them I was going to do it,” said ! Radford. “I’dprobablybevotedleastlikely to run a marathon among my friends.”
Radford never ran in high school; instead, he played baseball and basketball. Since he knew he could not qualify for the varsity level in these sports at Notre Dame, he picked up running. “It’s a good release. It gives you time to think about things and unwind,” he explained.
The six-mile Domer Run last Saturday was the first run in which he had ever, competed.
Vieira and Farabaugh never ran competitively in high school either, but they have both run a couple of lOKs. “This is a much
bigger thing,” said Farabaugh. “It's only a 10K race, I could go out any day and run it A marathon involves so much preparation. It’s like an Olympic moment”
Cronin, on the other hand, ran track in. high school, and he has had experience training for marathons before. A large warton his foot and knee problems have kept him from running before now.
Cronin played hockey and football in high school, too, but he likes running because “it’s a great opportunity to set individual goals and to strive to attain them.”
Each of the runners has different goals they hope to accomplish in the marathon.
Cronin hopes to finish the race since he was unable to compete in the past “The distance isn’t what scares me; it’s my knee,” said Cronin. If his knee does not bother him, Cronin hopes to beat his brother’s time.
Radford has three basic objectives: to finish, to reach the 15 mile mark in two hours and to run all 26.2 miles in under four hours.
Vieira’s goal is less specific. “We don’t know if we’re going to be dying or okay. It’s hard to anticipate how we’ll be doing. I just want to be able to finish it.”
Bill is looking to run the marathon in under three hours and 30 minutes. “Whether or not it’s achievable, I don’t know,” he said. He just wants to cross the finish line.
“If you can run a marathon, you can do
anything,” said Farabaugh.
□
14 \
SCHOLASTIC
OPQRTS
Running Away
Notre Dame's men's and women's cross country teams are running away $ from their field and toward championships.
By Michelle Crouch
UW e’ll live and die for each other,” W saidjuniorMikeMcWilliamsof the Notre Dame men’s cross country team. In this statement, McWilliams summed up the tremendous unity of the men’s and women’s cross country teams that has led both of these teams to extremely successful openings to their respective seasons.
The men’s cross country team, ranked sixth in the nation, remains undefeated.
. Their first three meets included a meet against Georgetown, the National Catholic Meet and the Notre Dame Cross Country Invitational.
In their first meet against Georgetown, the Irish men crushed the Hoyas, 24-31. Mike McWilliams and senior captain John Coyle led the Irish pack in this decisive victory.
The meh continued their dominance by winning the National Catholic Invitational, their fifth National Catholic title in the last six years. The unity of the team was demon-strated in the fact that Irish runners McWilliams, Coyle and sophomore Nate Ruder won the race together. Sophomore John Cowan clinched the Irish victory with a fourth place finish.
On October second, the Irish men battled it out with Michigan at the Notre Dame Invitational. The Irish held on to their title, narrowly defeating Michigan by one point. Once again, McWilliams and Coyle led Notre Dame, but the performances of the Irish three, four and five runners were the key to Notre Dame’s victory in this race. These runners were, respectively, Ruder, senior Nick Radkewich and sophomore J.R. Meloro. 
The women’s cross country team is also making a name for itself. Their first meet against sixth-ranked Georgetown was a tough one, but the Irish women forced the Hoyas to fight for their victory.
At the National Catholic Invitational, the women reasserted their strength. Placing seven of the top ten, the Irish women blew away the second place finisher, St. Thomas, by 80 points. Sophomore Sarah Riley led the Irish in first place, followed by sophomores Stefanie Jensen, Emily Husted, Eva Flood, Becky Alfierr and senior Lisa Gorski.
The Irish women’s team momentarily lost
its momentum at the Notre Dame Invitational when it lost to Michigan, although a second place finish is not bad against the 11 th-ranked team.
Both the men’s and women’s cross country teams face tough upcoming opponents this season.
The men’s team will be in Oregon this weekend where they will compete against
Nick Spangler
Although young and inexperienced, the women's cross country team Is quickly making a name for itself.
four top 25 teams. Because of this stiff
competition, this meet is important to reaffirm their national ranking of sixth.
“This should be a good intersectional rivalry that we need to win,” said head track and cross country coach Joe Piane.
The women’s team will be at the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet this weekend. At this meet last year, the women placed second overall. Piane believes that the women
OCTOBER 15,1^92 ; ' '	\ v	..:-AW
s
should be “stepping up to first place this year. In my opinion, they should be favorites.”
On October 31, the men and women will go to the Midwest Collegiate Conference meet in Cincinati.
Both the men’s and women’s teams will compete in the NCAA DistrictFour Meet on November 14. Piane considers this meet the most important for both teams because “it’s the vehicle for obtaining a bid to the NCAA Championship.” Forty-five teams will be competing for the top two spots so that they can automatically receive abid for aposition in the NCAA championship meet.
The men’s team is determined to get to the NCAA championship this year, having barely missed qualifying for it last year. Last year, although ranked fifth in the country, the Irish men placed fourth in the District Meet and did not receive an automatic bid to the national championship. However, the NCAA supposedly compensates for “bad days” by having four at-large bids to the NCAA Championship. Surprisingly, Notre
Dame was not elected to receive one of these bids, even though it was ranked fifth in the country. This is supposedly because it did not play enough top 25 teams.
The women’s program was formed only two years ago, and last year was the first year women were actively recruited as runners. Consequently, the young team is psyched to get its first bid to the NCAA Championship.
“Our first goal is to get there,” said women’s coach Tim Connelly. “It’s not going to be easy, but it's definitely realistic.”
Sarah Riley, die sophomore standout on the team, wants to get there because “it will be a learning experience so that when our
team is older, we’ll have a chance to do at Nationals last year, “but it’s really well there.”	been a real motivating factor for
Not surprisingly, as a result of last year’s
recruiting, the bulk of the women’s team this year is made up of sophomores.
Riley has led the Irish women across the finish line in all three of this year’s meets, withherbesttimesofarat 17:52. Lastweek, Riley earned the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Runner-of-the-Week award. According to Connelly, she runs very consistently and should continue her strong performances.
Eva Flood, another sophomore, was the top runner for most of last year. Although
always placing in the Irish top seven this year, herperformance has not yetreached its peak level.
“She is very fit; she just hasn’t put together a good race yet,” explained Connelly.
Sophomores Emily Husted, Becky Alfieri, Stefanie Jensen and Kristy Krame are also in the top seven this year and are expected to continue their excellent performance.
Lisa Gorski is the lone senior in the top seven, and she is also the captain of the team. She is a hard worker and a consistent runner.
The freshmen on the women's team show great promise as well and Connelly commented that many of them are “extremely talented.”
The men’s team is not lacking in talent either, as is evident by its undefeated status.
Mike McWilliams has led the Irish to first place in all of their meets this year. He received All-American honors in his first two years of competition, and he is ready to go this year.
“My goal is to do my best,” said
McWilliams. “Some people say I’m already there but I don’t judge myself by the people behind me. I judge myself by the people in front of me, and I still see a lot more places for myself to improve.”
Fellow All-American John Coyle has emerged as a team leader both on and off the course. He serves as the captain of the team, and this year he has been right behind McWilliams on the race course. Coyle was disappointed in his performance
me to get back and prove I can do better,” he explained. However, he stressed, “I haven’t really focused on my individual performance. If the team does well, I’m happy.”
Another top competitor for the Irish men is senior Nick Radkewich, who Coyle describes as “always the last one to leave practice and a member of the top seven since his freshman year.”
Ruder has also been a strong runner this year, finishing even with McWilliams and Coyle in the National Catholic Championships.
Although all of these runners are strong individually, the nature of cross country meets allows that neither of the Irish cross country teams would be where it is now without the tremendous amount of unity present on the team.
The coaches and captains on both teams repeatedly stress this factor.
Mike Smedly, a freshman, commented, “The team unity was always there. On the recruiting trip, I felt like I was part of the team already.”
“Regardless of what we’re doing, I’ve never had a better group of friends than our team. We brought in a group of freshmen a month ago, and they’re our best friends already,” said McWilliams.
. The unity that is evident to those on and off the team is what will lead the Irish cross country teams to victories on the rough road of Districts and Nationals. . □
Coach Plane councils his charges before sending them out oh one of their grueling workouts.
I MB-/ • BO '	\	k.:..’	:	SCHOLASTIC
---
ijgMWS:

NOTRE DAME
FOOTBALL TODAY
Finally, a book that offers a rare photographic look behind the scenes of Fighting Irish football during the Lou Holtz era.
By Jim Kuser
YTT hile much has been written over the W years on the tradition of Fighting Irish football, Notre Dame Football Today offers a rare photographic look behind the
scenes of the nation’s most prestigious college football program during the Lou Holtz era.
This 144-page hardcover volumeboastsa foreword by former Irish quarterback Joe Montana, an essay by Malcolm Moran of The New York Times, and quotes from players, coaches, students and administrators. Yet, the focus of this project is undoubtedly the photography, the culmination of over three years of work by seven of the most acclaimed photographers in the world.
After two years of photographing the ins and outs of Notre Dame football, Rich Clarkson, a former Director of Photography for the National Geographic Society, enlisted photographers Brian Lanker (Pulitzer Prize winner, National Newspaper Photographer of the Year), John Loengard (Life, People), Kenneth Jarecke (Life, Time), George Olson (Sports Illustrated, National Geographic), Bob Sacha (Time, Sports Illustrated) and David Alan Harvey (Magazine Photographer of the Year, National Geographic). This team shot over 30,000 photos during three years of unrestricted access to the entire program. More than 120 outstanding photos were selected for the publication of the book.
Said Montana upon.reviewing a copy of Notre Dame Football Today, “This is the most intimate, colorful and emotional look at Fighting Irish football that I’ve ever seen.
It really captures the traditions of Notre Dame football.”
Lou Holtz also sang the praises of Notre Dame Football Today. “When I was first approached about this book, I was skeptical. I think any coach would be wary of welcom
ing a photographer into the team locker rooms, meetings and prayer sessions. But when I sat down and thought about it, I realized what a great opportunity it was. We always stress toplayers the importanceof all the little things that go into a successful season: die endless hours of film sessions, team meetings, road trips, etc. This book not only gives people a chance to get a glimpse of something more than what happens on Saturday, but it provides a feel for some of our players as people.
“I was told that this book would be about the whole Notre Dame football experience. There are many people who contribute to Notre Dame football. Our students, staff, administration and fans are all so important to our success, but their work is often thankless. This is the chance to recognize all their efforts. After seeing the book, I was thrilled with the outcome. I think you will agree that this book measures up to Notre Dame’s standards of excellence.”
To quote Joe Guise, the text editor of the book, “This is a real tribute to Notre Dame’s outstanding tradition. We plan to under
take similar projects at Michigan, Oklahoma and Southern Cal, among others. But there is no better starting point than Notre Dame. Notre Dame defines college football.”
Notre Dame Football Today costs $39.95 and can be ordered by calling800-621-9342
ext. 590, or by mailing a check payable to Notre Dame Football Today, c!o University of Notre Dame, 112 Joyce ACC, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Copies can be purchased at the Notre Dame Bookstore or at the Varsity Shop on the ACC's second floor. □
Among those pictured Is Tim McCarthy, who after 25 years with the Indiana State Police still does the fourth quarter safety annoncements.

SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
•SUBUJAV
• SR 23 At Ironwood
• US 31 N (By North Village Mall)
MALE & FEMALE ATHLETES OF THE WEEK
Tim Oates	Christy Faustmann
TIM OATES , a sophomore from Virginia Beach, VA, led the Notre Dame men's soccer team to victory last Sunday in Evansville. Oates scored the only goal of the game within the last three minute of the match. Notre Dame beat Evansville with a score of 1-0. This game winning goal marks the third of Oates' career. The team now has an overall record of 7-4-1.
CHRISTY FAUSTMANN, a junior from Aiken, SC, gave an outstanding performance for the Notre Dame women's tennis team in the Eck Tennis Classic at Notre Dame last Sunday. Faustmann won the B Flight singles and the A Flight doubles titles. Faustmann and her doubles partner, Lisa Tholen, are currently ranked 17th in thenation.	.
by J. Bradley Keck
My little O.O.B contest did not work as well as planed. I wanted to be at the office last Thursday so that O.O.B.’s fans could call to give me some feedback and strive to be that special caller who would receive top billing in this weeks column. Well, our editorial board meeting was can
celled and I was not at my desk to answer all the calls that I’m sure were just jamming the phone lines. But one faithful reader went above and beyond and tracked me down at my lovely home. Yes, you, Brian R. Perkins, are the greatest O.O.B. fan on the face of this campus. (My mother is probably the biggest fan in the world.)
National news article of the week: “Crippled by Computers” in Time. This story explored different ailments that can occur due to long hours in front of a computer. For me this was old news after last Sunday, Monday and Tuesday’s marathon on the computers at Scholastic. You just never think it can happen to you.
Bimbo, Blond and Buxom
• Teen Talk Barbie is stirring up women’s groups' across the nation. The famous American doll opened her mouth for the first time in 50 years and it seems that she did not have a lot of positive things to say to today’s
young women. In one of her recorded messages Barbie says, “Math class is tough.” The American Association of University Women has lodged a protest with Mattel claiming that this statement might deter girls from taking Math or trying to excel in that subject.
In another instance, Barbie says, “I’m going to be a veterinarian.” I wonder if in 15 years or so there willbe an excess of Doctors
of Veteririariy Medicine who don’t know how many cattle are in a dozen or the length of a foot. No math and plenty of science— what a case of mixed messages. The most important issue, though, is still not resolved — Barbie’s body language. The doll is telling little girls to become anorexic and to get boob jobs. Food is the enemy and so is a little doll.
HAZY SHADE OFCRIMINAL
“THE PICTURE ON THE COVER IS OF TWO BLACK
IN 1930 INDIANA GETTING HANGED FOR b THAT THEY DIONT DO BASED ON CRACKER
OF
RACISM, J EALOUS YrENVY.AND~GREED.JN 1992 BY NO COINCIDENCE IN THE STATE OF INDIANAJLGOOD ---------------------HANGED THK ^NEVER-CHANGQ QSATT AND ALIZ
VREE THE41 WOMEi
MlKETONlM INDREDS OF M rWHO-ARE POUTII
CEILS OF THE
HELL IS ON EARTH!’
mKblack MEONO I PRISONERS-IN'TlfE JAIL lARES OF AMERIKKKA...
Fried Fish
Animal rights activists have become very influential in all types of industry, from cosmetics to entertainment. Disclaimers affirming the safety of the animals used in testing or movies have become as commonplace as parental advisory stickers on CDs. At the end of Robert Redford’s new movie,
A River Runs Through It, there is one such disclaimer. The movie contains many fishing scenes, it is a type of fly-fishing flick, you might say. Anyway, in the closing credits this message appears: “No fish were killed or injured in the production of this film.” After the Hollywood premiere, at the post-premiere party, fish were reportedly served. No disclaimer regarding the welfare and safety of the fish fried, broiled and baked to create such a meal was placed on the tables.
It Takes a Nation of Millions (or 12)
Mike Tyson, before he was inconvenienced by being sent to jail, was slated to make a cameo appearance in Honeymoon in Vegas. One of Nicolas Cage’s clients comes, to him (a private eye) to help in determining whether or not his wife is having an affair with Mike Tyson. It becomes a running joke throughout the movie until the very end when Mr. Tyson was supposed to walk across a hotel lobby with the client’s wife.
Alas, the “real champion” was unable to make it due to his untimely incarceration. This prosecution of Mr. Tyson has also made the news due some comments by Chuck D of Public Enemy. Ori the cover of their single “Hazy Shade of Criminal” is a photograph of the Indiana lynchings of the 1930’s. Inside, Public Enemy writes that this atrocity has been reflected today in the conviction of Mike Tyson. Chuck D, in a clarifying interview, stated that he just doesn’t think that white men should or can fairly judge black men. There is one slight problem: the jury that tried Tyson was made up of a cross-section of society; containing two black men, one black female and three
In the Works
white females. I think that Chuck D has some valid points, but wow, Tyson got a little fairer shake than the victims of a hateful lynching. I also have a lurking suspicion that Tyson was indeed guilty.
Wayne’s World director Penelope Spheeris has been chosen to direct a new movie. The Beverly Hillbillies are coming to the silver screen. Casting has just begun to fill the roles of a lifetime. Jethro, Pa and Granny are all up for grabs and they will probably be the gateway toward a bigger career for some lucky actors. Slated to open over the Fourth of July weekend, this is one movie destined for success. NOT!
Broadway executives are bouncing around the idea of producing a grand-scale musical based on Beauty and the Beast. If the plans go through, it will be the first time an animated film has inspired a Broadway musical and one of the few movies ever reformulated for the stage. If only Arnold Schwarzenegger and Juliette Lewis could sing.
Off My Chest
Up and Coming
GQ this month had a short blurb about . political T-shirts. They reported that in New York at the Fashion Institute of Technology during the Democratic National Convention, 60 shirts were displayed. Most seemed to be directed at the incompetency of the Bush/Quayle ticket. One of the best at the exhibition read “Grandma looted L.A. and all I got was this lousy T-shirt.” Another shirt depicted a version of Edvard Munch ’ s The Scream and was captioned “President Quayle.”
Some of the Scholastic favorites include one with the G.O.P. elephant on the front, captioned, “Your Brain” and on the back a picture of the Democrat’s Donkey, captioned, “Your Brain on Drugs.” I’m sure that this style could be used in reverse as well. Another favorite is a picture of Quayle with the universal no sign around his picture and the caption, “Just Say Noe.” For Tricky Dick fans we came across one stating, “He’s Tan, He’s Rested, He’s Back; Nixon in ‘92.” But hey, how can you beat, “Read My Lips; Lick Bush in ‘92.”
Miss Saigon opens Saturday at Audito- . rium Theater of Roosevelt University ... Tickets on sale now for Pre-Broadway world premiere of The Goodbye Girl, a musical by Neil Simon, Marvin Hamlisch and David Zippie, starring Martin Short and Bernadette Peters ... Tangerine Dream, Saturday at the Park West Theater ... Cheap Trick, Saturday at the Rialto Square Theater ... Robert Cray Band, Saturday at Chicago Theater ... k.d. Lang, Friday at Chicago Theater ... B.B. King, Sunday at the Rialto Square Theater ... Sugar featuring Bob Mould with Boo Radleys, Friday at the Riviera Night Club... 1992 Ms. Olympia, Saturday at the Arie Crown Theater ... At the Movies, this Friday: The Public Eye, starring Joe Pesci and Barbara Hershey ... Consenting Adults, with Kevin Kline and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio... In the record stores Tuesday: Madonna, Keith Richards, The Farm, Maxi Priest, Sade, Cathedral, Robert Palmer, Grand Puba and videos by U2 and The Grateful Dead.

smnzzzzma
awnsnD
by Brian Muller and Colin Clary
it«c«umnw



The cool thing about Thursdays is “Acoustic Cafe” because tons of campus musicians and performers and stuff play for free in the 28 hour zone in LaFortune. It
starts at around nine and goes on until about twelve (like a good game of Yahtzee might) and is basically an open microphone and stage for anyone who has an act There are
mics and speakers and a stage and lights. It creates an atmosphere for people to just relax and listen and talk and be normal. It is unlike so many of the other overly-planned and structured “ways for students to have fun” at Notre Dame. People are normal at Acoustic Cafe. It isn’t tense and stressful (like the'final round of a the International Probe Championship might be).
Usually just about anybody and their buddies can throw together a few songs and sign up around 8:00 p.m. to play later in the
evening. The audience is blessed with tremendous variety and some odd things coming in fifteen minute increments throughout the night. Even if an act is really really bad, or if it’s a stand-up comic, you only have to sit through it for about 15 minutes and then there’s something new.
Yeah, and it’snotjustonecrowdofpeople at Acoustic Cafe. Anyone who walks through LaFortune can be lured do wn to that
pit. It could grow into a very popular place to be. This could be a significant thing to be reckoned with. There are more and more creative people appearing every Thursday night. You don’t have to be ten rocket scientists to play the guitar.
Really. Sometimes people who can’t even play get up there and play which means I guess that they can play and if you bring enough friends to clap for you nobody will
even notice whether you are good or not. I just think that there is a lot of love in the air and maybe it is like if there were 60’s people still around but nobody was getting beat up, you know?
Yeah, but you know it’s not like what some people might call crunchy or anything.
The Acoustic Cafe is kind of a classy atmosphere with those neat round tables and many chairs for sitting in. You could maybe sit next to a person you like while listening to the music and hug them if you get happy.
Or you could play a good game of Yahtzee, Battleship, Big Boggle, Junior Boggle, or Probe.
I think that having a place for musicians to play sometimes inspires more creativity. Like if you know you will have an audience to play for, you may attempt to write more original songs. Of course, Cliff Erickson is good at covers, so the average student can’t compete with that unless he/she makes up
their own stuff. Who knows? Maybe the Acoustic Cafe will give birth to thenextBob Dylan or Nirvana or Wilson Phillips or Billy Joel or someone good like that
This is a new thing. This doesn’t have Notre Dame written all over it like every
other gosh dam thing around here. I mean jeez. This is about individuals and people and life and love and mystery. Together we can make a difference...and then we can put
the sweatshirts back on with pride.
Holy cow, I think this is really important. I hope people will read this and take heed. We are on the verge of a new age of goodness and flowers for boys and girls and good music and kisses and the Grotto and respect for authority.
Acoustic cafe is held every Thursday night in the basement of LaFortunefrom nine until midnight. There is an open mic during the cafe. Many campus bands play at the Cafe
but the stage is open for any one who wishes to preform. Student Union Board and Student Activities sponsor this event and supply the sound system.
Brian Muller and Colin Clary are regulars at the Cafe and many Thursdays they can be found jamming, there with their band Brian, Colin and Vince.	□
News of the Bizarre from the Nation's Universities
BARING THEIR BUMS
Even as the administration at Brigham Young University is cracking down on the dress code of no skirts or shorts above the knee, students at the University of California’s Berkeley campus are demonstrating their right to wear whatever they want, even if that means nothing at all. The Chronicle of Higher Education reports that almost two dozens students went buck naked as part of a “nude-in” on the campus’s Sproul Plaza. The leader of the students informed curious on-lookers (would they qualify as Peeping Toms?) that he was trying to eradicate shame and redefine what is considered normal behavior. We’ll really give him credit if he comes here and bares it all on Fieldhouse Mall in, say, January?
BOOKSTORE FRAUD, FOR REAL!
It appears that Hammes Bookstore (on the campus) isn’t the only overpriced university bookstore in the nation. A former Penn State Univesity bookstore official was recently charged with theft of nearly $30,000 from the university. Let’s see, at ND that would buy approximately three sweatshirts and a few textbooks-paperbacks, of course.
FOND MEMORIES OF STEPAN CENTER
USA Weekend recently conducted a survey of the premier bands on the college circuit for their opinions of the country’s colleges and universities. Living Colour thought the best-looking women were at UC Davis, while the Dead Milkmen gave that honor to theladiesatTemple University. Ugly Kid Joe rated the University of California at Santa Barbara tops in three categories - hippest students, rowdiest students, and best party school. No surprise, since Ugly Kid Joe got their start at UCSB. Getting thumbs down from Sonic Youth was UCLA, for the geekiest students. George Washington University was awarded ugliest campus by Nitzer Ebb. Surprisingly enough, Notre Dame made the survey. The Indigo Girls’ favorite memory of a college gig occurred in our very own Stepan Center, where they recorded a live album, Back On the Bus Again.
WOUNDED IN ACTION
Okay, we might already be worried about playing USC over Thanksgiving. But is that reason enough for us to injure one of their players? The Chronicle of Higher Education reported that a USC football player was injured recently during practice by a stray bullet. They attribute the bullet, which hit the Trojan in the arm, to adrive-by shooting, but we know otherwise. We’ll just waitand see if there are any random shootings at Penn State in the near future.
ONLY THE BEST FOR THE BAND
It seems that the budget crises which are hurting other schools all across the nation haven’t yet hit Kansas. The Kansas University Marching Jayhawks recently spent $14,595 to replate all 22 sousaphones in their band with 24-karat gold. For those of us non-musical types, sousaphones are a relative to tubas and the largest brass instruments in the baj^L KU will be the only school in the Big Eight to have the gold sousaphones. Then again, maybe we shouldn’t be so judgemental - after, we do have the golden dome.
Edited by Kate Wiltrout
J.T. Burke and Steve Murphy
This is the second in a series of articles that spans the breadth of our infinite wisdom. Learn this tale, and repeat it to your offspring. Read deeply, children. The written word hath hidden meaning. Beware the Bovine!
Tribal legend held that ages ago the bearded vagrant wandered aimlessly before finding himself trapped on a desolate plain. Having lost all hope of finding civilization once more, he settled down, much to the perennial chagrin of those who would follow. He called his tribe the Do Locks and christened the landNaDlantis. The name Do Lock represented their staunch opposition to all modem, secular influences that threatened to corrupt NaDlantis, so named because the old mystic, in his senility, believed that the land was surrounded by ocean.
The Do Locks prospered and grew. After searching for some meaning in their otherwise insignificant existence, and sampling bits and pieces of every exotic theology they came across, they adopted a religion, a bizarre one indeed. They prostrated themselves to a hog’s hide every Fall around the time of the harvest moon. Gathering together in the great temple, they would repeatedly bellow their guttural incantations. Of simple minds, they had to continually remind themselves of the mostbasic aspects of their lives. They chanted, “We are Do Locks” and “This is NaDlantis.” Occasionally they would become so disoriented and confused in their religious frenzies as to holler, “We are NaDlantis.”
Although seemingly backward to today ’s
modem man, these strange rites brought fame from far and wide to the tiny NaDlantis. Other barbarian tribes began to imitate these sick and pathetic rituals. They would come from all over, or invite the Do Locks to their primitive temples, to see who could worship more fervently. So well did the Do Locks worship, that they became infected with hubris. Soon.itbecameappar-ent that the ritual could be exploited and prostituted to gain an upper hand in the barter system.
This is where the legacy of the bearded vagrant begins to erode. Instead of administering the business of the tribe in order to enrich the individuals, the high priests formed the Can’t See Crew. This group secretly conducted the affairs of the tribe in a manner which undermined any voices in the tribe that did not see things exactly as they did. They clung to dark methods which most of the Do Locks saw as perversely archaic.
One such anachronistic decree involved the interaction of the sexes. Due to their twisted theories, they , viewed the sexes as rabid beasts during certain lunar phases and separated them to prevent any possible contact during these times. Since the Do Locks reproduced by the male picking the nose of die female, the Can’t See Crew outlawed the picking of any noses within the walls of NaDlantis (picking one’s own nose could be seen as a form of self-gratification). The hospitals of NaDlantis were prohibited from distributing nasal spray for contraceptive purposes.
Since the Can’t See Crew operated underground where they could not be seen, they had to buy a symbol of their authority to
instill fear in the tribesmen. In order to emphasize the grandeur of their power, they purchased a cow to roam the region and graze on the premises. The bovine ate too much of the chemically-treated sod, went insane, and kicked the Do Locks out of their. huts with reckless abandon. The Do Locks could do little to protect themselves from the crazy cattle and lived their lives in fear.
Despite the warped efforts of the ruling high priests, they had to let some modem influences creep into NaDlantis. Like anything else they implemented, these innovations soon took on lives of their own. The Do Locks learned to regard October to April as the “season of sweat” when the heating. devices transformed their little adobes into sweltering saunas.
Most dangerous of all, they installed a water sprinkler system to keep the grass ripe so as to impress the pilgrims who ventured to the rituals. These spigots gradually sprung up all over NaDlantis. They began to take control from the Can’t See Crew, whose headquarters had become so overcrowded with bovine that they could no . longer operate efficiently. Soon, like the flood that washed away Noah’s people, the sprinklers spewed forth day and night, rain or shine, for forty days. NaDlantis disappeared in the deluge, and the bearded vagrant’s vision was realized. Future civilizations regarded him as a prophet
The legend of NaDlantis lives on in the hearts of those Do Locks who escaped before the Can’t See Crew lost their minds. Every harvest moon a new group of pilgrims searches for the NaDlantis experience. Good luck. May you find it.	□
What is Democratic

CJ za jpi Q11C TT1Q	^-e^ey Gartland
O Wldll^llI • and Amanda Clarke
M any people cringe when they hear the word “Socialism.” Socialism has. been consistently and deliberately misrepresented throughout the years by Communists and conservatives as a stripping away of people’s assets. This is a false and unfair definition of the concept. Socialism is actually a social order that raises the living standards of the majority by a fair and equal distribution of wealth and work. Democratic Socialists believe that the method of this distribution should be a profoundly democratic one. It is rooted in the idea that human beings should be free to develop to their fullest
government has the responsibility to ensure these rights for each of its citizens.
In this election year DSA-ND/SMC is concentrating on some specific issues. " .
Health Care: In the U.S. today there are 37 million people without any health care insurance. Our health care system is
the most expensive in the world, yet we rank higher in infant and child mortality rates than many industrialized countries. DSA supports a national health care health plan that would give Americans affordable,, comprehensive, high-quality health care and the peace of mind of knowing that an accident potential, and that public policies should be determined or illness will not result in financial ruin.
notby wealth but by popular participation. Itisthebelief	Homelessness: There are an estimated 3 million homeless
in community and the affirmation that I am indeed my persons in the U.S. — one of the wealthiest nations in the brother’s (and sister’s) keeper.	world. Under the conservative administrations of the l980s,
We believe that the United States has not been true to federal funding for low income housing has decreased dra-
democracy because it has not adopted this socialist ideal, matically. DSA believes that public policy should be dealing In the U.S. the importance of a citizen’s opinion is based with the structural causes of homelessness rather than cre-upon his wealth, not on his or her innate rights' as a ating band-aid policies. ■ Increased federal commitment to
ating band-aid policies. - Increased federal commitment to
memberofthesociety. Untilwerejectaneconomicorder low-income housing programs is needed, based on profit, alienated labor, gross inequalities of -------wealth and power, discrimination based on race and sex
Labor Rights: This country is turning into a low-wage economy while top executive are bringing home millions of and brutality and violence in defense of the status quo, the .. dollars. We believe this country needs an industrial policy United States will never have a “government of the which gives laborastrong voice. This policy shouldbeaimed people, by the people, for the people.” The Democratic at what is best for society in general, rather than the indi-Socialists of America plan to reestablish this democratic vidualistic profit motive.
vision by addressing instances of gross inequality that Education: DSA believes that all individuals should be
Kelley Gartland and Amanda Clarke are
exist in our society today.
DSA believes that all individuals have fundamental rights and that these rights should not be left to the sways of the free market These rights include not only political rights, but economic rights as well. Every individual has the right to an affordable, decent home. Every individual
members oj has the right to adequate health care. Every individual has Democratic the right to a quality education. Every individual has the
Democratic
Socialists oj right to be free from discrimination of any kind. Every
America.
individual has the right to a decent living wage. Rights necessitate responsibility. DSA believes that the U.S.
guaranteed the right to an equal and quality education. The public school system in this country is terribly inadequate. Federal funding of education must increase, job training should be provided for those who are not college bound; a college education should be available to all who. desire one, regardless of income.
These are just a few of the issues that DSA is concerned / about. If you share our view of social justice, or would like to find out more about democratic socialism, please feel free to . contact us or come to our meetings oh Tuesdays at 8 p.m; in . room 105 O’Shaugnessy Hall.	□



SCHOLASTIC
The National Shakespeare Company
presents
Mon. and Tues.
November 2 & 3
Washington Hall 8:10 pm
Student - $7
Non-Student - $10
Monday and Tuesday, November 2 & 3
Tickets:
non-profit organization
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame, IN
Permit No. 10
Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk Sponsored by:
Fly
SlUDRNr UNION HOARD
STUDENT ACTIVITIES