\~.~-;-~,~ft~1~;\tJ~:i)k~~ \-.~~ 
!i::~\~,f~~f::,;, ;0 


'.';J.,i-·.:;);:, 
,'ii~:~':itii>:,1,, :<:+:, <;rif <1r+,J,ti~i:l',it,~'.~~1~·;:~ri' · 
·-'~•,,·' ; '~;,: ';\.< > • ' 
.\j~:~t;>:~1:;, t~~,: 
·, 




CLASSROOM SCOPE: 
VE·AR OF THE FAMILY
. ~ . ~ . . . . . . . 

~ :.,-. 
' ' 
-------~--~::.'..----~ 

Can't figure out what to write? 



______CRIBE 
more 120 years, 

Please send _ years of Scholastic to: Name:___________ 

Notre Dame's 
Address:__________ City:_____State:_Zip:___ excuse not to 
Please make checks payable to : 

write home. 

Scholastic Magazine LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x _ years = $_ 
... 
---• -' • • --;-• • :__;,, • _,. I I) 


.. 

Sports 
Sportsweek 
A wrapup of some of the less publicized sports around campus featuring athetes of the week. 
Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues arc available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic arc those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts arc welcome. All unsolicited materials become the propcny of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1989 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 
Departments Week in Distortion Music On Other Campuses Coming Distractions Movies Final Word 

Editorial/ Page 23 
<·Ji;J,~~$ ~a11ai'e{J~~>au~;~nn•· 
•··•. ·• Graphic Arts Manager: VivJenne 
·•·•• .·. ·•·•·•.·.··•••··· ..·•.• Padi11a •· •·••:• · ·····• :,.. 
·•; Phot9•M~.n~g~r:;Mcffi ()~uda : • .. · Business: Jim Fi@i=frald 

.. Advertising:Tony Porcelli· 

Sept. 21, 1989 


Letters 


Examination of Schola tic 
Dear Readers: 
Last week, Mike Wiebcr's letter to the readers concentrated on ways in which you could get involved with Scholastic. Now I'd like to focus more on the maga­zine in general and someofthe particular highlights of this issue. Don't get me wrong, we're still anxious to hear from you. Once again, don't hesitate to call us at 239-7569 Ask for Mike or Andy with any comments, questions or criticisms. Don't be shy. 
Anyway, originally appearing in 1867, Scholastic has been through many style changes over the years. Among the most recent involved a return to its present 
formatforthe 1985-86schoolyear. This return followed a period in which Scho­lastic had much more of a literary focus. So, in a sense, we are a relatively young magazine with young traditions. 
One such tradition involves focussing on the football team before the first home game of every season. The Spar­tans of Michigan State wil be paying a visit on Saturday (remember: you heard it here first) and, consequently, JonPaul Polls previews that particular game on page 8. Some news from off the field relating to the team also appears in this issue. Jim Maggio details John F.oley's story of triumph and tragedy beginning on page 11. 
While news, features and sports stories 
vary from week Lo week, you will soon 
find the departments section to be a 
fairly consistent part of the magazine. 
Each issue includes a look at bizarre 
behavior on other campuses, music and/ 
or movie reviews, a "Week in Distor-Lion" article and the "Final Word." These last two probably merit some sort of an explana­tion. "Week in Distortion" is a series of off the wall articles wriuen by off the wall writ­ers. Its sole purpose is to entertain. The "Final Word" takes on an entirely different 
· objective, one of awareness raising. Gripes, praise, information and criticism could all serve as the means to this end. 
Hopefully, Scholastic is-entertaining, but our primary focus involves raising campus issues on three levels. We'd like to challenge the administration and faculty to better serve the student and challenge the student Lo take a more active role in all facets ofcampus life. You can start by reading Scholastic cover to cover. Enjoy! 
Andrew H. Hilger Editor in Chief 




On Other Campuses 

Rise and Shine! 
Students at Brown University get the 6 a.m. wake-up call, courtesy ofbulldozers and backhoes. 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
T 
he good news for some students at Brown University is that they will soon enjoy the convenience of a new $5.75 million annex to the John Carter Brown library. The bad news, especially for residents of the nearby Littlefield dormitory, is that they have been receiving an involuntary 6:30 a.m. wake-up call, along with the loss of some recreational area. The Brown Daily Herald reported that certain students arc less than enamored with the situation. "I think there's a Rhode Island law that you can only work from 6 a.m. to 9:30 a.m.," said Ted Hamann, a junior head counselor for one unit of the hall. "After that you're required to sit around, smoke cigarettes, and drink Cokes for the rest ofthe day." University officials maintained that the inconvenience is unavoidable in light of the need for library expansion. "I just hope it's a unit bonding experience," stated another Littlefield resident. 
The "Godsey Father" is a star in a movie produced at Mercer University's Atlanta campus. According to an article in the National On-Campus Report, the movi.e entitled "Raider's of the Lost Loot: or Indiana Holmes and the Temple of Debt," depicts a hero and his many adventures on campus before locating a secret door to the office of President R. Kirby Godsey. After scuffling with Godsey, he finds the loot, and inherits the presidency. Two seniors at the school produced the IS-minute flick in an attempt to lighten the mood about current financial troubles at the college. 
Statistics and notes from Spring Break '89 have for some time been appearing in college publications nationwide. One story in the College Press Service reveals the best-selling t-shirt in Palm Springs, Calif., is one bearing the slogan "Spring Break. Come on vacation, leave on probation.," a reference to the renewed riots and problems with students on vacation at the popular spot. State police in Indiana reluctantly declined to set up additional speed traps along I-65 this year because schools in the state scheduled their spring breaks at different times. But in Kentucky,· 15 state troopers worked overtime every weekend in March to ensure that beach-bound speedsters receive their well deserved tickets. And by April 3, Daytona police said they had arrested about 300 people on the beach already, mostly on drunk and disorderly charges. Furthermore, three hotels in the city were closed when hotel owners were slow to clean hallways or replace damaged balcony railings. 
Grad school or grade school? For former Creighton University basketball player Kevin Ross, the choice was the latter-grade school. Ross first made national headlines when he enrolled in Chicago's Westside Preparatory School following four years at Creighton. In addition, a front page story in The Creightonian identified that Ross is now suing the school for breach of contract. The suit charges Creighton with placing Ross in the grade school in 1982 under a written contract and then failil)g to monitor his progress. Ross claims that such negligence led him to suffer from a severe depression. The university decided to gamble on admitting Ross because of its good track record in helping marginal students succeed within their limitations. Ross scored nine out of a possible 36 on his 
ACT. 
_-• ~ 
,.........__. --­An ethical obligation won out over a legal one at Indiana University 
,I

when the school decided to award Scott Raper a full, four-year ·I :!
scholarship. The National On-Campus Report stated that the deci­
,I 

sion was made in order to honor a contract with the student's great­
II 

great-great-great grandfather in 1856. The ancestor was one of 68 i! Bloomington residents who paid $100 for a scholarship for his male I 1I descendants. Stipulations were that the grant had to be mentioned in each generation's will in order to be legally binding today. However, I when one of Raper's ancestor's died without a will, the university I 
!i

opted to forego the technicality. 1, 
I 

Students who have turned to Cliffs Notes' study guides when 
i 
!

reading the classics now have the chance to browse through "Spy Notes", a parody of the popular college student time saver. A report in The Chronicle ofHigher Education said that the booklets, written by the editors of Spy Magazine, include such features as a "master genre-in-a-nutshell comparison chart," a "simulated rap session with the authors," and 20 steps to literary success: a flowchart." It also includes a "slide rule" that lets readers "create a pop fiction novd of their own in minutes." l!I 

Movies/ Kristin Ballard 








RY MEET SALLY 
Ballard examines one ofthis summer's more popular films 
Sally, this is Harry Bums. Harry, 
. this is. Sally Albright." In the 
movie, "When Harry Met Sally ... ," Harry (Billy Crystal) and Sally (Meg Ryan) nod indifferently towards one another, quite sure that their friend­ship will not last longer than the eighteen­hour drive from Chicago to New York. 
As the trip progresses, the two become more certain of this fact. Sally is thor­oughly disgusted with her traveling com­panion, who spits grape seeds at the car window, criticizes her sex life, and makes a pass at her al though he is dating her best friend. Harry, annoyed with Sally's matter-of-fact attitude and tendency to take five minutes to order a meal just the way she wants it, decides they have very little in common. None of this matters, however, since Harry's theory that men and women can never be just friends dooms their friendship from the start. When the two college graduates arrive in New York, they end their trip with a hand­shake and, "Well, have a nice life." 
The friendship isn't over, however, and as writer Nora Ephron develops their relations~ip over the years, much about men, women, and how they relate with one another is revealed. Stereotypes of men and women are highly visible. Through Harry we see the insensitive, rude and extremely sexual side of men. 
He claims that no man can see a woman as only a friend since, regardless of her appearance, he always wants to sleep with her. 
Harry has sex with every woman he takes out, leaves early after spending the night with them, and complains about how women want to be held all night after making love. He feels that thirty sec­onds is long enough. Sally depicts women as oftentimes predictable. She repeatedly refuses to tell Harry some­thing personal but when he says, "Fine, don't tell me," she opens up and tells him everything. She also starts wearing more skirts and dresses when he casually men­tions that she looks good in them. Women are also seen as sensitive, yet strong. Sally is very intense, and puts a lot ofherself into herrelationships and, as a result, sometimes gets hurt. She is independent, however, and continues just fine on her own. 
Much more is revealed about the way 
men and women think through the other 
characters as well. Harry's friend Jes has a hard time believing that Sally can have . both good looks and a great personality. 
Something must be wrong with her since 
Harry is not interested in her sexually. 
Sally's best friend, Marie, played by 
Carrie Fisher, is a perfect example of the 
swinging single woman desperately trying to find a stable, meaningful rela­tionship. 
Writer Nora Ephron and Rob Reiner, who directed and co-produced "When Harry Met Sally ... ", along with Andrew Scheimen, remind us of the universality of love and friendship in a wonderfully creative way. The theme of the classic "Casablanca" runs throughout this movie suggesting to us the importance and timelessness of love. The short, periodic segments of married couples telling of the events leading up to their marriages provide humorous interrup­tions throughout the movie and give further insight into the relationships be­tween the sexes. 
Although men and womenwere often confined to their respective stereotypes, the movie did not seem offensive. The writer and producers did a wonderfuljob in taking a common subject and creating a unique way to express iton screen. The interjections of the married couples and the split screen telephone conversations were original and added much to the movie. The actors were perfect for their parts. Billy Crystal, Meg Ryan and Carrie Fisher did an excellent job in portraying their characters. Not only is "When Harry Met Sally ... " humorous and great entertainment, but it provokes a lot of thought ahd can be applied to many situations in everyday life. II 
Scholastic 

Music{ Karen Holderer and David Holsinger 

DEADO 
-BRITISH BAND PROVES THEY CAN STILL SPIN YOU ROUND 

Most people associate the band DEAD OR ALIVE with their 1985 hit single "You Spin Me Round (Like A Record). That song had an in­fectious, memorable chorus that put the Liv­erpudlian group in the charts all over the world. Dead Or Alive have set out to recapture that success with the -songs from their latest al­bum "Nude". The 12" remix of their first American release from "Nude", "Come Home With Me Baby", was recently number one on Billboard's dance chart. The rest of the tracks on "Nude" arc highly energized , danceable songs that prove DOA are just beginning their assault on America's dance floors. DOA spent much of the time between their last album of original material "Mad, Bad, And Dangerous To Know" and the recording of "Nude" becoming the biggest, highest­selling band in Japan since Michael Jackson. DOA have now mastered what lead singer Pete Bums terms "instant" pop songs. The album opens with "Tum Around" And Count To Ten", their first British single from "Nude" which did not fare well in the U.K. charts. Side one improves with "Give It Back That Love Is Mine" and ends with one of the best songs on the album " Stop Kicking My Heart Around". Side two opens with the hit "Come Home With Me Baby". The 12" remix of this song is excellent. " Nude" marks a departure for the band away from producers Stock, Aitken, and Waterman (who have produced artists such as Bananar­ama,Rick Astley, and Donna Summer). This gives DOA a sound similar to their earlier work from albums such as "Sophisticated Boom Boom". DOA haven't forgetten to include their trademark, catchy lyrics or titles. "Get Out Of My House", "I Don't Wanna Be Your Boyfriend", "I Cannot Carry On", and" My Forbidden Lover" sum up side two. If you don't particularly like dance music, you will not appreciate DOA's style. One negative aspect of "Nude" is that it is almost impossible for DOA to top the enormity of "You Spin Me Round". DOA haven't hit number one in their native Britain since March 'of 1985. Despite this fact, "Nude" is a fantastic dance album, and a clear message to fans that this band is ready to fill America's dance floors. II 
All of you terminally depressed, black-clad Bahaus fans: rejoice! Someone remembered the band on their ten-year anniversary. Al­though the masters of the gloom-and-doom gothic rock underground are no longer around, Beggars Banquet/RCA has released "Swing the Heartache-The BBC Sessions" in recognition of this historic occasion. The album, a compilation of Bahaus' broadcasts on BBC radio from 1980 to 1983, contains previously unreleased songs and also differ­ent renderings of some old favorites. 
In 1986, Beggars Banquet put out an epic two-volume set with most of the Bahaus catalog of their 1979-83 career. Unfortu­nately, the set was quite expensive and ex­tremely difficult to obtain as it was released entirely on an independent label. The new compilation is not a douplc album and is widely available. 
Although "Swing the Heartache" isn't going to bring the group a throng of new followers, it does provide an interesting in­sight into the work of this highly influential and unique band. All of the tracks come from 
five different sessions aired on BBC radio.  
According to the liner notes, "Bahaus opted  
to explore 'off-the-record' ideas." Many of  
the tracks are merely rough drafts of songs  
released later, such as "In the Flat Field" and  
"Silent Hedges." Other tracks include the  
now legendary cover of David Bowie's  
"Ziggy Stardust" as well as a cover of"Night  
Time" by The Strangeloves.  
Ofpariicular interest are two unreleased B­ 
sides of singles, "Departure" and "Party of  
the First Part." The latter is a modem twist on  
the old Faust theme set to an eerie, jazz­ 
parody background. It tells, through narra­ 
tion superimposed over the music, the tale of  
a young would-be singer who unknowingly  
signs away her sour to the devil-something  
only Bahaus would try to do on a national  
radio show.  
It was only fair that a retrospective like  
"Swing the Heartache" should come out to  
pay homage to the "real" gothic rock. Now  
that old masters like Joy Division andBahaus  
have been replaced by their more easily di­ 
gestible offshoots, New Order and Love and.  
Rockets, it'.s good to see that someone in the  
record business can still afford to pay atten­ 
tion to the catalysts of the rock scene as it  
exists today. Since sugar-coated singles like  
"So Alive" and dance tracks by New Order  
are the only remnants of the old goth-rock  
bands, this album has managed to rise above  
all the commercialism presently glutting the  
,·  airwaves. The raw, primal and ever eerie  
Bah a us are still heard true-to-form on "Swing  ! I!  
the 1-Icartache." One final piece advice for the  ,,  
Love and Rockets "fans" who bought the  
cassette single of "So Alive" this summer:  
don't run out and buy this new Bahaus release  
unless you know what you're getting into.  
This album is for the devoted fan. ¦  

Week in Distortion/ Chris Carroll 



coping the Classroom 
Chris Carroll explains phenomonon known as perfect attendance' 
S he's beautiful. No, check that. She is God's special gift to man, particularly you; a sunset per­sonified. When you see her choirs of angels erupt into song, rivers cease their timeless flowing, rockets burst in the air, mountains crumble to the sea, flowers bloom, and all creatures of the earth momentarily converse in the same lan­guage. O.K. So I'm being a bit dramatic, but I speak of an entity familiar to most normal college-aged males: the class­room scope. Naturally, I realize that females also probably single out some innocent guy to be the temporary focus of their distant adoration, but, because I wasn't born a woman, I can only take a man's perspective. And thus, what fol­lows is a brief history of the common, fictional classroom lust-affair. 
The classroom scope exists in the mind of the scoper even before he actually selects a victim. You see, it's a well known fact that at the beginning of each semester the subtle excitement one feels when attending all new classes can­not be attributed to the quality of the professor nor the subject matter. Nope. What really gets your blood flowing is wondering WHO will be in those classes. Will buddies from your dorm be in there? Friends from other classes? Will every­one be complete strangers? Or maybe, just maybe, Samantha What's-her-face, the girl you met that one time at Bridget's, will be in there. Regardless, you have the 'Tm curious" mindset and are subse­quently vulnerable to discovering that special someone who will serve as a much needed distraction during the many tedi­ously long lectures to come. 
Perhaps you won't notice her during the first class because so often you walk in, pick up your syllabus, hear the ground rules and are dismissed after about ten minutes. As a matter offact, you may not find her for a few weeks. But she's there, and it will only be a short period of. time before she catches your eye. Once that happens, your undivided attention to the professor and the lectures is about as probable as the dining hall serving some­thing good every day. The object of your scoping has been determined, and there is little you can do, or probably want to do, to dispel this infatuation. 
The genesis of scoping on a particular individual is often difficult to pinpoint. Maybe it's the way she dresses or how she does her hair or the way she chews gum with her mouth open; possi­bly it's her drop-dead looks and figure comparable to the finest Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue models; or perhaps she'll sneeze and disrupt the whole class several times. Whatever. Once you start looking, you're hooked. Her presence becomes a magnet for your eyeballs, drawing your glances sporadically throughout each class. 
As the semester progresses, you discover yourself becoming more and more conscious of your scope, compiling a small list offacts on the young lady. For example, you discover through the teacher taking attendance that hername is, say, Cindy Crawford. Late one night following some off-campus imbibing you momentarily consider asking her to your SYR, so you pick up the handy ND Direc­tory and quickly learn that Cindy lives in Walsh Hall, is from DeKalb, Illinois, and is a junior Econ major. Also, she appar­ently likes to wear sweater and skirt combos, bows in her hair, Lady Stetson perfume, and enjoys Danielle Steele novels, Diet Coke, raisins, folders with pictures of dogs on them, and drawing paisley designs in her notebook. This is all you know and all you really need to know. 
Before I go any further, · I would like to clarify the characteristics of a scope. First, and most important, a scopee may be referred to by this term only so long as she and the scoper are not acquainted personally; he must know her only superficially. Why? Because the 




Week in Distortion/ Chris Carroll 
scope is obviously too beautiful, too per­fect, too smart, too wonderful for the scoper. She embodies that which is simply unattainable. Ifyour scope acknowledges your existence as a human being in any way, including passing "hi's" on the quad, then she is now an acquaintance ora friend smack the clock off the bedside table and roll back over. But not today! Cindy's in your class so you're getting up, dammit! You even try to make it there before the professor begins lecturing in hopes of getting a scat close to your scope. Who knows, today just might be the day you 
or your girlfriend or your wife. 
If you should be 
lucky enough to ho,ld the 
door for this divine crea­
ture, and she purrs "Thank 
you," don't become too 
excited. She would no 
doubt thank a corpse ififdid 
the same, and so her speak­
ing at you is in no way a 
reflection of feeling or 
admiration. Also, an indi­
vidual may have more than 
one scope a semester, but 
generally he favors one over 
the rest. Finally, a scope 
naturally ceases to be a true 
classroom scope when you and she no longer share the · same class. In this situation, you don't see her often 
enough to truly scope, but 
you will still spot her on 
campus. So, now she may 
be referred to as the your 
"lust" or your "future wife" 
or just about about anything 
else besides "scope". •· 
Having made clear the qualities of a scope, I will continue where I left off with the fictional account. A scope has the innate power to shift your attitude concerning classes, and may even inadvertently brainwash you into enjoy­ing a subject you previously despised. For instance, iCs and dog named Biscuit and a summer home on the beach! Highly doubtful, but at least you'll get to see her and you won't fall too far behind in your work. Thus, your class no longer seems like the excru­ciatingly boring hell it probably actually is. In fact, you may even find it interest­

ing. This just goes to show some of the educational bene­fits of having a classroom scope. 
Your scope is a per­sonal fixation not necessarily in the public domain. She may be the one bright spot in an other­wise dismal class day; there­fore, you might choose to adore her from afar secreyly, unbe­knownst to your other friends and acquaintances. On the other hand, if yuou should see her in the dining hall, it's per­fectly acceptable to point her out ot your buddies and say, "See that girl? That's qndy Crawford. I love her." Who knows, it could be that one of the persons you 're talking to will know her well and intro­duce you to her or something. But if he comments on her beauty, you must firmly lay down the law. "Keep your eye~ off... She's mine!" 
Soon the semester willcometoaclose. You'llget to appreciate your scope for one last long time during the test, then go your different ways. Maybe the two ofyou will share a class next semester. Maybe not. But at least you have her to thank for helping you survive the lectures, and for keeping you from skipping on a regular basis. And regardless if this is the end of the first or second semester, you will still have a 

Friday morning, you had been out entirely finally meet her! Maybe she'll need to long break to get over your loss. And too late the night before, and your alarm borrow a piece of paper or something and besides, next semester means new classes jars you awake from an extremely deep one thing will lead to another and the two and new scopes to conquer. sleep. Normally you would probably just of you will be married and have ten kids 
¦ 

Sept. 21, 1989 7 







and eady 

Notre Dame looks to extend win streak, to 15 in home opener versus Michigan State 

BY JONPAUL POTTS 
The beat goes on for Lou Holtz' Fighting Irish. After an explosive victory over Virginia in the Kick­off Classic, Notre Dame went up against a second-ranked Michigan Wolverine squad this past weekend and emerged with a 24-19 victory, 'thanks largely in part to Raghib "Rocket" Ismail' s two kickoff returns for touchdowns. Now Michigan State comes to town for Notre Dame's first home game of the 1989 campaign. The Spartans are riding the wave of a 49-0 thrashing of the Redskins of Miami (Ohio, that is) and are looking to avenge a 20­3 loss to the Irish in Spartan Stadium last 
Mari Okuda 
year. 

Granted, Miami of Ohio is not a national 
power, but the Spartans bear watching. For one, senior tailback Blake Ezor had a banner day against the Redskins. A 1988 All­American Honorable Mention, Ezor ran for 130 yards on 18 carries in one half of action. As a team Michigan State rushed for 415 yards last weekend, doing so despite the loss to graduation of 315-pound All American, · man-mountain offensive lineman Tony 
Mandarich. 

With Bobby McAllister now taking snaps 
in the frozen tundra that hosts the Canadian 
Football League, the Spartans look to junior 
quarterback Dan Enos to lead the offense. 
Enos impressed the MSU coaching staff in 
spring drills with his intelligence, throwing ability and running skills. Inexperience may pose a problem in this early-season matchup, though, as Enos saw only 36 minutes of action in seven games in 1988. 
To compound the problem of his inexperi­ence, Enos will have to work with a brand new group ofrecievers. Last year's corps, led ., by NFL first-round pick Andre Rison, has graduated and left the rookie quarterback to work out the kinks with a group of equally inexperienced receivers. Enos threw the ball well against Miami ofOhio, completing five of seven passes for 78 yards. But against a veteran, talented Irish secondary considered by many to be among college football's elite, inexperience could spell disaster. 
Despite the Spartans' question marks on offense, defense may be the true strength of 





Sports 


Ezor rushed for 130 yards Saturday against Miami (Ohio). 
this team. Coach GeorgePerles' teams have always showcased strong defenses, and this year is no exception. This unit convincingly shut down the Redskins' offense last Satur­day, limiting them Lo 117 total yards. 
Linebacker Percy Snow anchors the Michi­gan State defense. A Butkus Award finalist 

1988. 
The Spartan defense is further for­tified by a secondary returning two of its four starters. Senior corner­back Ventson Donelson, who re­corded 55 tackles and two intercep­Lions in 1988, is a strong candidate for All-Big Ten honors. Hard-hit­ting strong safety Harlan Barnett also returns for his final season, boasting a reputation as one of MSU's hardest hitters. Returning lellermen Mike laquaniello and Alan Haller will add valuable expe­rience. 
A key matchup Lo watch will pit the Notre Dame rushing game against the Michigan Stale line­backers. On a rainy Saturday in Ann Arbor, Irish head coach Lou Holtz played it safe and opted to run the ball nearly every play. Anthony Johnson shouldered much of that 
burden with 20 carries for 80 yards L-~----c:!!!!···~!!!~~Co!!~~rt:==:;::::;~=·i=~;:::ig:n::..:.·::..:.S::..:.tat-e-Sp-ort:..C.s-,n::..:.fo-,ma-t-io_jn as the Iris'1 rushed 54 times for 220 

Snow could cause lots of problems for the Irish 
yards, 83 yards less than against 
running game. 
9 
last year and the preseason favorite to capture this year's honor, Snow set an M:SU record for tackles in 1988 with 164. Snow could pose plenty of prob0 lems for the Irish back­field; this man loves to hit. Perles is predicting Snow will be Michigan State's seventh first round pick in the National Football League draft in seven years, calling him "as good as any linebacker in the country." 
Snow is not the lone standout on the Spartan defense. Seniordefensive tackle Travis Davis will contend for All-Big Ten and All-America honors, while senior defensive end Matt Vanderbeck '· returns as an All­Big Ten honor­able mention se­
lcction by UPI in Virginia.. 

It won't get much easier on Saturday. The presence ofSnow alone could prove trouble­some for the Notre Dame option. Alongside Snow, All-Big Ten candidate Carlos Jenkins adds good size (6-foot-5, 215 pounds) and speed, while junior Dixon Edwards stands as the quickest Spartan linebacker (4.5 second time in the 40-yard dash). 
Another matchup of interest may turn out to be Michigan State's running game versus Notre Dame's defensive line. Supposedly ovennatched against a mammoth Michigan offensive line, the Irish defense limited the exceptional running trio of Tony Boles, LeRoy Hoard and Jarrod Bunch to a com­bined total of 85 yards. 
The Spartans will attack with a talented running trio of their own. Ezor (5-foot-10, 188 lbs.) rushed for 1,496 yards in 1988, good for seventh in the nation. Ezor posesses exceptional strength for his size and Coach Perles calls him "pound for pound, the tough­
; 
'i 
:tr>


'~.,9 

' . . ~, ~-----~--------­


Remember Jeff Pearson (#62)? 
est play_er I've ever known." Currently ranked fourth on the all-time rushing list at MSU, he will be looking to run wild in Notre Dame Stadium this weekend. 
Behind Ezor are two very capable backs, junior Hyland Hickson and sophomore Scott Selzer. Hickson ran for 385 yards and a sparkling 5.2 average per carry in 1988. Selzer gained 339 yards and two touch­downs while playing in nine games as a redshirt freshman. Against Miami ofOhio, Hickson rushed seven times for 80 yards and a touchdown, while Selzer gained 99 yards. 
However, these fine statistics will mean nothing against the Irish ifthe offensive line fails to produce. This is the main area of concern for Coach Perles as all but one starter from last year's standout line arc gone. The only holdover, senior Bob Kula, is moving from guard to left tackle to re­place Mandarich. This unseasoned bunch 

He'll be "reunited" with his former teammates as he plays center for the Spartans. 
will be given all it can handle by the likes of Jeff Alm, Bob Dahl and All-American tackle Chris Zorich. 
An intriguing subplot could be the play of former Irish guard Jeff Pearson. Pearson, now a junior, started at guard for the Irish. against the Spartans in 1987 and played for Holtz in the 1988 Cotton Bowl. He trans­ferred to Michigan State in 1988 and was forced to sit out the year. Now Pearson is a Spartan and was the leading contender for the starting center position entering fall practice in East Lansing. How he handles playing across the ball from old teammate Zorich could prove interesting. 
A final key to the game may be the kick­ing game of the Irish. Freshman Craig Hentrich has done well thus far on kickoffs and PA T's but has converted only two out of five field goal aLtempts on the young season, hitting a 32-yardcr against Virginia and a 30-yardcr last Saturday. Ifhe falters early against the Spartans, Holtz may not hesitate in turning to veteran kicker Billy Hackett. 
As much as Holtz hates to admit it, the Irish are defending national champions. Everyone is gunning for them, and Michigan State has the added incentive ofrevenge for their deci­sive loss at the hands of the Irish last year in East Lansing. The last thing MSU needs iri its quest fora Big Ten title is a tough start similar to 1988, when they lost four of thefr first five f 
games. 
The Irish will have their hands full this weekend, as they will every game. As coach Lou Holtz said following the Michigan game, "What was the final score of the Michigan State game? 49-0? That got my allention." If it got Holtz's attention, it should certainly impress upon the Irish play­ers and fans that this Saturday's game will be no cakewalk. 






Sports 


BY JIM MAGGIO 
T 
he student listened patiently, bid­ing time as his English professor reviewed the course outline and syllabus on this typical first class session of the semester. The professor suddenly shifted gears and had the class jot down some per­sonal information on a piece of paper. When she asked them to describe what second life form they would take if they had the oppor­tunity, the student responsed without hesita­tion. 
"Nobody-I wouldn't change a thing." 
On the surface, such an answer makes one wonder what is so good in life that would compell anyone to respond this way. Considering the adversity in his life since that fateful day in Dallas in January 1988, one might still wonder how the name at the top of that paper could belong to John Foley. 
If there was one thing that came easy in Foley's life, football was it. USA Today recognized that when they named him the nation's top high school defensive player for his stellar play at St. Rita in Chicago· in 1985. Notre Dame recognized it by granting the six-foot-three, 236-pound Foley a scholar­ship and a chance to live up to his reputation as a hard-hitting linebacker. 
Foley's chance would be put on hold in 
'I'm Lucky for What I Have ... ' 

Fallowing twenty months ofphysical and emotional adversity, John Foley has found that there is life after football 
1986 as Proposition 48 kept him out ofaction for his freshman season. He came back strong in 1987 and played in 11 games, making his mark on special teams by leaving his "Riddel" helmet insignia firmly im­planted on opposing players' jerseys. Foley quickly gained a reputation as somewhat ofa maniac on the playing field, prompting Head Coach Lou Holtz to nickname him "Psycho." 
"Yeah, I was kind of nuts," says Foley. "I didn't care what happened to my body; I just loved hitting people. We'd be watching films and Coach Holtz would see me level someone. He'd tell me, 'John, there's a psychiatrist outside to see you."' 
Foley's aggressive play during the regular 



Sports 

{:·,1j·x,··.Jic1~1·t··.·~~;b..\\7hat•·h~·p~•·•····· OFB~IJ.~d•{():JI1yJbody;iIJust:•.
IfI~v,efi.:!hi,Jting l·pgopJe.•:•· ·.. w~.'itJ>~:watc~1tngJi1111s: . iihcf cd;cll. lloltz ~vortlcl ·:••·••'··~~~······',·.w~'-· .•.,¢;~1.·•··.····~·~·iyeqnei .·· •.• ~..f{g... J~.u. .W:~,.. ··• .IJ()gl1': 
F•·tlj,eit's,f p~y~piJtt{!§t()JJt~•· 

season earned him a starting role in the Cot­ton Bowl against Texas A & M. He played defensive tackle and performed well, record­ing five tackles plus one for negative yard­age. 
But it was on special teams where he dished out the most punishment. On three occasions an Aggies "wedge-breaker" tried knocking through the blocking wall protecting Hcis­man Trophy winner Tim Brown on kickoff returns. The first two times that player wound up Oat on his back, courtesy of John Foley. 
The third time was no charm. 
The Aggies apparently grew fed up with having to scrape their players offthe turf after Foley had gotten through with them. As Foley pursued the wedge-breaker on a sec­ond-quarter kickoff, he felt a helmet ram into the right side of his neck. He never saw the hit coming, and he never felt such a strange kind of pain. 
"It felt like electricity had shot from my neck through my right arm," says Foley. "I had no feeling in it whatsoever. I could still move my arm, but it justwent numb. It felt like a piece of dead meat." 
Foley played the rest of the game with no feeling in his right arm but thought nothing of it. Just something that would go away in a few days, he thought. The following day that strange sensation came back. 
"There were these shocks shooting through my arm," says Foley. "I figured maybe it was coming from my shoulder, but I didn't know. All I knew was that it hurt like hell." He went to Jim Russ, Notre Dame's Head Trainer, to sec if he could prescribe something for the pain. Russ gave Foley some Tylenol with codeine and told him the pain would proba­bly subside in a day or two. 
The second day saw no improvement. "The pain got really bad, the arm was really numb," he continued. "I took eight to ten Tylenol, it hurt so much. The codeine in them did absolutely nothing." Foley passed out from the pain that night. 
Foley's condition deteriorated further on the third day. From Dallas he phoned his physician back in Chicago, Dr. Preston Wolin, to sec ifhe could prescribe something else; something, anything that would make this pain go away. Wolin wired a prescrip­tion for a strong dose of anti-innammatory pills, the most potentavail~ble. No improve­ment. 
By midnight of that third day, the pain began overtaking him. "I started talking to myself, losing my mind," recalls Foley. "I began punching walls, yelling and scream­
ing. I needed some kind ofoutlet." He made another emergency call to Wolin to sec what he could do. Wolin prescribed Flexcrol, a potent muscle relaxant, and told him to take only one for starters. Foley took three. They didn't help. 

"My mind was lost," he says. "I was envisioning a room full of people, something like we were dealing with at all the press and publicity functions before the game. AII I saw were people crowd­ing in on me, wanting to talk to me, asking for autographs. I began yelling 'No! Get away from me! v::,:mnt,•,/ 
Leave me alone!' The only person who was actually in the room was my fian·ccc." 
John's fianccc, Pamela Thomas, had seen enough and rushed him to the hospital at 3 o'clock that morn­ing. By this time, the pain in Foley's body had created a chemical imbal­ancc in his brain that made him "freak out." 

"I kept asking myself, 'Why don't I just die?' If I'd had a gun, I would have killed myself." 
After a preliminary examination, the emer­gency room doctor thought that Foley had 

11:'.'.'.:~~:'.L~__:..____:.._____:....._:....._f.ii:£2~ 
Counesy Notre Dame Spans Information 

Foley's injury sidelined him for the entire 1988 season. 


. . • . . . . I . .' . 
-' 

.. Sports 
shallered his shoulder. He gave him a shot of pain killer. When he saw that the shot had no effect, the doctor's complexion turned white. He looked at Foley and told him, "John, I think you have serious nerve damage." 
Foley was given one last shot to squelch the pain. He woke up four days later. 
The following week featured a bar­rage of tests. Electronic nerve tests, CAT scans, and x-rays were taken one after the other. The x-rays revealed that Foley's shoulder was cracked and wearing away. He returned to Chicago to let Wolin examine him. Wolin performed arthroscopic surgery on his right shoulder that revealed excess deterioration in bone mass, enough to necessitate the removal of an inch of his collarbone through open surgery. ''Apparently the bone had been chipping off all season," says Foley. "Doc (Wolin) couldn't understand how I could have played through the pain." One day after Wolin removed part of his collarbone, Foley astonished him further. Anxious to sec the effects of the operation, Foley raised his arm completefy above his head. "My shoulder felt beuer than at any time during the season," he recalls. The road to recovery would not be as smooth. Rehabilitation began one week after surgery as Foley worked primarily with light weights. Therapy helped his shoulder tre­mendously, yet four months had passed and Foley's right bicep had practically withered away. The collarbone surgery now became a separate issue; his bicep was still paralyzed. The most mundane tasks still loomed monu­mental. "I couldn't write or even hold a glass of water," Foley recalls. "I would drop things all the Lime. I mean, there was nothing left in my right arm." Slowly but surely Foley began making progress. Notre Dame sent Foley to Cleve­land to consult with Dr. John Bergfeld, the team physician for the Browns. He placed Foley on a therapy program that refueled hopes of regaining full use of his right arm. Two more electronic nerve tests were then administered over the next eight months, each one showing marked sensory improve­ment. In each of the tests, energy currenL<; pulsated through roughly 20 electrodes stra­tegically implanted in Foley's right arm. The first test revealed signifi­cant sensory recovery, while the second test nearly sent him jumping out of his seat. "It hurt like hell," he remembers, "but al least I felt it." 
Foley now set his sights on returning to the gridi­ron. He sat out the entire 1988 season to concen­trate on serious weight training, returning Lo play­ing shape and allowing the nerve injury more time Lo heal. Five days a week at four hours a clip he spent trying Lo allain this goal. 
Sure enough, John Foley returned to the field last March to participate in spring drills. A sprained ankle kept him from see­ing how far he had come, but even after this latest setback he remained opti­mistic. He still had time Lo get ready for fall drills and earn the chance to see sig­nificant playing time. 


Foley entered fall drills in the best physical shape of his life. He carried only eight per cent body fat on a 225-pound frame, while his 32-inch vertical leap and 310-pound bench press told the Irish coaching staff he was more than ready. 
Or so they thought. The last thing anyone expected to give Foley trouble was a tackling dummy. Yet when he hit one during a drill session, he saw the writing on the wall. 
"I hit the dummy and the arm felt like it just snapped," says Foley. "I lost all my strength. I figured that if this was going to happen when I hit a tackling dummy, just imagine what would happen if I hit ~ 300-pound lineman. Right then I knew I had to hang it up." 
T 
he clock reads 9:30 on a quiet Thursday evening as John Foley 
saunters Lo the desk in his small 
Courtesy John Foley 

Thomas rushed Foley to the hospital when the pain made him begin "freaking out." 
Sept. 21, 1989 
• , ' ' l 
. . ~~----------------~~------~--­
Sports 

to Notre Dame last year. He came in convinced he would 
be enrolling elsewhere. 
"I told him, 'You give me one day and I'll have you sold on this place,"' Foley remembers. Kelchner is now one of two blue-chip freshman quarterbacks who will play a big part in Notre · Dame's future. 
Such accomplishment comes as welcome gratifica­tion to a man who has expe­rienced such adversity. It may not be quite as satisfy­ing as flallcning a fullback, but Foley still counts his blessings. 
"Hell, had I been hit two inches to the side, I'd have been paralyzed/' says Foley. "I'm lucky for what I'vegbt. Helping with the recruiting is just a small way for rric Lo give something back Lo this place. I'm getting a great education and the chance to do greater things in the fu­ture. What more could I ask for? Notre Dame has done so much for me it's incred­ible. 
"Even though I'm no longer playing, I get more MariOkuda and· more encouragement everyday from my team­

Foley now works diligently as an assistant to Recruiting Coordinator Vinny Cerrato. 
dorm room, the golden light from the dome fully visible through the small bay window. He sifts through a pile of papers and books and pulls out a blue planner. 
;i! 
"I write down everything in this thing," he 
ii, 
explains. "IfI'm not organized, I gel ticked 
r 
i', I off." I 
I His playing days may be through, but Foley 
I still remains active with Notre Dame foot­ball. The blue planner is chock full ofphone numbers, personal memos, and other as­sorted information that aids him in his job as an assistant to Head Recruiting Coordinator Vinny Cerrato. 

"Even though I knew I could no longer play, I told Coach (Holtz) I wanted to be part of the team," says Foley. "I wanted to help recruit because I had a story to tell them, something that goes beyond football." 
He spends upwards of ten hours per week on the telephone, making arrangements to speak to-recruits. Another four to five hours he dcditates to preparation, gathering per­sonal data and familiarizing himself with · each prospective star ofNotreDame'sfuture. 
"Talking and selling -he's-definitely good at it," says Cerrato. "He's always done a good job with the recruits on game days." 
And on other days as well. He boasts a seven-for-seven streak of signing recruits assigned to him. For one, Foley tells of freshman Jake Kelchner and his official visit 
mates, coaches and friends. They know how much it hurts me to not play. But they really care, show a lot of love. If they could sacrifice anything Lo just get me healthy again, they wou_ld." 
He won't soon forget what he still has going for him. One look at his National Championship ring reinforces his belief in Notre Dame and the people who have played such a positive role in his life. 
"See this?" says Foley, pointing to the three words engraved on his ring and entrenched in his soul. "TRUST, LOVE and COM­MITTMENT. That'sneverbcensotruc. It's made a believer out of me." 

·,J . -:_ --, . . -: ., \ .' . . , . . . . ' 
.. 
Sports 

COMPILED BY BRIAN MCMAHON
sportsweek 

The Notre Dame volleyball team (1-6) kicked off its 1989 home schedule last week­end, dropping matches to Pittsburgh, Western Michigan and eighth-ranked Pacific at the Notre Dame Invitational. The Irish were led by freshman ALICIA TURNER, who recorded 29 kills, nine service aces and 21 digs, and fresh­man JESSICA FIEBELKORN, who notched 24 kills, 16 digs and ten blocks. Junior setter AMY WHITE added a team-high 84 assists. 
The Irish head south this Friday and Satur­day, Sept. 22-23, for the LSU Tournament in Baton Rouge, LA. Their opponents include Houston, 13th-ranked Oklahoma and LSU. 
Last week the Irish traveled to Georgetown for dual meet competition against the Hoyas. Senior captain MIKE O'CONNOR won the meet in a time of 25:09 while pacing Notre Dame to a 22-23 victory. TOM O'ROURKE and RY AN CAHILL placed second and third, respectively, each with times of 25:22. Freshman J.T. BURKE, competing in his first collegiate event;placed fourth for the Irish and seventh overall. 
Notre Dame begins its home season Friday, 
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 
A L I C I A 
TURNER: 
Turner, a fresh­
man from San Diego, CA, added to her team-leading sta­tistics last weekend, compiling 29 kills, nine service aces and 21 digs for the women's volleyball team at the Notre Dame Invitational. The performance brought her -season totals to 80 kills, 17 service aces and 69 digs. 
Sept. 29 when it hosts the National Catholic In­vitational. The defending champion Irish will be looking to capture first place for the fourth time in the ten-year history of the event. 
The women's squad did not share in the men's success at Georgetown, losing 17-26. LUCYNUSRALA led the Irish, finishing fourth overall in a time of 18:40. 
Notre Dame will look for a more balanced effort at the National Catholic Invitational, where they hope to improve on last year's sixth­place finish. The field is expected to be competi­tive with Loyola, Providence and Marquette 
saw its losing streak reach four games last week, falling 1-0 to Minnesota at home and4-0 at Mar~ quette. The loss to Minnesota was the first for the team at home in two years. 
The Irish hope to reverse their losing ways during an upcoming ten-game homestand, which gets underway with three games in six nights starting Friday, Sept. 22 versus Michigan State. The Irish then play Louisville on Sunday and Lake Forest on Tuesday. 
Last weekend the Notre Dame women's golf team registered a combined score of 684 to place tenth in a strong field of 20 at the Illinois State Invitational. Notre Dame was led by senior cap­tain ROBERTA BRYER, who shot 169 for the two rounds. 
The Irish travel to the University of Indian­apolis Sept. 21 to compete in the Lady Grey­hound Invitational at Sarah Shank Municipal Go! f Course. Notre Dame finished fourth in this 
The Notre Dame men's and women's tennis 
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 
M I K E 
O'CONNOR: 


O'Connor, a senior from Brightwater, NY, led the men's cross country team to a 22-23 victory over Georgetown last week. He paced the Irish with a first-place finishing time of25:09. 
squads begin fall play this weekend on the road, 
with the men competing Sept. 22-24 in the 
Naval Academy All-Conference Tournament 
at Annapolis, MD. The women head to 
Syracuse, NY for the SUnity Life Tennis Clas­
sic Sept. 22-24. 
Men's coach Bob Bayliss will take four 
freshmen and four veterans in order to evaluate 
his young talent and allow his regulars a chance 
to get back in form after the off season. For first 
year women's coach Jay Louderback, the 
weekend will afford him an opportunity to 
evaluate his young, talented squad against top 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team im­
proved its record to 3-2 overall and 3-0 in the 
Midwestern Collegiate Conference last week 
with a 1-0 victory at Marquette. Senior keeper 
DANNY LYONS recorded his first shutout of 
Lhe season and 14Lh of his career, while junior 
midfielder TOM CONNAGHAN scored the 
lone Irish goal to lead the squad. 
The Irish travel to Loyola on Wednesday, 
Sept. 20 before returning home to play Michi­
gan State on Friday and Marquette on Sunday. 
Loyola and Marquette are MCC opponents. 



Features 


Notre Dame celebrates the year ofthe family 
made a presentation entitled "Experiencing essence, form a family, and the mentally
BY KA TE MANUEL 
God's Love in Care and Community" to handicapped are given "a place to call home after having spent years in institutions," 
The University of Notre Dame pro­said Nouwen. claimed last year as the year of Cultural Diversity. This year, the university examines Dr. Roland Smith, Jr., executive 
something a Jillie closer to home. As con­assistant to Father Malloy, chairs the steer­
cerns for traditional values continue their ing commillee for the Year of the Family national resurgence, the families of "The and sees two main factors behind the desig­Cosby Show" and "Roseanne" Lop the tele­
nation of1989-90 as the Y earoftheFamily. vision ratings charts and critics decry the 
First, Smith said that there is "the sense that disintegration of American home life, the 
the family is under siege," a crisis that Notre Dame 1989 academic year has been 
seems to have undermined the family and proclaimed th~ Year of the Family. 
its values. The task force on marriage and commitment, commissioned by Fr. Malloy Families come in all varieties, 
shortly after he assumed the office ofpresi­however, and many are not the idealized 
dent, indirectly provides the second reason. television image of mother, father, two chil­
Smith said that this task force gained so dren (a boy and a girl, naturally), a faithful 
many insights and provoked so many ques­dog, and a brown, wood-paneled station 
tions that "Father Malloy wanted Lo try to wagon. In designating the 1989-90 academic 
focus on these issues." year as the, Year of the Family, Notre Dame looks not only al the nuclear family of the past but also at the love and concern mani­Dr. Joan Aldous, a member of fested by "other" types of families. Notre Dame's sociology department and director of family studies, believes that the The first official event of the Year importance of"family" can hardly be over­of the Family featured just such a non-tradi­Nouwen describes L'Arche as "a network of estimated. "Every year should be a Year of tional community. On September 7 Father communities where the mentally handi­the Family," said Aldous. Most people Henri Nouwen and fellow-members of the capped and their assistants try to live together grow up in families that influence what L'Arche Daybreak COIT1munity in Canada in the spirit of the beatitudes." Members, in they chose as a profession and whom they 

-.. • • • • 
I -., ' •• •' • " • ' • 
Features 

J • , 
select as a spouse. "The family is where we experience the greatest joys as well as the greatest sorrows," said Aldous. "It is where we get our companionship, feelings of being important, and where, if we want to quote Shakespeare, 'the ravelled sleeve of care gets knitted.' It's not in sleep; it's in your family." Aldous points out that the tendency toward family life is so strong that it emerges even in celibate communities, where the mother superior or abbot plays the parental role. 
"Families have changed a good deal and continue to change a lot," said Aldous. Indeed, statistical comparison shows radical differences between the family of today and the family of ten years ago. In the late 1970's there were fewer children living in divorced and step-parent families. Three-fifths of the children born in the early 198Q!s will, before they reach 
been changes: only thirteen per cent of all families have a husband who works, a wife 

keeping the definition of "family" broad rather than exclusive. Included in his ex­panded definition of "family" are the resi­dence hall and the university community as a whole. "We hear so much about the Notre Dame family," said Smith. "One of the things we'll try to do this year is live this concept as much as possible." 
As many students face decisions about lifestyles, families and careers, Smith feels the Year of the Family will make these choices more informed and, hopefully, eas­ier. Providing this information, however, may provoke the discussion ofsome difficult issues. Throughout all discussions in the coming year, Smith hopes that his personal philosophy, that "a family, in whatever its form, really encompasses both positive and negative aspects; it is important for us to look at them both," can be heeded. He also warns that participants should not expect to agree 
the age of eighteen, spend at least one year in a single-par­ent family. Because two-thirds to three­fourths of all divorced in­div id u a Is later re­marry, one­third ofthese early 80's children are going to be living with a step-parent in a "blended fam i I y." Over twenty per cent of 

e 
r 





U.S. children live in poverty, mainly be­In order to initiate dialogue and on everything. Arguments debating whether cause the income brought in by their single, stimulate greater awareness on the part ofthe Notre Dame is a true family are expected to working parent is not enough. Even among faculty, staff and students, Smith said that he force an examination of the university com­families that have two parents there have and his fellow committee members plan on munity, while personal reflections and deci­
17

Sept. 21, 1989 
. _c__._____ . ­


Features 

sions on issues like day care, divorce, and care for the elderly will also be difficult. 
ThesteeringcommilleefortheYear of the Family, seventeen individuals chosen by Father Malloy from the faculty, staff and student body, quickly established seven subcategories to serve as guidelines. Health 
care, dependent care, preparation for chang­ing lifestyles, "special projects," families in crisis, the family in cultural diversity, and values, ethics and religion in families will all be examined. "Many of the things we are talking about. overlap the categories we have," Smith said. Divorce, for example, could be a topic of both "preparation for changing lifestyles" and "families in crisis." The subcategories do create natural openings for subcommillees, and subcommittees will bring about the involvement of more indi­viduals than the initial seventeen. 
Smith emphasizes that the commit­tee he heads acts as a contact group, but is not designed to create and implement all the activities. "Ifit goes well, we will not get all the credit; ifitgoes poorly, we should not get all the blame," said Smith. "Because the topics are broad enough that there could be several events going on at the same tirrie for different audiences, each day we're gelling additional calls from departments and or­ganizations." People take "ownership" by planning activities, and Smith said that the basic policy is "if they think its a good thing for the family, we say 'yes."' 
Many organizations have already taken an active role in the YearoftheFamily. The presentation by Father Nouwcn was jointly sponsored by the Intellectual Com­millee of the Student Union Board, Knoll Hall, the Center for Social Concerns, Hall Presidents' Council, and student govern­ment. Non-Varsity Athletics held a "Fun for the Family" tennis clinic at the Courtney Tennis Center on September 9. Other activi­ties to be sponsored by NV A arc a family golf day and a bowling party. The men's and women's swim meets will be open to families at no charge. 
A series of stop smoking seminars will be conducted by University Health Serv­ices and the American Cancer Society. The Program of Liberal Studies will host guest lecturers speaking on a variety of topics, including "Legislation and Family Values" and "St. Augustine on Marriage." Campus Ministry, the education department of Saint Mary's College, the University Counseling Center, and Notre Dame Security have also scheduled presentations throughout the year. The proposal of small matching grants for ideas pursued al the residence hall level has been proposed but not finalized. 
Those involved in the Year of the Family hope to create an atmosphere where members of the Notre Dame community are encouraged to examine the definition of "family" and fit it into their lives. "We're looking al this year as a start, not justas a year in andofitsclf," said Smith. Justas last year's theme of Cultural Diversity has been incor­porated into this year's family theme by examining the role of the family in cultural diversity, Smith hopes that ideas and values from the Yearofthe Family will be included in some way in the themes of future years. "Families are important every day of the week," Aldous said. "We really ought to be doing more to make it easier for the family." 
II 
···.•.~I~fflight$)Jft'1i 
ID:fmH:Y/ 
·.•. ~,SRJ~.J~H•••~Pi:$).•. 
·...Jationar19f£1illi 'fh,OITI~.~ •.Lc>Il. : • 
)~j'b5lkMQ " 
riurri:.·: • 
··••·~~i:11.~, ·ijj1:··.·...,. 
...•§w&1Ki£i·•.···•.• 
:::.' -~· ·; :. ..;. 

·· Scholastic, it's not just for dinner any. more. 

SPORTS 
Women's Golf. Lady Greyhound In­vitational at University oflndianapo­lis. Indianapolis, Indiana 11 :00 A.M. 
LECTURES 
The Public Service Series: Foreign Service Lecture, "The Current Situation in the Arabian Peninsula," by David Ranson, Foreign Service Officer, Office Director, Arabian Peninsula Affairs, United States Department of State. Room 115 O'Shaughnessy. Sponsored by the Hesburgh Program of Public Serv­ice; co-sponsored with the Depart­ment of Government and Interna­tional Studies. 2:45 P.M. 
"Biodegradable Plastics,"by Dr. Pe­ter F. Strom, Department of Environ­mental Sciences, Rutgers University. Room 120 Cushing Hall. Sponsored by Department of Civil Engineering. 
4:10 P.M. 
Foreign Service Lecture, "Making the Dual Career Family Work: Per­spectives from the Foreign Service," by Marjorie Ann Ransom, Foreign Service Officer, Executive Assistant to the Counselor, United States Infor­mation Agency, and David Ransom. Room 122 Hayes-Healy. Sponsored by the Hesburgh Program in Public Service; co-sponsored with the Ye~ of the Family~ Gender Studies Pro­gram and the Student Union Board. 8:00P.M. 

Junior Class Beacon Bowl. No Charge for buses. Buses leave Main Circle at 
9:00 P.M. Return at Midnight. 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 22 
SPORTS 

Volleyball. LSU Tournament at Baton Rouge. All Day 
Men's Tennis, Navy National All­Conference Tournament at Anapolis, Maryland. 9:00 A.M. 
Tennis. Saint Mary's College versus Anderson College. 3:30 P.M. 
Women's Soccer. Notre Dame vs. Michigan State. 5:00 P.M. 
Men's Soccer. Notre Dame versus Michigan State. 7:30 P.M. 
Foreign Service Series: informal meetings with students interested in foreign service, with David and Mar­jorie Ransom. Room 307 O'Shaughnessy. Sponson-ed by Hcsburgh Program; co-sponsored with SUB. 9:30-11:30 A.M. 
LECTURES 
Foreign Service Lecture, "Changing Arab Cultures," Marjorie Ransom. Room 131 Decio. Sponsored by Hesburgh Program; co-sponsored with departments of Anthropology, Government and International Stud­ies, and Middle East Studies Program. 2:30P.M. 
Year of the Family Series lecture, "The American Family and Federal Policy: Recipe for Disaster or Opportunity for Renaissance?" by Mr. Thomas Long, Executive Counsel and Health Policy Advisor . for U.S. Senator Daniel Coates oflndiana. Hayes-Healy Audi­torium. Sponsored by the Program of Liberal Studies. 3:00 P.M. 


"Some recent results on deficient val­ues and deficient functions," by Pro­fessor Lo Yang, Chinese Academy of Science. Coffee, Room 201 at-4:00. Lecture, Room 226 Math Building at 4:30. Sponsored by the Deprtment of Mathematics FILM "Eight Men Out," Anncnnberg Audi­torium. Admission $2.00 7:30 and 9:45 P.M.  
SATURDAY, SEPT. 23 SPORTS Volleyball. LSU tournament at Ba­ton Rouge, all day. Football. Notre Dame versus Michi­gan State 2:30 p.m.  
SUNDAY, SEPT. 24  
SPORTS Women's Soccer. Notre Dame versus Louisville 10:00 A.M.  

, I 
21

I I I 
II II II

ENI 
Have You Gotten Your Mug Shot Yet? 
THIS IS ABSOLUTELY YOUR LAST -.. --A'1s N:<c-·ie~
CH . . -' .. CC 


September 25 through September 29 
Room l 08 La Fortune MWF l0:00-6:00 P.M. TT 12:00-8:00 P.M. SPONSORED. BY THE DOME 
THIS MEANS YOUU 

Editorial . 'I 


TICKET REVISIONS ECES ARY 

nyone who went to Michigan last weekend to see the Irish dismantle the Wolverines will attest to the fact that the Notre Dame experience is not simply bookwork and SYR fiascos, it's an adventure in big business. Herds of drenched Domers stood huddled outside Michigan Stadium trying to find tickets to the game. For this reason, Scholastic believes that a revision is needed in the area of student ticket distribution for away football games. 
Do not be deceived by the stories of affordable tickets by kickoff. Although tickets did drop to as low as $15 dollars before game time, it was the rain and not the number of interested fans that forced the prices down. Had the sun come out at 1 :00, Dooley's would have emptied, forcing ticket prices sky high. 
Alumni preference for away football games is not a new thing, nor is it necessarily bad. It at least gives present students the hope that they will get to seetheiralma materplayagameortwoin years to come. Yet, the number of tickets available to current students is clearly variable depending on the game. The ticket office must come up with an appropriate ratio of tickets for students and·alumni so that both groups of fans know what to expect. 
Last season, students got first crack at tickets for the Fiesta Bowl, and many deserving alumni were unable to see the game. Yet, it seemed a rather childish punishment to give students only 4% of the Michigan allotment. Let's grow up and bury the hatchet. After all, we both cheer for the same team. 
Scholastic proposes that this issue be addressed by a committee made up of elected student leaders, SUB, representatives of the alumni, and ticket office officials. The distribution obviously cannot be handled by the ticket office alone if it is to be done fairly. 
-Scholastic 
Stop Complaining 
A positive look at what Notre Dame offers 
By Tony Bosco 

T 
he Final Word. The final word? The final word about what? When did I get it into my head that I could write the final word about anything? As a sophomore, I don't think I've been around long enough for that. There's so much I'd love to gripe about, such as the recent rise in the crime rate. There's even more that I'd like to praise. I've chosen to write about that, because the one thing that I hate most about Notre Dame is the people who complain about it all the time. Why don't y'all just transfer, okay? 
Where to begin? Ah, I guess I'll remi­nisce about freshman year. I don't know about all of you freshmen but my first roommate and I got along well enough for one semester, but if we'd had to stay together for two, there may have been some bloodshed. Roommates teach you a lot about yourself, such as what rrafu. annoys you. Even belter, they teach you how strong a person you are. You learn to cope with disagreements in a more adult fashion. You learn to share, to respect other people's private property, and to give in sometimes, even ifithurts. Living in those great, big spacious rooms in Keenan, I know. Your roommate, good or bad, is always around you, and making the best of your situation-teaches you to grow. 
Freshman classes aren't that bad, ei­ther. IlovedmyHumanitiesseminar. It's not every class that you get a grade for arguing with the prof and throwing tem­per tantrums. Calculus wasn't horrible. 
Hey, ladies, isn't a foreign accent supposed to be seduc­tive? Try closing your eyes, next time, and picture Mel Gibson explaining deriva­

tives while you lie in his lap, drinking something non-alcoholic. (Yve all know that DuLac comes straight from God and should rule our lives, yes?) How about Social Psychology: Notre Dame's own lecture room/ sauna? Face it, the stories about your freshman classes are gold when it comes to being funny at the traditional Notre Dame Social Gathering. 
What amazes me most about Notre Dame is the amount ofactivities and stu­dent involvement we have. Freshman year, I was bombarded with flyers from different groups who wanted me to join them. There's social awareness, music, theatre, sports, literary journals of all kinds, and so much more. Ifa person had no classes, they would still not have enough time to do everything. At least I know that I wouldn't. I'd love to try crew, working full-time at Scholastic, singing in the Gospel Choir, the Liturgi­cal Choir, going on a Notre Dame En­counter, acting in plays at Washington Hall, working with the handicapped, being a Big Brother, working on the Summer Service Project, going on the Urban Plunge, doing independent study in the art, theatre, sociology, and theol­ogy departments, going to prayer meet­ings with the Holy Cross Fathers. There's so much and I can't do half of it, not even a quarter. We're lucky to have 

these opportunities. It's not too late to join, so contact someone and tell them if you're interested. They'd love to hear from you so, take advantage of the situ­ation. 
That leads me into my next topic, ma­jors. IfI haven't tried or considered every major by the time I've graduated, its be­cause I don't know about it. Right now it looks like a double major in Theater and Philosophy with a concentration in Indi­vidual and Family Development. Ask me again next week, I'm sure I'll have changed my mind. A little bit ofadvice my mother gave me this summer: open up a copy of the Bulletin of Infonnation (You can get it in the Administration Building) and read itas if you've never seen it before. If you're confused about choosing a ma­jor, that's the first place to look. That's where I found my concentration and I think those classes are the best I've taken. 
I've got one last thing to get off my chest. I think the people at Notre Dame arc some of the most friendly people I know. Just walking down the sidewalk, I can smile and say hello to anybody, and they'll re­spond just as pleasantly. When Monk talks about the Notre Dame family, its not just hype, it's true. 
Oh, no. I'm rambling. If there's one thing I hate... 

L-1 FE IN ©1989 B~ HE..ll_; MAiT 
G1<.0E1'JTN& 
....,,., 
"' 

:: -=...... '!. u\ 
~ ~~ j5 <SJ 
.D

AVOID 
0 
.D 
"' 
ID

THESE .D 
J:> 
GI 
lO 
0

ELVES .s ":I ~ 
'"-z. 
£

F\ POBt,\C SE.R.Vlt€. A"h,lOOU{U-lf.rl" W l4 IN'::' 5UR.L'°=' SNOOT~ '!' ,,..,,_ ._,)..._ 0 
--~ 
... 

TP\U'N~  GR.U06'::'  UNROL~  MOCKO  
SCO~N\j  F"REN'2.Y  SITE.~  ~ U'L HATE.FU!...  
..­... '"'..  _... ,..  
OIL~  UNHINoE.11  EXCE'.SSIVE.L'1 HAPP~  

~ ; '!!
.,, :i 
"'
<J 
"' 
"' 
J> 
i 
"'
.., "' 
" ~ 
,n 
"' 
"' 
Ill 
"' 
z. 
<I 
M 
:l 
"' 





