
------editorial-----­
A great University differentiates itself from the average by the quality of services and opportunities it offers to its students. Notre Dame provides many such opportunities, but in one aspect it is sadly lacking. The student radio station, WVFI, certainly does not provide the service that it should as a representative of the University. 
WVFI does not suffer from a lack of student backing. It has over 300 students working to make it a. success. Nor does the station suffer from lack of University cooperation in trying to better it. WVFI does suffer tremen­dously from an almost complete lack of financial support. Its budget is less than half of that of its FM sister statiori, WSND, a station that is itself under­budgeted. The tales of financial difficulties that the staff of WVFI tell would take an entire magazine to explain, but the major and most heartbreaking dif­ficulty is one that all students are familiar with --namely, the antiquated transmitters in buildings around campus which make it impossible for most students to tune in to WVFI. 
There has been much debate on what to do about this problem, but, unfortunately, there has been little action. The University must give the sta­tion its full financial backing and work quickly to solve this problem once and for all. The slow trickle of funds that has barely kept the station on the air so far is not enough. Even now, WVFI is in danger of being ~nable to stay on the air past October break due to the frequent breakdown of key equipment and its high repair costs. 
While the University has been cooperative in getting experts to test the equipment and give cost. estimates for repair and replacement, the need now is for action in solving the problems. 
Students at Notre Dame deserve media service that is more comprehensive than a daily look through the Observer and a twice monthly look through Scholastic can possibly provide. The only way to give them a real choice of media is by making WVFI audible throughout campus and beyond, indeed throughout the South Bend area. WVFI can be a great voice for the University throughout the community. It can be a powerful informa­tion tool and a good way to cut down on the lack of communication that often results in poor attendance at campus events. While WSND has done a very good job as a representative of the University in the area through its excellent classical programming, there is still a major need for a station like WVFI. This need can be filled. The station to meet these requirements exists, we just cannot hear it. 
With the LaFortune renovation in progress and the University demon­strating a welcome commitment to aiding student organizations, the time has come to throw WVFI a lifeline. 
-SCHOLASTIC 

-------------contenlfs------------­
Volume 127, Number 3 SCHOLASTIC October 16, 1985 
Editor-in-Chief James F. Basile 
General Manager Maher Mouasher 
Design Editor Peter Wowkowyeh 
Managing Edi_tor Matthew H. Bradley 
Marketing 
Pete Cespedes/ Advertising Michael Setzer /Circulation 
Editorial 
Barb Blanchette/Saint Mary's John Dettling/Sports Mary Dolan/Departments Donna Gavigan/Copy Mary Hartney /Student Life Mike Hoffman/Nat. Affairs Jennifer Niederst/ Art Jean O'Bryan/Notre Dame 
Design 
Maria Murphy/Art 
Mark J,,echner /Cartoonist 
Emil McCauley /Cartoonist 
Tim Arnold/Layout 
Jennifer Freeman/Layout 
kathleen Lau/Layout 
Kristin Malaker/Layout 
Alfredo Marr/Layout Susan Serrato/Layout Paul Kramer /Photography 
The opm1ons ~xpressed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of SQHOLASTIC or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless other­wise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the editorial board. 
SCHOLASTIC is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertising, Inc. Published bi-weekly during the school. year except during vacation. and examination periods, SCHO­LASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available ·from SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of SCHOLASTIC. Copy­right © 1985 SCHOLASTIC. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 
FEATURES 
2/Where Have All The Students Gone? 
by Susan Yadlon 
5/College Of Business Administration: Asset Or Liability? 
by Kathy Martin 
11/Accounting: ND's Most Popular Major 
by Joe McGarry 
12/And For T_hose That Just Can't Decide 
by Joan Meyer 
13/Inside Sports 
by Pete Pranica 
14/Justice For All 
by CathyAnn Reynolds 
20 /Settling The Score 
by Alison Pivonka 
. 22/Tom And Kate Face The Real World by Maureen Thompson 
24/The Last Thing We Want Is Pity 
by Mike English 
28/The Iron Curtain Of Northern Ireland 
by Liam Brennan 

DEPARTMENTS 
4/On Other Campuses 
by Paul Aiello 
16/Calender 
Compiled by Karen Dettling 
19 /Computer Corner 
by Louis Fuka 
26/The Aisle Seat 
by Theodore E. Mandell 
27/Music 
. by Rachel Nigro. 
•.· .... •.· . 
)2/Tlie Final Word by Bill Webber 
' ' -~-----~~~-------­
·---------­



Where have all the Studen(s gone? 
A SEARCH FOR THE EXTRA-CURRICULAR DOMER 
by Susan Yadlon 

( "lr" "\I ,~r ,r ""l
"'' f " ,r ... , '\ 
t ==, t 'I ' ,r 

\I ' l 
( \ I \
,Q, " \ ' ,r

F --.r

( 7 
, r 't '\ r '\I '\ 
r "\ ( "l
I 



"' ' 
( 7 
' 



Someone greater than I schedules so successfully . and once said, "Never let schooling . · even fewer willing to make the get in the way of your education.•~ effort. The implication is pretty obvious: 
So where have all the stu­there is more . to life than dents gone? In my attempt to · academia, and extracurricular ­uncover what Darners do afteractivities can· also serve as learn­classes, I decided to drop in ating experiences. Such· activities. 
the Center for ·Social Concerns·abound here at N.D. 
(CSC). I had two reasons for my 
N.D.. is touted by all as the "N.D. is touted by all visit: I) Both N.D. and a majority great bastion of academic excel-• as the great bastion of of its student population are 
' lence tempered by Catholicism Catholic. With such an emphasis and. populated by the potential · academic excellence on religion it seems only logical Renaissance man/woman of the tempered by· Catholi-that organizations stressing ser­80's:· the well-rounded student. vice to others would. be popular
· cism and populated by 
with students. 2) It is the build­Ideally, we students should the potential Renai,s­ing nearest to N.D's version of
be preparing to enter the ranks of the working world, loving our sance man/woman of Mecca --the. library. 
neighbors and still finding time to the 80's: the well­Based on a 1984-85 analysis play interhall soccer. Call me a rounded student." · of twenty service/social action · cynical senior, but .I find few groups operating out of the CSC, instances of people juggling their an estimated 1200 students parti-. 
2 
SCHOLASTIC 


cipate in its activities. Seniors and juniors account for 55% of these students, sophomores for 28% and freshmen for 17%. · Social consciences are spread fairly evenly throughout each col­lege with Arts and Letters stu­dents comprising 27.5%, Science claiming 25.4%, Business Administration 18.3%, Engineer­ing 16.6%, and Freshman Year of Studies bringing up the rear with 
12.1 %. 
Women arc far more likely than men to carve out time in their schedules for community service. If we normalize the data to account for the 2.48:1 ratio of 
men to women, the groups are 64% female compared to 36% male. Walsh and Farley provide the most resident participation with 21.1 % and 13%, respectively. 
A huge discrepancy exists when it comes to the type of par­ticipation in which N.D. students choose to partake. Domers opt to help others face to face. Overall they tend to be politically apathetic. In other words, they prefer to teach a child to read, 
.1 •
and spend . less time worrying about Reagan's policies in Central America. 
; Nine groups take up 77% of the 1200 active students. Groups such as the Neighborhood Study Help Program, Volunteers For Youth and Logan Center are incredibly popular with students. The groups that attempt to address political issues; like the Farm Labor Organizing Commit­tee (FLOC) and the Student Organtzation for Latin America (SOLA) struggle along with memberships of 10 to 20. 
Before we become a little too cheery about how wonder­fully aware we are as a campus, let us remember that statistics can and do lie. The original number quoted estimated that 1200 stu­dents became . involved in service/social action groups. But this number counts anyone who 

16 OCTOBER 1986 
. 
. . 
. . 
. 
. 

. 
. 

"Domers opt to help others face to face. Overall they tend to be politically apathetic." 
took part in an activity; it does not distinguish whether you parti­cipated twice. For example, if you belong to both. CILA and the Council for the R'etarded, you are now two socially active students. This is how the statistics are deceptive. Many students belong to more than one group. A more realistic statement is that any­where between 600 to 1000 stu­dents actively participate in service/social action groups. 
Kathy Royer, coordinator 

of service/social action . at the 
CSC, echoes this sentiment: "It 
does seem at times that it's pretty 
much the same students that come 
in over arid over again, but I 
think that is also reflective of our 
whole society." 
So where are the other 6000 students? Not surprisingly, they're at the gym. 
Combining interhall, co­recreational and club sports, 11,718 Domers participated in athletics last year. This number consists of anyone who signed up for any of the above activities. So, if you ran women's track, did aerobics and entered the turkey shoot, you're counted as three athletes. 
According to a random 

sampling of 700 students, 79% of 
the males and 49% of the women 
polled participated in intramural 
sports; 86% of the men and 91 % 
of the . women did some sort of 
informal recreation. Notre Dame · 
students spend an· average of 75 hours in the gym a week. . Whether you choose to interpret this as a component of the well­rounded individual, or see it as a sign of impending and terribly narcissistic Yuppiedom, I leave it 
to you. 
. 
' . ) 

One place that students definitely are not is any of the number of academic lecture series sponsored on this campus. The Kellogg Institute for International Studies rnn a series last spring consisting of over fifty lectures, most politically based. On the average, 20 students · attended 
· each lecture. The Ideas and Issues Committee discovered the same disturbing statistics. Their survey found that 30 students out of a possible 600 heard William Ruckelshaus, ex-head of the Environmental Protection Agency, speak last spring. On the 
· other hand, over 200 students heard Benjamin Hookes, director of the NAACP. The popularity of lectures depends on the name recognition of the speaker, publi­city on campus and the time of the lecture. A speech given near midterms can almost guarantee an empty house. 
The last place I searched for the after-hour student was the place we affectionately call the 'Brare. It is undoubtedly the most populated area on campus. I have no statistics on this, but if you doubt me, just look around the next time you're there. Why else is 2nd floor the . hardest place on·, campus to study? 
Ye~, we are at a university. · And yes, studying is part ;of academic life. But this is supposed . · · to be the best, the freest time of our lives! We have no children, no job to worry about, and for most of us, no bills to pay. We have the time to walk around the lakes arid the time to sit around and discuss life with our friends. Now is the · time to worry about Central America and to teach a child to read. For in a · few years, we might Iio longer have the. time, nor the opportunity. So put down this magazine, and run starry-:­eyed to the CSC. Or go see a lec­ture on China's economy in the · 1980's. But for God's sake, get out of the 'Brare! • 
. 

' . ~ 
. 

. . . . ' . 
. 
~ 


-----------on other <e<BlJrn]l_))uses 
Compiled by Paul Aiello 

(jugs (junny: number 1 
Last month's military deci­sion to require all ROTC recruits to be tested for exposure to AIDS is currently being denounced by gay advocacy organizations. Unofficially, . the military forces about 200 acknowledged homosexuals out of the services each year. 
Business executives are flocking back to campuses to learn foreign languages as. more companies look to international mar_kets. Why? Just ask Pepsi, which took its slogan, "Come Alive with Pepsi" to China, translated it and wound up with "Pepsi Brings Your Ancestors 
Back  From  the  Grave."  (And  
they  think  it's  crowded  there  
now.)  

0 

4· 
Saturday morning Bugs Bunny cartoons were watched by 82% of the students surveyed by a Radford University business professor. Road Runner was a close second, while Scooby Doo was a distant third. 
Asked to name their heroes, University of Wisconsin-Madison students picked . their parents. Mom received six times the votes of any other heroine, while Dad received twice the votes of the runner up, Jesus Christ. Mother Theresa and Jane Fonda tied for 
second among heroines. 
At a time when Greek fra­ternity membership is at an all­time high of 250,000 students,· many universities are launching an all-out offensive against them. Currently, universities are responding to a recent increase in public outcry fueled by dramatic stories of misconduct, with much of it relating to the treatment of women by male fraternities. In the last three years, there have been fifty gang rapes at college frater­nities, while 29 deaths related to hazing have occurred in the last six. 
COLLEGE 



OF \! 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION: 
by Kathy Martin 

Asset or Liability? 
BATTLE BETWEEN LIBERAL AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION RAGES ON 
Just what 'is Notre Dame's academic identity? The Univer­sity boasts a traditional commit­ment to academic excellence and a liberal education. But how valid is this claim when the University also offers an undergraduate busi­ness major? Has the national trend toward careerism led Notre Dame to offer an education based on a marketable skill rather than a well-rounded liberal experience? Or do Notre Dame business stu~ dents leave the University with as liberal' an experience and approach to society as students in other undergraduate schools? 
It has been suggested that an undergraduate college of busi­ness administration is inappropri­ate in a distinguished university committed to higher education. Harvard, Stanford, Yale and most other selective universities offer no undergraduate business pro­grams. Historically, higher educa­tion was first developed to give aristocrats a solid grounding in the humanities as. preparation for law or the clergy. A century ago, the Industrial Revolution reformed ideas of higher educa-. tion to include business and sci­ence along with the hum.anities as . part of a liberal education. At the 
16 OCTOBER 1985 
same time, the success of Ameri­can industry in manufacturing, transportation, and invention caused the nation to develop a "business mentality" as part of its cultural consciousness which has carried over into the present. 
This business mentality is reflected in the following popular attitude toward higher education: knowledge must have relevant practical application in this infor­mation age. But has the pendulum swung too far beyond relevance to specialization? Specialization in an undergraduate education is . often looked upon as "tunnel vision" in which college graduates do not develop the ability to see beyond their own areas of exper­tise. The . higher one rises in the ranks of business, the more important is the ability to see the larger picture. Flexibility, inventive:1ess, human relations, and the capacity to deal with change can become more impor­tant than reliance upon the tradi­tional expertise of facts and· fig­ures. Is our · nation and Notre Dame training specialists . who know more and more about less 
-and less? Megatrends author John Naisbitt wrote, "We are drowning in information . but starved for knowledge." 
There is no doubt that the 

undergraduate business degree . from Notre Dame opens · up countless doors in industry for that first job after college. But is that business degree absolutely necessary? Kenneth Woodward '57, senior. writer at Newsweek who earned an undergraduate degree in English at Notre Dame, claims that the business degree is not only unnecessary but undesir­able. Woodward argues that most large firms off er management training programs --an indication · that the specialized skills needed 
for business are better learned on 
the job. Also, :MBA schools offer 
two year programs for those with 
liberal arts, science, and engineer­
ing degrees. · · 
According to Richard McCormick, president . of Northwestern Bell, industry today has expressed a need for com­municators, for liberal arts majors with · diverse educational back­grounds. McCormick claims that in this age of electronic communi­cation, the "real winners are not those with the most information, rather those who know how to sort out what is important." He noted that the primary role of management is to communicate with customers, employees, regu­
lators and subsidiaries, but many college graduates cannot organize material for a report, nor compile concise one-page memos, nor choose effective vocabulary. He found liberal arts graduates to be better observers and listeners, skilled at selling ideas and ser­vices, and better able to organize thoughts into clearly understand­able language. "I often realize how glad I am that on my road to employment I chose among my college electives some courses like 
literature, philosophy, and spe·ech," said McCormick. 
The prospects for success for liberal arts graduates in business in the past few years seem promising. An ,AT&T study of Bell System executives over the last twenty to thirty years found 
• that recruits with a liberal arts degree were as a group more sue­. cessful in advancement than those : ·: with business or engineering · · : degrees. Robert Beck, AT&T's : : : vice-president for human resources, confirmed, "This means that when it comes to ·. · management, liberal arts gradu­. ates do not have to take seats in 
· · • the back of the bus." 
. · Senior management in Chem­ical Bank inNew York is making a "definite effort to recruit liberal arts· graduates," said Gene Phi­lippi, director · of staff planning and· development. Of the Bank's annual 250 college and MBA recruits, more than half hold liberal arts degrees: "We find that if you have a liberal arts back­ground you have a better chance of understanding all the facts involved in lending money." 
Trends toward success for liberal· arts graduates are evident· in the MBA schools also. The gra­duate schools must supply what industry demands, and the win­ning .combination for the high­tech industries of the future seems to be an engineering degree · and an MBA, according to the graduate business schools of Har­vard, Wharton, and the University of Chicago. However, the "managerial track is open to those with a liberal education," said David Bloom, admissions director at Wharton Graduate School of Business. 
The associate dean of Cornell's Graduate School of Business, Ted Lewis, remarked in an article by Woodward for Notre Dame Maga­zine, "There is ·nothing more depressing than to see an 18 year-old college student deter­mined to get a marketable skill · rather than to get educated." He attributed the spirit of vocational­ism to parental pressure. "They are putting out up to $11,000 a year for _an undergraduate educa­tion and they're the ones who ·are demanding a good return on their investment in Junior --meaning a good job that pays . w_ell." He explained why Cornell does not have an undergraduate business program. "The most impractical undergraduate education is one which provides training in a specific skill instead of rigorous training in analysis of various kinds, which is what a good liberal education provides." 
Is the liberal arts edu­cation narrowed by its lack of exposure ··to business skills? 
The profile of the students accepted into Notre Dame's Gra­duate School of Business' two­year program for 1984-1985 reveals the· diversity of undergra­duate backgrounds. Twenty-one percent majored in business, 19% in engineering, and 13% in sci­ence. But another 19% majored in economics, 16% in the humani­ties, and 13% in the social sci­ences. 
Notre · Dame MBA program Admissions Coordinator Joyce Manthay said that Notre Dame, as most graduate schools, offers a one year program for those with undergraduate business degrees, and a two year program for the liberal arts, science, and engineer­
ing graduates. The criteria for admission. include the GMA T score, undergraduate GPA and program, extracurricular activities on and off campus, work experi­ence, · the personal essay and interviews, • and recommendations from faculty. She did stress the importance among the liberal arts graduates of exposure to quantita­tive skills; such as ·calculus, busi­ness statistics, . and economics. "The. liberal arts exposure is much more broad,".· she said. "It . helps ih the _long run because · it teaches a way to think. It is important to be as well-rounded 
as possible." 
·Robert_ Quinn, former gen­

eral partner of the investment 
banking firm ofSalomon Brothers 
and member of · the Arts and 
Letters Council at Notre Dame 
graduated from Notre Dame with 
a degree in history and is a firm 
believer in liberal arts as the best· 
preparation for a business career. 
He · said, "Major league business, 
such as commercial and invest­
ment banking, is looking for peo­
ple who can think broadly, 
analyze from different perspec­
tives, and grow. The technical 
training is now available within 
major corporations. Thus, it is 
more important to be able to 
assimilate technical training than 
to come in prequalified techni­
cally, with preconceived notions 
not understanding the ethos of th; 
company,-and not having the abil­
ity to leverage the raw material of 
personality. · To put it simply, 
those with a. great deal of techni­
cal training must only be 
retrained when they ente~ busi­
ness." 
Regarding the value· of an MBA, Quinn said, "The MBA can be in some .ways· confining. · Too many MBA's · together iri a room is bad for business since there is no diversity." He contin­ued,· "Big business is recruiting advanced · arts and letters gradu­ates because they think more broi:i.dly. Most big businesses have become global operations and 
SCHOLASTIC 


want to recruit people who can think globally. It is preferable to speak_ another language, urider­stand history, geography, and pol­itics, not just accounting." 
Quinn spoke .of current trends in corporate hiring. "When I was in school; graduates were coming out in a strong inverse proportion to the employment pay scales. Engineering paid the most, then business, and the liberal arts graduates were hopefui about get.; 
· ting a job. Ten to fifteen years later, I think the balances have reversed themselves dramatically. The engineers were primarily technicians, and business didn't have a broad enough background to have the upward mobility in the companies. The liberal arts graduates go to law school or for advanced degrees, and they learn the business internally, the way it 
16 OCTOBER 1985 
Narrowing one's field of interest· too early is risky · in a fast-changing industrial. world. 
is best learned. Instead of turning out the · technical · asp·ects, they approach business with a broader perspective." 
Woodward proposes. a rigorous major in economics · within ·the College of Arts and · Letters in place of the business program. He also advocates .a . double major in accounting, .for. example, · with a liberal arts degree, as well as continued parti.: cipation in the ALP A (Arts and Letters Program for Administra-· tors) for students wishing to fami-. liarize themselves with business quantitative skills. . This ·sort of. "education," rather than "preparation . for a job," would renew the traditional commitment · of the University to the liberal arts . and humanities, as well as reemphasize the value of learning for the sake of learning. 
Narrowing · one's field of 

· interest too ·early is risky in a fast-changing industrial world. Any industry or service could ·conceivably· become extinct or: outdated in years to come: Mega­trends author Naisbitt wrote,· ••we are moving from the specialist who is soon obsolete to the gen­eralist who can adapt." The liberal arts education is often a struggle; though, for students pressured by parents and nagged by their own worries about gra­duating with a marketable skill, about finding that first job. Do they graduate as "jacks of all trades and masters of none"? 
· Let's flip now to the pro­business side of the argument. Is the 'undergraduate business .edu­cation at Notre Dame really so limiting and · strictly vocational? And, if students flock in mass 
numbers to such majors as accounting and management in order to get a job after college, what is so wrong with that? Finally, -what is it that draws so many men and women of the 80's to Notre Dame's College of Busi­ness Administration? . 
Father David Tyson, Vice­President for Student Affairs and associate professor of manage­ment, believes the business school is an appropriate part of a "mul­tidisciplinary" university, "espe­cially in the context of a Catholic university." The success of Notre Dame's undergraduate business program is evident in its ranking within the top ten business pro­grams in the country. Notre Dame's accounting program is ranked seventh nationally accord­ing to Dean Reilly of the College of Business Administration. Class sizes are small in relation to other undergraduate programs across the country, and the quality of teaching is extremely high. 
"Our majors are not limited in their choices of courses. They can take fully half of their credit hours outside the college of busi­ness," said Reilly. He added that the business concentration includes five courses beyond the basics in an area, but there are still twenty-one hours of free elec­tives available. Accountancy may require more business electives in 
_'-preparation for the CPA exam, but· the other departments, as well as accounting, make an effort to encourage students to go outside the business college for their elec­tives. Father Tyson, who gra­duated with an Arts and· Letters degree from Notre Dame . and went on to earn a doctorate in busin~ss, affirmed the strength of a business curriculum structured With the possibility of liberal arts ·elec;:tives. The · college also requires students to take six hours of credit outside of · business. "When I was director of the sophomore year," Father Tyson said, "I encouraged students to double inajor [outside the college of .businessl" with the. option of 

"'Has the national trend . toward careerism led Notre Dame to offer an education based -on a marketable ... skill . rather than a well­rounded liberal. experience?'' 
SCHOLASTIC 


the 24 to 26 elective hours. "We 
need exposure to multiple discip­
lines," he continued. In reference· 
to what he called "the business 
freak;" he explained, "I person­
ally don't like all · 24 elective 
hours i:o be taken in business, 
although it is understandable in 
accounting." 
He believes the general 

education core of the first two 
years of the Notre Dame business 
program broadens the curriculum. 
"Yale's Arts and Letters Econom­
ics program looks like our 
Finance program on paper," · he . 
said. Also, the issues of Cathoiic 
values and· ethics and what they 
mean for management is a strong 
component of Notre Dame's pro­
gram, enhanced by a faculty who 
should · "exude an attitude . about 
education," added· Father Tyson. 
. Tyson acknowledged the · .trend toward the business degre~: . today, adding that the social sci.: ences in Arts and Letters . were· t~~ popular major in the 60's 
16 OCTOBER 1985 
when he attended Notre Dame. "The real· tragedy, though," he said, "is for students to feel that they have no choice but to be here in 'business due to parental · pressure or a national trend." An advantage of the undergraduate business education, in Father Tyson's view~ is ·· · the ea~ly development of a "psychological perspective to the business world," which enables the busi­ness majors to get involved in a career tract right away and to get the :MBA later, after some work experience. "The curriculum for the Iv!BA is really no different than the Notre Dame. undergradu­ate program, but the perspective changes with · work experience," • he said. The liberal arts graduate, on the other hand, should get the :MBA soon after graduation, as "they will be experiencing the world business milieu for the first 

.. ~ha1rriian : of the. Ac~~un~ .. tancy DepartinentLeonard Savoie · 
said, "The intellectual content of the business program is substan­tial and significant. We have a right to be proud." According to -Savoie, students choose business .. 
courses as a good . entry into management and because the · employment rate of business school graduates is greater than in Arts and Letters, adding, "The Arts and Letters students . are beating down our doors to take business courses." 
The advantage of the · accountancy degree within the · College of Business Administra-'­tion is-. that the accounting firms hire four year undergraduates. "Our graduates don't need the· :MBA program when they'•ve· already had undergraduate business--it's a waste of time. Why · take seven years of school when· you can get the job in four?" he asked. "Notre Dame. is among a half dozen sources for all of the · Big Eight (eight large firms that audit 95% of American business).-. 
l 
I 
j 
I 
l 
I 
1 · 
I 
I 
l 
Every year a recruiting team 
. comes to get our majors, and takes ten. to forty students per firm. Two-thirds of our majors go into public accounting, which is highly respectable arid lucrative at a young age." 
Dr. Robert Vecchio~ Chair­man of the Department of Management, said it is the "spirit of careerism, employment oppor­tunities, and competitive salaries" that attract students to the better business programs, especially in the area of management. "Management," he said, "leans more toward the people side of business, toward better . under­standing of social processes and human dynamics, with more potential bridges· to the liberal arts than accounting and finance." The business degree may develop more technical than administra­tive ability, but he encourages his students, some of whom would rather "stay at home" with busi­ness courses, to take electives in psychology and sociology. 
Vecchio added that . the starting salaries for those with 
_· business degrees are greater than those with liberal arts degrees. "It is .usually necessary for the liberal arts graduate to. go on for the 
MBA. The liberal degree is better preparation fqr the second job. The big picture person who understands · people and the development of character is necessary for high-level manage­ment, but the entry level position has to come first." 
Dean Reilly believes that the charge of vocationalism may not be a valid one. He said that many students go into business because they have grown up in a business ·.environment, with . an 
· uncle or. father in the business, and ·· because they find it enjoy­able· or a "fascinating field of ~tµdy." The field of modern inves.tmen t can develop 
. ·"glamorous deal-makers," and there are exciting opportunities in computer science today,. accord­ing to Dean Reilly. 
Professor John Houck, Specialization of any type 
. Notre Dame professor of manage­breaks down communication. ment and codirector of the Center According to Houck, "The for Ethics and Religious Values ·c1ceper we scholars go into our in Business, sympathizes with all disciplines, the more difficult it is students starting out from college for us to talk to each other. today. "When I started in the 50's, There need to be lateral bridges we didn't worry. Society was ~ctween these specialties of 
. growing, there was much more · business and of liberal arts." opportunity, at least in the first There have been attempts to do job," he said. "But certain fields this, Houck continued. For exam­arc overstaffed now. Students ple, "Every Senior in the College today feel the pressure to go into of Business Administration once business and engineering with the participated in a year-long sem­hope it · will help get them inar in business philosophy," started." He objected to the con­studying thinkers from Adam tribution of two institutions, the. ·Smith and· Karl Marx to John corporations and -the universities, Kenneth Galbraith. The course toward the "steady decline of ' was dropped in the 1960's." attention to intellectual questions 
"We. have to examine whatthat go beyond the narrowly we're teaching about the business. technical." He described this divi­mentality. Arc we serving thesion of knowledge as the lack of powerful professions of society"integrating cognition with faith, too much, turning out men andthe head with the heart, and women narrowly skilled in techni­technical · competence with good cal specialties? It is appropriatewill." 


and necessary within the Univer­sity to prepare students for these professions, but also to examine values, . intellectual · techniques, and a reward system . critically. The trick · is to encourage our business students to see more deeply what business is about and · how it _contributes to the common good. They need to be nurtured, not only in a managerial ethos of technical competence arid · per­sonal ambition, but also in a spiri­tual ethos which helps them to ask the right· questions and to try to do the right thirig.'~ 
Fr. Tyson would like to see a synthesis for business students in their senior year of their practi­cal skins with phiiosophical and ethical values._ "I. took a course at 
I.U. called ];lusiness and Society, · taught . by an economist, ·and our · first assignment was a. one page essay on the philosophy of man. What people decided was · true about human . beings tended to determine what _type of managers they , would · -mak.e. Philosophy 
.· does have a .. direct impact ·on management; although. not usually until after-gradua~ion," he said. 
•. SCHOLASTIC 


The views of Houck and Tyson on the need to integrate business and humanities intro­duce a new question: Is the liberal arts education narrowed · by its lack of · exposure to business skills? Dea·n Reilly, as well as oth­ers, agreed that it would be desirable for liberal arts students to take business . courses, as was proposed at the Academic Coun­cil last year. The liberal arts stu­dents are "fre.sh," said Dr. Nichols, · associate professor of 
Accountancy. "They come in without preconceived ideas and they challenge what we present. They have looked at other ideas of politics, economics, and math, and their concepts have applica­tions in business," he said. Unfortunately, the ALPA pro­gram is overcrowded, and the business school has neither the facilities nor the staff to meet the needs of the entire College of Arts and Letters. 
Clearly, it is the obligation · 

of the University to prepare its graduates for·. success in ctireei-s and vocations. Nevertheless, the debate continues as to how this preparation · is to take place, through liberal arts or business classes. Those on both sides of the argument seem to agree that. the gulf between the business and 
liberal arts educ·ation must be nar­rowed, but whether this should come about through the integra­tion of the two disciplines or the elimination of one remains a diffi­cult question. • 
16 OCTOBER 1985 
ALPA students· are tailored for jobs requirmg a combina­
' tion of communicative skills and . corporate exposure. 
ALPA, the Arts and Letters Program for Administrators, pro­vides the Liberal Arts major with a · taste of the business world. ALPA students accomplish this by filling eight oftheir ten to thir­teen free electives with business related courses: economics, statis­tics, finance, accounting, market­ing, management, and two ALP A electives. This sequence qualifies as a "second major" in business. 
The program is designed to provide undecided students with a wide range of career opportuni­ties. Fr. Robert J. Austgen, Assistant Dean and Coordinator of ··the College of Arts and Letters, explained that the ALP A program provides flexibility for Students · who do not have a specific job in mind but are attracted to the Liberal Arts cur­riculum. Through the combined forces of two colleges, students gain a wide range of verbal and written skills as well asa founda­tion in business. With such a broad background and· an under­standing of the expectations of the job market, students can more easily choose a job that is compa­tible with their interests. 
The students are not the only benefactors from the program, however. For the recruiter, A_LPA students are tailored for jobs requiring a combination of com­municative skills and corporate . exposure. The ALP A background helps to guarantee the employer of the students' qualifications and genuine interest ·in the business aspects of the job. 
AND FOK THOSE WHO JUST CAN'T DECIDE ... 

by Joan T. Meyer 

The ALP A program, how­ever, is not for everyone. Because it uses the majority of their elec­tives, ALP A is not recommended for students considering law careers or graduate study. Arts and Letters students who know "what ~hey want to do when they grow up" are advised to master the skills relevant to their ambi­tion rather than branching out into . areas · of business. ALPA, sometimes referred to by anxious liberal arts majors as an "insurance policy for a job," is designed for the Arts and Letters student who wants to enter the job market immediately after gra­duation. 
Because approximately one­third .of Notre Dame Liberal Arts majors plan to start a career with 
· their undergraduate degrees, · the ALP A program is tremendously popular. Originally designed for 30 graduates a year, the program has grown to 170. Currently, a total of 400 sophomores, juniors, and seniors are enrolled, pushing the slots for classes beyond their limits. Because the number of business classes have not been sufficiently increased to accom-· modate the enrollment, many frustrated students are being shut out of required courses. With no definite plans for expansion of the program, many discontented stu­dents are asking the college: "Are you offering the program or not?"· 

Despite the problems, the program provides a good back­ground for students headed . for the job market. Overall, the ALP A program is one more way in which the College of Arts and Letters "prepares students for a lifetime." Responding · to the needs of uncertain students for a broad education, the ALPA-pro­gram provides opportunities in a variety of fields such as manage­ment and administrative positions. For Fr. Austgen, a man who has seen Arts and Letters graduates succeed in the· job market with and without the ALP A back­
. ground, "the ALPA students' business foundation can help them get their foot in the door, but it is their liberal arts skills that will get them the job." Calm­ing the fears ·of · Arts and Letters students in search of a job, Fr. Austgen remarks with pride that "they are better than they think they are."., 
SCHOLASTIC 

\ 



liN§liDE 
You might have been there. 

You had to be there to really 
understand the depth of the pub­
lic humiliation suffered on the 
turf of Ross-Ade Stadium on Sep­
tember 28. Frustration welled up 
over an impotent offense on the 
critical list with inhibited imagina-. 
tion and a defense simply out­
gunned (and outsmarted) by 
13oilcr quarterback Jim Everett. 
Discretion being the better part of 
valor, I chose not to dispose of 
my notes, stats, spotter's board 
and headset through the window . 
of the aptly named Booth 13 on 
the Ross-Ade radio deck. It took 
about five hours, but I found a . bright spot. 
Notre Daine doesn't cheat. 

Sure, they don't win as often as they used to, but hey, they don't cheat. SMU has · been the winningest team over the past f cw years under Bobby Collins, but they're also in the NCAA's max­imum security doghouse. The Ponies will · have to make do without the usual allotment of thirty scholarships next year and fifteen the following. 
Understand that Notre Dame is THE American College for football. Their games have been broadcast for. 1 8 years via the 

§PORT§ 
by Pete Pranica 

Mutual Radio Network to over 180 stations stateside and over­seas to Armed .· F orccs Radio. The Irish draw· more ink in the Chicago . Tribune than Illinois, Northwestern or anyone else. 
As · such, the Irish set an example with their football pro­gram. Granted, losing two of your first three games is not much of an · example. Graduating better than 95 percent of your players is. 
Believe it or not, that's Notre Dame's true value as a football program. Whatever their record, you know that the Irish. players arc student-athletes, not athlete­students studying power volley­ball. Does that sound familiar, University of Florida? On top of that, Notre Dame athletes do not receive these ridiculous undcr­
thc-table payments available at the institutions of higher learning in the Southwest Conspiracy, er, I mean, Conference. Member schools Texas, Texas Tech, Texas A&M, SMU, and TCU have more than the eyes of Texas upon them. 
Try the NCAA. . . 
TCU heads the list due in . large part to the noble honesty­is-thc-bcst-policy · approach of Head Coach Jim Wacker who had the unprecedented audacity (read it integrity) to suspend six of his' players, including Heisman cand.i­datc Kenneth Davis. The six had accepted payments from boosters, and when Wacker confirmed this with the boosters · involved, he took the matter to his assistants. They voted to suspend the players and go to the NCAA with their findings. 
According to Doug Looncy's article in. the September 30 issue of Sports IllustroJed, Wacker got a nifty introduction to coaching in the SWC when one of predecessor 
F.A. Dry's assistants informed Wacker that . there was a right proper way to acquire blue chip athletes. "Wheeling and dealing," he called it. Seems that cars and cash have been just as prevalent as punts and passes in the SWC. Properly indignant, Wacker wheeled the assistant out the door. Dry had allegedly approached a wealthy. alumnus with the idea of creating a slush fund for athletes to the Texas.• tune of $90,000. The alumnus balked, and today Dry calls it all a fabrication. We'll see F.A. Somebody's telling a tall tale here somewhere. 
Recognizing the problem is only the first step. Cleaning . up the· mess after the party is an entirely more difficult chore. As long as you have needy and gulli­ble athletes as well as unscrupu­lous boosters with six-shooting moneybags, you will have illegal payments. In the interest of pub­lic service to the Lone Star state and college athletics in general, here are afew suggestions. 

16 OCTOBER 1985 
ri 
! 
SPORTS continued 
· · 1. Get serious with sanctions. If an athlete accepts payments or violates the rules, that's it. He loses his eligibility. He gets to keep his scholarship. so he can finish his education, but he'll never play again. Why? He knew the · rules and so did the school and so should the boosters. The school loses a valuable player and the scholarship is tied up with someone who's not playing and therefore cannot be used to recruit some hotshot high school senior. Don't forget, the university president, athletic director and c;oach should all take some responsibiHty here, too. 

.· 2: Get the ·athlete a decent · education. Make sure that each · 
athlete graduates, How? Make it so that his scholarship cannot be transferred or reissued until that player graduates. That should . pressure the athletic and . academic community to make 
sure that the athlete gets an edu­cation that will serve him beyond the lockerroom. Oh, yeah. Get rid of the academic maneuvering where the athlete signs up for a course and doesn't have to show up. Or worse yet, has someon<;! else show up and do his work. 
3. 
Make it illegal for boosters to pay recruits and athletes. I said illegal as in felony offense. True, payments are illegal so far as the NCAA goes, but these sugar daddies can practice their specialized form of bribery and prostitution immune from criminal prosecution. That's wrong. 

4. 
Change the monetary com­position of a · scho1arship. In today's economic situation, even a full scholarship isn't enough because players cannot hold a job during the school year. Pocket money becomes scarce. Families of Notre Dame athletes are gen­erally pretty well off, but when you have athletes from the inner city, the temptation of illegal pay­


ments and cars is very strong. Give 'em a monthly stipend so they aren't tempted to scalp their tickets. Where's the money going to come from? Believe me, ESPN, WTBS, and the networks have to pay dearly to park those big trucks next to the stadium or arena. 
There are . other potential reforms, but these are just some preliminary ideas whose time has unfortunately cqme. Hopefully, college presidents, athletic direc­tors and boosters will have learned from the "example" of 
TCU, SMU and their ... other partners in crime. 
Outside Ross-Ade Stadium, the Notre Dame boosters were talking about what had happened inside. They weren't very happy: Quite frankly, their sometimes excessive whinings can be a bit offensive, but not nearly as offen.:. sive as the piles of greenbacks and brand new cars offered· to, and accepted by, college athletes.• 
Justice for all ... 
·oN LIVING IN AND LEARNING FROM SOUTH BEND by CathyAnn Reynolds 
Reaching out to. others is very difficult, but opening the closed fist we tend to offer is even. harder. Students in . the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity have· gradually begun to reach out to the South Bend com­munity, and are effecting positive change. 
In recent years the Univer­sity of Notr:e Dame and Saint· Mary's College · have expressed the need for students to develop morally as part of their education. Said University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, "Ifa student learns how to care, that would be 
SCHOLASTIC 


an important part of his or her education." Added Sr. Mary Turgi of Saint Mary's Volunteer Services, "Students need to be exposed to the situation of the poor and of those who are treated 
· unjustly. This direct experience motivates them to go back and do more analytical work. in the class­room." 
Many students have a sense that South Bend is primarily industrial. But in fact, South Bend no longer supports itself by indus­try and has become · a service­oriented city. Since the Stude­baker company left in the I 960's (and it seems that Bendix will soon follow), South Bend has been rehabilitating its culture and economy. This shift contradicts the notion that .South Bend has nothing to off er beyond tlfe foot­ball stadium, Five Points, or the shopping malls, and gives strength to the argument that volunteers · are needed in all areas of social concern. 
South Bend is not segregated, either econorp.ically or racially, as · much as most cities, and a large sector of its lower income families reside' close to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. Between 1970 and 1980 the popu­lation geclined by 72.6%, accord­ing to Richard Lamanna, Associ­ate Professor of Sociology at Notre Dame. Primarily, the white sector migrated leaving a high · percentage of Blacks and Hispanics. Thus, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students traditionally from white, upper-middle class 
. backgrounds, are surrounded by a societal group with whom they are unfamiliar. 
This unfamiliarity might be expected to .prompt a high degree of involvement in the local com­munity. Yet, less than 1000 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are currently participating in the many voluntary groups that serve the South Bend community. Not quite 10% of the ten thousand undergraduate student population 
16 OCTOBER 1985 
involve themselves in the com­munity that exists just outside of their college campus. "A lot is provided for us here, and that makes us forget about the kinds of problems that exist outside of campus," according to Julie Toth, senior Social Work major at Saint Mary's. 
Assistant Director of the Center for Social Concerns Kathy Weigert says, "part of what it means to be Christian is to serve others and live out the faith. Stu­dents need to get out and under­stand that not everyone has the same horizons. An education comes from learning from people, not only from books.'.' 
"Only 10% of the ten thousand .undergradu­ate student popufo,tion involve themselves rn the community 
Under the auspices of the University of Notre Dame, with the verbal support of the adminis­tration and through some finan­cial support from · alumni, the Center for Social Concerns pro­vides students with multiple opportunities to serve the South Bend community. 
For John ;Eustermann, it is a 

rewarding responsibility to help, 
teach and offer frieridship to peo­
ple ages 7 through 12 as part of · 
the Big Brothers program. In Big Brothers, inner city children are matched up one-on-one with stu-· dent volunteers. A Big Brother for over two years, Eustermann said, "I see what people don't have and how they want you to help. · I've seen people just barely mak­ing it, and it makes me appreciate 
this place more." 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program offers 12 centers at schools and community centers and caters to elementary, junior and senior high school students needing extra help with their stu­dies. 
This program, the oldest and largest student voluntary group at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, boasts 250-300 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students committed to tutor twice a week. It encourages an emotional as well as interactive level. Debbie Doherty, now in her fourth year with the program added, "Some . of the parents of the• kids rein­force the learning. Others have economic problems and want the help, and encourage the program because it is free." This amount of student· time and effort por­trays only one way students have chosen to incorporate the South Bend community into their academic and personal education. 
The · Students Assisting Stu­dents Program provides a therapy group for adolescents who have committed minor offenses. Each adolescent undergoes a four week session. at the South Bend. police station in which, at the last therapy session, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students form groups among the adolescents to dis.cuss the previous sessions. "This -'pro­gram h.elps · the kids talk and makes them participate. It works better than just slapping a kid 6n the wrist and letting him go," said Mike DiPaolo. ·· 
Additional-community ser­vices are . provided · under 
· academic · auspices, through the departments· of Theology, Sociol­ogy , American Studies, and the Saint Mary's Justice Program. 
The Christian Life Commis­sion at Saint Mary's, a branch of student government, sponsors .and organizes events through local organizations to urge students to become involved in the local com­munity. 



,r,cn ~.-.,-·T ,,-,
VV I_ LI ~1_11_, I I 0 
.FILM: "Godfather" Englneering Auditorium 7, 10 PM Loft 7PM 
ART: Woman Photographers Moreau Gallery September 20 -October 18 
George Rickey In South Bend Saint Mary's College, The Snite Museum September 8_-October 20 
.Harry· Callahan: Eleanor & Barbara The Snite Museum Of Art · September 8 -October 27 

LECTURE: Samuel Edgerton Super-hero Comics And Italian Renaissance Art The Snite Museum Of Art 7PM 
Alumni Board Fall Meeting: CCE 
10th Anniversary Celebration Week North Village Mall October 15 -19 
\//Cn~
\,V C. LI 

FILM: "Halloween" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9, 11 PM 
SPORTS: NOTRE DAME-VARSITY Woman's Field Hockey -Valparaiso 4PM Volleyball -St. Francis (III} 
7:30 PM Soccer -Valparaiso 4PM SAINT MARY'S-VARSITY Soccer -At Hope -College 4PM Volleyball "-At Marion College 7PM White Water Series Century Center _ •... 12 Noon 
DYNASTY STUDY BREAK . HOLY CROSS PARLOR 9-10 PM 
I\A n I\I ~I\I ·/1
I U I I ~I I,-t 
FILM: "Touch of Evil'_; Snite 7pm 
FILM: "39 Steps" Snite 9pm 
ART: Portfolio Review Saint Mary's Gallerys November 4 -7 
ART: Africa and the Americas: A Curator's Choice 
Design's Past and Prehide: Chicago World's Fair , Colleg~_ of Science .Council Meeting -CCE SCHOLASTIC 

TLIIIO~ ~n 1-1 
1111_11,~ 1_1,11 
FILM: "Godfather" Engineering Auditorium 7, 10 PM 
"Enjo" Loft 7PM 

LECTURE: De;i.n A. Porter "Marriage, Mousetraps And Misers" Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 PM 

SPORTS: SAINT MARY'S-VARSITY Soccer -At Nazareth College 
4:30 PM 

ND/SMC Theatre: "The End Of The World" Washington Hall 8:10.PM 
TIJIIO-IIILll\rv - n 1·::i11_1,,_11  
FILM: "Halloween"  
Engineering Auditorium  
7, 9, 11 PM  
FILM: "Crucified Lovers"  
Loft  
7PM  
MUSIC: AMY GRANT CONCERT  -ACC  
LECTURE:  Nicholas Wolterstorff  
Memorial Library Auditorium  
8 PM  
Dining Hall: Steak Dinner  
4:45  -6:45  
JUNIORS/SOPHOMORES:  

HALLOWEEN MASQUERADE BALL COSTUME CONTEST SOUTH DINING HALL 10 -1 AM 


TIICC•-I\I C
I LI i: ._, I I I ,_, 
FILM: ·"The Front" Snite 
7:30 pm 

ART: Africa and the Americas: A Curator's Choice ART: Portfolio Review SPORTS: NOTRE DAME-VARSITY 
Volleyball -Indiana 

7:30 pm. SAINT MARY'S-VARSITY Volleyball -at Franklin College 6pm . Last Day For Class Discontinuance Good Morning Movie Scottsdale Mall 
Design Past and Prelude: Chicago World's Fair ·Faculty Seriate Meeting 
.:ccE 

....,. 

...,,.:~ 
COlm§fflI I\I 
Performing Arts: Carmen The Embassy Theatri 8PM Tickets -$ll_.50 
ND/SMC THEATRE : "The SPORTS: NOTRE DAME-V. 
Cross Country -At Ii (Bloomington, I 4PM 
Woman's Field Hocke 
3:30 PM Volleyball -At Miss4 
7:30 PM 

SAINT MARY'S-VARSITYj Tennis.-At District 'J NOTRE DAME-CLUB Women's Cross Coun­(Iowa Universit 
College Of Arts And Letters 
Pancake Breakfast Augusta Kitchen 9AM $1 FOR GUESTS 
COi



I I\ I 


FILM: "Weof the Never Nev Snite 7:30, 9:45 pm 
FILM: "Exorcist" Engineering Auditorh 7, 9:15, 11:30 pm 
PERFORMING ARTS: "Th MUSIC:. Glee Club Fall Cone Washington Hall 
8:15 pm SPORTS: NOTRE DAME-V Soccer -Loyola (ILL: 
2pm Hockey -Kent State 
7:30 pm 

Advisory Council Meetings: College of Science -C Colleg~ of Erigineerit 
I 


,,,_en~
,,v C.LI -~ 
FILM: "Stripes" Engineering Auditoriu .7, 9, 11 pm 
ART: Portfolio Review ART: Africa and the America 
LECTURE: Craig Owens 

Punctuation: Arrested Nm The Snite Museum of 7pm 
White Water Series Century Center 12 noon 

Design Past and Prelude: Chic 

n 1i:1 

1_1.i '-' 

PERFORMING ARTS: Carmen 
The Embassy Theatre (Fort Wayne)(Fort Wayne) 
8 PM TICKETS -$3.50 ND/SMC THEATRE : "The End Of The World" 
End Of The World" 
SPORTS: NOTRE DAME-VARSITY ARSITY 
Football -Army TBA 
1diana Inter Collegiates 
Volleyball -At St. Louis N) 
1PM NOTRE DAME-CLUB 

y -At Wooster 
Rugby· -Northwestern 
Behind Stepan Center 
Before Football Game SAINT MA~Y'S-VARSITY Tennis -At District Tournaments rournainents 
Volleyball -At Manchester College With Anderson College And Goshen College try -Little State 
Graduate Management Admission Test 
y)  Engineerin  Auditorium  
Advisory Council~CCE  1,1 ·-;• 
I I I J..•  

FILM: "Exorcist" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:15, 11:30 pm 
SPORTS: NOTRE DAME-VARSITY
1,1 .-., / 
Football -Navy

1 IU V 

TBA HOCKEY -Kent State 
7:30 pm NOTRE DAME-CLUB 

Rugby -Marquette behind Stepan Center before football game
lffi 
SAINT MARY'S-VARSITY Soccer -Loyola Universitye Front Page" 12 noonert 
DINING HALL: Candlelight-Buffet Dinner following football game 
ARSITY 
) 
;;,. 


TUI 10 

IIILII\ 

FILM: ·•.•stripes" CE 
Engineering Auditorium g-CCE 
7, 9, 11 pm 
FILM: "Stray Dog" Loft 7pm 



~I\I ,-, 
ART: Portfolio Review 

~I I , Q 
ART: Africa and the Americas: A Curator's Choice
-------------.....i PERFORMING 
ARTS: Barry Manilow Concert ACC 
m 
LECTURE: Willia_m E. Voelkle . "Seven Deadly Sins" Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 pm· 

SPORTS: NOTRE DAME-VARSITY :rative, in Contemporary Art s: A Curator's Choice Volleyball -Valparaiso 
8pm \ Advance Registration for Spring Semester 1986 Arts & . Crafts Show University Park Mall November 7 -10 :ago World's Fair 
Art 



n 10
U, 1,_I 
1,1 -, t I, / 

·n1-•T I O _ ·-;· ',. i: /\ I I . ,,:_,, 1,:,, c,-_ ,~, v,,·
1_11_, I I ,_I '-' , I ,-, '-'­

FILM: "Vertigo" Annenberg Auditorium 7, 9:15 PM 
Classes Resume At 8 AM General Dynamics Presentation -CCE 

n ,-,o

Tl I Ci:• 

.I LI I_.J 
I_I I(., ,_I 
FILM: "The Third Man" Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 PM 

McCandless Prayer Service MC LOUNGE 
9:30 PM 

SOPHOMORES: Sophomore Council Meeting Cavanaugh Hall 7PM 
i:• I I I\I 

1_ILI I I 


ART: Africa and the Americas: A Curator's Choice The Snite Museum of Art November 3 -January 19 Opening and Reception 2 pm 
MUSIC: Karen Buranskas, Faculty Cello Recital The Snite Museum of Art 4pm 
SPORTS: NOTRE DAME-VARSITY Volleyball -at DePaul 3 pm Christmas Open House . Dountown Mishawaka Midwest Pops Orchestra Co~vention Hall -Century Center Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture Confer~nc -CCE JUNIORS: Class Mass 5pm details to·be announcec:' 

Engineering Auditorium 7, 9, 11 pm 
FILM: "Bob le Flambeur" Snite 7:30, 9:30 pm. 
ART: Africa and the Americas: A Curator's Choice SPORTS: NOTRE DAME-VARSITY Woman's Field Hockey -at Midwest Regional Tourney (Carbondale, IL) November 8 -10 .TBA Hockey -at Michigan-Dearborn 
7:30 pm SAINT MARY'S-VARSITY 
Volleyball -at NAIA Districts at IUPUI TBA. 6 OCTOBE:t. 


. The . Justice ancl Peace Center offerect by ·the · academic community . allows . students . to work with . the· ·poor of South Bend, primarily helping theni \:thrqugh emergency situations . 'dealing with ·rent and utilities~ 
The most intense of the many ways .to · become invol\led· in the issue of social injustice is the Urban Plunge, .. where. students "go · to · urban areas they have never seen. to experience the con­ditions of injustice, poverty, and 
· apathy found in our cities...as a ~ore ·complete · education," according to. tJ\e Urban Plunge Booklet. Last January, 2~3 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students went on an Urbari Piunge. In each of these 48-hour immersions into the inner· city, _the students observe and/or work with programs and· p~rishes . which are striving to meefthe needs ofthe poor. 
Reflecting on · her · Urban Plunge. exp~rience, Mary Therese wrote,· "Prior to the Plunge, I had no feeling for those who were not . 'success[ul' and even viewed poyerty as a sign of weakness. What. I did not understand · is that today the situation for the urban · poor. and immigrants . is much differe1,1t--the .. same opportunities tc( get'. out or · 'move up' do · not exist as· they did· for niy family." Rose Drake, senior sociology major at Saint Mary's, said of the Urban Plunge, "You can get a brief 'taste of what it is like. You can handle the two days." · 
'Jennifer .. Phlllips, a-sopho­more · at Salnt _Mary's, ·_ went on a South Bend Mini Urban Plunge, sp_onsored by the · Saint Mary's . Christian Life Commission in September; "The people coming to the soup kitchens did not seein to mind the 'rich white people' being there." Phillips said. She also cited many of. the advances 
· Soutp Bend was making in the process of rehabilitation to supply · the poor with low-cost housing rather than evicting them to make room for more expensive projects. 

. · The United Religious . 
Community's Shelter for · the · Homeless . utilizes volunteers to· ·.· greet each .night's guests, distri­buting cots and blankets. These volunteers watch· over the shelter · until the morning, · when they , 
serve coffee and donuts. 
· Other service groups include the American Red Cross, Council for. Fun and Learn, Council for the Retarded, FLOC, Headstart, Circle K, ·Student Tutorial Educa­tion Project ·. and NCAA Volunteers for Youth. 
.. 

Students have these and other service groups available. Although many are supported others, need more help. For instance; interest is growing in the Big Brothers program, but the Big Sisters program has very Jew volunteers and ._ is . practically nonexistent on both campuses. 
These opportunities are a unique part of a student's college 
. experience . because participation in civic action "teaches students about their own values and com­mitment. The experience in South Bend · hcips the student. learn about the 'relationship between government, businesses and people...an education that students can take anywhere," said Charles 
-Pressler, professor of Sociology at Saint Mary's. 
-' Why are more than eighty percent .of the students here still not reaching? • "Perhaps students ·reason that they are not affected by the South Bend community," 
. said Notre · Dame professor Lamarirta. 
. . 
. . . ' 

The reasons for seeing South Bend as it really is are academi­cally, personally . and socially nutritional. Our own Center for Social Concerns is unique · to American college campuses. Many colleges sponsor voluntary organizations but very few have a set of programs which urge stu­dents to care· and grow through their service. 
SCHOLASTIC 




-------------co:irnpute:ir coJrn<eJr ----------­
I ---1....,e-LANGUAGE-­OF-I I I_F-COIV11 •u I E-i 
In tlie last article, we learned that a computer is made up of four basic · functional blocks -­input, output, memory, and the processing unit(s). _In this article, 
we·  will  tum  to  the  processing  
unit,  also known  as  the  Central  
Processing  Unit  or  CPU.  The  

focus of · this article will be on how _data and instructions are written in such a manner as to be "understood" by the CPU. 
by Louis Fuka 

. Each "letter" or place in the word (either a· zero or a one)" is called a "bit/' A group of eight bits is called a "byte." A group of four bits,· or half a byte,. is called a "nibble." Computer scientists have a sense of humor, too. CPU words are usually a multiple of eigli~ bits long. The CPU used by the Macintosh has words sixteen bits (two bytes) long. The CPU used by · the Commodore 64 has 
There is also a way of representing numbers such as 2, 34, or 4567 as a string of ones and zeros. It is not so much a representation as a conversion to a different base. We do our every­day ( figure two ) arithmetic in something .called the base-ten sys­tem. This means that there arc ten numbers --zero through nine. To put the numbers in a· forni that the computer can handle, we must' convert our base-ten numbers into 

An aut<;>mobile is a mechani­cal device, and we control it by mechanical means--that is, by pushing pedals, turning wheels, and pulling knobs. A CPU is an electrical device, so it makes sense that we control it by electri­cal means. Instructions and data 

are  formed  into  . units  . called  
"words".  Unlike  words  in. the  
English  language,  CPU  words,  

also known as machine language, are made up entirely of ones and zeros. Furthermore, · while the words we are familiar . with are variable in length, ·CPU words are usually all one length. How long they -are. depends on the type. of . CPU. 
01000111010010U 
A ma·chine language "word.'.' 

16 oc·roBER 1985 
words eight bits (one byte) long. 
.Using only ones and zeros in our machine language makes it very easy to represent our languages electrically. A one can be represented by an "on", or a high voltage (usually five volts). A zero can be represented by an "ofr', or a low voltage. · 
This is all very well, but how are we ·supposed to get anything accomplished with only ones and zeros? Furthermore, how can we represent data such . as· letters and decimal numbers using only ones and zeros? ·Let us look at the. second question first. There are several ways ·of r~presenting letters. . "The most common is ASCII, which is short for "Amer­"ican Standard Code for Informa­
tion Interchange." 

base.:.two . numbers. · Base-two has only two digits --one and ze~o. 
You may be wondering by now whether the binary and ASCII representations of numbers are equivalent. They are riot. But while it may seem ridiculous to represent the same thing in two different ways, it makes · perfect sense to. the computer. The dl(:­f erent representations are the only way that the computer can figure· out whether the . numbers are· mean( to be part of text, such as during. input and output or dµring 
word processing (ASCII), or arithmetically manipulated (binary representation.) · 
In conclusion, we .have discovered how data and instruc­tions are represented in · such ·!l manner as to allow the computer 
ll 

to work with them. Furthermore, ll rt 
I

we have seen two schemes for· ,:I• 
,,

converting data from the forni II 
r.,,

that we are comfortable with_ to 'a form thatcan be processed by the I: !i 
. computer. In the next edition of f Computer Corner, we will exam­ine how the CPU is designed in such away so as· to be properly · controlled by instructions made of ones and zeros, and also how the CPU tells the difference between. instructions and data. • · 
19 


:i .
,, 






SETTLING THE SCORE
:; 
d 
'I 
I' ARE GRADUATE SCHOOLS MOVING AWAY FROM STANDARDIZED 
ADMISSIONS TESTS? 
by Alison. Pivonka 


lhns 

Hopkins recently dropped MCA T scores as a con­sideration for admission to their medical school. Harvard dropped the· GMA T for their graduate 
· business school. These institutions have in the past seemed to set the tone for administrative and admissions decisions across the country. For the prospective applicant to any graduate school, the possible elimination of the standardized test requirement is of crucial and immediate concern. 
Will applicants to . graduate schools in coming years not be required. to take standardized aptitude and achievement tests? Dr. Robert Waddick, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, does not foresee such a change. "I don't think they will completely abandon the notion of standardized testing," adding that such tests are "valuable if they are used with intelligence." 
20 



The 1985-1986 Bulletins for both the Graduate Record Exami­nation (GRE) and the GMA T contain guidelines for the appropriate use of test scores. .Foremost among these guidelines is the stipulation that admissions committees ~•use multiple criteria" in their ·admissions procedure. Both caution against the use of cutoff scores and suggest instead that the individual ·graduate insti­tutions review the accuracy of standardized tests as predictors in ,their own particular programs. "GMA T test scores," states one, "are but one of a number of sources of information and should be used, whenever · possible, with other information and, in ·every case, with full recognition of what the test cah and cannot do." 
Dr. Peter Grande,· Associate Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies,· believes that the standard formula of graduate school admis-
SCHOLASTIC 

sions, like that of undergraduate admissions, is to look first at the transcript, then at the personal statement or essay, and finally at the test scores of each applicant. "The best predictor (of success in 
the first _year of college)," he maintains, "is high school rank in class (or GPA)." The same, he believes, is true of graduate 
school. · 
According to Waddick, "a 
=-four-year test is more important than a four-hour test." However, both· he and Grande agree that . standardized examinations are a valuable "equalizer" when admis­sions committees are unfamiliar with a particular applicant's undergraduate program. What is important for those committees to remember, emphasizes Waddick, · is that such exams do not measure "motivation, industry, and per­sistence." 
Why, then, are such institu­tions as Harvard and Johns Hop­kins disregarding these exams as factors in the admissions process? Grande believes that for graduate schoois with · such high-quality applicant pools, standardized tests 

16 OCTOBER 1985 
simply "add nothing" to an applicant's subjective data. Wad­dick says that schools that have abandoned the use of the exams have done "longitudinal studies" on their validity and have found the results of these studies unsa­tisfactory. 
According to the text of a letter written to Father Robert Austgen, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, by the admissions director of the Johns Hopkins Medical School, Dr. · Norman Anderson, the correlation between a student's previous test scores (for example, the Scholastic Aptitude Test) and his scores on the MCA T is high enough to no longer warrant the use of the latter exam. "Specially-devised standardized tests," the letter states, "have been used as aids in selecting medical students for · nearly fifty years, despite the lack of evi­dence that such test scores corre­late with performance in clinical training or career outcome." Thus the MCA T is now optional at Johns Hopkins; SAT, ACT or GRE scores may be submitted 
The Law School Admission Test (LSA T) appears to be the exception to the rule, escaping much of the criticism that befalls the other standardized tests. Now graded on a scale of IO to 48, it has seen only one class through its first year of law school under 

Dean Robert Waddick 


instead. "Our objectives," according to Anderson, "are to lessen the impact of testing on the college experience." 
its new format. . According to 
Waddick, five fo six years are 
needed for an accurate validity 
test. But he does react strongly 
and positively to the structure of 
the exam. "The LSA T is a beauty," he says, because the placement of the. essay at the beginning of the exam is "a catharsis," allowing students an opportunity . to relax before proceeding to the objective sec­tions. The MCA T, too, will soon have an essay which --while unscored --will be sent to the -medical schools to which a stu­
dent applies. 
Waddick emphasizes that, rather than criticizing standard­ized tests themselves, one should criticize the way in which they are used. Grande agrees, "Every­one stands ready to be negative about standardized testing." Yet both believe that because of their usefulness as a method of com­parison between applicants, their disappearance from the admis­sions process is far from likely. e 
21 

i 
l· 
.TOM AND KATE FACE 
THE REAL WORLD 

THE PERILS OF BEING. A SENIOR 
by Maureen Thompson 

'V'=oilit ~_{{fll ~ij\r~ 
~h;,., :':,":::-t;-:., ,;:.::;; y,;.;::L,~.. Y...,u'"r,.., ~,u.!~ d~nJ:;4 .:, ;:.....L,: ar!~: :~.~.k ;;:i,t :::tH ~h,.. :~dho1'~nti:ii.g;e;~ ;t(itiJ'.' . 11;r;.·~~Pil ~t~ti,ii~i! 
Y,::;1.1 :~r:::: !]'.~;,k e'it:""vt::'.' y~·-u ~~av~ 
P••~k':'~~wf.':.•'~i!g :1~•d Cbei;:k,::;;rn.ml. :1-'1 ,::.fo;;,~r;,;s "~"'J;J,,.,..:,Y Jh,,.~.­;n,ow:1;ed!P,;11lli ,ev,e:n :you. \'()~!. :11.ll"illli 21 :r·e:a:r$ old,, :":!!11.d •Cii,\:!ll :!!i:O to :a:r~:y• .b!l!r. 1n town '\ili!'ttlh :!t~i·u:r ci·w!!11. v1lndl ID, S<i!Uitidiii :sr,oiat:, but s:h.oul,d ~,eri.i.(l!F$ bl:li .the ,e.~~vy ,~;f :nll -~11!11d11:1i:1·c[a:ssmen? Nl'()t ,e-v,e·r;•one Jl,mow$ ·t!hte d,ec::p d:a:rt sild~ c.if wb:nt it n1,i::tE1.1lll~ to be·~ 
SCHOLASTIC 

Though seniors typically school in August you saw Torri. at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, enjoy their last year of school, the He had shaved his beard, his hair 
they must _also prepare to battle majority also suffcr effects of this had been cut remarkably short, 
the big bad world awaiting them longed-for status. To begin with, and the diamond. stud had disap­with what's left of their finger­
very f cw seniors; men or women, peared, along with the hol_e that it 
nails. • have fingernails. This syndrome had occupied. Then you saw is not caused by exam anxiety or Katrina. She was wearing a light­latent teething but by the search blue oxford and a navy twill skirt for an answer to that very diffi­~ith navy-blue · espadrilles. Her cult question: What comes next? hair was completely black and cut into a neat bob, and when you
After going to school, not 
spoke with her she asked you to
necessarily to class, for 17 years, call her Kate.

they must decide whether or not to go on to graduate school, and if There are valid reasons for 




't 1··. 

so, what and where to study. This these changes. is fine, assuming they've per­
Tom has majored in 

~r-~
formed par excellence on their 
Engineering and wants to. work
LSAT's, GMAT's, and GRE's. 

for Exxon Corporation. Kate $_c: --~·---_ ·_ \__.··~-­
While some seniors .choose this . 
chose to major in Accounting. She 

~--U ~~
route (there must be some secu­
plans on working for Coopers &
rity in the notion of being a per­
Lybrand or Ernst & Whinney.

petual student), the majority rriust . 
Competition is keen and conser­
work after graduation.. Of course; 
vatism must dominate. Like many
this means facing the dreaded job 
others in the senior class, Tom
search: composing a resume, 
and Kate have succumbed to the
locating potential employers, 
. relentless demands of the business
interviewing with them, and then.· 
world.
continuing to feast on one's 


fingernails. 
" ... that white streak in her razor-cut, coal black hair always made you look twice." 
Do you remember Tom, the could merely be practicing tone of . _ '­

one who was in your American -·
voice, heeding the advic~ of [J.. ,History class last semester? He thought.ful professors. and career . ·. :---.
had a beard, long hair, and he development counselors to speak·_ · wore a diamond earring. He in "clear and confident tones." .-,--....:: · ·· 

always seemed pretty laid back about life, didn't he? What about Maybe now you can decide . Katrina? She was in your Child 
how envious you should be, 
C 3

Development class last year. She unless you arc waging your own · 
One more thing; don't be · alarmed ifyou sec a senior talking to herself on the way to class. Most likely, she's tackling poten­tial interview questions: . ''How well do you work under pres­sure?'' "Umni.:.-· Pressure · situa­tions motivate me to do my best." "What do you know about our company?" "You have a reputa..: tion as a· reliable consulting firm, with employees working together . to please their customers." Or she 

wore torn sweatshirts and war with seniordom. There arc . . · t!,...:t patched jeans, and that white 
some benefits. Along with the streak in-her razor-cut, coal black 
benefits, however, come many . hair always made you look twice. 
frightening prospects. So, while seniors embark on their last yearWhen you came back . to 
16 OCTOBER 1985 . 

.THE LAST THING WE WANT
·. . ~ !· 

INSIGHTS FROM BLIND 

STUDENTS 

W. all~~ow what it is like to go to conege:·the growing, adjust­ing, and · balancing of the academic and social that one must do. But imagine, if you can, what your conege. experience would be like if you were blind. 
For two sophomores here at Notre Dall).e there is no imagina­tion needed; Darren Black-Grena and Matt King are both visuany impaired, and both must deal with the day-to-day· difficulties that are part of leaving home and going to school. 
Darren has been blind since the age of seven because of a brain tumor, and while sight is totany gone from one eye, he does have 20/600 vision in the other. Provided that lighting conditions are good, he can see colors and· shapes. 
"I wouldn't .have those on the wan if I couldn't see" he says, pointing to the Christie Brinkley posters in his DiIIon dorm room. 
Darren doesn't often carry a cane, although he has one. As he has gotten used to the campus, he's found· it easy to get around. He even finds time to jog around St. Joe's Lake (where there are "less roots"). Yet there are stiII some sman difficulties. 
"The bike riders are a real problem. I've had a lot of close cans and was hit once by a guy going pretty fast." The snow in 


IS PITY 
·• by Mike English 

winter can also be a pain. "In the winter I can't see the paths, and those diagonal ones that cut across the quad can be difficult. Sometimes I find myself walking in deep snow an of a sudden." As 
. an English major who spends a lot of time in O'Shaugnessy, he's learned to stay away from those classroom doors which swing out into the hanway. "I try to make it a habit to stay in the middle of the hall." 
The academic side of things presents no major problems. Dar­ren can't take notes too easily, but "I try to prepare beforehand, so that I can fonow what's going on 
pretty wen." People who volunteer to read for him are 
· helpful. Other aids such as tapes, a computer with a voice com­ponent, and a BraiIIe typewriter an help him to carry on the life of a student. 
As for the · condi­tions for handicapped people in general at Notre Dame, Matt King feels that it's much better here than most places as far as attitude goes. 
SCHOLASTIC 

The social aspect of college hasn't always been easy. "I'm less socially extroverted than I'd like to be --taking social initiative is a hard thing to do." But· he docs feel that things are getting better. "I'm finding a niche, a group of fri~nds, which is nice· because I don't have to explain all the time now." 
Matt King has been · blind since birth, and like Darren he also can see to a certain extent, his visual abilities varying with the lighting. "Most people don't realize that eighty percent. of all 'blind' people can see," he says. 
Matt carries a cane all the time, and he finds it easy to get around campus. "The campus is pretty well organized, and the quads make it simple. I think it's as easy for me · to get around as for most people." 
A resident of Grace, he has arranged the fourth floor kitchenette into his "office." On his desk are tape recorders, a Braille typewriter, and a magnify­ing device which illuminates and enlarges (up to sixty times normal size) the print in his text books and displays it on a screen. 
.As an engineering major he depends largely on his text books when studying for a class, but "I tape lectures when I need to." He also has a second major in music, which he feels is a good example of the sensory pleasures open to the blind. 
· As . for the conditions for handicapped people in general at Notre Dame, Matt feels that "it's much better here than most places as far as attitude goes. The stu~ dents have a strong sense of ser­vice." He also feels that "the profs here arc great. They trust . mv honesty when I need extra 
time for a test." 
Most important to Matt is the clearing up of any misconceptions his fell ow students and people in general have about blindness. "It's not the tragedy that a sighted person might think it is. The last thing a blind person wants is pity." 
Darren also doesn't feel his 

blindness should be over­
emphasized. "I'm unique not just 
because of my vision impairment, 
but because of my appearance, of 
who I am. I'm a questioning per­
son --that's an important part of . me." 
So being blind at Notre Dame doesn't seem to slow Dar­ren Black-Grella or Matt King down at all. As Matt says, "all people have their own style for doing things. Ours is just a little different." o 




A T_OUCH OF EVll 
ORSON WEl,.LS AT THE SNITE 
by Theodore E; A-fandell 
Power destroyed by obses­sion. Society run by dark, sinister characters void of any morality. A 
·touch .·. of evil. Orson Welles presents cinematic brilliance analogous to his 194 l master­piece, "Citizen Kane," in a cyni­cal talc of the crumbling of a power-hungry mogul: 1958's "A Touch of Evil." 
.Welles stars as an inflated, 
. visually grotesque Texas police captain, Hank Quinlan, · who frames suspected villains in order to· ensure their conviction. While investigating a car bombing (which occurs in a stunning three minut~ . sequence in the film), Quinlan meets a honeymooning Mexican undercover agent (Charl­ton Heston) equally concerned with solvi~g the case in the smal.1 border .. . town. Heston then becomes the catalyst in. uncover­ing .aworld of sleazy characters, materialistic greed, and . social decadence. The honesty of Hes­ton. and his wife (Janet Leigh) become the targets of. Welles' soc.ial statement on man's evil nature. 
In contrnst witp. Heston's lily white bride, director Welles creates the most· disgusting char-. 
acters who seem to seep with the distaste of old mayonnaise. Nightmarish portrayals include an aged Marlene Dietrich, the cold, expressionless first lady of the b·rothel which entertains the obese Quinlari. Possibly ·. the most dis­turbing presentation . is that . of Dennis Weaver as the convoluted nightwatchman of the lonely hotel where. Heston's wife stays alone. In addition; his neurotic state acts as a · barometer for the film's theme. Like Weaver's character, this film portrays the insecurity of individuals hiding in isolation with disregard for any· social jus­tice. A lack of social morality emanates from. the real world out­side the fi_lm. 
This depressing view rises from post-World War II attitudes expressed in many· films of the late forties and• fifties. Welles; 
with his hallmark film inventions in "Citizen Kane," created a· visual· style which accompanied this social atmosphere and inspired an era of dark film (film "nofr"). Among his visuai tech­niques were low camera angles and tracking shots which show the protagonist, surrounded· by enormous objects · (buildings, statues,etc.), running toward a · backing camera and apparently going nowhere. Themes of hope­lessness and despair emerge. "A Touch of Evil" exemplifies Welles' views on man's demise in his quest for power and integrity. 

The characters in many films of.· the time appear as either representative of an immoral society, like Hank Quinlan, who is a· man with goals designed for personal gratification at any cost, or a well meaning newcomer like Hes~on, who · unveils Quinlan's deceiving mask of political corr­uption. This view is epitomized outside the movie world by the aftermath of WW II. War is the height of achieving one's desires no · matter what the price...even death. 
. "A Touch of Evil" exhibits a dark view of our world in which status is a goal achieved only by stepping on the feet of those in one's way. Depressing in one aspect, truthful in another. 
· "A Touch of Evil" shows Monday, November 4th, at 7:00 
p.m. in the Annenberg Audito­rium of the Snite Museum. Run­ning time:. 108 minutes. Admis­sion: $3.00. • 

SCHOLASTIC 


-----------------llJl.1Ul.§ll.<C -----------------­

W~Illlfinu~ @m1 IID@®ff Ifil®rr~ . 

THE PLIGHT OF WVFI 
by Rachel Nigro 
Everyone here on campus has most likely heard ·of WVFI, Notre Dame's and St. Mary's student-run radio · station. The question is, have you ever actu­ally heard WVFI? Ever actually listened to a program over the radio? 
It is not surprising if your answer is no. 
WVFI has 'been the victim of years of apathy and neglect on the part of both the students and the administration. · However, the current staff is · fighting back and attempting to show students exactly h,ow serious it is about its radio station. 
Many dorms simply cannot pick up the station because of the disrepair · of the carrier:-current lines from WVFI to the campus 
· dorms. The number of dorms that do get WVFI can vary from year to year, arid season to season, as weather and age 'affects the strength of the carrier system. Here we have a · student-run radio station, catering to the stu­dents' musical interests, yet th·e . students are un.able to listen· to if on their radios. 
· Finally, steps have been taken to correct this problem. Workmen have inspected · the neglected lines. If the lines are fixed, according to remote opera-' tions director John Tallarida, everyone at both Notre Dame and St. Mary's will be able to· listen to · 
WVFI. 
The major consideration; as always, is money. Quite a bit is needed bt> to fix the lines. The administration has never ·helped the station because, quite fruth­fully, no one has ever askedthem. 
The staff at WVFI has never seemed wholly interested in upgrading the. station. 
·The current staff; however, is · · very interested in promoting WVFI. Yet, without the needed radio exposure, not enough peo-· pie are aware that WVFI-wants to· be taken seriously. · Many people 
· 
· 
· 


-~ 1111~ 
at WVFI find it frustrating when their promotional efforts re~ch· so few ears. According to Tallarida, "There is a iot of motivation (on the staff), but it is hard to keep everyone feeling up/' · 
Tallarida further explaineq. that hopefully the administration will see that the staff at WVFI is serious about a better radio sta­tion and will be more confident in helping them. 
Student support is essential. WVFI caters to · students, . and those who have listened to. the station know that its format ·is new, progressive music .· --I,\ refreshing and entirely welcome change from stagnant South Bend · radio stations. Isn't this what we hav.e all been looking for?· A radio station that. does not . consistently play WHAM? A · station . that doesn't.: still insist · on · playing : "Flashdance"? WVFI is it, ·buf only if we can hear it• · 
27



EIGHT HUNDRED YEARS LATER THE ISLAND IS STILL DIVIDED 
rr1-1·f= Il~ON Clll~Tl\.IN 




OF 11~·f:IJ A.ND 

s early as the twelfth cen­
tury, Ireland was dominated by England. The English realized the danger of Ireland being used as a base for attack by an enemy, and, acting on this fear, they invaded Ireland. The history of the English in Ireland is along and detailed one. Today, the situation in Northern Ireland is one of the . most misunderstood problems ori 
the island. 

The Irish did not take kindly · to foreign suppression, and there· were many attempted revolutions. The · English tried and failed to Anglicize the· people ·of Ireland. Their hold on the :.Irish remained a purely :military . one. When . 
Henry VIII turned away from the Roman Catholic Church, he and successive moparchs passed rules forbidding Catholicism and cur­tailing the rights of Catholics. Despite all the laws and harass,­ment, the Irish remained largely Roman Catholic, and· to this day Catholicism remains a predom­inant aspect of their culture. . 
In· 1800, England passed a 
· bill called·, the "Act of. Union'.'. This bill dissolved· the Irish Parli­anient in Ireland by incorporating it into the English· Parliament in E:ngla,nd~ Thus,. Ireland. b~came wholly a part'of the United King­dom; irish politicians had very lit-
by Liam Brennan 
because they were a· small minor­ity there. The enmity between the English and Irish continued to grow. In 1867, twenty years fol­lowing the deaths of over a mil­lion people in a · famine which need not have been so disastrous had the English intervened, there was another uprising. It was organized by the Irish Republican Brotherhood, and it caused so 
much concern in England that the 
firSt Home Rule · Bills were 
debat.ed. · 

The Home Rule movement did not, in actuality, seek independence for Ireland, but . only control over her internal 
tie say in the English Parliament • affairs of state. The repeal of the 
.SCHOLASTIC 
"Act of Union" meant a certain type of liberation for the Cathol­ics. To the Protestants it presented certain problems. In an independent Ireland they would be a minority, and that was feared just as much as were the economic repercussions of an independent Ireland. The Protes­tants, who owned all the indus­tries concentrated in the North, feared that they might be separ-ated from the lucrative Brit­ish markets. 
After the failure of several Home Rule Bills in the English Parliament, in 1911 the way was paved for the Liberal government in England to pass and implement a Home Rule Bill. Home Rule for Ireland was to come into being in 1914. The bill was postponed with the advent of World War One, but even if Home Rule had been implemented in 1914 there would probably have been violence. The Protestants in Ulster ( one of the four Irish Pro­vinces) in the North had by this time organized themselves into a unified force called the Ulster Volunteer Force. They prepared to arm themselves and defend Ulster, in which they were a majority. Adding to the problems of a peaceful settlement was the 
Sinn Fein movement. Sinn Fein advocated total separation from the United Kingdom and would not be satisfied with Home Rule alone. 

On Easter Monday, 1916, there was an uprising in Dublin. This revolt took the English by surprise. The rebels captured several key buildings in Dublin and proclaimed a new Republic. This valiant effort was rather futile, as the rebels were highly outnumbered and Dublin was soon under the control of the English again. It did, however, remind the English of the impor­tance of implementing Home Rule. 
Northern Ireland has been politically and economically domin-at­ed by the Protestants since its creation. 
In 1918, elections were held throughout Ireland. The Sinn Fein Party won seventy-three par­liamentary seats, another Irish Party won six seats, and the Unionist Party (referring to its desire· to remain in the United Kingdom) won · twenty-six seats. Twenty-three of the twenty-six Unionist seats were won in the Ulster Province. These Unionists took their seats in the parliament in England. The Sinn Fein party set up its own government in Dublin. 
·It was at this point in Irish history that a "two parliament Ireland" was considered. The English Prime Minister, Lloyd George, suggested that, in order to alleviate differences between the two sides (Nationalist and Unionist), two parliaments be set up, later to become one. While the English continued to debate Home Rule and the form it would take in Ireland, the Sinn Fein movement became more militant, rising up against British troops in Ireland. The English responded forcibly and guerrilla warfare broke out throughout Ireland. 
In December 1921, a treaty was signed which set up the twenty-six counties in the south as an ''Irish Free State". The Unionists were given the choice of joining their six counties with 


While the English con­tinued to debate Home Rule and ·the form it would take in Ireland, the Sinn Fein move­ment became more mil­itant, rising up against British troops in Ire­land. 
the Irish Free State, or of remain­ing in the United Kingdom until a later date. The Unionists chose the latter alternative · and a "Council .of Ireland" was esta­blished in order to bring about the union of the two parliaments in Ireland. Many Republicans could not· accept a partitioned island. Civil war broke out in the Free State, ending in a victory for the pro-treaty side. At first, the newly-created Catholic minority in the North was not overly con­cerned with partition It was presumed that the division was only temporary, and that in the near future the island would be reunified under the Irish flag. Today, these Nationalists are still waiting. 
The Unionists had, and have, .much to lose by severing their link with Britain and joining the Republic of Ireland (the "Free State" was proclaimed a Republic under a new constitution in 1937 which claims dominance over the entire island). First and foremost, they would lose the majority status they enjoy in the North. Many Protestants fear that their children would be "Romanized" in the highly Catholic · Republic. The Unionists also fear a lower standard ofJiving if forced to join the Republic of Ireland..An almost equally important factor to understand in the North Ireland situation is the "Britishness" of the Protestants. Many of these people consider themselves Brit­ish, not lrjsh. To them the North of Ireland is a British domicile, and many of them intensely dis­like the idea of suddenly becom­ing Irish citizens.· 
Northern Ireland has been politically and economically dom­inated by the Protestants since its creation. As the majority, the Pro­testants controlled the Northern Parliament and implemented poli­cies suited to improving their wel­fare. This domination has ·had severe consequences for · the Nationalist and predominantly Catholic minority. The police, the majority of whom are Protestant Unionists, have powers of intern­ment which allow them to detain and search suspects without a search warrant. Secondly, as local governments are controlled in many cases by Unionists, Union­ist public housing and the distri­bution ·of welfare for Protestants is better than for Catholics. Finally, since most industries are owned by Protestants, unemploy­ment rates are significantly higher among Catholics than Protestants. 

The violence in Northern Ireland does not stem from reli­gious differences. Rather, it is the fact that Catholics tend to be anti-British and anti-Union and that Protestants tend to be pro­Union and pro-British which causes the problems between the two religions. While the fighting in .. the North is often viewed as "Protestants vs. Catholics," it is 
more correct to say it is "Nation­
alists vs. Unionists." Even this, 
however, is not quite correct. 
The violence in Northern Ireland is not the result of actions taken by the majority of the peo­ple, but by the extremes on both sides of the political spectrum. The Irish Republican Army (IRA) represents the Nationalist extreme, and the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) represents the Unionist extreme. These organi­zations draw their support from people in their respective com­munities· who are fearful and unsure of their political future and look to these organizations for decisive action. The fact that Northern Ireland no longer has a parliament, but is ruled directly from London merely adds to· the uncertainty and instability. 
Hope for any future solution lies somewhere between the Nationalist and the Unionist extremes. At present there is a large amount of support Jor the Social Democrat Labor . Party. The SDLP, formed in August of I 970, appeals to both Protestant 
30 
SCHOLASTIC 


and Catholic working class indivi­duals. It espouses a doctrine of equality and unity for Catholics and Protestants in a united Ire­land. 
Before anything can be done, however, it is necessary to improve conditions within North­ern Ireland. Otherwise,· hostilities could well worsen after· unifica­tion. One way to accomplish this goal is to use the media, the polit­ical parties, the churches, and every other possible medium help Protestants and Catholics feel they can trust each other. As long as militant organizations and discriminatory political parties have aplace in Northern. Ireland, there will be intimidation and violence. The southern Irish government has an important role to play as welL It is important that the Unionist movement be assured it will not be be forced to give up its identity in a new uni­fied republic. This would include 

a change in the .. educational sys­tem as well as amendments to some of the articles in the Irish constitution. The return of self­rule might be an intermediate, though somewhat incomplete, step _in paving the way for eventual unification. 
Even if this milestone can be achieved, there are additional considerations. The disbanding ·of the IRA and UVF could prove to be a major obstacle · to a truly peaceful settlement. Another problem lurking beneath the sur­
. face is the reconciliation of the IRA with the government in the South. Presently,. the IRA does not support this government. For now, though, the most important goal is to get both sides to realize that violence will never be the solution to the troubles in North­
ern Ireland.• + 

16 OCTOBER 1985 

Adefense against_cancer c~becoqkedup m yourkitchen. 
There is evidence that diet and cancer are related. Some foods may promote cancer,while others may protect you from it. 
\ 
Foods related to low-\ ering the risk ofcancer ' of the larynx and esoph­agus all have high amounts ofcarotene, a form ofVitamin A which is in canta­loupes, pea_ches, broc­
. coli, spinach, all dark green -leafy vegeta­bles, sweet potatoes, carrots, pumpkin, winter squash, and tomatoes, citrus fruits and brussels sprouts. 
Foods that may help reduce the risk ofgastrointestinal and respira­tory tract cancer are cabbage, broccoli, brussels sprouts, kohl­rabi, cauliflower. 

Fruits, vegetables and whole­grain cereals such as oat­meal, bran and wheat may help lower the 
risk of colorectal cancer. Foods high in fats, 
salt-' or nitrite-cured foods such as ham, and fish and types of 

. sausages smoked by traditional methods should be eaten in moderation. 
Be moderate in consumption ofalcohol also. 
Agood rule of thumb i~ cut down on fat and don't be fat. Weight reduction 
'•,zfft 
may lower cancer ~. risk. Our 12-year study of nearly a million Americans uncovered high cancer risks partic­
. ularlyamong people 40% or more overweight. 
Now, more than ever, we know you can cook up your own defense against cancer. 
No one faces cancer alone. 
tAMER~ CANCER SOCJETY' , .·, 
This space contributed as a public service. 
31 
. i 


----------fin<enlworJ 
~• . 
Princeton has one. Harvard does not. Notre Dame does. Georgetown does not. October Break. While most college stu­dents must wait until Thanksgiv­ing for a brief respite from classes, papers and projects, here at Notre Dame we look forward to an · earlier break in late October. Ten days to relax, regroup · and prepare for the second half of the semester. It might be asked after only two months at school, why do. we need a week-long break? The answers are varied. 
For a fr~shman Fall break means going home. After eight weeks of Emil, a new roommate, a losing football team and dorm food, it is nice to know you can still go home again. Mom loves you. Dad loves you. The dog 


BREAKING OUT 
by Bill P. Webber 

THE NECESSITY OF OCTOBER BREAK 
loves you. You know you have changed, but Mom is slow to catch on. Nonetheless, the week ends and once again you hide the tears and reluctantly make the journey back to South Bend. 
For some the call of the open 
. road is too enticing to resist. Some brave pioneers explore the mythi­cal regions beyond Chicago. They seek to conquer the heights of the Rocky. Mountains, tame the rapids of the Snake River and 

· chart virgin territory in the far west. Some seek the vitality of the East Coast. Bosj:on, New York and Philadelphia beckon. Muse-, urns, theatre, shopping, bars, real radio stations and bars all lure the deprived Domer. 
Even more ways abound to spend Fall break. For many, mid-term pink slips inspire a week of frenzied catching up and studying. Job interviews and visits to graduate schools fill the week for industrious seniors. 
Most importantly, October break can off er a rare opportu­nity for a college student to step bar.k for a moment, a week, to evaluate what has passed and consider what the future holds. A week away and the · student receives a brief reminder that the world is larger than himself. The world. is· more than twenty-year­olds, more than .the alcohol policy and more than the paper due on Friday. October break reminds one of babies and grandparents; gas station·· attendants and· nine­to-five. Winters and ethanol aside, break can off er the insight that as students at Notre Dame we are sheltered from life's . essential struggles. • 





Sou.E~i:tAr u>lFol(TIJNATt:' EXi'£tte tJCf= OF C.IT"fl.J,l(, 
4 •BR/\l~Sfo1'JA '. 
32 
SCHOLASTIC 

NEXT JSSUE:msmE THE ND $PORTS EMPIRE 





