|Jon/ Ite stats
&
I
Start Smoking Camels Yourself!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette. See how mild and flavorful a cigarette can be!
/started smoking camels
YOU wif -fool [Alby dont you try Camels -today ?
Jane Greer says: “I was a band singer when a picture magazine asked me to pose in the new WAC uniforms. Hollywood saw my picture, liked it and overnight I was in movies.
From then on, it was hard work and perseverance.”
after trying many brands. /
-found Camels'mkdness and flavor
-for more enjoyable than tbe rest:

Cj	W MILDNESS Ohd FLAVOR
AMELS AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER. CIGARETTE I
ovv
single breasted shawl collar
39.50
Observe the Formalities
Comfortably and Correctly
in a Gilbert
TUXEDO
Our tuxedos have the lightness and soft-ness of a year round suit—yet are impeccably correct in every detail
All Wool
Tuxedos
Dacron and Wool
Tuxedos
single or double breasted models
59.50
Cummerbeyids and tie to match
£5.95 set
Navy, Maroon, Black Scotch Plaid sets also at £6.75
i
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Open Every Evening Till 9
October 9, 1953
3
“Great On Dates” Men Say Of Arrow Shirts in White and Tints
Campus Consensus: Arroivs get top date-rating . . . because Arrows really keep a fellow looking his best. The new Fall and Winter line of Arrow shirts (said to be the “smoothest line on campus”) can now be seen at all Arrow dealers.
For free booklet, “The What, When and Wear of Men’s Clothing” write to: Cluett, Peabody and Co., Inc., 10 East 40 Street, New York 16, N. Y.
ARROW^SHIRTS
M---------
TIES * UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS * SPORTS SHIRTS
See the new
Arrow Shirts at
Michigan at Washington
Pardon Me, Mr. Stern, but . . .
Editor:
It would seem that the sportscasters favor the perennial winners. Witness the way they frown on their pet Yankees —as if the Dodgers were hopelessly outclassed. But would the coverage of Notre Dame’s football teams be a good example? Not if you listen to Bill Stern.
His anti-Notre Dame views were even more obvious in the Purdue game than the Oklahoma game. Purdue' came close only once, but Mr. Stern insisted throughout that “Purdue is really playing well in the face of this Irish powerhouse.” That’s fine, Bill. Praise Purdue’s spunk, and just write' ND off as a bunch of pros who don’t even have to muss their hail’ to win. The real reason that Leahy’s “lads” win is that they’ve got more guts than the opposition.
And as for all those fumbles ND recovers: “One thing you have' to say about Notre Dame is that they’re an alert aggregation.” Very well worded, Bill. There’s not much good that you can say about them, but you’ll concede that they’re alert. Thank you, big-hearted one.
He can sit behind that microphone week after week and see Notre Dame opposition fumble more than they’ve ever fumbled before. But does he ever stop to think the breaks don’t just happen to go that way that often? Did he ever stop to think that maybe the' real reason is that these lads hit harder than any other college players?
Mr. Stern looked really sharp broadcasting that Oklahoma game, too, but apparently he’s not the worst one going. (About this, there had previously been considerable doubt in this quarter.) A scout from University of Pittsburgh said “Notre Dame needed breaks to win. They didn’t overpower Oklahoma by any means.” The same overlooking of how those breaks happen. A blocked punt is a break in some people’s book. Of course it depends on how you define “break,” but I guess a touchdown scored on a 99-yard sustained drive is a break, too.
To me, the word “break” carries a connotation of something not earned by the beneficiary. So we didn’t earn the touchdowns we got on blocked kicks, fumbles, intercepted passes, etc. Indeed?
And then there was the joker who said that if ND and Oklahoma met six times, each would win three. Ha! Ha!
(Continued on page 32)

The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
Purdue victory rouses football fever’ to its peak . . .
A Touch of Chi Town on Campus
Your reporter wandered over to the Drill Hall last Sunday eve to find out what all that Big John business was about. We noticed that there were half a dozen or so guys up on a platform playing some kind of music and everybody in the audience kept jumping up and down and shaking their fists and shouting. I didn’t blame those guys one bit for being mad—I even got a little mad myself. So I sidled up to one fellow toward the rear of the crowd and offered, “What’s this all about! Where’s Mize?”
He inclined his head toward me, cupped his hand to his ear, all the time stamping his feet up and down, and yelled:
“Hey? What say?”
So I tried again:
“What’s the riot all about? Didn’t Mize show up?”
He stared at me incredulously, backed off a step or two, and said:
“Man, are you out of it! You’re absolutely the least!”
With this admonition ringing in my ears I ambled off scratching my head and wandered around the place trying to figure it out. Eventually an idea struck me and the light bulb on top of my head started blinking. If they didn’t understand my language maybe I could get through to them if I used their native tongue. So I gave it another try:
“Say, man, slip me the scoop on that crazy cat up there.”
That did it.
Now I was getting some place. I was really getting dug.
“Big John Stith and his Dixieland Five!” came the booming reply.
“Oh,” I replied. But he didn’t hear me in the crescendo of noise stirred up by the stamping feet and clapping hands. I didn’t want to be the only square, so I joined in on the racket, and—you know—that Big John was the most. What I mean is, he was just about 82 degrees north and 43 degrees south.
Personally, I think that crazy Student Senate deserves a flip of the lid, and I’m all for bringing Big John and his gang back for another curtain call.
Dum-Da-Dum-Dum
Understand Father Lawrence (Dragnet) Broestl, C.S.C., gave quite a pep talk at the rally last Friday night. We hate to admit it, but this reporter wasn’t in attendance. You see, we caught a beaut of a cold at the rally the week before and still haven’t shaken it.
But to get back to Jack Webb . . . we mean Father Broestl ... it wasn’t his words that were such an inspiration to the team. Inside dope has it that he’s got something on the players and has threatened to pull them in on a 503 unless they go undefeated. Blackmail, you know. Anyhow, it’s a sure way of taking national honors.
Movies are Cheaper Than Ever
We were sitting around the other day, not doing much of anything (same as last WEEK), and leisurely thumbing through South Bend’s answer to a newspaper, when something in the movie ads caught our eye. Now, don’t get us wrong—we realize that it’s getting toward the end of the season for the drive-ins and patronage is undoubtedly falling off—but when a certain local drive-in theater advertises a certain movie in big black type as fit for “adults only — children under 16 not allowed,” it sets one to wondering.
Now, what would a “child” under sixteen be doing driving a mobile? You do still have to be sixteen or over to get a driver’s license, don’t you?
The Longest Mile is the Last Mile Home
One of my secret agents informed me the other day that he had been “just standing around doing nothing,” (as usual), and so he decided on a little
What to do with a nickel when thirst arrives
«cnu»«MNaMnaoar**aacocibCoiA comm w
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COiMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
project. He got out his trusty yard stick and clocked the measured mile to St. Mary’s.
Did you know that you hike exactly 13,500 feet every time you go over to pay the gals a visit? (A little further than that if you go to Holy Cross Hall instead of LeMans.) That figures out to approximately two miles and 2,940 feet. Now, supposing that the average red-blooded American boy trudged that path once a week during his four years under the Golden Dome. That would figure out to 486,000 feet or 92 miles per school year. By the time the end of your senior year rolled around you would have traveled the beaten path a total of 368 miles.
These figures are naturally compiled on a round-trip basis, since we expect most of the boys who go over will naturally come back.
Now tell me gang, honestly, is it worth it?
Understatement of the Week
Overheard at the jazz concert— Wahl: “Hey,.where’s Campbell?”. McKay: “He’s gone.”
Bottom of the Week
... so we’ve got an open date this AVE EK.
Frankie Lane made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant
Open Sundays
610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
October 9, 1953
5
OCTOBER 9
COLFAX (through Oct. 21)—The movie industry is singing the praises of From Here to Eternity (B). Some compare it with Gone With the Wind. This is good?
AVON (through Oct. 21)—Casual as always, Greg Peck portrays a newspaperman who becomes involved with a runaway princess (Audrey Hepburn) in Roman Holiday (A-2). All journalists should be so lucky.
PALACE (through tomorrow)—Lots of rip snortin’ shootin’ and a fightin’ is in store for all you western fans in Gun Belt (A-l) and Shoot First (A-l). George Montgomery plays the hero in the first pic, Joltin’ Joel McCrea in the other.
GRANADA (through Oct. 15)—Though a little implausible at times, A Lion is in the Streets (A-2) has enough action and flamboyancy to give it box office appeal. The Cagneys practically monopolize things. James plays the lead; Jeanne, a supporting role and William directs it. The Great Jesse James Raid completes the bill.
DRILL HALL (7:30-10:30 p.m.)—ND-SMC party for Notre Dame freshmen, sophomores, and juniors. Tickets cost you 25 cents with only 450 available for ND and 300 for St. Mary’s.
ST. MARY’S RECTANGLE (7:30-10:30 p.m.)—Not to be outdone, the. old folk have a party of their own. Only ND seniors and grad students are eligible to pick up the 100 tickets on hand. No charge for these.
OCTOBER 10
DRILL HALL (8:30-11:30 p.m.)—No victory to celebrate, but the Student Senate nevertheless holds .its weekly dance. This one’s called the “Autumn Swing”; Don Gels will provide the music. As usual, if your Senate dues are paid, a buck will let you and your date dance away the night.
WASHINGTON HALL (1:20, 3:30, 6:20 and 8:30 p.m.)—Burt Lancaster goes through some acrobatic gyrations in the swash-buckling technicolor adventure, Crimson Pirate (A-l). Eva Bartok is his leading lady.
OCTOBER 11
SCHOOL FIELD (2 p.m.)—The eleventh annual Eucharistic Holy Houris held, honoring Blessed Pope Pius X on the 50th anniversary of the Motu Proprio. Archbishop John F. Noll of Fort Wayne will deliver a sermon.
PALACE (through Oct. 15)—Not even a fine realistic performance by Broderick Crawford saves The Last Posse (A-2) from being a floperoo. Its complicated and slow-moving plot offer too great a challenge for any actor. The Flame of Calcutta (A-2) with Denise Darcel as the “flame” is the second attraction.
RIVER PARK (through Oct. 13)—Though miscast in a role calling for youth, Fred Astaire does a capable job in Band Wagon (A-2). The veteran hoofer looks out of place with captivating Cyd Charise as his co-star, but his takeoff on private eyes is a thing to behold.
STATE (two days)—The management caters to all “ages” with Neanderthal Man and Atomic Monster.
OCTOBER 13
STATE (two days)—Two movies that go together like bread and butter, Gangster and Dillinger.
OCTOBER 14
RIVER PARK (through Oct. 17)—Those two ancient slapstickers are meeting odd people again in Abbott and Costello Meet Captain Kidd. Untamed Frontier with Joe Cotton and Shelly Winters is no gem either.
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
Pizza Spaghetti
Ravioli	Chicken
Chops Steaks
CLOSED SUNDAYS
You’re always welcome at .. .
ROCCO'S 537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
DR R.W TURBOW \OPTOMETRIST Optical Repairs
LENSES DUPLICATED (Bring the Pieces) FRAMES REPLACED
Eyes Examined — Glasses Fitted Contact Lenses
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
"A Rose is a Rose is a Rose .. ."
So said Gertrude Stein. But poor Gert never got a chance to see the roses and other flora species South Bend Floral has to offer your date for the Sophomore Cotillion’s “Fashion in Fantasy.”
South Bend Floral offers you perfect taste in corsages . . . the freshest, most fragrant flowers obtainable, expertly corsaged to put that sparkle in your date’s eye without putting a dent in your wallet.
We’ll be glad to assist you in choosing the perfect corsage for her dress.
South Send ^loAal
114 S. Michigan St. Ph. 3-8227
6
The Scholastic

Vol. 95 October 9, 1953 No. 3
THE NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
Settling the Problem Once and For All
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
The big issue that gets more kicking around than a practice football—social relations between St. Mary’s and Notre Dame—has made its annual debut in the form of a recent down-to-earth investigation by committees appointed from the student governments of both schools, o
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Both groups have arrived at the fact, quite frankly, that there is a lack of
natural channels of social contact. The blind date method is, generally speaking, artificial and often falls down in practice. As may be suggested, young men and women should meet simply on a basis of wanting to date one another, but through a mutual interest in some intellectual, social, or spiritual activity.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Following right on the heels of the blind date system is another point of divided interest—the dance fare. According to conclusions formed by die committees, the social calendar “should not be so completely dominated with dances.” Instead, they say, joint activities such as bowling tournaments, concerts, and card parties should supplement the Saturday night affairs.
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ............  ....News
FRED C. ECKART ...............-Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS ........Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE—.Assistant Copy JOHN E. SLAVICK ..........Features^ ROBERT B. FROLICHER ......Sports
It seems, however, that the problem of too many dances is not the real issue. The problem presents itself in that form, only because there are no other major activities. The real issue is a lack of additional functions; it is not the worn-out dance itself.
The new Student Center, in which the Senate hopes to provide more joint St. Mary’s—Notre Dame activities, seems to be the best solution.
If the senators nail the problem down and use the Center to the right advantages, which we think they will, the task can be accomplished once and for all.
JERRY D. BAIER ... B. JERRY CAMPBELL
Circulation
BOB FOWLER........Editorial Cartoonist
DICK HAIRSINE.......Photography Co-
ordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Dick Connelly, Car- ' roll Dowden, Ellis Joseph, John Manion, Jim Ma- * son, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, 0 Pete Sturtevant, Mike Ward.	Q
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Gor-$ don DiRenzo, Bob Fowler, Jim Galde, Bob Hud- \ dleston, Bob Mackey, Jerry Traffianda, Ed Tur-^— ner, Dana Weithers.	A
Member of Catholic School Press Association, As- -J sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national J advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.	-"J
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during’ S the school year, except during vacation and ex- Q amination periods at the University of Notre. iS Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, V) Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Seniors, Songs, and Notre Dame Spirit
On page 29 this week, you’ll find a full printed page of Notre Dame songs which, according to our editors, were intended primarily for members of the freshman class.
A recent inquiry’, however, indicated that the songs might possibly find a more extensive audience. After polling 75 members of the senior class alone, we found that only 27 of these knew the words to the chorus of the “Victory March,” plus the words of the first verse.
If the number interviewed can be considered a favorable representation, we’re inclined to think there isn’t too much to this Notre Dame “Spirit” after all. Thirty-six per cent doesn’t make for too much singing.
If you’re leery about our findings, watch the men around you at the next pep rally and find out how many are singing and how many merely have their mouths open.
OUR COVER: One of the ships in last summer’s NROTC voyage—“Cruise Charlie”—in Caribbean waters, engages in refueling operations at sea. Officers and men stand by.
The story of the cruise in which 53 Notre Dame contract midshipmen participated is told by Mike Mahoney, one of their number, beginning on page 17.
Cover and other photos were taken by Mahoney, except of himself—an un-identifiedmiddie obliging.
Buses, Mayors, and Christian Spirit
An incident that occurred recently in a little town in Missouri offers convincing proof that not all politicians think only of themselves. Barkley City’s Mayor Bill Bangert, himself a protestant, presented the children of a Catholic parish there with a new school bus after a recent State’s Attorney’s ruling had prohibited Catholic children from riding on County buses. In presenting the bus keys, Mayor Bangert indicated that he could not, “in the true Christian spirit,” see parochial school children deprived of transportation.
The gesture brings this thought to mind: How many of our supposedly responsible political leaders thought of the same Christian spirit before they incorporated such laws as tenets of the state constitution?
October 9, 1953
7
III Illi III I JI'S
Famous For Live Luggage!
TWO STUDENT SPECIALS!
Steerhide grained cowhide brief bags in suntan and ginger, priced at 9.95 and 10.95 plus tax, for the 16” and 18” cases.
Notre Dame Students...OnIy
Special STUDENT Rates Sophomore Cotillion
With the purchase of this Prince Gardner billfold in black, brown or cordovan, we will give you a 1.75 key case—Free! A 6.75 value for 5.00—both prices plus tax.
All purchases initialed in gold free of charge. Gift packages for home zvill be mailed free of charge (in the U. S.)
MAHOWALD’S LUGGAGE
121 WEST WASHINGTON
“Between Joers and the Blarney Room on Washington Sr.”
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 S. MICHIGAN
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop, by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our “Pizza and Spaghetti" The Real Italian Way We Also Have Home Made Chili Just the Way You Like It!
713 E. LASALLE
•	Ox er- 800 suits to choose from.
•	All styles and sizes
•	Boys’ 2 to Men’s 56
Tuxedos, Full Dress, Cutaways, White Gabardine Dinner Coats Single and Double Breasted
Free alterations for personal satisfaction.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell.
No Deposit for N.D. students and faculty.
Due to large demand please place orders early.
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend
In the Oliver Hotel Bldg.
8
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 3	Notre Dame, Indiana	October 9, 1953
Festival of Arts Will Open Monday
Fe+e Features Beuhr, Art Institute Lecturer
By DICK CONNELLY
A brillant week-long Festival of the Arts, featuring a million-dollar modern art exhibit, dramatic performances, movies, lectures, and a sculpturing demonstration, will be launched Monday.
The five-day program will formally mark the opening- of the new O’Shaughnessy Hall. Festival notables will include prominent campus personalities as well as guest authorities from the art world.
George Beuhr, noted modern art expert and associate lecturer at the Art Institute of Chicago will conduct a gallery tour of the modern art exhibit for-art students at 1 p.m., Wednesday. At 4, Beuhr will lecture on “The Painter’s Point of View” in Room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Hall.
Beuhr’s lecture will be an informative chalk-talk demonstrating how the different modern schools would paint the same subject from their own points of view — impressionistic, expressionistic, abstractionistic, and surrealistic.
Beuhr is an individual of many talents —a painter of considerable standing, brilliant lecturer, teacher, and a recognized modern art expert. As a painter, he specializes in the medium of watercolors, particularly in landscapes. He has had several one-man exhibits at various places, including the Art Institute of Chicago, and has won several prizes with his works.
Most of his lectures are confined to the Chicago Art Institute where he is Associate Membership Lecturer. The weekly average attendance for his museum and class lecture's is 1,500. In addition, Beuhr devotes several months each year to a lecture series on art before schools and clubs.
He has taught painting and drawing, art appreciation, and art history at such places as Lewis College, Fremont, Ill.; Evanston Art Center; University of Chicago; and in Mexico.
PLACE FESTIVAL PAINTING
Curator Byrne, Rank, Meaney
Another Festival attraction will be the Fine Arts Quartet concert on Thursday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. A lecture-demonstration of string quartet literature, as well as the works of Haydn, Piston, and Beethoven will be part of the performance. Tickets will be required and may be obtained at the Washington Hall box office or at the Dean’s Office in O’Shaughnessy Hall.
Members of the Quartet include Leonard Sorkin and Joseph Stepansky, violins; Irving Ilmer, viola; and George Sopkins, cello.
Since its formation in 1945, the Quartet has been a regular Sunday feature of the American Broadcasting Co. They have made numerous recordings for Mercury Classics and Decca Gold Seal Records. The 1953-54 season marks their eighth year of concerts in the Chicago Art Institute.
When not on tour, the Fine Arts Quartet is the quartet-in-residence at Northwestern University where they give weekly lecture-demonstrations of string quartet literature as well as a series of public concerts.
The exhibition of modern paintings, scheduled for the start of the Festival Monday, will continue to Nov. 12. The 35 paintings were especially assembled
for the Festival of the Arts, and their appearance in the main gallery of O’Shaughnessy Hall marks the first and only time that such paintings have been so assembled. The estimated worth of the collection is close to one million dollars.
Such renowned modern painters as Raoul Duffy, Maurice Utrillo, Jacques Villon, Georges Rouault, and Segovia are only a few of the famous names representing the different schools of modern art.
The paintings were assembled from private and public collections in the Mid-west by John A. Muldoon, Jr., a prominent Chicago art collector.
The exhibition will be open to students, South Bend area residents, and visitors to the University. Exhibit hours will be from 2 to 5 and from 7 to 9 p.m. weekdays, and Sundays from 1 to 9 p.m. During Saturdays of home football games, the gallery will be closed.
Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., head of sculpturing in the Department, of Art, will give a sculpture demonstration-lecture at 7:30 pan. in the sculpturing studio of O’Shaughnessy Hall on Monday, to inaugurate the Festival of Arts.
Father Lauck will demonstrate sculpturing techniques, using a building-up and tearing-dowfi process with clay as . his molding substance.
His famous “Fin Form” will be exhibited as an example of his work. This famous piece is carved in poplar, a good example of a material “dictating the design.”
Father Lauck has taught sculpturing classes here at the University for the past foui- years. He was graduated from Notre Dame, studied abroad, and taught at schools in the East before coming to Notre Dame.
Recently awarded the George D. Widener Gold Medal by the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts for his “Monk at Prayer,” he was also the first priest to be elected to membership in the Audubon Artists, a national society of leading contemporary artists.
Also scheduled for Monday will he the (Continued on page 32)
October 9, 1953
9
Exchange Professor Duroselle Airs Views On French Communism, German Unification
By THOMAS QUINN
“I am very happy to be back,” stated Prof. Jean-Baptiste Duroselle, eminent French professor of history and political science. Professor Duroselle has returned to Notre Dame for the second time in three years to lecture and to teach.
He was invited to Notre Dame by the Committee on International Relations. Professor Duroselle is a participant in the lecture-teacher exchange program.
“How are things in France?” said Professor Duroselle repeating the question. “They are very good indeed, and everyone is hoping foi- a permanent peace,” he replied.
“France knows that she could not defend herself against Russia without the help of the United States,” said Professor Duroselle. “The people are grateful for the help they have received.”
The professor willingly offered an illustration. “A Gallup poll was taken in France. The question asked was: ‘What ticket would you vote?’ Thirty percent answered that they would vote Communist, 70 percent answered that they would vote American.”
“Another question asked was: ‘Who would you want to win a third world war?’ 90 percent wanted an American victory, and only 10 percent wanted a Communist victory.”
“You see,” said Professor Duroselle, “30 percent would vote Communist, but only 10 percent want a Communist victory in event of a third world war. Hence two-thirds of the French Communists want an election victory for purposes of expediency only. Some of the French are underpaid and underfed, and hence a few hope to better themselves under Communist rule.”
An Election Victory
“How does France feel about a third world war?” Professor Duroselle hesitated. “In the event of World War III, the United States would probably wish first for a victory,” said Professor Duroselle. “But the French would have two principal wishes. They would wish for a victory, and they would also want the battle to take place east of the Rhine. Another occupation and another liberation would be the ruin of France in this age of atomic warfare,” said Professor Duroselle.
East of the Rhine is Germany, and Germany poses a particular problem for the French. “Adenauer is a sincere democrat, and he is favorable to Euro
10
pean unity,” said Professor Duroselle. “But Adenauer is very old, and he is liable to die any day,” Professor Duroselle confessed.
“Germany was a democracy from 1920 to 1933. This was ended by Hitler. Once again Germany has been established as a democracy. But there is no proof yet that Germany will not become
PROFESSOR DUROSELLE
Returns to Notre Dame Staff
totalitarian in 1960,” stated Professor Duroselle.
Priests Dress as Workers
In regard to Pope Pius XII’s recent announcement to the young priests of Paris to abandon the Mission of Paris, Professor Duroselle ventured an explanation.
“The idea of the Mission of Paris,” stated Professor Duroselle, “was to penetrate the de-christianized circles of the workers.” The suburbs of Paris are the most dechristianized and the most Communistic parts of France. Priests penetrated these areas. They worked in factories dressed as everyday workers. “Then the young priests became involved in Communist propaganda and riots,” said Professor Duroselle. “There was a non-Christian attitude in some of these priest workers. But the objective now is not to suppress the movement, but to stop recruiting young priests who have insufficient experience. The Pope definitely does not consider this move
ment a bad thing,” said Professor Duro-selle.
Professor Duroselle is teaching two . courses at Notre Dame: French Foreign Policy in the 20th Century and The Third French Republic (1870-1940). Professor Duroselle will be here until . Dec. 1. Then he must return to France. . There he teaches at the University la Sarre and in the Institute of Political Studies.
Professor Duroselle plans to give three lectures for the Committee on International Relations. The first will be, “The Present Situation of Catholicism in France,” then, “Franco-German Relations,” and finally a lecture on “The War in Indo-China.”
Symposium Marks Brownson's Birthday	.
A symposium was given last Wednes- i day honoring the 150th anniversary of ? the birth of Orestes A. Brownson. The \ Department of History, in cooperation < with the Departments of English, Po- ? litical Science, and Philosophy, sponsor- ’■ ed the symposium.	|
The symposium, given in the auditorium of the Law Building, consisted £ of four talks. Two morning addresses -i were presented, one by M. A. Fitzsi- 3 mons, Ph.D., associate professor of his- -i tory, who spoke on “Brownson’s Search ® for the' Kingdom of God: the Social £ Views of an American Radical;” and the £ second by A. Robert Caponigri, Ph.D., associate professor of philosophy, entitled “Brownson’s Intellectual Journey H into the Church.”	S
In the evening, Rev. Stanley Parry, S C.S.C., M.A., head of the Department of i Political Science, spoke about the “Pre- S mises of Brownson’s Political Theory.” The final talk, given by Rev. Chester g Soleta, C.S.C., Ph.D., head of the De- 8 partment of English, was entitled g “Foundations of Brownson’s Literary Criticism.”	gs
Orestes Brownson was a noted con- S vert, philosopher, and journalist. His remains repose here at Notre Dame g beneath the Brownson Memorial Chapel, SI which is the basement chapel of Sacred § Heart Church.
Brownson was born in Vermont in U 1803. He established the Boston Quar- S terly Review in 1838, and in 1844 was S received into the Catholic Church. He g then changed the name of his publica- g tion to Brownson’s Quarterly Review, ® in which he discussed religious, phil- =43 osophical, political, and literary pro- ill blems and publications. He died at his son’s home in Detroit in 1876. In 1886 his remains were brought to Notre Dame.
The Scholastic ill




Prof. Langford Announces Six Foreign Films Will Be Shown in Modern Language Series
Six foreign films will be presented this semester by the Department of Modern Languages in the Engineering Auditorium. Prof. Walter Langford, head of the department, will direct the series.
The film series has drawn widespread interest from more than 200 other colleges and civic groups since its inauguration in April of 1949. Since then until now the department has shown more than 100 films.
Tickets Sold at Door
Admission will be 25 cents for the entertainment that is scheduled to begin at 7:30 each date. Professor Langford noted that tickets "will be sold only at the door on the night of each presentation.
Opening this season’s series next Wednesday is a lively, humorous adaptation of the Faust theme. Produced in France in 1950, Beauty and the Devil lasts an even 100 minutes which is the regular length of each film in the series. This fast moving comedy cleverly portrays the actions of a respected doctor who sells his soul to the devil. The plot unwinds excellently as he finally escapes having to fulfill his end of the bargain, better known as eternal damnation in hell.
Regarded probably as one of the great
PROFESSOR SOMMER, BILL HANK, CHARLES DOHERTY
Enter Debating’s ‘Golden Circle’
films of the past decade, the Italian-produced Open City makes its second appearance on the campus Oct. 26-27. It depicts World War II conditions, starring Aldo Fabrizi in the role of a priest who performs many heroic actions in helping the Italian underground overcome the Mussolini powers.
Using a remarkable collection of actual news reels and sections of old movies bound together by a narrator, The Wonderful Times presents a survey of the historical events of the first half of the 20th century and their impact on the Germans. Produced in Germany it shows the hapless plight of that country’s citizens who constantly are seeking “the wonderful times” which are always promised them for the near future, but which they never attain. It will be here on Nov. 10.
Carmen de la Triana is the title of a Spanish picture to be featured Nov. 23. The Spanish version of the well-known Carmen theme, the movie is not directly related in theme or musical score to the famous opera, Carmen. It does, however, contain a number of fine typically Spanish songs and dances. Actress Imperio Argentina, who has since died, plays the lead.
The second French movie of the year will be screened on campus Dec. 10. Passion for Life has a plot that is well
maintained throughout, as a young male school teacher faces strong opposition to his progressive teaching methods. Parents and fellow teachers oppose the young man, but he and his methods finally triumph.
Russian Film in Color
Fabulous color prevails as the Russian-produced the Stone Flower comes to Notre Dame Jan. 12, 1954. This picture is also a repeat, having been here four years ago. It is based on the folk legend about a young artist struggling to find the relationship between ideals in art and realities in life.
In this epic, the youthful sculptor attempts to carve the perfect rose out of a rock. In his attempt at perfection he leaves his new bride and takes refuge on a faraway mountain.
All of the pictures have foreign sound with English subtitles. They are open to anyone interested.
Hank Appointed Head Of ND Debate Team
Prof. Leonard Sommer, coach of debate, announced recently the appointment of Senior William J. Hank as president of the debate- team for the coming season. Hank is a Commerce marketing major from Chicago.
Last year he and his colleague, Charles Doherty, regained the “Golden Circle” of debate for Notre Dame when they survived the preliminary and final rounds of the annual closing tourney at West Point.
Hank has been a mainstay of the team for the past three years. In his freshman year he traveled more than 10,000 miles. In the spring semester of his sophomore and junior years he traveled some 35,000 miles to all parts of the country. This activity did not seem to interfere with his scholastic standing for he maintained a mayna cum laude average both semesters.
Experience on Radio and TV
Hank’s radio and television experience is widespread and includes many air hours with the major networks, CBS, NBC, and ABC. He is currently moderating and directing a public discussion show heard by Midwesterners each week. Both WHOT and WSBT have been airing the show locally.
Professor Sommer stated when announcing the appointment, “I’ve been coaching Bill for the past three years.. . In that time I’ve seen enough to be sure--that he has what it takes to live up to the example set by his predecessors.”
October 9, 1953
11
Voting, Tight- Under New Preferential System, Produces New Hall Councils and Senators
HALL PRESIDENTS
Chosen to Represent Ten Upperclass Halls
Troops Off to PhillyNov.7 For *53 Student Hegira
The annual student trip will be to Philadelphia for the Penn game on Nov. 7, said Mickey Moran, trip chairman.
The troops will leave campus at 4 o’clock Friday afternoon, and arrive in Philly Saturday morning about 10 o’clock. While in the “City of Brotherly Love,” their place of residence will be the Hotel Adelphia, known as the hotel “nearest to everything.”
The Philadelphia Club is making arrangements for a dance Saturday night, and is establishing a blind date bureau. Anyone interested may sign up when he buys his ticket.
The train will leave the host city at 2 o’clock Sunday afternoon and arrive at Notre Dame 6:30 Monday morning.
The cost of the round trip ticket and hotel room for Saturday night will be approximately $40. This price will include a box lunch and breakfast on the way, and a box lunch returning, but will not include the game ticket. Tickets for the game can be purchased for $5.20 at the same time the train ticket is purchased.
Sales will begin in the Dining Hall lobby next Thursday, and will continue on Friday, and Monday, Oct, 19. Sales will be 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9:30 p.m.
On Tuesday the recently-elected senators from the various halls took their seats for the first time in the Student Senate'. They will hold two positions, presidents of their hall council and also representatives of their respective halls in the Student Senate.
The Senator will act as a sounding board and legislator for men of the hall. Furthermore, he must act as leader of his hall in all projects which it undertakes and those which are sponsored by the Student Senate.
Bob Chickey nosed out Ed Connors in a close contest to capture the Walsh Hall presidency. In Alumni Tony Man-dolini captured the title over Pat McDonough.
Bob Hanley topped James Uhl in the contest in Fisher Hall.
Dick Burke breezed to an easy win over George Vosmik in the Sorin race. Bill McLain conceded to Tom O’Malley in Badin’s contest.
Jim Deline nipped Dan Moore in a very tight battle in Dillon Hall. Only 20 votes separated the two men.
Ray Kraemer and Charles Conway won in Morrissey and St. Edward’s respectively. Tom Crehan was victorious in Howard, while Dave Collins waltzed to an easy win in Lyons.
The presidents plus the three runnersup will comprise the hall, council..
. These men can be assured that they have the confidence of their hall for each of them was elected by a majority in an election featuring the new preferential system. A year ago, only 30 per cent of the students voted in the old style door-to-door canvass, while this year’s percentage soared to 85 per cent. The revisions in the nominating system, the preferential ballot and the' convenience of the polls accounted for the increase. .
The election-committee of the Blue Circle' under the chairmanship of George Carhart, .conducted the elections.
Freshman hall elections will be held late in November.
McKinley, Miller Appointed Penologists in State, County
Mr. Michael S. McKinley and Mr. George J. Miller, recent graduates of the curriculum in correctional administration offered by the Department of Sociology, have been appointed to positions in the field of penology in Indiana.
Mr. Miller is serving as a counselor on the classification staff at the Indiana Reformatory. Mr. McKinley is employed as a probation officer, juvenile Division, St. Joseph Probate Court, in South Bend.
Fr. O'Brien Goes Preaching
In Recent 'LOOK1 Magazine
Rev. John A. O’Brien of the University is the subject of a picture-story entitled “Father O’Brien Goes StreetPreaching” in the current issue of Look magazine.
The Look story depicts Father O’Brien explaining the tenets of the Catholic religion in Jacksonville, N. C., where “there is not, so fai- as Church records show, a single native Catholic in ! the entire surrounding county.” As a crowd gathers around, the noted Catho- | lie writer and convert-maker enumer- | ates several common misconceptions | about the Church and then, in a friend- | ly manner, refutes them one by one. |
Look took more than 500 action photos | of Father O’Brien during his stay at 3 Jacksonville, the best appearing in the 1 current article. They show the priest i preaching on street-corners and discus- I sing religion in such unlikely spots as 8 a bus station and a farm-yard.	B
Father O’Brien has been at the Uni- S versity since 1940, lecturing in sociology S and religion. From 1917 he was direc- fl tor of the Newman Foundation at the fl University of Illinois. A persuasive S speaker and a prolific writer, Father fl O’Brien has published a score of pam- J phlets and a number of books.	®
The Scholastic M
12
Personnel Men Group Here For 2-Day Meet
One hundred employment personnel from the Hoosier state are attending the first Indiana Employment Security Institute here which started yesterday and is continuing today. The Institute is sponsored jointly by the Indiana chapter of the International Association of Personnel in Employment Security, the Indiana Employment Security Division, and Notre Dame’s Department of Ecoonmics.
Prof. John H. Sheehan of the Department of Economics, is acting as coordinator for the conference.
The Institute has been designed to give chapter members an opportunity to improve their skills and expand their knowledge and thus become better equipped to carry out their jobs, according to Thurman Ridgway, institute chairman and field supervisor for the Indiana Employment Security Division in South Bend.
Faculty members of both the University of Notre Dame and Indiana University will appear on the program during the two-day sessions. Representatives of labor, management, and government agencies will participate in several panel discussions.
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., of the Department of Economics, discussed “Observations on Labor and Industry in Europe” at yesterday’s luncheon at the Morris Inn. Father Fitzgerald recently returned from Europe where he evaluated results of tours of the United States by European productivity teams. “Employment Security and the Business Cycle” was discussed by Dr. Paul A. Montavon of Notre Dame today.
Two Indiana University economists, Dr. Taulman A. Miller and Dr. William H. Andrews, Jr., will present “A Study of Unemployment Insurance Financing in Indiana.”
Included among subjects discussed by panels were “Administrative Law and the Fact-Finding Process”; “Employer Promotion in Today’s Labor Market”; and “A Public Appraisal of Employment Security.”
Cheerleaders Open Season at Pitt Game
A week from tomorrow, Oct. 17, the Notre Dame campus will again be transformed into the football capital of the nation. There will be thousands of visitors wandering around the school, and in the stadium there will be an atmosphere of frenzied excitement as the blue and gold of the Fighting Irish take to the field for their first home ■game of the 1953 season.
New Kertesz Book Teds of Hungary's Tragic Struggle Under Nazi and Russian Domination
A nation’s bitter struggle for survival under two totalitarian masters is documented in Diplomacy in a Whirlpool, a new book by Stephen D. Kertesz, a former Hungarian Minister to Italy and now professor of political science at Notre Dame.
Dr. Kertesz’s book, dramatically presents the tragedy of Hungary plunged in the dark shadow of the Swastika and the Red Star. It is the eighth in a series of studies sponsored by Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations.
This is a factual account by a firsthand observer who served foi- many
There will be two squads out on the field for Notre Dame. One, of course, will be the football team. The other will be the cheerleaders. The latter are almost as important as the former.
The cheerleaders have the job of taking the voices of the students and transforming their enthusiasm into the organized cheering that lets the team know they’re behind them.
Six men will compose this year’s yellleader squad, one more than last year. This means that two men can be spared for that exuberant handkerchief-waving crowd from across the Dixie.
Two veterans are returning this year: Captain Ed Hannan, a senior mechanical engineering major, and Bob Keegan, a sophomore majoring in chemical engineering. Of the remaining four, two are upperclassmen: Joe “Tex” Saunders, junior AB man, and Sophomore Ev Hatch, another chemical engineering major. The two freshmen are Ed Healy of the school of science, and Bob Keegan’s younger brother, Bill, a commerce man. Neil Vasconcellos, last year’s captain and a postgraduate student this year, is working along with the team.
Fancy flips should be “dime a dozen” when the cheerleaders take to the field. All except the freshmen are on the gymnastic team. The freshmen are now working out with the gymnasts so they can keep up with their somersaulting seniors.
This year’s cheers will include the old standbys: I-R-I-S-H spell it out, N-O-T-R-E D-A-M-E spell it out, the drum yell, and a few band cheers.
The squad will be around to rouse the school spirit during all of the home games in football and basketball and at all the pep rallies. Bob Keegan, Vasconcellos, and Healy worked the Purdue game and a similar group will accompany the student trippers going to the Penn game on Nov. 7.
years in the Hungarian government. Many of his former associates still remain behind the silent walls of Communist prisons.
Dr. Kertesz’s book brings to the peoples of more fortunate countries the moving account of the fateful encirclement of a small nation by the Nazi and Communist empires. In the author’s words, “Hungarian patriots lived in a tragic dilemma. Overwhelming outside forces had trapped the Hungarian people between two barbarian worlds.” • Dr. Kertesz received degrees from the University of Budapest and Paris and studied as a Rockefeller fellow at Yale, Oxford and Geneva. He entered government work in 1927 and during the war years served in the Foreign Ministry where he prepared the Hungarian case for the peace negotiations in expectation of a German defeat. Arrested by the Nazis, Dr. Kertesz managed to escape and during 1945-46 headed the peace preparatory division of the Foreign Ministry.
Successively he served as Secretary-
STEPHEN D. KERTESZ Relates the Fall of Hungary
General of the Hungarian peace delegation to Paris and Minister to Italy until his resignation in the summer of 1947 due to growing Communist control in his native country. Leaving Europe^ he spent two years as a lecturer at the Yale Law School before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1950. His other publications include many articles in English, French and Hungarian journals and the book, The International Responsibilities of the State.
October 9, 1953
13
Solemn High Mass of St. Edward Will Mark Sixtieth Anniversary of ND Founder's Day
Solemn High Mass at 9 a.m. Tuesday will be offered in Sacred Heart Church in honor of St. Edward the Confessor, patron saint of Rev. Edward F. Sorin, founder of the University of Notre Dame. Commemorating’ the 60th anniversary of Founder’s Day, Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., will speak on “The
Catholic Bandmasters Elect O’Brien, Leahy
Notre Dame has long been a national leader in Catholic education and sports. Now it is a leader in the field of music. Notre Dame is the headquarters of the National Catholic Bandmasters’ Assn., which held its charter meeting here last July 17.
This meeting, sponsored by the Department of Music, marked the fruition of an idea in the minds of two faculty members at the University—Mr. Robert F. O’Brien, director of University bands, and Ur- Eugene J. Leahy, chairman of the Department Music’s division of musicology.
Prior to the founding of the NCBA, there was no existing organization to satisfy the needs of Catholic instrumental music, and of Catholic band music in particular.
This new organization, with Mr. O’Brien as its first president, proposes to coordinate Catholic school band activities on a national level, to meet together to help the' national Catholic Band program, to present a factual composite Catholic band program to the clergy, to develop a national Catholic summer band at Notre Dame, to find ways and means to help Catholic bandmasters promote their own organizations, and to help Catholic music as a whole with emphasis upon the particular problems of band music.
Active membership in this association is open to all Catholic and non-Catholic directors actively engaged in Catholic school band work and all Catholic band directors now engaged in public school teaching. Membership is open to both laymen and religious.
Other officers elected for the first tenure of office are the following: VicePresident Clarence Kriesa, director of Bands at St. Ambrose College, Daven-. port, Iowa, and Secretary-treasurer William B. Watts, director of Bands at Catholic Central High School, Detroit, Mich. Dr. Eugene J. Leahy is national coordinator.
14
Founders of Notre Dame.” Following tradition, classes will be suspended on Tuesday.
Notre Dame Founded with $500
Edward Sorin was born on Feb. 6, 1914, in the village of La Roche. In 1830, he entered the seminary and was ordained in May, 1838. In the seminary, he became acquainted with Fr. Basil Moreau, who was. later to found the Order of Holy Cross. Upon ordination, Fr. Sorin worked for some time at parish activities before joining this Order.
In 1839, Bishop Brute, of the Northwest territory, appealed to Fr. Moreau for priests for the missions in Indiana. Fr. Sorin volunteered for the mission, and, together with a group of Brothers, sailed for the United States, eventually being assigned to a parish in southern • Indiana.
He opened an elementary school and was soon eager to found an institution of higher learning. Although his idea met with some opposition from his superiors, he was given a piece of land near South Bend for this purpose.
When he arrived, late in November, 1842, he had about $500 in cash and no other resources. The only building on the site of the present campus was the original Log Chapel, which had been erected by Fr. Badin some years before.
He appealed to the residents of South Bend for help, and by spring he had succeeded in building a larger chapel, with additions for living quarters and classrooms. By 1844, a number of buildings had been erected, and the school had been granted a charter by the state.
Three Major Fires
In 1849 came the first of three major fires, the last of which, in 1879, destroyed every building on campus except the church. Adverse circumstances served only to accentuate the fortitude of Fr. Sorin who, on that occasion addressed the faculty and student body concluding with: “If it were all gone, I should not give up.”
In 1868, Fr. Sorin was appointed Superior General of the Order, and resigned the presidency of the University. However, he continued to be active in University affairs until his death on Oct. 31, 1893.
Founder’s Day was celebrated during Fr. Sorin’s lifetime, and was frequently the occasion for great festivities. However,.. Founder’s. Day was not officially recognized until 1893.
TOM FIELD AND CLAUS DEHIO ‘World Idea Exchange’
German N.U.S. Head Stresses Student Roll
“The part a student plays in international affairs today is an important one, so he should take a greater interest in it,” said Mr. Claus Dehio, president of the German National Union of students.
Union Has 120,000 Members
At a seminar held last Thursday evening, in the Law Building, Dehio explained that “if students all over the world would try to exchange ideas with one another, they would have a better knowledge of how to communicate with others when they go into the various professions.”
Since the International Union of Students turned Communistic, it has been necessary for the students of the free countries of the world to foi-m what is now known as the National Union of Students. This organization is devoted to helping the student with his problems, fighting- discrimination, and fostering international good will.
At the 1951 conference in Edinburgh, Scotland, the N.U.S. set up the Coordinating Secretariat to National Union of Students. It will serve as the informamation center for the N.U.S.
Dehio said that there are 120,000 members in the German National Union of Students, with approximately 400 of them studying in the United States.
A student at the University of Mainz, majoring in physics, Dehio has been touring the United States in an effort to get the students in our colleges interested in this organization. Pleased by the courtesy shown to him all over America, he said, “The whole free world is looking to the American student for aid in the international field.”
The Scholastic
f	$250,000 Cuneo Find
I	To Be Exhibited Here
I g	By JIM O’BRIEN
Ai, “ * i	A 13th century masterpiece, worth a
* quarter of a million dollars, will head a S display of early 'Italian art loaned to the University by iMr. John F. Cuneo of Chicago. The painting, “Madonna N	and Child Enthroned” was purchased
®	by Cuneo for §1,000.
|| Its correct value was set by Dr. Maurice H. Goldblatt, director of the art galleries at Notre Dame. Dr. Goldblatt determined that the “artist unknown” of the purchase was Guido da Siena, one of the earliest Italian painters, and set the value at §250,000 or more.
The picture, which had come down by inheritance with an English collection, turned up at an auction six years ago at a Long Island stable. The dowager who owned the Italian painting pre;! ferred modern French masters, so the painting had ended up in the stable with its face to the wall.
:	It was first bought by a New York
antique dealer for §325. An interior decorator- in Chicago spotted it and ,	bought it for his shop. Cuneo saw the
I	picture in the decorator’s window, added
it to his collection, and called on Dr. Goldblatt to identify the artist.
Tire six other paintings to be displayed along with the “Madonna” are also Italian primitives, although not of comparable quality. The paintings will , be on display in the west gallery of the I Liberal Arts Building.
Ball-Goers to Spend 'Evening at the Gallery' As Herman & Co. Move In For Arts Finale
“An Evening at the Gallery” will provide the theme for next weekend’s finale to the great Festival of the Arts week, the first Arts and Letters Ball.
The ball committee, guided by chairman Tom Moore, will be putting the finishing touches on preparations for the dance during the coming week.
Dance decorations for the Indiana Club will revolve around the artistic theme suggested by “An Evening at the Gallery.” Paintings, including some student originals, will play an important part in the decoration scheme. Taking charge of this phase' of the dance are
I	Yeckel and Saunders Chosen
>	|	To Engineer Junior Prom
Joe Saunders of Amarillo, Texas, and Don Yeckel of Rochester, N. Y., have ( ’ been appointed co-chairmen of the 1955
i Junior Prom by Jim Sherer, president ■	of the class.
-	' The Student Senate, under social com’	missioner Phil Bolin, has tentatively set
-	1 May 7 as the dance date.
I A letter of introduction has already /	।	been distributed to the members of the
J	class of ’55. Sub-chairmen of the week!	(	end are listed, and any volunteers for
r	committees are urged to contact these
;	men.
i,	Men who are interested in planning
and constructing the decorations for 11 i the dance are especially needed, said Saunders and Yeckel.
Yeckel is a member of the Great 1 Books program, while Saunders is majoring in economics in preparation for a law degree.
ND Educated Priest Teaches at Dacca U.
A Notre Dame-educated priest has recently joined the faculty of a Moham-madan university in Pakistan. Rev. Richard W. Timm, C.S.C., a native of Michigan City, Ind., is currently teaching biology and cataloging biological specimens at Dacca University, a predominantly Mohammedan institution operated by the Pakistan government.
Father Timm’s work at Dacca University was made possible by a Fulbright fellowship which he received this Fall. Dacca University officials had requested that an American be assigned to the post. As head of the department of science at nearby St. Gregory’s College in Dacca, Fathei- Timm fulfilled the qualifications, and was “loaned” to the Mohammedan university on a part-time basis.
Father Timm took his undergraduate work at Notre Dame. Following his ordination in 1949, he studied for his master’s degree and doctorate at the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., majoring in parasitology. He had already volunteered to serve in the Holy Cross missions in Pakistan and felt that his special training in parasitology’' might be particularly useful in the disease-infested Orient.
While Father Timm is believed to be the first priest to teach at a Mohammedan university, he certainly is no stranger to the Pakistan students. Many Mohammedans are enrolled at St. Gregory’s College and other schools where priests, Brothers and Sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross serve as American “ambassadors” and disciples of Christianity more than 5,000 miles from home.
decorations co-chairmen Bob Obermeyer and Charley O’Neill.
AB men and their dates will dance to the rhythmic beats of Woody Herman and his nationally known “Third Herd.” “Woody” includes in his band vocalist Dolly Houston, trombonist Carl Fontana, and pianist Nat Pierce. This is the third aggregation he has headed in his more than 20 years of show business.
Box Luncheon Saturday
Dancing will begin at 9 and last till 1. All who go will have until 2 to return to their residence halls. Car permissions have been secured for the night of the dance.
Saturday noon will see another “first,” a box luncheon, before the game, in O’Shaughnessy Hall. Lasting from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., the luncheon will give ballgoers an opportunity to show their dates the beautiful new building and at the same time avoid the usual crowds waiting for lunch.
The Saturday afternoon entertainment for AB men will, of course, be the Pittsburgh game. Saturday night there will again be dancing, this time at the Student Senate dance in the Drill Hall.
The weekend will end with 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church followed by a Communion Breakfast at the Morris Inn. Speaking at the breakfast will be Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C, dean of the' College of Arts and Letters. Bob Ettlebrick has handled arrangements for this affair.
Other men assisting on the committee are Larry Dolan, tickets; John Keenan, hotel reservations; Jim Zavatone, refreshments; Bob Swanson, transportation; Jay Baier, business; and Tom Godfrey, publicity.
WOODY HERMAN Sweet Notes for AB Boll
October 9, 1953
15
cessions for the year’s dances at
meeting
Presidential Board Selects Grantees
The Scholastic
The contests will be held of poetry, photography, sculpture, short stories
both the Commerce and also drawn up. The AB
Bergan, received
the last
law the
budget was revised slightly so as not to include flowers or decorations.
weekly Student Senate
Monday night.
Jerry Kelly and T. J. students from Vetville,
Sena+e OK's Budgets, Lists Concessioners
Robert Mackey, sophomore, Lyons Hall, was awarded the photograph con-
Top to Bottom: N.D.-St. Mary’s cheering section at Purdue game last week. Below: pepsters go through. acrobatic routine for half-time crowd. Crowd edges as big clock nears half-way mark. Bottom: Purdue fan rests dejectedly after Boilermaker special runs out of touchdown steam.
Applications Must Be On File by October 31 For Fulbright, Buenos Aires Scholarships
Oct. 31 is the closing date for competition for United States Government educational exchange grants for graduate study abroad, it was announced recently by Kenneth Holland, president of the Institute of International Education. One month remains in which to apply for awards under the Fulbright and Buenos Aires Convention Programs for the 1954-55 academic year. An exception is the program for Australia and New Zealand, for which Oct. 15 is the closing date.
Scholarship application blanks are available at the Institute or in the office of Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School. A brochure describing the overseas study awards may be obtained from the Institute.
The program under the Fulbright Act and the Buenos Aires Convention are part of the international educational ex-
Senate flower concession for the dance season.
The Senate also approved a Sadie Hawkins Day dance for Saturday, Nov. 14. They voted to expend $350 for the band for this dance. The Kenosha Korn-huskers were contracted. They will also provide a floor show and square dance instructions.
Jack Keenan, chairman of the academic committee, secured Senate approval to spend $350 to finance contests to be held in conjunction with the Fes
tival of Arts, in the fields painting and and essays.
Budgets for AB balls were
change activities of the Department of State. They will give almost 1,000 American citizens the chance to study abroad during the 1954-55 academic year.
Countries where U. S. graduate students may study undei* the Fulbright Program are Australia, Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg, Burma, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Iraq, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, the Philippines, Thailand, the Union of South Africa, and the United Kingdom. Special provision is made in the program for Germany for 25 grants to American graduate students who will serve as English language assistants in secondary schools.
The countries participating in the Buenos Aires Convention Program are Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela.
Eligibility requirements for these foreign study fellowships are:
United States citizenship; a college degree oi‘ its equivalent at the time the award is to be taken up; knowledge of the language of the country sufficient to carry on the proposed study; and good health.
Final selection of Fulbright grantees is made by the Board of Foreign Scholarships appointed by the President of the United States. The Institute of International Education, central private agency in the United States administering programs for the exchange of students, teachers, and specialists, is the agency designated by the Board of Foreign Scholarships and the Department of State to screen applications.
Fulbright awards are made entirely in the currencies of participating countries abroad. The Fulbright Act authorizes the use of certain foreign currencies and credits acquired through the sale of war surplus property abroad for educational exchanges.
The awards cover transportation, expenses of a language refresher or orientation course abroad, tuition, books, and maintenance for one academic year. Awards under the Buenos Aires Convention include transportation provided by the United States Government, and tuition and maintenance allowances provided by the host governments.
Cruise ‘Charlie
MAHONEY
By MIKE
MAHONEY
t
Midshipman scans sea, standing watch on destroyer deck in Caribbean waters during Cruise “Charlie.”
On the 19th of July, in the middle of a comfortable summer vacation, 53 midshipmen from the University of Notre Dame arrived in Norfolk, Virginia (NORVA) for Cruise “Charlie,” whose ports-of-call were to include Panama, Trinidad, and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. It was the regular summer cruise required of all contract midshipmen between their Junior and Senior year in the program.
About 1100 students crowded into
Norfolk on this humid Sunday afternoon from the West, the Midwest, the South, and every part of the country. Fifty-two colleges and universities were represented, including U.S.C., Texas, Marquette, Columbia, Princeton, Stanford, Cornell, Yale, and Holy Cross. For many, this would be their first excursion from the States, for it marked the first sight of an ocean, and for a few it would provide their first attack of seasickness.
October 9, 1953
17
Serenade to breeze by horn section.

shooting. The Friday field day was most unpopular for the DD’s because it was difficult to find adequate hiding spaces.
The days were beautiful, although the sea was a little rougher than usual for the period of year—vacation weather that neither Florida nor California could provide. Evening movies on the fantail became the national pastime for those not on watch; and sometimes even for them!
After the first week we were all thinking about hitting port, and especially the mail delivery. Mail was the chief thought in everyone’s mind, although we had also heard about premium beer at the Officers Club, selling-two for a quarter, and this didn’t escape the minds of many.
Cruise ‘Charlie’
was composed of two
cruisers, the Roanoke and Columbus; seven destroyers (DD’S), a destroyer escort, and a tanker. The task group was scheduled to debark from Norfolk the following morning, allowing the middies (all hands) to become acquainted (get squared away) with their gear and lodging accommodations before leaving. On Sunday evening, the middies were given a sendoff address by the Honorable John D. Lodge, Repub-lican governor of Connecticut, and himself a reserve commander. Commandei-Lodge, a brilliant speaker, delivered an excellent address on the importance of leadership qualities among the navy’s young officers.
On the morning of the 20th, the formation steamed through Hampton Roads, past Cape Henry Lighthouse, and off to sea! The longest phase of the cruise would occur from Norfolk to Panama, almost two weeks. During this time, everyone would have an opportunity to become familiar with navy life
USS COLUMBUS slices waves, steaming toward Caribbean port-of-cal I
The first phase was the those who started out in engine rooms were hardly trip to Panama provided
longest, and the fire and pleased. The few thrills—
and its everyday routine, including sailing around the warm Caribbean and such terse expressions as “make a hole,” “hot stuff,” “hey middie—ya got somethin’ to do?”, “now fall in for departmental lecture,” and the much dreaded “now relieve the watch.”
Two-for-a-Quarter Beer
The middies were divided into three phases: navigation, gunnery, and engineering. The program was so regulated that each man would rotate from one phase to the next and thereby complete the training and indoctrination in each.
no flying saucers or kamakazzes; but we did see a few sharks and more than a few flying fish alongside the ship.
The 40 MM gun crews manned by the midshipmen had their first actual firing practice at drones launched from the cruisers. None were hit on the first
The “Dungaree Navy”
By now, many of the readers are undoubtedly under the impression that Cruise ‘Charlie’ should have been called “Cruise Caribbean Luxury Ride.” The middies did engage in physical labor— I can assure any skeptic of that! Life on a DD is no picnic. Because of the space and weight limitations, DD’s don’t have some of the luxuries and conveniences like libraries, air conditioning, and soda fountains which are readily available on the larger ships. In fact there are still some officers who consider destroyers as the “dungaree navy” —manned by men from the “Caine Mutiny” and available for odd jobs usually considered beneath the dignity of the cruisers, carriers, and battleships.
Reveille on our DD was 0600 sharp each morning. Till 10 in the evening we managed to rise, turn to, swab decks, eat three meals (so they were called), stand watches, sunbathe, write letters, fall in for departmental lectures, conduct emergency drills, and view an eve-

Notre Dame middies aboard USS Columbus: (front row, I. to r.) Daniel D. Munson, Gerald K. Turley, John K. Gross-pietsch, Milton J. Beaudine, Danny J. Noonan. (Back row) Paul R. Farmer, Jr., Edward J. Milota, Robert M. Wright, Edward J. McGinn, Edward H. Brown, Jr., George H. Hubbard, William F. Cavanagh.
ning movie made in the early 40’s. There were only two ND men on each DD, although the cruisers carried several. Since refueling by the DD’s from the cruisers occurred about every four days, we’d occasionally spot buddies on the neighboring ships when they pulled alongside during the operation. •
In the Torrid Zone
One Friday morning, the fleet pulled into Coca Solo (Panama) and moored at the base pier. Well within the Torrid Zone, Panama Republic, roughly about the size of Maine, is blanketed with . tropical jungle. Most of the Isthmus is ■ veined with streams and rivers includ-v ing swamps much denser than those of 1' Florida’s everglades.
The Panama Canal provided the most interesting sightseeing of the Republic. A masterpiece of engineering technique, the basic problem which faced the engineers was to make possible the lifting of ships over the Panamanian Conti' nental Divide. To accomplish this, the Chargres River on the Atlantic side was dammed, creating the second larg-JjS	est artificial lake in the world. Gatun
; f	Lake, which is 85 feet above sea level,
covers some 170 square miles. To raise a ship this height a series of three locks I were built at Gatun. Once on the lake, I	a ship sails 25 miles to Gaillard Cut
i	which is slashed through eight miles of
solid rock. The ship then descends 85 | feet to the Pacific through the Miguel F and Miraflores locks, where electric mules again provide the power.
■ Panama city, on the Pacific side of the zone, is typical of Central American cities. The El Panama, considered a
lavish hotel in this area, was the scene of a dance sponsored by the local Panamanian young ladies in honoi- of the visiting middies. The hotel surrounded an outdoor swimming pool, flanked in the rear by a cocktail lounge and coffee shoppe. The terrace on the hotel roof furnished an excellent view of Panama City, the Pacific, and the neighboring countryside. After four days in the Republic, the group departed for the British West Indies.
The Troublesome Beewee
Trinidad, discovered by Columbus six years after his original trip to the New World, is a small island approximately 80 by 40 miles wide. Port-of-Spain with a population of about 100,000, is the capital of the colony of Trinidad and Tobago. Being a British possession caused much consternation among the middies over the money exchange. “B.W.I.” (BEWEE) currency exchanged for about 1.60 B.W.I. to the American dollar. Since it was contrary to the laws of Trinidad to re-exchange currency, everyone tried to figure approximately the correct amount to have exchanged.
Port-of-Spain, the main city on the island, stands on a level plain at the foot of a northern range of mountains and it stretches along the comer of the Gulf Coast, where the northwestern horn juts out of the main body of the island. The city is laid out in narrow, one-way streets. In the Tropical region, with an average temperature of 78, the island is very beautiful and picturesque. The Officers’ Club is about seven miles (continued on page 30)
(Top) Drone target floats in water, victim of middie shooting accuracy. (Bottom) Naval giant edges through Canal; tedious operation in sweltering heat.
October 9, 1953
19
Philosophy student, looking
for 9:30
bell had search, cut, and class.
class, lands in Father Lauck's sculpturing studio.
CORRIDOR CONFUSION
Photos by
JERRY TRAFFICANDA
After fourteen full days of classes in a building which houses close to three million dollars worth of classrooms, art galleries and a ccffee shop—Notre Dame students last week were still running around like chickens with their heads off, smearing their fingers up and down class schedule cards in search for the next class.
With the sound of the 50-minute bell, a new deluge of pupils, professors, and plain curious were pouring out into the corridors, starting the search all over again. Five minutes after the starting
rung, several lone stragglers could be found continuing the Others, having no luck at all, gave up the search took a made a mental note to find out “for sure” before the next
The trouble stemmed from ranks of the upperclassmen who, spoiled by the easy-to-find layout of classrooms in the Old Administration Building, figured the situation would be the same in the Liberal Arts Building. .
With the air of usual confidence and casualness, they passed in class cards on the first day—complete with IBM punches and . . . room numbers. The freshmen, on the other hand, were careful in the confusion of those “first days” to write down everything, including . . . room numbers.
One student, standing lost in the corridor of the second floor and mumbling incoherently to passers-by, suggested that administration officials require professors to hang pictures of themselves on doors of classrooms in which they teach.
Later, after a fruitless last search, he tripped down the steps and headed for the Caf and a cup of coffee like so many others.
Professor looks for
Nuner, French instructor, his name on class schedule
beside door. He failed; class of 30 left.
20
The Scholastic
Forum Welcomes 18 To Group at Smoker
The Commerce Forum officially welcomed 18 new members into its circle at its annual smoker and social held last Monday night at Club Normandy in Mishawaka, according to Roy Belknap, program and publicity chairman of the Forum.
Recently selected after a series of personal interviews, the 18 newcomers met 12 of their senior members and a host of professors from the College of Commerce as they received their first taste of Forum social functions.
Assistant Professor of Business Administration Thomas Bergin, faculty moderator, officially announced the roster of new members. The new seniors are James Hernon, Richard McNamara, Walter Wagner, Thomas Stubler, Bob Hanley and James Greenwell. Juniors John Gits, Ronald Smith, Paul Murphy, John Dwyer, Charles Doherty, Michael Jackman, Walt McKenna, Martin Cul-hane, Michael Kelly, and Richard Gauthier were also admitted. Sophomores Earl Ware and Thomas Coleman completed the list.
Officers of the Forum elected last spring are Paul Kraus, president; Larry Gotuaco, vice-president; John Ryan, secretary; and Roy Belknap, program and publicity chairman.
Tentative plans have been set for activities during the coming year, including the annual excursion to Adrian, Mich., as guests of Mr. James Gerity. The trip will be made in early spring.
Drill Hall Social Fetes ND, St. Mary's Tonight
A party for St. Mary’s girls and Notre Dame men will be held tonight in the Drill Hall from 7:30 until 10 under the auspices of the Blue Circle.
Co-chairmen Jim Maclnnis and George Krembs have announced the party is open to juniors, sophomores, and freshmen only. About 400 ND’ers and a like number of St. Mary’s girls are expected to attend.
Seniors of both schools are having a social of their own at St. Mary’s tonight.
Don Gels will provide the strains for dancing, while bridge and other card games are being played. The Glee Club will also render a few selections. Song sheets will be distributed for community singing later in the evening.
Refreshments will be served and admission will be 25 cents. Tickets are available from the various sophomore and junior hall presidents, while freshmen may obtain ducats from their hall rectors.
University to Install Private Disposal System As State Bans Community Use of Waterways
The University of Notre Dame will complete its final public works project, a sewage disposal system.
The project is being undertaken as a result of a new state law which forbids communities along waterways to empty sewage directly into the water. Notre Dame is, at present, emptying its waste into the St. Joseph River at a point just below St. Mary’s College.
Officials of the University are now considering whether it is more advisable to construct a pipeline which will intercept the city main line and thus utilize their facilities, or to construct a sewage disposal plant for the exclusive use of Notre Dame.
South Bend, which is also emptying its sewage into the St. Joseph, will soon construct a modern disposal plant somewhere north of St. Mary’s College.
Negotiations are now being carried on
ASM to Hear Martin Discuss Metallurgy
Mr. D. B. Martin will speak on “Powder Metallurgy” at the October meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society of Metals Wednesday evening. The monthly dinner will be held at Nabicht’s restaurant at 6:30 p.m.
The technical session of the meeting will be held at 8:15 p.m. in Room 5 of the Engineering Building.
Dinner reservations must be made before noon Monday. Price of the dinner is $2.50.
Mr. Martin is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and was associated with a construction and mining machinery manufacturing company before joining the Amplex Division of the Chrysler Corp, in 1936.
During this period at Amplex he was connected with various engineering activities, becoming sales manager in 1945 and vice-president in 1953.
Mr. Martin is a member of a number of organizations, including the American Ordinance Association and the Engineering Society of Detroit.
As part of his talk Mi-. Martin will show a sound film which depicts methods of manufacture of various Oilite products from metal powders, as well as a variety of applications.
Officers of Notre Dame chapter are: Mr. M. I. Beard and Mr. J. B. Kenny, chairman and vice-chairman, respectively, and Dr. E. A. Peretti, secretarytreasurer.
between the officials of South Bend, Notre Dame, St. Mary’s College, and Healthwin Hospital in which costs, technical problems, and service charges are being considered. These last two institutions are included in the negotiations because their problems are of a similar nature to those of Notre Dame and South Bend.
Should the University decide to use the facilities of South Bend, it will have to undertake the expense and construction of a pipeline to carry the waste to a point of intersection with a city line which will be north-bound out of South Bend to the proposed $7,080,000 disposal plant.
The construction of this trank line presents a difficult technical problem in that the city line will lie on the opposite bank of the St. Joseph and engineers will either have to make a costly tunnel beneath the river, or lay the line along the river into South Bend.
“The cost of the project may ran as high as $100,000,” said Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, who is representing Notre Dame in the negotiations.
Should the University decide to construct its own plant, it will become completely self-sufficient in the way of utilities, and thus escape a large annual service charge. Notre Dame has recently completed its 225,000 gallon watertower and just this August doubled the size and capacity of its steam plant.
In less than a month Notre Dame will be operating on electricity generated here on the campus. At present about half of the electricity originates in South Bend.
The move to clean up the rivers was begun before the onset of World War II; but because of the war, action was postponed for the duration.
FALL-SPRING SENIOR HANDICAP TOURNAMENT
Entrant plays two rounds of golf this Fall in the university open to establish his handicap. Those unable to play in it must contact Jake Noonan in 315 Alumni hall and arrangements will be made for the establishment of a handicap for next spring. The tournament itseif will be conducted in the spring, consisting of match play with handicaps. Prizes will then be awarded.
October 9, 1953
21
Engineers Set Ball for Nov. 13
Chairman Jack Nashert has announced Nov. 13 as the date for the annual Engineer’s Ball.
The semi-formal affair will be held in the Student Center. Bids will be priced at $3.75 and will be placed on sale Oct. 26.
Tony Papa and his orchestra have been tentatively scheduled to provide the music for the dance. Arrangements are being made to accommodate 160 couples.
Dancing will be from 9 to 1 a.m. with the usual car permissions granted. Ball goers must be in their residence halls by 2 a.m. ■
Moreau Plans Open House
Moreau Seminary has announced an open house for Sunday, Oct. 18. Doors will be open from 2 until 5 p.m. for the convenience of students and campus visitors.
Visitors are invited to examine the facilities at Moreau, especially the house and surrounding grounds. The seminarians will be on hand to explain the duties and life of a student at Moreau.
A committee will serve refreshments during the afternoon.
Moreau Seminary is located midway between the Grotto and the Dixie Highway on the seminary road.
t Commerce Ball Set for Nov. 20
The Student Center will be the site of this year’s Commerce Ball on Friday, Nov. 20. The Irish-Iowa tussle Saturday will further highlight the weekend.
Chairman John Grosspietsch has announced that bids will be priced at $3.75 and tickets for the game will be available for $3.00 at the same time.
Hugh Bray is business manager for the affair, while Dick Castellini will handle the publicity. Tom Stubler is in charge of tickets, while Phil Brehun and Jim Deline will handle entertainment and refreshments, respectively.
a
Smith Indicts Modern Education
Dr. Vincent E. Smith, professor of philosophy, indicted modern education for its failure to introduce students to “the wonders of the world on nature’s own level” and as a result “actually neglecting nature,” in a recent issue of the Teachers' Study Guide.
He also stated that Catholic educators should be urged to show “the sacramental and liturgical life that is hidden behind the visible signs in nature.”
Dr. Smith, widely known scholar, author and teacher, both in the fields of philosophy and science, is also the editor of the Neiv Scholasticism, philosophy quarterly.
Dr. Smith’s books include Idea Men t of Today, Philosophical Physics, Footnotes for the Atom, and Philosophical Frontiers of Physics.
■
Delisi Lists Vetville Activities
Mayor Joseph Delisi of Vetville recently released a schedule of events dating through Nov. 8.
A victory dance is on tap for Oct. 17,' and a kiddies’ Halloween party will follow on Oct. 30. Nov. 8 will be the date of the second pot luck supper of the season.
The initial pot luck supper was staged last Sunday for the purpose of welcoming 30 new couples.
■
Bartholomew Elected Veep
Dr. Paul Bartholomew, professor of political science, was elected vice-president of the Indiana Academy of Social Science at that organization’s annual meeting at Valparaiso University on Oct. 3.
Dr. Bartholomew delivered a paper on “Municipal Home Rule and Local Government.” Papers were also presented by John Kane, head of the sociology department, and Dr. James Culliton, head of the Experimental Program for Administrators.
■
Thomson Lectures Here
Dr. L. C. Thomson, English researcher, recently delivered three lectures under the sponsorship of the Department of Biology on the Physiology of Vision.
Dr. Thomson is Director of the Group for Research in the Physiology of Vision at the Institute of Ophthalmology in London.
Dealing with the visual systems of the retina and the physiology of human color vision, Dr. Thomson explained in detail the various processes.
During the summer Dr. Thomson presented a paper at the XIX International Physiological Congress which met in Montreal.
Sociology Introduces New Quiz, Discussions
. The College of Liberal Arts has announced several innovations developed during the summer months.
The Department of Sociology has introduced a new method of teaching in its introductory courses. Formerly, lectures were given in class along with periodic quizzes. Now two lectures per week are given while once a week each class is divided into three sections for the purpose of discussions and quizzes.
This new system offers the students a better chance of gaining more knowledge of the subject besides making them feel more at ease in the discussions.
Prof. Frederick J. Nims of the Department of English received a renewal of his Fulbright Lectureship for the fall. He will lecture this year either at Bologna, France, or Padua, Italy.
Prof. Nims, one of a group of four Americans selected to teach abroad in 1952, lectured at the University of Milan last year. He has made regular contributions in the field of poetry, publishing two volumes of verse. He is currently working on the translation of the poetry of St. John of the Cross.
The Department of Education cooperated with the AFROTC workshop in August. This was concerned with the new curriculum introduced in the AFROTC program. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, head of the Department of Education, was the civilian consultant.
The department also conducted a workshop on the AB curriculum. This undertaking was conducted by Fr. William Cunningham, C.S.C.
Placement Director Dooley Attends Eastern Conference
William R. Dooley, Notre Dame’s placement director, was one of 25 college representatives from coast-to-coast who attended a conference of college placement officers last Monday at Schenectady, N. Y., under the sponsorship of the General Electric Co.
The conference considered many aspects of college placement including the placement of veterans, helping older alumni to find jobs, counselling and guidance of students, recruiting ethics and the proper use of placement facilities. Also on the agenda was a discussion of ‘ financial support for education by business and industry.
Dooley, who has been associated with the University for 20 years, is vicepresident of the Midwest College Placement Assn. Last year representatives of 180 companies interviewed thousands of ND students for employment.
The Scholastic
22
DOME PICTURES
Faculty members so notified, and members of the Dome, Scholastic, Juggler and Tech Review staffs who are to have their pictures taken for the Publications section of the 1954 DOME are reminded that Thursday Oct. 15, is the last date on which these pictures will be taken.
Photographs are being taken in Walsh Hall basement Monday through Thursday from 9 a.m. to 12 noon, and from 1:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. Come at your convenience.
Ten Former Students Enter Jordan Novitiate
Ten former Notre Dame students took the first step toward the priesthood in August when they entered the Sacred Heart Novitiate of Holy Cross Fathers at Jordan, Minn. Four others pronounced their first vows after a year in the Novitiate.
Charles H. O’Brien, C.S.C., Green Bay, Wis.; Alfred C. De Crane, C.S.C., Cleveland Heights, Ohio; Robert L. Mullen, C.S.C., Tampa, Fla.; Joseph F. O’Donnell, C.S.C., Chicago, Ill.; Nicholas R. Ayo, C.S.C., Elizabeth, N. J.; and James D. Wing, C.S.C., Evanston, HL, entered the seminary this past summer.
Other Notre Dame men who are in the Jordan Novitiate are: Daniel M. Boland, C.S.C., Hazelcrest, Ill.; Aidan R. Gough, C.S.C., La Canada, Calif.; Hugh R. Shine, C.S.C., Goldsboro, N. C.; and Dennis A. Gibson, C.S.C., Rochester, New York.
The Old College on campus will house 45 priesthood candidates of college age. Joseph F. Belfiore, Jr., Washington, D. C.; John P. Bozzone, Sauquoit, N. Y.; Donald F. Guertin, Upland, Calif.; William B. Hund, St. Joseph, Mo.; Joseph B. Simons, Pasadena, Calif.; John F. O’Connell, Chicago, Ill.; and Paul D. Gabler, Chicago, HL, are first-year men at the former Mission House.
O’Connell graduated in the College of Commerce in 1952 and Gabler is a member of the class of ’53. All these men, while living as regular Notre Dame students, will put in a year of intensive study in Latin and philosophy in preparation for entry into the Novitiate at Jordan next August.
While at Notre Dame their- spiritual life will center around the Log Chapel where Mass, Holy Communion, meditation, rosary, spiritual reading, a month
ly retreat and nocturnal adoration before each First Friday will help lay the foundation for their future lives as priests of Holy Cross.
The extremely large number of Old College seminarians this year has filled the aging structure to capacity. The overflow is being handled in Cavanaugh Hall and the Andre House, formerly used for Lay Brother candidates.
Pius X Will Be Honored During Eucharistic Hour
For the eleventh successive year, the annual Eucharistic Holy Hour will be conducted Sunday afternoon at 2 o’clock at School Field in South Bend. The Holy Hour will honor Blessed Pope Pius X on the 50th anniversary of the Motu Proprio.
As in the past, the Archbishop John F. Noll, D.D., of Fort Wayne, will deliver the sermon to the assembled parishes of the South Bend vicinity.
The program will consist of a grand procession, including the First Communion classes from the South Bend schools, public recitation of the rosary, a sermon by Archbishop John F. Noll, and Solemn Benediction. The fourth degree members of the Knights of Columbus of South Bend will form an honor guard for the procession.
All the Catholic churches in the South Bend vicinity are collaborating with Monsignor John S. Sabo, pastor of Our Lady of Hungaiy Church in South Bend, who is the chairman of the arrangements for the Holy Hour.
Academic Affairs Establishes Main Building Bulletin Board
The Office of the Academic Affairs has erected a bulletin board in the basement of the Main Building to facilitate the distribution of announcements and information from that office to the students.
Located opposite the phone booths, the board is identical in construction and adjacent to the bulletin board of the Office of Military Affairs. A shelf, attached to the wall below the board, provides space for literature to be distributed to the students.
On the left side of the board, Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C. advisor to foreign students, has posted immigration data and information of interest to those students. The other half contains official announcements of the office regarding registration, class schedules, exam sequences, and commencement activities.
Third Order Sponsors Mass-Serving Course
A series of instructions on serving the Mass will be given in the Log Chapel beginning Monday at 8 p.m. The course of instruction will be conducted by Sophomores Dick Rupp and Mike Carr under the sponsorship of the Third Order of St. Francis. Anyone interterested in learning to serve the Mass is invited to attend.
Rev. Daniel J. O’Neill, C.S.C., will run through the Mass with the prospective servers, and Brother Boniface, C.S.C., will add the finishing touches at the end of the training period. Rev. Robert Lochner, C.S.C., sponsor of the Third Order, will also assist in the program.
The course will last foi- approximately two months.
These instructions represent part of the program being carried on by the Third Order of St. Francis “to restore all things in Christ.” The organization, founded by St. Francis of Assisi, also visits the sick in the Infirmary.
Monthly meetings are held in Cavanaugh Hall chapel. Approximately 60 men are members of the organization.
Members follow a definite Rule, which includes a daily office of one Our Father, twelve Hail Marys, and twelve Glory Be to the Fathers; daily Mass and Communion; and the wearing of a habit. The habit consists of the scapular and a cincture worn around the waist.
Those in the order participate in all the graces gained by the Franciscans throughout the world. A member of the Third Order who has been faithful to the Rule during his lifetime is entitled to be buried in the Franciscan habit.
Anyone interested in joining the Order is urged to contact Norman Hip-skind, 15 Sorin. Weekly cell meetings are now being held to acquaint novices with the Rule.
MASS SCHEDULE
MONDAY, Oct. 12—Ferial Day.
TUESDAY, OCT. 13—Feast of St. Edward, King, Confessor.
WEDNESDAY, Oct. 14—Feast of St. Callistus, I, Pope, Martyr.
THURSDAY, Oct. 15—Feast of St. Teresa, Virgin.
FRIDAY, Oct. 16—Feast of St. Hedwig, Widow.
SATURDAY, Oct. 17—Feast of St. Margaret Mary Alacoque, Virgin.
October 9, 1953
'Scholastic' Flashbacks Show Old-New Looks, Meatless Days and The Siege of the Alcazar1
By PAUL FULLMER
Taking five year jumps into the past via back issues of the Scholastic, the month of October reveals many interesting and startling aspects of Notre Dame life.
In 1948 the campus was buzzed by the fashion bug. The great debate on the pages of the Scholastic was the fashions of the day—feminine, that is. The new look was giving way to the old look—the pros and cons were flying faster than the passes in the Stadium.
St. Mary’s girls were the models in a two-page spread that gave the ND man the true view into the situation.
Meatless Days
The Dining Hall shocked the campus gravy, train by declaring a meatless day for the duration of the term. This was done with no visible explanation. The cynics now had something to write home about.
A new innovation was established by the Scholastic in 1948 to acquaint the students with nearby girls’ colleges. The editor presented the glamorous phases of the feminine educational system in an attempt to bolster attendance at their social functions.
George Connor was blazing new trails on the gridiron for the Fighting Irish. His picture adorned the covers of many national magazines as the Irish again were national copy.
The Sophomore Cotillion featured Ray McKinley and Eddie Sauter in the first major social event of the season.
Dropping back five more years to 1943, a different Notre Dame must be examined. The V-12 program occupied the majority of accommodations and midnight oil burned over studying gobs.
The V-12 Ball, instead of the AB Ball, was the topic of conversation in the Huddle and ‘Caf.’ Eddy Howard of dance band fame traveled down Indiana way for this affair which coaxed some 500 couples onto the Palais floor.
USO shows were regular visitors to campus. They relieved the tension brought on by war-time restrictions and crowded quarters. Dining Hall service was altered to provide special menus for the Navy men and the St. Joseph farm declined to continue its attempt to feed the Notre Dame student body.
N.D. 55, Georgia Tech, 13
Georgia Tech was on the schedule and Coach Frank Leahy’s squad demolished the Rambling Wrecks to the tune of 55 to 13! The big game, looked forward
to by the entire school, was the tilt with the mighty Wolverines of Michigan. The Wolverines were subdued, 35-12.
The Irish backfield of Angelo Bertelli, John Lujack, Julie Rykovich, and Jim Mello roared through the season with remarkable success.
Notre Dame marked its 100th commencement by inviting Governor Harry
JOHNNY LUJACK
Regular Star in Early '40s
Kelly of Michigan to speak at this memorable event.
To facilitate the students’ acquisition of books for the second semester, the Notre Dame BX was founded to cater to the typical ND man—possessing billfolds but no cash.
1938 brings us back into the past just a shade behind the confines of our memory. Strange things happened around these acres in October, 1938.
The sophomores gained front page headlines in the Scholastic by announcing the site of their annual Cotillion. They deisred a spacious hall with plenty of room to wander about.
Cotillion in Dining Hall
Their selection was the quaint Dining Hall with all of its intimate natural assets.
Few voices rose in protest, however, and the weekly—stories covered ticket sellouts as per usual.
Another- familiar landmark of the . present-day Notre Dame culture received its share of kidding from the
older generation. A humorous feature story portrayed a kindly nurse wheeling an infirmary patient.
Bob Zuppke of Illinois predicted dire results for the Irish when his Illini tangled with ND. He prophesied that his charges would “shoot the works” against the Fighting Irish.
‘The Siege of Alcazar’
‘ October- was the month of lectures at Notre Dame in 1938 and the most popular proved to be entitled “The Siege of the Alcazar.” Not too many of the troops could fathom this title, but it intrigued them no end.
University officials groaned when they noted the rising registration figures. The total had passed the previous high and now soared to a record 3,080. Again residence halls were needed to alleviate the crowded conditions.
A sad note was rung on the football gridiron, however, as the nationally famous powerhouse of Carnegie Tech took the Irish by a 9 to 7 margin.
Ground was broken for the new Rockne Memorial after a nationwide subscription drive. “Rock” was killed in an airplane crash over Kansas and the entire nation was saddened. The building was designed for the exclusive use of the students of Notre Dame and no intercollegiate athletics were to be allowed in this building.
ECMA Votes ’Tech Review' Second as 'Best Magazine'
At a recent convention of the ECMA, held at the University of Illinois, Urbana, Ill., the Technical Review brought home a second place as “Best All-Around Magazine.” It also received an honorable mention for an article' published last year.
Co-editor Jim Harrington accepted the awards on behalf of the magazine’s staff.
Although a relatively new member of the ECMA, having been admitted in 1949, the Review has received special recognition on three occasions.
The ECMA is a national organization composed of 43 leading schools which publish an engineering magazine. The winning magazine is chosen by a critic who reads every publication.
Panel discussions and talks concerning the various aspects of magazine editing were featured at the convention, which concluded with a banquet and presentation of awards.
Others attending the meeting were: Harvey Newquist, co-editor; Frank Florian, managing editor; Jerry Schoen-herr, .assistant-managing editor; Tom Stahl, art and make-up; and Bill Carson, business manager.
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Harriers Meet Top-Ranked Spartans
Irish Out to Capture Season's First Victory Worden Takes Lead After Losing Home Opener to Wheaton, 20-35 In ND Scoring Race
By DAVE KILKEARY
Looking for their first victory of 1953, the Notre Dame Cross Country team will travel to East Lansing tomorrow to meet the powerful Michigan State Spartans.
Last year’s Michigan State squad was by far the best in the country, easily finishing first in the Big Ten race and going on to capture the N.C.A.A. cross country team title. Coach Alex Wilson’s charges were badly outclassed last season when they met the Nation’s champs, losing by a score of 19-39 in a dual meet held on the Notre Dame home course.
This season’s edition of the Spartan squad will be without the services of Jim Kepford. Kepford, the Spartans consistent winner of last season, finished third .in the N.C.A.A. cross country run last year. Although State lost Kepford through graduation, they still boast another well balanced team this Fall. Returning from the all-winning 1952 squad are Lyle Garbe, Dick Garrett, John Cooke and Johnny Walter, all of
WILSONMEN SUFFER DEFEAT IN CROSS COUNTRY OPENER
On Your Mark, Get Set, Go
whom helped nail down the National Cross Country Championship.
Last week Notre Dame was trounced by Gil Dodd’s Wheaton College squad 20-35. All four of Wheaton’s men finished in front of the closest Irish competitor, Jack Alexander. The Crusaders led by Cookie Moriya, Tom Wright, Walt Steinkraus, and Taylor McKinzie crossed the finish line one-two-three-four. while Alexander, Jim (Spike) Daley, Bill Lenihan, Dick DeSchriver and Al Schoenig, rounded out the runners. Wheaton’s Kikuo (Cookie) Moriya, a former member of Japan’s Olympic team, set a record, covering the three and one half mile course in 17:53. Notre Dame's best time was turned in by their captain, Jack Alexander, who checked in at 19:05, 18 seconds better than the Irish second man Jim Daley. Notre Dame was in the lead at the one and a half mile mark but faded badly over the rest of the distance.
After Notre Dame’s first two wins, fullback Neil Worden continues to lead the Irish in the scoring department with a total of 18 points. The “Bull” scored one TD in the Irish’s opener against the Sooners and added two more in the Boilermaker tilt. Worden has carried the ball 19 times for a total of 121 yds. and a 6.3 rushing average.
Halfback Joe Heap and quarterback Ralph Guglielmi follow close behind Worden, each having scored 12 points. “Minnie” Mavraides’ 11 points all came by way of the educated toe. He has booted one field goal, and his eight points after touchdowns have been scored without a miss.
Sophs Lead in Rushing
In the rushing department, halfback Dick Fitzgerald leads the Irish attack with a nine yard average, chalking off 90 yds. in 10 carries. Dick Washington, another halfback, is number two man in rushing with an eight yd. average.
Ralph Guglielmi leads the passing department with 12 completions in 17 attempts for 180 yards and a very impressive .705 average. None of Guglielmi’s passes have been intercepted. Heap has connected on one of his two tosses, while Tom Carey has failed to hit on either of his two tries.
Only two of the Irish have returned kickoffs, one being Lattner’s spectacular 85 yard jaunt against Purdue. Worden has returned four kickoffs for 106 yards.
Overall, Notre Dame has completely crashed its opposition. The Irish have scored 65 points to their opponents’ 28 and have compiled 31 first downs to 17. Fumbles have proved costly to both, Notre Dame losing six of their nine bobbles, while. Oklahoma and Purdue together have dropped nine of 13. Captain Don Penza leads the’ Irish in recovering the opponents’ miscues, grabbing up three, while Palumbo, Schrader, Lemek, Heap, Washington, and Worden each recovered one.
October 9, 1953
25
NEIL WORDEN
Pulls Ahead in Irish Scoring
	RUSHING		
	Tinies		
	Carried	Yds.	Avg.
Fitzgerald		  10	90	9
Washington		  6	48	8
Worden 			  19	121	6.3
McHugh ...		 13	64	4.9
			
Keller 			 1	4	4
Heap 					  13	40	3.0
Rigali 			_		 1	3	3.0
Lattner 			  27	72	2.6
	SCORING		
	TD PAT	FG	Pts.
Worden 			 3	0	0	18
Heap 					 2	0	0	12
Guglielmi .			  2	0	0	12
Mavraides ..		  0	8	1	11
Lattner 			  1	0	0	6
Washington		    1	0	0	6
	PUNTING		
	No.	Yds.	Avg.
Lattner 			  6	232	38.8
Gaffney 			 I	33	33.0
			
McHugh ...				 3	98	32.6
(continued on page 28)
ND Completely Overpowers Boilermakers, Displays Superior Ground and Aerial Attack
Capitalizing on several Purdue miscues and their own superior ground and aerial offense, Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish rolled to a 37-7 victory over the Purdue Boilermakers last Saturday. The game, played at Ross-Ade Stadium in Lafayette marked the Irish’s second victory of the season.
Notre Dame struck early .in the contest after Purdue had received, but failed to gain much ground on a series of off-tackles runs and pass plays. Later the Irish took possession of the ball on the 50 and moved downfield to the Purdue 15. Runs by Guglielmi and Lattner lost yardage, and an incomplete pass by Guglielmi put the Irish on the Purdue 23. Right guard Minnie Mavraides' field goal attempt was good, and put the Irish into the lead, 3-0.
Fumble Leads to Second Irish TD.
Moments after the Irish kicked off to Purdue, fullback Max Schmaling fumbled for the Boilermakers, and ND halfback Joe Heap gobbled up the loose pigskin on Purdue’s 29 yard line. A four yard run by Heap and two carries by Lattner moved the ball to the 11, where fullback Neil Worden “bulled” over Purdue’s left tackle for the TD on the next play. Mavraides’ kick was good, and the Irish led 10-0 at the end of the first quarter.
At the start of the second period Heap scored another Irish tally through the right side, but it was called back because of a clipping penalty and a later drive failed. Purdue again was unable to penetrate the Irish defense, and Notre Dame took over. Passes by Guglielmi and runs by Lattner and
Worden worked the ball to Purdue’s nine yard line, but again losses put the ball back to the Boilermaker 26, where a fumble by Guglielmi gave the ball to Purdue. On the first play quarterback Roy Evans took the snap from center and tossed a forward pass to Johnny Kerr, who romped to paydirt for Purdue’s only score. The entire play covered a total of 74 yards. Evan’s boot was good, and the score was 10-7 for the Irish.
Lattner runs 85 yds. down sidelines
Seconds later Johnny Lattner took Reichert’s kick and scampered 85 yards down the sidelines for the touchdown. Lattner’s run was the longest of the afternoon, and broke up a spirited rally by Holcomb’s crew. Mavraides converted and ND led 17-7. Guglielmi intercepted a Purdue pass and the Irish worked the ball to the Boilermaker 16, but could not crack the Purdue forward wall. A field goal attempt by Mavraides proved unsuccessful, and Purdue took over on their own 20. Two plays later Carey intercepted an Evans pass on the Purdue 44, and Fullback Tom McHugh and halfback Dick Fitzgerald pushed the ball to the 31. Halfback Dick Washington raced the rest of the distance into the end zone to make the score, 23-7. Walt Cabral’s extra point attempt failed.	'
In the third quarter it looked as if the Boilermakers might score again, as Max Schmaling ran through the Irish line for a 45 yard gain to the Notre Dame 37. Brock took Evans’ pass on the 10 yard line, and crossed the goal (continued on page 32)
J*
LATTNER EXHIBITS ALL-AMERICAN FORM IN BOILERMAKER ROMP
85 yd. back-breaker
Downed (?), but Not Out
26
The Scholastic
B-P, Alumni Blue Gain Initial Diamond Wins
The annua] fall Interhall Baseball Tournament moves into its second round of official competition after a shaky start last week. On October first, Breen-Phillips shut out Zahm, 3-0, and the Alumni Blue team slipped by Farley, 3-2. Due to poor weather conditions last weekend, the Badin-Sorin tilt and the Alumni Gold-Cavanaugh game were postponed.
Since last Friday’s Scholastic reported nine teams, one team has dropped out of the tourney. The teams competing and then- managers are: Farley, Dick Ashby; Alumni Blues, Dick Martin; Alumni Golds, Tony Mandolini; Breen-Phillips, Paul Besser; Sorin, Mike Jackman; Badin, Jack Murray; Cavanaugh, Joe Pirro; and Zahm, Dan Steckbeck.
These managers have the job of getting together with each other and scheduling their respective games whenever it is most convenient for both teams. This fact, combined with the lateness of the season, limits the whole tournament to fourteen games or a double-elimination series.
Until the Badin-Sorin and Cava-naugh-Alumni Gold games are played off, the teams cannot swing into the second round.
The Interhall Department also announces that the touch football league and volleyball tournament will follow the baseball play-offs, and anyone interested is urged to contact Mr. Fallon of the Physical Education Department.
Hall Gridders Open Season With Five Games Scheduled
During the week of October 10-17 the interhall football league will open, with five games slated to be played. Of the original thirteen entries, eleven teams will vie for league and campus honors.
In the initial week of play Breen-Phillips, last year’s Western league champs and defending interhall titlists, will collide with St. Ed’s; Farley tests Off-Campus; and Cavanaugh meets Zahm in the Eastern League- Over in the Western League, Alumni will tangle with Lyons; Dillon’s Juniors will try and stop the sophomores of Morrissey; and Howard draws a bye. The coaches will decide the best date to play the games, which will begin at 4:15 p.m.
Mr. Napolitano, supervisor of the league, stated that good turnouts at Alumni, Dillon, Morrissey, Farley and Cavanaugh are encouraging. However, he urges the other halls to follow their example and to strive for larger practice turnouts.
October 9, 1953
Georgia Tech Edges SMU; Pitt Ties Sooners As Six Forthcoming ND Opponents Triumph
While the Irish were passing a warm sunny fall afternoon working out against the Boilermakers in Lafayette, the eight teams remaining on the Notre Dame schedule were busy knocking around and about the country. When all the final guns had gone off and the stands had cleared, here’s how the opponents fared.
Iowa got carried away with their own power1 and before they realized how impolite they were being to their guests, Washington State, the Hawkeyes had a 35-0 lead at the half. In the second half Iowa acted more the role of host and only scored 19 points. They went so far as to let the visitors pick up twelve. This was the highest total run up by Iowa since 1947 when they crushed North Dakota State, 59-0.
The Iowa line also turned in a re-
BINKY BROEDER
Irish Foe Paces Hawkeyes
markable job. They held Washington State to a net rushing gain of 13 yards. In the first half the Cougars had a net of minus 21 yards. Halfback Binky Broeder led the Hawkeyes onslaught, romping to two touchdowns. He was the only Hawkeye to score twice, both tallies coming in the first quarter.
Soph Leads Panthers to Tie
Farther east in Pittsburgh, Oklahoma came to visit the Panthers and barely made it out of town without a loss.
Pittsburgh, led by a determined sophomore quarterback named Pete Neft, upset the experts’ ratings which made the Panthers decided underdogs, and notched a 7-7 tie with the vaunted
Sooners and came very close to pulling off a victory.
Neft climaxed a 48 yards Pitt drive early in the fourth period by vaulting over from the one yard line.
Oklahoma managed their first and only touchdown in the second period on a pass play from quarterback Buddy Leake to halfback Larry Grigg. The play covered 80 yards. From then on till Pitt scored, it was strictly a game of two stubborn and savage lines. The Panther front wall held against four straight line plays in the third quarter when Oklahoma recovered a fumble by Pitt’s Bobby Epps on the Panther’s six. Late in the fourth period the situation was reversed, and it was the Sooner line that made the dogged stand.
Pitt threatened in the final minutes when they intercepted a Leake pass. They elected to try a ground attack but ran out of gas and had to kick.
Tech, SMU Tangle in Battle of Defenses
Georgia Tech and Southern Methodist played a game of the immovable object and the irresistible force type of football in Atlanta Saturday with the Yellow Jackets finishing on top by the odd score of 6-4.
Georgia . Tech’s greatly publicized, high-octane running attack was stalled by the SMU line which simply refused to move. The tough and swift Mustang forwards kept the Yellow Jackets in their own back yard except for the single Tech score in the third period. A combination of an interception, a roughing penalty and three plays from scrimmage which included a TD sneak by quarterback Pepper Rodgers, produced the game’s only touchdown.
Southern Methodist picked up their four points in the second half. SMIT tackle Jack Gunlock blocked a punt attempted by Tech’s Dave Davis and the ball went out of the end zone. The other* two pointer was an outright gift from the Yellow Jackets in the guise of strategy.
In Philadelphia before 51,000 spectators, Pennsylvania, led by Walt Hynoski and Gary Scott, rallied to beat archrival Penn State, 13-7. The win was the first for the Red and Blue over State in seven tries.
i
Passing Duo Does the Trick
It was a pass combination that did the trick. Hynoski doing the throwing with Scott on the receiving end. The first time it happened was exactly two (continued on page 33)
27

by Bob Frolkher
Greater Than a Legend
On March 31, 1931, Notre Dame lost one of the greatest men in the
history of the school. This date marks the death of Knute Rockne, the greatest coach football has ever known. Many stories have been written
KNUTE ROCKNE
No Legend
about the “Big Swede” but few can compare with the latest about the Irish immortal, which appears in the November issue of Sport magazine. The article written by Jack Newcombe is entitled “Knute Rockne, The Man and the Legend.”
In his 43 years Rockne left behind him a legend which has steadily increased even to the present day. His following includes not only those who knew him personally but even present day sportswriters and avid promoters of the game. Before his death he reached a climax yet unsurpassed in his field. In twelve years as head Irish Coach, he compiled a dynamic record of 105 wins, 12 losses and five ties. He also guided his team to five unbeaten, untied seasons.
With Rockne, the name “Four Horsemen” goes hand in hand. However, his guidance did not stop on the football field. He carried a deep and personal interest in each of his players. He was undoubtedly the inspiration of many of those who loved and respected him.
The highlights throughout Rockne’s short but brilliant career are taken and pieced together by Newcombe into an article that accomplishes something few other articles have attained—a piece which takes Rockne’s life from beginning until his death and shows its outstanding features that are true but have become a legend—a legend which has been expanded upon year after year until it has become one of the most decorative and unforgettable tales of our time.
More Entrants Being Sought For Volleyball Tournament
Notre Dame’s annual fall volleyball tournament will get under way about the middle of next week. This year’s tourney will be under the direction of Physical Education instructor, Mr. Thomas Fallon.
There are still quite a few openings for either a full team or unattached players, as the case may be. Unattached players will be placed on teams by Mr. Fallon.
No previous experience is necessary since there will be a few classes on rules along with a three-day practice session. The schedule will be made up on the basis of the most convenient times for the majority of students. The games will begin about 4:00 p.m., on the volleyball courts near the stadium.
Anyone interested should contact Mr. Fallon either at Room 1 of the Rockne Memorial or on the volleyball courts between 3:30 and 5:00 p.m.
Statistics
(Continued from Page 26) PASS RECEIVING No.
Caught Yds. TD
Heap .......................... 5	101	2
Lattner .....................   3	47	0
Penza ......................... 2	24	0
Shannon ....................... 2	20	0
PASSING
	Att.	Comp.	Yds.	.4t,g.
Gugliehni 			 17	12	180	.705
Heap 		2	1	16	.500
Carev 		2	0	0	.000
Hall of Fame Honors
'Many great names have gone down in the football record books as outstanding Irish players, but three of the greatest, Knute Rockne, George Gipp and Elmer Layden, will soon be engraved in another section of the country. This trio has been elected to the National Football Hall of Fame.
The awards will take place during the half-time ceremonies of the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh clash here on Oct. 17. At the game a plaque will be presented to each, or if deceased, to a relative. Besides this an exact duplicate will be hung in the Football Hall of Fame, soon to be erected on the Rutgers University campus. Notre Dame will also receive a duplicate of the award to the person elected to the Hall of Fame.
Reaches Century Mark
When Notre Dame defeated Purdue last Saturday, it marked the 100th victory in the coaching career of Frank Leahy. Twenty of Leahy’s wins came at the helm of Boston College, where he compiled a record of 20 wins with but two losses, while up to the beginning of this season his Irish teams won 78, dropped 13 and tied eight. Five of his teams have finished the season unbeaten, and four have been awarded National Championships.
PROGNOSTICATOR PREDICTS:
(Last week’s percentage—.850, on 17 out of 20). Two weeks total—.725, or 29 out of 40.
California, 21; Penn, 14.
Navy, 23; Cornell, 13.
Duke, 27; Purdue, 19.
Georgia Tech, 14; Tulane, 7.
Maryland, 26; Georgia, 14.
Ohio State, 28; Illinois, 7.
Indiana, 19; Marquette, 13.
Michigan State, 34; TCU, 6. Minnesota, 24; Northwestern, 21. Iowa, 14; Michigan, 13.
Pittsburgh, 20; Nebraska, 14.
No. Carolina, 14; Wake Forest, 12.
Texas, 20; Oklahoma, 17.
So. California, 41; Washington, 0. Army, 35; Dartmouth, 7.
28
The Scholastic
kA MITRE DIME SOWS
Hike Song
The march is on, no brain or brawn Can stop the charge of fighting men. Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again.
Oh, it’s the hike, hike, hike of victory, The call, to rise and strike.
For Notre Dame men are winning When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike.
(chorus)
Hark to the cheering song rising high,
Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by;
Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name.
Bum high your fires and swing along for Notre Dame.
When Irish Backs Go Marching By
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Up! Notre Dame men! Answer the cry, Gathering foemen fling to the sky.
• Fight! Fight! Fight!
Brave hosts advancing challenge your name, March to the battle, Notre Dame!
Rah! Rah! Rah!
(chorus)
And when the Irish backs go marching by
The cheering thousands shout their battle cry: For Notre Dame men are marching into the game, Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame, And when that Irish line goes smashing through, They’ll sweep the foemen’s ranks away;
When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, Then Notre Dame men will win that dav.
Victory March
Rally sons of Notre Dame;
Sing her glory and sound her fame. Raise her Gold and Blue
And cheer with voices true:
Rah, rah, for Notre Dame (U rah, rah) We will fight in ev-ry game, Strong of heart and true to her name We will ne’er forget her And we’ll cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame.
(chorus)
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame.
Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small? Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory.
Notre Dame, Our Mother
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens, Gleams the gold and blue, Glory’s mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame.
October 9, 1953
Cruise 'Charlie'
(continued on page 19) from the base and overlooks a small horseshoe cove used for swimming.
Diversion for middies included baseball, swimming and movies. Most interesting of all was the local calypso music furnished by the natives. Taking empty gasoline cans or oil drums, they would heat-treat and shape one end, and in a manner similar to playing a xylophone, were able to produce some really good rhythm and melody.
Next on the itinerary was Cuba. Guantanamo Bay, the site of all naval operations in the Caribbean area, is a large and well equipped base. The naval exchanges were open after regular hours for the middies, who purchased perfume for their favorite girl, shotguns, rifles, hermetically sealed Cuban cigars, cameras, mahogany salad bowls and accessories, alligator wallets and purses, and ice cream and steaks.
Phone Calls First
On Aug 26, Cruise ‘Charlie’ headed for home. Cape Henry Lighthouse was sighted on the morning of the third day. When we moored and received permission to go ashore, long lines developed in front of phone booths, as middies gave important messages to parents and girl friends. The following morning at 0600, we were officially released from the cruise. Transportation was provided to the Norfolk airport for those flying. Four hundred middies said “so long” to a lot of good times, swell acquaintances, and a few not-so-happy events of the navy’s “learn by doing” program. We were all glad it was over, but it provided an experience few shall forget.
Students Give Views On 'What ND Needs'
When the' Sophomore Cotillion heralds the opening of the new Student Center on Oct. 23 it will be the fulfillment of a long-awaited dream. It would seem that at last Notre Dame will have completed all hei’ proposed building plans and the campus doesn’t need another thing.
Quite the contrary seems to be' true, however, according to a group of students who were asked the question, “What do you think Notre Dame needs the most, if anything?”
Late Facility Hours Wanted
Tom Fortune, a freshman from Cavanaugh doesn’t want much. He just thinks it would be a good idea to move the dining hall “a little closer to the Freshmen, approximately in front of, Walsh hall.”
Another Freshman, Ralph Lightner from Zahm, complains that we don’t need any more buildings, but he would like to see the ones we have stay open longer. The" Huddle, the Caf, and the Rock, especially on Saturday nights, would head his list.
Junior Hugh Boyle of Sorin recommends that ND’s next project be a new field house. “For a school that participates in as many intercollegiate sports as does Notre Dame, we should have a new fieldhouse which could handle bigger crowds and give our teams a better place to practice.”
The last two fellows interviewed brought to light what they thought to be Notre Dame’s chief needs, food and drink.
Jim Foste, a Dixie sophomore from
St. Ed’s, complains that he is losing weight due to the absence of com-pone from his daily menu. “With the strenuous life I lead up here, I need some good food like I get at home.”
Of course one can always answer, “Some guys are never satisfied.”
yCS Plans Series of Mixers For Men of Each Frosh Hall
The first of a series of four mixers for the freshmen of Notre Dame will be held for the men of Zahm, Farley, and Breen-Phillips Halls from 2-5 p.m. Sunday.
Under Student Senate sponsorship, the YCS has organized this series of social affairs foi‘ the freshmen and St. Mary’s, St. Joseph’s Nurses Residence, St. Mary’s Academy, and the Junior Daughters of Isabella.
The purpose of these socials is to provide the freshmen with adequate orientation in the social phase of life at ND.
No Admission Charge
Sunday’s affairs will be held for the men of Zahm in the recreation room of St. Mary’s Academy, for Farleyites in the Vet Rec Hall with St. Mary’s College, and for the boys of Breen-Phillips with the Junior Daughters of Isabella in St. Patrick’s Hall.
There is no admission charge and approximately 100 tickets are being distributed in a hall for each social.
Dancing, singing, cards, ping-pong, and other entertainment is planned for these affairs.
Sunday’s socials will be supervised by Sophomores Richard Miller, John Cywinski, and Norman Savolskis for Zahm, Farley, and Breen-Phillips Halls, respectively.
30
The Scholastic
WNDU Mike Chatter
Bishop Fulton J. Sheen is a man who needs no introduction to a Catholic. He has done much to promote a clearer understanding of what the Catholic Church stands for in the United States today. His weekly television show has one of the highest Hooper ratings of any program on television. He also has written numerous articles and books to present the official view of the Catholic Church to millions of people.
Bishop Sheen is probably best known for his bitter attacks on Communism. He called Communism the only complete philosophy of life aside from Christianity. Bishop Sheen is also known for his instruction of converts to the Roman Catholic Faith.
Carry Sheen Next Tuesday
Born in 1895 in the town of El Paso, Illinois, he studied for the priesthood at Saint Viator College. Later he studied at Catholic University of America and in 1926 he was a Professor of Philosophy there.
Next Tuesday at 8:30, WNDU will bring you a re-broadcast of Bishop Sheen’s television program. One hour after his television program goes off the air, WNDU will begin its broadcast. This show will be a weekly feature on WNDU. I’m sure that those of you who have heard him before will need no urging to listen in. To those of you who have not heard Bishop Sheen, listen in next Tuesday, and no one will have to tell you to listen in a second time.
Meet Your Opponent
A new show that has made its way into the WNDU program schedule is ; “Meet Your Opponent.” From 10:30 to 11:00 each Friday night before' a football game Joe Daley and the entire WNDU Sports Staff will give you every fact and figure available on the game the next day. Yes, “Meet Your Opponent” is as informative a show as it is k	an entertaining one.
Besides all the facts and figures Joe i	has many interesting guests each week.
The coaches and players on the Notre i Dame team can be heard on Joe’s show 1 to size up the opponent of the following Saturday. They will tell you the things
that have been stressed in practice in preparation for their forthcoming opponent. To get all the dope on Saturday’s games listen to “Meet Your Opponent” each Friday night on your student voice.
Swygert Will Preside At ND Practice Court
Hon. Luther M. Swygert, Judge of the United States District Court for Northern Indiana, will serve as a lecturer in Notre Dame’s College of Law and conduct the law school’s practice court, Dean Joseph O’Meara, Jr., announced today. Judge Swygert succeeds Judge J. Elmer Peak of the Superior Court of St. Joseph County who presided over the campus practice court for more than ten years until his recent retirement from the Notre Dame faculty.
“While we are reluctant to lose Judge Peak’s valuable services,” Dean O’Meara said, “we are especially pleased that Judge Swygert, a distinguished alumnus of our College of Law, has accepted our invitation to assist in the education of future Notre Dame lawyers. Our students will benefit greatly by his broad experience as a jurist and a lawyer,” he said.
Judge Swygert, who resides at Dime Acres near Michigan City, Ind., was graduated from the Notre Dame College of Law in 1927. He is second vice-president and a director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Judge Swygert served as deputy prosecutor of Lake County, Indiana from 1931-33. He was assistant United States Attorney for Northern Indiana from 1934-43. In that year he was appointed to his present post as Judge of the United States District Court for northern Indiana.
PHOTOS FOR SALE
Copies of pictures taken by SCHOLASTIC and DOME photographers may be ordered at the Department of Publications in the basement of Farley Hall. Office hours are from 8 to 12 noon, and 1 to 5 p.m.
The prices of 8” x 10” glossy prints are 75 cents each, and 65 cents each when more than one copy of a print is ordered.
Departure Ceremony Sends Seven to India
Seven Holy Cross missionaries, soon to leave for far-off Pakistan, participated in an impressive departure ceremony last night in Sacred Heart Church.
Four priests, a Brother and two Sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross renewed their foreign mission vows before Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., provincial superior. The sermon was given by Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C.. who visited the country for several years. After last night’s ceremony the seven missionaries bade farewell to their families, friends and associates at the University.
The missionaries will leave directly for Dacca in Bengal, East Pakistan, where the Congregation of Holy Cross this year observes its centennial of missionary work among the natives. They will arrive in Pakistan .in mid-November • to join 89 Holy Cross priests, Brothers and Sisters who staff the Dacca missions.
Participating in the departure ceremony were Rev. Gerald McMahon, C.S.C., Binghamton, N. Y.; Rev. C. Zimmerman, C.S.C., Crestline, Ohio; Rev. Daniel Kennerk, C.S.C., Fort Wayne, Ind.; Rev. Elias Ribeiro, Ran-gamattia, East Pakistan; Brother Brian Lyon, C.S.C., Loretto, Ky.; Sister M. Carmen, C.S.C., Woodland, Calif.; and Sister M. Francis Bernard, C.S.C., Detroit, Mich.
Confraternity Seeks Members To Teach Religion in So. Bend
The Confraternity of Christian Doctrine is conducting an intensive campaign for new members, according to Ned Griffin, president of the group.
The purpose of the organization is to teach religion to high school students in the South Bend area. Especially wanted are ND students who have completed one year of college religion, who would be willing to spend their extra time at this work.
Griffin stated that the Confraternity “intends to expand, to cope with the demand for Catholic education in this area. Adult discussion groups will be initiated this year in response to requests from South Bend pastors.”
“This will require a large number of ambitious students who are willing to give a lot of time and energy,” he also said. “This is a real opportunity to put Catholic Action into prectice.”
Griffin urges anyone interested to attend a meeting next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in 101 Law Building.
October 9, 1953
31
Marching Bandsmen Polish for Pitt Opener
The Notre Dame marching band is now polishing off its final routines for its debut at the Pittsburgh game next Saturday.
The 105-piece aggregation, directed by Mr. Robert F. O’Brien, will appear at Notre Dame’s five home games and travel to the Pennsylvania game at Philadelphia in conjunction with this year’s student trip.
Since the beginning of the school year, the musicians have been rehearsing intricate steps and formations for their 19-53 premiere.
All formations are diagrammed and memorized, very much like those of the football team. A variety of signals are used to insure split-second precision.
Indoor practice will be held Monday to review the music for this week. On Tuesday, the bandsmen will parade through their formations on the practice field without instruments.
Wednesday a full-scale drill will be held to smooth out the half-time formations.
The entire Thursday session will be devoted to the half-time show, while Friday will feature a complete dress rehearsal with all music and formations memorized. The band will lead the traditional march around campus before the pep rally on Friday evening.
“All music is especially arranged and parts for each instrument must be written and mimeographed. Each formation must be plotted and mimeographed so that each bandsman knows where he is to be at any instant during the show,” Mr. O’Brien added.
Arts Festival
(Continued from Page 9) first of three free movies to be shown during Festival Week. At 3, 6:30, and 8:30 p.m., The Louisiana Story will be shown in Washington Hall.
The remaining two movies—The Informer and The Strong Man—will be shown on Tuesday, at 1, 3, 6:30 and 8:30 p.m. The Informer will be shown in the Engineering auditorium and The Strong Man in Washington Hall.
Tuesday, being Founder’s Day, a Solemn High Mass will be held in Sacred Heart Church at 8 a.m. in memory of Father Sorin. The occasion marks the 60th anniversary of his death.
Thursday, Richard Sullivan, member of the Department of English and noted Catholic novelist and short story writer, will lecture on the “Intention of the Novel” in Room 102 of O’Shaughnessy Hall at 4 p.m. Novelist Sullivan has
recently completed 311 Congress Court, a story of a family forced to vacate their homestead. Both this work and his previous Notre Danie have been enthusiastically received.
Mr. Sullivan, a member of the Department of English since 1936, has written five novels and was recipient of the University’s Lay Faculty Award in 1946.
The University Theater’s contribution to the Festival will be Ibsen’s dramatic Hedda Gabler. Only one performance will be given during the Festival, on Wednesday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are required because of the limited seating facilities and can be obtained at the Washington Hall boxoffice or the Dean’s Office, O’Shaughnessy Hall.
In this production of Hedda Gabler, emphasis will be placed upon the situations in the play as illuminated by the acted characterizations. No scenery, props, or costumes will be used. The stage will be merely a playing area with the actors creating an illusion of place, time, and action through the force of their own activity.
Cast for the performance includes: Edward Cronin, Nancy Ergang, Hilde-garde Vargyas, Ann Duncan, Leonard Sommer, Michael Casey, and Pat Smanda.
The production is under the direction of Michael Casey.
The famed Notre Dame Glee Club will give a concert on Friday at 4 p.m. in Washington Hall. The Glee Club, known to millions through its annual appearance on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town” television show and its coast-to-coast concert tours, will present a variety of selections including Gaudea-mus Igitur, Crucifixus and Ave Maria.
Climaxing the Festival of Arts, Friday night will be the Arts and Letters Ball featuring Woody Herman, with dancing from 9 p.m. till 1 a.m.
Prior to the Ball, students and their guests will attend the traditional pep rally, and on Saturday afternoon, the first home football game between Notre Dame and the University of Pittsburgh.
WNDU will conduct several programs of classical music throughout the Festival week.
Letters
(Continued from page 4) Pitt tied Oklahoma. Pitt, then, should tie ND. I repeat: Ha! Ha!
Stern’s choice comment of the afternoon came with Purdue trailing 37-7, with about two minutes left: “Uh, oh! We’re going to have five yards paced off against Purdue.” Uh, oh! UH, OH! This just might mean the game, Bill.
kb 1 . I;
You’d better remember to play this up g in your recap.
And what do we read about in the fe newspapers? “The Purdue touchdown B, that was called back broke the Boiler- b makers’ backs.” Did the big Irish gains | and the several touchdowns that were g called back break Notre Dame’s back? I Or do the Irish have more guts?	|
I don’t know exactly how many touch- g downs and big gains that penalties de- g prive us of, and neither does Bill Stern. g The difference is that I would like to 3 know, and Bill Stern wouldn’t.
James Sieger
223 Dillon
Qualified Seniors May Apply For *54 Ball Chairmanships '
Applications are now being accepted for chairmanships of the 1954 Senior Ball committees, according to Bill Guil-foile, class president.
Oct. 15 is the final day for the filing of these applications. Previous experience on Notre Dame dance committees is preferred. When applying for the chairmanships, seniors are asked to state their college major and preferred duties.
Information regarding the duties of the chairmanships can be obtained from , Bill Guilfoile, 225 Walsh; Ron Mazzoli, 405 Walsh; or George Pflaum, 315 Alumni.
Irish-Purdue Clash
(Continued from page 26) line, but an illegal use of hands penalty nullified the touchdown and quenched the Boilermaker threat. On the next play Evans fumbled and captain Don Penza recovered the ball on Purdue's 42. A 31 yard pass from Guglielmi to Heap set up a first down on the eleven, and Lattner moved the ball to the five. Guglielmi elected to keep it himself and pushed across for the tally. Mavraides’ extra point made it 30-7.
N.D.’s final scoring came when Eddie Neves of Purdue kicked poorly on fourth down to the Purdue 17. Notre Dame moved the ball to the 10 on a Guglielmi to Shannon play and two plays later Worden carried over for the final touchdown. Mavraides’ kick made it, 37-7.
Statistics Show Supremacy
Notre Dame made 20 first downs, while Purdue could only gain six. The Irish outrushed the Boilermakers, 30790, but N.D. was outpassed, 127-92.
Reserves saw considerable action for the Irish during the game, especially in the second half in which the starting eleven played only about the first five
32
The Scholastic

minutes. Their defensive play was on a par with the starters, and they played an important role on offense, even though the outcome was virtually certain after the first half.
Opponents
(Continued from page 27) minutes after Tony Rados, the quarterback for Penn State, flipped a 30 yard touchdown pass to End Jim Garrity. The pass tossed by Hynoski carried one yard less in the air. The winning score was a 25 yard toss by the Hynoski-Scott duo and gave the retiring Quaker coach, George Munger, his second straight 13-7 win of the season. Penn had beaten Vanderbilt by the same score in the opener.
Midshipmen Sink Indians
Navy came into its own as an eastern powerhouse Saturday and blasted Dartmouth by the lopsided score of 55-7. The Midshipmen did everything right, taking advantage of every break. Coach Eddie Erdelatz substituted freely but even his third team was too much for the hapless Ivy Leaguers.
Navy scored three touchdowns in the first period, two in the second, two in the third and the third stringers pushed one across in the final frame. Only one conversion was missed. This was the biggest Navy win since 1945 when they smashed Villanova 49-0.
Noith Carolina recovered five Washington and Lee fumbles Saturday and turned them all into touchdowns, routing the Generals by a score of 39-0. This was the first game between the two schools in 45 years. The Tarheels pushed across two scores the first six minutes of play, went easy in the middle periods, scoring only one in each, and then in the finale picked up steam again and scored twice.
Trojans Find Going Rough
Out on the west coast last Friday, it took Southern California the whole first half before they realized they were in for- a battle and snapped back to overcome Indiana 27-14.
The Hoosiers, rated 20 point underdogs, drew first blood when junior quarterback Florian Helinski sneaked over from the one foot line. USC came back to tie the score at 7-7 on a Bozanic to Miller pass, covering 15 yards.
Southern Cal tallied twice before Indiana scored their final marker. A fumble by the Hoosiers and a six yard run by Aramis Dandoy put USC ahead 14-7. Later a Sellers to Baldock pass made it 20-7.
Indiana scored their only other TD when the Hoosiers drove 71 yards led by their ace quarterback Helinski.
October 9, 1953
GLASSES FITTED
SATISFACTORY OPTICAL SERVICE IN SOUTH BEND FOR OVER 50 YEARS
Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
Once there was a ghost named Leroy, who lived in a haunted cottage near a large Eastern university. Every Friday night, at exactly seven o’clock, he’d slide under the door of Baskerville Hall.(the main dorm), and give the students all the answers to next week’s quizzes.
This was quite a set up. No studying, no cramming . .. and straight A’s all term long. But then, one Friday, the hour came and went. No Leroy! And the following week, all the Baskerville Boys got an F on every quiz!
The Friday after that, all of Baskerville Hall waited . . . and waited. But still no Leroy! In high dudgeon, they set out to find him. Creeping into Leroy’s haunted cottage . . . the Baskerville Boys found him moaning and groaning. “What’s the matter, Leroy?” they asked.
Leroy wiped a ghostly tear from his ghosdy eye. “The weather’s so hot, every time I put on a shirt the collar curls and wilts. I haven’t been out for two weeks!”
In high glee, the Baskerville Boys hurried to the local Van Heusen dealer and bought a dozen Van Heusen Century Shirts with the revolutionary soft collar that won’t wrinkle ever. Regular collars, spread collars. S3.95 for whites, $4.95 for colors. “A very good investment,” they thought.
Leroy was delighted. He rewarded the boys with all the answers to the following week’s quizzes. Two months later, all the boys from Baskerville Hall had flunked out. Leroy’s good-looking Van Heusen Century Shirts made him so popular with the co-eds, that he didn’t have time for quizzes or answers.
33
by Gordon Bergquist
Just Idoling
I once knew a fellow who spent all his time pushing over idols. He used to walk around, all bent over, looking for idols with clay feet. He got so interested in the whole thing that he used to carry a magnifying glass with him so he could get a better look. If he found one whose feet looked a little bit phoney, he’d push and pull till the whole thing came down in a big pile. Sad thing happened though. He found one idol that he really wanted to push. Trouble was, it wouldn’t push. Poor fellow died of frustration.
I knew another fellow who was a real student of idols. He’d spend all his time just standing and staring at all the handsome faces and the fine sculpture. It got so bad with him that he’d stay out for nights on end, just admiring. Sad thing happened to him, too. He got so that he used to cany on conversations with the idols. Poor fellow died a babbling idiot.
Now there aren’t too many idols out in the Tall Corn State, for instance: just lots and lots of corn. In fact there’s so much corn sometimes that a fellow can’t see over it. ‘Course other times, like winter, there’s just nothing but lots and lots of snow. Snow as far as you can see; except for a couple of cows that got loose. Point is, there’s just lots of room out there going to waste. It’d be just fine for setting up a whole mess of idols. There wouldn’t be anybody likely to bother them a bit—’cept for maybe a few real intellectual cows or sheep. Especially the sheep; they really like idols, they say. Wouldn’t be nobody around out there to push them over; wouldn’t be any chance of anybody ever doing a lot of fancy talking and carrying on with the darn things. After all, we got to watch out for people that can’t take care of themselves, they say.
Farmers Might be Difficult
Course now, there might be a bit of trouble from the farmers. They’re pretty well set and don’t go much for cluttering up the pasture or the south forty with a lot of fancy stone. Putting all those idols up out there would use up a lot of valuable land. Farmers might not like that too much. ’Course now, on the other hand, those farmers just don’t realize all the benefits that they can get from an idol out in the
34
fields. If some real educated college fellow were to come along and talk to the farmers, pointing out all the advantages of an idol or two around the place, why, I imagine there’d be a big run on idols; everybody’d want to have a couple.	.
Things like that happened out there once'. Used to be a real nice small town down along the Missouri. Lots of nice shade trees and small houses and a big square where all the farmers could sit and just laze around, chewin’ and spit-tin’. One day a strange fellow drops into town. He just walked around town for a couple days and had everybody in a dither over who he was. Finally he let on that he was a salesman from the Big City. Said he had a few idols to sell cheap. Seems there was a big glut on the market back East and he was supposed to get rid of a batch. Well, this got noised around town and the upshot of the whole thing was that the mayor called a big meeting and had the stranger give a little talk.
Folks Came From Far and Wide
All the farmers, of course, came in from all around to see what the rumpus was. Well, the fellow says as how he’d sort of nosed around the town and the surrounding countryside and was really surprised to see that there wasn’t an idol in the whole place! Well, everybody sort of pricked up their ears at this; the fanners ’cause they were flattered to be called the surrounding countryside, and the townfolk ’cause they didn’t know what idols were. Course they didn’t let on.
Well, the fellow gave a real fine speech, showing how every town that was a town had at least one idol. He showed how useful and decorative they were, and how anybody that owned one really was somebody. The whole thing ended with the stranger taking orders right and left for idols. He said that they’d be shipped in a couple days and the company’d even pay the postage. Farmers thought it was real nice of him—just like Sears and Roebuck.
Week or so went by and finally the packages came. There was quite a flurry in town that day. Everybody was real pleased with their idols. There was big ones and little ones, and there was idols that were every color around. The
farmers took theirs right home and set ■ them up in the field while the townfolk | put theirs in the front parlor. One fel- i low was muttering a little that his | didn’t look any better than the statue । of Captain Pilsudski in front of the ; courthouse. Everybody shushed him, > though. All the folks went home and i sat back and waited for all the fine । things the man had said to happen. ? Folks kept dropping in on each other * and saying how fine each other’s idols j were.
What Was the Result?	j
Couple days passed and nothing happened and the folks found that they had to sell shoes and buy groceries and slop the hogs again. After a while, folks sort of forgot they had any idols at all. People got kind of leery about complimenting each other. There was no telling how some people would take it. Couple of people even thought that maybe they’d been had, but they weren’t talking too loud. Pretty soon things got pretty near normal again. Still, those farmers are pretty proud that they’ve got the fanciest scarecrows in the' whole state.
Total Registration Drops 150; Freshmen Set New Record
At the close of registration, a total of 5,369 students had been enrolled in the University for the fall semester. This figure represents a drop of 150 students from last year’s record enrollment of 5,518. •
Once again the freshmen class exceeds 1,600. Besides 116 first year law students, 1,657 others, including 228 second semester freshmen, are listed as members of the class of 1957.
The sophomore class of 1,406 exceeds by nearly 150 the 1952 number. However the present junior' and senior groups are 400 short of last year’s figures.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
THEMES—REPORTS TYPED
MRS. JEAN CRAMER 622 GLADSTONE 7-2348 PHONE 7-9012 8 a. m. to 5 p. m. After 5 p. m.
The Scholastic
CALL 2-3339
To enter YOUR NAME for
DANCE LESSONS
10 Hours
$15.00
HURRY!
HURRY!
ATTENTION: Notre Dome Men — At Your Request
Gentlemen:
In the past four years, since the ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing opened in South Bend, we have had numerous telephone calls, and many personal suggestions from many of you regarding special classes and special rates for Students! Mr. Murray has given me permission to arrange the classes below at reduced rates this year. Women Instructors are already reserved.
Best Wishes for Your Dancing Future,
Leila Gray
Pay as little as $1.50 a week. Free Dances every week! Also Special Parties
MONDAY—October 12
Enroll—1-5 p. m.
THURSDAY—October 15
Enroll—1-5 p. m.
TUESDAY—October 13
Enroll—1-5 p. m.
FRIDAY—October 16
Enroll—1-5 p. m.
WEDNESDAY—October 14
Enroll—1 -5 p. m.
SATURDAY—October 17
Enroll—1-9 p. m.
Think of it. . . for as little as $1.50 a week you can learn all the latest dances at the famous Arthur Murray Studios. Be sure to ask about the special pay-as-you-go plan when you come in to arrange for your dancing lessons.
• FOX TROT • WALTZ
We Teach All the Dances — You May Have Your Choice of:
• JITTERBUG	• WESTERN SWING • SAMBA	• RHUMBA
• POLKA	• CHARLESTON	• TANGO	• MAMBO
P.S. If any six or more students want a class at a different hour or on a different day—our women instructors will be glad to arrange a special one to suit each group, on the day of your choice.
Call 2-3339 NOW
OPEN
10 a. m. — 10:30 p. m.
Arthur Murray
120 East Wayne Street
(Above Copp Music Center)
Call 2-3339 NOW
OPEN
10 a. m. —10:30 p. m.

CHOICE OF
YOUNG AMERICA
Copyright 1953, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

AND BEST FOR YOU
J !■ Chesterfield Quality Highest
15% higher than its nearest competitor and 31% higher than the average of the five other leading brands...based on recent chemical analyses giving an index of good quality for the country’s six leading cigarette brands. The index of good quality table—a ratio of high sugar to low nicotine—shows Chesterfield quality highest.
2a No adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield. From the report of a medical specialist who has been giving a group of Chesterfield smokers regular examinations every two months for well over a year.
3 a First with premium quality | in both regular and king-size.
Much Milder with an extraordinarily good taste.
Don't you want to try a cigarette with a record like this?
CHESTERFIELD 1
BBSTFORWU
