Make friends with WINSTON '
LIKE A
CIGARETTE
WINSTON
SHOULD
TASTES GOOD.'
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO . WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
Find out how good filter smoking can be! Make your next pack Winston! You’ll like the flavor, because it’s full and rich-tasting. And just as important — you’ll like the exclusive Winston filter that lets the flavor come through for you to enjoy. Try Winston for finer filter smoking.
Switch to WINSTON Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette I *
• WONDER WHERE THE FARMERS WENT
SINCE you were in knee-pants, over two million American farmers have dropped out of the picture. In 1940, there were 8.833,324 farmers. Today: 6,505,000. Who’s taking their place to feed our growing population?
The answer is machines. Tractors that do the work of 40 men. Grain combines that reduce labor 85%. Machines help today’s fewer farmers feed 30 million more Americans than 16 years ago.
The tremendous output of today’s farmer depends upon the trouble-free operation of his machines. That’s whv every make of farm tractor uses Timken® tapered roller bearings—why more and more implements are using them too. Timken bearings reduce breakdowns because they roll the load, practically eliminate friction, last and last.
Keeping farm equipment rolling smoothly is just one example of how the Timken Company keeps America on the go—by working hand-in-hand with all industrv. Bv making possible increased speed and precision, decreas
ing wear and maintenance. By pioneering improvements in machines and bearings.
The pioneering spirit has helped make us the world’s largest manufacturer of tapered roller bearings and removable rock bits, and a leading producer of fine alloy steel.
The best place to keep going—and keep going up—is with a company that’s helping keep America on the go. So you may be interested in what future lies ahead of you at the Timken Company. Write for your copv of "Career Opportunities at the Timken Company”. The Timken Roller Bearing Company. Canton 6. Ohio.
TRADE-MARK REG. U..S. PAT. OFF.
TAPERED ROLLER BEARINGS
h TIMKEN

Timken ’ bearings keep America on the GO ... and you keep going up when you go with the Timken Company
November 9, 1956
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
The Notre Dome
Scholastic
Vol. 98 November 9, 1956 No. 7
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.

Charles McKendrick
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON Associate Editor £
JIM STEINTRAGER ..........  News	Editor
JAMES McDONALD ...........Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL ...........Feature Co-Editor JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS........Assistant News
JIM DULAN..................................Assistant News JOE HEIMOSKI..............Assistant News
BOB VONDRASEK..........Assistant News
HARRY McKEE....................Assistant	Copy^
MARSH PIDGEON__________Assistant Copy
DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr. HARRY CONLON .............Business Mgr. JOHN GLAVIN...............Sports Editor
BOB EARLY............Assistant Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK.....Assistant Sports
Member of Catholic School Press Association,_ Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national A advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.,”-420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
126 N. Michigan, South Bend CE 2-1202
ON THE COVER. This afternoon some 600 students will embark for the £ Smoky City of Pittsburgh on the annual ~ student trip. Highlight of the week- ; end will be the Pitt-Irish struggle tomorrow afternoon. In this issue (Page . 11) the SCHOLASTIC presents a guide ' to the student trip city. We trust that	4
the guide will help the students enjoy	•
their stay in Pittsburgh even if it can’t offer a sure way to top Pitt’s Panthers. ®
The Scholastic
Viau
a sane weekend
e don’t vote unless
“ATote, vote, vote!” “Vote anyway you please, but V please vote!” These cries are still echoing three days after the election. Last week at this time the boy scouts, tavern keepers, barbers, and chambers of commerce were all urging people to “get out and vote.”
If you fail to vote nowadays you are labeled “unpatriotic” and “un-American.” Non-voting multiplied by the thousands is said to mean apathy. Apathy is supposed to be a sin. But is it really a sin? The right not to vote is £ just as basic as the right to vote. Contrary to what the ~ League of Women Voters and girl scouts tell you, when voting becomes a duty it is no longer a privilege.
Putting an ‘X’ in the square is no proof of patriotism. Neither is it any proof of the intelligence of the X-er. Many non-voters are more intelligent than those who vote. Here’s an example of this: Several years ago the citizens of a Midwestern city voted for a measure to raise taxes to purchase a new incinerator for the city. In the same election they rejected a measure to raise taxes to operate £ the incinerator.
Understanding the issues and being acquainted with the candidates is the important thing. You can be sure that the candidate is Mr. Righteousness, Good Government, Loyalty, and Thrift personified if you ask any baptized member of the party. He will also tell you that Our Candidate’s opponent is Mr. High Taxes, Corruption and Graft in the flesh. It takes more than just a quick look at the arguments of the candidates and their parties to get the answers.
9	.	....
The urgings of the bar associations, junior chambers of commerce, and school teachers to “get out and vote” is placing the emphasis on the wrong thing. The important thing is not the ritual of voting, but the thought behind the voting.
The potential voter should study the issues and the candidates and form his opinions about them. If these thoughts and decisions don’t create a desire to vote, then he should not accept the ride to the polls that the “Belch for Congress” committee offers him. Remember, a low number of votes cast is not so bad; maybe neither of the candidates was worth voting for. A large turnout of voters is no good if the voters are ignorant and uninformed. . Multiplying stupidity by the hundreds does not make • wisdom.
'• Don’t vote—unless you are informed. If you choose to vote, then it should be your duty to investigate the ' issues and be intelligent in your choices.	—D. T.
; November 9, 1956
This evening more than six hundred Notre Dame students will embark on the annual student trip.
When they arrive in Pittsburgh they will be the guests of the people of that city. It seems rather silly that they should have to be cautioned to act like Notre Dame men while on the trip.
Nevertheless past experience necessitates that those making the trip be reminded of their responsibilities to Notre Dame and to themselves when they are in the Smoky City. Just because a person is away from his home, he is not relieved of his duty to honor the family name. The same holds true for the men who will be in Pittsburgh this weekend. They are, wherever they may be, representatives of this University, and people will judge their actions very critically if they happen to step out of line.
Many students have the idea that a trip to a foreign city is an excuse to make nuisances of themselves. The wilder the time, the better the trip seems to be their logic. However, I don’t think anyone really believes that the true - definition for fun is disorderly conduct and disturbance of the peace. Drunkenness and vandalism should not be criteria for a good time. If we are to consider ourselves mature college men, we must not be deluded into thinking that we have to make fools of ourselves in order to enjoy a weekend trip.
In the past Notre Dame students have not distinguished themselves or won many friends for their school by juvenile conduct while attending football games away from South Bend. Excessive drinking, even by a comparative few, and damaged property have marred student trips in previous years. Such activities have not improved the goodwill of the offended parties to the University.
There is no reason why grown men have to act in this fashion. No one can reasonably say that he had a “great weekend” when he spent the majority of the trip in an alcoholic stupor. Neither can he say that he enjoyed being hauled into jail for smashing a plate-glass window.
Granted, there will be some imbeciles who will be boarding the train with the sole purpose in mind of causing as much havoc as possible in Pittsburgh. It is not to these people that this article is directed. Instead, it is meant for those who might succumb to such perverted leadership. Anyone can play the part of the fool, but it takes a bigger fool to join in with his pranks.
I am not advocating that all six hundred students observe retreat-like silence and finishing school decorum during the weekend. All I am hoping for is that each man will act in a way which will be a credit to himself, and his University, and will make the citizens of Pittsburgh pleased that they were chosen to be our hosts this weekend.
—C. McK.
©
YOU CAN TELL BY THE
WAY HE CALLS YOU "MISTER!"
Did you ever notice that when you’re “dressed-up” everyone is a little more polite, service is a little better. That there’s an apparent change in the impression you make on others? You come out of “average	gf
man” class and begin to look like someone worth knowing. It’s another proof that you can’t underestimate the importance of a good appearance. And that’s the most important job we have at the Campus Shop ... to help give you individuality and smartness of dress.
DRESS RIGHT . . . You can't afford not to!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
The Scholastic
YES, PAY ONE-THIRD IN FEBRUARY, ONE-THIRD IN MARCH, ONE-THIRD IN APRIL
Buy what you need now . . . use your Campus Charge Account. Use this convenient way to acquire the wardrobe that is so important to you . . . wherever you go . . . whatever you do. Naturally, there is no carrying charge when you use this extended account. Come in tomorrow and get what you need now.
DRESS RIGHT . . . You can't afford not to!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
. November 9, 1956
I
PROBLEM: To evaluate the all-round career advantages offered by the widely diversified activities at Divisions of North American Aviation, Inc,
FIRST STEP: GET THE FACTS in man-to-man interviews, on campus November 12
As a graduate in Engineering, Physics, Applied Math, or allied subjects you need complete, factual information to help you make a sound decision in choosingyourcareer.
Get the facts in a	autonetics
man-to-man interview with our representative. Let him tell you about our unique placement and training devised to help your potential develop rapidly in a company where continued expansion has doubled the number of employees in 5 years. Your possibilities are wide and varied, as you will see from these brief notes on the 4 Divisions:
AUTONETICS creates automatic controls and electro-mechanical systems of a highly interesting nature. Work includes research, design, development, manufacture and testing; you will become a part of the latest advances in inertial navigation and guidance, fire and flight controls, analog and digital computers.
ROCKETDYNE
ROCKETDYNE is building power for outer space—large,
liquid propellant rocket engines. The Field Test Laboratory in the Santa Susana Mountains is the most complete rocket engine workshop in the free world. Here a man meets more aspects
of his specialty in one week than in a year of “conventional” practice.
ATOMICS INTERNATIONAL is pioneering in the creative use of the atom. If you are able to meet the high requirements for this work, you can help introduce a new industrial era. Atomics International is designing and building varied types of nuclear reactors, for both power and research, with the practical experience gained by 10 years in the field.
MISSILE DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING
Long range missiles, including the intercontinental SM-64 Navaho, present problems of the most fascinating nature. Speeds, materials and functions now being dealt with were only theoretical a few years ago. The work is vital; the opportunities for you, as a creative
engineer, are correspondingly great.
CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY
Make an appointment NOW to see North
American Representative on campus. OR WRITE: Mr. J. Kimbark, College Relations Representative, Dept. 991-20, North American Aviation, Inc., Downey, Calif.
MISSILE DEVELOPMENT
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC.^
®	The Scholastic ;

by Bryan Woods
suez canal
bargain offers
^CAIRO BY CHRISTMAS
If you’re like me you’re beginning to wish you’d spent the last few years playing soldier in the afternoons instead of poker. Things are beginning to look ■a little rocky. Rumor has it that WSND is thinking of changing “Letters from Home” to “Letters from Your Draft Board.” And the bookstore is stocking up on the “Desert Fox” and “Lawrence of Arabia.” And Elvis Presley’s next big hit will be a rock n’ roll version of “The Sheik of Araby.” But really I don’t believe that Gilbert’s is replacing their Ivy League line with the Arab League style next spring.
Since this seems to be the trend, ESCAPE now gets into the act with one of our special offers which we come up with from time to time. We got to-^gether a team of experts on desert -'survival, (All Texans, of course. If you live in Texas you have to be an expert in desert survival.) and they compiled a list, from which we selected the most essential items. We’ve tossed these to, gether in one package, which we call “The Domer’s Pocket Dromedary.”
Just listen to the values you get: 1) A huge wall-sized map of the Sinai i desert, topographical of course, and i showing the various historical points of I interest, as well as all three waterholes; s 2) A booklet entitled “The Natural 5 Look in Burnoozes and Fezes.” I think | the title is self-explanatory; 3) A genuine goldplated United Nations ; policeman’s badge; 4) A guaranteed effective recipe for snake-bite serum. :j J (fit may not cure snakebite, but I guar-
s November 9, 1956
A	■
•A
antee it’ll have an effect on you; 5) Another pamphlet, “The Care and Feeding of Your New Camel.” This is a revised edition, bringing you up-to-date on the ’57 models; 6) Finally, a huge, glossy, suitable for framing, picture of King Farouk.
Where else could you find a bargain like that? :So hurry up and get yours. How? Take a piece of cake from the dining hall, slice off the bottom, wrap it in a napkin, and send it to ESCAPE, Room 105, Keenan Hall, Local.
FOR A CHANGE
Judging by the amount of space devoted to them in this space in past years, you’d think that the little darlings across the highway were a Domer’s only contact with the college girl. Not so. There are a number of other colleges in the area which have their devotees here on the campus. We might as well go alphabetically and start with Barat (which is pronounced as in Yogi Berra, though it’s not true that some of the young ladies look like him.) Barat is found in Lake Forest, which is more than can be said for Barat girls, at least on weekends.	.
Barat is well known for the tea dances which are held on Sunday afternoons in downtown- Chicago. If you’ve never been to a Barat tea dance, knock on wood, your luck can’t last forever. All kidding aside, the . cookies at these affairs are delicious, though the tea tastes like coffee.
Next we come to Rosary, sometimes referred to as the Radcliffe of River
Forest, (which is not to be confused with Lake Forest, because that would cause all sorts of repercussions.) Rosary is a school for several hundred-odd girls, (You have to be careful which words you stress in that last phrase; the girls are a little touchy about things like that,) most of whom seem to have commuter’s tickets on the South Shore, judging from the number of times they’re down here.
I don’t know much about St. Mary-of-the-Woods, except that it’s located in Terre Haute. But isn’t that enough? Why add insult to injury?
So maybe things aren’t as tough as you figured. Besides, the word has it. that those girls get somewhat later permissions than the ones we know so well.
SENIOR TRIPS, OFFICIAL AND OTHERWISE
The word has it that one or two of' the men found Washington just slightly superior to South Bend as a party town. At least judging from the bloodshot eyes and not quite bright and shining faces . last Monday morning. You mean to say . there are better things than the PhBly and the Granada on a Saturday night?
WE STILL LIKE HIM
Even though our candidate didn’t quite make it, and is returning to the, 1 grass roots, or cypress roots rather, we still go Pogo. Don’t worry though, he’ll be back in four years, along with Coleman Andrews and Joe Smith. We? can wait.	.	;	.
‘	’ 9
Gives you more to enjoy
Quality Tobacco
♦Real Filtration
Full King Size
I
hlterupTAREYTON
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTUtFIt OF CIGARETTES
PRODUCT OF
©A T. CO
SIZE
filter tip won
RI



The Scholastic
A GUIDE TO PITTSBURGH
by Frank Spiering
Now that you have paid for your ticket, arranged with your professors to cut your Saturday classes, and taken your life savings out of the bank, you are probably ready to embark upon one of the biggest “blasts” of the year, the Pitt Trip.
J When you arrive in this teemingmetropolis you will most likely find yourself-faced with the problem of what to do. The following is a suggested itinerary, which, I hope, will answer this vital question: WHAT IS PITTSBURGH?
Lying somewhere between the Ohio, Monogahela, and Allegheny Rivers, this city is one of the manufacturing centers
of the nation. It boasts the largest manufacturers of aluminum, air brakes, plate glass, window glass, refractories, plumbing fixtures, cigarette lighters, and Chamber of Commerce captivity.
The population, about 1,-500,000, is quite concentrated; about one person per each half square foot ... so watch your step. It is a modern city. The inhabitants no longer wear gas masks to protect themselves from the caustic smog of the factories. In the last ten years Pittsburgh has become one of the cleanest and most interesting cities in the United States.
Mount Mercy College—This institution populated by 380 of the oposite sex,
(girls, that is) is giving us a brunch and mixer Sunday, however, it might be ; advisable to cement relations before that	■
time. The girls here are fail* game,	,
have some intelligence, but the tendency i seems to be to hide the brains. They i might treat you to lunch if you’re broke.	i
A standard approach: “I’m from i Notre Dame, I’m in Pittsburgh flat ; broke. I’m hungry. Won’t you buy me i a lunch, and then you can come down td j Notre Dame some weekend for a foot- ; ball game.”	'
Chatham College: (425 ladies)—Some I are inclined to upturned noses, but you ’ might be able to find some one to your j
11
November 9, 1956
Mellon Square Park
taste. A student body filled with unattached women; good conversationalists; almost everyone here has a worse neurosis than your own. No need to get dressed up because they won’t.
Pittsburgh University—This is where the game is to be played Saturday . . . nice looking campus.
You will arrive in Pittsburgh sometime Saturday morning. From the time you get up until game time (2 p.m.) your time is free. This will be your best opportunity to see the more cultural aspects of the city. .
Mellon Square Park—Located across from the Penn Sheraton Hotel, this area of greenery is the centei*piece of the Golden Triangle. Mellon Square is dedicated to the memory of two brothers named Mellon, who helped to make Pittsburgh what it is today. Beneath the surface of this square is a subterranean parking area going down six levels into the earth, and accommodating 1,000 automobiles. This $8,000,000 structure is uniquely beautiful at night, as its fountains and trees are illuminated by an interplay of submerged lighting- Quite a spectacle after dark! ■_
- The Alcoa Building—On one side of Mellon Square is this thirty story structure which resembles a gigantic waffle. The building is perhaps the most daring experiment of its kind. It is made entirely of aluminum, and according to latest reports is still standing. Toura are conducted continuously.
The Block House—Located in downtown Pittsburgh at the Point, this is all that remains of histone Fort Pitt. Built
in 1760 it stands as the last reminder of those stirring days when French, Indian, British, and Colonial troops struggled for possession of this prize region. Not much to see, but for the more nostalgic it is enough to say that they have seen the spot where it “all” began.
Pittsburgh Brewing Company — located on Liberty Avenue, is something that every Notre Dame student should visit while he’s in Pittsburgh. For you do-it-yourself individuals, here is the chance to pick up a few recipes. The tour is educational, interesting, and at the end they give free samples.
The game is being played at the University of Pittsburgh. Before or after the contest you can see a number of impressive sights on campus.
University of Pittsburgh’s Cathedral of Learning—This is perhaps the most outstanding edifice in Pittsburgh. It is 42 stories high and is open from 1:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. on Saturday. A highlight is its famous nationality rooms.
These rooms are decorated in the native style of 18 foreign countries. They include: Scotland, Greece, China, Sweden, Romania, Lithuania, Poland, Hungary, Germany, Italy, Czechoslovakia, Russia, Norway, France, Yugoslavia, Syria-Lebanon, Ireland, and England. Going through these rooms is like taking a miniature trip around the world.
Pittsburgh Health Center — In the shadow of the Cathedral of Learning are one hundred million dollars worth of structures dedicated to medical research in the prevention and cure of disease. In these buildings 1,000 scientists and
doctors, from 21 foreign countries, are working day and night to build a world, free of misery and suffering. Here Dr. Jonas Salk discovered his famous polio vaccine. Yet, through grants which now total about three million dollars a year, there are scores of othei- research projects underway, covering such virus diseases as influenza and sleeping sickness. They are also studying the changes produced by atomic radiation on virus infections, and the use of gamma globulin as a preventative of paralysis. All in all they have been greatly responsible in extending the life Of the average American from 46 in 1900 to the present 68.
Heinz Chapel—Just east of the Cathedral of Learning is this gem of French Gothic architecture; a gift in memory of Henry J. Heinz, the tomato soup tycoon. Here you will find more than 57 varieties of the most beautiful stained glass windows in Pittsburgh.
Stephen Foster Memorial—Also right next door to the Cathedral of Learning is a much shorter building in the same type of architecture, which is said to be the costliest monument ever built to honor a musician. In one wing is a collection of Foster’s music and objects
that he used during his lifetime. The, collection itself is valued at over *
$250,000.
Pittsburgh University — Can be reached by taking the Fifth Ave. and
Forbes St. trolleys, which cost 25 cents
each way. After the game you will probably want to get a good dinner, at a reasonable price. A few restaurants
which will help you solve this problem
are:
Webster Hall Hotel—Right down from the stadium. This is where the team will eat after the game . . . the best in steaks. If you are looking for a real collegiate type atmosphere, which compares to the “Volcano,” without side
12
The Scholastic
I
Heinz Memorial Chapel
films, try the University Grill at Forbes Street. The food is wholesome, the service is better, and the scenery is tailored to meet the roving eye of every true Notre Dame man.
Stouffer’s Restaurant—Located in the heart of town near your hotel . . . spe-® cializes in good food of all kind. ... On
e
Smithfield St. across from Gimbel’s. If you’re in the mood for non-poisonous sea food, try Klein’s on Fourth Ave., home of the reddest lobsters ever broiled.
New Nixon Restaurant (622 Bigelow Blvd.) For those who want entertainment with their food, this place has no cover charge, but bring your wallet along anyway. Saturday night there is going to be a dance, starting about 8 o’clock. Here you will see many new faces, in contrast to the ones which constantly haunt our mixers. This is a good chance to pile up those extra points.
If you are more interested in seeing a little of the Nite-Life of the area, there are a few good night spots in town.
The Copa—a downtown nightclub, has good entertainment and dancing. Located on 818 Liberty Ave.—is within walking distance of the Golden Triangle.
Rock and Roll Lounge—For you offbeat individuals, this is the place to go. Contrary to its name, this place does not employ any hopped-up moaners of the Presley tradition. Instead it features the talents of such performers as Nat Cole and Billy Eckstein. No cover, but even a glass Of water will cost you money.
One of the finest floor shows in town can be reached by taking Route 51 to Belle Vernon. A real “gasser” known as the Twin Coaches. Top performers and moderate costs. For that last cup of black coffee and a hot Pastromi sand
wich, back to town ...
Robert’s—635 Liberty Ave. Open until ® 2 a.m. this parlor is known for its fabu
lous Kosher Hebrew National corned beef. A-l.
A last word about Saturday night. Pittsburgh was settled by the Quakers in 1757, and since that time the alcoholic beverage laws have not changed. For those over 21, with or without an I.D., all taverns, saloons, and bars are closed on Sunday.
Sunday morning, Notre Dame will be the guest of Mount Mercy College of beautiful women. Brunch and mixer will follow Mass. After the mixer until departure your time will be free. If you’ve made the most of the preceding socials to line up a sharp little blonde, brunette, or redhead your evening is secure.
Sunday in Pittsburgh is almost as dull as South Bend is all the time. There are a few places, though, where you can have a good time. This would be an opportunity to see the Airport Terminal Building, the largest in the world. It stretches longer' than three football fields and is seven stories tall. The terminal is one of Pittsburgh’s greatest attractions. Inside this building are housed a 62-room hotel, a skyview dining room for 500 and a motion picture theater, seating 300, a city clothing and gift shop, a branch bank, an outside observation decks for 10,000 spectators. Here you can have dinner at the Horizon Room, and enjoy dancing and a floor show.
West View Park—is located in the North Hills of Pittsburgh and is a very elaborate amusement park. Here for a minimum of money you can really enjoy yourself.
An Unusual Experience—If you are in a quiet, asthetic mood, and you would like to take a bus ride, go out to the molten slag dump near the County Airport. It is a grey flat-topped mountain. Near its brim is a slag train from the steel mills. One of the cup-shaped cars
University of Pittsburgh Campus
is tilted, and its contents pour down the side of the mountain. Like molten lava spilling from the rim of a volcano. This fire cascade is one of the most spectacular sights you will ever see.
There are always going to he a few who are too tired to dance and don’t like to ride buses. So here is a guide to the best movies in town. Lust for Life, starring Kirk Douglas as Vincent Van Gogh, is at the Guild Fine Arts Theatre on Murray and Beacon. ■
Cinerama’s Seven Wonders of the World is at the Arner Theatre right down the street from your hotel. Prices range from $2.40 for orchestra seats, $2.20 loges, to $1.75 balcony. Show starts at 5:30 and 8 pan.
Oklahoma starring Gordon McRae, Shirley Jones, and Bud Wilkenson, is at the Nixon Theatre, downtown. Show starts at 8:30 pan. If you are in the mood to see a good play, there are two productions in town which both start at 8:30 p.m.
Bus Stop—At the Hamlet Street Theatre, is a comedy whose movie version starred that great child actress, Marilyn Monroe.
Anniversary Waltz—at the Craft Theatre is also a comedy. To get the best results phone for reservations in advance, MA 1-4445.
Finally, for those who want to spend a purely cultural evening there is the Pittsburgh Symphony, which performs every Sunday at Syria Mosque. For further information consult your hotel’s social agent.
Buhl Planetarium—West Ohio Street and Federal Street. Now showing that futuristic saga, “Flight to Mars.” Show starts at 8:30 p.m.
But what ever you do be sure to catch the train back to Notre Dame at midnight . . . the rest is up to you.
November 9, 1956
13
On Stage ...
The University Theater'
by JIM LOEFFLER
For the past two months the same small group from Notre Dame has been continually meeting in Washington Hall. It was also noticed that at the same time another, though smaller, group from St. Mary’s also gathered in Washington Hall. To solve this problem, the Scholastic sent a spy from “Escape” who returned with the following results.
It wasn’t the band. The men used the steps leading to the top. It couldn’t be the Alfred E. Newman club since they
Linda (Carol Crose) watches her family in action
have changed headquarters. Nor could it be the “Win With Pogo” faction, because he didn’t.
Finally our spy got up enough nerve to follow one of the group and found out what every Notre Dame man already knows. For the past two months the University Theater has been practicing for their new play.
This play, “Death of a Salesman,” by Arthur- Miller will be presented in Washington Hall next Wednesday through
Sunday. In one way the performance will be an end, for it will terminate approximately seven weeks of rehearsals. Yet, it is also part of a beginning of a different type of college theatrical group that started on the Notre Dame campus two years ago.	_
Theater existed at the University long • before 1954. There have been plays, many of them, in the past, but never has the drama group of Notre Dame been directed with the same cooperation between theater and the academic side as under University Theater. It seeks not only to present performances but to combine practical experience with academic classroom work.
A DUAL FUNCTION	*
Under the direction of Father Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., University Theater performs a dual function. In its first role, it presents an outlet for people inter-erted in drama for the sake of drama or for just an extracurricular activity. And it offers first class productions to the student body.
In the second role, University Theater provides in the academic field both a Workshop and a major sequence in drama. The Workshop, which is open primarily to freshmen and sophomores, is a non-credit course consisting of both classroom instruction and stage experience. The major sequence, available for the first time this year, consists of a concentration in drama courses in the Department of Speech.	W
Explaining how University Theater works is a-two-semester course at Notre Dame. But it is possible to arrive at some understanding of its operations by a look at the preparations and cast for “Death of a Salesman.”
Rehearsals for “Death of a Salesman” began about seven weeks ago after %'s
The Scholastic
£ tryouts and call-backs. The tentative cast, which later became the permanent cast without any changes, consisted mainly of students who acted previously on the Notre Dame or St. Mary’s stage with one notable exception.
Carol Ann Cruise, a sophomore who plays Linda, joined University Theater without any intention of acting. She came to work on costuming and spent S the summer designing for the play. In the fall she was 'asked to try out and won the part of Linda.
In the weeks that preceded the stage performance the bulk of the time was spent in the four main types of rehearsals. First came the pre-lims or readings of the play from start to finish. This not only helped to develop the theme and plot, characters and their relationships to each other, but it aided ** as George O’Donnell said, “in remembering lines because it is easier to learn from context than by brute memoi-y.”
Next are the blocking rehearsals where each movement of the actors is plotted out, a process further complicated by the size or lack of size of Washington Hall. Where to walk, to stand, who moves when and what find their solutions here.
In rehearsals for detail, the chief acting difficulty in “Death of a Salesman” became apparent. This third type of rehearsal emphasizes characterization, gesture, line reading and action.
TECHNICAL PROBLEM
But in “Death of a Salesman” there is an added problem—that of changing from the present to the past and back again. Technically this was the problem of Technical Director Gil Rathbun and mJ it was solved with the addition of background music and special lighting. Instrumental in the success of this special effect is the electrical board recently installed in Washington Hall.
But for each actor, especially George O’Donnell as Willy Loman, his two Sons, Phil Donahue as Biff and Dan Ferrone as Happy, and Reg Bain as Bernard, the continual changing proved difficult. As Willy, George had to repeatedly change his trend of thought from present to past and alter his actions accordingly.
Reg’s chief difficulty came in his portrayal of the two different characterizations of Bernard as a youth and as a man. For Phil and Dan the problem was a combination of both changing in time and changing in age.
The final rehearsals for “Death of a ■ Salesman” comprised complete “run' throughs” of the play with background * music, lighting and entire cast performance. The preparation ends with the dress rehearsals.
With the amount of work each actor has to put in during these weeks of rehearsal, the amazing feature about Uni-$ versity Theater is the number who par-
November 9, 1956
(L to R) Miss Cruse, O’Donnell, Donahue, Ferrone
ticipate in theater without intending to do further work in drama.
There are, of course, those like Reg Bain who are in University Theatei- because they love it. To Reg, theater is his life, and yet even he is not going into it to act but rather to teach and direct.
Others like Mike Sophy, who plays the role of Ben, and Carol Ann Cruise participate in University Theater because it will help them later in their work after graduation. Through acting, Mike not only develops his speaking ability but also his own personality by portraying someone else.
And there is George O’Donnell who portrays Willy, and has appeared in many University Theater productions. George acts because he likes to and because it gives him experience in appearing before people.
With the final performance of “Death of a Salesman” next Sunday, the University Theater will begin on its second production of the year, Shakespeare’s “Macbeth.” This is in keeping with the policy of the Theater to present each year one modem play, one classical and one musical. For “Macbeth” the directing-coaching chores will be reversed from those of “Death of a Salesman” with Mr. Fred Syburg directing and Father Harvey coaching.
On Wednesday of next week, George O’Donnell will wait nervously for the opening curtain. He is always jumpy
before the play begins, but once on stage he loses this feeling even before he speaks his first lines.
He will have rehearsed as much as anyone could have in the seven weeks and his actions will be those of Willy Loman, not of George O’Donnell, the lumberjack from Cleveland. His lines will have become a part of his everyday speech though some came to him with more trouble than others.
NEW WASHINGTON HALL
When the new traveler curtain opens, O’Donnell will face a completely redecorated Washington Hall, with its reupholstered red seats and its tumbling yellow draperies on the side. With its new paint job and remodeling, Washington Hall will appear as almost a new theater to inaugurate a new University Theater season.	-
He will also face a critical audience^ one that came for many.reasons: to relax, to enjoy a first run play from. Broadway, to watch people they know acting on the stage. There will be some who came because they read the book and want to see the play. There will be others who came because they want to criticize and to study. And there will be those who came because they merely like . the theater.	■	=
Then George O’Donnell will, turn to the play, speak his first lines and “Death' . of a Salesman” will begin.	■
15
Life Among
The Rocknarians
by PAUL JOHNSON
Today, class, we are going to discuss a primitive tribe of Homo Sapiens, The Rocknarians, who dwelt on this earth three thousand years ago. A great deal of their society has remained intact for archaeologists to study.
Dr. Maurice Sturdly has been a distinguished leader in the study of these people, and his book, Life Among the Rocknarians, or What You Are Likely To Find Under Any Rock If You Look Hard Enough, will be our main text.
I think for the remaining time I shall devote my lecture to one particular phase of that society, a phase in which we will all have some interest.
The Rocknarians were an intellectual society. By this I don’t mean to say that they spent all their time in philosophical discussion and thought. Rather, they tried to assimilate only enough knowledge to please their elders, while actually devoting as little time as was possible to improving their minds. Actually great care was taken by many to appear as barbaric as possible so that they could be distinguished from other intellectual societies. The Rocknarians were quite good at this and became leaders in the field.
I think an illustration will help here. If you will all look at the large picture in the back of the room you will see an actual reproduction of a large number of these Rocknarians. Note that a large majority have what appears to be dirt on their faces and necks. This is no more than hair and one could become some sort of celebrity by accumulating a large quantity of it on his head and face. The more artistic of this group, unfortunately a distinct minority, arranged their hair in flowing curves and
18
lines not unlike the tail end of some of our common water fowl.
You will also note that some are wearing more clothes than others. They adorn themselves •with clean, white shirts, matching or blending tops and bottoms, and a purely decorative long piece of cloth known as a tie. These more-clads had also devised a means of removing the hair from their faces.
Now as you might suspect two such dissimilar bands could not live in close hannony. There was a continuous struggle for control of the tribe, but from all the evidence we have we are pretty certain that whenever one reached the inner circle of leadership, he assumed the qualities of the more-clads who soon became known as the Blues. The others, the Greens, were left to grumble and mill about trying to attract attention.
The elders and the Blues realized that this discontent among the Greens could lead to serious trouble, so during warring season they staged regular demonstrations of patriotism to let the Greens give vent to their pent up emotions. The Blues, of course, didn’t tell the poor Greens the real reason for these energetic sessions. They merely said they were held to inspire the warriors to greater efforts during future battles, but Dr. Sheridan Sui feels quite the converse effect might have happened. He says in his book Barbarism Personified and I quote “These demonstrations were held in the most inadequacy ventilated building in the city and at odd hours of the early evening, so that the combination of noise, confusion and excess carbon dioxide could have had a deleterious effect upon both the mental and physical condition of the warring class.” So, although the stated purpose
of these demonstrations may or may not' have been successful, we are at least sure that it was a big help in keeping the Greens under control.
However, I want you to bear in mind that the Greens were not entirely without a definite plan of organized resistance. You must also always keep in mind that the basis upon which the Rocknarian society was built was sup-i : posed to be the ideal fusion of religion, ; culture and intellectual advancement. Many, primarily Greens and members of other tribes, confused these noble goals "with the Rocknarian’s proficiency . at warring, and as a result they, the Greens, set about to reduce the elders and the Blues to a state of mental exhaustion with some unbelieveable displays of animalism. By this means they.^, z hoped to drive the Blues out of power* •	$
and establish war as the chief interest of the society.
Scientists of our own age are still amazed at the clever attacks made on the Blues by the Greens. Considering , their apparent lack of intelligence, their* plans must be considered remarkable. Aside from their generally disheveled state, the Greens would garble an almost unintelligible dialect (example: “Jeat?”1-: in place of “Have you eaten?”)	’
Why certainly. You see eating had become a highly developed art in those times. It was long before flavorized pills, and they ate solid foods. They would eat off flat surfaces with small utensiles called knives, forks and spoons. It became a sign of a mature man at that time to be able to use these utensils in a certain socially prescribed manner _	‘‘
. . . especially when eating with others. They also had tumblers which held their milk—an animal gland extraction, and it became a great trick for the Greens to see who could dump the most of his meal into the glass. Anything and everything went into the milk as long as it threatened to offend anyone ■with . the slightest sensitivity. It was behavior of this sort which caused a rapid turnover among the Blues, though the elders seemed unaffected. The Greens, how- ’ ever, also showed a remarkable turnover, and it must be assumed that the constant mention of new names must have been caused by something other | than poor table manners.	। ;
This disrupting behavioi* acted as a	j '
unifying force among the Greens. It	•
gave them a sense of belonging, but it _ I tended to give the tribe as a whole a bad name. At any rate, this undesirable ; element of the tribe, due to its very . nature, becomes the most interesting segment of it. And it will be to this group that I will devote most of my time in the future classes. I see oui* time is about up, so until my next lecture, please buy the book ($2.60) and read the first two chapters.
The Scholastic "
At the Movies
COLFAX
Attack! (A-2) Jack Palance, Eddie Albert, Lee Marvin. This is a story of a cowardly captain and a conniving colonel in the Army who were both apointees of the same political area back home—and of death for their troops because of their duplicity. Eddie Albert is the captain who is killed by fire from his own troops and gets the DSC. Jack Palance turns in a good performance as the lieutenent who fights the big brass.
Summing up: A very grim war story.
AVON
Rebecca (A-2) Nov. 9-10. Laurence Olivier, Joan Fontaine.
Lust For Life (A-2) Nov. 11. Kirk Douglas, Anthony Quinn. Kirk Douglas turns in one of his finest performances as Vincent Van Gogh. The picture traces Van Gogh’s life from his failures in the ministry to his triumphs as a great painter.
Summing up: By far the best picture showing this week.
GRANADA
The Unguarded Moment. (A-2) Esther Williams, George Nader. Esther-jumps out of the pool and into the classroom for this melodrama of a highschool teacher whose reputation is ruined by a neurotic student. George Nader plays a detective who is convinced that one of Esther’s students is a murderer. Esther tries to protect him and also to straighten him out but her efforts are to no avail. The writers have to pull some fast ones to get this one to come out all right, but they finally do.
Summing up: Tom Mulcahy does an excellent job of acting as the high school student.
PALACE
Blonde Bait. (A-2) Nov. 9-10. Beverly Michaels, Jim Davis, and a whole host of comers. Miss Michaels is the blonde who is used for bait by the U.S. State Department in ordei- to catch spies and things like that. I trust that no one is really interested in whether the spies are caught or not so we can forget about it.
Co-hit: Four Ways Out.
Three For Jamie Dawn. (A-2) Nov. 11. Laraine Day, Richard Carlson. An interesting drama of a murder- trial with the emphasis on the jurors. Jamie Dawn, a wealthy young woman, murders her- boy friend. She not only hires the best lawyer- in town, but also purchases three of the jurors. The plot revolves around the reasons for the jurors’ willingness to be bought.
Summing up: Time, conscience and the screenplay finally let justice triumph.
Co-hit: Hold Back The Night. (A-2) John Payne, Mona Freeman.
STATE
Distant Drums. (A-l) and Dallas. (A-l) Nov. 9-10. Gary Cooper twice.
Bus Stop. (B) Nov. 11. Marilyn Monroe. The story of a hectic romance between a cowboy and a saloon singer.
Co-hit: Queen Of Babylon. (B) Rhonda Fleming. This one isn’t worth writing about.
RIVER PARK
Santiago. (A-2) Alan Ladd, Rossana Podesta, Lloyd Nolan. Gunrunning in Cuba.	(
Co-hit: Bus Stop.
Much like the picture showing at the State.
Forty-Five Initiated By Campus K. of C.
On Oct. 29 the campus unit of the Knights of Columbus, Council 1477, ini-initiated 45 students into the order’s first degree. This is preparatory to their final initiation into the second and third degrees, scheduled for Dec. 2 at the Mishawaka council chambers.
The K. of C. membership chairman, Bob Porst, announced that an even larger group of candidates for the first degree will be initiated on Nov. 28. This group will be added to the first for the initiation ceremonies at Mishawaka. .
Applications for membership in the Knights of Columbus will be accepted up to Monday, Nov. 26, by Porst at the council offices in the basement of Walsh Hall. Office hours are from 4 to 5:30 p.m.
According to Grand Knight Bob Miller, a Communion Breakfast will be held in the Morris Inn after 8 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church for counci] members and candidates prior to the Dec. 2 initiation.
Terry Conway, a senior in business administration from Cleveland, O., has been appointed as the promoter of the annual Bengal Mission Bouts, which is the main K. of C. activity in the second semester. This year’s bouts have been scheduled for- March 25, 27, and 29.
Another major appointment by Miller was that of Don Stuhldreher, a PFA senior from Indianapolis, Ind., as the council’s general program chairman. Stuhldreher has charge of supervising and coordinating the work of all the council committees.
NFCCS Sets Essay Contest On 'U.S. Role in Middle East*
The NFCCS International Affairs commission, headed by Jack Bure, is sponsoring an essay contest on the topic, “The Role of the United States in the Middle East,” for all Notre Dame undergraduate students interested in foreign affairs.
Essays need not be long or show extensive work and investigation, but rather should contain sound thinking and applicable ideas.
The entries will be judged by a pro-, fessor from the political science department and cash prizes will be given for the three best essays. Manuscripts should be typed, double-spaced, and should not exceed 2,000 words.
Essays can be mailed or brought to 208 Morrissey Hall before the deadline date of Nov. 24. Results of the competition will be announced by Dec. 10 and all entries will be returned to their authors at that time.
19
November 9, 1956
AN EPIC
by frank spiering
A short time ago I was the guest of the producers of the “Notre Dame Story.” I would like to thank Mr. Howard Hughes for tickets, and Sam Wein-hurger, of Fox West Coast, for this kindness in supplying myself and my girl, Gertrude, with popcorn for the event.
As the curtain opens, a gigantic man, carrying a large hammer, walks out. He raises the hammer over his head and swings it at a round disk-like gong. He misses.
Just then a little fellow, wearing a Notre Dame sweater and carrying an armful of textbooks ambles across the screen. He stops, lays down his textbooks, and picks up the hammer. Swinging it with a lazy movement, he hits the gong, putting a gaping hole in it. Then picking up his books, he walks off, humming the Notre Dame Fight Song.
The opening scene is a football game. In the stands are 60,000 people cheering for old Notre Dame. The Irish are playing State, and the score is 14 to 0, in favor of State. Notre Dame has played its second team throughout the game and now with three minutes to go the N.D. coach puts in the first team. It looks hopeless, but still that Notre Dame spirit is there. The Irish quarterback calls his men into the huddle.
“Now that we’ve given them a chance, let’s smash ’em.”
The men in green break from the huddle and charge back to the line, with teeth clenched and spirits high. As the
gun goes off, marking the end of the bloody game, the score reads:
Notre Dame 40
State	14
As the band plays the fight song, a group of stretchers go out and remove the State players from the field . . -one by one. Notre Dame has triumphed again!
Outside of the stadium a football player is shown coming out of the dressing room. Suddenly, a huge mob of girls rushes him. He tries to run, but after being tackled three times, and jabbed in the eye with a fountain pen, he decides to sign his name on programs, pennants, and various other souvenirs. Then, a pint-sized little doll with freckles plants herself before him.
“I don’t have an autograph book,” she squeaks, “could you please scratch your name on my back with your fingernail?”
The next scene is a typical dinner in the dining room. A line of beautiful girls waits apprehensively behind the counter.
“An extra piece of steak, another slice of cake, two pats of butter . . . ?” these waitresses smile invitingly. It is an honor to get the attention of these “Notre Dame Men.”
The scene shifts to a beautiful evening by the lake. The Cinemascopic moon rises against a Vista-Vision sky. A boy and girl walk hand in hand down the tree-lined path. The girl looks at the tall, handsome boy, with misty eyes. She grasps his hand and purrs softly, “Jerry,
it’s wonderful to be 'with you like this. * 1 We St. Mary’s girls just never see enough of you ‘Notre Dame Men.’ ”
He glances at her with a look of great composure. “Well, Sally, our schedules are very rigid. We want every girl at St. (Mary’s to get a chance to go out with us.”
“Oh Jerry . . .” she swoons, “you are so self-sacrificing.”
He buttons up his blue and gold -jacket and then puts his arms around her. For a moment he looks down into her face . . . then, suddenly, he stiffens.
“Sally, I’ve got to go,” he yells as he tears down the path back to Notre Dame.
“Jerry, can’t you walk me home?”
“No,” he shouts back, “I’ve got to make room check!” .
Jerry arrives back at Notre Dame. He runs through the usual crowds of girls standing around the halls, desperately trying to meet these sought-after young men. They tear at his cashmere sweater, and rip the buckle off the back of his Ivy-league pants, but he jerks himself away from their clutches. His mind is filled with only one thought, his motivations are aimed in only one direction... he has studying to do!	,
Jerry opens the door of his room and . is greeted by a barrage of laughter.
“Hi Jerry . . . come in and join the party.”
Jerry’s roommate is throwing a cocktail party to celebrate the lifting of his two-week campus. Jerry slowly shuffles the revelers into the hall. At last he closes the door, and bars it. Then, settling on his chaise lounge, he begins composing a theme for English, over his.; dictaphone machine.
A fleeting shot of the Dome and The End flashed across the screen. We never found out if Jerry finished his theme before the lights went out. This and the miscasting of Anita Ekberg were our only complaints of this realistic drama.
20
The Scholastic
MB Men to Dance 'In Modern* Next Friday;
Galante Orchestra to Create Musical Setting
The “new” will predominate when the Arts and Letters men hold their annual AB Ball next Friday evening in the LaFortune Student Center. The theme, entitled “In Modern,” will be carried ^>ut through the medium of modern art. Featured in the decorations ■will be the
Prof. Sullivan's Novel Set for Early Release
Prof. Richard Sullivan of the English department recently announced that his latest novel, The Three Kings, will be -^released by the Harcourt-Brace Publishing Company in early December.
The novel has also been sold to Cosmopolitan magazine and will appear in its December issue in condensed form.
The story is an imaginative extension of the brief reference to the Magi in St. Matthew’s Gospel. Prof. Sullivan says that it is not intended to be a pious book, but that it does have a strong religious flavor.
Prof. Sullivan, a graduate of Notre ^Dame in 1930, said he received the idea for the book while still a student. He attempted to express it in various literary media during the past 25 years and now has achieved his purpose in this book. The writing of the book took . about 12 months, being finished in March of this year.
Registration Procedure Set For National Teacher Exam
The National Teacher Examinations, prepared and administered annually by Educational Testing Sei-vice, will be given at 200 testing centers throughout the United States on February 9, 1957.
At the one-day testing session, a candidate may take the common examinations, which include tests in professional information, general culture, English expression, and non-verbal reasoning.
The college which a candidate is attending, or the school system in which he is seeking employment, will advise him whether he should take the Na- tional Teacher Examinations and which of the optional exams to select.
A bulletin of information describing registration procedure and containing Sample test questions may be obtained from college officials, school superintendents, or directly from the National Teacher Examinations, Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, N. J. Completed applications, accompanied by propel- examination fees, will be accepted by the ETS ^ffice from Nov. 1 through Jan. 11, 1957.
band backdrop and an enlargement of a modern painting.
Al Galante and his orchestra will furnish the musical setting. Galante was formerly a featured vocalist with the Dick Jurgens orchestra, when he cut several recordings for Columbia and Mercury. Galante retains the Jurgens style and features ballad vocalist Stan Vann.
Tickets to the North Carolina game on Saturday have been made available for dates, and the Ball has been timed
AL GALANTE Plays for AB Ball
to coincide with the Festival of the Arts. The Rev. Daniel O’Neil, C.S.C., will address- the Communion Breakfast on Sunday morning.
At presstime, 275 tickets have been sold, but a few are still left. They are available at 208 Alumni.
Chuck O’Neill is general chairman for the dance. He is assisted by Ray Les-cher, business manager; Jack Simmer-ling, decorations; Dick Allen, reservations; Ron Francis, Communion Breakfast; Jerry London, entertainment; Jack Bure, refreshments; Tom Judge, publicity; and Frank Brophy, tickets.
MEET TEAM SUNDAY
On Sunday morning the Villager's will provide cars to take students to the airport to meet the team when it returns from Pitt. Cars will be at the Circle to pick up students at 11:15 a.m.
Bennet+Cerf to Speak On 'American Humor1
Bennett Cerf, noted publisher, humorist, and columnist will appear in St. Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. Tuesday to speak on “Changing Styles in American Humor.”
Cerf is president of Random House Publishing Co. and the Modern Library series. He is a columnist for the Saturday Review, This Week magazine and King Features syndicate.
In the last few years, he has published six books of humor including Shake Well Before Using, Try and Stop Me, and Laughter Incorporated. Cerf is editor of the newly published An Encyclopedia of American Humor.
As a panelist on the national television show “What’s My Line,” he has established a widespread reputation for his quick wit and humor.
As a humorist, Cerf began his career while a student at Columbia University. There he became editor of the humor magazine, The Jester. After graduation, Cerf was a reporter on The New York Herald Tribune and a clerk in the stock exchange. He began his publishing career when he purchased the Modem Library series and transformed it into a medium for bringing the classics to the public at modest prices. Subsequently he founded Random House.
As a lecturer, Cerf has received acclaim for his humorous accounts of his own experiences and those of well-known figures of today and yesterday.
Tickets for the lecture are $1.25. Mail orders may be sent to Box 114, St. Mary’s College.
'Tech Review' Honored At Magazine Conference
The Technical Review received three awards at the Engineering Colleges Magazine association press conference in Fayetteville, Ark., on Nov. 1 through 3. The magazine received a first place award for the best single issue for its May, 1956 issue.
A third place award was received for the best written magazine for the past year, and an honorable mention was received for the best non-technical article.
This year’s convention found many industrial representatives in attendance stressing the values of technical writing and extra-curricular activities as an important aspect of engineering training today.
The Technical Review was represented at the convention by Bill Reeve, editor; Bob Norris, business manager; Jack Scriba, associate editor; and Guy Weis-mantel, features editor.
November 9, 1956
21
American Education Week Set for Nov. 11-17; Curran Places First '1
University Plans Special Campus Activities In Midwest Tourney
American Education Week will be celebrated at Notre Dame this coming week Nov. 11 through 17, with the theme “Keeping America’s Youth Alert and Well-Informed.” A number of special activities have been planned under the direction of Dr. Bernard Kohlbrenner of the education department.
The Law School, and the Colleges of Engineering, Commerce, Science and Arts and Letters will hold open houses for campus visitors on Sunday. Deans and their staffs will be on hand to orientate visitors with the Library, art galleries, art and music studios, science labs, LOBUND, Washington Hall, La-Fortune Student Center, Sacred Heart Church, Rockne Memorial, and WNDU l'adio and television station.
Blue Circle members will conduct campus tours that day from 1 to 5 p.m. In the afternoon, Daniel Pedtke of the music department will be at the console in Sacred Heart Church.
On Monday, the debate team will hold an exhibition in the Student Center Amphitheater at 7:45 p.m. The four
December Dates Set For Breen Orations
Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, has announced registration for the Breen Oratorical contest open to all students of the University.
The preliminaries of the Breen contest will be held Dec. 3, at 4:30 p.m., in Room 1-D of the LaFortune Student Center. Entrants must register with Prof. Sommer before Nov. 24 in his office in 344 O’Shaughnessy Hall.
Orations will conist of approximately 1000 words or seven to nine minutes of speaking time. The subject matter is to be selected by the individual contestants, l)ut each must submit a written copy of the oration before the preliminary round. The final contest will be held at 7:45 p.m., Dec. 12, in Room 201 ■O’Shaughnessy.
“The Breen Medal for Oratory” was founded by the Honorable William Patrick Breen, of the class of 1877, and is awarded annually to the student who excels in oratory. The competition for this award is conducted by the department of speech, and the winner in the contest represents Notre Dame in the Indiana State Oratorical contest.
No student may win the Breen Medal more than once, but the winner of the medal may compete several times for the honor of- representing the University in the state contest.
man team will ponder the question: “Resolved: That the U.S. should discontinue direct economic aid to foreign countries.”
“How we think” in relation to John Dewey’s writings will be Rev. Leo R. Ward’s, C.S.C., subject on Tuesday. His talk will be held in O’Shaughnessy Hall in Room 115 at 7:45 p.m. for faculty and advanced students.
William Fox of Columbia University will speak on Tuesday in the Rockne Memorial Lounge on international relations. His topic will be “Military People and Diplomats.”
Director of Admissions Rev. Richard Murphy, C.S.C., will discuss “College and University Admissions Policies and Practices” on Thursday. His talk will be held in the Law School Auditorium at 8:30 p.m.
Included in the week’s activities will be the University Theater’s production, “Death of a Salesman” which will run from Nov. 14 through 18.
SEASON TICKETS
Anyone living on campus who has bought a season ticket to the University Theater can pick up his tickets at the box office anytime from Monday, Nov. 12 through Sunday, Nov. 18. The box office is open daily from 3:30 to 3:50 and from 6 through 9 p.m. in the evening.
The Sunday matinee at 2:30 p.m. will be for the student season ticket holders. The price is $1 for downstairs and $.75 for the balcony.
8-10.
Patrick Curran, a commerce senior at Notre Dame, placed first in the fifteenth annual Tau Kappa Alpha Midwest Regional Discussion tournament held here at the University last Saturday.	_
The University was host to approxi-'J 1 mately 100 representatives of 14 colleges and universities of this area.
Curran won the competition with a score of 170 out of a possible 180 points in three separate rounds of discussion. By reason of his victory, he will represent the conference in the Tau Kappa : Alpha national competition this April at Butler University.
Notre Dame also took eight of the top® < ten positions in the discussion which was on the question of a cessation of United States economic aid to foreign countries.
Paul Coffey, a junior and head of the ND debate team, was chosen by acclamation as student president of the midwest region of TKA, the national debate fraternity, for the 1957-58 team.
Other Notre Dame students besides Curran who were among the top teir^ speakers were: Tom Clusserath, junior; Brendan Fagan, sophomore; Stanley Kusper; senior; Dennis Shaul, freshman; Gerald Brady, junior; Michael Phenner, sophomore; and William Barrett, sophomore.
Patricia Dunn of Western Michigan College finished second in the competition.
Four members of the Notre Dame debate team will travel to Columbia, .S. C.y. • for the University of South Carolina* Invitational Debate tournament on Nov.
.22
The Scholastic
Spring Semester 1957
STUDY IN EUROPE
5 months for
$1195
INCLUDES:
* Selection of 25 English taught courses at the U. of Vienna.
* Special German language instruction geared to a speaking knowledge.
* Social and cultural activities, lectures and forums while studying at the U. of Vienna.
*	Study tours lasting a total of 2 months. England, Belgium, France, Italy, Yugoslavia, Switzerland, Germany, Austria.
*	Living in a Viennese home.
*	Balanced, home-like meals with IES.
*	Personal orientation and advisory service from IES office.
*	Round trip ocean transportation.
Group sails February 8, 1957, on Cunard Line ss. Saxonia.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: Dec. 28, 1956 Mail coupon for free brochure.
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES 35 East Wacker Drive, Room 1376 Chicago 1, Illinois
address
city
zone
state
name
school
CREWCUT
krukut
-eaE LANOLIN
•NOT GIEASY
•NO STAN
•NO SOt

«».pi hair STANDING UP" for • Sharper Looking CRSWCU1
CIEBS STUBBORN HAIR IN PLACE
Research Director to Deliver Science Lectures Next Week
The College of Science recently announced that a series of lectures will be given next week by Prof. Joseph Hirsch-felder, Ph.D., director of the Naval Research laboratory at the University of Wisconsin.
In his first lecture, next Monday, Prof. Hirschfelder will speak on “Intermolecu-lar Forces”; his topic for Wednesday will be “Properties of Gases”; and on Friday he will speak on “Heat Conductivity in Chemically Reacting Mixtures.” All three lectures will be given at 4 p.m. in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. They will be open to the general public and students are invited to attend.
Prof. Hirschfelder was chief theoretician of physics at the Naval Ordnance test station from 1945 to 1946 and chief phenomenologist at the Bikini bomb test in 1946. He has been a professor of chemistry at the University of Wisconsin since 1946 and has directed the Naval Research laboratory there since that year.
Architect's Exhibit Scheduled For North Carolina Weekend
The Architect’s exhibits which, have been on display throughout the football season will continue next weekend during the North Carolina game weekend.
Under the direction of Marco Aus-toris, the exhibit chairman, there will be a display including a cross-section of all the work done by the students and will feature sculpturing, design, free hand, and a coloi’ array.
The exhibit will be open all day Saturday, Nov. 17, until 12 p.m., and on Sunday from 12 to 5 p.m.
PRE-REGISTRATION
The dates for pre-registration in all undergraduate schools have been changed from Nov. 7 through 21 to Dec. 3 through Dec. 14. Graduate students, formerly scheduled to pre-register from Nov. 28 to Dec. 5, will now do so from Dec. 3 to Dec. 14.
The dates for registration of undergraduate and law students have been changed to Jan. 24 through 26. Graduate students will now register on Jan. 25.
The changes in dates of preregistration and registration do not effect the schedule for picking up tuition certificates in the Office of Student Accounts. Tuition certificates will be picked up by undergraduate and law students between Jan. 7-21 and by graduate students between Jan. 18-24.
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO THE FACT THAT HES IN CLASSI
KEEP AlfRT FOR A BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake . . . alert! Your doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
Phi-Beta'
35 tablets in handy tin
'noqoz
AW A K E N E R S ,
munis UBlUYari INK SHF
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
A Classified Section appears in the SCHOLASTIC for the convenience of readers who wish to buy, sell, rent, etc.
.November 9, 1956
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Don. Gundersen, (right) discussing characteristics of a transmitting horn, on a radio relay tower.
Young man on a mountain

If Don Gundersen isn’t in his office, he’s probably on a California mountaintop making tests and surveys prior to the raising of a radio relay tower.
That’s part of Don’s job as an engineer with Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company. With other young engineers he makes field studies, then analyzes the data and decides where to locate equipment for mobile radio, radio relay and point-to-point radio links.
He has to answer a lot of questions, such as “How high must the towers be? How much will access roads cost? What will the control circuits cost? What are
the chances of transmission interference?” And those are only a few.
“The answers have to be right, too,” says Don. “The recommendations we make control hundreds of thousands of dollars’ worth of construction. There’s no way in the world of ‘burying’ a mistake.
“But I like responsibility, and the chance to make real contributions. The telephone business is growing so fast, and technological improvements are coming along in such volume, that opportunities to get ahead are excellent. If the business looks remarkable today, think what it’ll be like twenty years from now!”
Donald L. Gundersen graduated from the University of Washington in 1949 with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering. Other interesting career opportunities exist in all Bell Telephone Companies, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Tour placement officer can give you more information.
TELEPHONE SYSTEM
24
The Scholastic


Uliik Scui»
BIG GREEN, PANTHERS IN 23rd ENCOUNTER
©Swimming Club Slates Ten Meets This Year
Irish, Students Travel to Pittsburgh Tomorrow; Locals in Search of Elusive Second Win
The Notre Dame Swimming Club announces its 1956-57 schedule of meets, which they will open against the Indianapolis Athletic Club on December 1 in the Rockne Memorial Pool. This year’s card features ten meets plus the practice opener- with the Indianapolis A.C. It includes contests against three rough Ohio schools, Bowling Green, Miami, and Ohio U.
Although Mike Reagan, backbone of last year’s squad, is gone, Paul Kerwin returns in the dashes, Mike Connelly in the 440 and 220, and Ed Healy in the diving, will form a nucleus for this year’s team. Also returning from last year are: Bill Holland and Jim Hilliard ©in the dashes and relays; Dick Nagle and Tom Londrigon in the 220 and the 440; George May in the butterfly; and Dick Breuner, John Kroha, Jim Garrity, Dick Katis, May, and Hilliard in the breaststroke and medley relays.
Tom Kennedy, Bob Moran, and Dick Dunn are showing up best among the freshmen. Kennedy was a high school All-American in the dashes last year -vwhile Moran and Dunn should help out ^in the breaststroke and butterfly.
Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., club moderator, said that the spirit is running high and that he looks for good improvement throughout the team.
JOHN MICHELOSEN
Panther Coach
by JIM MERZ
Tomorrow Coach Terry Brennan will field his Irish eleven against a rugged Pittsburgh squad at Pitt Stadium for another crack at that elusive win column. The Panthers, sporting a 4-2 record for the year, are favored to hop aboard the “Beat Irish” bandwagon that has plagued Notre Dame this year for the first time since 1933.
Tomorrow’s game, played before a sellout crowd of 60,000 including 580 Notre Dame students, will be the 23rd renewal of an ancient rivalry between the two teams, dating back to 1909. In their last meeting, 1954, the Irish romped to a 33-0 win, on visiting grounds. Notre Dame also won the opener back in 1909, by a slim 6-0 margin. Within the span of these 22 games, the Irish have rolled up 461 points against 187 for the Panthers to compile a 15-6-1 record. The last Panther victory came in 1952, a 22-19 thriller.
Although Coach John Michelosen lost 12 lettermen from last year’s seven win, four loss team, 22 lettermen return, including nine starters. Missing from the scene are John Paluck, all-Eastem end, Lou Cimarolli, leading scorer and ground-gainer, and Bill Schmitt, rated third in the country in punting.
The Panthers are led by field general Corny Salvaterra at quarterback, and pass-grabbing Joe Walton, Pitt’s candidate for All-American end. Salvaterra, the leading Panthei- ground-gainer, operates his club from the split-T. His passing eye has sharpened since last year, heaving three TD aerials to date, and he has also scored twice. Another Panther quarterback, Darrell Lewis, may see action. Lewis won recognition when he filled in for injured Salvaterra last spring. During his limited play, Lewis has also tossed a pair of scoring passes.
The star Pittsburgh halfback, Dick Bowen, has been sidelined for the last two games due to injury. In his first four encounters, the 195-pound junior from Duquesne averaged 3.1 yards per cany. In his place will probably be Ambrose Bagamery, a capable runner and expert conversion booter. The Panthers will also use senior Charles Cost, who was the second left halfback last season.
In the first five games this year, Cost has averaged 5.4 yards per carry.
The surprise of the year for Coach Michelosen has been the deft ball-carrying of right halfback Jim Theodore. After limited action last season behind Lou Cimarolli, Theodore stepped in this season to lead the Panthers against Syracuse and California.
The fullback slot will probably fall to Raph Jelic, a frequent starter at right half last year. The 187-pound speedster runs hard, and has averaged 5.2 yards per cany in five games.
The forward wall for the Panthers averages 211 pounds. Although graduation cut into the middle of the line, Coach Michelosen has found capable replacements.
The pass-snaring dexterity of Joe Walton has triggered the Panther attack this season. The 205-pound senior from Beaver Falls has already turned five passes into touchdowns to head the Pitt scoring column. Last year he set an all-time Panther record and led the nation by catching eight TD aerials. Walton, who is starting for the third straight year, can also run hard, as he proved to Minnesota last week. Against the Gophers, Walton scrambled 77 yards
*JOE WALTON
Pitt end and captain
November 9, 1956
25
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
pin		NOTRE DAME
Walton ....		L.E....		 Pendergast
Pollock ....		L.T,....		 Geremia
Scorsone ..		LG.....			  Shulsen
Brueckman	c			  Kuchta
Wisniewski			R.G....		 McGinley
Canil 				R.T				 Nagurski
Rosborough		R.E.....		 Wetoska
Salvaterra		...Q.B....		 Hornung
Cost 					..LH			.... Lewis
DiPasquale	...... R.H.....				 Ward
Jelic 					F.B				   Just
KICKOFF—1	12:30 p.m.	C.S.T.
TELEVISION—WNDU-TV
with a kick-off, but a penalty nullified what would have been the vanning touchdown. On the other side, Bob Ros-borough will start at right end. Ros-borough is an excellent blocker for the grinding Panther offense.
The Panthers’ strongest line position is the tackle slot, where two starting lettermen, Bob Pollock and Herm. Canil, return. Pollock, a 220-pound senior, played 393 minutes last year, crashing through the line to block two punts. His partner, Canil, plays slashing offensive ball.
Only Vince Scorsone has had experience at guard. He will start on the left side, while wrestling letterman Dan Wisniewski will handle right guard. Dick Carr, an inexperienced junior, will also see action. Besides his guard duty, Scorsone plays middle line-backer.
With only 67 minutes of combat last year, Chuck Brueckman will fill the center position, with Gene Uhlman, a converted fullback, and Jim Sabatini standing in.
Irish Harriers in Indiana State Meet Today ' I ’ After Trouncing by NCAA Champion MSU
Despite last week’s defeat by defending NCAA champion, Michigan State, Coach Alex Wilson is optimistic about the forthcoming Indiana State Meet at Indianapolis today.
Top competition of the day is expected from Indiana’s Hoosiers who earlier in the season defeated the Irish in a dual meet, 23-32. Indiana’s Don Long and Max Fiscus both defeated Irish captain John Mich no. However, Notre Dame fin- • ished seven men in the first 12, a show of depth which should indicate an advantage in the 12-team meet.
The other schools which are expected to provide competition for the Irish are Butler, Ball State Teachers’ College, Indiana Central, Hanover College, Wabash College and DePauw.
SPARTANS ROMP
Last Monday afternoon on the Burke Memorial course, the harriers were defeated by a strong Michigan State squad by the score of 19-36.
Individual honors for the day went to the Spartans’ Henry Kennedy who crossed the finish line in the time of 25:05. The race was an extra-long five miles and saw Michigan State take the top three positions. Besides Kennedy who came home in front, Norm Denslow and Selwyn Jones were second and third followed by Irish thinclads John Michno and Mike Haverty. Spartan sophomore Ron Wheeler was sixth followed by teammate Herb Block. John Burns, Dale VandenBerg and Ed Monnelly, all of Notre Dame, rounded out the field.
Coach Wilson stated that the Irish looked very good despite the loss to the team that Wilson rates as the best in the country. The defeat was only the second for the Wilsonmen in six outings. Lastyear they toppled Michigan State’s NCAA champions 28-29 at East Lansing.
Irish Sailors Race at Purdue In Timme Angsten Regionals
The Notre Dame sailing team travels ; to Purdue this weekend for the regional eliminations of the Timme Angsten Mef mortal Regatta, the Rose Bowl of col-' legiate sailing.
The Irish must place either first or second in the five-team event to go to the finals in Chicago over the Thanksgiving weekend.
Competing ■with Notre Dame will be Indiana, Cincinnati, Illinois Institute of Technology and the host, Purdue. The Boilermakers pose the biggeist threat t<v- ~ the favored Irish sailors in their bid-for their seventh consecutive trip to the finals. The teams have faced each other once before this season in the Wayne Invitational Oct. 6 and 7. In that regatta, won by Wisconsin, the Irish just nosed by the Boilermakers by One point to take second place.	:
Sailing this, weekend for the Irish wall be Bernardo D’Almeida in the “A” divi- , sion and Ray Nelson in the “B.” Ber-f nardo Gaillet will do the crewing for D’Almeida and Lou Morgan will crew the “B” races.
BRIGHT SPOTS IN A RATHER DISMAL SEASON
Hornung, Sullivan, Lima seek upset win over Panthers
26
The Scholastic
^WrestlersOpen Drills; Three Lettermen Back
Notre Dame’s Wrestling team started practice last Monday with three monogram winners returning from last year’s squad. Captain Terry Crowley returns for his fourth year of college com-^petition to fill the 147-pound berth. Jack Armstrong, hampered by a bad shoulder last year, will fill the 177-pound spot while Bob Pivonka, who grapples in the 137-pound slot, is the final returnee.
In othei- positions, Buddy Day, a junior hampered by a bad knee last year, and Gus Ludwig, a sophomore, are expected to fill the 123-pound position. Ed Finlay, in the 132-pound class, is also sophomore.
At 157, Chuck Henzy, Mel Larsen, and Mike Gleason, who alternated last year, will again cover this slot. Bucky O’Connor, anothei' sophomore, is slated for the 167-pound spot. In the heavyweight division, the prospects are dim, but it is hoped that Dick Ciesielski and Dick Loncar ■will fill the berth.
The ’56-’57 schedule will include the Irish’s first Big Ten wrestling opponent, ©when the team meets Northwestern in Chicago, Dec. 8. The squad will open the season here at Notre Dame, Dec. 4 against St. Joseph’s. Other teams on the schedule include Findlay, Miami of Ohio, Marquette, Wheaton, and the University of Chicago. Plans are being made to compete in the Wheaton Invitational, and the Case Tech Invitational.
Coach Tom Fallon commented that 0j“this year’s team looks stronger than last year in that the club has the needed depth in every position plus the experience of the returnees from last years squad.”
MINNIE MAVRAIDES
Most aggressive
Former Irish Grid Stars Lead Bolling AFB Eleven
Ralph Guglielmi, Dan Shannon and Minnie Mavraides, three former Notre Dame All-Americans are currently leading the Bolling Air Force base football team to an undefeated season.
The Generals, playing in the rough Washington, D. C., Service League, have run up five consecutive victories, and are unbeaten in their last 33 regular season games. They are currently rated the number one service team in the East,
RALPH GUGLIELMI
Still the best
and might very well be the best service team in the country.
Guglielmi, who played one year of professional ball ■with the Washington Redskins after his graduation from ND in 1955, is the number one quarterback for the Generals. He has been twice named the Service Player of the Week in the Washington area and has consistently led the team in total offense. His backfield coach, former Irish great John Lattner, rates him as the best offensive back in service football.
One of the best defensive ends in collegiate football, Shannon is currently manning the left end slot for the Generals. He joined the team early in preseason drills and has not been moved since.
Only once in the five games this year has an opponent been able to circle left end, while he was holding down that position.
His greatest game to date for Bolling was against the undefeated Fort Jack
son Eagles. After this game Shannon was rated as the best Lineman of the Day by the Washington Post and Evening Star reporters who were covering the game.
In addition to his fine defensive work, Shannon has a season record of eight passes caught, good for 116 yards and two touchdowns.
At the start of the season there was no doubt as to Minnie Mavraides’ position on the Bolling team. The two-time All-American is rated as the most aggressive of the great General linemen and has consistently led the team in the number of tackles per game. Last season he was rated as the Service Lineman of the Year by the Washington Touchdown Club and was named to the All-Air Force All-American.
KICKS EXTRA POINTS
Minnie has kicked the points after touchdowns for the past two years and also has kicked off on occasion. Last year Mavraides kicked 22 conversions for an all-time General record.
In addition to the former Irish greats Bolling has in its forces such stars as Bernie Faloney, All-American from Maryland; Chuck Frank, Michigan State; Al Barry, Southern California; Ed Weaver, West Point; Clyde Bennett, South Carolina; Ben Sauls, Miami University of Florida; and Billy Reynolds, Pittsburgh.—Mike Fitzpatrick ’
DAN SHANNON
Defensive stalwart
November 9, 1956

TIME OUT
Well the question now is—just when is it all going to end? Terry Brennan’s charges are riddled with sophomores, injuries and defeats and it looks like things won’t get much better. The not-so-Fighting Irish hit rock bottom last week in losing to a Navy club that is just so-so compared to the poweis of the East.
True, the Middies have lost only one ball game but that was to a Tulane club that doesn’t even rate much front page space in New Orleans’ papers.
We said after the Indiana win, (and I bet the Hoosiers would like another crack at us) that the necessary spark to fire up the club was sadly lacking. This club doesn’t hit like old Notre Dame teams and only on various occasions do the linemen get that “animal instinct” and try to hit the other guy so hard that his teeth rattle.
We don’t mean being vicious or unnecessarily rough but it would be good to see again that old knock-down, drag-em-out brand of football that we have been used to for so many years.
The potential is there, even the fully developed talent is there but the fire is gone. Maybe one shouldn’t blast this club and I don’t want anyone getting the idea I’m being disloyal. Let’s face it. We don’t have it this year. If our guys get mad about all the things that are being said about them, maybe things will change.
If they are going to change against Pittsburgh tomorrow, there will have to be a definite reversal of form. The Panthers rate one-two right along with Syracuse in the East. An upset loss to California and last week’s Minnesota defeat are the only blemishes on their record. Right now Minnesota is rated the number one Rose Bowl contender.
Red Grange indicated at the Oklahoma-N.D. game that the winner- of last week’s Penn State-Syracuse clash should be rated the tops in the East. He should know because he has seen them all. Well, Syracuse won, but Pittsburgh owns an early season victory over the Big Orange. Need I say more.
Unless the Irish really find themselves, it will be their fifth straight loss, something which has never happened in the school’s history. Tyler tells me you can’t pick this one any other way. PREDICTION OF THE WEEK: Pittsburgh 27, Notre Dame 13, and we hope we are wrong.
THE NEW ATTITUDE
While the football team is taking its lumps, have you noticed the “new attitude” which prevails in the Fieldhouse these days? Johnny Jordan is preparing his quintet for their opening game against St. Joseph’s on Dec. 4, and any resemblance in spirit and attitude between this year’s club and last year’s is purely a case of mistaken identity. Gone are players who most of the time played like they didn’t care, and last years 9-15 record proves they didn’t. All this is gone if the practice sessions are any indication.
The captainship couldn’t be in any better hands than John Smyth. If anyone can keep the boys up, it will be “Smitty.” Sophomore sensation Tom Hawkins, has coach Jordan all smiles. The flashy forward will keep the Fieldhouse patrons searching for adjectives to describe his prowess on the court. Joe Morelli has improved greatly and is driving even better.
Probably the most improved player is Ed Gleason who has definitely found himself and along with Bob Devine, could be one of the better back-court combinations in the country. They work very well together and are always anticipating the other’s next move. Devine is the slowest in rounding into shape but this might be a good thing. He was a physical wreck for the last few games last season which hurt his playing quite a bit. This year he is making sure he’ll be ready for forty minutes for the whole season. Everything points to an exceptionally good season.—J. G.
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Army over William and Mary Colgate over Bucknell Tufts over Rochester Penn State over Boston U. Pitt over Notre Dame Princeton over Harvard Syracuse over Holy Cross West Virginia over VMI Yale over Pennsylvania Baylor over Texas Duke over Navy Tennessee over Georgia Tech	i
Texas A&M over SMU TCU over Texas Tech	j
Tulane over Alabama Virginia Tech over Wake Forest Oklahoma over Iowa State Michigan over Illinois	j
Michigan State over Purdue Iowa over Minesota Colorado over Missouri Ohio State over Indiana Stanford over Oregon State Southern California over California UCLA over Washington
LAST WEEK
17 Right; 3 Wrong.
SEASON	C
91 Right; 28 Wrong; 1 Tie Pct. .765
Zahm Takes Lead in West; Lyons, Dillon in Eastern Tie
Zahm took over undisputed possession of first place in the Western Division Interhall Football standings with a 12-0L win over Farley. Lyons moved into a tie with Dillon for top honors in the East by posting a 25-0 verdict over Morrissey.
Cavanaugh, St. Edward’s and Off-Campus are all one game off Zahm’s 3-0 pace with 2-1 records. Breen-Phillips and Farley are three out, having lost their first three games.
Lyons and Dillon head the pack in theC East -with 2-0 slates, but Howard is right on their heels with 2-1. Badin is 1-1, and Sorin and Morrissey have yet to dent the win column. Both have dropped two games.
Norbie Shew counted both Zahm’s touchdowns to give him thirty-six points in three contests. He plunged over from ten yards out for the first touch-4-down and was on the receiving end of a“ 50-yard pass for the other TD. He picked up two touchdowns in each of Zahm’s other two games.
In other games last week, Howard shut out Sorin, 25-0; St. Ed’s blanked Cavanaugh, 12-0; and Off-Campus defeated Breen-Phillips, 1-0, by virtue of a forfeit.	i
The Scholastic
28
ND Overcomes Panther Lead
by JOE BRIDE
The Notre Dame-Pittsburgh series is one which has been loaded with many types of football “ups and downs.” @ The Irish have won 15 of the 22 contests, and one has ended in a tie, but the majority of the Irish victories were in the early period of the series, and between 1943 and 1951.
The only dent made by the Panthers in Notre Dame’s victory procession was in the heyday of Jock Sutherland, “the original T-formation master.” From 1932 to 1937, Notre Dame was able to ^score only two touchdowns against Sutherland-coached elevens, and counted only one victory over his Panthers.
In the period from 1943-51 when the Irish were running roughshod, the Pan-thers were able to score only three touchdowns in the eight games with Notre Dame.
Then, in 1952, although heavy underdogs, the Panthers made up for fifteen years of suffering, gaining their first ^victory over Notre Dame since 1937, 22-19.
The 1953 contest, played on October 17 at ND stadium, not only came close to producing an amazing reversal in the final result, but also was responsible for a bewildering football oddity.
THIS ONE CALLED BACK Shannon grabs Guglielmi aerial
The Irish stormed to a 23-14 victory after' trailing 14-7 at the half, taking the lead for the first time in the final seconds of the third period.
Throughout the entire first half, the Panthers were a superior football team, but the Irish depth and slashing defensive play won out.
Quarterback Henry Ford and fullback Bobby Epps rambled over the Irish middle for 20 and 15 yards respectively on the first two plays from scrimmage.
Epps then picked up a first down on the ND 17 and two plays later, he squirmed seven yards for the tally. Paul Blanda converted.
The Panthers controlled the rest of the first quarter, and early in the second period, Notre Dame made its only sustained offensive march of the half. The Irish moved 70 yards, mainly on the bull-like thrusts of Neil Worden. Worden scored from the two and Menil Mavraides convei-ted to tie the score.
Midway in this period, an amazing play took place. The Irish were faced with a third and four situation on their own 39. Ralph Guglielmi faded to pass and threw a perfect aerial to Paul Matz, who juggled the ball momentarily but seemed to make the catch.
Ford raced over, stole the ball out of Matz’s hands and went to the ND seven, where Guglielmi pushed him out of bounds.
At this point, the Irish defense seemed to dig in. They threw Epps for a two yards lost and Guglielmi broke up a pass.
MCCABE SCORES
But, on third down, Ford caught Notre Dame napping with a sucker shift and the Irish were penalized to the four. On the next play, Richie McCabe circled right end for the touchdown. Blanda again converted.
There was no resemblance between the first and second halves. The Irish depth seemed to have the edge, Panthei’ confidence ebbed, and the Pitt offense which marched for 100 yards on the ground in the first half, .was able to gain only a meager three yards thereafter.
The first time they had the ball, Notre Dame moved to the Pitt 35 and Johnny Lattner punted dead on the Panther seven.
Pitt was penalized five for backfield in motion, and on the following play, Epps tried to hit off tackle. Frank Var-richione and Worden toppled him in the end zone, and the score was 14-9.
The Irish scored again before the period was over. A drive sputtered out on the Panther 24, and on the following series of downs, Ford was hit while fading to pass. Don Penza recovered and Notre Dame took over on the 25.
On the first play, Lattner broke over tackle, and lateralled to Worden, who went 19 yards to the six.
GUGLIELMI PUTS ND IN FRONT
Worden hit for two yards, then plunged to the one foot line. Guglielmi smashed over center for the score. Mavraides converted.
Thus, with ten seconds remaining in the third period, the Irish led for the first time.
The final period was all Notre Dame as the Irish reserves marched through the tiring Panther defense.
Dick Fitzgerald, Tom McHugh, and Dick Washington, went 73 yards to the Panther one, only to have Washington fumble.
The Irish defense held, and the Panthers were forced to kick. Washington took the punt on his own 40 and raced 24 yards to the 3G.
Washington plunged for four yards to the 32. Tom Carey threw a 17 yard pass complete to Washington for a first down on the 15.
The Irish first team then entered the ball game, and with fourth and three, Guglielmi simply ran wide to the right to score. Mavraides place kicked the extra point, and the game ended, Notre Dame 23, Pittsburgh 14.
November 9, 1956
29
Detroit Edison Co.
ELECTRICAL POWER
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES Research and Development Plant and System Design Equipment Engineering Planning for Growth Purchasing Sales
Electrical - Mechanical ENGINEERS
Reserve Your Appointment Time at Placement Office to See Our Representative
Friday, Nov. 16

Engineering Opportunities
with the City of Cincinnati, Ohio
Prospective Graduates in CIVIL — ELECTRICAL—MECHANICAL. A golden opportunity to grow on the job. GOOD PAY —TRAINING PROGRAM. Many employee benefits. Be a part of Cincinnati’s CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM. $133 million to work with. A representative will be on campus to interview on
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13,1956
See him for more information.
YPO Panel to Discuss * Business Opportunities
Five members of the Indiana chapter of the national Young Presidents Organization will present a panel discussion in the LaFortune Student Center next Tuesday at 2:30 p.m. The five are members of YPO-E, a function of the YP0‘$ established to encourage enterprise by demonstrating the opportunities open to smaller businessmen. The speakers will include John Dille, Jr., of the Elkhart Truth, chairman of the YPO-E for Indiana; John Best, of the Chicago Telephone Supply Co. of Elkhart; and H. Ben Williams, president of the Domore Chair Co. of Elkhart.
The YPO is an organization of men^ who have become presidents of corporations doing business of more than a million dollars a year before the age of 39. When member's reach the age of 49, they must resign from the group. The national president of the YPO is a Notre Dame alumnus, W. H. Coleman, of Cleveland, O. The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., is also a member, having become president of Notre Dame^ before his 39th birthday.	'**
Each of the participants will give a ten-minute talk, explaining his own background, how he arrived at his present position, and pointing out some of the major problems that face the small businessman today. After the forum the Indiana chapter of the YPO will hold a business meeting. Dean James W. Cul-liton of the College of Commerce will^, address the members on the subject oi~ educating men for business.
NROTC Sets Deadline For Exam Applications
Those students of the University who are interested in the Regular NROTC program, are reminded of the fact thai^ Saturday, Nov. 17, is the deadline for all applications to take the exam for Regular status. This exam will be given in Chicago on Saturday, Dec. 8.
The basic1 requirements for application include: that the person be a male citizen of the United States; that he reach his 17th birthday and not pass his 21st birthday by July 1, 1957; and^ that he be unmarried and never have** ■ been married. Every applicant must be able to include eight. semesters of naval science in his curriculum, so that he will be able to accept a commission in four years, when he receives his degree.
Further information may be obtained from the Office for Military Affairs, ir^ the Main Building.
JO
The Scholastic
FOR MEN	|N UNBREAKABLE
Formulated for a man's hair and scalp.
Conditions while it cleans. 1.25 Pius tax
PLASTIC!
SHULTON
New York • Toronto
Chemical Engineers • Chemistry Majors
Excellent positions open at Standard Oil Company’s main office in Chicago. Coordination and technical liaison work in Production Department. Opportunity to develop strong background in petroleum industry, with fine outlook for advancement. Interested in both Bachelors and Masters. See J. J. Pope, who will be on campus on
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19 to interview candidates
November 9, 1956
31
(Name)
(Street and Number)
For Christmas
Ike
Catholic fluf,
Most complete, most exciting gift a boy could want.
48 pages of sports, fiction stories, comics, inspiration
ONLY $3.00 A YEAR
THE CATHOLIC BOY,	□ 3 years — 7.00
Notre Dame, Indiana	2 ? years J?'??
Please send THE CATHOLIC BOY to 1 year —
(City)
□ Send gift card from..........................
□ Payment enclosed. □ Bill me later.
(Zone)
(State)
Published monthly except July and August
FLYFMM
... for study or fun abroad!
TWA's Travel and Study Tours take you to 22 cultural centers abroad. Study at universities in Europe... the Near and Middle East. Or tour by private station wagon and bus... attend world-famed festivals... really get to know distant lands! And with TWA’s Time-Pay Plan, you
can fly now for only 10% down ... take 20 months to pay. Call your
TWA travel agent or send coupon.
i i ■ i i i i i i t i ■ i i i i ■ i ■ ■ i i ■
Jahn H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director, TWA Air World Tours Dept CM, 380 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.
Dear Sir:
Please send me information on
□ Summer Tours □ Time-Pay Plan
□ Independent travel to
(countries)
Name.
Address
State_______Tel..
HYTHEflHEff
Haywood Appointed To Soph YCS Post
Election of John Hayward, sophomore AB student from Toledo, Ohio, to the vacant YCS sophomore vice-president position has been announced by Paul Krapp, YCS president.
Hayward was elected from the federa/ tion council, the official policy making body of YCS. At the same meeting Roy Wessel was appointed executive secretary of the council.
The sophomore vice president is the coordinator of YCS activities in sophomore halls. Working with Hayward are council members Tony Berejka and Karl Chambers.
YCS current activities include opera^ tion of student government in freshman halls and administration of tutoring service for all Notre Dame colleges. Plans are also being made for the fourth annual Advent Symposium, to be held in December, and the second Leo XIII Lenten Lecture series.
Group leaders in the colleges for YCS include: Mike Halloran, Joe Ferrone, and Manny Rivas, science; John Kennedy, engineering; Jerry Kraus, ABj and Bob Kiley, commerce.
Tom Fogarty is Cavanaugh group leader in charge of Student Government. Vince Carroll is serving in Zahm, Jack Conroy in Farley, and Jim Mertz in Breen-Phillips.
Education Addresses Given By Public School Directors
Last Friday two members of th»^ public school system of Oceanside, N. Y., spoke here.
•In the afternoon, Fordyce Stone, assistant superintendent for instruction in the public schools of Oceanside, spoke before the freshman course curricula chairmen and members of the education department on “The Present Curriculum in Eastern Elementary and Secondary Schools.”	>
That evening Leon Sayre, directoi* 1 ot special student services in Oceanside, spoke on “The Gifted Student: Interrelation of School and College.” Among those attending this talk were members of the committee on advanced students and students now holding important scholarships at the University.
BRIDGE	r
The duplicate bridge session Sunday will feature the monthly competition for a master point. All bridge players, whether experienced in duplicate play or not, are in-
vited to participate in the tourney
beginning at 1:30 p.m. in the La-Fortune Student Center.	T)
32
The Scholastic
•Dance, Party to Head Weekend Social Fare
This weekend’s social calendar will be highlighted by the “Panther Trot” Sat-ruday night in the Drill Hall and a “Dance Party” mixer Sunday afternoon in the LaFortune Student Center.
The Saturday night dance will feature ®Dick Miller and his band. It will run from 8:30 to 11:30' p.m. Tickets may be purchased at the door for $1 per couple.
Sunday afternoon’s “Dance Party” in the LaFortune Student Center will be from 2 to 5 p.m. Admission will be $.50 per person.
A dance contest will be held at the ^marty with prizes and booby prizes '^warded for those doing the best and worst jitterbug, fox-trot and waltz. Those who cannot dance can receive instructions by professionals.
Girls from St. Mary’s and Holy Cross School of Nurses are invited to the party. There will be refreshments and live music.
Next week, the Monogram Ball, cosponsored by the Monogram Club and ©he Student Senate will be held in the Drill Hall after- the North Carolina game. There will be dancing from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. to the music of Ed Pistey and his Lettermen.
Maddux, O'Bryan Appointed Co-Chairmen of Senior Ball
George Strake, senior class president, recently announced that Bill Maddux and. Tom O’Bryan have been chosen as co-chairmen of the 1957 Senior Ball, tentatively set for May 10.
Other committee chairmen appointed were: Don Flock, decorations; Bill Garvin and Bill Rigali, dinner dance; Dan Bergen, communion breakfast; Tom Cas-tellini, tickets; Jack Cogan, hotels; Dick /■Kopituk, entertainment; Hal Blakeslee, publicity; Mark Maley, refreshments; and Bill Gerardo, business manager.
Annual Foundation Drive Scheduled for December
The annual Student Foundation drive ^i'll open Dec. 3 and continue through .^ro Dec. 7 this year. The money obtained , in the drive is to be used, as in previous years, for faculty improvement. Last - year’s drive saw 98 percent of the stu-/ dent body and faculty contributing to • the fund. Students are reminded that it is not the amount of money given, but . the‘number of students donating to the ^und that makes the drive a success.
NOTS REPRESENTATIVE
Dr. H. W. Kruse, a representative from the U.S. Naval Ordnance Test Station (NOTS), China Lake, Calif., will be on campus Monday and Tuesday to discuss job opportunities with seniors majoring in the fields of physical science and enginering.
Although he will be particularly interested in talking to students in the fields of enginering, physics, chemistry, and mathematics, there are jobs at NOTS for writers, editors, illustrators, administrators, draftsmen, librarians, secretaries, and others.
Civil Service policy and the many benefits gained from working at NOTS will be explained by Dr. Kruse, who will also be available to answer any specific questions a student may have.
ONLY PEN WITH A BUILT-IN SPARE REFILL! A cNew PapersMate
YOU HAVE 2P0IM1S 2 INK SUPPUESl
ANPTHErilE PIGGYBACK!
only at
Notre Dame Bookstore Of* the Campus
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented 7 days before insertion date.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
NORTH AMERICAN, Monday, Nov. 12—Placement Office.
CITY’OF CINCINNATI—Tuesday, Nov. 13. Plac^ ment Office.
DETROIT EDISON, Friday, Nov. 16—Placement Office.
STANDARD OIL—Monday, Nov. 19. Placement Office
^kWTURBOW
yOPTOMKTRIST
-- OPTICAL ROAMS -
Frame* Repaired, Replaoad Broken Leneea Duplicated
“Bring m the Pitctf -- EYES EXAMINH) -
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-G777
November 9, 1956
Rack Paji
by Joe Taft
“Last end in Chi I caught Dave at the Note.”
“How was he man . . . did you flip? Was he the absolute end?”
“No man ... I must have caught a dragging set.”
“Dave dragged? Can’t swing that!” “It’s true man . . . Chet must be pushing him over the top.”
Revolutions, it seems, are definitely 5n style this year. Unlike the recent Hungarian bit, the people in the U. S. are witnessing their own revolt. A jazz revolt. A progressive jazz revolt. This unusual conversation is characteristic among the many progressive jazzonians who have endorsed this new style of music. Not only has progressive jazz ■extended new concepts from instrumental jazz it has given birth to a strange new breed of believers—people ■who have been converted from the traditionalism of New Orleans, Chicago and New York jazz. The era of California jazz has definitely arrived.
Like the musicians who have searched for new concepts, these new progressive people have cast off the vocabulary of the old guard and improvised their own new sounds. Progressive people absolutely do not rock anymore—they flip. There is a marked distinction. This distinction is not limited by a change in vocabulary —it comes from the difference in music. Progressive jazz doesn’t swing — it simply wheels. This may merely sound like a difference in terms but the simultaneous creativity of progressive jazz enables its followers to flip instead of rock or swing. Let’s try to discover this distinction by taking a look at the aims of this new jazz.
WHAT IS PROGRESSIVE JAZZ DOING?
This new music tries, according to its foremost spokesman, Dave Brubeck, to prove that jazz is really music. According to this spokesman, “today’s
progressive jazz reflects the American scene—the hopes, dreams and frustrations of our generation. Our primary aim is not to perform a standard through a familiar piece of music but to convey a mood or feeling that simultaneously flows from our creative impositions.”
Brubeck’s musicians believe their music to be more arty than the stereotyped jazz of the past half-century. His followers heartily agree by flipping. Non-believers of the progressive sound addicts always ask the same question— how does progressive jazz make any sense when you don’t know what’s coming next?
Brubeck has an answer for this popular query. “Our jazz, demands a hearing because of its creativity. Composers have years to think of the notes to a song while we have to decide in a second. These songs become stereotyped and little room is given for individual improvisation and stylization. In progressive jazz you can perform what you compose.”
BUT HOW CAN WE FOLLOW IT?
Brubeck has an answer for this one. “The audience,” states Dave, “is a part of this creativity and maybe for some this is the first time in their lives. When they catch on to our mood or concept you know you have done something —that persistent beat starts to become a live thing in the room. Pretty soon it comes back to you and you can feel it. Then you can really play music because you know the audience has grasped your mood and now they beg for new improvisations on this new con-■ cept. They see a part of them in our expression and it’s wonderful. When I’m really inspired I’m the happiest guy in the world.”
This is precisely what the progressive people mean when they flip. The old jazzonians rocked or swung when they
a revolution
in sounds
heard a semi-stylistic version of a piece they knew beforehand. The progressive people claim a new experience with each new improvisation.
HOW DOES DAVE DO THIS?
Brubeck’s new 'brand of jazz conveys ■ its mood through the team work of his j group. The rhythm section of Bob Bate: = playing the base and Joe Dodge on j drums lays down the beat and rhythm, s Paul Desmond and Brubeck supply the • majority of the improvisations on the ? alto saxophone and piano. Desmond gets i the new concept under way and Brubeck will either join him in creating or else j keep with the rhythm section and keep • his sounds linked as a unison. This im- ; provising, whether the audience knows r it or not, requires a great technical skill' . and creativity. Each of these indivi- , duals’ musically split personalities draws ; out the new concepts through their in- 1 terpretive improvising extension on a number.
Brubeck tried to merge classical music with jazz, but his group’s creativity never destroys the essential beat of the jazzmen. £Ls contrapuntal play-_ ? ing—the superimposing of a tune b> ; blending his own improvisations on the one before it—is in the long hair tradition. Often his slow beats blend as a contrast to the rhythm section’s pace draws from nineteenth and twentieth century classical compositions. Anyway one may try to explain Brubeck’s new and different music, its recent popularity shows that this spokesman has capture^, the imaginations of many jazz lovers.'
WHO ARE HIS FOLLOWERS?
The majority of his followers are college students but they are rapidly being contested by evei-yone who enjoys creative music, different music . . . progressive music.

34
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
&
New Harmony trio
headliners all!
i
Style-wise collegians everywhere are applauding Arrow this year. For close harmony in color, its smart button-down Glen can’t be matched. And, the Squire sport model has style to spare, with its trim, short-point collar and imported cotton flannel.
Appearing with them: an eternal campus favorite, the University crew neck sweater.
Glen, $3.95 and $5.00; Squire, $5.95; University sweater, 1.95} woven twill ties, $1.50.

ARROW
—first in fashion SHIRTS • TIES * SLACKS
Donzt miss
this variety show
When it comes to personal appearances— dress-up or casual—you can’t do better than this Arrow pair. Not only do they feature the latest and most flattering of collars (button-down Glen for dress and neat, short" point Squire for relaxing in style) . . . But, we have ’em in a wide variety of fabrics, patterns and colors. Why net look in on them now?
Glen, $3.95 and $5.00;
Squire, $5.95; woven twill ties, $1.50.
^GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS (Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend