Diamond Jubilee 1867 -1942
Interhall Sports Issue
Over two-thirds of the students enrolled in the summer semester, now half over, are participating in the extensive interhall athletic program being sponsored by the University athletic and physical education departments.' It is to these 1250 Notre Dame men and their leaders that we dedicate this special interhall issue of the Scholastic.
Volume 76 Number 6 July 24, 1942
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
Active Duty
The University of Chicago made news, along other than scholastic lines, last week with the aid of a few of the Coast Guard Signal Corps boys who are training at the University.
The few were strolling by the Harvard School for Boys, an elementary school unit on the university campus, when they were accosted by a sizeable group of first graders who wished to know if they could have white sailor hats such as the few were wearing.
Being- shrewd business men, and being also not well acquainted with the fair inhabitants of the nearby area, the few made a bargain with the many that they would secure hats, if they would be given in return the names and addresses of ten eligible and beautiful girls.
The names were accordingly exchanged for the hats, and everyone was happy about the whole thing, that is until the few began calling on the girls. They may have been eligible and beautiful, but six years old is still too young.
St. Joe Hospital .
The doctor stuck a thermometer in the co-ed patient’s mouth.
“Thank you,” she said. “Have you a match?”
U.S.F. on the March
“Two for the dead already and one for the next that dies,” is the slogan every student at the University of San Francisco is trying to follow these days in the school’s War Bond drive to avenge the USF men who have been killed in service. More than five hundred dollars have been taken in through this organized drive.
Commandos
Commando troops for Indiana University will soon be developed at the school’s obstacle course now being constructed for R.O.T.C. training. The course, believed to be the only one of its kind for college students, will include a stream crossing, scaling an 8-foot fence, crawling under a bar two feet high, negotiating a ladder swing 15 feet high and 15 feet long, crawling through an 8-foot pipe, over an obstacle run for 25 feet, 25-foot balance run, grenade targets, tire obstacles, a 10-foot rope ladder climb and a running charge up-hill to trenches.
2
Open Season
During a grouse hunt two sportsmen were shooting at a clump of trees near a stone wall. Suddenly a red face popped over the top of the wall.
“Curse you, you almost hit my wife!”
“Did I?” cried the man aghast. “I’m terribly sorry--Jiave a shot at mine over there.”
Two of a Kind
Because of their rare subtlety the following items will be niched together as unclassified humor.
“I’ve just taken a shine to your wife,” said the stork to the negro.
Fond Mother: “Yes, Jane is taking French and Algebra; Say good morning to Mrs. Jones in Algebra, dear.”
Bible History
At a revival meeting of God’s chillun the reverend was endeavoring to explain the Good Book, when he came to the line, “There was weeping and gnashing of teeth.” .	■
“How all can you weep teeth like it says there in the book?” asked a solemn believer in the front row.
“Hush, man,” said the preacher, “them was eye teeth. ■ .
Women, giddy women.
—Messinger
Of all the expensive hobbies, the collection of wives is the most expensive.
—Wenzel
Two great duties of a virtuous women
—to keep home and be silent.
—Britaine
The souls of women are so small, That some believe they’ve none at all.
—Butler
In point of morals, the average woman is, even for business, too crooked.
—Leacock
Those who speak well of women do not know them sufficiently.
—Pigault-Lebrun
Women are all alike in the dark.
_	—Greek Proverb
Drown the Kid
Rev. Good (at baptism): “His name please?”
Mother: “Algernon Phillip Percival Reginald Mortimer Duckworth.”
Rev. (to his assistant): “A little more water please.”
Up in the Air
Gunman: “Put your hands up or I’ll shoot.”
(Inebriate raises one hand.)
Gunman: “Get ’em both up.”
Ineb.: “Hit’s all right—I’m half shot already.”
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 76
JULY 24, 1942
No. 6
Summer Sports Program Attracts 1250 Students
Bill Reynolds
As the second half of Notre Dame’s wartime summer semester gets well under way we look back and see that one of the deciding factors in making the hot days pass quickly has been the interhall athletic program headed by John A. Scannell, director of the University department of physical education. According to Mr. Scannell approximately 1250 of the 1856 students enrolled in the summer term are actively engaged in the eight sports included in the program.
Varsity coaches and members of the department of physical education are conducting the program of open competition and round-robin schedules. The directors of the various sports are: Jake Kline, baseball; Vince Commissa, soft-ball and volleyball; Rev. George L. Hol-derith, C.S.C., golf; Walter M. Langford, tennis; Dominick Napolitano, boxing; Al Handy, track; and Gil Burdick, swimming.
The seven residence halls, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Walsh, St. Edward’s, Sorin, and Alumni, and the Naval R.O.T.C. are all active in the round-robin schedules. Zahm hall, which houses the priests and brothers is operating independently in the various sports, challenging the other halls. Faculty teams are entered in several of the campus leagues.
Varsity Coach Jake Kline and his assistant, Andy Chlebeck, former varsity captain, report that some 120 men are engaged in baseball, while nearly 300 are participating in softball under the direction of Vince Commissa, physical education senior. There are more than 20 teams organized in softball alone. The 10-team volleyball league boasts of 150 participants, and both tennis and golf have large followings.
The fine job that Coach Napolitano is doing with the boxing enthusiasts. was evidenced last Thursday night in the gymnasium. The boxing show, only the first of a series, promises a bigger and better Bengal Bouts in the fall. Physical (Continued on Page 22)*
St. Ed's.and Alumni Lead
Hall Volleyball League
Jack Denniston
Two startling upsets marked play in the Interhall volleyball league during the past two weeks. A smart and smooth
PROF. J. SCANNELL
Faculty sextet surprised a previously u n d e-feated St. Edward’s Hall unit with a sound 15-9; 15-12; 15-10 triumph. The St. Ed’s defeat left unbeaten Alumni II as king of the volleyball league. Both the A. C.
and the second team of Alumni won
their next games, Alumni stopping fifth place Cavanaugh I, and Fr. Gorman’s boys swamping puzzled Breen-Phillips.
This brought St. Ed’s A.C. to their “must-win” game with Alumni II. Alumni grabbed the first two sets, 15-9 and 15-7. The seniors started the third game with all intentions of ending the slaughter. They jumped to a commanding 8 to 1 lead before confusion broke out in their lines.
We don’t know if the argument was about “who would buy the malteds in the caf after the game?” or, if they were trying to solve the campus problem: “What became of the Dome?” At. any event before the discussion ended, St. Edward’s had pocketed the next three games to take a well-earned struggle. Ed Krupa—aided by elongated Dick Terry and Ray Nedwedki—sparked St. Ed’s, and Frank Leahy’s fighting football pilot for this fall, George Murphy, paced Alumni II in the all-out contest.
Navy ROTC almost turned Alumni I aside last week, but their closing rally waned and died out in the last set and they finally succumbed to the seniors. Alumni captured the first two games decisively, 15-0 and 15-4, before Frank Crowley and Jim White roused the “marchers.” They stamped out the next two sets,-15-10 and 15-8, but then slowed (Continued on Page 22)
Tennis Has Active Part In Interhall Activities
Phil Keen
Is tennis doing its part in this sum
mer’s all out interhall sports program?
If you are asking this question, just take
Coach Langford
a walk over to any of the tennis courts at any time and you will see the answer in the form of white-clad ghosts streaking across the sun - baked courts.
Going into the third week of
interhall competition, both Dillon teams are setting a fast pace. Dillon I and Dillon II have each won two matches against no defeats. However, it is still a wide open race. Even cellar-dwellers Walsh and Breen - Phillips still have plenty of chances to catch the leaders.
Dillon I met plenty of opposition in their first match as they eked out a 4 to 3 win over the NDROTC. Whalen, McAndrews, and Sheridan recorded victories to give the Sophomores a 3 to 2 lead in the singles. The Navy boys tied it up with a close 1-6, 6-4, 6-3 win in the number one doubles match, but Dillon’s all-around strength proved the deciding factor as McAndrews and Sheridan scored a match-winning 6-3, victory in the second doubles match.’
The sophs had an easier time in tripping the Faculty 5 to 2. Walter Langford, varsity tennis coach, registered the Faculty’s lone victory in the singles, 6-4, 6-3, and teamed with Brother Edmund to take the first doubles match 6-4, 6-3.
Dillon’s other squad has had little difficulty in keeping its slate clean. Led by Jim Quinn and Jerry O’Reilly, the Dil-lonites defeated Alumni, 6-1 and overpowered Walsh, 7 to 0.
Interhall tennis is unique in its arrangement. Anyone, who wishes has a chance to play. By submitting your, name to Coach Langford or George Biittner -you can be placed on your respective hall
(Continued on page 23)
Fast action play at first base in a Sorin-Dillon interhall baseball game. Dil-lonite Jim Mello beats out an infield hit as the Sorin first baseman "Bobo" Fischer anxiously awaits the throw. Umpire Andy Chlebeck calls the play. .
INTER
SPO
SUMMER -
Tennis Coach Walter Langford . gives a few pointers on serving to RoyGrum-bine of Dillon, head of the Naval ROTC interhall team.	.
-Photo. by • Chrisovergis
4
—Photo by Watters
—Photo by Chrisovergis
s
Bengal Champions Kermit Rousseve and Farrell Quinlan swap blows in the headliner of last weeks interhall boxing bouts. Rousseve defeated the heavier Quinlan in his last fight at Notre Dame before leaving for his selective service examination. Coach Napolitano is the "third man in the ring."

These two Dillon-ites, "Tex" Crowley (putting) and Rolly Steinle, were caught on the second green during a practice' round following the qualifying rounds of • the interhall tourney.
—Photo by Chrisovergis
Track Coach "Doc" Handy starts the interhall thinlies on a long jaunt over the cinders. The runners, (from left to right) are: Bill Harrington, Dillon; Bob Hughes, Dillon; Fred Bremer, Off-Campus; Al Lesmez, Breen-Phillips; John Reilly, Breen-Phillips; Dan Gentile, Dillon; Jack Lauck, Dillon, and Jim Tansey, Off-Campus.
4
-a
Baseball Very Popular On Intermural Program
Bill Boss
The seeds that Rockne sowed for his
great intramural athletic dreams more than a decade ago have been blooming
A. CHLEBECK
matured boy, in
at Notre Dame this Summer greater than ever before. The Old Master’s great hopes before his untipiely death were for extensive student cooperation i n intramural athletics. Varsity competition wras for the his estimation, while
intramural play assisted in building the student into a finer physical specimen
and an enviable sportsman. The sport that has gathered more competitors together than any other campus activity has been baseball and now with but one
lean week of league play left some 125 fellows are vigorously involved in the last of the tri-weekly diamond workouts.
As the last turn is sighted it seems that the University pennant will be pinched by either the Naval ROTC riding high on a wave of power, or Jack McNulty’s fierce fighting Alumni nine.
McNulty feels that his squad will have little trouble turning in the final victories. Tom Maloney who didn’t tally early in the semester is beginning to hurl talented ball. His efforts combined with the tossing of varsity ace, John Metzger, give the South campus lads a fine chance of chopping through successfully. Bill Stewart, is working daily behind the platter for McNulty’s men and is effec-. tively hacking down attempted thefts on the paths. With Fred Gore covering the short field area and Kralovec’ at third the inner garden is well protected. Al Muench in Centerfield and Bill Baker, dancing in right, gather in any wayward balls that rocket their way. .
The Alumni outfit has three wins and one setback charged to its account. The Sorinites and Dillonites have each lost one contest, while the NROTC is cherishing a four game victory charge smeared .with-only one defeat. -	-
Coach “Bud” Ahem, the Walsh Wizard, and Dillon coach, who wandered from Cartier Field last week to take an Army Air Corps exam at Lafayette, opines that the only rebuttal the sophomores felt was turned in when he was away. He believes the Dillon squad is well-balanced and should have little trouble shoveling the rest of the league all over the diamond with the last lap
(Continued on Page 20)
Rousseve-Quinlan Battle
Features Boxing Matches
Nine rousing battles, featuring five Bengal Bout kingpins, opened Coach Dominick Napolitano’s summer boxing program Thursday night July 16, in the old gymnasium.
In the evening’s most sensational scrap, Kermit Rous-seve 145 pound champ, d e c i-sioned the 155 pound t i 11 i s t,
COACH Napolitano Farrell Quinlan. Floored in the first by Quinlan’s quick and effective right, Rousseve rose to put Quinlan down for the count of nine in the second. The third round found .both boys mixing freely to the delight of the large crowd present.
Dillon Hall’s hopeful, Clint Wilkins, 145, dropped a decision to Walt Romito, of Cavanaugh, in a fast bout that opened the show.
Lightweights Joe Farrell; of Cavanaugh, and Sanmiy Meyer, of Alumni, went the three-round route -with Farrell emerging winner. Meyer copped the Bengal crown in 1939. Fast little Johnny Quinlan, of Cavanaugh, defeated Mike McNulty, of Breen-Phillips, via decision in a bantamweight brawl.
Jack Leahy, nephew of football mentor Frank Leahy, received the judges’ nod over husky Mickey Finn in the fifth fight of the night. Finn is from Cavanaugh while Leahy represents Dillon.
Probably the fastest moving battle was Sam Atwater’s decision victory over three-time Bengal champ, Paul Malloy. Sammy, at 135 pounds, caused Malloy, 125, to suffer his first defeat in the local ring by taking the win. These two ringwise lads displayed some truly shifty boxing, Malloy with his straight, hard punching, and Sammy with his bobbing, weaving tactics. Atwater, the current 135 • Bengal ruler, is from Dillon and Malloy a senior from Alumni Hall.
Bill Walsh was saved by the bell with the count at eight in the third round of his encounter with Cavanaugh’s Steve O’Rourke. Bill McNamara, the University’s 165-pound champion, lost by decision to Bob Dunne, former Gulf Coast Golden Gloves champ. Dunne carried the fight and pitted an effective left against the Bengal champs jabs. Both men are from Walsh hall.
A pair of heavyweight sluggers put the finishing punches on the card, with (Continued on Page 20)	-
Much Interest Shown
In Campus Golf Meet
Bill Boss
Straggled across the brown-crested fairways of the William J. Burke Memorial Course, 107 determined golfers
FATHER HOLDERITH
labored beneath an over-li e a t e d sun attempting to pulverize par in the annual University match play golf championship which opened a f o r t -
night ago. The inspired aspirants, however, fell shockingly short in their endeavors as only 68 perspiring entrants had courage enough to finish the 36 qualifying holes.
Only four of the contestants who turned in complete cards failed to qualify for match play and the highest qualifying score was 181, a 39 stroke spurt above par. The lowest sheet massed was a 73-73, 146, four whacks over perfect figures, handled by Everhart Schleck, a promising sophomore, from South Milwaukee, Wis.
Dave Sullivan, a varsity protege from Dedham, Mass., hit a few snags but managed to drop his last putt for a 75 on the first eighteen but was able to slam back in his late round with a 72 to bob into second place with 147 swings.
Other names prominent in the low scoring circle were: Jim Gallagher, who turned in with 153 whacks; Harry Wright, varsity guard, tacked up 154; Wisconsin’s Jack Rau, 155; Joe Gibbons, 157; Bill Middendorf, 157; Frank Crowley, 157; and Joe Moore, 157.
The finals for the annual tourney are slated for August 2. The first and second rounds are over and third round play began yesterday. The quarter finals are set for July 23 to 26, and the semifinals set for August 1.
First round action took an unexpected toll last week of the low qualifiers.
Lanky Everhart Schleck, the medalist, found tough diggings in little Dick Ungashick of Canton, Ohio, on the early holes of the last nine but the six-up lead the Milwaukee ace had captured on the outgoing nine gave him the advantage to pull in victor, 4-2.	'
Frank Crowley, Dillon’s divoter deluxe, slapped wild strokes over the fairways .
(Continued on Page 20)
6
DRAMATIC SCENES AND "TRIAL BY JURY" END TRIO OF PERFORMANCES ON CAMPUS TONIGHT
tice by the entire cast. The first two performances were very successful, and to those planning to attend tonight, a very enjoyable program is promised.
The University Theatre and the Notre Dame Savoyards will present tonight the final performance of a joint production of an anthology of scenes and the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, “Trial By Jury.” .Concluding a three-night run in Washington Hall before audiences of. Navy men, Community members, students and townspeople, this latest theatrical production is hailed as successful as Notre' Dame performances traditionally are.
Directed by Cecil Birder, the operatic triumph “Trial By Jury” has been equalled only by the two former Gilbert and Sullivan delights “The Gondoliers” and “Pinafore.” “Trial By Jury” is a mild satire on English chancery, and though lasting only 45 minutes, it is regarded as one of the most popular works of the great composers. The leading role of the Judge is played by David J. Curtin, Rochester, N. Y., who is well known for his many interpretations in former plays produced on the campus. The feminine lead, the plaintiff, is taken by Joan Birder, who starred also in the two former operettas. Ed Hoban, a newcomer to the Washington Hall stage from River Forest, Ill., ably portrays the part of council for the plaintiff. Mike Zorovich, New York City, is the defendant, and Kevin O’Toole, Chicago, Ill., is the court usher. The latter three actors are all outstanding tenors in the Notre Dame Glee Club.
Included in the Jury are Bill Murrin, ’ Herb Clark, Lou Colleran, Frank Haley, Bob Beck, John Newell, Jack Coleman, Owen Donelly, Morris Wagner, Gerry O’Reilly, Tom Schreiber, and Jim Monaghan. Acting as bridesmaids for the plaintiff are Marylyn and Barbara Nelson, Agnes Haney, Ruth Baumbach, Margaret Calloway, Louise Holmgren, Marie Manauszak, June Anderson, and Mary Coquillard.
The scenes presented in the anthology are taken from some of the greatest English and American dramas and are under the direction of Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C. They are presented and connected in the form of a radio broadcast, the narrator being Father Coyle who introduces each scene. They are five in number: “Green Pastures,” a story of Noah’s Ark, as presented by David Curtin, Dan-- iel Downey, and Griff Allen; “Progress,” the fate of a selfish doctor, starring
Charles Kane and Elizabeth Jankovits; “Of Thee I Sing,” portraying the life of politicians, featuring Andy McElroy, Kevin O’Toole, Griff Allen, Charles Kane, David Curtin and Daniel Downey; “Queen Elizabeth,” a dramatic scene of old England, starring James McDonough, campus winner of the Fred Allen radio contest, and Elizabeth Jankovits, and “King Henry IV,” a Shakespearean scene, including David Curtin, Lyle Joyce, Harold Zink, and Dan Downey. Acting as guards in the “Queen Elizabeth” scene are Dave Skory, Griff Allen, John Ford, and Andy McElroy.
An added attraction for the evening’s entertainment is the presentation called “Theme for Winning the War,” a patriotic partita played by the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra. Recently this new composition by Henry Brandt was aired over the Columbia Broadcasting System for its initial presentation, and this marks the first time any university has been able to include it on a public program. This “Theme for Winning the War” lasts only eight minutes and is divided into four humorous movements, “Prelude for Conserving Gasoline,” “Parade of the Suits without Cuffs,” “Homage to Air Raid Wardens,” and “The Rhumba of the War Bonds.” This symphonic selection is under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music.
The final presentation of the program will concude four weeks of diligent prac-
SUMMER CO-OP PROGRAM
Hall Parties coming up in Dillon, St. Ed’s, Breen-Phillips, Alumni, and Cavanaugh under the hall SAC men.
Weekly Student-Professor Meetings sponsored by the Catholic Action Students.
Co-op Day set for August 6. Details out next week.
Campus Swimming Meet on Saturday Afternoon, August 8, in St. Joseph’s lake. Prizes by SAC. Begin your training now.
K. of C. Vaudeville (from talent of Hall Parties), Thursday, August 13. Awarding of Swim Prizes.
August 15: Solemn celebration of the Feast of the Assumption for students remaining on campus, arranged by the Student Liturgy Commission.
7
Band Holds Farewell
Picnic for Conductor
On Thursday afternoon and evening, the Notre Dame Band members rang down the curtain on the first half of their summer season with a picnic held at one of the nearby lakes. Some 60 members enjoyed the outing and bade farewell to Franklyn L. Wiltse, who has been their guest conductor and director for the past seven weeks. A sufficient supply of refreshments were disposed of during the course of the evening. Various sporting activities were enjoyed in the earlier hours, while less active events occupied the later period.
This outing was a result of the efforts of the officers of the organization: Vito Cappello, Brooklyn, N. Y., president; Bob Rihm, Knightstown, Ind., vice-president; Bart Ramsour, Joplin, Mo., secretary and treasurer; and. John Frye, Merrill, Wis., business manager. These men were chosen at the close of last year and have been at their respective posts throughout the summer and will hold them until graduation in December.
Plans are being made to get the band in shape for the coming football season which will include at least five home games and possibly a trip or two. This means work for the band and no time can be lost in preparation.—C. S. Coco
«4»1	—i——————.—Ttigv
1 EDITORIAL I
vae==^====^==^=======^==^=^============5sv
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi . Cras Moriturus
■	FOUNDED 1867
Notre Dame, Indiana, July 24, 1942 Dear Bill,
There’s no point in wasting a couple of paragraphs with excuses for not writing sooner. You know how it is. Letters are things you are always willing to receive but sadly reluctant to write. Might mention, though, that the weather here in the past week or so certainly has not been conducive to letter-writing. However, you can probably well remember die heat-humidity combination from the time you attended a summer session. But disregard the kicks from this end. Whenever it seems to be too hot' to attend classes your description of tank-maneuvers comes in for a bit of re-reading. Admittedly, a whole week of classes, even in this heat, couldn’t compare to a fifteen-minute ride in one of those mobile furnaces.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of . postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	.	■
First, your question should be answered. Yes, Ed is here this summer and sends his regards. You might even receive a letter from him one of these days. He says that it’s very possible that he might see you in person before he has a chance to write. The draft is catching up with him very fast. The Navy is still here, in fact, the biggest unit so far is on campus right now. There are some 1300 V-7 men and they have now taken over Badin hall and the West dining hall has been converted into a cafeteria in order to take care of them. Also .there is a small group of Army and Navy air cadets staying in St. Edward’s. They are taking a full-time CPT course at the South Bend airport and going to class on campus. The military colors, khaki, blue, and white, are familiar sights around here now.
You can stop worrying about the attitude of the students here. They realize the seriousness of present conditions. They are all prepared or preparing to take some integral part in the national defense and offense effort as soon as their time comes. Many fellows have obtained a deferred status in some special branch of the armed forces; others are ready to enter the regular army when called. You’d get a big kick out of all the AB and Commerce men wrangling over intricate (the engineers scoff at this) math problems. Many are taking special math courses in preparation for V-7 or some other branch of the service. And then some fellows are driving their room-mates crazy—they have small buzzer sets and are constantly practicing code signals for the radio class. Of course, the campus N.R.O.T.C. unit is more active than ever. Did you ever see their summer uniforms? Not bad at all.
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Edward Roney, Jr......-Managing	Editor
Daniel Downey------------Campus	Editor
Bill Reynolds............Sports	Editor
Charles Kleibacker.......Admin.	Editor
Robert Lonergan_____________Promotion
Ted Weber-----------------Photo	Editor
George Thompson_____....... Art	Editor
James CHRisovERGis....Sta# photographer . Gau, Fitch, Jr..........Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison ‘ - Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Admin. istration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.-
- Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms. Old Ave _ Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Page
The social angle is the same as ever. The seniors held a vote to decide the time of the year for the ball. Early fall was the time selected and now the committee heads are struggling through the red tape selecting the particular weekend. The Early Fall vote means that it will probably come, sometime in September. The Sophs and Juniors have made tentative plans for football weekend dances. And by the way, barring the unforeseen, this is going to be a big football season—eleven games scheduled.	.	: _	-
Thought you might be interested in the latest joke. And "I didn’t read it in the Week. It seems that one of the Engineering profs gave his quarterly test to his secretary to have it typed out. One of the questions was: Name four types of dams and describe each. Maybe you’ve guessed the result. Yes, the secretary made a mistake and when the students got the mimeographed test sheets, that question read: Name four types of dames and describe each. I guess he had to pass the . whole class to stop the riot.	•	. .
Not much more to say now. You are being remembered in the prayers of the students and faculty. Recently a Mass was said for the special intention of all ; Notre Dame men in the service. Write when you get time.	. . - ; 1
.	.	. A -	Your friend. ..	;
Dramatic Scenes and "Trial By Jury Cooperation Week ..
ADMINISTRATION
Dujarie Has Operetta .... : N. D. War Activities.......
SPORTS ;
.Interhail Sports A ~	_____- -
A Softball League Play _____________:.....
. , N. D. All-Stars Campaign ._________...
FEATURES
The'.College; Parade ________________
., Th e Wee k L-iT.i.l.i.;.'.'..A..A-.....A....i..
7. The Navy	____
- Clubs. -	~	: ~~~ '	’
A1; Pressbox ' S pl i hters;
; Cover Photo By/Chrisovergis
7
7
..14
J5
.3; 6
18 :
...2
12
16 :
8
Popular Program Given
By Notre Dame Glee Club
The Notre Dame Glee Club, appearing for the first time in comfortable summer attire, presented an inspired program of ' a wide variety of selections from eighteenth-century music to a patriotic medley of service songs before a near capacity crowd in Washington Hall last week.
The club, which now consists of 59 members, gave the Fred Waring styling of such favorites as “All Through the Night,” “The Lost Chord,” and “Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes.” Among the other numbers for the evening’s entertainment were “Drums,” “Estrellita,” and the Agnus Dei and Sanctus from the Mass in. B flat by Antonio Lotti. The popular club concluded the concert with a medley of patriotic numbers including the “Star Spangled Banner,” the Marine hymn, “Anchors Aweigh,” “My Country ’Tis of Thee,” and a new- hit called “The Army Air Corps.”
Soloists included pianist John Witt, who presented his version of. Liszt’s “Rigoletto . Paraphrase,” and William Brady, who rendered “Hills of Home” and an Irish folk song called “Rory O’Moore.” This was Brady’s debut as a soloist with the club. Also added to the program was William Scully, well known for the quality of. his tenor voice, who was called back for two encores after singing .“Homing.”
CAPPELLO'S CAVALIERS POPULAR CAMPUS BAND;
PLAY WEEKLY AT LONG BEACH COUNTRY CLUB
Veet Cappello and his Cavaliers constitute college land’s newest band. The 15-piece orchestra is at present the only .	student dance band on
the campus, taking over first place, from last year’s Cavaliers led by Jack Malloy and the Modemaires led by Bob Richardson. The two latter bands enjoyed exten-
sive p opularityin their regimes, but with a. hard-working enthusiastic group of musicians, Cappello plans on having the best orchestra ever produced on this campus.
Already quite popular before the close of last semester, the Cavaliers played for the tea dance accompanying the Senior Ball. Vaughn Monroe, who played for the ball and who is one of the topranking artists of the day, complimented the student orchestra by saying it was one of the best college bands he had ever heard. With this to work on the Cavaliers, dented only slightly by graduation and the draft, buckled down to weeks of hard practice to prepare for their first summer appearance. .
For the past two Saturday night) and, the Cavaliers are confident, for the remainder of the summer) they have played
for the Long Beach Country Club’s weekly dance. Long Beach, a fashionable resort outside Michigan City, is quite popular among holiday vacationers, and Cappello’s orchestra has been well received there by the younger generation -of dancers.	-
A position such as playing at this Country Club is evidence of the calibre of the Cavaliers. Practicing every afternoon from 4:30 to 5:30 in the music hall, they have built up a library of over 200 numbers. Of this amazing total, 15 are special arrangements by the Cavaliers themselves. Besides these, the band features several novelties arranged by members of the orchestra. “Three Little Fellas” is sung by the three musketeers, Vic DeSimon, Floyd Richards, and Dick Brydges, and satirizes the popular tune “Three Little Sisters.” Richards, known popularly- as “Slush,” wrote an original number called “Ding Dong Daddy from Dumas,” and Joe Fitzpatrick wrote a delightful selection called “Serenade to a Maid.” ».	'
Bill “Veet” Cappello, the leader and stellar saxaphone player of the orches'-tra, comes from Brooklyn, N. Y. Bill has played with several orchestras in his day, among them the late Malloy Cavaliers. He is majoring in music, and has added to his achievements the presidency of
This makes the third appearance of the Glee Club this summer, the other two being at Healthwin Hospital and St. Mary’s commencement. The club is going to give another concert at St. Mary’s next week, and several others, the plans for which are not yet complete, in the near future.	:
Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, is the director of the Glee Club. Officers this year are Reggie Flynn, Youngstown, Ohio, . president; vice-president, Kevin O’Toole, Chicago; secretary-treasurer, William Scully, New Rochelle, N. Y.; publicity director, William Z. Murrin,. Butler, Pa.; business manager,-James E. Treacy, South Bend; and faculty business manager, Robert H. McAuliffe.
"SCRIP" NOTICE
Students who wish to submit material for publication in Scrip should bring it to room 310 Alumni Hall as soon as possible. Scrip, the University literary publication, is now published once during each semester. John Gilligan, a senior from Cincinnati, Ohio, is the present editor of the magazine. .
Left to right, standing: Bill Capello, front man, Tony Bristol, Joe Fitzpatrick, Bill , Frye, Dick Pedrotty, John Solon, Floyd Richards, Bill Binet, Henry Kane, vocalist. . Seated left to right: Dick Brydger, John Redmond, Dick Hines, John Boyle, Mike ' Zorovich, Victor DeSimon.	-	*
'	-	•	.	9 "	■-
the University Band.
The other 14 members of the well-balanced band are all music lovers. The sax section is composed of Dick Brydges, Big Island, Va.; Victor DeSimon, Rochester, N. Y.; Jack Redmond, New Rochelle, N. Y.; and Jack Boyle, West Hempstead, N. Y. Those playing the trombone are Joe Fitzpatrick, Ellicottville, N. Y.; Floyd Richards, Farmington, N. H.; and Bill Frye, who also plays the bass, from Merrill, Wis.; Mike Zoro-vich, from New York City, plays the guitar. The trumpet section boasts Bill Binet, Grand Rapids, Minn.; Dick Ped-rotty, Mishawaka, Ind.; and Jack Solon, Streator, Hl. Tony Bristol, from New York City, is the drummer; and Dick Hines, from Boston, Mass., is the keyboard artist. All vocals are handled by Hank Kane, of Flushing, N. Y.
Cappello and his Cavaliers will probably get the bid to play for the student dances to be held this summer. On all public appearances the popular orchestra presents a colorful outfit clothed in white coats, tux pants, and maroon ties. Their theme song is “The Man I Love,” arranged by Joe Savord, a former member of the band, who left school last semester.
At present, plans are being made to have the Cavaliers on a special weekly radio show beginning in the near future. Students will have the opportunity to see and hear the orchestra, as the public will be invited to these broadcasts.
Student-Prof Meeting
Features Atom Smasher
On Monday night, July 13, the weekly student-professor meeting took a trip over to the Science Hall. Dr. Bernard
Waldman of the physics department described the workings of the much-discussed atom-smasher in terms which even A.B. and Commerce men could understand. Fifty students saw the
dr. Bernard waldman central chamber of the famous instrument; they saw and heard Dr. Waldman discuss the counter which records the number of particles emanating from radium, and the control panel for the smasher. To demonstrate the counter, Dr. Waldman borrowed a radium dial watch from one of the students and held it near the counter; the counter clicked steadily as it recorded the particles passing from the dial.
In the course of his talk, Dr. Waldman discussed the dangers of radium. He related how one student brought a radium-dialed alarm clock over to the science building. He wanted one of the professors to use it in demonstrating the counter for him; he commented in passing that he slept every night with the clock by his face. One of the professors told him how Madame Curie, the discoverer of radium, and others had suffered severe burns and even death because of continued nearness to radium. The student vowed in a terrified voice that never again would he sleep near the clock.
In view of the success of this meeting and the favorable comments from those who attended, another popular explanation of the atom-smasher is planned for next semester.
Student Council Plans
Another Football Trip
Action, not words, is the slogan of the Student Activities Council. Several irons are in the fire at present, such as the new cheer contest, representation of the various Catholic clubs on campus, the student football trip for this fall, and an interhall swimming contest at the lake.
Not to be satisfied with progress thus . far achieved, Walt Jones, president of the Student Council, has a few ideas concerning some innovations for the future. The various Catholic clubs on the campus are hereafter to be represented by one man in the council. Since this is a Catholic university and these different clubs are for the students, it was deemed proper that they should be represented in the student governing body.
The response to the offer of $25 for the best song, idea, or cheer for the coming gridiron season has been very poor and disheai-tening to the council -and the cheerleaders, who instigated the contest'. So far only a few entries have been made, and the council has announced that if more enthusiasm on the part of the student body is not shown the contest will be discontinued. President Walt Jones and Head Cheerleader Joe Tracy expressed concern for the' sudden change in student tendencies: “Never before has it been known for a Notre Dame man to turn down a chance to win $25,” they said.
The council is working hard on the-question of a football trip for the students this fall. At present, prospects look good, but if the war situation grows any worse the trip might be restricted to Notre Dame Stadium. However, before the trip is made definite, the students will have a chance to cast a vote in favor
of their choice, whether it shall be New York, Cleveland, or Chicago. It shall be decided by the students themselves.
The swimming and diving contest which will be held at the lake within the next few weeks is in connection with the cooperation program permeating the campus this summer. Prizes will be awarded by the Student Council for the winners in the various water sports which will take place. All students are advised to_take to the lake for practice in various strokes, dives, and other activities in order to prepare for the competition of the day.
—James Downey
Band Presents Second
Summer Twilight Concert
Last Tuesday evening, the Notre Dame Band, under the direction of Franklyn L. Wiltse, guest conductor, presented the second concert of the summer season. Clad in summer apparel, the band took its stand on a temporary platform constructed on the lawn in front of the Administration Building. This marked the close of Mr. Wiltse’s stay with this University organization. His efforts were well received by the members of the band and the results were most notable in the public appearances made. His successor has not as yet been announced.
The program rendered was varied and most entertaining. Patriotic music was pnce more the theme. William Scully, New Rochelle, N. Y., popular soloist of the campus, sang two of the latest songs of World War II: that ballad of the A.E.F., “Johnny Doughboy” and the march recalling the victories of the past, “We Did It Before.” Another feature of the evening was a cornet duet by Dick Pedrotti, Mishawaka, and Ken Kehl, Chicago. Accompanied by the band, they gave an excellent interpretation of “Pals,” a polka, by George D. Barnard. Twirlers and specialty numbers were also included on the program.
The program presented was as follows:
American Flag Parade___.Pronk-Wenger-Prescott (A Flag Raising Ceremony) Arr. by Red McLeod Metropolis_____________G. E. Holemes
Pals, a Polka_____________George D. Barnard
Cornet duet—Dick Pedrotti and Ken Kehl Stardust -______.'._._____.Hoagy Carmichael
Desert Song, from “Desert Song” Sigmund Romberg
Arr. by David Bennett Johnny Doughboy.____1_______Goodhart-Twoney
We Did It Before__________.'._Riiends-Tobias
Vocal Solo—William Scully
Gen. Douglas MacArthur March___Fred K. Buffer The Mastersingers of Nuremberg_Richard Wagner
Arr. by C. H. Taylor Blue Hawaiian Waters______Albert W. Ketelbey E Pluribus Unum___________;_____.Fred Jewell
Stars and .Stripes -Forever_________...Sousa
Deep in the Heart of Texas-_____..._Swander Hike Song --------------------------‘-_Fagan-Casasanta
----C. S. Coco
10
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
“Glenn Miller for Prom” say Juniors.
' ♦
NOTE TO MUSIC MAJORS
Quit pounding those pianos for a few minutes and listen: Glenn Miller will be putting in an application for admission to the Music School pretty soon. What we mean is tnat if Glenn is on campus as often as rumored, come next fall, he might just as well join the faculty. The way we see it though, it will be Dick Jurgens for the Seniors, Glenn Miller for the Juniors, and the Sophomores, upholding the traditions of former years, will introduce Spike Jones and his City Slickers. Those sophs are a bunch of city slickers anyway. .
LYRIC OF THE WEEK
Sing me a song of the Arctic!
MUSCLE MEN
This interhall sports program is really doing the boys a world of good. The golfers are building up their legs, the tennis players are building up their arms, and the baseball players are eating regularly. Have you noticed all the horseback riders around the campus?
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“We’ll tell the watchman that we’ve been standing here since 12 o’clock on the nose.”
HERE AND THERE
The fellow behind the caf counter stirring the limeade with his thumb. He explained that his other fingers were soiled. That’s what we like about the caf. Always so thoughtful. ... Sit down at the table with your drink but don’t turn away even for a second. We did and when we turned around again we were sucking air through the straw. They like to snatch the drink when you aren’t looking. . . . They print everything on the covers of the caf straws but your bill. . . . Why is it that whenever we happen to be in the caf some nightingale is singing scales on the radio, or is that the chef cackling in the soup? . . . That mailman is still batting past the door like we had leprosy or as if we didn’t Lux our flannels. He zipped by one room
so fast, the lad inside was stricken with pneumonia. . . . You’re a social outcast if you don’t drink Dad’s Old Fashioned Root Beer. . . . The call of love here in South Bend, “Oh, lady, ladyyydy, ladyyy-dy!” Done best with a drum. . . . The Walsh haliers are amazed at the strange noises coming from the direction of the bog every morning at 6 a.m. It sounds like the fleet’s in or to be more exact, it sounds like Admiral Nimitz counting the Jap ships as they go down.
PROPHETIC WORDS
“I’m so hungry I could eat a horse.”
IMAGINATION
Remember that superstructure in the dining hall last week when the windows were being fixed? It really has an interesting history. It is a relic of precafeteria days in the west dining halls. Two sailors used to mount it every morning with a light trench mortar and would loft mystery balls to their fellow gobs. The one landing most balls on the commander’s plate was awarded a caf book. This practice was soon halted though. Too many accidents. It was then used for more practical purposes. One gob was sent aloft with a cup of coffee, a sandwich, and a pair of binoculars. He had to drink the coffee, eat the sandwich, and look for submarines, while four other sailors stood at the foot of the struc- • ture shaking it violently. All this was to give the effect of being in the crow’s riest, during a storm, and at lunch time.
BIG BLOWS
First to the Cavaliers, those master of swing and stuff and college-land’s newest well-known band. The boys will be holding down a regular beat at the Long Beach Country Club every Saturday, if they keep their minds on their business. . . . Secondly to the Irish Pennant, the local R.O.T.C. publication. Get a hold of one of these magazines. They really are full of good stuff. It may be interesting to note that an Irish Pennant in navy - lingo is any piece of rope, sail, or anything that’s ragged or frazzy. You know, something like the sheets after two weeks.
❖
BLAME THE HEAT!
From one table to another goes the slogan: “Butter is better in bottles.”
SCALLIONS
To the persistent and perennial wits who insist on whoo-whooing whenever a girl walks into a gathering. We refer, of course, to last Monday’s Camel Caravan. Take a look around you the next time you hear such an outbreak. It’s usually the campus joker who talks about all his women then shivers and shakes and gulps when he finally has a date. There are times when silence is golden and, brothers, these guys will never be arrested for hoarding.
❖
PREDICTION FOR WEEK
Flash Gordon, Dick Tracy, Frizzletop, Smilin’ Jack and Normandie will all be massacred and eaten by Little Orphan Annie and Daddy Warbucks. (Oh, how do we do it?)
YES! OR NO?
Emanuel dearest:
I sure was exasperated when I received your glamorous invitation to the Senior Hop. Lucky you! I just got a new formal too. It’s the one I wore to the Freshman dance last week at Doowit High. So you’re gonna have Dick Jer-gens and his band, huh? Maybe he’ll give away some of that lotion his maw makes. As yet I am not of a certainty in which manner I will be transported out there but since they opened up the new highway an awful lot of oil trucks go by. Paw says the hitchin’ is keen so maybe I’ll meet you on route 20. Is there gonna be a football game? If there is paw says I should yell “hi folks” inta the micree-phone. Ain’t paw a scream, Emmy? My -hair is coming in swell since I got that crew cut. I mean I look simply delirious. One of the neighbors asked why I was so ugly and maw told him that beauty was only skin deep. He told maw that she ought to go home and skin me then. I guess he meant that I was too beautiful, huh, lambie Emmy? You don’t need to worry none about not being proud of me. My new dress is the rage here in Hoboken. It’s kinda daring though, at least that’s what I think they meant when they dared me to wear it. It’s an original creation of Ilka Lace, the local fashion authority. Really, I’m outstanding when I climb into those beautiful jersey jeans. People all stay away from me and whisper, I’m so glamorous. I have to run along now, bunny. Joe Blurp just came. We’re going on a hay ride. More fun.
Anxiously yours,	Ruby.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
“Oh yeah?” say Seniors.
11
> > x	Nauu at Nolte	,
■ ---------- ■■"■ - > '■•' '"
Naval ROTC Publication
Makes Summer Appearance
Some 16 members of the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. took time off from their navigation and communication problems this past month to combine their efforts and issue the first summer number of the unit’s magazine, Ths Irish Pennant. In this, the fifth appear-
LIEUT. THOMPSON BLACK anCe °	6
small mimeographed booklet, the cadets put special emphasis on their summer - training cruise and new officers added to the unit.
Even more so than in previous issues, this month’s Pennant gives evidence to the “landlubber” that it is a publication intended for sailors. Several of the features take the form and language of Navy jargon. The number and organization of features is amazing; there are five columns, each written in a different style with titles that outdo each other. They include “Buzz-Buzz,” “Hot Off the Galley,” “Wig-Wag,” and “Lookin’ ’Em Over.”
Straight news stories cover such events as the appointments of Lieut. Commander W. F. Bullis, U.S.N.R., and Chief Specialist S. J. Jablonski to the unit’s staff. Commander Bullis is known as the founder and head of a boys preparatory school in Maryland. Chief Jablonski, a product of Commander Tunney’s Physical Education, School, has taken over the general conditioning program of the unit.
Sports news was confined to an ap- . praisal of the unit’s baseball and softball teams, each of which, according, to the Pennant possess considerable strength.
The cover design was original and was done by Louis Borghi, of Union City, N. J. It showed a defiant eagle surmounting a scroll of “life, liberty, happiness.” The editorial took as its theme the Fourth of July and the job and duty of the men of the unit. ’
Joseph A. Conerty, Crystal Lake, Ill., is editor in chief of the Pennant and his staff includes Borghi, Vincent Bitter, Asbury Park, N. J.; Alan Guard, Geneva, N. Y.; George Walsh, Canton, Ohio. Lieut. Thompson Black, Jr., U.S.N., is faculty advisor.—Ted Weber 12
MEET YOUR MATES
•A. Richard Williams was traveling abroad on a fellowship from the American Institute of Architecture when war was declared in September, 1939. In Sweden at the time, he went to Berlin after the close of the Polish campaign. While in Berlin he had an interview with Hitler’s architect and asked what Germany was doing about low-cost housing. He received the reply that in National Socialism housing must await the completion of “symbols of the state” (your guess is as good as ours). Williams embarked from Lisbon on Feb. 15, 1940, after-a detour through Italy, North Africa and Gibraltar. One of his findings was that from a functional viewpoint, the democratic countries far exceeded Germany and Italy in architecture. Williams has a degree from the University of Illinois, a master’s degree from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and is now a member of the American Institute of Architects. .
James C. Wilhelm- is already a pilot in his own right but of aircraft instead of ships. He has a Stinson S.R.E.-5 with only 600 hours use for sale at a mere $1,800 cash.	,	-
Stanley E. Susan is one of the'many V-7 men with talent rivaling that of many . vaudeville shows. He and his brother worked their way through Northern Michigan College of Education as magicians. After graduating in 1939, they toured western cities,' appearing before -schools, colleges and clubs as professional magicians. After this trip Susan took graduate work in speech and radio at the . University of Iowa where he was staff announcer at station WSUI.	,
A. F. Winterson was captain of the Duke University football team. that played in the Rose Bowl in January, 1939. Henry Warner III was manager of the Tulane University team that played Texas A. & M' in the Sugar Bowl Jan. 1, ■1940.
Just before week end worry: “Wonder if I will be on watch this week-end”; just, , after week end worry: “Wonder if I will be able to watch.”
Should any officer of the watch or roving patrols happen to be passing the ship Badin at night, don’t become fright
ened if a scream is heard coming from within. This is just one of the nightly habits of a seaman aboard. For further information inquire at room 219.	'
Among the many journalists in the Navy School are, Harold L. Woods, editor of the Baptist Student Paper, for Baptist students all over the nation; W. W. Woodbridge, Jr., editor of the yearbook at William & Mary College; E. R. Witten, editor of Carolina Tar an’ Feathers (Universify of North Carolina humor magazine); W. Alan Williams, editor of East Tennessee State Teachers’ paper, The Chalkland; and George F. Woodliff, editor of the Ole Miss Annual, of the University of Mississippi.
*
Among the “civilian” sailors already knowing the ways of the sea are, H. Y. Wilson, Bob Wilson, H. A. Wilson, Wes P. Winkler and Henry Streeter.
■ ■ ❖ -
George B. Strother will receive his Ph.D. in psychology from Indiana University on August 21, 1942. His thesis was on .the. electrical activity of the muscles as affected by emotions experienced in dramatic readings. To take up his spare time he was director of the - University radio theater, gained a working knowledge of French, Latin, Spanish, German, Swahili and Arabic. For relaxation he hunts and fishes with his Canadian cabin as an operating base.
A man that will feel at home around ships is Richard C. Wilkins. Before com-ing.to the Navy School he worked on hull design at the. Mare Island Naval Yards, Mare Island, Calif.
. -
. Another man now aspiring to sail objects of his former handicraft is Henry . Streeter who was a ship fitter at George Lawley’s : Shipyards. Streeter had pre-.viously mined,for gold in Alaska. .
This is not Harold Gainer’s first meeting with. Notre Dame. He was on the great. Northwestern football team that beat N.D. 13-6. The same team beat Min- nesota. 6-0 which was the first defeat ., for the Gophers in 22 games. He was also on the wrestling team. .	'
Eugene Gieson, Joe Gibson and Don Goodman, who room in Lyons Hall, painted the nifty looking signs for the Amusement and Recreation Office. ■
OH, CAPTAIN, MY CAPTAIN
We joined the Navy to f ree the world We thought we had it in its.
And so toe ca/me to Notre Dame
And “sail" on a beautiful campus.
We march all day and groan all night, A thousand miles from sea,
And know what Shakespeare really meant With his “to be or not to be.”
Dempsey, J., rf; Ellis, W., cf; Deener, D., If. .	'
(Ed. note: A messenger sent to the fourth deck to get the lineup of the Fourth Deck team brought back the following report—“Was unable to get roster of team. According to reports from the fourth deck this was not an official fourth deck team, but.was just a make shift team of all boys available. Inci
dentally a boy from the third deck, playing on the so-called Fourth Deck team; made the error that let the Third Deck win. Looks like a frameup).
R. L. Fite, Jr., was captain of both the . football and basketball teams at East Texas State Teachers College in his senior year.
Our faces burne'd, our uniforms hang Over bodies sent to the “tailors,”. But answer this, Oh, Captain, Sir, When do we really become sailors.” ’ Leon Marshall, AS.
60 C P.T. ARMY AND NAVY FLYERS TRAIN HERE; ' AFTER INTENSIVE WORK WILL SOLO THIS WEEK
BOB SINKLE
John C. Miller, from Mississippi, was confined to bed on July 14 with an attack of appendicitis. The mates of the fourth deck, Morrissey, are hoping for his quick recovery.
The mates of the fourth deck of Morrissey . come from 31 different states. Texas leads with .15, New’ York and’ Missouri are second with six apiece.
’Tw’een-deck softball was inaugurated in the Naval Training School last Sunday morning when the Third Deck Dodgers staged a Frank Merriwell finish to defeat a highly-touted Fourth Deck aggregation 11-10. Both teams are Lyons Hall roosters. -
Slugging was the order of the day and errors were standing the roving watch, as the Fourth Deckers took the. field in the last half of the final inning on the long end of a 6-10 score. However the inning was. never secured, for the Doodgers sounded general quarters and let go with a broadside that left the Fourth Deckers listing badly to starboard. After pushing across three runs to bring the count up to 9-10, Dayton Dickey- lined a clothes line single, to right center that sent Lee Cramer across the plate with the tying run and Joe Cralle ■with the winner. ,
The Dodgers (as they are temporarily called pending selection of a permanent handle) showed much latent power and with a few more loading drills their fire Dodgers sounded general, quarters and power may ■well reach the concentration' desired.—Joe Cralle, AS.
Lineup
Dem Bums: Dickey, E., c; Dickey, D., p; Cowden, J., lb; Daubenspeck, J., 2b; Cooper, W., ss.; Elliott, L., 3b; Cralley, J., rf., short; Cramer, L., If., short;
Last week 60 men arrived at Notre Dame for an eight-week course in flight training. Of these 60, 50 are enrolled in the naval V-5 program and the remaining 10 are army cadets. After finishing here they ■will be stationed at various other bases for further training.
The course is divided into two parts, primary and secondary training. The army cadets, all of whom came in under the' C.P.T., and 10 naval men are enrolled in the secondary course. These men were pilots before they came here, and the rest being beginners are in the primary course.
The naval cadets -will probably be put on active combat duty -when they have finished the complete course. The army men, however, will more likely be instructors although they have five different assignments possible: ferry pilots, co-pilots in the airlines, combat pilots, instructors, or liaison pilots who are intermediate men between the commanding officers.
The order of the day is very-strenuous, beginning at 6:00 a.m. with inspection, drill, and athletics. Instruction is
Cadets get in shape in early morn'! -	■ 13
then received at the airport from 8:00-4:00. Classes are held from 4:00-6:00 in the afternoon and from 8:00-10:00 in the evening.
The majority of the army men are from Indiana, but the naval contingent has representatives from all over the country. One recruit, for instance, was enrolled in the University of California before coming here.
There are 12 trainers at the airport, three Taylorcraft, five Cubs’, and four Wacos. The Taylorcraft and the Cubs are used for the primary training and the Wacos are used for the secondary training. There is one instructor for every four or five students, and each student receives about an hour’s flying each day. The beginners are going to solo at the end of this week.
Flying a large airplane is much more difficult- than most people suspect. The pilot does practically all of his flying by instrument, so that it is very hard to master the handling of these ships. The cadets report that there are more thrills in stunt flying than anything else they have ever tried.
AdmbuibuiiicMi

DUJARIE HALL OBSERVES CENTENARY CELEBRATION WITH BROTHERS' PRESENTATION OF "ALL AT SEA"
Following a month and a half of intensive rehearsals, of erecting a stage and of designing costumes, the Brothers of Dujarie Hall presented their first-rate interpretation of Gilbert and Sullivan’s “All at Sea” on July 19, 20 and 21 in the Dujarie Gymnasium. The purpose of the program was to commemorate the Centenary Celebration of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States Province and also to offer the entertainment as part of the Dujarie Brothers’ contribution to the Centenary Celebration of the founding of Notre Dame.
“All at Sea” presents the usual, delightful Gilbert - Sullivan mastery of comic-opera in two acts. The operetta, which was adapted from an idea by Loomis and Stephens, is an abridged arrangement of the composers’ more popular works. Excerpts from H. M. S. Pinafore, the Gondoliers, the Pirates of Penzance, lolanthe, and the Mikado make up the play. Among the songs included are, “We Sail the Ocean Blue,” “I am the Monarch of the Sea,” “A Policeman’s Lot is not a Happy One,” “I
Prof. John Northcott
Speaks at A.I.E.E. Meeting
Mr. John A. Northcott, head of the department of electrical engineering at the University, spoke before the Notre
PROFESSOR NORTHCOTT
Dame Student Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers on July 9 after returning from the AIEE summer convention recently held in Chicago. Mr. Northcott’s talk was related to
the possibility of the campus club’s activities for the school year. He said that the activities which ordinarily took place would have to be dropped because of the war. Lack of transportation facilities has caused such programs as inspection tours and the bringing in of visiting speakers to be curtailed. In order to make up for this the National Society of the AIEE has made it possible for the branch clubs to obtain films for showing at their meetings.
am the Pirate King,” “Here is a First-Rate Opportunity,” “Behold the Lord High Executioner,” and “Tit-willow.”
Leading roles were portrayed by Brother Callistus, as Capt. Corcoran; Brother Leonardo, Sir Joseph Porter; Brother Elstan, Duke of Plazo-Toro; Brother Eldred, Sergeant of the Metropolitan Police; Brother Robert, Ralph Rackstraw; Brother Howard, Dick Deadeye; Brother Aquinas, the Pirate King;. Brother Aurelius, the Mikado; Brother Andrew Corsini, Pooh-Bah; Brother Barnard, Lord High Executioner; Brother Franciscus, Little Buttertub; Brother Barry, Lord Chancellor of England. The colorful chorus included the Attendants to Sir Joseph, Able Seamen of H. M. S. Pinafore, Squad of Metropolitan Police and the Pirates of Penzance.
“A1F at Sea” was under the direction of Brother Leonard, assisted by Brother Eldred. Brother Leopold was in charge of the music. The program was open to members of the community and to the lay professors of the University.
In answer to questions asked as to what the engineer should do upon leaving school, whether he should join the service or go to work in industry, Mr. Northcott replied that many of the speakers at the Summer Convention were of the opinion that the student should, if possible, get a taste of industry before going into the armed forces. In concluding Mr. Northcott in his own opinion stated that it is up to the individual student to decide this question for himself as everyone is not the same in his line of patriotic thought.—George Haninger
Masses Said for All
N.D. Men in Service
On Sunday, July 12, the motto inscribed over the East entrance to Sacred Heart Church took on a new significance. All the Masses celebrated that day were said “For God, Country and Notre Dame.” On the main altar that day were two lists which comprised 978 names; names of graduates and ex-students who have given their lives in this war, and also all those who are now members of the various services. Under the American flag on the Gospel side of the altar
rested the list of the graduates and chaplains; the list of students who volunteered or were drafted from the University rested at the Epistle side.
The Student Commission for Decent Literature is fostering this plan, “to remind the priests and students to pray > for these names which are on the lists.” And it is their wish that all persons who know of graduates and ex-students who are now wearing the allied uniform will send in the names to the Prefects of Religion or to the Student Commission for Decent Literature, Post Office Box 102, Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Roy James Gnimbine
Profs Can Still Ride
If They Cooperate
N. D. professors can now cease worrying about bike riding or hitch-hiking to classes. All the lay professors of the University can still ride to school in cars if they cooperate in Mayor Jesse L. Davey’s “Let’s Ride Together” campaign. Last week the mayor, through the competent agency of Dean McCarthy, sent war transportation questionnaires to all the professors who are not living on campus. The Indiana War Transportation Conservation Committee prepared these questionnaires and arranged for a short but important leaflet to be distributed with them. The leaflet tells practically all there is on the subjects of rubber, cooperative riding, the advantages and means of conservation, and sets forth a few explicit rules. However, it does not discuss the ceiling prices on pogo-stick or bicycle trade-ins.
—Bill Talbot
Chicago Area Retreat
Laymen of the Chicago-area are now attending the fifth in the series of seven week-end laymen’s retreats being conducted at the University. With the warm weather holding sway, outdoor conferences on the spacious lawn in front of '	’
Holy Cross Seminary are a featured j part of the retreat programs.
This fifth retreat has been divided into two sections in order to accommodate the 150 men attending. The first session began Thursday evening and will close Sunday morning, while the second session will open Sunday evening and close Tuesday evening. Also included in . this week’s retreat are laymen from the • :> states of Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin, Mis- p souri, and Okahoma.
t
$
• .	'	-I
14
Father Trahey Discusses
N.D. War Activities
The Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., coordinator of war training programs at the University, told members of the
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C.
South Bend Rotary Club at a luncheon meeting on July 15 that the University of Notre Dame is playing an all-out role in the United States’ prosecution of the war.
“Notre Dame has not drawn back from wartime responsibilities,” said Father Trahey, “but has put its shoulder to the wheel determined to do as much as possible with the facilities available. The navy has found ready support for its training program on the campus.”
Under present arrangements, Father Trahey explained, the University is to be used for the training of some 12,000 to 15,000 navy men annually. He said that the naval station here has already trained 2,500 officers and men and that 1,350 are in training now under the navy’s V-7 program.
In reviewing Notre Dame’s war-time program, Father Trahey quoted more figures to show the extent of participation in the war effort. “Five priests from Notre Dame have answered the call and are serving as chaplains in the army and navy,” he said. “In addition to the number of students who have gone to serve, about a dozen members of the faculty are on active duty or serving in government research.”
Newest of the training programs at . the University is the course for army and navy fliers who pursue ground school and academic subjects in classrooms on the campus and fly under instructors at the South Bend airport. At present there are 50 navy men in this course and 10 army men are being recruited for it.
Father Trahey pointed out that the University’s naval reserve officers training corps will number about 250 students in the fall. He also emphasized the engineering, science and management war training program which has been under way at the University for some time for training men and women for jobs in essential industries.
“In the period from last September to June this year, 2,300 have been trained in 75 different classes of the E.S.M.W.T. program on the campus,” Father Trahey continued. “Those enrolled represented 15 towns and cities and 100 industries. Forty-five instructors taught a total of 3,800 hours. The cost per capita for such instruction at Notre Dame was §19.20, compared to an estimated average of a little more than §50 per capita throughout the country.”
Father O'Donnell Attends
Education Conference
The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, attended a conference of leading college executives in Baltimore, Md., July 15 and 16. Purpose of the conference was to discuss new educational problems that have arisen since the outbreak of the war.
Over 60 college and university presidents attended the parley, during which they drew up a public pronouncement concerning the place of higher deucation in the war effort.
A primary aim of the conference was to discover new practical measures for enabling colleges to make a maximum contribution of trained man power for war purposes.
Ind. Academy of Science To Hold Convention Here
The Indiana Academy of Science will hold its fall convention at the University, with the week-end of Oct. 30 tentatively set as the date. This is one of the conventions of learned societies being held at Notre Dame in conjunction with the University’s Centennial program.
The convention plans include general and sectional meetings. Experts in various fields will deliver papers. Round Table Discussions on these are also to be a featured part of the program. All meetings will be open to the student body.
The Academy is divided into the Business Administration, Sociological and Political Science sections. Connection with one of these fields in a professional capacity is a necessary requirement for membership. Every leading college in Indiana is represented in the society. At least 50 members from all parts of the state will attend the fall convention.
Mr. Wesley C. Bender, associate professor of Business Administration at the University, is president of the Academy for the current year. Mr. Bender has announced the following to serve on the Arrangements Committee: Prof. Edmund A. Smith, chairman, assisted by Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Profs. John H. Sheehan, Ferdinand A. Hermens, Frank T. Flynn, William H. Downey, LeClair H. Eells, Herbert J. Bott, and Francis J. Calkins. Acting for the University in cooperation with the Arrangements Committee is Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C.
Further announcements will be made as soon as arrangements are completed.
Fr. Marquette's Chasuble
Among N.D.'s Valuables
A prize in the University’s keeping is a chasuble, .used long ago by the famous priest-explorer, Father Marquette. Professor James F. Edwards, librarian until 1911, received the vestment for the University several decades ago. It is green silk with gold braid and has the date “1638” woven in at either end of the arms of the cross on the back of it.
Recently the Scribner’s Publishing Co. asked for a picture of the chasuble. Scribner’s plans to use the picture, together with several others from here, in its “Album of American History,” which will be a picture-development of American period-history—Bill Talbot
Two Talented Students
. Present Music Recital
Two talented students of the Department of Music presented a duo recital last Friday evening at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall. The performance was given by John Witt and Rocco Germano under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music.
John Witt, a pianist, is a freshman from South Bend. Though in the College of Engineering, he devotes much of his time to music and has given several solo concerts with the South Bend Junior Symphony Orchestra. Besides a number of selections from Liszt and Mendelssohn, he played the “Chromatic Fantasy” by Bach, and a group of works from Chopin, including two etudes and “Ballade in A Flat.”
Rocco Germano, a violinist from Mishawaka, is a sophomore in the Music department. He, also, has played frequently with the South Bend Junior Symphony Orchestra. Besides a waltz which he himself composed, Germano included in his repertoire “Rondo Capriccioso” by Saint Saens and the popular “Horastac-cato.” He was accompanied by Mr. Pedtke at the piano.
15
*:*	t
? ^he CluU ? t	i
Kilmer Analyzes Work
of Katherine Mansfield
An intensive paper on Katherine Mansfield written and presented early this month in the seminar room of the Law Building by Richard Kilmer, Sorin hall senior from South Bend, highlighted the third Bookmen meeting of the year. Kilmer integrated a critical appraisal of Miss Mansfield’s works with her biography, emphasizing the close relationship between the attitude of her writing and life at various stages.
Jack Dunlavy, secretary of the club from Akron, Ohio, presided in the absence of President Hugh Adams.
Server's Club Holds
First Summer Meeting
The Server’s Club, composed of approximately 40 active members, met last week to discuss plans for distribution of servers for summer masses on the campus.
William Herzog, an Alumni Hall senior from Baltimore, Md., is president of the club this year. Bob McAuliffe, of Syracuse, New York, who has not returned for the summer semester, is vice-president. Al Clark, New York, is secretary. Brother Boniface, sacristan . of Sacred Heart Church, is moderator of the club.
The Server’s Club, a definite organization for many years, meets once a month. At each meeting some well-known campus professor addresses the members. The seivers are annually honored by a banquet in the dining hall.

Inter-American Club Plans Post-War Union
The Inter-American Relations Club, one of the University’s most unique organizations, has been rapidly developing since the start of the summer semester, and in its latest meeting adopted a set plan to be followed at its gatherings.
The club, composed of only nine members from Cuba, Porto Rico, Latin America, Canada, and the United States, holds its meetings each Thursday evening in room 116 of the Main Building. Each member comes prepared to discuss any questions which might arise concerning inter-American relations. No papers are prepared; the club meets for no particular academic debate, but only because its members are interested in the relations between the American democracies. Their sole purpose is to keep each other well informed about their own countries, to
16
acquaint others with their own homes, and keep interest in inter-American relations alive.
Two weeks ago John Cashman spoke on the possibility of Canada’s entrance into the Pan American Union after the war. He pointed out the French Canadians have been the chief obstacle in their effort to join the union, and concluded his discussion by stating that the bonds of mutual interest in cultural life and the strong Catholic relationship between Canada and Pan America, if used as a . basis for this union, would prove much more successful than the present distrusting economic relationship. Last night Joe Ryan of New Mexico brought up the problem of the Mexican peon now stranded in New Mexico, and this furnished the chief topic of the meeting.
—Mark DeMots
Wranglers Add Members;
O'Malley Delivers Paper
Dinner at a downtown hotel, a speech by Professor Francis J. O’Malley—these characteristics of a Wrangler’s membership meeting were evident on the campus this month as that honorary club select- ' ed and inducted into membership four new members.
Mr. O’Malley dealt with the “Significance of Twentieth Century War.” He divided his topic into two broad divisions, treating of the economic-social aspect of war and the cultural and religious situations and problems posed by modern civilization. He sketched the foundations of capitalism and then launched into a discussion of European culture—noting that the religious aspect of culture has been ignored in modern Europe.
The new members are John Utz, Rochester, Minn., John Shannon, Kenosha, Wis., Lyle Joyce, Tucaupau, S. C., and Daniel Downey, West Palm Beach, Fla. The membership committee of the club includes Mark Lies, Riverside, Ill., chairman, William Lawless, Buffalo, N. Y., and James McVay, Bradford, Pa. A constitutional committee recommended several amendments to the constitution which were shelved until the next business meeting. The committee consisted of Bernard O’Hora, Joe Rud, and William Talbot.
Propeller Club Holds
First Summer Meeting
The Propeller Club of Notre Dame held its first meeting of the current school year July 7, under its new officers. The student president seat was taken over by Dudley Smith, with Ramon Araujo, vice-president, Vincent Oppenheim, secretary, and James Whelan, treasurer.
Dudley Smith spoke on the objects of the club, and Jim Whelan and Vince Oppenheim also addressed the meeting on the history of the organization. Professor Herbert J. Bott, the honorary chairman and faculty advisor of the club, later listed the advantages of being a member. Activities for the coming year were not definitely decided upon, but plans for a beach party later on in the summer were discussed.
Contrary to the average student belief, the Propeller Club is in no way connected with aviation. Propeller in this case means a screw propeller used on boats. The objects of the club are to promote and support an American Merchant Marine and a greater mutual understanding among those interested in the Merchant Marine Industry, so that this industry may go forward to greater accomplishments and increased service to the nation.	.
Formal organization of the club was in New York in June of 1923.
On March 6, 1937, the Propeller Club was first chartered at Notre Dame with Dean McCarthy acting as the president. The idea is a national one consisting of 70 clubs of which 60 are within the limits of the United States, six in Europe, three in South America, two in the West Indies, and one in the Near East. Fifteen of the clubs are embraced in various universities throughout the country.
The club is open to all students but particularly those having special interest in foreign commerce, economics, engineering, and transportation.
Lawyers Plan Formal For Next Friday Night
Another tradition broken by the summer semester! ■ Exactly one week from tonight, the Notre Dame Law Club, their dates, and their guests will take over the Erskine Country Club to the accompaniment of the Cavaliers. It will be the first summer formal in the history of the University, at least as far as research done by the lawyers; publicity committee reveals. ~	.
Each member of the club will this year be allowed to invite another couple as his guests. Faculty guests will include Dean Clarence Manion, Professors Elton Richter, Thomas Konop, William Roili-son, and Judge Peak of South Bend. .
Cecil Jordan of Winside, Nebr., is general chairman of the dance. Peter Alonzi, Chicago, Ill., is president of the Law Club. Committees and chairmen include: decorations, Jim Daner; tickets, Merv Bagin; music, Thomas Maher; patrons, Ted Fredericks; publicity, Andy Cherney and Barnet Grainey; house, Jack Barry; refreshments, Dick Fogarty; program, Jim'McVay.
Matte. 2>ame Spa^U, ,,,,,,,,,
' van	„. ~	■ . .	„	.. ~	.~.	■-
BREEN-PHILLIPS, CAVANAUGH, ALUMNI ARE LEADERS AT END OF FIRST ROUND OF SOFTBALL LEAGUE PLAY
FRANK RALPH
Things have been happening—but rapidly— in Commissioner Vince (Orange Mountain) Commissa’s interhall softball syndicate. The results of games played since July 6 are as follows:	•
Breen-Phillips 7, St. Ed’s 0 (default); Zahm III 7, Law club 0 (default); Dillon 117, R.O.T.C. 14; Zahm III 9, Zahm II 6; Cavanaugh 10, Walsh 8; Alumni II 8, Zahm II 6; Alumni I 7, St. Ed’s 0 (de- ' fault); Law Club 18, Dillon II 5; Breen-Phillips 11, Sorin 10; Zahm I 14, Zahm II 10; Dillon I 7, St. Ed’s 0 (default); Alumni II 10, Zahm III 7; Walsh 12, R.O.T.C. 9; Zahm III 10, Dillon II 5.
Thus at the completion of the first two rounds of league play we find crafty John Peasenelli’s Breen-Phillips Sluggers and the lads from Cavanaugh on top of the heap in league I, each with a record of four victories and ,one defeat. In league II the hard hitting, hard fighting Alumni II aggregation, coached by Paul (Red) Tierney have things all their own way with a record of five victories and no defeats.
The complete standings for the first half follows:
LEAGUE I	WON LOST PCT.
Breen-Phillips ....... 4	1	.800
Cavanaugh............. 4	1	.800
Alumni I.............. 3	1	.750
Walsh ................ 3	1	’ .750
Dillon ................ 3	2	.600
N.R.O.T.C.............  1	4	.200
Sorin ...............   0	4	.000
St. Edward’s ......... 0	5 -	.000
LEAGUE II	WON LOST PCT.
Alumni II............ 5	0 ' 1.000
’ Zahm I ............. 3 , 1	.750
Zahm III ............ 3	1	.750
Zahm II ...........J.	1	3	.250
Law Club ............. 1	3	.250
Dillon II ........... 0	5	.000
To give some idea as to who’s who in campus softball Commissioner Commissa has picked an all-star unit based on the play of the first round. This team which he thinks could travel in any kind of softball company is composed of the following men: Catcher: This position after much consideration went to chunky, hustling Bob Logan of the league leading Breen - Phillips outfit. He was closely
pressed by Bob Neff of Alumni II. Logan is a consistent hitter, a good, hard working back-stop, and possesses a fine throwing arm. His choice is all the more impressive because of the fact that he is a southpaw, and is thus prone to all the handicaps which confront a left handed catcher.	.
First baseman: At the initial sack slender Jim Downey of the Alumni II unit was the choice above all others. Jim is a consistent long ball hitter and his play at first is a steadying influence on the whole infield. Second baseman: The other position on the right side of the infield goes to. Stolfi of Breen-Phillips. Stolfi is a smooth, fancy dan infielder, and, like most of the others on this mythical team, is a very handy boy with the stick.
Shortstop: Traditionally tough. But this year oft beaten Sorin comes through with its sole representative in the person of Jim Cahill at the shortstop post. “The Moose” is a big, powerfully-built boy and is without a doubt one of the two or three best hitters in the league. Third base: At this position a varsity football candidate, sophomore John Creevy, was the unanimous choice. Rugged John is a tremendous hitter (he hits the longest ball in the leagues) and is a sweet fielding, accurate throwing third, baseman. He is chosen as the field captain of the all-star squad.
Shortfielder: At this spot Eddie Hoch of Alumni II gets the nod. Ed is a small,
A twilight homer—?
fleet ballhawk in the outer garden and a reliable hitter. Left field: It is only natural that Andy Chlebeck, captain and . best outfielder on last spring’s good NJ), varsity baseball should get the call at left field. He is an intelligent, exper- -ienced, fine hitting outfielder and has been the mainstay of the second place Zahm I outfit.
Center field: To round out an exceptionally fine center line of defense big Jim White of the Navai ROTC is a “must” for the center field slot. Jim is a fine hitter and a good all around outfielder. Right field: Another Naval RO-TC outfielder to make the grade is Gene Dwyer. Gene is exceptionally fast, a real “well” in the outfield and in addition is a long ball hitter.
Pitchers: Probably the most effective hurler in interhall competition is Rev. Florian of Zahm I. He has a lot of slow stuff and marvelous control. To round out the rest of a fine pitching squad we have George Murphy of Alumni II, Frank Sysmanski of Dillon I, and Dan Hecht of the NROTC.
Aside from the viewpoint of individual stars, the entire softball program has been a huge success. It is undoubtedly the most popular of all the interhall summer sports programs. Vince Commissa, the campus czar of softball and director of the program, is well satisfied with the turnout of the boys and the general caliber of ball being played. ’	.
The league in the first round of play has been decidedly a hitters league. Extra base hits have been numerous and the scores have been very high in most of the games played thus far. However some of these high scores are due not only to power hitting but also to spotty fielding. Then too the south diamond, on * which half of the games are played, has a short left field requiring an automatic two base hit ruling on any thing hit into the trees in left field.
The pitching thus far has been not too good. This fact can be attributed to the lack of control among the fast ball artists who twirl in the league. Support for the pitchers has been rather poor in many of the games, however. The most effective type of pitcher has been the man who has a lot of slow stuff and good control. Most of the pitchers chosen on the all star squad were of this caliber. These crafty boys have enjoyed much, success in the leagues replete with fine hitters.
The second round of play will begin.
.	'	: 17

immediately. Games scheduled for this week are:
Friday, July 24: Dillon I vs. Sorin;
Walsh vs. Alumni I.
Monday, July 27: Walsh vs. Breen-Phillips; St. Ed’s vs. Sorin.
Tuesday, July 28: Cavanaugh vs.
Alumni; Dillon I vs. Walsh.
Wednesday, July 29: N.R.O.T.C. vs.
Sorin; Alumni II vs. Zahm I.
Thursday, July 30: Breen-Phillips vs.
Alumni I; Law Club vs. Zahm III.
Campaign Strives to Put Irish on All-Star Team
It is only right that the seniors of Notre Dame’s undefeated 1941 football team get a chance to perform once more before- entering the service. With this idea in mind the Scholastic has gone all out in effort to place the Fighting Irish eligibles at the top of the list of contestants.
The All-Star game, an annual affair sponsored by the Chicago Tribune, this year is being played .in Soldier’s Field in Chicago, August 28. The proceeds of the game, which pits the pick of the college seniors against the champions of the National Professional league, this yearJ the Chicago Bears, are going to the Army-Navy relief fund.
Scholastic promotion manager “Red” Lonergan has developed a plan whereby all students, alumni, and friends of Notre Dame are helping to push the Fighting Irish seniors to the front of
Promoter Lonergan smiles as the votes pour in.
the contest sponsored by Arch Ward, Tribune sports editor and a Notre Dame alumnus. Ballots were made up through funds received from the athletic offices, the Scholastic, and advertisements. There are 5000 of these ballots each providing for 100 votes, an aggregate of half a million votes. The ballots have been distributed to the students and to the alumni who have worked to get them filled. Two voting stands have been erected; one in the University cafeteria and the other at the corner of Michigan and Colfax Streets in South Bend.
Lonergan has been assisted in his work by Kevin O’Toole and Bill Boss of the Scholastic sports staff, Bill Reynolds, sports editor, George Barrett, Reggie Flynn, Gilbert’s Clothing Store in South Bend, and the Notre Dame Student Council.
Bengal Champion Loses
Decision to Uncle Sam
Kermit Rousseve, husky junior welterweight Bengal champion, was making his last appearance in the ring at Notre Dame last Thursday night as he defeated his protege Bengal welter champion in the field house. Rousseve, also Indiana Intercollegiate champion left yesterday for the Army induction station at Toledo, Ohio.
Of French extraction, Kermit hails from the French quarter of the South, New Orleans. A Commerce student, he received his high school education at Holy Cross College in New Orleans. He
did not play football on the high school team but played for a C. Y. 0. team coached by Father Charles McCarragher who is now a member of the department of sociology here at Notre Dame.
Rousseve received his first boxing lessons from his brother and “Nappy” gave him the polishing when he reported for the Bengal Bouts. He has had only seven actual ring battles but that has proven enough in his case to gain a Bengal championship and the Indiana Intercollegiate title. His biggest thrill in boxing-was in winning the latter crown last spring.
Base Hits Get Scarcer;
Stars Continue Losing
The summer varsity is trying desperately to win a baseball game. The nation
al pastime has seen some rare days at
this old Irish stronghold, hard losing days, but never has Car-tier Field been bleached by such an insistent losing pox as that of the current Irish Stars.
The Stars
COACH “JAKE” KLINE dubbed their
opening chance last week against the St. Joseph A. C. brigade when they skipped to within two runs of the Michigan nine only to drop the decision, 7-5. The Mishawaka fray was a fine effort but it is told there was a priority on base knocks and the lads were dunked, 4-3. Michigan City’s stinging bats licked the Stars, 14-4, at Ames Field. The week’s final effort was a repetition of the first futile attempt against the St. Jot seph combine as a batch of errors led the Irish to a 16-5 setback.
The Mishawaka entanglement saw Bill Rich clamped at first, Bill Stewart soldered behind the plate, and Andy Chle-beck roaming the center pasture. But the new faces didn’t help much.
Gore tagged a one-baser in the initial frame and then hobbled home when Chle-beck walloped a home run into deep right field. “Nibs” Trimborn — on the slab for the Irish — hurled effective ball but his mates couldn’t get bargain prices on base blows from Mishawaka’s Snyder. Notre Dame saw three runs scratch the plate as the Stars collected seyen blows during the fracas. The Dodgers reached Trimborn for seven bingles also but managed an extra run. Trimborn whiffed 14 men in eight innings of action, and
-18
Snyski refused base tickets to eight Irish sluggers.	.
The Stars rammed into some minor league competition in Michigan City when they were whittled down by the Cubs, 14-4. The Bruins had Clarence Struss, a pocket-sized hurler who, in 1941, saw service with St. Paul of the American Association and Waterloo of the Three-Eye loop, on the mound. Struss gained his fifth consecutive victory of the current campaign as he clamped down and held the Irish to five hits. In four jaunts to the plate Fred Gore, Irish second sacker, whipped out three bingles to lead the Star hitters.
After two innings of play Creevey relieved Metzger on the hill with the Irish drifting behind a four-run deficit. A spontaneous barrage of base hits let eight runs ramble across for Michigan City and as far as Notre Dame was concerned the day was done.
It is told that Notre Dame has eliminated the shift but that statement certainly applies only to the football team, for Jake Kline is desperately trying every imaginable cure to produce a gallant gathering of nine men who will actually trounce a diamond opponent on Cartier Field.
Another effort fell short in the dust - when the Stars lacked a solid hit in the clutch against St. Joseph. Continually the Stars logged the sacks with two or even three men with but one down but the batters swung and missed, leaving the runners stranded. A wild first frame in which starting pitcher* Gallagher was slammed for eight blows and five tallies dropped the bottom out of Irish hopes. Ted Maniaci, fine Freshman hurler, took his turn on the slab for the Stars, got into trouble, but came through unharmed as he held the Michigan City men to one run. The Northerners grabbed another tally from Trimborn before the eightinning fracas was ended.
To spark the fire Mitchell swung his West Virginia willow and sliced the grass with a triple-to right. He scored on Chlebeck’s fly to deep center. In the next stanza pitcher Maniaci left two men soldered to the bags when he peered at a third strike crossing the plate.
The return match with the St. Joe nine was less productive than the first. Trimborn, Creevey, and Metzger joined hands and were quickly ruffled for 17 hits and 16 runs. The Stars plucked five runs from Galucki.
Gigliotti muffed a drive in the first inning and catcher Cusick let one of Trimborn’s sizzlers squeeze through him to start the Michigan City run parade. That was enough. Again day was done for the Stars.
The Forecastle
The most common expressions heard on board the U.S.S. Badin these days are: “My, I wish that I had taken more math while I was in school,” or “I wish that I had studied a little harder on my math while I was in College.”
Clothiers
Adler-Rochester Tailored
SALE!
Visit our shop for July discounts on all Adler-Rochester and custom made clothes..
Headquarters for Navy Uniforms
115% - 117% N. Main Street (Upstairs)
PAUL LILLIS	CAPTAIN GEORGE MURPHY	LARRY KELLEY .
Law Building	130 Alumni	Oliver Hotel
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET South Bend
ALSO SUMMER STYLES IN LAOY DOUGLAS SHOES — $4.49 —$5.45




Last Thursday night one seaman awakened another with, “Romeo, wake up, this is Shakespeare.” The other seaman looked up and replied, “Oh, yeah!” It so happens that there is a seaman Charles M. Shakespeare on the fourth deck of Howard Hall and a Seaman Romeo on the-third deck.
Tailors


19

BASEBALL
(Continued from page 6)
near. John Creevey, the Michigan monsoon, and Jack Strader divide the slab assignments and are doing quite well. Brooklyn’s baseball barber, Bill Rich, who, we have been informed, recently moved to the north dugout on Cartier Field, makes all the local “Bums” forget the first basing of Dolph Camilli. Bucky O’Connor’s flaming bat poles out enough base Imocks to keep the honored Sophs
on the bright side of the score. Al Mi-lene’s fine defensive work at the hot corner has saved many a close tangle for the South Side outfit.
Sorin in relinquishing the league lead is still in a perfect spot to nab the league crown. The sudden surge of the heretofore weak St. Edwards nine clipped the Seniors, 8-7, last week dropping them to second place and enabling the Sailors to take the league lead. St. Edwards is, incidentally, turning into a giant slaying bunch as their only pair of victories came last week when they eclipsed Sorin and shut out Alumni, 3-0.
Walsh’s final effort to take over the league lead went-wild last week as the Navy bombarded them, 10-8.
Cavanaugh, the baseball morgue, has been evacuated. No matter how diligently they try, how much effort they throw into every act, they cannot win. A match between this campus nine and the St. Joseph’s Orphanage squad is being counseled. It is, however, sincerely felt by all involved that a thrashing by the youngsters would break down the existing morale of the Killers. With the upkeep of morale so important at ~these crucial times University official would, perhaps, not find this advisable. St. Edward’s sudden two game victory thrust has left the Cavanaugh lads deep in the mire with 5 defeats and no victories.
Results:
St. Edward’s 3, Alumni 0; NROTC 7, Dillon 4; Saint Edward’s 8, Sorin 7; NROTC 10, Walsh 8; Dillon 7, Breen-Phillips, 0; Alumni 8, Cavanaugh 5.
League Standings
LOST TIED PCT.
1	1	.800
1	1	.750
1	2	.667
1	2	.667
TEAM	WON
NROTC _________ 4
Sorin.......... 3
Alumni ___1.... 2
Dillon ________ 2
Specialising in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
:	Phone 4-8251
Walsh 	.’		.... 3	2	1	.600
St. Edwards 		2	3	0	.400
Breen-Phillips ....	.... 2	4	0	.333
Cavanaugh		.... 0	5	0	.000
INTERHALL BOXING (Continued from page 6)
Bill Huber, of Dillon, getting a rugged ■win at the expense of Alumni Hall’s Pete Mancini. The loser went down for a short count in the second round.
Officials on the program were:
Referees, Coach Napolitano and John Peasenelli; Judges, Harry Richwine, Elmer Tepe and Bill Lubbers; and the announcer was Larry Sullivan.
Present’ at the ringside was Coach Frank Leahy, along with assistants Ed McKeever and Ed “Moose” Krause. Charlie Kralovec, 1941 heavyweight Bengal champ, assisted in the corners.
According to “Nappy,” five more fistic cards are on tap for the summer, the next one scheduled Wednesday, July 29.
INTERHALL GOLF (Continued from page 6)
but managed to down his opponent, Schmid, 2-1, on the incoming nine.
Joe Fieweger, whom the contestants tab as one of the best match play men in the tourney, shook low-qualifier Wally Christman, 4 and 3. Bespectacled Dave Sullivan, medal runner-up, gave Bill Cuddigan the rush and filched a 5-4 nod over his fellow New Englander. Football er Harry Wright snatched an early lead and then fought on even terms to win finally over Lou Spagnuolo, 3 and 2. Ben George eliminated an early tourney favorite, Bill Middendorf, as he rapped the little Kentuckian, 3 and 1.
Schleck, the medalist, will receive a trophy for his low qualifying score. The victor in the matchplay and the runner-up will also receive fine rewards. The consolation tournament which is progressing with the days has two prizes in store for the finalists.
Former Bear Quarterback
To Coach Frosh Gridders
A. great football player and former quarterback of the Chicago Bears has been named head freshman football coach at Notre Dame, it was announced by the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., pres-> ident of the University. He is Robert A. Snyder of Toledo, Ohio. This announcement confirmed reports of the possible addition of Snyder to the staff.
Snyder is a graduate of Ohio Univer-, sity. During his college football career, he was considered one of the greatest ■ . passers and punters that the Ohioans. ' have seen.
20
RED LONERGAN
V-7 Men
"All Staritis"
As we go into the last days of this All Star balloting we are making one last attempt to put the boys on this year’s squad. Many “loud mouths” have -tried their best to put a damper on this attempt to have our boys elected' to the squad. They claim that the squad is chosen a year in advance, and the whole thing is a cut-and-dried affair. Well, they’re the same fellows who will be telling you we’re getting a month off come next semester. It is true that about a third of the boys are chosen in advance but there is a good reason for this. The great players of the lightly populated west and south would never get in if it weren’t for such a system. However, the other 50-some boys are chosen by popular vote, the starting line-up is also determined in the same manner. This explanation comes too late to do us much good but it may aid next year’s organization.
"Mucho Gracias, Senors!"
Whatever success this year’s balloting has will, largely be due to the efforts of such men as “Reggie” Flynn, Bill Reynolds, George Barrett, Bill Boss, and “Kev” O’Toole. “Reggie” was the boy who kept the downtown stand going by wooing the girls into votes. Bill Reynolds was the man who did all the ugly jobs.. George Barrett made up all those fancy signs which helped so much to attract attention and pick up votes. Bill Boss was always there to do anything he could to further the cause. “Kev” O’Toole was the man who did most to drum up publicity by writing letters all over the country building up enthusiasm in our drive. Then there is Ann Regan who tutored us through our first drive of this sort, also notes of appreciation to Father Gorman, Mr. Dooley, and Mr. Armstrong. Last but not least our guiding stars, Mr. Petritz and Father Carey. Our deepest appreciation goes to all those who £ot their ballots filled out, and who aided the cause in any way.
That Ugly Duster -
One of the leagues’ leading hitters was felled by a pitch of Jim Melas in one of the Leagues’ more interesting games. He was “Charlie” Lewis, a hardhitting Sorinite; it looked pretty dark for ■ “Charlie” for a few moments, but you can’t keep a good man down, so “Charlie” was on his feet in a few mo-
ments and raring to go. Lewis isn’t alone in that excellence in the hitting department for “Bo Bo” Fisher and Father Florian are close on his , trail. The good padres tasted their first defeat at the hands of Walsh Hall; but they have a good alibi, for five of then1 best players had “charley horses.” The boys are getting too old, or .it may be that they forget their* horse liniment. Father Brennan, the students’ choice, didn’t have much to say when his pride and joy took a drubbing from R.O.T.C. a few days ago; more likely, however, he probably felt it best to leave well enough alone. It’s no wonder “Andy” Chlebeck can't keep his weight down taking weekends in Louisville, Ohio, with Johnny Metzger. That’s just too much good home cooking. You knd\v that “Johnny” didn’t get that. 52-inch waist from drinking water. Of course “Andy” didn’t go all the way down to Louisville for just that , cooking. Johnny has a sister (who is plenty sweet) that “Andy” seems to have a first mortgage on.
Potential "Wild Bill's"
Yes, there may be one out on those courts, at least there is a definite attempt being made by a great number of -• tennis enthusiasts to get started on their way. Dillon Hall seems to have, a monopoly on good tennis as the top two teams make their residence on the “Gold Coast.” Dillon I is led by the new sensation of the courts, Ray O’Connell, and Dillon II is paced by one Jim Quinn. The faculty has assembled quite a presentable team with Brother Edmund and Coach Langford leading the way. “Mike”
9K ike
Dining Room
o) ike Ji&iel
You will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments and excellent service.
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. and 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
The NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Welcomes you to the campus. We invite you to visit our shop at your first opportunity.
Souvenir Jewelry
Compacts Necklaces Bracelets Pins Novelties
Toilet Articles
Toothpaste Shaving Creams Lotion
Postcards and Stationery Pens and Pencils
GREETING CARDS
21
_ A
TENNIS RACQUETS RESTRUNG
#2.00 to #7.50 Nylon, #4.00

RECO
SPORTING GOODS
113 N. Main Tel. 4-6731 "LOOK FOR THE LOG FRONT"
Humphries, one of last year’s leading fencers, graced our campus over the weekend. “Mike” is stationed out at Glenview where he is doing some first-class flying for our Navy.
Softball Dilemma
Once upon a time Breen-Phillips and R.O.T.C. seemed to have had the softball league all sewed up, but then came a storm. Coming up ike a flash was Zahm Hall, under the direction of their manager and pitcher, Father Florian, and now they look like they will capture the softball crown, too. It has always been considered nothing short of phenomenal when a man can pitch both softball and hardball in an effective . manner, ’ but . that’s just what Father Florian does. He is an accomplished pitcher in both types of ball, plus being one of the leading hitters in both leagues, which is also unusual. There’s a man that’s hard to beat, however the rest of the teams in both leagues are going to start crying, “monopoly,” they’ll have the “Trustbusters” out after them in no time. The second round in the hardball tourney ought to be rather interesting, especially since each team knows the others’ shortcomings. At the end of the season there will be some sort of a playoff to determine the winner.
Fighting It Out
The initial boxing show was filled with upsets and thrills. It was well attended and after this fine exhibition they should draw even better in the future. The perennial favorite, Paul Malloy, was defeated by Sam Atwater in a fight which showed all the merits of hard training, as that seemed to be Paul’s toughest op. ponent. The other fight which proved to be somewhat of a surprise was the Rousseve-Quinlan fight in which Kermit floored Frank and also came awful close to hitting the resin himself. Here again it looked as if Kermit could use a little more conditioning for even though he won his match he didn’t look like the Kermit of old. These are shows you won’t want to miss and they’ll be presented for your enjoyment throughout the summer, culminating in a super-show in the latter part of the summer. . . . The Breen-Phillips softball team is leaving no stone unturned in their drive for the softball tournament. They have bought themselves some classy uniforms, and these ought to aid them at least psychologically. They now have the appearance
of a championship team with those uniforms and they ought to be able to scare the opposition into victory.
INTERHALL SPORTS
. (Continued from page 3)
education senior, John Peasenelli, is proving an able assistant for hard-working Coach “Nappy.”
Coach Handy says that he has a fine spirited bunch of trackmen who are working out daily despite the hot weather. He is planning to stage an interhall meet towards-the end of the semester. Mr. Handy expects many additional tracksters to report with the installation of an obstacle course a little later on. The obstacle course will be considerably different from those used by the army. Were the course here modeled after those used by the Army it would not serve its purpose so well, as the men would simply go from here to an identical layout.
The interhall program, the most extensive' in the history of the school, is designed to keep Notre Dame men in the ’ best of shape so that when they are called to the colors they will already be hardened men. The. program was also organized to provide wholesome diversion during the 15-week summer semester which was added at the request of the government to speed up the educational process from four years to two and two-thirds years.-	.
The interhall program will not be done away with in the fall and winter semesters. Other sports, such as football and basketball will be substituted for the summer activities.	'
Although there are no varsity teams in action baseball coach Jake Kline and tennis coach Walter Langford have organized teams in their respective sports and are competing with various teams in South Bend and vicinity. These teams . draw their players from the outstanding interhall competitors.	.
VOLLEYBALL
(Continued from page 3) down to their pre-rally pace in the last suffering a 15-9 set back and the loss ■ of the game. .	'
The weather took Sorin Hall away from the Interhall Volleyball league. The vaunted seniors are propped up on the Sorin porch for the remainder of the
summer, being quarantined by the heat. Cavanaugh hall came to bat for Sorin, - and like the mighty Casey, took' its first strike this week as Alumni I breezed past the second Cavanaugh entrant 15-10; 5-15; 15-12; and 15-8. Pudgy Bob Walsh and Gerry Moore pitched Alumni to the rout. Cavanaugh returned to the court later in the week to splatter disinterested Dillon in three straight games, 15-9; 15-10; and 15-12.
Vincent “Vince” Commisa, popular and efficient Interhall Volleyball ruler, has an
"It ain't so much the hours — it's the WOIK..
You said it, Butch — driving to Chicago is just plain woik! That's why so many people prefer to ride the South Shore Line.' It's ' the carefree, sensible way to go. .No traffic congestion. No driving jitters.' And when you get there, no parking problems.
Next time you go to Chicago, ride the South Shore and relax!
For information call C.W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3 I I I.
NAVY MEN!
Ask about special furlough rates
Chicago, South Shore and South Bend Railroad
added attraction on this week’s bill. Alumni II, composed of the athletic pillars of that hall, will meet an All Star aggregation from Zahm hall tonight at 7:00. The Zahm haall contingent, composed of brothers and priests studying here on the campus for the summer, boast a powerful group. Commisa attests, “this is one of the games leading up to the finale of the season when trie league winners play an All Star outfit from the remaining teams.”
Vince also had words of praise for the players and the teams who have taken up volleyball in the true Notre Dame spirit. The league now has reached its playing peak and from now on the games will be fierce and professionally well-played.
Standings:
TEAM	WON LOST PCT.
St. Edward’s........ 6	1	.857
Alumni II........... 5	1	.833
Faculty............. 3	1	.750
Alumni I............ 4	2	.666
Cavanaugh I ........ 4	3	.600
Walsh .............. 3	2	.571
Navy ROTC i......... 2	4	.333
Cavanaugh II ....... 1	5	.166
Breen-Phillips ..... 1	5	.166
Dillon ............. 0	5	.000
INTERHALL TENNIS
(Continued from page 3) “ladder.” By challenging the man above you, you advance among the select five who play the interhall matches. This enables you to play often and against good competition.	•
As the field was off to a fast start, the Naval ROTC looked like a real threat to Dillon supremacy, as they turned back a strong Cavanaugh squad.
Now that the hot weather has definitely arrived, it will be really tough going. For the remainder of the schedule it’s going to be “Class that makes the big difference.”
League Standings:
WON .LOST PER.
Dillon I.............  2	0	’ 1.000
Dillon II..........	2	0	1.000
Cavanaugh'..:......... 1	1	• .500
N. R. O: T. C......... 1	1	.500
Faculty............... 1	1	.500
Alumni ..........1____ 1	1 , .500
Walsh .................0	2	.000
Breen-Phillips _______ 0	2	.000
Results: Cavanaugh 7, Walsh 0; Dillon I 4, NROTC 3; Dillon II 6, Alumni 1; Faculty 7, Breen-Phillips 0; NROTC 4, Cavanaugh 2; Dillon I 5, Faculty 2; Alumni 5, Breen-Phillips 0; Dillon II 7, Walsh 0.
Next Week’s Schedule: July .28, NROTC vs. Breen-Phillips; Alumni vs. Cavanaugh. July 30, Dillon I vs. Walsh; Faculty vs. Dillon II.
Sorin Holds Second Place In Hall Party Series
The second in a series of hall parties in connection with the cooperation program was held last Thursday night, July 16, on the first floor of Sorin Hall.
The party, organized by Bob Fagin, was a big success due to the variety of entertainment the program featured. “Slush” Richards, master of ceremonies, introduced the entertainers and acted as Quiz Master in testing the I.Q. of the Sorin men. The highlight of the evening was a five-piece swing combination led by Bill Binet and his trumpet. Reggie Flynn with his electric guitar was a big hit, receiving many encores as did the songs of Kevin O’Toole and Leo Link. The laughs of the evening were provided by Bud Dudley and Ed Callahan, whose imitation of various well known figures received a big hand. Refreshments and community singing brought the successful evening to a close.
According to the cooperation program these gatherings are to be held in all of the student residence halls. Scheduled to have parties next week are Dillon, Cavanaugh and St. Edward’s
—Henry Pyne
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
_	503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 Sherland Building .
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton. M.D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A.'Rose, D.D.S.	-
Cyril F. Rose, D.D.S.	'
Peter J. Rose, D.D.S.	. *
623-629 Sherland Building South Bend, Indiana
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
. Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
~	A
406-408 Tower Building	"Phone 3-2574
Correct for NAVAL OFFICERS
Fine serviceable leathers and approved design are just a part of these Mansfield Military Oxfords. It’s their superb friendly fit that makes Mansfields the preferred shoe by men in the Service.
military blucher oxford, black Alpine leather and
rubber heel.
Naval Officers
Prefer Arrow Shirts
_	,	I
Arrow White Neckband Shirts
with French Cuffs
All Sizes and Sleeve Lengths
$2.25
MANSFIELD’S
FAMED FOR FIT
$5.95
Bostonian Service Shoes_....$8.95
Genuine White Buck Shoes....$8.95
Arrow Duncan Collars
25c
M‘X ADLER Michigan at Washington
Arrow Black Ues
$1
M‘X ADLER
“ON THE CORNER”... Michigan at Washington