

Scholastic 
wishes the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community a safe and happy holiday 
Editor 
Chuck Wood 

Assistant to the Editor 
Anthony Walton 

Managing Editor 
Jim Sommers 

Production Manager 
Clay Malaker 

Layout Editor 
Tina Terlaak 

Art Director 
Michael Gazzerro 

Photography Editor 
Eileen O'Meara 

Copy Editors 
Daniel Moore 
Donna Teevan 

News Editor 
Andrew Zwerneman 

Fiction Editor 
Mark Traverso 

Culture Editor 
Ken Scarbrough '· 

Sports Editor 
Tom O'Toole 

St. Mary's Editor 
Mary Pigott 

Distribution Manager 
Joe Pheifer 
Business Manager 
Rosemary Abowd 
Staff 
Cathy Chopp, Denise Grether, Lois Ken­nedy, Bill Kolb, Teresa Reichert, Mike Zusi, Mark Sullivan, John Davenport, Dan Kevsal, Mary Link, Shelly Hendrickson, Lizann Welk, Jeny Kucenic, Shea Watkins, Susan de Carvalho, Barbara Bridges, Anne Barsanti, Ed Kelly, Brian Crouth, Pat Callans, Bill Zink . 




SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 122, No. 4, December, 1980 Notre Dame, IN 
FEATURES 
Nathan Stone4 Seeds of Change Gus Zuehlke6 A Call to Eucharist 

Dan Moore8 A First Step Into the future Prof. Charles E. Rice

10 The Regan Victory: What Happened and What Now? 

REGULARS 
Tom O'Too/e

12 Fiction/You're Only 21 Once August Jennewein, Robert Wade14 Gallery Liz Blakey
20 Poetry/Letter, As We Exit Now Molly Wolfe
In the Museum of Natural History, 
A Story for Anthony Mary Pigott
22 Fiction/The Life and Times of SA0133 Dan Keusal25 Perspective/From Rudolph to Webster Dan Gonzales26 Music/Guitar Impressionism John Davenport28 Theatre/"He" Speaks Chuck Wood31 The Last Word 
Bourke White; p. 13, 19, Mary Ferris; p. 14,Illustrations: p. 4, Justin Loustau; p. 22, Joe 15, August Jennewein; p. 16, 17, RobertMusumeci 
Ware; p. 20, 26, 27, 29, Sue Thornton; p. 21, 25, 31, Eileen O'Meara; p. 23, Giselle 
Cover: Eileen O'Meara 
Batacan 
Photos: p., 3, 10, Christine McCory; p. 6, Advisory Board Elizabeth Christman, Mario Pedi, James7; 28, Chris Barlok; p. 8, Werner Bischof; 
p. 8, Yosuki Yamahata; p. 9, Margaret Robinson, Doug Kinsey 
The opinions· expressed in ·Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the· entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student 
body. 

The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising 
Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year 
except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, 
Notre Dame, Ind:· 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are 
available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. 
copyright © 1980 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­.duced without permission. · · 


Seeds of Change 
by Nathan Stone 

I'm sad tonight. My heart Js aching, I guess. But it's not aching over a lost love as it sometimes does. . Nor is it aching out of longing for some future love, the woman I have yet to meet. 
My heart is aching tonight because it is too tired to be angry. It has been angry for so long it can't keep going. 
My heart is aching tonight because it can't figure out why. It is like a child tonight, who was rather innocent and got beaten up for the first time. It looks up, brow knit, puzzled, hoping maybe it was an accident, but knowing that it wasn't, and unable to discern why. 
I'm very sad tonight. My heart is aching. It is aching · over a round table split by greed. It is aching disillu­sioned by mankind. And it is aching, longing with youthful hope. 
I am very sad tonight. I am like the father of my aching heart. I see it come home battered for the first time. I see it puzzled. I see it ache. And it makes me sad, because I, the father of my heart, know that this shall not be the last time my heart comes home battered, learning the ways of the world. I, the father of my heart, wish that my heart did not have to learn. But I am sad because I know it must. 
Today, one of the boys from the neighborhood came and said, "I want to show you this." Bernardo. Never one to waste words, he is an inconspicuous fellow generally. He took from his breast pocket a sheet of paper, folded up tightly. It was a poem, one of his many poems, written in blue ball point on graph paper. I unfolded it and held it under the light to read it. 
"Adios a un Amigo" was the title. "Goodbye to a Friend." I started reading; Bernardo sat down on my bed and leaned back on his elbows, feet resting lightly on the floor. I closed the door. The poem went some­thing like this : 
Today I know that you are There with the Lord and perhaps You are seeing how even now Injustices Like what happened to you Continue. 
That's why I want to tell you in these lines ... 
My friend, I know that your death Was not in vain. I know that even there above, You will continue the struggle. I would ask you For the strength that you had So that I can keep up All that you taught me. 
I know that you were betrayed, 
Shot down by those bastards 
Clad in green, 
Who think they are tough 
And macho 
Because with their guns they can act 
Brave. 
But my friend, I tell you 
That they and all the ones like them 
Are a miserable, lousy lot of 
Hypocrites. 
Goodbye, my friend. 
"A friend of yours?" I askerl. 
"Yes." 
"From around here?" 
"No, from school." . 
Bernardo has a serious, soft-spoken manner which seems almost artificial in a kid of sixteen. He has the face of a man of many years. He has the face of what he is struggling to be. Yet the eyes betray the emotion and the pain and the youth. 
He looked up at me, head tilted down and to the left, dark brown eyes set into the top of the sockets, and glancing off to the side from one moment to the next. 
"How did it happen?" I asked. 
"Shot in the back." Abrupt and unemotional. 
"Was he in jail?" I asked. 
"No. They hadn't even arrested him yet. He was shot in the street. In Quilicura." . 
A series of images went through my head. I saw a young cop in his first months in the uniform, not quite hardened into what he symbolized, and not used to carrying a machine gun. 
"Halt!" he calls out to a darkly clad figure twenty yards ahead. The figure does not halt, and through clenched teeth the right index squeezes off about ten rounds. The dark-clad figure jerks forward and falls. To the young cop,it seems to fall for a long time. In slow motion. The machine gun feels suddenly very heavy and icy cold. The cop sweats. · 
Then I imagined it another way. 
The secret police, dressed like any other working man, but not talking, are standing at the bus stop in the dark watching the people get off. They follow the darkly clad figure, and when safely apart from other people, the two secret police men get closer to the youth. One of them pulls a high-powered pistol. One shot through the heart, and the victim crumples. Neat and profes­sional. The rumor is started that this youth was a victim of terrorists. The story does not reach the newspapers. 

Bernardo continued. 

"He wrote poems too. One day he was writing one of his poems on the sidewalk with some chalk. I read it and I said to him, 'I think that's very good.' That's when I first met him. 
"I went to his house a lot. Last week, his sister came to school and told me not to come to the house anymore, that my friend had been killed, and it was not safe to come. She said he had shown a poem he had written to a fellow who was an informer for the police." 

I could not immediately assimilate all that he was telling me. I could see it all. I understood it all, and yet I could not quite feel it, not yet. Empathy had not yet overtaken me. I was holding it back, afraid of it. The shock and horror would settle in some hours later. 
After a silence, he said, getting up to go, "Well, . I wanted to tell you. I thought someone should know.'' He looked at me searchingly. 
"Here," I said, "wear my hat. It's starting to rain." He accepted the gesture, and putting on my brown knit hat, he walked out alone, gently closing the green wooden gate behind him. He held his shoulders back, · his gaze straight and expressionless.... 
It is only at this late hour, alone in the quiet darkness, that I am beginning to feel the pain and the anger Bernardo feels. He has lost one of those special friends, a hero, a model, an idol-the sort of friend only the adolescent can have. He wants to cry. He wanted to says a few things to his friend and now he can't. He never will say them. He never will learn all that his friend had to teach. He feels anger for authority, for all the people who order, dictate, and terminate other people's lives without humanity, sympathy, or under­standing. He imagines their faces, close-shaven, short greying hair. He imagines their gestures, decisive, orderly, seeming to create a stone barrier with heavy­looking hands that have short clean nails. He imagines their uniform, a symbol of the internal uniformity these "old men" seem to have. They think the same, and they speak the same, and they act the same. They are a wall. He wants them to be, and had once thought they were a source of warmth, security, affection, and wisdom. Now he knows their uniformity is a lie, and he hates them. 
Bernardo feels fear and anguish, as trying to turn back the clock two weeks, he imagines his dear friend's execution. He imagines the chill feeling, the moment of paralyzing fear. He cannot imagine the physical pain. Rather, he imagines visually the entry of the bullet. Did it enter in the back and explode in his friend's chest cavity, destroying his heart, lungs, and blood vessels? Not sure. He imagines it entering the back of the neck. He imagines the head of his dear friend and the moment of the bullet's impact, perforating and collapsing. Then, he backs the bullet up two centimeters and stops it there, to say goodbye to his friend. He doesn't imagine the body's collapse onto the pavement. He doesn't imagine the twisted shape of the legs, nor does he imagine the twitching of the flesh after death. 
Bernardo's imagination follows the spirit of his 
friend rising upward out of the body, leaving as the 
bullet enters. He imagines his friend reviewing 
Santiago under clouds, and its suffering million's. He 
imagines his friend weeping. 
He imagines the cold flesh. Climbing into bed, 
Bernardo looks down at his body, and imagines the 
thighs hard, cold and ugly, devoid of all the spring, the 
motion and the warmth that are life, youth, and 
freedom. 

"What right have they ... ?I' 
This is what he thinks to himself. And the fury 
begins to generate within him. D 
Nathan Stone is a 1979 graduate of this university, living in Santiago, Chile, for two years as a member of the Holy Cross Associates program overseas. 


A Call to Eucharist 
(In light of this Advent season, this article is offered to the Notre Dame­St. Mary's community for refiection and inspiration.) 
Last year on All Saints' Day, Fa­ther Hesburgh gave a talk on the Eucharist and then celebrated Mass at Flanner Hall. During the same week, Gerald Ford, Jack Anderson, walk 20 miles, I would start walking tonight.... If I had the choice be­tween being President of the United States and being able to celebrate the Eucharist, there would be no contest, I would choose the Eu­charist...." 
According to Fr. Hesburgh, this fundamental loyalty to Jesus in the Eucharist could not be asserted 

and Carlos Fuentes visited the cam­pus. These three men may have overshadowed the impact of Fr. Hes­burgh's talk in the minds of many Notre Dame students, but the nature of the statements he made was truly revolutionary. If one were to place the importance of what he said in an eternal perspective, the state­ments of Ford, Anderson, and Fu­entes pale in significance. "If the only way I had to celebrate the Eu­charist tomorrow morning was to without a great sense of unworthi­ness. Yet, by the Lord's command we receive this sacrament, the cele­bration of the one sacrifice of Jesus on the Cross. There is no great reli­gion which is without some concept of sacrifice, and the greatest of all sacrifices was when God sacrificed Himself once and for all on the Cross. It is through entering into that mystery that we have the power to do all the things we are called to do. 
by Gus Zuehlke 
There are many who will now complain "this is not revolutionary, this sounds like the elementary Catechism!" not realizing that the Eucharist is the most revolutionary celebration which man has ever known. In the Eucharist the trans­forming power of Christ's death and resurrection is celebrated. We are called to share in this spiritual trans­formation now, not just when we die. 
In avery basic way Fr. Hesburgh was challenging his audience to re­examine their loyalty to Jesus in the Eucharist. Is our loyalty to Christ being slighted by other loyalties? Are our priorities of sacrifice and prayer being overshadowed by our temporal concerns and desires? When Fr. Hesburgh was questioned about how this loyalty could be in­tegrated in an institutional context, he responded with the biographical example of St. Thomas More. More worked within the system, a system loaded with corruption and sin. When the ultimate test of his loyalty to Christ occurred, he gave up his position of power and eventually sur­rendered his life. "Every Christian will face that point of ultimate test­ing wherein he or she will be called upon to give it all up to God," re­flected Fr. Hesburgh. 

Not everyone responds to the call of Christ in his life. Fr. Hesburgh gave two such examples. In the first, Fr. Hesburgh pointed to those who found the promise connected with the Eucharisf intolerable. Many of Christ's followers left Him when He spoke about eating His flesh and drinking His blood. People became disillusioned, because they thought it was a type of cannibalism. Fr. Hesburgh's second example of a per­son's rejection of Christ's call was the story of the rich young man who went away sad because of his refusal to give up all that he possessed and follow Jesus. "Do not go away sad," Fr. Hesburgh said, quoting John Paul II, "follow Christ." 
In the two examples cited by Fr. 

Hesburgh, we see two possible rea­sons why persons do not follow Christ: either they do not believe in Him or, if they do, they still refuse to yield their wills to Him. The very solution to these problems offers us the medicine for much of our spiri­tual and metaphysical sickness. If we do not receive Christ present in the Eucharist, we should receive Him. If we do receive this Sacrament often and it seems to accomplish little in our lives, then the problem is with our will, which is refusing to follow Christ. · 
It is this refusal to heed Christ and His words that characterizes the "sin of the world" which we ask the Lamb of God to take away dur­ing the Mass. We desire this redemp­tion as we pray to be elevated by our response to God's grace. We feel in the Eucharist, as Fr. Hesburgh said, our unworthiness before God. Fr. Hesburgh stressed a fundamen­tal vision flowing from the Eucha­rist: that caring is motivated by a complete and willing self-sacrifice, by dying to self in order to care for others. "We should never stop trying to become a saint. We should never stop trying to love." He could not think of a stronger foundation for sainthood than daily Mass, nor a means to love outside the power of Christ manifest in the Eucharist. 
During the sermon Fr. Hesburgh discussed some keys to sanctity. He asserted from the reading of the day how opposite the state of the world was from what the Beatitudes said about man. Christ said "Blessed are the poor" ; He did not exalt the rich, as they seem to be so exalted in the world. After treating those simple sayings from the Gospel as a truly revolutionary message, Fr. Hesburgh hit his hand against the lectionary and said with a smile, "You know, I did not make this up. This is what the Lord Himself said." What is at stake in this call to sanc­tity is eternity. 
We would do well to remember that this call to be saints has a historical relationship at Notre Dame with the Eucharist that is deep in the University's heritage. The campus' fundamental self-under­standing needs to be regrounded in the Eucharist. We can recall that the late Cardinal O'Hara, former Presi­dent of Notre Dame, was a great and fervent proponent of daily Commu­nion, a devotion which spread from Notre Dame throughout the Roman Catholic Church in America. Fr. Hesburgh was speaking not pri­marily as the President of this Uni­versity or as special United Nations Ambassador, but as a celebrator of the .Eucharist and as guardian of this Eucharistic tradition. Our spiri­tual shepherd calls this campus to the banquet of the Shepherd. Though we are like sheep wandering astray, each taking his own way, this Shep­herd, the Lamb of God, calls us to celebrate our own redemption from the estrangement we experience here and in the world, with God and with our neighbor. In calling us to the Eucharist, Fr. Hesburgh's message is clear as is the message on the statue in front of the administration build­ing. Christ is saying Venite Ad Me Omnes -come to me all of you. O 

Gus Zuehlke graduated in 1980 from the College of Arts and Letters with a degree in Theology. 
The Foreign Aid Question--­

A First Step into the Future 
Notre Dame is indeed fortunate to welcome into its community this year former Governor of Ohio and director of the Agency for Interna­tional Development (US AID), John Gilligan. To hear Governor Gilligan speak about foreign assistance is to wake up after a comfortable sleep to find a very disturbing picture of reality. His comments are alarming not so much because they depict the terrible condition of life that most of the world's inhabitants must face every day, for most of. us already vaguely know something of this. Rather, they are alarming because they demonstrate how little we in the United States actually do to al­leviate this situation. 
In general, the Western world is not unaware of the frightening level of existence that makes most of the Third World a hell on earth. We are able to see, through the camera­man's eye and through his sense of hard sell, images of what were once human beings that starvation has turned into ghosts and shadows. And while it is true that the less news­worthy stories, the stories of places where starvation and malnutrition take their deadly effect more slowly, and so less spectacularly, rarely get aired in the press, we do know that most people living in less-developed countries live meagerly. Yet our per­ceptions about what we are doing to remedy these problems are usually far off the mark. 
Western aid, and particularly US aid to the less-developed nations, has been decreasing steadily ·since the 1960s. During the heyday of foreign aid the US dedicated about 3% of its Gross National Product for the re­building of West Europe and Japan with very little help for less-devel­oped countries. The success that these programs met is something of which all Americans can be proud. 
Yet it soon became evident by the late 1950s and early 1960s that po­litical rather than humanitarian con­siderations were the primary moti­vation in foreign aid transfers for the Third World. 
By 1962 the United States was dedicating only one-half of one per­cent of its Gross National Product for foreign aid. Most of the aid went in the form of military assistance to countries that were threatened by internal and external communist threats. It was about this time that President John Kennedy began ex­
.panding the aid program by creating the Peace Corps and the Alliance for Progress. These institutions were formed primarily to assist in meet­ing the basic needs of the poorest groups of people, and to help less­developed nations with large con­struction projects such as dams, bridges, and road systems. 
Eventually, with the advent of the Nixon administration, the foreign aid picture became susceptible to budget cuts and manipulation. The 

by Dan Moore 
Vietnam War .drew most of the money allocated for foreign assis­tance to military help for Southeast Asia. Development assistance with­ered slowly. Today, of the seventeen industrial nations that give foreign assistance, the US ranks sixteenth in aid given as a percentage of GNP. Today we spend eight billion dollars on foreign assistance or one-quarter of one percent of our Gross National Product. (This assumes that Con­gress will pass the foreign aid pack­age which has yet to be voted on this I year.) . · i 
I
Even this figure is misleading for ! 
j
it does not relate the concentration of the money. Of the eight billion i we spend, four billion is routed through international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund and the World. Bank. These multilateral institutions grant aid in many forms, primarily though through loans which increase the debt burden of developing nations. The remaining four billion dollars is routed through the Agency for In-





ternational Development. One-half of this goes to. Security-related items for eight nations, and of this, 85 per­cent is used to pay off the Camp David Peace Accords in military as­sistance to Egypt and Israel. The re­maining two billion dollars is dis­tributed to fifty-five countries. This aid is in the form not of money but of experts who are trained in tech­nical fields to meet basic needs of people. Such fields include land re­form, health care, and education. 
Foreign aid has become relatively insignificant in this country for a number of reasons: 1) Detente and the new "correlation of forces" have mistakenly eased the fears of many global politicians who maintained that aid_ was a means of drawing Third World nations into the free world camp. 2) The fact that in the past aid did not perform the mira­cles it was supposed to perform, has forced many former advocates to abandon the cause. 3) Most of Con­gress looks forward to voting against foreign aid because it is the one time many of them can vote against increasing the budget without in­curring the wrath of constituents or an interest group. 4) Finally, for­eign· aid has no real proponents in this country anymore. Many of its liberal advocates of the past have seen foreign aid used as a political weapon in the 1960s and are thus reluctant to use it again. Conserva­tives generally have been opposed to it, though ideologically this should not necessarily be. 
The sad fact is that while aid lev­els have decreased, the need for aid has increased tremendously. It is time for the people of America to once again break out of their isola­tion and see the world for what it is. It would be easy to withdraw into our own corner and ignore what is going on throughout the world, to say that there is nothing we can really do anyway and leave it at that, to abandon the world's cry for help because there will always be poor people. Yet we have a commit­ment as citizens of the world and as human beings to make our world a better place. We have an enormous potential to make the success stories of the Third World the rule rather than the exception. 
This will not require an extraor­dinary sacrifice on our part. In fact if we only spent the amount of money we now spend on dog food for helping the poor of the world, we could more than double current ex­penditures for development assis­tance. What it will require is an awareness on our part of what is happening in the world around us, a boldness to make the effort to see more clearly the problems we all face together as human beings. This is a special responsibility for our generation, for if we close our eyes to the tragedies of today, are we not condemning ourselves for the future? 
It is clear that arguing for a change in government policy_ con­cerning foreign aid will be akin to arguing in a vacuum, if morality is used as a base. For better or for worse all governments regardless of ideology or rhetoric act only in re­gard to their national interests. These interests are primarily security re­lated and economic, and only sec­ondarily humanitarian. Nevertheless, in the long run it is wholly in the interest of the United States to pro­mote an equitable development of the Third World. With the effects of the oil crisis we are only now be­ginning to see how interdependent our world is becoming. There can be no doubt that we will live to see a much more integrated world where all nations will depend on others. The time has come for the United States to realize this, and to help those who depend on us· today, for tomorrow we may well depend on 
them. 
Our generation at Notre Dame is described time and again in the media and on the campuses as the "Me" generation. We are not idealis­tic, it is said, but practical. Our em­phasis, we are told, is not on better­ing the world but on getting ahead. Ours is the generation with no cause but itself, with no fiery passion for ideals but with a craving for a secure future, for self-gratification, and for the answer to everything -money. Let this be our cause then. Let us begin to make ourselves aware of the world around us today, so that we might make it a better place to live tomorrow. We have more talent and potential than any generation in history and we are able to learn from the mistakes of our pre_deces­sors. Calling for an overhaul of US AID would be a first step in demon­strating to the media and to our leaders that we do care. It would be a first step in showing that we have responsibility, it would be at least a first step. For if our generation does not. lead the United States into the future, who will? O 

The Reaoan Victorv. What Hauuened and What Now? 
"Always, Winning Washington Is 
Easier Than Running It." So ran the 
headline on the New York Times' 
Week in Review section on the Sun­
day following the surprisingly easy 
victory of Governor Reagan ·in the 
1980 election. [New York Times, 
Nov. 9, 1980, Sec. 4, p. 11, col. 1] 
An understanding of why Reagan 
won -and won so handily -could 
help us in anticipating what he 
might do with the Presidency. How­
ever, none of the theories offered 
to explain the Reagan victory can 
be wholly proven correct. 

It is debatable whether the Reagan 
victory resulted from popular agree­
ment with his positions or displeas­
ure at the demonstrated incompe­
tence of President Carter, or both. A 
New York Times-CBS News post­
election poll showed that "one regis­
tered voter in five changed his or her 
mind about whom to vote for, or 
whether to vote at all, in the last 
four days of the Presidential cam­
paign, and about three-fifths of that 
group made a change that hurt Pres­
ident Carter." [New York Times, 
Nov. 16, 1980, p. 1, col. 3] Iran and 
the economy were the issues that 
seem to have hurt President Carter 
most among those late-shifting 
voters. 

It would be a mistake, however, to reduce the Reagan victory merely to a last-minute switch prompted by lack of confidence in President Carter or by a transient dissatisfac­tion with the current state of the economy. The voters not only re­tired President Carter, they also gave· walking papers to a dgzen Democratic senators and nearly three dozen Democratic representa­tives. In most of these races the losers seemed to be basically identi­fied with welfare-state liberalism. The Republicans captured control of the Senate and cut by half the Democratic majority in the House of Representatives. It is fair to say that there was something more at work here than a passing mood of hostility to one man or momentary resentment of the failure of his 
by Prof. Charles E Rice 


Prof. Charles E. Rice 
policies. 

There is reason to believe that the 1980 election results were part of a trend that began perhaps twenty years ago-a trend of increasing dis­satisfaction with the economic con­sequences of welfare-state liberal­ism, with the intrusions of big gov­ernment, and with our weak and vacillating performance overseas. John Kennedy won the election in 1960 on a promise to "get America moving again," to eliminate the (later to be proven fictitious) "mis­sile gap," to improve the efficiency and responsiveness of government, 
etc. 

Four years later, Senator Barry Goldwater could perhaps have been elected had it not been for the trauma of the Kennedy assassina­tion, the consequent unwillingness of the American people to have three presidents in little more than one year, and the successful media ef­
fort to portray Goldwater as a drool­ing maniac intent upon tearing up Social Security cards and incinerat­ing, in mushroom clouds, little daisy­picking girls. (A similar character­ization of Governor Reagan was at­tempted this year and might have succeeded had the Carter-Reagan de­bate not shown that Reagan is not the sort of fellow who "eats . his young.") 
The Nixon elect.ions of 1968 and 1972 have to be described as en­dorsements by the people of less gov­
ernment, fiscal responsibility, and a strong foreign policy. At least this is how Nixon presented himself, though the reality was different. He was aided by the Democrats' 1972 nomi­nation of George McGovern, who can best be described as the flip-side of Barry Goldwater. The difference is that Goldwater's extremism was largely a media creation. McGovern's was real, and how could Nixon or anyone lose against that? President Nixon, of course, blew it.with Water­gate. The 1976 election of President Carter is primarily explainable as a reaction to this scandal. An interest­ing confirmation of the overall con­servative trend, however, can be seen in the fact that President Ford, himself fairly popular and no ex­tremist, was almost_ denied renomi-
I 

SCHOLASTIC ; 

1 
nation in 1976 by a Governor Reagan who articulated clearly the underly­ing trends of discontent with big government, the economy, and for­eign policy. . . 
The Carter presidency, therefore, can fairly be viewed as an inter­regnum, brought about by Water­gate and unable to survive the en-· during discontent occasioned by the inevitable failure of liberal policies at home and abroad. Seen in this light, the Reagan victory is merely the latest manifestation of a basic trend toward popular endorsement of theideas that government should live within its means, that it should not intrude too deeply into people's lives and that it should be strong in foreign affairs. As with all such theories, however, this cannot be proven. It is conjecture, but I sug­gest it is no less credible than other explanations of what happened. 
There is ano:ther element, how­ever, which contributed crucially to the 1980 results. This is the rise of the pro-family, pro-life coalition ex­emplified by the Moral Majority and right-to-life groups. This element has been growing beneath the sur­face as the moral tone of American society has deteriorated over the past two decades. The Supreme Court abortion decisions of 1973 brought one element of this coalition into the open. But the other, the overall pro­family element, has come to the fore only ·in the last two years. The im­petus for this has been provided by the Christian political movement, which in turn has been energized by television evangelists such as Pat Robertson, Jim Robison, and, prin­cipally, Jerry Falwell. 
U.S. News and World Report 

described this movement as "a full­scale revolt by the 'sleeping giant' of American politics: 50 million 'born again' Christians, most of whom are Protestants, plus 30 million morally conservative Roman Catholics and a few mililon Mor­mons and · Orthodox Jews." Ac­cording to Pat Robertson, "we have enough votes to run the country. And when the people say, 'we've had enough,' we are going to take over." 
This pro-family and pro-life move­ment is a reaction to the aggressive promotion by government, the media, and, a trendy clergy of a secularized, amoral society characterized by: the legalized slaughter through abortion every year· of the equivalent of the population 6f Houston; the legitimi­zation of homosexual activity as· an alternative life style; amoral sex 
education in public and, in some 
places, in parochial schols; govern­
ment-promoted contraception; a ris­
ing tide of pornography in print and 
on the electronic media, etc., etc. 
No more than two years ago this 
movement found its political voice 
in the emergence of Reverend Jerry 
Falwell's Moral Majority. The Moral 
Majority believes that supporters of 
biblical morality have as much right 
to seek to influence public affairs as 
do the supporters of secular human­
ist morality. The Christian political 
movement appears to have provided 
the cutting edge to the more general 
movement of discontent discussed 
above. In their first national elec­
tion, in 1980, they claimed, with 
justification, to have provided the 
margin of victory in a number of 
significant elections. 
Unlike some other elements of the 
Christian political movement, the 
Moral Majority does not endorse 
particular candidates. Rather, the 
organization encourages its adher­
ents to register and to vote in ac­
cord with moral principles as they 
see them in the Bible. Parenthet­
ically, this sort of approach is not 
unprecedented. It was the basis of 
much of the civil rights and anti­
war campaigns of the 1960s and 
1970s. Such activity is, of course, 
protected by the First Amendment 
guarantee of the free exercise of 
religion. Nevertheless, Falwell and 
other television evangelists have 
been attacked by various pro-abor­
tion and other liberal groups for al­
legedly violating the separation of 
church and state, whatever that 
means. 
In October, a well-financed effort, 
People for the American Way, was 
launched to counter in the media the 
"threat to our nation and to our 
pluralistic society" posed by the 
evangelical political movement. Peo­
ple for the American Way is an as­
sortment of clergy and others under 
the leadership of television producer 
Norman Lear, the moral leader who 
gave us such examples of his vision 
of the American Way as Mary Hart­
man and Maude. Incidentally, to the 
extent that the shaping of the Amer­
ican future comes down to a choice 
between the · vision presented by 
Norman Lear and his followers and 
the vision of Jerry Falwell and his 
associates, it appears that the Amer­
ican people will have the good sense . to choose the latter. 
In ·the 1980 election, the. pro­
family, pro-life movement achieved 
remarkable success. The pro-abor­tion National Abortion Rights Action League, evidently after long and serious consideration of the returns, announced on the morning of No­vember 5 that the people voted for a change in economics and foreign policy and "they didn't vote on the issue of abortion." The results, how­ever, indicate that abortion and 'bther pro-family issues were deciding factors in several major Senate and House races. 
The Life Amendment Political Ac­
tion Committee, for example, an­
nounced during the campaign its "hit 
list" of Senators and Representatives 
whom it sought to defeat precisely 
because of their pro-abortion stands. 
Of the eleven major targets on the 
LAPAC list, nine were defeated, in­
cluding such leaders as Birch Bayh, 
Gaylord Nelson, John Culver, George 
McGovern, Frank Church, and 
others. Other pro-abortion candi­
dates, however, survived, includip.g 
Senators Gary ·Hart of Colorado, 
Robert Packwood of Oregon, John 
Glenn of Ohio, Christopher Dodd of 
Connecticut, and such Representa­
tives as Robert Kastenmeier of Wis­
consin and others. 
The "hit lists" of LAPAC and 
other pro-life groups tended to coin­
cide with the target lists of various 
evangelical and conservative politi­
cal action groups, evidencing the im­
pact of the coalition of pro-life, 
Christian evangelical and traditional 
conservative pressure groups. 
This coalition, incidentally, owes 
its success largely to the post-Water­
gate election reforms which allowed 
extensive political spending and ac­
tivities by political action commit­
tees (PACs) which act indepen­
dently of .any candidates. The 1980 
campaign saw the entry of business 
P ACs into the arena on an extensive 
scale. It is, of course, unlikely that 
the . Congress elected in 1980 will 
withdraw its encouragement of such 
PACs. 
There seems little question that the Reagan Administration will move aggressively to keep its prom­ises on reducing overall government spending, deregulating the economy, and strengthening our defenses. It .remains to be seen, however, whether and to what extent President Reaganwill sa.tisfy those who supported him because of the social and moral is­sues. The outcome here can be meas­ured by two issues-abortion and the tuition tax credit for non-public 
schools. · 
( continued on page 31) 

11 







You're Only 21 

Characters: Tom O'Toole, a senior at Notre Dame Billy, a freshman Bobby, Berry, and Benny, more freshmen "Blotto" and "Bleppo," two students outside liquor store Kid #1 and Kid #2, two juvenile boys outside store Mary Ann and Mary Fran, two SMC chicks outside store Cashlier inside store A Football Player inside store Extra Manager inside store 
Act I takes place inside Tom's typical-looking dorm room. Tom's conversing with Billy, a somewhat shy, subdued freshman from down the hall. · 
Billy: So how does it feel to be twenty-one? Tom: About the same as it did being twenty. Billy: Really? But don't you feel any ... older? Tom: Maybe a day or so. Billy: Wow! You can actually feel yourself gettin' 
older EVERY DAY now? . 
Tom: Yeah, you go quick when you get to be my age. Of course, some days you feel it more than others. For instance, sittin' here talkin' with you just now, I feel like I've aged about ten years. 
Billy: Really? Well, it is kind of humid today too, you know. Tom: No, Billy, I don't think it's the weather so 
much as ... YOU! · Billy: (astonished) Me! Torn: Yes, Billy, I'm afraid so. Now that I'm a MAN, 
it just wouldn't look good for me to be associating with a young carefree freshman anymore. People might think I'm reverting into a second childhood or something. 
Billy: But TOM you mean I won't see you anymore? Tom: I'll still wave to you in the john. Billy: 0 Tom! (starts to sob) Tom: Relax, Kid! I was only kiddin' ! I told you, it's 
really no big deal. Billy: But what about all the great things you can do 
now? I mean, legally! Torn: Such as? Billy: Well, you can go see X-rated movies! Tom: That's right! In fact, I was gonna go out and 
catch a couple skin flicks just as soon as I finished my Why Modern Morality Is a Mess paper for Theology. Then again, if I put it off until after ... 

Billy: Sometimes I get the feeling you don't take me seriously. · 
Tom: That's not true. I was a freshman myself once and even though I have to shave just about every day now, I still remember pretty much how you feeL So if you ever need someone to buy for you, just ask. 
Billy: You mean it? Torn: I'm a MAN of my word now. Billy: Gee, thanks! (rushes out of the room but to 
Tom's surprise, he returns about five seconds later.) Billy: (slowly and softly) To-o-o-m? · Torn: Ye-e-e-s? 

by Tom O'Toole 
Billy: Could you buy a little beer for us? Tom: (laughing) Well, that was quick. But I guess I can'tback down now. Whatdaya need? A six, a twelve? Billy: I think it would probably be cheaper to buy in cases. 
Tom: I've underestimated you, Billy. The kid already knows the market! A case, then? (Billy shakes his head) But you said ... 
Billy: Cases. We need fifteen of 'em. Of course, I'm sure my roommates wouldn't mind if you bought the cans separately, as long as it came out to the same number... · 
Torn: Fifteen CASES? 
Billy: Or 360 cans would be fine, too. A little variety might be nice. 
Tom: Fifteen CASES! ! 
Billy: And a bottle of Lambrusco for Benny. He can't drink beer. Stomach problems or something. Torn: (mumbling to himself) Fifteen cases! Billy: Something wrong, Tom? Tom: No, no. It's the humidity.... Do you have 
the ... wow, I've never seen a hundred-dollar bill 
before ... be right back (waves weakly; and mutters 
to himself as he walks away). I was a freshman myself 
once ... but fifteen cases? (end of Act I) · 
Act II 
Act II takes place in front of and within a large liquor store: The act opens with Tom marveling at the neon sign atop the structure. 
Tom (reading): "Alcohol Palace, The Wino's Wonderland." Yeah, this looks like a good place to buy "a little beer.'' (enters) 
The inside of the massive store is arranged in countless rows of stock, and each aisle is labeled just like a supermarket. At the·entrance of the store are ·shopping carts and store flyers, which Tom takes as he 
enters. Tom begins strolling wide-eyed through the 
store, enchanted by the surroundings.) 
Tom: Would you look at all t:\}is stuff! (begins to ab~entmindedly pick. up bottles and examine them) There's a funny~lookin' bottle ... Wow, there's a WORM in there! Just so long as its dead ... 140 proof! I guess you gotta be a"Wild Turkey" to drink it ... would you looky here! Twenty bucks for a bottle of wine that's been sittin' on the shelf for twenty years! No wonder it doesn't sell. (By now several customers have started to listen to his running commentary, and when he finally straightens up he sees several pairs of eyes staring down at him: This snaps him back to reality, and he recalls his mission, making a beeline straight for the beer, and begins loading his cart. He continues the process for several minutes until his quota has been reached. He is breathing quite heavily by the time he finishes.) · · · 
Tom: Fifteen! God, I must be getting old! Now for that Lambrusco. (tries to push the cart and nearly knocks his breath out when it won't budge and his chest collapses against it.) 

Tom: Jesus! Is this mother heavy! He tries again but this time his body sinks lower to the ground as he continues to lose footing. Suddenly a football player spots Tom's dilemma. The player lifts Tom up, hurls him on top of the shopping cart, and proceeds to wheel him up to the checkout counter.) ­
Football P"layer: The first thing you gotta learn, O'Toole, is that you never buy more booze than you can handle. 
Tom: (sarcastically) Thanks. I'll remember that. 

As they reach the checkout counter, the player walks away, and the cashier stares puzzledly at the seemingly abandoned stack of booze before her. She peers around it in every conceivable direction before she notices Tom atop the stack.) 

Cashier: What do you think you're doing? 

Tom: (innocently) Just trying to buy some beer, ma'am. 
Cashier: Very funny! Now let's see some ID's. 

Tom: Here's my school ID (lets it flutter down to her) and my driver's license ( does the same with this) and 
... let's see ... OH! How about my bank card? It's a good picture, don't you think? 
The cashier, who has collected the fallen ID's, is now exchanging glances between the cards and the real thing, who is smiling down at her. This inconvenience seems to irritate her, until she decides she no longer wants to put up with it; . 
Cashier: Get down here where I can see you! (Tom seeing no room in t}?.e aisle, shrugs and jumps directly onto the counter, inches from the startled cashier.) 
Caslvier: (jumping back) My GOD! 

DECEMBER, 1980 
Tom: No, but I do look much better in person. 
(Trying to appear undaunted, the cashier continues 

to look first at Tom and then at the cards, apparently 
unable or unwilling to come to a decision.) 
Tam: Well? 
Cashier: (with a defeated mutter) Happy Birthday. 
Tom: (smiling broadly) Thank you! 
Cashier: (coldly) That'll be $99.97. (hands her the 

bill. She looks at it, then looks again, but then being 
satisfied with its genuinity, is now puzzled over where 
to place it in her drawer.) 
Tom: Never got one of those before, eh? 
Cashier: (exasperatedly flings bill in drawer and 

withdraws three coins) Three cents is your change. 
(with forced smile) Thank you and come again. 
Tom: Thank YOU. And I will. (pulls cart out the door. As he pulls the cart down a steep grading, he gradually loses control of the cart, decides to get out of the way of the runaway vehicle, only to see the cart heading straight for two unsuspecting students. Tom yells and then covers his eyes. A big "bouff !" is heard. Finally regaining courage, Tom looks up, amazed to find the cart and its contents still intact, balancing neatly against the rather sizable stomachs of "BlottQ" and "Bleppo," who appear both unscathed and undaunted by the incident.) 
Tom: Blot! Blep! You guys all right? 

Blotto: Except our pride, man. I mean, like, people've told us we've had beer bellies before, but no one's ever tried to make us prove it! (they laugh loudly.) 
Tom: (still nervous) Really, guys, I didn't mean ... 

Bleppo: That's okay, O'Toole. We've survived a heck of a lot more beer than THIS before. (Again they look at each other and laugh uproariously.) What I want to know is, how much of the spoils is ours? 
Tom: Well ... I ... You see ... Blotto: Hey, we understand, Tom. We don't like Stroh's anyway, do we, Blep? 
Bleppo: Naw ... (with that they nod, to each other, take a deep breath, and propel the cart back at Tom using only their stomachs. They laugh again at his startled "catch.") 
Blotto: But what we was thinkin', was that if you can't let us in on any of this cargo, why don't you let us borrow your passports so we can heist some of our own? 
Tom: You mean my ID's? Gee, Blot, I'd like to, but I don't know if you'd quite match the ... Blotto: No problem. I'll just say I got a tan and a haircut. 
Tom: I was thinking about the ... description. 

Bleppo: Let's see. (he snatches the cards from Tom.) five-nine, one hundred twenty-five pounds ... I guess he's right. 
Blotto: Yeah, I'm too tall. (they laugh again.) 

Tom: Besides, I was just in there five minutes ago to buy these fifteen cases. I think she might still remember me. 
Bleppo: Yeah, I can dig that. (pauses as if in thought) But since you and her are such good friends, whadaya say you be an ambassador of good will and go buy the beer for us? 
Tom: I guess there's nothing wrong with that ... 

Bleppo: 'course not. These places THRIVE on steady customers. 
Tom: But I ... I mean SHE ... 

Blotto: You want her? Then go for her, 'Tooles! And while you're at it, six cases of Mic. 
(continued on page 18) 



Gallery 

by Auggie Jennewein 
I'm asked, Why do you take photographs? Well. 
;.., ::·;~.; ~ 

•J~--:~-Y.~l~l,,itYt~~k~l;f~~!1
.,..... ...,., ........, ...l ..,r•(,. '-:':-• .!',!~,,'(. :-,,,l;1.~;}l ..4••t~ ••• 
-,. -!\.~ ~ ~. . :.,,.~·-:..-::\. -~•r..',\ ;~" ...:t,-~~·~: ~-.t ~ 
· · r~ ;.E'!~~~-:R;::,:._;,~~,f~~:~,,~~,\-r,,.:;;t;..~!
c-_-:!:~:.:-~~r,.;_"!;;:_~:5:!I~.,Ji;##"'£;..~!6'l.!J"J:·):..'?J 



¦ 

· • . that's why 







Self Exposures by Robert Wade 
For in the immediate world, everything is to be discerned, for him who can discern it, and centrally :ind sin1ply, without either dissection into science, or digestion into an, but with the whole of consciousness, seeking to perceive it as it stands: so that the aspect ofa street in sunlight can roar in the heart of itself as a symphony, perhaps as no symphony can: and all of consciousness is shifted from the imagined, the revisive, to the effort to perceive simply the cruel radiance of what is. 
And it is in these terms I would tell you, at all leisure, and in all detail, whatever there is to tell: of where I am: of what I perceive. 
James Agee 


Blcyrpo: (hands him money.) Cold cash for cold cases. 
Tom: Right. (trudges in. This time he is all businesslike, going straight for the beer. Wasting no time loading, he is soon back at the checkout counter.) 
Cashier: You again? Torn: You said, "come again." Cashier: Fifteen cases wasn't enough? Tom: Better to be safe than sorry. Cashier: Better to not piss the manager off the first 

day you're legal is what they say around here. Tom: (trying to be helpful) Want to check my ID's? Cashier: (shaking her head) You're a trip. Now take 
your money and run. Tom: Thank you. (takes his change but leaves his 
shopping cart.) Cashier: AND your booze! Tom: (doubling back) Almost forgot. Thanks again! Cashier: Don't mention it. (under her breath) 
Please! 

(As he walks out, Blep and Blot, who were watching in the window, greet him while relieving him of their beer.) 
Blot: Couldn't tear yourself away from her, eh? Tom: Actually ... Blep: Don't be modest. She's got it all over you! Tom: You can say that again! Blot: Well, go for her, man! You're only twenty-one 
once. (the two depart.) Tom: (to himself) That's what you think. (As Tom walks toward his car, two juveniles are 

seen going over some plan to themselves. As Tom begins to pass, the first gives the signal, and the other begins their routine) 
Kid #1: (so Tom can overhear) You're CRAZY! 

.i 
He's seventeen at the most! 

! 
Kid #2: But I saw him go in the store just a minute
I 
ago! 

Kid # 1·: Haven't ya ever heard offake ID's?t Kid # 2: I dunno. He looks too· dumb to be able toI pull that number. 
Kid # 1: Probably slipped a fiver to the cashier. Kid #2: At least. Tom: (who has obviously been listening the whole

I 
time and is now becoming fed up.) I am TOO twenty­i 
one! Kid #l: Prove it. Tom: (triumphantly) Do these look fake to you? Kid # 1: (examining ID's) Well I'll be damned! 
(nonchalantly reaches into his pockets and pulls out 

some coins) A six a' Blatz. Tom: What! Kid #2: I know, but it's all we could afford. Tom: Oh no! Kid #2:Really, it's okay, mister. We drink it all the 
time. Tom: Well I'm not going to ... Kid # 1: We said we BELIEVE ya. What are you, a 
sore winner? Tom: (giving in) You're lucky it's my birthday or I wouldn't be in such a good mood! 
(This time Tom rushes into the store, practically sprinting from the door to the beer to the checkout counter.) 
Cashier: Cutting down, I see. Tom: (breathing hard) I'm in training. Cashier: Don't work too hard. You might become 
respectable or something. Tom: I think I'm a little too far gone for that. (runs out.) 
18 
Kid #1: Whoa! 
Tom: I wasn't about to steal this. 
Kid #2: Just makin' sure. (they disarm him, and 

each pulls off a beer from the six pack. Then, going over 
to the store window, they beat on it until they have the 
Cashier's attention, then pop the beers open, take a big 
chug, and run away.) 
Kid #1: (waving to Tom) So long, sucker! 
Tom: I hope you get sick! 
(This time Tom finally gets to his car, finishes 

loading the original purchase into his trunk, gets in and 
is ready to start the engine when he hears a knock on 

the window. He turns to see the bright, smiling faces of 
Mary Ann and Mary Fran, two similar looking and 
giddy SMC chicks. For a while he pretends he can't 

hear them, but when they motion him to roll down the 
window, he knows he is doomed.) · 
Mary Fran and Mary Ann: (in unison) HELLO 
TOM! 
Tom: (weakly) Hello. 
Mary Fran: I bet you don't remember our names. 
Tom: Yes I do. (they wait) 
Mary Ann: Well? 
Tom: Bob and Fred. 
Mary Fran: You're so funny( 
Tom.: I'm a riot. (hopefully) Need a lift back to 
campus? 

Mary Ann: No, but how nice of you to ask! Wasn't 
that nice, Mary Fran? 

Mary Fran: He's so SWEET! All we want to do is 
ask you a simple, little question. Are you ... 
Tom: Yes. 

Mary Ann: Silly. You didn't even hear the question 
yet. 
Tom: In fact, it's my birthday. 

Mary Fran: Well how do you like that! Well I think ·that calls for a little song, don't you? 
Mary Ann: After being so nice to us? It's the least 
we can do. (they are about to start "Happy birthday" 
when Tom stops them the only way he knows how.) 

Tom: Before you waste your voices on me, is there 
anything I can get you in the store? 
Mary Fran: Why, he's read our minds again! I do 
believe that boy is getting to be dangerous. 

Tom: Have ID, will travel. Now what do you girls 
need? 

Mary Ann: To make it easy on you, Tom, we wrote 
it all down! · 

Tom: Wrote it ... (watches Mary Fran unravel the 
list, which stretches to the ground.) Oh no. 
Mary Fran: As easy as 1, 2, 3 ! 
Tom: What about 4, 5, 6, 7, '. .. 
Mary Ann: Silly boy! ·· 
Mary Fran: Hurry back! 
(This time Tom moves through the store slowly, 
hitting every aisle, and just as if he were grocery 

shopping he asks clerks, compares prices, and looks for 
specials. He goes over the list several times, and when he 
is confident he has found everything, he slowly 

maneuvers his cart into the checkout lane once more, 
only to find behind the counter, along with the cashier, 
the manager also.) 

Manager: What kind of an operation do you think 
you're running, O'Toole? 
Tom: I was just ... stocking up. 

Manager: (to Cashier) How many times has he been 
in here tonight? 
Cashier: I lost count. 
Tom: (defensively) It was only four! 
Manager: FOUR!! 

SCHOLASTIC 

Tom: (as an excuse) It's my birthday. 

Manager: So I've heard. Listen, O'Toole, we got a very strict policy about buyin' for minors around here, and if you keep trying to make us out to be fools, it's gonna be a long year for the both of us. Now I HOPE I don't see you in here again for a long time. 
Tom: I hope so too, sir, I mean, I think this should hold me for a while. 
Cashier: How long a while? 

Tom: I promise I won't be back tonight. (makes a quick exit. As he enters the parking lot, he spies Mary Ann and Mary Fran making out with two male patrons on the hood of his car.) 
Mary Fran: Oh, he's back! Hello, Tom. We missed you. 
Tom: I'm sorry I kept you waiting. 
Mary Ann: But we didn't mind, did we, Mary Fran? 

Tom: No, really. I'm thinking of opening a delivery service. 
Mary Fran: Silly boy! (they walk away with the booze and the boys, but just as they are about to vanish, Mary Fran stops.) 
Mary Fran: Hey! We almost forgot to sing! 

(Realizing his cue, Tom jumps into his car, revs up the motor, blasts on the stereo, and the scene closes with the duet struggling to be heard above the roar.) 
Act III 

The action takes place in Tom's room, where the four freshmen have now gathered. They have made themselves at home, watching TV. They are devouring his birthday cake, and making a general shambles of the room as Tom and. a cartload of beer make their long-awaited appearance. 
Bobby: Finally! 
Barry: Yeah, that cake made me thirsty. 
Benny: What took so long? You remembered my 

Lambrusco, didn't you? Billy: (acting as a spokesman for the exhausted Tom.) He sure did. And fifteen cases, all the same kind. Bobby: (checking for himself) They're barely cold! 
Berry: ,Vhat good is that? 
Benny: (motioning to Tom.) Better bring 'em down to our room, and stick 'em in the fridge right away. 
Tom: I'll stick you ... where's my cake? 
Billy: You said I could have a piece, remember? 
Tom: But it's gone! 
Billy: But Tom, you KNOW it's impolite to eat in front of others. Berry: Too much frosting if you ask me. Tom: The only thing I'll ask you is to get out! Berry: (to others) What's with him? Bobby: Who knows? Let's blow, you guys. Benny: Thanks for the warm beer (all exit except Billy and Tom.) · 
Billy: I'm sorry about the mess we left, Tom. I can help you clean it up if you want. Tom: That's okay. I doubt it was your doing anyway. Billy: And the cake. I should've known. Tom: Don't blame yourself. Billy: And I know the guys really do appreciate the 
beer, even though they don't sound like it. Was there any trouble? Tom: Trouble? Why should there be.trouble? I'm twenty-one, remember. Billy: I keep forgettin'. (is about to leave, and comes back) Happy Birthday, Tom. 
Tom: Thanks, Bill. Now get lost. 
Billy: Bye! (exits) 
Tom: After that excursion, I think I deserve a cold beer myself. (walks over, opens his fridge, and finds it empty except for a can of Hawaiian Punch.) Those BASTARDS! (takes can in his hand, and in his frustration squeezes it so hard that the can bursts and he is drenched by its contents. At first this upsets him even more, but as he comes to the realization of his feat, a glimmer creeps into his eyes, a smile comes over his face, as he begins to flex his newly discovered muscles.) Wow. I never did THAT before. (calls) Hey Billy! Com'ere! Wanna see what you can do when you're twenty-one? 
And the scene closes. 
THE END 
. 


19 




Poetry 

[I 

Liz Blakey 

Letter by Liz Blakey 
I give myself, my love, to you. Each day with pain, I feel my desires to give you my fullest love You may not think my love is complete ' Because of socially learned feminine games But I play because if I did not-
I would never leave your side. If I did not state my separateness, I could not help melting into you and your life. I'd want always to be with you But you want that not. And when you don't at a certain event I force myself away once and twice, In order to stay alive; 

My love expresses your perfect boyish man. Your mind, a brilliant child _ Experiencing, touching the gifts of this world. Your heart, a playful, yet faithful puppy That will run but not stray. Your body, a Greek statue of a noble thoughtful young 
man Slender, soft, but strong and smooth. You move with purpose, energy, thoughts racing as you
walk. · Your eyes spark while ideas burn forth on constructive confusion, ideas more complete, for they never end connecting. 
Your arms encompass me and make me·part of your

moments · · · When around you, and you round me, We complete each other and love is unspoken known. We compete with each other and love undeveloped is grown. We converse with each other with words only to lovers known. 
20 
As we Exit now by Liz Blakey 
As we exit now From the cave of our childhood And enter unto the beautiful Springtime rain of our youthful Free years, 
A warm spot remains In our hearts, an ember from the cave, And we can retreat to that glow and 
blind innocence of Our dark damp caves, when it rains Too hard upon us. 
Eventually we will walk Over that distant mountain And it will be clear day and clear For us what life has to shine and 
give. 
Someday, we will pass Unto the clouds. 



In the Museum of Natural History 

by Molly Woulfe 
It's really humiliatin', you're just standin' there, admiring the panda 
when they spring from behind the 
primates slap you against the wall, slam you against the wall. 
"So, hey, baby, what time is it? C'mere, give us a kiss. Got any money, honey?" 
dirty denim pressing against you. 
And you're scared as hell, but you still twist, and spit, "A guard's over there, I'll ..." 
A sudden, shocking, jolt, and your face cracks against glass, sinking past 
those glass eyes that watch you choke on your cry. 


iedJor .. ____ . 
·a:tJarn .____ .. ___. 
d\vhatlcould b turned away from w e Iraid to thinkaboutyesterdaY, 
·_-.. raid-tofice tbday, ·•·. _.. :. rid afraid to look·at-tomorrow. lie· night was warrri . ·· : \ , . . . .· .· d as Twalked through the :we 
' .. ,. •-' ,. , -.. , ':,.::, 
'•'•·, 

; <:grass·>.. ... •....•.. ,. . ; . . . 
·._ vVatching the.sun dieoye;ra__ l<mely ·. . '>,:·:!0wor1ff·. ; ·.· < >· ··_ ·•· • /:/-.__ •--·•·· ... i: realized··th_at Hfeis onlywhatwe<·
cho"ose t8':makeit... · . .. . . 

·Totakethe'steps ..< >. ·• .·... 'iTo)foo:W, ·unders_ta11d,iearp, -. To.feel'the pain) _· _· . .. . . . 
> And:afterfeetthejof.·-··>>•·-<>-•<-'. 
·.. ·•··•Tliaf only'after.haViIlgfelt\real pai11_••.•.·. The joy real happiness cari _briI1g...· . 


Ar1<>'1rmo1Js 


Molly Woulfe 


A Story for Anthony 

by Molly Woulfe 
while other eight-year-olds wed their Barbies off to Kens (in the eyes of God and Mattel) I was into Wonder Woman comics and no way in hell was my doll gonna be laced into a silken straitjacket, real seed pearls or not! 
no, my Barbie was Queen of the Amazons; 
. in a short-tunic, with silver shield. she climbed the tallest trees and swam the wildest seas and laughed at the sailors who lay apple-sized diamonds before 
her. and the other Amazons marveled at her wisdom. 
and when Francie, a mere archer, eloped with G.L Joe, he beat her, and when she returned weeping to 
the tribe, Barbie had him seized and bound, and we all stoned him. 
so there you are, baby-wanna risk my flints? 



The Life· and Times 
of SA0133 

by Mary Pigott 
Prime Minister Malignant eased himself into his 

ii favorite chair facing a large bay window. Outside he 
.I : could see the sun setting over the ocean. The ocean had a cold silver look to it except on the horizon where it was streaked with orange. The Prime Minister glanced at his watch and sighed contentedly, 5 :53 exactly. It was nice to know that some things main­tained perfect order regardless of all exterior factors. He pushed a. red button next to his chair which put the time lock into operation. He was now locked in the circular room and could not get out, nor could anyone enter for the next eight hours, He leaned forward and flicked on the SA 0133 which stood between him and the window. It immediately began to hum. Across the screen flashed -Good evening, sir, ready to begin when you are. -Malignant began setting dials and pushing buttons to review the Daily Reports of the district officers. There wouldn't be anything of great importance in them because anything out of the ordinary was classified into the Special Reports program. Malignant only reviewed them once a week, on Friday nights, just to keep on top of things. One always had to anticipate the future. The screen lit up. -432 members of the Artists Union were relocated to the construction work experience program. Physical Awareness protesters' group relocated from A3 primary schools to B2 secondary schools. Computer programers in building 15 exceeded work inefficiency range restric­tions. Granted 24 hours rest break, ... 
Grumbling grey clouds, thick murky sea spindly black stacks, floors on floors square glass eyes, unblinking reflections 

22 

clean beige carpet, flatly soft murmuring soft lights, flashing red, green, yellow excited ticking humming, edgy anticipation wires, buttons, dials, keys dead bolt, wife two children, spaghetti kitchen, yellow curtains, tile floor coffee, swirling cream, pillow and blanket grumbling grey clouds, thick murky sea 

189 cases in cancer cm:p.pound diagnosed as inevitable and released from life. Twenty-nine births, fourteen marriage contracts.... 
She woke up with a start. She wanted to let the excitement in her take control but quickly stifled it with her regular routine of washing and dressing. It was her twentieth birthday, the turning point of her life. She could almost feel the blood racing through her veins. She had passed all the preliminaries. Her sexual responses were normal. Her reproduction system checked out all right. She had no detectable diseases. She passed the domestic engineer test with ease and the psycho­logical examination rendered her mentally healthy and adaptable. She had always longed to be a wife and mother. She glanced at her watch. Her appointment with the Nuptial Contractor was in 40 minutes. 
She sat on her bed and took a last look at the dormitory where she had spent the last four years of her life. She remembered vaguely how frightened she had been when she had first arrived. It hadn't taken long to fit into the routine. One didn't remain self­conscious for long when one wore the same pale blue dress, ate the same food, worked the same shift, and attended the same classes as everyone else. 
SCHOLASTIC 


She sighed and gathered her possessions into her new backpack: her hair brush, toothbrush, deodorant, hair clips, underwear, scissors, Kleenex, socks, nutri­pills, manuals, and a regulation size photograph of her parents with their arms around each other. She sighed again and wondered about who would be taking her place in the dormitory, sleeping in her bed. The two girls who slept on either side of her came up to shake her hand and wish her luck. They were only nineteen. All of a sudden that seemed very young. She went to the office to sign the departure forms. Mrs. Canster, a widow of ten years, smiled at her and said it was nice to have known her. 
She walked into the special elevator and programed it to the Nuptial building. The only other place it could be programed to was apartment complex 6 or 7 for single working women, primary or secondary district I dorms for teachers, the hospital, or the Institute for the Maladjusted. When the elevator went below ground level, a small red light came on. Soon it stopped and the doors on her left slid open. 
She crawled into the dark tube-vator, and carefully lay on her back, not moving within the narrow confines of the tube. The door at her feet slid closed and the tube sped through the tunnel. It stopped three times on its . way for tube traffic running across its path. When it did she felt the tube behind her gently bump into hers and wondered who was in it. Finally it stopped and the door at her head .slid open letting in a burst of light that made her squint. 
Fifteen minutes later the Nuptial Contractor had completed programing the information which she had given him. He unhooked her from the lie detector test and called for the escort. The escort led her down long white halls until they reached the Nuptial dormitory. Here she would have to wait until her program could be matched with that of a compatible male. By the fourth day she was worried. In the four days she had waited she had seen many women come and go. She wondered what was taking so long. 
On the fifth day she was summoned downstairs for the signing of the contract. The computer had found her a match of equal status and she would be married. He was reasonably handsome, although a little on the short side. His occupation was computer programer, level C. He smiled at her arid she blushed. They shook hands. She slid the small silverring she received upon entry at the dormitory off her left hand and onto her right hand. He produced a small yellow ring and slid it onto the finger which the silver ring had been on. They signed the contract and then they kissed. The Nuptial Con­tractor handed them the computer program which listed their privileges, restrictions, and future location. She would be allowed to have two children. He con­gratulated them. They got to know each other quickly. They were satisfied with each other. Once in a while, during his break at work, he programed the computer to compose sonnets for her from his terminal. ... 

Malignant skimmed through the rest of the thirty­five district reports. They were all pretty much the same. He then readjusted the buttons and dials to view the New Innovations program. First on the list was Destiny Park. Destiny Park is mainly successful due to therapeutic psychological effects produced in participants, rather than population-reduction effects. It appeals to potentially rebellious lower class workers who believe their free wills to be restricted. One out of ten people are terminated per ride. The rides have become more successful since ride fees have been charged. Middle-class participation is increasing. Upper-class participation is almost nonexistent. Worker attitudes are improved in areas where Destiny Parks have been established. Evaluation: Evident success. Increase availability. STOP. 
By the time Malignant finished programming orders and recommendations into the SA 0133 for the New Innovations program, the stars were shining brightly over the ocean outside his window. The foamy waves crashed into the shore in a ceaseless swelling and breaking. He could see Orion clearly shining out from the rest of the stars. Before he started on the Minor Crisis program, he decided to indulge himself in a few minutes of a 10 Years Ago Today program. He set the dials and buttons and the screen lit up with a descriptive list of the major events that happened ten years ago on March 18. -1) Tube-vator transpo sequence: expan­sion construction into District 23-25 completed. Now ready for operation. 2) Dr. Emile Lanock, famous scientist, inventor of Nutri-pills strain 2, suffered a nervous breakdown and was transported to the Iristitute for the Maladjusted.... 
Dr. Lanock slowly walked down the narrow hall. On one end of the hall was his bedroom, containing a cot, a dresser, and a shelf with a few old novels and a dictionary on it. On the other end was his laboratory which contained billions of dollars' worth of equipment. Although he walked slowly, he was in a state of elation. He had just had five hours of much-needed sleep and he was ready to review his finished report. Waiting for him in his laboratory was a small test tube which contained a mixture that Dr. Lanock had spent almost his whole life as a research scientist developing. 
Iri his youth, Dr. Lanock had isolated a certain type of bacteria which killed almost every known type of cancer cell. Unfortunately, it also destroyed normal cells. Dr. Lanock played with the idea of developing an antibiotic which would make normal cells immune to the bacteria, while leaving the cancerous cells sus­ceptible to it. This idea which his mind had entertained as a youth became an obsession with him in his later years. 
But just eight hours earlier, Dr. Lanock had con­firmed the fact that he had finally developed the anti­biotic which kept rats with cancer that he had infected with the bacteria from dying. When he realized his success, he had sat down in his chair feeling a d·uu sense of awe and a peaceful fatigue. He had sat in his chair with his eyes unfocused, staring at the cages for almost an hour. Then his heart had quickened with the fear that the rats had survived the bacteria by a fluke of nature, and that it wasn't really the antibiotic that had done it. He hurriedly performed the experiment several more times with more rats. The initial results were confirmed and Dr. Lanock sat down again to write up a report of his experiment. It took him a very long time. The fatigue and elation worked in his brain to put him in a silly, punchy mood. He talked to the rats, giving them names and telling them they would be famous. He smiled off into space and thought about his wife who was deceased. And he carefully and pains­takingly set down the results of his experiments in a detailed report. He cleaned up the laboratory and then slowly walked to his room where after lying on his cot for a long time, he drifted off into sleep. 
As Dr. Lanock walked down the hall in his state of quiet elation, he wondered if maybe the whole thing hadn't been a dream. After all, he had gorie a very long time without sleep, aside from that which he had just awakened from. He reached the laboratory door and pulled out his key to unlock it. Taking two steps into the room, he froze, stunned. Not one cage held any sign of life in it. All his rats lay stiff on their backs. He hurried to his desk gasping for breath. The report was gone. He rushed to the refrigerator where the test tube was. Nothing, it was empty. Dr. Lanock stood frozen by the refrigerator for just a moment gripping the open door with all his might, until his knuckles were white and his hand hurt. Then his hand slowly relaxed and he sank to the ground. Two men dressed in ordinary clothes who had been waiting by the door gently lifted him and carried him to the basement where the tube­vator was programmed for the Institute.... 
Malignant shook his head sadly. He had forgotten that March 18 was the anniversary of this unfortunate occurrence. He had liked the old Doctor, but his dis­covery would have disrupted things drastically. The balance between births and deaths was a delicate thing. Malignant read through some more of the program and then reset the buttons and dials to the Minor Crisis report. Malfunction of transpo sequence in district 8, thirty-nine people killed in high-speed tube-vator collision, system currently out of commission. Probable cause: human error. Earthquake destroyed or damaged eight buildings in Sector 7. Death count currently uncalculated. Five inmates of the Institute in district 11, four men and one woman escaped, killing two guards in process.... 
"Take that, you pea brain. Bomp, Boom, Boom, Bippo!" "Will you come on! Can't you see he's dead, Moose? Now hurry. The others are waiting." 
"Just wanted to make sure, Bossy." 
"Ok, ok, c'mon, I see them waiting up ahead." 

''What was that guard doing patroling so far from the fence, Boss?" "I don't know Melon, probably bird watching. Now let's get the hell outta here. Where's Lily?" 
"In yonder bushes, Boss, takin' a leak." 

"Great. I don't know what is wrong with that woman. Here she comes." "Burt! God am I glad to see you! What'took huh?" "Moose was giving me a demonstration of the 
human anatomy from the inside out. Now let's go. I figure we should be halfway down the mountain by daybreak and we're already behind schedule, You ok, 
Goon?" 
"Umm, umm, I'm good; Goon's good." 
"Ha ha bah, Goon's good, Goon's good, hah ha ha." 

"Shut up Moose. Ya damned morons. Everyone single file. First me, then Lily, then Goon, then Moose, then Melon. Melon don't you let anyone get behind you. Got 
that?" 
"Yeah, Boss." 
"All right now no more talking." 

"No more talking? Whaddya mean no more talking Burt? Who's gonna hear us out here? We're free now. 
No talking's the rule in there. I wanna tell stories." 
"Jesus Christ, Lily, can't you close that mouth of yours at all? We're not free yet. We have a long way to go. Now everyone stick together." 
"You're not very nice to me Burt. I'll just wait here. You can just go on without me. You didn't have to take me, ya know." 
"Oh Lily please. I wanted you to come. I just don't want us to get caught. So just whisper, like me.. Ok?" 
"Ok, Burt, I'll do whatever you tell me to do." 
"Thatta girl." 
"What are we gonna do when we get to the bottom, Burt?" "We're going to walk around and act like everyone else, Lily." "Oh yeah? How we gonna do that? We gonna tell Moose and Goon just not to talk anymore?" "No Lily, of course not. They just won't talk when they're around other people." "What other people, Bossy? I don't got ya straight on this one yet." 
I'll explain to you later Moose." 
"Ok, Bossy, you explain to me later." 
"Burt, maybe we shouldn't leave the mountain. Maybe we should just find a cave and tell stories all day. Don't you think that would be fun? 'Cause, Burt, I'm scared to go down there." 
"Yeah, Bossy, big crowds of people yelling and running around. They get me real mad sometimes and then I'm in big trouble, Bossy. I want stories." 
"Damnation! I have had it with this." 
"Burt!" 
"This ain't gonna work, Lily. This just ain't gonna work. I figured once we got out of there, things would be ok, but this just ain't gonna work like this." 
"Don't I get to have a baby?" 
"Hey Bossy, I forgot. I wanna go into McDonald's and eat cheeseburgers. Remember? Huh, remember? You said, Bossy. You said I could go. " 
"Oh Jesus Christ." 
"Boss, hey boss, Moose is getting behind me. So is Goon. Goon's crying, Boss." 
"All right, all right, all right. Everybody calm down. Everything's Ok. Lily's right. We ain't gonna go off the mountain. We're just gonna stay on it and live here. And Lily's gonna tell us stories. Is that ok with everyone? Does everyone wanna hear stories?" 
"Yeah, Bossy, Lily tell stories." 
"Ok, and when we get hungry I'll sneak down to the bottom and get some Nutri-pills." "Cheeseburgers!" "Yes, and some cheeseburgers too. And we'll sleep 
under trees 'kay? It'll be fun. Now, Lilly, you start the first story. I'm gonna go get the food. By the time you're done with your story, I'll be back. But if I'm a little late, just everyone lay down and take a little nap." 
"Let me go with you Boss." "No Melon. You stay here and keep Lily company, and listen to her stories. I'll be right back." "Ok Burt, be careful. Hurry up." 
"Don't worry Lily. Just everyone relax and stay· right there. Lily, you tell a good long story. And don't worry if this takes a while...." 
Prime Minister Malignant had long been considering a new regulation which he wanted to get onto the books: any person who had lived in the Institute for the Maladjusted for over three years and showed no sign of rehabilitation or no indication that they could be trained for some kind of work would be terminated. 
(continued on page 31) 




Perspective 

From Rudolph to Webster 
During a conversation I had with my mother over October break, I mentioned that the one thing I would especially like for. Christmas this year is the Webster Dictionary of Synonyms. When one considers that I aspire to be a writer someday, the request seems perfectly ordinary. It certainly appears to lack any hidden meaning. 
When I shared the story of the conversation with my roommate, he said something that made me realize how much meaning was embodied in my simple desire for that book: "If someone had told you years ago that someday you'd be asking for a dictionary for Christmas, you'd have said they were crazy!" 
His comment sent my mind wandering into the past, back to the time when I was a typical ten-year-old from a typical middle class family in typically middle­class Gaithersburg, Maryland. Itwas a time when I, like most every other ten-year-old, anxiously awaited Santa's annual shipment of toys and games. To show our reciprocal good will, my brother Andy and I would leave a fair assortment of Mom's homemade cookies and a glass of milk on the fireplace. We would then trot off. to bed wondering if Rudolph would arrive before the sandman. 
Christmas morning found Andy and I waking at the crack of dawn, despite Dad's effort to postpone the inevitable in favor of some extra sleep by unplugging our alarm clocks. After waking our three baby sisters with a not-too-careful tiptoe down the hallway, we would spring into the master bedroom and provide Mom and Dad with a unique alarm clock service. 
After what seemed an eternity-Mom always seemed to need a few minutes to orient herself to seven o'clock -the Keusal's would make the long-awaited dash down the stairwa'y to the family room where a mountain of gifts lay under the tree. The next hour was charac­teriz~d by "oohs," "aahs," "thank-yous," and Mom's repeated urgings to open our gifts slowly since "Santa spent a lot of time wrapping them and would want you to enjoy them longer." At the end of it all we each · had a personal mountain attesting to Santa's generosity. 
After all the immediate debris was cleared away, we would put on our Sunday best and head for St. Martin's for Sunday Mass. Looking back, it would be easy to · rememberthis as an anticlimax, but my parents always seemed to throw in just the right amount of reminders about the "real meaning of Christmas" to make the manger scene stick in my mind at least until the first toy broke. 
About the only thing I can say I lacked at Christmas is the snow that never fell in Maryland. Mom's shared memories of twenty-five white Christmases spent in Illinois instilled in me over the years a peculiar identification with and love for Bing Crosby's classic song.... 
It was during my high school years that the change from electric football to dictionaries began. It was 
by Dan Keusal 

during those same years that my family, like so many others, began to feel the pinch of a sagging economy. To any poor family from a ghetto in New York City our tree would still have looked like a pretty fair sampling of the local toy store, but by our standards it was definitely on the decline. 
Gradually the manger scene and all that it symbolized worked its way into the forefront of my Christmas thoughts. The reminders about the "real meaning of Christmas" began to ring as loudly as .silver bells. The trip to St. Martin's became as important as the trip down the stairs. The glitter of the holiday sales paled in the light of another gift-that of God's son, sent to this world as our savior. I suppose the seeds of this realization were inside of me all along. I had only to open my heart to the call of God's spirit. 

The sight of snow falling still elicits from me "oohs" and "aahs" similar to those that filled the family room on Christmas morning, and "White Christmas" will ring from my guitar more than once during the holiday season to come. My heart will probably grow a little warmer when I stroll through Lakeforest Mall back in Gaithersburg and take in all the glitter. All the traditional joys of Christmas will add to the peace this holiday season will bring me. But I believe in my heart that they are all less important than the birth of a small child nearly two thousand years ago. D 
Dan Keusal is a sophonwre History Major. 



Music 
,:.,.·.i.·•;1:-ill:;:~.: ..
·S.:'fi=!:'t··. 1 1


~ ;·.,.}lhlt'. t~ 
, ~ ~ ·. l 'i 


C ' ~ 
Alex deGrassi 

At a time when most established performers in popular music con­tinue to peddle the same tired for­mulas, and the so-called "New Wave" movement mass-produces endless quantities of material of question­able quality, it is both relieving and exciting to discover contemporary music that is refreshingly expressive and at the same time artistically creative. Currently popularized by musicians such as Alex deGrassi, William Ackerman, and Notre Dame's own Rick Walters, this in­novative creation known to some as "guitar impressionism" is building a reputation for itself across the coun­try. 
What is guitar impressionism, and what's so great about it? Objectively, this term is used to describe a fusion of several musical traditions, includ­ing jazz, folk, and rock, employing unconventional techniques such as modal tuning, the use of harmonics, and the steel string guitar's own unique acoustic qualities in the per­formance of its material, in addition to traditional methods. Any discus­sion on this cerebral level alone, however, fails to bring out the nebu­lous essence of guitar impressionism, and raises doubts about its signifi­cance: why bother. listening to this when you can get the same music without unnecessary embel­lishments? 
This, as I indicated earlier, is a one-dimensional argument; there is a 'real difference between guitar im­pressionism and modern popular music, and that difference is found in its intensity. Sensation and visual 
Three Studies in Guitar Impressionism 

by Dan Gonzales 
impact are the hallmarks of the music of deGrassi, Ackerman, and Walters, and the moods are infinite; energy, light, darkness, ecstasy, melancholy, people, and places are but a few of the dimensions which are expressed through the skill and imagination of these artists. 
In their concert at the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art on October 19, William Acker­man and Rick Walters performed once more before the Notre Dame community, and again they played with the intensity with which they were received. It was a homecoming of sorts for Rick, who attended Notre Dame until 1974 and last per­formed here at the beginning of the year, but he opened the concert as if he had never been away. Beginning with "Unicorn Dream # 2," Rick led the audience over the landscape of his emotions and imagination, from the eerie depths of "St. Thomas" to the bouncy bluegrass rhythms of "Poor Boy Long Way from Home" to the strong serenity of "Valerie's Song." He revealed for his listeners a wide spectrum of feelings and ex­periences. 
Headlining the bill, William Ack­erman was equally impressive, if not more so. Opening his set with "The Wall and the Wind," Will prepared the audience for the variety of pieces he was to perform for the rest of the evening. He continued with "A Trib­ute to the Philosophy of James Es­tell Bradley," a complex composition with a folk flavor and a tinge of mel­ancholy. Other songs such as "Gar­den," "Anne's Song," "Barbara's Song," and "The Bricklayer's Beau­tiful Daughter" projected vivid im­ages, ranging from the bucolic coun­tryside to a woman's subtle beauty and character, holding the audience spellbound. The evening reached its peak with Will's "The Rediscovery of Big Bug Creek, Arizona" and "Seat­tle," as the primeval majesty and raw power which accompanied the visual impact of these two selections simply overwhelmed everyone pres­ent, including myself. It was a very special evening on all counts. 

To return to a discussion of this genre, though deGrassi, Ackerman, and Walters all fall under the gen­eral rubric of guitar impressionists, they each have their own character­istic qualities. In fact, there are cer­tain significant differences among the three of them. Much of this ap­parent contradiction, however, can be traced to a general ambivalence toward this categorization held by each of these artists. 
A striking illustration of this sit­uation can be observed in the em­phasis which each guitarist places on certain aspects of his own music; while deGfassi tends to stress the visual impressions elicited by his works, harking back to the classical impressionists of the turn of the century, Ackerman sees his music in terms of both the setting and the mood, and Walters bases the signifi­cance of his compositions on more emotional factors. Nevertheless, this does, then, raise a serious question: Is guitar impressionism actually a relevant classification for this type of music? It can be argued that "guitar impressionism" is simply a reaction to popular music's lack of imagery and emotion which has evolved in recent years, much as folk music, "New Wave," and disco developed in reaction to a musical stasis. This so-called genre encom­passes too broad a variety of music to be viewed as a discrete entity. 
All this notwithstanding, any at­tempt to categorize nonrational forms of art such as music is for the most part irrelevant and ultimately doomed to failure in the face of the art itself; the use of categories is simply a mental tool, and will al­ways fall short of describing any­thing that has limits beyond the ra­tional processes of the mind in the realm of the intuitive. As such, the problem is not in the classification of guitar impressionism, but rather ·in the expectation that this classifica­tion will reveal everything about the music that there is to know. What is certain, then, is that, despite some common influences, each guitarist is his own unique combination of tal­ent, taste, maturity, and personality, and he and his music can only be understood on those terms. With this, I leave it up to. Alex, Will, and Rick to explain individually who they are, what they are playing and why. 
SCHOLASTIC 

While he was an undergraduate at Berkeley, Alex deGrassi first be­gan to develop his own distinctive mastery of guitar music. He drew upon a wide variety of influences. "While I was at Berkeley," relates Alex, "I began to try to find a per­sonal style of guitar playing, and my main models were people like Leo Kottke and John Fahey. Also, strangely enough, Keith Jarrett, who is obviously a piano player, was another big influence on my work in the direction of jazz. A lot of the songs on my first album Turning/ Turning Back were influenced by this." 
When asked about his views on guitar impressionism, Alex, not sur­prisingly, was ambivalent: "I think it's a fair summary of the content of the music; after all, there was at the turn of the·century a school of clas­sical music that was called impres­sionism -Satie's titles were often visually impressionistic, for example, and the music was very much so. What I would like to see it called is something maybe a little more down­to-earth, like American steel string guitar, since it is in a folk setting, really. Since it's already seemed to have picked up 'guitar impression­ism,' I guess I can live with it." 
Although Alex's guitar playing is somewhat hard to describe, he is un­questionably the most technically advanced of the three; the rich tex­tures and clear, impressive images of songs such as "White Rain," "Inverness," and "Turning/Turning Back" are all valid testimony to this. Ultimately, all opinions must rest on hearing his unique music, since it is so evocative. "I feel that there is a strong visual context to be found in the music," Alex concluded, "and that this visual context may also even well be an ambience, a gen­

eral atmosphere for the music to 
develop." 
Of the three guitarists, Will Ack­
erman is perhaps the most business­
like and pragmatic, perhaps due to 
his position with Windham Hill Rec­
ords: "It's important to remember 
that music is a business, too, and 
that if any of our music is going to 
reach an audience, it's got to be 
commercially successful." Paradox­
ically, he is also possibly the most 
intuitive in terms of composition: 
"Often what I'll do to write a song 
is go into the woods or the forest 
with my guitar, and then just tune it 
until I find a chord that fits just 
right with the setting and with my 
mood, and take it from there." 
While Will, too, is not entirely 
sure of the exclusive use of the term 
'guitar impressionism', he acknowl­
edges that there is a common ground : 
"A lot of the music is influenced by 
the work of Leo Kottke and John 
Fahey, but there is no real central 
influence. Alex deGrassi was, how­
ever, the first to begin combining 
these threads into a form. 
"As far as I'm concerned," ob­served Will, "people are tired of the same blues interpretations and scales over and over and over again. It's time to get down to writing some real· music for a change." In this sense, as well as professionally, Will · is a certified success; songs such as "Processional," "The Death of the Virgin Spirit," and "Anne's Song" from his latest album Passages (WHC 1014) are majestic tributes to nature, man, and the talent of 
William Ackerman. 
Winter Songs/Self Portraits, Rick 
Walters' debut recording on his own 
Erebus label, is at the present time 
the culmination of the creative 
forces of this artist. "The reason I 
gave the album that title," explained 
Rick, "was that I had done most of 
the writing for it during the winter, 
and a lot of that influence is reflected 
in the songs on it." 
An intensely emotional, private 
person, Rick saw the format of 
guitar impressionism lending itself 
well to his own personal and musi­
cally creative needs: "When I was 
here at Notre Dame, I did a lot of 
travelling around the area playing 
clubs and coffeehouses, along with 
playing at the Nazz about every 
weekend. After I left in '75, I went 
into retirement for about three 
years. One night, I was listening to 
some music with a friend of mine, 
and we heard one of Will's tunes. We 
couldn't believe it! The music was 
so great we wrote to him, nominat­ing him for the best guitarist since Leo Kottke. Not realizing what he was getting into, like a fool he kept in touch. I've been doing this music ever since, and I find it very satisfy­ing. I write about things that are very personal, and I don't like to al­ways reveal my deepest feelings ; with an instrumental format, I can write music that is at the same time very meaningful to me while leaving interpretations open to the audi­ence." 

Being a newcomer of sorts to this genre, Rick has also been influenced by recent trends. "Leo Kottke was one of the first influences on my playing," explains Rick, "and both Will and Alex, along with a dozen or so oher guitarists, include him among the primary influences on guitar impressionism. 
"What I am trying to do now is to start a classical tradition of sorts for the steel string guitar," Rick con­cluded. "One reason this is such an important project is because there is so much room to work with, so much untapped potential. The thing I want to say that I feel is most important as far as my music is concerned is that it is emotional. For me, the major purpose of art of any kind is to make the viewer or lis­tener have an emotional response to that work of art. Through my music, I hope to make my audience stop and feel something, cause them to reflect on things they may have not ever experienced before. If I do this, I feel I've accomplished something." 
"Inverness" . . . "Seattle" . . . "Northern Lights".... The very names reveal powerful images and moving themes. However, the true test of the impact of these composi­tions lies in the experience. This is some of the most emotive, innova­tive, and sensual music that I have heard in. years, and it would be tragic if these artists were to fail due to lack of popular support. At the present time, each one of these guitarists is on tour, trying to culti­vate a broader audience for this unique style of guitar music. Give them a try; you won't be disap­pointed. D 
Dan Gonzales is a seniior Govern­ment major. This is his first con­tribution to Scholastic. 
Rick Walters 

!i 
i, 


r-Fheater

I' 
! 
''HE'' 

SPEAKS 

Who is HE? ... HE is coming.... Are you ready for HE?-all these questions were part of the publicity department's campaign for the first major production of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's theatrical sea­son, He W1w Gets Slapped. This year marked the first time that the ND­SMC Theatre presented a main stage production in the month of Septem­ber. Why am I writing about a play which is almost two months old, when at this very moment the ND­SMC Theatre is preparing to open . the next two major productions of its 1980-81 season? The answer is twofold: 1) because of the unusual order to be accepted; a world in and difficult nature of the play it­which morality and virtue are still self; that is, after seeing the show revered and respected instead of con­people felt bewildered about its demned and mocked; a world in meaning and significance, and 2) be­which a person is respected and cause a great many students and loved because of who he is and faculty approached me and told me not because of what he has done. that they would be very interested What. is this ideal world to which in knowing what the play was really I refer here? It is the supposedly all about. tranquil and harmonious world of 
The question you're probably ask­the child, represented in the play as ing yourself is, if the play was so the magical and mystical circus. difficult to understand, why should At the beginning of the play; a this writer presume to have a better gentleman from the audience es­understanding of the text than any­capes to the circus and subsequently one else? The reason why I may convinces the manager to accept have a few more insights into the him. Why? Because he sees in the nature of the play is that I was circus world the simplicity and given the opportunity to play the peacefulness so lacking in the fast­leading role of HE -WHO GETS moving and impersonal world , of SLAPPED. . everyday society. Upon admittance 
To me, He W1w Gets Sl.apped is a to the circus, the gentleman shows play about life and learning; how interest in becoming a clown, which one man attempts to thwart the ultimately results in the establish­ugliness and.injustices of society by ment of the He Who Gets Slapped leaving society on a quest for an­character. other world; a world in which Ironically, this is a fitting role beauty, love, cooperation, and inner for the gentleman to assume because peace are possible; a world in which the character captures the essence people do not continually have to of .the gentleman's life in both hide behind different social masks in worlds: first, the He Who Gets 
28 


Slapped character points to the gen­tleman's role in society as one of a successful personage · who has re­peatedly been slapped about in his bid for material success and a suc­cessful marital relationship, exem­plified by the fact that the gentle­man's writing partner had stolen both his writing ideas and his wife. 
Secondly, the He Who Gets Slapped character suggests the role the gentleman wishes to play in the circus as one of the simple innocent­minded clown who makes others laugh at his own expense. As the play progresses, we see the gradual deterioration of the gentleman's idealistic attitude in relation to the circus world as it -slowly becomes apparent to him· that the anxieties and problems characteristic of so­ciety, such as intense competition, the pangs of unrequited love, and the savage drives -for material suc­cess and social status, are not ab­sent from the circus world as he once believed they were. Rather, they are actually a viable part of his so-called ideal world. This causes the. gentleman, now: the HE Who Gets Slapped character, to be-
SCHOLASTIC 

gin to question the possibility of 
there existing a place where man 
can live out his existence in peace 
and harmony with others. 
Yet, throughout the play there exists the impression that the gen'­tleman, now refer.red to as HE, hon­estly believes there exists some­where a place where the aforemen­tioned charactistics do exist. Why is this so? The answer points to another character in the play; name­ly, Consuelo, · the Bareback Tango Queen, who, because of her innocent and pure loving nature, represents to HE that ideal world he continu~ ally searches for. Consuelo can be seen as the object of HE's hope and inspiration in finding the world he seeks. Because HE finally realizes that the circus is not a separate world, but · simply. another place plagued by the problems and · in­justices of society, HE begins to postulate the possibility of a third world-the world of the Gods in which man can truly have hope in finding everlasting peace and hap­piness. 
HE tries to teach this discovered truth to the one person who he feels comes closest to possessing. the qualities found in this ideal world of the Gods, namely Consuelo, whose mother, for her own selfish reasons, is trying to marry Consuelo off to some rich society man. Why does HE try to stop the marriage by at-. tempting to persuade Consuelo that there truly does exist an ideal world in which the innocent and pure of heart reign supreme? Because HE knows, from his own experiences as the gentleman, how society can cor­rupt a person; how it can strip a person of his natural purity and in­nocence and turn him into an an­imal hungry only for the material possessions of the flesh. HE does not want Consuelo to lose ithe quali­ties which make her the kind of per­son everyone should strive to be­come, that is, a loving, caring indi­vidual. 
As the play proceeds to its conclu­sion, HE realizes that there is noth­ing else he can do in order to per­suade Consuelo or her mother to sacrifice or thwart .the alluring as­pects of society in an effort to keep and improve the qualities of. life which are most important, to be a good, honest, and loving person. Be­cause HE sees no alternative, he chooses to poison both Consuelo and himself for HE believes this course of action will provide Consuelo and himself with the only opportunity to find true peace and happiness before 
DECEMBER, 1980 
the pressures and injustices of soci­ety strip them of their godlike in­nocence. 
Thus, to me, He Who Gets Slapped can be looked upon as a somewhat religious experience. I believe the text can be seen as carrying the Christian message-that the most important goal in life should be to learn to love one another and to love God; this world is merely a stepping-stone to a more important world in which love of neighbor and the presence of God reign supreme. 
How is this idea brought out in the play? I believe the gentleman q-epresents all of humanity in its per­sonal struggle on earth to find truth, the truth concerning what is really important in life. Is it more im­portant to succeed materially in so­ciety at the cost of one's own prin­ciples, or is it more important to be seen as a loving, caring individual who has a deep personal commit­ment to God and. to helping make the world a nicer place in which to bring up God's children at the pos­sible expense of having to sacrifice worldly goods and social applause? 
The gentleman sees that he can not find any kind of lasting peace living in a society in which a per­son's value and ultimate worth are contingent upon the ever-changing structure. of society. To base one's worth on what society thinks of you, instead of believing in yourself by virtue .of being a child of God, is to build your personal foundation on weak ground. The gentleman also discovers that wherever he turns, w~ether that be to the circus or any other · place, he finds the same un­solvable problems he found in so­ciety. 

Therefore, the gentleman con­cludes, as must any Christian be­liever, that the only real way to comprehend one's existence from day to day with all its trials and tribulations, is to postulate the ex­istence of a God who loves man, tests man on earth, and will even­tually set man free from the ugliness of earthly existence, and usher man­kind into the beauty and peace of his heavenly kingdom. 
I believe the gentleman finally re­alizes the importance of God's pres­ence in every man's life, and there­fore tries to convince Consuelo of this idea also. When all attempts at con­vincing her fail, and he sees the pos­sibility of her godlike innocence being destroyed, the gentleman chooses death as the only means of salvation. I believe this choice should not be looked upon as a vio­lent betrayal of God's commandment not to kill, but instead should be viewed as a last desperate attempt of one man to protect and cherish the beauty and presence of God, which is represented by the innocent and loving Consuelo. 
So, what can be seen as .the cen­tral message of the play, He Who Gets Slapped? The message that the gentleman wishes to communicate is that somewhere in the course of hu­man life every person must sooner or later return to God, for God truly represents man's only hope of com­prehending his existence, and offers man his only hope. for a world of true peace and happiness. D 
John Davenport is a junior from Suffern, N.Y. He has appeOJred in several, ND/SMC Theatre produc­tions. 

(continued from page 11) 
Governor Reagan and the Republi­can Platform pledged their support for a constitutional amendment to restore constitutional protection to the unborn child. Such an amend~ ment, in this writer's opinion, must do three things. It must restore personhood to the unborn child with respect to his right to live; its pro­tections must attach from the begin­ning of life, that is, at the moment of fertilization; and it must permit no exceptions in which a legal abor­
tion would be allowed. Senator Strom Thurmond (R.­
S.C.) will become the chairman of 
the Senate Judiciary Committee in January. Senator Thurmond, how­
ever, has spoken in favor of pro­
viding in a constitutional amend­ment for abortion in cases of rape, incest, and likely deformity of the child. He has also indicated his possible support for the wholly un­
acceptable states' rights amend­
ment which would permit each state to decide whether to allow or for­
bid abortions and which would 
therefore permanently constitution­alize the killing of innocent unborn 
hwnan beings in any state where a 
majority of the legislature so de­cided. The danger facing the pro-life movement is that an unacceptable constitutional amendment will be pushed through Congress and sent to the states for ratification. If that were to occur, the amendment would be unlikely to achieve ratification and it would neutralize for years or perhaps decades the effort to achieve a genuine reversal of the Supreme Court's abortion rulings. It is not at all settled what will be the posture of the Reagan Administration on this issue or whether it will even take a position. 
With respect to tax credits for tuition paid to non-public schools, it is likely that President Reagan will move to redeem his pledge, and that of the Platform, to enact them. But there is a danger that, in a rush to achieve a "quick fix" of this and other problems, supporters of pri­vate schools will accept a tax credit or other aid formula which will be limited to those private schools which are accredited by state edu­cational authorities. As church-state lawyer William B. Ball has correctly pointed out, this would be an invita­tion for expanded control over pri­vate schools by the "state educa­tional bureaucracies." Here again, the posture of the Reagan Adminis­tration will be interesting to see. 
In summary, it is reasonable to conclude that the Reagan Adminis­tration could itself be a transition to an era of less government, a restora­tion at least in some respects of tra­ditional morality, and stronger de­fense and foreign policies. At least 

· it seems clear that the pro-family, pro-life movement, far from having peaked, will not even reach· cruising speed for two or perhaps four more years. In the meantime, the issue is whether President Re~gan . will merely rotate bald tires by staffing his administration with Nixon-Ford types or whether he will move to carry out his pledges and those of his platform. The · issue, in short, may be: How much of a .Reaganite is Reagan? If his successful, con­sensus-oriented administrations in California offer a clue, President Reagan will neither satisfy fully his supporters nor outrage his oppo­nents. We can all survive that kind of administration. D 
Charl,es E. Rice is a Professor of Law in the Notre Dame Law School. 
(continued from page ~4) 
Tests showed that these people weren't happy and for a group of unhappy people, they used one hell of a lot of tax money. He made a mental note to bring it up at the next board meeting. This would be a good piece of evidence to support his case, especially if the five escapees weren't recaptured, although this was highly unlikely. They had probably been caught already. 
The night had worn on considerably. His·shift was almost over by the time he finished the Minor Crisis program and the Special Reports program. When the shift ended all the orders and recommendations of the five World Leaders, Prime Minister Malignant being one of them, would be categorized into objectives by the SA 0133. The objectives were then broken down into lists of things to be accomplished. Each of the 175 district officers received a list twice a week. The computer also made up lists for special task forces. The main objective of the system was to establish a perfect balance of things so that the whole system would eventually run by itself on pure inertia. Prime Minister Malignant knew that this would never happen. Things changed too quickly for anything to run smoothly without administered controls. There was always some friction somewhere to be smoothed out. 
Malignant looked at his watch. One half-hour to go. He was about to look at the World Leaders' New ideals program, when the computer screen began to show static across it. Malignant shifted uneasily in his chair. Then, without warning, the screen flashed -Entry into Major Crisis Program! Please Stand By. Repeat-Entry into Major Crisis Program! Please Stand By. Malignant sat alertly at the end of his chair. He felt a shudder of alarm run through his old tired body. This was rare indeed, The only time the computer relayed information onto the screen without being directly instructed to by the operator was when someone entered information ·. into the Major Crisis Program. This had only happened four times since Malignant had assumed role of Prime Minister. 

Seconds later the report came through. -Death report: Status: World Leader. Name: President Regina Marie Turnus. Cause: heart attack. Time: 12:18. Age: 
63. Next Highest Ranking Officers: 1) George E. Dillon 2) Mikio S. Kang. Stand by for Profiles. ­Malignant sat back in his chair and stared out his window. The stars twinkled at him defiantly, A quarter moon hung gracefully off to the side, just within his view. The waves crashed up against the shore. He quickly set the buttons and dials to play the New Ideals program. He felt uncomfortable, not because of Turnus' death, an adequate replacement would be found, but something which he couldn't quite put his finger on. . Dillon and Kang would have to play a game of computer kill which would involve intense computer strategies on their part to complete the objective. Whoever accomplished it first would be the next leader. The other opponent was executed. This was to insure that the leader, whoever it .might be, could work under heavy pressure. Malignant fondly remembered his own victory twenty-one years ago. Again he looked out the window and the darkness which he usually found soothing looked all too vivid. He pushed a button which automatically slid heavy curtains across the large bay window and looked back at the lit screen. D 
· Mary Pigott is a senior from Winnetka, IL. and St. Mary's Editor of Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC 
The Last Word 

by Chuck Wood 

Did you ever think your parents were just hopeless? 
I did. There was a time when I gave up on my parents. 
Sure they were doing a great job of providing for my 
sister and me, but that was about all I could say. I was 
convinced, for instance, that I was ridiculously more 
intelligent than my father. 
Now that I am at least a little smarter than I was 
then (if I am getting my money's worth of maturity out 
of Notre Dame and time), I am beginning to see how 
ridiculous it was to even compare my intelligence with 
my dad's. The fact that he could provide for and 
negotiate within our family should have been enough for 
me to appreciate his ability. 
One of my problems was the high ideals I set for 
him. Though I cannot state them concretely, I think 
they were too lofty, mainly because I had no idea of 
what it meant to run a family. I know it was my dad's 
competence and his love that fostered my ignorance. It 
is ironic that his protecting me from knowing all he had 
to do kept me from understanding how well he was 
doing it. 
My respect for my dad has grown for man5'reasons. 
Among them is my getting to know several families in 
South Bend, strangely enough. The fathers of many of 
these families are Notre Dame alumni, and they have 
children as young as one month and as old as sixtten or 
eighteen years. So I've been able to see glimpses of 
almost all the stages of raising a family. What I've seen 
is a roller coaster of jubilation and panic, division and · celebration, too much noise and too much silence. And though I still don't know very much about it, I think raising a family is an endeavor that requires a little 
luck, a lot of skill, and an overabundance of divine 
intervention. My father had and still has all three. 
The circumstances of being away from home for 
most of the past two years have also added to my 
esteem for my father. And I think it is more than a 
simple case of "a.bsence makes the heart grow fonder." 
I have gotten out of the direct discipline of home and the rules that I used to view as absurd and arbitrary. As others who are also free from the "burden" of parental guidance have treated me the way I often treated my parents, I have found that many of their rules reflected a desire for simple common courtesy. and common sense. ("When I say be home by one o'clock I mean one o'clock, not ten after. And if you're going to be late, call and have a good reason.") But beyond that, being away has begun to diminish the authority figure/ provider image of my father. When that image dominated my perception I never thought about the man in his own right. 

In fact, I'm not certain that it ever occurred to me when I was younger that Charles F. Wood was a person. He was always my father. I am becoming more aware of the man and of how the father has been a success because of the man's greatness. 
That is not to say that I don't recognize his faults or have forgotten the disappointments. I don't know, for example, if I'll ever forgive him for not warning me about the reaction between newly shaven skin and after shave lotion. That stinging memory surfaces every time I take out my Norelco. Seriously though, seeing the faults is part of knowing the man. That is important for me right now, because I have to start thinking about what sort of man I will turn out to be. And though I don't plan to be a carbon copy of my dad (nor could I be), knowing the·man provides a good example of the kind of person I hope to be. 
Even without concerns for a role model or what I will be in the future, I am happy to know him; he is a clever man, who can start a conversation with almost 
· anybody, and he can tell some great stories. I'm also glad he's been able to put up with me for twenty years, which is an heroic effort in itself, because only now am I smart enough to begin to comprehend what he has done and appreciate who he is. 
Mostly, I'm glad he's my father and proud to be 
~s~ D 






