T'U&
|otpe]|hrne||^
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTVRVS - VIVE - QUASI- CRASMOR1TVRVS
Vol. LI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, September 29, 1917
No 1.
[This issue of the ‘‘Scholastic" contains, besides the special articles on the Diamond, Jubilee, a number of excerpts from letters, telegrams, and comments of the. Press on that occasion, too numerous and lengthy to publish complete.]
Die me nd Jubilee of Notre Dame University.
BY JOHN TALBOT SMITH.
^^^>HE great advantage of Notre Dame. |l in its public celebrations is the noble Jt extent and gracious character of its location. No nobler stage could be found as the setting of a noble drama. The immense quadrangle fronting the main
buildings, with trees and shrubs in abun-dance, is only one feature of the scene. Left k and right are other quadrangles and spacious lawns; in the rear and to the west lie the. twin | lakes; and for this June nature had been lavish k of leaf and color, so that the place looked like
fairyland. Central Park in New York has not as many acres, as the University. It.has more \diversity,- for the acres of’Notre Dame are
nearly as level as a floor. The great golden dome of'the main building looked down for three days 7 on stirring and beautiful scenes. Not only her L sons came back to honor the jubilee, but friends I and dignitaries from all parts of the land | . joined with them. The first question asked by £ the ladies concerning such celebrations is: who was" there? It is perfectly feminine, natural, M ; justifiable, and the heart of the whole affair, y So one must answer.
a.	***
f Cardinal Gibbons was present and very much । so, to the wonder and delight of the multitude, r He was at every point of time and place in the I celebration. He missed nothing, and, so far as I I could see, nothing missed him. At eighty-three ps he seemed as alert as ever; he made a delightful
, speech in the theatre;- he presided at everything, took a ride daily, sat out all the speeches and K, sermons, ate well, told his reminiscences with
spirit to admiring auditors, and looked as if.a century was not too much for his present vitality. People made a distinction in talking about him. When they said “the Cardinal,” they meant James Gibbons. Other Cardinals were mentioned by their surnames. Two ordinary alumm of Notre Dame were watching the procession -into the Church on Sunday, June 10, and were deeply interested in the spectacle of Cardinal Gibbons walking under the canopy around the grounds on his way to the solemn pontifical Mass. When the procession had ?vanished within the portals one alumnus said to the other:
“Grand old man. . . outlived everybody. . . . eighty-three this month,*and walks all over the. grounds fasting, and has to say Mass yet, and sit out the whole ceremony, and looks as fresh as we do.”
“He certainly is some wonder, a regular card,” said the other.
“Card!” replied the first alumnus, “he is 1 surely the guy that put the card in cardinal.” ..
This~may sound like flippancy, but it expressed perfectly the popular sentiment with respect to His Eminence of Baltimore. '
Archbishop Bonzano was in attendances for a brief stay, and was looked at with great curiosity. Besides youth and good looks and dignity he has a charming expression and speaks English with ease. He is not merely a cleric of the Roman court, he enjoyed fine experiences as a ‘ missionary in China. Quite likely therefore that he has not been upset by American methods and opinions, and has brought , a clear mind to the study of the American section of the great Church, a section which must naturally have a great deal to say and do in the government of the Church whenever it reaches its intellectual majority, that is, when it becomes conscious of its own importance. The young Archbishops, Mundelein and Hanna, were the preachers of the occasion, and were closely studied. It was

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
agreed on all sides that responsibility had aged to eighty and both, , to use the sterling phrase them. Both always looked younger than their - of Roosevelt, with their hats still-in the i'ing.
years,---but maturity has now, marked them for its own. They looked. their age. Their sermons were enjoyed as vigorous presentations of past and present conditions. It was also said as common gossip that both had made good in these first years of their administration.
Archbishop Keane, former president of. the Catholic .University, was present looking emaciated and pallid after his trying illness, but capable and interesting, and a very welcome sight to a host of admirers. Bishop Muldoon, had every eye as usual by his striking appearance, and felicitations were-showered upon him when the news went about that Illinois would not lose a favorite bishop to California. He was named for Los Angeles, but the priests of Rockford protested and the protest was heeded. There were thirty other bishops .present. After
them came the Monsignori; who _made a pic-, of the Laetare Medal and the names of its
turesque feature of all the processions and ceremonies, and were much more precise in their courtly robing -than the bishops. The handsomest of them all was Monsignor O’Reilly of Cleveland, and the most notable that Monsignor Kelley of Chicago whom Ur. Dooley made notable, and that other Monsignor Kelley who, as recreation from the heavier work of a parish and lecturing and writing, casually established The Church Extension Society and Extension Magazine. The Society introduced Chicago to the deserts of the west, and the other has induced over 200,000Catholics to-subscribe at one time to a Catholic magazine. A red-lieaded priest with a mild countenance
was introduced to me as Father Noll, the of congratulation ;were read- from Presidentfounder of The. Sunday Visitor, a weekly Wilson and members of the Cabinet, expressing
While the marks of heavy campaigning were stamped on their faces, there seemed to be no diminution of their fluency and good spirits.
- .***
The grand ceremonies were seven in number and began with conferring he Laetare Medal upon Admiral Benson on Saturday night, June 9, .when a crowded auditorium greeted the Faculty procession as it entered. Not often do we gather such an audience for our great occasions. The Cardinal and t e Delegate, the.Rector of the - University and the Provincial of the Holy. Cross Community, Judge Victor Dowling of New York and Admiral Benson sat on-the stage, while the theatre was filled to the doors with prelates and priests and people, and a disap-, pointed crowd waited outside. The ceremony was very simple. A student read the history
recipients; the Rector made the presentation 7 speech, and the Admiral replied as most admirals do with great earnestness and more joy at his own triumph in achiev ng a speech than he ’ might have had in winning a victory. His Eminence pinned the famous medal on the. Admiral’s bosom, and invited Mrs. Benson to ' complete the . task, an incident which tickled the admiring audience: Judge Victor Dowling delivered the special address at the close of the ceremony, impressing his listeners with the J dignified and handsome appearance, so familiar to “the. metropolis, and delighting them .with a- . fluent, thoughtful, nobly-delivered description . _ of Catholic principles in social action. Telegrams' '
; journal tending-towards a million of circulation, their delight . at . the -honor conferred upon . published in the wilds of Indiana. Former Admiral Benson, . and these messages were Governor Walsh of Massachusetts was present received'with, tremendous applause. Touching to . get. his honorary degree; -and Governor . and significant’ moments in the affair were
j Goodrich - of. Indiana; and Lieut.-Governor when . the reader of the history- of the Laetare McDermott of Kentucky; Seumas McManus, ■' Medal gave’-.the list .of recipients. ’Every name^
.	the popular writer, and Thomas Walsh the poet;	-was received, with respect and attention which ''	<
the - President of Ann -Arbor -University; 'old didthe audience honor. But the story of the	]
.	William J. Onahan of Chicago, as chirpy as unknown medalist, I think it was of 1893,	|
ever; along with a host of editors and-lawyers"’. touched every- heart: He was the noted Dr. andjudges and ’celebrities from, the. far -wilds?
■ of Oregon and from the coasts of Maine. Two
4
ancient warriors appeared here and there at their own pleasure,. Rev. Walter Elliott,' the :- faimous Paulist missionary, and- Father Fidelis,'
the Passionist missionary, both' bn - their way:
' Preuss of St. Louis,' a - minister converted from the Lutheran faith,‘‘who at his conversion took
jT yqwmey accept any; public honor for his J services to the truth.’ was chosen for the / J
: Eaetare^^	it; ■. whereupon, '
rthe^Notre/Dainb" authorities - conferred it just -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the same, but withheld the name and kept the secret all these years. Death having released all parties from.further obligations, his name was first spoken on this occasion and greeted with tears and applause. Another emphatic moment was when Admiral Benson in his speech declared that in this nation the Catholic citizen can no longer complain that his faith, is an obstacle to his proper advancement in his ■ country’s service. The Admiral’s statement can be accepted, with profound thanks to the Presidents who helped to make it a fact, Grover Cleveland, Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard Taft, all of 'whom took special pains in their administrations to let the foolish know that creed was not to be an obstacle to service.
*
The religious ceremonies were held on Sunday morning and evening and on Monday morning, with solemn processions about the grounds. The weather was glorious, the scenes in the - great church were dazzling, tlje preaching was eloquent and pointed, and the music by the famous Paulist choir of' Chicago, under the-leadership of Rather Finn, both at the Mass
and Vespers, was something to ravish the ear despair, “and we think we are orators! Nay, -
and^ the heart by its wonders, and to stir the
mind by its intelligence and taste. The program
of the evening service told us that “critics’ recognize that a body of singers could have been brought to the state of effectiveness, which
• has been conceded to the Paulist. Choristers, by nothing less than an uncompromising > devotion to the highest ideals, so thoroughly
impetuous. His voice found' perfect support against the dissipating influence of'the-open air in the building behind. It made a perfect sounding, board.. I tested the carrying power of his voice at three hundred feet, right, left, and straight ahead, and found no difficulty in getting words and inflections^ But what a powerful voice, what music, what perfection of utterance! I have heard him oh ..several occasions, in Carnegie Hall, for. Instance, but . never to better' advantage. He is a lover of logical statement and ^delights in .a thesis. . Rarely does he condescend to the emotional and picturesque, which, of course, makes his task all the more difficult. He is never. still, his gestures are frequent, varied and peculiar to himself, and he dominates the scene completely. It was - amusing to see the content . and satisfaction with which the admiring crowd . regarded him and one another. The Jubilee had made no 'mistake in selecting, its orator; his amplitude cast a glory on the scene and the ' celebration; and all was well. In the jargon of the alumni it was expressed thus: said one would-	.
be orator at the close as he grasped his hair in
nay, we are mere mutts and nuts,” to which his
hearers responded: “and when did you dis-
cover that?”	•
The cornerstone of the new chemistry build- . ing was laid in the presence of a distinguished throng with Governor Goodrich of Indiana and . Lieutenant-Governor McDermott of Kentucky * :
ingrained as to have become the tradition and as the speakers. From lack of space I say no standard of the organization,” but it did not*-more of this function and- of the effective
tell-us how these choristers entrance a multi- addresses made by the two officials. The last . , tude so that they can find no words to express . feature of the celebration was the conferring/ -their feelings afterwards.	’ of degrees on Monday evening. The orations
Bourke Cockran 'delivered the oration at the of the graduating class were delivered'in the. blessing of the new library. This noble building .afternoon, an occasion which Mr. Joseph Scott is the beginning of the new Notre Dame which ornamented with a characteristic . address ; on shall arise in the next quarter of a century and present- national conditions, much to the joy stand in view at the centennial celebration in ,.of the undergrads and the "visitors. The cbn-
1942. On its broad steps the church dignitaries sat, while the audience stood in the open space and the graduates and- faculty and' others occupied . arena seats. ’ The grand facade of the building was in shadow. Bishop Shahan and his assistants sat in the arch-of the main portal high above all. -In the middle space between them , and the main- body of the clergy x the orator stood, a commanding figure, head and face like those of a lion, fierce, imperious,
ferring of the degrees was a long and enthusiastic ceremony at which the Cardinal presided. Father Fidelis, the famous writer and. preacher, • received his degree in his Passionist gown, quite a brisk gentleman at 76; President Hutchins of Ann Arbor was also honored; Seumas McManus and Thomas : Walsh and Barry O’Neill and Thomas O’Hagan represented the guild of poets" and writers: for like, honors; a host of graduates filed up for their degrees,

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
proud and nervous in their state robes; but the boys cheered and the women wept when the lads in khaki, graduates already in camp and let out on leave, stepped on the stage. They filled the auditorium with the lurid light of the terrible war, and people knew riot whether to be sad or glad at the sight. Bishop Chartrand delivered his eloquent address at the close, and the jubilee was over. Outside, there was a long clamor of autos, of farewells, of congratulations, of greetings; the guests who remained made merry in various corners until the midnight bell. Next day at noon the only trace of the greatest celebration Notre Dame has seen was the boys cleaning up in the silent quad-' rangle; so silent that an ancestor of the chap who will one day sit on a broken arch of London bridge asked: Is this Bertrand?—an allusion understood only in' Notre Dame, but meaning a deserted village.—New York Freeman’s Journal. .	'
Festivities at Notre Dame.
BY REV. EDWIN V. O’HARA.
Notre Dame, Ind., June 14.—The observance of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the founding of Notre Dame University was the occasion of the most wonderful celebration ever held under the auspices of a Catholic educational institution in America.' Clear skies gave favorable conditions for the great outdoor pageantry—religious processions led by the students of the university and participated in by scores of notable prelates, including the Apostolic Delegate, and brought to a close by the venerable figure of the dean of the American hierarchy, the Cardinal-Archbishop of Baltimore.
The celebration opened Saturday night, June 9, with the conferring of the Laetare Medal on? Rear Admiral Benson/ the ranking officer of the American.Navy. It was a spectacle that thrilled the vast assembly in Washington Hall when the Cardinal rose to bestow this badge of eminent distinction, arid with his usual gracipus thoughtfulness, called Mrs. Benson to the stage to. present the medal to her husband. The . Admiral gave ^expression to sentiments worthy of him both as a Catholic' and as an American citizen. Telegrams of congratulation were read from President*Wilson- and Secretary Daniels declaring their - high appreciation. of Admiral Benson as chief of naval operations.
The lay orators of the celebrat’on were the distinguished jurist, Victor Dowling, of. New York; “the audacious” Joseph Scott, of Los Angeles, and Bourke Cockran, described by Father Cavanaugh as “the last of the classic orators.” Justice Dowling spoke beautifully of the service of Catholic education to the state. Mr. Cockran delivered his address from the steps of the new university library building ’ which Bishop Shahan had just blessed. The ' orator found in the history and institutions of the Catholic Church the origin and the surest safeguard of constitutional democratic government. Mr. Scott, n a ringing address that was interrupted by rounds of applause, .urged upon his hearers a generous loyalty to American ideals of freedom,.and took occasion to “trim” England’s despotism to. his heart’s desire. The religious exercises of the jubilee were wonderfully inspiring. On Sunday Cardinal Gibbons celebrated Mass' and Archbisho Mundelein, of Chicago, preached a sermon of simple and sincere eloquence in praise of Father Sorin, the saintly founder of Notre Dame. On Monday morning the Apostolic Delegate celebrated „ Mass for the souls of the deceased benefactors and alumni of Notre Dame. The memorial sermon was a scholarly and touching discourse , by Archbishop Hanna, of San Francisco, who	'
dwelt upon the heroic fortitude of the Holy	’
Cross Fathers and Brothers in surmounting obstacles like the plague which decimated the community and the fire which destroyed the < University.	'	N
The glory of the jubilee was turned to pure -gold by the performance of the Patdist choristers of Chicago, under the direction of “the miraculous Father Finn,” as Father Cavanaugh denominated him in a moment of warranted enthusiasm over this most wonderful choir of boys and.men in the. world.
The commenceinent exercises were held Monday evening. Forty of the graduates had already enlisted in some branch of their country’s service. Borne were present in "khaki; others ‘ ‘ absent but accounted for. ” The. degrees were ■presented by. His.Eminence, Cardinal Gibbons.
’.The jubilee .celebration was a notable tribute -to ‘the enduring work of Father Sorin who, -.seventy-five'years ago, laid the foundations of Notre Dame... But it was no less a triumph for the Fathers and Brothers of Holy Cross who X today ,are' winning * fresh' laurels for • their own ' ” brows, by'their learning and zeal. Above all.it
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
was a tribute. to that scholarly v priest and cultured gentleman, Dr. John Cavanaugh, whose genius directs the' great university, whose golden eloquence is a perennial delight, and .whose infectious smile and kindly hospitality win the heart of every visitor to Notre Dame.—Catholic Sentinel, Portland, Oregon.
■ Echoes of Notre Dame’s Jubilee.* ’
Now that the artistic^ pageantry, the glorious pomp and circumstance of, her -diamond jubilee is over, Notre Dame has settled down to the usual quiet routine of life in the vacation season; and her sons are delightedly correlating their personal reminiscences and the recorded impressions of scores of distinguished visitors relative to the splendid functions that have made forever memorable in American Catholic history the crowded period, June 8-nth, 1917.
' The general impression carried away by the x numerous eminent personages of Church and State who honored the University with their presence is adequately epitomized in this state-menf by Bishop Chartrand, of Indianapolis:
, “The jubilee celebration was pronounced by all whom I heard express an opinion, and I heard very many, .to be the finest in every detail that ever took place in this country.’’. In varying phraseology that verdict was rendered by Cardinal Gibbons, the Apostolic t Delegate archbishops* and bishops, monsignori,, and priests, governors and judges, editors and ' artists, university presidents5 and seminary ' rectors, and the multitudinous man in the .	street,—all of whom were both loud and insis-
tent in their praise of Notre Dame , itself, the majestic splendor of the religious functions and academic events, the co-ordinated harmony of the whole lengthy program, and the masterly, efficiency which contributed to the perfectly smooth running of that program,—from the parade that accompanied the venerable Cardinal of Baltimore from South Bend to the University on the morning of the Sth to the final benediction of Bort Wayne’s well-loved Bishop on the evening of the nth. In the expressive phrase so frequently heard -in the closing hours of the celebration, “everything went off without the slightest hitch.”
The exceptionally beautiful setting of the ' jubilee festivities was undoubtedly one reason
. * Written for the Catholic- Columbian by a literary -clerical friend who was present. ' "	*
for the encomiastic tributes so lavishly paid to its unprecedented success. In very truth it would be diffictdt to find, either'in thisv country .or elsewhere, a district that lends itself so com-' pletely to religious and educational functions involving outdoor celebrations as does the spacious territory generically known as-Notre Dame and comprising the grounds of both the University and its sister-institution, a mile to the west,- St. Mary’s College and Convent. There have been no doubt, from time to time in this country, Catholic celebrations—Baltimore Councils, Catholic Congresses, Eucharistic Conferences, etc., attended by a larger number of ecclesiastical dignitaries than the two or three score.prelates present during the jubilee exercises; but it is questionable whether any other occasion ever produced quite as solemn and' beautiful an impressiveness as the processions which, last week, formed in the University parlors and, wending their way through the stately, tree-bordered avenues of the main quadrangle, filed into the cathedral-like Sacred Heart Church.. His Excellency, the Apostolic Delegate, characterized the effect as incomparably beautiful, imposing, and devotional. It is indeed probably true to say that the material Notre Dame, the many acres of fields and campuses, gardens and parterres, lakes and groves, with the thirty-five or forty handsome edifices scattered over this American-Oxford, proved a veritable revelation to those of the visitors who beheld it for the first time. Amazement, . unaffected and genuine, was the typical emotion of the stranger within the gates. The words of Bishop McDonald, of Victoria, British Columbia, most probably express the sentiments of all such visitors. The scholarly Canadian prelate, well known to all readers of the “Ecclesiastical Review,” declared: “I had read and heard so much of Notre Dame, had become so familiar with accounts of its extent and topographical features, had so often admired bird’s-eye views of its general appearance and photographs of its individual buildings, that I flattered myself I had fairly well visualized the place and its distinguishing characteristics; but I discovered to my utter amazement that my conception had fallen altogether short of the magnificent reality.” This is but another way *of stating what is becoming something of a common-place-among distinguished visitors ■ from the other side of the Atlantic, viz., that, as a centre of Catholic education for young
6 ’	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
men and young women, Notre Dame—the University and St Mary’s College—is absolutely unique, not merely in America, but in the whole world. As His Bminence of Baltimore tersely puts it: “There is nothing, religious or secular, to compare with it.” Not all the beauty of the natural surroundings or the splendor of church and academic halls, however, ’ could have achieved the triumph of the jubilee ' celebration without the animating dynamism of the Notre Dame spirit, visible in its energizing । activity throughout the full period of the fes-I' tivities. The observant Archbishop of San
Francisco-was particularly impressed with this • feature of the occasion. ‘‘The beautiful spirit of co-operation,” he remarked, ‘‘the whole-souled energy with which -every Holy Cross' Father and Brother worked at his appointed task as if the success of the whole affair depended i on his individual efforts,—this was the outstanding note of the splendid celebration.” Without making invidious distinctions where | all . did so well, perhaps a special word of commendation may congruously be given to one Holy Cross Father whose altogether exceptional efficiency’- in an admittedly arduous office elicited innumerable compliments from every prelate and priest -who attended- the religious ’ ’ services incident to the, celebration. Rev.
William Connor, C. S. C., as master of cere-■ monies, proved himself as thoroughly competent an officer as ever marshalled clerical troops through the most elaborate religious function. With the utmost tranquillity and ease, with never a moment of hesitation or nervous haste, he skilfully' directed the complicated ceremonial of each separate service, attending to-the hun-died and one details of. rubrical requirement as effectively as if it were an everyday matter for him to pilot Cardinals, Archbishops, Bishops and minor prelates through the intricacies of' Pontifical Mass, with several episcopal thrones . in the sanctuary. The . present; writer has heard, more than a dozen laymen comment on ■ the smoothness of the purely religious events of the jubilee, and qualify, Father Connor’s efficiency, as “simply marvellous.” .	,
■ While the published stories, of the -jubilee doings have done more or less justice to the 'principal features of the celebration, little or ~ no mention has been made of an innovation or.
two which characterized Notre Dame’s seventy’ fifth commencement, in the matter.; of degrees.
For the first time in her, history theUniversity
conferred degrees in course to women and .gave , honorary’’ degrees to members of - the Congregation of Holy Cross. There was an enthusiastic outburst of applause in Washington Hall when the names .of Sister Francis Jerome -and Sister Lucretia (Holy Cross Sisters of St. Mary’s College) were read out' as recipients of the M. A. and M.'Sc. degrees; and a similar demonstration took place when the LL. D. distinction * was awarded to Fathers Zahm and Burns, of
. Washington, D.- C., and Father O’Neill, of j Notre Dame. Apropos of demonstrations, the ' I popular heroes among the graduates were the boys in khaki. While each senior in turn .was greeted with a round of applause, even though ’ he wore the conventional cap and gown, the soldier-graduate’s appearance invariably evoked
• an exceptionally eloquent burst of hand- . ’ clapping.. “Give him.a hand, Pendennis; you ■ know every chap likes a hand,” says Thackeray’s Harry Foker; and the Diamond Jubilee Com- ; mencement audience, emphatically gave a hand ' . to the Notre Dame boys who came from camp ] to get their.academic honors. It was a welcome # A .opportunity’’ for the outward expression of that . ' spirit of consecrated patriotism that had permeated every’’ address delivered throughout the ( Cardinal’s speeches, prelates’ sermons, laymen's . orations, students’ discourses, and Father Cavanaugh’s always eloquent remarks; and it fittingly epitomized the story' of Notre Dame’s development and the secret of her success,— enthusiastic devotion to God and country.
'	/	•	Viator. -
Father Sorin was like all great founders, a -man of vision. Cquld-he have forecast the realization which we see today? We believe he early forecast it; for he left Notre Dame . at his-death substantially as it is today—the	‘
beloved “Golden Dome”, the crown of his dream, dominating the land for many miles,	.
though some buildings have been added, and	f-
the attendance of students greatly increased.' '	•]
What was. the secret of such development ’ and assured success : in the very neighborhood -of upspringirig richly , provided secular uni- 1 versifies,; and the.division of the field of Catholic
? higher educational' effort within the States . of -Indiana and Illinois? It.must be sought in the J adaptability of Father Sorin’s . temperament; .	/
liis sure discernment ;of. vocations and his	C -
tact in moulding them. •	'	;	.	'
' —The Republic, Boston, May 26th. '	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DISCE-QUAS1-SEMPER- VICTURVS-VIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
- Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.		
Published	every Saturdaj- during the School Term at UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	the
VOL. LI- -	SEPTEMBER 29, 1917.	NO. 1.
Editorial Comment.
northern part of Indiana was little more than forest and prairie. It was still the haunt of half savage Indians and white settlements were few and scattered. The southern part of the state was more advanced, but it was* still “new country” in the elementary stage of cultivation. Here came the Rev. Edward Sorin, a young French priest of the Congregation of
_Holy Cross, and with him came six brothers' of the -same religious order. The opportunity of missionary work, particularly the establishment of a place of Christian learning in the young state of Indiana, had caused them to leave their native France and to cast their lot' among strangers in a strange land. —
The history of their early struggle of their journey from Vincennes to the site of the university they were
In the reflected light of the honors that her sons to establish, of their fight against poverty and their have won, their fostering mother, the University of ■ final triumph, reads like a romance, and all that they
Notre Dame, tranquilly rejoices in the celebration of an anniversary fraught with reminiscent glories, for the children that she sent forth into the world have this week come home, in the flesh or in the spirit, to make obeisance at the shrine where for nearly three generations- Learning, the handmaiden of Religion, has girded up the faithful for the righteous battle of life. In this year of the Diamond Jubilee of



Notre Dame, the world aflame with war, the history of the university that has contributed so largely to the promotion of the arts of peace and to the spread of learning in this country mirrors the progress of a people;' it is pregnant with the promise of a future that' will comport with the aims and ambitions and capabilities that have grown with the years. And the occasion invites contemplation of the spiritually inspiring, but materially discouraging, foundation upon which has been reared the splendid institution of today. .
In the shadow of the dome that dominates the peaceful purlieus and classic shades of- a great modern seat of learning,' there are. gathered men who have \ won honors in every field of human endeavor ih an age so strenuous in a competitive struggle, of -which the sainted and learned founder of Notre Dame could not possibly have conceived, when he planted the humble cutting from which has sprung this mighty-growth. Priests who have carried God’s word to many people; men who are captains in the militant world of. commerce and finance; lawyers who grace the bar and who have rewritten the processes of modern jurisprudence; doctors whose contributions to the healing art have served the race; teachers who have replenished The torch of learning in many a1 darkened place—some bowed with the 'weight of years, others in the flush of a manhood that will deal with the shaping of the destinies of nations—are come together to testify to the gracious influence of the fostering mother. *	'
"One . may wonder how it is that an '"institution without monetary endowment could have made such wonderful progress within thefbrief scope of seventy-five years. For answer, he must turn to the men who have accomplished this feat and must analyze their motives. The searcher will find that whole-hearted zeal for the.cause.of God, is’the basis upon which their accomplishment rests. Seventy-five years ago the
did goes to prove how completely they trusted to God ■ and how singularly their efforts were blessed by that Providence which never fails to smile upon unselfish devotedness to a righteous cause. Notre Dame has had, then, something better than monetary endowment, for it has had the endowment of flesh and blood.
Into its creation and development have gone the life-long labors of men who sought no worldly honors, who received not a penny of money in exchange for their work, but who spared neither their time nor their effort in order that this great monument might be reared to the glory of Christ and His Immaculate Mother, that the work of God might be propagated -through the advancement of Catholic education.
Heroes indeed are those men who have so unselfishly served Notr.e Dame. The names of Sorin, Dillon, Corby, Lemonnier, Colovin and Walsh have, been written on the golden roll of those who, after serving nobly in the cause of Catholic education, have passed to that Heavenly reward they so justly merited, while the names -of Morrissey and Cavanaugh, still stand prominently among those who are, by modern means and methods, continuing the work of their predecessors and to whom much of the credit is due for the tremendous strides made by Notre. Dame along all lines during the last quarter of*a century. And there are others, too, without whose help the development of Notre Dame would have been an impossibility, men who have given each according to his ability—priests, brothers and lay professors.
The Diamond Jubilee at Notre Dame is the greatest Catholic event ever observed in. the State of Indiana, and it is one of the most important events in the history of Catholic education in America. There is small wonder that it is attracting nation-wide fame, that even the Holy Father has been moved to send a congratulatory message to the Bishops of the United States calling attention to the high place occupied by this institution in the regard of the Holy See. -The sons of Notre Dame are proud to rally under her Golden Dome today. The grizzled veteran of yesterday is proud to link arms with the khaki-clad youth of.to-, day. The Cardinal, the Archbishop and the diocesan ordinary are proud to mingle with their brothers the priests, and their spiritual children of the laity. They are gathered there on ground that is sanctified by the deeds of those who struggled for the fulfillment of_a
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
great ideal, an ideal that has been fulfilled in no uncertain manner.	’	'
It is with great pleasure that The. Indiana Catholic and Record joins with the other friends of Notre Dame in extending to her faculty, and students, the congratulations which are due on this occasion. We'are happy that among the Catholic institutions of this state there is one which is second to none in its field of endeavor. We are proud of the splendid patriotism which has been displayed by the faculty and students in every time of national crisis. Its' Civil War record was brilliant; its record during the Spanish-American War was all that could be desired, and the spirit it has shown in the present conflict has attracted the attention of the nation at large. May God continue to bless this 'institution which has been erected to His glory, and may His Immaculate Mother, Our Lady of the Lake, ever remain the protectress of this seat of learning which bears her name.—The Indiana Catholic and Record.
. * *
Elsewhere in the columns of the current - issue of The Vigil will be found the program to be rendered at Notre Dame University,^ Indiana, on the occasion of the approaching Diamond Jubilee of that institution. The brief historical sketch published in connection therewith will help to explain the country-wide interest, which is gathering momentum as the eventdraws nearer. The history of Notre Dameis one reason for the popularity which the institution enjoys throughout America. Its exceptionally broad educational ’equipment is another reason; and-Father Cavanaugh, its president, is a third.	.
On historical grounds, there, is. no more typically American. University than Notre Dame. One cannot know Indiana in the making, without knowing every turn in the story of Notre Dame, nor can one appreciate the rugged heroism with which Indiana’s history is
opened, without feeling at the same time a sense of It is not only a splendid American university, but a
reverence towards the daring role played by Catholi-; cism in those days that saw the beginning of that'
sovereign state of the Union.' What the Catholic missionary spirit that permeated the Columbus expedition was to the first episode of American history, the identical spirit incarnate in men of the type of Badin, Petit, Sorin and Corby was to the latest episode in the building of the nation.	.
The magnificent scale of the projected jubilee with and social forces under his- direction. Notre Dame
its stately setting of a modern, university campus and wide flung halls of learning and gleaming dome that seems to gather all the threads of intellectual industry in a single impressive unit, is only testimony to a greater reality and the reflex of a lustre, , no less bright in'the 'log chapel of 1841 than in the massive structure of 1917, no less compelling in the simple catechetical instruction to the Pottawatomies than in the extensive researches
C. S. C., with a few brothers of his Congregation, that have placed the modem Notre Dame in the front . located in the wilderness of Indiana have surely been
/ rank of American educational institutions. The visitor to Notre Dame is astounded at the height of its ’ ambitions and-the magnitude of its accomplishments, and his astonishment is always the call of the past. The buildings and all that they stand for, impress profoundly, but no more profoundly than memory’s ..reconstruction of that past—a ten acre-clearing in the forest, a log chapel, a "black robe” telling the red men
the mysteries of the cross, while in distant France a 'mother reads this glorious testimony of life sacrifice: "I am now. a priest. . .my heart is now consecrated to God. . .within two days I start hence (from Vincennes) all alone on a journey of three hundred miles, yet not ‘ alone, for I shall journey in company with my God whom I shall carry on my. bosom day and night ; . . I have always desired a mission among the savages; there is but one such in Indiana, and it is I whom the Pottawatomies will call Father Black Robe.”
One stands in the great auditorium of the Notre Dame of today while twelve hundred students from every corner of America, and a hundred' professors, * leaders in the intellectual world, men whose names are known wherever the arts and sciences are discussed, are gathered for Commencement. The graduates in cap and gown are assembled on the stage, they, the leaven to be of American citizenship. -The spectacle is exalting,. but not more exalting than memory’s picture of the first president, Father Sorin, hewing his way through the wilderness to break the bread of the
■knowledge and love of God to a primitive people, who, like himself, were not less engrossed in the wringing of a livelihood than in the study of life. But the seed was planted. In seventy-five years, a few months, as Europeans calculate history, that seed has grown to the proportions of a tree whose fruits have enriched every state in the Union. .	-
Little need be said of the University of Notre Dame as it is today. It asks no apologist, for its rank among ' the intellectual centers of the country is conceded. It needs ho description, for its popularity and the loyalty of its alumni have familiarized it to the American people. It is not only a great university in the thoroughness of its methods and in the comprehensiveness of its training, but it is a unique university, in the healthiness of its discipline, in the fine esprit de corps of its ■ student body, in the efficiency of its management.
■-J J
splendid American town—and Father Cavanaugh is its/ mayor. •	'	.	'
Of Father Cavanaugh, it may be said that the historian of his administration will have a difficult task before him- if he endeavors to particularize. It is the man himself, rather than his learning or his eloquence or his administrative skill that has energized . and enthused and solidified, the intellectual and moral
stands pre.-eminently todaj7 for three things: thoroughgoing Americanism; virile Catholicism and comprehensive educationalism; and in all three respects it bears the indubitable impress of the all-found leadership of its president.-—Catholic Vigil, Detroit. .
- - - - ' * ‘ - * * ' ,
The seventy-five years since the Rev. Edward Sorin,
fruitful ones for the-place to which he gave dur Lady’s name in his native French tongue—Notre Dame. Beginning on Friday last the big .university which has grown out of his foundation and. which had attained remarkable proportions even before his death, some twenty-four years ago, has celebrated, its Diamond Jubilee, one of the features of- which was the ■ conferring of its annual medal—the Laethre Medal—
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
' 9
for lay Catholic distinction, upon Admiral Benson of the United States Navy.- The Admiral is now facing a task in which we hope he may greatly add to the distinction he has already won. It is emphatically in the interest of civilization that he should do so. Meanwhile we extend our hearty congratulations to the present efficient President of Notre Dame, the Rev. . John Cavanaugh, S. C. C., and all connected with his flourishing University.—Catholic Register, Toronto, -June 14., 1917.
' * ■ ‘ * *
■ Memories of seventy-five years will be crowded into three or four days; the story of early beginnings that were marked by trials and discouraging circumstances' will be recalled, and the struggles of the pioneers at Notre Dame will but lend warmth and lustre to the storv of their successes and triumphs, for these are told in the concrete and living evidences to be found there and in the hearts of many thousands of former teachers and students who may be scattered around the world, but who will be present in spirit, glowing with affectionate .pride and thanksgiving to^God for what ' has been accomplished. .	*
What has been accomplished? “Man knows a little, God, the rest.” But even the "little” that we know is~ large and far-reaching and admirable and inspiring to lovers of education that is high in every meaning of the word. Here in Indiana is another splendid asset of the nation, one of many moral and intellectual assets; it is a large contribution to America’s truest riches. It has grown up by the sacrifices and labors of men who put God first, and by the guidance of His love and wisdom build what years do but enhance and glorify and where strong men are molded.—^Western World, Des Moines, Iowa, June 7, 1917.
V

* >■ * * .
The -entire Catholic Church in the United States will turn its loving attention to that great institution • of the Middle West, which during the coming week 'will celebrate the Diamond Jubilee of its foundation. Through its hospitable portals will_pass hundreds of its alumni and thousands of its-friends. They will bring with them a tribute of affection to a college that has been for three-quarters of a century the fostering mother of religion and education. Bach visitor will bring a token of his 'indebtedness to the venerable college that has supplied America with soldiers, educators, doctors, lawyers, ■ priests and bishops.

Such an outpouring of love will hearten the men who given to many prominent citizens throughout the land. •
have given so generously of themselves to place .Notre Dame among the leading schools of America. Seventy-five years computed, in mere time are a short stretch. But they have brought so marvellous a measure of accomplishment to Notre Dame that even the fond dream of its founder, Fr. Sorin, seems -to have come into its own. . It is fitting therefore that Notre Dame, venerable in a new land, should celebrate in pomp and ceremony the rounding out of the third cycle of its century’s life. ,	■	- .	’	"
Its unnumbered friends spread throughout this wide country extend the heartiest good wishes for the continuation- of the noble - work it has done. during, its span of existence. They see for it a tremendous growth
and c'ount it one of the noblest inheritances that the
young Church of America
■coming centuries.—The New
-	X	. * *
Notre Dame University
shall bequeath to the World, Chicago.
deserves all her glory.
From her founder, Father Sorin, down to the present day, Notre Dame’s record has been a bright diamond in the crown of American Catholic education, a head-. . light pointing the road ahead. And her light was never brighter than it is now' under the guidance of Presi- -dent Cavanaugh.	;
At her.present rate of growth in numbers and prestige, Notre Dame’s one hundredth anniversary should be in the nature of a national Catholic celebration.
—Catholic Universe, Cleveland, Ohio, June 15/1917.
- Notre Dame has always required a high standard of scholarship. On its faculty have been some of the foremost men in literature and science in the country. But in recent years it has shown unusual evidence of progress and fine achievement. This is due in large measure to its president, Rev. John Cavanaugh. Father Cavanaugh is not only a man of deep culture,- but he has executive capacities of a 'high order. He is genuinely interested in young people and in life’s affairs, and his enthusiasm has affected the whole institution. To be a student under President Cavanaugh is a liberal education of itself. -
With a profound sense of Notre Dame’s usefulness in the past, the whole state .will felicitate the university on its seventy-fifth anniversary and hope that its increase in the past few years is but an earnest of even greater things for the future.—-.Evansville Courier, Bvansville, Ind., June 5, 1917.	,
* - '
' . * * .
The celebration of the Diamond Jubilee of Notre Dame University will long be remembered. Perhaps never were a more distinguished audience present * at such a celebration. Cardinal, archbishops,-bishops, priests, admirals, generals, governors, ‘statesmen of national reputation, the greatest orators in America, and vast throngs of public leaders from every part of the country" contributed to make this occasion unequalled in the history of our country. The University graciously deigned, on this auspicious occasion, to bestow signal honors on a large number of candidates. It conferred the Degree' of Doctor of Law on the President of Michigan University, and Reverend James G. Doherty of Detroit, while similar degrees were
All Kalamazoo unite, in tendering’ their congratulations and greetings to the good Fathers of the Holy Cross, who. did so much toward establishing Catho- . licity in this section and who erected the first Catholic .church in Kalamazoo County. Long may they live to enjoy the glory which is added each year by their earnest work. Very Rev. President Cavanaugh and his large staff deserve gratitude and congratulations on the excellent way in which the guests were received, and the exercises conducted?—Augustinian, Kalamazoo, Mich.,. June 16, 1917-	,
, ■ . *** . •
' As an inspiration to the students of Notre Dame, there can be no question as to the importance

.10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of the diamond jubilee celebration, and the presence of those who blessed it. Contact has considerable to do with the broadening of life. The uplifting influence of those who have marked their success, and especially when it be in the world of education, religion and morals, is nowhere ^greater than when you meet them face to face. Even the brief address of Cardinal Gibbons at the high school auditorium is bound to leave a lasting imprint, and for a mixed audience, assuredly he could have chosen no more fitting topic from which.to speak. Catholics and Protestants agree upon one point and that always: the glory, the value and the' dignity of our religious, liberty. America has proven, and flaunted it in the face’of the world, that under liberty, creeds without number can live in peace and harmony, work out their destiny, and be of service ’ to the state without being conscripted or dominating.
It was a beautiful tribute that the cardinal paid to the United States on this point, and no one who heard .it could have doubted his sincere Americanism. “Head of the Church in America, he gave it as his wish that we might never see the day when church and state might be .united. History proves, as he affirms, that the union has too often proved corrupting to both church and state. He is American like, the rest of us in that that he would never want to see the state
suDDorting the clergy, dictating to it, or being dictated to by it.	*	_
.That is Americanism, and with that understood, there is nothing more so "very vital left for Protestants and Catholics to quarrel over, and indeed, the quarrel is fizzling out more and more as this attitude becomes ' more and more understood. Contact, here again, is solving the problem; getting acquainted is-doing the work. The diamond jubilee, besides being a . great event at Notre Dame, has, by bringing these leaders' of the church here, and especially Cardinal Gibbons, added that much to the harmony of the churches and . to the removal of prejudices that ought to have been
» worn out long ago. . . —News-Times, South Bend, Ind., June 12, 1917.	•
"--’*** "
Next Sunday will ^inaugurate -the diamond jubilee	extending to the Fathers of the Congregation of Holy
of Notre Dame, ’way down.m old Indiana. What . Cross my congfatulations.. Catholics throughout the treasured memories, forsooth, the festival will hold!	’	'
Notre Dame never -was an. experiment. No work of God is an experiment—and God’s work was of Notre ^Dame always. God’s work, of course it prospered and grew; and the grow’tlf ever was for'godd.
Today Notre Dame is an. institution, a'very firmament of .wide-influence for the good ,of mankind, for the. greater honor and. betterment of our country, for .the propagation and the safe conserving of the Catholic faith and the glory of God; > ' .	.
Looking from beyond, some of the noble souls will
' great* institutions of learning. Through all her history she has been an inspiring’force in the development and expansion of" the. Church’s -educational work in .	.	.	this • country, and a-staunch and ready defender? of
blend in communion with those who here honor .the	Catholic faith and practice.	,
day, and :in glad acclaim those ^time-honored bells .
should ring out in ecstacy and welcome/.	" tance in„Catiiblic.circles.;'Tn the name of the Catholics
.May the jubilariansiall.have a: felicitous occasion! . of-the Archdiocese of New York, I congratulate you
May old Notre Dame spread put still, greater in in- on the'record of the past sevcnty-*five years. May God fluence and glory, and may, the sweet music of the bells - .bless/Notre. Dame and nll/who .haye contributed to • linger to bless the generations as they cbme 'unto the :hersuccess!	*	’
everlasting morn!— Caiholic'tlnidn and, Times~ Buffalo,'	.' ' / >.;</ / Faithfully ih"-Xto., ' -t 7 : .
N. Y., May 31, 1917- -' NAN	‘	CI C T John "Cardv-F Abp*. New York.
Jubilee Letters.
Archbishop’s House,	"
’	Granby Street, Boston.
-	June 6, 1917.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., President, University of Notre Dame,
- Dear Father Cavanaugh:—	'	.
I know of nothing that wrould give me greater _ pleasure than to attend the celebration of the Diamond Jubilee of the University of Notre Dame, and w-hile exceedingly regretting that it is impossible for me to leave Boston at this time, I am happy to take this occasion to'send to the Faculty, the graduates; the students and the friends of Notre Dame University my most cordial greetings and felicitations.
The' splendid w-ork which Notre Dame has been accomplishing for the past seventy-five years and the traditions which have been the inheritance of those who have had the. good fortune “and privilege ,of being trained Within her wralls speak for themselves. Notre Dame needs no proclaimer of her wrorth. '
Men of principle, men of honor, men of faith, men . of God—this is Notre Dame’s proud boast and glory. May she ever prosper and may her example continue to shine, a beacon light guiding the Catholic youth ' of this land to the fulfilment-of his duties to his God, ■ . to his Church and to his'Country. '
-- Sincerely yours in Xto.,
- William Card. O’Connell, Abp. Boston.
* x • . * *
. Cardinal’s Residence,
-	452 Madison Ave., NewT York.
Very Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,	-
Notre Dame, Indiana. .	-
Very Rev. and dear Father:—	'	.
The announcement of the Diamond Jubilee exercises - , of Notre Dame University to be observed this week • reminds'me of your kind invitation-of last . winter, which I felt obliged to decline. •	'	’	'
I cannot, however, allow the occasion to pass without
entire country will rejoice with you on this anniversary. . Notre Dame has-always been a splendid representative of the Church in the field of education. Quick to avail herself of new methods of proved value, -and. to adapt herself to changed conditions, -she has at the same time maintained that character of conservatism', which has distinguished the Church’s
i4
Your jubilee is therefore an. event of national impor-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
' Apostolic Delegation United States of America Very Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.
Notre. Dame, Indiana.	.	■
Very Rev. and dear Father:
Your kind letter of June 22nd was duly received, but I was so busy then, owing to the work which had accumulated during my long absence, that I was unable to send you an immediate answer. •
But even if it were not so, what can'I add to the Holy Father’s glowing words of . praise for the zeal of the members of your Institute and the great work accomplished by Notre Dame? If I may say anything, - it would be only to confirm from my own knowledge the august expressions of His Holiness arid to join with the members of the hierarchy and clergy in congratulating the Congregatiori of Holy Cross on the splendid celebration just held. The magnificence of the Jubilee ceremonies showed forth the grandeur of the educational and .religious spirit of your University and was ' the fit crowning of a long and glorious history. It was indeed a great pleasure for me to have been able to attend the exercises so successfully carried out on that occasion.	.
Hoping that the University of Notre Dame may celebrate even greater successes in the future, and thanking you again for your kindness and courtesy to me, I am, with best wishes,'	_
Sincerely yours in.Xt.,
-	John Bonzano,
.	Archbishop of Melitene,
’	■	Apostolic Delegate.
• ❖ * ‘ -
[Telegram] -	.
Springfield, Ohio, June 10, 1917.
Very Rev. John Cavanaugh:
My sincere and - cordial congratulations to you and the faculty of-Notre Dame University. Regret exceedingly that I,' the metropolitan in whose province . x your far-famed institution is situated, could not be . present on the occasion of the Diamond Jubilee. The history of .the University has been a bright one and there is every hope that the future will be not only as gloripus as the past, but still better.	..
■ Henry Moeller, Abp. of Cincinnati. - ' * * ' " Very Rev. dear Father:	-
From my heart I congratulate Notre Dame on the great men it has produced:’ on the great founder whose memory it. recalls during these festivities: on the great and wondrous work it has done for religion. "
.	John Ireland, Abp. St. Paul.
’ ' ~ ' *** . ’ '
Washington, D. C., June 4; 1917. , Reverend Father John Cavanaugh,	■
Notre Dame, Ind.	,
My dear Father Rector:—	.
I "have appreciated greatly your very kind invitation to come to. the Jubilee exercises at Notre Dame and regret more than I can tell you that.my public duties here render it impossible forme to accept. -This will be made.-manifest-'to you. when I say that the Court 1 rises , for the,term on the nth of June and the last week of its'.work is full, as they'.all are, of the most , responsible duties,, which I cannot neglect. .
I am consoled by the thought that it does not need my presence, however, to make manifest my admiration for the earnest, superb work that Notre Dame is doing to spread the light of religion and education among our countrymen. That its usefulness may continue and be manifoldly multiplied is the warm wish of
.	Your friend, faithfully, .	> -
E. D. White,
. • . Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. *
t ' _ * * . ' •
• [Cablegram] ,
.	Dacca, India, June 4, 1917.
Rev. John Cavanaugh:
Our heartfelt congratulations and good wishes "to -Notre Dame.	•
[Rt. Rev.] De Grande, [C. S.- C.]
Bishop of Dacca, East Bengal," India.	'
*** • ” ■ ■
,	[Cable]	. ...
Copenhagen, Denmark, June 8, 1917. .
Reverend Doctor Cavanaugh,	-
President of the University of Notre Dame.
My warmest congratulations in the knowledge that Notre Dame will be true.to her grand traditions of loyalty and patriotism.	. .
.	-	Egan, [Minister to Denmark]
, . . * * . -
Thanks for your letter inviting me to be present, on the occasion of the Diamond Jubilee of your Uni-, versity. It is a long way ahead, still if I can make arrangements I shall try to be with you one of the days of the celebration. I feel I have some claim on the.place as old Father Badin, who made the University possible, was often a guest at my grandmother’s and I had often the privilege of serving his Mass. Not many nowliving saw the venerable' old gentleman. .
’	Thomas Sebastian, Bishop of Nashville.'
• * - .
-	* ; * * .
.. The event is-indeed worthy to be celebrated with pomp and joy. It marks a wonderful development of learning and religion in the heart of our growing, country, a development that would not find its parallel in the history of the modern world.
.	H. Gabriels, Bishop of Ogdensburg.
-	* * , _ .
-	May 26th, 1917.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,	’
Dear Rev. Father:	1
Notre Dame has a glorious history. • Her Diamond Jubilee is more than a festive event. It emphasizes the fact that her influence is written with the brilliancy and'the durability of the diamond in the educational and religious annals of our. great and beloved country. Ad multos annos. With very kind wishes cordially tn ~ Domine, _	'
Joseph F. Hanselman, S. J., .
. Woodstock College, Woodstock, Md.
- _ ■ ‘ -
/-	■	-: .' . ’ . May'31, 19171--
The University of Notre Dame.	.	., . .
. . Gentlemen: .	-	'	■	>	' . . \
1 thank you for: this remembrance of an old student whose-matriculation was under- the presidency of Father Lemonnier arid Brother Aloysius in the Junior departrnent.' That is many years ago, and since then
12
THE NOTRE DAM-E SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame has prospered and progressed beyond anything even Father Sorin ever could have dreamed of, grand old optimist as he was.
Frank A. Egan, New York City. K * * * ¥
With greetings and best wishes for the memorable occasion, and with the prayer that Notre Dame University may be always in the future, as in the past, one of the fairest ornaments to the American Church, I am.	Yours sincerely in Xto.,
J. W. Shaw, Bishop of San Antonio. ' • * * *
Let me take this opportunity to congratulate you and your splendid - institution upon the very fine, constructive and enduring service which the University of Notre Dame is doing. I wish you a continuation of well merited success. Notre Dame is recognized as one of the bulwarks of Christian education in America.
Winfield Scott Hall,
■ Northwestern University Medical School. * • . ¥ ¥
I have many sweet memories of Notre Dame, having spent two years of my school days within its halls and classrooms, and I can never forget the noble and Christian spirit that animated its president and professors of those days. I shall ever treasure the friendship and memory of Very Rev. Edward Sorin, founder of the University-, one of the noblest of men. ’ I knew and loved many of that band of noble men that clustered about him in his work in my time at the University, among whom were Rev. William Corby and Rev. Peter Cooney, who were not alone great priests and teachers, but who.proved their love and loyalty to our country in the time of need by serving as army chaplains during the Civil War. I recall Father Alexis Granger, one of the right-hand men to Father Sorin, and among the many men that come to my mind at this time are Father Patrick Dillon, Father James Dillon, Father Neal Gillespie, Father Tim Maher, Professor Joseph A. .Lyons, Brother -Laurence and Brother Francis, all of whom I believe have been called to their reward, save Father Tim.
Richard C. Gannon, Chicago. ■ * * *
Very- Reverend John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,	.
Very Reverend and dear Father.	.
I shall be very pleased to attend the Diamond Jubilee of Notre Dame. Should I not rather say that I consider it a duty and a pleasure to accept the .invitation? For we are all debtors to the glorious apostles ■who founded Notre Dame and to their no less meritorious successors.	•
AV. F. Fallon, Bp. of London, Ont;
. The Manor House Winterbourne Gunner, Saliburys Plain, . England..
.	.	. July 27, 1917.
The Very Rev. John Cavanaugh, C--S. C., President of the Univerity*of Notre Dame, .
/ Notre Dame, Indiana, .	■
My dear Father President:	. •	'
. .	.	...	.	... the spirit’ of our country-with, such courage" and .
I have now received with very great .pleasure the liberty from the trammels of .the past.. It is an.inspir-' diploma which makes me an Honorary Graduate of - ing story of courage, indeed.
Notre Dame University. I feel very greatly honored .	. Mary. O. Merrick, (Laetare Medalist, ’15.)
by, such a mark of fraternal good will from so distinguished a House of Faith and Learning; and it is a singular pleasure to feel myself thus affiliated to so illustrious an Alma Mater. And it is a crowning of my written work for which I can not be too grateful.
If I could have been present to receive the diploma in person, and to express my sense of obligation in person, I should have been, indeed glad; but not till
' after the war can I hope to see America, and fulfill a long-standing engagement to make a lecturing tour over there. ,	.
If I .am spared to carry out that scheme, it will be an immense gratification to me to visit Notre Dame and pay my filial homage there.
"Will you please express on my behalf to all to whom I am indebted for the honor done to me my most . earnest expression of appreciation?	.
~	Yours very sincerely,
. F. B. D. Bickerstaff-Drew.
{John Ayscongh.)
When I think of the large numbers of young men fitted for life (professional and business life) at Notre
Dame, and meet sterling Catholics, Mater aifd to the done.
from time to time some of them, and doing honor to their Alma Church, j thank God for the work
[Rt. Rev.] James McGolrick, Bishop of Duluth..
• *•*
'	* Jje
'	[Telegram]
.	Washington, D. C., June oth, 1917.
Rev.. Father Cavanaugh,
Greetings and good wishes on the seventy-fifth anniversary of your great University. The influence of Notre Dame is a tower of strength to the nation.
Edwin 0. Wood.
* K	.	,
It is a glorious thing for-the Notre Dame of today to look back over seventy-five years of service to God and to our- Country. It is a glorious thing to be near x a record of fidelity to the highest ideals in Religion . ’ and Culture. I have always thought that in our. Catholic American life, .Notre Dame represents a ’ distinct idea, and a rich Ideal.
Edward J. Walsh,
-
- . * * '
As a loyal son of Alma Mater I gladly and fully accept your' kind invitation to assist
C. M.
thank-at her
-seventy-fifth anniversary. Notre Dame has a glorious record of long years spent in the service of-. Church and Country, and thus .her Diamond Jubilee will be . but the crowning glory in the history of our .venerable Mother:. With cordial best wishes, .
[Rt. Rev.] E. J. McLaughlin, Clinton, Iowa.
- . ' \
... How.happy you.must be to see the affection’ of so many great and good, men for your work and the work of your predecessors. It is certainly extraordinary that • the wonderful old French -priests should have seen so far and been able1 to ’ enter into American views and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Extracts from the Press.
x
Notre Dame is the really beloved Alma Mater of three generations. The long list of its alumni includes a great part of the distinguished Catholic men of the country. Its place in educational service has been so . high, its success so splendid, its spirit at once, so Catho-lie and so American, that it has been able always to draw to itself in loyalty and friendship America’s best. Notre Dame is part of the Church and the country. Its jubilee was an event of profound interest to all thoughtful men. Its legions of friends from coast to coast were invited to the great day, and all who came were entertained with unbounded hospitality. . . .
Sunday morning’s sunshine was greeted with tumultuous chiming of bells as a procession hardly duplicated in America moved from the administration building across the campus to the college church. It was the Jubilee Mass. Cardinal Newman in his ' Second Soring describes such a procession—the ■ cross and acolytes, scores of professors in their academic robes, other many scores of priests, men of every diocese and every religious order, many of them of name and place, superiors of congregations, heads of institutions, writers and speakers, diocesan officials and monsignors, and more than a score " of bishops followed by Cardinal Gibbons. It was a beautiful picture, and the beauty that met the eye was enhanced as the prelates entered the church and the Paulist choir, which had come for the occasion, raised
their voices in wonderful music,




Like the
brightness of his robes, Cardinal Gibbons was a glory throughout the jubilee and no speech was better, or better delivered, than his own. At eighty-three years he still looks to the future and told the young men to learn from the heroes the work done, to crown their own'brows with greater works.	.
Notre Dame has always been American to the core. It is said that Father Sorin kissed the ground on coming to America as a token of his love for his adopted land; and became at once an American of the American's. His spirit sent the priests and students of the ’60s to serve in the Civil War. His spirit still lives.— Catholic Universe, Cleveland,-Ohio, June 15, 1917. ■ ■ *
The diamond jubilee and Seventy-first annual commencement of Notre Dame University came to a conclusion last .night with the commencement exercises -in Washington Hall." Today the university is practi-, cally deserted, save the clergy and those students who will pass the vacation period at the Notre Dame summer school, at Lawton Michigan.
Never in the history of the Middle West have so many prelates and laymen gathered to celebrate the glories of a jubilee celebration and commencement program. From the lectures of Father Barth to the final benediction by Bishop Alerding last evening, the commencement exercises have created unusual.attention.—.South Bend Tribune, June 12, 1917.	*
* -, ‘ *
While extending heartiest congratulations to the Congregation of the Holy.Cross arid rejoicing in the success which is deservedly the portion of its members, occasion is taken also of this opportunity to congratu
late the reverend Ordinary of the- Diocese of Fort Wayne, Right Rev. Herman Joseph Alerding, within the limits of whose jurisdiction in northern Indiana the University of Notre'Dame is providentially located. —Indiana 'Catholic, June-15, 1917.
Rev. Walter Elliott, zealous missionary, respected author, beloved soldier of the Flag and the Cross ■ is a Notre Dame alumnus of the class of 1859. To him was appropriately given the task of opening the jubilee with an illustrated lecture on the early days of the university. He preached again in the collegiate church on Sunday evening, when the Paulist choir gave a sacred concert. Though white of hair, the grand old Paulist has still the soldierly bearing, the rich manly voice, the splendid’ thought clothed in woven words as of old. . . . Admiral Benson made a splendid impression. A tall, spare figure, modest and unassuming, speaking his appreciation in a few words full of thought, he seemed indeed a man to whom might be trusted the Navy of the UniJed States. Among many telegrams to the Laetare Medalist were one from Woodrow Wilson and - one from Josephus Daniels, both speaking in terms of praise which we seldom dare bestow on a living man, and showing, that Notre Dame this year indeed found a medalist worthy of her • diamond jubilee.—Catholic Messenger, Davenport, Iowa, June 21, 1917.
Observance of the Diamond Jubilee of the University of Notre Dame, June S-n, will be marked by the greatest Catholic celebration in the history of of Indiana. High dignitaries of church and state from all sections of the country are enroute to the far-famed educational institution to grace the occasion by their presence and participation in the event. Preparations have been actively going on for months to make the occasion memorable, and the venerable institution, through its president, Rev. Dr. John Cavanaugh. C. S. C., and an eminent faculty, will welcome the distinguished visitors with that generous, heartfelt, all pervading hospitality and friendship that is characteristic of Notre Dame. Through all the years this beloved Alma.Mater of so many worthy sons still wins the love of the young by its celebrity, kur- . dies the affections of the middle aged by its beauty and rivets the fidelity of the old by its associations.
The Diamond Jubilee celebration combining also the annual, commencement program, will be the occasion of a noteworthy reunion of Notre Dame’s sons of the new and olden times. They will meet to ' rejoice with their cherished -Alma Mater 'who has , triumphantly survived all the vicissitudes of three-quarters of„a century.—Indiana Catholic, June 8, 1917.
* * * .
Next Sunday will inaugurate the diamond jubilee of Notre Dame, Indiana. We extend sincere congratulations to the jubilarians. Norte Dame was founded in 1842 by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, C. S. C., who came from France at the invitation of the Bishop of Vincennes, Right Reverend Celestine Hailandiere. From its beginning the University has had distinct influence on movements of the Church in the Middle West. The early religious of Notre Dame, at a time
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
- when the need of missionaries was pressing served both as professors and evangelists, and supplied a Catholic literature by their scientific writings and works of fiction. It is timely just now to recall that at the-first call for arms during the Civil War, Notre Dame sent seven of her priests, who were acting as professors, for army chaplains, at a time when the university could ill spare any of her faculty.— Le Couteulx Leader, Buffalo School for Deaf, June 9, 1917.
* * * ’
The whole Church in America rejoiced with the faculty of Notre Dame over its jubilee. The University is one of the greatest institutions of learning in this or any other country, and is a credit alike to the Church, to the nation, and to the order which has made it what it is.—Catholic Herald, Sacramento, California, June 16, 1917. * ■ * * - •
Of nation-wide interest was the diamond jubilee celebration of the great University of Notre Dame, held this week upon the historic grounds of that institution at Notre Dame, Indiana, and of special-interest to Catholics in New Orleans was the keeping of a day . which recalled so vividly the history and the work of the illustrious Congregation of Holy Cross which for upwards of sixty years has labored so earnestly and faithfully in behalf of religion and education in this . city.	•
The foundation and growth of the renowned University of Notre Dame reads, in this day, like a page, from the ages of faith, recalling as it does those days ' of the building of the great cities and cathedrals of Europe, when simple bands of faithful and learned priests went forth from their monasteries'into, the wilderness, and, hewing trees and making bricks and mortar, reared there immortal edifices which are the wonder and admiration of the world today, and around them grouped their cities and towns. Thus grew in the United States the city of South Bend and of Notre Dame, Indiana.
. . '. . Frdm the walls of this university have gone men who have attained fame and eminence in every career, whether in the service of God or- country, in the business or professional world. In the character of the. citizenship she has sent forth to bless this land, Notre Dame has been in itself, a benediction to this country and nation.' ,	;	~.
■ This week, from far. and near, her sons gathered ' - within her walls—hoary-headed sires whose names
_	_	the Philippine Islands, China and japan. It is really
sire national, great priests and prelates and lawyers - three schools; a primary school for boys under thirteen, and doctors, and again men who had stood shoulder to . a high "school .and colleges' leading to twenty-five shoulder on. many a battlefield,. and still again her differehtydegre'es. . The. two. schools to be added in . young graduates in khaki,’ who,-true to Notre Dame September are.those of Agriculture and ForeignTrade.
- traditions and teachings, areno "slackers’’ when their To help provide facilities in the face of this constant^ country, calls. All met there to honor their Alma Mater .growth,,. the university ‘.has? how under construction on her. great festal day. in" the presence of the Apostolic : two new buildings, Badin Hall, a residence for students, Delegates1 and Cardinals and priests’ and prelates- and a new; science hall to house ,in modern fashion from all -over this vast country. And it was well, for several of-the* scientific .courses. - . . . -	-.	.
Notre Dame stands not-only one of the greatest and. The forty acres-have increased-'to-twelve hundred noblest-centers of learning in this country, but'a vast acres in the immediate vicinity, of the university, and and potent influence in the: building, up. of that’which - a more distant farm, of eighteen hundred acres produces is the greatest asset of any. nation —true, honest, ' much of what goes , to the tables atthis.largest of all / earnest, patriotic and Joyal -citizens. J 7 •. ’	s.f boarding schools, j 5.
-The Morning Star extends' congratulations to Notre/.-?:LThe > teaching;/staffU at.-5this.' university numbers . Dame- University-. and the eminent Congregation of ? /roughly one hundred. .'/In/the -colleges about .one-half
Holy Cross, to the able Provincial, Father Morrissey, and Dr. Cavanaugh, the distinguished president of of the university, who has continually held strong and true upon the foundations laid by Father Sorin and his successors. May the work grow and prosper, and may Holy Cross schools and churches, of which Notre Dame is the central radiating point, continue to expand and their influence be felt fronf this Southern shore, where our own Holy Cross College and church and school are doing such splendid work in educational fields, to the Canadian border and the Pacific coast.— Morning, Star, New Orleans, La., June 16, 1917.
' * ■ - - * *
This was the red letter day in the history of Notre Dame University. Observing the diamond jubilee and the seventy-first annual commencement of that institution, thousands of visitors gathered here to take'part in the ceremonies, which began at 8:15 a. m. with the academic procession from the administration building to the Church of the Sacred Heart, where pontifical high Mass was sung, with James; Cardinal Gibbons, of Baltimore. .Md., acting as celebrant.
In the procession were more than two hundred church dignitaries from every part of the country, including six. archbishops and thirty-three bishops.—Chicago Tribune, June 11, 1917.	-
' - ' * - -- * * '
Seventy-five years ago Notre Dame was founded by Father Edward Sorin. His visible assets were a log cabin", used for chapel and home, forty acres of wilderness and about $200. From that day .to this Notre . Dame has " made its upward way without endowment, excepting a modest one in the case of the School of Journalism, which was opened five years ago and which this week graduated eleven newspaper degree men. -This endowment, was given by Mr. Max Pam of . Chicago, a non-Catholic.
Instead of . the solitary7 log cabin in the wilderness, the "ao acres” are now the. park-like setting for twenty-five large'buildings. One. of these, just finished, is the fine stone library building, the cornerstone of which was laid at last year’s commencement; and which was dedicated during this year’s commencement.®
-Notre- Dame is the largest-boarding school in America, probably the largest in the world? Practically every, state in the Union is'represented in the student body, and also Mexico, the Central and South American countries, -Canada,-. Germany, Ireland, and Spain,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of tlie professors are priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, learned and zealous men. The other half are lay professors, chiefly in the law and the various schools of science.	■
A degree from Notre Dame is an honor sought by many who are not Catholics.—Catholic Bulletin, Cleveland, Ohio,"June 22, 1'917.
master of ceremonies. Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., President of the University, preached the sermon. in which he emphasized the fact that God often calls the young and innocent to Himself as. a lesson dh the uncertainty of life for the less worthy. The body was taken to Hornell, N. Y., for burial. The Faculty and students of the University extend their sincere sympathy and prayers to the sorrowing relatives.-
Obituaries.
Locals,
Mr. Leon T. Russell (E. E-, ’17) has the sympathy of the University in the death of his noble father at his home in Mt. Morris, Mich., September 7th. We bespeak prayers. R. I. P. * • . * *
A -telegram from George W. Shanahan (Chem. Eng., ’17) dated August 6, announced the death of his father at his home in Lima, Ohio, and requested remembrance in masses and prayers. On behalf of the numerous friends of George at the University, the Scholastic offers sympathy and prayers. R. I. P. - . - ■ ■ . * * -
After living almost a quarter of a century as an invalid, Joseph H. Heiser, father to Reverend Leo Heiser, C. S. C., of Notre Dame, and Alan Heiser, C. S. C., of Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C., died at his home in South Bend on May 24th of this year. Mr. Heiser settled in South Bend in the late fifties and at the outbreak of civil strife enlisted as a private, serving his country until the end of the war as a member ' of the 32d Ind. Volunteers. Nineteen years ago sickness laid upon him a burden which he carried patiently until death brought relief to his sufferings. Burial took place from St. Patrick’s church. Reverend Leo Heiser, C. S. C. celebrated the funeral Mass and was assisted by Reverend William Minnick, ■ C. S. C. and Reverend Matthew Schumacher, C. S. C. A large number of priests, from Notre Dame attended in the sanctuary. The Scholastic extends to the relatives of the deceased the sincere sympathy of the faculty.	.	.	“
* ■ . - - * *
The laughter and greetings ordinarily incident upon the first days of school were hushed this year by the - news of the death of James Welsh of Brownson Hall, . on Sunday, September 25th. After two very successful years in Carroll Hall, James was about to continue his work as a student of Brownson when God called-him.’ His death came as a shock to the priests and professors associated with him, and. his Carroll Hall companions showed the high "esteem- in which- they held him by receiving Holy Communion in a body for the repose of his soul. His character was such as was only truly appreciated by those who lived closest to -.‘him, but a naturally sweet disposition and a constant good natured zeal in attending and serving at L'fass and getting others to do so stood out clearly in a life, that was otherwise- singularly unobtrusive.	.
Solemn High Mass was celebrated in the University church in the-presence of the student -body, . with. Rev. John'McGinn, C/ S- C., acting- as celebrant, assisted - by. Rev.' 'Edward' Finnegan, ' C. S. C. and _ Rev. James Quinlan, C..S. C., as deacon and subdeacon respectively.- Rev. Leo Heiser, ~ C. S. C., acted as
—A special Mass is said for the convenience of students at 6 30 o’clock. .	'	.
—Confessions are heard in the basement chapel every day after supper and before.Mass.
—Football teams have been organized in the various Halls and a big year of interhall athletics is looked for.
—Students of Brownson who desire to serve Mass each morning may report to Brother Alphonsus for necessary information. .
—A large number of . choristers responded to the call of Professor Becker for candidates for the Glee Club. This ought to be a notable year for the songsters.
—The new Cafeteria will be ready for use, Wednesday. A. number of students will be present to see the shiny brass kettles give their, first offerings. Who will eat the first Meal?	'	.	’	.
-----On last Sunday the University observed with solemn • ceremonies the opening of the scholastic year. Solemn high Mass was celebrated by the Rev.'..Matthew Walsh, C-.'-.S. C., assisted by the Rev. Matthew Schumacher as deacon and the Rev. Joseph Burke as subdeacon. The sermon preached by the Very Reverend President, Doctor Cavanaugh, will be published in the next issue of the Scholastic.	'
Programs of the Jubilee Exercises.
June 9, 10 and 11, 1917.
•	GENERAL PROGRAM	r
;	. FRIDAY, JUNE 8,
.	8 p. m. *	.	.	.
Lecture by the Verv Rev. Walter Elliott, C. S. P., '59, illustrated by views of principal figures of the old days, chiefly - members' of the faculty and community.	_	-	'
■ SATURDAY, JUNE 9 _	.
' '	-	.	2 P. M.- ■	...
Baseball game between Varsity and Alumni on Cartier Field.- ..
'	-.	8 p. m.	• .	:	■
Conferring of the Laetare Medal upon Admiral William Shepherd •
• Benson-. Ranking Officer of the United States Navy. .	'
< SU.VDAI'. JUNE 10 . -•	-	- .
’	.	8:15 A. M.	'	" ■
Pontifical Mass of-Jubilee celebrated by His Eminence.' James Cardinal Gibbons.-	; ■	”7.	...
Sermon by the Most Reverend George -W. Mundelein; D.'D.,.-
Archbishop of Chicago. .	'
Music by. the Paulist Choir of Chicago, directed by the.REVEREND • _ Francis .Finn, C. S.^P., LL. D., ’16.	;	'	-.A' ■
-	■-	. - IO. A. M. „	' . . .
Raising the Flag by the Senior Class. - '	.	; - r ~
Blessing of-the Flag in the Church by the Reverend John Cava-_ naugh, C. S. C., ■’90.. President of the University. ’	-	-
Procession to the Flag Staff. .'	• -	‘	- J
Flying.the Flag.	.	-	•'	-
12 -m. - “	.	'	' - -
-Dinner to the visiting Dignitaries in Brownson (East) Dining Room. ."
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
4
2.
Veni Creator. The University Choir.
Dedication of the Library.	•
Academic procession from Administration Building.
Blessing of the New Library’ by the Rt. Rev. Thomas J. Shahan, D. D.. Rector of the Catholic University ot America.
Presentation of a check from the Ancient Order of Hibernians by the Honorable James Deery, ’ii, of Indianapolis.
Address by the Honorable W. Bourke Cockran, New York City, Laetare Medalist, 1901.	•
“Ecce Jam Noctis.” The University Glee Club.	■
5	p. m. .	■
Reunion and Banquet of Alumni in Corby (West) Dining Room.
6	P. 11.
Dmner to visiting Prelates at St. Mary's College.
8	p. M. ' .	'
Concert in Church by’ the Paulist Choir.	■
Sermon by’ the Very_Reverend Walter”Elliott,’C. S. P., ’59.
.	MONDAY, JUNE 11	.
.	8:30 A. M.
Pontifical Mass of Requiem for deceased students of the University, celebrated by’ His Excellency, John Bonzano, D. D., Apos-’ tolic Delegate to the United States.
Memorial Sermon by the Most Reverend Edward J. Hanna, D. D., Archbishop of San Francisco.
Music by the.Choir of Holy Cross Seminary, Reverend Charles Marshall. C. S. C., Directing.
10:30 A. M.
“Magnificat.” The University Choir.
Laying of Corner Stone of New Chemistry’ Hall.
Addresses by the Honorable James Putnam Goodrich, Governor of Indiana and the Honorable Edward J.~ McDermott; foimer Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky. "	-
Blessing of the Corner Stone by the Right Reverend Edward D. Kelly, D. D., Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit.
-	■	3:30 P. M.
Bachelor Orations in Washington Hall.	.
Address by’ the Honorable Joseph Scott, LL. D., ’16, of Los Angeles.	.
Music by’ Mr. George O’Connell, of Chicago.
3-
4-
5-
6.
7-
S.
.Legend	’	- Tchaikovsky
Alleluia	•	Father Finn
Soloists-	Janies McGrath, Soprano
,	’ (Mr. Frank M. Dunford, Basso-Cantante	’
a) Cherubic Hymn -
&) Praise The Lord From Heaven Hodie Mecum Eris in Paradiso
Gretchaninoff
Rachmaninof
Dubois
' Soloisls-Y^' ^h°mas McGranahan, Tenor
’ I Mr. Frank M. Dunford, Basso-Cantante
Ave Maris Stella	,
Salve Regina •	’
’	“	Mr. McGranahan
. Soloists: j , _ _	. ,	-
1 Mr. Dunford
All Breathing Life '	’
,	.	. , f Miss Mary Anderson
■	Accompanists: s ,,
- I Mr. Ripley Dow
Soloists of the
- Masters James McGrath Hallet Dolan Joseph Walsh William Hallisey
Selection


THE BACHELORS'
Grieg Waddington
Bach
Society
' Messrs. -Thomas McGranahan Frank M. Dunford John Dromey
ORATIONS
’ June 11, 1917
3:30 P. M. Washington Hall
The University Orchestra
THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY
I.—The History of the Catholic University
Elmer Clayton Tobin (Illinois) Law .
(a)	“ Chanson D’Amour”
Violin Obligato by Mr. Harry Denny, '20
(b)	"Little Mary Cassidy”
-	'	. George O’Connell, Tenor
Hollman
Fahy
$
1
i
CONCERTS
'	6:15 P. M.
Glee Club on veranda of Administration Building.
University Band on veranda of Sorin Hall.
Mandolin Club bn veranda of Science Hall.	■
~	8 p. M.
Commencement Exercises in Washington Hall.
Address by the Right Reverend Joseph Chartrand, D. D.,
Coadjutor Bishop of Indianapolis.
II.—The Catholic University and the Individual
- Michael Aloysius Mulcaire (Ireland)
•	Classics
(a)	“Just You” -	‘	1
(6)	"The Young Warrior” George O’Connell, Tenor
Burleigh
Burleigh
_***
III.—The Catholic University and Society
Oscar John Dorwin (Wisconsin) . History and Economics
CONFERRING OF THE LAETARE MEDAL UPON ADMIRAL WILLIAM SHEPHERD BENSON, RANKING OFFICER -	OF THE UNITED STATES NAVY.
Saturday, June 9, 1917, 8 P. M.
Selection
The University Orchestra
Address by the Honorable Joseph Scott, LL. D., ’15. Los Angele3 '	California '	.
Opening March
A Brief History of the .Laetare Medal The Sword of Ferrara” , - ’ . The University. Glee Club -
The University Orchestra
Bullard
commencement EXERCISES .
Monday Evening, June 11, 1917, 8:00 P. M.
. WASHINGTON. HALL ,
The Formal Conferring of the Laetare Medal upon Admiral William Shepheid Benson by the .President of the University
•	Response by Admiral Benson
In Picardie
Osgood
■	■ ' The University Glee Club
Address by the HonorableWictor James Dowling, Associate Justice - of the Court of Appeals, New York - "	■ -
> Selection
. (a) “Soldiers’ Chorus
(&) “America” .
The University Orchestra
Gounod’s “Faust”
March.
’ The University .Orchestra
Class Poem
Th<\University Glee Club '	-
C '	■ William Speer Strahan (Michigan)
■	.	' Classics	-
4
***
” Valedictory -
SACRED CONCERT '
.	; ; By the Paulist . Choristers ;	-
Revered William J. Finn, C. S.'P., LL. D., ’16.,' Conductor. ’	,•' University Church,■ — .	.
; Sunday Evening, June 10, 1917, 8:15 P. M. .
Selection
' •	. .	- Bernard John Voll (Ohio)
- - History and Economics -	.
; -	-	:	-	• The University Orchestra
Emitte. Spiritum Tuum
Schuetky
J • . Awarding of Medals, .Honors and Degrees -Baccalaureate Address by the Rt. Rev. -Joseph Chartrand, D. D.
■	- . - Coadjutor Bishop of Indianapolis	.
“Home, Sweet Home” . .	..	' Senior Quartette
Francis Jones, Leslie Yeager, James Hayes, Matthew Trudelle