The Notre Dame Scholastic
625
COMMENT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
What was once considered a field for the talented few has now become a quagmire flooded with trash. We speak of the short story art. Authors who have long enjoyed the reputation of being masters of that particular type of writing are now forced to compete with thousands of modern would-be writers who, because of the numerous “contests,” have submitted manuscripts unworthy of the name “story,” and as a consequence the former have lost the popularity they once enjoyed. The cheaper magazines have literally devoured and published any and all contributions until now it is a rare occurrence when one picks up a magazine and finds a really worthwhile short story. Of course, those who have a sense of appreciation for good literature still'hold to the works of recognized authors, yet the majority of readers are prone to admire, and even to demand the cheap, flashy story.
The magazines must cater to their readers. But, granting that the demand for suggestive stories is high, there is no reason why all our magazines must come down to the level of the cheaper kind. Perhaps some will say that there are but a few really good short story writers who are doing any work. What then? That argument does not excuse magazines from accepting anything sent in to them. Why not pick out those stories which have some merit and refuse those whose only purpose is to provide indecent amusement ? Instead of discouraging such work, magazines today are urging it, all for greater circulation. What should we like . . . for a change . . is quality not quantity.
One of the Scholastic enthusiasts just came running into the office with the announcement that the excavators who are working on the new dormitories are driving posts to the tune of The Volga Boatman. Not a bad idea. Perhaps we can develop another Glee club among Mr. Sollitt’s workmen ... if the moisture holds out.
John Kiener is the “Ed’-in-Chief” this week. So absorbed is he in his work that he has moved his bed into the Scholastic office. Mr. Kiener and staff are doing well, thank you.
W. V. B.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi CrasMoriturus
Founded 1867
EMIL
L. TELFEL—Editor-In-Chief
Managing Editor John E. Bergan Associate Editors
Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley
Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kiener
	Edward E. Brennan	James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan-
	Austin Boyle	James Carmody	Paul J. Hallinan
s	John Pick	William W. Core	Lloyd Teske
	The Week	Make-up Editor	College Parade
T	Richard J. O’Donnell	Walter V. Beesley	Daniel C. Williams
s	Music and Drama	Feature Editor	Campus Clubs
	Frank E. Seward	.James K. Collins	W. Leslie Raddatz
Neivs Staff
William C. Karl, News Editor William F. Fitzgerald, Assistant Neivs
John Conley Myron Crawford Richard Molique
Cleve Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr.
Edmund Moriarty
Anthony R. Schreiner F. Granger Weil Walter Johnson
Lawrence Dunda
Sports Staff
Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor
George Belting James Kearns
|imm 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
Editor
Lawrence Prybylski Edmund Stephan Joseph Degnan
T. Edward Garey Irving B. Halper Harry Burchell
Business Staff
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Frederick Bauer
Raymond J. Naber
John P. Hess
J. Albert Smith
Daniel E. Brennan
James H. Rorke, Advertising Manager
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications
Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
Vol. LXIV
MARCH 13, 1931
No. 20
Issue Editor—JOHN A. KIENER
The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell_____________ Angus McDonald Is Commencement Speaker_____ Three Shows Planned For Washington Hall____ Glee Club Concert Sunday____________________
A Man About the Campus—William Knox------- A Man You Know—Edward E. Brennan----------- Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan- College Parade—Daniel C. Williams----------—
History of the Art School—Walter Johnson_ The Wink_____________________________:------
Editor’s Page_______________________________ Notre Dame Retains C. I. C. Title—Edmund Moriarty. Rally Enables Butler to Win—James Kearns____ Interhall Sports—James McFeely______________ Splinters From the Press-Box—H. B. A________ On Down the Line—Cleve Carey________________
626
627
629
631
632
633
634
635
636
638
639
640
640
646
648
652
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25. 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage or . All Notre Dame Men.
626
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WEEK
Sorin HALL has experienced its second confounding mystery of the year. The first happened some weeks ago, and the solution has not yet been found. The riddle of who shot the night watchman has proved as unsolvable as the Cock Robin murder case. This week the inhabitants of Sorin were once again going about with troubled countenances. Their intellectual brows were creased with worried wrinkles. There was fear in their eyes, and questions were on their lips. “What has happened to Bus Rich?” was the problem that confronted them. From six in the morning to six in the evening they racked their brains. They found his pajamas, his overcoat, his clean shirt, and his text books in his room. It was known that Mr. Rich never left his room without taking his law books with him. It was therefore decided that he was on the campus. The infirmary was searched by Vernon Knox, of the Pinkerton Agency. The library was covered from cellar to roof; the vigilance committee was questioned; Bob (Sherlock) Pendergast dusted off his magnifying glass, and all of Mr. Rich’s personal enemies were investigated. Both of them denied that they knew him. When the victim, or imagined victim, failed to appear at any of the day’s meals, it was decided that he was being held somewhere by a force stronger than that of a mighty appetite. Sherlock Pendergast followed tracks in the snow all day. His laborious efforts resulted only in the finding that nine-tenths of the University’s students wear size nine shoes. When every other source of information was tested, some brilliant person thought of asking the hall rector. He elicited the information that the supposed deceased was in the hospital. A phone call corroborated the report. The victim, however, was back in his room in Sorin within forty-eight hours. It is rumored that his short stay at St. Joseph’s was spent mostly in sleeping, writing letters, and getting acquainted. His recovery was as complete as it was immediate.
R. WHITTIER capitalized on the experience he had when entrapped in a snow storm. He didn’t mind being isolated by the heaped-up drifts of fallen flakes. He merely got out his Remington, stared out the frosty window, and let his aesthetic sense dictate the immortal lines of “Snowbound.” But the ordinary person fails to profit thus by a similar predicament. The motorman on the Notre Dame street car is hardly filled with ecstatic emotions over the beauties of nature painted white when his trolley is stranded along the line, when vicious winds rattle the windows, when night is falling, and there is no rescuing snow-plow in sight. Most of the cab drivers we have met within the past week have been anything but poetic in their language when referring to the latest prank of King Winter. Truck drivers, mail men, newspaper boys, and the rest of the crowd that have to fight their way through the impeding banks during their day’s occupation, spend more time damning the earth’s new thick white mantle than they do admiring it. We sympathize wholeheartedly with them. We add our condemnation to theirs. We hope that the next snow we see is in a movie being shown in Florida or the South Sea Islands. A blizzard can keep a train two hours late in its schedule,
and there may not be much criticism of the engineer. But when a snowdrift delays a student two hours in his signing in, the results may be of a more disastrous nature than a verbal criticism.
it a the Monogram Absurdities undergoing the early stages of development, and Twelfth Night and Hamlet on the boards in South Bend tomorrow, local followers of the drama should be roused to enthusiasm. Perhaps it seems like blasphemy to class Shakespeare and the campus actor-athletes in the same dramatic category. We hope Art McManmon will not feel insulted. After all, the Bard of Avon was himself a rather famous personage. Of course, he was never an All-American. But he is said to have done some extra fancy track work in the game preserves of Elizabethan England. If memory serves us right, the Absurdities show of several years ago combined the classical and the clownish. Hamlet’s soliloquy was given, and though the melancholy Dane was in mediaeval dress, the meditative words were sung to the tune of some popular opus of the Charleston era. The effect was most amazing. The sight of the sombre prince of Denmark breaking into a tricky jazz step was one which will linger long in the memory of every student privileged to have witnessed the performance. Since the first attempt at modernizing and syncopating Shakespeare was so successful, the monogrammarians ought to duplicate it this year. How about having Romeo sneak into the Montague back yard in an Austin? An artistic Hollywood touch might be added by having him yodel a torch song to his baby, with ukelele accompaniment.
S ENIORS have been known to court nervous breakdowns by intense, last minute labors over their theses. There is no fear or anxiety more depressing than that of the would-be graduate who is confronted with the possibility of not being among those present when the sheepskins are handed out. The final academic hurdle, that of the senior dissertation, is therefore one which is passed with, many a sigh of relief and deeply felt content. Even the most unambitious of seniors will extend himself to the limit of his physical and mental endurance in attempting to pass the judges of his final scholastic accomplishment. This Wednesday, however, a new record was established. Chemistry hall has canonized its own martyr to science. Eddie Myers, while slaving over his thesis, found it necessary, or thought it necessary to test the strength of one of the chemical compounds he was using. He therefore performed the experiment, and used his stomach as a laboratory. The stuff was even more powerful than he expected. In fact Eddie passed out, and the hospital ambulance paid a hurry-call to the workshop of the campus chemists. Strong measures were resorted to in banishing the potent liquid from his system, and he is just about ready to resume his work. Hereafter, however, he will inveigle someone else into doing the required tasting, or else hire an assistant for the purpose.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
627
angus d. McDonald is chosen
PROFESSOR MANION HEADS LAW REUNION
TO GIVE COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS
Prominent Member of Class of 1900 Will Talk to Graduates in June
Angus D. McDonald of New York City, prominent member of the class of 1900, and now president of the Southern Pacific Railroad in Louisiana and Texas, has been selected by the officials of the University to deliver the 1931 commencement address at the exercises to be held Sunday, June 7.
The choice of Mr. McDonald was made because of his close connection with the University and because he possesses typical Notre Dame characteristics. Like many another successful alumnus he attended the preparatory school at St. Edward’s, Austin, Texas. From there he came to Notre Dame. During his stay at the University he was prominent and popular on the campus. He received monograms in football and baseball, and captained the latter sport for two years.
Beginning with a position at Houston, Texas, in the accounting department of the Southern Pacific lines, his rise in that organization has been constantly progressive. After holding this position for several years he was transferred to San Francisco, and appointed auditor of the company. He was later raised to the position of deputy controller with offices in New York City. In June, 1925 he was made vice-chairman of the executive committee of the Southern Pacific Company and the several Southern Pacific lines in Louisiana and Texas. Then came his advancement in December, 1926, to the presidency of the Louisiana and Texas branches of the Southern Pacific Company.
Since leaving the University Mr. McDonald has followed with interest all Notre Dame activities, and he has returned several times to the campus on various occasions. As he has made his home in New York City he has been prominent in the activities of the Notre Dame club of that city. For his able participation in Catholic life he was recently awarded the
Papal bestowal of Knighthood in the Order of Malta.
The late Frank O’Shaughnessy of Chicago, a classmate of Mr. McDonald was the first graduate to de-
Angus D. McDonald
liver a commencement address in recent years. Speaking before the class of 1928, his address being so full of meaning it is believed that the selection of another alumnus will meet with the approval of Notre Dame men. Mr. McDonald, because of his position and his connection with the University, is eminently fitted for this distinction.
Senior Bids Available
The chairman of the committee on commencement invitations announces that orders will be accepted for several more days. This extension of time was made to accommodate those who were unable to make their applications in the regular period. The chairman also disclosed plans for a booklet called the Neiv Notre Dame which will contain views of the new Law building, the new residence halls, and other improvements about the campus. Definite arrangements, however, have not yet been made.
Clarence “Pat” Manion, J.D. ’22, professor of law at the University, has been appointed to serve as general chairman of the general reunion of Notre Dame lawyers to be held on the campus during the Eighty-seventh Annual Commencement, June 5. 6, and 7.
According to the plans which have, been made, a law luncheon will be given on Saturday, June 6. When details for this luncheon have been worked out all Notre Dame lawyers who are listed either as practicing or as graduates of the College of Law will be notified.
Considerable difficulty was encountered in compiling a list of all Notre Dame lawyers because of the fact that many of them graduated from other schools after taking their preparatory work at Notre Dame. Dean Konop has only the names of those who have completed their law course in the Notre Dame College of Law. However, every effort is being made to notify both those who finished here and those who completed their Bachelor of Arts work at the University, but obtained their law degrees elsewhere.
FR. O’DONNELL SPEAKS FOR FOX MOVIETONE
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, while in New York City recently, made a short film talkie for the Fox Film corporation, in which he gave a translated portion of the address of Pope Pius XI., on the occasion of the opening of the Vatican City’s radio station HVJ.
Fox Movietone officials have promised to send a copy of the film for the University’s use. It will be shown at one of the regular weekly performances in Washington hall in the near future.
Lawyers Hear Jackson, ’24
Earl Jackson of the Abstract and Title Company of South Bend gave four lectures to the stude'nts of the Notre Dame Law school on “Abstracting” Wednesday and Thursday of this week. The lectures were delivered at 9:00 o’clock and 1:15 on both days. Mr. Jackson was graduated from the University Law school in 1924.
628
The Notre Dame Schola
stic
CHESTERTON DEDICATES POEM TO NOTRE DAME
Golden Dome Is Inspiration for “The Arena.”
Mr. G. K. Chesterton has written a beautiful poem, “The Arena,” with sub-title, “Causa Nostrae Laetitiae,” dedicated to the University. The original manuscript, which was received last week, has been placed in the library.
Shortly after Mr. Chesterton completed his six weeks’ lecture course at Notre Dame, he was quoted by interviewers as having said that one of his ambitions before leaving America was to write a poem worthy of Our Lady’s University. It was well known while he was here that the Golden Dome filled him with rapturous admiration. As for the poem itself, which we are privileged to present in this issue of the Scholastic, analysis at any . length would be superfluous. The same genius that produced the thrilling rhythms of “Lepanto” and the “Ballad of the White Horse” has produced “The Arena”; and while metrically the new poem is not identical with these, there is unmistakable evidence in its swinging cadences that the author is he who wrote:
“When Caesar’s sun fell out of the sky,
And whoso hearkened right, Could only hear the plunging
Of the nations in the night.”
CAPACITY HOUSE HEARS
ANNUAL BAND CONCERT
The annual band concert given last Monday evening in Washington hall was well received by the student audience which filled the hall to capacity. This year’s concert band is the largest Mr. Casasanta has ever had, and the program presented was of a diversified nature. Such selections as “Show Boat,” “On the Campus’ ’and “Good News” were very popular and never failed to bring applause from the audience. In conclusion, the “Victory March” was played and the students responded heartily.
NOTICE!
Those who wish to qualify for English as a major subject will report for qualification examination, Sunday, March 15, at 9 a. m., in the Law building. This is the-only time at which the exams will be given this semester.
MEEHAN ESSAY CONTEST ENTRIES ACCEPTED
UNTIL MAY 1
In keeping with an annual custom, the English department of the University announces the opening of the Meehan English Essay contest in which all seniors are eligible to contend. As the result of a generous donation on the part of Mrs. Eleanore Meehan of Covington, Kentucky, a a gold medal will be awarded to the senior who turns in the best essay to Professor Paul Fenlon, Sorin hall, before May 1.
The subjects of the essays must be certified by the head of the English department. The five best English major theses will be entered automatically in the contest, as representative of that class. The only stipulation in regard to the essays is that they be typed in triplicate form.
A committee of three, yet to be selected, will judge the entries. The award will be made at the class day exercises on June 6. Last year the prize was given to Robert Mulhall of Yyoming, Pennsylvania, for his “Tragedy in Sophocles, Shakespeare and Jeffers.”
Debaters Win Fourth
A judges’ decision gave Notre Dame the fourth debate victory of the year last Tuesday evening when George Allan and William Kirby debated the adoption of cumpulsory unemployment insurance with representatives of the University of Kansas. Notre Dame defended the negative side of the resolution. Judges were George M. Sherman, general traffic manager, Studebaker corporation; Thomas A. Hynes, president of the New Jersey, Indiana & Illinois Railway corporation; and Leo Kuntz, Ph.D., director of the School of Education of the University. John M. Cooney, Ph.D., of the School of Journalism acted as chairman.
BEN GREET ACTORS PRESENT TWO PLAYS
“Twelfth Night” and “Hamlet” to Be Shown in South Bend. c
The presentation of Twelfth Night and the first quarto version of Hamlet by Ben Greet and his players tomorrow afternoon and evening at the Central High school auditorium in South Bend should appeal strongly to Notre Dame students interested in drama, especially that of Shakespeare. A special rate of $1.00, covering both performances, is being offered to the students of the University. Tickets may be secured at the office of the director of studies between the hours * of 9 a. m. and 12:00 noon tomorrow.
As far as is known, the first quarto version of Hamlet, which will be staged at 8:15 tomorrow evening, was never given in America until last season when it was presented by the Ben Greet players. Twelfth Night will be enacted at the afternoon performance beginning at 2:30.
Sir Philip Ben Greet who has been on the stage for the past fifty years is world famous as one of the greatest living authorities on English drama. His Shakespearean productions have * set a standard in both England and America. He has returned to America by request after a successful transcontinental tour a year ago when he appeared at such well known universities as Columbia, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Mis- * souri.
On the present tour Sir Philip has an outstanding cast of English players. Arthur Russell Thorndike, brother of Sybil Thorndike, England’s leading tragic actress, is in the personnel. He takes the part of Hamlet * in the play by that name, and the part of Sir Toby Belch in the comedy. Enid Clark, who is well known in America for her lead in John Drinkwater’s Bird in Hand, impersonates Ophelia and Olivia in Hamlet and Twelfth Night, respectively. Muriel * Hutchinson, who also has established a reputation in England, plays the parts of the Queen in Hamlet and of Viola in Twelfth Night. Ben Greet himself is Polonius and Malvolio in the tragedy and comedy, respectively.
Other plays in the repertoire of the s Ben Greet players besides those being presented in South Bend are the second quarto of Hamlet, Macbeth, As You Like It, and Everyman.
s'
The Notre Dame Scholastic	629
K. OF C. INITIATES FOURTEEN CANDIDATES
Father Reynolds Greets New Class in Address.
The Reverend John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain of Notre Dame council, No. 1477, Knights of Columbus, gave the welcoming address to the class of new members, at the exemplification of the first degree, Monday night, in the Walsh hall chambers of the council. Father Reynolds in his address stressed the value of membership in the Knights of Columbus, especially in the local council. He also spoke of the importance of the organization of knights as a group to counteract the atheistical societies which are steadily growing in the country.
Ray Hoyer, a trustee of the council, also gave a welcoming speech to the men who had just received the first degree.
The members of the class were: John M. Doran, Alfred C. Grisanti, Hugh J. McNardy, William R. Murphy, John M. Roberts, John W. Schwantes, Ralph D. Simonette, John M. Walsh, John J. Welsh, John F. Carry, Ronald V. Bugni, Ernest F. Hubertson, William J. Sheils, and Charles J. Fiss.
A regular meeting of the council preceded the initiation, during which the selective membership campaign now going on, was discussed. Grand Knight Louis Buckley announced that there would be another exemplification of first degree in the near future.
The Grand Knight requests that anyone who has not been approached regarding membership in the order, and wishes information should come to his office on the second floor of the Main building.
Foreign Commerce Club
Members of the Foreign Commerce club are urged to attend the next meeting, which will be held in the old Law building, Monday evening at eight o’clock. Definite plans will be made for a club banquet to be given in the near future. That there may be no further delay in setting the date and getting the necessary speakers for the occasion, it is imperative that everyone be present.
NOTICE!
There will be an important meeting of the news and sports staff this evening at 7:00 in Room 222 of the Main building. The regular 6:30 editorial staff meeting will be held in the Publications office. All members are required to attend.
SENIOR BALL TICKETS GO ON SALE; COMPOSERS WORK ON THEME
The sale of tickets for the Senior ball is already under way. Co-chairmen Frank J. Henneberger and Charles A. McAleer of the ticket committee announce that a five dollar down payment is all that is required at this time; the other seven dollars and a half will be paid later. Any senior who is graduating in June, in the summer school, or next February, is eligible to attend the ball, according to John F. Saunders, president of the senior class.
The music committee will meet on March 15 in the room of Vincent Teders .in Sorin hall. Teders announces that a number of campus composers are now at work on compositions, one of which will be used as the theme song of the ball.
General chairman Walter E. Cahill is concerned particularly with the favors and general arrangements for the dance. Representatives of several companies have submitted excellent favor suggestions to John M. Hughes, chairman of the favors committee. A meeting of this committee will be held sometime in the near future for a discussion of these suggestions.
The date for the ball has been set definitely for May 8. Mr. Cahill said last week: “Ball chairmen say the same thing year after year, but I emphatically believe that this year’s affair will be the best one in the history of Notre Dame. The committees are all functioning perfectly, and with their cooperation we ought to break all records.”
Business Manager Chosen
Eli Abraham, a freshman in the College of Commerce, has been named business manager- of the Santa Maria by Grand Knight Louis Buckley. The next issue of the magazine will appear April 10.
THREE SHOWS PLANNED FOR WASHINGTON HALL
University Theatre Rehearsing New Productions.
At least three dramatic productions will be presented in Washington hall shortly before or after the Easter vacation, according to recent announcements. President Arthur Mc-Manmon of the Monogram club announced that the annual Monogram show, which will he totally different from all previous varsity productions, is scheduled to go on the boards the second week after Easter. Although definite plans are still being kept in the dark, reports emanating from the daily rehearsals indicate that novelty features of other years will be completely surpassed by the Thespians of the present varsity.
The contest announced last week has brought in several clever skits and numbers which will be incorporated in the production. Tuesday, March 17, is the deadline for entries.
The University Theatre has announced that “The Ghost of Thomas Sloop,” Meehan Award play of last year, is already in rehearsal, and will be presented before the Easter recess. Richard Sullivan, ’30, at present connected with the Goodman Theatre in Chicago, wrote this highly fantastic comedy for Professor Phillip’s playwriting class. The play is highly imaginative and bizarre, utterly different from any other recent production of the University Theatre.
“The Merchant of Venice” scheduled as a post-Easter production is also in rehearsal, but because of its late pei-formance, it is giving place to the rehearsals of “The Ghost of Thomas Sloop.”
AFFIRMATIVE DEBATERS MAKE DEBUT TONIGHT
Notre Dame’s affirmative debate team will make its first public appearance tonight, when it supports the adoption of compulsory unemployment insurance in a debate with Michigan State university, to be held at St. Mary’s college. Tentatively, the team will be composed of James Hanna, Leonard Horan, and Tim Ben-itz. Professor A. Norwood Brigance, of the department of speech of Wabash college, will act as critic-judge.

630
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“HOYNES NIGHT PLANS MADE BY LAW STUDENTS
COMING EVENTS
SCRIBBLERS SELECT JUDGES FOR CONTEST
Annual Celebration Is To Be Held April 16.
“Hoynes Night,” an annual tribute paid to Colonel William J. Hoynes, founder and Dean Emeritus of the Notre Dame law school, will be celebrated this year on April 16. With the establishment of the Lawyer in 1926, this night, the apex of the lawyers’ year, was inaugurated. Colonel Hoynes has for years been revered not only by the law students, but by students of the University as a whole.
Colonel Hoynes is a Civil War veteran, and in his early years was well acquainted with newspaper editorial work.. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1872. • Later he studied law at the University of Michigan. In connection with Colonel Hoyne’s acceptance of the chair in the law department of the University in 1883 the Chicago Evening Journal of that date had this to say: “The University authorities are to be congratulated on their selection. Mr. Hoynes as a speaker, writer, thinker, and lawyer, has no superior of his own age in the Northwest.”
Professor Clarence Manion of the law school will be toastmaster at the banquet. Joseph Yoch, president of the Law club, announces that plans are being made for even a greater celebration than usual since this marks the first year of the new Law school. The guests will be the former students of Colonel Hoynes.
Among the notables who have been invited are: Mr. Frank Hering, editor of the Eagle magazine, and president of the Alumni Association; Robert E. Proctor, national president of the Eagles; Raymond T. Miller, district attorney of Cuyahoga County, Cleveland, Ohio; and Judge M. 0. Bums of Hamilton, Ohio.
Fagan, Riley Speak
Members of the Spanish club heard talks by Professor Vincent Fagan of the Architectural department, and Professor Philip Riley of the Spanish department. Mr. Fagan spoke of the customs of the Spanish people as he noted them in his trip through the country last summer. Professor Riley told of the advantages of living in Porto Rico for the student who wishes to learn Spanish.
These announcements subject to change ivithout notice.
FRIDAY, March 13 — SCHOLASTIC staff meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p. m., Publications’ office; news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., 222 Main building.—Debate, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State college, 8:00 p. m., St. Mary’s college.—Reorganization meeting of the Educational Confraternity, journalism room, 8:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, March 14—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Iowa at Iowa City. —Movie, “Anybody’s War,” Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.— Track, Illinois Indoor Relays at Champaign, Ill.
SUNDAY, March 15—Announcement of Laetare Medal award.—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., sermon, “Blessed Are the Persecuted,” by the Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., and the Reverend Matthew Walsh, C.S.C.—Glee club concert, Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.
MONDAY, March 16—Italian club meeting, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.— French club meeting, 3 Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Joint meeting, Engineers’ club and A. I. E. E., new Law building, 8:00 p .m.—Debate, Notre Dame vs. Purdue at Lafayette.—Academy of Science meeting, 202 Science hall, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, March 17—St. Patrick’s day masses, Sacred Heart church, 7:00 and 9:00 a. m.—Concert orchestra rehearsal, Music hall, 3:00 p. m.—Spanish club meeting, old Law building, 7:00 p. m.—Interhall championship track meet, gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.; see Page 641 for complete program of events.—Press club meeting, journalism room of the library, 7:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, March 18 — Scribblers’ meeting, Howard hall “rec,” .6:30 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.—Iowa club meeting, old Law building, 6:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, March 19—Spectators’ meeting, journalism room of the library, 8:00 p. m.
Final Critics to Name Three Prize Winners.
The selection of the judges who will decide the winners of the Scribblers’ annual short story contest was made yesterday. Three prominent men, Mr. John A. Burrell of the short story department of Columbia university; Mr. John Farrar of the Farrar and Rinehart Publishing Company; and Mr. Arthur McKeogh, managing editor of Good Housekeeping, have been announced as the final judges.
Three judges to do the preliminary work for the contest which closes March 21, are: the Reverend Francis B. Thornton, Mr. Paul Fenlon, and Mr. John Brennan.
Prizes are to be awarded for the three best short stories submitted in the contest. Fifteen dollars will go to the first prize winner, §10 to the second, and §5 to the third prize winner.
In submitting their short stories the authors must present three typewritten copies, double-spaced, and without the author’s name. Stories may be submitted to either Richard J. O’Donnell, Sorin hall; George Spalding, St. Edward’s hall; or Frank O’Malley, Morrissey hall. The length of the stories may range from 2,000 to 7,000 words.
Aggie Club Hears Hayward
Professor J. W. Hayward, head of the department of Agriculture at the University, was the principal speaker at a meeting of the St. Joseph county Poultry Association held March 12 in the St. Joseph county court house in South Bend. The subject of the address was: “The Brooding of Baby Chicks.”' A large crowd, including students of the agricultural school, was in attendance.
Comptroller Takes Office
Clifford M. Collins, a certified public accountant of Boston, Massachusetts, has assumed duties as comptroller and general manager of the University. In his office he will transact all business of the University, including buying and maintenance.
Mr. Collins was formerly a profes-soi* at Harvard university.
The Notre Dame Scholastic

631
GLEE CLUB CONCERT TO BE GIVEN SUNDAY NIGHT
*
Quartet and Soloists Featured in Complete Program.
The Glee club will give its annual campus concert in Washington hall, on Sunday evening, March 15, in which the full repertoire will be presented. As the club this year contains an abundance of excellent material, a very fine program is assured.
S. Jerome Roach, first bass; J. Edward Phelan, second bass; Ronald Zudeck, first tenor; and George Mangan, second tenor, compose the varsity quartet, which will be a permanent fixture on this year’s program. This group has some very pleasing numbers to offer. George Menard and Justin Tompkins, freshman members of the club, along with S. Jerome Roach, baritone soloist of the 1930 group, are the soloists.
St. Mary’s college was the scene of the club’s initial appearance last Sunday night. The variety of the numbers presented, the perfect harmony of the quartet and the individual excellence of the soloists all helped to make the opening of the concert season a success. The superb direction of Mr. Casasanta should by no means go unmentioned.
Easter trip negotiations are being-made by J. Edward Phelan, business manager of the club, and Professor Casasanta. Although no definite announcement as to the itinerary has been made, the territory covered in all probability will be the same as that in last year’s tour. Arrangements have been completed for appearances in Paterson, New Jersey, and Pittsfield, Massachusetts, with Buffalo, Syracuse, Bethlehem and Philadelphia still to be heard from. Because of the short Easter recess professional stage appearances will not be made.
The program for Sunday is as fol- . lows:
Part One I. Motets—
(a)	“Regina Coeli” ........O’Connor
(b)	“Emitte Spiritum” ..........
........ Schuetky-Singenberger
Notre Danie Mass—
(c)	“Benedictus”....4. J. Hope, C.S.C. II. Baritone Soli—
(a)	“Little Mother of Mine”... .Burleigh
(b)	“If Winter Comes”.......Tennent
Mr. George Menard, Jr.
III.	Part Songs—
(a)	“Matona, Lovely Maiden”	•
(1532-1594).....Orlando di Lasso
(b)	“In Old Nassau”.......Murchison
(c)	“A Sea Song".............Gaines
EDITORS-IN-CHIEF
By authorization of the Board of Publications the next issue of the “Scholastic” will be edited bjr James K. Collins. The present issue has been edited by John A. Kiener.
IV.	Baritone Soli—
(a)	“Mother Machree”..................Ball
(b)	“When Irish Eyes Are Smiling". .Bull Mr. Justin Tompkins
V.	Part Song—
“Song of the Volga Boatmen”.......
...............(arr. by) Bantock Intermission
Part Two
I.	Part Songs—
(a)	“John Peel”....................Andrews
(b)	“Mosquitoes”	..................Bliss
(e)	“Cornfield Melodies”..	(arr.	by) Gates
II.	Baritone Soli—
(a)	“Macushla” ................Macmurraugh
(b)	“A Little Bit	of	Heaven”..........Ball
Mr. S. Jerome Roach
III.	Part Songs—
(a)	“Song of the Jolly Roger”.... .................................. Chudleigh-Candish
(b)	“There’s a Hole in the Bottom of the Sea”................(arr. by) Lake
(c)	“When the Irish Backs Go Marching By”..............Burke-Casasanta
IV.	Songs of the Campus—
(a)	“Hike, Notre Dame!”....Casasanta
(b)	“Down the Line”........Casasanta
(c)	“Victory March” ............Shea
FINAL “DOME” DRIVE TO END ON MARCH 24
A final campaign for Dome subscriptions began this week and will continue until March 24, according to Joseph A. Wilk, circulation manager. This will be the last opportunity for students to subscribe, and have the amount placed on their account with the University.
The Dome circulation has reached a high peak of of 2,300 copies, and this year’s sales are to be limited to 2,500 copies. No extra copies are to be available in May, so this will be the last chance to order. The various halls are being canvassed systematically. Off-Campus students may register at the Off-Campus office.
“Anybody’s War” Tomorrow
Following the showing of “Anybody’s War” at the University Theatre tomorrow night, the schedule for the remainder of the year will be: “Silent Enemy,” March 21; “Tol’able David,” March 28; “Unholy Three,” April 11; “Rogue Song,” April 18; “Remote Control,” April 25; “Abraham Lincoln,” May 2; “Feet First,” May 9; “Tom Sawyer,” May 13; and “Fighting Caravans,” May 16.
EDGAR “RIF MILLER,’25, COMMENTS ON FOOTBALL
Visit Here Brings Discussion By New Navy Coach.
Edgar “Rip” Milller, ’25, football coach at the Naval Academy, was on the campus this week. In an exclusive interview granted to the editor of the Scholastic last Monday, Miller discussed his prospects for the 1931 season.	*
“We expect a very good year,” said the newly appointed coach. “Spring practice will start on March 16, and we expect about forty men out. Because of the other sports at the academy the number is necessarily small. The Notre Dame system will be established.”
With a smile on his face the genial head coach went on to say: “Last year when I was assistant coach I was easy on my Alma Mater, but this year I’ll be tough on the old school.” When asked whether he was related to Don Miller, one of the Four Horsemen, Coach Miller said: “No. He was a star.”
Returning to a more serious vein the Navy coach was asked what he thought about over-emphasis of football. He answered: “Over-emphasis? What is it? Like everything else that reaches the top, football is condemned by those who are below it. Football is the king of sports, and all who are unable to achieve any success in this field are prone to throw stones.”
After having one experience in a pro football game, Miller is of the opinion that the pro game is much tougher than the college game because “the professional players have more experience and a more thorough knowledge of the game. This gives a very great advantage to the pro player. A more complete ability to conserve energy, and the intuitive power to know when to expend this are also advantages in favor of the professional player.”	•
A member of the famous team of the “Four Horsemen and Seven Mule” regime, Miller has been assistant coach at the Navy for the past four years under “Navy Bill” Ingram. When Ingram went to the Pacific coast, Miller assumed the duties of head coach.
632
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
CALL ISSUED BY THEATRE TO ALL INTERESTED IN DRAMATICS
A nun, slightly irate, a picture of a sorry looking bunch of celery, and Joe Lopker were the principals in a tiny school-room scene enacted in St. Joseph, Michigan, eleven years or so ago. Joe was eleven, the nun a little bit older, and the celery either well aged or ageless. Unmindful of the authorities’ displeasure Joe. continued drawing, and will continue until his eyes are colorless and his fingers are twigs. The uninspired celery has grown into exotic pastels of roselipped ladies.
Before entering Notre Dame Lopker had not studied art. In high school he drew often, but participation in all athletics left him little time to personify his techniques. At that time small sketches in the margin of his books developed into illustrations for the high school annual. Anyway, he was certain what kind of career he wanted to follow, and on he came to the University known nationally for the brilliance of its publications.
He enrolled in Fine Arts. Quickly he chose between athletics and art. In one there was glory to be gained, and in the other something tangible to go along with his degree. His first contribution to the Juggler was so easy that he saw no further thrill in continuing such play. Attracted, and no doubt, inspired by the splendor and solitude of Carroll hall he began work on a classical Greek painting. The gum-chewing wise-crackers from Brooklyn appreciated the loftiness of his ideals, and very obligingly stole his oils or shook his desk or leaned on his shoulder with only one elbow. Anything to help out. Despite them the painting was finished and now rests (more safely) on the wall of his room.
In his sophomore year he became one of the Juggler’s brightest spots. The majority of his cartoons possess a tinge of subtleness, not usually found in humorous material. His earnest work, however, is the creation of those very adorning heads. Probably his best public result was the cover of the Christmas number. Immensely popular here, it drew equal attention at other universities, and became the cover on the exchange numbers of the Wisconsin Octopus and the Bucknell Bellhop
Another well-remembered drawing— the girl with a tear-drop in her eye —was reprinted in seven or eight various publications.
Art for art’s sake is all right, but art for Joe’s sake is all right, too.
Joseph L. Lopker
Any number of persons come to him with photographs, aesthetic expressions and five dollars. As a rule his copies add deft touches that even the best photography, seems to muff. Frequently he finds himself rushed with orders. Drawing girls’ heads is his highest amusement. By combining the outstanding features of various works he senses the best that is in each of the other artists. A style that is very definitely his own was noticeable about the middle of last year. Since then his individuality has become more marked. Anyone familiar with his work can easily distinguish it.
As a person Joe has not the characteristics that make for romance. Apart from his work he is quite ordinary. Perhaps his pleasure in music is slightly above ordinary. Current short stories, Edgar Wallace and the radio are entertainment enough. Swimming and tennis are the mild left-overs from those more strenuous years. A little of his work floated over last year’s Cotillion and this year’s Prom.
A call has been issued by the University ^Theatre for all men interested in dramatics to report in Washington hall at 12:30 tomorrow. The purpose of this meeting is to organize those interested in dramatics into a working unit, which will produce the plays during the remainder of this year and for all coming years. Students will be catalogued according to their tastes and abilities. They may enroll as actors, scenery men, or in any other branch of theatre work. Ample opportunity will be offered to these men to test their ability at private auditions.
The extensive program of the University from now until June, and the program for next year, which will be completely planned during this semester, necessitates a strong basic working unit comprising every branch of the theatre. The services of every able applicant will be in demand during the numerous forthcoming productions.
'Tj.
MARCH “ALUMNUS” TO BE PUBLISHED TODAY
The Alumnus for March will be issued today. Many interesting features will be incorporated in the latest number. A discussion of the aspects of next year’s ticket situation is contained. Two stories of the commencement exercises are being carried, one containing the announcement of the speaker which is carried today in the Scholastic, and the other considering some of the features of the exercises which would be of special interest to the adumni. In this latter story is also contained the reunion schedule.
Two pages of pictures, the first of the prominent members of the alumni clubs, and the other which is reminiscent of the tribute paid to this year’s national champions, are being used. One feature story considers the training course in the department of sociology for those who intend to enter the field of probation work, and the second a consideration of the history of the Catholic alumni, are also used. The first of these is by Professor Maurice L. Pettit of the department of sociology, and the other is by William W. Corr, a member of the Scholastic staff.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
633
NEW ALUMNI “CHARTER” TO BE FEATURED BY “JUGGLER”
A Man You Know
The “Charter Number” of the Juggler, to be issued shortly before the Easter recess, will initiate the newly organized Juggler alumni association, composed of past “Funny Fellows” as well as art editors, business managers, and the best assistants of all departments. The purpose of the organization is to have the men continue their interest in the Juggler after their graduation.
Through the cooperation of this society the present men will always be able to appeal to former editors for aid. Once a year the former editorial staff will contribute most of the material for an issue to be known as the “Charter Number.”
As an auxiliary group there will be the honorary branch of the “Funny Fellows” which will be composed of all those non-members of the staff who have aided the Juggler in any way. Such men as Gilbert Keith Chesterton, George M. Cohan and all others who contribute important features to the magazine will be honorary members.
The cover' of this “Charter Number” will be done by Wilbur McElroy, art editor in 1925 and 1926.
FATHER BURKE AIDS WRITERS IN LECTURE
The Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., editor of The Ave Maria and assistant provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, spoke to the students of St. Hedwige’s high school at their regular assembly last week on the “Aids to Literature.” He advised the students to treat of commonplace incidents in their writing—things which happened about them on the street, at home, on the street car or on their way to school.
“Above all things, write simply, as if you were telling the story to someone, and you will find that you will be able to keep the reader’s attention throughout your entire story,” were other hints given by Father Burke.
The feature of the lecture was the reading of a verse of Father Burke’s own composition. It dealt with an Italian’s version of a baseball game between Notre Dame and the University of Arkansas, and the excitement caused by a ninth inning rally by Notre Dame to win the contest. .
Ask the law students at Notre Dame who Prof. Manion is, and in theii' replies they will staunchly asseverate, of simply say, that he is an orator, par excellence, and will somehow manage to give the impression
Professor Clarence Manion
that' he is what they regard as an ideal lawyer. “Murdei' is a regrettable act, and should be avoided,” their concluding statement runs, “but if you must commit a murder, get Professor Manion to defend you.” Inasmuch, as his courses here are limited to constitutional law and property, his repute as a criminal lawyer is largely the outgrowth of his unquestioned ability as a speaker. Some men, cursed with a golden tongue, fret out their lives on reformers’ platforms, “telling pale, disheartened slaves diluted truths,” other men become lawyers, and look upon the golden tongue as an asset and a blessing. Professor Clarence J. Manion is one of the latter class.
He was bom in Henderson, Kentucky, in 1896, and secured his early schooling there. He entered St Mary’s college at Lebanon, Kentucky, and majoring in English and Latin, he was graduated from that school in 1915 with the degree of Bachelor of Arts. Following his graduation.
he won one of the Knights of Columbus Scholarships at Catholic university, and studied there for two years, securing the degrees of Master of Arts and Master of Philosophy.
Shortly before the close of his second year at Catholic university, the United States entered the World war. The Knights of Columbus made Professor Manion their first Secretary of War work. He enlisted in the army in March, 1918, and soon received a second lieutenant’s commission. He did not get overseas, however; during the embarkation period he was transportation officer at Camp Merritt.
In the fall of 1919 he came to Notre Dame. For three years he taught history and studied law, receiving the degree of Doctor Juris in 1922. During these three years he found time for many extra-curricular activities. He was one of the founders of Juggler in 1921. He was also president of the Glee club, and the club took its first long tour under his management.
From 1922 until 1925 he practiced law in Evansville, Indiana. In the latter year he returned to Notre Dame as a teacher of law, chiefly because he wished to write a history of the United States. This book, published in 1925 by Allyn and Bacon, is used by some schools now, although their number is not as large as Professor Manion would like to have it. He has taught law here since 1925, restricting himself to the subjects of constitutional law and property.
In his spare time he occupies himself in the practice of law. In the summer he was a special prosecutor in Cleveland, Ohio, assisting the prosecutor, Mr.' Miller. He is now Arbitration Counsel for the American Newspaper Association. Another diversion of his is the game of golf, which he plays “enthusiastically and badly.” He is captain of field artillery in the United States Reserves, and every summer he goes, along with Mr. Riordan, registrar of the University, to the artillery camp, Camp Knox in Kentucky. He is also a member of the Knights of Columbus. His latest office is that of general chairman of the reunion of Notre Dame lawyers to be held in connection with the eighty-seventh annual commencement.
i
i
i
634
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Glances at the Magazines
A short time ago Mr. J. B. Priestly, the English author of “Angel Pavement” and “The Good Companions,” arrived in this country for his first visit. The reason he gives for never before having come to the United States is quoted in the Literary Digest for March 7. “I have crossed the ocean before on a 5,000-ton steamer to the West Indies and Central America,” he says, “and from there I looked in the direction of the United States and sneered. When I heard of the recent depression in this country, I decided that now was the time to come here, and directly I boarded the Olympic, the stock market in New York began to rise.” He believes that-wealth has a disastrous effect upon the American character.
The Digest article also relates many of the opinions of the distinguished visitor as gathered by interviewers and reporters of the press. He assures us that American readers do not support British authors; that there is no “great American novel,” any more than a great English novel, that Tolstoy’s “War and Peace” is the nearest approach to anything like a national novel; that Aldous Huxley .is an essayist, and no novelist; that Americans buy only the outstandingly successful books and best sellers, which, however, they never read. He says that it is a pity that Thackeray is not read today, and that Dickens is read only because it is traditional to do so. Willa Cather, he believes, is “quite the best” American writer. However, he also likes Joseph Herg-sheimer, Sinclair Lewis, and Ann Parrish. He does not care to have critics and reviewers refer to him as the “modern Dickens.” “I am not like Dickens at all,” he declares.
Departing from the usual procedure of British .visitors in this country, Mr. Priestly is planning no extensive lecture tour, though he has agreed to stop off on his western trip to speak in three cities—Buffalo, Toledo, and Urbana.	.
The general reaction to the recent papal broadcast is thus noted by the Literary Digest: “It is with a kindred feeling of awe that the press generally is profoundly stirred by the voice which gave substance to the traditionally lonely and shadowy figure of
the Vatican and which, speaking in the language of ancient Rome, brought a message which all the world could understand.” The Birmingham AgeHerald is quoted: “Something to stir the imagination, to give one a sense of the continuity and the variety of the human story, to endow the inventiveness of our time with a new beauty and to clothe one’s faith with an expanding power, is to be found in the great event when from the Vatican the Pope spoke over the radio to his people and to the world.” One can almost hear- Mr. Heflin gnashing his teeth at that.	,
From the World’s Work Scrapbook we gleaned an unusual success story. A young English college graduate in search of a job was offered a position with a salary of $3,000 a year if he could think of at least one money-saving scheme annually. Giving himself up for one week to hard and heavy thinking, he finally appeared with the suggestion that the final “R” be omitted from the “R. R.” signs painted on the cars. His idea was accepted and saved $35,000 a year. He received the position and is now a hard-working man.
You may also add to your list of odd jobs another mentioned in the Scrapbook. It is held by a man who receives fifty dollars a month and board for having a headache. The research hospital of the University of Illinois, studying the chronic type of headache known as migraine in an effort to find its cause, advertised for victims and received 750 applications. A young fellow from Geneva, Illinois, was the lucky man.
In the event that you are. a .regular reader of the New Yorker, and are wondering what in the world has happened to its fine-fingered dramatic critic, the gay and devilish Benchley, we can say that he has gone to Hollywood to write an air story (comedy, of course) for Howard Hughes, the multi-millionaire producer of “Hell’s Angels.” He has already written several short features for the talkies, so that he is not a novice at the game.
Meanwhile, ■ until his chef-d’oeuvre is completed, Dorothy Parker is pinchhitting for Mr. Benchley, and she insists that it is no small assignment.
EXTENSION MAGAZINE OFFERS $1,000 PRIZE
How would you like a thousand dollars given to you? Here’s your opportunity to win your thousand! All you have to do is to sit down with paper and pencil, compose an interesting short story, mail it to the Extension Magazine Short Story Contest Editor, Chicago, Illinois, before July 31, and (if it’s the best submitted) the money is yours.
■The Extension Magazine is launching this contest to stimulate writers of talent to activity. The types of stories are romance, adventure, detective, or Catholic. The length may not exceed 5,000 words and not less than 2,000 words.
A novel feature of this contest is, that if your story is not a prize winner* but found acceptable for publication while the contest is going on, you will be paid seventy-five dollars.
“Lawyer” Out March 20
According to announcement by Joseph P. Guadnola, editor of the Lawyer, the next issue of the magazine will be released March 20, two weeks earlier than usual. This will facilitate publication of the final issue which is scheduled for May 15.
Several text authors of note have contributed articles for the next number. Dean Thomas Konop and Professor Clarence Manion will be the authors of two of the eight leading articles: Dean Konop, with “Case System: A Defense,” and Professor Manion with “What Will Become of Prohibition?” Contributions will also be made by students of the Law school.
<
Murphy New Club President
At the meeting of the Rochester club, held last Sunday in the old Law building, Walter J. Murphy was elected president for the remainder of the year. He will succeed Howard Maloney, who withdrew from school on account of poor health. Albert W. Roche was chosen to take Mr. Murphy’s place as treasurer of the club.
Pharmacy Club
Speakers at the last meeting of the Pharmacy club held Tuesday night were Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, Joseph Gonciarz, and Lawrence Bal-dinger. Father Wenninger, the club’s guest of honor, gave a short talk in which he showed the need of good pharmacists. ■
The Notre Dame Scholastic
635
COLLEGE PACAEE
QUATRAIN
College life has got my goat.
There’s sorrow in that crack;
At first I thought my courses snaps, But now they’re snapping back.
—Detroit Collegian.
AIDS FOR THE TIRED SCHOLAR
AUTOMATIC NOTE-TAKERS—Wind them up and go to sleep in lectures; alarm clock attachment awakes you at end of hour. A pearl.
SEAT-FILLERS—Life-size dummies to take your place at 8:30s; more intelligent looking than yourself!
ESSAY-WRITERS—72-hour motor. Wind them up Friday noon and find your essay written Monday morning. Choice of three essays: “Why I Like the Politics Department,” “The Beauties of English Literature” and “My Philosophy of Life.” (Adaptable with minor changes to all courses).
SKELETON KEYS—Admit you to squash courts and Library after hours.
The Princeton University Store
This advertisement appeared recently in the “Gaily Printsanything,” the annual burlesque issue of the Daily Princetonian. The Notre Dame book store may be expected to have these aids for the scholar in stock next week. Of course, there wouldn’t be much demand for the skeleton keys to the library, but if they would fit Sorin hall after midnight, possibly the watchmen mortality would decline.
CONCERNING CUTS
“A recent report garnered from questionnaires sent to 26 college and university presidents, and deans under the auspices of a student group at the University of North Carolina reveals that only three of those reporting do not permit optional attendance.
Those institutions which endorse optional attendance in varying form, are: Harvard university, Columbia university, Leland Stanford university, Dartmouth college, the University of Chicago, the University of Wisconsin, the University of Kentucky, the University of Michigan, University of Minnesota, Northwestern university, University of Virginia, Vanderbilt university, Purdue university, Syracuse university, University of Oregon, and Colgate university. The University of Tennessee plans to adopt optional attendance and other liberal measures within the year.	'
The three institutions opposing optional attendance are Carnegie Tech, the University of Iowa, and the University of California.”
Such signs in the educational heavens indicate that American colleges, which had definitely rejected the English system, are now drifting back to European methods of education. The advisability of completely adopting that system is questionable, but many American colleges may profit by. adopting some of the best features of that system.
SAUNDERS, CAHILL: ATTENTION!
Student members of dance committees, as well as presidents of the classes sponsoring the dances, will receive salaries for their work in connection with the presentation of dances, the Interclass Budget Finance Committee of Penn State College has decided.	.
The presidents of the three upper classes and the chairmen of the committees in charge of these classes’ dances will each receive $50.00, while members of the committees will receive $10.00 apiece. Under this plan of compensation for committee service, each salaried person is bound not to accept any other remuneration in connection with the dance.
Besides their salary, class presidents and dance chairmen may share in the profits of their class dance to the extent of $50.00, thus making* it possible for an individual to earn $100.00 from work in connection with a dance.
COLLEGIANA
The smott creek in the Syracuse Daily Orange: “They say that all you have to pass to get by at Notre Dame is fifty yards” . . . tsk, tsk ... St. Quentin prison has started giving the prisoners college courses of instruction . . . the convicts are especially fond of Spanish and mathematics, and their only kick is that they can’t skive out . . . the recent survey in an Eastern university which revealed that 60 per cent of the students sleep through at least three hours of classes a week .. . that’s not news . . . the oldest freshman in the world, 72 years old, goes to the University of Chicago and obeys the freshman rules . . . and some say that frosh rules are childish! . . . The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, which informs us that college-bred men live longer than most people.
636
The Notre Dame Scholastic
History of Notre Dame Art School
HAD never seen it before. But then I am only a student here. As a matter of fact, the majority of the Notre
By
Walter Johnson
Dame men have never seen it either, for they don’t ascend those austere front steps of the Administration building. The casual visitor as he enters the paneled reception hall of the building is bound to notice it—a majestic bronze bust of the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University. This piece, obviously the work of a real artist, is not old as objets d’art go, but nevertheless the years have mellowed its tone, given it patina, a shading and depth which insure its immediate notice and appreciation.
The history of this bronze is somewhat similar to that of its discoverer, the Fine Arts school. Both are present today, deserving and receiving recognition, yet, as little is known of the sculptor and the period in which he worked, so is the real beginning of the latter clouded and indistinct.
True enough, the University catalogue tells us that “the School of Fine Arts was organized in 1924,” but to consider this as the birth of art at Notre Dame is absurd. Back of it lie decades of preparation and experience, but little information concerning it is to be found. Evidences and generalities, yes, but facts, only a few.
Gregori, whose murals are the pride of
Stanley S. Sessler
the University, came to Notre Dame, after being the court artist of the Vatican, a political outcast whom sympathetic Father Sorin had invited to decorate the. Sacred Heart church. This was about 1870, and sometime during the fifteen years he was here Gregori began the’ instruction of art at Notre Dame. Just what courses were offered and what work was done is not known. One pupil of. Gregori’s deserves mention however. Paul Wood, some of whose portraits now hang in the Wightman Art Gallery, was one of the first Fine Art students at the University. His tragic death at the age of nineteen cut short what promised to be a brilliant future in the field of modern art.
After Gregori, who left the University shortly before 1890, came Paradis, a man who needs no introduction as an artist, a representative-of the best French schools but of whose work in the Art school we have little record. Dart Walker followed. He is another of our famous modern
painters but of whom, like Paradis, we know little in this connection.
James Worden, who smoked a corn cob pipe as he sat in his classes
giving criticisms, took over the department in 1900. To Worden, who was connected with the University for some nineteen years, must be given credit for bringing the school into an organized field, and providing instruction for the beginner in art. (Mr. Worden, who resigned in 1919 and entered the somewhat more prosaic field of real estate, is still living in South Bend.)
With the arrival in 1922 of Ernest Thorne Thompson, a student of such well known teachers as Ernest L. Major and Woodbury, our information assumes a much more definite nature. At that time students in architecture formed practically the entire enrollment. In 1922 two students, George Krispinsky and John Dillon, became what Mr. Thompson is pleased to term “the first two bona-fide art students at Notre Dame.”
In 1924, during the first administration of the Reverend Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., the School of Fine Arts was formally organized, through the efforts, of the Reverend Joseph Burke, C.S.C., now president of St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas, and Mr. Thompson. This official act made possible a full course in art, and a degree of Bachelor of Fine Arts. -
Lack of equipment was a great handicap, and the enrollment was small, but the department grew steadily. Mr. Thompson taught figure drawing, still-life painting, portrait and pen-and-ink sketching. Classes in commercial designing were organized by Mrs. Thompson in 1924 and were first taught in Chemistry hall. Later they were moved to the Administration building. In 1928, “with the co-operation of Father O’Donnell,” Thompson tells of securing more adequate equipment in the shape of drawing stands, tables, painting materials and proper lighting.
In 1928 came Stanley S. Sessler out of the east. With a Boston background, Mr. Sessler became a member of
the faculty, taking over those classes in commercial art formerly taught by Mr. Thompson. Five years of study at the Massachusetts School of Art, one of the first schools of its type in the country, constituted his art training; both he and Thompson received their learning under Major and Wood-
1
The Notre Dame Scholasti.c
637
Early Years Clouded And Indistinct
bury. To this may be added a year’s teaching at Vesper George School of Art in Boston and a like period with the drawing class at the Hawkes’ Foundation. During the three years he has spent at the University teaching has been the most important consideration, yet he has found time for practice and advancement in many forms of art, etching, painting, and illustrating.
The next step in the evolution of the Fine Arts school
Portraits and Designs by Students of the SchooI of Art
was the acquisition of Professor Emil Jacques as director of the school. To quote the Scholastic of May, 1929: “The University of Notre Dame makes a definite advance in the academic field with the addition of Professor Jacques, noted Flemish painter, to its faculty. To his many accomplishments as a painter of life may be added the development of a Notre Dame man who will become distinguished in the field of Fine Arts.”
Born and educated in Ypres, Belgium, Jacques went to Antwerp in 1896 where he spent five years at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts. Then followed a like period at the Institut Superieur des Beaux-Arts at Antwerp, during which time he won the Grand Prix, a notable feat for so young a painter. In 1923 Professor Jacques came to America, to create the Art department at Columbia university, Portland, Oregon. After five years in this institution he
Emil Jacques
accepted the offer of Notre Dame and at present we find him planning for the future of our University in art. Scores of portraits, landscapes, murals and the like bear testimony of his ability as a painter in oils; his work is universally recognized and his place among contemporary artists needs no further emphasis.
Quite naturally the freshman who enrolls in the School of Fine Arts does not begin to paint immediately. In fact, the whole four years gives him little more than a foundation on which he must build by practice, experience and specialization. Elementary drawing, pencil sketches of ordinary objects to give him a knowledge of perspective,
and the application of light and shade occupy the first year. The sophomore works in charcoal, and a course of advanced drawing acquaints him with the human figure and face. Elementary painting in black and white, and for those commercially inclined, designing helps to fill in the year.
The last two years are closely re
are given up .to advanced
lated
and
“ DRACULA
BRISTOL-MYERS CO. ___ IMEVV YORK.
drawing and painting. Colors and charcoal are used, and sketches are made from life. Complicated stilllife subjects and portraits of living
models, as well as landscapes are on the program. During the whole course, but especially in the junior and senior years the students are encouraged to try out for the art staffs of the Juggler and the Dome. The majority of the covers and sketches which feature both the Juggler and
the year-book will be found to be the work of members of the Art school. After the second year, the student may specialize either in designing, that is, commercial art, or classical art. As a recognition of four years’ work in the School of Art, exclusively, a degree of Bachelor of Fine Arts is given. Classes in the department are, however, open to juniors and seniors of the College of Arts and Letters as electives or majors, with a Bachelor of Arts degree.
An extensive building program is now under way; we have the new stadium and the new Law building, construction has begun on the two new dormitories, later we shall have feverish activity on the new Commerce building and the new Engineering building. Somewhere in the future lies a complete Fine Arts building, Housing the departments of Art, Architecture, Music and the University Art Gallery. This is the next step, and a most essential one; the
present quarters of the department are small, they are being used to their fullest capacity at present, and expansion is limited. In its own building the future of the Art school would be unbounded; with sufficient room and improved equipment it would assume its rightful place among the best in the country.
Once so situated, Professor Jacques would be able to put into execution an extensive program quite in keeping with the ideals of Notre Dame. In addition to the existing courses a special department of Art, exclusively for postgraduate students, would be instituted and art students would be encouraged to remain for their master’s degree.
Shaving 7 Cream
Religious art would be the dominating feature of this new institution. With experience, well-grounded artists, plus the inspiration afforded by the masterpieces, most of which are of a religious nature, in the Wightman Art Gallery, the future of the plan would be assured. What could be more fitting than Catholic art at a Catholic university?
638
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
“Poeta nascitur, Non fit”— The poet is born, But doesn’t fit.
THE WINK ANTHOLOGY. VOL. I.
August A. Trudeau, versatile man of arts and letters that he is, is known as one of the best of the contemporary poets and a discerning critic as well. Who that has attended the literary meetings of the I. Q. Club will ever forget his excellent paper on Typewriting, Bird Houses, and Poetry fox- Profit, or his brilliant rebuttal to the ridiculous assertions of those carpers who stated that campus poets were plainly overeating. “Carpers make me sickly,” -was his epigrammatical way of putting it, “—especially before breakfast.”
AFTER LIGHTING A MATCH
The match is so straight, so white, And with one end gleaming red, Then a scratch to make a light, And it becomes black and dead.
Youth’s hope is so strong, so fine, Will always its fire burn red?
Or ivith a scratch (like the match) Will it become black and dead?
—Trudeau.
From that all to meagre volume of verse by Canaras it is difficult to select any one of the poems without slighting the excellence of the others. His ode entitled, “The Social Aspects of the Comma,” will live in literature as one of the most reasonable of love poems. And that lyrical composition, “The Semicolon and You,” is universally regarded as the touchingest of valentine day greetings. However, because it is written in the best style of John Milton, John Keats, John Dryden, and John Masefield we have chosen:	-
TO A SOUTH BEND GIRL
(Whose Identity Is a Mystery)
I looked at you. Then you looked at me With your eyes of blue—or are they broivn? (But then it really does not matter, For they are the prettiest in toivn!) As I was saying: you looked at me And my heart went pit! pit! pitter! patter! I smiled at you. But you frowned at me, So I—I went my way mournfully . . .
—Canaras.
Anoroc, who under various pseudonyms has written some of the greatest poetry of all time, including — to mention only a few of his minor works—Paradise Lost, Canterbury Tales, A Shropshire Lad, and The Ring and The Book, has again displayed the old mastery and the definite genius that have won for him the regard of critics everywhere.
PLAINT
I feel I have enough of gall,
But doubt if ’ttvould be doing rightly,
To choke the guy in Hoiva/rd hall
Who shoots at Morrissey windows nightly.
—Anoroc.
“One day,” says Bishop M., “while watching two small children sticking their tongues out at one another, I felt a sudden inspiration to write a poem in the best style of John Milton, John Keats, John Dryden, John Masefield.”
SUNSET CLOUDS
Szmset clouds! Hoiv they sivirl and foam
As they go sweejring by
Across the crimson sky.
Whither, I wonder, do they roam?
To far-off Cathay, Babylon or Rome? Or to Mandalay, Mexico and Nome?
Sunset clouds! How they sivirl and foam
As they go swiftly by .
Across the twilight sky.
Will they, I wonder, pass my home? —Bishop M.
Born in Mishawaka, Indiana, where he learned about life, the poet Rumjahn sits on a solitary peak, balances himself, and -writes poems in the best style of his illustrious ancestors, Rumjahn Milton, Rumjahn Keats, Rumjahn Dryden, and Rumjahn Masefield.
A DESERTED FACTORY
Something there is—a ghost, That haunts the quiet stillness Of a deserted factory. Something, pitiful and lonely That comes from out the rusty gears and wheels To stalk aimlessly about Between silent engines, Looking at worn places In the sweat-rotted floors, Something that looks jealously .
Through cracked and dingy windoivs At the bustling world outside.
Something there is that fondly strokes Each shackled winch and lever Then passes on with noiseless footsteps. Something there is that dreads The eager step of a small boy In whose fist a ready stone is clutched To render sightless one more eye In the faded brick face.
Something there is that always haunts The place where hand of man has Left its mark—a pathetic— A forlorn spirit, that wanders Like his brothers, Puzzled and sad in all deserted places. —Rumjahn.
Hoping you are the same.—The Weary Bumper.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
639
EDITOR’/ RAGE
NOW OR LATER?
If there is one accusation which may be righteously leveled at college men, it is that they lack initiative. The academic life of today i« is such that it fosters procrastination. The ordinary undergraduate may not live amid surroundings at all approaching the luxuries commonly associated with university quarters in the moving pictures, cheap novels, and moronic magazines. But he does lead a life of compara-a tive ease. Little is required of him in the way .	of physical labors. He is assured of three
<	healthy meals a day, and a comfortable room.
I An allowance provides him with pocket money, J and his clothes are usually of the best.
‘	The college man is typically nonchalant,
z	Trifles never worry him. This would be de;	cidedly in his favor were it not that he uses but
!	little discrimination as to what trifles really are.
;	He is too prone to adopt the attitude expressed
in the words, “It will all be the same a hundred years from now.” Now such an outlook may be conducive to present happiness. It may make for peace of mind, and contentment, and a pleasant disposition but nevertheless it does not assure future happiness, and it certainly does not tend to develop a man’s abilities or progress ' e him along the path of life.
Easy contentment is an insidious thing that poisons ambition. The human race has climbed upward through the ages because it has had to combat constantly antagonistic forces which stand in its way. A mighty struggle, such as a » » war among nations, has always marked a significant forward step of civilization. A long period of world peace is rarely accompanied by unusual developments in science, the arts, machinery, or thought. Self satisfaction, and the absence of a contending power, delay progress.
*	Struggle and strife bring out latent powers
that the widest stretch of the imagination had never discovered among human potentialities. On the other hand, a complacent mankind is a comatose mankind. The primrose path may be flowery with beautiful ideas, but it never leads to the actualization of them. .
The college man cannot be balanced because he does not have to struggle for his existence.
The fact that his life is an easy one is not an excuse to condemn him. But he should realize that strenuous competition awaits him in the world he is about to enter. He should therefore invite competition in his activities, curricular and extra-curricular, while he is in school. He should not underestimate the importance of the work he is doing. He should strive for the perfection of his abilities and be determined to outdo, as best he can, the work that is being done by the men about him.
HOLIDAY
Deep thinkers unfortunately tend to burrow. And burrowing, whether human or animal, inevitably results in self-submersion. The emotions are forgotten; the passions are made to perform on trapezes of cold logic; and beauty is robbed of its very essence—livableness.
Apropos of this is Philip Barry’s play, “Holiday.” Seldom has the legitimate stage and the talking screen turned to the treatment of so purely ideal a theme. The dreams of a boy and a girl who want to live while they are still young, and the counter-socio-commercial force of the prospective bride and her father gave “Holiday” a tenseness and beauty that was, in the creed of the movie audiences, almost heretical. “Why the poor fool 1” say the devotees of glorified business, “why didn’t he wait five or ten years, and then he could have ‘retired’.”
The word “retired” should be deleted from the lexicon of American business. To retire is to give up after you have ceded all to a futile ideal; to sit in your arm-chair and have your mind cry out because of what might have been, —or to stumble off for a world cruise at an age that precludes even the thought of pleasure before you step on the gang-plank.
Some of you men must see that I While your mind is sharp, wring out of life the beauty, the tenderness, the glory and the thrill of living that is in it. Retire at 28 instead of 60. The rest of you we advise to work hard, join “sympathetic societies,” shut out beauty from your life, and we predict that at 50 you will be ready to enjoy life—through smoked glasses.
640
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SPCKTS
Notre Dame Retains C.LC. Title
Trackmen Amass 40 Points In Taking Six Firsts; Many New Records Made
RALLY ENABLES BUTLER TO WBIP GAGERS 20-15
Michigan State Places Second; Marquette Is Third; Nine Teams Compete.
Flashing a powerful display of strength in practically every event, Notre Dame swept through the fifth annual Central Intercollegiate Meet in fine fashion and retained the title they were defending for the fourth consecutive time. The meet wras hotly contested throughout and six old records fell by the wayside to be replaced by new ones. New meet records -were established in the pole vault, the mile run, the 880 yard run, the 60-yard high hurdles, the two-mile, and the mile relay. Captain Johnnie O’Brien turned in the most brilliant performance of the afternoon when he lowered the American indoor record in the sixty-yard high hurdles, clipping 1/10 of a second off the old mark.
Coach Nicholson’s men captured six first places and scored heavily in almost every event, to amass a grand total of 40 points, leading their nearest rival, Michigan State, by over twenty points. □
Bill McCormick, stellar dash man, and Ralph Johnson, crack Blue and Gold vaulter, both gave excellent accounts of themselves in winning the 60-yard dash and the pole vault respectively. McCormick led a strong field to the tape and tied the world’s record for the event. Johnson was at his best and soared to a new meet and gym record by elevating himself to the remarkable height of 13 feet 4% inches.	.
Captain Johnnie O’Brien turned in one of the best performances ever to be witnessed in the local gymnasium when he led the high hurdlers to the wire for a new American indoor rec
ord. He was pressed closely by Eugene Beatty, dusky Michigan'Normal star and former interscholastic record holder in both the high and low hurdles, who tripped and fell, and was forced out of the race. Beatty took second in the lows, allowing his teammate Simmons to cross the line ahead of him. John O’Brien’s mark was broken late in the day by Sentman of Illinois, in the Big Ten championships at Madison, Wisconsin.
The mile run brought together four men who were listed among the first ten on the track and field honor roll for 1930. Swartz, brilliant Western State star, completely outclassed the field and in winning, set up a new meet record of 4:26.4. The 440-yard dash seemed to be a toss-up between Kelly of Notre Dame and Tierney of Marquette, until Van Laningham came up from fourth place on the final stretch-to win the event by two feet, while Kelly managed to cross the line just ahead of his Marquette rival.
Alex Wilson, the fair-heared Canadian sensation, was never pressed in the 880-yard run, and assumed a lead at the start of the race which was never threatened. Although he was not forced to extend himself, Wilson established a new meet record, being clocked in 1:59.3. Chamberlain, diminutive Michigan State athlete and national cross country champion, .completed the two mile stretch in 9:24.4 to shatter the existing C. I. C. and gymnasium records. Gene. Howery ran a fine race to finish second in the grind, but was unable to follow the pace set by the brilliant State runner.
The high jump went to Bob Darling of Notre Dame, who cleared the bar at six feet even, to add another five points to the Fighting Irish total. A third was the best that “Nordy” Hoffman was able to garner in the (Continued on Page 650)
Notre Dame Falters in Last Half; Withrow Stars.
A spectacular second-half rally enabled Tony Hinkle’s Butler eagers to chalk up a 20 to 15 win over Notre Dame at Indianapolis Tuesday night. The Blue and Gold were in front by 9 to 4 at the half-way mark but Withrow and Chadd led the Bulldogs in a comeback that overcame the margin. Joe Gavin and Norb Crowe shone in the Notre Dame attack.
Eight minutes of sensational defensive play passed before Tommy Burns scored on a long field goal for the first points of the game. Withrow tied the score in a moment but Crowe and Johnson sent the Keoganites into a 6 to 2 lead with a basket apiece. Withrow counted a two-pointer for Butler and Burns registered the first charity toss of the game. Here Gavin entered the Notre Dame lineup at forward and took on an important share of the passing attack of the Blue and Gold. Clay Johnson added . the only other points of the half with a field goal just before the teams left the floor.
Coming back for the final period, Butler began to control the tip-off and to launch an effective offense. Withrow dropped his third field goal of the ' fray just after Proffit had counted with a singleton. Chadd entered the scoring with a long high shot from mid-court and the score was tied at nine apiece. Crowe fouled Withrow but he missed the chance to break the tie on the free throw. Tackett, however, tipped the ball in for two points, and Butler was ahead to stay.
Notre Dame took time out but the Bulldogs came right back with more scores. Chadd added two on a short one-hander and Miller stretched the lead to 15 to 9 with a field goal from (Continued on Page 645)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
641
OFFICIAL PROGRAM

TwentyEighth Annual Interhall Track Meet
March 17, 1931
i
OFFICIALS
Honorary Referee—Knute K. Rockne. Referee and Starter—E. J. England. Director of Meet—James Masterson. Manager of Meet—Daniel Halpin. Clerk of Course—A. E. O’Keeffe.
Head Timer—A. W. Kegowicz.
Head Judge of Finish—John Grams.
Head Field Judges—Charles Weiss, Joseph E. McKean.
Announcer—Charles Spangenberg.
Timers — Burton Shinners, Charles Sheedy, William Kenefick.
Judges at Finish—John Ross, John Colville.
Field Judges—Jack Kenny, Robert Noll, Frank Buhl, James Baker.
Inspectors—John Sherman, Don Martin, Tom Murray, Frank Fallon, Harry Scholnick. Scorers—Bruce Fox, A. W. Wirry.
Scoring—First place, 5 points; second place, 3 points; third place, 2 points; fourth place, 1 point. Relay: First place, 5 points; second place, 3 points; third place, no points.
• 8:00 Pole Vault
Interhall Record—11 feet, 3 inches, Robert Russell (Fr.), March 11, 1929.
38, Franklin (Fr.); 12, Cusick (OC); 11, Wallace (OC); 48, Krack (Br.) ; 49, Morris (Br.); 50, O’Connor (Br.) ; 25, Ackerman (SE).
8:15 60-Yard Dash Trials
Interhall Record—:06.4, Jack Elder (Fr.), March 24, 1926; John Abbate-marco (How.), February 20, 1930, March 15, 1930.
10, Kelley (OC); 34, Condon (How.); 33, Huller (How.); 52, Mill-hean (Br.) ; 53, Harrington (Br.); 20, Egan (SE).
8:20
Mile Run
Interhall Record — 4:27.0, King (Br.), March 3, 193i:
35, Young (How.); 8, Cline (L); 40, Brust (Fr.) ; 46, King (Br.) ; 47, Else (Br.); 16, Moran (Car.).
8:30
65-Yard Low Hurdles Trials
Interhall Record — :07.5, DuPuy (Fr.), February 24, 1931.
42,	DuPuy (Fr.); 7, Groves (Cor.); 31, Grundeman (How.); 55, Hoesch-ler (Br.); 25, Ackerman (SE); 47, Else (Br.).
8:30
High Jump
Interhall Record—5 feet, 9 inches, Fred Reiman (Br.), March 17, 1928.
43,	Melinkovich (Fr.); 12, Cusick (OC); 11, Wallace (OC); 5, O’Hara (Morr.); 2, Ellis (W); 4, Loughrey (Morr.).
8:30
Broad Jump
Interhall Record—22 feet, 3 inches, John Abbatemarco (How.), March 15, 1930.
9, Finkel (OC); 30, Conley (How.) ; 12, Cusick (OC); 22, Bice (SE); 21, Vejar (SE); 51, Schidel (Br.).
8:40
60-Yard Dash Finals
8:50
440-Yard Dash
Interhall Record — :52.4, Kelly (Fr.), March 15, 1930.
37, Obergfall (Fr.); 41, Horan (Fr.); 36, Troy (Fr.) ; 6, Jones (Morr.); 3, Miller (W.); 54, McDonald (Br.).
9:00
65-Yard Low Hurdles Finals
LIST OF ENTRANTS
Sophomore	Howard
1—Halperin	26—Brice 27—Mueller
Walsh	28—Wenz
2—Ellis	29—Oldham
3—Miller	30—Conley 31—Grundeman
Morrissey	32—Robinson
4—Loughrey	33—Huller
5—O’Hara	34—Condon
6—Jones	35—Young
Corby.	
7—Groves	Freshman 36—Troy
Lyons	37—Obergfall
8—Cline	38—Franklin 39—Zvonkin
Off-Campus	40—Brust
9—Finkel	41—Horan
10—Kelley	42—DuPuy
11—Wallace	43—Melinkovich
12—Cusick	44—Tobin 45—McCarthy
Carroll 13—Farrell 14—McIntosh	Brownson
15—Kolb	46—King
16—Moran	47—Else
St. Edwards	48—Krack
17—Schaeffner	49—Morris
18—McCarthy	50—O’Connor
19—Walsh	51—Schidel
20—Egan	52—Millhean
21—Vejar	53—Harrington
22—Bice	54—McDonald
23—Lukats	55—Hoeschler
24—Kurth	56—J. Colvin
25—Ackerman	57—E. Colvin
Hall Freshman Sophomore St. Edward’s Brownson Carroll Walsh Corby Howard Morrissey Lyons Off-Campus											
											
											
											
											
											..
											..
											
											..
											
											
											
9:10
880-Yard Run
Interhall Record—2:05, Cyril Caspar (W), March 13, 1916.
35, Young (How.) ; 36, Troy (Fr.) ;
37, Obergfall (Fr.); 15, Kolb (Car.) ; 14, McIntosh (Car.); 13, Farrell (Car.).
9:10
Shot Put
Interhall Record — 41 feet, 10 inches, Charles Bachman, January 24, 1914.
9, Finkel (OC); 39, Zvonkin (Fr.); 32, Robinson (How.); 24, Kurth (SE); 1, Halperin (Soph.); 23, Lu-kats (SE).
9:20
Three-quarter Nlile Relay
Interhall Record—2:27.1, Freshman Hall (Kelly, Schricte, McCarthy, Bice, Troy, MacBeth), March 15, 1930.
Freshman Hall—(42, DuPuy; 44, Tobin; 43, Melinkovich; 45, McCarthy; 39, Zvonkin; 37, Obergfall).
Brownson Hall— (47, Else; 52, Millhean; 56, J. Colvin; 57, E. Colvin; 46, King; 54, McDonald).
Howard Hall—(32, Robinson; 31, Grundeman; 29, Oldham; 28, Wenz; 27, Mueller; 26, Brice).
St. Edward’s Hall—(20, Egan; 19, Walsh; 21, Vejar; 18, McCarthy; 17, Schaeffner; 22, Bice).
The Notre Dame Scholastic
642
TRACK STARS TO RUN IN ILLINOIS INDOOR RELAYS
Excellent Marks Expected on Fast Armory Track.
The Illinois Indoor Relays, annually one of the biggest meets of the indoor season, will draw the attention of track enthusiasts in the Middlewest tonight and tomorrow afternoon. This year’s entry list includes some of the nation’s outstanding men who have come to the fore during the present season, and for this reason some excellent times should be recorded on the fast Illinois armory track.
Coach John P. Nicholson has entered a squad of nearly fifteen men, and these performers should give an excellent account of themselves even in the stiffest competition. Because of the nature of the meet, point scores are not kept, and no championship is determined. Each win is decided individually, and the winner is merely the Illinois Relay champion at that distance.
The Notre Dame mile and two-mile relay teams are scheduled to participate in those events. The two-mile team will be defending the title which it won a year ago, and will be the favorite to come through on top again. When in shape, Quigley, Wilson, Little, and McConnville form a combination that is hard to beat. Little has had a four weeks’ rest, and McConville is rapidly rounding into his best running condition. The mile team will probably have the stiffer competition of the two. Missouri’s great quartet of quarter-milers are . among the entrants, and they will ' give any team in the country a real race. Wilson, Kelly, MacBeth, and either Kuhn or Tuohy, will represent the Blue and Gold.
“Dutch” Johnson, who last week set a new gym and Conference mark in the pole vault, will find himself pitted against some of the best vaulters in the country tomorrow when he meets McDermott of Illinois, Warne of Northwestern, Canby ot Iowa, and others. Bill McCormick will also be among a group of top-notchers in the 75-yard dash, but on the basis of last week’s performance, he should be among the leaders at the tape. Nordy
Hoffman is expected to enter the shot put and test his ability against such stars as Behr, Burma, and other Western conference men.
Among several eastern stars who are expected to take part in the meet tomorrow is Carl Coan, Pennsylvania a miler who broke into prominence recently by virtue of his brilliant running in several big meets. Only last week he broke the record in the ICAAAA mile-run in winning the event in 4:15.4. His teammate Barney Berlinger may come west to defend his all-around title, but it is extremely doubtful if the crack Penn mile relay team will compete.
Big Ten schools are expected to head the list in the number of men entered.
Young to Practice Law
Eugene “Scrap-Iron” Young, varsity trainer, filed a petition recently, asking to be admitted to the practice of law in the State of Indiana. His petition was accepted, and beginning last Wednesday the . likeable conditioner of the athletes, became a licensed attorney in this state.
I The South Bend Clearing ]
!	House Banins	1
I Invite Your Patronage I
=	CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	1
1	BANK	I
I	FIRST NATIONAL	BANK	|
|	INDIANA TRUST COMPANY	I
1 ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS i I	BANK	I
1 ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST I 1	COMPANY	I
I	AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY	|
I UNION TRUST COMPANY	I
I	CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK	I
QaiaaaaiaMiaaiamiiiiaaaaiiamiaiiaiiaaaimittiaiaiiaimiiiiimitMiiiaitiiiaaaiiiiiiiiaiiaaaiaaaaaaiaiiiaaamQ
in^—an*—no—im—na—an—no—m—na—m—tra—an—un— 7
EXPERT SHOE REBUILDING and
HAT RENOVATING
CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED
Phone 2-2228
| Washington Shoe Repair Co.
I	116 W. Washington Street
I	South Bend, Ind.
The
BASEBALLERS WORKOUT IN GYM UNDER O’KEEFE
Aspirants for the Notre Dame baseball have been working indoors for the past week under the direction of Captain Dinny O’Keefe. Equipment was issued to ninety men last Monday,, and a bigger turnout is expected when regular outdoor practice begins. The players will be under the direction of Captain O’Keefe until the close of the basketball season when Coach Keogan will take over the reins.
The sudden snowfall earlier in the week has wrecked all hopes of outside practice in the near future. Limbering up and slow warming up exercises have constituted the main part of the work thus far. Many of the
Notre Dame Scholast
regulars have shown surprising condition due to practice, which they availed themselves of during the warm weeks of February. The squad will begin outdoor practice as soon as weather permits.	•
Practice Postponed
Daniel D. Halpin, manager- of football, announced early this week that spring football practice would be postponed until further notice due to the inclement weather. Equipment was issued to several hundred men last Sunday and practice was scheduled to start on Monday afternoon. The heavy snowfall made this impossible and the postponement was necessary.
Candidates to whom equipment was issued are urged to watch official athletic bulletins for the opening date.
i c	643
INTERHALL SWIMMING COACHES
Freshman, John Friel Carroll, Sabby Addonizio Brownson, Al Capter Howard, Leo Keating Sophomore, Eugene Howrey Morrissey, William Kerrigan Corby, Harold Bohnsack Walsh, Angelo Luckett Lyons, Harry Behrman Badin, Frank Kosky Sorin, John O’Brien
St. Edward’s, Joseph Sheeketski Off-Campus, Chauncey Branfort

DROP in at the campus restaurant and order a bowl of Kellogg’s Corn Flakes and milk or cream. Add some fruit, if you like.
It’s a treat. Just the dish to satisfy that touch of bedtime hunger. And so easy to digest, you’ll sleep like a log.
Kellogg’s Corn Flakes are delicious for breakfast, lunch, any time and anywhere. Ask for them at your fraternity eating house or the college dining-hall.
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.

CORN FLAKES


You’ll enjoy Kellogg’s Slumber Music, broadcast over WJZ and associated stations of the N. B. C. every Sunday evening at 10.30 E. S. T. Also KFl Los Angeles, KOMO Seattle at 10.00, and KOA Denver at 10.30.
CORN 1«ES

644
The Notre Dame Scholastic
MARQUETTE BEATEN IN FAST GAME BY 26-25
Gavin Scores 11 Markers to Lead Blue and Gold Attack; DeCook Evicted on Fouls.
Joe Gavin, the mighty atom of the Blue and Gold basketball team, had a field day at Milwaukee last Saturday, and as a result the Marquette Hilltoppers dropped their second game of the year to the Notre Dame squad. The score was 26 to 25, and the game ■was every bit that close. Gavin netted five field goals and a single toss from the foul line to cop the scoring honors of the evening. Whitey Bud-runas, playing center for Bill Chandler’s charges, looped ten markers for second place. The Keoganites played •without the services of Johnny Baldwin, the sick guard, , and Ray DeCook was forced into retirement in the middle of the first half on fouls. Clay Johnson, Schumaker and Butorac did an excellent bit of pinch hitting
for these absentees. Norb Crowe turned in his usual steady exhibition.
It took DeCook just thirty seconds to put the scorer to work with a field goal, but Zummach kept the Hilltoppers in step a few seconds later. Captain King gave his team its first lead with a long basket, and Newbold and Burns countered with a brace of free throws. Marquette continued to climb on three single offerings by Budrunas, King and Zummach but Gavin started his series of timely shots to narrow the margin, and DeCook passed the home team with a short shot. The Gold and Blue then stretched its lead to 13 to 9 at half time as Crowe and Johnson dropped field goals and Budrunas offered two singletons to boost his team’s total.
' Things broke rapidly in the second half with Marquette making a desperate bid to stop Notre Dame’s string of consecutive wins which was approaching the ten mark for the team’s annual meeting. Burns looped a two-pointer, and then the Hilltoppers came back. Budrunas, King and Shipley dropped field goals of varying lengths to knot the score at 15 to 15.
Burns and Budrunas with free throws and Gavin with field goals kept the score on an even keel. Then Gavin and Ronzani matched buckets, and Norb Crowe’s neat ringer balanced two Marquette free throws, and the score stayed tied, 22 to 22. With two	*
minutes remaining in the game, Gavin and Crowe scored from the court to give the Gold and Blue their final total and a four point lead. Marquette made a last minute bid with Ronzani sinking a free throw and Budrunas hooking in a fine marker from long	’
range to creep within a single point of the leaders. Notre Dame withstood the drive, however, and in the last seconds protected their slim lead to squeeze out the win.
Score:	,	4
Notre Dame (26) B f	p
Crowe, f	2	0 1
Newbold, f	0	10
Gavin, f	5	11
DeCook, c	2	0 4
Schumaker, c 0	0 1
Butorac, c	0	0 0
Burns, g	12	0
Johnson, g	10	2
Marquette (25) b f p
McElIigott. f 0 0 2
Ronzani, f 110
Zummach, £211
Budrunas, c 2 6 0
King, g 2 11
Shipley, g 10 1
Totals 11 4 9
Referee-: Kearns
Totals S 9 5 (De. Paul).
Umpire: Schommer'(Chicago).
[•jiittinitiiiiitmiiiittttiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiittituitiititiiiiatttttistttitiitimiiiHiiiiiaititttittititiiiiniiifa]
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard

WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of I
Notre Dame	i
aaiaaiaiiiaaaiaaaaaaiiaiaiiaaaaaaaaaaaiaaiiaaaaaaaaaitaiiiiiaaaaiiaitiaaaiaaiiiiiiaamaBiiiiiiaaaiaaaaBiaaaiaaaaiia]^
l■■lal■■■lllllllaaaaaal■llll■lllllaaltalllaallallaallallllaaalallaallaataallallllallllllaalaalll■lal■llllllllltlllll£■J
DINE...	i
Every Evening To The	|
Merry Tunes of The	|
Notre Dame Jugglers	|
DINNERS ... 50c	I
LUNCHEONS . . 35c	|
Any Name Printed on	I
Chocolate Easter Eggs	I
NOBILE'S	|
108 S. Main	f
|o|aaiitaiiaiiaiiiaaataaaiiiaanaiiiasaa8aaiaaiaiiiaiiiia88iaaaaaaaiaaii8aaiBaaaaiiianiiiiianittsiiititiiiiiiiiuiaaa^9
The Notre Dame Scholastic
64-5
INTERCOLLEGIATE GOLF MEET TO BE PLAYED AT OLYMPIA FIELDS
Announcement was made recently that June 22-27 has been selected as the date for the annual National Intercollegiate golf tournament to be held this year at the Olympia Fields course near Harvey, Illinois.
Larry Moller, captain of the 1930 Notre Dame golfers and president of ’ the National association, will have charge of the tournament this year. The meet at Olympia Fields is the thirty-fifth in the history of the organization and will be the first ever held west of Pittsburgh.
Last year saw Moller lose in the finals to Dunlap of Princeton. This year’s squad, under the leadership of Fran Beaupre, recently elected captain, will be determined not only to win the team championship, but also to produce the individual champion.
BUTLER WHIPS CAGERS
(Continued from Page 640)
far out on the court. Gavin brought the first change in the Notre Dame score for the half by getting loose to cage a basket. Then on a series of free throws Butler picked up two points to one that Norb Crowe garnered for the trailing Keoganites. Crowe scored again from the field and Gavin cut the margin to two points with a free toss. Butler was leading, 17 to 15, with four minutes left to play. After a time out, the game settled into a great defensive exhibition until the final minute when Proffit worked free under the net for a set-up. The last point of the battle came on Withrow’s conversion after Ray DeCook’s fourth foul.
Withrow and Chadd had seven and five points apiece for honors as Butler’s high scorers. Tackett played a fine game to support these stars. Crowe led the Notre Dame offense with six markers and shared with Gavin the leading role in the Blue and Gold play. The game was fast and rough, with twenty-five personal fouls being called on the two teams.
SHAKESPEARE
Direct From the English Stage
Sir
"Hamlet" (8 :15 p. m.) and "Twelfth Night" (2 :30 p. m.)
ONE DAY ONLY Saturday, March 14, 1931 at the Central Senior High School Auditorium
The Ben Greet Players present for the first time on any American stage, the first quarto edition of the immortal “Hamlet,” this Saturday evening at 8:15 p. m.
“Twelfth Night,” enacted by the same brilliant cast, is offered at the Saturday matinee, at 2:15 p. m.
Philip Ben Greet and his players present
The score:
Notre Dasie		(15)	Butler (20) B	F	p
	B	F P			
Crowe, f	2	2 1	Withrow, f 3	1	2
Newbold, f	0	0 3	Miller, f	1	0	2
Gavin, f	1	1 2	Tackett, c 1	1	3
DeCook, c	0	0 4	Chadd, g	2	1	2
Johnson, g Burns, g Schumaker,	2 1 c 0	0 2 0 1 0 0	Proffit, g	1	1	3
Total	6 Referee Umpire		3 13 Totals	8 : Schommer (Chicago). : Lane (Cincinnati).		4	12
SPECIAL STUDENT PRICES Combination offer—both plays $1.00.
RETURN TRANSCONTINENTAL TOUR
646
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Interhall Sports
BASKETBALL
Only one set of games remains to be played in the interhall basketball league. Sorin was still leading the heavyweight pack, according to the standings of Thursday, March 12, and the Off-Campus entrant in the lightweight league had preserved its record of wins to cop the honors in that division.
Playing ahead of time because Johnny O’Brien, Sorin hall coach, will be away Sunday at the Illinois meet, Morrissey served as another stepping stone to the Sorin boys in their march to the campus championship Wednesday night when the league leaders snatched the game by an 18-15 score. The contest was originally scheduled for play on next Sunday.
The Off-Campus entrant in the heavyweight group still has another
game to play, that on Sunday, but they cannot hope to emerge from the season victorious. All members of interhall basketball squads have been asked to appear in uniform in the gymnasium Sunday morning at 10 o’clock for group pictures.
SWIMMING
With the close of the interhall basketball season this Sunday, and the termination of activities in indoor track Tuesday night, attention will be shifted to other branches of sport. Beginning next Monday, swimmers in Freshman, Carroll, Corby, and Morrissey halls will work out in the natatorium in preparation for the first preliminary meet in interhall swimming to be held on Friday, March 20.
Coaches for the various halls have
been chosen by the physical education department, and the managerial staff under the direction of Junior managers Weiss and Grams, has drawn up a schedule for practice and the meets. Three preliminary contests will take place before the final competition, which will be held after the Easter recess.
Each hall is allowed three entrants in each: event. Those freshmen who equal the qualifications will be awarded numerals. The required times will be presented in the Scholastic next week.
PLAYGROUND BALL
With the advent of the great white stacks on the campus the managerial staff has become optimistic, and issued bulletins containing information concerning the forming of an interclub playground ball league. Those clubs wishing to enter teams in this sport have been asked to notify the manager in charge, the beginning of activities in the league awaiting only the arrival of suitable weather.
4
Cartoon Organ Spotlight Sound News
, CHARLIE CHAPLIN
in
‘City Lights’
The champion of pantomime and king of comedy is rocking the Capitols of two continents with his latest and greatest masterpiece!
You’ll howl and scream at this major mirthquake of joy.
Starting Saturday
BEAUT^UL
yiaaaiuL
“EAKLY BIRD” Matinee—25c to 2 P. M. 2:80 P. M. to 6:00 P. M. AU Seats 35c Evenings and Sunday, Balcony, 35c; Main Floor, 50c
and a brilliant new Star—the beautiful
VIRGINIA CHERRILL


The Notre Dame Scholastic
647
Interhall Basketball Schedule
Sunday, March 15
Off-Campus vs. Freshman; Lyons vs. Howard; Carroll vs. Badin; Walsh vs. Brownson; Sophomore vs. Corby; no game, St. Edward’s.
STANDINGS March 12, 1931 Lightweight League
	w	L	PCT.
Off-Campus			11	0	1.000
St. Edward’s			10	2	.833
Freshman			9	2	.818
Sophomore			7 .	3	.700
Brownson			7	4	.636
Lyons			6	5	.545
Carroll 			6	5	.545
Corby			4	6	.400
Howard			3	8	.273
Badin 			2	8	.200
Morrissey			2	8	.200
Walsh 			2	8	.200
Sorin			0	10	.000
Results
March 8 and 9—St. Edward’s 14, Lyons 5; Freshman 21, Howard 17; Brownson 19, Carroll 16; Walsh 18, Badin 8; Sophomore 23, Morrissey 10; Corby 2, Sorin 0 (forfeit).
March 10—Off-Campus 16, St. Edward’s 13; Carroll 13, Freshman 11; Brownson 25, Howard 18.
Heavyweight League
Sorin		W 	10	L 1	PCT. .910
Off-Campus _		9	2	.818
Lyons 			8	3	.727
Walsh			7	3	.700
Sophomore			6	4	.600
Brownson			6	5	.545
Corby				 4	6	.400
Morrissey			4	7	.363
Carroll			4	7	.363
Howard			4	7	.363
Freshman			4	7	.363
St. Edward’s		4	8	.333
Badin			0	10	.000
	Results		
March 8 and 9—Lyons		8, St.	Ed-
ward’s 7; Freshman 16, Howard 15; Carroll 17, Brownson 13; Walsh 26, Badin 15; Sophomore 15, Morrissey 11; Sorin 27, Corby 18.
March 10—Off-Campus 26, St. Edward’s 22; Freshman 22, Carroll 18; Brownson 12, Howard 8.
March 11—Sorin 18, Morrissey 15.
Those games scheduled for this Sunday will bring to a close a very successful interhall basketball season, and one which has held the interest of campus players for almost two months. Heated races between the leaders have been seen in both lightweight and heavyweight divisions.
Notre Dame Men
Here’s a chance to go to Europe ... In a first class way . . . With a Catholic college crowd . . . A good bunch that you’ll like ... at a price that’s almost unbelievable . . . Things arranged to please you . . . The way you’ve always wanted to spend a vacation . . . Watch for further announcements in the Juggler . . . Ask for a booklet.
Hobart Shean 410 Walsh
— NOW —
nOLFAV
Theatre **
STARTS SAT.	THRU TUES.
See and Enjoy Your Entertainment in the Living Flesh
Chris Charlton
The Internationally Famous Conjurer and Illusionist in Deceptions of 1931.
BROOKS & RUSH
“The Clean-Ups”
A Rapid-Fire Musical Comedy Hit
5 HOT SHOTS
A Quintette of Colored Shufflin Fools
Gorgeously gowned, brilliantly beautiful—the first lady of the screen
Ruth
Chatterton
Flings a daring, dramatic answer to woman’s age-old heart cry in
“Unfaithful”
ON THE SCREEN The year’s most delightful sparkling comedy romance THE HOT HEIRESS BEN LYON—ONA MUNSON It’s one grand round of uncontrollable laughter!
Sat. Mat.—25c till 6 p. m.
A Paramount modern drama with
PAUL LUKAS
--------PUBLIX PRESENTATIONS----
Joe Alexander	| vitaphone
At the Organ	| Sound Vodvil
PARAMOUNT SOUND NEWS
648
The Notre Dame Scholastic
4
Splinters From the Press Box
O’BRIEN’S RECORD
Captain Johnny O’Brien set a new world’s record in the 60-yard high hurdles last Saturday afternoon and held the record for a space of some five hours. In the finals of the event at the Notre Dame gymnasium, O’Brien was clocked in seven and five-tenths seconds, breaking, by- onetenth second, the mark set by Kinsey in 1928. Saturday night Lee Sent-man, the great Illinois timber-topper, chopped another tenth-second off of O’Brien’s record in running his trial heat in :07.4.
It is not often that a world’s record is broken twice in one day on two different tracks. Sentman was participating in the Big Ten championships at Wisconsin in the new Badger fieldhouse and, although his achievement was exceptional, it was one of a series of brilliant performances. The Conference meet brought forth more than the usual number of better-than-average races.
BOXING AT HARVARD
It seems that Harvard university . held the first boxing meet in its ancient and venerable history last week and the university authorities were determined that the Cambridge boys should take part in no game which could, in any way, become ungentle-manly. We quote the rules made for the fistic meet between Harvard and Massachusetts Institute of Technology:
“No cheering.
“Applause only at the end of each bout.
“The referee may disqualify any boxer whose followers cheer or applaud him while he is in action.
“Spectators occupying ringside seats shall wear tuxedos.
“The referee shall wear a tuxedo coat and white flannels.”
We sincerely trust that the boys of “deah old Haavard” did not soil their “stiff fronts” in any such rowdyism as excessive hand-clapping or the like. My! My!
INTERHALL BASEBALL
Interhall baseball was discontinued last year after a season of more than ordinary success in 1929. The playground variety of the national pastime was added to the interhall program in its place and, we believe, was received quite well by the student body. It is difficult to understand in the first place, however, why the “hard ball” game should be done away with. There is hardly anything to take the place of a good baseball game.
It might be that the game was taking more money than its appropriation would allow, but the playground game requires balls and bats the same «as the other, and, if we are not mistaken, the interhall department furnished all teams with regulation equipment in 1929. This equipment must still be on hand so why not use it? We are all for an interhall baseball league this spring!
PENN’S RELAY TEAMS
When a university relay team breaks a record, it is not necessarily a particularly noteworthy feat. The team is commended in the newspapers and that is about the end of it. But
E
1
1
E
E
E I E
your
EYES
QCCASIONALLY
we
&
1
Theatre, in Chicago
Have them examined every
year
hear someone boast of
the extreme long life of his glasses—as though it were something of which to be proud.
Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best experience proves that the ophthalmic correction provided by lenses usually requires changing every eighteen months to two years. To wear glasses longer than that means that the eyes are being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
102 W. Washington St.
2221-2 S. Michigan St.
s I s
I
1
B
Glance through the theatrical section of one of the Chicago papers. There are always a half dozen good legitimate shows at this time of year. Pick out the one you like. Catch the five o’clock South Shore Line flyer out of South Bend. Dine enroute if you like.
Return special 11:15; 1:25.
on the after-theatre leaves Chicago at
arrives
South Bend
SOUTH^IOR^
Trains every hour on the hour to downtown Chicago.

649
The Notre Dame Scholastic
when one university produces relay teams which break two world’s records in eight days, it is something highly unusual. That is just what the trackmen of the University of Pennsylvania have done in the last two weeks.
First it was the medley team who set up a new mark while competing in New York. A week later the one-mile team covered the eight furlongs in the remarkable time of 3:17. And perhaps even more remarkable is the fact that the best quarter-miler on the squad was not competing on account of an injury. We wonder what the time would have been if this man had been running?
Senior Managers Win
The senior managers defeated the sophomores 18-17 in a close but somewhat rough basketball game last Sunday night in the University gymnasium. The game was the second in the annual manager’s tourney, the frosh having beaten the juniors a week previously. The seniors will meet the first-year men on Sunday, for the championship of the association.
CAGERS CLOSE AT IOWA
Erratic Hawkeyes May Prove Able Foe For Basketeers.
Notre Dame’s eagers will make last appearance of the year tomorrow' night in the land of the tall corn when they face the Hawkeyes of Iowa University, at Iowa City. It is the only meeting of the teams this season, but on the basis of their previous showings Notre Dame should rule a slight favorite.
Iowa has had a rather erratic year, but when they were in their stride they made the going tough for some of the best teams in the conference. On the night that Northwestern, Big Ten champions, faced the Hawkeyes, they were pressed to the limit to win. Should Rollie Williams’ boys have another night like that the Keogan-ites will find themselves in a nip and tuck battle. Just who will start for the Old Gold of Iowa is something of a problem. Coach Williams has juggled his lineup rather regularly during the season, but the showings in the last few games will probably give the call to Rhinehart and Rie-
gart at guards, Williamson and Mowry at forwards, and Rogers, one of the team’s best shots, at center.
The Blue and Gold lineup seems problematical too, due to the injuries of some of the regulars. Johnny Baldwin has been in the hospital with an attack of tonsilitis, and Clay Johnson is slowed down by an infected leg, but both of them may be well enough to start. Ray DeCook is a fixture at the pivot post, and Crowe and Joe Gavi-n -will probably be the forwards. This game will mark the end of Gavin’s career as a Notre Dame basketeer since he will be graduated in June.
Table of Points
Notre Dame______________40
Michigan State__________16 %
Marquette---------------15
Michigan State Normal____14%
Drake___________________ll1?
Western State Normal---10
University of Detroit---5
City College of Detroit-5
Loyola of Chicago-------3
i
..s
y
Cigars, Cigarettes and Tobaccos
Offer Unusual Savings
BUY YOUR NEW 15c cellophaned wrapped Camels at Meyers’s at two packages for.______________________________
5c Cigars, 6 for 25c; 50 for._____________________________
7c Cigars, 4 for 25c; 50 for______________________________
10c
13c
50c 40c .411
Cigars, 3 for 25c; 50 for.___________________________ Cigars, 5 for 50c; 50 for.___________________________
These prices apply to all our regular brands.
Pack of 5 Louis Espoy Imported Cigars.......... Package of 50 Cigarettes....................... 15c Cigarettes, 2 for..........................______
___25c ..S1.98 ..$2.95 ..$3.75 ..$4.85
Selling Out All Winter Goods
MEN’S
OXFORDS
Black or Tan, Endicott-Johnson make, new toes, all sizes 5 to 11
Men’s 4-Buckle
GALOSHES
Light or heavy
Carton of 10 Packages...... .411 20c Cigarettes........ All 15c Smoking Tobacco.
....39c
_..30c
....25c
$1.19
.2 for 35c; or 3 for 50c
______________2 for 25c
Novelty - Colored Corduroy Pants
All Sizes, 28 to 38 Tan, Grey or Blue Regular $4 to $5 values
$0.49
6
I f * STORE
Corner Michigan and Colfax
GIL-BRO’S
FORMERLY —U. S. ARMY STORE 330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET

650
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Again people talk excitedly of "Burning Air"
When a public display of gas lighting was given in London in 1802 to celebrate the Peace of Amiens, people talked excitedly of burning air. Napoleon called it a grand folly, and Sir Walter Scott wrote that the world was going mad.
Thus was ushered in the era of gas illumination. It lasted for 75 years. Then electricity stole the field and the gas giant dozed through a quarter century, used chiefly for kitchen cookery.
Now it reawakens in a changed world, to new possibilities, greater opportunities. Eighty thousand miles of pipe lines already laid, extensively equipped with Crane valves and fittings, prove that the old problem of transportation is solved. Pipe lines crisscrossing the country as numerously as electric power ones are freely predicted.
What has brought this second greater gas era? The answer is: piping materials. Thanks to these, gas men can say for the first time that they are able to pipe gas in enormous quantities from Amarillo gas . fields to Chicago, from isolated natural gas fields to users everywhere.
No matter what field of engineering you take up on graduation, you will find its future and its growth interwoven with the development of piping materials. And, as in the past this development has, time after time, been first reflected in the complete Crane line, it will pay you to keep in touch with Crane research and Crane materials.
PIPING MATERIALS TO CONVEY AND CONTROL STEAM. LIQUIDS. OIL. GAS. CHEMICALS
CRANE CO.. GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVE.. CHICAGO NEW YORK OFFICES: 23 W. 44TH STREET
Branches and Sales Offices in One Hundred and Ninety-six Cities
N. D. RETAINS C. I. C. TITLE
(Continued from Page 640)
shot put, in which Barnhill of Drake pushed out the sixteen pounder 45 feet 11% inches to capture the event.
The mile relay proved to be one of the most exciting contests of the day, and Notre Dame was forced to establish new meet and gym records to win the event. Beatty, running first for Ypsi Normal, gave his team a comfortable lead when Regis Kuhn was spiked, and fell as he was passing the baton to his teammate, Tuohy. This unfortunate occurrence set the Irish back into fourth place, but Tuohy and MacBeth proceeded to make up some of the distance, and the last quarter mile found Wilson, Blue and Gold anchor man about ten feet behind the leader. With a supreme effort, Wilson proceeded to shorten the gap between himself and his dusky rival, and with a great burst of speed, passed the Normal runner on the final lap and breasted the tape well in advance of him.
Summary of events:
Pole Vault — Won by Johnson (ND); Olsen (MSC) and Lansrud, (Drake), tied for second; McKinley (Y) and Schram (Mar.), tied for fourth. Height 13 feet, 4% inches. (New meet and gymnasium record.)
Mile Run—Won by Swartz (WS T) ; J. Walter (Mar.), second; O’Con-nor (Y), third; O’Neil (Loy.), fourth. Time 4:26.4. (New meet record).
60-Yard Dash — Won by McCormick (ND); O’Neil (U of D), second; Beauvis (Det. CC), third; Brown (Y), fourth. Time :06.2.
60-Yard High Hurdles—Won by O’Brien (ND) ; Yarger (MSC), second; Liberty (MSC), third; Bath (MSC), fourth. Time :07.5. (New meet and gym record.)
440-Yard Dash—Won by Van Lan-ingham (Drake); Kelly (ND), second; Tierney (Mar.), third; Tuohy (ND), fourth. Time :52.
880-Yard Hun — Won by Wilson (ND); P. Walters (Mar.), second; Yeagei’ (U of D), third; Sweeney (Mar.), fourth. Time 1:59.3. (New meet record.)
High Jump — Won by Darling (ND); Nevin (Mar.),Windau (Mar.) and Walsh (Loy.), all tied for second. Height 6 feet.
Shot Put—Won by Barnhill (WS T); Harlan (Drake), second; Hoffman (ND), third; Blanck (Drake), fourth. Distance 45 feet, 11% inches.
65-Yard Low Hurdles — Won by Simmons (Y); Beatty (Y), second; Yarger (MSC), third; Beauvais (Det. CC), fourth. Time :07.4.

The
651
Two Mile Run—Won by Chamber-lain (MSC); Howery (ND), second; Rohan (Mar.), third; Grimes (ND), fourth. Time 9:24.4. (New meet and gym record.)
One Mile Relay—Won by Notre Dame (Kuhn, Tuohy, Macbeth and Wilson); Michigan State Normal, second; Detroit City College, third; Michigan State, fourth. Time 3:28.3. (New meet and gym record.)
High School Medley Relay—Won by Froebal High of Gary; Kokomo, second; Elkhart, third; Horace Mann of Gary, fourth. Time 5:03.4.
Easter Tip ... Take a Greyhound Bus home .. Save for Holiday fun.
Pack CP all your bags and go home ior Easter by Greyhound bus. You’ll arrive safely and on time, with extra dollars in your pockets. All over the country the '“upper two per eent” are choosing this modern, deluxe way of going places. Try it this year when making your homeward trek for Easter. You’ll like it a lot.
For tickets and ■information see
Campus Agent
Albert H. Monacelli
Brownson Hall Phone 3-0138
GREYHOUND
How about some loyalty
for alma mater, but what use are you to her, if you are not loyal to “dear old self’? In fact, good health is
essential to good letters, whether they be on your sweater or on your midyear report! Give yourself the daily treat of two Shredded Wheat biscuits in good rich milk. For breakfast they give pleasant nourishment that keeps you on your toes all morning. Late at night—when the gang goes out for a final bite, make your order Shredded Wheat and see how well
you sleep. Nothing you eat is more easily digested than Shredded Wheat. Try this happy way of cheering for yourself and see how much more valuable you are to everybody!
652
The Notre Dame Scholastic
In the Crescent
... as in 42 other leading colleges, there is one favorite
smoking tobacco
Engineers walking across campus to a lab in Sibley ... arts students gathered on the porch of Goldwin Smith ... lawyers on the steps of Boardman. Not much time between classes ... but enough for a pull on a pipe of good old Edgeworth 1
Cornell men know their smoking tobacco. And they’re not alone in their choice. Harvard, Yale, Illinois, Michigan, Stanford, Dartmouth, Bowdoin—all report Edgeworth far in the lead. In 42 out of 54 leading colleges and universities Edgeworth is the favorite pipe tobacco.
Cool, slow-burning.hurleys give this smoke the character that college men like. Try a tin of Edgeworth yourself—pack it into your pipe, light up, and taste the rich natural savor of fine hurleys, enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process.
At all tobacco stores—15f$ the tin. Or, for generous free sample, write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, withits natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —“ Ready-Rubbed ” and “Plug Slice .’’All sizes, pocket package to pound humidor tin.
On Down the Line
. . . JIM THORPE, the greatest athlete of them all, is digging ditches in Los Angeles . . . One hundred and three candidates, the largest number in Purdue’s history, have reported to Coach NOBLE KIZER for spring practice . . . Jockeys at the Agua Caliente track are forbidden to use the whip or hands on two-year-olds until the horses have gone three and a half furlongs and then not until they have started twice over that distance . . .
. . . KAREL KOZELUH, the Czech “wiz,” has beaten VINCENT RICHARDS twenty-two of the thirty times they have met each other during the past three years . . . TILDEN has been lacing the former right and left too . . . TOM JENKINS, former heavyweight wrestling champ, is now wrestling instructor at the West Point Military academy . . . SAM WILLAMAN, football coach at Ohio State, is utilizing motion pictures of last season’s games in order to give his boys a lucid example of what not to do . . .
. . . “LONG” JIM BARNES, at one time a leading golf pro in this country and one of the richest pro’s in the game today, made 11 trips to England for the British Open championship and won but one although he qualified in every tournament except one . . . The “hidden ball trick” was used for the first time during a game between Auburn and Vanderbilt at Nashville, Tenn., in 1895 . . . BOB EDGREN, member of the California boxing commission, ordered a referee to stop a boxer from using kidney punches in a San Francisco bout recently . . .
. . . KNUTE ROCKNE has been made an honorary aide to Gov. FLEM D. SAMPSON of Kentucky and receives for himself the title of “Colonel” ... St. Louis gave Columbus 11 players for DAVE DANFORTH and he turned out to be a lemon ... although he was never caught, he was often accused of doping the ball, and members of the Yankees once threw sixty-five balls out in a single game ... In the good old days “RUBY ROBERT” FITZSIMMONS was wont to work in a blacksmith shop all day and then hie himself to an amateur boxing club and meet all comers sent ^ against him . . .
—————.———4.
Residence	Office ।
Phone 3-4041	Phone 2-1067 »
1
I
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas 1
Dentist I
g
I
S
702 J. M. S. Building	[
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	|
WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Ci
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili Hot Tamales
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.