


BUICK--OPEL--VOLVO 
. • SALES . 
• 
SERVICE: 

• 
.PA&TS •·ACCESSORIES 



· -"Where·customers send their friends" ... 215-225 'south Lafayette Blvd. South s·end, Ind. 288-2531 ·, 
~ 
__ L_,_.­
-~ ,~ ' ~­

NOVEMBER 17, 1972 NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
scholastic 



4 
5 
6 8 10 
12 
• 14 • 20 • 23 
28 31 
33 34 
36 38 
40 
41 
letters 

MONTAGE politics and a sense of _morals Juan manigault ­
ANALYSES 
life -at logan Jim gresser homeward bound kerry mcnamara a helping hand mike king 
week in distortion . t. j. clinton 
li,fe .in limbo . greg stidham where_ to go when 'the Jights go out mary siegel, sally stanton more destinations 
PERSPECTIVES 
" mistah kurh-he dead" -hubert horan, w. f. . beyond freedom and draft -boards mel wesl_ey 
KULCHUR: --­
tn memoriam 

"who came first": a quie,t townshend roars. 
to the surface c~sey· poc1us 
magnetic force~ . dan o'donnell 
sixties shock j. f. pauer 
·cqming distractie>ns, .·: _· , . theresa ·stewart 
the ~rboked rook ·_: · paul. bolduc 
greg stidham 


: . ·_ :. :,VO~U ME'. 1-14,. NO:_ 6 ·\. •.·. . ,. 
The opi~ions expressed in the ScHO-~~TI~-) . are.those·of-the authors.and-editors of the '.' . . . SCHOLASTIC. and.do not neccss.arily represent .thi: :--:~. 
, opinions, of the University ·of Notnt])ame, . . :its administration, faculty or-the: stude'nt body. 
.--"'-:.·,: -· _.'. .. · .....-..:. .. . , · 
,ta~~!6~~~~-~~~~g;~:~~n:t•:-:~;r~=~~:a r~/-, .; 
'iia'ti.9na!advertisi~g _b'y_ National-Ediu:ati<i'nal .., ­-.~Adyc;itising·Services,·_-360,Lcxington Avenue,:, -~ · .NewYork,N.Y.10017:·Publishcdfortnightly' ·. 
' . ~ ~:~~!~h:~~cl::~~::i::c;~~i::s:i~fi~ : ­: ScH~LAST,IC is printed at_ Ave Maria ]!r~ss, _ :, N_otr1; _Dame, Ind. 46~56-:The _subsc:lphon '. 
.•. rate1s·$5.00aycarandback_numbcrs.are ·.. .;available-froni't~e SCHO'-;ASTI_C:. -!>lease address,' : 
'.y. ·., ,-:~Liim:t~!~ip:5~~:~htf~~~~~~:'j ;;:~;~1·\· , •::
0 

, . . ,;becomes the property of_th'e_Sc~OLASTI~..:·. ·,•,_.·: 
~·,. -'~-,,.,---.-_-·:-} _ •• ~ -• ··~._:,-~. ,,.:: • _ __ --_:_-~ 
;:,_ ; .:·. -' .,.-:. 
._ '.. -~--• 



· _edifo~: ·greg stidha·m i art director:. michael lonier / managing editor: jim ·munsch · 1 assistant editors: george block, jim fanto, jim gresser, pat .·. rricc·racken, dan o'donnell, ji~ pauer, terri phillips; joe runde, jack wenke / , ·. •' husine~s manager: joe mey~r Lcjrculation:.-roger burrell / faculty advisor: .frank· o'malley I staff_: ·pat· aha-~ic;;_'jay beriy, paulbolduc, brian burke, . <-t-'j:-~linton, pauLcolgan•.-:'gr~g-:.,c:ont_i, buz craven, :jim delong, ·al depman: ~ ~ ~hr~{~fa_he(Jo.rrf ·g_ci~a;:'doft~spe_r~; ~ike ki_n·g, tim koch~ms, jtian mani~µ~lt, . _. denn1s mqntyre; kerry· me_ nama,ra;-leo_ J· ·mulcahey,· mare mshan, peggy 
-, ­
. ..p~rki_nson/ cas~y: pocius; :E'q_~:_q·uakenbush; john ·;ring;" pat roach, n,eil rosini;· ·, .·>~ m·arv. siegi:;:l,<tiin:· stand_rin°g;~~-;5ally· stanton, .theresa stewait, katy sullivan;" · ,:·. · ::-~.<"bul3by \~~spC?I.(. petf~~b~f(~etrk::.ienig, ho~. wielgosJ busi~ess·: .gus<"'brow~. · -:-·:.-... '. jiin li~ban::T c'!_rt·.:&:.phpfograp_hy,:: e~rl hawkey, terri lustic, don :r10llet, : 
:..,,,,:nan 'smith'·' >: ·,·_' '..:,c:,; ,:~=-~·",,c::_:, ·,--." -0 ,· : • ; 
·, . . . _· ,:. " ." .. ··· ·: -·.: • .,_::,.-. 
. :ill(istrations:··.riega,ti-Je_. ph9tog~a'r~h' 6'n ·cov"er b~: ed earle / ·_phot~graRh'S a'n·.~ ·. :J:,! 7,_ 'by_ ke:rrV:.-iD<:=n~iJiaf51 J ,'.photogra_ph'·on ··9 by gary <;:_Os!min~ /-photog_raph on :13 from.,dom·e'· 1964"• I 'photog'•raph on '14 23' by·wayne.miller:'/ drawing;, 
-~·· , ,, •-....•.·/, ... •. . , '·' .. • · . . . ,
0!1 .I~h by; nan' s_rrnth;/_•.draWlf!9 on~l 9 by ·greg· sbdha_m. r ph<:>tographs on.:~. 0 }4;·;25, ·:_26.~ ~]:.~y:-rr.)_~~hsiEJlo_!:li~r_-:/ :eho_tpgr~~h":~n. -33·:_?y·boris de: _rach~wil~J 
· photograph,on,,.3j-,by:,;9rahar:r:i hugh~s.. '::_.:: -; .",;..,__ r ~­··:;,....,_-.·1.;~-:~· ---:-r;:>&_-:· ('J; - c·  ·', .  ·_,.  , - .., . ., · • ' '~.  . _-,;..  _ • •.: ', .'·  ·.•.' ·"·  _, .  .  
--,.  -­-. -. . ·:r-·· -: : • \. :~ • ';'  ., -"'.-;,_ -:  
,,. _.:  : ' ~ -.: : ' -. ;.: -. ·;1,1-· :-·: ~·::,,_..:,-.... ,... ,,.·.....:•~.~-;, ___·,.  _· ••  • f  - 
·, -"'~>  

letters 
L~ DEFENSE OF REASON Il HONESTY, INTEGRITY AND THE REPUBLICAL~ ADMINISTRATION 
Editor: Editor: who hides the crimes of an admin-
I fear our mutual admiration has Your editorial in the November 3 istration behind a Justice Depart­been sullied by a misunderstanding. i£sue is certainly not unexpected. It ment investigation" in a paper writ­When I remarked recently in a polit­would have taken the courage of ten by campus "inteJ.1:ectuals," I de­ical debate, in the semi-private sur­nonconformity to have honestly spair for Notre Dame's academic roundings of Lyons Hall, that George evaluated the programs of the past quality.· I presume that you would McGovern's speeches. sounded like four years of Republican adrriinis-rather have your subjective view of SCHOLASTIC editorials I had in mind tration. This is the kind of honesty · crimes prosecuted by a group of your predecessors of recent years that one finds so sadly lacking in this . elitists of your choice, applying an rather than this year's SCHOLASTIC and other academic communities. Ellsberg standard only selectively. which, as you rightly point out, had Political Science 101 should have printed no editorials prior to the However, when I find the sentence taught you better. present issue. My apologies for neg­"Y.le would rather have a president Very truly, lecting to insert the word "past;, in who admits his mistakes than one John R. Lonergan my remarks on that occasion. 
As for your editorial warmly en­dorsing McGovern-you are lucky. It is extremely unlikely that he will be elected. Thus you will be spared the pain of comparing those words some years hence with what any politician inevitably looks like after having been in· _high office for some time. 
Sincerely, Bernard Norling History Department 

. UNCONCERNED CREATIVITY 
Editor: 
I was surprised:to see such a su­perficial approach to literature from a source as obviously well-versed as Julienne Enipric. . . 
·For ,vhat does. a ·created _thing exist,.savc to give,glory..to the cre­ator?·. To be·.:unconcerned as to 
The SCHOLASTIC is a news magazine owned by the University
whether . Bacon,: Shakespeare, . or some third, party,: wrote::fhe works 
of Notre Dame and pub~ished 'by the students' biw~ekly_ except 
attributed,to the ,actor is to. l;>e . un-· 
· during vacations and exam pefiods~ With ·an office in LaFortune concerned as .to whether God or the . 
St~dent Ce1~ter~ the editor is Gieg Stidham> T6tal circulation' of 
-' ---y --,-~ ' --, ­
devil created-the:world. 
·t7ie magazine is 9100 . 
.·. : Sincerely, 
T. C. Treanor 
THE SCHOLASTIC 




montage 

Bringing It All 
A magazine, The Nation, once wrote: "Among the presidents· of the United States have been men of high intelligence, courage, vision, high character, and other admirable qualities, but genuine human decency has not been a common trait. There is one man, however, whose concern for human suffering is· difficult to ever imagine as being vindictive or inconsiderate or indifferent. His de-· cency. as a human being, let it be confessed,. is a-distinct liability." 
I've greatly admired two men dur­ing .the last six years of my exis­tence. Both have had a sincere ef­fect upon me and ·the people of this land. -Separate and together they voiced an understanding and con­cern for change, a change back to· the ideals e s p ou. s e d in the founding_ of America. A return to humane causes, a sense of morals, a concern ·for men· and mankind, and finally a feeling of love: these more than the material ·concerns of taxes, foreign policy, and other issues, de­veloped a concern in. me, and others like myself, for these principals.·Ro.:: bert-Kennedy once admired George l\icGovern by saying, "Of all my colleagues in the Senate, the person who has the most feeling and does ·things in the most genuine way with­out .affecting· his life is George Mc­_Govern.'' 
-The quest _for America that began 

· with Robert Kennedy in 1967 has now· ended .with George · McGovern in 1972. While . saddened :that the bodies· have not .reached ·the quest, deep · down inside I _am--gladdened that the spirit of. the quest remains very much _alive. Out of the ashes of this phoenix has risen a m~w quest found in the·words of-George 
NOVEMBER 17, 1972 
McGovern when he remarked on his second place finish on Tuesday. He beckoned us not to weep for him. but rather to· attempt to live. those ideas that we rallied behind and to bring them to -the people, for only the people can bring America home. 
The right to_ human dignity and pride is one thing that has been lost it seems by all of us. We must re­cognize in ourselves what we are, good and bad, and then work with our brothers to overcome the hard­ships that we face..The work of the campaign was very much similar. All of us .who worked ·for ·him knew the work would be ·hard and the obstacles difficult ·to over­come. The real obstacles were over­
come and the message that we car­
-ried to the people of this country was heard, will be acted on, and will be accepted. While men will win and lose in all that they do, the concerns of this campaign will not be defeated and they will not die. And in the future another writer for The Nation will then be able to write that: ".~..meri­ca's leaders are good men and decent men who lead .their country in a direction that will insure the dignity of her people and peace and love throughout the world. Her decency will never be considered a· lia­bility to the people who love her so dearly." -juan a. manigault 


Back Home 
analyses 
A Fuller Way of Living 
One late afternoon toward the end of last year, Chip, Joe and I met Jack Greeley on the do.ck by St. Joseph'~ Lake. At one point in the conversation he asked us what we thought was the largest problem for Notre Dame freshmen. From our first-hand experience, we said that it was loneliness. And I don't think it surprised him much. Jack suggest­ed that it helps a lot if you find something to work for outside of Notre Dame, of academia, of pres­sure, of yourself. 
The Brookfield Zoo is a pretty healthy place to be, especially for the one hundred and ninety people from Logan Center who went there a couple of weeks ago. It gave them all a chance to be with friends and to give of themselves. The trip was part of the program of the ND­SMC Council for the Retarded. The student volunteers in the organiza­tion work at the Logan School for Retarded Children. The council is headed by two Notre Dame seniors, John Stelma and Jack Greeley. The sixty-five volunteers walked with the children through all the exhib­its, walked up to every cage, and saw more birds, beasts, bugs and smiling, happy faces than they've seen in a long time. It wasn't only the animals that made these chil­dren happy, but even more, being with someone who cares about them and their feelings. The children are treated with dignity as well as un­derstanding and for many of them the experience is not only rewarding, but very novel. 

The Council for the Retarded, then, improves the mental healt~ not only of the children but also of the volunteers. 
Perhaps the most obvious assis­tance is that which the volunteers give to the children. They see these children as ones who, although they learn more slowly than others, are still loving human beings with rights like any others. These volunteers provide a regular weekly program for the children at the school as well as take them on special outings. They give these children something that all of them deserve but would not othenvise receive. During the week, volunteers teach swimming, bowling, basketball, music, dancing and arts and crafts, and a special recreational program is presented every Saturday. There are three major purposes in their program, the first of which is to create a social atmosphere. In this atmosphere, the children learn to come out of them­selves and relate to other people freely. They experience people who love them and don't pity them. The second purpose is a therapeutic one. The volunreers bring out and sup­plement the skills of these children. Lastly, a recreational atmosphere allows the children simply to have fun. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
.. 

~,­
~', 
' "<,,!"' 
~~·.-.... ~:~~ 

The Logan Center, opened in 1969, is operated by St. Joseph County and is a regular day school during the week. One hundred and sixty children, up to age sixteen, are en­rolled for an education the regular school system does not off er. The center's philosophy is that these children are slow learners and must be taught accordingly. There is no retarded child who will not benefit from some type of education, even if it consists only of sensory stimu­lation. When they leave Logan Cen­ter they can enter what is called the ·workshop, in which they learn some kind of trade to become pro­ductive citizens. Children of all ages attend the Saturday recreation program which is run almost com­pletely by the student volunteers. 
The children who attend the Lo­gan activities are not the profound­ly and severely retarded. They are people with great potential, but it is a potential that cannot be realized without the help of concerned people. The volunteers help fill this need. 
Working at Logan Center is by no means a one-way street. The volunteers also benefit immensely from the experience of working at the center. One of the people who probably appreciates this more than most is Jack Greeley. 
A senior accounting major, Jack 
NOVEMBER 17, 1972 
has worked with the council since it began. The effect on his life of the people he has worked with is im­measurable. He feels that at Notre Dame there are very many lonely peop~e. "Life in general at school presents things that are hard to ac­cept and even harder if you're alone." The people at Logan not only give friendship and support but also the realization that his problems are "not really as bad as the Logan children. They teach you strength and patience." 
"I work with them because they're being screwed by society." Most people, he feels, have a distorted concept of what retardation really is. They see these children as some­thing less than human, deserving less than human attention. Greeley sees it differently. It is a personal challenge for him, "a challenge to bring out the 'bundle of love.' " They teach you to understand a very spe­cial kind of communication, that which is "channeled through the heart." You learn from being at­tuned to their communication. You "become sensitive to their touch and all they mean by it. They are children with very little hate." 
Many have the image of a re­tarded child as a child who beats his head against a wall. To those he asks, "What else have you offered that child to do? You created that." 
There appears to be a pattern in· the attitude of the volunteers at Logan. When they first begin work­ing it is a period of questioning. Vi/hy are these children like that? There can be a sense of futility and frustration. Eventually though, a volunteer sees how "fantastically sensitive" the children are and re­alizes how much he is doing simply by being a friend. 
It is obvious that the people of Logan Center mean a great deal to Jack Greeley. He loves the children and appreciates all the work of the volunteers. "It's been my growing process. I've met good people who have tried to help and learn. . . . I've picked up a set of values of trust, friendship, and understand­ing." 
The volunteers at Logan Center try to give those children a sense of self-worth. In so doing they are in­advertently filling a similar need in themselves, a necessary supplement for a person in the Notre Dame community. The people at Logan Center recognize the need for love. 
Jack Greeley feels there is a need to "make" a commitment outside yourself. Being committed brings problems and joys . . . and a fuller way of living." 
-jim gresser 

Seeking a Newer Frontier 
In such a bastion of intellectual 

liberalism and Christian good will 
as Notre Dame, racism is (from all 
appearances, at least), a highly dis­
dained phenomenon. However, as 
sanctimonious as we may be in our 
claims of straightforwardness and 
pious commitments, there still exist 
at Notre Dame, as throughout 
.American society, discreet but pow­
erful racist tendencies, for it is important to remember that the term racism does not only con­note overt actions of prejudice and exploitation on the basis of color. There ·also exists an equally danger­ous but more subtle form of racism, · "racism by complacency," resulting from lack of willingness to effective­ly change a status quo which still 
visibly exploits a large minority of 
its members. 
In an attempt to deal with this 

problem, and in order to foster 
awareness among blacks in an en­
vironment which stifles their culture 
and clouds their identity, the New 
Frontier Scholastic Society was formed. Its major purpose, as stated in a flyer passed out by the group, is 
to emphasize the discussion of areas, the study of topics, and also the study and discussion of the contents of issues that lend themselves to increasing the ca­pacity of black people to responsi­bly contribute to the socio­political environment that they share. 
There have been many questions raised about the relation between the New Frontier Scholastic Society and the Society of Ujamaa. Harold Varner, president of New Frontier, explained that the two groups are separate but related, with different purposes and orientation. The So­ciety of Ujamaa, restricted to black membership, orients itself toward the social, academic and cultural problems of university life for a black student. The New Frontier Scholastic Society, open to all stu­dents, is of a more academic nature, seeking to develop an awareness of the problems of race and the con­structive input that a black man can make to the university community and to society at large. 
One of the major projects of the New Frontier Scholastic Society is to provide a forum for the discus­sion of topics dealing specifically with the problems of minorities in American society. The first of these 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


forums was held Tuesday, Nov. 7, in the Black Cultural Arts Center of LaFortune Student Center. 
Having arrived 15 minutes early, I passed the time by carefully ex­amining the room. Lining the walls are a series of posters which tell the achievements of Black Ameri­cans, past arid present. There is also a group of charts and graphs explaining the economic and social progress of blacks in America in re­cent years. Sitting there, I felt a certain tension -possibly a sort of guilt by association, upon realizing that the reason such a center was so essential was because white American society had completely stifled black culture over the past 400 years, and was continuing to 
,'... ,.r"-.••
.. 
' 
&, 
·t ,.. 
.~?,. '"-~~+­

do so. 
The topic of the forum was, "Racism as a Normal Part of Academe." (I was somewhat taken aback at first by such an assertion.) It took the form of a panel discus­sion, the panel consisting of Dean Crosson of the College of Arts and Letters, Mr. Dean Johnson, Director of Action, Inc., and undergrad Robert Mccrady of the Society of Ujamaa. The moderator was Tom McGill, a Notre Dame Law student. 
The forum began with an "open­ing statement" by the panelists. Dean Crosson, speaking first, inter­preted the topic as a question rather than an assertion, and offered a 2­pronged response. First, he ex­plained, education mirrors the 
society in which it exists. There­fore, the American educational sys­tem serves as a tool to the racist socialization processes \Vhich exist in the United States. These sociali­zation processes aim at "American­izing" minorities through the use of "selective study of history" (WASP history) in early years. severe pres­sure toward conformity in dress, language, and behavior, and a lack of recognition of the minority cul­ture as a valuable, distinct entity. In this way, education confirms and perpetuates the white status quo by subordinating minority cultures to it through a "total socialization" process (socialization in this sense meaning adaptation to the culture and social structures of the ma­jority). 
On the other hand, insisted Dean Crosson, education can be· used as an effective tool against racism when it aims at transcending ingrained social patterns and examines the limitations and prejudices of Amer­ican society. Therefore, he con­cluded, racism is an abnormal part of academia in cases whi;re the edu­cational system dedicates itself to the pursuit of truth and refuses to reflect simply the biases, prejudices, and racist omissions of the past. He felt that dialogues such as the one we were engaging i:r! were the first step toward such a pursuit of truth. 
Mr. Dean Johnson then spoke of the cultural ramifications of racism. He spoke of racist attitudes in terms of the "missionary complex," which he defined as the.tendency of one people to think that their culture or values are better for other people than those other people's own cul­ture and values. This complex, ex­plained Mr. Johnson, is at work in our schools. African people are being taught European culture. Racism in education, therefore, is more subversive than overt. Mr. Johnson called this a "brainwash­ing deculturizaticm process which starts when you first enter kinder­garten." He concluded by saying that 
In North America in 1972, black people are oppressed, and I believe that the educational processes and the educational institutions continue to condition and perpetu­ate the situation. 
Robert Mccrady began by as­serting that "racism is a logical weapon of this system." He dis­pelled the common argument that the black man is merely going through the same "acceptance" process as every new minority en­tering America, by differentiating between "national" and "racial" op­pression. The European minorities who came to America and were op­pressed due to their nationality could soon adapt themselves to such a point that .they became almost indistinguishable, and were soon after accepted. The black man, how­ever, · faces a more severe type of oppression, racial oppression. He cannot blend in as easily as can the European immigrant. Irishmen can lose their brogue. Black men can't lost their skin (nor would they want to, for that matter). Mccrady felt that the answer to racism lies in an intense re-education process, where­by the prejudices and racist cultural standards which have existed for so long in the United States are elim­inated. 
In the question-and-answer period which followed, Dean Crosson re­vealed his plan (rejected by the Administration) to require all stu­dents to take one course in' Black Studies -a forced re-education 
process which he felt would prove very beneficial. Mr. Johnson pro­posed "supplementary education" for black children within the black 
community, in order to develop an 
awareness of their culture, history 
and origms. Questions and discus­sions continued until 9:30, when the meeting was called to a close. 
At this point, the favorite ques­·tion would, no doubt, be "So what?" This attitude, stemming from the strong pattern of apathy existing here and elsewhere, would tend to dismiss such an event as either: 1. an obscure page-filler for the next day's newspaper, or 2. a waste of time. Quite to the contrary, though, such a forum is of great importance to every member of the university community. Washing one's hands of racial guilt is an easy thing to do -one only has to deny any overt racist behavior to remain clear of conscience in all 
. questions of race. But, as we have seen, racism goes much deeper than burning crosses and separate wash­rooms, and, as long as racism con­tinues to flourish in America, every white American is, to some extent, guilty of racism by complacency. The point, though, is not that every "right-thinking"· citizen sh o u 1d search out the overt racists in our society and eliminate them. This would be absurd, and it furtherfore would not eliminate racism, which is deeply ingrained ·in our culture and behavio_r. However, every citi­zen can attempt to understand and deal with the latent racist t-enden­cies which exist in all of us. The first step toward understanding is awareness. The· first step toward awareness is dialogue. 
I remember walking along 118th Street in Spanish Harlem, one day back in Junior year of high school, on the way to visit a friend. Near the corner of 118th Street and 2nd Avenue, a cluster of tenements were being torn down to make room for new low-income housing. On the side of one of the tenements about to be knocked down was a familiar quote, probably put there by a member of the Emmaus community a few blocks away. In red paint was scrawled: "There is no inevitability as long as there is willingness to contemplate what is happening." Racism is not inevitable. Its best friend, however, is complacency. 
All are invited to attend ·the next forum on November 28 in the Black Cultural Arts Center, on the second floor of La.Fortune. Please come! 

-kerry mcnamara 
A . call is being raised _for help. The call, originating from psychi­atric war.ds, is loud, though not nec­essarily intelligible. It may resemble gibberish or a moan of despair. How­ever, it demands attention. 
·MANASA provides help for the people who raise this call. As a stu­dent chapter of the Mental Health Associa~ion of St. Joseph County,. MANASA is an organization of vol­unteers who work in established mental health programs. The largest and longest-running of these pro­grams is located at the Northern In­diana Children's Hospital (NICH). 
Founded in 1950, NICH was orig­inally intended as a treatment and rehabilitation center for the crip­pled. But, its function was confined to work with the mentally retarded in 1961. Bob Burn, a senior who heads the NICH program, explains that the hospital itself is divided into three main wards. The North Ward has patients with physical dis­abilities as well as mental retarda­tion. The South Ward houses those children who suffer from profound mental retardation, yet who are very active. The Sunshine House is for those children who are less severely retarded. 
MANASA has contributed to all three by supplying workers to be guided by the Hospital staff. In the North Ward, the work of the volun­teers consists of helping the patients to regain physical coordination. For example, they learn how to walk or grasp objects in their hands. The volunteers and hospital staffers in the South Ward teach the children 
to speak and to care for themselvPs. 
However, MANASA has made its greatest contribution in the Sun­shine House. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 






Manasa Provides 
The children in the Sunshine House, unlike the patients in the other two wards, exist in an actual living situation. The volunteers are expected to interact socially with the children. Hopefully, these chil­dren will someday re-enter actual society.. 
This social interaction is highly dependent on the environment where the children live. MANASA insti­tuted last year a $1,700 program to convert a living room into a com­fortable lounge and play area _for the patients. They placed carpeting on the floor, put a fresh. coat of paint on the walls and hung drapes en the room's huge 40-foot window. Colorful graphics were drawn on the walls. The room's new decor at­tracted the children. 
One of MANASA's other functions is to provide volunteers for the "Hot Line." This 24-hour telephone line gives people the opportunity to talk to a MANASA member about their problems-without mentioning their names. Approximately 45 volunteers staff the "Hot Line." Twenty-five of these volunteers are either Notre Dame or St. Mary's students. 
Rick Figliola, a 20-year-old junior who has been with the program since his freshman year, says that the main job of the volunteers is to lis­ten. With a little experience, the "Hot Line" volunteer can easily de­tect the caller's emotion. This infor­mation coupled with what the vol­unteer learns during the actual con­versation enables him to lend moral support and try to help the caller. A volunteer may refer the caller to a specific agency which can offer him professional help. Local psy­chiatrists frequently review rec-
NOVEMBER 17, 1972 
ords of the calls on the "Hot Line." 
However, a "Hot Line" volunteer is not an amateur. He or she at­tends a basic training program con­sisting of six three-hour sessions. In these sessions, factual material on such subjects as sex, drugs and sui­cide are presented to the volunteers. At the conclusion of these sessions, a prospective "Hot Line" listener is interviewed by the program's foun­der, Joanne Hill, a South Bend resi­dent. If -she approves of the "trainee," the volunteer is required to listen in on several actual "Hot Line" calls to familiarize himself with the procedure. Only then is he permitted to answer the calls him­self. 
The "Hot Line" listeners range in age from 17-40. Some of them are South Bend residents. The calls are strictly confidential. A listener is not permitted to meet a caller face to face. The program's director doesn't want men using the line to get dates with the female volunteers. Also, a listener can never tell how_ serious or impaired is the mental condition of the caller. Volunteers are liable to expulsion from the pro­gram if they do attempt to com­municate with callers off the "Hot Line." 
Another program in which MANASA is involved is the Halfway House. This program is designed to help former psychiatric patients ad­just to society. Twelve former pa­tients from Beatty Hospital, a state asylum, are enrolled in the program. These men, whose ages range from 22 to 40, have no family or friends. They live with a sociology graduate student in a house on South Michi­gan street. The student sees that the house's operation runs smoothly and that the men get any medica­tion that they need. A hired cook prepares meals. Two St. Mary's so­ciology students also help with the program. 
The Halfway House attempts to get the men to become active and involved with other people in soci­ety. Therefore, many activities in the House are social. Parties and dances are frequent. 
The program has demonstrated some success. After a few months, most of the men are able to leave the House. Some remain longer, but eventually readjust to society. 
A fourth program in, which vol­unteers from MANASA ivork is the Social Club. Run by . tlie Mental Health Center of South Bend, men­tal patients gather weekly at a house on Colfax which has been converted into a Day Care center. Twenty pa­tients are involved. · 
A fifth program is in the offing. Student volunteers hope to establish a program similar to the one occur­ring at NICH at the Si;mth Bend Memorial Hospital. 
Within the framework of these existing programs, MANASA has its own objectives. The volunteers of MANASA feel that mental illness is a problem in our society which many people don't recognize. And it is a problem that often defies descrip­tion. They urge people to work with the problem, to have the experience of helping a mentally retarded child or adult. MANASA simply provides a structure in which someone inter­ested in the problem of mental health can give his interest concrete expression. 
-mike king 
received double representation, other "minority groups" are pressuring

week in distortion 
for 1.he .same treatment. 


THE BELLS OF ST. MARY'S 

(PART .T\VO) 

The state with the lowest mar­riage age is New Hampshire. There a 14-year-old boy can marry a 13-. year-old girl, if .the courts and par­ents approve it. 


WHEN TIIE PIE HITS YOUR FACE 

The president of the University of Hartford accepted. a cha.J.1=enge to duel with a student leader. at high noon Monday on the campus. The weapons were custard· pies at three feet. 
The university president, a Doc­tor. Woodruff, had ·commented on how well students were behaving themselves lately. Eric Litsky, the student association. ch~rman, re­plied.through the school weekly that it might be a good idea to let off some steam. It was at this point that Dr. Woodruff suggested the. _pie duel. 
Aren't you glad we don't have any of this nonsense at Notre Dame? 

·I \VAS FATHER TED'S BATMAN 
We have a report that the first bat-kill of the year has been scored. The bat, it seems, was doing its 
thing in the large circular area di­rectly beneath the Golden Dome.­Father Shilts, who happened to be·
• · 
in the area, grabbed a broom, swung 
and. conne~ted. It's not often that· you score by batting a bat. 
GO HOl\lE, ·Al\lERICA 
Kersten was sitting in his office on election night, listening to the returns. As the results for Ohio were announced, the phone began to ring, whereupon . Bob answered it. "This is the President," the voice on the other end of the line an­nounced. "You are no longer king." 


"V FOR VOTE, 2 FOR TWICE" · 
·Now that the female members of the Notre Dame student body have 
Michael Carl Goetz, a SLC (Sci­entific Leadership Coalition) mem­ber,· noted in a statement released today .that "science majors are be­ing discriminated against in the present order of things." He added that, because of long laboratory hours, science majors are not able to participate fully in Student Gov­ernment functions. 
He then proceeded to list a few advantages that would result from increased scientific representation on Student Government bodies: 
• 
Science majors would bring an outlook to student government com­plementary to that of the Arts and Letters majors currently in control. It would also ·provide an opportunity for "meaningful dialogue." 

• 
The application of the scientific ITiethod to the problems of student goyernment would prove to have dis­tinct. advantages. "I have always found a firm grasp of addition and subtraction to be of great help to . me in my Physics courses, and have . no doubts· that it would prove just as' beneficial in manipulating student ,government fiilances,". Goetz main­. tairied. He revealed that he is work­


ing on aunique vector system code with which to keep track of finances, among many·. other innovation.s. 
. • The cultural advantages of to­kenism. According · to Scientific Leadership Coalition members, ·the present system violates the McGov­
ern quota system. . 
· -The Coalition also released a set of demands that, while not non-, 
· negotiable, would "make them feel more at home." While the goal of mixed dorms with science ·majors and others living side-by-side has been realized, demands included the · following: 
. • Special facilities in. the Rockne Building and. at the A.C.C. for sci­ence majors.· · 
C ~ ~ • 
•Separate· 
lavatories for science majors ,with hot' a~d cold running . ~ate:r, · air, gas_· and vacuu·m conne.c­tions. · :· ·. 

• 
Special services at the infirmaryfor .·"problems· un~que · to. · science majors."· 


· ·The · coalition is also expected to request. an extra seat on the ·Board .of Commissioners shortly; 

noi:f101aib ni >lesw 


FAR OUT, MAN ... THEY SAID IT, WE DIDN'T 
According to the "Yomiyuri Shim­bun," a Japanese newspaper, the People's Republic· of China pur­chased three Moog Synthesizers, ap­parently under the misapprehension that the Moog is a device for creat­ing artificial life. 
AFRICAN BULLETIN 
So you thought South Africa·was bad? In Senegal they just passed a law providing for a life term at hard labor for some first-offense cattle rustlers and the death penalty for repeaters. 
You don't rustle cattle three times in Senegal. 
RUMOR 
The following reportedly slipped out from under the door of the Of­fice of Student Residence: "In order to encourage students to move off campus, Flanner and Grace will be combined into a single dorm which 
· \Vill be built on the same site. The new dorm, to be known as Flanner O'Grace Hall, will house six fresh­men. Other dorm residents will be requested to consider off-campus al­ternatives." 
The action reportedly came in re­sponse to a statement by a high Administration official: "I'd rather see Flanner and Grace disappear than see them go coed." 
The orange posters taped up around the campus this week adver­tised a discussion sponsored by Campus· Ministry. The heading was simply this: "Human Sexuality and the Notre Dame Student: two view­points." 



THE SCHOLASTIC 
I 

It was your freshman year. Orientation week. Your second night at Notre Dame and your first section meeting. That was when you first met Henry. 
He struck you immediately. Not because of his thick glasses or small stature, but because of his con­spicuous quiet. Call it shyness, call it aloofness: neither was quite accurate. Even at that first meeting he stuck out, sitting, alone, apart from the other bodies sprawled on the corridor floor, talking. 
You found out then that Henry lived two rooms down the hall from you. And you got to know his roommate after a few weeks. But you never really got to know Henry, other than to say hello when you passed him. His roommate didn't seem to get to know him either, really. He was the mystery man of the section, and you all referred to him as the "phantom." 
And so the year wore on. Your first battery of final exams approached, and the first wet snowfall covered the ground during one night in November. Henry remained a mystery. He didn't come to any more section meetings, he didn't even go to the Thanks­giving section party. He always ate his meals by him­self, and still no one really knew him, not even your best friend, his roommate. 
Christmas vacation was great; you spent a lot of time with your girlfriend. Your first semester at ND was under your belt: you had gotten your first pink slip and your first A on a paper for English comp. The grueling week of exams was past and forgotten. 
Second semester began and passed more quickly than the first. Dismal days of February, Mardi Gras, traveling snow-covered highways home for Easter vacation, and your first weekend in Chicago. Five more months, and you were a seasoned veteran of Notre Dame. And there was Henry. 
The next fall, when you exchanged greetings with friends, you missed Henry. You missed him three times that semester. 
II 

Psychologists argue about mental illness. Freudians insist upon a cause rooted in experiences, usually sexual experiences, early in the development of the child. Be­haviorists call it learned behavior, learned by the posi­tive and negative reinforcements, reward and punish­ment that are the environmental products of any be­havior. Humanistic or existential psychologists speak in terms of alienation or blocking of the innate drive toward self-actualization. The biologically-oriented psychologist tells you that it's all in the genes. 
Experts cannot even agree on what is a good de­scription of mental illness. Diagnoses of psychiatric patients will vary considerably from doctor to doctor. Confounding the question further is the confusion and debate about creativity and mental health/unhealth, and the relationship between the two. The late Ezra Pound spent 12 years in St. Elizabeth's psychiatric 



This Side of Paradise? 
normalcy is culturally determined 
hospital in Washington; Vincent Van Gogh was diag­
nosed a paranoid schizophrenic; Robert Schumann was 
known to have written many of his best symphonic 
compositions in the depths of what would today be 
considered a psychotic depression. The line between 
creativity and pathology seems to be a fine one indeed! 
Anthropologists cast further haze over the discus­
sion, for what is considered normal-even healthy-in 
one culture is often considered pathological in another. 
The mourning process of certain tribal groups in Ni­
geria consists of entry into a state that alternately 
resembles catatonia and hysteria, accompanied by a 
complete abstinence from food and liquids. 
The question of the differences between cultural 
attitudes toward mental health and mental illness car­
ries with it an important implication: normalcy and 
abnormalcy seem to be in large part culturally de­
termined, distinguished by the values of the particular 
society. When, then, does one make the attitudinal dis­
tinction between a respect for individual eccentricities 
and pathological behavior? And who has the right to 
make such a distinction? Can we say our modern 
American society can be considered in any way a good 
judge of what is good and what is bad, what has value 
and what does not, what is normal and what is ab­
normal? Controversial psychiatrist R. D. Laing says 
certainly not in his contention that the schizophrenic 
is one of the healthiest individuals in a sick society. 
Freud suggested many of the same ideas in condemning 
western society as, at best, :neurotic, and in effect pre­
venting anyone from avoiding neurosis. 
Is there, then, no basis at all for judging whether a person needs some sort of help for emotional distur­bance? Is there perhaps no need for such help at all? Maybe the question becomes less muddled when one strolls down a corridor in a psychiatric hospital and sees the unmistakable terror in the sedated faces. Or when one talks to a former psychiatric patient re­calling his experiences. Or when one reads a poem entitled "Falling Leaves" by a 17-year-old girl hospital­ized in Cleveland for "schizophrenia." (The image was one of a leaf, the last leaf on a tree, falling, falling at ~ast to the barren winter ground. This same girl told me of her father's death when she was little, of how hard it was when she and her mother moved to Ohio. She told me of a girlfriend in grade school making an announcement in class one day, inviting everyone in tlle class to · a birthday ·party-everyone except her. And she told me how she cried almost every day because all the people her own age considered her "different.") Maybe the best way of all to answer those questions is ·to think of the most bitter loneliness, the most insuff er­
able sense of alienation one has ever felt himself. 
m 

It always begins with a confusion. Nothing seems to make sens~, the world is a chaos, and you begin to feel afraid. There must be more; who has not felt that confusion, and who has not been afraid because of it? The confusion increases, nothing really makes sense, and you begin to be really afraid. You begin to feel a panic. 
It always begins that way. Where it goes then is difficult to predict. Maybe you become very depressed, and more depressed. You don't want to study, and you don't. You don't want to eat. You don't even want to get out of bed. You don't want to see anyone or talk to anyone, and even if you did, there would be no one, no one in the whole world to listen. 
But then, maybe you do not become depressed. Maybe, in fact, you become happy. Talkative. Maybe you study more and more, all the time. Keep yourself busy, busy, keep moving. Talking all the time. And you probably haven't even noticed the change in yourself. And no one bothers to tell you that you seem to have changed, or to ask if anything is bothering you. 
The expressions of mental illness are as diversified as are personalities. And so psychiatrists give us terms: neurosis and psychosis; schizophrenic ( simple, hebe­phrenic, catatonic, paranoid); hysteric; depressive: manic-depressive. Diversity, variety-and confusion. There does seem to be one aspect that does make sense of it all, however, one factor that underlies the many different expressions-anxiety. 
IV 

Anxiety is the cornerstone of all psychopathology. Its presence signals danger-to one's security, to one's psychological safety, to one's selfesteem, to one's sense of well-being . . . The most importan.t symptoms of 
for some the university becomes a surrogate mother 
mental illness are maneu,vers to cope with anxiety . . . 
Anxiety rnay be defined as an unp7£asant emotional state cued off by the presence of a threat and associated with subjective feelings of tension and apprehension. Physiological changes resulting from anxiety . . . in­clude pupillary dilation, palmar perspiration, increased heart rate, and rapid respiration. (Suinn, Fundamentals of Behavior Pathology) 
V 

. We must talk of Notre Dame. We must talk of mental health at Notre Dame. And when we talk of mental health, we must also talk of anxiety at Notre Dame. 
The University of Notre Dame is a srnaU residential school located in nmth central Indiana. It has a total enrollrnent of 8,400, including about 350 women ad­mitted in this the first year of the school's coeducational status. 
. Renowned in non-academic circ7,es for its perennially powerful football team, the school is considered aca­demically superior. One drawback, according to many students, is the lack of social activity. This is un­doubtedly due in part to the primarily male environ­ment, as well as to the school's relatively isolated loca­tion. Observers have noted what is a rather surpris­ingly high frequency of drinking, and the use of drugs 
has become signifi,camtly more prevalent in the last four years. 
Drinking, drugs, preoccupation with the male machismo . . . questionable mental health can take subtle forms. Is the Norte Dame environment particu­larly conducive to emotional instability? 
Focus for a minute on the Notre Dame student. We find that, usually, he has been fed through the Catholic educational system, beginning with grade school taught by a primarily religious faculty, followed by four years in a Catholic, all male or all-female high school. He is usually of greater than average intelligence, but we find often that, because of his limited background, his ability to interact socially with members of the opposite sex is rather severely limited. Sexual experience is often restricted to brief and impersonal contacts. Situations demanding a deeper level of interaction are frequently known to produce a great deal of anxiety; more often t:hari not a Notre Dame male simply does not know how to respond. The permanent effects of a continua­tign of such narrow experience in a nearly all-male institution remain unclear and difficult to predict. Per­haps removal from such an environment and more ex­perience in a healthier heterosexual environment will teach the Notre Dame graduate to interact on a deeper and more significant level with greater ease; perhaps, however, the effects will prove to be more lasting. 
The Notre Dame student seems to have significantly more demands placed upon him to excel, to surpass. The Admissions Department is quick to boast of the impressive percentage of students who were student body presidents, varsity football players, high school newspaper editors, and who had SAT scores totaling over 1200. Nearly all were pre-eminent in one way or another during their high school careers ; their parents expect the same sort of pre-eminence in college, and usually the students themselves do as well. The dif­ficulty is that, amid the keener competition of college, and especially of Notre Dame, the vast majority are no longer capable of surpassing their peers. 
Many departments of the University still retain their emphasis on grades as indices of performance. Competi­tion for the grade becomes keen, insidious; failure to get the grade can be traumatic. 
Notre Dame, in a very real sense, is a protective environment -a warm, humid womb, from which separation is often difficult and painful. The protection is, for most students, continuation of a long history of protection. A sort of protection can be very good, provided that it prepares the individual for the time when the protection is no longer availabl~. The only measure of this particular effect of Notre Dame is the number of graduates who are well prepared to face a questionably healthy society, by their final independ­ence, versus the number who have become so dependent upon the protection afforded by the University they cannot separate themselves from her or cannot function well and independently afterward. These are the ones for whom the school has become a surrogate mother and who will likely be seeking surrogate mothers the rest of their lives. If this is the effect of the Notre Drone environment on a significant number of its stu­dents, then the environment needs desperately to be changed. 
VI 

It is difficult to deny that there are factors in the Notre Dame environment, and in some cases peculiar to the Notre Dame environment, that are particularly conducive to emotional distress. Fortunately, there are members of the N.D.-S.M.C. community who are ready and willing to help those caught in the insidious bid of this pressure. Five percent of the students have found that distress to be acute enough to prompt them to seek the professional help of the Psychological Services Center, many more the aid of the Counseling Services. And one must wonder how many are really in need of such outside help, but either do not know that it exists or do not know where to get it. 
In fact, it would seem that Notre Dame does have the resources for helping people who find themselves in emotional distress-perhaps more resources than most universities. But official sources of help cannot be finally adequate. Without a community of people who are educated and sensitive to the seriousness and prevalence of emotional disturbance, they can hope to be little more than the little finger in the hole of a tide­besieged dike. 
VII 

The other day, a thought occurred to you. What­ever did happen to Henry? 
Depression . . . Confusion . . . Isolation and Chaos ... Surrounded by so many troubles ... Are there any answers? Where to turn, where to go-
Everyone questions, everyone has doubts. Self-eval­uation is necessary for personal growth and good mental health. Yet, time seems to move so quickly that new experiences, ideas, thoughts, and life patterns flood our consciousness, escaping before we have a chance to examine and assimilate them. College is a critical period in the development of identity; restrictions are no longer imposed by others, but are largely determined by the individual. A student must budget his own time, establish his personal priorities and re-examine his values. He is exposed to new ideas and life styles which challenge former conviction. Loneliness, self-doubt, de­velopment of sexual identity, self-loathing, vocational confusion and the formation of interpersonal relation­ships are no mean dragons. Truly, people need help in confronting these issues. When the awareness of need gives birth to a desire for assistance, the realization that guidance is necessary and the seeking of that guidance must not entail feelings of shame or disgrace. It is a major step towards solving problems. 
Mental health is a psychological state of well-being. Too often, people only conceive of mental health in terms of insanity, psychosis, neurosis or madness. Safety resides in hyperbole and, for an ill-informed public, extremity is a secure resting place where opin-





No Mean 
ionated generalities substitute for fact. We are all mentally unhealthy at times and all have trouble coping with ourselves and the world around us. 
FortunaJely, Notre Dame offers several facilities, which are open to all members of our community. Among these are Campus Ministry, Psychology Ser­vices, the Counseling Center and the rectors and resident assistants in the halls. They aid the individual in defining and improving his mental health. 
Campus Ministry, under the direction of Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C., views good mental health as being con­tingent upon the acceptance of one's own self and one's fellow man, in relation to God. This service operates on the principle that all men are a!fected by two forces­the creative force of love and the destructive force of "unlove." Men are balanced between thse two poles: wanting to love, to trust others, and being always afraid of encountering distain because of past betrayal and rejection. Campus Ministry helps those students who come to talk to the staff to discover a balance between the spiritual, emotional, and intellectual aspects of their lives. It counsels them in areas concerning self con­cepts, vocations, and marriage so that they can open and share themselves with others. 
Campus Ministry feels that college should not be seen merely as job training; rather, as personal develop­ment. 
Dragons 
At times, students' problems are deeper than Campus Ministry can handle or of such a nature that it would be more beneficial for the individual to be helped by professionals. These people are then referred to one of the other services on campus. If for some reason the student would prefer to see someone not connected with the university, arrangements can be made within the South Bend area. 
Located in the infirmary, another service available on campus is the Psychological Services Center. Headed by Fr. Ralph Dunn C.S.C., this organization tries to help people evaluate their personal problems. Since each person lives in a state of flux-that transitional stage from childhood to adulthood-no attempt is made, or can be made, to completely define all aspects of a person's personality. The people on the staff try to help each individual realize and understand the difficulty he faces at that particular time. Usually, only a few visits are necessary. The average number is about six. Oc­cassionally, long-term treatments are needed. Almost all counseling is on a one-to-one basis. Due to schedul­
-ing and continuity difficulties experienced with group therapy in a college situation, psychotherapy, if needed, can also be employed to help the student. All consulta­tion is kept strictly confidential. Therefore, no one should be hesitant in approaching this service. Making an appointment is simple: a student may either call or walk in. In an emergency situation, someone is always available for an immediate conference. 
During the first meeting, the student is interviewed and, if he consents, is given a preliminary series of tests. These tests can then be helpful in evaluating the student's situation. In semi-weekly conferences, the cases are reviewed and chosen by various counselors. When the student inquires about his second meeting, he makes the appointment with his permanent advisor. 
Sometimes a person experiences a problem so seri­ous that he is academically or emotionally incapaci­tated. In such cases, he may then be hospitalized or sent home for psychiatric treatment. Many do return to the university after a semester or two when their problem has been resolved. Actually, Notre Dame has to hospitalize a significantly smaller percentage of people than do the larger state universities. This seems to be due to the "supportive environment" found here: most students feel that people within the university care about each other. 
An overwhelming majority of those who visit the Psychological Services Center come of their own voli­tion and are motivated by the feeling that thy could be developing and growing in a better way than they are now. 
The Counseling Center, which is directed by Sher­idan P. McCabe, assisted by Paul G. Banikiotes and Fr. Daniel M. Boland C.S.C., provides trained workers in counseling and psychology to aid the student in understanding himself. This staff directs the individual in any academic, vocational, or personal problems he may encounter during his years at Notre Dame. Ser­vices provided include guidance in choosing a major, occupational information, and testing programs. Also, the center sponsors and directs co-ed encounter groups that explore interpersonal relationships and emotions. Counseling requires confidence, trust, and support; the center attempts to foster such a rapport between the counselor and student. The privacy of the individual is always respected. Through the self-understanding acquired from these sessions, the student is usually able to reach his own solutions to the dilemma. 
Perhaps the most readily available help to the stu­dent is that of the resident assistants (R.A.). Although they are not trained as counselors, they strive to be perceptive. It is their job to sense problems before they become too serious. More importantly, they relate as a friend to the students, and attempt to create an atmosphere of sharing, concern and involvement within the dorm. The R.A. is supposed to be a "good listener," one who is willing to help settle minor conflicts. How­ever, any major psychological problems are referred to the professional services on campus. 
some 111erely slide through their lives 
Fr. _James F. Flanigan C.S.C., Acting Associate Vice­President for Student Affairs, directs the resident assis­tant selection program. Eligible for this position are law 
· students, graduate students or qualified seniors. The criterion consists of personal interviews, recommenda­tions, which are drawn from the students and faculty, an application, and a "position paper" ( a short state­ment of the applicant's philosophy and view of the role of a R.A.) are the main requirements for all candidates. A review board weighs this information and the resi­dent assistants are then selected. 
Mental health constantly fluctuates within people. Everyone feels depressed, confused or isolated sometime in his life. There are many forms of escape. Some stu­dents use alcohol or drugs in an attempt to avoid their inner turmoils. Others may just slide through their lives by existing within routiness and never stopping to evaluate their directions. Self-examination is peri­odically necessa1y to determine one's mental health. The university offers excellent facilities for guidance. It is up to the individual to take advantage of them. 
All services are open to all members of the acadernic conununity: 
Cam,p·us Ministry 6536 First Floor Library 
Counseling Center 1717 Adrninistration Bldg., Room, 315 
Infirmary ( emergencies) 7497 
Psychological Services Center 7336 lnfinnary 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


... 
.. 


J,f4 
_..::: 
-

-....:: r,,... •­

Armand Cerbone/ Assistant Rector, Stanford Hall 
How do I see myself and what I do? I believe that as a counselor, I offer a special kind of relationship to the person who comes to me for help within which that person and I can explore and change these areas of · personality or• those ways. of relating we both see as needing change. I ·also feel that such a relationship presents us both.with a stimulus toward growth beyo{id rehabilitation only. sTO be· a. bit figurative, in addition to' tune-ups. and overhauls, as ·a. counselor I-am inter-·. ested in design ·improvement, too. Lastly (I don't know how better to say it),Tenjoy my_'work:. . 


Jane Pitz/ Assistant Rector, Walsh Hall 
. . . I don't think of myself as a "counselor" it's more of a listening thing ... someone comes into the room and while looking at South Bend's first snow­fall asks, "W,ell, what.happens now?" . . . "I'm glad you're not one oL my teachers,· this way we can be neighbors" ..·.."you've got _a great couch" ... "it's nice to come in and just _sit in here" . ~ . small talk -most of us would judge these statements ...•. and not great problems which. need the _help of acounselor to wade through . : . so I'm not a counselor. to most of the per­sons who stop. by or ask me to stop by ... but after all, most of the people most of the time aren't wrestling :with overwhel:rp.irig· problems _.: ..·mental health isn't <;mly the con.ditfon' of aperson ·who has become so im­mersed in a problem that he can't pull himself out ... . it isn't a'term .used only in reference. to an office where you··fi:pd-patient:and doctor·; . : it;s-_the well-being of the human person next door to you . . : the ·person walking in front of you on.~-rainy morning ... it's your own peace of mind and your friend's. : . it's look­ing for the piece of yourself that's missing ... it's com­ing to like you;self ·.... and it's maintaining most of the. 
· time by the ordinary:_relatiQnships _which coine about · every day ... in making time for small talk and clear­ing a path so that sometime if a problem does happen to threaten peace and stability, it may be an easy step instead of. a huge leap to finding . tru.st ·and a "great _couch" and _a "neighbor_." · 
,-;:~----.,,.---... 
-'}-· _-',
-
':~ -:_ . ., ..~ _,. 
-. ~ "S--. -• _-­

.~ <. ..,. 
:...,."' ~ -....,_ ~-~ ..! 
.,--.----:~ :,..~~.\ ­;.....i,~--"'7 
Father Roger Cormier/ St. Mary's Campus l\linistry 
"I want to offer students time and room to be, feel and express themselves, to provide a warm climate of their feelings and needs, integrate new experiences, deal with personal issues, with immediate and ultimate con­cerns, and where they can get in touch with the reli­gious dimension in human life, with the God who calls us to life in every human experience. 
"The many contacts and conversations come some­times rapid-fire, almost always without forewarning, at all levels of-seriousness and emotion, in ongoing or intermittent relationships. The conversation often con­si.sts in developmental counseling about academic, reli­gious; relational and vocational concerns. I try to help students to grow in self-awareness, to deal with prob­lems of emotional turmoil and confusion, to integrate new experiences. In a. sense they come for spiritual direction, .to raise the ultimate questions in life, to dis­cover hope and meaning and their calling to become their best seives on the threshold of adult convictions arid life commitments.'' Courier) Spring, 1971, p. 10. 
NOVEMBER 17, 1972 
Kathy Cekanski / Rector, Badin Hall 
I feE-1 that the University has developed a good framework of facilities to deal with personal problems of• the students of the campus community. Problems arise, however, in implementing these services and, more specifically, in breaking down the barriers which inhibit a particular individual from availing herself or himself of the services which the University has to offer. 
Initially, I see several areas basically concerned about the development of the individual "mentally"­for lack of a better word-the individual staffs of each residence hall, Psychological Services Department lo­cated in the Infirmary, the Counseling Center located 
· in the Administration Building, and the Office of Cam­pus Ministry. I think each area indicated is equipped and staffed with individuals competent in· their fields of expertise and willing to offer help. Better communi­cation as to what the Psychological Services Depart­ment and the Counseling Center has to offer may help in presenting a less foreboding and intimidating at­mosphere. 
As Rector, I've found that if an individual really needs help, whether it be with academics or more per­sonal intimate problems, there must be a realization on the part of the individual _!Ilvolved that there is a prob­lem, and that he or she must decide whether he can work it out by himself, or whether he should perhaps 
. swallow some of his own self-pride and seek help from others. It's a tough decision to make and just to help knock down this barrier alone· would be quite an achievement. 
By communicating that the people involved in these different areas are concerned, and do care, and are ,vill­ing to help; to listen, and hopefully provide guidance and encouragement, is what is needed. This, I believe, is the touchstone to "helping others help themselves." 

George Lough/ St. Mary's Counseling Services 
My feeling is that the college counseling center should be a place where a student can come for help with any kind of problem. The student should be able to feel comfortable about coming there because he/she knows that what he says is confidential and that he will be treated both with respect and intelligent concern. 

Sue Bennett/ Assist.ant Rector, Badin Hall 
There are times in the life of a student at Notre Dame when pressures or problems can make it difficult to function academically and socially. The relation­ships we have with people who care and are willing to help are the greatest source of support at these times. There are situations, however, when it would be good to talk things over with someone trained in helping people with problems one might be facing. At times like these, I feel that the most helpful and caring move we can make is to support a person's seeking aid from one of the campus agencies set up for just that purpose. Notre Dai"lle does care about the mental health of stu­dents though at times it seems to take a remedial rather than preventive twist. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 



Father Robert Griffin,/ Rector, Keenan Hall 
In the summer of 1965, I lived alone for six weeks 
as a parish priest in an isolated country rectory on the 
coast of Maine. It was the loveliest of spots in the love­
liest of seasons, and the rectory was really the most 
comfortable of country homes, miles away from town 
and neighbor. At night, I was absolutely alone, without 
a car. Faced as I was that summer with the physical 
and mental breakdown of my family, every night was 
filled with terror, not the least of which was the horror 
of facing tomorrow; to be clawed at by events I could 
not control and loved ones I could not help. Constantly, 
there were nights with no one to talk to when sleeping 
pills would not work, or you feared they would work too 
well. Or else the phone would ring, and the news 
would be bad, sad, and mind-shattering. Since that 
time, I have never heard the phone ring at night with­
out fear. 
For twelve years now, before and after that climac­tic July in a Maine rectory, the absolute beauty of the night, which I deeply love, has been treacherous with living nightmares; so now, in a sense, I keep the night watch as a campus minister. This is the origin of the Cluttered, Dim-lighted Place. For five years now, my rooms in Keenan have been kept open until dawn unless, overwhelmed by weariness, the night minister simply cannot resist sleep. The purpose: to be available to people who want to come in. In case you are wonder­ing, it is other people's needs I am trying to meet, not my own; because left to myself, I love to read at night and listen to music; I find therapy and healing, as God intended, in the hours of sleep. 
As for the people who come to the Cluttered, Dim­lighted Place, mostly they are friendly folk in search of conversation, or restless students in need of a break. Sometimes the room is entirely empty for hours at a time. It is never the volume of traffic that worries me, but the quality: a single phone call at four in the morn­ing from the friends of a girl who tried to commit sui­cide is worth waiting up for. Otherwise I might have missed the call. 
It is just a Cluttered, Dim-lighted Place, and the priest who lives there is a shabby fat man who has no other gift to offer but himself; sometimes he is rather selfish or clumsy in doing even that. If it helps, people are welcome to come, and my dog, Darby O'Gill, and I will greet the visitors with love and joy, and with a prayer for the peace of Christ. 

Sue Roberts / Staff Consultant to Sister Joan l\lirian, Assistant to the Provost 
I would have answered: 
I have been asked by the SCHOLASTIC to comment on the state of mental health at Notre Dame ... needs ... resources to fill these needs. From my observations there are good resources, but many may not know how or where to find them. It is my hope that a note from you or a response to this "non-question­naire" might help to identify those needs and the re­sources, and to bridge the gap between them. This is not a survey in that we are not interested so much in number as in your insight and responses themselves. Anonymous please. 
If you are curious about others' responses or wish to identify your own or rap on the subject, come around: #423 Golden Dome, Between 3:00 and 4:30 is a good time to catch me. Phone 8617. 
Check status ........ service ........student ........faculty ........administration ........support staff ........spouse ........alum ........other (specify........ ) ........male ........female lay ........ religious 
Rate your own state of mental health (well being): .......... OK ......... .lousy How will it be tomorrow? . ......... same ..........better ..........worse 
Do you want to be at Notre Dame? ... : ...... yes .......... no (explain below if you wish) 
Do you function at a level that is acceptable to you? ..........yes .......... no (explain below if you wish) 
Do you know where to go for support or counsel? 
..........yes .......... no What is lacking (if anything) at ND to help you help yourself to a better level of well-being? You should have asked me this question: 
I would have answered: 
Please drop this off or mail to either 423 Administra­tion Building or Scholastic office, 4th floor LaFortune. 


perspectives 
HEARTS OF DARKNESS: 
Notre Dame as an African Village 
Hubert Horan, W.F. 
WHENI crune to Notre Dame, afternearly ten years in two very different African countries-Tunisia and Tanzania-I tried hard to see and to notice everything afresh. Sheer novelty forces us to notice things; but we often miss what is under our noses, because we think we know all about it. 
The idea was, surely, not to do such a thing because it's a cute idea for a real put-on of a title. That could be, but it's scarcely worth the effort. Nor was it to shock or insult those among us who tell me that they find it objectionable to be compared to Africans in their villages. It seems to me to show questionable learning, and questionable Christianity, to wince at being compared to other human beings because of their lack of machine technology, their race, their customs. I rather imagine the Africans I know might find some of our local customs-"streaking," say, or "mooning"-questionable indices of civilization and progress. 
No. The thought that kept striking me was that, like an African village, we live in a fairly face-to­face society which is seeing many of its most precious values, ways, leaders and beliefs questioned, threatened, even done away with. They and we are both in the srune boat-and it is a leaky one. About a month after agreeing to write this article, I came across a_ passage of C. G. Jung's: 
Anthropologists have often described what happens to a primitive society when its spiritual values are exposed to the impact of modern civilization. Its people lose the meaning of their lives, their social organization disintegrates, and 
they themselves morally decay. We are now 
in the same condition. But we have never really 
understood what we have lost, for our spiritual 
leaders unfortunately were more interested in pro­
tecting their institutions than in understanding 
the mystery that symbols present. 
That, by one of the most influential thinkers in the study of man, enunciates the theme I had in mind better than I might have dared. Yet, there remains the task of fleshing out his points and insights. 
A couple of Sundays ago, the Campus Ministry team sponsored a forum designed to explore the specifically Christian dimensions of the Presidential elections -surely a legitimate and even necessary thing to do. The attendance was light, and many seemed to be faculty rather than students. One of the presenters used the classic and traditional (in the noble sense) manner of presenting a choice to Christendom: "This is what Jesus would have done; this man comes closer in the fallowing of Christ." The other presentation, by a feeling and sensitive professor, seemed more embarrassed. He indicated, soundly and realistically enough, that a Christian could vote for the other man. It occurred to me, sitting there and being slightly uncomfortable, that we were assisting at a symbolic drruna representing allegorically much of the malaise in this Christian University. 
First of all, that we should have to debate) over these past several years, the question of what it is that makes us a Christian University-for one does not ask oneself nor harry one's peers on questions where one is secure. Second, that when we debate it, few show interest-for that is a sign that the question is not seen as of profit or of interest to too many, at least as it is posed. Third, that we come to have to speak of what we may permissibly do, rather than of what we may hope and strive for-the need to concern ourselves with "the least by which we can get by, rather than the most of which we are capable." 
There is a nice French word for this state of things: fige, which is what happens to the fat in warm chicken soup as it congeals and hardens on top once placed in the refrigerator or allowed to cool off. It is then undrinkable, unnourishing, unappetizing. 
Granted, we have not reached such a state here, generally. If we had, the question would be posed more in terms of whether N.D. is a Christian University because a believing Christian may, in conscience, go there; this would be the penultimate in congelation, the concern with "how far may I go" in a negative way-''how far may I step back and still be in." Nor do I mean to imply criticism for any of the speakers referred to; all concerned seem surely to appreciate the issue with compassion and concern and deep personal involvement. 
Still, we are in a state of disarray, both Notre Dame as a "village" and the larger world network of which it is a part. Let me show some of the elements in this disarray which seem to be common to us and to some African villages I know: 
-customary practices of the tribe are no longer followed by some elders, and elders stop teaching them to the new initiates (watch the front steps of our administration building). 
-sanctioning mechanisms of peers cease function­ing, or become cause for some mirth (the Judicial Boards; the honor system review board). 
-the distinctions between elders and juniors get fuzzy, and elders get addressed to their faces without their titles, and even by nicknames their juniors always had, but previously used only among themselves ("Hiya, Hubie!"). 
-yesterday's weighty seriousness becomes today's camp (read Tom Dooley's letter about the Grotto, then watch the candles being ripped off for illumina­tion at parties where folks will probably NOT sing the Salve Regina at 10 p.m.). 
-central acts, reaffirming the raison d'etre of the tribe, once effectively sanctioned so that negligence was difficult, are now weakened, optional, and occasionally mocked ("Mass? that's a magic show for people who still have religious hangups.") 
-aspects of central myths and practices of the tribe get re-interpreted along the lines of new rationales ("The most important part of the Mass is tbe peni­tential rite, because that's where we render an account of our progress in our self-actualization process.") 
-major and minor symbols get ambivalent or even devaluated or negatively esteemed, so that even their possessors and guardians are unsure of quite what to do with them (chapels; roman collars; rosaries; occasional public liturgical celebrations). 
-elements clearly from sources outside the group tradition get introduced into central rites and myths (top-ten ballads and best-seller readings at Mass; cuss words in sermons; novel sacramental species.) 
-while practice of the old ways may not be absolutely abandoned-in fact, hardly any old way is EVER absolutely abandoned-they become identified as old ways, suited more to older people, and at least putatively on the way out ("Some of the kids are like my Dad, they still cling to all that stuff" ... or, classic example, see the attendance at things religious when parents are on campus.) 
A11 of the above are examples of signs or s~ptoms which might fairiy be called common both to us, and to my more or less hypothetical African village. It is not necessarily to anyone's discredit that this be so, and it is surely not my intent to take pot shots at people who do this sort of thing and say "tch-tch, you dishonor our people." That is not the point, and in any case I can't afford to, since I share the general confusion myself. 
No. The point is more central: things in our African village and in our university village have reached a point where it is not at all reasonably clear what is the good and the desirable thing to do-even in matters which we as a people define as being of crucial importance to us, to our survival, to our happiness. 
Now, I'm no psychologist; but I bet that if I went to a therapist or counselor and said, "Look, there is this friend of mine, and it isn't clear to him at all what he should do in this terrible dilemma, nor to us, and the decision either way involves changing his life as he knows it in very drastic ways. Is he likely to get into psychological trouble over this?"; the answer would surely be yes, with -an exclamation point. Ifthis is so for one person, what of our "tribe"? 
The point is that such a situation of immense practical uncertainty as to what can or should be done -in matters of emotionally freighted importance to us-is likely to cause, and continue to cause, lots of human pain and friction, lots of crises, lots of interior enmities, lots of scars, hassles, hangups, grief, guilt, uneasiness. Men of good mind and good will are of vastly different practices and beliefs; people once united now dispute over points dear to both of them. We have a point in the life of a people where one clearly needs the services of a social psychiatrist-literally, that is, a "surgeon of the soul." 
We can argue about who can or should fill this bill. Personally, I feel that one type of person called to heal, excise the malignancy, sew up and help survive the operation, is the Christian who is truly cast in the image of the Christians' leader, who called himself a physician. We priests in particular might look to the healing and re-uniting arts · a bit more. Ifwe must use pointed instruments, let it be as scalpels and not as stilettos. 
Be that as it may, we have surely still some time left to endure this present painful mess. Sometimes it is more humorous than painful. I see a woman approaching a door about the same time as I do, and I think: "If she's raised on chivalry and I DON'T open the door, I'm a boor. If she's a liberated woman and I DO open the door, I'm a male chauvinist." 
the cycle/circle/egg of the tribe 
Sometimes I make a guess; mostly, I avoid the moment of pain and of decision and risk by suddenly discov­ering a shoelace that needs tying, or a poster that needs a closer inspection. . 
More often than not, however, it's more painful than humorous. McGovern, dilling his concession speech on election night, told the story about the lad \vho stubbed his toe hard and painfully, and didn't quite know what to do: "'cause it hurts too much to laugh, and Tm too old to cry." The boy and the disappointed candidate and. we, ourselves, all milTor a common grief, I suspect. And it is all around us, and \\ithin us. Like a pious Hassidic Jew, we may cry "Master of the Universe! What are you doing to us?", looking for sense, and meaning, and understanding. 
Now, I long ago gave up trying to justify the ,vays of God to man. I find enough problems justifying my own ways to God or man. On a purely human level of observation, however, there is some hope and some sense in this current muddle, even as painful as it is to be Lr1 a situation where "what we were we are no longer, what we are to become has not yet been made clear to us." 
It goes like this. The African village pattern I know comes easily to deal with "constant, if direc­tionless change." There is a sort of majestic, slow, ongoing cycle of deformation and reformation, in terms of a shared and valued idea of who we are, and how that relates to what we should· be. This is a cycle, and it is hard to break out of a cycle. It is like breaking out of an egg, and that is not at all a sugary little cute thing; that is a hard and e.xhausting feat, a Paschal sign, tah.-ing all of the chick's energy and courage, and e.'-1)0Sing him to a new and sn-.ange life while he is weak, confused, dazed and helpless. Not all survive, even in incubators; few survive in nature. 
From tiip.e to time, the cycle/circle/egg we are in as a tribe becomes too confining, too inappropriate, too unsuited to the new· state we are called to try for, and 'J]erhaps achieve. The cycle/circle/egg has then· ro be broken, and a new stage of growth and develop­ment begun. It's traumatic. It's a risk. Trying to halt or delay it may possibly ·work, but often it only makes the process worse. Isolated village life is no · longer possible in our "global village," at least i:renerally. Not every alternative-probably not most· clternatives-,vill. prove viable. ·. . ·. 
So we have a painful, paradoxical·dilemma. Change. is necessary, but probably change is usually for.the · 
30 

worse. Random change seems to follow the pattern model of spontaneous mutations-most.of them would be hard to be optimistic about. 'And yet ... and yet, to remain as we are/were is mostassuredly not cause for optimis~. So we try to see what can be. done, to break out, to renew-and, on wobbly legs in a new world, do pratfalls we may or may not be able to laugh at later. 
· So we move forward; where, we don't quite know, but forward. If we feel courageous in this wobbly lurch ahead that we hope is progress, it is the courage of people whose retreat is cut off, sb they charge: one of history's• "Q" companies re-writing the military tactics books. · · 
If this time has pain, uncertainty, risk, it has also rare opportunities and joys and glories. The stars and heroes of the old order can no longer serve, and many of the rest of us whose eccentricities_ have long kept us far, far in the back of the back benches are now sent up front: the situation is so bad we can't possibly make it any worse, and we may do some weird innovative thing that may save the day and show the way. 
The king is worried and uncertain enough that he .will take advice from persons he would previously have avoided or laughed at, and the latent wisdom of a Puddin'head Wilson or a Prince Myshkin is suddenly apparent. The _world is turned topsy-turvy, the last are made first and the first, last. We are all frightened with sudde!l opportunities. The problem is no longer a lack of opportunity; it is a lack of knowledge of what to do _with all these opportunities suddenly crowding aromjd us like importunate friends at night, when we have the only telephone in the neighborhood. 
In a tribal village in troubl~, the traditional authori­ties no longer function adequately, and new blood gets elected or chosen. Previously discouraged or for­bidden paths are now open to traffic, exciting events occur almost daily and while we niay die of many· 
. ·' . 
things we certainly \VOn't be bored. Like Hephaestus in ancient mythology-the godling who tried to drive Apollo's chariot, the Sun, across . the heavens-"rf we. perish, at least we perish in a n~ble endeavor." Mostly we human beings perish in any case, ·so: really, what have we got to lose? Unlike most moments in human history, our little villages, if they end, have a pretty fair-chance of going out \vith · a bang, rather than a whimper. And who knows? We might even succeed in blazing a trail _to a more human, more divine, fuller life_for many future inhabitants of this global village. Stranger things have happened. · 
Father Hubert Horan. is a 'Visiting professor in. the 
Department of Theology frimi ·Northwestern. Uni­
versity. He has spent 1nuch of )llis time -in. recent 
years studying~ worki1ig1 and livi.?1g ·1hith the peop!,e ,of. Northeast A/1-ica. _ 
.' 
Mel Wesley 


A WAY OF JUDGING 
ON Wednesday of this week, Regis Snyder went on trial in the Federal Court at San Jose, California. This fact probably doesn't mean much to many of you simply because you don't know Regis. It is possible the reason for the trial will make sense to even fewer of you: Regis is charged with refusing induction into the armed services, and he is guilty. He returned his draft card three years ago, before the lottery made the responsibility to decide less obvious. He ignored all subsequent directives from his board, and was arrested in South Bend last July. 
Why? 
It has never been easy for me to answer this ques­tion. There were times when I understood resistance emotionally, understood it intellectually. But there was always some vital element missing from the under­standing. There was never a time when I believed it was the right thing for me to do. So, it has been hard, waiting these three years with my friend for the outcome of an act I didn't understand. The maximum sentence is five years. Why take such a risk? 
About six weeks ago an event occurred which crystallized Regis' situation for me. This is not to say that it made logical sense, but rather a visceral, "mean­ingful" sense. 
The event: A judge in Maryland ordered an abor­tion to be carried out on a 16-year-old girl, against her will. The judge had decided that the circum­stances attending the birth of this child would not be fit for a child to grow up in, that it was in his (the child's) own best interests not to be born. The decision was overturned by a higher court, but nonetheless it stands: an official of the judiciary of this country has made the kind of moral decision for which we hung men at Nuremberg. The death penalty, abolished last year, at least held some claim (with some argu­
-ment) of being necessary to the stability of society, however uncivilized and hypocritical it might actually be. But this judge's decision can in no way be seen as a defense of society: it is a purely fascist act and a faithless act. That the odds against a good life for that child would be too strong is an opinion that stands in direct betrayal of what has always been in a sense the best American trait: the willingness to persevere in suffering. 
The classical problem of government has always been the opposition between individual freedom and the security of the community. That is why I see this court order as-a fascist act: one can not speak of an unborn child as a danger to society. 
"We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men 
are created equal; that they are endowed by their 
creator with certain inalienable rights; that among 
these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." 
To predict that a child's life will be so bad as to be not worth living is an act of despair which betrays the hope which (however messed-up we've become) America was founded on. What Regis is asking for; in facing prosecution, is a chance to speak, and bring others to speak, about where we are and where we are going. 
The necessity then, as I see it, is to remind ourselves of that spirit of hope, and to gird ourselves for the tension between the ideal and the real. 
WHEN I was a junior, Chris Wolfe (a former Ob­server writer) once asked me if I was a pacifist. I told him I was. He then asked me if I didn't feel any responsibility to my society, to protect it from danger. I replied that I did feel responsible to my country, but not in the way that society demands responsibility be understood. I told him that I understand a respon­sibility to point to something beyond the real, and to remind society of its responsibilities to that unname­able something. What he meant was that a society, once constituted, has an obligation to survive, and a right to demand of its constituents whatever is necessary to ensure that survival. What I meant was 
lincoln has an even smoother ride for 1973 
that there is more at stake than a question of survival. 
The existence of society -or community-is an admission of compromise with the ideal of good: it is a bargain struck among men in which both God and Satan act as witnesses. God is present because man, in forming community, acts creatively, in this spirit. Satan is also present because in entering com­munity, man gives up some of his freedom. And any time that man loses some of his freedom, he creates a tenuous situation, because a man is only secure when he is most free. But he cannot live completely free uniess he liYes alone. By forming community, he expands the possibilities of what he may become. He raises the limits of living, and in so doing you might say that he becomes more himself. Prometheus, to fulfill his destiny, had to commit an act which would chain him to the rock: an image of man's necessity to choose between complete freedom and a more com­plete life. 
But there come times (this is the paradox) \vhen that complete freedom must be reasserted, because a society has relaxed the tension between the real (the necessary compromise) and the ideal (the vision) when a community is small, the structure of com­promise remains fluid and open, informal. But as it grows, it reaches a point where it becomes necessary to formalize the compromise: law and institutions are created. The tendency, because that formal structure is not itself a living thing, is for the gap between the real and the ideal to widen; and the actions of men are the only means to draw the two closer. And that is only done by confronting that structure, and the men responsible for its immediate character, with moral authority which defies the laxities or 
the excesses of its own temporal authority. 
The Church teaches that man is the temple of the Holy Spirit. Resurrected from the dead language of the catechism, these words mean that each man is vested with a certain moral authority, must do as Jesus did, pointing his finger at the things going on around him which remain unseen to the hearts of most men. The responsibility is not to affirm society as it is, but to create a tension between the noblest ideals (the good, the true, the will of God, call it what you will) and the reality of society-its laws, its institutions, its values, and its aspirations by pointing out the distance between the two. 
THIS is what Regi~ has accepted as his responsibility. It is not an heroic act by nature: he is simply doing what any man must do, what he thinks it right. The limitation of his authority, lest the act be understood as anarchic, is this: that he has let himself become powerless. He has no temporal authority. He doesn't even have a lawyer. He is asking a question of him­self and of us, a question which Bob Meagher says in his book, Beckonings, that all men must ask: " ... Is revelation taking place, are my words and dealings somehow the prism of God's word and action among men; made, as I am, in God's image, am I ruling in his image as well?" 
The word ruling is vital because it hints at the nature of our lives: we are each like God, or like a little king, and each thing we do, or fail to do, or assent silently to, establishes law within the Kingdom. And so a man lives out a life story, a major part of which is the words he chooses to speak. A courtroom is a place of words, and Regis will try to speak there. 
In the end, it is a matter of how far we are willing to extend our hearts. The complexities of law and society are real and difficult, but they will not enter into the realm of the heart unless we take a stance beyond the "real world" -the compromise -and beckon to them to come hither. We have no assurance that they will come. But living in faith means simply that they will not come unless we beckon, despite the risk. The compromise will not become less of a compro­mise (we cannot hope to remove it; only to diminish it by degrees) unless we place ourselves further out into the ideal. 
Now the President has been re-elected, and I don't know if things are going to get better or worse. If you saw the returns on TV, you know by the com­mercials that the Lincoln Continental has developed an even smoother ride for 1973. Ford says it is a very good year. 
Well, I don't know. We await a sign in San Fran­cisco. If you are still in the habit of saying your night prayers, could you slip in just a little word for Regis? 
Mel Wesley was graduated from, Notre Dame in 1912 in the General Program,. His friend, Regis Snyder, about whorn he writes., has also been a mmn­ber of the Notre Dame comrnunity for six years. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


... 1 



"There Once Was 
The Who have come a long way since they were house band for the Mod-Rocker riots of the early sixties. Building on a sound best described as controlled abandon, they have evol­ved from cult heroes to one of the premier rock groups of our time. Al­ways experimenting, always pushing, they have consistently provided rock with new dimension and excitement. While The Who remains a musical entity formed by the interaction of four individuals, no small part of their success is due to the efforts of their lead guitarist and chief song­writer, Pete Townshend. 
"Who Came First," Townshend's long-awaited solo album, represents both a departure from and a con­tinuation of his work with The Who. For years now Pete has been record­ing material on his own in his home studio. This is how he wrote early Who hits like "My Generation" and "Magic Bus"; most of the material eventually recorded by the group starts as a demo tape there. In the privacy of his studio, amid the clut­ter of wires and instruments and the ever-present picture of a smiling Meher Baba, a quieter, more sensi­tive Townshend emerges to eclipse the intense, raging rebel that is Pete's on-stage persona. The music on his album is softer and more lyric than anything we've heard from him before. Gone are the monster chords and explosive riffs, replaced by syn­thesizers and melodic lines. Instead of playing tone knobs and feedback, Pete has turned his attention to the strings themselves, picking the rhy­thm and harmony to go with some of his prettiest lyrics ever. Stylisti­cally, the songs are reminiscent of some compositions from "Who's Next," especially "Song Is Over" and "Behind Blue Eyes," except that the latter were always juxtaposed with the thundering rock that is basic Whostyle. Whereas The Who de­mand volume as a necessary ingre­dient to their music, "Who Came 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

a Note ... // 
First" can be appreciated at any sound level. And, in the continuation of an experiment that began with that incredible guitar riff in "Any­way, Anyhow, Anywhere," he now uses synthesizers to produce the sounds that once came from his guitar, thereby freeing him to experi­ment further with both instruments. 
To be precise, this effort isn't a proper solo album, since all the ma­terial existed previously in one form or another but had never been re­leased until now. It's an album dedi­cated to Meher Baba and also to his followers, or Baba Lovers, of whom Townshend is a devoted part. Never­theless, it is significant in several ways. First of all, it allows him to express his personal feelings about Meher Baba outside the group con­text. Moreover, it reveals some in­teresting experimentation which may be valuable to the group itself. In Pete's own words this album is com­posed of music he plays at home; he'd kind of like us to hear it. 
Pete Townshend has always leaned toward the lyric and romantic. Songs like "Our Love Was, Is" and "Rael" from "The Who Sell Out" and much of "Tommy" bear this out. "Who Came First' represents a syn­thesis of sorts in this manner. "Pure And Easy" opens the first side, pick­ing up where "Song Is Over" left 
off: 
There once was a note pure and easy, Playing so free like a breath ·rippling by. 

The singer, having experienced this note, longs for it again. Unlike some of today's trendy rockers, Town­shend makes no pretensions at being some kind of mystic knower; he is a searcher, like all of us, and therein lies the universal beauty of his com­positions. Townshend plays all the instruments here, as on all his songs, and although the drumming won't make you forget Keitl~ Moon, it's adequate for his purposes. "Evolu­tion" is a Ronnie Lane (he of the mighty Faces) tune. Pete plays acoustic lead on it while Ronnie does the vocal. Lane, also a follower of Baba, sings of his history through reincarnation, telling us of his search for a master who will lead him to perfection. 
"Forever's No Time At All" fea­tures further revelation a la Baba, penned by Katie Mclnnerney and sung by Billie Nichols. Caleb Quaye does the instrumental; Pete, appar­ently in a humble mood, is present only as engineer. "Let's See Action" (Nothing Is Everything) closes the first side and emerges as its most powerful statement, both musically and lyrically. For the first time on the album a synthesizer is brought into play. Apparently its range and control are what Pete's been looking for to give an overall color and depth to his songs. The lyrics are a simple and beautiful philosophical statement of the theme: 
I don't know where I'm going 
I don't know what I need 
But I'll get to where I'm gonna 
end up 

And that's alright by me 
I've been running from side to side Now I. know for sure that both sides lie It's gotten so bad but we got to keep trying I can't stand to see my people crying 
Townshend's music, like all art, is motivated by the song from within, a song to which we all listen and one which we can all express. For Townshend, the moment is expressed in his music; he is forever trying to recapture that one pure note, the harmony in his life. In "Time Is Passing," he writes: 
Find it, I've got to hear it all again 
My heart has heard the sound of 
harmony 
Climb to it, as my tears fall again 
But it's only by the music I'll be 
free 

"Heartache" is a remake of the old Jim Reeves hit "There's A Heartache Following Me," one of Baba's favor­ite songs (the other is "Begin The Beguine," and I'd love to hear Town­shend's version of that). I could never imagine Townshend doing a country and western tune but now I'm humming this one when I get up in the morning. "Sheraton Gib­son" is a simple song of life on the road. No wild parties, no groupies, just a longing to get back home. Pete gets a chance to do some pick­ing on this one and the lyrics are rendered with his own engaging combination of sincerity and naivete. 
"Content" is a musical adaptation of Maud Kennedy's poem, sung by Pete in a semi-operatic falsetto ( come to think of it, he does sound a bit like Vera Lynn). Although it fits into the general mood and theme of the album, this song is pr~bably its weakest cut. Maturity granted, there is still something disturbing about the man who wrote "My Gen­eration" singing a song called "Con­tent." In any case, it does provide a smooth transition to the curtain closer, "Parvardigar." The words here are from Meher Baba's Univer­sal Prayer. Townshend sets it to music and the end result is, in a word, amazing. A joyous and exhil­arating song, a hymn of praise to everything. Dominated by a simple yet beautiful arrangement and Town­shend's stirring vocal, it's quite un­like anything I've ever heard, yet it rings familiar in a way I cannot describe. 
So there you have it, as personal a look into the world of Pete Town­shend as you're likely to get. "Who Came First" succeeds on many levels. You don't have to be a Baba Lover to appreciate the lyrics, or a Who freak to dig the music. And, seeing as how an even third of these songs were chuck-cuts from "Who's Next?" one wonders how many other gems must be sitting in cans in Townshend's basement. How about it, Pete? 
-casey pocius 

. has· proven at best an ambiguous "gift of the Lord." ·What halfway . intelligent Catholic does not feel even 
a. slight twinge of embarrassment when he comes face to face with one of those _burlap bag messages, of the "love" "joy" "be a real man" variety, that were the liberal Catholics call­ing card? 
Think b_ack· a bit further.. To grade school, perhaps.. Remember: · There were moments when the '.weirdest things made a new and deep 
sense· beyond sense-when Confes-· . sion did not mean -cleaning up one-­· self (the backqoard erased again) 

Medieval · Chic 
• but cleansing' a ~hole world, the first

or glimpse of sky or gr:ass as one came out of the church...-. 
. All these things were shared, part of comirmnity life,. not a rare isolated


Why the Polls 
joy, like reading poems. These mo­ments. belonged to a. people, not to one~elf. It. was_ a ghetto, undeni­ably. But not a.bad ghetto to grow


Were Right 
up in._ 

This passage clarifies the two lines · . of thought that I've been discussing . Bare-Ruined Choirs: Doubt, Proph­. From this Olympian perspective the ..The only problem with the old belief ecy, arid Radica.l Religion .doings of New Frontier · Catholics .was ,that. ~o. one could ·believe it by Garry Wills. Doubleday, 1972 and guitar plucking nuns are nierci-anymore. To some this may seem (272 pages. Hardback, $7.95.) lessly dissected and found, bankrupt. pathetically trite. Still, one feels con­At 'very best, they were well. inten-:y:inceq by Wills that it is true to the "It pained him that he did not know ·tioried in their ignorance. -In an age· · facts:, The. world of faith "was a well what -politics· meant and that _when -no , orie believes in· anything, · world qf . deceptions _too." "Doubts he did not know where the universe · · ."concerneff Catholics" serve· to-reas:-. _\vere hidden for_ the sake of the chil­ended." . sure more intelligent,"mocle~n rne'rr' .dren; or a: priest's for the sake ~of Stephen Dedalu_s · · of the ·possibility of belief ~n a: r~di_. : . the· flock; .or.the ·flock's 'in front of ~ally-secularized. world.. , .· _ · the Fathe~.> ,,-The-center did not Charity means pardoning what is un­._: Wills spins ·ou~ this line'of_tho~ght,': ~. hol<f for. ·a -yariety of reasons, and pardonable, or it is ·no virtue ·at· all. at times brilliantly, and theri',.in the... what-Wills_.is up to is an attempt.to Hope means hoping·wlieti filings are .final : third. of the_ book ·:reminds'. us transcend .the . "mere anarchy" . by hopeless, or.it is no _virtue" at,·alL :. .,that. the ·argument is 'a: self-dest:ruc-·-_ analyzing ·11:~ causes. if we tak_e this Gilbert_:Chestertori . . . tive .orie. Why? Obviously-because as our end, _the .classical critique is ,it-is too easy, because we ai;e_neither ·· \;B;hiable· as:·therapy. If the .Gfitique 
"If Catholics ,are more accepted· , medieval or" classical but, choke 'on alone is, ~ur.: goal, it is. too smug; _ now, it is because they are becoming -_it who:win, "post-modern'!: men: The kills ~00 many straw men. -The'So~ 'like everyone else,' can talk of,their _ ·classical argument leaves the Church cial Gospellers were basically ·right, strange upbringing·· because_ they -~s we-have come to.know -it in·a. _but-their later disciples proved al-: have· (partially). escaped: it.'' : So dunt. heap. True, the argument is ·most ludicrously inept. What does a writes-Garry_Wills,·classicist, cultural.-impressive and witty,· the polemicist conception of the faith ~s a living,, critic, and··autl10r of the controver:. _: :-a:true virtuoso, but the end result is' active process operating in•the world .. sial Nfu;on Ago.nistes;_in his introduc--_still inescapably durgy. The classical .but not bound by it become in-t~rms · · tiori to this study o( the Catjlolic' argument can go not one inch flff-of 1972? Church in the post-modern world. Iri ther, except perhaps into the facile Before attempting an answer :let · the next 140 pages or so Wills pre-nostalgia of a Triumph magazine; to us retrace our steps. Where: di.d·the sents the case against liberal Cath-celebrate a type of Church and brand liberal Catholic go wrong? , -··_ olicism, against the two Johns of faith that simply "ain't there." "... the liberals' most acutely (Kennedy and Roncalli),-Harvey Nor will a revitalized Church spring, experienced urge was to prove that Cox, Jacqueline Grennan, and the phoenix-like from the ashes bedecked so:m,ething recognizably Catholic "relevant involvement" of the six-in peace medallions and cllanting need not be as cramped, ugly, and ties. Wills' style and mode of atgu".'. Simon · and Garfunkel songs. : The · anti-intellectual as they fourid at the . ment are those of a representative _ Kmgdom of God ~as ,_not.: be_en -corner church. The liberal was look­of classicaf or · medieval culture:-: brought to this-_earth.: .rechri~J.9gy: ··ing for an alternative culture to that 
• ~' ',_ 'C ~ • -, ---• ­

of the rectory-school complex, a cul­ture that anyone might respect. If he were lucky, he might even prove that Catholic art is an important branch of Western art-more, that a 'true' Catholicism pervades and animates our culture. In the ardor · of this quest, liberals created a new chauvinism. To escape the narrow 
. confines of censorship and .the fear of 'scandal', they argued that a 'dar­ing' author may actually be more Catholic than a timorous churchman unable to enter into or live out of his large heritage. One should not only· read a dirty book for God . . . but , believe it had been' written for God. 
, So. the zealous engage Catholic re­wrote the history of the Catholic Church. An encyclical against de.: mocracy?. Impossible. Paul . sending back the runaway slave (Romans 12)? A momentary lapse of social con.science. The Inquisition? Well, you know how silly some oi these "old _country" priests can be. Athe­ists. were actually god-fearing men in disguise. When finally confronted with one of the irrevocably unsavory aspects of the Catholic tradition,· the liberal would 'simply throw up his hands, plead .historical relativism; and "witness" his own "true" inter­pretation of the faith.by 'joining yet another community action group. 
)\.fost · Catholics were "good guys" and "nice people;" ergo, it stood to reason that most "nice people". and "good guys" were Catholics, whether they, knew or cared about it or not. To many, C_hristianity .seemed Hke an ever present, ever spreading net, 
. destined to encompass the whole of mankind-second only to .Commu­nism. Even Nietzsche was Christian "in intention." ,Ad majorem National Catholic Reporter gloriam: 
Harvey Cox praised John Kennedy saying, "life for him is a set of prob­lems, not an unfathomable mystery.'.' And Ted Sorenson pooh-poohed · a Life report that Kennedy had fallen to -his knees at the height of the Cuban missile .crisis by declaring 
· that he was a: "stronger" man than that and recalling how John .Ken-: nedy's religion was "so private he 
, riever talked of it even in private:"_ Cox declared that modern Chris­-, tianity "ought to be like a floating crap game," and go where the action ·was..And indeed it did. But in the process it became, in Wills' phrase, 
NOVEMBER 17, 1972 
a "paradise of politics" and bought into the rules of the game. 
Thus: 
·John Lindsay was elected "fresh," to be mayor of New York in the earlier time of urban hopefulness -and only learned through attri­tion of suave hopeful bluster that his city, like life, is one problem, an insoluble one. 
This was the proverbial "rub." 
Our, trouble was not with one man, (LBJ), or one mistake (Vietnam). The mistakes came in a train, con­nected; not self-correcting, but cumulative.· We-did not learn from them, but compounded them. . . 
, Something was wrong with the_ whole process-and one of the things wrong with it was our re­fusal to think-anything basic could be wrong with it. The System could not be judged except from within, by those able. to · speak from power about power. 
No one was "outside" the System -especially no Catholic; But, here is the other rub. This is ,as far as the Olympian argument can take us. Why? Wills cites de· Tocqueville's dictum to the effect that the same means that allow inen to go without religion may bring.them back to it. More ·to the point, though, he recalls an old cook, formerly employed at Woodstock (the Jesuit seminary), telling him that the reason the semi­Review, has called Wills a "hell-fire, guilt-loving Christian" and a "medi­aeval cringer." Why? Because the true Catholic faith, according to Wills, translates into "radical reli­gion" a la the Berrigans. The "offi­cial church," by "staying out of poli­tics," has "tacitly endorsed and been endorsed by our warfare state, and finds itself at bay, along with the warmakers.'· 
Dan Berrigan stands for "roots in­stead of rockets, tradition over pro­gress, tragedy over arrogance, weak­ness over power, gospel over Caesar." Dan Berrigan is, in many·ways, the antithesis of the liberal Catholic. Wills gets his cake and eats it too. 
That the pollsters were so "accu­rate" in this past presidential elec­tion is not so much a tribut~ to their intelligence as it is evidence of how the political machinery in this country, including the polls, has shrunken the vision of the American people-shrunken it down to the point where what should be their most heartfelt desires can be reduced to a set of. "Yes-or-No" questions, as antiseptic as they are "empirically verifiable." ­
By "looking ·the other way" the preconciliar Church had become an accomplice to this shrinkage. It was as "un-distinctive" as the National Catholic Reporter ever was. The liberal phase was a necessary step 
_on the way. "On the way" toward what?-toward the catacombs, "the 
nary closed · was because "they _ underground," as Wills calls it. The couldn't lock the world ·out no more." . "underground;, has roots-in -Abe­That they tried to lock the world lard and· Newman, in Erasmus and out (via Humanae v. ·Vitae· and pig · Wyclif, in-Acton and Dan Berrigan. headed defenses of celibacy) was the . These are men who stay in the .primary cause of_ their riwn demise.. Church, crazily,· and against all "em­
Nobody took it seriously because it was.. irresponsible in the worst, sense of the word. It was. but a short jaunt to the point where no one :took ·anything, seriously._ There was . a "sweet presumptuousness". a: naive. unearthly arrogance at ·play in· the attempt to "hold the_ line" for the 
· mere sake of the holdirig. , •Now.· we· _are· prepared to answer the question posed earlier.· Into what does all of this good intent translate in-1972? Wills' answer· is daring and, I think, substantially accurate. ·The last three chapters of -·Bare· Ruined Choirs are certain to be the most controversial. Many will not be·· convinced. Already, John Gardner, writing in the New York Times Book 
pirically verifiable" evidence. As Wills points out, Jesus himself was not a Jesus freak. He was not happy enough. Or, as Quoheleth wrote in 
. the book of . Ecclesiastes, "the fool foldeth his own hands, and eateth his own flesh." 
I think Mr. Gardner's assessment in the Times is wrong, completely wrong. · Garry Wills has written a book that gets beyond both the juve­nile refections of "oppressive dogma" and the Church's own failures to be­gin to search seriously for the roots and directions that faith so dearly yearns for, if it is to flower at all. No · one ever really believed ·in a travelling magic show anyway. 
-ilan o'dannell 
The papers of s_ixteen Notre Dame profes·sors, participants in a confer­: ence . on "America in Change" held on ·campus last_ spring are being re­leased in. book_ form this month. The -collection of fifteen essays -dealing -with movements in the arts, sci-e_nc~s, politics, religious, philosophic and economic thought of the sixties and seventies is, for the most part, cautious in · d~claring the period a 
-tinie of cultural change. 
While cultural change on a grand scale is a. popular thesis (Alvin Toffler, _Charles. Reich, Theodore Roszak, -Philip Slater), participants in the symposium generally do ·not ·see the tim~ as radical departure . from the -momentum. of human progress. Rather, the time -is _con­

Anesthetizing 
sidered "~pocalypse'' word :recurring continually in an other­wise verbally pluralistic . set of 
, writings. ' 


Apocalyptic as -a 
:Thomas-Werge's analysis of Nor­man Mailer's-Of a-Fire on the Moon . is rigidly 'literary, touching upon as­
pects' of social : concern· indirectly in _' considering Mailer who deals with ·th_ese_ · as materials for fiction. The ­
, fa,ct that a traditional literary anal­

.. , , ysis,succeeds:convincingly in placing --_a book produced ·under the duress of -. apocalypse ,squarely in the tradition 
. of-American' L~tter (~ la.Melville ­


Apoplexy 

a:figure who had librarians worried until tl:t~:192o;s)' couid distract a few : _McLuhahists _from_their soap operas. ---,Ronald.:.. Weber's consideration of _;·. .·:·: · ·. -writers·:and:critics points toward a 
· -,. ----'-literary solution of problems in lit­~:·.:_\:-::.--•'eri~r~=-~-'.-;W~:_have_ to remind C>?r­: ·..·~ \ :. : ·-:selves.·that literary order is always _, -·>·,: ::· :_-p~oyJsionaI;)hat -~n. writing;-there -' ·:·..,_· :,:··::.->'. :_ -. -_,_ cari b_e''ri.o.orihodoxy, for the.kinds of .';:·:_..,:_ ·,::;->· ·:. ;:i:-~~wqrk:·tha:t-:-~~si-deeply, interests -the , .. ·: .. • ,, .. ·. .._-,,__serious."fo'ritei is :aiw_ays-·work that 
I' 
:·· ·---. _,. · . -_ ---, ,_::-=---:liasn't;been written."-· .-· · · 
, , -,: '-~: .·_·-):\.: ::.. ·_ '•,_-.·, _: ..:: ;: :;'.:: _··'.._-_:}:t~{~i;.·•:.) -,, :Michael !-:Cr~re ,poi~ts' ,?;t_,·thE:
•:••,'-.. -_A:-••-~~~ -• 
~-~-_ . . -·.r ~:·.:,,::·-;,.:..::'"dange:rs,~of the,. New • Age hypo-­• -·,. :._ ·,.,' -, • , •._ _ -· , . _ : ·---:t-Y·/\/:?;:;;1:h,~sis.::with r~spect ,to', science·.· and· 
• ~ • ~~, + ­
'c_· 

•!,. :,•. ·:\, ·---~ :-·y·:, ~ ~ -:-, /.-.......{~::~{ :1~~~~:rf ~~t-,-~·:.11:ec,mOiogy, _of :~the ~ inertia ,illstilled 
·', ,/· i:.>i/?~'.~ftt{f!:t:'.i~~t1µ{t~:;rr::o::: 
•' 
If. we cannot assess with confid­. articles-these two son:i,ewhat dis­ence the role of science and tech­sident contributions are: practically . nology in present or future · so--identical to :this style. . . 
. ciety; it should not surprise us· for In a· c~lfore :where··seliexaniina­we have riot been able to assess tion is· a defining characteristic of their · role in any past society. . . the national character, the..tempta­But in the last two decades, major tion to puritanical self-inquest has improvements have begun to come tended since the sixties toward the in such areas and perhaps in some unreasonably ambitious. As at other future decade a more adequate periods of national upheaval (the picture of our present or the pre­1830's and 1890's for instance) re­sent. of the future may be drawn. formist rhetoric and vehement de­nunciation became a· part of every­Most of the writers appear confid-day speech. . Perhaps .at no time ent in their analyses. The stability prior to the sixties, however, was the of 1972 relative to the times of up­mood so neurotically interrogative. heaval preceeding-and possibly to Typewriters of that decade clicked those which could follow-has pro­off pages of question marks which 
vided them a podium from which to never expected immediate answers air their views. In a commentary anyway. Usually the response was bearing at least as much on the a conference, convention, or. collo­social mileu as on· "Catholicism and quium which only handled questions Cultural Change,JJ historian Philip by methodically generating more of 
them-then · there were, alterna­
Gleason _is able to observe: "The seas of faith are always troubled tively, always the streets to which to for adolescents and young adults, resort. Cultural heroes were those but those who matured in the 1960's 
who strove to articulate the best encountered a veritable hurricane." analysis fastest.. What was aired as Having admitted that the application the evening news was edited into ·a of his commentary has broadened to comprehensive· documentary for pre­
sentation after the dishes were done.
"the overall cultural scene in the 
nation as well as in the Church," he Only. gradually did th~ realizatio~ argues "that there are enough paral­dawn thc!-t perhaps· one could not be lels between the temper of our own definitely sure in appraising the total 
times and that of the historical ram-impact of a given event. antic period to justify calling this a Some of this concern. for immedi­new age• of. Tomanticism." The ate evaluation is evident in the con­reader need only consider the analy-tents of America in Change: Reftec.:. tical practices of former romantic-tions on the Sixties· _and Seventies. ism and their excesses to follow Pro-The_ latter decade; being· reflect~d fessor Gleason to his con.clusion that upori even before it has ~lapsed, re-· "romanticism was·not final." ceives considerably less· attention 
Despite the diversity of areas .than the sixties. The majority of the . examined, the collected essays--with ·. writers · consider prevailing change two exceptions-are monographical-·. in light of phenomena of_ the sixties; · ly. atonal, evidence perhaps of con-:. the no(es, . however, list a ·. con­siderabie consultation · among · the siderable number ~f seventies' _pub­participants. The .tone ·is cautious lications: · Challenged to re,spond·. to but not withdrawn, calm but not un-the questions of the·time, the_partici-
A:A.A.? 

. perceptiv_e. Exc~ptions · are Joseph :pants have.. done so with much deli­W..Scott's "Ethnic Nationalism and ·. berate thouglit,_pain!)t_akingly fo~u:-. the:Cultural Di~lectics'! and Thomas· lated..arid expostulat!:?d.' . _.. 
.s.· F.ern's ·"A Decade'in the House of . ·In any age.:it js' repreh~nsible. to -. Irresponsibility."-.· Professor Scott . be ignorant -?f·: one's. ,'present.:. AI?:: .. ' ~ltimately; 'presc~ibes' ethijic· parti~' parently' overwhelming . events: Care ' tionirig of. the' United States a·s the . no excuse. Celebrating 'ignorance or . onlyr. solution to :.its.: -cultu,ral prob~ . ·th~. frustration :or inyestigating )s . _ _, lems. -: Pr_ofessor . Fern,~-presents··: a_· irresponsible,, ei~lier ~ii-retreating be-·.· .. , popularized concept '.of art'-iiot 'mu~h·, . hinctquestiori marks pr·in complain.,._: ". , : ~ . different •:from ~-positions -~a:rt~culated_ .jng .·that ·.one_, ca~n.of:-copf ..The_ a}-:,0 • :, _ ~-.
..: 
; duri_~g .the sixties:-' 'Wllile-;.th~', rhe-. 'tempt:o(th~-Notr:e -Dame,faciilty :i~·" ' . toric: 'in the· studies _as··a ·wh9Iitbea:rs ., ,courageous·, and~Jheir:,::achievement: ·,. , ·c1ose·similarit1es to the journalism.of readable. and,.recommended:; -~ ·:" :. ::·,,. 
0 ':'. th_~·,:Pi:i~~-' ~xcep~_-/or)~e.;1i~~~a~~-,:-_·_ ·.:.:-. :,:-'~: \/· ·: '.:/·:_·-~·-·:·1j.)?:i;~~~r~~:,,_;·: 
:::_ 'N9yEMBER.:l7, · 1972-. , ­
in the Auditorium on the Second Floor. It's the treat of the Friends
coming distractions 
of Chicago Public Library. While in Chicago, drop in on the Art Institute 
FILiUS 

Comedy Is Ii:ing at Zagran's Zin­ema ·west on Nov. 17 and 18, Psycho is a close second on Dec. 1 and 2, and the following week there's a preview of exam hysteria with A 
FunnJ· Thing Happened on the \Vay 
t.o the Forum. All this entertain­ment at 8 :00 and 10 :00 p.m., in Flanner's basement for only a buck. Don't miss it unless you yen for sunny days and saucy maids, for Camelot returns on Nov. 17, at 9 :00 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
See Ugetsu, when Cinema '73 of­fers this beautiful Japanese legend to you on Dec. 2 and 3. Then on Dec. 9 and 10, the taming of The \Vild Child by Truffaut: same time, same place, Engineering Auditorium at 8 :00 and 10 :00. Close the books and bring the dollar. 
If you're fond of Jane Fonda, watch her fly in Barbarella, Nov. 30 and Dec. 1 in Emil's (Engineering) Auditorium, 8 :00 and 10 :00 for the usual fee of Sl.00. 
MUSIC 

Support your local Glee Club at their Fall. Concert in Washington Hall on Nov. 20 at 8:00-free of charge! On Nov. 28, the Houston Stockhouse sparks··ol' vvashington Hall with the Blues at 8 :00 for that classical $1.00. Don't care for the Blues? Try Susan Stevens, Soprano, on the same day, same time, as she reverberates through the Little The­atre at St. Mary's. Performance is free. Enjoy a Co-ed Christmas Choral Concert in the Church of Loretto on Dec. 10 at 8 :00 p.m., as the two Glee Clubs give a combined performance. 
Jazz at Nine: The Boys in the Notre Dame Jazz Band welcome you to their concert combo on Nov. 29. On Dec. 6 they open up the floor with a lecture, "The Mothers of In­vention: Cross Pollination," and close it with a Jazz Band concert on Dec. 13. They do it for free at LaFortune. 
SPECIALS 

On November 18 follow the couple crowd to the ACC for the Yes at 8:30, only $5.50, $4.50 and $2.75 for tickets. (Afterward, pizza for $3.50, coke $.35 . . . ) The Gypsy Folk Festival frolics for their first appearance in the U.S. at O'Laugh­lin Auditorium on Dec. 4 at 8 :00 
p.m. Bring the kids to the Children's Christmas Play on Dec. 2, 3, 8, 9, 10 at 2 :00 p.m., or try your room­mate. Tired of South Bend's spin­ning social scene? Relax in Chicago with the Chicago Symphony String Quartet on Nov. 19, 3 :00, at Ran­dolph Street and Michigan Avenue 
for their shows, Braque, the Great Years, until Dec. 3 and Dutch Genre Drawings until Dec. 31. 
LECTURES 

The Philosophy of Language is expounded upon by Donald David­son, from Rockefeller University on Nov. 27, 29 at 8, in the New Biology Auditorium and on Dec. 1 in the Library Auditorium. Dr. Erik von Kucknelt-Leddihn (Imagine that up in lights!) discusses "The Church in an Age of Confusion" Monday, Nov. 20 at 8 :00 at the Library Audito­rium. "Told As It Is by Someone \Vho Care,s" is Curtis Robinson, Lake County Juvenile Probation Of­ficer, Gary, Indiana. Date: Nov. 29; place: Carroll Hall; time: 7 :30. "Is the School a, Valid Factor in Juven­ile Delinquency?" Dr. John T. Feld­busen answers that at the same place and time as Curtis did on Dec. 6. 
EXHIBITIONS 

The Graphic ,vorks of Ludwig Feidner, the German artist, and Pre­Columbian Pots and Pans open the 
N.D. Art Gallery on Nov. 12. Not to be outdone, Moreau Gallery presents their students' work in St. Nicholas Fair on Dec. 3-16 and opens their Children's Museum on Dec. 6. Look for a Madrigal Dinner on Dec. 2 and 3 at Moreau. Still continuing at SMC is Marvin Bartel: Ceramics from Goshen College and Three Photog­raphers; both end with the month. 
SPORTS 
Don't say you've got nothing to do. Try Hockey. Nov. 24 and 25, ND battles against Minnesota. Watch for Basketball on Dec. 4 as we take on Ohio State. Everything starts at 8 :00 except the football games which, as everybody knows, start when the camera rolls. ND is up against Miami on Nov. 18, and 
0 
looks forward to the real test with Southern Cal on Dec. 2 at Los An­geles. See you at the Bowl Game. Amen.. 
-theresa stewart 
THE SCHOLASTIC 



the crooked rook. 
SOLUTION TO LAST PROBLEM 
WILLIA~f MEREDITH 
Dubuque Chess Journal 
1. N-N4 dis ch 
August, 1888
la.... K-Nl 2. R-QR8 any 
3. R-Rl mate 
lb.... K-Bl 2. R-QR8 any 
3. R-Rl mate White mates in three moves 
le.... K-R3 

2. N-R2 P-36 (else) 3. R-R8 mate (Q-R8 mate) 
ld.... K-B3 2. Q-B2 P-N7 3. Q-Q3 mate 
le.... K-Rl 
2. Q-R2 ch PXQ 3. N-B2 mate 
SOLUTION L.~ NEXT ISSUE 
..... 
en 
ro
-
+al

_(I) 
en
I:. 
ro
..... 
lilr.lmll 




The afternoon has at last ·come to an eiid; i~ fact, it is now Saturday evening, no longer ·afternoon. A day that began with worry about magazine deadlines · and piling school work ended with worry about less mun­dane matter. At one o'clock,_ as ·1 paceci'the wet pave-: ment from LaFortune to, O'Sh_aughnessy to-help ·inter-·_ view CAP candidates, I found myself mulling over the oft~echoed pros and c~>Iis·of the program,. of the charges of. "elitism," of -the vindictive Observer -editorials of 
·_ last spring. Three interviews arid several hours iater 1 was still ~nking the· same thoughts, pond~ring th; reasons _for: the_ program's existence. -_. _ _,-_,The-CAP 'program_-~lla_s· created' several_years ago at·a_ time when college·.and, ·unfversity course require.: _ments were extremely prohibitive. and virtually pre­eluded -any :interdisciplinary. approach to course selec­
-', :: -' -· . ·, . -. 

-, ::--""---­
' -­

tion. Its· functions at that time were twofold. First, it _ enabled the student to waive certain-requirements and _ at the same time. gave him priority ·in registering for classes. · Second, it brought the -student into contact with_ a relatively 'select group .of faculty from whom he could choose or.,would be assigned a special advisor. 
The criteria used for. admitting a student -to the program were_ somewhat. nebulous. The student was usually nominated-to the.program by·one_of his teach­ers who felt that he demonstrated ability and the po­tential to b~nefit from the program. Although the stu­dent could nominate himself, too few knew of the op­portunity to_ make this a_ common ch_annel into the program. 
_After his nomination, .the student was asked to write an <'intellectual autobiography" that included his rationale for applying. The third and final -stage con­si~ted of an interview in ·which he was evaluated in terms of· academic ability, -sincerity, and need ·for the beIJefits the program offers. . 
Criticism of the CAP program has usually implied, in one-·way or a~other, thatit is discriminatory. Why should certain students be ·given priority in registering for a particular class while other stude!!ts are excluded? Why should certain students be .given contact with. special advisors \~hen others are not? What becomes of the students who _have both the ability and the need for the program,. but are riot fortunate enough to be singled out_for nomination by one of_ their teachers? 
A more general criticism of the program concerns its present need. _Since· the elimination of many of the college arid university requirements, all students have -the · flexibility-of curriculum to allow for interdiscipli­nary scheduling. It would seem, however, that a more suotle_' need does.,exist_:_that for_-good advisors. ·It is ­significant ~at-a trend-~as noted.during this semester's 
interviews. The 'vast· majority;of the applicants stated th_at their _primary reason:_for. seeking admittance into -. the :pr_ogram was· their lack;Jo Jhis point, of a good ad­
· visor._ ApparentlY:-and T)hink a· more· th,orough .in­vestigation .would. b~a:r _. this out-there are '110 other adeqli9-te channels-by -which the student can come into· 'conta<;:t wtth:a good-.ad~isor. ,·. 
· ·Recently, a· quo1:a.-system·h~s been established such ._that only a certair{' pe~~en}~ge:oi CAP· students, are 
,, all<?_We~ 'irito' a. giyen :cfass.: 'Thus; the ·possibility that 
oth~r students' will be. excluded because of ''preferential 
treatment'' is' minimized; · · · · ­
-Where, then,. do~s. this leave us ·iri ari e~aluatiori ~f the need for the CAP ·program? . That it provides -a special -source of academic counseling . is not enough --of a. justification. It does facilitate the creation of a personalized, interdisciplinary program. In fact, it' ·is 
ne~ly indispensable in that regard.. This would seem to_ be its strongest raison d'etre. · -, At· this time, the~e is another reason· for its .ex­

--. ; · istence... Given the present lack of. another source: of . 
-_, goo~· advisors, the program must· continue. But ·work :must-~e d·one to i_mprove the-advisory ·channels within .-the,_;individual departments so that al,l students ~ay _ ~a~e the opportunity to work closely with a good ·ad­-_-:···>-. visor·~ ~ey wish. In the meantime, to lose the progra.'m 
-. would con,stitute a great loss to the University . . -­
--,-~ =_ --, 
--greg stidham 
i_-.... __,"' '.':, ­




*<tt 








WHEN 
YOU 

KNOW 
ITS FOR 

KEEPS. 
Love. captured forever in the beautiful brilliance of a perfect diamond Keepsake ... the perfect symbol of your special love. 
Rings from S100 to S10.000 Trade Mark Reg AH Pond Co . 
TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 
Send new 20 pg. bookie!, "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding" plus full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢.,. F-72 Name----,---------------------­Address-----..;.......--,-------------"-----­
City _________:..-__-Co..--"--------~ ________________-£ip RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, 
vYe'rc looking for securities analysts. Actuaries. Accountants. Computer pro­p;rammcrs. And people \Yho like the chal­lenge of figures, finance and money. 
But \\·e'rc also looking for people who han• a hit more than analytical skills to offor. Because though we're a big company, we'Ye made quite a fo\\. departures from the "big company" \\·ay of doing things. 
For one thing, \n:>'ve made action our by,\·onl. Not only action in terms of our relations \\·ith the public, but also action in recognizing and promoting talent \Yithin our m,·n company. 
Stop by your college placement office and read our brochure "The \Vhole Truth." It spells out how iEtna works, and the many specific opportunities \Ye have for people of all talents. 
Then think about what you want from a career. If it's something more than the average, think about iEtna. 
After all, \\·e're not your average surance company. 
fiitluN 
LI FE & CASUALTY 
You get action with ,LEtna. 






