

1.: 

THE TWENTIETH OF FEBRUARY 2003 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
» Senior Staff Farewells 
» Gone in 237 Seconds by Gerard Meskill 
» And All That Jazz by Carolyn Sweeney 
_ 

by NickKolman-Mandle _:, · _ _. 
08
. .. -. . .
·[)~_Bartolo, Stepan; O'Sbaugn.es$y, , . H~rrimes__.'.', •Sqhoiasitq'.expJqrijs)he -._ 
: stdries :of tti~ people f~(wtiolr(many<. 'b1,1i!dings qn campus_ are n~n:,edt, ; ­
03 
I
. . . . ' .. 
Admitting ·success. 

20 
."'' 1:2;•·-.·
by Mike Borgia: · An increase in impressive-under.-­
igradu~te ~ppiications·c:9uld_'sp~_1i:: ··,: .. pQsitiv~ change forJhe student,body.­
24 , ··-:·: , i,, ·-, .., , ' , ', -' , : , , j 



A Whole New Campus 
With a yelp, I tossed my acceptance letter to Notre Dame into the air and started dancing around the mailbox. In my revelry, all I could see was the first word ofthat letter, the only one I had bothered to read: "Welcome." I stopped pranc­ing when I accidentally stamped a footprint into the tan paper. Undaunted, I caught up the letter with the rest ofthe mail and ran inside. Since then, I have questioned the motives behind that warm welcome. I put a lot more on my application than checkmarks in the "right" racial boxes to earn the letter, but that wasn't what a friend's father implied, or what, I'm sure, others thought. I've been called a lot ofnames, but the one I hate the most is "Diversity." I loathe the idea ofbeing thrown into a homogenous pool just to make aripple. I didn't come here to diver­sify the campus. I came here because I wanted to be a part of its welcome. Slowly, the student body is changing, thanks in part to the admissions department's pursuit ofthat odious buzzword. It's a tough job to recruit diverse students -and not just along racial lines -especially with the new debate raging over affirmative ac­tion. And, as one friend once asked, "Why would a minority want to go here?" With a record number ofapplicants this year, it seems there's an awful lot who do. On page
look for 
ISSUE 11 12, Scholastic's Mike Borgia looks at the admission department's efforts to pick just 
on 
the right mix for what could be the most diversified class ofDomers yet-and their
MAR27 
efforts to change the face ofNotre Dame. 
A Long Goodbye 
We hired Chad Sharon as our web designer last November. When I first met Chad, I was charmed by his energy and eagerness to take over the position. He was talented, quick-witted and had a warm smile. I couldn't wait for Chad to get to know the rest of the staff because I knew he would fit right in. He disappeared a day before our staff Christmas party. Although he wasn't with us long, Chad will always remain part of the Scholastic family. 

Step Right Up 
Late-night editing can make you crazy -and usually does. I am consistently im­pressed by the group ofpeople that voluntarily invests so much energy in this maga­zine. It is these staff members' ability to keep laughing even when things go wrong that keeps the magazine coming out each time, and the editor from yanking out her hair. It's been an honor to work with all ofthem, and I am so proud to have been able to serve as their editor. 
This Thursday, a new editor and another talented staff will take the reigns at Scho­lastic. I am confident that they will do a wonderful job. Congratulations -and good luck -to all ofthem. 




J,{~
Sarah Childress, Editor 
Correction: In last issue's "Judgment Calls," the office responsible for the 3/4=28% advertise­
ments should have been identified as the Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education. Scholastic regrets 
the error. 
Vol. 144, No. 10 • 20 FEB 2003 

SCHOLaSTIC 
Editor in Chief Sarah Childress 
Managing Editor Jessica L Daues 
Executive Editor Cristin E. Fenzel 
Assistant Managing EditorjAnnie Robinson 
1 News
lMike Borgia Christopher Kelly Jim Ryan 
Campus Life Sean Dudley, editor Nick Kolman-Mandie, assistant 
Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor Jimmy Atkinson, assistant David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment Carrie E. Sweeney, editor Tracy Evans, assistant Matt Killen, assistant 
Departments Jennifer Osterhage, editor Meghan Gowan, assistant 
Design Ryan Greenberg, editor Eric Doversberger, creative director Curtis Leighton David Redenbaugh Tekla Sauter 
Photography Mike McNary, editor Liesl Marx, assistant 
Graphic Design Maryn Necel, editor 
Copy Cecilia Hadley, chief Kelly Faehnle, assistant Mo Ertel 
Distribution Mike McNary, manager 
Business 
Jessica B. Polish, manager Mary Ursu, manager 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is Copyright© 2003. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. An end so typical of Scholastic. Fantastic! Thanks for everything, everybody. I'm going to miss this. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. Byebye, Sarahl --....._ 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
20 FEBRUARY 2003 

2003-2004 EDITOR IN CHIEF ELECTED 
Junior Matt Killen was unanimously elected editor in chief for the coming year. 
The political science major began his ca­reer with Scholastic two years ago. Since then, Matt has written the "Entertainment Fortnightly" column and served as assistant entertainmen~ editor, as well as spent sev­eral long nights helping with production. 
"I felt that while the magazine has been extremely strong the past several years, I could help clean it up and make it a more well-rounded magazine than it has been." 
As a journalism concentrator, Matt plans to get more students involved in Scholastic, especially those interested in writing. And while most ofhis changes will be internal, Matt does have one goal to make his term stand out. 
"My visage will appear on every cover of Scholastic, much like George Washington appeared on the cover of George magazine. And yes, I'm comparing myself to George Washington." 
Matt, who has a penchant for reading The Onion when he's supposed to be working, will no doubt need his sense ofhumor dur­ing late-night productions. 



FAREWELL AND THANKS 

Sarah Childress, editor in chief, had so much fun making this magazine that she's off to meddle with another one in New York City. Before she leaves the Midwest, she will spend her days lounging luxuriously about and singing that Fleetwood Mac song, "Gypsy:' 


Jessica Daues, managing editor, somehow 
. completed an American Studies major and journalism concentration. She is looking for a journalism job within driving distance of St. Louis so that she can attend Cardinals games for the rest of her life. 

Cristin Fenzel, executive editor, is a political science major with a concentration in philosophy, politics and economics. She will continue to be old and crotchety, at least until she graduates. Although she hopes to turn over a new leaf eventually, we all know that isn't bloody likely. 
Cecilia Hadley, hyphen-happy copy chief, has not yet figured out how to parlay her PLS education into gainful, or even gainless, employment. Her friends Al and Jess think she has a future as a shot-girl at Heartland, but she remains unconvinced. 
Jamie Moran, online manager, graduated last semester and has moved down to Columbus, Ohio. She will attend graduate school at Ohio State in September to study school counseling. Right now, she is enjoying being in a college town without 
, any classes to attend. 
20 FEBRUARY 2003 , 


Gerard Meskill, sports editor, holds the distinctions of being Scholastids all-time word-count leader and the only known staff member to work under six different editors in chief. Graduating as an ALPP psychology major, he hopes to go to medical school next semester, perhaps even in the United States. 
Carrie Sweeney, entertainment editor, is a PLS major who'd love to write in Chicago next year, but is more realistic. She's interviewed extensively with monoliths in the culinary industry and expects embarrassingly lucrative offers from Burger King and Steak 'n' Shake by the end of the week. 
Liesl Marx, assistant photography editor, is a graphic design major. She thinks it might be a good idea to look for a job that has something to do with graphic design after she graduates. It's thoughts like these that encourage people to look to her for advice. 
Maryn Necel, graphic arts editor, hopes her cartoon style soon will reach the hearts and homes of people around the world, helping her to open her own publishing company/design firm. After inspiring the world with imagination, she will retire to her London flat, where she will dine on Strongbow and shwarmas. 

David Murray, assistant sports editor, will graduate with a degree in aerospace engineering and head back to the West Coast 
{a.k.a. the Best Coast) where he willwork in flight controls for the Boeing C-17 program in Long Beach, Calif. and, more importantly, play baseball. 
SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 3 


')~\Jttk-tri.if~~,~¼l~;,\rifuik.­
. ,iJ:i)lJ®©,!fil§.)¥;©1€iJ\m'ir!l!lllii@.Hi§i(@ 
"Notre Dame is like unprotectedsex -you're glad you got . -student 

"S.o, l.wassingingin niyunderwea.r.. VVhich, atthe time, I thought was a good idea." . . . . -visiting speaker 
"Niiiiice, you worked for Dick this summer." -professor on student's summer internship 
"There were a lot of drugs back in those days." -staff mernber explaining Stepan Center's architecture 

I 
"You know, I bet all these parents think this is really nice. But I work JPW, and I know they put the food.on the plates 
with their bare hands." 
history. I wanted to see the story of six ordi­nary guys, and their histories ended up run­ning deep. 
Now that we have a new student govern­ment, how do you think we can improve upon student issues? This is a place where sh1dents defer to author­ity. There is no open challenging ofreceived wisdom ... and sometimes it's foolish, but sometimes it's good. 
When did you decide to study journalism? 
I worked for my [college] newspaper and ... I actually started a newspaper when I gradu­ated. I was always a feamres writer, but my tastes were quite diverse. 
What traits st~nd out to you as particularly valuable to your profession? 
The most important quality for a reporter that does stories like this is the ability to listen.You need a lot ofpatience to sit with people for a long time, to really hear what they 're saying. 
When you were following students and faculty, how did you get people to open up to you? 
With different kinds ofpeople, there are dif­ferent ways ... with older people, it's sitting quietly, because theytend to talk. With younger people, it's finding a connection ... places where you intersect with them. 
Was it hard to earn subjects' trust, espe­cially since you were an outsider? 
I was in this odd age [33], and clearly too old to be a student, but too young for a teacher. I 


1
19 Years Ago 
Boom!Boom!Boom!Boom! I Want You in My Bomb Shelter 
And you thought non-nuclear winters 
were bad around here ... 

In the April 1984 issue of Scholastic, a young man named Dominic G. Gabaldon, fearful of the military prowess of the USSR, asked and answered the question, "What if 
the Notre Dame campus was indeed brought to its knees by a nuclear detonation?" 
"In the case ofSouth Bend, Indiana, ground zero is the South Bend River Plaza area of downtown. The campus ofNotre Dame is .. . approximately 2.5 miles fivm ground zero .. . Upon being subjected to the blast wave ofthe airburst detonation ... the pressure would be so tremendous that a blast wave would engulf the Architecture Building . . . the building would collapse either immediately or incipi­ently, with only the interior reinforced con­crete columns and ... walls left as a reminder ofwhat once stood there." 
No word on whether Stepan Center could withstand the blast. .. -Meghan Gowan 
definitely felt like an outsider, but I wanted that, to see with a perspective ofsomeone who wasn't part ofit. 
How does a 'Domer' differ from typical college students? 
Faith, I'd say. Not that everybody shares that equally, but there's more open expression ofit here. There's a sort of social conscience and an awareness ofyour responsibility to a larger world that's more apparent here. 
Do you feel the anecdotes in Domers still ring true for today's students? 
I'd like to think they do ... readers judge that, though. I was writing not just to chronicle one year but an experience that transcended the years. ~ Tracy Evans 
20 FEBRUARY 2003 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 

D NOTEBOOK 
ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLY


I Judgment Calls 
I Opinions and obseNations 


T:_s_~-::-;-~~-'.~-~~-n~-•~-=-~_:_!_~_:~_1:_·_ae_;_dt_:e_·i_e_v_is-io_n__
jJJ

RECKER'$ FLAT-SCREEN TV 
We still don't know how to order 

February 2003: A network showcases tacles like image-conscious Americans stand­an 'Artisan' sandwich, but at least 
nearly two dozen women competing for ing half-naked on stage while a sign above 
the most popular selections are 

a millionaire who isn't, only to anger view­them dictates approval or rejection.
displayed in cutting-edge technol­

ers, who had expected a resolution, by show­But for every slack-jawed viewer absorb­
ogy. Perhaps we were too harsh 

ing a glorified clip show. A talking, rapping ing this tripe, there is someone who genuinely 
on the remodeling. 

kangaroo outsmarts his competitors at the appreciates quality television and film. Those 


box office. And three networks scramble to who do are steadily losing a voice in program­be the nation's top source for exclusive and ming and movie choices. It's time for them to increasingly disturbing Michael Jackson stand up. It's time for a revolution. news. Stop watching Survivor, Joe Millionaire andNEW LAFUN BASEMENTt This is entertainment? American Idol. Instead, watch Gilmore Girls,FURNITURE It's a world where Alias and Law and Order.Finally, the old dungeon has transformed into a comfortable people would rather And don't just watch them study space. Now, if only they see who Trista chooses -buy the products thatIt doesn't seem like could update that game room .... than what happens dur­advertise during them. Isit could possibly geting Bartlet's inaugura­Ensure being pushed dur­tion speech, or watch any worse ­and yet, ing The West Wing? Buy a Jackie Chan's kicks to it can. And it will. case of it. Anti-fungal-++ INCREASED APPLICATIONS the head instead of medicine during 24? Stock Sure, everyone wants to go Roxie Hart's kicks in up.here. But will the competition the air. In this world, the only thing that mat­Go see Far Fivm Heaven, About Schmidt mean that the class of 2007 ters is what people want to see. So Hollywood andAdaptation. And ifyou can't resist watch­will be a bunch of Screeches? goes extreme, spawning embarrassments like ing a kangaroo outsmart that guy from Slid­Kanga,vo Jack and, in a truly disturbing ex­. ers, at least buy a ticket for Chicago and sneak ample of tinsel town depravity, Are You Hot? into the other one. Let the money go to a noble JPW It doesn't seem like it could possibly get any cause. Raisins in all the food, trite dinner worse ­and yet, it can. What is the future of ente1iaimnent? If the speeches at every corner. Tip for And it will. Fox is already planning Mar­current path goes unchecked, imagine a world next year? Get some Papa ried by America, where the public will get to of all Michael Jackson, all the time. Entire John's, cut the prices in half and vote on which complete strangers marry one specials on his nose, his facelifts and his nose's no more Mad-Libbed speeches. another. Meanwhile, there's talk of a sequel facelifts. It win be a world where finding a to last year's hit non-movie, Jackass. The mate on a television show is as common as a people to blame for this, however, are the TV blind date or office romance. viewers who surf to these shows and the mov­Such an apocalyptic future can be avoided. -++ MICROWAVABLE COOKIES iegoers who fork over hundreds of millions Changing it, however, will take a HerculeanThe best technological break­of dollars for tickets to these movies each effort on the part ofanyone who claims to lovethrough since penicillin. Too bad month. decent entertainment. Ifnothing is done, soonmicrowaves aren't allowed in dorm rooms. Many people probably don't care. In fact, the world of real entertainment will be over­most people relish these poor excuses for en­run by a nefarious mob of bouncing kanga­tertainment, vicariously engaging in spec­roos. D  
I DomelightsI COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE Source: Kimberly McComb, lead at Starbucks Guilty of needing a jolt of caffeine to wake you up tor your morning classes? It's likely that you've turned to the folks at Starbucks to jump-start your day. Here are some little-known facts about this stylish campus hangout. Most popular hot drink: caramel macchiato In warm weather, it gets busy around 3:00 p.m., when people start making frappuccino runs.Most popular cold drink: caramel frappuccino Since Zoo/ander came out, people have been ordering orange Average number of customers per day: 700-800 (Valencia) mocha frappuccinos. They're so hot right now ­IBusiest time: before the first class each morning mean, cold.  
6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 20 FEBRUARY 2003  





Fr. Tom Streit, C.S.C. 
Biology professor working to wipe out tropical diseases in Haiti 

Fr. Mike Ba:1.icr, C.S.C. 
Teaches "A Faith to Die For" 

Greg Haake, C.S.C. 
ND'99 


ND Rectors 
Fr. Theodore Hcsburgh, C.S.C. 
Congressional Gold Medal President, Notre Dame for 35 years Chair, U.S. Civil Rights Commision PRIEST 

Dan Parrish, C.S.C. and Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. Moreau Seminarians 


Fr. Victor Crasta, C.S.C. Gwmed down by assassins in 2000. His dying words were "Father, forgive them for they know not what they are doing." 






,.,.,·-.,.l
. 
f-. _' _;; 
' ~,~<;';, ' ·.;. 


!i ·~..t:.t:~:"il .. y 
Fr. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C. 
Author of books on The Our Father, Hail Mary and Creed 


i · · · · s,z:-zf, 
. ,~.,-,:u:l 
i 
Stephen Koeth, C.S.C. 
ND'99 

Discover Your Vocation at Notre Dame 



www. nd. edul-vocation 





BUILTJINQ ANAME 
NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
Strolling around campus one day, I. A. 0'Shaughnessy casually asked then-president ofthe university, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, to point him in the direction of the liberal and fine arts build­ing. "We don't have one," Cavanaugh said. "The fine and liberal art classes are scattered throughout the campus." O'Shaughnessy was surprised-so sur­prised, in fact, that he donated an entire building to the university to house the Col­lege ofArts and Letters. "It has always been my opinion;' he would say later, "that the heart ofeducation lies in the liberal and fine arts." At the time of the building's dedication in 1953, O'Shaughnessy, creator and one­time president of the Globe Oil and Refin­ing Company, was considered to be the single greatest benefactor of American Catholic higher education. He had been hon­ored numerous times by the Church, and in 1953 was awarded Notre Dame's highest honor, the Laetare Medal. But perhaps the most obvious and enduring evidence of his generosity to the school is the familiarity of his name (or a popular corruption of it) to everyone oncampus. Notre Dame's earliest buildings often were named after university presidents or 
8 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
important priests and religious. As the uni­
: versity and its graduates increased in pres:: tige, however, a new group of benefactors emerged, eager to donate their money for construction -and their names for cryptic abbreviation by generations of students. Behind those names lie many stories. Not all namesakes were graduates, and not all were eyen Catholic. But they all loved Notre Dame. 
Hoping to earn a degree in law, Ernest Morris rode a horse and buggy to the steps of the Main Building in 1905 and asked to see the university president, the Rev. John W Cavanaugh. Morris hoped to work his way through school, but he warned the priest that he was not Catholic and had no money. Notre Dame did find work for Morris and he graduated with a law degree. He went on to become a successful businessman and civic leader in South Bend. Morris's Asso­ciates Finance Company grew to become the third-largest auto-finance corporation in the United States. 
Morris was so grateful to Notre Dame that he presented the university·with a "thanks­a-million" check to build an on-campus inn. 
Morris did not survive to see the comple­tion ofhis namesake building in 1952. 
Three years after the dedication of the . Morris Inn, Mr. and Mrs. Romy Hammes made possible the construction of a new bookstore on a site affectionately called the "Badin Bog" -where Coleman-Morse stands today. It was not their first gift to an academic institution -Hammes and his wife already had been honored by Pope Pius XII in 1951 for their dedication to Catholic education. In addition to supporting Catho­lic schools and churches within their own housing developments, the Hammes also contributed to the construction of churches in Japan and Formosa, Africa, and an or­phanage in Italy. 
The Hammes name moved with the book­store to the Eck Centerin 1998, whose bene~ factor, Frank Eck, has. been involved with . '· Notre Dame since his graduation in 1944. Eck made his fortune after World War II in the budding plastics and petrochemical in­dustry, and eventually was elected president ofAdvanced Drainage Systems, Inc., a com­pany that revolutionized farm drainage. Eck has served on the Advisory Council for the College ofEngineering, but his first love is Irish athletics. In addition to funding die Frank Eck Baseball Stadium, completed in 1994, and the Eck Tennis Pavilion, he was 

·. winning coach of the 1992 Blue and Gold football game. Eck wasn't the first.Notre Dame alum to 
. make it big in the chemical industry. In 1931, Alfred Stepan graduated and founded the Stepan Chemical Company, which still ex­ists today as a global chemical-producing · · corporation. 
The construction ofthe Hes burgh Library in 1961 required the demolition ofthe Uni­versity Drill Hall, where most student con­certs were held. Stepan felt that students needed some type of convocation center where concerts and music venues could be hosted, which is not surprising considering that he served for several years as the presi­dent of the Lyric Opera of Chicago. De­scribed in the Winter 1961 issue of Notre Dame Magazine, the new Stepan Center . would be a "modern and completely equipped" geodesic dome, one of the nation's first. · .. 
Later, Stepan donated a building to th~ · 

\'l never got over a Catholic school doing . campus that mirrored his career. Stepan's all that for a poor Protestant farm boy," interest in chemistiy stemmed frmn his ex­Morris said in 1950 at the ground-breaking posure to his father's German chemical busi-. ceremony ofhis $1 million hotel. "Now you ness, as well as mentors at Notre Dame like know why I've always had a warm spot in the Rev. Julius Nieuwland, inventor ofsyn­my heart for Notre Dame." Unfortunately, thetic rubber. The $9.3 million Stepan
I . 
I 
20 FEBRUARY 2003 
~istry.Hall was finished in 1982, and_ . de'dfoation included a scientific sympo­P~PA PE AND PW 
Originally an
'.\inoderated by legendary news anchor 
anonymous $7
for Cronkite. . 
million donor, Frankb,¢y~ar prior to Stepan Chemistry's cam-Pasquerilla, 
{foauguration, 500 women were admit­. pictured here with his wife, Sylvia, was
Jo':N'.qtre Dame with the aid oftwo new · 
reluctant to have
J1µ,~derw'ritten by the $7 million gift three buildings bearp1'atl. Who would make his presence on his name, but '\isknown with no less than three build-relented in the 
name of diversity.
)1:§.':liis ~ame by 1990. . 
·1'97.9, the university received the gift 
Opposite Page: 
... ~µ' anonymous donor without fanfare. MAN OF LETTERS 
'-h/the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh finally I.A. O'Shaughriessy felt liberal and fine
]heedthe.private benefactor to reveal 
arts were the heart
J~ff, many people, especially thos_e 
of ed·ucation, so he'·ds iii.his hometown ofJohnstown, Pa., gave the university J:~ilrprised to see Frank Pasquerilla step a building for Arts 
. a.i-ci.; and Letters. 
asquerilla, the son of an Italian immi­


: .t and coal-miner, never attended college. enhe was 15, his father developed black gdisease, and was forced to work to sup­r(,his family: After high school, , herilla got a job with the State High­
'.:bepartment. In 1950, Frankjoined the··_ . s of a new company -rio~ named '~Am_erican Corp;__:_:._ and after 11 years .·, ethe owner of this construction and 
estate firm, one of the largest mall de­qpers in the wor\d. Pasquerilla even­~Y bought the old post office where he 'e.worked and transformed it into his \!quarters. To this day, the CrownAmeri­)building sits in Pasquerilla Plaza, "stown, Pa. 
EBARTOLO UNIVERSITY Edward J. DeBartolo, Sr. ND '32, who do.nated a whopping $33 ~illjon to.his.alma mater, made his money.in the construction business. 

Helen Hayes, an evening of Italian opera, an exhibition ofitaliari paintings in the Snite and a dedication dinner dubbed the "Festa di Pasquerilla." 
Pasquerilla donated another $5 million to Notre Dame to facilitate the· construction of the ROTC Pasquerilla Center in 1990 . · · Perhaps the on_i:: name on campus that stu­dents know better than any' other is DeBartolo. In 1989, Edward J. DeBartolo, Sr., a Notre Dame graduate of1932, donated $33 million to the university to finance two new buildings, one. ofwhich _most students enter on a daily basis, and the other, the Marie P. DeBartolo C_enter for the Perform­ing Arts, currently under construction. 
When his mother insisted that he go to college, DeBartolo hopped on a train bound for South Bend. He hadn't even applied to Notre Dame, but as he would later say, "Ev­erything seemed to work out." To pay his way, DeBartolo worked the graveyard shift on construction sites. 
,After graduating, DeBartolo returned to his hometown ofYoungstown, Ohio where he organized his own construction company before enlisting in.the army in 1941. After the war, DeBartolo concentrated on expand­ing his business. At the time of DeBartolo Hall's dedication in 1992, DeBartolo Cor­poration had become the world's largest developer and manager of.shopping malls. 
To be sure; the tr~dition ofp:,;eserviI!,g the memory cif prominent figures won't die any-· time soon, with several new buildings planned for the future, including an exten­sion ofthe law school, and new hotel, a new post office and NDSP headquarters, and new science facilities. . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9 
Pasquerilla has been honored by govern­ments of Israel and Italy, and has received honorary degrees, including one froin Notre Dame. 
"I always knew he iov~d;the school, was pleased with its approach 'to education and its graduates/' said a friend of Pasquerilla and,a resident ofJohnstown, "I thought [the .. donation] would be $100,000." 
At first, Pasqilerilla was reluctant to have the dorms named after him, but after walk­ing around campus, he decided that too many buildings had Irish nam~s. The dedication events for Pasquerilia 'East and Pasquerilla West Halls included a speech by actress 

It's hard to put a price on good taste. How does $2.99 sound? The Bacon Cheeseburger Value Meal. 

Got the urge?™ The Huddle-LaFortune Student Center 
/ 


: University Resources :•
• 
for Gay, Lesbian, ~ :• ·• •• •••• • 

Bisexual Students • •••• 0 

e THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON ·
.. 

e GAY AND LESBIAN 
• STUDENT NEEDS
. . ••0
• . ., .
•


The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential infonnation, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 


Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students ••••. and their friends; pertinent library resources in 
. .

• 
304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu 


University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen 0
•0
Lafferty at Lafferty.3@ncl.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/---scglsn/ 
•• 0 

. On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame 

--~:z)~j~ftJW~~~ 
___,___-::'" ·-= ., 0



, ~-'-~ 
www.ndcopyshop.com www.ndprintservices.com 
2locations on campus for ALL yo 
ND COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center · 

(574) 631-COJ>'(:;J .... 
._-.,._. -_:._· --· -· __· 
FAX: (574) 631-fAX,1}/~;;: 
..• --.:.-·:·. ·-·:_\"..'.:·::.··.:::::;:::{f;-?tt.:.fJ 


MIKEBORGIA 
T o high-school seniors, Dan Saracino, assistant provost for en rollment, is the gatekeeper they hope to dazzle with a quirky personal state­ment and sky-high SATs. This year, they'll have to try even harder than before. The Office ofUndergraduateAdmissions received a record number ofapplications for the class of2007, up 23 percent from a year ago. To keep the class size down, Saracino will, like his colleagues at other elite uni­versities, tum away more than half the ap­plicants, moving even closer to what he be­lieves is the ideal student body -which is not one like Harvard's or Stanford's. "What we're trying to do is become a better Notre Dame," he says. As of February 6th, 12,025 applications had been processed for a class projected to consist of approximately 1,960 students. Such impressive numbers reinforce Notre Dame's place among the nation's most St!­lective schools, as it stands with Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Stanford, Dartmouth, Brown, MIT and Rice as the only schools to admit fewer than halfoftheir applicants and enroll more that half of their acceptees. 
For Saracino and the rest of the admis­sions office, this vision encompasses a stu­dent body that demonstrates the Notre Dame values of "faith ... academic excellence, strong residentiality, proud athletic tradition, [and] strong commitment to community ser­vice" along with a new emphasis on cam­pus diversity. 
So, why the sudden rise in applications? Saracino points to increased efforts by the admissions office to attract students from a variety of different locations and back­grounds. "I think that the story of Notre Dame is reaching more areas, not just in the country but all over the world, than ever before," he says. "The students who are thinking ofNotre Dame are very similar to the students who applied in previous years ... but they are more ethnically diverse and from areas from where we previously wouldn't have received applications." Ac~ cording to Saracino, admissions officers are now making frequent, regular visits to glo­bal destinations such as Latin America, Southeast Asia, Europe and Canada in addi­tion to their traditional routes. 
The rise in applications is also due to more aggressive marketing to students the school believes exemplify its ideals. "We're in­-creasingly requesting that students interested in Notre Dame visit Notre Dame," says Saracino. "And when they do visit, we roll out the red carpet for them." Students can spend the night in a residence hall, shadow a current student and eat in the dinning halls -all experiences that the admissions of­fice believes help prospective students dis­cover if the school. is right for them. 
This increasingly widespread marketing is also made possible by the university's Web site. Says Saracino: "Students can apply electronically, they can request material elec­tronically, [and] they can see streaming video of the university." 
The hiring ofTyrone Willingham as head football coach also has helped draw more minorities to campus, Saracino says. "[ Will­ingham] has made it clear that he'll do any­thing and everything to recruit more ethnic diversity." 
The realization of Saracino's vision of a 
more diverse Notre Dame is made possible 
in part by the Board ofTrustees's recent de­
cision not to slash financial aid funds fornext 
year despite the recent budget crunch. 
"That's critical to my success," he says. "I· 
can't bring in the type of students that we 
want without financial aid." This decision 
!fi]itl\ifi.{if:iill~1f~f#IS0;~;;gJliij1iifiiih,?ij!i~il:i1liitffi/}i~tf:@}~itffJti;iC:g;f}f,fi,!illf{fi~\ ::::;;"n:,:t:1..':'u~;'!!:.: ••=~:=~•~:';::':!':,?:!; :::~::,~~:'rc1sop:;::::;.:::;:. 
i{ii 
!\)::.-· -year may be as low as two and three-per-much as 48 percent, allowing for the Class The practice ofrecruiting for diversity-cent. "But if that's what it takes to get the of 2007 to become potentially the "most particularly racial diversity-at academic ,. :-:­
i: ;;;:;; 
students we want, then it's worth it." dramatically diverse" class in school history. institutions is not without controversy. The · • ·' "" For th~ admission;. offi_ce, the U.S. Supreme Court recently decii~e~ }; ·it· 



~~1§~~ 
=~===n ~f~Et2f;~1_t_:_j_l_;_:_'._i.!.• 
ing the Notre Dame education. The situation gleaned even more na-· . 
.i\/.:_\{
"We believe strongly at Notre tional attention when President Bush ,., , · Dame that the education here takes criticized Michigan's admissions N~\)/ place outside of the classroom as policies, claiming it was unfair and ?:r /:. 

[t:)f 
much as in the classroom ... and suggesting the university apply a i)/>.t:i·;x its just not exciting to go to a "colorblind" approach modeled after 
\f{ifii ;:~~~:i:e~:::::0::~s!e::::~ ~::~:~:!~!ga~~el~:t;~::i:: 

r~ ~~;tf~$:j:~s ~~~i: E£:~=~:E 
t'{({) represented ... not even Harvard sities, a system was employed which 
:_,-,,.:;.·, .. .. 
f,:_:___•_:__,__;::_:_~_-.•.::._._ has that." "You learn from [stu-guaranteed admissions to the state's , ..•·· . dents with different geographic top high school students. Other states backgrounds] and its part of your have since followed suit with simi­education." lar policies, including Florida and There is, however, another as-California. pect ofdiversity that Saracino sees Regardless ofthe Court's decision as badly lacking. "[Lack ofEthnic in the Michigan cases and the con-diversity] is the only thing that is troversies surrounding them, the law-keeping Notre Dame from being a r.;o::::~~='"".c71 suits will not affect Notre Dame's better Notre Dame," he says. Nev-Sometimes, you admission's practices, Saracino says. ertheless, Saracino belieyes that "We're in theprocess of signing on 
great strides have been made and j'-lSt have to do the to an amicus brief supporting the is hopeful that change is coming. --,_,,,____.,.,.,,_., University ofMichigan," he says. In "This place is better thanit was a l,··:•:s::,!;:;,,.,.,:t':,'.:<::'ti,.-..i best you can to the document, Saracino says Notre decade ago ... now you have [ac-b I II ~ Dame's commitment to and support tivities] that we can be very proud a anCe a 10 rceS of affirmative action and argues of," particularly for the school's d t th t t against calls to "level the playing Hispanic population. For other mi-"""'.{eii}f,/'.qf,:tf'~;;:;\I an accep a nO field." "A simple fact which cannot ·nority groups such as African-'"'' everyone is going beemphasizedsufficientlyisthatwe Americans however, Saracino be-., .,."''' .,, ... ,"'' have administered affirmative ac­lieves that cultural activities are far to be happy.'' tions as long as we have hadAmeri­too rare. can colleges and universities," the 
Saracino's belief in the impor--Dan Saracino document reads. "For the past 24 tance ofethnic diversity is shared ,.,,.._,,,.-.,,.-,,, ..., assistant provost for enrollment years, we have aggressively sought by several students. "I think that ~~~~~iJ out underrepresented students for our · the admission office should try to campuses ... [and] it's just hypocriti­attain racial diversity;' says O'Neill sopho-According to a February 7 article in the cal... that this group [ethnic minorities] that more Justin Alanis. "I believe its a very im-South Bend Tribune, minority in enrollment has benefited from special attention ... for portant part ofa college community." "A lib-may, for the first time, exceed 20 percent the least amount of time is the group that's eral arts university like Notre bame can.re-next fall. under attack right now." ally benefit from a racially diverse student The steady supply of financial aid sup-Says Saracino: "There have always been body with different experiences and opin-ported by the Board of Trustees will also special interests ... first we had children of ions," adds Fisher senior Jeff Goett. "Also, allow the admissions office to increase legislators and wealthy parents, then we had it seems appropriate that Notre Dame, a socio-economic diversity, another change children of alumni ... special consideration school interested in social justice, consider that Saracino sees as important to improv-given to athletes and to development office whether a student's race has prevented them ing students' educational experience. "We're interests (students from families who are from equal opporhinities in there past." trying to get the word out to our students likely to donate large sums of money), and 

NUMBER OF STUDENT APPLICATIONS 
ICLASS OF 2003 11 0,0 I 0 
12004;/ >I I0,052
I , , ·. -9,3as 
9,745 
NUMBER OF STUD-ENTS ACCEPTED 


CLASS OF 2003 I 3,500 '========================:-"--'-'-"--'-'-=c:,~>1 3,443 

' ' 
, 3,336 3,438 
NUMBER OF STUDENTS ENROLLED 
ICLASS OF 2003 11,971 12004)> ,\</.·\I· 1,972 m. .:-1 2,O3a 
_l,946 _1,960 
t estimated data 
alumni children ethnic minorities 
-----•-·----------------------------------­
international 

women 
.. --------~------.. ---,·-----···-----··­

Catholic 
top 5% of class 
·--·---------------··-----------·--------------,-­
ACT composite SAT composite 
24% 24% 22% 
23% 16% 17% 16% 
16% 

---------·~--------------·----------­
1.7% 3.1% 4.2% 4.2% 47% 47% 47% 48% 
... --------------.. -··---------· 

83% 84% 84% 85% 
66% 68% 69% 68% 
.-------~---------·• --·--·---·--·-·· ·-------·-·····--­
30.1 30.5 30.7 30.7 1337 1341 1351 1351 
SOURCE: DAN SARACINO I ILLUSTRATION BY RYAN GREENBERG 
12,065 

23% 20% 
.. 
5% 48% 
-»-------·•,---.,-­
--·----------­
82% 68% 
--,--------,--~-­
31.4 1359 

faculty and staff children." In his amicus brief, he also lists "fine arts departments and others in need of specific talents" as "per­petual beneficiaries of 'special consider­ation."' 
While the consideration of any special interests in college admissions may be con­troversial, Saracino stands by the policies of his depaiiment and believes that they meet student desires. He says, citing infor­mation gathered from surveys given to out­going seniors: "Our students are over­whelmingly as graduates satisfied with their education here ... [but] ifthey have one criti­cism of Notre Dame, it's a lack of diver­sity." 
Along with racial diversity, Saracino be­lieves that there is nothing wrong with con­sidering special interests in the admissions process and sees the practice as beneficial to the school community. "I would love to say to those people [ who do not believe that special interests should be considered] ... "OK, let's level the playing field and let's see how exciting your football team is and let's see how the fundraising goes and let's see how many people you tick off .... " · 
Saracino argues that the consideration of applicants based on legacy or family wealth is necessary for campus improvements, par­ticularly at a private university. "We don't get the money from the government like UCLA and the University ofMichigan [do]. We count on loyalty from our alumni ... [ and from] benefactors to build new buildings that are needed and to provide scholarship money for students that couldn't normally come," he says. "It would be disingenuous ifwe didn't do,it and hypocritical ifwe de­nied it." 
Still, Saracino says that with a newer set of applicant standards and a larger pool, it may be more difficult for those would-be students to secure a slot. 
Not everyone, however, agrees with this practice. "I don't believe that money should be an issue when applying to college," Alanis says. "No one person should be ad­mitted based on what their family can give to the school." The sophomore would also like to see family income become less of a factor in admissions decisions. 
While Goett does see a certain necessity to considering applicants on this basis, he also believes that it currently plays too great a role in the admissions process. "Admit­ting students because their parents may do­nate could serve the common good of the school. In most situations, though, this should be the consideration with the least 

ANDTOYOUR LEFT Prospective students get a glimpse of campus on one of several daily tours. 
weight." On the consideration of legacies he says: "The university needs to be careful with its pro-legacy admission policy. There probably are some good reasons for it, but in a sense it's unfair to students whose par­ents may not have had the resources to come to Noh·e Dame for their education." 
Says Saracino in his amicus brief: "Do we 
· want gifted scholars who might find a cure for cancer and ways to bring peace to the world? Do we want loyal alumni who will support our university financially in order to keep our tuition as low as possible and provide scholarship monies to those in need? Do we want competitive athletic teams? Do we want diversity in the broadest sense in our efforts to [educate] the Catholic leaders for tomorrow? The resounding answer is 'Yes!' to all these goals and many others." 
When asked how the admissions office considers these and other factors in prospec­tive students, Saracino explains that the en­tire application is reviewed. He sh·esses that there are no quotas or rigid point system like the one used at the University of Michigan. (In that system, a c.ertain amount ofpoints is allotted to a particular applicant with desir­able qualities.) 
Saracino also emphasizes that the school does not admit students automatically sim­ply because they are athletes, legacies, mi­norities, etc. "Quotas are illegal. .. and they should be ...but goals are reasonable and we have goals every year." Along with increas­ing ethnic diversity and pursuing develop­ment office interests, the admissions office's current goals include admitting athletes who can make the school's sports programs suc­cessful, maintaining the percentage of legacy students at 22 to 25 percent and of Catholic students at around 84 percent, and increasing the percentage of international students to five percent, all while continu­ally strengthening the school's academic profile. 
Attempting to meet all these goals, how­ever, means trying to reconcile conflicting interests. "I've got to juggle a lot of [inter­ests] and ... the overall class size isn't get­ting bigger," Saracino says. "Sometimes you just have to do the best you can to bal­ance all forces and accept that not every­one is going to be happy." 
And not only is the student body growing more diverse, but ifis also becoming aca­demically stronger. Says Saracino: "The aca­demic profile (mean SAT and ACT scores and average class ranking, for example) of all 12,000 ofthis year's applicants is almost identical to that ofthe students who enrolled 10 years ago. In other words, all the appli­cants for the Class of2007 generally are as strong numerically as the very best appli­cants for the Class of 1997. 

While the strengthening of the school's academic profile has been a great achieve­ment in and of itself, it has also helped to achieve the admissions office's other goals. "Our admissions generally aren't based on who can do the work ... most of applicants now can do it," says Saracino. This allows the admissions officers to concentrate less on numbers and more on other specific needs of the academic community. He says in his amicus brief: "I daresay that 80 percent of our applicants could be successful academi­cally at Notre Dan1e. Rather, our decisions are based upon a thorough review and care­ful consideration of each candidate's file as well as identification ofour specific 'needs' as an academic community." . 




Girard Sag1niller; 
Author ofDyslexia, My Life 
Thursday, Februa1y27, 2003 
7p.m. DeBartolo 101, Free Admission. 
Leamhowyou can help a fiiend "INith a Leaming Disability. 
Notre Dame DisabilityAwarene~ Week Februaiy24-27, 2003 
All events listed at: www.nd.edu/~bbuddies 


Good day, ladies and gentlemen. The Gipper hopes you all had a healthy and productive Valentine's 
Day and Junior Parents Weekend. The Gipp proudly announces that with the arrival of hundreds ofmothers in South Bend this past Saturday, the number ofmale students who have eaten dinner with a female this year finally broke the five-percent barrier. And they say we have gender-relation problems. 
Before we begin this edition of tales, the Gipp would like to issue a friendly public service announcement: Remember, sending in tips is always in your best interest. The 
· Gipp's got a word count to meet, baby, and is not afraid to punish his tight-lipped con­stituents by running old "School Daze" comic strips to fill space. That's right ­who'd be laughing then? On a side note, the Gipper would like to congratulate him­self for finding a way to use a form of the word "laughter" in the same paragraph as the aforementioned "comic." 
Full House 
When some residents ofa house on Madi­son Street decided to host a little get-together, they prob­girls to the frozen yogurt machine. The hard-core partiers who remained in the house were left with a keg of beer and the bragging rights ofhaving seen a band that really brought down the house. (Sorry, even your uncle Gipp can't resist sometimes.) 
Later in the evening, the residents made a huge "X" out of masking tape and put it over the caved-in floor. However, since there were supposedly many St. Mary's ladies in attendance, the Gipp hopes this was very, very strong masking tape. (Yes, for those of you keeping track at home, that was a double-sidedjoke.) The Gipper was informed that heavy fines were lev­ied upon the dwellers of this dilapidated domicile, but that the residents believe it was worth it. As the Gipp has always said: Money is fleeting. Near-death ex­periences are not. 


Pardon Me for Asking 
Before proceeding with this next tip, the Gipp ·would like to explain some things, disclaimer-style. First, ol' Gipp understands that the hunt-and-chase game of finding a date for dances can be very competitive. Secondly, the Gipper knows that there's nothing inherently wrong with simple curiosity. But we have to draw the line somewhere, ladies and gentlemen. 
That's why the Gipp was so shocked to hear the story ofa young dame who was a little annoyed when she found out that her dream date had already been asked to her dance by another member ofthe hall. She was even more annoyed, apparently, by the fact that her crush couldn't even re­member the name ofthe girl he had agreed to escort. 
So, this gal decided to listserv her en­tire dorm and explain her dilemna. She claimed no cruel_ intentions: She was just wondering who had beaten her to the punch. Apparently, she was not concerned with embarrassing herselfor the poor girl who had asked the man in question. The Gipp extends a warm, figurative hand­shake to this fellow-who either had a) suc­cessfully tricked this curious young lady into thinking he actually couldn't remem­ber who he had said "yes" to, or b) become intoxicated in 


the middle of a weekday af­
ably never imagined their ternoon and thus couldn't ad­
post-party responsibilities equately answer her inquiry . 
. would involve a call to Mr. Bob In either case, the Gipp asks 
Vila. The hosts of the soiree that dorm listservs only be
brought in their friend's band utilized for valuable pur­
to entertain their esteemed poses, such as sending your 
guests, but a few hours after the buddies pictures of you
music started filling the air, throwing quarter dogs at
things started to go south. blind monkeys. 
Namely, the living room floor. Four floorboards began to cave The Gipp's signing off for
in, and, according to our tip­ster, the only things keeping now, boys and girls. We won't meet again until after your
the whole floor from collaps­spring break, so be sure to drop
ing was a big hollow air vent the Gipp a line about your par­
in the basement ceiling. Obviously, this did not ties in paradise. And don't leave that video camera at
amuse those standing in the basement of the house. The home -the Gipp fa willing to 
scared students sprinted out of move to a multimedia format the house quicker1than Farley if the footage is tip-worthy. D 
20 FEBRUARY 2003 · SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 17 

I 
i 
Notre Dame men's basketball team is rubbing elbows with the nation's elite. The 
Joyce Center is enjoying record crowds. But something is missing. 
It certainly isn't support from Notre Dame's students. After the Irish knocked off then second-ranked Texas earlier this 
season, overahundred students braved chill.: ing weatherfor over an hourto welcome the Irish back from Washington, D.C., singing 
the Notre Dame fight song as the team left the bus. And since the establishment ofthe Leprechaun Legion, the student section has been boisterous and informed, a combina­tion that has given the Irish a new advan­
tage. This band of zealous students has made their voice heard, researching facts to heckle opposing players, synchronizing stu­
dent chants and organizing sleepovers in front ofthe Joyce Center, as they did on the evening before Notre Dame's thrilling 93­92 double overtime victory over Georgetown. 
But the entire student section is crammed behind one basket, cut off from the rest of the crowd. Due to this seating irregularity, 
they simply can't jumpstart the Joyce Cen­
ter on their own. My call now is for the university to recog­
nize the inspiring performance ofits basket­ball team by giving it the greatest possible home-court advantage. Only the university itself can further the progress that the stu­dents and basketball players have made so far in restoring excitement to this program. Only when this university acts decisively 


for the purpose of improving the atmo­opposing college foe would wish to avoid. 
sphere at our home games will Notre Dame ever truly compete on all levels with the rest ofthe nation's elite basketball schools. 
The team already has risen to that level. But for the Joyce Center to rise to the level ofthe nation's other elite basketball facili­ties, Notre Dame must follow those schools' lead. Take Duke University's Cameron In­door Stadium as an example. In that facility, Duke's student body surrounds the court at 

Those who designate seating in our venerable facility ( should take some tips from the wise organization of ~: 
r~ . 
that court in Durham. 
the floor level. This practice allows the students to dictate the atmosphere of the arena, creating what is recognized as the most intimidating environment in college basketball. And while it would be asking a lot to expect the Joyce Center to rival that court's intensity, those who designate seat­ing in our venerable facility should take some tips from the wise organization ofthat court in Durham. 

What is stopping Notre Dame from imple­menting a similar seating plan? Perhaps itis the fear ofinconveniencing those who now enjoy those seats. We all have to make tough decisions in life, but, fortunately for the university, this should not be one of them. Should the Joyce Center surround its court with students, the results would create an environment that every high-school standout would want to play in, and every 
FOOTBALL: Seven former Irish football players are among 77 selected to appear on the 2003 College Football Hall ofFame induction ballot: safety Dave Duerson (1979-82), linebackerBob Golie (1976-78), quarterback John Huarte (1962-64), def~nsive end Walt Patulski (1969-71), endJimSeymour(l966­68), quarterback Joe Theisman (1968-70) anddefensivetackleChrisZorich{l987-90). 
The reputation this environment would cre­ate would make recruiting elite basketball players easier. Notre Dame would still have all the attractions it uses now to lure talent, and now it would also have a reputation as a fervent basketball environment. Bringing in better recruits would lead to more seasons like the one the Irish are now enjoying. A chain reaction would ensue. 
Is this a little naive or oversimplified? 
Perhaps, but great programs are built on excitement. For all ofthis season's success, that excitement is still lacking in our fans. Those who currently enjoy courtside seat­ing at the Joyce Center support the team, but they don't bring the same enthusiasm as the student body. Ifthe university fears these fans would withdraw their support on losing their current seating, this is a poor reason to deny this scho9l's basketball team a true home-court advantage. If those people are Irish basketball fans, they will return, espe­cially ifthe program continues to skyrocket. 
But if this program ever will enjoy any­thing more than sporadic success at the highest level, things need to change. Until they do, folks in South Bend can continue to watch the Dukes andKentuckys ofthe world come late March. . 
• 
MEN'S BASKETBALL: Notre Dame put forth perhaps its most pitiful effort of the season, but still managed to win 56-55 at West Virginia on Tuesday. Senior Matt Carroll led the Irish with 16 points, but shot just 35 percent. Chris Thomas and Torin Francis scored 13 and 11 points, respectively. Notre Dame nexttakes action Saturday at 1 :00 p.m. versus ,Virginia Tech at the Joyce Center. 
\ 

18 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
20 FEBRUARY 2003 

Senior long-stick: midfielder John Sou ch from Watertown, 1\1.Y., is one of four captains on the men's lacrosse tean1; which is ranked 17th in a l preseason pcill. -After playing as a long-stick ­defenseman .during b_isfii"srtwo years with the Irish, Souch (5;;,-10, f85)has flourished in his new role and is one ofthe top players in the country at his position. Last year, John played in a11 · 13 games and was second on the team in_ ground balls with 37. A talented all-around,athlete;·Squch played varsity lacross, football anc(~a§~et~~II in 
high school. 

My best experience so far at Notr"e Da'111e has been: making'it to the 
Final Four in my sophomore year. ·-·· ­After playing three sports in hig~.s~4,o,9_~! chose t9 purs~Ei'facrosse in college because: it wa_~_ just somethfog,that 'l l°'It:.d tcfdo. lhad the --­opportunity to play fo9.tpal1 but my heartj:ust wasn't with it. Once I graduate fr1fm-No.tre Dame, fw~ll work as: a s~le~_manager for Pepsi-Cola. :-:·:,-._~'.~.:: U lJ '--.;~-:,:\.-. · 
_'I was attracted to N'.~tf~ panie byTthe aca~~mic environftleµt~'.(Jn top of that, I saw that we had 1,l young program thaf was ori the rise· and I wanted 
-t_<> b_e ap_f.trt oftji~t <·.i ___ : •·--/ ---• '_ I_ started playingJacrosse: my freshman year o;fhigh schoc;,LAll.ofmy friends convinced me to play. . . --_ ­My toughe~t cl~ss in college was: freshman year calculus. It gave me a lot of trouble. I had a foreign teacher who barelf.spoke English:• The best advice Ihave ever received is: to treat every day like it is your last. My _dad always says this to me. ­Though I have never peen there, my dream vacation spot is: the Cayman Islands. ___ _ ­
':·., To prepare myself for a game: I listen to music in the locker room. I llaye an Afr_ic11;n clolfm _my locker that is supposed to bring good luck. I tend to get pretf:y fir~d tip before ga1nes. -­My favorite professional sports team is: the Cleveland Browns. 
The song that I've been listening to a lot lat_eJy is: "In Da Club" by 50 Cent. , · ·· 1 (>•/, .... My dream car is: definitely a 200.~_Lexus EX 4_70. ' 
My favorite cartoon is: the Flintstones. -David Murray 



Our Calls 

Men's Basketball 
OPPONENT: VIRGINIA TECH WHERE: NOTRE DAME, IND. WHEN: SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1 PM EST 
After putting up a sub-par 
performance on the road against 

) West Virginia, Notre Dame looks to regain its shooting stroke. Torin Francis plays like a man-child against the Hokies, putting up 19 as the Irish win 81-66. GERARDMESKILL SPORTS EDITOR 
Will Notre Dame's perfect record at

>home be ended by a team called the Hokies? Please. The Irish will rain down 3-pointers and play 
stifling defense all afternoon, burying Virginia Tech at the JACC by a score of 84-67. 
-DAVIDMURRAY ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 
Sophomore point guard Chris Thomas 

) drops five threes and 29 points on the Hokies to lead the Irish to a 78-71 victory at the Joyce Center. After the 
contest, a pumped up Mike Brey 
asserts, ''That's a dunk!" 
JIMMYATKINSON 
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 

i
,: 
> 
OUR CALLS RECORDS GERARDMESKILL: 5-2 
DAVIDMURRAY: 5-2 JIMMYATKINSON: 5-2

-------------------------------------------------+--"
TRACK AND FIELD: At the Meyo Invitational here on Feb. 8, Senior Luke Watson ran the second sub-four-minute mile in Notre Dame history, winning the Meyo Mile in a time of3:57.83. Selim Nurudeen won the 60-meter hurdles in a season-best 
7.83. On the women's side, Molly Huddle shattered the school record in the 3000-meter run, posting a 9:14.33. -Gerard Meskill WOMEN'S BASKETBALL: Alicia Ratay posted a season-high 30 points, including seven three-point goals, to leadN otre Dame to a 67-61 victory over Providence Sunday. Ratay's effort earned her Big East Player of the Week honors for the third time. FENCING: For the third consecutive year, the men's fencingteamclaimed the top national ranking in the U.S. Fencing Coaches Association poll. The Irish are 19-0 overall after sweeping through competition at the Duke Duals on February 7. Foilist Ozren Debic led Notre Dame, posting a 15-0 record in dual competition. The women's team followed suit at Duke, winning all five ofits matchups. Sabres Maggie Jordan and Destanie Milo posted 14-1 and 13-1 records, respectively. 

20 FEBRUARY 2003 · SCHOLASTICSPORTS 19 

:-::"'" 

;/ 
/. 
/I
.1/ 
,1,/ 
Luke waisbn stays J humble gespite recqrd­b,fe'aking mil~"/ . 
.t1 _..c·· 
GERARDIVIESKILL .l 
/' .• / _·.• .·•Prior ~o 195~, m~Jt_people assumed __ -. __ . that it was im~ossible for a human_/~_­being to run a'mile in less than four' Jo£.,
I I , .. -. 
,minutes. Determineo to prove the running
!: lj !;
/ world wrong, Oxford alumnus Roger _Ban­
.. ., ii / nister decided to' train for the sole PJirpose 
A_./ ofrunning a sulf.four-minute mile. us'ing his 
.. ,/
11 knowledge as{ physician, he reseaJ;hed and ,, / developed tr~ining tactics that w/uld allow If' him to topB,le the track milestone/;With Chris ! · Brasher and Chris Chataway Jnning with 
him as p4ers, Bannister took ~p the track at Iffley Ro_ad on May 6, 1954 and ran the mile . in 3:59.~, setting a new wor\~ record, and 
iJ becomihg the first man in lthe world to 
,1 . ~
ii eclipse ,the four-minute barri~r, But ~bile Bannister shattered the record, 
:I 
its mys~que remains. After alrh,ost 50 years, 
'i,., 
; running\ a four-minute mile i~.\ still one of 
q " 
track's ITt,ost respected accompli~hments, as only a handful of the world's greatest track 
\i lj 
athletes a~1e capable of the feat. \ 
On February 8, Notre Dame(s Luke WatsonjoiAfd those ranks, defeating,~ field l'M THE MAN;,~uke Watson joined the ranks of the greatest track athletes of all time with his 3:57.83 oftalented runners to win the Meyo Mile in mile. '·•,,.,,_ 
.,!:'_\,.,., a time of 3:57\83. Although few collegi'at,.e share. ~'-,.,_,~.._ goal," Irish Head Coach Joe Piane says. "If athletes achieve\such an accomplishment";'<, __ "Nobody even ran a fo~t~!nute mile until you think of the literally hundreds of thou­\, Watson's effort \\'.£1S worth more than the '\;t:4,~ 1950s, and for a long time peo-Ele thought sands ofpeople who have run track, only a 
\ Notre Dame record\it set, or the distinction it ·'was impossible," says Irish teammQ.\~ _ handful have broken four. It's the culmina-J \ ofbecoming the secoiicprish athlete ever to Kevin"So~k, who posted a 4:03.82 in the...,.·'fibn,0£eig}JJ:..9}'_11if!..~t~~-<?.f¥:_0Ekllli:11im.~='""""~-1 '\.run the mile in under four minutes -the Meyo Mile. 'Hi~,, teammate, Eric Morrison; Hours before the race began, the Meyo 'Ji_rst since Chuck Aragon~'S:,59.9 in 1981. .ran a 4:01, whicll'woµld have placed him Invitational public address speaker system-J 
It iv:en was worth more than gaih4ig the dis-··· first in the country hadWatson..n.9t run the atically announced every-20 minutes that the .. tinctio~ of running· the fastest mile-iJt _the · fastest time in th·e world this yea7~~--"-=-_,_Wi@JtU>f. t~_!_ll:eet's_ si_g~t~~~e,nt,~the"'=~] world iri,2003 up to that point. For distanc~t "It's a real milestone as a runner;' Somok Meyo Mile, 1nignTeclipse the four-minute runners, tli'e,. .four-minute mile is a rite o('"'·•say~. "There are only a couple of hundred barrier, as the field ofruriners to compete in 
passage. o_n th1:t,S{:;llrday aftem?on, Watson A~;ricansJe!~~ave ever run a four-minute the mile was perhaps the strongest the e~ent added to his resume'an,accomphshment that mlle, so Luke's m 0 th~_club now." ever had seen. At the forefront of that field ·'"'­only the finest track athletf! in the world "For anybody who ?;i;i's"track,~th~tjz~was Watson, whose R~~ylou~_~j'.fQi:tsjn,tlre=~"'°"" 
.,,  .  ~--,-= ==--------==-:-,~  
20  SCHOLASTICSPORTS  ,,.,_,"'"""·,""'-­ . .  20 FEBRUARY 2003  
..,,,"""""~---.  


mile had left.him just shy ofbreak­
ing,,.fu.e~elusive•barrler.-0~-== "Last year, I got a couple of op­portunities to go after [the four-
minute mile], trying desperately," _o/.atson,says:.-"I•ran~a"3'!'58-relayzsp_li!= 
-for the 1600 meters, which converts to about a 4:00.2 in the mile. I then had a last chance to do it indoors in the mile and ran a 4:01.1. I missed by 1. 1 seconds. Then outdoors, in one of the last meets of the year, I ran4:00.2. 
"It just took the right race on the right day that I felt good, and the right competition. And everything came together on Saturday." 
Lined up against i'!ome of the fin­est collegiate milers in the cou11try, Watson once again took to the track seeking to break four minutes. When the signal was given, the field ex­ploded off the line to establish a brisk B g n 

1 
Curi l W. t d"dn't THE BEST OF THE WEST The race was dubbed the Y,/ear's greatest mil/e with five athletes finis7·ng with 
ear Y pace. ous Y, a son 1 times faster than four minutes. 
follow. Instead, he followed the wis­dom of his experience and remained riear the end ofthe pack, biding his time. 
"It was pretty much my strategy the wh.ole time to just hang back a little bit, because I knew that the pace would be fast," he says. "So I did that, and I gradually worked my way up into position." 
Says Piane, "We had talked about running even splits, which is exactly wharyou want to do." 
Early iri the competition, Watson ranked as far back as 10th out of the field of 12. Nevertheless, he never fell farther than a few seconds behind the leader. As the field ap­proached the half-mile mark, Watson me­thodically began picking off the athletes in 
. 
j

gressed. 
"The crowd reaction was incrediqle," :Watson says. "I mean, there were literdlly a ton of people, like five or six peopl{deep, lining the track on both sides for tho/ast two laps of the race. You can't hear,,any indi­viduals, you're not even thinking about the 

crowd at all, but just the ener{y they were jhat day on his hom~&ack, at least temnl making, the energy they wefe kind of cony rarily claiming the..,fille of the world'sj&t­
ferring, that. definitely, I jnrik, played a role in my performance, and I think it insgjled all ofthe competitorfto run." / 
"[The crowd dcling the Meyo fyfile was] probably th.}'16~dest I've ev,,,iieard [at] Loftus,"Jomok says. ,7,I'm,,sure it helped Luke a.,,,lot." 
/. &

front ofhim. By the time the runners reach:~ ,,df;};..s the lead pack advanced to the final/,,.tWatson says. "It's ~great motivator for me, 
the final quarte~-mile? ~atson had ascend~.,s~aightaway, ~19hfg~'s Natha~ Bra~;Jl"'  and it's a great 15,,complis~ent to run 3:57.  
to the top five, m position to make a memo- replaced Cheb01ywo m front with Watson  But I know people are gomg to come along  
rable finish to the race.  ..-/  following~c(~~ly behind. With le~ttfan 50  and destr~ytl." .  .  
"I know the track well enougfi that I know mete,1:s4emammg, Brannen's l~aa began to exactly where I need,,t~ake my_ move,",,,,,,,.ra:af~s Watso~ closed on hi6{ with an im- Watson was nght, as another runner has ~inc~ffclipsed his mark. But_ as_ f~r as Piane  
'Yatson ~In11ielast quarter-mile, 1gof~  press1ve late kick.  /  .  .  1sf'f'on~emed, that doesn't d1mm1sh the ac- 

1:_ght,,on top of the lead pack, a~l''lfuew "Brannen an~!Avere gomg stnde-f0omphshment. 
~ffutI would make my s~la:fe and try to stride. But_~i;:ry s~de I took, I was g,;,!ning catch everyone by sgrpr1se, maybe." maybe fln"lnch on him, and I couldrfeel that "Everyone;;,is'~ative term. Watson not eieefstride. I just concentrateg,6if maintain­
only,,caifghtthe rest ofthe field by surpris~/mg my form and drivingf-to1he line." 
~also the raucous crowd watching1he competition. As Eastern Michigfuis Boaz Cheboiywo accelerated"'tc>take . the lead in the race, Watson1'oifo'wed his example, surg­
_i.!ig£01~0 equal his pace. Watson's etJ. -=="7rgy was matched OJ:?.lY by that ~1}.e,c~d, which grew more vocal i}s"1ne race pro­
20 FEBRU~Y,.2~ • ~ . -. 
Those inches accuniulated as Watson crossed the finisli1me just 13 hundredths of a secon_g,fasr; than Brannen to capture the 
y6"Mile title. Cheboiywo, Michigan's 

ick Willis and Ian Connor of Nike Track Club finished off the top five, all with times faster than four minutes. Almost immedi­
, , 

ately, the e;rent was branded the greatest mile in the world this season, as theftop five ath­letes posfed the five fastest milis in the world this ye/r to that point, and efch time would have1ieen quick enough /6 win the 2002 NCjA indoor mile chaippionship. 
_frevertheless, Watso/stole the spotlight? 
est miler in 2003/.But while he sat at t}ie top of the list, 'Yatson was aware]fiat his newfound titfe is not as exclusive as it sounds. / 
L 

"Welltftake it with a grain,of salt. I know thattblreareaslewofgreat'hmnersoutthere tha(might be in Africa){altitude training," 
// // 
"At least for a week, ?e was _the w~rld leader, and that's pretty rmpress1ve. It Just indicates that his future in running is going to be even brighter." 
· Even though another athlete inevitably did run a faster mile this year, he did not take away Watson's moment ofglory. For on that Saturday afternoon, Watson defeated an op­ponent much more daunting than Brannen and Cheboiywo. He raced against himself, and he won. . 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 


-.
·w­
. 
Cl) 
. 
Cl) 
0 . 
.
a: 
0 . 
. 
<( 
. 
_J 




The Crossroads ·. 

..... ... ···­
MIKEISELIN 
Winning is addictive. Just ask 
Notre Dame's women's lacrosse 
team. 
Last season, the team earned a berth in the NCAA tournament for the first time in school history. The Irish defeated Ohio State 11-7 in the first round of the tour­nament. Not bad for a program in its sixth year ofvarsity status with a winning per­centage barely above .500 in its first five years. 
The win advanced Notre Dame to the quarterfinals, where it was defeated 11-5 by No.1 Princeton. Their breakout season ended, but it left the Irish anxious to re­turn to the NCAAtournament. 
The entire team, from head coach Tracy Coyne down to the freshmen, has had this 
22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
__c:,t ViotQr-v .
.·. 
aim in mind since the first day of prac­tice in the fall, along with the goal ofwin­ning the Big East conference. But accom­plishing these goals will not be easy. 
"Each opponent brings different chal­lenges to the table," senior tri-captain Elizabeth Knight says. "The Big East is amazingly competitive, making every game a battle." 
Fellow senior tri-captain Kelly McCardell agrees. "The Big East is such a competitive conference that just keeps getting stronger, so it's hard to pick just one game," she says. "But Georgetown has won the Big East the past few years, and I think we really are ready to strip them of that title." 
The team has not faced many expecta­tions up to this point in its short six-year 
existence, butthat clearly is no longer the 
case. After its appearance in the NCAA 
tournament quarterfinals last season, the 
team. earned the respect that conies with 
success. But with that respect comes new 
obstacles.. 

"The biggest challenge that we face be­
ing a relatively new program is that we 
haven't been in the position that we've 
had to defend anything before," Coyne 
says. "Last year, we had the culmination 
ofa lot ofhard work, now this year we're 
still going to have to bf:lat the teams that 
are always our rivals but also takeit a step 
further and beat the premier lacrosse 
schools like Duke and Georgetown." 

The Irish took a proactive stance in pre­
paring for a: strong spririg season full of 
top~ranked opponents. The team not only 
practiced throughout the fall, but it also 
played preseasoil gamefagainst top-level 
competition on the east coast. The fall 
matches opened with the frish playing 30­
minute halves· in-a round'."robin format 
against Northwestern and Ohio State in 
Evanston, Ill., where the Irish won five 
of the six halves they played. Following 
that s~ccess, the team returned home and 
defeated Massachusetts 12'-8. 

Notre Dame· hit the road again to face perennial powerhouse Maryland. The Irish got offto a.slo~ start in CoHege Park and couldn't quite get in their groove · against the Terrapins, losing the game 14­


~ii~ri,!iiI=:ri~~;::: 
Despite the ioss to Maryland, Coyne 
was pleased with the team's effort, which 
displayed the mettle of the underclass­
men:, a key part ofthis year's team. "I was 
really happy because we graduated five 
starters last year. I was happy that we 
hung in there, and we were very competi­
tive," she says. 

On the surface, this year's squad is 
young, with 11 freshmen and six sopho­
mores. But Coyne does not believe that 
the youthful roster will hurt the team. 
"What I think is unique about this team is 
that we have returning starters like 
Danielle Shearer, Kelly Mccardell and 
Elizabeth Knight, but then we also have 
people who have been waiting their turn 
for their chance to shpw what they can 
do," she says. "We have a bunch ofpeople 
who are really good who no one has heard 
of before." 
\ 

20 FEBRUARY 2003 


STRIDING ALONG Senior tri-captain Kelly Mccardell races downfield during a home game at Moose Krause Stadium. 
Knight believes that youth, despite its inexperience, "adds a level ofenthusiasm to our program," she says. "This is new and exciting for our freshmen, and they have been able to fit right in." 
Though the freshmen were not around to witness the team's success last season, the seniors have taken the responsibility of ingraining the team's philosophy and hunger to win into the psyche ofthe fresh­men. 
"The role of the seniors is fo prepare the freshmen," senior goalkeeper Jen White says. "We definitely have the abil­ity to go to them if the time comes, and that's going to take the senior's leader­ship _telling them the in 's and out's of the game." 
Freshman Mary McGrath stresses that each girl, including the 11 freshmen, adds a different element to the team that gives them the opportunity to be successful. She says that there are many gifted upperclass­men to look up to and to learn from, and that they have helped make the transition from high school to college-level lacrosse much easier than it might have been. 
In addition to the pressure that comes from winning while fielding a young team; the Irish face a geographic chal­lenge. Due to South Bend's inclement winter weather, the team plays its first six games on the road. They also have a few 

· spans of back-to-back games or two games in three days, including an April 11 match-up against Duke in Durham, 
· N.C., followed by a home match against the Stanford Cardinal, an up-and-corning lacrosse school, onApril 13. Near the end of their schedule, the Irish play North­western and Rutgers on back-to-back nights at Moose Krause Stadium -two games that likely will have a big effect on the outcome ofthe final Big East stand­ings, as well as a possible NCAA tourna­ment berth. 
Although the difficulty of their sched­ule could be viewed as a competitive dis­advantage, the Irish refuse to see it that way. Instead, they consider it an excel­lent opp_ortunity to prepare themselves for 


EXTREME BUTTERFLY CATCHING 
Senior Goalkeeper Jen White defends the Irish net from enemy infiltration. · 

the games late in the season that will de­termine their standing in the Big East as well as their eligibility for the NCAA tournament. 
Now that the women's lacrosse team has established itself, Coyne sees no rea­son it can't continue winning. 
"A lot of people in the lacrosse com­munity didn't think Notre Dame could get it done, and I am very happy of the girls who came here af!_d thought they could help us put lacrosse on the map," Coyne says. "I feel like we're going to maintain the success we've established with sorrie new faces." D 
THE REAL IRISH GUARD The women's lacrosse team keeps watch during a key match. The team had its best year last season, making it to the 
quarterfinals of the NCAA tournament. 
20 FEBRUARY 2003. SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 

I 
l 
I 
, I 
1 
1 
I 
I 
I 
rI 
And All That Jazz 
The 45th annual Collegiate Jazz Festival draws national talent to Notre Dame 
CAROLYNSWEENEY 
Ask an average Notre Dame student about his or her exposure to jazz, and you'll probably receive a blank stare, a shrug, or maybe, if you're lucky, a reference to having seen the recent film Chi­cago. It's not surprising, th~n, that ND's annual Collegiate Jazz Festival, though one ofthe most prestigious events ofits kind, is relatively unknown around campus. "Other universities have also had jazz festivals, but Notre Dame's festival is the oldest and best," says music professor and Jazz Band director Larry Dwyer. "A lot ofstudents don't realize just how big it is," adds sophomore drummer Steve Schwall. The Festival, known simply as the "CJF" in jazz circles around the country, was founded in 1959 by Notre Dame students who wanted to celebrate their music. Under the guidance of faculty advisor Father George Wiskirchen, C.S.C., the event :flour­ished. Wiskirchen arrived at Notre Dame in 1972, and his extensive connections in the jazz world ensured that prominent musicians volunteered to judge the event every year. This year's Collegiate Jazz Festival boasts ensembles from nine universities across the nation, in addition to Notre Dame's own two jazz bands. Milikin University, the Univer­sity ofIllinois, University ofNevada-Reno, Roosevelt University, Southwest Texas State, Central Michigan University, West­ern Michigan University, University ofMis­souri and the University of Texas­Brownsville all will be represented at the festival. 
"These are the best of the best," Dwyer says. "One group on Saturday night which should be particularly exciting is Southwest Texas State's Salsa del Rio, which plays re­ally hot Latin jazz." 
Attracting this caliber of talent requires careful planning. Applications were sent out to colleges across the country, and Dwyer began recruiting judges last fall. The par­ticipating bands were selected in December, after a committee reviewed their audition tapes. 
The festival kicks offwith Preview Night on Wednesday, February 26, when ND's Jazz Band will perform an opening concert in the Lafortune Ballroom. On Friday, five bands will perform at Washington Hall, and then the five judges, each ofwhom are well­known professional musicians, will play to­gether in the annualJudges' Jam. "They usu­ally do~'t even decide what to play until that night, but they always put on an amazing show," says sophomore saxophonist Greg Salzler, who is coordinating the event through the Student Union Board. 
On the last day of the festival, Saturday, March 1, the jud~es will host a free clinic, in which they 
The atmosphere of the weekend is rela­tively laid-back, according to participants. The festival dropped the "Best Band" award several years ago in an attempt to celebrate music instead ofpromoting cut-throat com­petition. "Instead, each band is assigned a rating, along with commentary from the judges," Salzler says. "This allows the bands and their directors to see where they stand in the eyes of professional musicians, and they can then work to improve based on the comments. The ratings are usually private, but the judges do present 'outstanding solo­ist' awards." 
In addition. to offering the bands valuable feedback and instruction, the weekend also serves as a forum for, quite simply, great music. "The highlight ofthe Collegiate Jazz Festival is always the Friday night Judges' Jam," Dwyer says. "The judges are chosen not only for their ability to give articulate evaluations of the performing collegiate groups, but also for their superior abilities as active jazz musicians. This year's judges are internationally recognized as among the very best players on their instruments." 
"It's an opportunity to hear some ofthe best jazz musicians in the country," adds graduate student Emily Spargo, a bassist with ND's Jazz Barid. "That's a very rare opportunity here in South Bend." 
. This year's judges include bassist John Clayton, Jr., saxophonist Greg Tardy, trum­peter Jimmy Owens; drummer Russ Miller and pianist Lynne Arriale. 
· Clayton has gained prominence as a per­former, composer, and arranger ofboth jazz and classical music. The Los Angeles Times has called him '.'a phenomenon" and men­tioned him as one of the top candidates to "assume the mantle ofMiles Davis, and one of the most internationally respected bass­ists and composers, with good reason." Clayton spent five years as principal bassist with the Amsterdam Philharmonic Orches­tra, and currently conducts, composes, and co-leads the Clayton-Hamilton Jazz Orches­tra. He received a 1991 Grammy nomina­tion for his composition "Brush This" from his Groove Shop recording. He teaches at USC and has recently collaborated with the Northwest Chamber Orchestra and the Ice­land Symphony Qrchestra. 
Tardy, a New Orleans native, has played with the Neville Brothers, Ellis Marsalis and Elvin Jones. He has received critical acclaim for his albums, beginning with Crazy Love in 1992, followed by Serendipity in 1998, The Hidden Light in 2000 and, most recently, the 2001 release Abundance. He was nomi­
\ 

20 FEBRUARY 200324 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 

will give s h o r t speeches and then demon­strate various techniques on their respec­tive instru­ments. Then, that night, each ofthe re­maining six bands will each play a 45-minute set in Washing­ton Hall. 

nated for a Best Debut Artist Grammy in 
1998. 
Owens has spent the last 35 years as a jazz 
trumpeter, composer, arranger, lecturer and jazz educator. Introduced to the trum­pet at age 10, he went on to form the Jimmy Owens Quartet in the '60s, and then recorded his debut album You Had Better Listen in 1968. Owens' career and influences reach back to the days of the great jazz trumpeters, and he tells stories ·of meeting and playing with Miles Davis and Louis Armstrong. Currently, he com­poses music for movies, theater, televi­sion commercials and orchestra, and has appeared on National Public Radio's Billy 
Taylors Jazz at Th.e Kennedy Center. 
Miller has played drums on over 250 
records with such diverse artists as Ray 
Charles, the Bee Gees, Babyface, Toni 
Braxton, Meredith Brooks and Nelly 
Furtado. A multi-platinum, Grammy­
award-winning musician, he also has per­
formed on the soundtracks of dozens of 
movies including 0, Hardball, The Spe­
cialist and Lethal Weapon 4, and has pro­
duced two solo albums, Wheres One? and 
Cymbalism. 
Arriale currently-plays with a trio that has won accolades for the past eight years, 
20 FEBRUARY 2003 
but she also has garnered individual praise. The New York Times called her one of "the top instrumentalists of the day," and The London Times recently wrote that "no American pianist has made quite as strong an impression over the past five years as Arriale." The group has recorded seven CDs and played at concerts and festivals through­out the U.S., Europe, and Canada as well as in Japan, whereArriale was part ofthe pres­tigious "l00 Golden Fingers" group. The trio just finished its latest record. "Our new release, Arise, will be released in April. We '11 be touring throughout Europe and the U.S. to promote it," she says. 
Arriale says the tradition of excellence associated with the CJF makes the week­end as eagerly-anticipated by the judges as it is by students. "Larry Dwyer invited me to come, and I agreed immediately," she says. "Hearing the students play will be a tremendous highlight for me." 
Arriale's reverence for her music is ob­vious, and she captures the passion that is a hallmark of the CJF. "Jazz is a univer­sal language that has the capacity to reach all people, regardless of their back­ground," she says. "Hearing musicians improvise in this uniquely fine art form is always an exciting experience. Jazz has given me the opportunity to have a wide open field for my musical expression and constantly challenges me to take the next step in my personatdevelopment." 
Everyone involved with the festival hopes that the weekend, and the big names associated with it, will spread en­thusiasm for jazz through campus and bring greater recognition to the genre. 

"Sometimes artists like Norah Jones, Diana Krall and Harry Connick, Jr. draw new listeners to the world ofjazz, but in general, it's not the type of music that's played on most popular radio stations," says Emily Spargo. "It might be nice to see a night of Acoustic Cafe devoted to jazz, or the university could bring in some outside jazz groups to play." 
"Jazz is not a mass-market 'popular' music right now," Dwyer says. "Less than 5 percent of all recordings sold are in the jazz category. These national trends are reflected in our student body. However, the 90 students who take the 'Intro to Jazz' and 'Current Jazz' elective courses find that they really come to like much ofwhat they hear. Any student who comes to the festival programs will hear some great music played with intensity and 
fun." . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 



Thirty-Two Short Films About Notre Dame 
Who wants to push Joe Millionaire under a bus? 
Despite the presence ofsun and happy-faced children in the brochures that are sent to aspiring Domers across the country, I have arrived once again at the conclu­sion that South Bend is not the tropical paradise I was led to believe. Now, before you pitch my column into the garbage, let me assure you that this is not a column about the windy non­sense that passes for weather around here. After all, if you wanted witty commentary on all things meteorological, you'd be reading School Daze and, if you're like me, banging your head against a table. I onlx point out the terrible winter climate to explain that it gets to the point where even sustaining a rea­sonable dialogue becomes an exercise in endurance. In addi­tion to this, there's basically nothing going on about this time of year. As such, this week's column will consist of small vi­gnettes on various things I've been kicking around in my brain as oflate. They're quick, they're digestible and, 
be watching this show, as it's just further proof of the depth to which our society has sunk and blah blah blah. Get off your high horse and come watch a substitute teacher and a bondage queen run after a moderately attractive imbecile who thinks Pablo Neruda is a Caribbean resort. People who condemn others for watching Joe Millionaire are the same closed-minded Puritans who think I shouldn't laugh when an old man gets hit in the crotch with a football. The show theoretically puts a nail in that age-old "for love or money" conundrum, but people watch it for the same reason people watched that other Fox gem, Man vs. Beast. Just as no one doubts that 50 midgets can't pull a plane farther than an elephant, no one doubts that most ofthese women are gold-digging bimbos who'd marry a pelican if Fox put a tennis bracelet on it. Joe Millionaire works because it points out what everybody's secretly afraid of: Given the right price, there probably isn't much we wouldn't do. And while descrip­
mercifully, over faster than the aver­tions of what went on in the woods that age Keenan Revue outrage. magical evening are bestleft to the Gipp, 
Helper monkeys. Yes, the election let's just say that Fox's brilliant use of has long passed, and even though I subtitles ("slurp, slurp, gulp") probably don't know as ofthis writing whether didn't leave as muc_h to the imagination the puppet on Poorman's right hand as our boy Evan had hoped. or the puppet on his left ultimately Being a shill. Ifthere's one thing Scho­won, I do know that the ticket with lastic magazine has come to represent, the best idea in years was passed over. it's honor, integrity, and an unwillingness I can already hear some ofthose back­to compromise principles to make a quick ward-thinking friends ofmine telling buck. To people who say I would tarnish me that the monkeys are "not eco­the reputation of this fine periodical by 


I 
I 
I 
!:!i ri 
I' 
Ii 
I. 
1, 
L 
Ii 
nomically, spatially or morally fea­sible" and that the stench of a helper monkey would soon become unbearable, but is monkey stench really any different from the smell in the average guy's dorm? In fact, those students living in Stanford would almost certainly consider the smell ofthe monkey to be a fragrant change. Smells aside, I can picture the chilly winter morning when I climb out ofbed into the slippers lovingly placed by Paul Eugene (I will name him Paul Eugene), peruse the Sun-Times in my smoking jacket, and sip a warm cup of monkey-prepared cocoa. And really, any good society should be measured by the quality and quantity of its monkey butlers. As far as I'm concerned, if I can't sit back, light a Cuban, crack open some VSOP, and have Paul Eugene skim and highlight my copy ofThe Executive Brain for physio, the terrorists. have already won. 
Jose Million-Pesos. I know, I know-I really shouldn't even using my power as a quasi-respected j our­nalist to promote myself, I say, "That's 
· exactly the kind of argument that didn't stand up for Baptista in The Taming ofthe Shrew." I realize mostofthe crowd won't dig the whole Shakespearean vibe with those fancy dickeys and as­cots, and that is precisely why the show I'm in will be set in the late 1970s. Ifyou even once considered growing your hair out into an afro, consider this play an intervention. 
There's ultimately more I'd like to chat about -the esca­lating situation in Iraq, the stress of deciding what I want to do with my life, strippers -but space constraints dictate that only the most important topics be covered. We've had some fun today, sure. But if you didn't like this style of column, rest assured: I'll soon be back with a diatribe guaranteed not to enrage student government, gold-digging bimbos or midg­eh. . 

26 SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 
20 FEBRUARY 2003 


-Mar. 05
. l 
Time travel would be pretty cool if it were possible -and now it is! This installment of"Coming Distractions" brings you events that will take you on a trip through the decades. Participate in a hands-on history lesson that won't induce snoozing. Don't forget to submit 

2000s What: Make your own music video When: Saturday, February 22, 8:00 p.m. -2:00 a.m. Where: Sorin Room, Lafortune Student Center How much: Free Why: You know you've always imagined what it would be like to be a rock star. Well imagine no more, my friends. Flipside is providing the means -you deck yourself out in trendy duds and bring your smooth attitude. 
1600s 
What: The Tempest 
When: Thursday, February 20, Friday, February 21, Saturday, February 22, 7:30 p.m. 
Where: Washington Hall 
How much: Reserved seats, $16; Seniors, $14; Students, $12 
Why: Seeing as Shakespeare's works are second only to the Bible 
in popularity, it seems right that we should pay our respects to 
the bard. Besides, it's always an exhilarating experience decod­
ing Elizabethan English, especially when the Actors from the 
London Stage perforni. " ...We are such stuff/ As dreams are made 
on; and our little life/ls rounded with a sleep." 

When:Monday, 
March 3, 4:00 p.m. Where: Room C­100, Hesburgh Cen­


ter Auditorium How much: Free Why: We could all stand to step outside the Notre Dame bubble and make ourselves more aware of the less fortunate. After all, we can't change things if we don't know about them. This film documents the earn­ings and employment experiences ofwork­ing poor households in South Bend in the early 1990s. 
your events to scholast@nd.edu. (All submissions are subject to Scholastic approval.) 

1950s-60s 
What: Smokey Joe's Cafe 

When: Thursday, Feb. 20, Friday, Feb. 21, 8:00 p.m. Where: The Firehouse, 701 Portage Ave., South Bend How much: $12 Thursday, $14 Friday Why: What could be better than a play that is a musical tribute to 1950s rock-and-roll song-writ­ing geniuses Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller? When you hear their hits "Charlie Brown," "Hound Dog," "Yakety Yak," and "Kansas City," you'll be tapping your toes and dancing in your seat. You could even dress the part and show up in a poodle skirt or blue suede shoes. For more information and ticket availability, call 234-1112. 

1950s-present What: "Making Music: Motown to Jazz" When: Thursday, Feb­ruary 20, 7:30 p.m. Where: Band Building, Middle Rehearsal Room How much: Free 


Why: It's Black History Month, so take the time to appreciate African-Americans' contributions to the world of music. This event fea­tures performer Bill Nicks, who will demonstrate various musical styles and techniques. I got rhythm, I got music ... who could ask for anything more? 
1990s What: The Working Poor in America: Climbing the Down Escalator 

20 FEBRUARY 2002  SCHOLASTICCALENDAR  27  
-~-­ 
..  ~~-----~  

War Against Iraq: 

Too Many ''Ifs'' 
Most wars are bets, but some bets are worse than others. If we take the time to debate and avoid the rush to war, President Bush can use this time to markedly im­prove the odds of his bet. 

Dan Lindley is an assistant professor of Government and International Studies. 
I 
i· 
I 
I 
28 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 
Saddam Hussein is a determined proliferator of weapons of mass destruction, an evil man who has started two wars and has the blood 
of hundreds of thousands of his own citizens on his hands. Who wouldn't support a war to oust him? I would if the war was short, successful and did not cause too many deaths to our soldiers or to Iraqi civil­ians. Ifthe war gained the support ofa broad swath of other countries, and was supported by United Nations resolutions. If the war did not jeopardize other for­eign policy priorities. And ifthe United States and its allies were committed to stability and democracy in Iraq, and could achieve both. 
These are big "ifs." It is possible that a U.S./U.N. war against Iraq would be a success. But given cur­rent inadequate planning to tum the "ifs" into "yeses", the odds are against it. Today, the war is a bad bet. 
Will the war be short? Probably. This is a decent bet because the Iraqi forces, and the key Republican Guard divisions, can read the writing on the wall. They will not fight a losing battle to save Saddam when they can be part of a new Iraqi army to which new 
equipment will soon flow. The counterargument is that the Iraqis will be de­fending their homeland, and a nationalistic force on defender-friendly terrain can cause immense pain to any attackers. 

Will we be willing to pay the blood price? Perhaps, but it might make the war politically unpopular. Con­sider that in the necessary war in Afghanistan, the U.S. was not willing to risk our soldiers' lives when the enemy had attacked the 
U.S. and caused 3,000 U.S. deaths. Iraq did not attack the U.S. and nobody will ever know ifthey ever would. A war against Iraq will be almost thankless because no one will ever know what threat we prevented. The only sure things will be the casualties of this opera­tion, and, hopefully, improved lives for Iraqis. 
What oflraqi civilian deaths? With Saddam fight­ing for his life, a good bet is that he will try to cause outrage against the U.S. He will place civilians at any target worth bombing. He will drag people from morgues ( orkill them for the purpose) and scatter them at bombed targets. This will create gruesome pictures for the world press. Do we -should we -have the guts to see these scenes replayed in an optional war? 
Will the war be considered a success if it prompts 
by Dan Lindley 

Saddam to_ use WMD? What will we do ifour troops orisrael are attacked with biological weapons? If we are fighting for the noble and just cause of sav­ing lives, what ifthis war ends with an Israeli nuclear attack against Iraq? Even ifthe war goes well, what will the aftermath ofan Iraqi war look like? 
Most wars are bets, but some bets are worse than others. Ifwe take the time to debate and avoid the rush to war, President Bush can use this time to markedly improve the odds of his bet.' Reduce ex­tremism by twisting arms· and flowing billions to create a Palestinian state. Stabilize Afghanistan. Come up with concrete, funded plans for a post-war Iraq. Get the Joint Chiefs to publicly commit the forces to adequately peacekeep in Afghanistan and Iraq. Create domestic and international support for the war based on a shared sense of threat. 
The debate over inspections and UN resolution 1441 has turned into a hall ofmirrors where people see whatever supports their views. For proponents ofwar, ifthe inspections _find nothing, then the Ira­qis are lying because they have hidden their WMD. Ifthey find something, then the Iraqis have not dis­armed, For opponents ofwar, ifthe inspections find nothing, then the Iraqis have disarmed. Ifthey find something, then the inspections are disarming Iraq. 
As chiefweapons inspector Hanz Blix indicates, Iraq is not cooperating on substance and is not dis~ arming. Per U.N. resolutions since 1991 culminat­ing in 1441, war is justified. Those using the U.N. system to delay war are playing into the hands of Saddam and justifiably earn the label ofappeasers. 
Unfortunately, the Bush/war vs. appeaser show­down at the U.N. is distracting. While aUN, reso­lution explicitly authorizing force would in itself­lower the risks of the war -and that is the sub­stance in the U.N; debate-so would slowing down and planning to reduce those risks before war. The issue is not whether the war is legal; it surely is. Saddam Hussein is a liar, a cheat, and wants WMD more than ending deadly sanctions. The issues are whether war is wise, how the costs and benefits com­pare to alternatives, and what can be done to reduce the risks ofwar. As I write, war is inevitable, so the remaining tragedies lie in underplanning for the downside risks ( and for capitalizing on the benefits). 
This war may help reduce some threats, and ex­acerbate others, but it would be farmore palatable if it were fit into a larger campaig~ to fight WMD terrorism. The campaign against terrorism requires international cooperation. One can hope that the war against Iraq will not reducesuch cooperation.
\ 

20 FEBRUARY 2003 

C•orr1e~1a:t,e11au r-,estt~vaB. iFein·iJ!all"y 28 a!ll'1il M.:arda 11 t6 piin~ W.;;isB~ilingt,on JJ.m111 








