NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 24, 1885.	No. 7.
Vol. XIX.
Exactitude.
THE OLD BOOK-KEEPER TO HIS PUPIL.
(Style de M. Ie Reverend Dodeur Waits.)
Whatever you do, iny dear boy, be exact;
Whatever you say, be precise;
Relate,—but without overstating,—the fact, And you’ll never regret my advice.
Don’t say “the sun rises,” and thus out of joint The Copernican system confess:
. ’Tis the earth that revolves on its axis,— a point That you never should fail to impress.
In bus’ness engagements let Promptitude shine;
To Altitude moral attain;
Thus, thus shall Beatitude ever be thine, And o’er all shall Exactitude reign.
The dude tints his toe-nails with henna so pink, Though none may admire them or see;
But oh! what an exquisite pleasure to think That everything’s right to a T!
For its own sake, then, exercise sedulous care, Though others may deem it a bore;
And at night when you balance your cash-book compare
The amount that you find .in the drawer.
If money be stolen, ’tis comfort (although
You wince ’neath adversity’s lash)
The form of the journalized entry to know: Loss and Gain account debtor to cash.
So calm on your pillow at night will you rest, For you ne’er can be called “No account”;
.And e’en though insolvent you are not unblest While your ledger can show the amount.
Boyle Dowell.
Algood purpose, persistently sought after, is -certain of attainment. Be not, therefore, dismayed by failure or delay, but persevere to the best of vour ability, and you will achieve your end, wondering how you could ever have doubted of your ultimate success.
The German Element in the European States.
It is not the writer’s intention to enter upon an exhaustive discussion of this subject; nor does he contemplate treating it in the abstract: his object is simply to set before the reader a few facts, the result of some thinking and more investigation. The subject in its nature is so deep and vast, and the writer’s abilities so limited that to follow either of the first two courses were folly; he will therefore conform himself to the last one.
In order to fully understand the subject with which we are dealing, we must transport our minds back to that period in the history of the world when, after the subsidence of the waters of the deluge, Noe and his family settled in those fertile regions near the sources of the Euphrates and Tigris. Noe had, as we know, three sons—Ham, Sem and Japhet,—each of whom was destined to become the progenitor of a distinct and separate race. Their descendants resided for a long time near or around the spot where the Ark rested afterthe abatement of the flood. In the course of time they waxed so numerous that it became evident that a separation was inevitable. This period, perhaps, nearly coincides, with the date of the confusion of tongues at the Tower of Babel. At any rate, it marks an epoch from whence is dated the colonization of the world.
The offspring of Ham first yielded to this exigency. We find them migrating towards the South, following the courses of the Euphrates and Tigris, and settling in those regions embraced in south-western Asia, founding there a kingdom, and building the city of Babylon on the River Euphrates. Babylon continued for a longtime the principal seat of Hamite power in Asia, and afterwards played an important part in history.
Others of the Hametic tribes, passing along and colonizing the western coast of Arabia, crossed over into the north-eastern part of Africa, where they formed a large settlement. Being driven, however, from their western Asiatic possessions by the Semites, they were constrained to flee into the heart of Africa, where they colonized Egypt,
io6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
• which afterwards became as renowned for her great ■	o
advances towards civilization, as she was notorious for the depth of moral degradation in which she revelled.
Besides those tribes which, going beyond Egypt, penetrated into the heart of Africa, it is highly probable that there were a few straggling ones, who, instead of following the main body into Africa, fled in the opposite direction, towards eastern Asia. This fact will account, perhaps, for the few Ha-metic characteristics sometimes met with among the Semitic races of Asia, viz., the Syrians, Arabs and Hebrews.
In the course of time, the same necessity which compelled the Hamites to leave the land of their origin and go in quest of homes elsewhere, began to be felt by the Semitic race. Following the course taken by their predecessors, they drove them from their possessions in western Asia, and settled there themselves, meanwhile leaving the greater part of the dispossessed tribes to seek refuge with their brethren in Africa. Others of the Semitic tribes, turning towards the rising sun, populated the parts of Asia now comprised in China, Japan, etc. A few also migrated towards the Black and Caspian Seas; but by far the greater portion must have remained in Asia, as the great mass of the population is of Semitic origin, as is proved by their language, physical features, manners, customs, etc.
The third migration from the primeval seats of mankind was that of the Indo-European, or Japhetic race. Japhet, it would appear, was particularly blessed with numerous descendants, for they not only colonized the whole of Asia Minor, but, proceeding towards the West and North-west gradually peopled all of South-eastern Europe, some tribes penetrating even as far as the Pyrenees. Herodotus mentions them asdwellingthere. These early migrators were, at a later period, compelled, by the successive onward marches of powerful tribes from Asia, to flee from their settlements and go in search of homes elsewhere. Thus., at the dawn of History, we find colonies passing over from Asia Minoi* into Greece; or, like ^Eneas and his companions, founding states in Italy. Manypetty kingdoms were thus formed, and, being supplemented at intervals by newly-arrived contingents of their Asiatic brethren, slowly7 attained to degrees of prominence.
Among these, Rome, more successful, perhaps, than others in her augmentation by new-comers, gradually insinuated herself into power; and being * a nation for the most part composed of lawless and • desperate men, at last obtained such supreme control over the other nations that she held almost absolute sway over all the civilized portions of Europe, and, finally, of all those regions bordering on the Mediterranean Sea.
Although Greece for a'while was the centre of much power, and in her flourishing days boasted such men as Plato, Socrates, Miltiades, Pericles and Themistocles, yet because of the incessant state of fermentation, proceeding from internal jealousies, disputes, and, finally, wars into which; she plunged,
she at length became weakened, and eventually, like other* nations, fell under the influence of Rome.
During all this time—the course of many ages,— numberless other Indo-European or Aryan tribes, migrating from the same original sources, had slowly followed each other, or rather impelled each other along those great rivers flowing into the Black and Caspian Seas, whence they marched on towards the Baltic which formed a barrier to their advance. Being likewise checked by the German Ocean, or North Sea, they were compelled to settle in that vast tract of territory bounded on the west by7 the Rhine, on the south by7 the Danube, and on the east by7 the Vistula and Carpathian Mountains.
In this area, confined, as it were, for many centuries, they lost the customs of their forefathers and every vestige of civilization, and became gradually transformed into barbarians of the worst character. So deeply were they buried in oblivion that the rest of the world either doubted their very existence, or treated it as a myth, till the time of Julius Cassar, who, impelled by the desire of conquest, crossed the Rhine about the year 50 B. C. Germanicus,seventy y7ears later, conducted a highly successful campaign against the frontier tribes. It was now that those glorious old German leaders, like Arminius, left the bones of the Roman soldiers to bleach white on the rocks and in the forests of German land; and who caused Augustus to exclaim: “ O Varus, restore to me my legions!”
These ambitious Romans, no doubt, had no idea of the vast hordes of barbarous Teutons living way7 back in the forested heart of Germany, awaiting only7 on opportunity to make a descent on the fair provinces of southern Europe. This opportunity presented itself during that space of -one hundred and fifty years, dating from the 4th century, during which time the Romans seemed to be plunged into a lethargy7 from which nothing could arouse them. A long list of Emperors presents itself, from among whom one would have much trouble to select one truly great man.	f
The German tribal leaders, observing this distempered state of the empire, saw now a fit time for the accomplishment of their predatory de. signs. Accordingly7, in A. D. 409 we find the Vandals, Suevi and Alans, who, after plundering Gaul, passed over into Spain, and, with little commotion, conquered it. The Suevi settled in the North, the Vandals chose the South; whilst the Alans obtained the West; thus leaving only the Eastern portion to the dispossessed Romans and natives. In 466, Spain was again invaded and subdued by the. Visigoths under Evaric.
. In 410, the Goths, led by Alaric, took Rome, but did not retain their conquest, being bribed not —likeinthe time of Camillus—By the sword’s point, but basely7—with gold. Once more, in 451, the whole of Europe trembled when the famous Attila —“the scourge of God,” as he.styled himself— fell upon her with wild hordes of untamed soldiery, who knew no restriction nor restraint; yet, strange to state, Rome Was saved, and by the hand of a single man—the illustrious. Leo the Great, Pope
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
107
and saint—whose energy, eloquence, and dignity so awed the savage Attila that, upon the promise of payment of an annual tribute, he returned to his own dominions, suffering the Romans to live on in peace.
Finally, in 476, Odoacer, king of the Heruli, swept down upon Rome with countless bands of ferocious Teutones, who, sparing nothing, totally destroyed every vestige of the great empire which had successfully breasted the storms of nearly two thousand years. Odoacer, on the ruins he had created, established a kingdom which enjoyed but a brief existence; for, seventeen years later, Theo-doric’the Great, king of the Ostrogoths, conquered all Italy, and formed for himself a flourishing prin-:	cipality.
i	FRANCE.
’ In 481, Gaul—now France—was conquered by the Franks, an assemblage of Germanic tribes, under the leadership of Clovis, who easily defeated the Romans and the few Gothic tribes that disputed his right of way and conquest. He also established a'^ingdom, and quickly attained surprising influence over his contemporaries. However, in 912, Rollo, and his gallant Northmen followers, obtained a foothold in the northern part of his i domain. The brave acts and heroic deeds of these I brave adventurers have served as the theme for !	many a song and romance, sung by the Troubadoitrs
, and Trouveres of the nth and 12th centuries.
j	ENGLAND.
I About the year 450 the Angles and Saxons * completely conquered England, and established :	the famous Heptarchy which existed for nearly
\ four centuries, then overthrowing itself by disunion and discord. Later on, the Danes, a branch of
I the great Germanic family, obtained a footing there. This period witnessed the existence of those brave « Pirate Kings of the North,” terrors to the English and Irish,* and whose deeds were sung for centuries afterward, by their bards and wandering minstrels. Finally, in 1066, England passed into the power of the Normans, whose king, William ; the Conqueror,—originator of the curfew—is fa-; mous in_the history of those times.
1 Now we witness the most important changes I	wrought in the English language, their manners
i and their customs, brought about by the intermin-J - gling of the Celts, the Romans, the Anglo-Saxons, the Danes, and, lastly, the Normans; each of whom exercised a certain influence in the formation of the national characteristics of the English people, and ■	each of whom contributed much to the common
|	proj'ect.
; Having dwelt upon the principal changes in the 5 chief States of Europe, it is not necessary to con-> sider those numberless smaller States existing to-. day, which are in reality but subdivisions of those already touched upon.
* It must be said, however, that the Irish alone successfully resisted the encroachment of the Danes, and finally expelled them, after a terrible defeat upon the plains of
1 Clontarf.
SUMMARY.
It has, no doubt, been observed that the invariable route followed by the numberless Indo-European, or Aryan nations, as some term them, was to pass through the regions bordering on the Black and Caspian seas. Their progress towards the South meeting an insuperable barrier in the opposition of the Romans and Greeks, they were forced to face about and march towards the North. Century after century, tribes followed one another, till, in the course of ages, that vast country, now comprising Germany, Austria and the Scandana-vian peninsula, was packed, so to speak, to such a degree that those on the frontier were compelled, from time to time, to cross the Rhine, or flee into Russia or the British Isles.
In the first case, they became subjected to the laws of Rome, and were gradually blended into, the mass of the Roman people; in Russia they peopled her wilds, and have developed, perhaps, into the Poles and northern Russians of to-day; in England, Ireland and Scotland they became what we, now call Celts. They at first dwelt in caves and forests, and lived in common with wild beasts; submitting their destinies to the Druids, or priests, and to chieftains whose wishes were their first interests.
As time rolled on, each year added scores to the number already running wild in German forests; and at last, under the guidance of heroic and valiant but savage leaders, became bolder and bolder, and at length, as we have seen, invaded and literally obliterated almost every trace of the old Roman Empire. Here, in their new possessions, they soon formed themselves into commonwealths, which, in the lapse of years, by the aid of Christianity, slowly elevated themselves from barbarism, developing by degrees into the great, civilized, Christian nations of Europe.
Frank J. Hagenbarth, ’87.
Volcanoes.
It is a commonly accepted theory that the interior of the earth is a molten mass; and this theory is true is proven by volcanic action. From time to time the heated mass of which the earth is composed bursts forth; flames are then seen to .issue from the surface; chasms appear on every side; clouds of red hot cinders are ejected high into the air, and streams of liquid lava, which carry destruction in their way, are poured forth from every crevice. These are the ordinary phenomena of an active volcano during the period of its eruption. Volcanoes are divided into two classes—active and extinct. To describe these fully would require more time than I can devote to. the subject, consequently I will treat principally of the former. Volcanic action is generally preceded by disturbance of the earth’s interior, somewhat resembling earthquakes. Ow-ino- to these disturbances, the earth’s surface is rent asunder, and the confined matter is ejected from the opening formed in the volcano, called the crafer.-
io8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
The crater is sometimes of immense depth, but may be quite shallow, and in extinct volcanoes is often wholly wanting. The materials produced by volcanoes are divided into four classes: namely, (i) lavas, (2) cinders, (3) tufas, (4) vapors, or gases, which are mostly aqueous vapor, partly sul-pher gases, and in some cases carbonic and hydrochloric gases. This ejected matter, in the course of time, forms mountains, which are of a conical shape, as the centre of the mountain is the centre of the active fires. These mountains are of two classes, namely, cones of eruption and cones of elevation. A cone of elevation is formed by interior forces lifting up the crust of the earth until it becomes shattered and breaks, forming a crater. A cone of eruption is somewhat similar, but is differently formed. The cone sometimes reaches an enormous height, some being among the loftiest mountains on the globe.
To show the enormous heights attained by volcanoes I will give a few of the loftiest peaks: for instance, Mount Aconcagua, in Chili, is 23,000 feet in height; Cotopaxi, in Ecuador, 19,600 feet. Something very remarkable regarding volcanoes is that they are almost invariably found in the vicinity of the sea. The greater part are confined to islands in the sea, and the remainder, with a few exceptions, occupy positions on the coast. A number of different theories have been advanced regarding the cause of volcanic action. Of these we will cite two: the internal fluidity theory, and that of chemical action. According to the first, the heat causing volcanic action is due to the remains of the primeval heat of the once universally incandescent earth. This theory supposes that the earth, from its original incandescent condition, slowly cooled and formed a surface crust; that this crust, though evei’ thickening by additions to its inner surface, is still comparatively thin, and beneath it an incandescent liquid still exists; that by movements of the surface the solid crust is fissured, and water from the sea or from other sources finds its way to the incandescent liquid mass, and develops elastic force sufficient to cause an eruption. The chemical theory accounts for volcanic action by supposing that the earth may or may not be composed of an interior liquid mass surrounded by a solid crust. It regards the earth as consisting of an oxidised covering, and an unoxidised interior. The oxidising agent and unoxidised material are in close proximity, the former ever encroaching on the latter, and therefore liable at any moment to cause chemical action, the intensity of which would vary with the nature of the material. If the action be intense, heat may be formed sufficient to fuse rocks, and develop elastic force necessary to produce eruption.
Having spoken of the formation of volcanoes and the probable cause of their eruption, we will now consider the extensive scale on which these fiery engines of nature have been distributed over the earth. First, on the continent of America : the whole chain of the Andes is studded with volcanoes,-most of which have been -in active eruption during aquite recent period. This chain is divided into two-branches at the equator; one shooting
toward the North-east, and passing through New Granada and Venezuela, stretches across the West India Islands; the other may be traced through Guatemala, Mexico, and thence northward as far as the mouth of the Columbia River. Hawaii, one of the Sandwich Islands, is especially noticeable for its volcanoes; but there are three which attract special attention—Mount Loa, Mount Kea, and Mount Kilanea. The latter is remarkable for the immense crater which it contains. A second chain of active volcanoes lines the eastern and southern coast of Asia, commencing near Behring Strait. • It passes through the Aleutian Islands, extends to Kamtschatka, then through the Kurtic and other islands of the Pacific. The most noted chain of all is that which extends through China and Tar-tary to the Caucasus; thence over the Grecian Archipelago, passing through Sicily, the Lipari Islands and the southern part of Spain and Portugal. This chain includes the most famous mountains on the globe—such as Vesuvius in Italy, Mount Etna in Sicily, and Stromboli, on one of the Lipari Islands. Vesuvius is, perhaps, the most noted of any volcano on the globe, owing to the violence of its eruptions. The greatest of these eruptions, which destroyed the cities of Herculaneum and Pompeii, took place A. D. 79. This eruption continued for eight days in succession during which time ashes and pumice stone, cast up from the crater, descended in one unceasing torrent on these great.cities. They were buried under a heap of ashes and other material, from 70 to 112 feet in depth, thus showing the enormous amount of matter ejected from an active volcano. Much more might be written on the subject, but I think sufficient has been said to illustrate the principle of volcanic action.	M. A. D.
Disappointment.
There is a time in the course of a man’s life when he looks forward to some future contingency, expecting it to be the messenger of joy The present seems an eternity to him, and the fu-	:
ture is but a glimmering light far away in the	f
horizon, which, ever and anon, in a fit of despond- | ency, he despairs of ever grasping. *	|
In his dreams he sees the fountain of felicity	|
gushing forth volumes of happiness. The glim-	f
mering light of his day visions he beholds trans-	|
formed into a blazing .sun, whose effulgent beams	|
transmute each separate particle of the falling - < spray into a glittering diamond; and each one of	W
these, in dropping, adds but another jewel to the	I
heaps that lay scattered around. To his surprise,	g
he finds no devotees worshipping at this shrine,	I
for such is not granted to mortals. He—foolish	I
man!—imagining that he, and he alone, will be the	|
possessor of all. blessedness, rushes forward with	|
renewed energy; but, as if by magic,,the vision	|
fades away, and, alas! poor mortal, he awakes to	i
find ’twas only the fancy of a disordered brain.	1
A moment’s sober reflection now suffices to con- t vince him that he is yet a denizen of this world, 1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	109
his position still unaltered, and he as far as ever from his anticipated joy.
After many days of fervent excitement the expected hour arrives. The feeling of hopes fulfilled, however, proves to be but a transitory, idle dream that has flitted for so long a time before him; disappointment stalks forth and, with the rage of a lion, seizing its unsuspecting prey, dashes from his hand the cup of bliss he was about to drain, and hurls him into the whirlpool of Despair around which the billows of sadness, raging high predict his speedy dissolution; no refuge is near, no friend is nigh!
His term of sorrow o’er, we soon find the selfsame man again looking forward to a new joy, which, however, sad to say, proves as momentary as the last. ’Tis ever thus!
The picture I have striven to draw is the only infallible representation of life here below. The epitome of a man’s existence may be summed up in these three words: expectation, disappointment, and sorrow.	Chas. E. Finlay.
’ “ Night, the Shadow of Light.”
BY ROBERT J. FLEMING.
O’er the landscape, yesternight, Fell the shadow of to-day;
And before it, in affright, All the glory and delight
Of the sunset fled away.
As we stood within the fold
Of that shadow brooding o’er, Still it seemed so dark and cold That we shuddered to behold
What the morrow had in store.
But the stars from heaven’s cope,
One by one shone bravely out, As they climbed the azure slope; Still they whispered: “ Let your hope
Light the shadow of your doubt.”
Then we looked beyond the night, And our souls were sad no more;
For beneath the starry light
Saw we morning breaking bright
Where the darkness reigned before.
As the night gives place to day,
So does gladness follow gloom; As the stars o’er night have sway, So does hope’s immortal ray
Light the darkness of the tomb!
An Exchange gives this rule for reckoning postage: A silver dollar weighs very nearly an ounce. Hence any letter not heavier than a dollar can go for a single two-cent stamp. A five-cent piece added will give the ounce. If you have not . the silver dollar, five nickels and a small copper cent will give an ounce weight.	•
The Gulf of Mexico.
We left B----------, a small town on the Texas coast, about 8.30 a.m., Sept? 17th. After sorrowfully bidding our friends and relatives good-bye— which some found a very difficult ordeal—the large ocean steamer I. C. Harris slowly steamed out over the bar.
Now were we to encounter the terrors and dangers of the briny deep. Previous to leaving port we had all promised ourselves not to allow that awful malady—sea-sickness—to overcome us. We were still in what might be called comparatively smooth water; its color, which was at first of a light green tinge, had changed to a dark blue, which indicated that we were in deep water. The captain and sailors had repeatedly assured us that we had every reason to expect a smooth and pleasant trip. After being out a short time, land began slowly to recede from our view; and ere long nothing could be seen but a long, low misty line to the South-west, and the hills which stood out in bold relief, and looked like so many sentinels guarding the coast. We could but feel a slight tinge of sadness; for not far back of that line, over against those dark hills, we had left our homes.
*	JI
But we had. other thoughts to fill our minds, and also dreads to make us sad. At half-past one. p. m., the great gong on the forward deck called us all to dinner. Every one was there; but how many would assemble at the next meal, or the meal after that, was a question! So far we had all had a very pleasant time. The captain and purser succeeded in getting together quite a crowd. Some on the hurricane deck chatting and telling jokes; others basking in the sun and enjoying their cheroots; while yet others were engaged in the very interesting game of Picyune Poker. Our pleasure, however, was of short duration. At 6.30 p. m. a slight wind sprung up from the North'-west, which continued to increase in violence until it assumed the proportions. of a gale. . The wind was dead ahead, and in a great measure retarded the progress of the ship. At 8 o’clock in the evening the sea became very rough, so irfuch so that the captain advised us to go below. A great many had already taken this precaution, and were rolling in their bunks in an agony of despair. Only five lone travellers remained on deck; and these also began to feel the natural effects of the surging sea on those who are not accustomed
“ To sail round and round the world, And think it nought but pleasure.”
One by one we sadly staggered to our state-rooms; some 'of us not to leave them until our arrival in port.
O what a night! Would that I were a poet that I could describe the misery and agony of those long, dark, weary.hours! Have any of you ever been sea-sick? If not, you can hardly imagine the miserable feeling which overcomes one. I felt as if my stomach had deserted me; as if it had shrunk way, way down to the very soles of my shoes, for I was so very weak that I had not: had strength
iio
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
enough to pull them off! As to my head, it felt as if it had also deserted me, and gone on a balloon tour round the room. But all these things have an end. After having been tossed and tumbled about for 48 hours we finally sighted land. This news infused me with new life. I managed to dress myself and stagger on deck. What a grand sight it was! With the exception of a long, low strip of land over to the North-east, nothing could be seen but
“Water, water everywhere, and every board did shrink; Water, water everywhere, nor any drop to drink.”
I never saw such a sight! Waves “ mountain high ” dashed over the ship and tossed us about like a mere toy. It was indeed grand, sublime! I never shall forget it. We at last entered the harbor, and steamed up to the wharf. After having gone through a preliminary examination at the hands of the quarantine official, and bidding our friends aboard ship good:bye, we hailed a ’bus, and started for the Tremont House. Here we laid up a couple of days for repairs, and then started for Notre Dame! Such was my trip from Brazos to Galveston.	F. C.
Butte City, Montana.
Butte City is so called from the fact that it is encircled by three buttes or hills.;—these Buttes are not to be mispronounced and made butts of, but must remain Buttes, so that the local poet may rhyme them with mutes, etc.
Butte City is situated in the western part of Montana—forty miles north of Helena, the capital of the Territory; and, in February, about three miles south of the North Pole. ;
There is nothing grand about Butte; nothing that would attract the eye of the tourist or pleasure-seeker. It has in the neighborhood of eight thousand inhabitants. Mining is the occupation of the people, and Butte boasts the largest smelter in the United States; with this exception, it is simply an every-day mining camp.
Like the majority of Eastern towns, it has gone crazy over roller-skating, and has four large rinks running all the time:	,
Butte is the centre of attraction for the festive cow-boy, for he can there obtain sixty-rod firewater in quantities to suit; but,
. “Be it ever so humble, There is no place like home.” -
Jno. J. Hamlyn.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Mrs. Craven, who is about to take up her residence in London, is engaged on writing in French the life of Lady Georgiana Fullerton.
—Mr. W. D. Howells is writing a new novel for. the Century. . It treats of a simple, innocent country youth, who comes, up.to Boston from the West with, a trashy poem he has. written, and with no other visible means of support. It is said to be
> in some degree a sequel to “ The Rise of Silas Lapham.”
—Princess Theresa, the only unmarried daughter of Prince Luitpokl of Bavaria, who has visited, incognita, every country in Europe with the exception of Spain, and kept a diary for future elaboration, has just published a volume entitled “Impressions of a Journey Through Russia,” under the nom de flume of “Th. Von Bayer.”: Hei' next work is to be a description of her travels in England.
—The dictionary of the French Academy, upon which that august body expends its most serious energies, has been of slow growth—a matter of two centuries, in fact. It first appeared in 1694 in two volumes, folio. Frequent revisions have taken place, the earliest of which was begun in 1700, and published in 1718; the seventh and latest is now in progress, the first number having seen the light in 1858.
—A novelty, which is a hundred- years old, is the talk of the hour in musical circles in Berlin. The Crown Prince has discovered an overture composed by Frederick the Great; and when the band of the Second Silesian Grenadier regiment was playing in the Austelhrags-park the prince placed the music on the stands and required them to play it. It was so successful, and is likely to be so popular, that a pianoforte arrangement of it is now advertised, menials, and finally propounds alternative theories.
—Allen Thorndike Rice, editor and proprietor of The North American Review, announces that he has concluded an agreement with General Beauregard by which he will write a series of four articles on “ The Shiloh Campaign,” “The Defence of Charleston,” “ The Dury Bluffs Campaign,” and “ The Defence of Petersburg.” These articles will appear in The North American Review in the course of 1886. The “ Shiloh” article, which is likely to provoke a lively controversy, will appear in the January number.
—The World (London) says that a very curious discovery of papers was made a few weeks since in a loft at Belvoir Castle. They include letters from Edward IV and Henry VII, and some correspondence of the Earl of Shrewsbury, throwing light on the circumstances attending the execution of Mary Queen of Scots. A great deal of the MS. has been injured by the rats, but the experts, who have come down from the Record Office to inspect the documents, think that no “ find ” of equal importance has taken place for years.
—The London Times, in a column of literary notices, says:—“Lord Arundell of Wardour discusses, in a scholarly treatise, the Secret of Plato's Atlantis. He combats the. theory put forward by Mr. Donnelly with regard to the Deluge to the effect that there was a deluge, but one of a very restricted-, character compared with the Biblical ’ one; that, in short, it was a deluge, as revealed according to Plato and not. according to Moses. After considering Mr. Donnelly’s theory, his lordship passes in review a conjecture, based on Strabo, as to the probable basis of Plato’s Atlantis, deals with various diluvian traditions and recent testi
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
iff
monies. This little volume opens up a curious and interesting field of study.”
—As a proof of the progress which is being made by the curious “ universal speech,” Volapilk^ of which an account appeared in the Scholastic last year, we note that at the International Art and Literary Congress, just held in Antwerp, the following resolution was adopted: “The Congress considers that the creation of a universal language offers great interest for the future of civilization; and, whilst manifesting its entire sympathy for the works that have been presented to it—the Volapilk of M. Schleyer, the ‘ Visible Speech ’ of Mr. Guest, and the ‘ Universal Language’ of M. Sudre—it ex-. presses its desire that a universal language should ! form the object of consistent and complete studies i in the direction of simplicity and practice.” It । moreover appeared from a report presented by M. Kerchhoffs, Professor in the School of Higher Commercial Studies, that Vola/piik is daily gaining-numerous partisans in every country, and that it is found to be very easy to learn.
Scientific Notes.
—Naturalists have long known of insectivorous plants. It is now stated, on the authority of Pro-i fessor Baird, that a bladderwort, which has hitherto i been carefully introduced into the government carp ; ponds, has very curiously proved to be a fish-eat-; ing plant, devouring the very animals which were j expected to feed upon it.
;	—For the past six weeks that quaint botanical
curiosity, “ the Holy Ghost plant,” has been in bloom in the Horticultural Building in the park • and has been visited by thousands. It comes from Panama, and blooms once a year. Its flowers are white, and when fully opened the delicate stamen and corolla bear a startling resemblance to a white dove poised above an altar with outstretched wings.—Philadelphia Times.
—M. Regnard said, at a meeting of the Societe de Biologic, that a fish which he had placed in a weak solution (2 to 1,000) of cocaine fell into a state of apparent death after a few minutes of floundering. Its respiration was completely sus-; pended for two hours, as shown by an analysis of the water, which was not diminished in oxygen j	and contained no carbonic acid gas. Yet the fish
1	was not dead, and when placed in a jar of pure
water became as lively as ever.
—The great sand dunes along the banks of many rivers, and particularly along the shores at the southern end of Lake Michigan, are due to the ; presence, of the Ammophila Arenaria, or sandgathering grass, which possesses a remarkable 1 power of drawing up moisture. Indeed, it may almost be called a miniature water pump, for it is able to keep the earth wet for several inches around it. This wet earth catches and holds the drifting sand. . The’ process goes on, the grass growing and the sand collecting, until a great sand dune is the result.
—The Grocers1 Advocate says an ingenious contrivance to take the place of matches is now used by the watchmen of Paris in magazines, where explosives or inflammable materials are kept. The novel light is made by taking an oblong vial of the whitest and clearest glass, into which a piece of phosphorous about the size of a pea is put. Olive oil heated to the boiling point is poured on this until the vial is one-third full, and it is then corked tightly. To use this light, allow the air. to enter the vial and then recork it. The empty space in the vial will become luminous, and the light obtained is equal to that given by a lamp. When the light becomes dim its power can be increased by allowing a fresh supply of air to enter the vial.
The Ruins at Thebes.
On the 22d, we saw for the first time the ruins of great Thebes, and landed at Luxor. Here I beg the reader to observe that but very imperfect ideas can be formed of the extensive ruins of Thebes, even from the accounts of the most skilful and accurate travellers. It is absolutely impossible to imagine the scene displayed without seeing it. The most sublime ideas that can be formed from the most magnificent specimens of our present architecture would give a very incorrect picture of these ruins; for such is the difference, not only in magnitude, but in form, proportion and construction, that even the pencil can convey but a faint idea of the whole. It appeared to me like entering a city of giants, who, after a long conflict, were all destroyed, leaving the ruins of their various temples as the only proofs of their former existence. The temple of Luxor presents to the traveller at once one of the most splendid groups of Egyptian grandeur. The extensive propylaeum, with the two obelisks and colossal statues in the front; the thick •groups of enormous columns; the variety of apartments, and the sanctuary it contains; the beautiful ornaments which adorn part of the walls and columns—described by Mr. Hamilton,—cause in the astonished traveller an oblivion of all that he has .seen before. ’ If his attention be attracted to the north side of Thebes by the towering remains that project a great height above the wood of palm-trees, he will gradually enter that forest-like assemblage of ruins of temples, columns, obelisks, colossi, sphinxes, portals, and an endless number of other astonishing objects, that will convince him at once of the impossibility of a description. On the west side of the Nile, and till the traveller finds himself among wonders, the temple of Gournon, Mem-nonium and Medinet Aboo, attest the extent of the great city on this side. The unrivalled colossal figures in the plains of Thebes,’the number of tombs excavated in the rocks, those in the great valley of the kings, with their paintings, sculptures, mummies, sarcophagi, figures, etc., are all objects worthy of the admiration of the traveller, who will not fail to wonder how a nation which was once so great as to erect these stupendous edifices, could . so far fall into oblivion that even their language and writings are totally unknown .to us.—Rev. P. A. Treacy;	.	■ ■
112	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, October 24, 1885.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
Our Staff.
Frank H. Dexter,	P. J. Goulding,
F. J. Hagenbarth,	T. J. Cleary.
—Apropos of the near celebration of St. Cecilia Day by elocutionary and oratorical exercises, it might not be out of place to make a few remarks on the matters which the idea naturally suggests. There are, every year, several contestants for Elocution and Oratory Medals, and.it is at our frequent entertainments, in the course of the year, that they must show their ability or make their greatest efforts. It is well known, as a rule, who the contestants are; but the fact that such are known excludes nobody from entering at any time. Good orators are among the greatest lights of a University—there is no reason why Notre Dame should not shine as brilliantly as her contemporaries. Let our orators begin work immediately, nor let them once lessen their efforts. Palmamqui meruit ferat !
—On Monday last, our beloved Bishop paid his first visit to. Notre-Dame after a long absence in the Eternal City. He arrived about 11 a. m., and was received , by the Faculty and students of the
University who had assembled in the Rotunda to greet him. After some excellent music by the Band, Mr. A. A. Browne, in behalf of his fellowstudents, addressed words of welcome and congratulation to Bishop Dwenger, speaking substantially as follows:
“Right Rev. Bishop:
“The students of Notre Dame gather here to-day to tender to you through me, their greetings. Eight long months have gone by since, in the company of our honored Founder, you left us to discharge the weighty duty imposed upon you by the Plenary Council—to bear to Rome its decrees. The Bishops of holy Church in this our land had assembled, and, directed and guided by the grace of God, they had wisely decided to provide for the needs of the American Church, to improve its discipline and organization in a manner commensurate with its growth and development. Having formed the decrees bearing upon the many and most important questions which necessarily came up for solution, in accord with the law of holy Church, they then turned their eyes to the Apostolic Chair, and asked of him who sits therein that he would sanction and approve what they had done; so that in all things they might stand one with him. To you and to your worthy colleagues was committed the charge to bear to Rome the decrees, and1 there to explain and set forth the causes and reasons of the changes made; and thereby to secure that approval; and sanction which would give us assurance of and well-grounded belief in the wisdom thereof. You sought,, above all, that you might stand one with Rome, for you trusted not to be without that unity. Your mission has been successfully performed, and you have returned to us, bearing the assurance that Rome has spoken, and that she has approved the work our prelates have performed. The good and the blessings that will come to- the faithful throughout the length and breadth of-the land' from these wise rules will be great and lasting. The faithful execution of your important mission will bring joy and happiness to the hearts of all Christians, and will win for you their lasting gratitude; while our heartfelt thankfulness to God that after the fulfilment of your duties you have been able to return safely to us, is indeed great. The pleasure with which the students greet you on all occasions is always very great; but mingled with this pleasure to-day we have the greater one—that you have returned safe from the Eternal City, having accomplished your given mission. The students of Notre Dame are proud to have so learned and distinguished a Prelate ruling over them, and they rejoice and are glad in reflecting how well and wisely he has, for now past ten years, ruled over his flock. ‘ The praise of a ruler is in the mouth of his people.’ Truly can this be said of you; for, from one and all, from your clergy and from your faithful laity, among whom we can—at least by adoption—be numbered, does the testimony come to the wisdom and beneficence of your rule.
“ Accept, then, Rt. Rev. Bishop,- our heartfelt congratulations upon the successful performance of your mission, and upon your safe and happy return. Receive from us our most hearty and loyal welcome to this our University, and our earnestwish that often we may see you amongst us.”
In reply, the Bishop thanked the students for their cordial, greetings, and spoke at length upon his mission to Rome and the audiences with the Holy Father to which he had been admitted. He told of the great solicitude and love of the Father of Christendom for the Church of America and how its needs—the grand development which it assuredly must receive—could be best promoted by the proper education and training of • the rising generation, upon whom it was incumbent to profit by the splendid opportunities placed within their reach. The interest taken by the Pope in the United States was shown by the wonderful amount of information, accurate in every detail, he pos sessed of each individual diocese, its clergy, relig
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	113
ous orders, and educational institutions. The Vicar of Christ was truly a man of God—a man raised up by Divine Providence to guide the Church through the perilous waters which were encountered at the present time, a man in whom were united all the qualities of the saint, to do violence to heaven by prayer, of the genius, to meet upon their own ground the supporters of infidelity—the enemies of the Church. The Bishop exhorted his hearers to conform themselves to the spirit and intention of this truly admirable Pontiff, and unite with him in prayer for the peace of the Church. When the Bishop concluded, the students all knelt to receive the Apostolic Blessing which was solemnly administered.
His Lordship remained at the College until next day at noon, when he departed to continue the visitation of the diocese.
rejected. Your humble servant was One of the fortunate and happy seventeen. My Professor of Law was, through me, paid a pretty compliment by the examiners. They said I had a great advantage over many of the other applicants, inasmuch as my mind had received a thorough legal training. In other words, I had a good and experienced preceptor. They said also that the University of Notre' Dame has acquired an enviable reputation in Ohio as a law school. In preparing for examination, I read nothing' but the law lectures taken by me at Notre Dame and the-State Statutes. Most of those who failed to pass studied and were instructed in offices.”
The law students of Notre Dame may well congratulate themselves upon the fact that they can learn the law as thoroughly here in two or three years as in any other law school in the country in the same period, and meanwhile enjoy the special advantage of being able to prosecute their several studies in the undergraduate courses of the University.
The Law Department.
France and the Huguenot.
The Law Department of Notre Dame is rapidly acquiring an enviable reputation for the thoroughness and practical effectiveness of its work. The fact is beginning to attract general notice, and the result is likely to be evidenced at an early day in a largely increased attendance of law students. While the number now here is fully up to the average in other well-known universities, yet there is hardly any room for doubt that it will be considerably increased. The law students of Notre Dame enjoy peculiar advantages, and the fact cannot fail to produce effect when it comes to be generally known. Indeed, we have only to remember that the present system of instruction went into effect less than three years ago, and that the number of students has trebled in that period, to be fully assured that the Law Department has already made rapid and substantial progress. But what we regard as peculiarly gratifying is that the law graduates acquit themselves so creditably in the discharge of the actual duties of the profession after leaving here. Take, for example, the graduates of last June. All of them, we are informed, are engaged even at this early day—four months after receiving their diplomas—in the active practice of law. And whenever and wherever they find it necessary to undergo examination for admission to the Bar, they do so with credit to themselves and honor to the University. In this connection we fee!strongly urged to quote briefly from a letter Just received from a young man who recently finished his law studies at Notre Dame. He writes:
“Last Tuesday the examination of applicants for admission to the Ohio bar took place at Columbus before the Supreme Court. In the morning a class of forty-two assembled in the Chamber of J ustice, and forty-two hearts beat anxiously, with mingled emotions of fear and hope. The examination began at 10 o’clock a. m., and lasted until 5.30 o’clock p. m. Each applicant was presented with a printed list of eighty-five questions and a number of hypothetical cases. These covered the principles of common law and equity, pleadings under the code. etc. As a whole, the examination was a pretty fair test of the legal knowledge and standing of the applicants, though a little severe. Out of the forty-two only seventeen passed. Twenty-five were
A short time ago an inter-collegiate contest was held at Carlinville, Illinois. The second prize was awarded to T. H. McMichael, of Monmouth College, Monmouth, Illinois. His subject was, “ France and the Huguenot.” Orations delivered at these contests are generally written for the sake of effect, and, ..consequently, little or no regard is paid to truth. They are too often full of stale declamation about liberty, tyranny and Jesuitism, for the purpose of pandering to the passions and prejudice of those before whom they are delivered. This one was no exception to the general rule. As a composition, it probably deserved the rank it received; but in regard to historical accuracy, it ranks low. The historian is a recorder of important events. Theevents treated of by our orator were most important. He.should have studied them well, pondered them carefully, treated of them accurately, and addressed himself to the judgment rather than to the feelings of his auditors. That he did not do this will be evident to all after noticing a few of his aberrations:
“The Puritan and the Huguenot here (in America) met and proclaimed liberty the birthright of all men.The Puritan loved law and liberty.”
It is easy to see that the object of this passage was to please his hearers. But is there any truth in it? Did the Puritan love liberty? History says, no: he was not the friend of either civil or religions liberty. Persecuted in England, he came to the New World to find a place where he could worship God according to the dictates of his conscience. This free asylum being found, he denied to others what he. so eagerly sought for himself. For it is a matter of history that he had no sooner established himself in his new home than he began to persecute and to drive into the wilderness all who interpreted the Scripture differently from himself. He drove away Roger Williams in the middle of winter. He banished, hung, branded, and bored with red hot irons the tongues of the Quakers. He hunted the witches, and enacted the “Blue Laws.” Was it love of law and liberty,
114
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
think you, that caused him to do these things? It seems to us that it was not; and we think the orator himself will, under ordinary circumstances, agree with us.
Did the “ Blue Laws ” of Massachusetts, Connecticut, etc., show the Puritan’s love of law and liberty ? A more tyrannical, cruel and infamous system was never enacted, at least in Christian times. The whole system showed that the Puritans had become proficients in the art of persecuting. As Irving says, they “employed their leisure hours in banishing, scourging, or hanging divers heretical Papists, Quakers and Anabaptists for daring to abuse the liberty of conscience.” This liberty of conscience meant that you could think as you pleased in matters of religion, provided you thought as the Puritans did. It is deemed unnecessary to quote from the Blue Laws or to recount any of the trials for witchcraft, as no one who pretends to know anything about our colonial history would say that the “Puritans loved law and liberty.” The orator continues:
“The Huguenot loved the same principles (law and liberty) no less sincerely, but he had learned tolerance in the school of suffering.”
The Huguenot loved liberty and law! “O Liberty, what crimes are committed in thy name!” O Law, what disloyalty, disobedience and contempt of authority thou dost shield! The whole history of France, for a period of about two centuries—from Francis I to Louis XIV — is a series of Huguenot conspiracies and open revolts against legitimate authority. This is’a point of history that cannot be gainsaid. They held secret assemblies, formed leagues with foreign enemies, plundered towns, massacred the inhabitants, and desolated the fertile soil of France by causing nearly a hundred years of civil wars.
If to rise in arms against a legitimate government; to fight its armies in several pitched battles; to treacherously deliver to an inveterate enemy its principal seaports; to attempt to grasp the supreme power of government; to butcher the ministers of God; to desecrate churches; to slaughter the unarmed by thousands;—if these are the marks of a lover of law and liberty, then, indeed, the Huguenot loved law and liberty “no less sincerely” than did the Puritan. O Lord, deliver us from such lovers of law and liberty! No man loves law and liberty who is not loyal and obedient to legitimate authority. “All power is from God.” Hence man owes loyal obedience to any government lawfully established, and liberty only means freedom from unlawful restraint.
“But let us hold fast the enduring principles of the Puritan and Huguenot; then is our prosperity assured, our permanency a fact.”	-
These principles of the Puritan and Huguenot are, as we have seen, when they could be carried out, anarchy and tyranny against all who did not believe as they did. No, let us not hold fast such pernicious principles; but let us hold fast the good ' old Catholic principles of loyalty and obedience, of law and liberty—those principles which the Catholic Church taught 1500 years before Puritan
or Huguenot saw the light of day. To these we are indebted for the cardinal elements of our own Republican Government. To them we are indebted for trial by jury, habeas corpus, and the principle for which we fought the Revolutionary War—no taxation without representation. These are all 300 years older than Puritan and Huguenot. What did the Puritan.and Huguenot ever do for liberty? Did they found a single republic? No: all the republics which ever existed in Christian times were founded by Catholics, with the exception of our own, and Catholics generously co-operated in establishing it. Switzerland, Venice, Andorra and San Marino were Catholic republics. Andorra and San Marino still remain to show the benign influence of Catholicity on free institutions. The republic of Andorra is over 1000 years old, while San Marino has existed as a republic 1500 years.
Catholicity strenuously fought against the tyranny of the Ctesars, drove back the Mohammedan despotism, civilized the northern barbarians, nurtured such liberty-loving heroes as Wallace, Bruce, Tell, Furst, etc.; founded republics, and has ever been the advocate of free principles. Her theologians ever taught principles of true liberty.
From the time of the protomartyr Stephen down to the noble army of Confessors exiled by Bismark she has had one continual struggle for law and liberty against the tyranny and despotism of the Czesars. But she was ever victorious. The cry of the martyr, arising from the amphitheatre, reverberating through hill and valley, and extending even to our own time, was a triumphant cry: for “the blood of martyrs became the seed of Christians.” .
Let us recognize in the Catholic Church the Divine element; for she was founded by the Hand of God, and contains in herself everything necessary to elevate man, to guard his liberty, and to make him good and happy. Let us be thankful that she is still with us, teaching, as of old, those “enduring principles” of law and liberty, loyalty and obedience; extending every where her benefits, calming the troubled heart, and securing to the Government stability and prosperity. .
B.
Books and Periodicals.
The Catholic Home Almanac for 1886. New York, Cincinnati & St. Louis: Benziger Bros.
Besides the Calendar, Astronomical Calculations, and other information customary in almanacs, the Home Almanac for 1886 contains fifty or more pages of engraved illustrations, and fresh contributed matter from some of our best American writers, notable among them the Most Rev. Archbishop Gibbons, Mrs. J. and Miss Anna T. Sadlier, Maurice F. Egan, Christian Reid, and Mrs. M. A. Stace. A brief sketch of the American College at Rome, with an engraving of the interior of the chapel, is contributed by a former student. There are also several minor contributions and selections, - * • r
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and some very good full-page illustrations. The “ Retrospect,” or chronicle of the year, is not what it might be; it is little more than a part of a skeleton, but its barrenness is relieved somewhat by the small but good wood-cut engravings of Miss Mary Gwendolin Caldwell, Reuben Runyan Springer, Francis A. Drexel, and the great German Christian patriot, Herr Windthorst. A fine full-page chromo-lithograph, in colors, of the Good Shepherd is given as a frontispiece. This of itself is probably worth the price charged for the Almanac.
The Art of Oratorical Composition, Based upon the Precepts and Models of the Old Masters. By Rev. Charles Coppens, S. J. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay Street. 1885.
The study of Oratorical Composition is one that should hold a distinct place in a college curriculum. Orator fit is the old adage, and it is generally accepted as true. Though “real eloquence is a gift of nature,” yet careful study and judicious training have made many an orator whom unaided natural talent would nevei' have raised to notice. Father Coppens has done a good service to the student. world in the publication of his “ Art of Oratorical Composition,” in which he has presented “the wisest precepts of the most authoritative writers,” and illustrating them by numerous extracts from the best productions of ancient and modern orators. The whole is encompassed in a book of some 300 pages 8vo, well gotten up by the publishers. An idea may be formed of the nature and value of the contents from the divisions of the subjects treated, which are as follows: Book I, Sources of Success in Oratory; Book II, On the Ihvention.of Thought; Book III, Order or Arrangement of Thoughts; Book IV, Development of Thought; Book V, Memory and Elocution; Book VI, The Different Species of Oratory.
Falsely Accused. A Domestic Drama in Four Acts. For Male Characters Only. Remodelled and Adapted from Colin H. Hazlewood’s “Waiting for the Verdict.” By Joseph A. Lyons, A.M. Notre Dame, Indiana: Scholastic Press. 1885. Price, 50 cts.
After the “ Recognition,” the splendid four-act drama of “ Falsely Accused ” has been the most successful of the various dramatic productions at Notre Dame. Thrice presented here since 1875, when the leading parts were personated by a galaxy of talent in the persons of McS weeny, Berdel, Charles and W. Dodge, W. Clarke, Staley, T. A. Dailey, McGinnis, and Hal and Louis Hayes, and others who have since opened for themselves a brilliant and honorable career in the busy world outside, this drama won new favor with each presentation. The plot is realistic, and gives scope for a great variety of talent. The scene of the play is in England, and the grand finale is embodied in Solomon’s celebrated picture, “ Waiting fior the Verdict” in the British Royal Academy.
Prof. Lyons’s adaptation of this play to male characters only—a difficult task in the case of any play—is such as one might expect from his great experience as an oratorical and dramatic teacher. In the presentations of “Falsely Accused” on the'
Notre Dame stage, the parts of the Judge, Stanley, counsel for the prosecution, and Grafston, for the prisoner, have invariably been taken by students in the Law Class, who furnished original arguments and speeches of their own that added not a little to its novelty and success. The latter, of course, were optional; the play, as printed, is complete in itself.	-
—We have received from Benziger Bros., New York, a copy of the “Funeral Oration on His Eminence John Cardinal McCloskey, D.D., Archbishop of New York, Delivered October 15, 1885, at St. Patrick’s Cathedral, New York, By Most Rev. James Gibbons, D. D., Archbishop of Baltimore.” It is published in neat pamphlet form, and accompanied with an excellent portrait of the deceased Cardinal. Price, 10 cents.
Personal.
—Eugene Grout (Com’l), ’81, is in business in Pueblo, Col.
—	Oliver Tong (Prep.), of ’72, is in business at St. Paul, Minn.	.
—	The genial Otis Spencer, of ’84, is engaged in the study of Law.
—	Lieut. Joseph P. O’Neill, ’83, is now stationed in Washington Territory.
—	John W. Guthrie is the Manager of a large business establishment at Carroll, Iowa.
—	J. C. McMullen, ’73, is meeting with success in the practice of law at Portland, Oregon.
—	Geo. Crosby (Com’l), ’76, is the General Agent of the C. B. & Q. R.R., Denver, Col.
—	James Brown, of ’77, is the popular candidate for Collector of Customs' at Brownsville, Texas.
—	Guilley Otero (Com’l), ’76, has a large interest in a banking business at Las Vegas, N. M.
—	Aldin Grout, of ’82, is a telegraph operator in one of the western offices of the Burlington & Missouri R.R.	.
—	Raphael Becerra, of ’80, has taken charge of the business of his father, recently deceased at Vera Cruz, N. M.
—Among the visitors during the past week were: Rev. W. Van der Haagen, of Chatsworth, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Ryan, Miss Minnie Ryan, and Miss Katharine Ryan, Galena, Ill.; MlF.Kla-ner, Chicago, Ill.; M. Grace Coster, St.John, N. B.; W. R. Lennon, Quincy, Mich.; James F. Sheny, Philadelphia, Pa.; Iida B. Slater, Mendon, Mich.; Floy Rich, Portland, Mich.; and Julia Waooda, Ft. Wayne, Ind.
—Dr. Neyron, Professor of Anatomy in Notre Dame University, Ind., is the Nestor of physicians in this country. He is 94 years old, and was a surgeon in Napoleon’s army during the Russian campaign and at Waterloo. After the restoration he became a priest, and was an early missionary in the Northwest. He is still able to conduct his classes, and few men of 70, it is said, are. so strong and active.— Chicago Journal. .
ix6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
[From the '■'■Chicago Citizen.”] A Generous Donation.
The Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Ind., is a Frenchman who has devoted his whole life to the service of God and humanity. He evidently recognizes in the Irish cause an avenue on which the moral philanthropist may safely travel. The cause of liberty is the cause of God. The best blood of France and of Ireland has commingled, in a common cause, on many a .deathless field, from Aughrim to Fontenoy, and from Cremona to. Castlebar, and, therefore, the sympathy of a Reverend son of the gallant and glorious land of St. Ruth and of Vileroy, of Hoche and of Humbert does not rest upon strange soil when it falls on the heart of kindred and grateful Ireland. The Citizen has great pride and pleasure in allowing the Very Rev. Father Sorin to convey his contribution to the Irish Parliamentary Fund in his own graceful words:
“ Notre Dame University, “ Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. io, 1SS5. “Mr. John F. Finerty:
“Dear Sir:—I am not an Irishman, but an admirer and a devoted friend of Ireland. Our Congregation of the Holy Cross is chiefly composed of the sons and daughters of your admirable and heroic race, and in their name and mine, I joyfully send you my humble mite, $100, with a God speed and most fervent prayer for the final triumph of your noble cause. Very devotedly your friend,
“ E. Sorin, C. S. C., Superior-General?1
Local Items.
—Retreat!
—The Juniors are the champions!
—The Scientifics will reorganize next week.
—The Philopatrians are holding a Moot-court.
—Competitions next week in the Scientific Course.
—Why do not the Seniors fix up their Gymnasium ?
—It is intended to illuminate Science Hall with the incandescent light.
—The ecclesiastical conferences for ’85—’86 were inaugurated last Thursday. -	'
—Owing to press of matter the report of the Junior sports is deferred to next week.
—The slaters have almost completed their work on the roof of the extension to the church.
—In honor of the visit of Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwehger, an extra “rec” day was granted on Wednesday.	.
—Several large collections of specimens of Natural History for Science Hall have been received from Alaska.
—Master Rodrick Monroe, of New York city, and J. Klaner, of Chicago, are the latest arrivals among’the Minims.	. ' ■ .
—It is expected that the new dynamo machine
will arrive in a few days, and then the incandescent light will be in full blast.
—Work on the Preparatory Theological Seminary is rapidly approaching completion. It will soon be ready for occupancy.
—The Annual Retreat for the students will open next Thursday evening. The sermons will be preached by Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C.
’ —The inauguration of the Lecture Course is now in order. We are informed that it will be made unusually varied, as well as instructive, this year.
—A large new Wilcox & Babcock boiler will be put in’Science Hall next week. It will supply steam for Music Hall, the Gymnasium and Science Hall.
—Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, Indiana, has published another play called “ Falsely Accused,” for male characters only. Prof. Lyons is a good dramatic writer, and a man of large and varied ability.—Pilot.
—A number of new and valuable dynamo electric apparatus have been placed in the Physical Laboratory. Among these may be mentioned a Van de Poel dynamo electric machine constructed after specifications furnished by the Prof, of Physics.
—The Philodemic Literary and Debating Society was reorganized on Wednesday evening. The following officers were elected: Director, Prof. W. Hoynes; President, P. J. Goulding; 1st Vice-President, A. A. Browne; 2d Vice-President, M. Burns; Recording Secretary, M. Dolan; Corresponding Secretary, J. Kleiber; Treasurer, A. Jones; Critic, L. Mathers.
—The 5th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held in St. Edward’s Hall, on Monday the 19th. The speakers on the occasion were F. Cobbs, W. Bailey, G. Landen-wich, B. Nealis, D. Sweet, A. Smart, and J. Piero. The papers of F. Cobbs and W. Bailey were especially deserving of praise. F. Crotty delivered a declamation. The meeting closed with a speech from the chair.
—A Correction.—In the field-sports on St. Edward’s Day the “ running broad jump ” was won by E. M. Hampton, with a. record of 17 ft., 9 in. J. McAdam and M. A. Dolan secured second and third places, jumping, respectively, 17 ft., 6 in., and 17 ft., 5 iu. In the consolation race—in which all those who had been unsuccessful in previous sports were allowed to participate—C. Haus-berg came in first, J. Cusack second, and W alter Collins third.
—On the afternoon of the 18th inst., a game of ball was played between a South Bend picked nine —selected from the “Hairpins” and other nines— captained by E. McCabe, and the “ Atlantics ” of the Manual Labor School. The latter nine succeeded in gainingscores during every inning of the game; while their opponents, unable to hit the pitcher of the “ Atlantics,” were whitewashed in every inning but two. Moran, McCabe and McCarthy particularly distinguished themselves. Score, 16 to 4 in favor of the « Atlantics.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—One of the first places that Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger honored with a visit after his arrival at Notre Dame was the Palace, where he was warmly welcomed by the Princes, to whom he gave a most interesting account of his stay in Rome. He concluded his speech by telling the Minims that he hoped they would always uphold the honor of the department, and continue to be the best boys at Notre Dame. He said he had a special interest in the Minim department, as he was once a Minim himself. The Minims feel highly honored by his Lordship’s visit, and hope he will always remain a member of their department.
—The Captain’s Soliloquy, after being challenged to a second race for the championship:
To race, or not to race; that is the question: Whether ’tis nobler quietly now to glory In a vict’ry.won by fickle fortune’s aid;
Or again to take up oars against the other crew, And then get left? To race, to lose!
No more the champion crew; no more to sport
- Those pretty little anchors; no more to smile That taunting smile that to the victor b’longs,—’tis a consummation,
By Jove! that I don’t want!	.
Wm. Shakefist.
—The drawing for the Sorin gold ring took place on Monday. At two o’clock, the Rev. Prefect of Discipline, who had donated the ring, went with a party of Minims to the Presbytery, and escorted Very Rev. Father General to St. Edward’s Hall, where the “ Princes ” were anxiously awaiting him. Fie distributed among them a quantity of small cakes, one of which contained the prize. At a signal from Father General the Minims commenced to dispose of their cakes. In less than a minute, Master Tillenburg, of Norfolk, Nebraska, announced himself the fortunate finder. Father General blessed the ring, and put it on his finger.
—The most exciting baseball game of the season was played on the Junior groundslast Friday, between the “ Whites,” champion club of the Senior department, and the “ Reds,” champions of the Junior department. The progress of the game was watched with the greatest interest. The players were nerved and stimulated to do their utmost. The chilly weather was forgotten, and the passage of time was so little heeded that the two hours consumed by the game seemed as but half an hour to the excited throng. The Seniors were present in full force to witness the wonders their crack club was to perform. Somehow the programme was reversed, and the Juniors gave the show. The erratic curves of Benner proved too much for the heavy batters of the “Whites.” The “Reds” took kindly to Keegan from the start. All of the members of the Junior club did well, and several of the visiting club. The feature of the game was the batting of S. Holman. A member of his club says Sam sent to his home in Nashville for some wool from the head of the little darkey mascot who accompanies the Nashville Club, and that he rubbed his hands with the wool, which accounts for his terriffic batting at the end of the ninth inning. The score stood n to 14 in favor of the “ Reds.”
Innings :—i 23456789
Reds:—1 3061003 -=14
Whites:—4 1 2 2 1 o o o 1=11
—The fourth championship game of baseball, between the “Stars of the East” and the “Universities,” was played on the 18th inst. The game attracted a larger number of spectators, and more interest was manifested in it than in any that has been played on the Senior campus this year. The following is the the score:
Stars.	t. b.
McNulty, 3d b........... 6
Breen, 1. f............. 6
Keegan, s. s............ 6
Mathers, c. f........... 6
Nester, c............... 6
Collins, l.f............ 6
Crawford, r. f.......... 6
Rahilly, 2d b........... 6
Goodfellow, p........... 5
Total................... 53
Universities. t. b.
Browne, p................ 5
Chapin, istb............. 5
Combe, c................. 5
Hampton, 3d b.......... 5
Dolan, c. f.............. 5
Harless, 2d b............ 5
Cusack, 1. f............. 5
Collins, r.i............. 5
Duffin, s. s............. 5
R. I.B.
o
3
4
1
1
1
2
3 2
3 3
1
1
1
2
T. B.	P. O. A.
6	I 5
2	2	0
3	03
3	12
162
I	12	O
IIO 2	3	2
1	i	7
E. O O O I . 4. 2 O O 3 ’
o
1
20	17	20	27	21	10
R.	I. B.	T. B.	P.O.	A.	E.
2	2	3	0	7	5
2	I	I	12	0	r
2	2	2	5	2	4
I	I	I	■ 2	1	0
I	2	2	2	0	1
3	3	6	3	2	L
2	3	3	2	1	I
1	1	1	0	0	O
0	0	0	1	2	2
Total.
45 14 T5 19 27 15 15
Earned Runs: “ Stars,”S; “Universities,”4. Two basehits, McNulty, Browne, Harless. Three base-hits, McNulty, Harless. Time of game, two hours and twenty minutes. Umpire, Combe.
Innings :—1 23456789 Stars :—3 3232025 0=20 Universities:—o o 2 3 3 1 o 1 4=14
This game decides the fall championship in favor of tbe “ Stars they having won three out of the five games. The grand gold medal, presented by Rev. M. J. Regan, C.S. C., was, by a unanimous vote of the nine, awarded to their captain, A. McNulty.
—Football.—A real old-time game of football where a hundred players are on the field is something worth going a long wav to see, and by the side of which your skating-rinks, horse races, and baseball sink into insignificance. Wednesday’s game was one of these.	■
Dormant blood was roused into a healthy circulation, which caused pale faces to sparkle with a ruddy glow, and strong frames to tremble with excitement. A cool, crispy day, with a frisky football bouncing over a level field, will make the veriest sluggard spring into a new life. At 2 p. m., the “Blues,” under Paul Chapin, took the field against the “ Reds,” under Dexter. As the ball, was tossed in the air at “centre line”a grand rush ensued, and from the swaying, kicking, shouting mass a “ rusher” secured the ball and shot for the “Blues’” flag. The “Reds’” goal-men opposed a solid front, and one of them, snatching the ball from the baffled “ rusher,” sent it to-the other end of the field. After a twenty-minutes’ struggle, the ball was secured by a “Blue” who, by.a lucky
n8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
kick, sent it spinning through their goal—a victoiy for the “ Blues.” At 2.30 began the second Sfame,—one of the hottest and most interesting that has been witnessed on the Seniors’ campus for many years. For one hour and a half the ball was sent madly back and forth over the field while muscle and skill were vainly exerted to secure a goal. Harless, of the “ Blues,” made several powerful but ineffectual attempts to tear through the living wall that guarded the “ Reds’ ” goal. Dolan and F. Combe, of the “ Reds,” made some brilliant plays, securing the ball at the proper time, and dashing out of danger. “ Chap ” was everywhere at once, and always on time when his.men were pressed. Keegan, of the “ Reds,” made some beautiful short-bounce kicks in open field, while Mike Burns at the goal fought like a tiger for the same color. The ball was at last brought to a stop by Shaide, of the « Blues,” who, to keep it from his goal, found considerable amusement in clasping the ball in his arms and dropping to the ground, where he hung to it like grim death. The whole force of both sides gathered around this spot, and the “ Reds ” hurled themselves against the struggling, but good-naturedmass of “Blues,” trying,by main strength, to crowd men and all through the goal. Ten minutes of fruitless work, and the ball was at length secured by a “ Red ” man, who passed it over the heads of the crowd, and, dropping to the ground, it was hurled violently through their goal, thus ending a hard struggle by a victory for the “Reds.”
It was now so late that the game was called a “ draw,” and no one was sorry for it.
“ Skinner.”
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
' SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ancheta, Ashton, Aubrey,'Bolton, Becerra, Bowles, Burns, Baca, A. Brown, C. Crowe, J. Crowe, Coady, Congdon, Chapin, Cartier, Cusack, Fred. Combe, Craig, Dempsey, Davis, Dexter, Dolan, Emmons, Finlay, Forbes, Ford, A. A. Gordon, Goble, Goulding, Gallardo, Glenn, Hagerty, Houck, E. Hampton, J. Hampton, Harrison, Hausberg, Howard, Hasson, Judie, Jackson, Jess, Keys, Kreutzer, H. Kenny, J. Kenny, Keegan, Karst, Kabat, Kegel, Kleiber, Latchaw, Dong, Martinez, G. Morrison, B. Morrison, Murphy, Mathers, McCartney, Murdock, Mc-Erlain, McGuire, Neill, Nadeau, O’Rourke, Ott, O’Connell, P. Prudhomme, J. Prudhomme, C. Paschel, H Paschel, P. Paschel, Perley, Padilla, Remish, E. Riley, Rothert, Rochford, Regan, Rodriguez, Rahilly, Redmond, Snapp, Shaide, Stubbs, Saviers, Sheridan, Stickney, Soden, Triplett, Vandercar, W. Williams, White, Wagoner, Woodbridge, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adlesperger, Adams. Austin, D. Ackerman, H. Ackerman, Arts, Berry, Benson, Bodley, Blakeslee, Brownson, Boos, Bowles, E. Benner, F. Benner, Borgschulze, Bacigulpo, Curtis, Cleveland, Colina, Cummings, Courtney, Cleary, Cooper, Chute, J. Cartier, Coles, Cavaroc, Coad, Dougherty, Doss, Duffield, Dillon, Darragh, Dickinson, Ewing, Edgeworth, Epple, Frain, Finchk, Flood, Fehr,- Fisher,' Fitzgerald, Fitzharris, Grothaus, Goebel, Galarneau, J. Garrity, F Garrity, Gordon, Hoffman, Holman, Houlihan, Houston, Hasson, Hayes, A. Hake, T.
Hake, Harris, Hoye, Joyce, P. Jacobs, Jewett, Jeffs, Jacobi, Kern, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Lev’n, Luther, Long, Mc-Kendry, McCourt, Muessel, McConn, Meehan, McVeigh, McPhee, McIntosh, McNamara, Myers, Nealis, L. Newton, R. Newton, Noud, Nussbaum, O’Connor, O’Kane, Oxnard, Portillo, Prudhomme. Press, Preston, Potter, Regan, Red-lich, C. Ruffing, A. Ruffing, Robinson, Ramirez, L. Smith, S. Smith, F. Smith, Short, Shields, Senn, Spencer, Scherrer, Servis, Sandoval, Stattman, L. Thompson, W. Thompson, Talbot, Thurston, Tarrant, Vanselow, Violett. Vandercar, Walsh, Welch, Williamson, Wabraushek, Wagoner, West.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bailey, Bull, Ciarcoschi, J. Connors, E. Connors, Chute, Cobbs, Campeau, Dunford, L. Doss, E. Doss, Dewald, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Farmer, E. Garber, F. Garber, Griffin, Grant, Healy, Haney, Inder-rieden, Jones, Jewitt, J. Kintz, A. Kintz, O- Kintz, Kellner, Keeffe, Kianer, Landenwich, Moncada, Morgan, McGill, McCourt, McNulty, Martin, Mason, Monroe, Nester, Nussbaum, B. Nealis, C. Nealis, Paul, Piero, J. Peck, F. Peck, Quinlin, Ramsay, Riordan, Stone, D. Sweet, G- Sweet, W. Smart, A. Smart, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Sullivan, S. Titus, F. Titus, Tillenburg, Williamson, Wormer.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. Wabrauskek, Talbot, F. Long, Rahilly, E. Riley, Dillon, P. Jacobs, Remish, Houlihan, Murphy, Keys, Holman, Luther, C. Ruffing, Mier, Shaide, H. Luhn, P. Paschel, Houck, Tewksbury, F. Smith, S. Smith, Nussbaum, Cooper, F. Konzen, O’Kane, W. Konzen, Kreutzer, Ott, Triplett, Finlay, Bunker.	-
’	List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]	’
COMMERCIAL AND PREPARATORY COURSES.
Reading—Messrs. Talbot, Adlesperger, Tewksbury, L Phillips, Meehan, J. Hampton, E. Hampton, Goble, Stick ney, Violette, L. Thompson, H. Jewett, W. Luhn, Jack son, E. Bowles, J. Regan, Voorhees, H. Vandercar; Orthography—Messrs. Dillon, Houlihan, Talbot, Frain, McVeigh, McPhee, Epple, L. Phillips J. Hampton, E. Hampton, Goble, Stickney, Violette, McCourt, Muessel, Harris, Walter Collins, C. Bowles, Rochford, Short, Cleveland; Grammar—Messrs. Oxnard, Neill, G. Harrison Padilla, Fisher, Dillon, Ratighan, Jacobs, Fitzgerald, Nussbaum, J. Hampton, J. Regan, Bodley, Cain, Inderrieden, H. Jewett, Clarke, McIntosh, Violette, Hake, Jacobi, H. Smith, McPhee, Berry, Preston, McConn, Flood, McVeigh, Bunker, L. Thompson, Ott,'C. Bowles, G. Morrison, Kreutzer, Rudd, Jackson, Forbes, Barke; Arithmetic—Messrs. Jess, Nussbaum, Padilla J. Hampton, Phillips, Sandoval, Ramirez, Harris, Duffield, Muessel, Inderrieden,. McCourt, Hayes. Curtis, L. Smith, Houston, C. Shields; Penmanship—Messrs. N. Smith, Violette, Phillips, Servis, Martinez, E. Riley, Cavaroc, Dougherty, Luther, Jacobs; Book-Keeping—Messrs. Kreutzer, Houck, Talbot, F. Long, Wabraushek; Geography—Messrs. Padilla, F. Smith, J. Hasson, C. Ruffing, Arts, H. Jewett, McKindrey, Nealis, Galarneau, L. Thompson; United States History—Messrs. Padilla, F. Smith, Nussbaum, Bacigalupo, Adlesperger, Hoye, L. Thompson, Brabrook, Short; Latin—Messrs. C. Ruffing, E. Bowles, Duffield, McKindrey, Jewett, J. Hasson, G. Harrison. Maguire, Keegan, Neill, West; Algebra —Messrs. Neill, West; Christian Doctrine—Messrs. Nealis, Galarneau, Short, Hayes, Hoffman, Hake, Flood; Mc-Kindrey, A. Ruffing.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint Jftary’s Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Judge and Mrs. Scully spent Sunday at the Academy.
—At the regular Academic reunion, Rosa Nfys-tica^ Vol. XII, No. I, was read in the presence of Very Father General, the Rev. Fathers Shoitis and Saulnier, and the entire Senior department. It was edited by the Misses Barlow, Munger, Carney, A. Heckard, and K. Kingsbury—the two first-named performing the office of readers. The readers and the paper proved very satisfactory to the Very Rev. and Rev. visitors.
—An interesting competition in Grammar took place in the First Preparatory Grammar Class. The contest was between the members of the Senior department and those of the Junior department. Mary Duffield led the Juniors, and her little army made so many prisoners in the grammatical contest, that when the din of battle died away but three Seniors were left unharmed on the field. Let the vanquished take courage, remembering that
“ It takes but three
To make a new Thermopolce.”
—On Sunday evening, Very Rev. Father General thanked the young ladies for the entertainment of Tuesday, the 13th inst. He commended the performance in strong terms, and declared that it had never been excelled at St. Mary’s. He also thanked the young ladies for their letters of congratulation, which he praised highly as models of epistolary correspondence in penmanship, composition and graceful arrangement. He said that many of them he would be proud to exhibit to friends of the writers who might at some future day call upon him. In whatever language they had.been written, he had found them as nearly faultless as could be. He animadverted upon the importance of letter-writing as a feminine accomplishment. He equally impressed the importance of strict attention to elocution—proper speech, proper emphasis, clear articulation, and, above all, choice, elegant language. These familiar instructions are invaluable to pupils who desire to profit of their school-life.
Music.
[The following extract from the beautiful lecture deliv ered before the St. Cecilia Society, on Saturday evening, Oct. 17th, by the Directress of St. Mary’s Conservatory of Music, will interest the readers of the Scholastic. The regret is that our limited space will not admit the entire eloquent production, so full of profound, practical thought and detail.]	'
The highest ideal—the highest ambition— which a student of music can set before himself is to gain that insight of his art which enables — ®	. -
him to translate its spirit. This is what is meant by the term «interpretation of music.”
There is also the “spirit of music,” which is often mistaken for and misnamed “ the soul of music.” There is, certainly, a difference between understanding and emotion in our experience. We have met many who were highly-cultured musi cians—capable of interpreting the inner sense of a composition—to whom what we call “ the soul of music” evaded the search of their most scientific scrutiny. Still the two kinds of pleasure produced by the language of music—the physical and the spiritual—are not antagonistic; on the contrary, they are closely allied. It is only when one stops at the physical and makes no effort to interpret it that the spiritual suffers wrong. The perception of harmony by the ear is absolutely necessary to the perception of music by the mind. Unless there exists a physical fitness for the enjoyment of sounds, there cannot be that solid appreciation necessary to feel the music in which emotion must precede its clear interpretation.
This brings us to the preliminary and, perhaps, to most of those now present, the practical point; Probably some of you, although, as you say, “ taking music for years,” are yet in reality only beginning to study both vocal and instrumental music. To such allow us to say: when an architect is about to erect a building, the first thing he does is to draw his plan; he then gathers together the most suitable materials for every part, from the foundation to the roof. He also secures the best workmen to make a solid foundation upon which to raise the walls. He thinks of artistic ornaments afterwards. We say this, for at present ornaments often meet the eye which are devoid of true taste; that is to say, the taste which never tolerates the violation of fitness in proportion or color.
Music, as you all know, is both a science and an art. Here at St. Mary’s we afford you every facility for acquiring both divisions of this elegant accomplishment, which is likewise a most severe study. Of course, we take it for granted that you are here to learn music (and by this we do not mean the half-by-ear, suf erfcialjumbling together of a few so-called tunes). Such players often are unable to define when asked the meaning of a “ tune.”	_	•
With the hope that those present earnestly desire to become musicians, and, perhaps, some day artists, let us unfold the plan of the musical edifice you desire to raise in order to become educated musicians. On consulting St. Mary’s “ Catalogue ” you will find our method is divided into two distinct courses. You will also find the programme to be followed in each. The number of years requisite depends entirely on the talent and perseverance of the pupils themselves. You will notice, also, in each grade a number of books and etudes are mentioned. Do not suppose all these are to be hurried over in order to reach a higher grade. The purpose of naming these books and studies is to show from what sources the teachers are to select those most suitable to promote the thorough advancement of the pupils while in a particular grade. As no two pupils are exactly alike, the , means of promoting talent must vary with the in<
120
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
dividuals. The special need of each must be consulted.
Again, }Tou will perceive that we teach the art at the instrument; but the science, from the rudimentary principles up to the higher branches of •“ Thorough Base,” “ Harmony,” and “ Counterpoint,” is taught in classes. These scientific instructions pass under the simple name of “Primer classes”; but they constitute, in fact, grades of research into the realm of music.
To acquire music many things have to be well learned in the various degrees of progress, the pupil always keeping in view the grand factors— the training of the eye, of the ear, and of the untractable fingers, that is to say, of the tools with which every musician must work. The result of their proper management—the work their combined expertness produces—is, in the language of our art, termed “technique?
To acquire a good technique, the hand must be thoroughly trained, first to five -finger exercises, 'which give equality to touch, and accustom the Jin-gers to independence. We say this is the most important step towards progress. It is clear. Unless your tools be in perfect working order, fine work can never be attained.
We next proceed to extension and contraction. This should be perfectly familiar before you. come to passing; the term used to express the mode of obtaining seven or eight fingers, so to speak, on each hand, to play scales—or what some call rims —evenly.
Remember, you can never lay aside technical practice even when you enter the more attractive realm ^called (esthetics. To make this clear, tell me, would you trust a dentist who, after long practice with his best instruments, would throw them aside, and pull away awkwardly with his fingers, running the risk of breaking an injured tooth because he thinks using tools too much trouble ? . The young lady who delights in pieces full of runs, as she terms them, and who pretends to play them, when she cannot play even a uniform scale, or..an equal arpeggios, mixed with extensions and contractions in diatonic order, is even more unreasonable, than the supposed dentist. Her untractable fingers are sure to fail; and then the darling pedal is pressed into service, which only adds to the confused jingle, and never covers, as they imagfine, the defects.
Understand me well: it is impossible to arrive at interpretation of music unless the sounds are rendered.clear hy a judicious technique. This is the main work of the first two years, which is rendered pleasing by selections of pieces containing these same finger passages in works-of good composers. The mind soon begins to perceive beauty where before it found only , succession of tones. Then Science steps'in to lead by her sure guidance the unfettered flight of Art. Together, they form our first course, which takes-you far enough for social life—and even to 'teach, if it . should become a; necessity. But believe, me, dear children, you are then only standing on, the threshold of Music’s, vast domain.	?	.	:
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Allnoch, M. Alwein, V. Barlow, M. Bruhn, A. Butler, L. Blaine, N. Brady, M. Blair, I. Bubb, A. Blacklock, C. Brown, E. Carney, L. Clendenen, M. Chute, M. Chaves, L. Considine, E. Claggett, E.’ Coll, Carmien, M. Ducey, M. Dillon, A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, A. Duffield, S. Degan, S. Dart, E. Desenberg, B. English, A. English, P. Ewing, A. Egan, M. Fuller, G. Faxon, C. Fehr, Farnsworth, D. Fitzpatrick, C. Griffith, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, H. Guise, A. Heckard, E. Horn, M. Hummer, B. Heckard, A. Henry, L. Haas, B. Haines, ‘ C. Kingsbury, N. Keenan, B. Kearney, M. Kearsey, N. Kearns, F. Kingsbury, B. Klingerman, A. Kennedy, C. Lang, M. Longworth. M. Lyons, L. Levy, B. Lauer, C. Leahigh, A. Livingston, Laskey, M. Munger, C. Morrison, J. McHale, M. F. Murphy. S. McHale, L. Meehan, M. Morse, N. Meehan, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, M. Murphy, Monahan, H. Nagle, E. North, M. Otero, F. Rowley, A. Riedinger, H. Rose, F. Robb, C. Scully, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, F. Sullivan, M. Scully, G. Stadtler, C. Shields, A. Shephard, L. Trask, Terry, L. Williams, G. Wolvin, A. White, F. Wynn.	■	•
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Balch, T. Balch, M. Barry, O. Boyer, S. Campeau, M. Cox, M. Clifford. M. Coll, M. Duffield, M. Ducey, L. Griffith, F. Hertzog, T. Haney, A. Keyes, E. Martin, M. Mason, M. McEwen, A. Odell, O. Parmelee, B. Pierce, C. Prudhomme, M. Paul. G. Regan, M. Robinson, A. Schmauss, E. Sheekey, H. Smart, B. Snowhook, C. Servis, M. Smith, L. Van Horn.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, L. Cardagan, M. Goetz, F. Johnson, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, M. Philipps, E. Qualey, H. Rhodes, J. Wallace, F. Spencer.	-
ART DEPARTMENT.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
DRAWING. FROM THE CAST.
ist Class—Misses Ewing, Lang, Fuller.
2D Class—Misses Van Horn, Fehr, Munger.
ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE. .
3d Class—Misses Butler, Rowley.
2D Div.—Misses M. F. Murphy, E. Donnelly, C. Griffith, Egan, Degan, Stadtler, N. Meehan, C. Scully, Shields, ‘ Schmauss, Clifford, Rose, Mason, Levy, Clendenen, Laskey, Sheekey, Brown.	.
. PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.	.
Misses A. English, F. Kingsbury, Considine.- ■ ‘ PAINTING ON CHINA.	.	..
Misses A. English, A; Duffield, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, M Otero. .
OIL-PAINTING.
ist Class—Miss Heckard.
• 2D Class—Misses Kearney, Shephard, Walsh, Rowley
3d Class—Misses Leahigh, L. St. Clair, Keyes, Kingsbury, McHale.	. ’	|
GENERAL DRAWING.	)
.	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	;
Misses E. Donnelly. N. Meehan, L. Meehan, Shields i Guise, Stadtler,	Kendall, Longworth, Blacklock, A. Don-	]
nelly, F. Kingsbury, Alwein, Haas, Kennedy, Livingstoi : Desenberg, Henry, Haines, North, Lyons, Kearns, E. Coll, Laskejs Trask. .	;	•	.	.
. JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	•
Misses Clifford, Van Horn, Campeau, Keyes,, Martin, T. Balch, Paul, Pierce, Parmelee, Smart, Haney, Odel, . Schmauss, M. Duffield, M. Coll, Phillipps, Qualey, Wallace, Cardagari, Burtis, Johnson, Goetz, Spencer, Rhodes,- - .
. Blaine, Lee. ...	...