•.· 
,,,,-:"?. :: .~•;!, ):_ ,i;,;;; ",s,,,;;:,'.\ ::, ••<Y.-,/~,:~:...:..1:.~ .:~ ;· ·: ~ 
a • )~ :::..
....... : .::.__.,,.,~ 
~.:.;_~_:_l. .,,....... . '1,:~·\: ;•: .....-t.• .•-t'! ·-.•, .•·\ :-• ... : ... -~ .:. :~· : 0 .t1' . .r,' ,111~ i'.~;I:.: -'··~-:~:·· ·:{ _ • ;1< ,:j•;=i-i')'il·~\;, !: ;.:~;ni~J:f,t\::.·ll':\1J,-.ir~p..· '\:\;:>.. ,:_,s0·, ,:::,,=. 
;.J ':::: 
;s· -~ ~-,:..~~--~~'~;;{~~;:.: ~~~;~. ~:,;c't~'ili,J.~:r;i,~ :tl=i!"::-':,,.fl,~J: :~;.. ;,:.. '; ,,
rl 
~1~ :'-. 
;_;,t;,,-.,_;,::, ::.. {:-:~;)q;-!~:;:'-::, ift:c ..=,,·:;;~':=,;::::;,1=1!pF,"l.!i;I_.;: ~t',li.:,~1-,'t:UI :;'I:::~.:::::. 
,,~t] 
---: ·..,• : . . ' •, • '.:·.~/;' '' .·.:·· .•..• c 
. ' .. ' ·• • . .·. J ·. ' . •· . .· ·.··· ' . . X : ·. . : :·"-:-b : ••. ' .
.•. J~i®.©f• rr~~dy~.. 'Mim· ~/Sn1\Jl~~~a•. ·. 
.·../.. · lE{fl)j©~ fwoo ffooxdl Md @~~~~ fwcoxITnl:~~f W~f~w~i$v ., . 
.... sundaY, MaY2nd/~·9 PM. lafunJ3x3J[room 





features 
4 On Individualism 
Why one size doesn't fit all 
~-Protest to Divest 
Students challenge university investment in HEI 
14 Bands on the Run 
. . ~ A look at ND music groups' travel 
-n§ 
,_:_::~. 29 BK Has it His Way 
··· -~ Player reactions to Coach Kelly's changes 

34 DuLacis a Perteet Place 
If duLac was part of the Constitution... · 
35 The Firm 
And those kids who insist on wearing suits to class 



sectio·ns 
Opinion News 5, Culture 11 
• I 
er' Jt:?0 i

Cover 18 
1 FROM 1 
'-~· .. ;.,,1 Te

Sports 27 
e r,ghr 1!!-e<ono1"" · 0 Jusn,·o1ges-'."~-"'.. ~lit ,as well .a~~'ffQ-~i.i 

Hum.or 32 
22 APRIL 2010 I SCH<?LASTIC I 1 


EDNOTES 
At Notre Dame, there is great emphasis placed on impacting various communities. Students do service work in Appalachia and Honduras; they present research and participate in conferences at other universities; they perform across the globe, (See Jason G'Sell's story on pages 14-15). In focusing on such far-reaching places, it can be easy to look past our impact on the immediate community ofwhich we are a part. 
As a dorm resident without my car on campus Qudy the station wagon wouldn't have survived the 11-12 hour drive), it is incredibly easy to stay within the bounds of the university. I take class in buildings a few yards away from my dorm, I work at an on-campus job, and I eat in the dining halls or Reckers if I feel like branching out. This past year, Eddy Street Commons has made it easier for students to move past the campus lines, but the development has been met with mixed reviews. Some claim it has created a space for students and community members to interact, while others question if it is merely an extension of campus encroaching upon someone else's space. 
In 2000, Scholastic ran a story detailing the interaction between Notre Dame and South Bend, their mutualistic relationship and the mistrust on both sides. In 10 years, little has changed. Events such as CommUniversity Day and organizations like the Robinson Center are excellent developments not to be undervalued. Still, the "bubble" not only keeps students in but creates an air of exclusivity, implying that that others are to be kept out. To cite another cliche, if Notre Dame is a family, what does that mean for the surrounding neighborhoods? This month's cover story explores perceptions from both sides of campus lines in light of recent commercial development. 
See you in the Fall 
The time has come for us to emerge from the South Dining Hall basement into the sunlight. This is the last issue before Culture Editor Chris Milazzo and I head home to the Jersey Shore to hang out with Snookie and The Situation this summer while the rest of you leave for jobs, internships or research (See Justin Cullen's column on page 35). The Scholastic staff hopes you have a lot of fun and remember to tip the Gipp immediately afterward. We'll see you next semester. 

Erica Pepitone Editor-in-Chief 
With the senior staff gone, the office was a bit lonely this issue. Ifanyone is interested in photography, page design, copy editing, becoming webmaster or eating free food next year, please email us at scholast@nd.edu. 
2 ISCHOLASTIC I22 APRIL 2010 


Congratulations to our brothers who were ordained to the priesthood at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Easter Saturday. 

Rev. Kevin G. Grove, C.S.C. Rev. Gerard J. Olinger, Jr., C.S.C. 
_"We heard a summons to give over our lives in · ·-a more explicit way" 
(Constitutions, 1.3) 



vocation.nd.edu 
SOAPBOX 

Individualistn 
An Essay by Clara Ritger 


Ihave really small hands. I can't wear costume jewelry because the bracelets always slide off my wrists and the rings look tacky on my thumbs. And yet, they are labeled "one size fits all." Accessories are only the beginning. Our political system separates us into groups, forcing us to accept all of the beliefs of a particular party in order to be heard. Those of us in the middle that don't fit the groups are left out. As I complete my year-long stay on the second floor of Co.i'Vlo, I have come to realize that the problem exists at Notre Dame, too. I have been generalized into the category of First Year of Studies, and rather than receiving personalized attention for my individual needs, I have been left without a voice. It didn't matter that I didn't fit; I had to make it work. Here is where I think the true challenge lies: How can someone's personal needs be met when attention is no longer personalized? In my case, I was a student who came to Notre Dame knowing exactly what I wanted to study. After a year of being kept out of my major, I still want to study the same subject. I struggled to get into classes for my major because I was told that special freshman classes were reserved with the FYS program, and as a student in FYS I should take them. On the other hand, I have friends who are registering for classes now who can't get into core couldn't help me. Because I had to stay in FYS, I was virtually left behind in the advising process. I didn't need help from FYS; I needed help from an advisor in my intended major. 
One exceptional accomplishment of FYS, however, is the system of personal advising. At face value, I have no complaints. Overall, I'd say that my advisor has been very available and it is nice to have the luxury of meeting with an advisor when necessary. They recognize that students have individual questions, and they make themselves available to help. The problem is that while they are willing to listen to a student's needs, their ability to help is limited to the needs of students who fall into the fixed framework of the FYS system. I found it more helpful to watch an upperclassman in my dorm register for classes than it was to attend the required advisor meeting explaining the procedure. When I needed tutoring, I benefitted more from TAs and approaching my professor with concerns than from the general sessions in CoMo. When I attended the mandatory general information sessions, I found that they were often repetitive and inefficient. Yet, I was constantly encouraged, and in the case of mandatory meetings, forced to spend valuable study time at an unhelpful FYS-sponsored event. 
According to the FYS website, "the 
·-requirement classes · because-·most---·of-·--·FirstYear ofStudies serves as the college 
them are '.'freshmen only" and the few that are not have already been filled by upperclassmen. When I was trying to pick out my second semester courses, and couldn't figure out what classes to take that would benefit my intended major or fulfill core requirements, I was given no advice. I was told that they weren't "first-year approved" so my advisor 
4 I SCHOLASTIC I 22 APRIL 2010 
for all incoming students, regardless of their intended program." It goes on to say that "first year students follow an established curriculum, giving them direction and purpose in their initial course selections." The rigidity of the structure is inherent in the language. There is no option for an independent student to pursue an intended program. 
Yet, the mission statement advocates that FYS "fosters independence." Perhaps if an independent student were allowed to make his or her own academic choices, then FYS could truly achieve its goal. 
Because we are all individuals, we all progress at different speeds. Students that are unsure of their course of study should be able to seek advice in a program like FYS. But students that don't need the extra help should be allowed to move forward with their studies. The problem I have with FYS is that, like the hotly debated No Child Left Behind Act, it keeps those ready to move forward back with those that are not. Instead, let's ensure all students' needs are being met, no matter at what level they may be. It will, at least, be a move toward recognizing that we are "one size fits 
some." 
What we need are options. Many people find fault with our system of government because we only have two options, Democrat or Republican. I find fault with jewelry makers' assumption that we are. all one ring size. People aren't meant to be the same. It is frustrating to be pushed into a mold that clearly doesn't fit. At some point in our lives, we've been stereotyped. We can all relate to being la:oeled goody-two-shoes Catholics who work out every day. We may be some of those assumptions, or we may be none of those assumptions. No matter what, none of us exactly fits the same description as another. 0 
The views of this authoi· are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magazine. 



the stories we live 
22 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 


The last Cheers and Jeers :=-.. Bad, Rover. 
Grandpa Favre 
--:Is it time to replace the pregame 
===--~meal with the early bird special? 
_ Washington's stolen booksI l =-Now we feel better about the dining 

=-Leave it to SUB to make pterodactyl "· · ·-start with a "T." 
6 I SCHOLASTIC I 22 APRIL 2010 
The 40th Annual Earth Day is upon us, making it the perfect time to consider ways you can pull a Clark Kent and single-handedly save the world. 
'17 Become a fan of global warming on Facebook. Madonna can save LJ the world in four minutes, but you can save it in less than one. Even ''.· if you sincerely care about our planet but can't sacrifice using that 
light to cram for your exam the next morning or you are too rushed i:o walk the extra 10 feet to the recycling bin, you can still help. Spend less than one minute and become a fan of global warming on Facebook. Remember, every fan makes a difference. 
97) Use iTunes. Since you'll be on the computer already, why not just& use ~he en~rgy it is already consuming, save gas, a~d buy m~sic a~d 
·· movies on iTunes? You could download from other sites, too, 1fyou re really into saving. 
~ Buy a Smart Car. Are you looking into purchasing a new car? If so, ;;J) consider a Smart Car. If the compact size and energy saved aren't 
·· · enough of a draw, the name alone should appeal to the Notre Dame ego. You'll save gasoline and energy while letting everyone know about your superior intellect. _,,,, 
. //1 
JO Rock the ponytail. Ladies, you and.your toommates can save energy ~ by taking a break from the hair straightener, blow dryer and curling · irons once in a while. Besides, you were just going to put on sweatpants, 
anyway. 
5Say "no" to Call of Duty. You can save electricity by cutting back on the video games. It will not hurt you to step away from COD and 
. interact with actual people. Maybe you will wind up same-siding it at the dining hall with that girl from econ. The game will still be there if you get rejected. 0 



The Academics of Oppression 
Scholars analyze human rights violations 
Kristen Stoutenburgh 
Human rights violations have plagued global so.ciety for centuries, but the small amount of studies conducted on these issues are difficult to come by. At a conference hosted by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies titled "Innovations in the Study of Mass Violations of Human Rights," four leading scholars in human rights led a workshop to reveal their innovations and to suggest ways to study these issues in order to break down the complexities of these violations. The bulk of the conference consisted of various workshops. Each scholar conducted a presentation on his or her greatest innovations and shared the ways he or she believes the issue should be studied. Each talk was followed by an open forum in which faculty, students, international human rights lawyers and members of the public discussed, asked questions and probed scholars as they developed their conclusions. The ultimate goal was for the members to leave with a more developed understanding of the methods of quantitative analysis regarding peace and conflict. Professor of peace studies, political science_ and sociology Christian Davenport discussed "Repression with Synonyms." Davenport emphasized the importance of unifying the study of different violations of human rights. He says that literature, as it has evolved, is extremely fragmented and says that combinations of different forms such as censorship, curfew, banning and imprisonment can be categorized to establish observable relationships. "The way forward from here is" to consider diverse forms of repression together as campaigns ... consider diverse actors as being unified in purpose but potentially distinct in action . . . and view puzzles within literature as manifestations of fragmentation, not definitive limitations," Davenport says. By creating an enviroiih-ient for open debate with the common focus on ending human rights violations, the participants say they were fueled with new ideas for study and were motivated to continue work in this field. 0 

ways to spend your summer 

Begin to write your love story with · Austin Swift. 
°)') Hunger strike for a cause. Think of 
1 
. ):) how good you'll look at the beach. 




-----~------Ii,.I 
! 
~ 
Get an internship. Your work experience will qualify you for 
I
;;J!) 
Starbucks. 
: 
Shop for new North"Face gear. It ~JtJ will be cheaper in the off-season. I 
I 
! 
' 
Be "that" upperclassman who posts 
I 
~ in the Class of 2014 Face book group. 
I, 
22 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 7 




NEWS 
-),,,,.,
""'" w-J 
r1:~_-i·l~f\ ,f:l
1Jr:c
' • d~ 
'. µ . ,,-~ .· ·~?~·. ':.· ·•( 
Laura Kraegel 
!though Notre Dame may not have 
a reputation as a particularly radical 
campus, student activism does take 
place, and not only through Viewpoint wars 
and message t-shirts. From the annual Right to 
Life Week demonstrations to the more recent 
HEI protests, activism is a present force on 
campus. 
The university's investment in HEI Hotels 
and Resorts has been hotly contested recently 
in The Observer after a guest column by junior 
Campus Labor Action Program (CLAP) 
member Sarah Furman. 
The campaign against HEI began more than 
a year ago after allegations that the company 
violated workers' rights. CLAP and the union 
A 
for meetings with University President Rev. John Jenkins went unanswered. But after the demonstration, tl1e administration granted CLAP a meeting witl1 Chief Investment Officer Scott Malpass, which has yet to be scheduled. 
"It's been really hard [to secure a meeting] ... but we're trying to be polite," Liz Furman says. 
Until its meeting with Malpass and the HEI hearing before the National Labor Relations Board in June, CLAP will continue to protest the hotel company on campus, including staging a hunger strike. 
"It's really very simple," Associate Vice President of Residence Life William Kirk says. ''Any member ofthe university community who wants to conduct a demonstration simply needs 
Willerton emphasizes that tl1e process of organizing any type ofevent requires registration rather than approval. 
"We simply work with [student groups] to find an appropriate time, place and manner for tl1e demonstration to take place so that it isn't otherwise disruptive of the university community," Kirk says. 
"I would add that I tl1ink tl1e registration provisions for demonstrations are very reasonable," Kirk says. "Members of the university community are free to demonstrate on any topic tl1ey choose." 
Despite the administration's rationale, students have expressed frustration with tl1e administration's process, particularly for non­
organizer UNITEHERE have 
official student groups like CLAP. worked to raise awareness and "We've found the administration a requested Notre Dame end its little ... curt," Sarah Furman says. "If support for HEI. anything upsets the status quo or gets 
Administrative policies regarding people questioning if Notre Dame's campus protest, however, stopped actions live up to its values, you run into CLAP's from passing out flyers in a lot ofbarriers." the Joyce Center parking lot during Liz Furman says ''Activism on Junior Parents' Weekend. campus is . tricky. You have to work 
"We weren't disrupting anything around this bureaucracy and it seems a and we weren't trying to stop and little ridiculous at times." harass [parents]," junior CLAP In response to The Observer's member Liz Furman says. "But "',,_'<-.,, Mobile Party comic strip, for example, not even five minutes after we got supporters ofhomosexuality's inclusion there, NDSP came and stopped us, in the non-discrimination clause confiscated our flyers, took down . held a march through campus. The our names and told us we had to protest had originally been planned leave." as an off-campus event so that tl1e 
U_ltimately, three students, administration would not be a factor, including Liz Furman, received but last-minute approval brought the verbal warnings as punishments march. onto university grounds. 
from the Office ofResidence Life and Housing 
for handing out flyers unapproved by the 
Student Activities Office. 
Despite the warnings, CLAP held a larger 
demonstration against HEI last montl1. 
"We thought 'What can we do that they can't 
stop us from doing?"' Furman says. "They don't 
restrict clothing, so we wore message orange 
jumpsuits for a week." · 
Approximately 15 students attended classes with signs stating "Dear Father Jenkins, Divest from HEI. Love, Catholic Social Teaching" pinned to their orange suits. 
"That [demonstration] was really successful. 
A lot of people saw [the students in jumpsuits] 
and we made ourselves as visible as possible," 
Sarah Furman says. 
Before tl1e protest, CLAP's two requests 
8 I SCHOLASTIC I 22 APRIL 2010 
to contact my office to have the demonstration registered in writing." 
On-campus demonstrations must be peaceful, non-disruptive, and led by a member of the university community to receive approval. 
Director of Student Activities Facilities Ryan Willerton, however, insists that hindering protesters isn't the administration's goal. 
"It's not intended to be a bureaucratic process, and I think groups that meet with us would agree," Willerton says. "It's really meant to be a team effort." 
He cites Right to Life's annual Cemetery of Innocents demonstration as an example of why the registration process is necessary. The event thatfills South Quad with white crosses to protest abortion requires coordination with SAO as well as the landscape and utilities services. 
"We expected. students to get ResLife'd or arrested, but the_ day before, ORLH gave us permission to ent7r campus," senior Patrick Bears; one ofthe rn,arch organizers, says. 
"The administrhtion was more helpful this time, but I don't know if they would have been as receptive [if not for the incident,]" he says. 
Although many students participate in service, Bears says the campus could still benefit from more activism. 
"[Notre Dame] is probably tops in terms of service and instilling a desire to help people in students, and I feel that that's a type ofactivism, but I would love to see more on our campus," Bears says. "Without activism, everything would remain stagnant. There are issues to be addressed and activism is the way to do tl1at." 0 

. . • ! . ' . . . . . . _, -. . . • ,• • • • 
NEWS 
REAL WORLD PROBLEMS, 
stu e-nt 
o ut1• 
n 
BUSINESS STUDENTS RISE TO ENTREPRENEURIAL CHALLENGE 

Alyssa Morones. 
fter the long days of lectures and 
hours spent slaving over homework, 
after the business law and finance books have been set aside and the notebooks closed, Notre Dame entrepreneurs embark on more salient experiences, immersing themselves in the world of business. They need not venture far to adopt the role of a real-world professional, on the front lines of the business world. Business competitions held on Notre Dame's campus allow students to experience a world outside a lecture hall in Mendoza. 
As the school year draws to a close, Notre Dame students are putting their knowledge to the test, utilizing their human capital to its greatest capacity ii:i the hopes of proving their entrepreneurial · potential through . participation in a number of business competitions held on Notre Dame's campus. 
Notre Dame's Business Plan Competition, held by the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial 
A
Studies, culminates on Friday, April 23, as 12 finalists compete for over $40,000 in prize money. 
The competition kicked off in October with the Gigot Center's Ideas Challenge, which allowed all Notre Dame students and alumni to propose new business plans to the competition's judges, most of whom are part of Notre Dame's Irish Angels network, which focuses on mentoring Notre Dame students and supporting new business ventures. Teams either entered theMcClosky competition, which has a social focus, or the Social Venture competition, which has an environmental focus. Both competitions offer a grand prize of $15,000. · 
This year, the competition hosted over 100 teams, which included more than 300 entrants. Seventy-six semi-finalists competed for one of the 12 finalist spots ­six McClosky teams and six Social Venture teams. Participants are judged on the viability of their plan as a business, its ability to self-sustain and the potential of its market opportunity. 
Over the course of the competition, entrants work closely with business mentors to develop a viable business plan. Notre Dame MBA student and McClosky finalist Nick Shirk says, "There's real value in thinking through all the variables that go into creating a business plan. I've taken a number of finance classes, and I worked for five years, but having to actually think through a business plan makes the financial numbers real." 
Junior Social Ventures finalist Sonia Menon says she is excited to present a business plan that will have both economic and social value. Her business plan, CleanND Water, works to provide purified water to those in need. "Going through this process, I've realized how many people are willing to help me achieve my goal. I've also learned a lot about real-world business, something I value 
especially as an upperclassmen. Plus, I've 
gotten to work toward something I really 
care about," she says. 
The third annual Deloitte Case Competition for sophomores and juniors was also held over three days this month. At 
8:00 a.m. on the first day, competitors are given their cases, which are composed of a hypothetical business situation for which students must use a combination of business strategies and technologies to develop and recommend a solution for the hypothetical company. On the final day, the teams present their solutions in front of judges both from Notre·Bame and Deloitte; 
... :":VVe're ·really looking for hciw. students think," Deloitte representative Meghan · 1 Soriano says. "ViTe recognize· that Notre Dame undergrads have a lot of talent that doesn't necessarily come through in an interview or on a resume. This competition gives them another forum in which they can showcase their skills." 0 
22 APRIL 2010 j SCHOLASTIC I 9 
___ :• -<>_.,,. ­

----+----------~---------------7 
The Core Counc.il for Ga , Lesbian, Bisexual c1, Questioning Students Provides information ed cation and resourc.es~-~---_J Contact-Sr_. Sue Dunn OP dunn.54@nd edJ.J,-1:J;J;J;O i,~J 



the things we do 
22 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 

Notre Dame .81 ·· ._ -/ltt:::::.:•••)t>1\1,,,'. 
Where: Soµ"tfoQuad in:.fiorit''· 
!g>ekn~~Tori~lB¥f}~l:f7'; 
Wh~~=].t,):i/04/23, Noon:..7~P.,·
f~:.f:~\((}~~~-/; .-.. ,.: .-:· .··,._ . ~:·. ... 
}~at: Come registeryous bi get afree tun("Jp; learn safe.. ·ns or j(>iri:";:i:r;W;~e duh, Fr ~,~_:: t;:2:I:?",: ..: 
' 
Unveiling CerJi 
\ . 
Wh+e: Hammes Notre BooUstore


I . . .. 
Wlien: Fn. 04/23, 4 P.M. 
. . 
en: Come see The Shirt 201 
ents include appearances by rian Kelly, ND Marching Band lee Club, Cheerleaders, Porn · 
· ad and The . · 
a&,i:itaib. . .. 
-~ena:-PaitJ-i•'ci.m~l rom The Global Water Initia creening. . -· -.. 
I~1At~.·t:rltk':;ti:,'f!.m,~~%'t¥;JJ.\t~,-:~.N•~:kA~:..-hm".r?.,if5¥:zw;,S~~~" w. R~~~~~~~ 
Where~'.101 Debartolo Hall 
•")'. 
When: Thurs. 04/22, 10 P.M., Fri. 10:30 P.M. Sat. 04/24, 8 and 10:30~. 
. -. . ~.:1 
What: SUB Movies presents last Eif school year. Starring Robert Dqwne 


CULTURE 
overseas, [students] pay for a portion of the ever have -it's kind of daunting, but really of memories," junior Glee Club president trip, probably something like 40 percent of exciting." Garren Bryant says. the trip. I didn't want the families and the Ifthe Carnegie 1-Iall concert is successful, Bryant stresses the strong relationship students to have to do that this time," Dye the .band plans. on playing at Boston between the Glee Club and alumni who make says. Symphony Hall. In addition, ·. the · band is the tours possible. "Our hosts are usually 
· ·"They tell you the first day that you don't likely . to resume international touring as affiliated somehow with the university," .he have to pay to. be a part of the band, and I .. soon as next year. "We're looking primarily says. Often, an alumni club will contact the 

· i:hink that's one of the coolest things about · at Brazil right now," Dye says. Glee Club to organize an upc:oming tour our band," senior band· president Catherine In addition to playing at Carnegie Hall, the to their area. ''The Glee Club alumni are Carrell says. band will play at various high schools in the really loyal. Whenever we have a concert on 
Notre Pame alumnus Regis Philbin.('53) statesthroµghwhichtheytraveL"Intheolder. campus, there are always a lot of Glee Club will be guest directing the Victory March at days, a lot of [national tours] were organized alumni who come to watch us and support the Carnegie Hallconcert. ''We kepi: writing by the band director knowi11g some Catholic us," Bryant says. 
[to .Philbin] and (!ventuaHywe got a letter alums who were band directors or principals Plans for future tours include a trip to ·. · saying, 'Get the band ready, I'll do it!"'· Dye at various schools in whatever direction the Eu~ope during the summer of2011. Concerts .·. says; "He;s so enthusiastic; he's a greatNotre band was going on that tour,'' Dwyer says; in Paris, Munich, Berlin and London are all 
. • Dame supporter." . . · "Sometimes that's still the case." . ... · in the worh ·· While the NotreDa.me band has played Whiletoudng,thebandplaysfreeconcerts .. • Mostoftheconcertstakeplaceinchurches. · at illustrious venues around the world, for high schools or parishes and frequently "Many times, the people that are hosting 
: Qarn.egie l:lall represents the. pin11;1cle. of staysin )lqmes ofalum11i onneillpers. ofthe ·. us Op<!n,. their churc:hes up to .us and we .can ... ·.. · \Anie~icari perf~rmance stages. !'Oµr cc:incerf. . high schqor coinmµnitie~..''[High schbCJis].. .. have :jfarge setting for people to come ·in,'' .. /:;,.;• .:ha11diplaye_d.iat :tl{e ·~y~riey Opera hoµse hi • are all~wed,t6 selftick;ei:s and the community. 13ryimt\ays; "If we. did alot.~ concert haHs, .···· ·.. ·.. 2004 and then the Mozarteum in ·2006 and . l<eeps th~t mon~r,The onlything~e ask-o.f .··• th,efoes would be expensivebeca11seyouhave , . 
1:hein fa to be.set upin their-llomes for home ••... · fo rent out the space, 'wherea~ these people stays,'.':pye says. "That;s be.en going o~,sh1ce • ·' h3:ye gr~~.ie>µslyC>pened.\~p thfdoe>r_s to.. t),leir. , .tb.e:'$9s/> : \ . .· , , < . : . .. :churchcis.". -. .... \'-' ,/;,In ,additiqn toi thfu.11ive~sity 1:,~nds; the :·.··. The Glee Club doinestic tC>tirs ate free for 
. 'NotreI>ailleGlee.C:lubpartidpatesinannual , .. ~ernbets; whiie i~~~rna1:io11al touis .. co~t a::... /nation.al a~d . iriternati~nal' ·tours. R~cent . srnall fe~. / . . . . . . . . .. · frips iric:lud~ afour~we~k to~r of ~~r9pe iri Whether fi-i:fhe United St~~es or bvers~as, 
. 2007 and atwo,-fyeek1t:9µr ofLitin·Am~rica . · Notre ])~ni~'s niani ..~usic group~ .. ha;e .iIJ. 2099 'with the· Notre Dame Symphony: . inan~ged to shar~ .· their m~s~.age : with?ut •• -•... Qrch.e~tra,iliil~riati~naltqJrsiricliide trips .. .the need for ·word~ ~r .ttanslationi "MJi~ic·. 
to die San''.fr~nciscd Bay -ai:ea and Pa.dfic: , i~ recoinfzab.lein,: any language/' pye,S!J.ysi -. -· 'i:hat pe.6p1~· dream of playing at their entir~ . Noit~v;~st dyer sp;ingbreai/2010 and ~rew' .··, ; '"The .;±iick~aille of :being ·.the. ~nivetsal. 
ec_:h·· ..b'..°1::gf~g· •.tfi··. .. .• ...:ul:11,t1·•·.·•.·.·.·.·_:...·
·o•
\;;,;·•·•·,:.:.:_•·•.:·'..•.·.·.·.;.;_:.llp_.t·iv.·'.·-1~·.e·h···_·.·.soo.·n'..l.. ....so,rfx.:.·t:h·s·.ha.o.:er.s.· .•..eesbt·•.d·a·'ptetr •.: .•. r~I:n·in.l.ai.znbece,e;tsi.·..Y_•wA.~.··e·:.:;·g.•w•.· .. ·:• ,a~~tt~:sr1:::::go~r:r:g~d~~-i~'s ·~•· lot·· bf:' .· .~:?o:::~;::~1:J~~arid,;-'Ve'~e fo11nd ~hat :¢arn~~a'dei:ie; ·a.·lo'ttofsight~seeing and'·lJoi:, . 
.· ' ' ' ,,-.' 




CULTURE 




Campus Chai:i:er 
DEPARTMENT OF PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS 
We all remember our first time at student activities night. If we don't remember it, we have proof in the 60-plus emails we received after a night of eagerly signing up for every club that sounded even remotely interesting. 
Somehow, my name ended up on the prospective student host list. I'm not sure whether it was the idea that my futon would finally get some action, or if it was simply an excuse to feel B.A. while giving a tour, but when the email arrived, I said "yes." Two students and a naked Alec Baldwin later, I am officially the best overnight host on campus. 
Scenario One: A Theatre and English Major from an Ivy League Family 
"Ohmigod this is so fantastic. We have all the same interests. Next year, we are going to be BFFs. Just text me before rehearsals and we can get coffee!" Shamefully, I must admit that statement came from yours truly, the enthusiastic host. "Here, let me show you pictures of all of the FTT professors online. I can give you the inside scoop." Luckily, the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center is such a nice facility that it makes up for my overwhelming knowledge base. 
Later that evening, we went to AcoustiCafe. If you have a prospective student and nothing to do, AcoustiCafe is impossible to mess up. Other people are entertaining your prospie, and even if they're not good, it is a way to waste time. It's always better when someone else sucks, anyway. 
The next morning, we began the day with a healthy dose ofItalian class. "Buongiorno nuova ragazza! Come si chiama?" Oh great. He expects her to speak Italian. As I attempted to translate, he cut me off and repeated the question to her. At least when she wonders why her visit was so intimidating, it won't be all my fault. "Um, I take French in high school." He raises his eyebrows, asks me her·name and proceeds to ignore her for the rest of class, as ifshe, a student of French, had no right to speak. How inviting. 
"It's too bad I have to leave. This was so much fun. The food is really good here." At least she tried by complimenting the food. It was the only thing I couldn't ruin. 
Scenario Two: A Catholic, First-Generation, Childhood Fan of Notre Dame 
Question One: "So why did you end up deciding to go to Notre Dame?" Ah. My moment of glory. "Well, you know, Notre Dame has a strong Catholic identity and I really like that I can share my faith with others." Let's keep in mind that I am not Catholic. "Also, I really like football." So, ofcourse; I picked Notre Dame, home of the undefeated Fighting Irish. 
Question Two: "So how do you feel about the dorm situation?" How do I really feel? Or how does Admissions want me to answer this question? "I love it. It is just like a sorority." Except we have parietals and a rectress. "Plus, the boys live so close anyway; it is easy to see them." Really, gender relations are so smooth here, we don't even need the Gender Relations Committee. 
Now that we've determined that I should not be allowed to talk to my prospective student, let's take her out into the cold, through the April showers, to theology, a survey course ofCatholicism at its finest. "Hi, professor. This is my prospective student. She'll be joining us for class today." In other words, please don't bore us to sleep with biblical readings. "Wonderful! Good to meet you. Good time to come to visit, too. You get to experience what Notre Dame weather is really like for most of the year!" In other words, this is typical weather, so save yourself the pain and go somewhere else. "Ha-ha. You are such a comedian. OK, time to sit down, no worries, he was just joking!" As if I hadn't lied enough already. And I'm supposedly Catholic, too. 
A few hours later, we ended up at the SUB movie, It's Co'lltplicated. We both thought it was hilarious when Meryl Streep, Steve Martin, Alec Baldwin and John Krasinski smoked pot and acted out being high, but watching old people have sex is even better. 
Thank you, Admissions, for sending your innocent high schoolers my way. Ifanyone does not want to be responsible for a prospective student, my futon is getting lonely. 0 

The views of this author are not necessarily the views of Scholastic Magazine. 

16 I SCHOLASTIC I 22 APRIL 2010 

~liiij ·~~ Previe\ s
® ...,,...r.,.,___.. 
'.:~if~l~,t,\1~1 ~~-et]:l'e~~ .sh~;~d~ig~hs a.t .Pig'J'o~t~l ~t~cl s·~;~ti;~;~-i~g:~~~;;t yec;,~,~ ·te~,;-~tth~-@i~~e-Golcl-Ga~i~~-y~~;~c;y·~ot... '.!•fi['diiiti1(lifl:1'/§trJ:.k{~!1}/1J'}:€fQr]r<2n1wjQ1[k/}etglon,e,.C,Li{tyrci[.e.~~sle~pqr$,·_this,,iv€eke11cl/·.•$it,teven.ifoperctancl· Shak.esp€are.E)i\?i)'.:it, {a,/ei,:i't;LlSHa[lyyoiq< sc,erie/th~-• ftpi;(),jiing-stucletit prdcliidtoris-·at (/l)</JIIC·.·am ii,orth· settingasicle•·tirnef m:. . 
fidi~[~0]1~r~ .. ....·....... ..~ ... ..: ¥J&~R,,gec.. .........·. 
:it~i:iG "The Tales of Hoffmann" f 
;,,!~~;,/:'Y(~i}j
_.,..,_~':1.zs ,r -·•*· ~:.·,··: -~-~-~., ·;, .--....,.. -·, ,.,,.,, 
COVER 


COVER 
Claire Reising & Erica Pepitone
Tensions between Notre Dame students and members of the South Bend community are perceived as strained. With the addition of Eddy Street Commons, the two groups find themselves face to face; after the first several months of business, the question remainswhetherthe growingdevelopment is fostering bonds or false expectations. 
Linking ND and SouthBend 
Whep. city officials broke ground on Eddy Street Commons in June 2008, the official press release from the Office ofthe Mayor claimed the site at the intersection of Eddy Street and Angela Boulevard would "establish the path for a permanent bridge linking the [South Bend and Notre Dame] communities." As the first academic year for which the Commons has been open draws to a close, officials and community members are beginning to evaluate how effective Eddy Street has been in achieving this goal. 
South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke also says that the new development will enhance university-community relations. "The planning process enhanced relations and friendships among neighbors and university staff ... Over the long term, I believe that Eddy Street Commons will be a place where residents, students and faculty, and researchers get to know one another," he says. 
Because Notre Dame has traditionally focused on campus life, creating a sense of insularity, some students and campus officials say the Commons is a way to draw students out into the community. 
"There is a common misperception that off-campus is just bars and parties," former Student Body President Grant Schmidt says. "Notre Dame provides much of what [students] need on campus, but it is important for students to feel immersed in the community in a safe way. Eddy Street Commons serves as an invitation to bring students closer to the community and community members closer to campus." 
Luecke says that if students are drawn to Eddy Street, perhaps they will be more likely to venture into other parts oftown, as well, thereby enhancing town-gown relations. 
"[Eddy Street Commons] changes some perceptions and invites students off campus to begin to explore the larger community," Luecke says. "I think it will 
22 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 19 


COVER 
•'
" 
·----------------------.....,.....,......,.....,....,.....,__'"""ii
" 
1";:; 
-~ 
~ 


.. Students living in the Eddy Street Commons Apartments trade parietals and dorm parties for a private theater and gym. 

Senior Matt LaFleur, who lives in the Foundry apartments in the Commons, has amenities such as a community club kitchen, big-screen televisions and a private gym with tanning booths, but he says the rent is less than Notre Dame room and board. As a business major, he is also nearer to Mendoza than he was in his former dorm, O'Neill, and the Foundry is conveniently close to the Joyce Center, where he works. 
"The amenities [at the Foundry] are ridiculous," he says. "A lot of people who visit give me trouble. They say it's not a place where college kids should live just because it's so nice." 
Undergraduates, however, must adjust to an environment geared toward working professionals, where LaFleur says the average age is 39 and a quiet atmosphere prevails. No more shaking the furniture with speakers or having loud "conversations" that your entire section can hear. 
LaFleur misses some aspects of a student community, but he says that overall, he likes the Foundry's quiet, professional atmosphere. "There's no beer in the hallway," he says. "I don't miss that but I do miss being able to walk into any room I want to and tell jokes, have a great discussion or play video games on the spot." 
Although some students may adjust to this lifestyle, Director of Asset Management and Real Estate Development Gregory Hakanen says the apartments are 
20 I SCHOLASTIC I 22 APRIL 2010 
not aimed at undergraduates; most of the current residents are faculty and staff from Notre Dame and other area colleges, other local professionals and Notre Dame alumni. 
"The Foundry is a professional residential community oriented to an adult lifestyle and notstudent housing," he says. "The design, amen1t1es, services, management policies and pricing all reflect this." 
LaFleur says that fewer than 10 undergraduates live in the apartments this year and estimates that about 40 undergraduates will live there next year. Students, however, will not be able to transplant a six-person suite into the upscale apartments. LaFleur says that a zoning ordinance South Bend enacted last fall may deter some students from living in the Foundry. The ordinance says in three-bedroom apartments built after 2010, two of the residents must be related. 
"It's a weird time to enact an ordinance like that," he says. "If you look at it on paper you might think that all it could do is hurt business. As far as people moving into three bedrooms, it might just leave a lot of three-bedroom apartments vacant." 
LaFleur says that overall, the Commons' college town atmosphere has improved since he moved there last fall. "I have two things to compare it to: what it is now and what it was when I moved in," he says. "When I moved in, no retail on the street was open so it was desolate. Compared to that, it seems much more like a college town." 
spur other development leading into the East Bank and downtown and will enhance the positive components of town." 
One resident of a neighborhood near Eddy Street Commons who wishes to remain anonymous, however, says if students want to integrate into the South Bend community, they should adapt to South Bend instead of expecting the city to adapt to their needs. She says that if the Notre Dame administration wishes to increase ties with the community, it should invest in vacant buildings in downtown South Bend rather than constructing new buildings next to campus. 
"To me, the whole concept is totally false," the resident says. "You haven't invited the youngsters from the university to explore the city ofSouth Bend and what it has to offer. You haven't engaged the university to become a part of the actual city of South Bend. The university has chosen to build its little utopia right across the street so they don't have to venture any farther. 
"Kids who go to school need to know what the environment they're entering is like. If you don't want to be on a closed, monastic-style campus, then don't ·go to Notre Dame," she says. "If [students] want to leave campus, if they want to _be a part of the city, then they should. We as a neighborhood should not be forced to turn our city into something it's not just to accommodate the fact that they wanted something else from campus life." 
StudentBody President Catherine Soler says that she hopes the development will help ease such tension between students and community members. She says that South Bend residents will begin to see st~dents as norml!l people, rather than rowdy, disruptive neighbors. "I think it provides a grrat opportunity for the comll!unity-to · Sfe Notre Dame students in a normal setti~g, in a social setting that doesn't involve ·alcohol necessarily, that doesn't involve throwing a party but really just being normal college students." 
Even if the Eddy Street Commons do not immerse students in South Bend, Soler says it is a stepping stone between campus and the larger South Bend area. 
"I don't ne~essarily think that people · going to the Eddy Street Commons is them finding out more about Sou~h Bend because it's so close to campus and there are a lot ofunique things students can find valuable in the downtown South Bend, Mishawaka and_ Granger areas," s4e says. 

. .i . '.. : . . . . . . -. . ' . , . . . ~ . . 
COVER 
Student government plans to create incentives for students to go into the off­campus community, such as off-campus meal plans, which would feature debit cards to get certain deals off-campus, Soler says. They must determine, however' how far into the community this program would reach. 
"It's a struggle in the off-campus discounts where we stop," Soler says. "If we did the Chipotle in Eddy Street Commons, would we also do the Chipotle in Mishawaka? •We're looking at other programs at d.ifferent . universities and trying to ..,... 
t:s:~,e out what would work 
Gregory Hakanen, director of Asset Management and Real Estate Development at Notre Dame's office of business operations, says that while the Eddy Street Commons helps students get off campus, other community relations programs are more effective in linking students with community residents. 
"It may not be realistic to expect a physical place like the Eddy Street Commons to 'link Notre Dame students to the South Bend Community,"' he says. "That function. is much better served by programs like the recent CommUniversity Day, the Robinson Center and other outreach programs which connect Notre Dame students and employees with local residents through meaningful shared activities." 
LocalVendors or Chain Gang 
Some members of both the Notre Dame and South Bend communities have expressed skepticism ~bout Eddy Street's claim as a community bridge, especially due to its choice ofvendors, which include national chains such as Chipotle and Five Guys Burgers & Fries, a Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, and Outpost Sports, which sells North Face products. 
"Everything is Notre Dame themed," junior political science and English major Sy Doan says. "It still has an exclusive feel. It seems like a bit of a forced effort to make community, but it feels artificial, unlike places like Lula's [Cafe] that are really a part of South Bend." 
Students expressed similar concerns in Observer Viewpoint articles earlier this year, one of which argued that, "Business districts with the most character have evolved slowly, slowing distinctiveness and heterogeneity unknown to the architectural monoculture of the Kinko­copied strip mall or the cookie-cutter gated community." 
Doan says that while he enjoys some of the vendors, for many students Eddy Street Commons is merely a pit stop. "Right now, it is not a place to hang out like LaFortune is, just a place where Chipotle is closer than it used to be," he says. 
"Maybe if it had more community events like the block party at the beginning ofthe year [it would be], but it would need to be sure to draw students." 
Responsibility for the choice ofvendors, however, falls in part on the shoulders of Notre Dame students, as Kite Realty Group, which was responsible for the site, responded to a survey asking what students wanted in the Commons before beginning to develop. 
"The focus was on how to get people to the location and how to get them the 

COVER 
FALL 2002 
The Campus Master Plan
•
includes a plan for a multi-use development south of campusthat will \\enhance connection between Notre Dame and the surrounding community." 
products they are looking for," Schmidt says. "It can only be advantageous when a business has what students and the community want in a great location." 
Business owners cannot depend only on the Notre Dame population to make a profit, since students leave South Bend for vacations. They say they strive to reach both the student and local populations. 
"We'd like our base to be the South Bend community, butobviouslythestudentswill dictate how much we fluctuate," Hakanen says. "No businesses lknow could survive 
The city officially declares the neighborhood south of campus a redevelopment area. FEB. 5 2007 
DECEMBER Notre Dame and l<ite RealtyGroup Trust \\enter into a formal
2003 
agreement" to pursue developmentof the future Eddy Street Commons on university-owned land south of 
only here about 60 percent of the time." 
The national chains that comprise some of the Eddy Street vendors seem to cater to the students; to better incorporate the community, many say they would like to see more local businesses open. With the cost of rent in Eddy Street Commons, though, small businesses may not be able to afford the location. 
"With a new development, rent's pretty costly," 0Nick Demaegd, general manager of Five Guys Burger and Fries, says. "You would have to be an established 
campus. 
business looking to grow or have name recognition." 
Kite Realty Group says that in order to create a market for local businesses, the national chains are necessary. 
"We find that centers like Eddy Street Commons really thrive when they have the right balance of local operators and national retailers," Project Manager for Eddy Street Commons Ashley Bedell says. "We're thrilled to have local stores like Outpost Sports and The Mark, but we A also need the J;1 
,-:_~7::<~:~_.~--.--.--,----:~:-:--:-,._,_-.:.~~~:::_~o:-~~--~:--~:===::;~·
...-_-:.-_"~.:-­
catering to students alone, since~th~e~y~•r~e--:~~~~~-.·':7.·"'.". ~--~·.·::"_::.7".:,C:::-~.:"''..-:-'" .. __
... ~.-:?:·_·".'".I:'""";·_''.°',~-·~-:-:.~_-;: .. 

··.i:··.,. ' '. . ' ' ' 
Notre Dame finalizes the deal with South Bend officials break 
SUM MER/FALL
Kite Realty to sell and lease them the ground on construction of land for Eddy Street Commons. Eddy Street Commons. 2009 
. -'',, -.. ·, . . 

COVER 

MAY 20 2008 
Chipotle and Five Guys to drive additional shoppers. We want to continue to work with local businesses ... but we also want to make sure we bring other national brands to help drive traffic to the project." 
The Mark, a branch of the family-owned Uptown Kitchen restaurant in Granger, will open soon in Eddy Street Commons. OwnerJonathan Lutz says that The Mark will be an upscale diner and full-service restaurant with a welcoming atmosphere. 
"It's something that's clearly missing from Eddy Street Commons from a food standpoint," he says. "So far, there's nothing of a full-service restaurant, the type of place where I'm going to want to go to and study and read for a few hours. I hope it's going to be a community hang­out." 
Lutz says that although opening independent restaurants can be difficult, he is confident that The Mark will succeed at Eddy Street Commons. 
"Over 90 percent of independently owned restaurants go out of business in the first 12 months," he says. "Ifyou start off poorly, a national chain can do all sorts of things to sustain a restaurant. I'm very hopeful that we get offto a good start and I'm very confident that we'll do that." 
Skeptical·and hopeful responses 
The new commercial venues have affected the surrounding neighborhoods in several ways, from providing job opportunities to increasing foot traffic in the area. A neignborhood resident says developers did not account for some complaints about the project, such as insufficient parking and buildings that are too tall for the surrounding area, and further construction is slated to continue. 
Hakanen says that when economic conditions improve, Kite. Realty will 
The Foundry, restaurants and retail
JUNE 3 2008 
stores open, including Chipotle, Hot Box Pizza and Five Guys Burgers 
complete the first phase of construction, which includes a full-service hotel on Angela Boulevard and other for-sale residences, such as condominiums and townhouses. Phase two of construction will depend on how the market responds to phase one and will occur in the two blocks of Eddy Street south of Napoleon. 
Some residents say they are unsure if South Bend can sustain these new developments outside of football season. 
"I see so many hotels going up around South Bend, anyway, and I'm wondering whether that is for the football weekends or ifthey want to be a means of revenue for South Bend in general for the other nine months of the year," Matthew Kelly ('92), a South Bend resident and Notre Dame alumnus, says. 
"I don't know enough about demographics and whether South Bend can sustain all of these hotels. I don't think this is a boom town for conferences or pepple coming in, other than people going to Notre Dame," Kelly says. "I don't know if it's going to do good to the community the other nine months of the year [outside of football season]." 
Notre Dame administrators, Kite Realty and town residents who collaborated on the project wanted to create a pedestrian­friendly commercial area that connects campus with the surrounding community. Hakanen says ,the project's goals include providing new housing, sustaining and enhancing neighborhood diversity, and preserving the area's architectural heritage without echoing architecture at Notre Dame. 
Luecke says that even aside from the vendors, community-administration relations have already improved as a result of the project. "There was a remarkable planning process which extended over many years," he says. "During that time, partnerships were established between the Northeast neighborhood and the 
and Fries. 
university and with other institutions and the city. People learned to speak frankly and to trust one another. Though some of the specifics have changed from the initial concept, the broad outline has remained." 
The South Bend resident says that Eddy Street Commons would have been more compatible with and agreeable to the neighborhood if it was built on a smaller scale. 
"Had they kept it to scale to begin with, I think it could have been a charming, nice area," she said. "They went too big right off the bat which means they have now kind of changed the face of the neighborhood forever." 
Some local residents are looking for more than a nice shopping area as benefits for the town. 
"It would be nice if people in the area were employed, maybe high school students," Kelly says. "A lot ofpeople have talked about something like a TraderJoe's or a supermarket. I think it would serve people really well, even if it were a local one, like a Martin's or something." 
Others, however, are less optimistic about potential gains and community­focused businesses opening. 
"A lot of residents talk about local businesses or discount-oriented places or grocery stores," the South Bend resident says. "That would be fabulous, but you're never going to see it. A_-little corner grocery in a city like South Bend would never make it." 
The local resident says that there has not been much improvement for her and others in her neighborhood despite claims that development would revitalize the community and integrate all people in the South Bend area. 
"It hasn't really affected my daily life other than the very unpleasant view of the back side of a bunch of ugly buildings," the South Bend resident says. "I definitely 
22 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 



COVER 
noticed when they put the neon sign in front of the bank that shines brightly in the middle of the night." 
In spite of the claims that the Commons caters solely to Notre Dame students with little impact on the neighborhood, Bedell says that the site can only be beneficial for the neighborhood in which it is situated. "The area where Eddy Street Commons sits was on the brink of deterioration," she says. "The project has helped stabilize the neighborhood and will continue to spur additional 
development, both commercial and residential." Indeed, Eddy Street commons is predicted to create over 1,132 jobs over 10 years. 
"It seems like it's an effective buffer between Notre Dame and the Northeast neighborhood. The Northeast neighborhood could be seen as a blighted area," Kelly says. 
Hakanen says that he hopes the new residential and commercial areas will 

reflect positively on both Notre Dame and South Bend as a united community. 
"Notre Dame has invested money to turn a negative at its 'front door' into a positive." 
As vacant locations at Eddy Street Commons are filled, Demaegd says it could become a focal point for the community. 
"People see this possibly becoming a community center," he says. "Everybody I talk to loves it. We're waiting for some 
of these other businesses to come." 
Some have expressed more excitement about the potential for extending the 
Notre Dame experience beyond university grounds. 
"It is definitely possible [to build a college town]," Bedell says. "As new stores and restaurants are added, Eddy Street will truly become an extension of the campus because of its location and its offering." 
As for excitement about a potential college town, however, Luecke says that the Commons alone do not make for a college town. 
"Eddy Street Commons has a great urban feel. It is q place of great energy and vitality which invites university and community to share a space and experience," he says. "In that sense it has that attributes ofa college town, but that is just one component. A college town 
also has a vibrant arts community and other entertainment venues." 
The mayor says that the Commons may be part of a larger link to the community as a-whole, citing the Morris Performing Arts Center, the South 
. Bend· Museum of Art and Coveleski Stadium, among other attractions, as key components of a potential college town. 
With less than a year ofoperation, it is too soon to telllwhether initial reactions 
I 
are true indicators of lasting impact or if they represerit a transitory period of adjustments. 
"When someone makes a large investment, people have high expectations and want delivery instantly," Schmidt says. "It's hard to appease everyone, it doesn't happen instantly and it will take a lot of development outside of Eddy Street, but it is definitely a step in the right direction." 
0 



PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

. Serving the Not:u~:~:d~!::~~~ SCH O LASTIC 
-------------------I 
10 ISSUES 35 DOLLARS First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. NAME:----------------­ADDRESS:-·--------------­
National PacemakerAwardWinner-
I 
SEND THIS FORM AND $35.00 PAYMENT TO: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
OR 
ORDER ONLINE AT 
HTTPS:/IMARKETPLACE.ND.EDUI STUDENTSHOP/ 

' 
'


Jl ' 
' 

SPORTS 
Survey Says ... 
Dinner with my 
: Honeymoon
Theresa 
: travel tester! [ My sports bra Movies on the teammates at 
CATTUNA j Tina Fey Beyonce
) Its real -: tan Quad South Dining 
Track & Field j Google it! Hall 
Sadie 
: No school and Lil Wayne or Ice cream or
PITZEN BERGER jLawyer I Cameron Diaz Every football 
! no set schedule game day Blue October going to a movie 
Softball 
Time Travel 
Josh Flynt 
April 1929
As the Fighting Irish prepare for the 2010 football season, a look back at the Scholastic issues of yesteryear reveals just how different Notre Dame athletics were during the Roaring Twenties. While this year's football schedule will feature seven home games, two neutral site games and just three away games, the 1929 Irish hit the road for all nine contests. The season featured matchups with Carnegie Tech and Drake as well as familiar Notre Dame opponents, USC and Navy. The Irish closed the season against Army in New York. Respectful rivals, the teams met at Yankee. Stadium 21 times between 1925 and 1946. The Black Knights return to the schedule this year when the teams match up at the new stadium on Nov. 20 in the Bronx. Football was not the only sport that was different during the '20s. The spring interhall athletics schedule featured swimming and baseball, with major and minor league teams for each dorm. As published in the April 19, 1929 issue of Scholastic, "The Howard ·Hali natators' qedsively qefoatecJ:1:heWalsh HaH 'aq~~j:_of~/3.rtoJ~t. in a dual swimming irieet iii the universitjlrtataroriuiff;fast Tue-s·tlay-· · .. evening." Later that week, the Carroll Hall swimmers defeated the men of "Sophomore Hall." Events included the 40-yard freestyle, 40-yard breaststroke, .100-yard freestyle relay and others that are unheard of today, such as the underwater swim and the plunge. Howard's success in the pool did not carry over to the baseball diamond, as Badin dominated both the major and minor league squads by scores of21-1 and 30-2, respectively.0 
28 I SCHOLASTIC I 22 APRIL 2010 

• l • • -• / • • • • • ~ 
.: . ~ -· , . ... ' . ' . ' . . ·, 
.. ,, . 

SPORTS 


COACH BRIAN KELLY IMPLEMENTS NEW CHANGES IN THE 
Josh Flynt one/ Mott Formica 
With the arrival of coach Brian Kelly, a new chapter has begun in the history of the Notre Dame football program. Fans may miss the exciting playmaking abilities of Jimmy Clausen and Golden Tate, but the Fighting Irish are poised to begin the Kelly era and the 2010 season with a different attitude and a new approach. With the football program's recent struggles, many fans and students are starting to fear that a return to -BCS prominence and a 12th national championship are slipping out of reach. Earlier this month, Kelly made headlines when he expressed his displeasure with his team's performance in early spring practices, citing a lack of motivation and focus. In what many consider the toughest job in college sports, Kelly and his coaching staff have taken sever.al steps to ensure that the players are on the same page as the team 
29 ISCHOLASTIC I22 APRIL 2010 
FOOTBALL PROGRAM 
and staff prepare for the 2010 season. 
Not only will the Irish have new offensive and defensive schemes this fall, but they are also approaching life off the field differently. Kelly and his staff are committed to eliminating behavior that might negatively affect performance on the field and to rebuilding the image of the team as representatives of the university. 
One of the most significant changes to this year's Bookstore Basketball tournament was the absence of football players. From Joe Montana and Tim Brown to Justin Tuck and Brady Quinn, the tournament has been a long-standing tradition, even for future NFL stars. Because many football players were standouts on the hardwood in high school, the rule change significantly alters the makeup of the tournament. Last year's champion team, "Hallelujah Hollaback," featured a trio offootball players: quarterback Dayne Crist, halfback Jonas Gray and tight encl Joe Fauria, who transferred to UCLA last June. 
The new rules were a shock to some, especially since the team was also restricted from playing pick-up basketball. "I think people were disappointed at first because that's the way a lot of guys condition during the offseason," one player explains. 
He also added, however, that the coaching staff gave reasons for the new rules. "It wasn't like they just told us, 'No basketball,'" he says. "They don't want it taking away from us developing in the weight room and as football players. vVe can't be committing to something else, like basketball, because that's not what we came here to do." Taking into consideration the weather, the competition and many other variable elements of pick­up basketball, especially in the Bookstore tournament, he and many of the other 

SPORTS 
players say they understand the reasons for this change. 
Another big change introduced by Coach Kelly and his staff is the bar ban. The arrival of a new regime marked the end of Thursdays at Club Fever and weekends out at South Bend's other fine establishments. "It was kind ofsurprising to everybody to so abruptly end that sort ofsocial aspect. It will warrant a lot ofchanges because that's how a 
lot of guys socialize," one player says. 
performance on the football field, but they also serve as a means ofimproving discipline and character. "There's the risk of putting yourself in bad situations. There's a higher probability that bad situations will arise when you are out," a player says. Kelly and his staff hope to develop players who not only excel on Saturdays, but who are also a positive representation of their team, their farµili~:111d the university. 
7
,·,.. ·. . /··.{·,,..'·[·· 
"Coach Paul Longo, the strength coach,l:JkK 
said he doesn't want us to be a team that goes out on Thursdays, because everything 
we do during the week would be ruined by one or two nights on the town. He said if we continue to go out, coach will be there 
checking IDs," another player says. 
But the ban on bars and clubs is not the end of the restrictions on social activities. When the players returned from Easter break, they learned of a new change: No alcohol. 
"VVe've been asked to do things we haven't been asked before, and guys would have responded negatively if they had just laid down the law, but like the basketball rule, they explained their decision," he says. 
In addition to the physical toll that a night on the town can have on a player's performance, the rules regarding socializing served a greater purpose. Recent incidents involving current and former Notre Dame football players have made headlines. These new rules are not only intended to eliminate habits that could negatively affect 
· '~'i,, , 
We ve been asked to do 
things we haven't been asked 
before, and guys would have 
responded negatively if they had just laid down the law, but they explained their decision. 
player says. "When you're sitting back when you're 30 or 40 you can enjoy that kind of stuff, but you don't want to have any regrets and say 'I could've been a little better, faster or stronger, or made a better decision here."' 
One of the central focuses in the new approach to player health and fitness is the diet of the team. As any college student knows, the dining hall , does offer some healthy options, but the temptation to chow down on gratuitous amounts of fried food and ice cream is sometimes too strong to resist. It turns out that football players are just as vulnerable to these cravings as other students. "In past years, we weren't the healthiest team in terms of diet," one player says. This is a problem that Kelly and his staff have decided to tackle head on by revamping dieting and the strength and conditioning program. 
During the week, all scholarship players now eat dinner at the Guglielmino Athletics Complex, where the coaching staff can 
-ND FOOTBALL PLAYE~~--.·.·.·J?i_.••.•better monitor players' eating habits. TheY/ /)players are treated to what is known as a '/ "training table," a feature that has become 
While the changes will lead to a new lifestyle and a break from old habits, players say they are starting to understand the message their coaches are stressing. "I think one of the biggest things they explained to us is that we don't understand how small our window of opportunity is in our lifetime to compete, and compete at a high level," one commonplace at other elite football programs throughout the country, but which Notre Dame has lacked until this spring. The training table is essentially a spread of fresh dining hall food without the unhealthy options. "It's a positive thing. We get to eat healthy and it's also convenient for us," the player says. "We eat right after workouts, and we know it's going to make us a better team." 

But the introduction of new eating habits might all be for nothing without the proper training. When Kelly arrived at Notre Dame, he called upon Longo, with whom he worked at both Central Michigan and Cincinnati, to direct the team's_ strength and conditioning program. The introduction of a new weight-lifting and conditioning routine is one of the mariy changes that has altered the culture of Notre Dame football, one player says.."I think strength and conditioning sets the tone -for the rest of the program. It's essential to have a solid foundation in the weight room. It's a place where you can be focused, establish a work
0 
ethic and build team camaraderie." 
The next potential Rudy will have to wait a while longer to showcase his grit, as Kelly and his staff decided not to hold walk-on tryouts this spring. Instead, any "5-foot­nothing, 100-nothing" hopefuls will get a chance to impress the coaches next fall. "The entire coaching staff came in late, so they wanted to evaluate the players they have now before they bring in an extra 20 
31 I SCHOLASTIC I 22 APRIL 2010 
guys," one player says. Current walk-on players face a potentially:. uncertain future. "We've been treated so far like we're on the team, and we are on the team. But we know that, as there may be with any transition and staff change, there is a direct impact on us," he says. 
However, with all of the potentially difficult changes have also come universally welcome ones. After a grueling practice or workout, sometimes the road to recovery starts with relaxing in the players' lounge, which Kelly revamped upon his arrival. 
Among the additions to the lounge are a pool table, ping-pong table, dartboard and two video · game systems. These changes have been very well received among the players. "It's a lot more fun to be there now," one player says. "It has been good for camaraderie. We're hanging out a lot more as a team now." 
The improved lounge has also created more of a "college atmosphere," he says, whereas it had more of a professional feel during Weis' tenure. These changes have also helped Kelly gain the support of some of his· players. "In a way, guys are still little kids. If you guide them to some fun, they're going to think you're awesome." 
In their aim to return the Irish to glory, the coaching staff is reshaping the attitude of Notre· Dame football. "It's a complete 180 with everything," one player says. "The culture is way different. The attitude surrounding the program and coming out of the players is that everyone kind of has a fresh outlook." 
"The plan is really consistent from the top all the way down -one voice and one message. Everything we do is geared towards winning, down to ·the last minute detail. There's a reason for everything, even a random Tuesday workout," he says. 
Changes have been plentiful since Kelly and his staff arrived at Notre Dame. And most, if not all, of them appear to have the program headed in a better direction. But it's not until the Irish storm out of the tunnel and take the field on opening day that anyone ,viii know the true impact of these changes. Irish Nation will just have to wait andsee. 0 
32 I SCHOLASTIC I 22 APRIL 2010 
. . ... ,• i . ·_ . ' .. -'_' . . . . ·. . . 



HUMOR 

It is with great relief and joy that I, your noble Gipper, finally bid a not-so-tearful adieu to the final days of winter. That's right, little ones; summer breakis sneaking up on us, and it seems to be having a most peculiar effect on all of you! 
Perhaps it's that pesky finals cloud looming over your heads. Or maybe it's the sneaking suspicion that South Bend will offer up one last devastating snowstorm sometime before the end ofApril. Mayhap the fumes from that most unusual factory at the top of North Quad are getting to you. Or, more likely than not, my -flock of heedless little hellions is just destined to make one damning decision after the other. Whatever the case may be, of' Gipp is downright delighted to pass on a noteworthy tale or two to the masses. This month's theme: romance gone woefully and wonderfully wrohg. So pull up a stolen NDH chair and settle in for a saucy saga about one of duLac's finest female specimens. 
As the temperature steadily rises, the most daring Darners take their parties outside for a raucous day of debauchery and backyard booty dancing. After one such charming little garden gathering of the host's closest colleagues, our newest leading lady set her sights on a tasty little treat -and we're not talking about the dessert table. But alas, I digress ... 
Our heroine (or villain, as the case may be), filled with the confidence that only a Solo cup and a day ofintense sun exposure can provide, approached a luscious lad to engage him in some captivating conversation. She quickly discovered that he was the blessed benefactor of this backyard bash -what luck! The sneaky pair slipped off into the darkest depths of his man cave to explore their newfound love. After several meaningful minutes of intimacy, there came what seemed to be a rather aggressive knock on the door. Knocking quickly turned to pounding, and was complemented by some choice obscenities. It immediately became apparent to our new friend that while she may be the leading lady in ol' Gipp's column, she was not the only woman in this gentleman's life! 
That was, however, the only clear conclusion that the little lass made, for in the throes of indiscretion and confusion, her next decision was to give the angry girlfriend the slip by shimmying down the drainpipe. In the chaos of her accidental threesome, our foolish friend forgot her clothes at the scene of the crime! 
As soon as her startled, shoeless feet hit the ground, our bare beauty locked her eyes on the glistening Golden Dome and ran as quickly as she could toward campus, stopping for nothing in her path. Later that evening, her startled suitemates returned to find her passed out on the common room floor ... stark naked. Poor little lady must have been totally tuckered out from that unintentional bun run. At least the weather was warm! 
Our next ram-com takes place in a dorm room, where a fresh new Notre couple met up before planning to take in one of South Bend's finest shows downtown. Before either of them could say "duLac," however, the evening took a swift and steamy turn down Romance Lane. In the privacy and classy comfort of the gentleman's cinder­block citadel, the two lovebirds fell to the futon in a fit of passion. But apparently the young lad had more passion in mind than his damsel, for she insist_ed that he cool his ardor at once. 
Prince Charming, as we might call him, quickly saw the error ofhis hormonal ways and swept his lady off the futon at once to embark on a noble quest across campus ... to the Grotto, no less. Upon reaching this unlikely date-night destination, Prince Charming directed his damsel to kneel with him in prayer, as they both sought forgiveness and guidance from the gods of Res Life. The little lady was touched by his thoughtfulness, but a little disappointed ... she really just wanted to see the show. Then again, wasn't that entertainment enough for one evening? 
So here we are, my Giplings. We've seen two far ends of the romance spectrum, and let's face it: Neither was pretty. But far be it fwm old Gipp to discourage all my little lovelies from learning what the facts of life are really all about. After all, this is an educational institution. Plus, how could I get my spring cleaning done without having all your dirty laundry to air out? You certainly keep me on my toes, you raunchy little rabble-rousers! 
So keep up the bad work all summer long, and· don't forget to let the Gipster know what you've been up to. I take tips even in the off-season! 
Your love is my drug, 
The Gipper 
T;PTH08fPP 
© 0 o © at gipper@nd.edu 
22 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 33 
I heard a rumor through the Domer grapevine that the university is planning to revise duLac for the 2010-2011 school year. I think this is absolutely ridiculous. Can you improve perfection? I am such a huge believer in duLac, in fact, that I'm currently sponsoring a campaign to have it incorporated into the United States Constitution. 
But that would never work, you say. The guiding Hght that is duLac can only be understood and lived out by those who hum the Rudy soundtrack for inspiration and play Bookstore Basketball like it's going out ofstyle. I'm here to prove you wrong. I outlined my plan on the seven double-sided pages entitled "Notes" provided at the back of the duLac student handbook. Here's how some ofthe rules of duLac will apply to the rest ofthe country: 
I hope I've thoroughly convinced you to join my cause. But until we succeed, constant vigilance ­never let your guard down around those elevated flat surfaces and ledge sunbathers. 
34 I SCHOLASTIC I 22 APRIL 2010 

:  '. • ;  •  - ,  •  ,•  ,  - •  '  • I/ .  ,  '  '  •  ,  •  ~  •  ,  
, ..,  .  
HUMOR  





The 

• 
1 
Justin john Cullen 
It's that time of the year again. No, I'm not talking about the time when people start telling me they heard that our quarterback is looking good in spring practice. I'm talking about the time when everyone starts telling me about their offers. The process began a few months ago. The kid next to you in class is wearing a suit, begging for somebody to ask him why he is dressed up. You take the bait. "Hey, Carl," you say. "What's with the suit, bro?" "I have an interview for an internship after class, and I really do have time to change, but I wanted to show off instead," he replies. And the wheels are set in motion. The next step occurs a couple months later, in April. You find yourself face-to-face with someone you don't care for but have to talk to, asking what he or she is going to do in the upcoming summer. It is a good way to act like you care, while bragging at the same time. The conversation will probably go something like this: John: "Hey Katherine! What are you going to do 'this summer?" Katherine: "Well, I got like a thousand offers from a whole bunch of big firms, but I'll probably work for KP.MG." John: "That's awesome! But I one-upped you because I'm going to be working for General Electric." Katherine: "GE?!?!?!?!? OMG!!!!" You see, GE is the crown jewel of firms, especially among engineers. If you do not land one of GE's coveted internships during one ofyour college summers, you will end up living in a box after graduation. 
The same is true of accountants needing an offer from one of the Big Four or of any other business major having to land a spot in a firm's leadership camp. 
It doesn't matter that most of the people who work for GE will be getting a supervisor's coffee or entering numbers into Excel spreadsheets for three months. What matters is that these people now have chances to tell you about their searches for summer housing or opportunities to let you know about how much experience they will have when it comes to apply for jobs their senior year. 
But ifyou don't get the offer from the firm, never fear; research is here! 
Another great way to get experience is to stay on campus and do research during the summer. But if you're going to do that, you have to be ready to post on your friends' Facebook walls about how there are no authorities in the dorms during the summer, allowing you to be at college on the reg, all while in the shadow of the Golden Dome. 
Finally, if you don't have an offer from a firm and aren't doing research, you damn well better be taking the MCAT. Otherwise, you might as well enroll at BC, because your education isn't paying off. 0 
22 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 
EXIT INTERVIEW 
TERRY EAGLETON 

Claire Reising 
Professor Teny Engleto11 hns wi-itten ove1· 30 books ou subjects rangi11gfro7ll poet1y nunlysis to the nature ofevil, n11d he is 1·egnrded ns one ofthe 7llOSt prominent litermy critics ofour time. Although he tokes pride in his British background, Eagleton will brave Ame1·ican mltui-e for the next fouryem-s while he visits Notre Dame Joi· three weeks ench semester ns the Excellence in English Distinguished Visito1: 
How didyou beco7!le interested in literat1u-e, nnd how didyou know thntyou wn11ted to pursue n career in literature? 
I got interested in literature by being sick. I had asthma and I was confined to bed for a long time. "\Vhen I was confined to bed, I used to read and I persuaded my mother to buy me a set of Dickens .... It was a kind of escape into an interior world, a world of imagination. I supposed I wanted to do something concerned with literature from maybe about the age of 16. I was a compulsive writer. My children are also compulsive writers. I think it's one of those things that run in families. 
Whnt book hns influencedyou the most? 
I think the book that had the most influence on me was a book by 
a man called Raymond Williams, Culture nnd Society. He was my 
mentor at Cambridge and he was a left-wing critic. He showed me 
how you could be a critic concerned with politics and society, and I 
finally ended up teaching with him at Cambridge. 
How have you acquired such a wide range ofinterests? 
I suppose English is a subject with very blurred boundaries. That's 
one of the nice things about it. Therefore it constantly spills into 
adjacent areas. I never know where my next book is coming from, 
and I hope nobody else does, either. But I think that's part of the role 
of the intellectual rather than the academic. Academics are confined 
to small, specialist areas and they spend a lifetime publishing books 
on color imagery, whereas intellectuals necessarily have to cross 
boundaries between academic disciplines because the large questions 
that they're concerned with involve different disciplines. 
36 ISCHOLASTIC I22 APRIL 2010 
Wbnt quality do you most ndmii·e in people? 
Wit, style and elegance. I think I would have to add, to be honest, that not much of any of them can be found in America. Americans admire honesty, integrity, sincerity. I have very little time for any of them. That's why one of my great heroes about whom I wrote a play is Oscar "\Vilde. Oscar would have certainly preferred style over fact any day, whereas I'm afraid the Puritan inheritance in America downgrades things like style, form and elegance. I'm incorrigibly European. I've been through the recovery program but it doesn't work. 
Ifyou could live in someone else's shoesfor a dny, whose wouldyou choose? 
Dick Cheney, in order to be able to commit suicide. 
vVhat is the most pressing issue fo1· 0111· cmnnt generation? 
Trying to stop saying "like" every three seconds. All undergraduates should spend the year learning how to produce clear, precise and 
coherent sentences. They should sit around in therapy groups and try to say a sentence without it. I think it has a good motive behind it. It's people not wanting to sound dogmatic, not wanting to sound too sure, so that "like" means "I'm not terribly sure." It's a kind of modesty, but it's also profoundly irritating. 
vVhat is your biggest wony? 
·what isn't my biggest worry is dying. I've thought a lot about dying and I've written a lot about dying but I dol).'t think I'm very afraid of it. Whereas in this country, death is something obscene and hygienic that's swept under the rug. One doesn't even talk about death; one talks about passing onwards or something ridiculous. 
[One of] my greatest worries is that the U.S. will stop producing its delicious bacon because one of the most important reasons I come to America is to eat bacon. It is one ofAmerica's great contributions to humanity, far more important than the American constitution. 
What isyom·favo1·ite quotation? 
My favorite quotation is from a friend ofmine who was a Dominican theologian called Herb~rt McCabe, which is his summary of the meaning of the New Test~ment: "Ifyou don't love you're dead and if you do they'll kill you." 
Ifyou we1·e stranded on aiz island, what book wo~tldyou like to have? Practical Hints on Boat Building. Ifl couldn't have that I would take Proust's great novel A la recherche du temps perdu because I can dip in at any point and just read it and I do so. quite frequently. 
What is something thnt you wonted to write about that you haven't hnd the 
chance to do? 
I would like to write a definitive work on Scotch whiskey that could contain every single fact ever known about Scotch whiskey. I would be remembered in history not as the author ofliterary theory but as the author of the most splendid work on Scotch whiskey. However, even more than that, I would sacrifice all the books I've'written to be able to have said I wrote the musical "Oliver!" by Lionel Bart. The nearest I have come to it is calling my son Oliver, which is not very close at all. 0 

r· ~\ 

,,,. 
.;_, \ . ' . ~ 
/'. ' • i,, 




'c-1. \ ~ 
' ?? ;~. "-,t•.
·.(:,·,' ~ ,' 
.. : ....... ::.:.,,1 <.-:;-;• ·. •··: ,.· ·. i
(·,!!!,~:-i~:-~:.~;//' ' .·. . t 

"~::;,;·;..\ 7411.\:~. '/
--;~ .z::Y ·"-,;: • , a 
·\~~-;.:~-~~ 
.:......:__!!!>:::.;;.,----· 
Jruit Jam with Tapioca Pearls f1avors: Strawberry, Peach, Mango, Kiwi, Honeydew 
lloba Powder with Tapioca Pearls 
'Flavors: Green Tea, Taro, 
,'. 
~-;;_;,
Milk tea, Chocolate, Coconut . ,• 
ned~f~s • earn 
NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 

. . · tafun Ice cream is located in the Huddle · ~ 
·._.~
.. 
••-•••********,...****AUTO**SCH 3-DIGIT 465 Presorted Standard 
Notre Dame Archives 1 US Postage Paid 607 Hesburgh Library 
Notre Dame, IN Notre Dame, IN 46556-5629 
Permit#2 
I,I,,I, II, 111, I,,I, I,,II,,,I,I,,I I,,,, I, 11, 1,, II,,,I,,,I, I, I,I 






