"Skitch” and some of his side-men looking over an arrangement of "Dancing With a Deb.”
/Uae people. are-	K/ W
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Winston-Salem, N. C.
ii I
U 0 8
Skitch" Henderson's Newest Disc for Capitol
The platter that’s causing plenty of chatter in juke circles is "Skitch” Henderson’s latest instrumental—"Dancing With a Deb.” Boy —what a record!	*
It’s obvious "Skitch” has had plenty of experience in tickling those ivories, and he follows that experience rule in smoking too. "I smoked many different brands and compared,” says "Skitch.” "My choice from experience is Camel.”
Try Camels. Compare. Let your own experience tell you why more people are smoking Camels than ever before!
cjwei
CAMetS
ITS
WITH ME’

A 50 YARD LINE SEA
IN FOUR EASY CHAI
TOP OF THE WEEK
The cost of living, along with Mrs. FDR’s temper, continues to go up. Cafeteria prices appear to be taking the elevator. An acute Alumnite crawled up to the food counter last Monday and said, oh so colloquially: “Looks like rain today.” “Yeah,” thumped the waitress O^rtly, “but it still smells like coffee.”
INTO THE PAN (THERS)
Tomorrow afternoon in Pittsburgh it will once again rain football players. 65,000 fans will be on hand to watch the latest edition of the Fighting Irish play, what may be, the last edition of the ' Pittsburgh Panthers. The parlays are giving Pitt 20 points. Loyal fans are giving them blackjacks. And Frank Leahy is giving them autographed copies of his new column, Pessimistic, better known as Tears for Two.
234567890 AT FULL
Way back when Jim Costin was a kid, they used to write newspaper stories with a quill on pieces of parchment. Inasmuch as most of the linotype operators had IQ’s lower than a snail’s knee, it R^as hard to read these quill-scratchings.
So, one day in the office of the South Chicagonaistky PRESS, a sports writer named Archy Warden sat down beside his Quink ink and decided to do something about the situation. The solution, he concluded, was to invent a typewriter.
Sports writers all being geniuses or near geniuses, Archy soon had a typewriter invented. But there was still a fly in the ointment: Archy couldn’t think of a way to arrange the keyboard. “Let’s see,” thought Archy, “I could arrange the letters according to their usefulness, but that would be tco simple and therefore very, very silly.”
Finally, the dawn broke over Archy’s head, jarring him only slightly. “Why not use the current Notre Dame back-field?” boomed Archy, a loyal Notre Dame fan ever since the football graduated from the pig’s back. As you can see by glancing at your typewriter, the Afcrish backfield of that year was: ^wertyuiop at quarterback, Zxcvbnm at left half, Asdfghjkl at right half, and
234567890, a broken-down major in mathematics at fullback.
LET X STAND FOR MY SIGNATURE
The freshmen are learning fast. ‘Already they know that Walgreen’s isn’t a drug store; that Frank Crosier isn’t a sports announcer; that Harry Nicodemus isn’t a philosophy prof; that St. Mary’s — well, the old grey mare ain’t what she used to be.
What’s been happening to the Sophomores this week? Almost looks as though they’ve revived real pre-war enthusiasm as far as class elections are concerned — six parties in this week’s race! Think of it!! Other classes take notice — there’s a long way to go.
WHO’S ON FIRST
Even money, and no Lip. That’s the whole story of the World Series to date.
’ This may be a “nickel” series to the New York fans, but it’s gold bullion to Branch Rickey and Larry McPhail. The Powers models were banned from the park for the first game. That was the first error of the Series. Brooklyn students here at Notre Dame are finding it difficult to write with their fingers crossed. It is being rumored in the Big City that Father Divine will be the new manager of the Dodgers.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Northern Indiana Transit Company poster: “Take the bus. It’s swift, safe, sure.” So’s death.
From kickoff to final gun, you can follow the progress of the game on the miniature playing field of the Armchair Football Scoreboard.
Mark in lineups and scores. Can be erased many times. Movable, plastic-headed football and line-marker pins indicate the downs and the position of the footbalL Green felt-covered playing field will not mar or show pinmarks.
Used by Nationally Known Officials!
Frank Leahy, Notre Dame, says, “•. . the greatest aid to the football fan since the advent of radio.”
Ray Eliot, Illinois, says, ’
. a perfect way to follow a football game by radio?”
Ronald J. Gibbs, National Football League Referee, says, “•.. the next best thing to having a seat on the 50 yard line.”
radis idsas—»<•’» •’
>hart stsrier- WOT VM1H-WY
dal nm-MCK LOMOO*
UNO TODAT—IOC caie
aad haadliaj. Oa H BOW-
, MAGAZINES
MOVIES
iyaasarias mw maian.
BOOK gWa* csmfhts Uwmaliaa.
isfaamaliaa. I	I
RITERS TALENT SCOUT, INC.I 047 North Wrfa, HaEywud 46, CaWsraia|
Caatracti-calk »aid-lar mama
THE POWERS SCOREBOARD CO., INC.
P. O. Box 261 Springfield, Illinois
Enclosed please find________for
-------Armchair Football Scoreboard (s).
Name__________________,______
Street________________________
City-----------------State____-
*Plus 18c to cover cost of ha»-dling and mailing.
a
CCl■I<t PARADE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
freshman football!	,'T
Headline in Southwestern U. (Texas) Megaphone: “GIRLS HAVE BRAINS DESPITE RUMORS.”
FASHION FANTASY
One item that is currently getting a big blow in every college publication this fall except the Folsom State Prison Megaphone is the stylish (?) change in women’s clothes. Fashion . . . ha! That’s the thing that comes about when the fantastic becomes universal. What irks us is that our collegiate ‘sisters are among the foremost to snap up the fantastic. What self-respecting Notre Dame man is going to trot across the highway Sunday afternoon and “Dance With A Dolly With A Hole In Her Stocking” . . . when you can’t even see her stocking? And that full-length profile . . . shades of Pocahontas! The “Fashionable Flossie” looks like an Indian squaw whose papoose has slipped half-way down her back. Half-mast, so to speak.
The Ball State News, in condemning the new longer skirts, has analyzed the economic conditions of the nation from 1914 to the present and has come up with the observation that the higher the skirts, the better the business conditions . . . let’s all hope for a business boom, men. Of course, a little help from the fair sex wouldn’t do any harm.
t
As the Butler Collegian puts it . . . Woodsman, you can have your tree, but M. Dior, SPARE THAT LIMB!
Irate males in every city and country are burning the French designer in effigy. In Walla Walla, Augusta, and Tal-lahasee the cry is, “HOLD THAT hem-LINE!”
And at “Sweetbriar on the St. Jo” the powers-that-be seem to have ruled 10 inches below the knee “the thing.” Longer skirts are now considered de rigeur.
A’poll of habitues of the Sunday afternoon tea parties “down by the square lake” has shown that not a few are considering shifting their stamping grounds to Walgreen’s or the Palais.
As one fashion designer said to the other, “Here’s mode in your eye.”
ON FOREIGN FIELDS
The University of Illinois athletic officials decided to get a record of Bill Stern’s broadcast of the 1947 Rose Bowl game to go with their movies of the contest. In the first half alone they discovered 48 flaws. Stern’s most common error was naming the wrong ball carrier, a situation he corrected by calling an imaginary lateral to the right man.
(Remember the fumble he made in last year’s ND-Illini tussle?)
The first of oui‘ contemporary college exchanges to drop on the desk was the ever-popular St. Mary’s Collegian from our cousins out California way. The Collegian reports that its enrollment is the highest in history . . . 950 . . . while the faculty has jumped to 53 instructors. 950 . . . that’s about as many men as are ahead of us in chow line every noon.
But there’s no disputing the fact that they turn out some humdinger teams for a school their size. An item we noted with particular interest is that every third St. Mary’s freshman is out for
"Gentlemen Prefer Blondes". . .
is a whimsical statement unsupported by the evidence
But. . .
"College Men Prefer Arrows". . .
*More than 3 out of 4 college men prefer Arrow shirts —survey by National College Research Bureau.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
— — . _______________________
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
That’s nothing new. Every good ND man knows that a college girl has more brains in her little finger than in her head.
Coach Anderson at Iowa has had bleachers erected for over-zealous fans who are ever-present on the practice field.
Dr. Eddie Anderson explains, “I don’t mind having a few spectators watch practice, but when they start almost roaming into the huddles, something has to be done.”
(Continued on Page 6)
•*Z4e	Seat
t
!	{joe Wilccwc,
PARANOIAC
Foi* the last yeai- I have been the Scholastic’s first flunky. I have written features, slapped news stories together, edited the efforts of thousands of writers, even peddled a summer Scholastic brochure to halls. I have never written my own little column. For once, by the great horn spoon, I am going to. If the powers that be above me don’t like it, I suppose I’ll be back as office boy again. My psychiatrist says that all that ails me is frustration at not being allowed to express myself. Does Keenan want to pay the batty house bills?
^AH. BLUE CIRCLE!
Bring the relish. Gentlemen of the Blue Circle, I herewith eat one generous helping of my own words. You have picked up the gauntlet I rashly threw to you last spring, and you have dusted my arrogant puss with it. You have revealed yourselves as Friends of the People. I refer, of course, to your efforts on behalf of the incoming freshmen. The freshmen, chronic flounderers in an unfamiliar sea, will flounder no more if you and YCS keep up such yeoman service. To both organizations, a laurel wreath. To the freshmen, PROSIT!
Last week I was spanked by the College Parade. I pass the buck. ’Twasn’t me; ’twas HIM.
BOO, HIGH PRICES
Speaking of buck passing, the current ^exhibition being put on by the accounters-^for-the-high-prices gets the booby prize.
Everybody covers up all the mirrors and points to the next fellow. Still, however, nobody has satisfactorily explained the inexorable law of supply and demand which was supposed to bring the astronomical price cards down, nor have the advocates of no-control explained the miraculous birth, life and death of thousands of cattle the day after meat controls ended. Perhaps Santa Claus did it. To Adam Smith: DROP DEA D.
DRYS OUT ON WET SUNDAY
All day last Sunday I was out crusading. In case you forgot, Sunday was Young Crusaders’ Day for the WCTU.
“We don’t use tobacco, because we all think
That People who use it are likely to drink.”
The English, notoriously a wet race, ^iave a counterpart of the WCTU. It’s called The Rechabites. Rechab was a biblical character who eschewed the grape.

Z J |
Campus Clubs
J By BOB CASURELLA 5
FORTY FATHOMS
Being is not, not being. Everything that is, is in itself. What is, is; and what is not, is not. Nothing that is, is not; and nothing that is not, is. Everything that is, is something; and everything that is not, is nothing. But on the other hand, if something is not nothing, it must be something else. Thus, this is not an introduction to philosophy, so it must be Campus Clubs. We’re off!
SHADES OF HOUDINI
While the rest of the clubs were busy “organizing,” the Michiana Radio Club hid the “elephant” with mirrors, and opened the semester with a bang. They held a meeting on Wednesday, September 24, at the Commercial Sound Equipment Co. in South Bend. A tour of the company was in order and prizes in radio equipment were given away. The club is open to all radio amateurs and those interested in amateur radio.
GOING UP?
The MET CLUB, still trying to break out of the doldrums of last semester, sent out circulars to prospective new and old members alike last summer. The first organizational meeting was held last Wednesday. The results—promising, but they could have been better.
Both sexes can join. Anyhow, the Rechabites have a junior auxiliary, which has a song, beginning, “I’m a Rechabite boy and I drink only water.” With England in its present lamentable state, the Rechabite boy won’t get a chance to drink much else, not even milk.
SIMON WILCOX
L’affaire Ernie Zalejski points up a sad situation, whereby ND officialdom loses an excellent chance to show everybody, including unjust critics, that it IS really necessary to have a 77 average. Other schools do it; as Jim Costin pointed out, it’s the best way to avoid nasty comment, innuendo, and uncharitable gossip.
(Continued on Page 27)
The KANSAS CLUB, past supporters of Landon and present followers of Eisenhower, held their meeting Thursday in the Law Building. New members were given a short history of the club, and the program for the coming year was outlined.
BORDER BUSTING
A club not interested in fostering pride in any one nation, city, or locality, is the INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS CLUB, a club for all persons interested in the nations of the western hemisphere. The club advertises “interesting, entertaining, and educational,” and it is all of that. The first Inter-American Affairs Club meeting was held Thursday, September 25. Pictorial views of the Mayan ruins of the Yucatan and the architecture of Mexico were shown. The program for the coming semester includes forums, lectures, and a term banquet.
The ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB broke down a few borders itself, and admitted Arizona and New Mexico to the fold with the five other “Rocky Mountain” states. It is rumored that the club will try to get one of the fabulous goats for a mascot.
Frank Totero of the YOUNGSTOWN CLUB, said that he would be willing to assume command. Frank has not as yet canvassed the other members for their opinion.
CLEAVINGS
Top dog in the CLEVELAND CLUB, Bill Braun, called all the supporters of Boudreau and the Indians to a meeting Wednesday night. New business for the coming year — Navy Week End Student Trip, student $50.00 prize, a $10,000.00 Scholarship Fund, and the program for the semester.
The NEW JERSEY CLUB and the
WASHINGTON, MARYLAND and VIRGINIA CLUB held their first or? an-izational meeting of the semester ast week.
MUST: Send all club news to the SCHOLASTIC OFFICE or to 251 Cavanaugh Hall.
LETTERS
THE S64 QUESTION
The Editor:
One of the greatest fiascoes of last year’s college term was the reorganization of the Vet’s Club. Not only were all veterans permitted to join, but also any student with a buck in his pocket. The activities for the year included a smoker and a beer party which, from all indications did not entail too great an expense. What I wish to know at this time is, “What happened to the money in the Vet’s Club Fund?”
An Ex-Member.
THE S64 ANSWER
The Editor:
Who’s this chicken-hearted character who signs his name “an ex-member” to a whining weasel-worded letter? Let him come out in the open, first, then we’ll give an account of the strange disappearance of the Vet’s Club funds.
Incidentally it’s a good story about the money. But first, a little courage on the part of the inquirers, please. None of this anonymous stuff.
John A. O’Connor,
Vet’s Club Treas., Spring ’47
And that’s that.—Ed.	।
ANAPESTIC APOPLEXY
The Editor:
There are a few gripes about this campus
That make us want to raise a rampus.
But the thing that gripes us most intense
Is buying coffee for seven cents.
Al Ogden Nash McNulty.
Move over, Keats and Shelley.—Ed.
STUDENT TRIP OR BRIEF VISIT?
The Editor:
What’s this rumor* about the Navy, game student-trip being a quickie? In case you’ve heard a conflicting story, here’s the slant as told to me:
Trains leave South Bend about 5 o’clock in the morning of Saturday, November 1st, arriving in Cleveland about noon. Incidentally we’ll have to make it to Mass that morning somewhere
CHANGE OF ADDRESS
Please forward all changes of address as far in advance as possible with former address included, to:
Circulation Manager Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC Publications Office Notre Dame. Ind.
along the line; it's a Holy Day. The trains leave Cleveland about midnight of the same day, Saturday, getting back into South Bend early Sunday morning.
Now I ask you, what kind of a jet-propelled student trip is this? I wanted to enjoy our shellacking Navy, and see the town, but those long hours on the trains with only a few hours in between has left me cold towards such a deal.
I hope this is only a rumor.
George Olvany, Off-Campus
So do ive!—Ed.
THERE IS MORE COCA-COLA NOW
PLEASE return empty bottles promptly
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
College Parade	?
(Continued from Page 4)	*
NOTES TO YOU
Olsen and Johnson are presenting “Laffacade” at Purdue U. . . . Rubinoff giving two concerts at Ball State U.... headline in Southern Cal Daily Trojan: Beaches May Reopen Soon . . . my achin’ back. . . . Butler U. reports “No Butler Relays this year.” . . . Butler Collegian also: “Butler Coaches and Bulldog Team Say T Formation Here To Stay” . . . we’re sure Frank Leahy will be glad to hear that, now he can stop worrying.
© 1947 The C-C Co.
6
^The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
-	FOUNDED 1867
CALENDAR

THE STAFF
FRANCIS J. KEENAN. Editor-in-Chief
1 JOHN A. O'CONNOR Associate	Editor
EDWARD J. SNYDER ------------------------ Associate	Editor
JOSEPH WILCOX  Feature	Editor
PETER BROWN ________________________________ Sports	Editor
SHAUN McDERMOTT  News	Editor
ROBERT STOCK ---------------------- Associate News Editor
JAMES FERSTEL ________________________ Photographic	Editor
DONALD BIRREN  Art	Editor
"HAP" CORDESMAN  Art	Editor
ROBERT KOPF _______________ Circulation
£OHN CLARK ------------------------------------- Circulation
M. E. VARGA ------------------------- Advertising Manager
JOHN S. BRENNAN ------------------------ Faculty Moderator
Cover by Jim Ferstel

Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., . 420 Madison” Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school, year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana. .....................................................
MEET THE EDITOR
One day last semester John A. O’Connor sauntered into the caf and seated his well-conditioned frame at a table with Then-Editor John Defant, and an unknown newcomer,
Kh0 greeted him as “Bob.” The week before he had poked fun at tuxedo owners in his column, “The Week,” and it seemed that the newcomer, being a socially-minded chap, disagreed vociferously. In the next few minutes he proceeded to attack every “Week” since the start of the fall semester, turning occasionally to O’Connor for nods of agreement, saying “Isn’t that right, Bob?” At the end of his tirade he was formally introduced to his “mortal enemy” by Defant and found “Bob” to be John A. O’Connor.
John A. O'Connor
But such things don’t seem to bother 25-year-old John. That may be why he’s an associate editor. Single and an overseas Army veteran out of Venice, Calif., he will finish ^is “stretch” at Notre Dame come June. His eyes are set on the publication field, with the accent on writing, and his fellow staffers agree it will take a powerful force to stop him.
Oct. 3 HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL—School Field. Schurz (Chicago) vs. Central. Saturday night, same place — South Side (Fort Wayne) vs. John-Adams.
COLFAX, Desert Fury, with John Hodiak, Burt Lancaster, and Lizabeth Scott. The last time Miss Scott appeared in South Bend her acting fouled up the air-conditioner. Let’s hope Messrs. Hodiak and Lancaster, who still thinks he’s in “The Killers,” can help her through this one.
PALACE, Romance of Rosy Ridge. He’s back. That painful-looking panty-waist Spam Johnson, right out of a Hormel can. It’s a Mackinlay Kantor story and should be pretty good if you can stomach Van.
RIVER PARK, Arizona and Texas, both blazing with smoking guns and bawling with loco steers. You’ll leave the theatre saddle-sore.
Oct. 4 NOTRE DAME vs. PITT. The season’s opener at the Panther stadium should find the Irish scoring inside five minutes. After they hit 40 points Leahy should send the managers in.
Oct. 5 RIVER PARK, The Yearling. Just about the best picture of last year. If you haven’t seen it better take the time.
GRANADA, Saddle Pals and Gas House Kids Go West.- The first picture deserves no special mention, and the second offering only postpones the eventual and certain collapse of this type of film glorifying the tough, wise, arrogant juvenile from New York’s east side.
Oct. 6 SENIORS and GRADUATE students pick up athletic books at gate 14 of the stadium, 1-5 p. m.
Oct. 7 JUNIORS pick up athletic books at stadium. .
CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL AUDITORIUM, Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor under Roosevelt, lectures on “The Destiny of Labor.”
Oct. 9 FRESHMEN do the same.
JOHN ADAMS HIGH AUDITORIUM, Madame Butterfly. Once again grand opera is offered to the citizens of South Bend. Unless this company does a better job than last year’s miserable attempt, the citizens have every right to reject this form of the classics and stick to floor-stomping juke-box polkas.
STATE, Sea of Grass. In one of his too rare appearances on the screen Spencer Tracy establishes his supremacy over the great bulk of Hollywood’s so-called actors. This isn’t light entertainment.
Oct. 10 PALACE, Ghost and Mrs. Muir, with Rex Harrison and Gene Tierney. Quite amusing. But Harrison made better films in England.
COLFAX, The Unfaithful. Take your outside reading along to fill in the boring spots.
7
tyutm UiA fsAifoiA ^beAh • • •
Vet's Club? — Yes!
Last week’s Scholastic editorial concerning the future status of the Veteran’s Club has stimulated a great deal of thinking on the subject. This stimulation has not by-passed Scholastic’s editorial staff.
After dwelling on and discussing the advisability of prolonging the life of the Vet’s Club, Scholastic has arrived at a possible solution. It is undoubtedly true that the realm of Vet’s Club activity at this stage is severely limited—that is, as it applies to the mass of the student body at Notre Dame in a readjustment sense. No longer is the student veteran an unassimilated phenomenon on the campus. No longer is he arriving in droves at the beginning of each semester. And no longer does he require the liason of a campus Vet’s Club with an inexperienced and overburdened Veteran’s Administration.
On the other hand, however, the student veteran has become an even greater majority on the college campus than ever before. His importance is, therefore, proportionately greater. And when the veteran speaks his collective voice rings more loudly and echoes more penetratingly than has been the case up to now.	■
This situation, then, demands some sort of organization which can put this influence to its most effective use when the occasion warrants; an organization which will always be available when needed most and which can swing into action on any specific program.
Such an organization would be in the nature of ’h standing executive committee ready to voice the needs and express the interests of the mass of student veterans on the campus. No definite, detailed program is necessary or even advisable for the Vet’s Club, for there arg other more active organizations on campus which can better serve the non-veteran needs of campus veterans. But the machinery to effectuate the voice and influence of the student veteran when his interests, or those of the community and the society of which he is an integral part, call for action, is a very definite necessity.
Eat Less — Drink Less
Currently, across the nation, a drive to cut prices and alleviate Europe’s macabre food situation is underway, spurred by the President’s message, and lashed on by the country’s newspapers. Notre Dame men can take part in this “eat less” program.
By cutting down on cafeteria sweets and extras students will automatically bridle the sprinting steed of rising prices. By eating less, by whittling down on those gobs of pudding and chunks of pie, and passing up those mounds of ice cream, the price of which just jumped fifty cents a gallon last week, the student will find himself feeling better too. A lean diet is the best conditioner, as witness the ball player’s fare. And a heavy diet only leads to waist-line suet and hypertension.	.
But if eating less can turn the trick, might also drinking less? The amount of inferior beer and highball liquor washed down gullets in local bars could probably irrigate Death Valley. Torrential drinking only results in pulsing heads, pasty mouths, and people being late for church on Sunday morning. Those are the physical consequences.
Add “drink less” to “eat less” and you have a doublebarrelled weapon that promises lower prices, healthier bodies, and more food, especially grain, to Europe.
Wake Up — It's Morning
A shoemaker who has been half-soling shoes for three years in less than a half hour is not expected to take an hour for the same task as he enters his fourth year of business.
That’s why it comes as a surprise to hear that the Veterans’ Administration, after three years of doling out G.I. benefits on a fairly sound schedule, should announce to veterans that their first subsistence checks will not be mailed until the early part of November.
Here at Notre Dame, where over, two-thirds of the student population is veteran, this news comes as a rabbit punch to the spirit as well as to the wallet. Now the V.A. should not misconstrue the feeling of these men. It’s not that they mind missing a few victory dances, the student trip, and th^ minor luxuries of their existence. It’s just that they like tc^ have that monthly pin money (and in these OPA-less times it is little more) to buy the essentials of life such as soap, razor blades, tooth paste and perhaps indulge in a few scant extravagances such as an occasional cigarette and a seven cent cup of coffee!
Then there are those poor married vets who have to feed wives and in many cases children as well as themselves. Of course that $90 isn’t much, but it can buy a few weeks’ groceries if the consumer shops long enough and hard enough.
What the V.A. must have forgotten is that the greater part of its beneficiaries are not the sons of rich men. They are grateful to their government for giving them the opportunity for higher education. Yet it is the benefits of this kind government alone, in most cases, which are keeping them in school. When that check fails to show, they go penniless.
So by next time, V.A., how about speeding up that cash? Why not try sending the subsistence applications out with the semester school bills?
Cartoon by Don Birren
8
’The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 2
OCTOBER 3, 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Lanz and Rice Win Top Sophomore Posts
Pre-Pitt Pep Rally Initiates '47 Season
” Led by the University Band, the student body inaugurated the year’s pregame pep rallies last Wednesday night with the first of the weekly marches around the campus. The trek began from Farley and Breen-Phillips and the spirited students swept past Zahm, Cavanaugh and St. Ed’s, picked up the Mission crowd emerging from Sacred Heart Church, charged past Sorin, Walsh, Badin, then over to Howard, Morrissey, Lyons, back to Dillion and Alumni, and finally ovei* to the field house where the rafters were enthusiastically weakened.
Chuck Russ and Tom Green of the Blue Circle, chairmen for the rally, procured Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., and Joe Boland, South Bend sportscaster as guest speakers, while Chuck Perrin performed as master of ceremonies.
Cheers and songs intermingled with brief talks from members of the coachstaff and team. The packed field house thundered with cries of “Go Irish! Beat Pittsburgh!” which echoed from the Engineering Building to the Rockne Memorial.
Blue Circle men distributed song sheets of school songs and cheers to the freshmen, and administered the rally in general.—Phil Shea
ELECTION DOPE IN A NUTSHELL
JUNIORS—Nominations closed on October I.
—Active Campaign period, October 7-14
—Election on October 15
SENIORS—Nominations close on October 15
—Active Campaign period, October 21-28
—Election on October 29
McCormick, Uhl Seek Top Council Position
Two outstanding senior students, both veterans, and both with splendid records of service to the University, are candidates for the forthcoming presidential elections within the Student Council. When the twenty-two members of the Council meet Monday night to elect the new prexy their choice will elevate either John McCormick or Robert Uhl.
McCormick, a Business Administration senior from Lima, Ohio, is the only nonLaw man to crack the inner circle of the Council. Twenty-five years old, a veteran of the European theatre, McCormick expects to go into labor union work upon graduation next August.
Bob Uhl, twenty-seven, from Decatur, Illinois, is a senior in Law. With an impressive record of service with the Student Council, YCS, NFCCS, and the NSO, Uhl has proved himself an organizer of exceptional merit. A major in the E.T.O., and in the U. S. Army Reserve, he has just returned from Fort Riley, Kan., where he participated in active summer duty.
Both McCormick, for 23 months a corporal with the cloak and dagger OSS, and Uhl, the iron major, have extensive campaign platforms that will be presented to the council electors prior to voting time.
BMLO Party Captures Secy., Treas. Spots
By JOE HERRINGTON
After being subjected to a half-week of political haranguing, 429 sophomores turned out to back favorite candidates in their class election. Their choice for president was smiling affable Bob Lanz of Elizabethtown, Kentucky. Other officers elected include: James Reis, vicepresident; Bob Lowry, secretary; and Jim O’Connor, treasurer.
Although failing to elect a set of officers last year, the men of 1950 held one of the most spirited campaigns in recent years to bring out the voters. There were no less than six different parties (ranging in names from “Gus’s Gang” to the “Dark Horse Ticket”) and 21 men on the ballot.
Strongest vote-getter in the contest was the BMLOrganization with 493, but the “Golden Year” men, 20 votes behind, saw their president and vice-president elected. Lowry and O’Connor were of the BMLO clan.
Lanz, president-elect, got by his nearest competitor, John Brennan (of basketball fame) by only eight votes. The vice-presidential race was even closer—Jim Reis winning over Bob Molloy by just six tallies.
Biggest talking point in the campaign speeches was the Sophomore Cotillion scheduled for the week of the Tulane game (November 21).
An unofficial breakdown of the balloting follows: for president— Bob Lanz, 151; John Brennan, 143; Gus Cifelli, 54; Herman Hamilton, 36; John Gallagher, 24; and Herb Sampson, 17. For vice-president—Jim Reis, 139; Bob Molloy, 133; Jim O’Connor, 61; Bill Ogburn, 49; and Lum Sheehan, 47. For secretary— Bob Lowry, 104; Bill Shanahan, 96; Donald Romano, 94; William Kennedy, 60; and James Heaney, 58. For treasurer— Jim O’Connor, 113; Bob Lally, 98; Verne Kelley, 89; Gerard Begley, 67; and Vic Dorr, 29.
9
"Concord" Voices Thoughts of Students ‘
. Notre Dame men who glimpsed the bright, peacock-blue and white magazine at the cafeteria and bookstore last week were looking at Volume 1, Number 1 of CONCORD, a new national magazine for college and university students.
It is in the strong American tradition of common action to solve common problems that CONCORD begins publication; this is emphasized in its subtitle: “A Magazine for the Student Community.” For CONCORD would help establish on each campus a real Christian community, where students and professors would work together toward the realization of Christian humanism.
Designed as a medium for the exchange of ideas among students of all religious beliefs, it hopes at the. same time to bring out into the open the “whispering campaigns” which are seriously straining student-faculty relationships in the post-war scramble for education. With no censorship, and entirely under student responsibility, its editors hope to give voice to the serious thinking of college men and women all over the nation.
Hopes to Develop Writers
By opening its pages to all opinions and judging contributions solely on their merits, CONCORD wants to help develop young writers. It plans a contest offering prizes for top-flight work in the short story, essay and other fields. Next summer it will sponsor a workshop for editors of college publications.
Each issue of the illustrated, digestsize monthly \nll feature a current student problem. The November issue will discuss student athletics. Social problems come in for attention, too. The positive aspects of a current scapegoat were printed in October’s “What I Like About Communism,” and next month’s title in this field will be “An Approach to the Social Teaching of the Popes.” A series of articles linking the intellectual and spiritual life began with “Saint-Exupery and Community,” in which the Christian idea of community running through the books of a French war* pilot was developed. The work of novelist Arthur Koestler will be evaluated in November’s number.
Takes on Controversies
Further evidences of CONCORD’S willingness to tackle controversial issues was its October review of Harry Sylvester’s “Moon Gaffney.” Movie reviews and an international student news column are regular features. Short stories, satires on familiar institutions like the Book-of-the-Month Club and the Readers’ Digest, and articles on such things
10
Run by yCS, Edited by Bob Reynolds, Magazine Aims at Establishment of Student Community.
as the history of jazz all come within CONCORD’S scope.
Publisher of the new magazine is the midwestern region of the Young Christian Students. This movement of student Catholic Action first began to be noticed in this country about 1940, and now has groups in over forty colleges and universities from coast to coast.
During the past summer, it held Study Weeks for student leaders both in the midwest (at South Bend) and far west (at Los Angeles). YCS programs planned at such Study Weeks have stressed students’ responsibilities in solving their own problems, cooperation with faculty and administration on a basis of mutual recognition of shared responsibilities for incarnating Christ on each campus — an end for which CONCORD is a means.
Edited by Notre Dame Man
CONCORD’S editor is a Notre Dame junior, Robert L. Reynolds. The edito
rial staff of the new publication calls the roll of five mid western universities — Loyola, University of Chicago, Mary Manse (Toledo), Cleveland’s Case Tech, and Notre Dame; others will be added in the future. Contributions, however,
PRESENTING THE VOCAL CHORDS OF CONCORD
Members of Concord's staff left to right around the table: Finvola Drury (Mary Manse), Martha Finke (St. Mary's), Joe Wilcox, Bill Roberts, Bob Reynolds, Claude Julien (all of Notre Dame), Patricia Ollivier (YCS, Chicago), Ann Byme, Charles Herzfeld (both of University of Chicago). Not in the picture: George Drury (Loyola) and Mary Jean Riley (Mary Manse).
will be coming from all over the country. Present staff members include Claude Julien, a Notre Dame Political Science student from Paris, formerly in charge of French YCS publications, and Martin McLaughlin, one of N.D.’s representatives at the NS A convention.
CONCORD, written and edited by students who are not satisfied with the rah-
rah portrayal of college life in the slick weeklies and monthlies, represents a brand-new venture into a brand-new field — the national and international student scene. Perhaps in its pages college students will find a stimulus for working toward the “student community” which CONCORD’S cover talks about.
Freshman Lawyers Guests of Senior Class Members
The incoming freshman lawyers of Notre Dame were the guests of honor last Friday night at a dinner-smoker given them by the senior class of the Law school at American Legion Post No. 50 in South Bend. The affair, supervised by Chairman Al Spahn, was a successful effort at introducing the new students to the other classes and faculty and setting the Lawyers’ social season in motion.
Dinner was followed by motion pictures highlighting last year’s football season, and further entertainment came in the form of songs by the Indiana Barbershop Quartet, state champs in that department.
I •Student Council Gains New Blood; Eighteen Members Inducted in Year’s First Meeting
Eighteen newly-elected representatives . attended the first Student Council meeting of the school year last Friday evening. In the words of a member of the ' Stay Council, “the primary purpose of ' this initial assembly was for everyone to get acquainted with his fellow members and the workings of the council.”
Each man received a copy of the constitution and the members of the Stay . Council elaborated on a number of the provisions contained in the document.
The Stay Council for this year includes Bob Uhl, John R. O’Connor, and Larry Turner. These three were elected last year to serve on this succeeding •council.
Uhl outlined to the new men the duties of the various Council committees and requested that each man state with which group he would prefer to work. When , this was taken care of, the Councilmen were informed of their power to nominate five men from each of their respec. tive halls for membership in the Blue Circle. Two from each group of five, they were told, will be selected by the executive committee of the Blue Circle, of which Jerry Hekker is chairman.
The Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., Director of Student Activities, was present and spoke briefly to the Council. In commenting on his new job, Father Barry remarked that so far he was a “coordinator of loose ends” more than a director of student activities.
The members of the 1947-48 Student Council follow:
•	Robert R. Uhl of 253 Alumni; a freshman in the Law School.
John F. McCormick of 201 Sorin; a junior in the Commerce School.
Richard F. Kayser of 288 Dillon; a senior engineer.
Ronald B. Byersmith of 383 Dillon; a junior engineering major.
Hugh F. Glasheen of 132 St. Edward’s; a junior in Commerce.
Leo S. Brennan of 225 Breen-Phillips; a freshman A.B.
John Guion of 419 Howard; another junior in the Commerce School.
Martin Rock of the Law Club, 19 Morrissey; a senior.
Edward Flattery of 419 Badin; a junior in the Law School.
Maurice E. Mahon of the Villagers, 211 South Dixie Highway, South Bend; an A.B.
•	James John of 263 Alumni; a junior in Arts and Letters.
James 0. Presley of 151 Cavanaugh; also an A.B. junior.
John C. Cowley of 109 Walsh; College of Commerce.
Ivo D. Fatigati of 345 Morrissey; a senior in Commerce.
Kevin P. Harrigan of 110 Walsh; a junior in A.B.
Ralph E. Thorson of the Science School and 11 Lyons; a senior.
James A. Evert of the College of Arts and Letters—140 Morrissey; a senior.
John Ready O’Connor—346 Sorin; a freshman in the Law School.
Charles M. Mouch of 313 Zahm; a sophomore in the Science School.
John P. Sweeney of 425 Farley; a Commerce School freshman.
Lawrence Turner, Jr., 612 North St. Peter Street, South Bend; a senior in the Law School.	—Bill Bradley
Grad Students Plan For Year's Activities
Too much specialization too early is one of the problems of modern educational methods, Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School, told members of the Graduate Students’ Association at their first meeting of the year Thursday night.
Father Moore told the graduate body, gathered to plan activities for the coming year, that too many modern professional men are educated strictly in their own fields and know little of the interests or activities of men in other callings. It is the duty of modern graduates to broaden their interests for their own benefit and that of society in general.
Furthermore, the Graduate Association which, with a current record enrollment of 321 members is “coming into its own,” should take a more active part in activities on the campus. Its presence should be felt in ever progressing degrees, he declared.
The meeting, held in the Law auditorium, was presided over by interim secretary Vince Hogan. Jim Knobloch read the minutes of the previous meeting.
The 75 members attending also set up committees to lay tentative plans for social gatherings and business meetings and to study the possibility of publishing a small, graduate news organ. Reports will be presented to a later meeting.
Father Moore traced th'e origin of the
Graduate Students Association and cited from the constitution its aim of “solidarity and community” among its member.'. This would be in the interests both of members and the University. .
Interest in the other man and a keen understanding of his pursuits also was in the general interest, he added. No man should be without a conversant knowledge of other fields of endeavor.
REV. PHILIP S. MOORE, cac. Too Much, Too Early — Too Bad
Plan Italian Club
To Promote Culture
Plans for the formation of an Italian Club were announced this week by the members of the advanced Italian language class. Aimed primarily at promoting interest in Italian culture, the club will also perform a social service, activating concern for the aid of Italy’s needy population, and establishing an appreciation of Italian arts and history.
The club is not for Italians only, it was announced, but rather for all those interested in everything Italian from Rigoletto to pizza. Plans call for lectures on Italian history, political thought, art and music, and literature.
Efforts will be made to bring to the campus Italian films now acclaimed in this country, such as Open City, Rigoletto, and the story of Rome’s war-time shoe-shine boys.
The resurgence of Italian opera to topflight position at the New York Metropolitan has encouraged speculation in regard to bringing good grand opera to Notre Dame in connection with the N.D. concert series.
II
"New Look" Is Nothing But. . •
From reconstructed France, back to its pre-war fad and fashion business, this spring came a little man with a catchword and some new creations. The Man was Dior, and the catch-word, standing for the new creation, was the New Look. The New Look was simply this: women’s fashions, static for practically a decade, were to undergo a radical change. Skirts were to go down drastically. Shoulders were to be rounded, hips padded, and waists pinched in. Of all things, the bustle—supposedly as extinct as the dodo bird—was to come back in a modified form.
American women, most of whom were as satisfied as any woman who hasn’t a thing to wear, started out after the new fashions warily. Others were slower. Many perceived an old designer’s trick: change the fashion and fashion more change.
A Sinister Purpose Lurked
In other words, the New Look had the sinister purpose of raking cash into the overstuffed coffers of the clothing industry. Women formed L.B.K.—Little Below the Knee—Clubs to combat the new fashion. They picketed manufacturers and clothing shops, professed to see infla
FASHION A LA '47 DRAWS WARY GLANCE As hemlines fell, trouser cuffs rose to men's disapproval
tionary characteristics in Dior’s Look.
But by late summer, more than one haus-
frau was slinking down the street, dis
playing the New Look to all who would.
Then followed what promised to be an
even nore serious shaking of the world
of fashion. Men’s pants—pants which
had been to shoe tops since Tige was a pup—were to go up. This was to be the
masculine New Look. A sanguine clothier in Houston, Tex., posed with trous
ers to the knees, looking for all the world like a Swiss yodeler searching for a brewery. But few were the men who bought anything more radical than a conventional-length Scotch plaid (Clan of Maclnnis).
Ever Since Victoria
The New Look has a long history. Back before the turn of the century, when dear, dead Victoria sat securely on the English throne and cast her stuffy influence even unto the plains of Iowa, all women looked like refugees from a chronic pneumonia ward.
Eyebrows, Bostonian and otherwise, were arched if a lady dared to show so much as her ankle. Mixed bathing, even with the cumbersome, all-covering bathing equipage of the era, was frowned
upon with stern, puritanical frowns. The Victorian world had made a fetish of convention.
But there were vague mumblings under the austere veneer. Women who wore petticoats, bustles, frills and rills, were ill as a consequence and took oodles of pills. Being ill was a fashion all its own. Tight corsets bound the female midriff like the grip of a 300-pound guard. Then came the reformers.	.
'Freedom' Brings Reprieve
It eventually occurred to people, when the corpse of Victoria had lain in her regal coffin a decade or so, that it was not good for the human body to b£ swathed like the mummy of King Tut.
That realization, together with the increasing activities of the notorious feminists, who propounded a “new freedom,” seeking a nebulous “equality,” began to effect a change in the costume of milady. Frills, rills, rustles, and bustles began to disappear. The female form was tired of being bundled up like a sick horse. It was after a new freedom—the freedom to move around.
Women were also beginning to work. The restricted clothing of the previous half-century had to give way to something more practical, something that would let a girl type a letter without catching a frill in the typewriter. Heaven, not armor, now had to protect the working girl.
War Lifts the Hemline
Slowly but surely the changes came^ By 1915 the frills were mostly gone, but skirts were still long and women were still agitating for their new freedom. Then came the first World War. Practicality was the order of the day; the necessity to save material was paramount. So women’s skirts got shorter and skimpier, even sleeves began to be shortened, and occasionally a lady could go to a beach attired in something less than a rug.
All this time men’s clothes were changing more slowly. There was nothing dras^ tic; clothes merely became simpler and jauntier. The evolution was far from being a revolution.
After the first war, women were armed with a new. weapon—the vote. Prohibition, the buzzard that came to pick the bones left by the wartime conditions, had settled down on America’s roof, poking its hungry head into everybody’s bus^ iness. An era of lawlessness was born, a lawlessness which was immediately reflected in the “roaring twenties” and in
12
. Old Story All Over Again
the spirit of “flaming youth.” The outcome of all this was the “vamp.”
The vamp was something that America hopes never to see again. She looked like a beanpole. Her hat resembled an overturned saucepan; her waist was shapeless; in short, she looked like a department store dummy attired in a gunny sack. In the early part of the twenties, her skirts were long and tight; a woman could not possibly walk. She perforce slinked. But as the decade waxed, skirts went up until every pulpit in the country was thumped with denunciation of the new fashions. There was some justification for this; morality and modesty seemed to be going by the board. -pThe American woman of 1928, to put it ^'frankly, was pretty close to being a national eyesore.
Crash — Down They Come
Then came an ill wind that blew good in the world of fashion. 1929: The Crash. The nation sobered up. Skirts ceased their upward trend; the women began to dress more like human beings. Skirts at first went down too far, bringing back the hobbling; then they went up again and stayed a little below the knee until the second World War. Then they went
NEW LOOK IN AN OLD ERA
Will they ever fall this low again?
’NEW LOOK' STEPS OUT
L.B.K. Clubs girded for combat
up, above the knee in some cases, but came down again immediately after the war ended. Feminine attire seemed at last to have stabilized itself, except for the extreme undress manifested on the beaches and the various actions and reactions in evening wear.
But then the fashion mills of France and Fifth Avenue began to buzz again. The flush American pocketbook lured many a designer to rack what brains he had trying to think of ways to get the filthy lucre coming his way. Finally Dior conceived the New Look; critics hailed it and cursed it; pronounced it as the harbinger of a great new era and damned it as a step twenty years backwards. In its few turbulent months of life, it has been modified and re-modified; some designers have accepted its principles but have been less extreme in its form; others thought up Dali-like nightmares.
What the People Say
Last week the Scholastic went forth to garner local opinion. Freshmen in Farley, vets in Dillon, married women in Vetville, post-debs at St. Mary’s all were queried for their reaction to what Dior had wrought. Opinion was pretty evenly divided on the women’s New Look. But nobody wanted any part of the men’s.
SCHOLASTicman Murray Powers, who covered Walsh Hall’s reaction to the look, reported that it was 71% against the long skirts. Comments ranged from “I just don’t like them” to the compromisers who thought “few look nice in long ones.”
Lyons Vetoes Men's Look
In Lyons Hall, covered by H. A. Monahan, there was a different result. The skirts were voted in; but their teammates, the nipped-in waist and padded hips, lost to a group of advocates for the natural silhouette. Some of the Lyons men thought that the Look was nothing more nor less than a “clothing manufacturer’s racket.” The raised pant-leg cuff for men didn’t stand a chance. Of
fourteen men interviewed, all were against it. But the skirt was endorsed 10 to 4, while the waist and hip-pads went down, 10 to 2, with two men risking
no opinion. .
At St. Mary’s, the New Look was preferred over the old by three to one- This result was determined by Dan Brennan,
one of six reporters who reporter
the
St. Mary’s reaction while risking hi 5 life and limbs at a tea dance packed to the doors by curious N.D. freshmen, to whom any old Look at all was good enough, as long as it was female.
For Students' Comments See Page 26
13
COACH LEAHY GIVES HIS BOYS THE WORD
Gentlemen, you will find determination at Pitt. Please do your utmost to undetermine it.
CRIPPLED IRISH HOBBLE ONTO FIELD IN TOMORROW'S OPENER WITH PITT
By TOM HYNES
Tomorrow afternoon before a sellout crowd in the Pitt Stadium the highly publicized Fighting Irish of Notre Dame will open its 1947 grid campaign against a strong, defensive Pittsburgh eleven.
The green machine to date has not lived up to the vast amount of publicity that it has been receiving. The timing has been poor all through fall practice, and in last week end’s Varsity-Freshman game was slow and seemingly lacking in spirit. Whether or not the players have been reading about themselves a little too much and forgetting football will be seen tomorrow.
One reason for the slow start might be the fact that the old injury bug has hit and hit hard. In the line, Martin and Espenan, ends, Connor, Czarobski, Sullivan, and Urban, tackles, and Signaigo at guard all are on the injury list. In the backfield, Livingston, T. Brennan, Sitko, Gompers, Simmons, and Gay are injured. Some of these cripples will be ready to go tomorrow; others will not. But even if they are ready to go they will be handicapped by the fact that they will have missed a lot of practice.
Because of injuries the starting lineup is in doubt. In all probability, how- . ever, the ends will find Hart and Martin, or possibly Waybright, performing. At
14
tackles, Czarobski and McGehee are set, unless “Moose” Connor’s leg gets back into shape, which is questionable. Fischer and Wendell at guards, with Strohmeyer at center, complete the line. The quarterback slot will be manned by Notre Dame’s own cover boy, Johnny Lujack. Left half is very questionable, with any one of three, Brennan, Livingston, or Smith, possible starters. Coutre or Sitko, depending on the latter’s back, at right half, and Panelli at fullback round out the backfield.
The Pitt series has always brought the fans a good game. In 1935 Marty Peters kicked a last minute field goal to win the game for the Irish 9 to 6. In 1936 and 1937 the Panthers had their dream backfield of Goldberg, Stebbins, Cassi-ano, and Chickerneo intact. They dropped the Irish 26 to 0 and 21 to 6 in those respective years. Last year Pitt held the Irish for the first quarter but the massive manpower soon wore them out, and the machine won 33 to 0 going away.
The Irish will enter the game odds-on favorites, partially because of the Panther’s 14-0 loss to Illinois last week. The ND team will enter the game defending a streak of nine games, in which their goal has not been crossed before the Irish put their initial score on the board.
OVER TH
Mik
Dear Colonel Blaik,
Scholas
University of Notre Dan Notre Dame, Indiana October 3, 1947
Colonel Earl Blaik
Head Football Coach
United States Military Academy West Point, New York
>utti
aal iVe Lie ind ind nei )or rep Str Roi unc Ias1 on^ tho bui lief it.
pas pla tha sea to 1 hal
I would like to call your attention a game that your Black Knight^ p on the eighth of November. Mo^tt likely, you at the Academy are famil with your opponent’s football team, it would be difficult for you to know
location or campus. The school is No Dame, which must ring a familiar in your memory, and it. is located outs the city limits of South Bend, India Possibly some of your old guard will member having passed through the to on the way to Chicago in 1930, the 1
and only time your Academy and tl school met away from the banks of Hudson.
However, that is beside the point,
have great faith in the New York C tral System, and know it won’t misgu you on your trip to this city. At t time we want to inform you of the tre ment you can expect to receive w
you are guests on this campus. First all, we have a football stadium wh seats over 55,000 people. In this there are no seats with a bad view
the playing field, so whatever stude you bring over and above the footb team, will have good seats, a rarity visiting students at games between y academy and this school. Also, you v hear no such expressions as “pour it o if the going starts to get rough your Black Knights. You and yo pupils will be our honored guests, a that fact will be uppermost in our mi at all times.
Reports filtering into the middle-w have it that you have lost the services . a great many of the players that help your academy accumulate two and o
I goi: you tor; tha the ule pro troi Col bi a. !tuM the stn Pie tha so 1 nen stri tra the str< yea 594 mir plei
'■nsiiiiiitiiuiiiiuniiiiittmiiimiiittiuiinuiitiiitiiiiiiiiiinaittiuj
OALPOSTS
tn
7
0
n P th il
o 1 t]
Sincerely, Peter Brown
;s a

aalf consecutive national championships. 'Ve understand that Cadets, excuse me, Lieutenants Blanchard, Davis, Tucker, ind Fuson have finished their training md are now working for the govern-nent. But our scouts from the east re-iort that you have some very capable replacements in Bill Gustafson, Bobby Stuart, Winfield Scott, and Elwyn Rowan. Also, we have been given to understand that your first string line of last season has been riddled leaving you • on®Joe Steffy and Goble Bryant. Even though you have a difficult task to rebuild for this season, it is our firm belief that you are the man who can do it. We appreciate that your team of the past three seasons will be hard to replace, but for selfish reasons we hope that the men you have assembled this season might in some way measure up to the standard set by your two and one-half time national championship squad.
Everyone here realizes that you are going to have a difficult time defending your 28 game winning streak. Your victory over Villanova for No. 29 shows that you are on the right track. But the remaining five games on your schedule prior to the game of November 8 will
Iprobably cause you no small amount of (trouble. Any one of those five teams, (Colorado, Illinois, Virginia Tech, Colum-jbia. and Washington and Lee, might be to the right key on the Saturday they play you and break your beautiful streak. It is here that we petition you. Please, instill whatever fire and fight that is necessary into your Black Knights so that they will trounce those five opponents, and arrive in this city with a string of 34 undefeated games. We want tral System, and know it won’t misguide the supreme pleasure of breaking your streak. The scoreless tie game of last year has not clouded our memory of the 59-0 and 48-0 humiliations that you administered to us in your “years of plenty.”
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
PITTSBURGH	NOTRE DAME
Lee Skladany ....... (200)	LE	Jim Martin ...........(205)
Wilbur Forsythe .....(210)	LT	Capt. George Connor —..(220)
Bernard Barkowskie __(190)	LG	Bill Fischer .........(230)
Leonard Radner ......(185)	C	George Strohmeyer.....(195)
John Kosh .........  (200)	RG	Marty Wendell ........(198)
Robert Plotz ......  (195)	RT	Ziggy Czarobski ......(213)
William McPeak _____ (195)	RE	Leon Hart ........... (216)
William Brune ......-(180)	QB	John Lujack ........  (180)
Louis Cecconi .......(160)	LH	Terry Brennan ......  (173)
Jim Robinson ------- (180)	RH	Emil Sitko ...........(175)
Tony DiMatteo -.......(185)	FB	John Panelli .....    (190)
Game time: 1:00 P. M. Central Standard Time. Broadcast: WSBT
PANTHER SPORTS EDITOR CONCEDES GAME; WARNS OF TOUGH FIRST ELEVEN
By JOHN GOUGHTLY Sports Editor. Pittsburgh News
Like everyone in the country, Pittsburghers have conceded the number one grid spot to Notre Dame. It comes as no surprise, then, that the sixty-five thousand who will pack the Stadium this Saturday have only one objective: to see the Irish win.
However, Coach Mike Milligan and his Panther hopefuls intend to make this as difficult as possible. Since it’s the Irish opener and Pitt will have the Illinois game behind them, the chances are good.
Make no mistake about it. Not even the most optimistic freshman would predict an upset. If the Panthers can cut last year’s score (33-0) and, perhaps, tally once or twice, both the team and the Stadiumites will be satisfied.
This objective is possible if injuries can be kept at a minimum. While Pitt’s starting eleven is much stronger than last season’s fighting array, they lack experienced reserves—especially at the tackles.
With the exception of Center Len Radnor and Left Tackle Wib Forsythe, Milligan’s starting line has been through the mill. Flankers Bill McPeak and Leo Skladany—brother of another great Pitt end, Joe (Muggsy) Skladany — begin their third year as regulars.
Flanking Radnor at center are Guards Bernie Barkouskie and Buck Johnson. Johnson, a letterman in 1945, missed the ’46 season because of injuries. A regular as a freshman last season, Barkouskie is slated for All-American mention.
Although Milligan isn’t complaining
too much about his backfield, he could use more performers like Fullback Tony DeMatteo and Quarterback Bill Bruno. Both are big and rugged and fit all the requirements for the single-wing offense.
The left half spot has been a one, two affair between hard-running Bimbo Cecconi, a T-quarterback last season and a great competitor, and Bobby Lee who led the backs in total offense.
Much the same situation exists at right half where Carl DePasqua, another T-quarterback, and Jimmy Joe Robinson are staging a whale of a battle. All four halfbacks will see plenty of action.
If, by some wild chance, there are any worriers among the Irish rooters, they can relax. Once Milligan begins to substitute, the Pitt team is weakened.. Notre Dame with its vast assortment of capable players has this one in the bag..
Other Stations Join WSBT for ND's Games
Football broadcasts from Notre Dame stadium will emanate from many stations scattered throughout the Midwest and in several instances over the major national networks. South Bend’s WSBT‘ with Joe Boland at the microphone will carry all Notre Dame’s home games to the local area as well as chanelUng them, over WFBM, Indianapolis; WJW, Cleveland; and CKLW, Detroit-Windsor.
For the opening home game of the-season against Nebraska on October 18,.
(Continued on Page 27)
15-
SPLINTERS
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
Seldom has any football team, either college or professional, received the tremendous pre-season buildup that has been accorded the 1947 edition of Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish. The majority of the articles have been highly complimentary in their remarks, but one of them stands out head and shoulders above all the rest. That one is Jack Sher’s piece in SPORT magazine entitled “Lujack, Leahy and Notre Dame.”
Sher’s article presents a detailed study of Coach Frank Leahy, the team, and some valuable information about Notre Dame’s academic side that is usually lost sight of in the light of her athletic achievements. He has written a story that will win many new friends for Notre Dame.
Arch Ward tells this one on Ed “Moose” Krause . . . When Ed sat down at a table at Northwestern University for the first meal to be served to the College All-Star coaches, a waiter inquired: “How do you like your steak, Mr. Krause?” Ed was brief and to the point. “Big,” he replied. “I mean well done, medium, or rare,” the waiter persisted. “Just so it’s big is all I care,” emphasized the Moose . . . Thereafter he received a double portion of everything. . . . Ward further reports that Bing Crosby’s oldest son, Gary, aspires to be a Notre Dame halfback some day . . . he is now enrolled in Santa Clara prep school. . . . Bill Leonard’s winning time of 4:15.7 in the mile event of the Indiana State track meet here at Notre Dame last May was the eighth best mile turned in by an amateur- in 1947 . . . the best was by a fellow named Dodds . . the time also was the best of Leonard’s career and set a new outdoor Notre Dame record, breaking Greg Rice’s mark of 4:16.7 . . . Other marks by Notre Dame men listed in the Track and Field Records of 1947 are Dave Murphy’s :22.0 in the 220 yard dash . . . Ray Sa-bota’s :49.1 in the quarter mile . . . Jim Murphy’s two-mile time of 9:35.8 in winning the two mile at the Indiana State meet. . . John Smith’s :14.4 in the - 120 yard high hurdles . . . Luke Higgins’ 50 feet, 9 inch shot put heave ... Johnny Johnson’s discus distance of 144 feet, 6 inches .. . the mile relay team also made the list with a 3:20.1 time in their specialty . . . Coach Henry Frnka has installed a winged “T” formation at Tu-
16
Students Load Leahy With Huge Scores
( These predictions will be a weekly feature during the football season. The man who picks a score closest to reality will repeat the folloiving week against five neiv experts.— Editor)
Do the Panthers have the teeth to chew the tough chunks of meat they will find in their helping of Irish stew next Saturday?
The consensus of student opinion, when asked what the score will be, indicates that there may be some busy days ahead for Pittsburgh dentists. Here are some predictions and reasons from six students selected at random on the campus.
Ross Tantillo of Howard Hall and Mt. Morris, N. Y.:
ND 49 Pitt 0.
“We don’t want to beat them too bad.”
Jim Kroner of Morrissey Hall and La Crosse, Wisconsin:
ND 28 Pitt 0.	•
“The boys may be a little shy away from home.”
Gene Pilawski from Dillon Hall and Chicago, Ill.:
ND 42 Pitt 0.
“The team should be out ■ to refute Coach Leahy’s needling.”
Larry Madigan, New York City:
ND 25 Pitt 0.
“If Illinois can beat them by two touchdowns, I don’t see any reason why we can’t up the Illini by two more.”
Elliott Burrell of Zahm Hall and Phoenix, Ariz.:
ND 48 Pitt 0.
“The boys will want to hold down the score on opening day.” .
lane much the same as Wes Fesler used at Pittsburgh last year . . . The Green Wave hopes to have twice as much deception by using the two formations and crossing up their opponents . . . Speaking of formations, Pittsburgh can be expected to do a lot of passing tomorrow afternoon when they tangle with the Irish . . . Carl DePasqua, right halfback, and Lou Cecconi and Paul Rickards, both left halves, are all former “T” formation quarterbacks at Pitt . . . Under Coach Walter “Mike” Milligan’s single wing they will all be able to do some tossing . . . Mike Swistowicz, sophomore fullback from Chicago, is the only member of the 1947 team to have won an ice skating letter in high school . . . Mike earned eleven letters at Tilden Tech high
Larry Evert, living off campus and^ from Cleveland Heights, Ohio:	"
ND 24 Pitt 0.
“Pitt’s game last week should iron out some of their rough spots. We might have to iron out some of our own with Pitt.”
Burian Captures Golf Championship — 298
Smiling, blond Ray Burian, a freshman who hails from Joliet, HL, fired a 76 on Tuesday afternoon to capture Notre Dame’s 17th University Open Goli Championship.
Burian scrambled a bit to add the 76 to previous rounds of 75-73-74 and post_.v a total of 298 that edged out Georg®; Stuhr, runner-up with 301. Dick Seidel. Alumni Hall toured the back nine in par giving him a 73 for the day’s efforts and a total of 303.
The William J. Burke Memorial Trophies were awarded ro the winners by Father George L. Holderith, C.S.C., after the tournament.
Jim Besenfelder, member of Notre Dame’s 1944 national intercollegiate championship golf team, posted a 305 followed by Jack Fitzpatrick who had a 306. Close behind were Bob Rolfs with 308 and Jack Quinn and Art Arquilla, last year’s Veteran Tournament winner, who both posted 310’s.
The eighth spot was filled by Ed Kleff-man and Tom Dore both of whom had 314 totals. Ex-varsity footballer Joe Flood could not control his tee shots and he came in with a 316. The tenth spot _ was shared by freshman Wade BeucleJII from Toledo and Bob Moskal at 318.
At the outset of the 72-hole match there were 85 entries listed; 58 of these finished the first 18 holes.—Jack Slattery
school, divided among football, track and ice skating . . . Against Northwestern in 1943 Fred Earley missed three of four conversions as the Irish won 25-6 . . . he assured Coach Frank Leahy, however, that he wouldn’t be missing the extra points when they really counted . . . the following week against the unbeaten Iowa Seahawks Fred made good his boast when he booted two perfect placements to provide the Irish with a 14-13 triumph over the Seahawks . . . Some idea of the terrific demand for tickets this year can be found in the fact that despite the fact that there are 108,000 tickets for the Notre Dame-Southern California game at Los Angeles on De#) cember 6, there was no public sale for the game . . .
Ckemy'l Ckaitefo
By JOE CHENEY
So you want to be a spotter! To begin with, a spotter is one who aids a radio sports announcer during a football game. He points out substitutions, tacklers, blockers, pass receivers, cheers, band music, and sometimes celebrities whom the announcer might have missed while giving the “color” to the listening audience.
At Notre Dame, a spotter must have quite a bit of loose change in his pockets, know the correct pronunciation of names like Czarobski, McGeehee, Es-^penan, LeCluyse, Swistowicz, Zmijewski, ^"Budynkiewicz, and Ciechanowicz, and have a fairly good class schedule.
Sports announcers fail to realize that students have weak pocketbooks. They all figure that they are giving the spotter a big break in allowing him to sit beside them during a game. Some highly paid announcers think that $5 is a lot of money to pay a spotter while . others toss a $10 bill for the same job.
Here at Notre Dame, students are not excused from classes to spot nor are they furnished "with transportation, room, and board while away from home. Spotting at home games is all gravy, but the spotter earns every cent that he receives because he is busy tracking down individuals on the playing field and misses the actual game thrills.
Transportation, room, and board to a. .game away from here costs the spotter ^more money than he will earn plus the classes he has to cut to get to places like Pittsburgh, New Orleans, New York, Baltimore, Cleveland, and the other cities where Notre Dame plays. So, if you’re thinking of joining the spotters’ ranks, have a fat checking account to draw from during the coming fall.
Well-known announcers such as Bill Stern, Ted Husing, Harry Wismer, and Bob Elson study the players’ names and numbers before the game. They become familiar with the squads of both teams but they need plenty of help from the spotters, one from each team, during the game.
Each announcer has his own way of “working” a game. Ted Husing uses a pin system. In front of the spotter is placed the entire squad listed according to position with red and green pins running across the top of the list. The ^red pins are used for the team on the Afield while the green ones are inserted when substitutions are made and are
Army, Tulane, Southern California Remain Only Undefeated Opponents
While Notre Dame’s varsity was trimming the freshman squad 48-7 last Saturday, all but three of their opponents of this season were being defeated in their opening contests. Army, Tulane and Southern California were the unconquered teams.
Pittsburgh, tomorrow’s hosts, missed their chance of upsetting Illinois by not taking advantage of the seven fumbles the Illini were guilty of during the afternoon. It took two spectacular touchdowns by Illinois’ Eddleman to subdue the Panthers. Nebraska fell before the Hoosiers of Indiana, 17-0. The Corn-huskers outweighed ‘Bo’ McMillan’s men 21 pounds in the line, but to no avail as the Hoosiers punched across two touchdowns and a field goal.
A complete lack of power led to the defeat of Purdue at the hands of Wisconsin. The Badgers ran up 32 points while the best Purdue could do was score twice. One of these scores came on a fluke when Bob Heck, Boiler-maker end, intercepted a shovel pass in the Wisconsin backfield. An old friend of Notre Dame, Lynn Waldorf, showed that he enjoyed his new job by leading his California club to an upset victory over a strong Navy club, 14-7. The Middies made a desperate attempt to catch Cali-
replaced with red ones as soon as Husing has given the newr players to his listeners. Blockers, tacklers, and pass receivers are pointed to on the chart by the spotter as the game progresses.
Stern, Elson, and Wismer use practically the same system but each has various ways of pointing out players who take part in tackles, blocks, etc. The spotter never opens his mouth during the broadcast. Talking and whispering is taboo.
Red Barber is one of the few announcers who is able to announce a game without too much help from his spotters. Barber has a remarkable memory for names and numbers and seldom pays any attention to his “spot pins.” He has a great knack of catching substitutions before the spotter does.
So freshmen, save your pay checks next summer and sign up with Charlie Callahan in the football publicity office for fall duty next year. He’ll be glad to help you spend your money.
Want to Make a Phone Call?
The telephone company hopes to accommodate Notre Dame students soon with a pay phone in each hall and
fornia in the last quarter, but lost their chance when the Bears intercepted a pass in the last minutes of the game.
A fourth period field goal spelled “finis” for Northwestern in their opener as Vanderbilt pulled out a victory, 3-0. The Wildcats showed very little offense as they failed to pass the Vandy 33-yard line. The bells of requiem tolled for Iowa sooner than the others; the Hawk-eyes were trounced Friday night by UCLA, 22-7. The UCLANS displayed an offense which completely subdued Dr. Anderson’s men.
Tulane heads the list of winning squads. The Green Wave upset mighty Alabama 21-20 on spectacular scoring plays of 101, 55 and 38 yards. Army downed Villanova 13-0 as the result of two Villanova fumbles. The Trojan Horse of USC started to amble its way down the victory road with a win over Washington State 21-0.
The results of most of these games left the pre-season dopesters holding the bag. Momentarily, it left the Irish schedule looking less formidable than it did on the first of September. The powerhouses, Navy and Iowa, slipped greatly in national prominence, while slightly-favored Tulane had its stock jump hundreds of points.—Pete Brown.
phones on each floor of the resident halls for incoming calls. Lack of materials has held up the installation so far. About time those nine phone booths in the cafe got some relief.
Congratulations
The university is to be congratulated for relaxing the midnight rules concerning signing out. Students can conveniently accept six o’clock dinner engage-i ments now without coming all the way back to school to sign out. Chapels are still pretty well filled for night prayer and the grotto candles seem to glow just as brightly.
Leahy Takes the Air
Don’t miss Coach Frank Leahy’s predictions this evening. He and Harry Wismer take to the air every Friday evening with a crystal ball instead of a pigskin. I thought last Friday that I had tuned in to either Jack Armstrong or another one of Orson Welles’ productions. They use every gimmick in the beginning of the program to get attention except Winchell’s ticker key. Leahy won’t tell you, but if Notre Dame doesn’t win by 35 points tomorrow, he’s going to be very disappointed.
17
Leahy Writes Column To Cry Before Nation
If Notre Dame has a stem-winder of a football team it will be a vast but pleasant surprise to the N.D. coach. Frank Leahy.
In the second of a series of newspaper articles which are appearing nation-wide, Leahy punctured the bubble of optimism by insisting, “No college football team in the country, playing a representative schedule, is strong enough to go the distance without defeat.”
In spite of his assertions about the Fighting Irish, however, few by-lines appearing on the nation’s sport pages this fall will command more respect than that of Coach Leahy. And that is principally so because of his reputation in many quarters as the outstanding college coach in the country.
Perhaps many fans will recall that Frank Leahy is once again following in the footsteps of the immortal Knute Rockne in that the latter also wrote a syndicated football column at one time.
Leahy’s column, distributed by McNaught Syndicate, Inc., promises a pertinent discussion on various aspects of football and a weekly glance into the crystal ball in an attempt to name the winners of the major games. Recalling that the ever-pessimistic Leahy feared his 1946 team would lose “at least three and probably four games,” fans will be eager to observe the accuracy of his predictions.—Dan Leary
Sunday Morn Brings Harrier Championship
One of Notre Dame’s oldest athletic events, the cross-country championship run, will be held Sunday morning, October 5 over a three-mile campus course. The contest is open to all students, and the regular varsity cross-country squad will be chosen from the winners.
The run was initiated in the early history of the school, and for years was known as the Brownson Run. Recently, the title has been changed to the University Championship Run, but the event is still a gruelling distance race over a course that includes most of the campus in its long winding path. Coach Elvin R. “Doc” Handy has issued a special invitation to all runners with experience to compete in this opening event of the current track season.
Several veteran distance men from last season’s track team have indicated that they will compete in the harrier championship. Jim Murphy and Cornie Styers, the two top scorers in the two-mile event last spring, and Bill Leonard, John Ly-
INTRODUCING...
By TOM McNALLY
When an up and down Holy Cross team came to Boston to battle rampaging Boston College on Nov. 28, 1942, the populace turned out in droves to see them murdered by the home town boys, currently number one Sugar Bowl contenders. What those who sat through the 55-12 debacle actually saw was enough to leave most of them muttering incoherently about an inspired Holy Cross team and in particular about a fearsome surprise package at tackle named George Connor!
What the fans didn’t know was that Capt. George had been surprising people all along. It is now common knowledge that George arrived unexpectedly and prematurely at birth and was hurried into an incubator after weighing in at 3 . pounds 4 ounces. And when, in his freshman year at De La Salle High School in Chicago, he found himself a comparative midget of 5’3” and 135 pounds, George turned loose another surprise by adding 11 inches and 85 pounds before his graduation!
Meanwhile, George was establishing himself as dynamite at tackle and bringing back fond memories of another great De La Salle tackle named “Moose” Krause who graduated from there in 1930. By way of proving his heritage, Connor proceeded to rack up All-Catholic, All-City and All-State honors in football, besides sandwiching in three letters in basketball.
Then followed his entrance into Holy Cross as a 17 year old freshman and that famous upset over B.C.’s Holovak and Co., followed by a season as first string center on the basketball team. In June of 1943 George enlisted in the Navy V-12 program but stayed on at Holy Cross for the following football season, in which he showed true greatness, winning All-American honors, the Bulger-Lowe trophy, and becoming Captain-
ons, and Tom Maguire, the best of the Irish milers, are the favorites in the tortuous grind. They will have stiff competition from such runners as Lou Tracy, Gerry Johnson, Larry Keenan, Ray So-bota, and Steve Provost. Many men have been training for the run and a newcomer may prove the surprise of the rough race.
Fall track is now in progress, and all candidates should report to Manager Ray Srsic in the fieldhouse for equipment.—Jim Howard


elect for the following season.
However, he was soon transferred to the Midshipman school at Notre Dame where he was unable to play in 1944 because of a Navy ruling. His commission followed in October of that year after which he was sent to a sub-chaser school in Miami, Florida, where he had a brief but bitter flight at right end in a game against Fort Benning. With the score 7-0 against them, Connor’s team pushed over a touchdown in the final minutes. As the runner charged into the end zonej^} George informed the quarterback he would pull a “sleeper” play on the all-important extra point, whereupon the
CAPT. GEORGE CONNOR Little Papoose Became Big Moose
“Moose” tip-toed to the sidelines where he hid his wee frame beneath two available strands of grass and waited for play to resume. Then, when the ball was centered, he minced quietly over the goal line and with no one within 20 yards saw the well aimed pass drop through his outstretched hands. After that, George decided to let Hutson keep his job!
After duty aboard a sub-chaser as an executive officer, George returned home in June of 1946 and after a summer’s rest reported to Coach Leahy for last year’s season. The rest is history: another great year at tackle, his unanimous choice as All-American, and, later, the^ honor of being elected captain of thi^-year’s team by his teammates.
18
•Suesf Lecturers In Modern Culture Announced By Journalism Dept. Head
La Razians Elect Officers for 1947
Guest lecturers for two courses in theerick, are posted on campus bulletin
Department of Journalism were announced this week by Thomas Stritch, Head of the Department.
“U. S. A.: The Land and the People” is the general title of a series of seven lectures to be given by John T. Frederick, the distinguished middle-western critic and author, nationally known authority on American history and social history. The titles of the individual lectures are as follows: “The Land That Was Here,” Sept. 29; “The People That
JOHN T. FREDERICK To Lecture Junior Journalists
Came,” Oct. 1; “The People on the Land,” Oct. 3, “The Land Today,” Oct. 6, 8; “The People Today,” Oct. 15, 17.
Mr. Frederick, former editor of “The Midland” and at present weekly book columnist for The Chicago Sun, returns to Notre Dame this year as teachei- after an absence of several years. He is the author of several novels and has edited half-dozen anthologies of American Witerature. Besides all this he manages to run a sizeable farm in Glennie, Michigan, where he lives most of the year.
Mr. Frederick’s lectures are a part of the junior year work in Modem Culture, a two-year course inaugurated last year in the Department of Journalism which aims at introducing the prospective journalist, through the medium of lectures and readings, to the main currents of the contemporary world.
The senior year, devoted to Europe, is featured by a series of lectures on “The Backgrounds of Contemporary Europe.” Mr. A. R. Caponigri of the Department of Philosophy begins with a series of four lectures on “Ideological Currents Since Kant.” He is followed by Mr. M. A. Fitzsimons on “Liberalism;” Mr. Waldemar Gurian on “The Papacy in the Nineteenth Century,” Mr. Willis Nutting on “Nationalism” and Mr. ^Villiam O. Shanahan on “The Emergence of the Masses.” Dates and times of these lectures, and those of Mr. Fred-
boards.
Although these lectures, and others to be announced later, constitute parts of regular classes, the Department of Journalism invites interested students to attend any series or individual lecture.
These lectures are made possible by the cooperation of several academic departments in the University, which have joined with the Department of Journalism in a program to give to journalism students, besides the necessary technical training, an appropriate intellectual fare.
Freshmen Give Picnic; Girls, Cokes Popular
Last Saturday the freshmen of Notre Dame were admitted to the ever-growing group of N.D. students who can say they once met a St. Mary’s girl. Smiling, clean-shaven first-year men were driven, by buses, not whips, to Pottawatomie Park in South Bend for a gay afternoon and evening complete with females, cokes, potato chips, and-ah-females. The occasion was called a picnic and everyone was happy but the bus driver. -
Over four hundred of the five hundred odd freshmen attended, some to spend their time playing softball, touch football, or volleyball, while others strolled through the park admiring nature, and were allowed that privilege as long as they didn’t walk to Chicago. The St. Mary’s sub-debs added an esoteric atmosphere which made all feel at home . . . except the bus driver. Actually there were two divisions of St. Marians included in the deal; one from the well-known college, and the other from the well-known academy of the same name.
Supper was the high spot, or so some said, with Southern cube steaks, cakes, and non - alcoholic beverages passed around. The evening was a warm one because a bonfire was built by a few past and present boy scouts, lighting up the whole place considerably. Singing always seems to go with bonfires, and that Saturday under discussion proved to be no exception. Everyone sang, but it began to sound organized when a YCS quartet hit assorted round notes.
At 9 p. m., a time when most college folks start thinking of going home, the over four hundred Irish freshmen, the two hundred St. Mary’s women, and the bus drivers stumbled into the buses and took off for the places where the day began. Nearby people could hear the Notre Dame Victory March loyally voiced as the tired frosh made for home. •
Election of officers was the main topic of the first meeting of the Universtiy La Raza Club, held last Sunday morning. The La Raza Club is an organization of the Latin-American students on campus for the purpose of cultural and social unity, besides working for much-needed inter-American solidarity.
Ramiro Samaniego of Ecuador is the president for the second successive year, while Francisco ‘Pancho” Salido of Mexico has left his secretarial post to fill the office of vice president. The new secretary is Jose Napoleon Duarte, brothei- of former president Rolando Duarte. Jose deRojas of Cuba is the new sub-secretary, and Alfonso Grijalva of Ecuador is now in charge of finances. •
Appointed to the various commissions of the club are the following: CULTURAL COMMISSION: Jaime Velez, Luis Pallais, Alberto Garcia, and Juan Pena. SOCIAL COMMISSION: Sebastian Company, Eric Rey de Castro, G. Burbano, Jaime Pinto, and Hermilo Gloria. SPORTS COMMISSION: Arturo Castro, Alejandro Villavicencio, Francisco Pinto, Juan Pena, and Jose Duarte. PUBLICITY COMMISSION: Tom Murray, Rogelio Castiello, Antonio Ortiz, and Guillermo Carcia.
From the Congregation of Holy Cross (CSC) school in Chile comes Hernan Rojas, first to enter Notre Dame from this school, and one of three new members accepted into the La Raza Club. The other two new members are Jaime Castiello of Mexico and brother of Rogelio, and Guillermo Denegri of Peru, a graduate student in engineering.
—Tom Murray.
High Mass and Breakfast Open ND Law Club Season
A communion breakfast following a High Mass last Sunday marked the official opening of the Notre Dame Law Club for the coming scholastic year. The Mass, held in Dillon Hall Chapel, was celebrated by the Rev. William Doheny, c.s.c., Professor of Legal Ethics in the Law School, and was sung by the Notre Dame Glee Club.
The communion breakfast itself was served in the university dining hall and featured speeches by the Rev. Robert*. Sweeney, C.S.C., executive assistant to the president, and Clarence U. Manion, Dean of the Notre Dame College of Law. Edward Dixon was chairman of the affair.
19
tyuMH the.	of faca&eMwl
VI
Behold, it was at ye close of ye Scole yere, and Ralph O’Rafferty didst scriven upon his slate ye examinations, and he didst scriven well, for he wist uncommon well what had been taught unto him. And for that there wast great felicity in his heart; and he betook him home, and there he didst make mickle sweet words unto a certain damsel, that wast yclept Mabel; saying to her, 0 Mabel, wilt thou be mine? And Mabel made answer saying, Yea, verily. Then they didst repair unto a holy prelate, who didst keep a great churche; and upon a day of June, he didst bind them one unto the other.
Suivant Ralph didst labor mightily, that he might provide for Mabel a home in ye cite of South Bend; for behold, his education wast only begun. And he didst garner mickle monie. And when didst come again the day for the opening of ye University of Notre Dame, he gat him there, with his dame, and didst seek whereon to lay his head. Said Ralph unto himself, I have wedded the most beauteous damsel in Christendome, none can refuse her entry. And with high heart, he gat him unto an innkeeper.
When ye Innkeeper, whose inne wast yclept ye Spider’s Parlor, saw Ralph and his dame draw nigh, he didst rub his hands, and didst dance, and make room in his coffers, saying, verily, yonder doth approach a sucker. Coming unto him, Ralph didst bow, saying, Worthy sir, hast thou accommodations for myself and this exceedingly fair one whom I have wedded? But ye innkeeper didst smirke, and didst leer, saying, Thou hast said it. And Ralph said unto him, What dost thou demand? Then ye Innkeeper didst chortle, and didst gloat, saying, Sixty dollars a week, and a pound of flesh. And beget thou no kind, and bring with thee no dog. And behold, ye Spider’s Parlor shall be open unto you. But Ralph didst weep a tear, and didst plead that the price wast too high, and that the conditions he could not fulfill, for he didst walk in the way of the Lord. But ye Innkeeper didst sneer the more, saying, Begone, wretch; I care for thee not, for many are the suckers but few are the apartments. And he didst slam the door on Mabel’s nose.
But Ralph wast undaunted, and he said unto Mabel, Be not downhearted; a pox upon ye Spider’s Parlor, for there are other innes in this great cite. But though he gat him to all ye innes, none would receive him, even unto ye Grasping Arms, which he didst visit last. But there didst occur unto Ralph a great
20
thought, the which he hadst not thought betimes, and it wast of Vetville. And know that Vetville wast in that place and in those times a Housing Project, that wast maintained by ye University; and there didst reside many wives and many children. Accordingly, Ralph gat him unto ye Housing Director.
But ye Housing Director didst shrug, when he hadst harkened unto Ralph’s tale; and he didst shew Ralph a great liste, that wast brought unto him by three football players, who didst sweat to carry the same; and he said, Ten thousand do precede thee; be patient, wait until the decade hast waned, and I shall receive thee. And Ralph wast sad again, and he bore the evil tidings unto Mabel.
Alas, it wast already come the evening, and Ralph and Mabel hadst nowhere to abide. But as they didst weep upon the campus, there didst approach a man; and although Ralph wist it not, he wast yclept Fagin, and wast a great villain. And he didst smile upon Ralph, saying, What aileth thee? But Ralph answered, Behold, we must sleep upon ye greensward, for no inne will receive us, nor will any apartment give us place.
Smiling then the more, the villain Fagin bethought him of his friend Madame Geltgrabber, who wast a landlady and who didst abide in South Bend; and he said unto Ralph, Be of good cheer, friend; for I do know of an exceeding excellent apartment; and there they will be most glad to receive you; and behold, the fee is slight. Then didst Ralph embrace Fagin; and behold, Mabel didst kiss him, and didst call him benefactor. But he said unto them, my fee is ten dollars. And he conducted them unto Mrs. Geltgrabber.
When they were come unto Mrs. Geltgrabber, she wast mightily engaged in changing an apartment so that she might foil ye Rent Control; but she didst cease, and didst welcome Ralph and Mabel, with sweet words and protestations of great love. But Ralph said unto her, show us thy apartment; and tell us thy price; for behold, we must rest.
But Mrs. Geltgrabber made answer, saying, pay unto me my price; then will-I shew thee ye apartment. And behold, Ralph wast pleased when the price wast but ten dollars a week. And Mrs. Geltgrabber didst give unto Ralph a paper, and said unto him, Sign. And so great wast Ralph’s joy to be received into ye apartment that he wist not what wast in ye paper, but didst sign, regarding not the contents. And Mrs. Geltgrabber didst rejoice, for although Ralph wist it
Faculty Moderator of Club Addresses Pre-Med Opener
Plans for the coming year’s activities were planned at the first organization meeting of the Aesculapian Club last Wednesday.
David Mosier, senior and pre-med student, was elected president.
Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science and faculty moderator for the club, spoke on “Purposeful Thinking.” Following the talk there was a movie entitled “Energy Derived from Food.” This outlined the role played by vitamins and the utilization of food.
The Aesculapian Club is an organization for the pre-dental and pre-medical students.
Father Horvath to Conduct Philosophy Lecture Series
The Reverend Doctor Nicholas Horvath will conduct a series of lectures at 4:15 each Monday, Wednesday, and Friday throughout this semester in room' 226C of the Main Building. These lectures will deal with patristic thought in both the West and East from St. Justin the Martyr to Isidore of Seville and Venerable Bede.
The long span of more than six hundred years will be divided into the Ante-Nicene and Post-Nicene periods—so called in reference to the Council of Nicea in 325—and the transitional period from patristic to early mediaeval thought.
The lectures will be open to graduate and advanced undergraduate students as a regular course (Philosophy 207) for which three semester hours of credit will be given. Students will also be at liberty to audit this course.
not, he hadst agreed to pay her ten dollars for the key, ten dollars for ye doormat, ten dollars for ye mailbox, and ten dollars for ye water faucet; and moreover he didst agree to buy Mrs. Geltgrabber’s old furniture.
But when Mrs. Geltgrabber shewed ye apartment unto Ralph, he wist well why it wast so cheap; for there wast but a single room, one twin bed, an exceeding battered electric plate; and he wast carked the more when he wot of but one bath for eighteen people. And ye furniture wast ancient; even unto crumbling away. And he said unto Mrs. Geltgrabber: Thou art a rogue; return to me my money. But she didst snicker, saying, What thou hast written, thou hast written ; and she didst wave at him ye lease.
And when he hadst read ye lease, he wast sadder still, and he said unto Mabel, What have I wrought? But Mabel didst kick him over ye threshold^ And she didst make him wash ye dirty dishes that hadst been left in ye sinke by ye last tenant.
Persecuted Presbyopic Minorities Demand Relief from Barbs and Ridicule of World
This is the age of minorities. Long suppressed by tyrannical hordes, the little people are shaking out from under. - Our most recent war, dragging the entire globe down into the chasm of fiery battle and wailing suffering, was, from its very conception, a war of minorities.
A German worker’s minority dislodged the Weimar Republic. _ A Nationalist Socialist minority armed all of Central Europe. A Jewish minority was hounded from Polish ghetto to Yorkville bundhall. A Sudetenland minority started the goose-stepping legions down the road of destruction. A jingoist minority in the Far East rattled the swords and the ©traw shacks of the Orient. The conflagration came, and minorities all over the world united for the cause of the little fellow.
Emerging from the bomb shelters and the war factories, we find the minority groups active in peace. The Civil Liberties Union in Los Angeles campaigned against the LA police blockade of a rough, knife-wielding section of town, accusing the city officials of being antiminority. Throughout the nation humanitarian organizations are rallying behind the trumpet to wipe out discrimination, lift the level of the southern Negro, and admit homeless minority groups from Europe to our golden shores.
But a quick survey will convince you that the minority groups in question are largely racial minorities, and once in a while religious minorities.
Nobody ever sounds the horn on behalf *%f the psychological minorities. They’re countless.’ The psychological minority of the skinny fellows. The minority of fat men. The minority of false-teeth wearers. The self-conscious Milquetoasts. The cross-eyed. The bald. The dumb in school. The underpaid professors. Those who don’t dance. The teetotalers. The motorcycle fiends. And countless others.
These are the psychological minorities, numbering into the millions. They are constantly made fun of, ridiculed, cajoled. They are persecuted and hounded even unto their dreams. And nobody leaps to their defense.
Outstanding among these minority groups is the nation’s growing family of glasses-wearers. Here is a pitiful fellow. Born with dim vision, and forever stamped by childhood lighting conditions with weak orbs, the slob who sports a $air of spectacles is constantly preyed . upon by self-conscious barbs that needle him in all his conscious hours.
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
Ever see a movie where the hero wore glasses? Nope. Ever spot a glasses-wearer in a Hart Schaefner & Marx ad? Nope.
The movies pick on the lens-wearer to the extent that all film males who wearglasses are either hen-pecked husbands or hyper-efficient office bores or prize goofs who call on the heroine but are usually left squatting on the parlor sofa hugging their box of bonbons while Grable exits with another sharpie.
Remember the Army? If you wore glasses you couldn’t crash the flying force right from the start, and probably wound up in clerical school with a brilliant card-filing future ahead of you under an argus-eyed adjutant. And those beautiful ads they ran in all the magazines about silverware and the “Home For Keeps” theme? The girls used to cut them out and paste them in their- boudoirs. But did any of the heroes of these sentimental ads ever peer out through glassy plates at his dream girl? Nope. They forget all about the presbyopic character who lives in a little windowed world.
The poem that runs “. . . never make
FINAL ENROLLMENT FIGURES
At the close of registration on September 24, the enrollment of the University was 4,767 students as indicated below. Withdrawals which had cleared through the records at that date have been subtracted from the figures.
Residence Hall Alumni 		Under- Gradu-graduates ates Total		
		 325	4	329
Badin 			 145	2	147
Breen-Phillips 			 259	0	259
Cadillac				0	6	6
Cavanaugh 			 316	2	318
Dillon 			 437	0	437
Farley 			 242	9	251
Howard 			 224	2	226
Lyons 			 224	10	234
Morrissey 			 346	10	356
St. Edward’s 			 100	15	115
Sorin 			 158	4	162
Walsh 			 198	1	199
Zahm 			 316	1	317
Total Campus.		3290	66	3356
Off Campus ...		1035	239	1274
Community			 124	13	137
	4449	318	4767
passes” about covers the romantic aspect of the survey. The glasses-wearer doesn’t stand a chance unless he snaps out of his pit of persecution and takes the bull by the horned-rims. No organization will go to bat for him. No peoples will rise as one to fight for him. He must overcome his handicap alone.
He has one advantage, -this meek glasses-wearer. You can’t hit him no matter how wise he gets. He’s got the law on his side.
Come to think about it, Superman wears glasses, too! Egad, there’s hope!
Barefooted Performance Sparks Tennis Tourney
Freshman Jim Hennessy highlighted the Interhall Tennis Tournament by winning his way into the semi-finals playing in his bare feet on the University clay courts, last Saturday.
Barefooted Jim will play the winner of a match betwen Bob Hensler and Ed Schafly in one semi-final match, while the other will bring together Fran Nas el and Dick Unverzagt.	I
All matches to the quarter-finals w^re played Saturday. The entry list 1 a-cluded 53 names, and was open to ainy student with the exception of tennis
monogram winners. Tennis Coach Walter Langford conducted the proceedings, necessarily streamlined in order to out-race the Indiana weather.
Because of a regulation forbidding gym shoes on the clay courts, Hennessy was left shoeless, but he. decided that his epidermis was strong enough to stand the gaff. In that primitive style, he won three successive matches on Saturday. Numbered among his victims was Guy Pererich, one of the top-seeded players in the tournament.
Upsets were one of the main features of the play Saturday afternoon, the biggest of these being Jack Franz’ defeat of Gene Biitner in straight sets 7-5, 6-2. —Pete Brotvn.
First Wednesday Meeting of ’Wranglers' Convenes
The first meeting of the Wranglers was held last Wednesday night, with Jack Fallon presiding. Al Motzel presented the first paper of the current semester.
Oldest club on the campus, the Wranglers gather to discuss problems of social, political, literary and philosophical nature. They meet every Wednesday night and hold two formal dinners during the year. Frank O’Malley, Professor of English and associate editor of the Review of Politics serves as moderator.
Notices regarding applications from prospective members will be posted soon.
21
Cleveland Club Joins with Alumni Group To Provide Aid for Deserving Members
Debate Team Slates 12,000 Mile Tour
A challenging new scholarship program for present and prospective Notre Dame students was announced this week by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Cleveland through the president of the Cleveland campus club, Bill Braun.
The plan, the first of its kind ever instituted by an individual alumni group, will provide assistance for applicants residing within a fifty-mile radius of Cleveland. It will operate separately from the general Alumni scholarship fund and is hoped to be the impetus for many such student aid foundations throughout the country.
Also to be awarded in conjunction with the scholarships is a fifty-dollar yearly student prize to a member of the Cleveland club, chosen by a club election.
Funds for the awards will come from a $10,000 foundation set up at the University with annual contributions from the Cleveland alumni. The fund was inaugurated in 1942 and has grown to its present size mostly on the proceeds from pre-Navy game dinners in Cleveland.
The granting of the scholarships will not start until next year. At present cash loans not exceeding $200.00 will be extended worthy applicants.
Based on Point System
Awards will be based on a point system, with consideration for scholastic standing, character references, definite financial need, extra-curricular activities, military service, and personality. The latter requirement will be determined by interview with the Cleveland Alumni scholarship committee, in which the applicant will be graded on appearance, poise, general knowledge, loyalty, and definiteness of vocation. Also to be required is satisfactory evidence of self-help by summer and part-time employment and the submission of a 250— 1000 word essay on the subject: “My Vocation, Why and How I Chose It.”
Braun (who is also one of ND’s representatives in the NS A) and his successors as Cleveland campus club presidents will recommend applicants to an eight man scholarship committee established by the Cleveland Alumni. Members of the committee, besides Braun, are: Hugh O’Neill, president of the Cleveland Alumni, Thomas C. Byrne, past president, Clayton Leroux, chairman, Karl Martersteck, Joseph Breig, Thomas F. Byrne, and a prominent Clevelander who is not a Notre Dame alumnus (not yet chosen).
Scholarship awards, it is emphasized, will be open to both prospective students and present undergraduates. Every effort will be made to avoid embarrassment on the part of any student. The program aims solely at helping deserving students from the Cleveland area to gain their education at Notre Dame.
The Cleveland Alumni will cooperate with James Armstrong, general Alumni secretary, in conducting the awards and will continue to make their customary donations to the general scholarship fund.
The student prize, also a new venture for a local Alumni organization, will have as its purpose, besides student assistance, the promotion of the Cleveland Club of Notre Dame and the stimulation of student interest in the Alumni Association. It will be awarded May 1 each year to a Cleveland Club member elected by his fellow Clevelanders.
Candidates Named in February
Candidates for the election should be submitted during February each year. Any Clevelander may submit candidates. They must be in the upper third of their class, clear of any disciplinary difficulties, and active members of the Cleveland Club of Notre Dame. Elections will be held in March. The five men receiving the most votes will stand for the final runoff in April.
Awarding of the student prize will be contingent upon membership in the Cleveland Club of not less than sixty per cent of the Cleveland students enrolled at Notre Dame.
Full details of both the scholarship program and the student prize award may be had from Bill Braun, 355 Badin. Announcement of the student prize will be posted shortly on the bulletin boards.
Help for the Little Guy!
“Should we have a centralized world government?”
Notre Dame debaters will carry their arguments on this subject into 95 debates on a 12,000 mile jaunt this year, according to an announcement early this week by Professor Leonard Sommer, N.D. debating moderator.
Thirty speaking hopefuls, including ten freshmen, attended the first meeting of the debating society, held Monday afternoon at 4:30 in Room 327 of the Main Building.
Frank Finn, last year’s president and national speaking champion in 1946, outlined the principles of argumentation ^ and the extent of this season’s schedule*®; nearly twice the size of the ’46-’47 agenda. The arguers’ treks, according to Finn, will reach as far west as Oregon, as far east as New York, south all the way to Texas, and north to the Canadian border.
According to Mr. Sommer, this year’s squad will be built around three veterans of last season’s national championship winning team, Frank Finn, Tim Kelley and Jim Beymer. Due to the enlarged schedule, there will probably be from 16 to 20 members of the varsity.
So far, ten debates are scheduled here at the University, with 25 more slated as exhibitions before leading forensic and religious clubs in South Bend. No date has been set for the first interscholastic encounter, but Mr. Sommer unofficially mentioned November to May as the probable limits of the debating season.—Joe Dukert.	Sh:
Upperclassmen Volunteer to Aid Doctorate Thesis
Aptitude, interest, and adjustment tests were given to 250 upperclassmen in the week of September 21st. The men, who volunteered to take the tests, will receive the results in about a month.
The tests were given by the Rev. William Botzum, C.S.C., who is doing this project as a thesis for his Doctor of Philosophy degree at the University of Chicago. The tests were paid for by a research grant and were given to the volunteers without cost.
Ten hours— two hours a night for five nights — were required to take the tests which will compare the individual’s abilities in eight general fields, his interests in nine vocational fields, and hi^ adjustments at home, in school, in social relations and with regard to his health.
?2
CULTURE CORNER
By JACK HUMMEL
Originating in Radio City early and almost unnoticed among the conglomeration of Monday evening comedy-dramas, detective stories, and radio theatres is ABC’s unique thirty-minute program entitled, “The Candid Microphone.” This is one of the few network presentations that are both pleasant and educating.
Between brief interludes of oh, so gay music and amusing comment, it presents sequences of wire recordings secretly made when average New Yorkers encountered difficult situations, some amusing, and some obnoxious. The situations “The Candid Microphone” records, are, for the most part, those suggested by the listeners.
O Unique, except for the necessary radio censorship, the program is unsponsored, without a writer, and is neither rehearsed nor directed. The sequences used on the program are simply recorded as the situations occur, and edited by the producer to fit the limits of the allotted thirty minutes.
The show’s one protagonist is billed only as “The Man With the Hidden Microphone.” He has the dubious distinction of impersonating, for example, a man buying the Brooklyn bridge, one in a state of vinous dilapidation, or a man having a suit tailored for a kangaroo.
Posing as such, he approaches New Yorkers, and records their verbal reactions on his hidden microphone. However, before the people he approaches become too serious, he explains that they have been speaking into a hidden microphone, and requests permission to use Obe recordings on the air. He usually gets it, at times ducking a left hook.
The only personage who speaks directly to the audience is the narrator. He comments on the various sequences, and explains how the recordings were staged. Occasionally, the explanations he gives are more interesting than the sequences.
The stars of “The Candid Microphone” are average New Yorkers. They present some of the most natural and original dialogue ever heard because they have no scripts, and speak their opinions quite emphatically. They do not realize until later that they have been speaking into a hidden microphone, and are exceptionally free in their choice of words.
We highly recommend “The Candid Microphone” for your listening pleasure, especially if you’re wondering how people would act in certain peculiar Situations. You’ll satisfy your curiosity n you listen to “The Candid Microphone.” (ABC, Monday: 8 p. m. E.D.T.)
Fr. Forrestal Gives Sermon on Mexican 4th of July
Rev. Peter Forrestal, C.S.C., Spanish Instructor at Notre Dame, marked Mexican Independence Day (September 16) by preaching the sermon at the Parish of Our Lady of Guadalupe in East Chicago, Indiana.
REV. PETER FORRESTAL. c.s.c.
In his sermon—preached in Spanish— Father Forrestal spoke of the great sacrifices and of the splendid work of the early missionaries in bringing to the New World the doctrines of Christianity. He recalled how the President of the United States during his recent trip to Mexico expressed the desire to pay a visit to the National Shrine of Our Lady of Guadalupe. Mr. Truman entered the Basilica with all respect, and for more than ten minutes contemplated the miraculous image of the Patroness of Latin America.
“Always,” Father Forrestal concluded, “in moments of prosperity and in moments of trial, turn your eyes to the Mount of Tepeyac, to Guadalupe, for there, stamped miraculously on the tilma of San Diego, is the image of the Virgen Morena, great Mother- of God and Patroness of Latin America.” -
Inter-American Club Holds First Meeting
With a record enrollment of 38 members, the widely known Inter-American Affairs Club of Notre Dame got off to a roaring start last week with a program of color movies, taken, projected, and narrated by club member Al Garcia. Through the media of the films and narration, the club was taken on an imaginary excursion through the ancient Mayan ruins at Chichen Itza and the contrasting modern city of nearby Merida, Garcia’s home.
Speaking of the club in a statement to the Scholastic, club president Al McAhron iterated that “the purpose behind our activities is to promote a
greater interest in hemispheric solidarity through an increased general knowledge of the 21 American republics.
“To carry out this purpose, it is the intention of the club officers to greatly broaden the club’s activities in the future to include such things as an interAmerican dinner dance in conjunction with the Santa Teresa Club of St. Mary’s, a trip to Milwaukee to the Fall congress of the Tri-regional Commission on Inter-American Action, being host to the Spring Congress of the same commission, a series of movies and lectures, and reviving the club’s periodical, The Notre Dame Inter-American.”
Faculty advisor since the club’s founding some eight years ago, Rev. William F. Cunningham resigned because of “lack of time to carry out the job conscientiously.” With regret, the club accepted his resignation, but not without making him honorary advisor and welcome to all club functions. Thomas Downey, Professor of Latin-American history, will fill the vacant office.
The local club is a member of both the Tri-regional and National Commissions on Inter-American Action, and a contributor to the Inter-American Notebook and Cogs, both of which are NFCCS publications.—Tom Murray.
Aeronautical Institute Plans Semester Program
Fifty students, members and prospective members of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences, Notre Dame Chapter, met Tuesday evening, September 23rd, in the Engineering Building, to set the organizational “wings” in motion for the coming semester. Chairman Joseph O’Hara inaugurated his term in office, along with Walter M. Marut, Vice Chairman, and John Cronin, SecretaryTreasurer.
The entire Aeronautical Department faculty was also present, and the head of the Department, Mr. Frank N. M. Brown, spoke to the group, proposing, among other things, the revival of The Burble, the departmental monthly news publication, in this the 10th anniversary of its founding in 1937.
At this meeting, a membership committee was formed for the purpose of encouraging a more active membership, and plans were laid for a bowling league, regular aeronautical movies, and occasional social functions for members of the aero club. The meeting was con- • eluded with ample cider and doughnuts for all.
23
NOTRE DAME NAMES MAKE NEWS
In the Public Eye
“Communism breeds on injustice and the honest fighters against communism must start the battle by eliminating the breeding grounds of this godless philoso phy.” These were the fiery words of DALE FRANCIS, a teaching fellow at
DR. F. A. HERMENS
"The fate of Democracy" . . .
the University, as he addressed the Hammond Deanery of the National Council of Catholic Women. Mr. Francis is a former editor of “The North Carolina Catholic.” . . .
PRESTON MURPHY, a freshman who resides in Farley Hall, was the winner of the Player-Contestant Tourney held at the Tam-O-Shanter Golf Club in Chicago this summer. He shot a 72 and his partner carded a 69 to win the tourney by a wide margin. Preston comes well recommended from Georgetown Prep where he was a runnerup to school champion Bob Worsham (brother of Lew Worsham, the pro). . . . DR. F. A. HERMENS, Professor of Political Science, has written an article entitled “Which Way, Italy?” which appears in a recent issue of the Current History Magazine. Another article published in the August issue of Forum was also written by Dr. Hermens. It is entitled “Proportional Representation and the Fate of Democracy.” . . . PROFESSOR L. E. SUTTON, of the Department of Chemistry at Magdalen College, Oxford University, England, was a special lecturer at the University during the summer. Professor Sutton discussed his research on the subject of atom structure. He is a world-renowned authority on the electrical measurement of molecular structure. . . . JIM CLEMENS, ex-news editor of the Scholastic, and a ’47 graduate, has returned to the University where he is seeking his Master’s degree in Correctional Administration. Mrs. Clemens and baby daughter will arrive in South Bend next week. . . .
Orchids to You
The engagement of FRANCIS J. “RED” DAVIS, a .Senior Economics major from off-campus, to Miss Dorothy May Boughton of San Diego, California, was announced recently by Miss Boughton’s parents. Wedding bells for them will ring on December 28th. . . .
“The Notre Dame Victory March” is included in a new album of “College Favorites” recorded by JOHNNY LONG and his orchestra. The album was recorded by the Long orchestra for the Signature Recording Corporation of New York City. . . .
RICHARD SULLIVAN, Associate Professor of English, has recently two short stories to his ever-growing publication
MR. RICHARD SULLIVAN sold “The Dispossessed"
list. They are: “Heathcliffe” which appears in the August issue of Good Housekeeping, and “The Dispossessed,” currently appearing in the September issue of Cosmopolitan. At the present time Mr. Sullivan is working on a new novel which will probably be published in early 1948. “The World of Idella May,” published last November, is Mr. Sullivan’s latest novel. . . . BOB KLEIN, varsity third sacker and co-captain of last season’s baseball team arrived back on the campus this week. Bob spent the summer playing professional baseball with the Muskogee, Okla., club in the Western Association (Class B). He finished the season with a .298 average. Klein, who is a physical education major, will graduate
in January. . . . DAVE LANGLEY, also a “phy ed” major pitched for Hutchinson, Kansas in the same loop. The two Notre Dame men did not face each other during the season.
DEAN CLARENCE “PAT” MANION of the College of Law is being featured in the columns of the South Bend Tribune, where his series of articles on Americanism is currently appearing.
World Travelers
Travel broadens one they say ai® FRANK SPINELLI, a sophomore who lives in Cavanaugh Hall, seems to use travel as an important part of his college education. Frank spent the summer in the Merchant Marine and made one trip to Palermo, Sicily, during the summer. ... DR. CHARLES C. PRICE, Head of the Department of Chemistry, has sailed for England, where he will deliver a series of special lectures at Oxford, Cambridge, and other British colleges and universities. Dr. Price is one of the nation’s leading chemists, having received the American Chemical Society’s Award in Pure Chemistry for 1946. . . . Professor RUFUS W. RAUCH, on leave of absence from the English Department this year, has been appointed Visiting Lecturer at St. John’s College in Annapolis, Maryland. He will also conduct a Great Books Seminar during his stay there. ... A delegation of priests and seminarians from the Coi^ gregation of Holy Cross have left to study at the Holy Cross International House of Studies in Rome, Italy. They are: Rev. Joseph Rehage of New Orleans, La., Rev. Robert Steigmeyei- of
DEAN CLARENCE MANION . . . Americanism or Communism
Dayton, Ohio, Rev. Paul Waldschmidt of Evansville, Ind., Thomas O. Barosse and John H. Miller of New Orleans, L:^ Matthew Miceli, of Oswego, N. Y., and James C. Buckley of Chicago, Ill. . . .
24
^lavy Aptitude Tests For 1948 Announced
The Navy Department has announced that December 13, 1947 will be the date of the second annual nation-wide aptitude test which is prerequisite for entry into the Naval Reserve Officer’s Training Corps. The Navy states that it expects to enter about 2500 new candidates into this program in the fall term of college, 1948.
The program is open to male high school seniors and graduates, between the ages of 17 and 21, who meet required mental and physical standards, and provides foui- years of government subsidized college education at 52 universities and colleges in various parts of the country, including Notre Dame, where ^TROTC units are established.
The aptitude test will be given in 550 cities widely distributed through the United States and its territories. It will be held on this campus December 13th, at a location to be announced.
Applicants desiring to participate in this program must submit an application for the test before November 10, 1947. Application blanks and bulletins giving a full description of the program may be obtained at the Office of the Professor
dtauie tyai Sale...
Corner Cedar and Frances. 2-story stone building at back. 5 rooms, stoker, autom. hot water, small basement, side garage built onto house; 1 block from St. Joseph hospital. $6,500. Phone 4-8247.
of Naval Science in the Navy Drill Hall.
Those applicants receiving the highest grades on the aptitude test will be interviewed and given physical examinations at a later date, and their names will then be submitted to committees, which are composed of prominent civilians and Naval officers, and which are convened in each state and territory, for final selection.
Applicants are permitted to indicate their choice of colleges they wish to attend, and subject to quota limitations, will be so assigned. However, in each case, final enrollment will be subject to acceptance by the college. Entry into .the Naval Aviation College Program has been suspended for this year because of an excess of qualified candidates already enrolled in the program.
Birder Calls Candidates;
G. & S. "Pirates" on Tap
Tryouts for the University production of Gilbert & Sullivan’s “Pirates of Penzance” will begin Monday, Oct. 6, and last for three days. Announcing the tryouts, Mr. Cecil Birder, Head of the University Speech Department, and producer of the musical operetta, sounded the call for all old troupers to notify him immediately of their intentions in regard to the forthcoming theatre year. New talent is welcome, Mr. Birder reminded, with a plea for six-foot males with good voices to handle the policemen roles in the show.
Indefinite production plans call for staging the G & S comedy about the first week in December.
Tryouts will be held in room 2 of the music building (Washington Hall).
Australia May See Another Notre Dame
The possibility cf founding at Sydney, Australia, a Catholic university patterned after the University of Notre Dame was discussed by Norman Cardinal Gilroy, Archbishop of Sydney, during a visit last week to Notre Dame.
While at Notre Dame, Cardinal Gilroy told reporters he was “most desirous of getting the Holy Cross Fathers, whose educational work I greatly admire, to establish a university similar to Notre Dame in my own archdiocese.” The Cardinal revealed also that he had officially invited the Congregation of Holy Cross, through its Superior General, the Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, C.S.C., to undertake such a project.
It is understood that Father Cousineau and his advisors are giving serious consideration to the Australian prelate’s invitation. Last December Father Cousineau and the Rev. Christopher O’Toole, C.S.C., Assistant Provincial of the United States Province, Holy Cross Fathers, visited Australia at Cardinal Gilroy’s request to survey prospects for founding the first Catholic university in that nation.
Cardinal Gilroy praised the work of Catholic chaplains from the United States during the war in the Pacific. He pointed out that “these chaplains and the tens of thousands of American Catholic soldiers, sailors and marines who served in the Pacific during the war, were the greatest ambassadors of good will the United States had in that area because they practiced their religion at every opportunity.”
Keep	an. Mabie ^bawe MewA awl Sp&it&! ! !
Subscribe to the
9
Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
For Your Friends or For Yourself
$2.00 the Semester; $4.00 the Year — Mail Order to
SCHOLASTIC
118 Main Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.

NOTRE DAME
The golden dome of Notre Dame • - -Reflects the friendly sky ... To symbolize the warmth and love . . . That keep her spirit high . . . And there Our Lady reaches out ... As though to bless the earth . . . Where men prepare their inner selves ... To be of greater worth . . . The gentlemen of Notre Dame . . . Who face whatever odds . . . And who devoutly understand . . . The glory that is God’s . . . Our Lady gazes joyfully . . . On all her faithful sons . . . And lavishes her loving grace . . . Upon the priests and nuns . . . Her graduates may walk alone ... Or they may rise to fame . . . But in their humble hearts they all . . . Belong to Notre Dame.
—James J. Metcalfe.
25
*
Students Sound Off on "New Look"
The Scholastic sent forth 12 newsmen last week in quest of comments on the New Look. Some were serious, some not so serious, some were favorable, some caustic. Published below are some of the more pointed comments gathered by the twelve as they canvassed different halls on the campus, St. Mary’s and Vetville.
Around the campus, most of the men had something to say. Most of them were outspoken on their dislike of the New Look for the masculine figure, but their opinions of the women’s differed sharply. Two men from the South, John Smith of Zahm and Al Bisese of Cavanaugh, both agreed that “The damnyankees can raise their pants, but the Southerners are going to remain decent.” Smith claimed his pool game was washed up by the close fitting pants. Bisese wants his pants long so that he can clean the floor in his room as he shuffles through. Both gentlemen, however, ignored the pertinent fact that the most radical of the new pants, a pair of atrocities coming down gracefully to the hirsute masculine knee, were the result of an absinthe hangover of a Houston, Tex., clothier.
Not on S90 Per
James R. Sharkey, of St. Ed’s, who is married but wifeless temporarily, said, “I’m married and ninety a month won’t buy very many new dresses for my wife. I don’t go for them: the long skirts, the bustles, and the hip pads. That scanty ninety bucks won’t go in for buying knee length pants, either. I send my pants to the cleaners enough, and I’m expecting them to come back knee length pretty soon.”
But another St. Edsite has a different opinion of the skirts. Says Justin A. Cronin, “I think the skirts look good a-little longer. About two inches from the knee makes the dresses show up better. It looks classier and more expensive. The hip pads and these bustles ruin the contour of the dress. They’re trying to revive the old fashions. I refuse to shave my legs!”
John Machinchiack, also of St. Ed’s dissented. Said he, “I like them just below the knee. The long ones look like nightgowns. As for those bustles, they look like the girls are carrying canteens. The hip pads look bumpy and the feminine curves always looked good enough to me.
“Naturally I don’t go in for the knee length pants for men; we’d look like a nation of little boys wralking around. The only thing lacking would be lollipops for all of us.”
“I like these long skirts,” opined Martin Romanok of St. Ed’s. “The girls have
more class and look sharper with these new dresses. I can’t say much for the hip pads though.” Romanok wondered what men would do in the winter with short pants. This calls to mind the age-old question, What do women do now?
Her Beau Says No
Eric Scott, of Morrissey, stood agin it. Remarked he, “My girl bought just one dress of the new length, but she took it back the next day. That’s where I stand on it. I like things the way they are. Raised pant cuffs would only make the situation worse.
A single vote in favor of the new men’s styles came from Jim Hartman of Breen-2hillips. After objecting to the
women
s Look, he said: “I favor the new
men’s styles/
Over
in Vetville, many of the wives
were in| favor of the new styles. One who was nht was Mrs. Leo A. Rumley, from Mt. Angel, Oregon. Dissenting, she said, “Like most of the other veterans’ wives, I don’t worry much about the New Look. I don’t think that it’s attractive;
Q 4
WORLD WAR I LOOK.
In the wake of war — a falling hemline
r Mek

but even if it were, women couldn’t change their entire wardrobe on a moment’s notice while their husbands were going to school—it’s too expensive.”
Also opposed to the Look was Mrs. C. J. Kelly, from Hanover, Ill. Basing her decision on hygienic grounds, she said, “It’s L.B.K. for me—a little below the knee. As far as padded hips and constricted waists, they’re not only unattractive, they’re against the principles of hygiene, which advises free movement and loose clothing.”
Going half way was Mrs. William Carnahan of Chicago. “I think the new hats are cute,” she conceded, “and some people can use the padded hips, but longer skirts . . . definitely not. The New Loo^ is too expensive and doesn’t make foLr* better appearance.” ■
.1

Hubby Ad Libs
But a Mrs. Higgins, originally from South Bend, wasn’t home. Her husband was. He answered emphatically, “She says no!”
Mrs. J. R. Munroe thought that the New Look’s shoulder and hip pads “make you look like an oversized football player.”
At St. Mary’s, where chic young womanhood is bustle deep, the gals liked the New Look. Gloria “Tony” Honan, from Kansas City, Mo., thought that “the length depends on the person’s build and personality. Longer lengths are more sophisticated. I like them.”
Mary Ann Walsh, of Fort Worth, Tex., said, “they are very graceful looking. I like them. They have a certain amount of savoir faire” How they achieved thi.*^ . she didn’t say. Perhaps Dior brought it with him from France.


Bards of the St. Joe
Poetic Louis Brady, Falls Church, Va., and Mary Imbs, St. Louis, versified: “Long skirts? To be or not to be, Yes, a little below the knee;
Shoulder pads, as we recall, Make one look like Lauren Bacall. Of hip pads, we’re a little leary, They make you look like Wallace Beery”

Mary K. McQuillen, from glass house Gary, Ind., cast a stone at South Bend, i Said she: “For Fifth Avenue in New I York, the fashions are fine, but they’re^! not quite appropriate for South Bend. || And in the crowded buses of the Indiana- Ja Not - So - Rapid - Transit - Company, long skirts are a nuisance.”	]
There it is. Some were pleased, some i displeased, some furious. But is the New Look here to stay? Who can fathom tl^ ’ female mind. You should ask for the secret of the atom bomb. .
26
' Football Broadcasts
(Continued from Page 15)
besides WSBT and its affiliates, there will be WISH and WIBC, Indianapolis; WOWO, Fort Wayne; WOW and KF AB, Omaha; and WBBM, Chicago carrying the game.
When the Iowa Hawkeyes from the land of the tall corn invade the stadium on October 25, the stations covering the game will be KSD and KMOX, St. Louis; WGN and WBBM, Chicago; WHO, Des Moines; and WIBC. The Irish will be the home club when they tangle with Navy in Cleveland’s mammoth Municipal Stadium where two of the major networks, NBC with Bill Stern and ABC with Harry Wismer, will air the game to the nation. The hometown WGAR has Van Patrick, who describes the bat and ball play of the Cleveland Indians during the summer, calling off the yardage. Other stations sending men to give direct coverage of the game are WIRE, Indianapolis and WBBM, Chicago.
The broadcast of the Army game the following week end will reach more listeners than any other home game. Stern will be back again fror NBC and two other networks will join the fold. Others in on the big kill are WGN and WBBM, Chicago; KSD and KMOK, St. Louis; and WISH, Indianapolis.
All applications for broadcast privileges of the Tulane game are not in yet. The only sure thing so far is WSBT and it affiliates.
The Scorner's Seat
(Continued from Page 5)
Wanted: 100 volunteers to dig a pit large enough for the Cadets’ seats at the Army game. The thoughts of those who stood on one another’s shoulders in New York last November are long, long thoughts indeed.
TENNYSON TREMBLES
Got a chance last week to look over a woman’s junior college literary quarterly. For sweet character, the junior college will be nameless here. Brother! Excerpt, from a “poem” called WAR:
You plunder the earth With gory swords. Guns.
Bombs . . .
You quench your thirst With the blood of men, Women, Children.
And that, mes enfants, with a paper' shortage.
SAME POST OFFICE
Plagiarism of the-week dep’t.: Letters
written to Emily Post and answered by your own old Uncle Faglebagle.
Dear Mrs. Post:
Is it true that there is a special significance in turning the cutting edge of a knife whether to the right or to the left? A friend tells that when the sharp edge is turned away, the waitress understands that the person has not finished with her plate; and when it is turned the other way, it may be removed. I have never heard of anything so ridiculous, have you?.
A. Sure. Anyhow, if you’re really worried about this, hang onto your plate with one hand, eat with a fork, and threaten the waitress with the knife.
“ Van Hensen shirts
All the right people want to go places with you and your Van Heusen Shirt. You’ll like the smart sewmanship, the low-set collar models, the action-tailoring, the figure-fit. Sanforized fabrics, laboratory-tested 1500 times a month. Get your money’s worth—always say Van Heusen Shirts. $3.25, $3.95, $4.50. Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
Dear Mrs. Post:
Is turkey an appropriate dish to serve at a wedding breakfast? And if so, in what form?
A. It’s your wedding. De gustibus. If you do serve turkey, a novel way is to let a flock of turkeys loose in the breakfast room and let each guest catch one. It keeps the guests away from the wine.
Dear Mrs. Post:
I’m engaged and we’d like our parents to meet. But how do we bring this about without making them self conscious?
A. Yours is a unique problem. One’s' parents usually meet sometime before one is born.
?
27
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY	A
-LEMMONIER LIBRARY-NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
Qfpjrigtu 1947, Iiggbt & Mm* Tcaaoco Co.