WINSTON
Americas favorite filter smoke!
BOB CUMMINGS
SAYS
WINSTON
LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD/


N G £
R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM
■ “Take it from me,” says “photographer” Bob Cummings, star of The Bob Cummings Show on CBS-TV, “this filter cigarette really tastes like a cigarette!” The exclusive Winston filter lets the flavor come through, smooth and rich-tasting. Make your next pack Winston, and enjoy filter smoking!
R
R
f|hR P'^R
A VO
Switch to WINSTON America's best-selling, best-tasting -filter cigarette!

SEE OUR LARGE SELECTION OF "NATURAL LOOK" FASHIONS
Look taller and trimmer with the Natural Look ... be more comfortable, enjoy more freedom with natural tailoring: less padding, less bulk. See our selection of suits with the Natural Look now ... in new deep colors ... in rich new patterns for fall and winter 1956-57. Coordinated Natural Look stvling. also in shirts, slacks, neckwear and sportswear.
September 28, 1956



PAY	PAY	PAY
73 ■ ’A ■ ’/3 JAN ■ FEB ■ MAR
YOU ARE INVITED TO USE
YOUR CAMPUS SHOP CHARGE ACCOUNT
Dress right . . . you can’t afford not to! . . . and the Campus Shop will help you, if you wish, with the Campus Shop Charge Account. Buy what you need now . . . pay for later in this convenient way. Naturally, there is no interest or carrying charge.
Home of
HICKEY-FREEMAN, SOCIETY BRAND. EAGLE.
BOTANY *500". GGG. ALPAGORA. AND BURBERRY
SUITS AND COATS ... McGREGOR SPORTSWEAR
DOBBS HATS... FLORSHEIM SHOES... ARROW AND
WILSON BROS. SHIRTS
On the Campus—Notre Dame
The Scholasti
Bryan Woods
elections, polls, and frosh mixers
A number of people have pleaded for a return to the WEEK after last year’s rather radical departure. They are going to get part of their wish.
B As it was originally conceived, the WEEK was to be a running commentary on the miscellaneous events that occurred around the campus. It was not originally intended as a humor column. 'The "old” Juggler had that function. But with the Juggler's temporary demise in 1934, the WEEK gradually became a humor column. The same format was used year after year, *nd the same jokes, bimshed up, every Tour years or so. Last year the formula was broken.
Student response to Entree was not exactly overwhelming. Still this year it was felt that since the formula was broken, it was unnecessary to return to the structure of the traditional WEEK. So we’ve tried to combine some features of the WEEK with several innovations.
Sometimes ESCAPE is going to look kuch like the WEEK, sometimes Entree, out without really being the same as either. We hope you’ll like it.
Our Annual Blessed Event
• Every year, just about the time the Yankees finally clinch the A.L. flag and the Nats the A.L. cellar the freshmen arrive. Though they come in all shapes and forms, from handy pocket size to $iant economy size, they are easy to pick out. Just look for the snow white bucks and/or saddle shoes, (I say and/or . . . because some indecisive souls weai- one of each) and the $1.98 briar pipes just the thing for the college man. Seriously though, men of ’60, as that salty old NROTC sea-dog, Decatur L. (six weeks on a battleship) Bilge-j|ump would say, “Welcome aboard, ^shipmates.”
Just remember, all of us were freshmen once, some twice. So when you’ve found five pink slips in the mailbox, your roommate decides he’s always wanted to raise hamsters, and your girl hasn’t answered your last eight letters, just remember, “Smilers never lose and ^owners never win.”
September 28, 1956
Plowing up the Grassroots
What, I ask you, is the main topic of interest in the country today? Why politics of course. (If you said girls or baseball, subtract five points.) Where would that interest be at its fever pitch? No doubt on the campus of a great university whose students are wholeheartedly devoted to the pursuit of knowledge. (If you answered, “among politicians,” you’re just trying to make trouble and we don’t want you.) And isn’t Notre Dame a university whose students are wholeheartedly devoted, etc. (If you laughed, go directly to jail. Do not pass GO, and do not collect $200.) Having come to this conclusion I decided a survey was called for. The question was, “How do you feel about the forthcoming election?” The results are below.
Think Truman has been in long enough .......................... 7%
Favor whoever will lower drinking age .............................23%
Would like to see Tom Crehan re-elected ______________________12%
Huh? ............................33%
Don’t care. Feel the administration has the election rigged anyway.___17%
Couldn’t say. Didn’t have their slide rules with them............ 8%
Want Betty Furness...............12%
Like Gen. Bullmoose and Deepfreeze party .................... 3%
Didn’t speak English.............1%%
I realize this adds up to more than 100%, but I got confused and went through Farley twice. The opinions were all different the second time anyway, so what difference does it make?
A Morality Play in 1 Acts
(Scene: The Student Center. The dance floor is crowded with young men, but no young ladies are in evidence. Suddenly, amid offstage cries of “Girls, real girls!” enter a group of young girls. These soon pair off with boys and move away showing us our hero and heroine standing next to one
another gazing intently at a putted plant. Suddenly he speaks.)
“Hi.”
“Pardon? You didn’t speak to me, did you?”
He: “What? Who me? No, not me. No sir, I mean no ma’am, I mean no Miss.”
She: “Are you a freshman?”
He: “Yes, how did you know?”
She: “I heard it was a freshman mixer, and so, I well I, uh, but you don’t look like a freshman. You look so much older.”
He: “I do? But I am a freshman, really, look, I can show you my orientation booklet, it’s called ‘Facts for Freshmen’ and they only give it to freshmen.”
She: “Oh.”
He: “Can I get you a coke?”
She: “Aren’t they pretty expensive?”
He: “I don’t think so. Besides, Dad gave me $5 when I got on the train and I’ve still got almost all of it left.”
She: “Okay, then.”
(Curtain falls.)
Scene 2. In basement over cokes.
He: “Gosh, Mary, I think I kinda like you.”
She: “Gee, Joey, me too, I think.”
(Curtain falls on act one.)
Act iy2.
(Scene is entrance of Student Center.) Mary is seen about to leave on the arm of a tall, handsome, bored looking young man of about 22. Joey sees her and comes rushing over.
He: “Mary, did you get lost? I’ve been looking for you for the past two hours. The mixer’s over.”
She: “Joey, this is Paul and he’s a senior and he lives off-campus and he has a car and he’s giving me a ride back to school, so goodbye and have a good year and I’ll wave to you at the football games.”
He: “But . . .”
The End.
The moral is that you should skip the freshman year altogether and start as a sophomore. Then after your senior year you can take one more to make up for the one you missed at the beginning.
5
Before You
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Give Your
Next Party...
Come in and hear Columbia’s exciting new HOUSEJPARTY Records...Entertainment for
you by America’s top stars!
Each 10-inch HI-FI © only
sl”!
We have dozens of albums in stock, mciuding:
Soft and Sentimental JO STAFFORD
Get Happy
FRANK SINATRA
Dreamy Dancing
SAMMY KAYE
Lover’s Laine
FRANKIE LAINE
Mambo
XAVIER CUGAT
Lights! Camera! Action!
DORIS DAY
Der Single BING CROSBl
Piano Reverie
LIBERACE
Tenderly
ROSEMARY CLOONEY
For the life oir your party look for this iabei
Notre Dame Bookstore
On the Campus
Vol. 98 September 28, 1956 No. 1
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Charles McKendrick
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON
Associate Editor
JIM STEINRAGER    News Editor
JAMES McDONALD ......Copy Editor
DAVE KUBAL........Feature Co-Editor
JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS............Assistant News JIM DULAN .................   Assistant	News!
JOE HEIMOSKI...............Assistant News! BOB VONDRASEK.........Assistant Newsj
HARRY McKEE.....................Assistant	Co^^
MARSH PIDGEON............Assistant Copy!
DON STUHLDREHER....................... I
JOHN GLAVIN BOB EARLY..
Circulation Manager!
........Sports Editor!
.....Assistant Sports
Member of Catholic School Press Association, As-| sociated. Collegiate Press. Represented for nationals advertising by National Advertising Service, InC;,| 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.	Mii]
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the! school year, except during vacation and examina-| tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-I dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre! Dame, Indiana.	a
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.i
INVENTORY
Escape .... View __...._ Campus Scene Features .._-Movies ....... Irish Scene —. Time Out ___ Back Page —.

Pat
The Scholasti
1 2
2
V<Mf
restless seniors
* road to education
The other day while we were trading lies about our summer experiences a friend of mine came up with a story of his meeting with a prospective Notre Dame freshman. He insisted the story is true but I enjoyed it anyhow.
My friend found this lad highly eager and enthusiastic about going to college and anxious to know all about Notre •Dame. His own ideas about the venture were these: “I’m going to take my new car up there, join a frat, and really have a ball!”
I suppose many such prospective Notre Dame people have floated along on this kind of delusion before being shocked into grim reality. My friend wasted no time and only a few words in deflating this boy’s ivywood balloon. “One,” he said, “no cars. Two, no frats. And three, any ball you might have will certainly be short-lived.”
a Whether the boy survived the shock I don’t know. I ^hope he did, but if not he was at least saved the added misery of learning the hard way. There have been many who have had to.
The road of education at the University of Notre Dame is not an easy one. It has been said many times that nothing worthwhile is achieved without difficulty. This maxim has been repeated so often that its original author has been forgotten, but the truth of the words is here to stay. An incoming freshman to Notre Dame is indoctrinated a with this truth and spends his first year seeing it developed " before him. If he is in the majority he accepts it and leams to live with it. He will see others refuse to accept it. They will probably write to him next fall from the frat house at East Dubuque State Teachers College.
This is not meant to be a dissertation on the character and purpose of the Notre Dame education urging the incoming freshmen to put on the hair shirt and crawl into a textbook. It is rather a personal reflection of a senior returning for his final year feeling that he didn’t have a • summer vacation at all. There are probably similar thoughts in the minds of many seniors.
But for a senior the old maxim finally seems to mean something. The “day of deliverance” is within sight and those words which have been shoved down so many throats so many times are almost digested.
You might almost be tempted to say that it hasn’t been jkthat tough at all.
The last lap of every race is the toughest for any runner. His mind is clouded over by the physical stresses imposed upon his body and the monotony of covering the same path dims his eyes to the final goal. Whether or not the runner survives to cross the finish line depends largely on his training and conditioning.
The last leg of a student’s college life is similar in many ways to a foot race. The senior finds rough going when thoughts ramble on to a June day in the stadium, the raucous blare of the pre-dawn bugle, or even to thoughts of a girl in white coming down the church aisle.
As in the runner’s battle, these same diversions tend to block out his prime objective—graduation. Physical fatigue cannot be thrust off by merely -wishing. Neither can the same method relieve our minds of thinking about the relatively distant future.
The senior will not find solace for his present state in the bottom of a glass of beer. Too often the fourth-year man attempts to lose himself in alcoholic hibernation hoping to wake up with renewed energy on commencement day. There is no consolation in such a defensive tactic. The mind becomes permanently hung-over, the will is stagnated, and our senior walks forth a mere academic shell.
In the same way, neither will a deck of cards or a double-feature relieve the senior of his woes. Each of these stereotypes him as a wandering, aimless mass. The ace of spades may fatten his wallet, but it will starve his intellect. The Tom Mix movie will kill a Sunday afternoon completely, but likewise it will also leave a splitting headache and cultural void in the skull.
What is the solution to this perpetual restlessness?
For the Notre Dame senior there is no clear-cut remedy. To the man who is discontent with life here because it does not quite measure up to what his dad and the sportswriters claim it is, perhaps this is the time to compare this school with the others which he is familiar. Not in regard to parties, fraternity life, or even on an academic level. Rather, let him look at Notre Dame objectively.
Does he value the friendship of those men he has met here and whose interests he shares closely? Is he a better person in God’s sight for taking advantage of the religious opportunities available here? What can he show his parents as his accomplishments at Notre Dame for the sacrifices they made to send and keep him here?
Settle down for a moment and mull over these three questions before your mind wanders off again. Then see if your complaints are justified.	'
—C. McK.
7
September 28, 1956
G<unpn^ Scene
SOLEMN HIGH MASS MARKS OPENING OF ACADEMIC YEAR
Rev. Hesburgh Criticizes 'Capital Sin of Our Age'; Calls on Laymen to Meet Challenge of Secularism
Today’s secularistic world desperately needs men and women who respect both the spiritual and temporal orders and neglect neither, Rev. Theodore M. Hes-* burgh, C.S.C., president of the Univer; sity declared here last Sunday at the i formal opening of the school year* in Sacred Heart Church.
Terming secularism “the capital sin of our age,” Father Hesburgh asserted that the layman, who lives both in the ^hurch and in the world is in the best position to mediate “the almost universal divorce” of the spiritual and temporal realms. The position of the layman in the Church is being reaffirmed today to meet the challenge of secularism, he said, just as the position of the embattled clergy was strengthened to meet the crisis of the Reformation.
Father Hesburgh’s sermon at the ^Solemn High Mass opened Notre Dame’s *15th academic year.
Only through the mediation of the layman, the University president said,
Annual Commerce Ball To Open Dance Season
“After Hours” will be the theme of Athe Commerce Ball, which will be held * ext Friday night in the Student Center from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Music ■will be furnished by Fred Dale and his orchestra.
Jack Murray, general chairman of the dance, has announced that tickets for the Indiana game, which will take place the following day, are also available, together with hotel accommodations for ^>ut-of-town dates. Tickets may also be purchased for the Communion breakfast to be held in the Morris Inn following the 8 a.m. Mass on Sunday morning. A guest speaker has been invited.
The usual car and late hour permissions have been granted to those attending the ball. A limited number of tickets ^or the dance are still available. These "Rian be purchased in room 328 Alumni.
will the spirit of the Gospel become manifest in many quarters of the modern world “where the temporal order and the things of time have become ends in themselves, divorced from any higher wisdom, any nobler law, any breath of God and the things of God.”
The layman who has regard for spiritual values will live in an earthly city, but will not make art, science or political, economic and social activities ends in themselves, Father Hesburgh declared. On the other hand, he said, such a man will not be tempted to offer to God a mediocre service in the temporal order, “for God is not honored by poor art, shoddy science, shady politics or a sensualist culture.”
Citing Notre Dame as a concrete example of priests and laymen “working fruitfully together in a common endeavor,” Father Hesburgh emphasized that “our work of education is in the world, but never completely of the world. We are committed to a higher wisdom,” he said, “while working effectively for all the perfection that is possible in the things of time.”
GRADUATE SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATIONS
Applications for fellowships under the Fulbright program and under the Buenos Aires Convention program must be submitted by Oct. 30. Applications are available in the Graduate School office.
Students interested in applying for a Rhodes Scholarship should see Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, at the earliest possible date.
Applicants for Marshall Scholarships to study at British universities should write immediately to the British Consulate General, 702 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago 11, III., for information and application forms. Closing date is Oct. 15.
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH
. . . Opens 115th School Year . . .
Blue Circle Discloses Frosh Advisory Plans
Tom Schriber, chairman of the Blue Circle Advisory Committee, met with 165 junior and senior advisors last Sunday to give them assignments and explain their part in the program.
Now in its fourth semester of activity, the Freshman Advisory Committee plans to continue aid for AB and Commerce freshmen through the advisors who were especially selected for the task.	’
The advisors were given the names of four freshmen in their college and, where possible, from their section of the country. Then instructions were issued to each advisor to meet the freshmen quickly and help them adjust to life on a university level. In the past, freshmen have had to make this adjustment without the benefit of an upperclassman’s experience. As a result, many found the transition a difficult one.
Dr. William Burke, University Student Advisor, spoke at the meeting and outlined the major problems that freshmen are likely to encounter. In extremely difficult cases, Dr. Burke will be consulted.
Following Dr. Burke’s talk, Paul Krapp, a senior science major from Springfield, HL, and one of last year’s advisors, made general comments on the art of advising. A personal friendship, he stressed, is needed to insure the confidence of the freshman in his advisor so that he will go to him for help when necessary.
September 28, 1956
9
DON REILLY, DON McNEILL, KEV REILLY
Twins Top Panelists in Television Show.
Reilly Twins Stump TV Quiz Show Panel; Four Experts Fail to 'Guess Their Secret1
Television viewers on Aug. 29 watched Don and Kevin Reilly, junior finance majors from Port Washington, N. Y., stump the stars on CBS’ “I’ve Got a Secret.”
Don McNeil, summer moderator of the nationally televised program, met the Reillys through his sons, Tom and Don, who also attend Notre Dame.
McNeil discovered between Don and Kevin a secret he felt should be presented to the panel on the program. The panel consisted of Faye Emerson, Henry Morgan, Bill Cullen, and Jayne Meadows.
Don Reilly was introduced to this panel which sought to discover what category his secret was in. As the questioning continued the panel grew more confused. They tried to place him in politics and sports, but to no avail.
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
The Wranglers, campus discussion group, will hold an organizational meeting next Wednesday evening. At the meeting, the 20 members will be assigned topics for the year. Plans to organize the Freshmen Wranglers’ Bookmen will also be made.
The General topic under discussion this year is “The Contemporary American Mind.”
To further confuse their* futile attempts, Reilly occasionally rose and strolled off the stage before answering yes or no to their questions.
After the panel ran out of time, McNeill revealed the secret he had discovered when he first met Don and Kevin Reilly. The Reillys are identical twins.
All questions during the show that were answered “yes,” Don answered. When “no” answers were necessary, Don left and Kevin came from offstage and answered. The twins were given $80 in prize money and treated to dinner at the 21 Club in New York City for their appearance on the show.
ND Appoints Rev. Lochner As Director of Student Aid
The appointment of Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., as director of student aid at the University has been announced by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. During the past four years he has served as assistant to the vice president for academic affairs.
In his new post Father Lochner will coordinate the administration of the three principal forms of student assistance, namely, loans, scholarships and campus employment. He will also serve as assistant director of scholarships and
Six Students Attend * NFCCS Convention
The thirteenth national congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students was held in Cleveland, O., this past summer from Aug. 28 to Sept. 2.
Notre Dame was represented by a six-man delegation, comprised of Jerryw Murphy, Tony Yurchak, Connor Haugh, Jim Eggers, George Oser, and John Foley. Rev. Daniel O’Neill, C.S.C., attended as the chaplain for the NFCCS group on campus.
An important accomplishment of the congress was the passage of a Notre Dame motion which called for the organization of a national affairs committee to formulate policy resolutions in^ the future on matters pertinent to the students, and present them as the united voice of Catholic college students to those outside the campus. This move was the result of the federation’s desire to expand its influence outside the realm of Catholic college campuses.
One of the highlights of the sessions was the keynote address given to the third biennial NFCCS moderator’s conference, by Rev. James Norton, C.S.C.fl vice-president of student affairs at Notre Dame. In his address, Father Norton discussed the use and possibilities of Catholic student leadership, citing several examples from his own personal experiences at Notre Dame.
The NFCCS is a federation of some 200 Catholic Colleges throughout the country, representing about 300,000 students. Its purpose is to facilitate the^ exchange of ideas between schools, andw to help the individual schools to improve themselves in all aspects of student life.
One of the twelve national commissions of the federation is permanently seated at Notre Dame. This is the Catholic Action study commission. The purpose of this commission is to assist students in coming to a better understanding of their specific role in the work ofC the Church.
continue as foreign student advisor at the University.
A native of Cleveland, 0., Father Lochner joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1947 and until 1953 served as an assistant professor in the department of religion. A specialist in religious educa-^ tion, he was educated at Ohio University, at the University of Notre Dame where he received his undergraduate degree in 1937, and at the Catholic University of America which awarded him a master’s degree in 1947. He entered the novitiate of the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1940 and was ordained in 1946.	fl
10
The Scholastic
*John Marchal Leads Local Group in Effort To Elect Stevenson, Democratic Congress
by JIM LENOX
During the past Summer, in Drake County, 0., John Marchal, Notre Dame ^law student with a political science de-®gree, aided the Democratic Party’s cause with door knocking and an organizational campaign. Now the 22-year-old Marchal has shifted his attack to the Notre Dame campus.
Chairman for the Students for Steven-
son at Notre Dame, Marchal will lead his 50 member group in politicking the campus and the South Bend area. The Students for Stevenson, besides offering / ^theix* services to the local Congressional candidate, are planning to send letters ■ to students who will be voting in November by the absentee ballot.
Marchal’s political views are synonymous with those of the Democratic party Bin every aspect. As far as peace and , prosperity are concerned, Marchal feels ’ that perhaps there is no shooting war at this time but there is certainly no ^ stable peace. Prom the Democratic Fact '	® Sheet he revealed the Democratic cause
for complaint against the administration.
“Farm prices are down. The farmer has a smaller share of the dollar than he did in 1952. The farm surpluses are larger steadily growing. Price supports are lower and once the farm parity drops below 88 per cent, the farmer is going to owe more than he can pay off.
“The Republicans say that more people are employed in the labor force than evex- before. But they don’t tell you that we have more people today, and it is therefore natural that more people will be working. The question is rather how many more unemployed percentagewise do we have today as compared to 1952.”
Marchal is quite emphatic about his segregation views. “I have always and will always back the Supreme Court’s stand. Everyone interested in this issue must first ask himself whether he agrees with the Supreme Court? If he does, then he must ask himself, “What is the best way to implement its decision?” Here I believe that force is wrong.”
During the Democratic convention, Marchal received various impressions. He found the South more conciliatory than he had expected and as a result the Democratic party emerged with greater unity. In his mind two men stand out as leaders in the near future; John Kennedy, junior senator from Massachusetts, and Frank Clements, governor of Tennessee.
Contrary to many opinions, Marchal thinks Harry Truman did more good
than he has been given credit for. If he hadn’t sided with Harriman, a real solidification of the Stevenson camp would have taken more time to jell. “Truman added real color and proved he wasn’t afraid of voicing his opinion. And you didn’t find him being run over roughshod like Joe Smith.
“You’ll see the Republicans moving
heaven and earth to get the soil bank and business Ioans paid before the election. Their strategy will be to hold things just as they are. It will be up to the Democratic party to stir things up through a grassroots campaign.
“Organization is our byword, and
JOHN MARCHAL
Students for Adlai
without it we would never have been able to take the great strides we have made so far here at the beginning of the campaign.
Marchal stresses the fact that the political parties are vehicles of the government. Both of the parties are extremely important. “Through them we put men in offices of great responsibility. It is up to the student voter, as to every voter, to help govern himself and the nation and to contribute his influence to electing the men he deems the best. The student voter, with his background in history and insight for the issues at hand, is a vital vote to America.
“For my own voting habits, I vote for the best man. I don’t vote for issues because it is the man who stands for the issues. And I hope that all eligible students register and vote intelligently for the man of their choice.”
More Benefits Added To Student Insurance
For the third consecutive year, the Continental Casualty Company of Chicago is adding more benefits without increasing premiums in its insurance policy offered to all University students.
Tom Shehan, campus representative, recently announced the coverage increases. Sickness benefits have been upped from §750 to §1,000. Hospital room and board coverage has been extended from 30 to 90 days while hospital expenses will be paid up to §200.
Another benefit that has tripled is coverage fox- doctor’s fees of any nature. The jump is from §120 to §360.
This year Continental Casualty is also including a §1,000 coverage for accidental death or dismemberment.
Premium fox- the insurance remains at §21 fox- a full year. Students are insured at all times, wherevex- they may be.
Shehan is expecting anothex- sales increase this yeax- with a goal of two-thirds of the student body insured.
Here on campus, students can take out a policy by seeing Shehan in his office in the basement of the Student Centex-. Claims can also be filed there for processing to the company. -
Concert-Lecture Series Schedules Six Attractions
Six attractions have been scheduled by the University Concert and Lecture Series committee for the coming school year. All of these attractions will be open to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students and to the general public.
Five of the six events will be presented in Washington Hall, which has just recently been redecorated. The sixth will take place in the recently constructed O’Laughlin Auditorium on the St. Mary’s campus.
Sharing top billing over a period of five months will be such groups as the Juilliard String Quartet, the Don Cossacks Dancers and Chorus, the Jose Greco Dancers, “Players, Inc.,” the duopianist combination of Whittemore and Lowe, and the famous singing star of Carousel, Claramae Turner.
This year, for the first time, season tickets will be sold and all seats will be reserved. Those purchasing season tickets will save §1. Season tickets will go on sale early in October, approximately two weeks before the first performance, which will be held on Oct. 30. Anyone wishing to order season tickets, by mail may do so by addressing their applications to the Concert and Lecture Series, at the Washington Hall boxoffice. .
11
September 28, 1956
Washington Hall Redecorated After 74 Years; Sound, Heat, Light, Ventilation Systems Added
Over the summer, Washington Hall, the sight of numerous campus activities since its dedication in 1882, was completely remodeled and redecorated.
The seating capacity is now 848, only slightly less than before. New automatic uplift chairs with light oak arms and upholstered in red mohair have been installed in the orchestra and balcony. The aisles and side areas of the theater proper were carpeted in charcoal grey, while the floors have been redone in tile.
The ceiling of the campus theater has been painted Persian grey and the walls and woodwork are redone in crystal grey. The proscenium arch is framed in two tones of grey with gilt. A gold velour front curtain with matching valence graces the stage. The gold motif is carried out in grand drapes covering the windows.
Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., director of the University Theater, said that all lighting fixtures in the building have been replaced. New down lights provide illumination from the ceiling and indirect lighting for the rotunda.
Washington Hall acoustics have been improved with the installation of fiber-glas materials in the rear walls as well as by a new public address system recessed in the walls. The fiberglas is covered with flameproof grey canvas to blend with the wall coloring.
Three-dimensional movies can now be shown with the installation of a cinema-
Law Students to Begin Moot Court Arguments
The first round of the Annual Moot Court competition in the Law School will take place on Thursday, Oct. 18, at 8 p.m.
The law students engaged in this first argument are starting upon a series of appellate cases which will result in the elimination of all but two of the participants. These will represent the Notre Dame Law School in the National Moot Court competition held in Chicago.
This year several of the juniors in the Law School will argue the question selected for National Moot Court competition. This will serve the dual purpose of acquainting the juniors with the type and caliber of question employed in the national competition and also give the finalists in this year’s Moot Court competition an opportunity to heai’ arguments on the point before going to Chicago. The main point of the arguments this year will be insanity as a defense in criminal prosecution.
12
scope screen and the additional projection and sound equipment.
The remodeled building has radiant heating and a new ventilating system throughout.
Backstage, a new silver ripple traveler curtain, a new dimmer unit for the recently installed light board, and new nylon rope rigging will add to the efficiency of the stage crews.
Washington Hall’s lobby and mezzanine have been completely redecorated. They have been painted in sandal'wood and coral, but the natural oak of the grand staircase has been preserved. The masks of comedy and tragedy, traditional symbols of the theater, are inlaid in the center of the lobby’s tile floor.
Two new restrooms are situated on either side of the lobby, and a two-window boxoffice has also been built in the lobby.
BOB KILEY
NSA Regional Chairman
KileyChosen to Head Regional NSA Group
At the ninth annual convention of the National Student Association held this past summer at the University of Chicago, Bob Kiley, a senior commerce student from Notre Dame, was named regional chairman of the Ohio-Indiana region.
Because of Kiley’s election, Notre Dame was designated as the Ohio-Indiana regional headquarters.
Concerning his election, Kiley remarked that “It is very significant that Notre Dame is the headquarters for this
region of the NSA. I believe that Notr|^ Dame’s already established position of leadership presents us with an excellent opportunity to develop the many potentialities of the region.”
Other Notre Dame students chosen for regional offices were Jim Steintrager, vice-president of educational affairs; and Bob Hilger, travel director.
The convention was attended by over 1000 delegates from more than 325 colw leges in 46 states throughout the country.
Most of the delegates’ time at the convention was spent in workshops where various problems in campus and academic affairs were discussed. The workshops organized were: student government, educational affairs, student affairs, and international affairs. In these workshops, policies and resolutions wer^ drawn up. These were later acted upon at the plenary session of the convention.
Attending the convention from Notre Dame were: Jack Scriba, Gep Duren-berger, Bob Hilger, Jim Steintrager, Bud Freidheim, Dave Baker, Paul Krapp, Bob Kiley, and Pat Logan.
Logan acted as temporary chairman for the Ohio-Indiana region.
Also attending the convention was Rev. James Noi*ton, C.S.C., vice-presi®1 dent for student affairs. At the convention Father Norton attended the dean’s workshop.
University Theater to Open With ’Death of a Salesman1
The first theatrical production to appeal' in the newly redecorated Washington Hall will be the University Thea® ter’s performance of The Death of a Salesman. The play, written by Arthur Miller, will be presented from Nov. 14 through Nov. 18.
Two other productions will be presented by the University Theater this year, Macbeth and the annual spring musical. Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., director of the University Theater, has requested that any student writing a script for the^ spring musical contact him. The scripts must be turned in by Dec. 1.
Subscriptions to the University Theater can be purchased at the Washington Hall boxoffice from Oct. 1-5. The boxoffice will be open from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. and from 6 to 8 p.m. on these dates.
Students, faculty members, and University personnel can purchase tickets^! for preferred seat locations to each of II these three plays. The subscriptions will a cost $2.50 for orchestra seats and $2 for ■ balcony seats. Tickets bought on this » subscription plan can be purchased for ■ Wednesday, Friday, or Saturday evening » performances and may be exchanged at w the boxoffice any day prior to the date^H of performance.	- ■
The Scholastic I
*Logan Announces Senate Plans for Year; Leadership Training Program Heads List
Middies Taste Navy Life During Summer Cruise
Over 130 students of the NROTC unit
Pat Logan, student body president, recently announced his plans for the coming school year.
Among the more important matters ^that he listed was a leadership training program. This would consist of a two-day conference, complete with workshop and addresses by prominent administrators of the University, and members of the faculty. The purpose of this program would be “To develop wise student leadership.” The program will be open to anyone interested in student government, class officers, and campus club offices.
a “Benefits to be gained from such a conference would be the training of underclassmen in leadership techniques - and the providing of better campus leadership in the future by making the students aware of the need for capable student leadership. This would also serve as a training ground for leaders in the outside world after graduation.
“We are going to try to give the freshmen experience in student government by letting them work on executive commissions and committees in the Student Government,” Logan said. There will be a meeting Tuesday in the Student Center for all those who signed at the activities welcome to work in student government, and for any othei’ interested members of the student body.
Logan also announced that there will be large-screen telecasts for all football a games away from home, except the Southern California game. “This will give the entire student body a chance to actively support the team; and it will help to build school spirit.”
Logan also plans a reorganization of the student court, including the setting up of a preamble listing the aims and objectives of the court, and the enumeration of its power and authority. The
ELECTIONS
The elections for upper class hall presidents, and upper class hall senators and off-campus senators will be held on Thursday, Oct. 11.
Nomination forms and other necessary material for the candidates are available in Room 1, Sorin Hall.
To be eligible, the candidate must have an 80 average, and not be on disciplinary probation. Further information may be found on Bulletin boards, and in next week’s a Scholastic.
reorganization would also establish court procedure. This will be accomplished through the court itself and the judicial commission of the Senate.
Logan went on to say that the student body president and the officers of the Senate will keep regular office hours, which will be listed on the bulletin board in the Student Center. The executive cabinet, composed of the Senate officers and the student government commissioners, will hold weekly meetings to discuss student government projects and student problems.
“More activities will be given to the hall presidents’ council to help make them stronger.” Logan said. This will include spiritual, social, and athletic activities.
Logan also said that the public relations commission will be reorganized to better inform the student body, and to get their opinion on topics of interest to the students. “All Senate meetings will be open to the public. I will personally attempt to speak at- one hall council meeting a week. After each meeting I will be open to any criticisms, suggestions, or opinions about student government or student problems.”
“We hope to run the student government office more efficiently by hiring a part-time student bookkeeper and executive secretary. These would coordinate the purchasing of materials and supplies and keep a complete record of all financial transactions. They would also attend to the typing, mimeographing, and general office work.”
ABOARD THE USS NEW JERSEY
Notre Dame Midshipmen Cruise To Foreign Ports.
participated in cruises this past Summer. Of these, the junior and freshmen scholarship students visited Europe, while the junior contract students trained in the Caribbean area.
Cruise Able left Norfolk, Va., on June 2, and did not return until Aug. 2. Some of the ports that were visited by the midshipmen on this cruise include: Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm, Portsmouth, Chatham, and Hamburg.
Cruise Charlie
Cruise Charlie, which involved junior contract students, lasted from July 15 through Aug. 24. The general itinerary for- this cruise included New Orleans and the Canal Zone. There was also a short training period at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sophomore scholarship students experienced aviation-amphibious training during the summer. The amphibious phase was held at Little Creek, Va., from July 11 to Aug. 1. Following this period, the midshipmen flew to the Naval Air Station, Corpus' Christi, Tex., where they received aviation training and indoctrination until Aug. 23, at which time they were detached.
Training for the Marine students took place at the Marine Corps School, Quantico, Va., from July 30 through. Sept. 8.
The objectives of cruise training is to supplement the formal instruction and training provided in professional subjects through practical application at sea.
September 28, 1956
13
Frank Leahy, Coach (1941-1954)
When the whistle signaled the start of the Notre Dame-Southern Methodist football game on Saturday night, September 22, it also indicated the beginning of my third year as just another spectator in the stadium.
Since leaving Notre Dame as football coach, I have tided to attend every game, whether at home or away, and with one exception, have succeeded. I believe it goes without saying, I shall continue to be an avid and loyal Notre Dame fan for as long as God permits me to remain on this earth.
While the pressure that accompanies the molding of a team has been placed on younger shoulders, it would be misleading to say that the transition was made without any feeling of loss by this
1EAHY OPENS 1942 SEASON
JUST ANOTHER ’ SPECTATOR BY FRANK LEAHY
writer. One does not spend twenty years in the coaching profession, eleven of them at the finest university in the world, without feeling a tug at his heart when those days come to a close.
On 'leaving the coaching profession and entering the business world, I can truthfully state that I was amazed at the many business people who are loyal Notre Dame fans. In our conversations, it is natural for the talk at one point or other to turn to football. The two questions most often put to me by business acquaintances and people of the press are, “How’s the Notre Dame team going to do this season?” and “Do you miss coaching?”
As regards the first question, my capacity for published pessimism has more or less become a by-word whenever my name comes up and therefore I hesitate to give a definite answer. By this I mean that if my preview is optimistic, I am immediately accused of being out of character, whereas if I sound pessimistic, it is interpreted by some as having a lack of confidence in the staff. My thoughts, therefore, remain solely mine
on this point. Needless to say, I am happy in the thought that the new staff is so qualified and feel confident Coach Terry Brennan and his capable assistants will continue for a long time to justify the confidence that has been^ placed in them.
The second question brings forth a quick review of all the facets involved in the coaching profession. While the playing time of a season is only ten weeks,
Frank Leahy coached the Fighting Irish from 1941 until his retirement in 1954. In eleven years of coaching, ® he was in the Navy in 1944-45, Leahy’s teams compiled the overpowering record of 87 wins, 11 losses, and 9 ties for a percentage of .888.
His Notre Dame teams of 1943, 46, 47, and 49 were voted the National Champions. All will remember his 38 straight games without a defeat which was broken by Purdue in 19'50.
Leahy retired from coaching after the 1953 season for the reason of bad health. This article explains some
of the parts of coaching that Mr. Leahy misses, and also some that he doesn’t. It is an engaging article of a Notre Dame graduate and coach.
and each game lasts roughly two hours, the preparations take a full year, with the intensity of the preparations increasing as the season draws near. Interviewing, studying films, reviewing offense and defense to suit personnel, planning, and practicing, all lead to the actual playing of the game in the fall, and with this, the pressure seems to increase ten-fold.
I don’t believe I have to point out after all of these years that it is my ’ 7
philosophy that one should always play to win, regardless of whether* it be de
bating, tennis, golf, or football, and should do everything within his power to prepare towards that end. The difference between victory and defeat often times is extra planning by the staff and extra effort by the players. Admittedly, W
14
The Scholastic
A FAMILIAR RIDE FOR THE COACH
the pressures that approached with the season were mainly self-imposed, however, one cannot impart this philosophy to others without being willing to live by it himself. It was this self-imposed pressure that found me each successive year, less able to comply fully with my <^nvn demands. Thus my decision to retire from the coaching scene at Notre Dame.
It is this phase of the profession to which I can honestly answer, “No!” when asked the question, “Do you miss coaching?”
There is a phase of coaching, however, that I do miss. A point often overlooked outside of the profession is the ^fact that coaches are actually teachers, imparting their knowledge of the subject to the students.
Whether it be high school or college —whether the subject be mathematics, history, literature—baseball, basketball or football—it is a Source of great satisfaction for a teacher to observe the seeds of instruction take root in his pupils so that their growing knowledge enables them to become better citizens, ^stronger individuals who always reflect credit to God, Country and Notre Dame.
Another reward that a teacher receives is the association and relationship that is established with his pupils. For twenty years, I was privileged to work with the finest youngsters that America has to offer, many of whom have grown into fine, successful men, -.and of whom we can all be proud. ® It is one of my beliefs that there are a great many parallels between sports and the business world to which most of the students eventually proceed. If the football player has learned to recognize these parallels and is better prepared to face the challenges he will meet in later life as the result of the ^competition he faced on' the practice
September 28, 1956
field and in the game, then there can be no greater satisfaction to the coach.
It is this phase of coaching that I miss—the association with fine young men year- after year, plus the inspirational value derived from being on our beautiful campus and my contacts with those talented and devout priests who run the University.
The older I become, the more I appreciate Notre Dame. I can’t stress too importantly to all students who are privileged to be under the guidance of the priests and laymen at Notre Dame to take full advantage of all facilities on the campus every hour of each day. Ask yourself at the end of each day, “Have I derived a maximum of good out of this day?” If the answer is
LEAHY ACCEPTS O’DONNELL TROPHY 1949
negative, tiy hard to change. If you think the instructors are working- you too hard, be thankful, for they are merely trying to prepare you to achieve greater success. Feel grateful. I feel safe to predict that when you students are out of Notre Dame for twenty-five years, which is my case, you’ll do as I do so often; thank God for directing me to the school of Our Blessed Mother.
In conclusion, lads, let me make this suggestion. If ever you are faced with a problem which seems insurmountable, walk to a spot on the campus (especially at night) and confide in that lovely and inspirational lady guarding our campus. Tell her all—have faith— promise to repay her—and she will never let you down.
15
TACKLE LEAHY 1929 — 1930
THINGS LOOK GOOD
16
The Scholastic
Frank Leahy
Highlights
LAST GAME WITH Pin
HOLD THAT LINE
FAKE COACH! FAKE!
ND BEATS OKLAHOMA 27 - 21, 1952
17
September 28, 1956

ON THIS STREET
BY FRANK BASER
Frank Dasek, from Milwaukee, TTis., is a junior English major. We feel that this story will rank with the memorable, ironic ‘The Blanket’ of last year.
Eddie walked into the kitchen and sat down at the table. His mother was by the stove waiting for the coffee to boil. She looked up at him.
“Well?”
Eddie said nothing.
“Well?”
“Well what?”
“Did you find—”
“No. There’s nothing open.”
“How many places did you try?”
Eddie rubbed his hand across his forehead and it came away wet with sweat. He opened his shirt collar.
“Eddie?”
“What?”
“How many places did you try?”
“I don’t know! For Pete’s sake, let’s talk about something else!”
His mother shook her head. “There’s nothing else to talk about, Eddie. You still don’t have a job.”
He looked at her and saw how her black hair looked like string, and the tiredness in her face.
“I tried, ma. I tried all over.”
“Your father is gonna—”
“Well, what do you want me to do? It’s not my fault that they’re not hiring, is it? For Pete’s sake!”
“You don’t have to get sassy.”
Eddie got up and walked into the living room. The sunlight crossed the carpet, bringing out its drabness.
“Where you going?” he heard his mother say.
“I’m going out!”
“No you’re not! Eddie you—”
He slammed the door behind him. For several minutes he stood quietly in the hallway, listening to the deepness of his own breathing, and the muffled sounds coming from the other apartments. He looked absently at the walls, seeing the dirt and the way the plaster was cracked. A door opened down the hall and Eddie walked quickly up the flight of stairs that led to the roof.
He pushed open the screen door and stepped out into the coolness of the early evening. Beneath him the asphalt of the roof was still warm from the sun, and he felt it stick to his shoes as he walked slowly to where a huge neon sign draped itself down the side of the build
ing. He leaned against it and looked down at the street.
Eddie had always known that Walnut Street was dirty, but from where he stood now it looked worse than dirty. It looked sick like an old man that just refuses to die. Kids were playing on the sidewalk, and in the doorways sat the shapeless forms of the early evening drunks. An elevated train roared by and he watched it as its lights swept across his face.
“Hi, Eddie!”
He turned and saw Sammy sitting on
the other side of the roof. He had his back to a ventilator.
“What d’ya say, Sammy?”
Sammy got up and walked forward slowly. He was tall and when he walked he shook all over. It was as if his joints were on backwards. He stopped beside Eddie and leaned against the neon sign.
“What’s new?”
Eddie shook his head. “Not a heck of a lot.”
“Find a job yet?”
“Nope. Can’t find a darn thing.” He looked across at Sammy. “What about you?”
Sammy smiled and Eddie noticed how the teeth were yellowed and broken.
“What’s funny?”
“You are. You know damn well I don’t work.”
Eddie looked down at the street. A
few of the neon signs had been turned on, and some of the store windows were spilling light over the sidewalk. In the distance the sun was just a red ball slipping down between the buildings.
“. . . and it’s not so bad. Pretty good sometimes.”
Eddie looked at Sammy and saw the shadows crossing his face. “What’s pretty good?”
“Jack-rolling.”
Eddie pushed himself away from the sign and began walking toward the door that led down from the roof.
“I’ll see ya, Sammy.”
“Where ya going?”
“Eat.”
“Well, wait a minute. I’ll walk down with ya.”
Sammy hurried toward him and together they walked down the flight o^f wooden stairs. The wood creaked loudly, and the hallway smelled musty and damp. When they reached the bottom step Sammy touched Eddie on the shoulder.
“Look, Eddie . . .”
“No, Sammy.”
“But—”
“I said no. I don’t want to get mixed up in something like that.”
“But look, it’s not that bad. You need?-, money, don’t ya? And we’d hit only drunks. You did it before with me.”
“Yeah, and I almost got caught! No, I’ll see ya, Sammy.”
Sammy smiled. “Okay, Eddie . . . okay. If you don’t need any money . . .” He shrugged, “. . . okay!”
Eddie walked down the hall to the apartment. As he opened the door he heard Sammy say, “If you should change your mind, I’ll be down at the corned ’bout eight.” Eddie went in and closed the door behind him.
His parents were sitting at the table when he walked into the kitchen. Eddie sat down and began filling his plate with food. In the background he could hear the radio tuned on low. The ball game was on.
“. . . and as we go into the top of the sixth ...”
“Your mother tells me that you didn’t find a job again.”
Eddie glanced at his father. He was wearing an undershirt, and his skin was pale except on the arms where it was a deep brown from the sun.
“That’s right.”
“. . . and now Caira is stepping up to the plate . .
“You know it’s been over three weeks.® now.”	'
“I know, I know.”
“Well?”
Eddie reached for a piece of bread. “Well, they’re just not hiring, that’s all.”
“Like hell, they’re not!”
Eddie looked at his father and saw the grease on his chin, the sudden look of anger in his eyes.
IS
The Scholastic
“How many places did you try today? Did you try Speranza’s place?”
“No, I didn’t try Speranza’s place.”
“I suppose you think money grows on . . .”
“. . . and it’s a long fly into leftcenter field!”
“Did you hear me? I suppose you think it grows on trees or some damn thing!”
“Erv, you don’t have to use such language at the table.”
“Well, I’m sick of this little twirp—”
“And I’m sick of your moaning!” Eddie interrupted. “Just because I can’t find a job you moan. You moan about everything!”
“Yeah! Sure and—”
“Oh, pa, come on cut it out, will ya?
For Pete’s sake!”
His father shoved his fork into the ^-'cucumber salad. “I’ll cut it out all right!
The only thing I‘ll cut out is the dough I’ve been giving you every week!”
Eddie felt his face burn. He stared down at his plate and said nothing.
“Yeah, sure, you’re pretty quiet now, ain’t ya? That hurt, didn’t it? Well, I’m through giving you dough so you can run around. You and your gangster friends—”
~ Eddie got up. His mother looked at *him.
“Eddie, sit down and finish your meal.”
“Not with him flapping his mouth, I’m not!”
“Eddie—”
“. . . and it’s high-inside for ball two! Well, fans . . .”
“Not another red cent! You know, Marge, we been too good to that kid.” ^His father gestured with his fork. “Why I’ve given him so much money—”
“Yeah, sure, pa, go ahead! Tell her how good you been! Let her know what a swell guy you are!” Eddie gripped the top of the kitchen chair. “You and the mouldy pennies you fling my way! And how you make sure I never forget—”
“That’s about enough from you!”
“I haven’t started!”
“No, you’re done!”
W Eddie stared down at his father, seeing the anger in the man’s eyes, and the way he gripped his fork.
“Did you hear me? And if you just open your mouth again I’ll slap you silly! Now sit down there and finish your meal.”
“No, thanks!”
His father looked at him then back -at his plate. “All right, then get out ®of here!”
Eddie looked down at the top of his father’s head, seeing the baldness, the few strands of gray hair.
“Go on, beat it! We don’t want your company.”
Eddie shoved the chair against the table. The dishes rattled as he hurried
^>ut of the apartment.
“I knew you’d change your mind.”
Eddie looked at Sammy. They were standing on the comer in front of the delicatessen.
“Who says I have? I didn’t say anything about going with ya.”
“Well, the way you been talking for the last half-hour . . .”
Eddie shook his head. “I’m just sore, that’s all.”
“How sore?”
“Sore enough!”
Sammy laughed and the light from the street lamp played across his face.
“Hey, what’s so funny? What gives ■with you anyway? You always think everything is so dam funny!”
“Everything is.”
“You’re crazy!”
Sammy began walking down the street. “Well, I’ll see ya, huh?”
“Where you going?”
Sammy stopped and looked over his shoulder. “Business. I got business, remember?”
“Well, wait a minute.”
“What for?' You’re not going.”
“I didn’t say that!”
“Well, are ya?”
“I don’t know.”
“Well, it’s getting late.”
“Can’t you wait a minute? Let me think, will ya?”
“Okay, you think . . . I’ll work.”
Eddie watched Sammy move loosely down the street. The back of his shirt was out, and his blond hair was caught in the light from the store fronts. He ran after him.
“Okay,” he said, “let’s go.”
“Who says I want ya now?”
Eddie stopped and felt the anger rising in him.
Sammy laughed and slapped him on
the arm. “Just kidding! Come on, there must be a nice fat drunk some place on this street!”
Together they walked slowly down the sidewalk, and as they did Eddie looked up at the sky. • To him it had the appearance of a big black lid resting on top of the buildings. There were no stars ... no moon . . . nothing. Just the blackness pressing down close and pulling the stale odors up from the street. He glanced down, an alley and saw the over-flowing garbage cans, the rusted ribs of fire-escapes, and the countless coffee colored window shades pulled down tight against the darkness. The whole thing made him feel sick inside.
“There’s our pigeon, Eddie.”
Eddie looked across the street and saw someone staggering out of the corner tavern. It was a big Negro, well-dressed, with a black derby, and a large loop earring hanging from his left ear. The man gripped the side of the building until he regained his balance, then pro- . ceeded to walk unsteadily down the street.
They followed him for two blocks. Eddie watched the street for a sign of a prowl car, and Sammy walked easily with his hands in his pockets. When the Negro came to the corner of Fifth and Walnut he stopped, looked unsteadily up and down the street, and then turned left into the shanty district. It was then that they nabbed him.
Sammy ran ahead and stopped the Negro by pretending to ask for directions. Eddie checked the street and then edged up behind the man. He paused for just a moment, then shoving his arms beneath the Negro’s he pulled up and laced his fingers tightly against the back of the man’s neck. The Negro was big but he was just too drunk to do anything. Eddie felt the heaviness of the man as he pulled down and pushed both knees into the back of his legs.
“Hurry up, Sammy!”
Sammy lashed out with his first and drove it deep into the big man’s throat. He began to struggle. Sammy hit him again, this time on the side of the face. Eddie could feel the blood dripping from the man’s broken lips, and the coldness of the earring. Sammy hit him again and the black derby dropped to the ground.
“That’s enough!”
The Negro tried to pull himself to his feet but Sammy lashed out hard, catching him in the mouth. The big man dropped heavily back into Eddie’s arms i and was still.
They spread him out on the sidewalk, and Sammy went hurriedly through the pockets as Eddie watched the sidewalk. It was completely dark, and there were no sounds other than the traffic coming off of Walnut Street.
(Continued on page 30)
September 28, 1956
19
CALENDAR
At the Movies
GRANADA THEATER
Tea and Sympathy (Sept. 28). It was a tremendous hit on Broadway and now comes to you on the screen, starring Deborah Kerr and John Kerr. The story of a teen-age boy and an understanding woman. Don’t miss this one.
STATE THEATER
Naked City (Sept. 28). Co-hit: Ruthless Force.
COLFAX THEATER
The Bad Seed. Excellent acting is the rule in this one. It deals with a little girl who could kill and enjoy it. Little Patty McCormack does a thoroughly convincing job as the eight-year-old who does away with three people who get in her way. The Broadway cast is superb.
AVON THEATER
Madame Butterfly (Sept. 28-Oct. 2). Based on the famous opera by Puccini. A thoroughly enjoyable tale of the Far East which has won world wide acclaim. Everybody out for this one.
Storm Center (Oct. 3). Co-hit: 198i.
PALACE THEATER
Young Guns (Sept. 28-Oct. 3). A weak cast and a weaker story of the sons and daughters of the infamous gunslingers in the West. The younger element of South Bend will shower peanuts, popcorn, and Cracker Jacks in the aisles as they scurry to escape the thundering hoofbeats of the hero.
Co-hit: Crime in the Streets. Not much dope on this epic of the big city hoodlums. The Kefauver committee may be resurrected to subdue the violence in this film.
RIVER PARK THEATER
The Harder They Fall (Sept. 28-29). Humphry Bogart—Rod Steiger— Jan Sterling. A good cast hits at the evils in present day boxing. The Argentine heavy in the picture is modeled after the champ of the 1930’s, Primo Camera. An interesting struggle of a reporter’s fight to clean up the fight racket.	■
Co-hit: Hilda Crane. Jean Simmons makes this re-release as digestible as it was the first time around.
The Conqueror (Sept. 30-Oct. 2). John Wayne. A Mongol western. That about sums this one up. If you look closely you might be able to see the actors straining to read their lines on an off-screen prompter. Not one of the “Duke’s” best.
Co-hit: Night Freight. No one should regret missing it.
God Needs Men (Oct. 3 only). In French with subtitles.
The Last Frontier (Oct. 4). Co-hit: Hot Blood.
WASHINGTON HALL
Bad Day At Black Rock (Sept. 29). Spencer Tracy. A suspenseful drama with Spencer Tracy at his best. A Cinemascope production that should keep you sitting on the edge of your seat.
OCTOBER
5	Commerce Ball—Student Center
6	Indiana vs. Notre Dame (here)
11	“Marriage of Figaro” (NBC Production)—St. Mary’s
12	Science Ball—Student Center
13	Purdue vs. Notre Dame (here) 4
19	Engineers’ Ball—Student Center
20	Michigan State vs. Notre Dame (here)
24	Glee Club Fall Concert—Washington Hall
26 Sophomore Cotillion—Student Center
26	“Golden Age Singers”—St. Mary’s
27	Oklahoma vs. Notre Dame (here) -
30 “Juilliard String Quartet”—Concerf and Lecture Series—Washington Hail
NOVEMBER
1-18 University Play Rehearsals and Play—Washington Hall
2	-4 Senior Trip—Navy Game
3	Navy vs. Notre Dame (there)
9-11 Student Trip—Pittsburgh Game
10 Pittsburgh vs. Notre Dame (there)
13 “Evening with Bennet Cerf”—St. Mary’s
16	AB Ball—Student Center
17	No. Carolina vs. Notre Dame (here)
19-25 Festival of Arts — O’Shaughnessy Building
24 Notre Dame vs. Iowa (there)
30 Don Cossacks Dancers and Chorus — Concert and Lecture Series —
Washington Hall	"
DECEMBER
1 Notre Dame vs. So. California (there)
1 “Madame Butterfly”—St. Mary’s
4	St. Joseph vs. Notre Dame (basketball—here)
5	- 6 Glee Club Christmas Concert —-Washington Hall
8 Holy Day of Obligation
8 Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame (basketball—there)
10 Northwestern vs. Notre Dame (basketball—there)
17 Valparaiso vs. Notre Dame (basketball—here) .
19 Christmas vacation begins
------------ >
JANUARY
4 First day. of school after Christmas vacation
15 Michigan State vs. Notre Dame (basketball—there)
18-25 Semester Exams
29 Indiana vs. Notre Dame (basket- I ball—there)
The Scholastic
20
Your Basic Jazz Library
by JAY WALTON
Jazz has come into its own. More jazz LP’s are being issued than ever before. As a result, nearly every jazz musician has found his work amply waxed. This bumper record crop produced a general sameness, scores of hackneyed performances by artists who should never have been recorded, and -a lack of proper care and supervision in Recording competent jazz groups.
To all the novice jazz fans choosing from this formidable aggregation' of LP’s, we have assembled a basic jazz library which has withstood the tests of time and critical ears. The following includes most of the important names and sides from hot New Orleans to the cool schools.
-Traditional
“The Louis Armstrong Story” (four volumes) Columbia. This collection covers Louis’ Hot Five, Hot Seven, his work with pianist Earl Hines, and his more commercial treatment of popular tunes in the 30’s.
“Satch” has achieved widespread popularity, and these albums contain classics which have made him number one with jazz audiences for 35 years.
“The Bix Beiderbecke Story” (three volumes) Columbia. According to the avid fans of Chicago jazz of the 20’s, Bix was the best. The fact that he surrounded himself with mediocre musicians and was often involved in the “Mickey Mouse” arrangements of Paul Whiteman cuts down some of the enjoyment of these sides, but his standout horn still makes them good listening.
— “New Orleans Memories,” Commodore. ^?his album showcases the piano virtu-ousity of Jelly Roll Morton, who claims he invented jazz. Whether this is true or not, he certainly set the style for all jazz pianists that followed.
“Original Dixieland Jazz Band,” “X”. This set is invaluable because it contains the first jazz sides ever recorded.
“Louis Armstrong Plays W.C. Handy,” ^olumbia. A record of the king of jazz interpreting the “Father of Blues” is bound! to be a classic. It includes one of the best waxings of “St. Louis Blues” ever released.
Swing
“Benny Goodman Carnegie Hall Jazz .Concert”. These all-star sides have ^itomized the swing era. The concert
is still unequaled among all-star dates.
“Jimmy Lunceford and his Orchestra,” Decca. A little heard, but very important band of the swing era, Lunce-ford’s group was the major influence of the popular Billy May band of today.
“Benny Goodman Combos,” Columbia.
This is timeless jazz by BG, Krupa, Teddy Wilson, and a host of great swing artists.
“The Three Herds,” Columbia. Woody Herman’s great bands are surveyed here, giving a glimpse of the progressive movement that was to follow the swing era. Any of the Herman herds rate among the best jazz bands of all timeJ
“Duke Ellington’s Greatest,” Victor. Almost any album by the Duke presents his unique musical personality.
Contemporary
“Red Norvo’s Fabulous Jam Session,” Dial. 'This rare album marks the turning point of jazz evolution from swing to bop. Swing-men Teddy Wilson, Norvo, JC Heard, Flip Phillips, and Slam Stewart combine with the prophets of modem jazz, Charlie Parker, and Dizzy Gillespie to produce a consistently stimulating set.
“Charlie Christian and Dizzy Gillespie,” Esoteric. This 1941 session was recorded at Minton’s Playhouse, the birthplace of bop. It is another sample of bop in its earliest form. Guitarist Christian and a youthful Diz blow up
a storm—exciting but very disorderly.
“Charlie Parker,” (Memorial Albums) Savoy. This is a great memorial collection of vintage Bird featuring many other modern jazz giants. The selections are all original bop riffs which show clearly the genius of Parker as well as the revolutionary style of the new music.
“Jazz at Massey Hall,” (three albums) Debut. This three volume waxing of a Toronto concert presents some of the best in modem horns with Bird and Diz, and a colossus of modem piano— Bud Powell. The peerless rhythm section consists of Max Roach on drums and Charles Mingus on bass.
“Erroll Gamer,” Columbia. Gamer is a hard man to classify under any particular “school,” but he looms as one of the most important and individual pianists in music. These sides are just about the best in Gamer’s tremendous discography.
“Interpretations by the Stan Getz Quintet,” Norgean. Getz is the most individualistic tenor man since Lester Young. On this record, he combines with valve trombonist Bob Brookmeyer to produce some delightful, • relaxed swinging.
“Gerry Mulligan Quartet,” Pacific Jazz. Mulligan caused a new revolution in jazz by omitting the piano from his combo.
“The Swinging Mr. Rogers,” Atlantic. The school of West Coast jazz is led by trumpeter Shorty Rogers whose swinging sound.is well represented here on “Martians Go Home.” Jim Giuffre’s completely original clarinet sound is one of the highlights of the set.
“I Hear Music,” MGM. Shearing’s percussion combo is one group that even the squares dig. His recent lapse into over polite tearoom jazz was not yet evident when these sides were made.
“New Concepts of Artistry in Rhythm,” Capitol. The Kenton band has been the subject of controversy for fifteen years. This 1952 recording exhibits Stan’s greatest band playing consistently excellent arrangements.
“Fontessa,” Atlantic. One of the best combos ever to hit the jazz scene, the Modem Jazz Quartet combines first-rate arranging with brilliant improvisation. Pianist John Lewis does most of the writing, and vibes star Milt Jackson does most of the blowing. Dig especially the beautiful and original title tune by Lewis.
“Chico Hamilton Quintet,” Pacific Jazz. This is the newest sound in jazz, to receive widespread acclaim. Drummer Hamilton’s group includes cello and flute—two instruments noted for their squareness. However Chico and his cohorts produce some swinging, sensitive sounds on eight originals and two standards.
September 28, 1956
21
This is a coincidence!
Pottawatomie Park
&
Orientation at Notre Dame has become big business. Even before the upperclassmen begin to invade the campus the Blue Circle has the neophyte well versed in the happenings around the campus, from the well known story of Knute Rockne to gals from across the well worn “Dixie.”
Every angle of how to get around campus, or what bus goes down to the Philadelphia is covered. However, some frosh became even more confused with the persistent and consistent advice offered by the men who give-up
Mom, the brochure was right!
that last week in order to make sure no freshman ends up on the roof of the Dome when he should be in sweat clothes doing athletic things. But even though this danger is apparent, every year the new high school graduate is run^ through the orientation mill.
On these pages we have attempted to show pictorially just what happened on the last day of the orientation week. Many acquaintances had been made with the gals through the previous mixers, so the conversations are, perhaps, a little more lively. The cliched questions and answers are beginning to disappear, with the realization that “that” steady is far away, etc.
The day, Sept. 19, was a slight bit chilly, but this did^ not take away the fun of the baseball game or the horseshoe-throwing contest. The little bears and monkeys which are kept behind bars at the South Bend Zoo
Is he looking at me?
22
The Scholastic


’icnic
GERALD HILTON, PHOTOGRAPHER

welcomed the newcomers ^vith a rare delight, but soon found out that the food that they were eating was from the dining hall.
The murky pond had not as yet frozen, so the home town pitcher was able to show his prowess at skipping stones through the seaweed.
Soon couples began to break off and choose up teams for the various games that were suggested by the Society and all were having a good time. Food was served later on in the day, and ummms and ahhhhs were heard concerning the cold tidbits.
However, everything good has a little grey added: passes were to start the very next day.
September 28, 1956
25
1
Q. Why Are Viceroys 20,000 Fl ITERS Made From Pure Cellulose?
VICEROY
Viceroy
Taste
Because cellulose is a soft, snow-white material.. • the same pure, natural substance
CIGARETTES
KING-SIZE
foods you eat every day.
Only the exclusive Viceroy tip contains 20,000 tiny filters made from pure cellulose— soft, snow-white, natural—twice as many filters as the other two largest-selling filter brands, to give you that smoother Viceroy taste!
A
JlCEROr
The Smoothest Taste in Smoking
Is The
24
The Scholastic
Uniik Scene
The Irish captain recaps the
f
Southern Methodist game and tells why
^he thinks. . .
“We’ll Come Back”
by JIM MORSE as told to JOHN GLAVIN
We won the toss and elected to receive. Paul Hornung took the ball to the 27. After a running play failed to g-ain, Aubrey Lewis made a first down on our 46. Two plays later, a 15-yard penalty set us back to our 33. I guess this was a sign of things to come. It seemed that all evening, every time we would get a drive underway, we’d foul it up with a penalty. But I guess the 'penalties hurt Southern Methodist just as much as they hurt us.
We punted to them twice and then they really started to move behind their quarterback, Charlie Arnold. He called a real good ball game all night long. He mixed his plays well and was cer
~	ARNOLD HURDLES FOR SEVEN
I iA	Mustang quarterback baffles the Irish
tainly using his backs to their best advantage.
From their 21, Bowden, one of their halfbacks came up the middle twice for a first down. Oui- line held and they kicked into the end zone. We were charged with a penalty here and they kept the ball. A couple of plays later, they were inside our thirty. Arnold then tossed a touchdown pass and we were down six points.
We couldn’t get moving after the kickoff and again we had to get rid of the ball.
A penalty put them way back in a hole and I guess it was about this time that the quarter ended. 'They kicked
THE AUTHOR
out to about our 40. Paul’s pass intended for Gary Meyers was picked off by Mr. Arnold and he ran it down inside our twenty. We held for three downs and they lined up for a field goal. We were offsides and that put the ball on our six. We held for three downs again and then Aubrey knocked down a fourth down pass.
From here we made our first real drive of the game but again a penalty stopped us. A few plays later, we were thirteen down when Arnold, on a bootleg play, moved over for the score. '
We knew that this was a fired up Mustang team that didn’t want to be beaten. Coach Woodard really had them up for this game. They were doing everything well. They hit hard and they ran hard.
In the second half, we kicked off to them. They picked up a couple of first downs before we held and they had to kick. We had the ball on our seven and we all knew that we had to start moving pretty soon. Paul, Aubrey and I moved the ball in three plays to the 16. With fourth down, I picked up two and we had a first down. Paul threw me a pass and Aubrey ran around end and we had the ball on our 45. Paul then caught me with a pass on about their 30. I caught it behind their defender and made it over for the score.	-
They took the next kickoff and came right back down the field. They were inside our ten yard line when the third quarter ended.
Lewis and Meyers made two good tackles to drive SMU back. Then Dick Prendergast broke through to block a field goal attempt.
We moved the ball to the 43 where we (Continued on page 28)
September 28, 1956
25
Fall Practice Underway for Baseball Team; Kohorst Named on NCAA All-American Nine
Over 50 men reported to Cartier Field last Monday to begin fall baseball workouts which will continue to about the second week in November, weather permitting. Included in these Coach Jake Kline has eight lettermen with which he expects to mold the nucleus of next season’s team.
A standout among the returning lettermen is Elmer Kohorst who will be playing his third season as the Notre Dame backstop. Completing the 1956 season he was selected as the first string catcher on the NCAA All-American Baseball Team. He is the first man in the history of Notre Dame baseball to earn such a berth.
Last season Kohorst led the team in hitting at .329 and in runs batted in with 21 in 19 games. He also had three doubles, a triple and two homers included in 25 hits. He is a senior and co-captain of the ’57 squad.
The other co-captain, Jim Cusack, was second in team hitting last season at .316. He played most of last season in the outfield but will be moved to first base this year where he has seen only limited action.
Other lettermen returning include second baseman Ed Hurley, a senior who was voted to the NCAA All-District second team last year. Another senior, Jim Carideo, returns at shortstop. He was one of the leading hitters on the squad last year batting .283.
Junior Bob Senecal is the only returning letterman in the outfield. Although he only hit around .200 last year he has a good throwing arm and his hitting should improve with experience.
Three pitchers, senior Tony Bujnow-
ELMER KOHORST First in history.
ski, 5-3, last year, and juniors Charlie SymeOn, 3-3, and Hank Bretting-, 2-1, will be back to bolster an undermanned mound staff.
In the infield third base is the only position which seems wide open. Top candidates for the job are Steve Johnson, a senior who hit .285 in four games last year as a utility infielder, and a couple of sophomores, John Torrie and Mike Layden.
In the outfield it looks like sophomores Gene Duffy, Paul Sopko or John Mc-Narney will be fighting it out for the two open outfield slots.
Workouts will consist of an intrasquad games each day since most of the men played summer baseball and should be in peak condition.
Coach Kline commented, “We’re more experienced this year since we’ve got mostly seniors which should help. We should be bettter.”
The biggest problem will be to find a couple more front line pitchers. The sophomores coming up are questionable but there are five that Kline hopes will get enough seasoning to pitch varsity ball. Included among these are: Tom Marquez, John Pogorzelski, John Casagrande, Dick Amoral and Frank Kennedy.
Harriers Await Opener With Marquette Oct. 13
The Notre Dame cross-country team opens the 1956 campaign Saturday, Oct. 13, as they stage their opening meet at home against Marquette University. The meet is the first of eight scheduled for the coming season, which concludes Nov. 26 with the NCAA meet at Lansing, Mich.
Last year, the Irish thinclads sparked by Bill Squires posted an unblemished record in seven decisions. The campaign was highlighted by victories in the Indiana and Central Collegiate Conference championships and a third place tie in the NCAA meet.
Coach Alex Wilson is the first to admit the difficulty the Irish face in emulating last season’s record. Wilson asserted that “the team is notably weaker than a year ago. Nevertheless we have some promising boys who might very well strengthen our chances.”
However, all is not gray for the Irish harriers. Three of last season’s stalwarts will return to bolster the squad. Those returning veterans are: Captain John IMichno, senior; Ed Monnelly, junior; and Dale Vandenberg, junior.
During the tuneups, Monnelly, Stan Wegozynowicz, and Neil Wallace were clocked at a respectable 10:33.
NameGibbonsCoach^ Assisting Jordan, Kline
Former Irish basketball star, Jim Gibbons, has been recently appointed as chief assistant to basketball coach, Johnny Jordan, and to a similar position » under baseball coach, Jake Kline. A graduate of the class of ’53, Gibbons’ I only previous experience was at Mourn* Carmel in Chicago where he served a tenure of one year as head basketball and baseball coach.
The 27-year-old Gibbons is a native of Chicago and attended Mount Cannel High School where he starred in basketball and football. Upon graduation in 1949, he entered Notre Dame and played for three years on the varsity squad as a guard. Norb Lewinski, Jc Bertrand, Dick Rosenthal, and Leroy Leslie who captained the ’52 squad were some of the individual stars that Gibbons teamed up with in his playing- days at Notre Dame.
Gibbons graduated in ’53 as a speech i major and immediately afterwards signed a contract with the Phillies to j play pro baseball in their farm system. i After his first season of play with th<?. ! Salt Lake City club of the Pionee^ League, Gibbons entered the army and served a year and a half as an MP.
After getting his discharge from the army, Gibbons was assigned the position of head basketball and baseball coach at his high school alma mater. As baseball coach, Gibbons directed Mount Carmel’s first baseball team in 30 years.
Gibbons’ duties on the coaching sta;^ will be to handle the freshmen in basketball as well as scouting duties for the Irish eagers, and during the Spring to assist Coach Jake Kline in baseball.
26
The Scholastic
MEISSNER, RICE, NELSON, BORGAN, RAFFETO
Irish sailors compete in Wisconsin Regatta.
'Sailors in Wisconsin Regatta This Weekend;
Nelson, D'Almedia Lead Locals in Home Meet
The big- man in the regatta was Dexter Thebe of Michigan who won all four of his races in the “A” division. 'Steve Harper won two of four in the “B” division for the Wolverines also.
Foi‘ the Irish sailors Bernardo *’Almeida was the big man winning
Napolitano Touring Europe Conducting Boxing Clinics
Dominick J. Napolitano, associate professor of physical education, director of ^iter-hall athletics and long-time director of the Bengal Bouts at the University of Notre Dame, has been invited by the U. ’S. Air Force to participate in a series of boxing clinics in Germany, France, England and North Africa during the latter part of September.
“Nappy,” as he is known to the many Notre Dame students, has directed the Bengal Bouts since 1932, will help organize the U. S. Air- Forces in Europe team for the Britannia Shield Competition on October 3rd, in addition to conducting the clinics. He flew from Washington to Europe via military air transport on September 21st and will return to the Notre Dame campus on
about October 6.
both his races in the “B” division while junior Louis Morgan grabbed two seconds and two thirds in the “A” division. Ray Nelson also got one second.
Last June the sailors from South Bend finished in fifth place in the 20th Intercollegiate National Sailing Championship at Lake St. Clair, Detroit. About 70 colleges and universities were represented.
The series was sailed out of Crescent Sail YC. Twelve foot fiberglass-plastic Tech dinghies were used in winds ranging from light to moderate.
At the end of the first day’s sailing the Irish were riding in seventh place. On the second they moved to sixth, and then moved up to fifth on the last day.
Ron Meissner was the top man for Notre Dame running up 100 points, fourth highest in the “B” division.
WRESTLING MEETING
There will be a meeting -for varsity wrestling team members on Oct. 1 at the Rockne Memorial in Room 1 at 4:30 P.M.
Also, another meeting for those freshmen interested in trying out for the team will be held on Oct. 2 in Room 1 of the Rockne Memorial at 4:30.
Fall Tennis Begins With Frosh Tryouts
About 40 men reported to Coach Thomas Fallon last Monday to begin fall tennis practice. Included in this group is a core of 32 freshmen who responded to a general tryout call since the University gave out no tennis scholarships this year. Workouts will continue as long as the weather holds out.
Fallon, beginning his first year as a college tennis coach, although he has coached the sport in lower schools and clubs in New York, expects a stronger team this year. He points out that no one was lost through graduation, and with the addition of the sophomores this year, the team should have very good depth. As he put it, “The team should be nicely flavored with veterans and sophomores.”
Lettermen returning to bolster the squad include captain Jim Rich, Dean Richards and Harry Smith, all seniors, along with junior Chuck Vanoncini. Another senior, Tom Guilfoile, is expected to give the team an added boost.
Outstanding sophomores making their bid for the varsity are Ronald Schoenberg and Maxwell Brown. Schoenberg is highly regarded on the West Coast while the latter chalked up an impressive victory this summer by winning the National Freshmen Intercollegiate Tournament at Cornell University.
Top prospects among the freshmen include Sergio Garza and Hector Cabello, although an elimination tournament will begin today to limit the squad.
Fall Basketball Drills Begin With Frosh Tryouts Monday
Though football is occupying the Irish scene at the present, preparations are already being made for the 195657 basketball season. Head basketball mentor, Johnny Jordan, and his recently appointed assistant and former Notre Dame basketball star, Jim Gibbons, have announced that freshmen tryouts will be held on Oct. 1 starting at 3:30 p.m. in the Fieldhouse.
Among the freshmen personnel will be Mike Graney, a 6’5” prospect, and Bob Bradtke, both of whom hail from Hammond, Ind. Don McGann, another prospect, comes from the neighboring territories of Joliet, Ill., and received his encouragement to enter Notre Dame from former Irish basketball great, Leroy Leslie.
Other freshmen candidates include Emmit McCarthy, brother of John McCarthy who is currently a varsity member, Harry Morgan of New Orleans, New Twyman of Pittsburgh, Mickey Bekelja of Harrisburg, Pa., and Bob Skrzycki from Detroit.
September 28, 1956
27
TIME OUT
Now that all the football prognosticators and pre-season dopsters have picked their top teams of the year and prospective All-Americans, they can quickly head for their respective holes and watch the country’s finest make collective fools out of them all. Already Syracuse and Southern Methodist have dumped teams which supposedly were selected in the mythical top ten teams. Maryland and Notre Dame were their respective victims which only goes to prove that all the pre-season polls are just a complete waste of time. The upset is too prominent in college football and any team can rise up and knock off any other team in the country. Even trying to pick the teams week by week seems highly impractical as the writers who vote see only few of the teams concerned in action. Since they have been used for so long as a standard, I doubt that they will ever be done away with.
The weekly polls make such good arguing points anyway. Take this week’s poll for instance. Four of the so-called Top Ten Teams will face the Irish before the season ends: Oklahoma, Michigan State, Southern California and Pittsburgh. Of course, Southern Methodist is listed among the top ten.
•F
How about all the red faced students who insisted on giving out with the “We’re number One” at the rally last week. Seems every time the locals give out with this we proceed to drop a football game. As far as I know, this shouting of “We’re number One,” started in ’53 when the Irish were nosed out by Maryland for the mythical National Championship. No one would deny they had every right to clamor then. That wasn’t the toughest schedule in the world that Maryland played that year.
The following year, after a win over Texas, it was time to shout to the country that we were World beaters. Purdue dumped us the following week.
Last year the old strains were heard again and it wasn’t too long before the Spartans of Michigan State put the damper on the proceedings. Now don’t get me wrong. I am not trying to preach, but let’s be consistent. If we go through the rest of the season unbeaten, I’ll be the first one to shout “Were number One.” But let’s wait and see for awhile. Save the vocal chords for when we’ve got our backs to the wall in the Stadium and the shouting will do some good.
* * *
While most of us were spending our vacation at home, some of our local athletes were competing throughout the summer months.
The golf team competed in the NCAA tourney the last week in June. They placed sixth with a 607 total, six strokes off the pace of the University of Houston. Joe Grace, Lloyd Syron, Charlie Thurn and Joe Mulfler all qualified for match play, the latter two reaching the third round.
Aubrey Lewis came as close as anyone to making Uncle Sam’s Olympic team. The fleet-footed Junior was leading in the 400-meter trials with one hurdle to go when he broke stride and fell going over the hurdle.
Another track star, Joe Foreman, easily made the team from his native Canada. He won the 200-meter dash and also made a relay team.
Prediction of the week: Al Lopez will not return to manage the Cleveland Indians next year. Who will take his place? How about kicking around the name of Leo Durocher?—J. G.
—AC Wireplioto
COOKE AFTER PONY BACK
Slaughter in the open
"We'll Come Back" *
(Continued from page 25)
had fourth and three. Paul broke through tackle and, as you probably remember, he went all the way and it was a tied ball game.
The last ten minutes were really a nightmare. They controlled the ball most of the time, although we did ge^ a couple of chances. Once we had t«^ punt and then with only a couple of minutes to go, when we were behind 19-13, they intercepted one of our passes.
With only a few seconds to play we recovered a fumble around midfield. After Lewis got off a good run, Paul tried one more pass. I caught it around the seven and tried to make it out of bounds to stop the clock but the ball game was over.
Certainly we feel real bad about losing* the first one but we are far from being discouraged. We all realize we can’t look back but we have to profit by the mistakes we made.
We’ve got another week yet to get ready for Indiana. With two weeks between these games, we can really get a great deal done. I think we can and will improve a lot, both sophomores and-veterans. Every one of us made mis^ takes out there last Saturday. The veterans learned just as much from that game as the sophs. With hard work we’re going to come back.
Indiana is going to be another tough club. They’ll be one of those typically tough Big Ten teams. Coach Crimmins will bring a well drilled outfit up here and you can bet that they will shoq$ the works.
Indiana will throw the ball around quite a bit. That quarterback of theirs, Chick Cichowski, will try to capitalize on our pass defense. It was weak against Southern Methodist but you can ■bet we will definitely improve on that. In fact as I said before, we’ll improv^ all the way around. We’ll come back. *
28
The Scholastic
Flanagan Fires 140 in Open Golf Tournament; WSND Begins Year; Grace, Lally Trail With Finals This Weekend Total Sales Increase
Christopher Flanagan, Jr., winner of this year’s freshman golf tourney and son of Notre Dame’s 1927 All-American halfback, has putted his way into the half way lead of the annual Notre Dame Wpen Golf Tournament. Young Flanagan toured the first 36 holes, played last Saturday and Sunday, in 71-69—140, two under par. In this, the 26th of such outings, Flanagan holds a three-stroke lead over Joe Grace, a lanky junior from Detroit, Mich., and a co-captain of the । 1957 Notre Dame golf team. Grace, after a first day 69, slipped to 74 Sunday and a 143 total.
Flanagan, whose home is Pori Arthur, fex., credits his two under par perI formance to a sizzling putter, some fancy chip shots and a driver that never put him in any serious trouble. In gathering nine birdies, he consistently dropped putts from five to 25 feet. “I played good, but not real good, and I scrambled a bit when I had to. That kept me from picking up some unnecessary bogies and any double bogies. My gutter was the telling factor,—I think I’ll keep it under some warm blankets until this week-end,” said the smiling Texan.
Joe Grace, only three strokes off the pace at 143, found the windswept course playing five strokes harder Sunday, after a brilliant 69 on the opening day. Joe’s heartaches started on the 31st hole where his second shot buried in a heel print in the sandtrap alongside the $reen. He blasted over the green and had to settle for a double bogey six. He played the next four holes even par despite a bogey six on No. 34. On the home hole Joe’s tee shot came to rest in
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Army over VMI Navy over William and Mary Penn State over Pennsylvania Syracuse over Pittsburgh Texas A & M over LSU Georgia Tech over So. Methodist Tennessee over Auburn Texas over Tulane Duke over Virginia Maryland over Wake Forest Illinois over California Indiana over Iowa Michigan over UCLA Northwestern over Iowa State Ohio State over Nebraska Oklahoma over North Carolina Purdue over Missouri Wisconsin over Marquette Stanford over Michigan State Mississippi over Kentucky
a clump of bushes. He chipped to the fairway and then sailed his third shot over the green into his second set of shrubs. After knocking the ball back up the fairway, Grace chipped to the green and holed a 15-footer for a double bogey six.
'Terry Lally, a long hitting freshman from Louisville, Ky., is third among the scorers with 144. The erratic Lally, in scoring a first round one under par 70, fired seven birdies, five of them occurring on the back nine.
Tied with 145’s are Tom Garside and varsity co-captain Charley Thurn, both juniors. Lloyd Syron and Tom Rose share the next two spots with 147’s. At 148 is Ed Murphy and at 149 is senior Sam Merra.
Golf coach Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., has cut the field to the low 18 plus ties. The final 36 holes will be played tomorrow and Sunday over the Burke Memorial layout.
SENIOR TRIP
The Class of 1957 will make the senior football trip to the Navy game Nov. 3 at Baltimore. Plans are being made for the group to stay in Washington, D.C.
—AP Wirephoto
LEWIS HEADED FOR TROUBLE Stopped after first down
Total sales for student radio station WSND for the 1955-56 broadcast year increased by ten percent the figure for the preceding year, Fred Corkill, station manager, announced recently.
Corkhill said that last year’s advertising sales figure marked a record for the station, which began its tenth year of broadcasting to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students on Sept. 17.
'The new transmission system being installed by the station’s technical engineering staff is nearing completion. Bob Borchers, chief engineer, said all cable has been installed, but that he could not predict when the system would go into operation.
Among program changes listed by Bert Allen, program director, are “Best of Broadway,” a nightly program of show music, the lengthening of “Sports Report,” heard daily at 5:15 p.m., to a 15-minute show, and a combination news and sports program at 9:45 p.m.
Returning from last year’s schedule are “Requestfully Yours,” “Penthouse Pops,” “Afternoon Concert,” “Invitation to Music,” “Heaven and Earth,” and the “White Plume.” “The World This Week,” a production of the WSND news department, will return to the air this Sunday night.
September 28, 1956
29
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
• l3000 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
"On This Street"
(Continued from page 19)
“Come on, come on!”
“Oh, this creep’s got a safety pin on his pocket!”
A screen door slammed a few dooi's away, and then a porch light flickered on. Eddie felt his face caught in the glare. An old woman stood peering toward them.
“What’s going on out there?”
“Sammy!”
“Okay, I got it!”
They started to hurry down the sidewalk when the sharp beam of a flashlight shot around the corner.
“Hey, you!”
“A cop, Sammy, a cop! How the hell—”
“I don’t know, I don’t know!”
They turned and ran across the street toward the public school playground. People were coming from out of their homes, and the cop blew his whistle.
“Stop them kids!”
They spun around the corner and Eddie felt a hand slam him against the concrete wall. His head rocked back and when he opened his eyes he felt a hand on his arm, and saw Sammy disappearing around the edge of the school building. The beam of a flashlight tried to pick him out but it lost itself against the wire fence.
“I got one! Hey!”
The hand shoved him forward, across the street and through the crowd. He felt his feet dragging, and he heard voices muttering as if far away.
“There he is. Young punk!”
“Hey, cop, here comes your promotion!”
The crowd opened and Eddie found himself standing above the sprawled out form of the Negro. The cop was bending over him. He looked up at Eddie.
“Boy, you really did a good job didn’t you?”
Eddie felt someone jab him in the ribs.
“Young punk!”
The cop got to his feet. “A real good job!” he said.
Someone laughed.
Eddie stared at the cop, and then he looked down at the body of the Negro. He didn’t say anything. He just looked.
----- ——-----------—t
Welcome
Notre Dome Men
Always A Good Show at the
River Park Theatre
Mishawaka Ave. at 30th
Jerry Vogel, ’36, Manager
CREWCUT
krukut™
•-a* LANOUN
•NOT GREASY
• NO STAIN
• NO SOIL
[50(;

keeps the hair “STANDING UP" for a Sharper Looking CREW CUT KEEPS STUBBORN HAIR IN PLACE _______ AT COSMETIC COUNTERS EVERYWHERE
DR. N.FIZDALE *
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
30
DOME PICTURES
Dome photographs of the sophomore, junior, and senior halls will be taken Sunday afternoon. Students are requested to consult their respective hall bulletin boards for the time and place of their respective pictures. Notices will be posted tomorrow afternoon.
AQUINAS
LIBRARY and * BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
The Scholastic
^'Juggler' Announces Publication Schedule
Harry Heyl, editor of the Juggler, University undergraduate literary periodical, recently announced that Nov. 7 has been selected as the manuscript deadline for the First Issue, with Nov. ^23 tentatively set as the publishing date.
This is earlier than in previous years due to the Juggler’s proposed schedule of four issues rather than three. The second publication date, a special issue, is set for around the end of January.
A subscription drive has begun, with the price set at $1 a year for students and $.75 for faculty. This is an increase over last year’s price and is due to the ®extra issue. Posters will 'be put up shortly and hall representatives will contact every on-campus student. In addition, a subscription booth will be opened up in the dining hall lobby within a few weeks.
The special issue, a new feature of the Juggler, is to be a collection of critical writing from last year’s classes. This writing, to come from both upper ^class and underclass authors, could not wbe included in the regular Juggler because of its size and failure to meet publication deadlines. Parts of several theses will also be included.
For the regular JUGGilEiR, all students may contribute short fiction, essays and poetry. Manuscripts can be mailed or brought to 220 Walsh Hall.
In addition to manuscripts, Heyl anz ,nounced that there are openings on the ^editorial board and the business staff.
Students interested in these openings • can also apply at 220 Walsh Hall.
Besides Editor Heyl, who is a senior English major from Peoria, Ill., other Juggler editors are: Terry Crowley, a GP senior' from Ohaha, Neb., and Bob Haverkamp, a senior English major from Naperville, Ill., who serve as business and associate editors, respectively.
♦Professor Frank O’Malley of the English department is moderator of the magazine.
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS
Daily Masses are offered for your convenience in Alumni chapel at 7:30 and 8 A.M.; and in Dillon chapel at 7:30, 8, and 8:30 A.M. In Dillon chapel, Communion is dis-F.	tributed at 10-minute	intervals
throughout the morning. Here Confessions are heard all morning, and each evening from 6 until 8 P.M. The Religious Bulletin is available I in the Dillon chapel vestibule.
ONLY PEN WITH A BUILT-IN SPARE REFILL! A cAfew PapersMate
liMMlil
YOU HAVE 2 POINTS
2 INK
suppues!
AND THEY’RE PIGGYBACK!
only ^95 at
(trademark)
*	I © THE PAPER MATE COMPANY, 1959
Notre Dame Bookstore On the Campus
Indiana University Center Foreign Film Forum
October 3. “GOD NEEDS MEN” (French) An exceedingly provocative film concerning man and his religion. (English subtitles)
October 10. “STRANGE ONES” (Les Enfants Terribles) (French) The brilliantly macabre film based on Joan Cocteau’s novel concerning an adolescent brother and sister whose deep affection for each other is colored with inevitable tragedy. With Nicole Stephens. (English subtitles)
October 17. “THE 5,000 FINGERS OF DR. T” (English) The highly imaginative fantasy depicting the dreams of a nine-year-old boy who resents practicing the piano. With Peter Lind Hayes, Mary Healey, Hans Conreid, and Tommy Rottig. A Stanley Kramer production in Technicolor.
October 24.“RASHO-MON” (Japanese) Winner of the Grand Prize at the 1951 Vienna Film Festival. With Toshiro Misune and Machiko Kyo. (English subtitles)	-
Films will be shown twice nightly at 7:30 and 9:15 p.m. on Wednesday, at the RIVER PARK THEATRE, 2927 Mishawaka Avenue. Membership in the film forum is open to all interested persons. Enrollment fee is $2.40 for the series. Enrollments may be made through members of the Sinai Sisterhood, or the Indiana University Center. Enrollments should specify the hour of showing which the eni'ollee will attend.
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
COURTESY BARBER SHOP 112 E. Washington Street South Bend, Indiana Under Max Adlei- Company B. FRED CRAVEN N. D. Boys Welcome
September 28, 1956
31
Just five blocks from Campus
1003 No. Notre Dame Ave.
Win a
FREE TRIP to the ROSE BOWL GAME! in. the Wesboro Shoe Wardrobe Contest!
f Prize: 2 tickets to the 1957 Rose Bowl game 2 free United Airlines round trip tickets to California $500 expense money 3-suit Worsted-Tex wardrobe 3-pair Wesboro Shoe wardrobe
Prizes: K 3-suit Worsted-Tex	MvllP
*	wardrobe	$25 U. S.
J/j'* 3-pair Wesboro Shoe /f\A Savings Bond wardrobe	W ’
Navy Unit Announced Officer Appointments
Several new officers have been appointed to duty at the NROTC unit on campus. 'They will replace those officers who left the unit at the end of last semester.
Lt. Col. Harvey Feehan, USMC, executive officer of the unit and associatfl professor of naval science, was previously stationed at the Marine base, Quantico, Va. Lt. Comdr. James Davis, USNR, former operations officer of the USS Vermillion, is the assistant professor of naval science in charge of freshmen. Lt. (jg) William Bartlett, USN, from the USS Higbee, is assistant professor of naval science in charge of juniors.	•
Other new personnel at the unit includes Master Sergeant William O’Brien, USMC, from the Manne headquarters in Okinawa; Robert Wersinger, fire control technician first class, USN, from the USS Cusk, a guided missile submarine operating on the West Coast; Elliott Mathis, gunner’s mate fiist class, from the attack transport USS Latimer; and Dale Haller, storekeepei' first class, USN, from an aircraft squadron witi® the Hurricane Hunters at Patuxent River, Mo.
Rev. Vincent Lonergan, chaplain’s corps, USN, is attached to the unit while doing post-graduate work at the University. Father Lonergan was formerly chaplain of the cruiser Bremerton.
This September, the contract quota for new students at the Notre Dame ROTC unit was increased from 100 t^ 125. The reason for the increase was * attributed to growing interest in the navy’s contract program for college students.
Marketing Club to Open Green Derby Sale Oct. 3
The Marketing Club has announced that it will hold its annual sale of green derbies from Wednesday, Oct. 3 througl. I Friday, Oct. 5. Most of the proceeds from the sale will go to the Bengal missions.
.'.ESBOBC S'-OES — S’vED A\j p=CES -OR ’he C©^-EGE MAN
World's easiest contest—nothing to buy, guess or solve! Just fill out entry blank and mail to: Dept. C, Peters Shoe Company, Box 1087, Chicago, III.
YOUR NAME________A---------------------------------------------------
YOUR ADORESS	...s----------------------------
CITY____________------------------------------------------------------
your wesboro	-----------
P A1IHC DDTW ■ $258 extra if you win First Prize and your DU!! Uu A HImIi ■ Wesboro Dealer's signature appears here.
Wesboro Dealer's Signature-------------------------------------------
Send as many entries as you wish!
Contest opens August IS, closes October IS, 1KC
Salesmen will be offering the derbies at a cost of $.50 per derby, at three different locations—the Post Office, the west entrance of the Field House, and the west side of Howard Hall.
Salesmen will be working from 5 to p.m. on Oct. 3 and 4 and from 11 a.m. ’ to 1 p.m. on Oct. 5.
A New Classified Section will soon appear in the SCHOLASTIC for the convenience of readers who wish to buy, sell, rent, etc.
Please watch for further notice.
32
The Scholastic
^Fr. Thornton Named to Head University Placement Bureau
Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., has been appointed placement director at the University and Rev. Richard Murphy, C.S.C., has been named his successor as director of admissions.
' Father Thornton, who had held the ^admissions post since 1945, replaced Rev.
Alfred (Mendez, C.S.C., who recently was named director of development for the Holy Cross Fathers’ Indiana Province. Father Murphy has been an assistant professor of physics at Notre Dame since 1950.
A native of Birmingham, Ala., Father Thornton was graduated from Notre Dame’s College of Commerce in 1929. ,^He took graduate work at New York ^University and Columbia University and was associated with the Guaranty Trust Co. of New York City for nine years. Returning to Notre Dame in 1938 as an instructor in finance in the College of Commerce, Father Thornton began his studies for the priesthood the following year. He was ordained June 24, 1944, and became university registrar- a year later. His title was subsequently ^changed to director of admissions.
Father Mui-phy was born in Lima, 0., but spent most of his youth at Marion and Anderson, Ind. He entered Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame in 1921 and was graduated in 1931. Since his ordination on June 24, 1934, he has been a faculty member at St. Edward’s University, Austin, Tex., at the University of Portland in Oregon, and at f Notre Dame. He is a member of the ^American Institute of Physics.
Band Finishes Tryouts; Drills For Indiana Debut
Under the leadership of Robert O’Brien, band director, the marching band is presently working on basic fundamentals while preparing for its 1956 ^opening performance at the first home football game with Indiana.
The band came back to school a week early this year for tryouts that extended five to six hours a day. O’Brien, drum major Dick Kopituk, senior sociology major from Linden, N.J., and assistant student director Bob Brown, senior in
music from Bismarck, N.D., selected the
,1.13 members from 160 candidates.
Working one and a half hours a day,
six days a week, the band hopes to show very favorably during the? first four home games. Each of the visiting schools will bring their own bands to compete against the Irish at halftime.
In addition to the five home games,
the band will make its trip, along with ^the students, to Pittsburgh.
September 28, 1956
They’re smart on campus
They score in sports...
They rate on a date...
They’re KEDS i ...they’re great!
United States Rebber
Rockefeller Center, New York 20, N.Y.
33

Rack P«fe
by Joe Taft
a scapegoat for today: the Fall cycle*
That old fall cycle has caught us again. There’s nothing we can do
—our plugs have been recharged. This is the season when insanity is in style —the season when people begin accelerating their weekly work and nourishing themselves on weekend thermos bottles, speeches, hotdogs, rallies, carbon monoxide, flasks, lap-robes, statistics and touchdowns. This is the fall cycle—the time of year when the classrooms are filling up with sun-tanned students, the newspapers are filling up with advertising campaigns, the offices are filling up with more business, the politicians are filling up their brief cases with more lies and the colosseums are filling up with T.C.P.*
This uncontrollable madness will bowl us until the first of next year. Why this four month delirium? University presidents blame the students’ spirit, the students blame the coaches, the coaches blame the alumni, the alumni blame big business, big business blames the politicians and the politicians blame the fall cycle.
What Is The Fall Cycle?
It’s easier to describe a few of the fall cycle’s escapades than to try to give it a definition. The advertising business churns full throttle through the infinite stream of newspapers, magazines, letters, radio, television et al. Gimmicks are created to lure the eager buyers— lure him to see the BIG GAME he’s been reading all week, lure him to See the new XKY-38 in his dealer’s showroom, lure him to get the new CASUAL LOOK in fall clothes, lure him to see “his political choice” at the fairgrounds —lure him to do almost anything.
Everyone hoists a banner, shakes hands, beats a drum, trades toddies and guffaws at greying hairs. Executives, coaches, bands, politicians and football players drug themselves on time-motion studies, movies, formations, propaganda and steaks—public relations runs amuck. Headlines scream the issues—IRISH FEAR GOTT’S TWISTED LIGAMENT WILL NOT UNTWIST BEFORE OPENER! . . . 1957 MODELS WILL HAVE STEREOPHONIC HORNS!... STATE UNIV. BAND DIRECTOR MARCHES RECRUITS INTO SWAMP FOR FAULTY FORMATIONS! . . . THE EGGHEAD AND I SELLS A BILLION COPIES THIS WEEK! Baseball retires with the groundhog and your family druggist stocks up on parlay cards.
Gleeful haberdashers work overtime to give the marching throng a puipose. Politicians trade their hands in for later models. Business men trade their dacron for flannel. Students trade their golf clubs for beanies, berets and brassy uniforms. Program sellers, ushers and parking lot attendants trade their deposits for badges. Cigarette models wash off their tattoos and trade their yachting attire for crested blazers and somewhere in Indiana ... a curious green hat factory opens.
Overnight, it seems, everyone becomes an authority on fashion, business, football and politics. Friendships crack under the strain of conflicting arbitrators. College surveys PROVE CONCLUSIVELY—the buckle in the back is here to stay . . . button-down shirts —a different story. Armchair investors buy stock—anticipating the increase in automobile production. Livingroom
quarterbacks scream at their wives, children and the striped shirted men who run around in their television sets. World problems are solved within the axis of neighborhood bar* stools.
Sociologists may attribute this enjoyable insanity to an inper restlessness caused by a nip in the weather, lack of sun spots, summer savings, inside confinement, increased newspaper reading, industrialization in Milan . . . but anyway you look at it—the fall cycle is here to stay.
* Touchdown Crazy People.
DEBATE TEAMS FORMED
Freshmen interested in joining the debate team are invited to attend any of the team’s regular meetings held weekdays at 4:30 p.m. in the debate room of the Student Center, located on the first floor.
No previous debate or public speaking experience is necessary in order to try out for the team, it was announced by Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics at Notre Dame and coach of the debate squad.
If a freshman is unable to attend one of the afternoon sessions, he may contact Paul Coffey, president of the debate team, in 329 Pang-born; Jack Martzell, freshman coach, in 140 Pangborn; or publicity chairman John Hirschfeld, in 229 Pangborn.
34
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
ARROW
CASUAL WEAR
The B.M.O.C. is here!
i’ colors, including new “linen”), $5.00; same model in authentic tartan stripes, $5.95; checks and stripes in cotton-rayon, $7.95.
Big model on campus, that is. It’s the new Arrow. University shirt... all-around choice of smart college men, from button-down collar in front—to center button and full box pleat in back. And these men are really traveling in style with their Arrow ties . . . • in the season’s highest rated patterns.
Tops the campus poll
Hardly surprising. For here’s the shirt that has everything the college crowd admires. Button-down collar, both front and center back. Full box pleat. And what a selection ... in new subtle oxford colors and broadcloth checks that go with every suit you own. It’s the Arrow University. Stop by and see it today.
Shirt, from $5.00;
all-silk oxford ties to match, $2.50.
^GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS (Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend