


re ~~ua~; I 7 ±-: 
.-,------------~,,_,,111,11;,.....,~. ~
.. 
¦ Do\l\ <l, -Fov-1e ~ +o VoT~~. · 
C1 
t() we wou. ld"' .,,t Wa\f\1 01 c o vf Ie o f c Iow\/\ s i V\ office• 
Contents 
February 12, I 987 Volume 128, No. 1 S 

Scholastic 

·Election '87 
6 And They're Off 
Seven tickets seek ND's top offices, but within a week only one will find success 
14 
A Race at Last 
After three years of unopposed candidates, three tickets vie for the top spots in Saint Mary's student government 
19 Then There Were Five 
Three candidates for theStudent Senate are shoo-ins, but five others try for the two remaining spots · 
Sports/ Student Life 
28/The Transition Game 
By Ian' Larkin Notre Dame's varsity athletes, like freshman Jam­ere Jackson, face a difficult adjustment on both the academic and athletic levels 
30 /Scoreboard 24/Straight From the Heart 
By John Perie From Late Night Olympics to an MS/Multicultural dance, Valentine's day is a time for students to open up their hearts 

Departments 
2/Editorial 4/\Veek In Distortion: Another David and Goliath 5/On Other Campuses: No Sex, No Drugs ... 23/Music: Hip Dudes Sing Groovy Tunes 26/Calendar 31/Restaurants: Hot Off the Griddle 32/Final Word: The Beginning of the End 
Cover Illustration by Jim Gallagher 
Scholastic magazine is published weekly during the school year except during examination and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46556 and printed at The Papen, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75/year and back isaues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a major­ity of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholaatic. Scholastic is represented nationally by CASS student advertising, Inc. O 1987 Scholastic magar:ine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permisaion is prohibited. 

Scholastic 
Scholastic 


Scholastic 
Vol. 128 February 12, 1987 No. 15 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 
Editor: Maher Mouasher 
Managing Editor: Keith Harrison 
General Manager: Philip Coghlan 
Editorial Staff 
Larry Burke: Sports Catherine Coffey: Departments Frank Lipo: News Kathleen McKernan: News Greg Miller: Student Life · Aimee Storin: Copy Bob Winn: Student Life 
Production 
Production Manager: Matthew Bradley Design Manager: Jim Doerfler Photo Manager: Allan Lim Graphic Arts Manager: Maria Murphy Systems Manager: Lawrence Pravecek 
Administrattion 
Comptroller: Pete Cespedes Circulation: Mike Hoban 
Editorial Assistants 
Ed Jordanich: Sports Steffanie Keller: News Phil Wolf: Sports 
Issue No. 15 Staff 
Artists: Layout: 
Jim Gallagher Mary Faith Feeney 
Mike Murphy Teresa Gianoli Kris Malaker Sue Serrato 
Copy Editors: Photography:
John Bowler Sara Harty Diane Dutart Anne Ranaghan R.J. Kennedy· Liz Reeves Chuck Ray Bob White Justin Smith 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine 
is accepting applications for: 
'


Advertising Manager 
Any Notre Dame_ c;,r Saint Mary's undergraduate may apply. Q.,ntact Maher Mouasher for details: Scholasti~ office, 3;d floor LaFortune, 239 -7569. Applications are due by Wednesday, February 18. 


IS ltVE HELL? 

MAIL,. C.~EC.\C.S of;?. MotJE'? OR.DE.ts TD: 
LIFE IN HELL, P.O. BOX 36£61.f~ 
LOS AJJ&Et.r:'i, CA '\003" 


Another David and Goliath 
Digger's jacket Hungarian Noodle Bake and deafening cheers comprise the N~tre Dame formula for defeating top-ranked teams 
By Mike Keegan 
uck? Absolutely not. The Gipper's Ghost?

L
Maybe. Miracle? Only God knows. 
On the first Sunday of February, the shortest month of the year, Goliath stepped onto the court to face David. Once again, Goliath was defeated. But how could this happen? After a lot of thought, I've come up with the perfect formula that spells defeat for top-ranked teams that come to Notre Dame: Defeat of a No. l Team equals Deafening Cheers minus Digger's Jacket divided by Student Disgust with Hungarian Noodle Bake. · 
It all began when Notre Dame students, annoyed by the martial law policies of the University, entered the ACC for the contest in the mood for an upset. Upon arriving at their seats, unsuspecting students found pieces of paper that held one of the keys to victory. Written upon the paper were items of obscure information about the opposing team, such 


!llfIJ~~~upf~lif; 
/'', : 
as: ''Mrs. Lebo wears army boots" and "Al McGuire gets chicks." Obvious fallacies, but to the ~aive Notre Dame student they seemed plausible. Who wants to lose to a team whose point guard's mother, wears army boots? Not us. 
As the game began, the students screamed these fallacies at the players on the court. The opposing players, knowing that someone had figured out that "boy -they really are ugly," immediately became unraveled. 
Once the foundation for the inevitable loss is esta­blished, it never fails that a wrench is thrown into the plans. This time, the minus in the equation was the jacket. 
Digger · Phelps, alias "The Incredible Hulk," calmly talking to the referees, began to transform. His unimposing figure suddenly became larger than life and began to rip through his jacket. His carna­tion turned green and, for a second, it looked as though the referee would slap a technical foul on Digger. Everyone in the stands grew nervous. How could this normally reserved mari turn into such a monster? God must have been smiling on us that day because Digger once again regained composure and no technical was called. We won! 
Probably the most important ingredient to the equation is the .last. Following the upset, students went back to their dorms and refueled with a couple of brewski's. Then the march began. Students, dressed in rain slickers, unassumingly entered the dining halls. Nervous security guards were positioned at the entrances. The Oompa-Loompas rushed for cover as a strange clinking of glasses was heard. 
Then it began: a food fight John Belushi would have been proud of. Hungarian Noodle Bake, com­plemented by glazed carrots and green-dyed lettuce, flew everywhere. As quickly as it began, it was over. Students sat still as the rubber-like noodle bake bounced around and finally settled in hard-to-clean places. The equation was complete, another Goliath defeated, another delicacy destroyed. 
Of course, this formula doesn't only apply to basketball crazies, but it does only work on the campus of Notre Dame. Why? Well, where else could 

\. you find a ornery group of cardboard-wielding ban­dits, dressed in rain slickers, throwing Hungarian Noodle Bake at Oompa-Loompas in a dining hall? I just hope that we beat another No. 1 team soon so we can get rid of ,another cafeteria delicacy, com­monly referred to as,Tofu Vegetables. ¦ 
\ 

\ Scholastic
\ 
\ 

¦¦

No Sex, No Drugs I 
Edited by Mike Farnan 

Even tea and coffee are banned at Brigham Young, but rock and roll is still allowed, at least for now 


"Sexploration" is the name of a new 
board game designed at Stanford University. Stu­dents and staff members created the game, reports the Chronicle of Higher Education, after discovering that students do not understand the complex issues surrounding sex and relationships and have difficul­ties disc·ussing them. "Sexploration" forces students to assume roles and discuss such topics as contracep­tion, drugs and alcohol, pregnancy, abortion, sexu­ally transmitted diseases and relationships. The pro­ducers of the game say they avoided creating a game that assumed players were sexually active; rather, they wanted students to clarify their values so that they would know how to act when placed in a sexual situation. 



Campuses are still inhospitable places for 
women, reports the College Press Service. In what has become an annual condemnation, the Washington-based Project on the Status and Educa­tion of Women contends that "discrimination is subtler, hiring practices are less sexist and male pro­fessors are friendlier, but college campuses remain chilly places for most women students and faculty members." Women are getting better jobs in higher education but find it harder to get promotions than their male counterparts. Bernice Sandler of the Pro­ject explains, saying that ••while many men are not even aware they're being discriminatory, many women don't realize when they're being discrim­inated against." 

Planned speakers at schools either aren't 
showing or aren't acceptable. Pulitzer Prize winning reporter Thomas Tureol initially told University of Delaware officials he couldn't fulfill his commitment to address last semester's winter commencement class because he was too busy working on a story. But Turcol later admitted, "I choked. That is why I wasn't there." At the University of San Francisco, president Father John Lo Schiavo said Supreme Court Justice Harry Blackmun's legal opinions on abortion and homosexual rights contradicted Catholic beliefs, making him an unsuitable commencement speaker at the Roman Catholic USF Law School gra­duation. 


An interview with their religious leader or 
a campus counselor is now required for students at Brigham Young University prior to registration, recently reported the Chronicle of Higher Education. In addition to the interview, students must also sign a form before each semester saying they are abiding by the honor code. Among other things, the code prohi­bits the consumption of alcohol, tea, coffee and illi­cit drugs and requires students to remain sexually 
chaste. A spokesman for Brigham Young said the new procedures were designed to "reach out to acer­tain group that was having problems." ¦ 

February 12, 1987 s 


Election '87 



And They're Off. 
Seven tickets seek ND's top offices, but within a week, only one will find success 



Seven tickets will be on the ballot next Tuesday when Notre Dame undergraduates go to the polling places. Scholastic interviewed each ticket individually about their goals and attitude toward the top positions in student government. The inter­
views are arranged alphabetically by the presidential candidates' last names. 
Pat Cooke, Laurie Bink 
Pat Cooke, sophomore class president, is running for student body president with JPW commissioner Laurie Bink. 
What are your two main goals? 
Cooke: First of all, we'd like to bring student govern­ment back to the students. It seems that too many times that they get wrapped up in issues and things on a much broader scale. We fully agree that those issues are important, but by the same token, come April l, whe1t they look back on what they've done, it isn't all that ·much -they ~eally haven't affected the majority of the students all that much. We'd like to start doing the little things that will affect people. 
How would you see your relationship with the student 
body? . 
Cooke: It's bringing their ideas to reality. A lot of stu­dents out there have good ideas and would like to ·see things· implemented, and a lot of them are graduating with the same ideas. We'd like to have the type of rela­tionship with students where they could come up to us and hopefully we could change things for them. 
6. 
What do you consider to be the biggest strengths and weaknesses you would bring to the positions? 
Bink: We have a positive attitude, and we realize that we're students and that. we can help all the students bring their ideas together. 
Cooke: We can relate to people well. But maybe some­times, we think we can change things that we really can't. Maybe we're too optimistic about the position and too optimistic about abilities. 
How would you improve residence life? The status of the off-campus student? 
Bink: One thing that we've talked about is bringing more halls together to do interhall activities. The halls themselves do have dances, but we thought it would be nice if more halls could get together, maybe bringing halls from the two different quads together. 
Cooke: More halls should sponsor trips and activities. 
Bink: If halls need help in initiating things like the Keenan Revue, which really brings Keenan together, that's what we should do. 

Cooke: Lack of security for off-campus students is a problem. Every break, there is a problem. The police could increase squads around Campus View during breaks. · 
Bink: Also, we have to direct more publicity towards the off-campus students. 


Election '87 


Notre Dame student body president candidate Pat Cooke and vice presidential candidate Laurie Bink. 
Cooke: The rates of apartment complexes are exorbi­tant. They know students will pay any price. Some­thing has to be done with the managers of Campus View, sit down and talk with them, to get that 
changed. 
If a senate vote was proposed on a controversial issue, would you vote based on your convictions or would you poll your constituents? 
Cooke: We're elected as representatives, and to vote based on our personal views ·is ~rong, because we wouldn't be representing the students that elected us. But, I would hope that many of my beliefs fall in the same range as our constituents. 
If the senate didn't support an issue I felt strongly about, I'd have to reevaluate the issue. 
What, if anything, doyou think should be done about alcohol-related issues? 
Cooke: The steps have been taken so far in the right direction. BACCHUS has done a tremendous job, and next year trying to reach the freshman class is good. You have to reach the freshman while they're still considering alternatives. A lot of people have blamed the alcohol policy, but you can't say they're going to change the policy. 
February 12, 1987 
Willie Franklin, Jim Magnan 

Willie Franklin and Jim Magnan are juniors running for student body president and vice president. 
What are your two main goals? 
Franklin: Our first main goal would be to see how we could make modifications in the social life here by trying to work with the new administration on the alcohol policy. Secondly, I'd like to try and get school spirit up like it was for the North Carolina game. Since I've been here I don't feel the school spirit's been what it should be at Notre Dame. 
How do you see your relationship with the student body? 
Franklin: We'd like to get a close relationship with them, as close as we can. We want to try and see what they want done and get it done. 
Mangan: I think we know what most students want because we're typical students. We'.re involved but we're not gung ho on tons of aspects of the Univer­sity, like student government. We're not really into that, we're just typical students, and we know what most students want. 
What do you consider to be the biggest strengths and weaknesses you would bring to the positions? 
Franklin: One of our biggest strengths is that we've both lived on campus for two years. We know on­campus and off-campus life and I feel that knowing that we'll be able to work from there and get what we want accomplished done. If you'd call it aweak­ness, I'd say it's that we don't have any experience per se, but I feel our strengths outweigh our weaknesses. 
How would you improve residence life? The status of off-campus students? 
Franklin: On campus, the social life. We have to offer more activities on campus. For off campus, something has to be done with the situation with the polic~ · 
If a senate vote was proposed on a controversial issue, would you vote based on your convictions or would you poll your constituents? 
Magnan: I think we'd vote based on our convictions. Given recent events, what if anything, should be done by student government about alcohol-related issues? 



Election '87 



...... ~ 
s· 
f/l
e. 
;. 

Candidate for Notre Dame student body vice president Jim Magnan, left, and presidential candidate Willie Franklin. 
Magnan: I think the alcohol policy right now is too harsh. We just need to keep people here. In dorms maybe, give them an extra SYR or formal. We're thinking about a happy hour period or maybe once in a while dorms having parties for over 21-year-olds to keep people here. 
Franklin: If we were elected, we'd definitely have to try and change something with the policy. The current policy, I believe, promotes alcoholism in that you're allowed to drink, but you have to drink in your room and you're only allowed to have a certain number of people. People are going to drink, so you basically have to drink by yourself in your room. I think underage students should be able to drink in their dorms but I don't think they should be able to infringe on other students rights by being drunk and rowdy. 
Raul Gonzales, Bill Donaruma 
Raul Gonzales and Bill Donaruma are sophomores both living in Grace Hall. 
8 
What are your two main goals? 
Gonzales: First of all, to say our main goals, I have to say what our purpose is. what our ideas of being stu­dent body president and vice president are~ We want to take a different approach. We want to use this position to make Notre Dame a more popular and respectable campus through working on a national level, focusing on things nationally for the student body instead being concerned with things within the campus. If they haven't been changed yet they're not going to be for a long time. 
We're going to go on a national campaign. We're going to go on national fund raisers led by Notre Dame. In doing so we hope to bring out the student body. We want to show the student body is concerned with the rest of the nation, the rest of the world. We want to help out awareness groups and anti-apartheid groups. We want to give them more national attention. 
How would you see your relationship with the student body? 
Gonzales: Students main concern · here is things on campus -they want things changed. We're going to be very open to that. 
What are the biggest strengths and weaknesses you would bring to the positions? 
Gonzales: Our biggest strength is that we're go-getters. We're very much for unprecedented action. We're very much for challenges. My biggest strength is that I'm the type of guy who likes to 'go for it' a lot. I'm very enthusiastic. 
Our weakness would probably be our lack of experi­ence. 
F;I~.ctio~s: Tlle~~.stY··Feb.•.••.•1.7·•from.•·•l2JO 5 (. 
th~. I9pbxof I.,a:F9rtupe for off7cam.pus ~f};<+(: 
Y.····... ·.•.o ...·•·•·······.··••....t .. ..0.b···b•···•·Y···.···•·•··o .. • ... ch.1 ..i·d·.u··a·.•l··· d ......r..·.•..... · .......
.. tin•·•··g···.·.·•··m ...·.h.e 1 .... e.a.. ..·n.div .. ..··o.· ..·
..r .....·.m •.·.
...•.·.•.•.•.f
1.1 ~T· t9}' p.l11.•andfrom.4:30 to.·6:30p;.111\ 
d.ents IB~St presfnt fhefr IE>s .• to yote. The rJ~~l 
ticket IB~strreceive a simple.· majority of tl).e y 
(s9.·.perc(:1:tto:-•l•·v9te). 
.· J.{~~-:prr.••(if II~eq.ed):Thursday Fep, T9i 
Scholastic 




1, 
We're regular guys; we're not "student-body president" types. We don't want to go on our creden­tials. We want to set forth what we're going to do and then do it. 
How would your improve residence life? The status of the off-campus student? 
Gonzales: Residence life, realistically, is not as bad as people make it seem. Now as far as changing anything, we don't see anything immediately. Students may want changes, but as far as pinpointing one specific thing, that's not going to be so much our main concern. 
Donaruma: Parking facilities is something we'd work on. It seems like such a hassle to live off campus. We'd like to make access easier. 
To improve residence life, improve the insides of the facilities. They've had a cockroach problem in Howard. Painting in the towers has really made a big difference. It's the little things like that that make a big difference. 
If a senate vote was proposed on a controversial issue, would you vote based on your convictions or would you want to poll your constituents? 
Gonzales: It would definitely be for our constituents, on their behalf. This is not a selfish escapade. We don't want power. We just want to allow the students to get their voice. 
Given recent events what, if anything, should be done 
by student government about alcohol-related issues? 
Gonzales: Student government is headed in the right direction. The alchohol awareness programs have been very effective. The more we deal with the problem, the more people will think about it. 
Gonzales and Donaruma declined to be photographed 
for this issue 
John Lake, Debbie Delahanty 
Junior John Lake is running for student body president with sophomore Debbie Delahanty. 
What are your two main goals? 
Delahanty: One main goal is to improve the social 
life around here. I think everyone complains that 
there's not enough to do and I think there's a lot to 
February 12, 1987 
do. People just don't know about it. We'd probably do it just through more publicity. 
Lake: I've been in London, so I'm still getting re­oriented to the University. I don't know exactly what the student government's been doing since I've been gone, so I'd need to get involved and see what the issues are. Basically, our goal is to get involved and to get to meet people. 


Candidates for Notre Dame student body president and vice president John Lake and Debbie Delahanty. 

How do you see your relationship with the student body? 
Lake: Being able to go out and interact with the stu­dents is what the job is really all about. 
What would you consider to be the biggest strengths and weaknesses you would bring to the positions? 
Lake: Our biggest strength is our ability to get along with people and relate with people. 
Delahanty: Another thing is that we're both good listeners. We like to hear what people have to say and then act on that. 




Election '87 

Lake: Our biggest weakness would probably be that we haven't been involved in student government in the'last few years. · 
How would you improve residence life? The status of off-campus students? 
Lake: Bring more competition between the halls and make the halls more involved. 
Delahanty: Just improving the social life in the dorms. I think there could be more events that could unite the halls maybe through dorms meeting other dorms. For off-campus students, I think they should have more access to campus through better parking and places to go between classes. 
Marty Rodgers, "Buzz" Eckelkamp 
Martin Rodgers, student body presidential can­didate, is currently student government's executive coordinator for student affairs. He is running with current Dillon Hall President Buzz Eckelkamp. 

What are your two main goals? 
Rodgers: I would say say that we don't have two main goals. The University currently is in a year of transition, with the number of women being increased, the Hesburgh/Malloy transition, and the $300 million fundraiser. What we're going to attempt to do is work with the administration to design a new direction and a new identity for the University. 
How do you see your relationship with the student body? 
Eckelkamp: Marty has the administrative experience, whereas I've done most of my work within the hall. From that we're going to work with the students and take the students' side in working with the adminis­tration. To bring forth from our experiences what the students want and use that in our dealings with the administration. 
What do you consider to be the biggest strengths and weaknesses you would bring to the positions? 
Rodgers: Our biggest strength is in our mix. We have the interaction with the students, but we're not the typical campus politicians. What we're trying to do is combine the strongest aspects of the Switek/Montanaro regime with the emphasis on the 
students. We're also building on that in that we have the experience and we know how to deal with the administration and get the job done. 
I've been an advisor with the College Board and an admissions counselor at the University. I'm the first student ever. to have that honor. As such, I'll automatically have that respect. I won't have to go in and gain that respect. Also, we're trying to incor­porate students who have experience in the dorms as well as those who haven't traditionally participated in student government, as well as those who have national experience and campus-wide experience. 
Eckelkamp: I don't really believe that we have any weaknesses. The only thing that might be a weakness is that we're both from South Quad. · 
How would you improve residence life? The status of off-campus students? 
Rodgers: In terms of the residentiality, one of the things we'd do would be to work with the dorms in increasing funding. Maybe if the dorm had some~ thing it really wanted to do, we'd be there to match the funds. Another thing we're proposing is the reno-


Scholastic 




Election '87 

vation of the Rockne Memorial, so the students would have some place to go that's new and updated. 
One of our other major· proposals is a credit card 
system similar to the set-up of the one in the book­
store that you could use in LaFortune, down in the 
Huddle. For off-campus living there is a need to 
work more closely with South Bend and promote a 
better relationship with the city. Also, to work with 
the 24 hour lounge so that they have someplace to go 
if they want to stay here and study after the library 
or the Faculty Dining Room in South Dining Hall is 
closed. 
If a senate vote were proposed on a controversial issue, would you vote based on your convictions or would you poll your constituents? 
Rodgers: I think we'd have to act for our consti­tuents. We're not there for us. In terms of getting information from the students, we want to work more closely with the HPC. There's a need for the HPC to get more involved in campus-wide political issues. 
Given recent events what, if anything, should be done by student government about alcohol-related issues? 
Eckelkamp: With the development of student groups like BACCHUS, we can only continue to support those groups..It doesn't seem to me that the Univer­sity is going to let up on the Alcohol Policy. It's something that's here to stay and we're going to have to learn to live with it and to work with it and try to offer alternatives. We just need students to realize it's never going to be like it was. · 
Rodgers: There is an idea of the alcohol· policy as being untouchable and the basic policy behind it is untouchable. In the same way that we worked with changing du Lac in terms of parietals, it can be modified in terms of lessening the severity of the punishments. 
Bill Sammon, Grace Giorgio 
Bill Sammon is a junior running for student body president with Grace Giorgio. 
February 12, 1987 What are your two main goals? 
Sammon: I think there should be an expansion of contact between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. We're all one community. Sometimes, what we do and what they do seems to duplicate each ot.her and it doesn't need to be like that. Secondly, to improve student life. There are various things you could do for that, like keeping a space in LaFortune open 24 hours. 
How do you see your relationship with the student body? 
Sammon: I think student government has to be more of students serving students rather than students serving themselves. 
.c: 
] 
1:/l 
.5
..,

., . 
::, 
.... 


Notre Dame student body presidential candidate Bill Sammon and running mate Grace Gior&io. 
What do you consider to be the biggest strengths and weaknesses you would bring to the positions? 
Sammon: One of the largest strengths is that we're very lively. We're not restricted by a lot. 
Giorgio: We both work well with people. Our· biggest weakness might be that we haven't been involved 



Election '87 



and we don't know exactly how the system works. 
Sammon: At the same time, I think that's a strength. 
How would you improve residence life? The status of off-campus students? 
Sammon: A large part of anyone's social' life around 
here is the hall. The halls should be given more money to do what they want with. I think off-campus students have to be brought more into the activities on campus. 
Giorgio: I think there has to be more awareness. Peo­ple have to know that they have representation. There has to be better communication. 
If a senate vote was proposed on a controversial issue, would you vote based on your convictions or would you poll your constituents? 
Giorgio: I would vote based on my convictions because the reason that I would be elected would be because they know that's what I believed. 
Sammon: I think there has to be some combination of the two. I have confidence in my ability to make a decision. · 
Given recent events what, if anything, should be done by student government about alcohol-related issues?· 
Sammon: Drinking can be a very good thing. Many people enjoy it. I don't think student government should run around like chickens with their heads cut off just because these particular things have hap­pened. There's always this knee-jerk reaction 'We have to do something' when that's not the case. 
Drinking is a very accepted means of social life and I think that's largely a failure of the University right now in not recognizing that. If people can't learn to drink responsibly in college, they're going to have to learn when they're out there doing something really responsible, and that's unfortunate. 
Vince Willis, Cathy Nonnenkamp 
Vince Willis, currently manager of Theodore's, is running for student body president, with Junior Class President Cathy Nonnenkamp. 
12 
What are your two main goals? 
Willis: We'd like to bring accountability and true representation to student government. We feel the the student body president and vice president need to effectively input into the decision-making process with the Board of Trustees and the administration. To do that, we need to know what the stud~nt opinion truly is. 

Running for Notre Dame student body president and vice president are Vince Willis and Cathy Nonncnkamp. 
As far as accountability goes, there's double the money this year, it doesn't seem as though we're get­ting any more for it. We have to know where it's being sent. We need elected officials deciding where it's going, and we need to make sure that the people that are appointed are responsible to us, thereby being responsible to the student body. 
How do you see your relationship with the student body? 
Willis: We feel that if they put enough confidence in us to elect us we have to go out to them directly and let them know that they can come to us. That's a lot 
Scholastic 



Election '87 

for two people. We have to make sure the rest of the system works to get those opinions. 
What do you consider to be the biggest strengths and weaknesses you would bring to the position? 
Nonnenkamp: Experience is a strength. We've been involved; we know the system. And we've shown that we're dedicated. 
Willis: We have probably the most experience. We see the problems and we have the experience to solve them. 
How would you improve residence life? The status of off-campus students? 
Willis: We think that there should be some sort of senior townhouses. The residents would benefit from 
our administration, because while the student body president and student body vice president are much more than social planners, the students are going to get $300,000 worth of social life next year if we win. On Thursday nights they can go bowling with their class; on Friday, they'll be a concert or a play. The social life 
is going to improve. 
Nonnenkamp: What we can do for the off-campus stu­dents is get them the 24-hour space in LaFortune, someplace where they can meet. 
Willis: I think one of our best student life programs is getting some sort of bus service to the airport on those few days when 90 percent of us leave and we all have to shell out $8 for a cab. 
If a senate· vote was proposed on a controversial issue, would you vote based on your convictions or would you want to poll your constituents? 
Willis: If there was an issue that we felt strongly about that wasn't getting support, we'd take it top and to the students. You have to try to make people see your point, but if they don't see it, then you give people representation they want. 
Given recent events what, if anything, should be done by student government about alcohol-related issues? 
Willis: For starters, there needs to be more education. We're getting that in freshman year next year, but someone has to make sure that the program doesn't turn into something completely worthless. I personally believe it's time for someone to look into the alchohol policy itself. It was implemented for a reason. It's time to see if it has accomplished what it was set out to. It was supposed to be more than liability, now we have to make it more than liability. II 




Election '87 
ARace At Last 
After three years of unopposed candidates, three tickets vie for the top spots in Saint Mary's student government 

For the first time in three years, more than one ticket will vie for the top position in Saint Mary's student government Students will• have the option of marking their ballots for one of three tickets. Scholastic interviewed the members of each of the tickets last 
week about their candidacy and their plans_ if elected. The interviews are arranged here alphabetically by the last names of the candidates for student body president. 
Sarah Cook is running for student body president and is currently vice president for student affairs. Her vice president for academic affairs would be/ Jill Winterhalter and her vice president for student affairs would be Janel Hamann. Win­terhalter is currently junior class vice president and Hamann is currently sophomore class president. 
How would you restructure student government? 
Cook: I think that the three boards we have are effective. Although one branch, the student academic council, I see as being the weakest part. I wan( people to know there is a student academic council, and I want department chairs to be aware that we do want to do things. As far as investigation into senior comprehensive exams, we've made it apparent to the department heads and to Teresa Marcy (assistant to the vice president) that the way the comprehensives are dealt with provokes a lot of anxiety. They are not, as some seniors wish, a cele­bration of their four years of education, but are very nervewracking. 
I feel that our hall government can be and should be more directed toward improving the quality of residence life. I've had a positive experience living in a residence hall, and I think we can come up with n10re ways to make the dorms more livable. 
Winterhalter: We'd also like to change the name of 
the academic council to the academic board, so that 
it would meet on either a biweekly or weekly basis, 
because it does not'meet that way now. We just want 
the students to know that they have a place where · they can express and exchange ideas. 
I think that class and student body government is much stronger than hall government, and we're look­ing to strengthen hall government as well as improv­ing the living conditions. 
What are the two main goals of your campaign? 
Winterhalter: Our ideas with the academic council would be one of our main goals. We'd really like to see some changes in that. We'd also like to bring more interesting speakers here. 1988 is an election year, and we'd really like to increase students' aware­ness of what's going on, on and off campus. 
Cook: We've been able to see quite a few things change this year, and we're looking into changing the library hours on Sunday mornings. The more awareness that we have, the more things people start coming to us with. 
Hamann: I think that's why we've had such an increase in participation, such as the great response of people wanting to get involved (in the election). 
By increasing the awareness, students will figure out where to go if they have a problem. 
In light of the tragedy (Michael Cogswell's death) on the Saint Mary's campus, do you see a need for stricter regulations regarding the clubhouse? 
Cook: I think the position that student activities has now is very realistic. By having the policy like they 



Election .'87 


Candidates for Saint Mary's student government, from left: Julie Parrish, Eileen Hetterich, and Smith Hashagan. 
do, the College is saying to Saint Mary's students 
Yoµ·are responsible adults, and we're giving you this 
privilege.' It's been the experience that the students 
abuse the privilege. I think think that the policy 
needs to be enforced more actively. I have a feeling 
that in the future students will be required to have a 
security guard present to check IDs. We don't have 
an)( changes, but we do support that. 
What makes your ticket different from that of your opponents? 
Winterhalter: First of all, we're a very diverse ticket. We have experience in different areas. We're a com­petent ticket with a lot of enthusiasm and energy to make things change. 
Hamann: We're very concerned with representing the students. We'd really like to see students have the possibility to become involved. We could do that by, as we were saying, increasing the awareness. 
Cook: I think it's going to take three people who have the energy and the excitement and the enthusiasm and the experience to go to the students. You can't sit in the offices with your door open and say 'Come to me with your problems and we'll solve them.' You have to go out to the people, and that's what we intend to do. We actively seek their help, and their suggestions. 
Eileen Hetterich is running for student body president and is currently junior class president. Her vice president for academic affairs would be · Julie Parrish and her vice president for student affairs would be Smith Hashagen. Parrish is currently McCandless Hall president and Hashagen is Saint Mary's representative to the Notre Dame 
Hall Presidents' Council. 
How would you restructure student government? 
Hashagen: One small thing we would like to change is to make the position of treasurer an elected posi-
February 12, 1987 
tion as opposed to an appointed position, as it is now. We all three feel that it's an important position and it's not fair for us to decide who should handle the funds for Saint Mary's. 
We feel the hall and class structure is going along pretty well, it just needs to be enhanced. Just keep­ing people informed is what helps with the hall government and the class government. 
Parrish: To add to that, there needs to be more unity between all the halls and the classes. 
Hetterich: Another thing that needs to be done is there needs to be a restructuring of the freshman elections. What happens is, because of the election structure, there is confusion in the freshman class as to how the election should be done. 
What are the two main goals of your campaign? 
Hashagen: Last year only 30 percent of the student body voted. That's going to be our main thing, to get more than just the 50 people now who are involved in student government and seem to do everything. 
There also .needs to be more communication between off-campus students and the Saint Mary's community. There are a lot of events on campus that they don't know about, such as getting Keenan Revue tickets. 
Hetterich: I think the drinking, the driving and the alcohol is going to be a major issue to face as a new administration, and that one of the things we'd like to work for are new and different social alternatives in which we're able to make more use of the facilities at Saint Mary's. Saint Mary's has great facilities, and a lot of them are used for academic purposes. We 



Election '87 


comprehensive exams, registration. Students are voicing their dislikes about it. I'd like to continue the programs that the current vice president for academic affairs started and actually show the stu­Hashagen: Obviously, something needs to be done. They attempt to put very strict rules on the use of the clubhouse. Most of the time all these rules are 
Election '87 



int Mary's Studen 
ELEC 



Formulates and advances position of student body 
on issues concerning student life, determines stu­
dent government fiscal policy, allocates student 
activities funds, sets election regulations, determines 
who will represent the student body at Board of 
Trustees meetings, appoints special committees and 
approves student government cabinet and SAB 
appointments, among other duties. Composed of 
representatives from other branches of government, 
five elected senators and a Saint Mary's rep. Meets 
each week and is established by the constitution. 
Chaired by the student body president. 
Judicial Council 
Provides assistance to students accused of violating University rules and regulations. Also pro­motes efforts that will foster greater student understanding of the University rules, regulations and disciplinary procedures. Established by the constitution, it is composed of the judicial board chairpersons of each dorm and a judicial coordinator. 

Student Body President VP for Academic Affairs VP for Student Affairs 
risdiction over proposed chang . Meets each week and is chair dent body president. Compose d class presidents, comroissio ame rep and an RA re 

Plans activities and coordinates student events on campus. Meets each week and is chaired by the vice president for stu­dent affairs. Composed of hall and class vice presidents and various commissioner. 
Student Academic Council 
Provides a forum for discussion of academic policies and proposed changes of that policy. Chaired by the vice president for academic 
affairs and College relations. Composed of student reps from each academic department of the College and from College committees. 
really nice time. In some instances when the rules aren't followed, a tragedy can occur. I don't think it's a huge issue on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Hetterich: Some people who go out to rent the club­house read the rules as rules, they don't look for the reasons behind them. I thi.nk that we need to com­
municate the reasons behind the rules and the responsibilities they're taking on for other people who are attending these parties. 
What makes your ticket different from that of your opponents? 
Hashagen: We know what peoole want and we like to have a good time in everything we do. You have to 
February 12, 1987 
17 





Election '87 

Then There Were Five 
Three candidates for theStudent Senate are shoo-ins but five others try for the two remaining spots 

There are eight candidates running for positions as student senators this year. Scholastic interviewed each of the candidates separately to discover more about their plans and qualifica­tions. In District 3 and District 4 there is more than one candidate, 
while candidates in District 1, 2 and 5 are running unopposed. The candidates' responses are arranged alphabetically by last name in the two districts with more than one candidate. In the other three districts, the responses of the unopposed candi­dates are listed in numerical order by district. 
District 3 
Dave Bruner and Mike Carrigan, two freshmen from Dillon Hall, face each oiher in this race. Bruner is currently Dillon's representative to the Freshman Advisory Council and Carrigan is currently a Dillon Hall Couizcil member. 
What are your district's specific needs? 
Bruner: One of the key things in my campaign is communication. One of my main goals would be to improve this situation, perhaps some kind of a forum for the students to the administration. I feel that our district could greatly benefit from an improved advisory council under the student sena­tor. 
Carrigan: Our district will be going through a lot of changes, with the new girls' dorm, with more and more people moving off campus. We'll be a 
February 12, 1987 
younger quad. More and more people will be com­ing in who aren't familiar with the traditions, so I think it's important to try and revive all the tradi­tions and the spirit that have made the South Quad unique. 
I'd like to try to unify the South Quad through functions within the South Quad and have competi­tions with the North Quad, like a blood drive or a community service project. Once we get the South Quad together as a team, we'll have the spirit. 
What are your two main goals? 
Bruner: I plan to do a senate-wide survey covering the broad nature of University topics. It's been done very well in other districts. Again, it's my main theme of communication. We have to get the people themselves involved and interested. 
Carrigan: To specifically represent the needs of the South Quad. I plan to attend hall council meetings 

.... 

i::
.,
....
5· 

e tll ..... 
::r 
District 3 candid.lites Dave Bruner and Mike Carrigan. 




\ · -Election '87 


in all the halls in my district and get to know the hall governments. I'd like the halls to feel that they are truly represented to the Student Senate through me. Secondly, I'd like to lead the quad through the changes that are going to be going on, with the new president and the review of policies that will be occurring next year. 
How do you see your relationship with the student body? 
Bruner: As a public figure who is available to be contacted with any sort of problems. I see myself as a mediator between the students and people in positions of authority. 
Carrigan: I think of myself as typical, and because of that I can represent the needs of typical students. I'd also like to get tq know my constituency by reaching out to every dorm. That way, I can represent them in the best way. 
What do you consider to be the biggest strengths 
and weaknesses you would bring to the position? Bruner: On the strength side, I've generally been known as a leader. I enjoy responsibility. I don't shy away from a challenge. As far as weaknesses, I haven't been on the Student Senate before but I feel that intuition as well as hard work make up for that. 
Carrigan: The biggest strengths would be experi­ence and also commitment. I really enjoy leader­ship and so therefore, I will work very hard at it. Now, I haven't seen a lot of the politics in student government and that could be a weakness. It could also be a breath of fresh air. 
Will you be voting with your district specifically in mind or for the campus' overall benefit? 

District 4 candidates Laura Janke and Mike Schadek. 
20 
Bruner: The entire campus has to be taken into consideration. It'll be a wide base of opinion -the way I feel and the way the majority feels. There is such a diverse group of people. You have to do your best to represent the community as a whole. 
Carrigan: I feel that I'll have to represent my con­stituents overall. However, if it were something that were detrimental to the campus as a whole, I'd have to follow my conscience. 
If there was an issue that you felt very strongly 
about, how would you pursue it? What if the Sen­
ate didn't support you -where would you go from 
there? 
Bruner: I'm the type of person that doesn't like to be hasty. I pride myself on being the kind of per-. son that does a lot of research and investigates all the aspects. I'd try to get as much input as I could. If the senate refused the issue, I'd have to go straight to the constituents. 


... C m... s·  Carrigan: I'd go about it by showing that my issue had the support of the student body, through peti­ 
tll e..... ::r  tions or statements. I'd try to convince the Student Senate to go with my issue. If they didn't agree, I'd  
look  into  other  avenues  like  the  · HPC  or  the  
administration.  
District 4  
Sophomore Laura Janke and freshman Michael  
Schadek challenge sophomore incumbent Steve Viz  
in  this  race.  Janke  is  from  Pasquerilla  East,  
Schadek from Grace Hall and Viz lives in Flanner.  
Scholastic  



Election '87 

What are your district's specific needs? 
Janke: Since the dorms' location is so far out, a lot of times they're thought of as the 'third world' of campus. People that I've talked to feel that it's kind of left out in a lot of the activities. I'd like to get the dorms in the district more involved with each other. 
We need more interdorm activities, and I also don't think communication has been very good. Schadek: First of all, our specific needs are representatives who will represent their views, and we need creative individuals who will spur involve­ment on ideas and concerns and will come up with creative projects. 
I've had a great deal of high school student government experience; I know how to work admin­istratively with the issues. My three ideas center on the cafeteria in terms of seating and serving the food in North Dining Hall. The type of food also has to be looked into. 
Secondly, we should get involved with issues on a larger, national scale. I'd like to start working on the nuclear issue, work on a nuclear weapon-free zone for the University, patterned after the zone in Ober­lin, Ohio. What that says is no work, no research could be done on nuclear weapons. It's highly sym­bolic, but it shows our dedication to the issue. The students in District 4 can become involved with issues on a grand scale with someone who would work for these issues. 
Lastly, we need creative issues, we need some­thing to break the monotony. I'd like to do something like 'David Letterman Week' -Chris Elliot look-alike contests, invite David Letterman to come see District 
4. . 
Viz: Specific needs of the residents of Flanner, Grace, Pasquerillas East and West are mainly with the North Dining Hall, and that's what I'll be con­centrating on. 
North Dining Hall is one need and the continued improvement of security in D2 lot, where most of the residents of my district park. I'm also going to work on a more equitable laundry situation for both guys and girls. 
I'd like to continue the newsletters to let my dis­trict know what's going on. 
The big issue is the improvement of North Dining Hall, especially during finals with the influx of South Quadders, untimely reservation of A line, and long lines. This is an issue which affects people every day. Along with the continued times for continental breakfast for people with 8 and 9 a.m. classes. 
February 12, 1987 


.... 
i:: 
m
... 
s· 

t/le.... 
=­

Incumbent senators Steve Viz and Brian Holst. 

I've already had a meeting with the manager, who was very receptive to the ideas. I'll meet with her again as a follow up, after that I'll arrange a meeting with Mr. (William) Hickey, the head of University Food Service. 
How do you see your relationship with the student body? 
Janke: Hopefully friendly. I want to be very open to any suggestions or complaints. My main goal is to serve them. 
Schadek: I'm very similar to. the majority of other individuals here in that I'm concerned about a great many issues. I'm different in that I'm going to try to institute these ideas. 
Viz: I'd like to see it as a student advocate, whereby if a student has concerns, he can come to me, and we can work on a solution. 
What do you consider to be the biggest strengths and weaknesses you would bring to the position? 

Janke: I'm very outgoing and friendly. that position needs someone who is very strong-willed and deter­mined, yet will still be very receptive. 
I can't help you on the weaknesses. 

Schadek: The biggest strengths are enthusiasm and creativeness. My biggest weakness is that I'm too idealistic sometimes. 
Viz: My biggest strength is that I'm a good listener, I can pick up on what students' concerns are. 
My weakness is that I don't talk a whole lot. I tend to let other people talk at first, before I come out with my opinion. Maybe that's not really a weakness. 
Will you be voting with your district specifically in mind or for the campus' overall benefit? 






Election '87 


Janke: I would tend to think that anything that would benefit the district would also contribute to the campus as a whole, but representing the district would have to be my first priority. 
Schadek: I'd say for the campus as a whole. 
Viz: I tried to vote as my district would like, but for most of the issues unless you took a poll as to what the district would like, it's impossible to know for sure what they would think. There's not a whole lot of issues that deal with specific districts. 
District 1 District 2 District 5 
Brian Holst is a junior who lives in Holy Cross Hall. He is the incumbent from District 1 and is running unopposed. 
Sophomore Sean Hoffman is a resident of Stan­ford Hall. He is running unopposed in District 2. 
Steve Wene, a junior, is running unopposed in District 5, for the off-campus berth. 
What are you're district's specific needs? 
Holst: The relocation program of Carroll and Holy Cross is a concern. I worked together on that with the presidents of Carroll and Holy Cross. The relocation program was just approved by Father Tyson (vice president for student affairs) and Evelyn Reinebold (director of student residences), so it's official. Now, the concern is to make the transition as smooth as possible without any adverse effects. 
Hoffman: One need is to get rid of the apathy that we have. I'm running uncontested, which at first shocked me, but after thinking about it, it's not really that shocking. I'd like to promote a little enthusiasm. I'd like to have everyone know who I am, that would show that I'd be able to accomplish getting everyone else involved. 
I'd like to arrange things to promote a little unity on North Quad. I'd like to have dorm meetings with the hall government. 
Wene: Off-campus is a bit unique. The job of the off-campus senator is to make sure the students maintain contact with the University :ictivities. 
I'm well qualified to fulfill needs. I've been involved with social aspects, Bookstore Basketball and An Tostal, and social aspects are a big part of off-campus. 
I'd like to make sure that off campus there is a awareness of what's going on on campus, so that off-campus students are not left out. 
22 
How do you see your relationship with the student body? 
Holst: As a spokesperson for student interests. Being a senator, I'm a liaison between the students and the administration. 

Hoffman: I'd see it as a communicator. They'd come 
to me with their problems. I'd like to have them 
come to me with problems so I can act on them. 
Wene: I'm part of the student body, that's just a given. I'm just like anybody else; I'm not going to set myself upon a pedestal. 
What do you consider to be the biggest strengths and weaknesses that you would bring to the position? 
Holst: My biggest strength would be my experience in student government. I've been involved in student government since the second week of my freshman year. I haven't missed a Student Senate meeting since I've been on campus. I know what's going on and I know the position. I know the administration well enough to know how and what to pursue. As far as weaknesses, I'm not perfect, but I have the qualities needed to get the job done. 

..c: 
] 

tr.I 
.s..., ::s"' 
'"> 



District 2 candidate Sean Hoffman and District 5 candidate Steve Wene. 
Hoffman: One of my weaknesses is that I'm conservative-minded. I've pretty much gone with a conservative way of doing things, I'd like to break away from that in order to look for points. 
My strength is that I know most everyone in my dorm. Getting a good knowledge of the people in my district would be one of my goals. 
Wene: My weakness is a lack of legislative experi­ence. My strength is my organizational skills. I've been forced to develop contacts around campus through Bookstore and An Tostal. Ill 
Scholastic 




Hip Dudes SingGroovy Tunes 
The results vary, however, as Bruce Cockburn 
. ' 

the Smithereens and World Party come under the gun 
By Melchizedek and Jones 

hese reco~ds aren't th~t ~ew. 
But we Just got them, so 
they're pretty new to us. 
And despite what you may have · 
heard, they're not all great. Scho." 
lastic doesn't buy these records for 
us, and we have better things to do 
with our dough than shelling out 
eight bucks for, bad albums. But 
enough of the bitter preliminary 
remarks. 

T 
The Smithereens' Especially For You came out a lorig time ago. It's already had two hit singles, but there won't be another from this album. Most of this record is bor­ing. Pat DiNizio's voice is boring. Suzanne Vega steals all the interest from him on "In a Lonely Place." DiNizio sounds something like Joe Jackson, but not as smooth. The tune doesn't come off. 
The two singles are good, how­ever. "!3}ood and Roses" examines the always interesting juxtaposi­tion of violence and romance, although The Smiths do it better. "Behind the Wall of Sleep" is all right, and it has a cool allusion to Bill Wyman. Another song, "Groovy Tuesday," is obviously a nod to . the Rolling Stones. These guys may want to be the Stones, but they're not. DiNizio's beatnik 
February 12, 1987 
beard and corrective hairstyling have got to go. 
World Party's Private Revolu­tion is a much better record. Main man Karl Wallinger, who does nearly everything for this band, is much hipper than all of the Smith­ereens put together; I mean this dude thanked Greenpeace and · God in the· credits, and he wears Lennon shades, crazy shoes and paint-spill pants. He does come across with some trite and over­simplified garbage in his lyrics. Stuff like "make love to the world" is enough to make you 
retch. 

But somehow Wallinger gets away with it. He has chosen his influences well. On tunes like "Hawaiian Island World," he sounds like Mick Jagger doing "Wild Horses." But most of the time Wallinger is Bob Dylan. He covers "All I Really Want to Do," and his beefed up version is much more forceful than those of Dylan or The Birds. 
Wallinger does write some good tunes himself. "The Ballad of the Little Man" compares favorably to Dylan's "The Ballad of a Thin Man." In this song Wallinger deftly jabs The Who: "Who said we won't get fooled again?" This could be the best song on the record. In spite of himself this hipster has come up with a great record. 
Bruce Cockburn is another dude who's pretty hip and wears Lennon glasses and has a new record out, called World of Wonder. Cockburn, unlike Wal­linger, focuses his dissatisfaction with the world and talks in specif­ics. He attacks evil dudes in Amer­ica, Berlin and Chile. 
Cockburn is a real poet who is really angry. "They Call it Demo­cracy" is a searing tune. The lines "sinister cynical instrument/who makes the gun a sacrament" are poetically powerful as is much of the rest of the album. But he's not all protest. The final lines of the program reaffirm the world: "We're doing okay down here tonight." 
Cockburn's voice is strong. His deep and grainy vocals mesh 

ESPEOAL.LY
FacmR · ~. v•cau 
nicely with his 
trademark 
sound of deli­cately floating 
keyboards caught in 
between a funky bass line and guitars similar to U2's Edge. 
So the next time you feel like buying a Feelies album or even a pair of suddenly chic · Converse high tops, get a Bruce Cockburn 
album. ¦ 
23 




St ude n t Lif.e 

Straight From The Heart 
By John Perie 

From Late Night Olympics to an MS/Multicultural dance, Valentine's Day is a time for students to open their hearts 
Valentine's Day. A time for sharing, giving, and meeting people. With the upcoming 
1.; : : Valentine's Day weekend, the Notre Dame community will have the opportunity to take part in many events that have been scheduled for diverse student tastes. In a way it will show the "heart" in the students to take part in worthwhile events that in one way or another have a worthy cause. 

Friday night the ACC will be filled with yelling students from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College who will attend the first Late Night Olympics sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics. Late Night Olympics has two purposes in mind, says Sally Derengoski, assistant director of NV A. "First, it's a fundraiser to raise money for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics, and second, it's a way for students to have fun while tak­ing part in a worthy cause. " 
The Late Night Olympics, how­ever, is no small affair. Every hall from both campuses will be represented and paired up with other halls to take part in athletic events that range from volleyball to pool activities at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

The main goal of the competi­tion is to win the grand prize. 
Each team will ante $100. For 
every event in which each team 
participates and wins, points will 
be awarded. The hall with the 
most points wins the grand prize. 
"The winning teams will split 80 
percent of the ante among the hall 
government councils while 20 per­
cent will be donated to the 
St.Joseph Special Olympics," says. 
Derengoski. 

...
.. 
<II 
~ 
A 
15 ~ 
The event, however, is not just for athletes. There will also be the ''Not-Quite-Olympic Games" for those who consider themselves as couch-potatoes or just wanting a slower pace in giving. 
Ranging from darts to dunking machines, students can take part in amusing events while contributing to their hall at the same time. For every ticket bought, a point will 

be awarded to the student's hall. "What we want to do is to not only proninte hall participation, but to · contribute on an individual basis," Derengoski said. 
In addition, a Valentine's "Sock Hop" sponsored by student 
radio station WVFI and the Stu­dent Activities Board on behalf of NV A has been planned while an Olympic Village Cafe will also be erected. "If the event proves to be a huge success, we hope that the Late Night Olympics become an annual event to raise money for a worthy cause," said Derengoski. 


Scholastic 




Student Life 

Also taking place during the Valentine's Day weekend is the MS/Multicultural Festival Valentine's Dance. Not only will money be raised for multiple sclerosis, but students can take part in many events that will introciuce them to the value of international awareness. 
"Multiculturalism is a concept long overdue," said Adele Lanan, assistant director of student activi­ties. "In a world of such unrest, we should learn to create some­thing special by working together as a community." 
The Valentine's dance is not the only event whose theme revolves around multiculturalism. Organi­zations like the International Stu­dent Organization, student govern­ment, SAB, and the Center for Social Concerns are trying to make students more aware of how small the world is getting and how coun­tries have a direct effect upon the United States. 
"There are international stu­dents from over 64 countries studying at Notre Dame" said Don Montanaro, student body president. "In order to make it in our culture they have to learn about us. Why can't we learn from them?" During the fall semester seminars, lectures, and social events were given to widen the students' awareness about m ul tiicul turalism. 
Students will have much to choose from when they attend the festivities. For dinner, a whole variety of foods from around the world will be provided by Bill Hickey, director of University Food Services. Menus will consist of foods from the Orient, South Pacific, Mediterranean, and several other areas. Students will get the chance to speak with pro­fessors, friends and most impor-
February 12, 1987 
tantly, with international students. 
Student Marty Rodgers, execu­tive coordinator of the event, said he thinks the dance will be a suc­cess. "Flags of all the countries 

said. "We even decided to name the evening 'A Night of Interna­tional Romance."' 
The planners of the dance said they hope the event will become an annual event. "The hardest part of such an organization is just try­ing to get off the ground," said Montanaro. "Notre Dame is lag­ging behind the rest of the major universities (in the area of multi­cultural awareness) and if we work hard at it we will eventually catch up." 
Rodgers added, "Maybe, as the years come and go, the event will gain so much popularity. that it will be on the same scale as An Tosta!." Plans are already being made to organize other multicul­tural programs. "We primarily want to stay together for another year and try to do as many multi­cultural events as possible so that it will become an event in which everybody can take part," said 
Lanan.11 




The heat is on. 
This summer may be your last chance to graduate from college with a degree and an officer's commission. Sign up for ROTCs six-week Basic Camp now. See your Professor of Military Science for details. But hurry. The time is short. The space is limited. The heat is on. BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 
Interested? Contact Captain Domingo at 239-6264. 
2S 


.... 
r. 

Notre Dame & Saint Mary's 

THURSDAY 
FILMS: 
"Here is Germany"/ 
"Let There Be Light" 
Annenberg Auditorium 
7p.m. U.50 
"Euy Rider" 
Engineering Auditorium 
7, 9, 11 p.m. $1 
SPECIAL EVENTS: 
Breen-Phillips Hall Talent Show Library Auditorium 8p.m. 

FRIDAY 
FILM: 
"Annie Hall" Annenberg Auditorium 7:30, 9:30 p.m. $1.50 
"Wizard of Oz" 
Engineering Auditorium 
7, 9, 11 p.m. $1.50 
': 
. . 
:'·'-.'' ,. ,_,,•• ' ··~ .,·,.: 
;cl~iiJi!J~ ?de't
,,.,, .. ,_...... :--;.., .. ,,. ,. 
MUSIC~ "I Giullari di Piazza" Opera Troupe O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's 

8p.m. LEC'J.'URES: "The Abandonment of Philosophical Language" 
Prof. Gerald L. Bruns Rm. 222 Hayes-Healy 
4:30 p.m. 

"On Shipwreck Archaeology" 
R. Duncan Matthewson III Library Auditorium 7:30-9:30 p.m. 
SPORTS: 
Wrestling: vs. Michigan ACC 7p.m. 
SPECIAL EVENTS: 

NVA "Late-Night Olympics" 
ACC 
9 p.m.-4 a.m. 

All times are Chicago time . . 
Tri-Military Ball 
Junior Class Formal 
Knollwood Country Club 9p.m. 


SATURDAY 
FILM: 
"Wizard of Oz" 
Engineering Auditorium 
7, 9, 11 p.m. $1.50 
"An Evening of International 
Romance" Theodore's 8 p.m. -2 a.m. $2 


SUNDAY 
MUSIC: 
Steven Kruse, yiola 
Snite Museum 
4p.m. 

:,1 
Scholastic 

=r----~ 'l'
' ,) -l . . -t· 
--, . Ii 
SPORTS: 
Mens' Basketball: 
vs. Duke 
ACC 
1 p.m. 
ART: 
American Painting 1875-1925 Opening Snite Museum 
MONDAY 
FILM: 
"Bringing up Baby" Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. $1.50 
''Red Nightmare"/ 
"Point of Order" Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. $1.50 
SPORTS: 
Mens' Basketball: 
vs. Wagner 
7:80 p.m. 
TUESDAY 

FILM: "Take the Money and Run" Annenberg Auditorium 7:80 p.m. $1.50 
LECTURES: 

"Todd Webb: Photographs of New York and Paris, 1945-1960" Snite Museum 
12:10 p.m. 
WEDNESDAY 
FILM: 

"Man with the Movie Camera" Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. $1.50 
Compiled by Ace Corsetto and Charlie Buckley 
"Wizards" Engineering Auditorium 7, 91 11 p.m. $1.50 
LECTURES: 
Dolores W. Frese "The Catholic Experience and the Fiction of Andrew Greeley" Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall, SMC 
12:15 p.m. 
SPORTS: 

Women's Basketball: vs. Illinois-Chicago , ACC 
7:80 p.m. 



Michiana 


-Sports 

Jamere Jackson's day starts at 8 a.m. and ends well past midnight. As a Notre Dame freshman, he must face the pres­sures of college academics. Being an athlete makes the challenge even more difficult. 
Jackson, a 6-2 guard on the Irish basketball team, is one of the many freshman athletes who face the problems of coping with a rigorous class schedule while com­peting on a Division-I varsity team. 
Notre Dame demands that its athletes perform well in the class­room and in the athletic arena. Freshman athletes deal with the same problems as other first-year students, compounded with the time demands and pressures of wearing the Irish colors. 
iii

Jackson has experienced the ~ transition from high school to col-_g lege level in athletics and academ-0 
ij 
ics, both of which are ranked 
f 
! 
highly in the nation at Notre Dame. (Notre Dame had the highest graduation rate in the nation among its football players in 1982, 1983 and 1984). He was well prepared, averaging 14 points per game while carrying a 3.3 grade point average in high school. 
Jackson said he knew what he was getting into when he signed· his letter of intent to attend Notre Dame. "I picked this place for the same reason most athletes did, the sports and the academics," he said. "You get the best of both worlds." 

28 




The Transition Game 
By Ian Larkin 

Notre Dame's varsity athletes, like freshman Jamere Jackson, face a difficult adjustment on both the academic and athletic levels 
Irish athletes pay a price to be among the best, however. They must spend at least two hours a day at workouts and then find time to study at night. The week­day for Jackson and most fresh­man athletes is long and grueling, and weekends are spent on the road with the team or catching up on studies. 
Additional claims on the athlete's time are made by manda­tory team meetings, weight train­ing sessions and film reviews. He knows he must budget his time 
wisely. As Jackson pointed out, "You have to spend your free time during the day studying, instead of watching soap operas." 
Of course, for many athletes, meeting the NCAA's and Notre Dame's standards for academic achievement is not as easy as it has bee:n for Jackson, who maintained such a high performance in high school. For many, more is sacri­ficed than just the afternoon soaps. 
Freshman athletes are treated no differently from other fresh­men when it comes to minimum required grades. They must acheive at least a 1.85 grade point average in their first semester and at least a 2.0 for the remainder of their four years. If they fail to maintain these standards they are put on probation and are not allowed to participate in their sport. 
The freshman athlete does not go at it alone, however. Jackson 


r-----------~---0----------' 
~--~----. 
Sports 

pointed out that for most, "academics is no problem, there is such a support system." 
The system is under the control of Mike DeCicco, academic advi­sor for the more than 500 Notre Dame varsity athletes. His pro­gram involves providing tutors and charting the academic progress of every athlete. 
Like all freshmen, the athlete also may receive help through the Freshman Year of Studies. The office provides each athlete with a list of tutors for all courses offered. 
Irish head coach Digger Phelps and other Notre Dame coaches recognize and stress the impor­tance of education. Phelps often calls attention to the graduation rate of Irish basketball players. "The record I'm most proud of is that every player I've coached in 15 years has received his degree," Phelps said. 
Lou Holtz commented that last year, "We were the only school in America that lost as many football games as we did students (fresh­man). Three of them flunked out and three of them dropped out." 
The Notre Dame coaches recruit the select few athletes in the nation who have the potential and hunger to win in both worlds. Phelps' personal recruiting method is straightforward and simple. He tells a high school senior, "Notre Dame isn't a good school, it's a great school and it's a great oppor­tunity." 
Jackson said that the biggest. adjustment he made was not to the level of competition or to the class work, but to the change in his social life. 
"You know coming in here that you're going to have to balance school work with sports. During the season the social life is no problem -you don't have one. But before and after the season you're left with nothing to do." 

There also is additional pres­sure for Jackson and others who are thrust into the spotlight and put into situations they have never experienced before, such as han­dling the media, alumni and fans. 
The largest crowd that ever watched Jackson play before he came to Notre Dame was 11,000 fans at a cross-town rivalry game. Now that is one of the smaller crowds he'll see. And football players are faced with crowds five to IO times that size. 
Actually, the pressure for a freshman athlete starts during his senior year in high school. That's when the recruiting process heats up and letters of intent start being signed. Jackson was lucky. He 
knew what he wanted, and Notre Dame offered it all. 
"Coach Phelps really didn't have to do much to recruit me," Jackson said. 
Jackson also was recruited by Marquette, Northern Iowa, Wisconsin and others, but he knew once he came to Notre Dame that it was the place for him. "I want to be successful on and off the court," Jackson said, "get my degree, then carry a briefcase." That desire is not atypical for a Notre Dame athlete. 
"One of the greatest things about Notre Dame is that in spite of all the success in athletics, no one has lost sight of the reason the University is here," Phelps said. "I'm a basketball coach, so I'll be the first one to tell you basketball is important. But we're here to provide an education to these young people, and that takes pre­cedence over anything else." 
Meanwhile, Jackson has begun to establish himself as an impor­tant player for the Irish basketball team. He plays much of the time in the shadow of David Rivers, but his talents have not escaped notice by his star teammate. 
"Jamere has great potential," Rivers said. "He is a strong, hungry player, always working hard and always wanting to do well. He'll be one of the guys who'll be in charge of things when I leave." 
Jackson said he knew that going "to a new coach and new system there are things to adjust to. But being a freshman in college is a lot like being a freshman in high school trying to compete on the varsity level." 
Averaging more than I 0 minutes per game and maintaining his level of academic performance, Jackson appears to have adjusted well. II 

February 12, 1987 


Scoreboard 


Irish Wind Up Successful Season 

MEN'S SWIMMING -By beating Bradley on the road and Kalamazoo at home last week, the Irish upped their record to 8-4 and picked up some valuable momentum. 
Scholastic athlete of the week STEVE COFFEY and sophomore JOHN FROMAN starred in the Bradley meet. Coffey finished first in both the 200-yard individual medley and 200-yard backstroke, while Froman earned blue ribbons in the JOO-yard and 200-yard freestyle events. 
Coach TIM WELSH'S swimmers travel to Valparaiso on Saturday for a 2 p.m. meet. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING -Despite a meet record by AMY DARLINGTON in the 400­yard individual medley, Notre Dame dropped a close meet to Ball State last Saturday, I 43­125. 
"The meet with Ball State is always a good match-up," said coach TIM WELSH. "Not only was the score relatively close, but every race was close. Ball State had more depth than we did, we knew that going into the meet. We had to swim up front, and as a result we had some significant time drops from some people and we got some great preparation for the championships." 
The Irish finish their regular season at Valparaiso on Saturday. 
MEN'S TENNIS -Notre Dame will compete in a triangular meet with Marquette and Bradley in Milwaukee on Friday and Satur­day, before facing Wisconsin-Oshkosh in Oshkosh on Sunday. 
The Irish are still recovering from inju­ries suffered by BRIAN KALBAS, TONY CAHILL and PAUL DAGGS. Cahill and Daggs will not play this weekend. 
Coach TOM FALLON's team, which. lost its only match of the season against Northwestern, has never been beaten by either Marquette or Wisconsin-Oshkosh. 
MEN'S FENCING -The undefeated Irish squad ran its winning streak to 69 straight meets last Saturday by crushing seven dif­ferent opponents by a combined score of 161-28 in Columbus, OH. · 
Coach MIKE DcCICCO's team has this weekend off. However, four Irish fencers will compete in the Junior Olympics taking place in Orlando, FL. Foilists JOEL CLARK and DEREK HOLEMAN, as well as sabre­men DANNY YU and TIM COLLINS will 
30 
fence Friday through Monday in Florida. 
WOMEN'S FENCING -Ranked first in the United States junior point standings, sopho­more JANICE HYNES will lead a contingent of Irish fencers to the Junior Olympics in Orlando, FL. this weekend. 
KRISTIN KRALIECK, BRENDA LEISER, and ANNE BARREDA will accom­pany Hynes to the tournament following last week's seven-match sweep in Columbus, OH. The Irish improved their record on the year to 15-0 and their dual match winning streak to 38. 
"We faced some very good tests," said coach YVES AU;;.IOL, whose record as the women's coach is also 38-0. "We are finally coming together for the stretch run." 
HOCKEY -After losing a pair of games to Air Force in Colorado last weekend, the Irish leave the north dome of the ACC again to . play Michigan-Dearborn in Dearborn on Fri­day and Saturday. 
Superb goaltcnding by LANCE MADSON and a goal by sophomore BOB BIL TON put the Irish up 3-1 in Friday's game before a Falcon rally that ended in a 4-3 overtime win for the home team. Injuries hurt the Irish in the second game as the undermanned visitors 
· lost, 6-1. 

WRESTLING -Friday's match against Michigan will be a difficult test as FRAN McCANN's Irish try. to better their 1-8 record. 
Last week Notre Dame fell to Michigan State and Central Michigan, 25-17 and 27-14. 
PAT BOYD (26-6), JERRY DURSO (25­4), ANDY RADENBAUGH (22-8-1); and CHRIS GENESER (25-3) lead the team into Ann Arbor for the match against the Wolver­ines. 
MEN'S TRACK -Notre Dame will join 24 other teams · for the Central Collegiate Conference Indoor Championships this 
weekend in Ypsilanti, MI. 
"This will be a real good opportunity for us to qualify some people for the NCAAs and' the IC4As," said coach JOE PIANE. "The quality at this meet is excellent." 
Piane hopes for another strong perfor­mance in the sprints from 1987 Hcisman Tro­phy hopeful TIM BROWN and freshman GLENN WATSON. Both have already quali­
ficd for the IC4As and will try to eclipse the NCAA standards Friday and Saturday. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL -The Irish play fifth-ranked Tennessee on Saturday to begin a stretch of six games on the road among their final eight contests of the season. 
Notre Dame split a pair of games last week, beating Western Michigan and losing to Miami of Florida. 
Sophomore forward HEIDI BUNEK con­tinues to lead the Irish in scoring and rebounding, followed by junior SANDY BOTHAM. 
ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 
STEVE COFFEY 
Coffey, a senior from Flushing, NY, finished first in the 200-yard individual medley (2:02.94) and first in the 200-yard backstroke (2:08.21) at last week's meet against Bradley. Later in the•week he captured the 220-butterfly against Kalamazoo with a time of 2:03. 79. The three-year letterman led the Irish in the IM events last year and has anchored that Irish unit this year as well. Coffey will be a key swimmer for the Irish has they get ready for the Midwest Invitational Championships in early March. 

JANICE HYNES 
Going into this weekend's Junior Olympie competition in Orlando, FL, Hynes is ranked first in the United States junior point standings and has earned a ::1ot on 
. the Junior World team that will travel to San Paolo, Brazil in April. The sophomore· from Peabody, MA is 31-5 for the Irish in addition to her national honors. "It is a very big thrill to be No. I in the country," said Hynes. "Having a spot for the Junior World's takes a lot of pressure off. I can just go out and fence." 

Scholastic 

_ -___ -·-< -======-=--==--:=--' -• -. -•: -•o:.•-. '·"~--:-C ~~ .. _:;;:. -,--, -:.·._:< (•.,c,?<=/:•}~/i;,":':'°\~-, .:,<·:_.:•·1:
O. ••• 

-.. 
Hot Off The Griddle 

By Ron Mileti 

To experience the 'king of all pancakes,' take your tastebuds to the Colonial Pancake House 
a restaurant were to beIf judged by its featured item, 
the Colonial Pancake House would be one of the best restau­rants in the South Bend area. Located at 508 U.S. 31 North, the twenty-year-old eating establish­ment has a quaint Early American exterior and interior. 
Sitting behind a white wooden sign containing both the restaurant's name and a picture of a minuteman flipping a pancake, the building resembles a large cot­tage, painted pale blue and trimmed with white. It is defin­itely not a work of art, but it is clean, well-~aintained and pleasant. 
Inside, large brown booths and wooden tables and chairs sit atop a basic linoleum floor. This area looks like so many other casual dining areas throughout the U.S. with the added charm of colonial wallpaper, decorations and place settings. The decorum is . not remarkable, but it is cute. The pla­cemats, usually sporting an interesting quote, give diners a topic of conversation. 
The Colonial Pancake House serves an impressive variety of authentic pancakes from different countries. From France, crispy golden brown crepes stuffed with fillings such as strawberries, cher­ries, and peaches are offered. From Germany, huge helpings of german pancakes are offered: not too sweet, but very fluffy and dif-
February l2, 1987 
ferent. Sweden's entry, of course, is Swedish pancakes, delicately thin and extremely rich. The more traditional entries are also offered: buckwheat, blueberry and potato. 
Sure, the Colonial Pancake House has a fantastic variety of pancakes, but there is only one pancake that matters here: the king of all pancakes, the "Oven-Baked Apple Pancake." 
But you only get one pancake. That's it, just one. But it is huge. Imagine a pancake as big as your plate, three inches high, crammed with big chunks of apple, cooked to crispy brown perfection, smoth­ered in brown sugar. It bubbles, it items as turkey club and .French dip sandwiches, and the usual hamburgers and cheeseburgers, all served hot for cool prices. There are different dinner specials each weekday. Monday nights are rib­eye steak nights. $3.89 buys a decent-sized steak, a salad and a roll. Tuesdays and Thursdays are chicken nights, Wednesdays are fish (cod) nights. Both the chicken and the cod come with a salad and roll and are priced at $3.69. 
The restaurant is open from 
6:30 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday thru Saturday, and 6:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Sundays. No credit cards are accepted, just cash and checks. Dress is very casual. Reservations 


oozes, it glistens. Mere words can not capture my delight when this concoction was brought to the table. 
These magnificent apple pan­cakes, though a bit expensive, are reason enough to run, not walk, to the House. But the restaurant is not just for pancakes. For those who do not like sweets or who want something more substantial, other alternatives are offered. 
For lunch there are such hearty are accepted during the week, but large crowds force the restaurant to seat on a first-come-first-served basis on the weekends. No alcohol is served. 
Whatever you are hungry for, the Colonial Pancake House is a casual, inexpensive treat. Though several of the menu items are pleasing, one stands out above the rest. For the best apple pancakes ever, try the Colonial Pancake House. Your tastebuds will t:~~nk you. 




The Beginning Of The End 
Those regular guys reflect on their illustrious term and outline final plans, which include Pop Culture Week 
By Don Montanaro 

Well, for the sake of those of you who care so pas­sionately, I suppose I should mention what Mike and I are up to (besides doing our utmost to stay out of any major trouble for our last month). 
I'm a junior with a boatload of senior pals who are spending all their waking hours trying to find a faculty member to write a recom­mendation for them. It just seems so tough to really get to know a prof around here. 
As far as I can tell, the guys under the dome are giving the big tenure brownie points to the profs doing mega-research. Well, research is peachy keen and I know that it brings a lot of atten­tion and respect to this fine university, but I would also like to have teachers concern themselves with teaching. 
In my opinion, this should go beyond the confines of some giant lecture hall. So, before Mike and I stroll out the doors of the "hall of justice" for the last time -on April Fool's Day, appropriately ­you can look for some aggressive programming in the area of student/faculty relations. 
32 
Also, our student government cultural arts commissioner, Ellen McDonald, has been working hard to arrange a zany mod Pop Culture Week on campus. It looks like this is finally going to come to frui­tion, although she has run into some obvious problems. (Try say­ing, "Bye, Mr. Warhol. Have a nice time in South Bend.") 
There are two particularly non-funny issues that I would like to talk about. First, drinking and driving. This is a mistake -it's a mistake that I've made and a mis­take many of us have made. It's stupid and it has to stop. 

It's one thing to scared by one or two tragic events into taking it easy for awhile. It's another thing to change the way we think and 
act. A lot of traditional student government types like to refer to themselves as student leader~. Well, I'm not sure how the term "leader" relates to Mike or I, but we have been eager to lead on this issue. 
Already in motion are programs like the Buzz Bus and the I'm Driving Club, and we are con­sistently pursuing education and awareness programs similar to the "get drunk with Notre Dame Secu­rity" events of a couple of weeks ago. 
Second, as any woman who is willing to be seen in public with me will tell you, I love a cheap date. Now, what better cheap date is there than a $1 movie at tthe engineering auditorium? The problem is that the University bigwigs are pretty upset about the drinking and occasional puking going on in the auditorium. 
They are threatening to revoke the privelege of using the place, and I think they're serious. Please, for my sake, for my wallet's sake, be reasonable. 
Well, the new student govern­ment elections are coming up, and for some unknown reason I keep getting asked my personal opinion. Here it is: student government is easy. There isn't a student at Notre Dame that can't handle the job if he or she is willing to. put in the time. 
If Mike and I have proven any­thing, it's that experience is cer­tainly not necessary to get the job done. My advice to you is that if you consider yourself · an average or near average domer-type, select the candidates nearest to your opm1ons on whatever obscure issues arise during the campaign. Those will be the folks most lil~ely to work towards things that really matter to you. It's that simple.Iii 
Scholastic 


Life In Hell 




-PAT<£r.lTS, GutD£ TO TEEf\)AGf CRIM£ &PuNISftMENt 
TKf THE 
THE THE TH€
?ROBLE.M 
CR.IIV\E 
RESPONSE. PU~ISHMENT R-€.SULT 

Oistributed by Acme Features Syndicate 



UNIVERSITY ARCHIVES NOTRE DAME Il'1 46556 

Complete Election Coverage Inside 



