
Notre Dame's Student Magazine F~bruary 16, 1989 · 
Entering a New Era 



Piclure of .\fininH ,11 ,\'olrc /J,mie, 1916, by Uolinl P. Gnllnway 
SCHOLASTIC NEEDS YOU 
Scholastic is now accepting applications 
News Editor Departments Editor Features Editor Advertising Managers Advertising Design Systems Manager 


Applications  are  due  by  5  p.m.  Friday, February  24  any  Notre  
Dame  or  Saint Mary's undergraduate may  apply.  Contact  Andy  
Hilger  for  information  at  the  Scholastic  office,  3rd  floor  
LaFortune,  239-7569  or  239-5029.  

-
Schol stic No Sports, No Comics Notre Drune's "other" publications, Humanitas and Juggler, may not have the Far Side, but they are out of the ordinary. By Cindy Petrites/ Page 6 Cover photo by Kathleen McKernan Sports Still Battling The men's basketball terun's latest homestand showed some promise, but not enough to make its drerun of Seattlein March realistic. By JonPaul Potts/ Page 16 Sportsweek A weekly roundup of varsity sports. !Page 19 Departments Week in Distortion Press releases reveal all about Notre Daine./ Page 3 Music Three albums from three different artists reveal a wide range of talent. I Page 5 On Other Campuses Texas A&M has a novel course on beer./ Page 4 Coming Distractions What's going on, both on-campus and off./ Page 20 Movies The Accidental Tourist and Rain Man show two great relationships./ Page 9 Final Word Kathleen McKernan, editor of Scholastic, has some last thoughts./ Page 22 Ernie Pook's Comeek "Perfect Art" Editorial/ Page 23 24-hour computing a must There's more at stake than just staying up late. Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic. Copyright 1989 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.  


Februrary 16, 1989 


Letters 
Reports of Graduate Club's death exaggerated 
Dear Edi tor, 
In your December 8 issue you published a letter by Francis Deck, graduate student in the physics department, where he accuses the Graduate Student Union of ignoring the ex­istence of the Graduate Club as a social alternative for graduate students. I would like to take this opportunity to call to Mr. Deck's attention our letter in your November 17 issue, where we enthusiastically an­nounced the reactivation of the Graduate Club and encouraged graduate students to take advantage of the social alternatives it provides. 
I also would like to point out that since the Club's reopening the Graduate Student Un­ion has been regularly advertising the activi­ties ofthe Club in theGSU newsletter. More­over, we are pleased to inform graduate stu­dents that our social office is working with the Graduate Club's management to co­sponsor a social event this semester. 
I reiterate our hope at the GSU that all graduate students begin to work together as a unified community in order to improve its life at Notre Dame, as well as to enrich the university community with its talents and diversity. Victor J. Krebs President Graduate Student Union 

HPC not responsible for transportation report 
Dear Editor, 
We are writing in response to the article, "How Much Better is This Good Thing?" (December 8, 1988). Several points were made in the article that are completely erro­neous. 
You quote Student Body Vice President MikePaeseassaying,"Wejustdidacompre­hensive report on transportation needs of students." Thereport to which he refers is the board of trustees' report on transportation, which was presented to the board in Novem­ber. The article also states, "As for the issue of transportation, Hall Presidents' Council did most of the work." This could not be further from the truth. The chairman of that committee, Steve Bishop, was appointed by Tom Doyle and Mike Paese and then designated people who were committed to spending time and effort on it. No hall presidents served on that committee. It is true that we were contacted about Weekend Wheels, a shuttle service completely organized, publicized and funded by the HPC, but that was the extent of our input. Bishop and his committee should be credited and commended for their efforts. 

You also quote Student Senator Mike Chapman as saying, "One of the topics the board of trustees discussed was transportation. It discussed Weekend Wheels." Although the report did discuss the service, but it did notend there. Italso addressed the Transpo system, the Notre Dame/ St Mary's shuttle, taxi services, and made broad and long­range recommendations such as the institution of a "special events bus." The main focus of this report was not Weekend Wheels. 
We do not know where the idea that the HPC was responsible for this report came from. Had we been contacted prior to the publication of this ar­ticle, we could have cleared up any misconceptions. Putting together a report for the board of trustees is an arduous task, and we commend those who under­take to do so. Michelle LaRose Kerstin White Co-Chairpersons Hall Presidents' Council 

Send Check/NO/Visa/NC to: 
GREYLAG INC  
P.O.  BOX  99093-.JM  All ordllrs  
SEATTLE.WA 98199  Hntvia UPS where possible  


Week in Distortion/ Chris Fillio 




The Hype Report 
All the news fit to print, scrutinize and criticize ... and enough to send an ND student to Siberia 
A new landmark has been estab­lished in Soviet-American rela­tions. Forthe first time in history. an American journalist has been exiled from the United States and deported to a remote Siberian location for "corrective disciplinary action." The journalist, a former student at the University of _Notre Dame, was charged and found guilty on 16 counts of "blatant defamation ofcharacter regarding the uni­versity" as well as seven counts of"writing with an expired journalistic license." An earlier release incorrectly reported that the student had been exiled for "setting fire to student life director Fr. Mike Tyson's pants at a dinner party when the latter asked the student to give him a [Bud] light" Some excerpts from the series ofstories by the young student Washington, D.C. (UPI)-Theresults of an independent study released earlier this week by the Gallup Foundation have revealed a new shift in ·trends and morals among college students. The study ide1_1ti­fies the top ten time-consuming activities in a breakdown of male and female stu­dents. For males: 10) A voiding studies/ classes/schoolwork 9) Practicing ego-in­flating tactics 8) Athletic activity 7) Watch­ing sports on TV6) Playing Nintendo video games 5) Experiencing rejection and/or depression 4) Criticizing female coeds and/ or comparing female coeds to shapely fash­ion models 3) Drinking beer 2) Drinking more beer I) Ogling females in scantily­clad outfits. For females: 10) Planning rejection strategies 9) Stereotyping non-varsity and engineering male students 8) Aerobics/ 
Jazzercise/Richard Simmons' Workouts 7) Memorizing soap opera plots 6) Watching "Dukes of Hazzard" reruns 5) Comparing male coeds to bohunk movie stars 4) Wear­ing sweatpants 3) Eating ice cream 2) Eat­ing more ice cream I) Ogling varsity foot­ball players. 
Notre Dame, Ind. (AP) -At a recent weekly press conference, Notre Dame head basketball coach Digger Phlops announced new plans aimed at in~reased ticket sales. The program targets a lull in sales which has come about due to renewed criticism of Irish coach Phlops. 
"It's an obvious attempt by the athletic department for a quick-fix to the ticket sales problem," said Phlops. "I'm sick of every­one ragging on me about winning. Well, here's a solution which should get that monkey off my back." 
Under the new system, a raffle using ticket stubs collected at each home game would award 100 lucky winners with valu­able prizes. These prizes include coupons redeemable for a six-pack of Sprite, and autographed pictures of team members. In addition, a year-end drawing of all winners will select one person as the recipient of a fabulous luxury cruise to Greenland. 
Notre Dame, Ind. (UPI) -Now that the Lenten season has begun, controversy has once again been stirred up on campus con­cerning the change in menus at the dining halls. Scores of Catholic and non-Catholic students alike _have expressed discontent over the lack of meat products in daily meals. 
Consequently, University Food Serv­ices has been quick to respond. Food Serv­ice director Bill Hockeypuck acknowl­edged that this year's Lenten food menus will reflect little, if any, changes in selec­tion. 
"The dining halls will continue to serve the regular rotations of hamburgers, meat­loaf and chicken patties," stated Hockey­puck. "In the past, we've never actually used real meat in theseentreesanyhow. It's usually some kind of soybean product Why n~t give the students what they want? We'll have the double-tofu burgers every Sunday brunch, by george!" 
Notre Dame, Ind. (UPI)-The Univer­sity of Notre Dame responded to a recent Gallup Foundation study by announcing that next year's entering freshman class will consist of 90 percent women and ten percent men. 
"It's an obvious attempt by the admini­stration for a quick-fix to the ratio prob­lem," said university Vice-President Wil­liam Bootcamp. "I'm sick of everybody ragging on me about 'the ratio.' Well, here's a solution which should get that monkey off my back." · 
Changes in admission standards stipu­late than no entering freshman female may have a GPA above 2.7 or a combined SAT score higher than 1100. In addition, males with any amount of varsity athletic experi­ence will face immediate application rejec­

I
tion. 
Notre Dame, Ind. (AP) -The spirit of reform is unquestionably in the air at the University of Notre Dame! 
Following suit of the Food Services Lenten Reform Act, the administration has alleviated restrictions placed upon 'social activities' during the upcomingJuniorPar­ents Weekend events. 
Policy changes include a temporary lift­ing of the present alcohol policy. Further­more, students are encouraged to organize large, chaotic keg parties at their own dis­cretion. 
"It's an obvious attempt by the Univer­sity of Notre Dame to provide the most conducivereal-lifeatmosphere for students and faculty alike," stated university Presi­dent Edward "Monk" Steelalloy. "I'm sick ofeveryone ragging on me about the social life. Well, here's a solution which should get that monkey off my back." 
Other minor policy changes will allow students to resume ogling varsity football players and scantily-clad female models during that weekend. ¦ 

On Other Campuses 

Beer 101 
It's not how much you'll pay if caught with the stuff in the hallway, it's the class number at Texas A&M 
EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY 
BeerBrewinglOl. TiredofthatoldcanofBudweiser? Want to try something different? Ever thought of brewing your own beer, right in your own dorm room? Well now you can learn how -at least you can if you attend Texas A&M University. Students with an interest in hops and barley are now learning the finer points of home beer brewing in a new class, the National On Campus Report revealed. The main emphasis, according to the professor, is not only to teach students how to brew beer, but also how to appreciate quality beer and how to drink responsibly. 
Course Requirement: Bring Your Walkman, it will improve your grade. Sound good? How about unreal? Not really. In a study conducted by students at Glassboro State College (N.J.) it was determined that music can influence learning. The College Press Service reports that students in one psychology class listened to popular rock music as background during the first 20 minutes of each class for a semester. These students scored higher on course examinations than the 34 students ofcomparable ability inasecond psycholgy class not exposed to the tunes .... Nqw that's music to the ears! 
What could be better than going to class and gaining new knowledge? You would be surprised. If Rutgers University at Newark is representative of the nation's colleges and universities, cutting classes is the norm. In a poll of200 students, The Observer (Rutgers' campus newspaper), found that about eight in ten delib­erately skip classes each week. The reasons that students gave for their sparce attendance included: boredom with the class or the instructor, the need to study for another class, tiredness, employ­ment, too busy drinking in the pub or just claiming they had better things to do. 
Now look who's laughing. Those students who laughed at their counterparts for getting flu shots in the fall no longer appear to be quite so amused. It seems that whoever organized the flu shot service knew something the rest of the nation did not. This year, we have seen one of the biggest outbreaks of influenza across the nation in years. At Penn State University, for instance, the virus infected about 12,000 students. The Weekly Collegian reports that approximately one-fourth to one-third of the student body was affected by the epidemic, thus initiating speculation about quaran­tine and class cancellation for the first time in the university's history. 

''I get the feeling I'm not wanted here." A direct quote from Digger Phelps, right? Wrong. However, these very possibly could have been the first words out ofSan Jose State University basketball coach Bill Berry's mouth when he heard that ten ofhis players were quiting the team in an effort to force his dismissal as head coach. According to the Chronicle for Higher Education, the players announced late last month that they would not play again unless Berry was fired. They accused the coach of verbal abuse and mental cruelty. The school had originally decided that the players would lose their scholarships for refusing to play and thus violating the terms of their contract, but under the conditions it has decided to reverse its decision. As for Berry? He's still the coach. 
And Temple University's athletic director has lost his mind! 
Charles Theokas, Temple's athletic director, recently came up with a solution to the university's football coach dilemma. At least some might call itasolution. Others mightcallitincompetency. Theokas' choice as new head coach was Rice University football coach Jerry Bemdt,TheRice Thresher reported. Yes, thatisrightthesameRice coach who led his powerhouse team to an 0-11 record, including a 54-11 defeat at the hands of yours truly. My guess is that Theokas and the rest of the Temple Administration were impressed by Berndt's imposing career record of 6-27 at Rice. 
4 
Music/ Scott Sullivan 



The Pop, the Hip and the Ugly 
The Replacements still work, Agitpop is off to a good start and the Lime Spiders backfire 
Pop used to describe music that I hate. It still does, but as the Re­placements m~ature (an ugly music term), their music, ormore accurately, Paul Westerberg's songwriting, continues to tread on ground they only would have been caught dead or drunk onin pre-Pleased to Meet Me days. Westerberg's voice re­mains uniquely ravaged, but lately we've been seeing his mellower side, which still doesn't compromise. Punks do grow up, butas the title ofthe album suggests.Don't Tell A Soul that they do. George Wendt (Norm on TV's Cheers) is reportedly a big Replacements fan, and even thought that "HereComes A Regular" from the Tim LP was about his character. No such luck, Normie. But the story does show that these guys are reaching a wider audience. Earlier I might have been bitter about bandwagoners; but alas, I too am maturing, and their bandwagon has yet to be filled. It's either that, ormaybe Norm is just among the ultra hip. Speaking of ultra hip, The Replace­ments traveled to hip-haven L.A. to record theirlatestalbum,Don'tTellASoul (Sire). They have always been loved by the critics (at least since Let It Be), so why not brush tushes with the. brightest stars in Holly­wood, as well as with all the glam-rock metal weirdos? · But enough Joan Rivers rhetoric. Lyrically,Don' t Tell A Soul is as varied as ever, though overall not as hard-driving as Pleased to Meet Me (which was never my favorite 'Mats album anyhow). It opens up with "Talent Show," hearkening back to their less-serious days: "We're not much to look at, so/We're going to the talent show." Westerberg is tongue-and-cheeking it about their early days, while "They're Blind" rebuffs those who think they've sold out. They do get it going on "Anywhere's Better than Here" and "I Won't," with driv­ing guitars and some great scream-vocals. But "Rock 'n' Roll Ghost," almost a la­ment, seems to be Westerberg's realization 

"Asking Me Lies" is a poppy tune that reminds me ofBig Audio Dynamite's "Play That Music" for some reason. The lyrics {"Telling me questions/Asking me lies") have that characteristic Westerberg twist to them, like the swap in "Little Mascara," "playing makeup and wearing guitar." 
Don't Tell A Soul is a thoroughly satis­fying album that shows that the Replace­ments' consistency and longevity are mak­ing a mark. Still, I must be getting old, because sometimes I just like to throw· in Sorry Ma, Forgot to Take Out the Trash (their '82 album) and relax. 
One of the most innovative albums in a while is Agitpop's Open Seasons {Twin/ Tone). I saw these guys live about a year ago and, for a trio, they can make some racket. As in an agitated pop racket. The percussion is never regular and often an­noying, as on the quirky "Inventor," where the rhythm seems to do its own thing. But somewhere in the midst of chaos, there is beauty. Especially good and refreshingly original are "Getting Up To GoDown" and "Top of the Stairs." The former doesn't have an extreme percussion cacophony, and in the latter they burst out in an acoustic guitar and, ofall things, a melodica. "Top of the Stairs" offers some unique advice: "A Machiavellian means to an end/J usti­fies tomorrow's friend." Agitpopcould be on to something. It's hard to say just what, but it sounds pretty good. 
Finally, the neo-psychedelic Lime Spi­ders have followed up The Cave Comes Alive with Volatile (Caroline). This album sounds fuzzy -and hollow -at the same time. Mick Blood can sing in a pleasant voice, but he sometimes chooses not to. It goes from smooth to grating. These guys are kind ofweird. "Captorand the Captive One," for instance, is about a kid who is into voodoo magic. He cuts offhis girlfriend's head and "takes it home in a jar just so he won't be alone." The voodoo backfires on him and he ends up stapled to the wall-a bit psychotic. The album's best song, "The Other Side of You," is calmer, but still a bit spooky. At times Volatile can sound the same with the heavy, distorted guitar and echoing vocals. "My Main Attraction" just doesn't seem very ambitious. Songs like "Test Pattern" save the album, but overall I was disappointed. 

Features 

0 PO TS, OCOMICS 
ND's "other" student publications, Humanitas and Juggler, concentrate on academics 
By CINDY PETRITES 

How many times have you tried to start a conversation in the dining hall only to find everyone en­grossed in fine literature? Probably not often, but there are publications on campus without crosswords, comics or even (gasp!) sports. They are Notre Dame's other student publications: Juggler and Humanitas, and though they aren't as high­profile as the Observer, Scholastic, oreven Common Sense, they are definitely worth a look. Juggler is Notre Dame's journal of the fine arts, and is the better known ofthe two magazines. Poetry, short fiction, essays and artwork -everything from black and white photography to woodcuts -fill its pages, and submissions come from a broad 

and the fine arts 

cross-section of the Notre Dame popula­tion. Its contributors include undergradu­ates, graduate students, faculty and alumni; and its policy is simply "to publish the best material we get coming out of the Notre Dame comm unity," said J ugglereditor Kris Murphy. 
literature coming out of Notre Dame have paid off. Michael Collins, a seventh-year graduate student, won an award for Best Short Fiction by a College Student in a national contest held in Ireland for his short story, "The Man who Dreamt of Lobsters," which Juggler published in its Fall 1987 grounds that it was "offen­sive," replacing the Juggler staff's original choice with another piece of Antonakis' work. 



Scholastic published an article about the Juggler censorship. An editorial in the same issue critisized the action of the Office of Stu­dent Activities, claiming 
they violated Article VII of the constitution Juggler's editors established with the university provost: "At no time will censorship of any form be imposed on the Jug­gler." A photo of the cen­sored artwork also accompa­nied the Scholastic article, causing the administration to suspend the magazine. The 

issue. But Juggler's willingness to accept controversial work has occasionally caused problems. 
"We're not out purposely to shock people, but sometimes the best art has sex or violence in it," said Murphy. "We won't publish something just because it has sex in it, but if it does and it's quality work, we'll publish it." 
Though the Juggler staff remains sensi­tive to criticisms, neither they nor Juggler's faculty advisers, English professors John Matthias and William O'Rourke, make content changes to the manuscripts they receive before they go into the publication. "It's not our job to be censors," said Murphy. 
Juggler's student editorial staff selects what goes into the magazine based on their own subjective standards of quality. Be­cause Juggler is a student publication, Du Lac guarantees their right to the final say. Two years ago, however, a case of admini­stration censorship brought Juggler into the campus limelight. 
In Juggler's Spring 1987 issue the dis­claimer, "Original choice censored by Of­fice ofStudent Activities," appeared under a piece of artwork by third-year art student Nick Antonakis. The Office of Studeni Activities decided to remove Antonakis' monotype from the magazine on the weeklong controversy ended when the administration agreed that in the future, the Du Lac clause: "student publications should not be censored," would be upheld, and Scholastic reopened its doors. 

The content of Juggler depends on its contributors, but the editorial staff has the final verdict on what is and is not inculded in the magazine. "There's never a precon-
Features 

ceived notion of what it's going to be. It really depends on the submissions we re­ceive," said Murphy. Juggler accepts sub­missions all year for its two issues appear­ing in Fall and Spring. 
"Scholarly doesn't mean boring," says Brian Shea, last semester's co-editor of Humanitas, a self-proclaimed "scholarly journal of the Notre Dame community."· 

Features 
Humanitas' repertoire includes essays, short fiction, interviews and book reviews, and is published every semester. Humanitas accepts submissions from the Notre Dame population at large, though with a special preference for undergraduates. 
"We want to give students, particularly undergraduates, the chance to publish an essay or work they've put time into and feel proud of," said Shea, who is studying this semesterinNotreDame'sLondonProgram. "We're trying to provide a forum for under­graduates to present their work to the Notre Dame community." 
The magazine encourages students to "go beyond the 'A'," to strive in their papers notjust for the grade but for work which is of publishable quality, by providing them the opportunity to actually see their work in print 
Another goal of Humanitas is to create 
"an avenue of intellectual expression," and 
encourage discussion between faculty and 
students, said senior PLS major Vincent 
Kaminski, who, along with senior PLS and 
English major Heather Ingraham, co-edits 
I"":""''""':--,--..;._--,--,--,-...;;;..-,---,--,---,--,--,------, 
Humanitas this semester. Next semester, one of their plans to highlight the intellec­tual life on campus is conducting a discus­sion night where students and faculty can discuss the latest issue of the magazine. Because Humanitas is only in its fourth year of publication, it still has an identity prob­lem. 
"We're still fighting the reputation of being an 'upstart' magazine," said Ka­minski. "We're new and people think of us as overly intellectual." 
Although Humanitas' editors make no excuses for being intellectual and mostly PLS oriented, they also stress that the maga­zine is for the entire Notre Dame commu­nity. 
The latest fall issue, for example, con.­tains work from a wide variety of people, among them Father James Burtchaell, stu­dents from the Medieval Institute, and Arts & Letters majors. When criticized for hav­ing a disproportionate amount of material from PLS majors however, Shea acknowl­edges that the "PLS problem" is real. 
"Most of Humanitas' essays are from PLS majors, but that's primarily because in PLS the classes are broader in scope and the subjects covered not as detailed," said Shea. "It is difficult for the general population to relate to an essay which is so specific to a particular class." 
Humanitas' editors select what goes into the magazine based on a combination of subjective taste and a demand for quality work. 
Because Humanitas relies on the Notre Dame population for all its material -staff members cannot submit their own -they actively encourage those interested to sub­mit papers to the English department Office in O'Shaughnessy. 
Those looking for something "not neces­sarily easy to read but intelligent" can direct their search for Humanitas to O'Shaughnessy, Decio, or Lafortune, while copies ofJuggler may be found at the library, O'Shaughnessy, Lafortune, Decio and Riley, where 1200 copies ofthe magazine are distributed. Perhaps next time you enter the dining hall you too can join the enlightend masses. II 
\ 

Boonvisudhi, O'Brien and Juggler editor in chief Kris Murphy discuss material for the spring issue. 
Movies/ Jason Winslade 
They'll Leave You 
miling 
Both The Accidental Tourist and Rain Man succeed in their plots to present real and dynamic characters 

ot often do mainstream films es­the forward and tacky Davis, but later actually a human being of his own flesh 
tablish realistic, dynamic rela­learns he really cares about her. The film and blood. The relationship then beauti­
tionships between characters that continues with the helpless Hurt· finally fully progresses to genuine brotherly love manage to succeed throughout the entire taking charge of his life. and concern. Cruise changes from greedy story. But recently, two mainstream films, The Accidental Tourist is a film ofchar­and heartless to warm and loving, and the Rain Man andThe Accidental Tourist, did acters, and every one interesting in his own gradual change is quite a successful and be­
succeed. Both films dramatize the relation­way, from the main actors down to the lievable one. ships between two pairs of very interesting brilliant supporting cast (including David Hoffman pulls off a fantastic-perform­characters, played by Tom Cruise and Ogden Stiers, Ed Begley Jr. and Bill Pull­ance as the autistic Raymond. Any as­Dustin Hoffman, and William Hurt and man). Many intelligent statements are sumptions of a credibility problem for Geena Davis. For all of these actors, the made in the film regarding relationships Hoffman because of his previous well­performances in these films are probably and love, for example, "it's not so much known roles are laid to rest. Hoffman not their best to date, although Cruise could how much you love a person, but who you only makes the viewer believe he is autis­never hope to rank with the likes of are when you are with them." Beautiful. tic, he also makes his character very lik­Hoffman or Hurt. In Rain Man, a shrewd businessman able. Everything about Hoffman's per­
William Hurt plays a character who is (Cruise) discovers that he has an older formance is perfect, from the idiosyncra­coming to terms with his life in Lawrence brother (Hoffman) who has been kept in a sies, such as repeating the "Who's On Kasdan's The Accidental Tourist. Hurt's home for the mentally deficient all of his First" piece every time he is nervous, to the son has been murdered, and his wife (Kath­life. Charlie Babbitt, Cruise's character, bobbing movements and frequent out­leen Turner) walks out on him. learns that his recently deceased father has bursts. 
Hurt is the ideal choice for the part: he left most of the family fortune to his autistic The on-screen chemistry between has gained a little bit of weight, his hair is son, Charlie's older brother. Because ofhis Cruise and Hoffman is wonderful. Many thinned and he looks considerably older. own financial straits, Charlie removes his touching moments are scattered through­Throughout the film, Hurt is haunted and brother Raymond, played marvelously by out the film, especially when Charlie 
anguished, and his poignant expressions Hoffman, from the institution in order to get teaches Raymond to dance, and when reveal his pain magnificently. His occupa­"his share" of the inheritance. Charlie tries to comfort Raymond after his tion is writing travel {?ooks for people who But Raymond has never dealt with the frightening outbursts. 
hate to travel. Hurt' s character also hates to real world before. He only knows his own Barry Levinson's directing is crisp and travel and writes his books as the "acciden­world of ritual and routine: Wheel of For­some of his camera angles are superb, tal tourist," represented by an armchair tune at 3 p.m., People's Court at 4, under­especially the car sequence in which 
with wings. The point of these books is to wear from K-Mart and syrup on the table Cruise and Hoffman are side by side. make people who travel feel like they never before the pancakes.. Charlie deals with Excellent music also lends to the special left home. Raymond with coldness, indifference, self­atmosphere created by the film. 
The whole problem with Hurt' s charac­ishness and a bit of cruelty. ter is that he is beginning to regard his life The turning point of the film occurs Both Rain Main and The Accidental as he does his travelling. He moves in with when Charlie realizes that Raymond was Tourist deal with realistic, dynamic and his highly eccentric family, and eventually his childhood imaginary friend, the "rain intelligent relationships whose progress is meets Geena Davis, a dog-trainer whose man." Charlie tells his girlfriend about the a joy to watch. The viewer leaves both 
clothes are something of a fashion night­rain man at the beginning of the film, and films smiling, a feat not often achieved by mare. Ironically, after the audience has allows a trace of innocence to show most films about human relationships. Not seen Hurt's own quite strange family and through. all films of this nature have to be depress­lifestyle, his life is turned around by a When Charlie discovers the truth about ing. The Academy, if any integrity still person he later describes as "this odd the rain man, a touch of humanity reveals exists within its ranks, certainly shouldn't woman." At first, Hurt seems annoyed by itself as Charlie realizes that Raymond is forget that at Oscar time. II 
News 
ALL 
FTHE 



Security will become an important issue ifthe 24-hour computer lab is moved to LaFortune 
BY CATHY FLYNN 

When Professor Lawrence Cun­ningham of the theology de­partment had his Zenith hard disk stolen from his office in Decio Faculty Hall about two weeks ago, he lost years of work which was stored in the computer. This is just one example of a rash of computer thefts during the past year that has plagued . the Notre Dame campus. Security is the major issue surrounding the computers. Several computers have been reported as stolen on campus this semester, with thefts in the Computing Center and Mathematics Building (CCMB), O'Shaughnessy Hall and Decio. "We haven't had a real big problem be­fore," said Rex Rakow, directorof security at Notre Dame. "There have been two or three _thefts over a five-year period and now there have been six in one semester." "I would like to see that person (the thief) harshly punished," said Cunningham. "I will bracket my feelings theologically and say that I was not pleased at all." 
Cunningham remembers one officer say­ing to him that this theft was not the work of "some junkie" and that security thinks it knows who is responsible. Rakow said that he is aware of a national ring involved in a recent rash of stolen computers, but he does ! not know ifthetheftsatNotreDameareapart of that operation. 
Despite the security problems at the CCMB, the lab operates much as it did be­fore, with little security in the late hours ofthe 


News 

night. The building never closes, and al­though there are always some people moni­toring in the mainframe, the computer labs upstairs are left unsupervised after the stu­dent monitors leave at about one o'clock, said Scott Cowdrey, director of computer usage. 
"They (the thieves) came one weekend and stole the cable and mounts," said Cow­
drey. These mounts area method pfbolt­ing the computers down that Rakow says "can be gotten around." 
Apparently this is true. The week after the bolts were removed, someone took the computers from the CCMB. The thief was able to carry the computers outofthe lab and out of the building com­pletely out of the sightofthe monitors in the mainframe downstairs. Because noth­ing has been done to change this security system, the same crime could be committed again. 
"Other labs have alann systems," said Cowdrey. The lab at the CCMB is being phased out. Student demand for computer space has forced the administration to ex­pand its facilities in the LaFortune Student Center, the Hesburgh Library and the Archi­tecture Building, which will be an advanced lab for architecture and engineering majors. It will be opened sometime around midse­mester, said Cowdrey. 
The new 24-hour lab will most likely be located in LaFortune instead of the CCMB, which was its previous site. "They've talked about it as a possibility," said Ceil Paulsen, assistant director of student activities in charge ofLaFortune Student Center. "It's in the discussion stage of being a 24-hour lab. We have to secure the remainder ofthe build­ing outside the computer area before we make the final arrangements, and I don't know the date. Final arrangements have not been made," continued Paulsen. 

Computers from the CCMB will be moved to the new library facility. This facil­ity will operate during regular library hours for the time being. 
Cowdrey is hopeful that the library one day will be the site of the 24-hour lab instead ofLaFortune. He stresses, however, that it is up to the library staff to decide that issue for themselves. They would have to keep the 
whole building open all night in order to have a24-hourcomputerlabinthelibrary,andthat would take a reorganization of their entire security and personnel system, said Cow­drey. 
"The library is a better location for stu­dents than the CCMB," said Cowdrey. "Ifs 

"One reason we had 24-hour labs was because we didn't have enough computers," said Cowdrey. Students previously had to sign up to use a computer in the middle of the night because of demand. "Now that we've doubled and tripled the number of comput­ers, we might not need as many computers open all night I don't think all the kids want to be up all night." 
Despite this asser­
tion, facilities will al­
ways be provided for 
24-hour service, ac­
cording to Don Spicer, 
assistant provost of 
university computing. 
He suggests, nonethe­
less, that students pur­
chase th~ir own per­
sonal computers. 
"Quite honestly, 
we'll never have 
enough seats for 
people to just walk in 
and find a seat," Spicer 
said. "We provide a 

store here (at the CCMB) so people can get the best prices." Thestoreisaserviceoperation,hestresses. It does not generate any revenue for itself. 
Apple is the computer of choice at Notre Drune. All of the newer computers on cam­pus are Apples, although there are still some IBM PCs on crunpus. 
"It is a religious issue to some extent," Spicer said. "DOS (Disk Operating System) is a remnant of the seventies whereas Mac is of the late eighties." Ease of learning is the main factor that Macs are the preferred com­puter, agree Spicer and Cowdrey. 
"One area we just feel so bad about is disks," Rakow said. "You can readily go out and buy a new computer, but you can't re­cover the work." 
One idea that might help in recovering stolen computers or in lessening their resale value in the stolen computer market is sten­ciling an ND on the top of all campus com­puters, said Cowdrey. But this idea is still in the planning stages. 
"This is a new problem," said Cow­drey. "We've never had to deal with this before." 



News 


PUTE FUTU 



Notre Dame takes stock in new technology by integrating software into normal course curriculum 
T 
BY ANDY IIlLGER 
he lab environment for a chemis­
try major is undergoing some 
rapid transfonnations. Instead of spending hours in the chem lab, he or she will spend a good deal oftime in the computer lab. One rather simple program, for ex­ample, simulates the building of a distillation device on the computer screen. Instead of entering the lab environment and attempting to develop a still from class notes or readings, students who have used this program have a certain amount ofhands-on experience in that they have already built a two-dimen­sional version on the computer screen. 
This is all part of the movement toward using computers as a com­
plementary learning tool on a wide 1 range of subjects. Scott Cowdrey, director of user services in the Notre Dame computing department, de-plan deals with "providing faculty with the scribes the university's role in this movement opportunity to develop computers into the as "a two-pronged approach at integrating way they teach," he said. 
computing into the nonnal curriculum." The first part of this approach involves "provid­ing students with access to a dependable place for them to do their assignments," said Cowdrey. The university is presently in the midst of upgrading the general purpose lab areas significantly. The second part of the 
The goal may not be to necessarily includ( computer languages as course requirement! but to instead develop software that facili­tates teaching in the regular curriculum "Programming is just a piece of it. A facult) member can develop a course which usei computers without doing much program• 
ming," said Cowdrey. 

One particular piece of sof~are, H yperCard, brings to the screen ways of focusing teaching; A pro­fessor may create lab simulations such as the distillation experiment through the useofHyperCard. One program, for example, allows each element in the periodic chart to be scrutinized or grouped into differ­ent classifications as an aid to the learning process. 
"There is much more interaction on the screen. Faculty are able to accelerate infonnation to the stu­dents much more quickly," said 
Cowdrey. "Ideally, faculty win be able LC teach more thoroughly if they are providec more opportunity to use computers to teach,' 
12 


News 

he said.  creative use of computers." Computers that  Requiring everyone to have a personal  
This past December the university comput­ would most likely appear in these advanced  computer "eliminates the inbred fear of  
ing department embarked upon a project to  labs include the Mac 2, DOS, workstations  computers that people seem to have, and  
ensure that more faculty are, in fact, provided  and NEXT, a new computer line developed  provides them with actual hands on experi­ 
with the opportunity to integrate computers  by Steven Jobs, one ofthe original creators of  ence," said Hammer. "I think it should be a  
in their teaching curriculum. 'f!lrough the  the Apple Computers.  wave of the future."  
Faculty Workstation Program, every faculty  These advanced applications labs could  Notre Dame understands that a computer is  
member should have access to a microcom­ appear in the CCMB, Fitzpatrick Hall of  an "expensive investment and would rather  
puter within the next two to three years. AI- Engineering, Nieuwland Science Hall or,  not require but promote [individual com­ 
ready during the current academic year, 40 to  perhaps the architecture building. Buildings  puter purchases] through providing reason- 
SO percent of the computers  able prices," said Cowdrey.  
requested by faculty have  The university is currently  
been delivered to them.  far from the leaders in comput- 
In the recent past, Notre  ing technology. "We are striv- 
Dame has made a consider­ ing to get procedures up to  
able effort to upgrade the  average. Theobjectiveisnotto  
university's computing facili­ be on the leading edge, but to  
ties for students as well as the  provide an effective use of  
faculty. In addition to the new  technology," admitted Cow- 
labs already installed in  drey.  
O'Shaughnessy and LaFor­ "There are fewer and fewer  
tune Student Center, labs in  industries that are not using  
theHesburgh Library and the  computers. Engineering,  
architecture building should  architecture and business are  
be unveiled shortly, accord- becoming very computer-ori­ 
ing to Cowdrey.  ented and it is beginning to  
Although expansion will  touch the humanities in the  
slow down, the level of fund- form ofsuch things as teaching  
ingwillremainjustaboutcon­ and graphic arts," said Cow­ 
stant said Cowdrey. "The 1---....J  drey.  
pledan is for Io~g-tern:i co_n~in-Many courses now require some computer work.  It is because of the fact that  

u support 1or mamtammg .____________________________. familiarity with computers is 
and expanding the computing facilities," he that have potential for housing a new general becoming the rule rather than the exception stated. purpose lab in the near future include Hayes-in the working world that Notre Dame must Initial spending involves many special Healy Center and the Law School. strive to allow each student the opportunity to items, such as hardware, that do notrequireas Although not entirely out of the question, acquaint him or her self with computers. The much money to be put forth after the original there are no immediate plans to integrate architecture program, for example, is becom­investment is made. Over the next four-to computers into the dormitories. "We're in-ing more and more dependent on computers five-year period, as the· special investments terested in dorms," said Cowdrey. "We've for the simple reason that the field of archi­described above decrease, the normal budget talked about it, but there is a controversy. Is lecture is moving in the same direction, said 
allotted for the computing facilities will in-the dorm an appropriate place for a micro-Cowdrey. 
crease causing the overall amount of money computer? We'd like to pursue some discus-Because of the computer boom that has to be directed toward computing facilities to sion," he stated. occurred at the work place the importance of remain static. For the past four years, Drexel University hands on experience in college has also Having made strides toward addressing the in Philadelphia has employed a program in boomed. Judy Spustra, director ofcomputer need for general application Jabs, an area that which every student is required to own an operations for the Chicago branch of Price the computing department would like to Apple Macintosh. Every course taken at Waterhouse, a "Big Eight" accounting firm, expand involves advanced computing. "An Drexel requires the use of the computer ac-stressed the computer backgrounds of her advanced computing Jab in [the Computing cording to Greg Hammer, senior consultant employees. "Everyone has had someexperi­Center and Mathematics Building (CCMB)] in the Drexel computer lab. Bentley College ence in college. For example, most have a is a possibility," said Cowdrey. "These Jabs in Massachusetts has implemented a similar working knowledge of DOS and Lotus. [ A would facilitate advanced applications such program involving Hewlett-Packard com-computer is] not the foreign animal that it as page layout and engineering as well as the puters. once was," said Spustra. IJ 
Februrary 16, 1989 
. ' ­
..,...,,_.___M ___,_____,, __""-'-"'•......,__,..~ 
News 

A behind-the-scenes look at the administrative computing 
'WBY GERRY SCIMECA hen the university wanted to 
install a new computer in the 
adminstration building in the 
fall of 1987, it ran into a wall -literally. 
Armed with a crane and a group of interior 
decorators, the back wall of the building was 
tom away and a new, four-ton Hewlett-Pack­
ard mainframe was hoisted onto a perch on 
the third floor. The computer, along with its 
twin in the library, houses the core ofthe data 
that Notre Dame needs to survive in its daily 
operations and the future direction of the 
school itself. The purchase and installation 
of the two computers last year --at an ap­
proximate total cost of over $1 million ­
inaugurated just one of many sweeping ini­
tiatives that Notre Dame planned since a 
1986 board of trustees report on computing. 
The fruit of this ambitious project is al­
ready apparent. An increase in the number of 
Macs in LaFortune has occurred, and a new 
library computing center is slated to open 
soon. Further, each professor is now entitled 
to a personal computer. But the new main­
frames fall under the department of adminis­
trative computing, a department not known 
to most students. 
The university's purchase ofa new main­
frame to process billions of bits of informa­
tion might seem to have little overall impact 
on student life. But in time the university 
network ofthe university 
hopes to change that by offering startling new 
conveniences to students. Still, the technol­
ogy that the new mainframes represent is still 
in an experimental stage. , 

"What we were aiming for was to central­
ize everything into a 'human data-bank,"' 
said Leo Judy, director for administrative 
computing. Judy, who has been with the 
university for more than 20 years, has di­
rected the push to the forefront of college 
computing. Although the university's ad­
ministrative computing is by no means cut­
ting edge, it ranks favorably with Brown 
University's. 

"We're definitely where a lot of people 
(colleges) would like to be," said Judy. "The 
most important thing to this university's 
running efficiently is data. The data that we 
run is as important to the university as any­
thing else, even money. 

"We want to make sure thateveryone who 
needs the data pertinent to their purposes, 
that is, all of the departments under adminis­
trative computing, will have access to it. All 
of the departments, then, can run much more 
quickly and efficiently," he said. 

This centralization theory holds many 
possibilities for the university, which hopes 
to streamline its bureacracy and make stu­
dent services quicker and more convenient. 
An example of how the "human data­
bank" might work is in the maintenance of student records. Upon applying to Notre Dame, an applicant's records will be entered into the files of the admissions office. Once accepted, the registrar will then keep tabs on class schedules and grades. The final desti­nation for all of these records will be the alumni office. It is then that the perennial process ofbeing tracked by the developmen­tal offices (more notorious for fundraising) will begin. By having the data in one all­encompassing environment, the university will be able to use it in more creative ways. Studies focusing on what career people of a specific major are most likely to choose, for example, can be extremely helpful to the guidance departments of that major. 
The new mainframes have tremendous advantages over the models they recently replaced in the ar~s of data capacity and processing speed. But the true advantage they offer is the flexibility the university now has if it wishes to implement new programs. One of the conveniences which may occur within the year is the often-rumored "on-line registration." Under the proposed system, students would be able to register for classes, add and drop, and communicate other specif­ics with the registrar through a touch-tone phone. This would eliminate the present checkmark system as well as spare students the anxiety of switching majors. 
Judy admits that some details remain to be 
.. 
News 

worked out, such as eliminating the possibil­ity of pranks and grade-tampering. "There are security problems to be worked out, but we're looking at that to happen in the near future," he said. 
The future will see the final integration of administrative computing's master plan, which is ultimately departmental centraliza­tion. Atpresent, theregistrarandaccounting departments remain separate entities. But the annexation of their data into the new mainframes, scheduled to occur this sum­mer, will make a reality out of some of the new programs. Currently the system sup­ports four areas of university affairs: human resources, the physical plant facilities, re­search and grants, and the alumni office. The office ofthe registrar handles the area of student resources, and this department will have the biggest impact on student life. 
Information from the office'"of student activities can be entered in the mainframe, creating possibilities for information about off-campus housing and more convenient social events. Still, the more prominent role of the mainframe in student life may have its drawbacks. Those with a tendency to mis­place their IDs may have more to worry about than missing an occasional dinner. 
Although difficult to speculate on other improvements, the advances in the past dec­ade in Notre Dame's computing power are considerable. "I've been here a long time," says Judy, "and I've seen tremendous changes-in Notre Dame, in the student body, and in computing." 
Indeed, as Notre Dame entered the eight­ies it was still juggling all of its information on spools of magnetic tape --an ancient and inefficient method. 
"If we had to access your records, and your last name began with a 'T,' we'd then have to wind the tape all the way near the end of the alphabet, and because you can't add directly on to that file, if we had to make changes we would have to put it somewhere else," said Judy. 
The university finally went to a main­frame system after a committee study in 1983. The 1986 report was an update on the current needs, and it was then that the plan for a full-fledged integrated system was adopted. 
Though technological innovations are constantly making today's miracle machines old-hat, the university is confident that the mainframes, as well as the other computing initiatives, will serve the school's needs for the long term. But maintaining its present level may prove difficult. 
Constant work is needed by a staff of university programmers and analysts to fur­ther customize and streamline the software as feedback is received even after the introduc­tion ofa new program. This type of updating, the university hopes, will serve to keep with the initial purpose of the program to make Notre Dame run more efficiently, conven­iently and cost-effectively. IJ 



UPCOMING 

SPECIAL EVENTS 
Friday Feb. 17 
.'Shrooms •.

"CLASSIC ROCK NIGHT" 
•F'r.ies .•..

:~fo9f 
*-rOP-A~Sliot ·•J}Yi.9e >.Scr~en ·. t~iitellite<Pis •*Mechanical · .
*··.... ·.... ORE!!! 
Friday Feb. 24 & Saturday Feb. 25 Billy 'Stix' Nicks and the N's and OUTS 
Cheese. Sticks Pota.to Skins 

Sports 


Although Notre Dame won four games in a two-week stretch, Danny Ferry and the Duke Blue Devils showed the Irish that their path to Seattle could be tougher than expected 
BY JONPAUL POTTS 
It was to be a grueling stretch that would test the detennina­tion and will ofa young Notre Dame basketball team. Ofthe five games scheduled over a two week span, the Irish played three in justfive days. This two week stint proved to be successful in some ways and disappointing in others. The disappointment came to the Irish primarily in the six-foot-ten-inch form of Danny Ferry and the Duke Blue Devils. , For the five-game stretch, the Irish finished a very respectable four and one. The focus of these five games, however, was the nationally televised showdown with the Blue Devils on February 5. Much to Notre Dame's dismay, the Irish were simply out­matched by a team that had occupied the number-one ranking for the first nine weeks of the season. Player of the Year candidate Ferry was simply awesome in the 102-80 Duke victory, scoring 28 points, grabbing eight rebounds and dishing out six assists. Perhaps the biggest shot of the five games the Irish played came with 12:41 to play in the second halfof the Duke game. The Irish had gone on an 18-6 run, including a 12-0 spurt to start the second half, when Ferry hit a three-paint shot on the wing and was fouled by freshman point guard Elmer B_ennett. Ferry converted the free throw, thus completing a four point play that broke the 

16 
..-...--------­
~ ,..!. ----=-~-----, ...,. -~----~---, ~ 


back of the Irish. 
"The three-point shot (by Ferry) was the shot of the game," said Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski. "I'd like to say I diagrammed it, but that was just a great play by Danny." 
Irish coach Digger Phelps, although dis­appointed by the play, was impressed with Ferry nonetheless. "As Ferry goes, so goes Duke and Ferry played really well," said Phelps. "The key was thefour-pointplay and we never regrouped after that." 
Sure enough, the play sparked a Duke scoring run that turned Notre Dame's four­point deficit into an inescapable 24-point hole in less than four minutes. An experi­enced Blue Devil squad, with ten returnees from last year's Final Four team, had re­soundingly taught a young Irish team a pain­ful lesson. 
Despite the loss. to Duke, the Irish had improved their season mark to 14-4 entering Tuesday's game with Boston College. There were many bright spots, including the play of Keith Robinson and co-captains Jam ere Jackson and Joe Fredrick, but point guard Tim Singleton used this time more · than anyone to crank his game up a notch. He averaged nearly eight and a half assists per game during the five-game stretch and ran the offense well. The sophomore has ma­tured and is running the offense with a steady hand, displaying excellent court vision and 
Februrary 16, 1989 
keeping opposing defenses honest with good penetration and scintillating alley-oop passes to freshmen Daimon Sweet and LaPhonso Ellis. After Singleton dished out 12 assists in the Fordham contest,Jackson praised the point guard. 
"When . our offense does the job, we know we're in great shape," said Jackson. "Tim Singleton did a great job of driving and then kicking it out to Joe (Fredrick) and myself for a lot of open shots." 
Despite these bright spots, some prob­lems have surfaced. At times, the post­offense has struggled and gone stagnant with limited movement from Ellis and Robinson. Teams have collapsed into the lane and even double-and triple-teamed Ellis, challenging Notre Dame to beat them from the perimeter. Thusfaritisachallenge that the Irish have answered, but this area . remains one which must be improved upon. 
"Phonz is playing too quick and right now he's playing too hard," said Phelps following the Dayton game, recognizing the freshman's plight. He knows full well, though, that this is one phase of Notre Dame's game that will improve as the young team matures. 
Mari Okuda 

Point guard Singleton has emerged as reliable playmaker. 

The Irish started out the five-game stretch well with an 85-7 5 win over a pesky Dayton team. Ellis led the Irish with 18 points, but the big story ofthe game was the sensational play ofSweet. Sweet moved into the "swing­man" (small forward/big guard) spot vacated by the loss of Kevin Ellery to academic ineligibility last month. He made the most of his new-found opportunity against the Flyers, exploding for 14 points and contrib­uting good ~ on the offensive boards. Among those 14"pQ_ints were several slam dunks, including a monster jam off a steal on the press. 
Robinson also played well with 16 points and 11 rebounds against the Flyers. Follow­ing the game, Phelps had nothing but praise for his junior center. 
"Robinson was probably Mr. Invin­cible," said Phelps. "He's probably the most underrated player in the country. He does so many good things. That kid has really im­proved so much over the last two years." 
The next game for the Irish was against long-time midwest rival Marquette. The high point of this game was the fi!1e play of Jackson. Jackson led the Irish in both scoring and rebounding on this night, quite a feat for a 6'2" guard. He poured in 23 points, includ­ing a 10-for-10 effort from the foul line, and grabbed 12 rebounds in pacing Notre Dame to an 83-68 win. 
17 

Sports 
The Irish started out sluggish against the Warriors, and at halftime they trailed 37-35. But they exploded in the second half and by the end ofthe game the J ACC had become the launching pad for four consecutive Notre Dame dunks. In a span of 48 seconds, Ellis, 
Jackson averaged 19.3 points per game and provided consistent, clutch free-throw shoot­ing. He is shooting better than 80 percent from the free throw line, compared to an un­characteristically low 65 percent by the team. Southern Cal proved troublesome at 
Bennett, who held the spotlight. 
"With Jamere out, I knew me and Sweet would have to pick up the slack," Bennett said. "My shot was going down, and it was a really good game for me." 
It was indeed. Bennett scored 19 points 

Robinson, Jackson and Fre­drick all rattled the rims in suc­cession and electrified the crowd. 
"The second half was about as awesome as we've been all year, especially the stretch drive and the way we finished," said Phelps. "That's, I guess, maturity and that's what we've been looking for." 
Both the Fordham and USC matchups were the type of games the Irish were expected to win, and Phelps' young squad had to be on the lookout for let­downs after the disappointing loss to Duke. Fordham was first on February 8, and once again it was Jackson leading the way with 23 points in a 77-58 

Marl Okuda 

A healthy Jackson will be pivotal in any Irish post-season hopes. 
on nine-for-12  
shooting from the  
floor, including a  
big three-pointer in  
the second half that  
put the Trojans  
away for good.  
"It was time for  ,  
the 'Texas Express'  
to take over," said  
Phelps. "That's  
about as good as a  
performance by a  
freshman I've seen  
here coming off the  
bench like that."  
At this point in  
the season, with  
fourteen victories  
and ten games to go,  
the Irish need to  
avoid any letdowns  
and possibly come  
up with a big win  
(or two) against  
top-20 teams Geor­ 
gia Tech and Louis­ 
ville to impress the  
NCAA Tourna­ 
ment selection  
committee. Two  
games against a re­ 
s urgent DePaul  
team also loom  
large and may  
prove decisive in  
the "Battle to Se­ 
attle." But with the  
continued improve­ 
ment of the fresh­ ,  

Irish victory. 
Jackson was four-for-four from three point range and scored 17 of his 23 points in the second half as he once again provided the kind of leadership by example the Irish will need in their self-proclaimed "Battle to Se­attle." In the four games he played (he missed the USC game because of back spasms), times for the Irish on February 11, but Notre Dame came out on top 83-74 in an impressive overall performance. Fredrick led the Irish with 23 points and played very well. With Jackson's back spasms keeping him out of action against the Trojans, Sweet received his first collegiate start and played well. But it was the other half of the "Texas Express," men, the steady leadership of Jackson and Fredrick and night in, night out consistency, a tournament bid is certainly within reach. 
Where they go from there will be revealed· by something not quite within anyone's de­, finitive reach, that wild phenomenon known as March Madness. Ill 


COMPILED BY TERRY LYNCH 
rt we k 

The Irish defeated Evansville last Thursday 
' 

~~;~:::e!~a~i~r;:~:s~~u:::.:8i~!: 
Collegiate Conference record to 9-0, 15-6 over­all. SARA LIEB SCHER paced the team with 14 points and KRISSI DAVIS scored 12 against Evansville. Against St. Louis, DIONDRA 
TONEY scored lOpoints and had eight rebounds 
as Notre Dame dominated the boards, outre-i,;,;_;,.;._;,.;;;;.;._.;._.;._=.;._.;._.;._.;._.;._.;._.;._=.;._.;._~ 'his football skills:Butsi~ce theieasdnfncJed;i'. 
bounding St. Louis 46-29. 
The Irish will travel to Loyola for a night game this Saturday, and then head south on Monday for a tough road match against Tennes­
see. 

The men's team tallied wins over Northwest-~===7:7=7:7====~~~===~ em, Ohio State, Case Western and CSU-Long Beach last Saturday, improving its record to 17­
0. YEHUDA KOY ACS paced the foil team with an 8-0 record on the day, followed by DEREK HOLEMAN (7-0) and JOEL CLARK (4-0). Sabreman LESZEK NOWOSIELSKI was 10-0 on the day, and feshman epeeist DAYID CALDERHEAD was 9-1. 
The team will travel to Detroit on Feb. 24 to take on archrival Wayne State. 
. mwe·•i·>···poi~t 
it,1t1r:~i~~t~r.:t 
ag.tins{S\1-?~~··•'Yith•··1t•favofa~l~;isis~/Mfll-•ovf.ratio.arid has $"l•·asf.ists 6vt!r tlie p~t six; 
!{~!iii~ftll1;t!~I~

j)\)~ts#~ri~~-· /•· 

season last Saturday with a 7-9 loss to Ohio State in their first match of the day. The team was undefeatedfortherestoftheday, and improved its 
;::;~ :: ~;lda:~;;n!~!~osted a 13-5 
The Irish ladies will travel with the men's team to Detroit on Feb. 24 to take on defending NCAA Champion Wayne State. 
The 20th-ranked wrestling team lost a close match to 19th-ranked Indiana 18-16 lastFriday in the JACC. CHRIS GENESER's win at 177 pounds gave the Irish a 16-12 lead, but a2-1 defeat 
of CURT ENGLER and a 5-1 defeat of CHUCK WEA VER sealed the win for the Hoosiers. The team hosts Central Michigan tomorrow 

~================~ 
The Irish lost two games last weekend to Michigan in AnnArbor by scores of 6-2 and 5-2 to drop their overall record to 9-25-2, and push their 
losing streak to four in a row. The last loss set a school record for most losses in a season (25), 
:o:1r 
EK

WE : 
•tej:biown 
previously held by the 1977-8 squad. KEVIN i-,,---------------­PATRICK, BILL HO ETZEL, MA TT HANZEL T WOMEN~S S.WIMMING' 
and KEVIN MARKOVITZ accounted for the four 1--------------------------'"-I goals over the weekend. Last week the Irish captured 11 of 13 first­The Irish host Western Michigan next Tues­place finishes against Illinois-Chicago as the 
day to end the 1988-9 season. women evened their record to 6-6 by a 157-80 score. AMY TRI won the 200-yard backstroke with a timeof2:17.20 and the400-yard individ­ual medley with a time of 4:50.01. 
Last Sunday the Irish hosted Akron, Toledo The women are swimming at the Midwest­and Bowling Green and won all three matches. ern Collegiate Conference Championships in DA YID DILUCIA won all three of his matches at St. Louis tonight through Saturday. 
the number one singles position, while number .,__...,.,.,.,.,.....,------..,.,.,.,----.,---------1 
two singles player WALTER DOLHARE also went undefeated. Freshmen JOHN SILK and i-,,----------------'"-1 
th~ s~dy \\Tide receiveLstarted; new s{~ort : Sas a.;sprinter 0~ the track: team; HeJi!i:.s~tab~'. lishednewtrackrecordsinth!!55~Il1!!terdash 
;'fof the fast three consectiUve meets, thfrast 8~u,rirt?J~t\l/eek<Jld.al th~ C:imt;'alf.oMegiate.• : Championships, Ismail clodced in at6.2~ secc·.·· .oriels 
io win the race. 
the NCAAs, but Illinois won the meet by 22.5 points over the Purdue. RAGHIB ISMAIL won the 55-meter dash with a track record time of 
6.29 seconds. Notre Dame's distance medley team qualified for the IC4As with a time of 
10:09.11. Irish high jumper JOHN COLE tied for sixth with a jump of 6 feet, 8 and 3/4 inches. 
JOHN EHRLING also performed well for Notre Dame . 
The men will travel to West Virginia for a quadrangular meet against Murray State, 20th­ranked West Virginia and North Carolina. 
Last weekend the Irish hosted the 63rd annual Central Collegiate Championships, where six individuals and one relay team qualified for the NCAAs. Purdue placed three team members in 
The men beat Illinois-Chicago 139-96 in their last dual meet of the season. DAVE THOMAN won the 50-yard freestyle with a time of 22.03 and JIM BYRNE won both the 400-yard individual medley (4:19.63) and the 500-yard freestyle (4:51.07). ED VEOME won the three-meter and one-meter diving events. 
The men will also travel to St. Louis this weekend for the Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence Championships to defend their title that they won over Evansville by 200 points last year. 

::.: ·:.·. ······ . :·.,.: 
·.•·. . ·.. · ......·•··• ·•. > , •·.. . > rtt~·"} 
THURSDAY, FEB. 16 
Hospitality Lunch 
Center for Social Concerns Hospitality Lunch for the Benefit of the participants in the Northern Ireland Seminar. At the Center for Social Concerns from 11:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Clay Sculptures Exhibition The Isis Gallery at the University of Notr Dame presents an exhibition of clay sculptures by Notre Dame garaduate Joan Bontempo through March 3. The exhibition consists of large clay and canvas works which are finished in a painterly manner. Bontempo handles her clay in an unorthodox way by escaping from the usual firing and glazing methods. She manipulates her materials in a constructivist manner by using clay as if it were wood in her structures. The material is occasionally pit-fired and is painted with oils rather than the usual glazes. The Isis Gallery is located on the third floor of the Riley Hall of Art and Design. Gallery hours are 8:30 a.m. to 5 
p.m. weekdays. This exhibition is sponsored by the Notre Dame Dept. of Art, Art History and Design. 
Workshop 
Gala Kellogg Graduate Student Workshop "Micro-level of Decntralized Development: A Case Study of Rural Cooperatives in Haiti" by Greg Maggetti, a graduate student in the Department of Economics. At 12 noon in Room 131 of Decio Faculty Hall. 
Air Force Speaker 
Air Force ROTC presents Air Force CoL Richard "Mike" Mullane, a member of th Space Shuttle "Atlantis" crew at 6:30 p.m in the Hesburgh Library-Au_ditorium. 
Diversity at SMC 
Valuing Diversity, three short films on th multi-cultural workplace, "Managing Differences/Diversity at Work/ Communicating Across Cultures" In the SMC Carroll Auditorium at 7 p.m. 
Family Planning Classses 

Natural Family Planning Classes in room 220 Hayes-Healy Hall at 7 p.m. For more information, call 237-7401 or 288­2662. 
Basketball 

Men's Varsity Basketball in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center as the Notre Dame Fighting Irish take on LaSalle at 8 p.m. 
Movie 

The Fox and the Hound at 8 and 10:15 
p.m. in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Sponsored by the Student Union Board. Cost is $2. 
FRIDAY, FEB. 17 
AA Meeting 

Open Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous at the Holy Cross House from 7:30 to 
8:30 a.m. 
Lecture 

Office of University Computing Lecture "Work Station Applications, Directions ofNCSA, Visualization Projects, Projects at NCSA," by Band Fortner, Manager of Application Software, National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA), University of Illinois. In room 258, the Engineering Board Room, at 10 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. 
Philosophy Colloquium 

"Explaining Distant Actions: Newton's Dilemma," by Ernan McMullin. 
Commentator, Neil Delaney. In the Library Lounge at 3:30p.m. 
Movies 
Hope And Glory at 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. in the Annen burg Auditorium. Nominated for Best Picture, this film presents war from the perspective of a thoughtful seven-year-old to whom WWII is something else than bomb shelters and gas masks, it's a great playground. Perhaps director John Boorman's most dizzingly funny movie. Cost is $2. 
This Is Spinal Tap at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. The film is sponsored by the Student Union Board and the cost is $2. 
SATURDAY, FEB.18 
SMC Basketball 
The Saint Mary's College Belles take on Taylor University at 1 p.m in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Movie 
Moonstruck at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in the 
Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 
Sponsored by the Student Union Board, 
cost is $2. 
SUNDAY, FEB.19 
The University of Notre Dame vs. 
Houston at 2 p.m. in the JACC. 
SMC vs. Rosary College at 2 p.m. in the 
Angela Athletic Facility. 
Piano Recital 
Department of Music Faculty Recital, William Cerny of the University of Notre Dame, at 2 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. 

20 
Scholastic 
---~ --­
---~--~·-~,-~--·-.--·-~-~..-. ~,-, ­



MONDAY, FEB. 20 
Films 
The Killers at 7 p.m. in the Annenburg 
Auditorium. Based on a Hemingway 
story, this compelling drama of an ex­
fighter found murdered and the 
subsequent investigation stars Ava 
Gardner and Burt Lancaster in his film 
debut. Directed by Robert Siodmark. 
Cost is $2. 
The Life and Times ofRosie the Riveter 
at 9 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Directed by Connie Field, this thoughtful and enlightening documentary about women factory workers during World War II effectively combines period newsreel footage and interviews with five "Rosies." Cost is $2. 
TUESDAY, FEB. 21 
Films 
Magnificent Obsession at 7 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Lavish color · photography and brilliant mise-en-scene highlight the story of an irresponsible 
playboy (Rock Hudson) who causes the 
widowhood and blindness of a beautiful 
woman (Jane Wyman). Directed by 
Douglas Sirk. Cost is $2. 
Little Big Man at 9 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Sole survivor of Custer's last stand at Little Big Hom, adopted Indian Brave, mule skinner, town drunk and gunfighter are just a few of the characterizations portrayed by Jack Crabb (Dustin Hoffman) in this postmodern western. Cost is $2. · 

THURSDAY, FEB. 23 
Cartoon Night at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Sponsored by the Student Union Board, cost is $2. 
outh Bend Area Movies 
Forum Theater 
Her Alibi at 2, 4:30, 7: 10, 9:30 Accidental Tourist 1:45, 4:15, 7, 9:20 The Fly II 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 
100 Center 
Iron Eagle II l, 3, 5, 7, 9 Scrooged 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
Scottsdale Theaters 
Who's Harry Crumb 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 I'm Gonna Git You Sucka 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 
Town and Country 
Physical Evidence 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 Dangerous Liasons 2, 4:30, 7, 9:40 Twins 2:05, 4:20, 7:10, 9:30 
University Park East 
Beaches 2, 4:45, ~:25, 9:50 Mississippi Burning 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 

• Rain Man 1:30, 4:15, 7, 9:35 Tap 1:30, 3:35, 5:40, 7:45, 9:50 Cousins 1:30, 3:35, 5:40, 7:50, 10 Who's Harry Crumb 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
University Park West 
Three Fugitives 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 Naked Gun 1:30, 3:30, 5:30,7:30, 9:30 Working Girl 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 
**Purchase your movie tickets for University Park Cinemas, Forum Cinemas, and Town and Country Cinemas at the Information Dsk in LaFortune Student Center and receive discount prices. The tickets are good for all shows. 
iyl7thr ksched earsbelo 
Wtike i.Jp the Echoes, a film chroriiding .· Notre Dame, shown on the hcn1rfroinl 'to. 4P:m. intl1e LaFortune M:9ntgorilei:y 
· · · Theater. · · · · ·· · Campus Tours from l fo 3 p.m. origiriat{ ing inthe Sorin Room ofLaFoituri¢. · ~anh,'}ttan Magfc G9:la underboth• ··.· > dome1rnf thdACC.. Enjoy food, noyel~ .. ties,music; seating and cash bars.frmn'.9\ ·· · p.m. to l a.m. · 
Academic.•. »'orlcshops are ·scheduled for. each oftheJour colleges from 9:30 .a.m: . . · ...·.· ·. .. . ·. to12:30 p.m ... ·..···· .. ·...•.·.· Mass in the South Dome oftheJACCat 

··. 4:30 University Pr~iµe~(R~v. Edwar1 A; Malloy,C.S.C.rwillpresideat the Eucha_; rist, and VicePresident Rev. E. William Be1,1ucl}amp; C;S;C .• willbe the h.oinilfst · President's Dinner jmrnedia~ly follqw~ ing the mass Ill the North Dome of the . JACC;•· Presented in theBrotldwayRevue·· Style.. ffarvi.Grjffin,an electricaj ruiri>is~,. wiH provid9 mt1sical e~tertainmentlilld University President Rev .. Malloy,cs·.c., . ·. will be;the featureµ weaker. From 6:J5.. > 
. to 9:4~ p.rn. . . . . 
,intheJACCa{9:3()a.m:•• 
eve~t oftJiei.~~e~djiM how and a guest lecture by·
' ., . ·:· '. ·<. '·. ·. ·.. ·.1~:_:-'.,\'~: 


Final Word 
What, Me Bitter? 
Although being editor in chief ofScholastic is not all that it's cracked up to be, it's not that bad, either 
BY KATHLEEN McKERNAN 

"I hated being Scholastic editor. I ouldn' t wish it on my worst enemy." Jake orrissey "The Final Word," Scholastic, ay4,1979. 
hen Jake Morrissey edited the 
W 
1978-79 version ofScholastic, 
things were a little different. The bi-weekly Final Word column was filled with his personal observations about Notre Dame or whatever else struck his fancy rather than a column from the campus community. This, understandably, left the last page open form ore than a little editorial self-indulgence. 

What he said, for the most part, isn't always that interesting. To place yourself historically when reading Scholastic editor's ruminations, you must look at the fashions and current movie review: very little of substance changes here. While Scholastic' s editorial board went through an e. e. cum­mings stag~. students, with names printed in all lowercase letters, wrote about parietals and ratios and ice cream as well as efforts to re-organize student government and honor code possibilities. 
But Morrissey's last "Final Word" col­umn must have created quite a stir on the apathetic late 70s campus. Brutally frank, and a little immature in some of his pro­nouncements, the young Morrissey said things that many Scholastic editors would affirm. Statements like "My biggest disap­pointment is, I think, Scholastic," are touch­ing and almost funny in their candor. And looking back after two years in the same position, in more than a few melancholy moments, I've agreed with him -on that one. 
But he goes on: "I'm bitter and I don't know why and then look around me and then I understand. I am convinced that, pound for pound, I have never met so many self-cen­tered, selfish, obnoxious, bigoted Catholics in my life, from the administration on down.· . . . When will they realize that it is not necessarily how much money you have but what you do with it that counts? I'm not sure if this place, and the people in it, will every 
learn." 

Pretty bitter stuff. And altogether too harsh, although I can understand the per­spective it comes from. There's some­thing about being responsible for Scholas­tic that creates bitterness. Bitterness at Notre Dame, the world and anything that deigns to get in your way, including your own limitations. He writes: "It is an awful feeling to realize that the magazine you have been working on for a year isn't anywhere near where you hoped it would be. One day you realize that it's just some cheap imitation of ideas, good ideas, that you collected one by one and were confi­dent of your ability to execute them. And rather than fight for them, I blithely sat by and watched them drop from reality, one by one." 

It's hard to believe that that tirade came from the same Woody Allenish sopho­more who helped demonstrate the hustle for the disco craze cover story. But, as I've already said, I can't help but identify. 
Morrissey's final word piqued my curiosity. What's he.doing now? Is there any future fora bitter Scholastic editor sent out to pasture? The answers to those questions are a little less dramatic than what you may have expected from the man with the poison pen. Yes, he's still in journalism, in a large Midwestern city. He's doing fine. And no, he hasn't been back. 
This is Kathleen McKernan's last issue of Scholastic as editor in chief. She is a senior English and American studies major from Albuquerque, NM. 



24-hour computing a must 
The best argument that the University can make against implementing a new 24­hour computing center after the 24-hour access is revoked at the Computing Center and Math Building is that the number of machines will be increased so much that there will be no need to wait into the late hours to finish assignments. That's pretty calm and rational, right? But, when it comes to writing papers and doing projects, students aren't always quite so calm and rational. When paper deadlines approach, students pull all-nighters. It is a fact ofstudent life; it has always happened and it will continue to happen. What is disturbing about the possibility of no 24-hour computer labs on campus is that it will hurt those students who do not have the means to purchase their own computers. That situation reeks of economic discrimination, as if tuition costs were not high enough already to discourage those of smaller means to take part in the "Notre Dame community." Quite simply, a 24-hour work station is essential. ForLUnately there is some work being done. The Office of Student Activities is discussing the possibility of using the basement ofLaForiune as the new 24-hour computer lab, and the possibility of using the library in a similar manner is in the same stage. But simply a possibility is not enough. Students need computer access. The issue is more important than it initially appears. When certain students are told when to think and work, it begins to chip away at their concept of responsibility for their own actions. It encourages a turning away from oneself for answers to questions that are only within. An~ that's not what students should be doing. 
-Scholastic 
, . ' " . ••'
. ' . ~ . ' ' . -:: .,
\, 

Ernie Pook's Comeek 

8~ ~ V-cJfDA eA. P.P. Y -~-~ •~~ ':~r-~_,q_Bf_ . 
I • I I, • • -• • 

l HAVE ACOUSIN) f(\Ct<Y DAVIS, WHO 1S MY SAME AGE 8uT GOES TO CAiHOLIC. SCHOOL, Sr. GeoR.GE5. HE IS AN INC~ED18LE ARTIST. You SHOULD SEE HIS NOSE'S.iHEY ARE so 
R.EALISTIC. ~=-= 
AFTER ONE SECOND OF LOOKIN(:i AT IT., ALL Y0V COVLO TH\NK WAS: AVTOMAT\C. A. 
HE TAPED 9N SARAN WRAP ANO TVRNEO IT \N. \f YOV CAN 8EL\EVE \TJ HE 60T Ii 'BAC.K W \i\-\ T\'\E FACE CROSSED OFF. HIS NUN WROTE:~ Tr\E V\ RG\N MAF-Y IS NOT 
HE 010 H-\1S ONE ASSIGNMENT Of: OF.AW nte \J\R.G\N MAfl..'<' R\Gt\i? HE COPIED THE 
FAC.E FROM PAVLA PRENT\SS. \T WA,S So PERrl:C.i. T\-\E ~-HE SAID THATS 1-\0W You C.AN TELL PERFEC.T AR.T: 00 TPif 
E"<E5 LOOK l.\\{E iHEY ARE WAiC.\-\\N~ 
AT Fl!<.ST HE WOVLDN'T EVEN SHOW ME. FINALl.'( \-\E SA\O ''OK. OPEN THAT DRAWER~ l NEVER FORGOT Tl-\e FEEL\NC=, OF Sc­FORE AND AFTER. Wl-\EN \ SAW \T. \ Nt:V€R KNEW LOOK\NQ Ai A f>IC.TVR.c 
C0Ul-0 MAKE '(0V FEEL So SAD.


24 




' 
,-. I 
:.:................................................................... ..... 

The University of Notre Dame Student Play·ers Present 
· A New Musical Music by: Robert-Meffe Lyrics by: Brant Beckett 
Shawn Sturnick Book by: Mark Costanzi 
Feb. 22-25th Washington Hall, Bpm Tickets available LaFortune Box Office 








