

Subscribe to: 

Only $35 a year -12 regular biweekly issues plus the annual Football Review 
You'll find: 
• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues 

• 
what's happening on weekends · • off-the-wall humor 



M A G -A Z:: I N E 
r---------------------------------------"1
•  - . 1·  
1: . ~  Please put me on your subscriptirih list for 1998,-1999.  ·1.  
Name:  ----------'----­ I  
Address:____________  ••  
.1  
I  
I  

' Please send this form, with payment, to: :1
I 
1 

Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine 
I I
LaFortune Student Center I Notre Dame, IN 46556 I 
I -I 
a.--_____...___ -·-·-.:,__-------·---·-_.._ -;;. 
M A G A z N E 

Election 199 


Your mission, if you choose to accept it, is to vote for the best possible student body leaders. Sound impossible? Scholastic pro­. files the hopefuls, their platforms and highlights this yearls election 
trends, both for better and for worse. 
Power Player 
Few athletes at Notre Dame come through in the clutch as well as the hockey team's Aniket Dhadphale. Scholastic talks to this power player before he moves on to bigger and better things. 
by Katie Rak 

Open 24 Hours e, 
Looking for milkshakes, American fries or a big ol' greasy "burger at 3 a.m. and don't know where to go? Scholastic · reviews South Bend's late night eateries. 
by Joe Gallagher 

Everything You've Always Wanted to Know About Notre Dame by Patrick Kelly 8 Just Peachy by Mary Beth Ellis l O Man of Troy by Corey Spinelli 22 
. WWF Meets ND by Katie Cleary 26 
Departments 

From the Editor 2 Editorial 3 ND Notebook 5 Man on the Street 7 Campus Watch 19 Splinters from the Pressbox 23 Out of Bounds 27
. :0 

.•.·1; 80 iii Week in Distortion 28 
CD Comic Strip 29
.') . r= m 

On Other Campuses 30 
Calendar 31 
Final Word 32 
NOTRE DAME•FEBRUARY 4, 1999 

°' 
I­


0 -Still 
LU 

0 Locked
LU 
I­
I Out 
~ 
•m not going to lie to you. When I first

0 1 
began researching and writing the article 

°'u.. that Scholastic ran in September, entitled "Locked Out," my primary aim was to look at why Notre Dame has yet to have awoman serve as student body president. But it was my underlying hope that the article would encourage women on this campus to run for office and break the pattern ofmale domina­tion over student government. Obviously, that did not happen. Two tickets with women at the helm are running this year, and both of these candi­dates came across as intelligent and thought­ful in their interviews with Scholastic. But in the end, they both lacked the experience and know ledge ofthe ins and outs ofstudent government that isn't just useful for an effective presidency, it's a requirement. While outsiders to the governmenttend to have the energy and original ideas that often make greatleaders, these attributes, on their own, don't seem to be enough. In an office with a term lasting under a year and littered with red tape, the president can't afford to 
be completely unfamiliar with the system. And unfortunately, the women (and men for 
the most part) of student government with 
experience chose not _to run for president 
this year, yet again. 
The most common explanation I've come 

across addressing why Notre Dame women 
continually do not run for student body presidentis a lack ofinterestinpolitics. And yet year after year Saint Mary's has no 
problems finding several all-female tickets, something unheard of at Notre Dame. Do Saint Mary's women for some reason have 
that much more interest in politics and stu­
dent government than Notre Dame women? 
It's possible, but not likely. 
The problem, and make no mistake that a 

university which has been coed for 26 years 
and has never had a female student body 
president has a problem, is the fault ofNotre 
Dame men and women alike. And until it 
becomes commonplace for an experienced 
woman to runfor any office on this campus 
and win, the problem will remain. 
For more on this year's candidates, in-

eluding the good, the bad and the bad jokes, 
check out our election coverage beginning 
on page 11. 
Corrections 
The pictures of the Boston College game· 

on pages 28 to 31 of our recent football 
review were attributed to Jeff Hsu of The 
Observer; photography Staff. The actual 

·Sij~®IB~i]I~"; ,(_: ;;:::ct:" ;,< y:: &,••·•. {0 •· •:t?;!:ti9~:t:Jf:fa1~99 
. . . . . . . .
·: :.-·/._:: ~-:·-~ :·· :-, -·.-: 
. '.)..)\:\_·:· _,.;_ ... 
:·,-; .\_\t•,>{;:<.-_· 
. -~/-:_:_.. ,: .. 
.' ~., 
, , , _.k • • 

·Associate Editor.,.·:, c .--·, · ·.:· •• ,: -: • : • :: · Assoc1a,J Ecf~bmmr~ <)~~>~­
_, B .·, Hch·.. t ·. , . .. . M. \ d·th \M sj· -b. ;-. -. .·
,'. :-..._:.· ... r,i~~-·. ,,,,.!1~ ;--;~' -· . ._::,:_ __ "·,_,°,'_·,,.. .., e.\\)._.,:, ~1rna-~J;~\iN~~/J~~~l;"'?·M·~~;~y\~ito/:j~~~tt·;,a~t~)~) ~;~lJjgJJ·....._.:. ·---'='-· ·, •,:,. -,(_ _. _ 
photographer was Kevin Dalum, The 
Observer's photography editor. 
We'd like to offer our thanks to The Ob­
server for their cooperation with the football 
review and our apologies for the error. 
~«H 

10 Years Ago: 

Who Are These· People? 
In the February 23, 1989, election issue 
ofScholastic, the magazine interviewed 
Dan Fahey, a junior from Carroll Hall who chose to run for student body king. When asked about his strengths and weak­nesses, Marty DeBenidictis, Fahey's run­ning mate, was frank: 
"Everyone submits their will to the king. 
•'

He has pretty much no weaknesses." 
Kind of makes current candi,:Iate Luke 
White, who claims he can control the sun­
light, look downright sane. 
-WPD 

>,'·i·_\·.. ~:_._..:./•"?.-~•.~-,'-.,.... 
, , 

,;·; :-· whole:Clrl11:pa_·r1_J_m_!!Y__:__be,_ reprodiic.ed·in_ :_any___ ma_rine_r_-.wi(ho_...Lit. · 
,·, -· . ' 'n'i:oriseiitof.the'publisherliSi:ho/aslii:Magazinedoes
.,:-.,;: · . _­
-~:jl~~ll.%!~~.u~~§l!i:!)~~Ji,¥i.~scriij~:~fmat~tl~f 

)/'.:: ;(4Foitune ~~ai~r~~°n%?N6!f;~J~;ir~1;s~:~~tit 
2 

SCHOLASTIC FEBRUARY 4, 1999 
MAGAZINE 



Vote Murphy/Palumbo
LLast year's student body presidential candidates were excellent. Peter Cesaro and Andrea Selak were elected from a field of candidates who were experienced, well-researched and well-intentioned. This year, we have not been so blessed. What started out as an unmanageable field of 14 tickets has winnowed itself to a still-shocking 11, but the abundance ofcan­didate pairs has failed to yield an abundance -or even a shred -of competence to represent the student body. Most of the people on this ballot are either joke candi­dates or marginally interested goofballs. This is not to say that every ticket is a complete embarrassment. Juniors Micah · Murphy and Michael Palumbo display the work ethic, experience and knowledge of student government 
that we need in a stu­
Though their list of goals is lengthy, the two believe that 
dent body president 
and vice president. they can accomplish about 85 percent of their platform.
Murphy and Palumbo are the only pair with a thoroughly researched platform and a realistic plan for achieving the tenets of that platform. While other groups have mentioned the need for, say, improved student services, intellectual life or gender relations -with the vague inten­tion ofdoing something on those matters ­Murphy and Palumbo have already pro­posed specific innovations in these and other areas and have spoken to the appropriate administrators. Though their list of goals and programs i~ a lengthy one, the two believe that they can realistically accom­plish about 85 percent of their platform. Their work ethic and knowledge of the proper channels suggests that this assess­ment is correct. 
Of course, Murphy and Palumbo are far from being the perfect ticket. The first strike against them is the fact they were not origi­nally slated to run together. Scholastic ini­tially interviewed Murphy with Student Senator Julie Reising, and Palumbo was briefly on the ballot with Rhea Gertken. Before that, Murph}'. was supposed to run as 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 . 
a vice presidential candidate with current Student Body Vice President Andrea Selak. Reising, Gertken and Selak have all since dropped out of the race and Murphy and Palumbo have settled on each other. Though Palumbo is a solid candidate with plenty of experience and a get-things-done approach, this ticket-hopping makes their platform ­which did not change when Palumbo re­placed Reising -appear arbitrary. 
Also, Murphy and Palumbo may be too conciliatory. There is something to be said for having an amiable relationship with the administration, but we feel that certain is­sues require a more confrontational stance. If elected, Murphy and Palumbo should mimic the style of another ticket: Sean Deschene and Michael Revers. Deschene campaign are irredeemably bad. In addition to their lack ofpreparation, they show a lack of knowledge about student government. Many do not even fully understand the role of the president. Two of the candidate pairs -Luke White/Daniel Hennigan and Patrick McCormick/Brian Wahl -are clearly joke candidates, and one pair, Scott Killen and Paul Neboski, is not even serious enough to meet with Scholastic. 
Freshman presidential candidate Brian Clemency from Zahm is an unusual excep­tion. Though well-spoken and well-pre­pared, he and his running mate, senior Dan Chucta, present a cockamamie realignment of student government that smacks of gim­micky desperation. Though we appreciate this ticket's suggestion that all meetings be 
and Revers, also both juniors, understand this need, and their friendly, charismatic and intelligent bearing would help them to confront the administration. Deschene and Revers also seem genuinely interested in issues like diversity that Murphy and Palumbo focus on, but not as thoroughly. Deschene and Revers lack the experience and knowledge of Murphy and Palumbo, but they are a solid candidate pair. It's too bad that their Zahm origins (six of the 11 tickets hail from the dorm) may keep them from garnering more votes. 
There are also some other candidates with redeeming qualities. Much improved '98 campaign veterans Wally Poirier and Greg Smith come to mind. As do the experienced pair of Chana Jayme and Dan Peate (who was the student body president ofMoorpark College in California before transferring to Notre Dame). However, neither of these two tickets have the experience, personality and preparation that mark the better candi~ dates. 
And most of the tickets in this year's open to the public (most currently are), most of their drastic proposals would be unwork­able, unpopular and ultimately unpassable. Clemency's platform would hamstring his presidency -not to mention the rest of the 
· student government -and this reckless change-for-the-sake-of-change would cause the administration to roll their eyeballs and laugh as another year of student govern­ment passed without meaningful discus­sion. (Needless to say, Clemency's absurd suggestion that Scholastic be eliminated and its funding be given to The Observer did not help to endear his candidacy to the magazine.) 
The ticket ofMicah Murphy and Michael Palumbe> is the only one that boasts the possibility of effectively representing the interests ofthe student body. They are likely the only pair that would begin their term with the respect of the administration and maintain that respect throughout. And they are the pair that would put forth the best effort on behalf of the student body. Vote for Micah Murphy and Michael Palumbo. 0 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

i: 
\\
1: 
I 
I I Sick of folding beef turnovers at North Dining Hall? 
, I
'I 
1· 
I 
I Turn in your apron 
for a red pen. 

M A G A. Z I N E­
is now hiring. 
•Editor in Chief 
• Managing Editor 
• News Editor 

•
Assistant News Editor 

• 
Campus Life Editor 


•
Assistant Campus Life Editor 

• Sports Editor 

•
Assistant Sports Editor 

• 
Entertainment Editor 



• 
Assistant Entertainment Editor 


' 

• Departments Editor 
•Assistant Departments Editor 
• LayoufEditor 
• AssistantLayoutEditor 
• Business Manager 
• Systems Manager<• Graphic Arts · Editor • Photography Editor • Assistant Photography Editor 
Applications for Editor in Chief due February 11, 1999. All other applications due February 21, 1999. 
Applications can be obtained in the Scholastic Office. in the basement of South Dining Hall. Questions? Call 1-7569 or e-mail Scholastic.scholast.l@nd.edu 
4 

SCHOLASTIC FEBRUARY 4; 1999
MAGAZINE 
GAME, SET, MATCH 

Net Gain 

A successful start to the men's tennis season leaves the coach one victory shy of500th win 
Due to the loss of four seniors from last year's squad, the 24th-ranked Notre Dame Men's Tennis team headed into the 1999 dual-match season with a number ofquestion marks. But, after compiling a 3-1 record thus far, including a tough 4-3 loss to number-7 Texas last Satur­day, the Irish have proved their mettle and put to rest any talk of this being a rebuilding year. That's not to say that this will be an easy year for the Irish. "The foreseeable, imme­diate future is fraught with potential pot­holes," remarks Head Coach Bob Bayliss, who is in his 30th year as a head coach, the past 12 being with Notre Dame. "The next few (matches) will be difficult. But, if we win a majority of those, we'll be in great shape to jump into the rest of the season." Notre Dame's next two matches are against 26th-ranked Kentucky and 10th­ranked Duke. Immediately following those contests are match-ups with Northwestern and Minnesota, both of whom beat the Irish last season. Notre Dame handles its imposing sched­ule with experience at the top of the line-up. Captains Brian Patterson and Andy Warford, who are the only two seniors on the team, compete at number two and number four singles, respectively. Junior Ryan Sachire, who holds the num­ber one singles position, is the third-ranked singles player in the nation. Sachire's rank­ing is the highest a Notre Dame player has .. ever achieved, prior to his senior year. He has validated his high ranking by remaining unbeaten in singles play, despite some stiff competition. In his last two matches he has knocked off top 10 opponents. 
"Everybody feeds off his presence and his enthusiasm," Bayliss says of Sachire. "He's the heart and soul of the team." 
Complementing these upperclassmen are the six newcomers that make up the fresh­man class. Although none of the first-year players have vaulted into a top-four singles .position this season, Bayliss maintains that this group is a special one. 
"I think it's a great class, one of the best we've ever had in my tenure here," Bayliss says. "We had a great class like this with the class of '93. They were in the same situa­tion, there were six of them. And all ofthem were starting as seniors." 
As Notre Dame prepares to take on Ken­tucky this Tuesday, Bayliss, who was named Big East Coach of the Year last season, finds himself one victory shy of 500 career coaching wins. Reflecting on this rather impressive milestone, Bayliss says, "It's something that's a tribute to living long enough, coaching long enough." 
Of course, it always helps to own a .726 winning percentage over those 30 years. -Christopher Hamilton 
Q&A 
10uestions with 

John Zack 
Sacristan 

Someone has to light the incense before the opening procession when it's time for Mass. At the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart, the man with the fire is John Zack, Sacristan Extraordinaire and proud layman amongst a crowd of CSCs and gaping tourists. He took time out from bussing the Lord's table to show us around the sacristy. 
What's the stupidest tourist question you ever heard? 
Is Knute Rockne buried under the high altar? 
Who's the highest-ranking Church offi­
cial you've ever met? 
I've met a couple cardinals. 
How many Masses have you seen? 
Off the top of my head, I'd have to estimate about 2,000. 
What's the largest Mass procession you've ever seen? 
A few years ago, we had abishop's confer­ence on campus, and there was a procession of about 300 bishops. 
Holy high altar,· Hatman! Did they all have their own miters (the pointy hat 
continued on next page-. 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
z 
0 
z 
0 
-I 
m 
OJ 
0 0 
7\ 



0 ~ 0 
en 
UJ 
l­
o 
z 
0 
z 
Q&A 
continued from previous page 
bishops wear) and crosiers (the big stick bishops carry)? 
Only the celebrating bishop had a crosier. And just about everybody brought their own miters. 
What's your favorite aspect of working in the Basilica? 
I enjoy meeting different types of people from all over the world. 
What did you want to be when you were growing up? 
President of the United States. 
Who do you like in the 2000 election? 
Put me down for George W. Bush. 
What's the worst liturgical mistake you've ever seen? 
We had a wedding once that was celebrated by the 90-year-old uncle ofthe bride, and he went directly from the opening prayer to · Communion. He just skipped right over the 
readings, homily and Eucharistic Prayer. 
What about the marriage ceremony? 
He skipped that, too. 
-Mary Beth Ellis 



"feople berate .the ,staff
OUT OF ORPER 

when their food doesn't come. ·w I<.. ·.•: ·: '·1·t·.·.·.· , quickly enough," Retkei-s . .. .. ... e·.····.·.·•.·.···c··.. ·•· .. ·. •·1·.··. .... ·• ·• ... ... . ~ .. ••·.. .. ..·.·,··._·. Operation Manager Mike
···r· • · .. ··n ··· _
···.·.n ·
::::J Davy says. <'With 40 ,people .... .. ·. ... ·, . . : ..· inline,theBervice is goingto Oneofcampus'few.24-hour-·takealittlelonger." · · · 
· · d·. ·-· · ·h · · ·.·. •-.· i ·pisorderly )ehaviqr has ..· 

spaces reconsi . ersits ,· 
D·ruoewt.od·y•~e..t'.• ..···.·,c .. ktse.•·r}sn···.v1.os·.l.vc_.oin·n•··g·--.··.• ...svuerd,·.··a·e··.•l.njt'.ns·...• iRd.eenc .. 
. . . sidering closing during weekend: nights. . . . . . 
TABLE FOR TWO 

Dinner by Design 
The Department ofAerospace and Mechanical Engineering unveils a food processing project 
Harbored deep in the recesses of Fitzpatrick Hall, a new center is quietly growing. Because of its youth, its influence has been minor so far, but as it matures, students may wish to see its stirring hand in NDH, SDH, Reckers or even the Huddle. This new addition is the Center for Advanced Food Processing, part of the Department of Aerospace and Mechani­cal Engineering. No, it does not duplicate sinister compounds from outer space for experimenting scientists to add to your food. Its purpose is to research food pro­cessing in order to increase productivity, decrease costs and improve the quality of processed food. Along the way, its mem­bers hope to increase the interaction be­tween people researching food process­ing, the government, academia and scien­tists. The Center's mission stretches farther, of_ course, than simply improving the quality of dining hall food. Ultimately, it hopes to 
ours, -: 
hurt students as welL When . <··•·.· , SUB booked Reckers for •a? 
)ate nighti\coustic (;afeJrommidnight to
fourin themorning,somemusicians ,: ,· 
felttl).reatened by. students who rim . 
around tables and,yellid atthose 0~ aid developing Third World countries to more efficiently provide food for their people. It also educates and trains students for careers in the food-processing industry. 

Even people who have never ventured into Cushing and Fitzpatrick can get in­volved in this program. The Center is an interdisciplinary body including students from the College of Engineering and the College of Science, specifically students from Biological Sciences and Chemistry. Faculty, graduate students and undergradu-. ates are all involved. 
The Center's research focuses on the trans­port of food materials, preservation and storage ofprocessed foods, development of food processing techniques as well as the design and control offood-processing equip­ment. 
Maybe its participants could get some practical experience on campus by finding a way to control the bugs that keep popping up in the granola. 
-Tina Zurcher 

. the ~Judent bod§ has been supportive of Reckers. "We'vegotten good support from stud~nt governrnentand thecampus1ife 
committeethesays.;'There'§peerexpec~·t~tiCJn to respect}he plac:e." .•·. ·. ... ••·. Davyagrees,sayingthathedoesh't\\'ant thevenuetoclose. ''Butwhenyou,consider ··.getting a b_ouncerorpoliceofficer to pre0 yent di~C>rderly-p~ople fro in getting in, it gets to be ridiculous;" he says, ·, . 
. . . . J de G(ll/aghei· 

· "We'd really rather not have to shut i( the stage. ·. · ·,· · · · · dowri as a24~hour space;" says Dave ''Ifitdoesn'tiinpro~~,\1/i'repr~-:: Prentowski;director offood service: "Its : par(;!dto _shutit down, inunediately : purpose was to.provide.social spacefor. ,if necessary," frento\'/~¾i s~ys,_ .au students at any time of the day··or . pointingoutthatthisis api'actical a: night. [But] we've had a significant prob~ dedsioh rather thaii. apunishmeilt. ~ ]em with students who come in urider the, ·."ff both regulaiand studenf'emL~ influenceofakohol and st<1rtmisbehay-•· ployees. refuse ,to .:work, 'we. can't·~ 
ing.Anumb~/pfstudents have toldus 
they won'tutiHz(;! the place anymore.". 

SCHOLASTIC
6 
MAG P.Z IN E 

··. runt~hplace."< . ·.···.···•···· :> . : Q . .. .....,.... ··. ·.. ··.·.·· ..·... ... . . . .. ,.·· ·.··...··· . ,··. .. • ,,:i.\ili 
. ·•··Overall;Prentowskj believesthat ('l.lGHTS QlJT? Aslew:ot drunkencusfomersmay . . , ·. . . ··•·· -f~~ce)~ec:ker!:~Jo close.c;,ri #eei{en(night~; / •i 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 




WhatdQyou think·· is going to happen onJanuaryl, 20QO? 
"What Fd· like to .see. happen is·.an army ofthe undead rising from the grave and feasting onthebrains of the 
living_;, . 


"I think the.,electricitymightgo out or we rnightb,lVe water.problemS::". 
:1~'.lfa1Il 
"I donitthinkccirrip~fers &e goingto crash, Jesus w6n't return and.aliens won\land.Jt'sjust goingto .bea regular day~ except.everyone wµl 
. havereally bad hangovers." 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 





Miller1imar1ia 
Disasters oftitanic proportion may lie at the turn ofthe millenium. 
BY K. MAXWELL MURPHY t's hard to keep one's cool when the 
world is crumbling. All around us, in the 
outside world, and even right here in the 

Bizarro world known as Notre Dame, there 
is panic. The menace which supposedly will 
destroy civilization as we know it is known 
as Y2K. People, really, ifhe's anything like 
his cousin R2D2, I don't think we should 
sweat this one. 
Some things in our lives are under our 

control, and other things are completely out of our control and will probably stay that ·way.In theory, the technology that we cre­ated should be under our control. And if something is under our control, then we can fix it. It really is that simple. Perhaps we should consider more likely doomsdays, like a global-killer asteroid strike, and re­
spond to those instead. 
This is where the 89 percent of you who 

are more computer literate than I am point 
out what a computer dunce I am and how I 
have no _business commenting on the ma­
chines. Point taken. However, I must know 
something about computers that the com­
puter community does not. For example, I 
know better than to leave my life in the 
hands of a hard drive and a CRT. 
Let me assure everyone that we here in 

the Bizarro World are completely safe. The 
OIT will find a way. For evidence I point to 
the weekly upgrades evident in the campus 
clusters' software. They wouldn't be mak­
ing them ifthey thought they'd have to do it 
all over again next year. Anything Notre 
Dame owns which uses the supposedly fatal 
embedded chips and fails next New Year's 
Eve at the stroke of midnight will be re­
placed by noon on New Year's Day. We'll 
be paying in cash out of our multi-digit 
billion dollar endowment. We're in the saf­
est place on the planet. 
What about the rest of us, who, fingers 

crossed, will be leaving the cocoon before 
the millennial fever sets in? It couldn't be 
more simple. Buy batteries, blankets, non­
perishables and candles. Don 'tfly anywhere. 
Right before the turn of the millenium, turn 
your circuit breakers off and stay inside, 
I 
under the blankets, for three days. Then, come out and try to pick up the pieces. 
If you're really terrified, get it all out of the way right now and set your computer's internal clock at two minutes till midnight, December 31, 1999. In two minutes, you '11 know how much trouble you are in, and will have an 11-month jump on things. 
I also have it under good authority that a website could be erected at which one could download the appropriate diagnostic soft­ware for her or his hardware and fix the whole subtraction from zero problem. Why don't they just do it? Well, how would 'they' fleece us for all we've got ifit was so simple? Or, more likely in this day and age, 'they' are going to fleece us out of all our money, because it is precisely so simple. 'They' being techno geeks, or whatever it is that politically correct people call them these. days. In my day, they were called A-V Guys. And we all know that A-V Guys have been looking for payback from all of us preps and jocks since high school. 
Unfortunately, but inevitably, there will be some out there who have too many toys to control and may lose everything that they've worked their whole lives for. Sorry kids, cyber-Darwinism. You forgot what it was to be a self-sufficient human being and are gonna get culled for it. Start techno­dumping immediately and remember this: human beings are animals, and all animals are placed on this planet sans electricity and the rest of them seem to get along just fine without it. 
Wouldn't we be OK ifwe had to rough it for a week or two? We're humans. Can't we fix things that are broken? Isn't that why we got the opposable thumbs? 
Besides, if you buy into all this Y2K doomsday word play, then you already know that a man in a blue turban hailing from Arabia will destroy the Earth within a year's time, so why fret about small stuff? 
I'd believe Nostradamus long before I listened to those vengeful A-V Guys. D 
The opinions expressecf in this commentmy are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial staff of Scholastic Magazine. 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
s 
)> 
z 
o,
zl 
-I I 
Ii 
m 
(/) 
-I i
'?O ' m 
~I 




ij'. • 
i' !,' 
I. 

nexplained phenomena. Quirky rituals. Enigmatic presences. These are all phrases that 
w 
u.. 
one would readily associate with Roswell, Loch Ness -even West Virginia, for that 
--1 
(/) 
matter -but Notre Dame? Yes, we here in South Bend are not immune from such odd 
:J 
happenings, and while they may never be featured in an episode of The X-Files, they nonetheless 
a.. 
~. 
have caught the attention ofmany students. We too have our fair share of unexpected occurrences 
i <( k u and cryptic shenanigans, and it's about time we found out why. So let us begin our search for the 
truth as we delve into the mysterious aura that is ... Notre Dame. 
Everything You Always Wanted to Know About 

otr Dam 
(But Were Afraid to Ask) 

By Patrick Kelly
Just who is the DARTman? 
You'11 never have to meet the man with 

Am I crazy, or do I hear 
the excruciatingly monotonous drawl that so clearly informs you whether or not you the Basilica bells ringingcan get into a certain class: he doesn't exist. That's right -the voice we hear while the Alma Mater at night? DARTing is that of artificial intelligence. We hear Uiere'~ a proposal to try to get 
Crazy is a strong word. I mean, we all 
Barry White to do the voice for next semes­ear things. It's nothing to be too con­ter, but at this point that's mere speculation. 
cerned about. Kevin Costner heard 
things in Field of Dreams, and he _went·on to µialce Wate,world. ·Okay, bad example. How about The Postman ? 
Well, moving on ... Fear not, because that's really what you're hearing. After the 10 p.m. chimes ring -the last we hear from the bell tower for the evening -the Alma Mater indeed floats from the carillon. 


FEBRUARY.4, 1999 


~

• • , ' • -• + 
. ' -,, 
How did the football game marshmellow fights in the senior section start? 

Before there were flying squid, there were flying symbols. 
Back in the days when Notre Dame made major bowls annually, the seniors, at the last home game, started the tradition of throw­ing objects onto the field that represented whatever bowl Notre Dame happened to be attending that year. So when the Irish were slated to play Florida in the Sugar Bowl on January 1, 1992, (we won, ofcourse, 39-28) the students mustered up their collective ingenuity and littered the field with marsh­
' • • 
, . .,, 

Why don't the ducks and geese on St. Marys Lake and St. Josephs Lake migrate? Don't they freeze? Where do they find food? 
This mystified Holden Caulfield as well, 

as he wondered in Catcher in the Rye just 
where the ducks went in the 
winter when the ponds 
froze. Fortunately, we 
don't have that prob­
lem here at Notre 
Dame, as a few select 
"mini-ponds" of our 
lakes remain unfrozen 
and the ducks all crowd 
into one tiny section. It 
would be a perfect excuse to get out of Indiana, but these ducks are die-hards. So ow do they survive? It can all be attrib­ed to their unique "heat exchange sys­m." Warm blood flows from the ody to the legs, and cold blood ows from the legs up to the body, keeping those tailfeathers toasty. 
Well, it ertainly has 


Check out the issues you missed last year 
www.nd.edu/-scholast 
9

FEBRUARY 4, 1999· SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


;; 
t.: 
j!,, 
1:! LU 
LL. 
-I 
(/) 
::J 
a.. 
;~ 
q.. I<(
ii
iU 
.I 
Just Peachy 
The state ofNotre Dame: now versus the last time we impeached a president 
BY MARY BETH ELLISIt is little baby peep of a school. You wouldn't recognize it if it fell on you. There isn't much to fall, really. No fine, gilded spires; no NBC camera booms; no trademarked hand lotion. There are trees -lots of trees -blue­prints for a grand, new church and. Saint Mary's Academy is just a mile down the dirt road. People are named "Bernie" and "Edgar." It's trying, this little baby peep of a school. Its president, Fr. Edward Sorin, 
has placed a tiny statue of the Blessed Mother atop the tin domed roof of the new Main Building. He thinks she will help. 
The enrollment has increased by well over a dozen students 
sincelastterm-nowupto261 
young men. Three years ago they expanded the students' cur­
riculum to include scientific studies. Soon they would add a 
law school. 
This little university has no 
gilded landmark, but its march­ing band is already 22 years old. 
The President of the United States -poor, partisan-belea­gueredPresidentJohnson-has just been impeached. 
This was ND. 

Cost for one Champion sweatshirt in The Hammes Bookstore 1999 gift catalogue: $54.95. Shipping andhandlingnotincluded. 
TheNotreDameAlumniAssociation was formed in 1868. 
Have you seen the interest on your foot­ball ticket lottery donation lately? 
There are 37 states in the recently re­united Union. A gentleman in Milwaukee· hasjustinvented a wondrous device he calls a."typewriter." The Suez Canal is nearing completion. Someone notes in Notre Dame;s 
Cost for one term in 1868: 
$157 "TS:T1·th. tuit,.;o,n·'
TT . ,.I.; 

books, laundry, room· an.d··board. 
· 

.;f"I ,cl ded 
.La..1.: U • 
Cost for one term in 1868: $157 with tuition, books, laundry, room and board included. (There were additional charges for using the school's instruments even back then.) In a few years, as the delicate, seven­chapel new church rose brick by buff brick into the Indiana sky, a student's father would . construct the bell tower in exchange for his son's tuition. 
10 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

student news magazine, The Scholastic, that "Foot-Ball is quite popular." 
There are larger campus issues to be dealt with, ofcourse. "The hedge fences on either side ofthe Main A venue should be trimmed," the authorof the "Foot-Ball" comment writes solemnly. "We are personally interested in their appearance." He then praises the heads of the university, "to whose good sense the elimination of nonsense is due." 
He ends by pronouncing, "Don'tcallnick­names -it is vulgar." 
On January 22., 1999, The South Bend Tribune reports on the words of University ofNotreDamepresident "Monk" Malloy. It claims he participated in a magazine article stating that the Pope's request that Ameri­can Catholic universities maintain theology departments more in line with the teachings of the Church was "well-intentioned but unworkable." 
"It is vulgar to eat peanuts in public," Scholastic informs us, after listing the names of Saint Mary's Academy's students who have been presented with awards for 
"Cleanliness"and "Good Deport­ment."'° 
In sharp contrast, Mrs. Elizabeth Dole, who is aiming for the Republican's 2000 presidential nomination, will be the Class of 1999's commencement speaker; 
"Large building -stones have been hauled to the back of the col­lege, prepared for the stonecutters: this would seem to indicate that more improvements are to be made at Notre Dame," a pre-parietals issue of Scholastic also reports. 
A clump of giant rocks. That's all you needed to be 'improving.' This was when 'a rebuilding year' meant something entirely differ­

ent. (And Sorin did it all without the Big Ten!) · 
Recent popular publication, 1868: "The Family Paper of America," out ofChicago. It did not have a web page. In no way, we understand, did it contain reports about il­licit affairs; 
Recent major publication, 1999: "The Starr Report" 
And we like progress? 
. 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 


Profiles Cynthia Turski / Step~en Robey .......... 14 Wally Poirier / Greg Smith ................. 14 Micah Murphy / Michael Palumbo . . . . . . 15 Bill Kuder / Joe Priest......................... 15 Chana Jayme / Dan Peate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Sean Deschene / Michael Revers . . . . . . . . 16 Christopher Costigan/ Matt Buyske .... 17 Brian Clemency / Dan Chucta ........... ~ 17 
Features Sea of Mediocrity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 The Jokers .. ~. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 8 
Missing in Action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1· a Out of Context . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 8 
ALL PHOTOS BY PATRICK DOWNES . 
11

·FEBRUARY 4, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

I 
-1
;! 

L· 
ast year's pre-election commentary was 
an easy one to write. Most of the candi­
dates lined up to replace Matt Griffin ­
the worst student body president in recent 
memory-fit into one of two categories: 
they either had preparation and experience 
ontheir side; orthey were the kind ofpeople 
who shouldn't be allowed to use scissors 
without adult supervision. 
In view of all this, all·a columnist had to 
do was praise the good candidates, make 
fun ofthe bad ones, mix in a couple ofZahm 
jokes for good measure, and keep it all 
under 700 words. 
Things aren't so 

k)rn& @[? 
MEDIOCRITY 
The crowd of presidential candidates has "few standouts 
by Jake Mooney 

candidates has. That the switch required no change in the platform makes Murphy, Palumbo and Reising look like faceless, interchangeable student-government drones. Their only saving grace is that they have a set of realistic if unambitious goals. They would have been the third-or fourth-best ticket in last year's election, and the fact that potential president Murphy has a difficult time responding to questions without read­ing from.a prepared script does not inspire confidence,. 
Still, at least he thought enough to prepare a script; The only other candidates to show 
arm's reach of reality, although, unlike White, he does not have the decency to admit it. He may have pleased The Observer with his plan to abolish Scholastic, but the rest ofhis platform is packed with unneces­sary and impractical student government reforms, and enough spelling arid typo­graphical mistakes to make his favorite cam­pus publication proud. Clemency seems to think that students will adopt his plans solely · because of his cliarming personality, but he fails to take into account that he is by far the most abrasively smarmy candidate in the race. His running mate, Dan Chucta, prob-
simple this year, and Could it be iust a coincidence that so many peop'e with strong
it's not because of a 

lack of Zahm jokes. student gove.rnment background dropped ouf -at the exact 
It's because this year, 

none of the most same time that Zahm decided to play a pran~ on the rest of 
qualified people even 

campus by hiiacking the election?
bothered to run. 
Former Vice· Presi­dent Andrea Selak and· Student Senators Matt· Mamak, Brian O'Donaghlie and· A.J: Boyd all' either dropped, out of the race or didn'tenteritat alLintheir place, we had a field so depressing as to make the task of· writing a.column -or even getting up in the· morning, for that matter -an unenvi~ able one. 
Micah Murphy and Mike Palumbo are.the only pairwith enough experience orinsight to• deserve anyone's vote. Murphy is underwhelming: in person, though, and comes across as a middle-manager looking topreservethestatusquo.Infact,Palumbo's last-second replacement. of original vice­presidential candidate Julie Reising shows just how little personality any of the· three 
12 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZI.NE 

up for their meeting with Scholastic with any. campaign material were Luke-White, a joke candidate, and Napoleon~ih-waiting Brian Clemency, who is frighteningly seri'" ous. White; who is on the staff of Right Reason, showed that even extremists. can. have a• sense of humor. When asked what sets him and his running mate, Dan Hennigan; apart from the other-candidates he replied, "Probably our degree of surreality.... Most other candidates have at least one foot planted in,therealm ofactual reality, and I'm afraid that's just not the.case with us." On the other hand, they db have the prettiest posters. 
Clemency, a freshman, from Zahm, is another candidate who rarely drifts within 
· 

ably should have adopted Hennigan' s strat­egy of not showing up for the interview, since he proved to be as monosyllabic as Clemency is annoying .. 
Clemencyis just one of many Zahm can­didatesto clog up the race this year, most of whose main goal fa the campaign is to geton the. nerves of the rest of campus. There are some notable exceptions, however. Sean Deschene and Mike Revers have all ofthe charisma that Murphy lacks, and their ideas and. approach to. government deserve con­sideration from both the voters and the other candidates.,_ 
Zahm also gives us the ticket that is the biggest surprise.of this year's election. Wally Poirer and Greg Smith, whose-uninformed 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 


Zahm tickets, all ofwhom came 
across like a badjoke, and none "Most other candidates have at least one foot planted. 
of whom tleserve to see their 
in the realm of actual reality,.and I'm afraid that's i,ust not 
names in print.. 
?:c :-"'WA ·'"1· -.·""''' .. .I.'lif. ·ti -·:. ·, ",. ··._. :·. :··,_.-·, ·. ~:r\i:? ..,Jl,.~r~;!?:~~\,Jr~·~'.;o;\t~( <·itllit'.:,(il~~ii{.,/.
,bvll,rii111Drrwon't" 
. ..,,,,, "'•. 
.., ·-···-· --. -···· ---·,• m ... ··11·-·"1'7 · 1
~:;::;~;f:;;::::}1rrrtf0;:~nf~i/i~~EII:i~lt1{\;,:.::~:-~
;· '··''-· ·:-/\-.~.. :;,Ui<::-'.·,~ ,<: .:-:·--,. ·-,:; :: ~.::·-'/,'°i..','; -,;, -~.-, -_\-,._ '.-'NO.T'JUST.,>,\NOJTHER:DUMB;B1.f.OND 
::,:;;;:;;;\::~;\:::;:l{@)'ii\:~:;~Iili:i~;;:1tt?]"
campaign nearly caused some Scholastic staffmembers to lose faith in humanity last year, are back. This time, though, they have brought along a bit more maturity and even some good ideas. Their platform boasts, "We're not stupid anymore!" and they have donelittle to cause anyone to disagree. 
Sadly, as long as Keenan and Alumni halls are still standing, neither ofthe seri­ous candidates from Zahm will ever win a studentgovernmentelection. Onthe bright side, this campus-wide bias will prevent the election of any of the other 
The heavy turnout from the 

the case with us." 
most testosterone-drencheddorm oncampus also serves to accen­tuate anotl}er trend in the race:. the absence ofappealing female candidates forpresident. Chana Jayme, a co-president ofMcGiinn Hall, has someinteresting ideas -the best of which is improving Career and Placement's treatment ofnon-business· majors -but she let her _voluble· running mate Dan Peate dominate their iriterview with· Scholastic so thoroughly that it be­came unclear which one ofthem wants to be in charge. 
Cynthia Turski, the only other female candidate, lists no prior government experi­ence on her resume. Even though this hardly distinguishes her in this year's dismal race, Turski is by no means fit to serve as presi­dent.It would-be a nice change·of pace for Notre Dame's students to elect a female president, but this year's candidates should realize that it will take more than two X chromosomes to gain support 
Given the almost universallackofexpe­

rience among this year's candidates,. one question remains: Why? Could itbe just a coincidencethat so many people with strong student government background dropped out at the exact time that Zahm decided·to play a prankon therest ofcampusbyhijack­ing the election? : 
Probably not. More likely,. we can find some explanationin the past year's govern: ment. Peter Cesarois an adequate president and a swell guy, buthis conciliatory stance toward the administration and his. lack of visibility make him look like a student gov­ernment insider, content to just go through the motions. True or not, this perceptionhas convinced everyone on campuswith a little free time and some delusions ofgrandeur to make a grab for the brass ring. At the same time, qualified student government mem­bers have apparently decided that public office is not their top priority. In all prob­
-Luke White 

ability,.the past administration's blandness did more than a·little to foster this apathy. 
Ifthis is true, everyone who willbe on this campus in the nextyear, and who cares even a· little. about student government,. should hope that whoever eventually·gets .elected can inject some· life back into the office; Otherwise, Notre Dame students may be in storefor another election like·this one. D. 
Li'+:iffI!~t 
MAGAZl'N'E 




"Persistence, Integrity,.Flamboyance" 
f\;\~lrt·t~r?Jf)t~?~t:tt:k: ..••,,, 
t: 
ROBEY 
Name: Cynthia Turski / Stephen Robey Class: Sophomore / Sophomore Dorm: Badin Hall/ Knott Hall 

"More Student Involvement" 
Presidential candidate Cynthia Turski and running mate Stephen Robey stress the im­portance of student input and communica­tion in their platform. "We want students to become more interested and involved in sfudentgovemment,"Turski says. "Wewant to focus on what they are interested in." 
Although neither candidate has previ­ously been involved in student government, Turski and Robey are involved in other areas. Turski, asophomorefromBadinHall, is a member of Notre Dame Council of International Business D~velopment. She also sings for the Notre Dame Opera and the Women's Liturgical Choir and works as an announcer and newscaster for WSND. Robey, a sophomore in Knott Hall, also works with WSND and WVFI. 
The duo wants to increase communica­tion among students by posting the results of Teacher Course Evaluations on the web to aid students in making decisions con­cerning courses. They also want to hold campus-wide public forums once a month in Lafortune to make students more aware of prevalent issues. 

Another key plank in their platform con­cerns easing the tension of stud(;lnt life. To better dorm relations the pair would like a standardized detex time for all dorms, mak­ing dorms currently on 24-hour detex open atleastfrom lOa.m. to7p.m. Theyalsoplan to extend hours at North Dining Hall and form an express lane in the bookstore for students on football week;ends. 
The two would like the administration to consider joining the Big Ten for academics but not for athletics. Hoping to come to compromises in anon-confrontational man­ner, the two say they are eager to work with the administration. 
-Heather Hogan 
Presidential candidate. Wally Poirier and running mate Greg Smith are the only candi­dates to have run together in last year's elec­tion. This year their platform focuses on im­proving the treatment of students. "We want to cause [the administration] to consider our needs more," Poirier says. 
Poirier, a government and history major, is theexecutiveassistantforZahmHall Council and has worked as a community liaison for Habitat for Humanity/ND. Smith is majoring inArchitecture,EconomicsandMathandalso serves on the Zahm HaUCouncil. Both recog­nize the fact that students may be concerned about their lack of direct student government experience. But, as Poirier says, "We don't feel like we're above the students ... we're here to have fun and serve [them]." 
The team plans to lessen the stress of aca­demic rigors with alcohol-free stress reliev­ers. Poirier mentions the possibility of open-

Name: Wally Poirier/ Greg Smith Class: Junior/ Sophomore 

·I Dorm: Zahm Hall_/ Zahm Hall 
I 
I 
/ 
14 SCHOLASTIC

j 
. MAGAZINE

·i­
ing a 24-hour space similar to Reckers in Lafortune. 
The two hope to develop the islands in the campus lakes as outdoor social space. Bridges and seating areas could be built to give stu­

dents another space to socialize. "They could 
be a romantic spot if need be," Poirier says. 
Poirier and Smith also want to poll students 
on student government issues on a regular 
basis. They propose to have the campus pub­
lications print the results of weekly or bi­
weekly polls to "not ·only help us but also to 
allow students son;ie insight into what's going . on," Poirier says:·· 
Oneoftheissuesmostimportanttotheteam 
is the improvement ofbookstore service. The 
candidate_s believe that the bookstore's 
buyback policy· is patronizing. "I thought it 
was a slap in the face walking in there, know­
ing you won't get back as much as you'd like 
and then getting, back even less than you 
expected,"Poirersays. Thepairwouldliketo 
organize a deal with Barnes and Noble in 
cooperation with professors who would sup­
ply bookHsts. 
As for the non-discrimination clause, the 
pair recognizes the rights ofhomosexuals but 
believes that including sexual orientation in 
the clause is unnecessary. Poirier believes that 
non-legal ways can be found to redress prob­
leins ofdiscrimination. -TinaZurcher 
fEBRUARY 4, 1999 


"Bringing It All Together" 

Juniors Micah Murphy and Michael Palumbo envision a studentgovernment that acts as a link between various organizations oil campus. With their theme of"bringing it all together," Murphy and Palumbo hope to ac­complish a number of smaller initiatives by coordinating the efforts of multiple student groups. 
"We want to find out who's best for the job and get them the tools they need to get the job done," Murphy explains. With this theme in mind, Murphy and Palumbo will work with a platform full ofrealistic goals. 
Since both Murphy and Palumbo have held student government positions in the past, they feel comfortable with the system. As Presi­dent ofKeough Hall and a member ofthe Hall Presidents' Council Budget Committee, Murphy recognizes the need for interaction ~ong many student organizations. "We all work together under the umbrella.of student government. We need the residence halls' backing ultimately," Murphy says. 
Palumbo, who was not Murphy's original running mate, is the Student Union secretary and sits on several student government bodies including the CLC, Student Senate and the Executive Cabinet. Palumbo believes that this experience helps to round out the ticket. ."We have a good combination of the knowledge needed to be successful," he says. 
Julie Reising, Murphy's original running mate, helped to research many of the ideas on the platform. But Palumbo does not believe that the ticket has missed a step since he has replaced her. Palumbo is committed to ,the issues that Murphy and Reising originally highlighted. "I've been a part of many ofthe decisions that are on there, anyway," he says. 
While their platform includes a number-of initiatives, Murphy and Palumbo place iin-. portance on developing intellectual life and providing convenient services for students­such as an airport shuttle and extended com­puter cluster hours. They hope to introduce a "Real Deal" and "Last-Lecture" series. The "RealDeal"lectures would bringrecentgradu-· ates backto campus to talk about their real­world experiences, while the "Last Lecture" series would offer professors a chance to deliver a speech as ifit were their last lecture at Notre Dame. -Jim Pastore 
''ND ·Football Rules'' 

Name: Bill Kuder/Joe.Priest Class: Junior / Junior Dorm: Zahm Hall / Zahm Hall 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 . 

Zahmjuniors and roommates Bill Kuder and Joe Priest are self-described·"regular guys," running for office with-no-experi­ence in student government. Kuder, a Man­agement Information Systems major has held leadership positions within his dorm and serves on the SUB concert commit­tee. Priest, a Computer Engineering Ma­jor, is a Zahm hall section leader and social commissioner. But-the two see this difference as an asset to• their ticket, en­abling them to create an administration more representative of the student body. 
Their platform is focused on sports, in par­ticular Notre Dame football and the need for reform within the ticket distribution system. "Every [football] Saturday we walk up the aisle past people who aren't paying attention to the game," Kuder says, emphasizing his frustrationwith the fact that many St. Mary's students held better tickets this year than he · 
and his friends, who camped:out all night. 
"It would be fair if the people who really cared were in some way rewarded with better seats ... somehow scrapping the idea ofseniors first, then juniors. We'd rather separate it by appreciation for the game." The two have considered plans to distribute tickets based on what school a student goes to (giving Notre Dame students priority) and bylevel ofappre'­ciation for the game. Appreciation would be measured through a IO-question test taken in the fall. 
Afterfootball season, Priest proposes build­ing support for the basketball team by moving the student section to the sideline and replac­ing the·band•withmore popular music. 
Beyond sports, KuderandPriestwouldlike to encourage more bands to visi~ the campus. They would.also liketo create satellite work, out stations both in Stepan and Haggar to· prevent North quad students from having to walk to Rolf's or the Rock. 
The duo do not see themselves as advocates ofthe students or the administration, but as an· intermediary between the two. "As a team-we want to be sort ofan overseeing body over the events of student government," Kuder says. "We want to be a visible administration ..You always hear about the bad things; we want people to see the good.things we do." 
-Allison Fashek 
SCHOLASTIC 
15 
MAGAZINE 

"Social, Academic and Spiritual" 
Presidential candidate Chana Jayme and her running mate, Dan Peate, want a student government that works efficiently to help students reach their potential. 
"We want to have all the students· achieve the greatest that they can," Jayme says, "socially, academically and spiritually." 
Jayme and Peate, both juniors, boast pre­vious leadership experience. Jayme is a co­president of McGlinn Hall, and is a cox­swain on the crew squad. Her running mate is also a dorm co-president (Knott) and the head of the debate team. Peate is the only candidate in this year's field with previous student body presidential experience. A transfer student, Peate·was the president at Moorpark College in California before com­ing to Notre Dame; 
Jayme and Peate plan on administering the student government with minimal waste. "We want to make sure that ... all the dollars we have -we give them back to the students," Peate says. "We want to make sure that this money is not just wasted and used for bureaucracy." 
The pair hopes to streamline event spon-soi:ship by bringing organizations together to work on events. "We want to take a look at the different organizations on campus," Peate says, helping to work with them to restructure ... to become more efficient." 


In addition to working with student clubs . and organizations, Jayme and Peate want to work closely with the CSC and with Career and Placement to improve placement for J non-business majors. 
As for the issues currently facing the Board of Trustees, the pair is against the move to the Big Ten and in favor of the inclusion of sexual orientation in the non­discrimination clause. "We don't feel that any student should be harassed for any rea­son -whether it be gender or sexual orien­tation," Peate says. 
Though both candidates have some expe­rience in student government, they wish to emphasize that they are not typical politi­cians. 
"We're just regular people," Peate says, "regular students who really care." 
-Patrick Downes 

"Persistence, Energy and Freshness" 
Fresh ideas, a focus on students' use of 

technology and an abundance of enthusiasm 
are what juniors Mike Revers and Sean 
l. 
Deschene want to bring into the office. They 
say their platform aims to bring the student 
government back to the students. Deschene 

feels that students remain discon­nectedfromimpor­tant decisions. "We'd like to see the administration ... take a more ac­tive role toward the students," Deschene says. "it 
'We'd like to see the administration ... take a more active role toward the students. It often seems like they're patting us on the head." 
often seems like they're patting us on the head." 
Both candidates participate in a number of organizations on campus that involve com­puter technology. Revers, a Management In­formation Systems major, divides his time among The Observer, the COBA Computer Cluster and WVFI. Deschene, a Computer Science and Philosophy major, also has com­puter experience, working as a Resident Com­puter Consultant, Server Side Programmer in the library and a Cluster Consultant. 
Although neither has experience in student government, the two have created a platform that focuses on making the lives ofindividual students better ..The pair would like to make it 
-Sean Deschene 

possible to enroll and register for classes on the Internet. They also hope to improve race relations by_ bringing more speakers to cam­pus on these issues. 
They also plan to make a special effort to include off-campus students in these changes. Aware that some off-campus students feel disconnected from the rest of campus, they would like to see Senior Bar used as a coffee shop during the day. -'-Heather Hogan 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 

.. .
•-=~ • • I , •
< • • • • ­
''For the Students'' 

BUYSKE 

Name: Christopher Costigan / Matt Buyske Class: Freshman / Freshman Dorm: Zahm Hall / Zahm Hall 
Presidential candidate Chris Costigan and his running mate Matt Buyske, one of several tickets hailing from Zahm Hall, want to bring more events to campus and involve more students. 
Both are freshman with limited experi­ence, but they view this as a plus. "I've heard some of the ideas of the other candidates," Buyske says, "and they're more focused on the upperclassmen." 
mates." The pair adds that, if elected, they would surround themselves with more experienced people, and they wouldn't drastically change the way student gov­ernment works. 
"I've heard some of the ideas of the other candidates, and they're more focused on the upperclassmen." 
"Ifyou have a class president that's a junior and going to be a senior, the deci­sions they make now will affect them directly for the next four or five months or so," Costigan adds. "Then, after that, they're gone, they're graduated, they get their football tickets and they're happy. ... Anything we do is. going to affect us for the next three years here. It's going to have a more direct impact on our class­
-Maff Buyske 

With the administration the two plan to be "firm but not pushy," and with regards to the Big Ten, Costigan admits that they have not done much research into the matter but that, "Whatever the students decide, we should have our voice heard." The pair are also noncommittal on the issue of including sexual orientation in the nondiscrimination clause. 
-Patrick Downes 

"Open to the People" 
Freshman Brian Clemency and Senior then be elected on a semester basis. The two Dan Chucta are running for student body will eliminate off-campus student govern­president and vice president, respectively, ment entirely, and compensate by giving with plans to completely revamp the struc-off-campus students an extra representative ture ofstudent government. Ifelected one of in the Student Representative Council. their first steps will include renaming their Clemency and Chucta's radical platform positions "representative at large" and "vice-calls for a great deal of change in regard to representative at large," and working to-the constitution. They plan to create sepa­ward reducing the 
egotism that they One of their first steps will be renaming
feel has plagued the ~ffice ff the their positions "representative at large" 
president 111 the d11 • • I 11 
past. an vice representative at arge. 
With both· can­didates entering the race possessing only rate documents for the sophomore, junior high school political experience, the two and senior classes. Each class' constitution plan to establish a closer relationship with would follow it through its time at Notre students by keeping office hours in public Dame, making each class autonomous. places such as LaFortune but they would not Besides restructuring the government, the maintain a regular office. "The main tenet· candidates plan to operate on a frugal bud­of our candidacy is to bring the people back get. Their plans include cutting food from into the loop," Clemency says. They also all student meetings. They also want to plan to abolish the Student Senate and form eliminate Scholastic Magazine in order to a similar body called the Student Represen­make The Observer the sole source of print tative Council. Student Representatives will media on campus. -HeatherHogan 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 



Some people take student body elections as seri~ ously as a heart attack. 
Other candidates, like these, take them about as seriously as a hang nail. 
Presidential candidate Luke White from Dillon Hall doesn't believe in platforms. "I believe they are going to go· 


the way of the bell bottoms," he says, but the White/Hennigan ticket does· have several ideas. First, if elected, White plans to buy everybody a puppy, though he hasn't ruled out unicorns. He believes that' these will come in handy during the next football season, as fans in the student sec-­tion have taken to throwing dead animals at' halftime. 
Other plans that White and Hennigan would like to see implemented include the killing of swans, and the efficient manipulation of 

sunshine. White and his run­ning mate claim to be able to control the sun.• "A student govern­ment that can make the sun shine can ac­complish quite a bit," White says, "For ex­ample growing crops, evaporating water, melting ice." A cam­paign poster for the 

White

pair warns: "And we can make it stop just as easily, if you catch our drift." 
White and Hennigan also have interest­ing ideas for interacting with students and with the administration. "Students can take care of themselves for some things," White says, "but forotherthings they need a strong, firm hand to embezzle their money for them." In dealing with the administration, White would employ sycophancy, since, as he says, the administration is all-powerful. 
White and Hennigan also plan to elimi­nate the graduate school in order to save money. "Nobody likes TAs," White says, "and nobody likes graduate students. They 're just not like us. They're strange, they're different." 
Freshmen Patrick McCormick and Brian Wahl, another set ofpresidential candidates from Zahm, admitted to Scholastic that a major intention of their campaign was to see their ideas in print and laugh about them later. Among other things, the pair hope to see a liquor store or a disco­theque in Stepan. McCormick


When asked to de­scribe their candidacy in three words, McCormick replied simply, 'Tm not sure." 
-Patrick Downes 


Many of the favorites for a Presidential run opted to 
stay home this election year
Although Notre Dame students often 
criticize the Student Senate as an 

. overly political organization, not a single senator will seek higher office this election year. Instead, with a few excep­tions, this year's field features candidates with no previous Student Union experi­ence. The dearth of experience among this year's candidates has left many wondering why those familiar with the system chose not to run. 
Current Student Body Vice President Andrea Selak, long considered the favorite for a presidential run, announced her deci­sion not to run shortly before the official candidate deadline last Thursday. Selak, who had chosen Micah Murphy as a run­ning mate and constructed a campaign plat­form, made the decision in part because she wants to focus her energies on a few spe­cific programs next year. 
"There are certain projects that I've got­ten attached to and I want to work on spe­cifically those areas," Selak says. She feels the duties· associated· with the presidential position would distract her from these other 
l8 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

programs. Selak also cites unspecified per­sonal reasons that contributed to her deci­sion. 
Like Selak, Keenan Hall Senator Matt Mamak did not feel called to the role of president. "Time commitment was a huge factor. ... I feel like I want to spend next year doing different things," Mamak says. Although he entered the race for a short time, filing a formal petition for candidacy on Thursday, January 28, he withdrew from the race the next day. Mamak and his run­ning mate Keough Hall Senator Brian O'Donoghue, filed the petition shortly after hearing of Selak' s decision. 
"We got the petitions filed in order to leave the dooropen," 0 'Donoghue explains. Before Thursday, Mamak turned down seven offers to run with other candidates. "I had always come to the conclusion that I wasn't going to run," Mamak says. 
Mamak's decision effectively ended O'Donoghue's quest for higher office this year. "I firmly believe Matt was the best candidate ... and I wanted to run with the best," O'Donoghue says. 
-Jim Pastore 

©lWv @[p 
CONTEXT 
• When asked what single possession they 
. would take.with them to a deserted island, Kuder and Priest had the same answer: Kuder' s girlfriend, Katie. 
•When asked to ex.plain what set them apart from the others, these candidates had inter­esting responses; "We're students here. We know what it's like." -Jayme "I see myself as more ofa personal person." 
-Revers "Well, first as a candidate, I amfemale." -Turski 
• 
When· asked to. compare the values of a demo_cracy and a benevolent dictatorship, Peate made the following startling revela­tion. "Look at Nazi Germany, look at Hitler. What does he want? Well, to kill millions of Jews. Is that good? No." 

•
"We're not very smart. We're not business majors or anything incredible like that." -White on why he and Hennigan didn't bother to develop a platform 

• 
"I can look at my dorm [Zahm] as a microcosm of.the university." -Clemency 


FEBRUARY 4, 1999 



boring ceremony. 
TIP THE G I P P . GIPPER. l@ND.EDU 
That, combined with her ability to priori­


He.llo, everyone. The G.ipp has missed you. He hopes you have missed him, too, and that you start doing naughty things and writing in about them as soon as possible. It's not every week that the Gipp gets to fill space in his column by launching afrivolous write­in campaign for.president. 
Vote Your Conscience 

In this issue, on the other hand, the Gipp plans to d9 just that. If you've even glanced at the rest of this issue, you know that nobody in the race deserves to win. Except maybe that · guy who wants to kill the swans. You don't know him very well, though. 
The Gipp, on the other hand, is one · of the best friends you have around here. When has he ever let you down? 
You can pay the Gipp back for his loyalty by writing his name in on your · election-day ballot. 
Finally, the Gipp suggests you follow his campaign slogan: "Get drunk. Vote Gipp. It'll be funny." 
Easy on the Wine Next Time 

The Gipp hasn't decided on his running mate yet, but he heard recently about some­one he considers a strong prospect. A few weeks ago, a in ember of the liturgical choir 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 
c~ 
' ' 
got a bit carried away on a Saturday night. When she showed up at Mass the next . morning,:she was full of spirits -just not 

the holy kind. 
Our heroine proceeded to pass out in the choir's balcony, in front of God and every-. one. With Mass continuing in the back­ground, emergency medical personnel had to go up to the balcony to revive her. 
The Gipp thinks this girl should be proud of herself for spicing up what, for the past 1,500 or so years, has been basically a pretty tize, putting alcohol over God, Notre Dame, and self-respect, should make her the per­fect vice-president to serve beside President Gipp. 
The Gipp firmly believes that every president needs an archenemy, so without further ado, he would like to congratulate the winner of ... 
Sanctimonious Windbag of the Month 

When the Gipp heard that someone call­ing himself "Cappy" wrote a nasty Ob­servercolumn about him, he wondered what he had done to make one of the seven dwarves angry. It turns out, though, that "Cappy" (Crappy?) Gagnon is the head of the Notre Dame Stadium Gestapo, and thinks the Gipp doesn't love Notre Dame enough and should transfer. He also misspelled the Gipp's name as "the Griper." Maybe inten­tionally. 
The Gipp appreciates the advice, Nappy, especially from someone who has gone as far in life as you have. Still, you should probably forget about the Gipp and get back to your regular job of punishing people for cheering too loudly, or whatever it is you do. 
The Gipp will be just fine without your advice. Not that it's any of your business, but the Gipp cries during Rudy just like everybody else. He isn't planning on hang­ing around his old school for the rest of his life like some people with stupid nicknames who we know, but that doesn't mean he hates.Notre Dame or the people here. 
What he does hate are brainwashed zeal­ots who think Notre Dame's sewage doesn't stink. This place isn't perfect, and it can only improve if someone draws attention to its shortcomings. Not to mention that some of us like to have a good laugh at ourselves from time to time. Just because you can't appreciate the humor of intoxicated sports fans being smacked in the head with dead fish, don't blame the Gipp. 
Don'tfeel sorry for the Gipp either ,Sloppy. The Gipp feels sorry for you. He's sorry that you couldn't handle the real world and had to return to the Notre Dame bubble all these years later. He's sorry that you take your frustration out on students trying to have a little fun. 
Most ofall, he's sorry that there are people like you in power who think that nothing about Notre Dame needs fixing. The Gipp is 
not the problem. You are.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  19  
MAGAZINE  

(/) 
r­
0.:::: 
0 
CL 
(/) 
POWER PLAYER 
Irish forward Aniket Dhadphale brings quiet leadership and 
a strong offense to Irish hockey 
BY KATIE RAK y 2 o'clock Saturday afternoon 
the line outside ofthe Joyce Cen­

ter had already begun to form. The game had been sold out for weeks, but students showed up hours early in hopes of getting a seat for the eagerly awaited battle between the Irish hockey team and the Mic hi:.. gan Wolverines. Those who did not get there early enough missed their chance to watch Aniket Dhadphale prove why he is among the top forwards in college hockey. 
The Irish initially jumped ahead to a 2:..0 
B 

lead and kept that advantage until Michigan scored at the 14-minute mark in the third period. The Wolverines then scored again at the 7-minute mark on a fluke goal. "We basically gave them the goal," Head Coach Dave Poulin says. But before the Irish lost their momentum, a power play opportunity presented itself. 
This is where Dhadphale enters the story. The All-American senior who leads the Irish in power~play goals went to work, and scored the game-winner. "We're the num­ber one power play in the CCHA," Poulin says, "and Aniket's a huge part ofit. That's when a true go-to guy has to come through, and he did forus. It's indicative ofwhat he's done and what he has to do for us -score a huge goal at a critical time in the game." 
Dhadphale, drafted by the San Jose Sharks out of high school, never seriously consid­ered playing professionally before finish­ing school. "I really needed college to de­velop and it's helped me a lot;" Dhadphale says. 
And the Irish ice hockey program has benefited greatly from the presence of this Marquette, Mich., native. According to Poulin, Dhaphdale came in as part ofa class 
SHARK ATTACK. Though he delayed playing professionally in order to develop his game, Dhadphale (far left) may have the opportunity to play for the San Jose Sharks, the team that initially drafted him. 

that made a commitment 
to a very young program. "EVERYONE LOOKS TO HIM FOR 
"His first year here was only NotreDame'sfourth 
LEADERSHIP, IN BIG GAMES 
year back in the CCHA," Poulin says. "It was a pro­
gram that had struggled ESPECIALLY. HE AL~AYS COMES 
and the seniors made a commitment to come and 
THROUGH VVITH THE BIG GOAL." 
... really set the stage for this program to go to the next level. I think that this senior class, and Aniket is certainly an enormous part of it, has a unique opportunity to make its mark on Notre Dame hockey. I think that's some­thing Aniket wants to do." 
The coaching staff realizes thatDhadphale possesses a sort of 'sixth sense' when it comes to scoring and allows him a little more room .than most players, especially during power plays. 
"The power play is the most structured part of hockey," Poulin says. "It's where you actually will have set plays and set positioning. With Aniket, we basically just send him up there. He doesn't have a de­fined space or a defined area to go to. He goes where he has to go to score goals." 
Throughout his college career Dhadphale has provided the Irish with consistency in scoring (his heroics Saturday night leave him just one point shy of 100 career points) but the strength of his impact may be best seen in his absence. The left winger missed four games after he was injured during the Ohio State game in early December. Before Dhadphale's injury,NotreDame was shoot­ing ata .321 clip.,Withouthim the Irish went 
I 

2Jor 17 (.118). 
"We've played through a lot ofinjuries to key people this year, but Aniket is the gun­slinger," Poulin says. "He's the goal scorer that goes out and scores the goal as he did against Michigan. You have to call on other people to step up: Other people did when he was out, but having himin is a threat on the ice to score a goal. The other team has to be so aware of him that it creates space for other people." 
Although Dhadphale is an assistant cap­tain and an obvious leader for the Irish, he prefers to let his stick speak for itself. Most of his teammates describe Dhadphale as a player who is laid-back and easy-going, but sets a precedent for his team. 
"He doesn't say much," teammate John Dwyer says. "He leads by example on the ice. Everyone looks to him for leadership, in big games especially. He always comes 
FEBRUARY 4, 1998 
-

through with the big goal." 
Poulin agrees. "He's not going to have an ulcer ever. He's not going to have a heart attack," he says. Poulin, however, has no­ticed a change in Dhadphale's attitude on the ice over the course ofthe senior's career. "He was much more laid-back on the ice. His intensity has increased a great deal," says Poulin, who believes that Dhadphale 's leadership skills have improved as well. 
Dhadphale also provides a sound example for his teammates as far as academics are concerned. The senior is a leading candi­date for Academic All-American honors and has repeatedly made the Dean's List. The finance major is also one of only 28 student-athletes to 
JOHN DVVYER 
they've monitored his progress. They know he's improved a great deal. It's a commod­ity that's probably the most sought after commodity in hockey-the ability to score goals." 
Before he moves on though, Dhadphale has the opportunity and the talent to reach the 100-point mark and write his name into the Irish record books. The Irish forward has made his mark quietly, but has always come through. 
So even if the game's been sold out for weeks, many will say that a few extra hours in line is worth it to see this future San Jose Shark circle his prey and sink his teeth into the power play.· D 
THE GO-TO GUY. Dhadphale lives up to his status as an All-American
be part of Notre 
by scoring key goals for the Irish. 
Dame's Academic Honors Program. 
Before he tries out his talents in finance, however, Dhadphale hopes to make his mark as a goal scorer in the NHL. "That's al ways everyone's dream. It's definitely a goal ofmine. We'll see what happens after the season." 
Poulin, who played in the NHL himself after his career at Notre Dame, thinks that Dhadphale will continue to show­case his scoring prowess at the next level. "I think that he's got an oppor­tunity to play. He's been drafted by San Jose and 

i 
I 
. I 



Man of Troy 
Freshman phenom Troy Murphy hopes eventually to bring the Irish to the Big Dance 
BY COREY SPINELLIWhen the Milwaukee Bucks made Irish All-American Pat Garrity the 19th overall pick in the 1998 NBA Draft,he became thefirstNotreDameplayer taken in the opening round since Monty Williams in 1994 and only the fourth draftee from South Bend in 10 years. While Garrity' s presence among the best players in the world can be pointed to as an example of the basketball program's success, replacing his team-leading 23.2 points and 8.3 rebounds per game figured to be an impossible task. No returning member of the '97-'98 squad had shown the capability to inherit the 6'9" forward' s role. Expectations for the '98-'99 

season were low, as Big East coaches voted the Irish second from the bottom ofthe heap in the preseason poll. 
Enter Troy Murphy. Behind the sensa­tional freshman's team-high 18.5 points and 
9.2 boards per contest, the Irish currently stand a respectable 5-6 in conference play and, with a few more Big East wins, are on the brink ofclaiming another National Invi­tation Tournament bid. The surprising per­formance of Head Coach John MacLeod's squad has been due in large part to the 6'9" forward from Morristown, N.J. 
"He's already established himself as one of the best players in the Big East," says sophomore point guard Martin Ingelsby. "He's unquestionably our go-to guy be­
cause he's such a great overall 

ACHILLE'S HEALED. After missing three games to in­
player. He's a natural around 

jury, Murphy has returned to his familiar form. He scored 
the basket and can shoot it from

26 points and grabbed 12 rebounds against Providence. 
outside." 
The versatile freshman began his collegiate career with a team­best 19 points against Miami of _Ohio and hasn't cooled off yet. He has started all 19 ofhis games in an Irish uniform and has led Notre Dame in scoring 14 times and in rebounding 10. Murphy wasted no time getting acclimated to Big East play, pouring in 30 points and snaring 11 rebounds in ·his conference debut at Provi­dence before lighting up Pitts­burgh for 30 in his third Big East game; He also posted 26 points and 16 boards against Indiana before missing three conference games with an ankle injury. In the 
·two games since his return, Murphy has totaled 43 points and 23 rebounds. 
Murphy's 33 point-per-game average led the state of New Jer­sey his senior year ofhigh school and the talented forward also hauled in 14.8 rebounds per con­test. But even he didn't expect to grow this quickly into the giant shoes left by Garrity. "Icame into 


the season just hoping to start and help the 
team in any way I could," Murphy says. "I 
thought it would have taken longer to ad­
just, but the older players on the team, 
especially [senior]Phil [Hickey] have taught 
me a great deal about the college game and 
helped the transition go more smoothly." 
His coach has also been pleasantly sur­prised at the high-rising Murphy's stellar play in his first year on campus. "We knew he was going to be good, but not this good this fast," says MacLeod. "He has a tremen­dous work ethic and comes to practice early · and stays late. He's filled Pat's role unbe­lievably well on the floor because he pos­sesses a nose for the ball around the rim:, has 
a soft touch and can run the floor." 
Indeed, many comparisons have been 
drawn between the departed Irish star and 
his successor, but Murphy knows there is 
room for improvement in his game. "To 
reach Pat's level, I need to handle the ball 
better and play better around the perim­
eter," Murphy says. "As a freshman, I still 
get lost sometimes defensively, be it from 
my man or the team concept, but that will 
hopefully come with time." 
Apartfrom the differences in the two that 
will -shrink with time and experience, 
Murphy mirrors Garrity in his desire for 
team success. "We have a solid freshman 
class with myself, David Graves and Harold 
Swanagan," he says. "I expect us to make 
the NCAA Tournament ne?{t year and, with 
experience, make a nice little run in a few 
years."IfTroy Murphy's play is anyindica~ 
tion of the future of Irish basketball, Notre 
Dame's first trip to the Dance in over four 
years may not be far a\yay. D 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 


SPLINTERS 

FROM THE PRESSBOX Edited by Christopher Hamilton 
Women's Tennis • 1999 Record 3-1 
Streaking: In the team's first four dual matches, the Irish are 21-2 in singles matches. Prime Time Performer: Senior two-time All-American Jennifer Hall is 4-0 in singles matches -this season. Did You Know? The Irish have three players ranked in the top 100 in singles play: number 23 Michelle Dasso, number 51 Becky Varnum and number 100 Jennifer Hall. On the Horizon: Notre Dame resumes play on Friday, February 12 against Ohio St. at 6 p.m. 
Men's Basketball • 1998-9 Record 11-11 
Streaking: Notre Dame won its first season series of the year after knocking off Providence last Saturday for the 2-0 series sweep. Prime Time Performer: Freshman Troy Murphy was named the Big East Conference Rookie of the Week after recording 43 points and 23 rebounds against Boston College and Providence. Did You Know? Notre Dame is 8-5 at the Joyce Center this year, with three home contests remaining in the season. On the Horizon: The Irish travel to Seton Hall this Saturday for a 12 p.m. game. 
Hockey • 1998-9 Record 15-7-3 
Streaking: The Irish are unbeaten at home this season, posting a remarkable 9-0-1 record at the Joyce Center. Prime Time Performer: Forrest Karr stopped 26 of the 28 shots he faced ~gainst Michigan last weekend to improve his record against top-10 opponents this year to 4-2-2. Did You Know? With the win against Michigan, Notre Dame is in fourth place in the CCHA, meaning the Irish are clinging on to the final home-ice spot for the playoffs. On the Horizon: At 7 p.m. this Friday and Saturday the Irish welcome Michigan State and Alaska-Fairbanks, respectively. 

Women's Basketball • 1998-99 Record 17-2 
Streaking: The sixth-ranked Irish have won each of their past four contests by 30 or more points. .Prime Time Performer: Ruth Riley, who was recently named Big East Player of the Week, scored a school-record 41 points against Providence last weekend. Did You Know? Head Coach Muffet McGraw is one of 15 finalists for the Naismith Women's Basketball Coach of the year award. On the Horizon: Notre Dame takes on Seton Hall this Saturday at the Joyce Center at 2 p.m. 

. .. •··... ·. ·.·.· ......·. . . . . . . .. · . . ..·.· . Say what? . . · ·. ·.. · . · ·. . .· . .. · ''[The disabled are] p~ying for the sins of an earlier life," saidEiiglandsoccer coach Glenn l{oddleto a reporter ;fthe Times ~fLondon last Saturday.Not swprisingly, Hoddle, )vhoclaims. he .i1as misinterpreted; was fired on Tuesday.
. . :-' .. ·;· ' . . ' ' .·.. ' -, · .. ,' .-·· .... ·. ' -_ . .. ' --. __ · . . 
.· ..· ..·...· .•.· ···.·· . . ··.· ·. ·. . . . . . . .. . Corey's Can ·..· .· . . . .· .· .. ·.... ·· · . . . . . . . . . . .· The five7mmth sprint th.at is. the 1999 NBA season finds the defending champion Bull~ {!Ugaged in a nightly battle with the . Blackhawks forthe title o(Chicago's worst team while conference foes Indiana and Miami emerge froma number ofcontenders to meet in the Eilstemfinal. Afterthe aging Jazz stop the upstart Lakers in seven games,{jtah will defeat the Pacers in six to cl.aimthe first titlefu the post~Jordan era. . . . . 
· Hamilton's Hunch Continuing their push for a number0 one seed in the NCAA Tournament,. the women's basketball. team dismantles. Seton Hall 81­
53. The men's squad also tops the Pirates, although notas convincingly, 78-74, to continue their run for an NIT berth. 
23

FEBRUARY 4, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

1­
z 
w 
~ 
z 
~ 
~ 
w 
1­
z 
w 
BY JOE GALLAGHER od and drink are two of the most 
asic needs of any organism, and the 

verage college student is no excep­tion. Many Notre Dame students have honed their ability to find liquid refreshment, and have no problem finding soda, tea or milkshakes at almost any hour of the week. Yet even after a student's thirst has been quenched, the need for solid food remains. When faced with this primal urge to find sustenance, many students either go to sleep or munch on snacks. And yet there are students who venture forth into the night searching for the one thing they can always count on: a 24-hour restaurant. 
Long after the lights go out at the restau­rants and bars around town, four locales stay open to serve the public. The J&N 24 Hour Round the Clock Restaurant and Nick's Patio offer variety and a restaurant­like atmosphere. FatShirley's offers home­made breakfast fare just like mom used to make, assuming mom ran a truck stop with a pink neon sign and cooked everything on the same greased skillet. 
And of course no visit to Mishawaka would be complete without at least one stop at Steak & Shake, located at the comer of Grape and US 33. Each one has its own particular charm, or lack thereof, but they all ensure that students can feed their hun­ger any time of the day or night. 
Senior Mike Kiernan cites the "Huevos 
Rancheros" at Nick's Patio as a favorite 
R

24 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


item. "It's got a strong Mexican influence and ifyou'relooking for something to upset your stomach it's good food with a little kick and spice," he says. Senior Nora Sweeney agrees, saying, "The coffee at Nick's is the best." 
But senior Theresa Coolahan says, "Fat Shirley's has the best food in town, way better than Nick's. The eggs here are way better." And senior Jed D'Ercole prefers a more high-cholesterol fare. "Fat Shirley's rules. Load up the grease and bring it home to me, mama!" Every student has a different opinion on the subject, but there does seem 
-'-'Fat Shirley's rules. Load up the grease and bring it home to me, mamal'' -Jed D'Ercole 
to be a set of criteria that separates the available 24-hour restaurants from one an­other. 
The first three rules of real estate are location, location and location, and in this regard Around the Clock leads the pack of late-night establishments. Located only a mile or so north of campus on US 31, it 
offers a variety of foods in relatively close 
proximity. "Around the Clock is a haven for 
us students who refuse to go to bed before 
morning," Saint Mary's senior Tracey 
Furkanic says. "The management always 
makes sure you're happy." 
Since Fat Shirley's is two miles down Twyckenham Road and Steak & Shake is on Grape Road, som~ students prefer to pop into Around the Clock for a study break. · "We were at the computer lab till 10 in the morning once," recalls senior Erin Atwell. "We left and went there, got served, got some good food ... and finished the project." 
For those with access to a car, location is 
less ofa problem, but the question ofwhich 
restaurant has the lowest prices is, ofcourse, 
another important issue. 
Inthis regard Nick's Patio comes up short, 
offering a somewhat high-priced menu. A 
milkshake at Nick's costs $1.20 more than 
a milkshake at Steak & Shake, and comes in 
a much smaller glass. One egg with ham, 
bacon, orsausage at Fat Shirley's costs only 
$2.15, as opposed to $4.95 for an egg with 
sides at Nick's. There are "Breakfast Spe­
cials" which offer cheaper fare (two eggs 
and two pancakes for two dollars) but these 
are only offered from five to 11 a.m., Mon­
day through Friday, when the average stu­
dent is probably resting 1-!P for study and 
classes. 
"The quality offood is optimal for the late 
night diner," graduate student John Kelly 
says. "Some of the food might be suspect, 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 

but it's appropriate." At Fat Shirley's the close quarters and countertop eating cre­ates a unique atmosphere. But it also gives customers a sight of bacon, eggs, ham­burger patties and everything else on the menu being cooked on the same skillet, using more than generous helpings ofbut­ter and grease. 
its menu. However, some doubt the authen­ticity ofthis claim. "I don't know what they put in those Steakburgers, but it goes through you pretty quickly," senior Luther Groth says. "They do have the best milkshakes in town, though." 
Though smaller than its competitors, Fat 
While Steak & Shake started as a chain of restaurants owned by a single man, in 1969 the franchise was sold to a steakhouse com­pany and later sold to a number of large corporations. This impersonal atmosphere can work against a late-night diner, espe­cially since most late-night students look 
for atmosphere in their din­

Junior Rhonda Ramos ex­ing experience. "The impres­
""The students are great. They
plains that this is all part of the sion I get from the cook at Fat appeal. "Not only is it a great Shirley's is she does her job
tip great and if you just
environment, but they have great and takes pride in it," senior prices for food." And what the John Musewicz says. "At
correct them they behave.,, 
menu lacks in variety or dietary value, it more than makes up for in cost effectiveness. For a mere $2.95, a diner can order the infamous "Trucker's Special," two eggs, two slices of toast, American fries and a choice of bacon or sausage links. More than a few students can attest to the'Special's' ability to fill the need for food after a night of quenching their thirst. 
Though Fat Shirley's is one of the more popular diners at night, its small dining area can be a draw back. "We were going to go to Fat Shirley's or Nick's, butthey were too crowded, so we wentto Steak & Shake," Saint Mary's senior Kelly Fennewald says. "Where else are you gonna get milkshakes?" 
Steak & Shake prides itself on the way it makes food, advertising the fact that it uses hand-dipped milkshakes and "100 percent beef, including the steak cuts," on 
-Barb Katona 

Shirley's seems to have a personality which other restaurants lack. The restaurant goes by many names. Its neon sign proclaims it to be the "24 Hour Coffee Shop," its official name is the "White House Restaurant," and truckers mostly know it as the "Gag n' Heave." But most students know it simply as Fat Shirley's because ofa waitress, named Shirley, who retired three years ago. 
The story goes that Shirley was so large that she couldn't fit between the grill and the counter to serve customers, and had to cut through the kitchen and enter the seat­ing area through a door in the back. Be­cause she·was such a visible presence at the restaurant for roughly 30 years, many stu­dents mistakenly assumed that she owned it, even though it was actually owned by the same man since 1953. 
Nick's I get the feeling like they'd rather be doing any­thing else but serving you. I never get that feeling from Fat Shirley's." 
"The students are great. They tip great and if you just correct them they behave," says Barb Katona, the night cook at Fat Shirley's. "Usually, it's pretty nice here. We don't have a set of rules but we make them as we go along. Whatever circum­stances happen, we make the rules at the time." 
In the end, we all must choose our own favorite restaurant from among the night­time establishments of the Bend. 
Though some diners are more finicky than others are, almost no college experi­ence would be complete without at least one late night or early morning jaunt to one. of these greasy spoons. Just don't forget­if all else fails, there are more than enough snacks at Meijer's. D 

FEBRUARY 4, 1999 

1­
z 
w 
~ 
z 
~ 
0::-: 
w 
1­
z 
w 

meets 

A revival in wrestling body slams campus 
BY KATIE CLEARY ophomoreBrianKommannnolonger 
feels isolated because of his obses­
sion with the World Wrestling Fed­eration. "Last year I was the laughing stock of Dillon Hall," he says, "but for some reason this year everyone else in Dillon is watching the WWF as well." 
Dillon Hall's sudden interest in WWF is certainly not an isolated case; it seems as though wrestling fever is running rampant through the campus. "I was a big fan of WWF when I was little, around the time of Hulk Hogan," sophomore Micky McGahrry says. "I stopped watching it for a few years after that because I thought wrestling was stupid and fake. I started watching again over the summer. Now I can't get enough." 
McGahrry's renewed enthusiasm is de­monstrative of a recent revival in wrestling throughout the U.S. The rebirth ofthe WWF 
S

has complex origins. It may be the dozens of chairs constantly ricocheting off the heads of such characters as the Undertaker, the Big Bossman or Bad Ass Billy Gun. Per­haps the cages, the whips or even Sable, the "Femme Fatal," have contributed to the WWF's recent popularity. But wrestling fans worldwide have to agree that there is only one man responsible for this year's recent wrestling renaissance: Stone Cold Steve Austin. 
"People watch wrestling because of Aus­tin," junior finance major Nate Tylwalk says. "He drinks beer, swears and grabs himself in the ring ... the crowd goes wild when he walks in." Austin is the WWF's "chief good guy," according to Kommann, and leader of the group, Degeneration X. "Wrestling is like the movies," Tylwalk says. "There are the good guys, Degenera­tion X, and bad guys, the Corporation. It 
used to be that the good guys al-. ways won, but that's not the case any longer." 
Stone Cold Austin's arch nem­esis, The Rock, is proof en0ugh for that statement. TheRock, who cur­rently holds the WWF champion­ship belt, was originally a member of the noble Degeneration X, until allying with the corrupt Corpora­tion. The Rock's Judas-like be­trayal turned the WWF upside­down. 
Although The Rock and Austin rule their respective feuding pow­erhouses, neither ofthem compare to the intensity shown by Man­kind, "the most insane wrestler in the WWF," according to Tylwalk. "Last night he fell on a circuit board ... " he says. "It was no big deal until the circuit board [blew] up. The crowd loves it; the more blood the better." 
The beauty ofwrestling is that it Glis "sports entertainment," as §lTylwalkcalls it. "Everyone knows 
0 
F 
rnit's fake and openly admits it," he OJ says. "It's just like watching any TV show or sitcom except that it is more intense." 

Freshman Lynn Canzano agrees. "Wres­tling is like an in-depth soap opera for men," she says. The gender barrier, how­ever, doesn't keep Canzano from watch­ing. "When I was applying to colleges I told my parents that I wanted to join the WWF instead," Canzano says. "Those girls can cause some damage." She especially en­joys watching the female wrestler, Deborah. "Every time D.eborah walks into the ring during a match some poor dude winds up losing miserably," she says. "Deborah is definitely my hero." 
The WWF is no stranger to South Bend, or even Notre Dame. Past WWF matches have even been held at the Joyce Center. "They are always scheduled while we're on break," freshman Rory Barthel says. "I think its a conspiracy by the administration to wean Notre Dame students off of Mon­day Night Raw," he adds. If so, Notre Dame's hierarchy has a difficult battle ahead. "I have not missed a Monday night Raw in over 4 years and don't plan on missing one anytime soon," Kammann says. "I have also been to 12 live matches." 
The W¥fF event previously scheduled for J a,mary 3 in the Joyce Center was pushed back until March 6th due to "the state of emergency in St. Joseph County," says Joyce Center operations manager Bob Loeffler. Unfortunately for students, this event, like the previously scheduled fight, will take place while classes are not in session. Only one question remains. Will the bad boys of the big ring ever grace Notre Dame's campus while the students are here to greet them? 
Although the answer for this year will probably remain no, that will not hinder Notre Dame's WWF addicts. Television sets across campus remain aglow, and the whips and chains continue to fly on Mon­day nights. The WWF's championship matchup between The Rock and Stone Cold Steve Austin is scheduled for next month. As Tylwalk says, "I will definitely pay to see that one." 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 

. DON'T HAVE ACOW, MAN 
The Downfall of Springfteld 
The epic rise and tragic fall ofThe Simpsons 
write o.f T.he Simpsons! Those five yel­
low-skinned characters whose lives 

touched us s~, long ago, and who have begun a slow uninspired descent into oblivion. Yet I write not only of their ig­noble present, but also of their glorious past, when The Simpsons truly deserved an audience. 
1 

In the beginning, Matt Groening created his cartoon "nuclear family" which ap­peared in a series of short cartoons on The Tracy Ullman Show. With only the sim~ plest of premises, Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa and Maggie developed enough poten­tial for a half-hour television show.· 
So it was that the Christmas simple ability to arouse sympathy:Homer's defense ofwomen after being photographed with an exotic dancer, Marge's acceptance of Lisa's jazz talent, Bart, Lisa and Maggie teaming up to stop their criminal babysitter. Their stories were brilliantly satirical, but only because they centered on five charac­ters whom the audience cared about. It was the. Gqlden Age of The Simpsons. 

But all good things must come to an end. As the show progressed, the focus shifted away from the five title characters and onto other inhabitants of Springfield. In early episodes Mrs. Krabappel, Chief Wiggum, Principal Skinner and Nelson the Bully ap-. 
episode came to.be, showing the . What endeQred. The<Simpsons to their 
plight ofHomer.when his Christ~ armada ofother impossibly contrived situ­ations assaulted Springfield, all in an aF tempt to expand the possibilities of the main characters. Gone was plausibility, as writers struggled to come up with new ideas. Gone was character, development, for it was assumed that the characters had become cultural icons. Gone, and missed most of all, was the constant hilarity and sense of plotpresent in early episodes. · 
Without the five Simpsons as an anchor, and without any original stories left to tell, the show spun out of control. In the past, the show satirized love, public schooling, show business, marriage and family, In the present era, .cheap jokes about New York, Las Vegas, hippie subculture and even Mary Poppins serve as the only 
mas bop.us. was cancelled. audience was not the jokes, or ·the superior joke in an entire episode. 
Though humorous, this first Like an engine without fuel, the show treated its characters seri­Simpsons themselves are shades oftheir
animation or merchandising .bonanza, but a
ously. Bart's tattoo as a gift for former selves; Was that Bart who tor­
his mother, Homer's pride-swal­
lowing love for his family and simple ability_to arouse· sympathy. 
Lisa's defense of her father all inspired sympathy for this animated quin­tet. The Simpsons signaled a new era in animation simply by telling the ongoing story ofa family able to love each other, no matter the hardships they faced. · 
Soon the public saw the depth of these two-dimensional characters. Homer nearly commited suicide over his feeling ofinad­equacy. Usa discovered a talent for the sax and conquered her sense ofcomplete isola­tion. Bart showc;d unwavering faith in Krusty, despite the machinations of the nefarious Sideshow Bob. 
But what endeared The Simpsons totheir audience was not the jokes, or the superior animation_or merchandising bonanza, but a 
. . 
peared, but only as plot devices toexplore -the facets of the five central characters. Suddenly one could expect an entire sub­
. plot about Otto the Bus Driver moving in, Ned Flanders' Leftorium, a Flaming Moe or Mr. Bums' portrait. True, the episodes were still funny, but they demonstrated that the 
· five title characters might no longer be eil­tertaining enough to fill a: half hour. 
Yet minor characters alone cannot be faulted for the show's downfall .. Like God striking down Job,the writers began assai_l-_ ing their characters with bizarre and im~ plausible situations. Monorails, casinos, an elephant, clown college, George Bush, a pretzel company, the Super Bowl and an 
mented Lisa as ababysitter the same Bart who apologized for wrecking her Thanksgiving Day sculpture? Is the ·mentally deficient Homer of the present day the same Homer who crusaded for safety at the power plant? A family with 
. the name Simpson still lives in Spring­field, but who cares? The true Simpsons deserted the town long ago. 
True, from time to time a genuinely . funny line pops up, a character behaves as a hurrian being rather than a cartoon, and a 
· glimmer of inspiration shines through the thick morass of lameness that now satu­rates the show. Thus, we true believers keep tuning in every Sunday night, ever vigilant, hoping _for a briefretum to the Golden Age ofThe Simpsons. . 
m 
z 
-I 
m 
;;o 
~ 
z 
$ 
m 
z 
-I 




by Joseph Gallagher 

FEBRUARY 4, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

z The Decline of Man 
0 
r­
0 ~ 
r­
(/) 
0 
z 
~ 
lJj lJj 
~ 
The silent killler ofmale GPAs exposed 
BY ERicYuvA he villain ofprocrastination has many 
T
weapons to deter humankind from its 
responsibilities. Movies, CDs and drinking are all part of the arsenal but there is one weapon that is gender specific. In case you haven't heard, Notre Dame's fe­male students have a higher GPA than their male counterparts in every college except engineering. There could be many causes for this trend, including the idea that women are smarter than men, but we all know that's not true. So, what is it? It is 

girls play video games too and this was typified by the creation of female-slanted games like Ms. Pacman. But this trend would not survive. 
Atari has since met the fate of the Dodo and vanished from households everywhere. Its replacements, Nintendo, Sega and Sony PlayStation, have persevered through Reagan's "Star Wars" program, Bush's "Read my lips, no new taxes" promise and Clinton's cigar incident to come out on top of the video game market. With the com­plexity and great graphics of today's video of the sexual pyramid may end. 
As Billy Crystal once said, "Women need a reason to have sex, men justneed a place." The future ofvideo games may provide that safe haven for men. 
Back to college students. How many fe­males do you know who have a video game system in their rooms? How many women enter Madden '98 football tournaments ev­ery semester? And how many women play Goldeneye with their friends until 5 a.m., keeping their roommates up? The answer is very few, if any. · 
While guys are up late try­

perhaps the greatest downfall . ing to conquer one more level ofmankind, the disturbance in in the new Zelda game, the the force, and the device that · .. girls are sound asleep in their one day will make all men sleep beds with their work behind with the fishes ... video games. them...While the college guys 
It's all a huge conspiracy. ponder whether they want Well,notreally,butthat'swhat rockets or grenades on Gold-guys would like to believe. If c,eneye, college women are de­there is a silent killer ofmen's ciding· which paper to write GPAs it has to be the abun­first. dance ofvideo games on cam­Does anyone else see a pat­pus. It's all very simple to see · tern? As video games have de­that video games have evolved veloped over the past 20 years over time from an innocent, the percentage of males that enjoyable activity to a life-con­· drop out of college has risen trolling pursuit of excellence. ' whiletheenrollmentofwomen Let me take you on a journey has gone up steadily. More through history. women are majoring in pre­
Many say it all started back med or business while men are in ancient times with a game majoring in Nintendo 64 with a 

called Pong. You remember that sophisticated and challenging game where the great quest was to ·keep that (square?) ball from getting past your slab of white which doubled as a paddle. With this game, a revolution began that one day may destroy mankind's chances for graduate school. 
The next step was Atari. We didn't think it could get any better than Pac-Man and Space Invaders. Kids neglected their home­work and chores and grown men forgot to take out the trash. Thus began the rift be­tween men and women, all due to a little electronic game with a joystick. Now, I know what many of you are saying, yes, 
28 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
. 

games, men of all ages who cannot secure dates do not need to flock to crowded ar­cades full of wandering men like them­selves. The purpose ofthe home arcade is to help men handle the fact that they don't get out anymore. 
Even when you aren't at home, all that is needed is a portable Gameboy or Game Gear to prevent interaction with the rest of the world. Men no longer need friends, including women, and this may lead to the downfall of the female as well. Women do have one chip in their hand; video games are no substitute for sex. But with the advancements of virtual reality, watch out ladies, your reign atthe top minor in Sony PlayStation . 
The final piece ofevidence can be seen in the days before finals. Most female students use these days wisely, camping out in the library. Guys, on the other hand, use three of the four study days to review levels on Tomb Raider or advance in the playoffs on Tecmo Super Bowl. 
In order for college men to start picking up the slack in the classroom, the gemon that is video games needs to be exorcised from the dorin room. We need to show the women that we can compete with them academically. Only then can we challenge them to a game ofNBA JAM and show them who's the boss. D 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 

Jane's Addiction 
Fifteen different ways to read the same thing 
Ifit's a man, he will avail himselfofyour hospitality, and will inconspicuously re­main in your room until he has finished the magazine, or at least all the parts of it featuring sex or models in skimpy under­wear. 
Your friends will self-consciously return the borrowed magazines to your stack. "Do you have any others," the honest ones will ask. "I can't believe you read that," the others will say, eyeing the rest of the stack, fingers twitching. 
But what's to be ashamed of? So what if the models on the cover are half my weight and all ofthe pictures have been airbrushed? So what ifI can't afford any of the clothes? And who buys $150 bras, anyway? 
There's nothing wrong with wanting to rule the world and still wanting to hit the mall after work every so often. Even Marga­ret Thatcherreportedly had a thing for hand­bags. 
Who says we can't have it all: a good job, good hair, good man, good times, good health and fabulous shoes (the shoes make the outfit, after all). And there's nothing wrong with Victoria's Secret underwear under a power suit. 
Reading these magazines is all about women being in control of their own desti­nies (which may or may not include good GPAs). Besides, it's never been medically proven that a little Cosmo hurt anyone. 
Redhook, well, that's another story. D 
Jefr ~fk)O 11 ~owe r 
<m 
m 
7\ 
z 
0 
(./)
-, 
0 
-,iU 
0 
z 

BY LAURA PETELLE t's something defective in my genes, I think. . I see it on the rack, near the register, and I have to have it. I can't deny the craving. Almost involuntarily I reach out for it. So what if it's my second one this week? The fifth or sixth this month? Hi, my name is Laura and I am a women's magazine junkie. 
Cosmopolitan, Glamour, Marie Claire -I read them all. Even Redhook when I'm hurting for a fix. I love the glossy pages, the bright colors and especially the outrageous teasers for the articles inside. When I see a headline screaming "Fifteen Ways To Im­prove Your Org_asm" or "Make Him Yours Forever with One Simple Trick" or, "Is Your Love Real? Use Your Astrological Signs to Find Out," something in my brain goes, "Ooh! I have to know that." 
And I love the articles. I love the "Cosmo­Sutra," the agony columns, the ridiculous quizzes, the boy toys, the horoscopes, the perfect-gift-for-him features, even the fash­ion pages and the celebrity interviews. 
Studying abroad in England last semester madethe addiction even worse. There were both British and American editions of 
Cosmo, Glamour, Marie Claire, Vogue, 
and many others:'Plus, there are different British women's magazines like New Woman and Company. The slang is differ­ent but the story is the same. "My Bloke Snogged (Kissed) My Best Mate" or, "Whingeing (Whining) Your Way to the Top Office Spot." And the British editions are even racier than the American editions, particularly in the area of semi-dressed boy toys. 


How did this all begin?I'mnotsure. I was never a big fan of any teen-magazines (ex­cept a passing fancy for YM). I was reading Little Women and Pride andPrejudice when my peers were reading The Baby-Sitters' Club.Butsomewherealongtheline,Itumed from my wholesome classics and got hooked. 
''How can you read that trash?" my mother demands as she opens a Sue Grafton book she has already read 22 times. My brother, opening the latest Tom Clancy novel, scoffs, "That's so formulaic!" My roommate de­mands, "How can you waste money on that?" And then later asks, "Can I read it __ when you're done?" 
That is· the true, understated miracle of women's magazines. Ifyou have a stack of them in you~ room, every visitor, male and female alike, will eventually pick one up and open it with a comment like, "I can't believe you pay money for this garbage. Ooh-what's this about orgasms?" 
You can effectively leave the room now. Your visitor is hooked. She will ask if she canborrowyourmagazineandretumitlater that night, having done none of her home­work. 




FEBRUARY 4, 1999 
(/) 
LU 
(/) 
:J 
a.. 
~ 
I 
<(
i'u 
~ 
LU 
I 
: 1­
i 
o 
z 
0 

by Jesse Kent 

Grind It In My Face 101 
At the University oflowa, women were treated to a booty-shaking good time thanks in part to the on-campus Black Entrepeneurial Association. The BEA sponsored a fundraiser featuring real-live male dancers, who during the course ofthe show, became a little too excited at their own dancing and exposed themselves several times to the audience. "They came out in clothes and went down to G­strings," said UI freshman Felicia Penza, who attended the show. "And then [the dancers] would whip it out for a couple ofseconds." Holy glistening male dancers, Batman. The dancers included the talented and beautiful Cobra, Get It Wet, Extacy, Sexy Chocolate, and Chocolate Shake. Apparently, Get It Sexy Cobra Chocolate Shake wasn't able to make it. Opinions were mixed around campus as to whether the performance should have happened. Hornball UI freshman, Lorraine Mosley, summed up the feelings of many saying, "If they had something like that every week, it would be great." After hearing about the event, some Notre Dame students asked administrators if male or female nude dancers could ever come to campus for a fundraiser. As Scholastic went to press, the students were still missing and presumed dead. 

30 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


·_lrifl~~nc~d,_byt11e2i11erilatic t,yamp ·gas:Mich~el, starring__ John "_15 movies a. ye~'.'Jr~vpH~,the Unive,i:sity 9fA.m:or~ wesented an _exhi91tion displaying ph9to.s _ofangels. The~itl~ ofthe show . was; ''Angel~·-You,Can '[ouch'.' and·b¢causl'.!.ofthe'II1isleading. name, 40-ye~~old' ~pild moksters. withfu man:c:hus. show~dup froin ov~r af our-co~nty . radi~s., T:he•• picture_s ·. wer.eitaken .. of . sculpted-·angels -throughqulcemeteries,i~lmrches at)fII1ausole~ umsJocate.d inChi.c.agoand '.Milwaukee by Jim ~dwargs. ;when asked why he took upthis kdoky'~ssigmnent, Eelwards -said he . enjoyed taking the pict4rei; ofthe ~ngelic WCJIJ)ertt<?C::Olllpensate 

for hi; need to be held° by areal worrian, 
. ' , ' . . . ' 
Raising 'Canes 
The hijinks never end at Miami University. We guess last month's "lemon-eating contest" just wasn't enough to delight these serious "students," as the campus police blotter reports the stealing of a Domino Pizza delivery car's magnetic roof sign. Some kid was probably made fraternity "Nuthead" for the way-crazy ag.tic that will cause him big troubles if he ever gets caught at Crackhead U, er, Miami. The sign was valued at $75. Yeah, right. You're saying Domino's guys don't carry over $20 but they're driving around with the most expensive detachable hood ornaments in town? And since when could Miami students even work a phone to order pizza? This is all too fishy for OOC. D 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 

G ~rn~WJ'~\jfc'1 
D I S T RA C T I O N sff'i}i}tl~1'~;J\/i 
t ----~ 
;,;.:~c~:~13~-P,,!an­
•When the Cat's Awa)1,)n French with 
• ·. English subtitles, 2:QQ,PM, Snite .· . / l ·_...
,/ . 

. . . 
.. . . ' 
•... ~ Lecture: ''Non;iolent Peac~making in Cons: 
... ·. . . . I:.. . . . ., .. 

flict Zones," .Cliff Kindy/lZ:30 PM,, C-103 · i Hesburgh Center for In~efoational Peace Studs i ies · · ·· ·.. · ·. ··
l/1 L 

•Lecture: ."Prnba,bili.stic jca~1sality in· Neo­. Kantianism:Joh~nhes~onKries (}853-1928)," ·· ·MichaelHeidelbergei•, 2i: 1~ Pl'f, 119 Debartolo 
.•Enemy ofthe State, 10:30 PM; Cushing. 
THURSDAY· 

L(·..,::f@?zr~~frrfj-r?r<q.-/_-. 
0. 
~ 
/,~~~~~$,~JD! 6 )> 


·:,> / iiO 
:Sl1e'sAllTha6·'.)0{;': •l:OO:;3,15 '5:25 7:40 9:45·-i 
~~~~~~1~0~~i!~l~f11g·~~~~l~l&fi
ABug's Life •. ,.. ,.•..,,, :•12·45 3·05, 5•15-,g-2O ,..•..,,,
t~~;lfii~~tfi\~ifi~~lt
1 

Simi< •[rei·1~~PMsbown f& Sat ~½, ;... ··.· 
I\'..'· 

.stai·Trek:Insiiriectioiii;l:3O:4':_OO'}:OO:,9;35.·.·..:r; 
t~!i~?~~~·~~~i1~)~[~~2~1! ;J~' 
, .Stqd11t1n. SqaftngAvmla,qle,.,,. ,_., ,, _. ,, .,,,_. ..· .: ..... 
li~f1\'/0·l&:WitJ;~;t~>~iiir1tl:ii1l/J')~:!1 
SCHOLASTIC 31 
MAGAZINE 

FEBRUARY 4, 1999 


0 ~ 
~ 
....J 
by Peter Cesaro 

z ~ 
In the Service 
LL. 
Since my first days as a Notre Dame student,.! have walked the grounds of our campus, 
humbled to have the honor and privilege to attend a University so full of spirit, pride and integ­rity. I am awed by the commitment to learning, community service and personal growth that have always been an essential part ofour school. These are the same principles that motivated me to become involved in student government and eventually run for student body president. Since then, I have tried to employ servant leadership on behalf of the students to make this great school even better. 
During this past year, student government accom­plished many goals in pursuit of our vision to im­prove student life. We focused on short-term ser­vices, like signs in the parking lots, and we imple­
__________.___________ mented ideas to enhance student services and poli­
I am most proud of my commit­
cies that made long-term ment to putting students first at improvements. 
Notre Dame. Hopefully, students We feel the initiation of the Academic Pride
will continue to be our university's 
Series enabled students top priority in the future. to interact with faculty 
representatives from their  
Peter Cesaro is a  college. At Notre Dame, we have the unique oppor­ 
senior business major  tunity to learn equally both inside and outside of the  
from Austin, Texas who  classroom. This series enhanced learning by provid­ 
basically lives in  ing an outlet for enriching conversation outside the  
LaFortune. He is also  classroom. Another long-term plan initiated was the  
the current student  development of more meal-plan options with Food  
body president.  Services. With these additional options, students can  
now enjoy the community of Notre Dame in the  
dining halls while sustaining their demanding sched­ 
ules.  
Some of my fondest memories arise from the  
stories that students told me when I visited various  
hall council meetings. I encountered inspiring stu­ 
dents such as one person who worked late at night in  
the bakery to help finance his education. One of our  
initiatives in student government was  to create a  
listing ofcampus employment opportunities on Notre  
Dame's website to make job hunting easier. During  
32  SCHOLASTIC  

MAGAZINE 

these council meetings, I also met students who used our Cold Weather Shuttle returning from Christmas Break. They did not have to carry their luggage through the wind and cold because our shuttle dropped them at their dorms. 
These are the stories that motivated me to work harder every day, striving to make a difference. By visiting the hall councils, we also talked with students about their concerns and explained the initiatives of student government. Our Fall 1998 Board ofTrustees Report developed from some of these conversations. This report, titled "Building Bridges: The First Year Experience and Beyond," emphasized the need for an undergraduate scholarship office at Notre Dame. In the future, this office will serve the many, talented students who choose to pur'sue postgraduate scholar­ship opportunities. We also compiled a tutoring as­sessment at Notre Dame. It is our hope to standardize the tutoring opportunities for Notre Dame students. 
During our administration, we worked with repre­sentatives from every office you can think of. To­gether we created a synergy that brought about inno­vative plans for the students. We proved that student government can improve life at Notre Dame. 
I leave this position with many fond memories and friendships. As student leaders, we have all worked together toward making Notre Dame a better place. By working with students from across campus, we were able to bring student government to the stu­dents. 
I am most proud of my commitment to putting students first at Notre Dame. Hopefully, students will continue to be our university's top priority in the future. From the window of the student government office, you can see an engraving over the entrance to Nieuwland Science Hall that reads, "All things God has made are good and each one of them-3,erves its turn." 
I have now served my tum as student body presi­dent at the University of Notre Dame. With the help of many other members of this community, we have made our Notre Dame a better place. Thank You and God Bless Notre Dame. 
FEBRUARY 4, 1999 




~elive the joy of_the win over Michigqf1. ·· 
•.• ·· R~lll.embet the excitement of Autry Denson's record breaking rush.··. 

i"•··""'">'<... · .. :( ) .. . . . ·. . . 
CAtJplJti.~npl fc9p;i~~:::9fct-h7;•:Fp9~.ball Review may.be picked up in the ..•.. \,~'E_?,cfh_b]9st~1Q_ff£¢'e\L~~:tb"~'basement of South Dining Hall. __ --O.ff campus stuclents gef one free copy. AU others pay $5. 








