
ARROW Lido
-ARROW
—first in fashion SHIRTS • TIES • SLACKS
It's an "open and shut case'
You don’t need a law decree to know mat thia is a shirt with real comfort built in. Why? The new Arrow Lido has no top button. Your tie closes the collar neatly, always. You can wear it open, too, and look just as smart. Arrow Lido in tattersalls, other checks, or solids, just $5.95.

ARROW treats you to new collar comfort
Just slip on this smart looking Arrow Lido and you’ll know what real shirt comfort is. There’s no top button, and that means the collar expands with your neck. It always fits just right. We have the Lido now, in a wide range of checks and solids. Lido, $5.00, short sleeves; $5-95 as shown.

GILBERT’S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Aho at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)
February 10, 1956
4
The Scholastic
February 10, 1956
5

©A. T. CO. •
The Scholastic

by William M. Malloy e

now hold on there curt matthews
Curt Matthews in exposing the engineer myth in his column of Jan.
20 has given us much food for thought. However, exposition is not enough; something positive must ensue if his ^.challenge is to prove fruitful. And what could be more fruitful than a stimulating inquiry of opinions on the engineer’s presently hollow life?
However unarguable the importance of bridges, popular opinion still has it that engineers are dumb in non-numer-ical communication. But this opinion is incorrect—they are merely ignorant (see Mandibles Distinctions Without Differences). An engineer’s value cannot be wholly disregarded for he is a human ©being and our fellow student. Hence the effort on our part to give them the benefit of what Newman calls “an internal sympathy,” a positive aid to those plagued with practicality. And that they may be less plagued we have solicited three opinions and present with charity what we would like to call a “mental care package.”
KEYNOTE: Mr. John Kraker. Com-|merce Senior. Awards in Dictum de Omni, Per Se, and Ovaltine. Interviewed in the Law Building.
(Q.) What is your reaction to Matthews’ column of Jan. 20?
(A.) It is interesting to note that Engineers have been overlooked by the Ford Foundation—and naturally so, for the Foundation only claims to aid “higher education,” i.e., “four-year liberal arts colleges with accreditation.” And even though it may be argued that (the Ford Foundation’s grant hasn’t made the faculty wealthy—my teachers don’t make much more—giving millions for millions more worth of public rela
tions (slightly losing the trend of his thought) still their definition of higher education is noteworthy. You might say that the Ford Foundation is a money-splendored thing ... a ha whoop la cough suck gag.
PRO. Mr. Dave West, Commerce Senior. Special achievements in accounting, nuclear physics, the James R. Hlavin System award for English essay; Moe Award.
Interviewed in the most local of the pizza emporia.	»
(Q.) What is your reaction to Matthews’ column of Jan. 20?
(A.) Man, that Curt 'Matthews really makes you think! Last week I was sitting in Febbo’s. Febbo’s pizza smells like a wet dog. And I was reading the “Back Page” and stuff and I think he is right. All South Bend girls aren’t fat. Anyway I have a date at the Mardi Gras and I’m not an engineer. Hey, ma’am, there isn’t enough sausage on this pizza. Yummey. Greasy, but good. Some engineers are “skilled barbarians.” But they sure can eat! They have some new stuff called “E” to the “I” pie. Like to try. But all they know is numbers, hey. There’s other things besides numbers. Pass the salt. To talk to them about Al de Carts, or Detric Von Hil-benbread or something like that and no. Engineers are all stupid. Hey, ma’am, you have any chocolata pudding? (We noticed that Mr. West used the original Aztec for “chocolate”—stolen from Aldous Huxley.) No, I’m afraid Curt’s right. They don’t even appreciate Navin’s covers (page 15) or O’Brien’s features, or even “Entree.” (On the way out we bought Mr. West another pizza.)
CON: (Against Matthews, guys.) Mr. Bob Richards, an outstanding student of commerce; awards—the Who’s Who at the Mayfloiver in" Cleveland; president of the Canton Club; many rejection slips for poetry in “Entree.”
Interviewed in his room.
(Q.) What is your reaction to Matthews’ column of Jan. 20?
(A.) Matthews is all wrong. Engineers are as mysterious as Mestrovic, and grasp concepts as elusive as a dean, but that doesn’t mean they can’t communicate. (Picks up Scholastic.) Just look at some of the fundamental problems engineers deal with: basic things that everyone wants to know. Right opposite Matthews’ column is an ad. It asks a reasonable question which ironically disproves Curt. (Reads.; George Lincoln asks: “What do metallurgists do in a chemical company?” Charlie Smith answers right here in the second paragraph: “My own experience at duPont ranges from work on titanium pigments, to metallic titanium production, and to the ultra-pure silicon used in transistors. You can appreciate some of our metallurgical problems when I point out that impurities in transistor silicon have to be below one part in 100 million. That’s equivalent to one pound of impurities distributed through a train of ore cars twenty miles long.” (Stops reading.)
A simple answer to the simple question. Training brings efficiency. It’s too bad the whole campus can’t be run as efficiently as the student infirmary, a typical product of specialized training, showing a unity and singularity of purpose like the architecture of the buildings on the campus. No, I’m afraid Curt is wrong.
February 10, 1956
7
The Notre Dame Man?
Editor:
Lord deliver the females if there actually are men that look like those on the cover of the Jan. 20 Scholastic.
Marilyn Herpel, Lombard, Ill.
Steam From the Engine Room
Editor:
Skilled barbarians! Of all the tripe that the A.B. magazine has printed this year, your “Back Page” of Jan. 20 won the prize as the classic silly article. . . .
Gerard L. Meyer, 1402 Woodlawn Avenue South Bend
Editor:
In regard to Curt Matthews’ article of the last issue, I think he is somewhat misinformed. First I would like to know two things: What is his definition of “pure engineering?” and who (besides him) even mentioned “pure engineering,” much less said it exists?
Maybe engineers should take some liberal arts courses so they can understand other people. I think they do take a few: philosophy, economics and English. But maybe A.B. students should study engineering enough to realize that the engineer’s most important tool is his mind, not his “well-oiled” slide rule. They might even learn that he is a human being and not a barbarian.
As for engineers “doing little in the way of improving our lives and our living,” I don’t suppose Mr. Matthews ever uses cars, super highways, bridges and so forth. Maybe he hasn’t heard of airplanes or the atomic bomb. Maybe he doesn’t even notice the buildings he goes to school in. Wake up and take a look around you, Mr. Matthews. You might be surprised!
You might be surprised to learn that even Notre Dame has not only “strongly encouraged” but has “worked out” the five-year Engineering-AB program.
It’s too bad Mr. Matthews doesn’t define the “period of apprenticeship” he (Continued on page 33)
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS
January, 1956
Features the article by
Professor
Ernest Sandeen
“William Faulkner: His Legend And His Fable”
Also Book Reviews by Abell, McAvoy, Hermens, Kertesz, Nor-ling, De Santis and Szczesniak.
INVENTORY
Page
Entree   ....................    7
Repercussion ...............     8
View ______________________*.... 9
Campus Scene................... 11
Folio .................         16
Showcase ...................    20
At a Glance__________________   22
Irish Scene —................   25
Time Out....................    28
Back Page ....................  38
8
The REVIEW OF POLITICS is on sale at the Notre Dame Bookstore and at the REVIEW Office.
Special Price for a single issue for students—$1.25.
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 97 Feb. 10, 1956 No. 13
Discc Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS	V
Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE
Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ... News Editor ED JOYCE....................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN ________Production Manager DAVE KUBAL _________Assistant News
DAVE THOMPSON............Assistant New^
JAMES McDONALD ..........Assistant News JIM O’BRIEN .............Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN................Art	Editor
HARRY CONLON .........Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator JOE NORTON ...........Sports	Editor
JOHN GLAVIN............Assistant	Sports^
RAY LESCHER ...........Assistant	Sports™
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley, Joe Heimoski, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mo-carski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe schaefer, Mike Schofield, David Schwartz, Jim Steintrager, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh.
SPORT STAFF: John Barthel, Patrick DeFoe, Robert Early, John Grady, Russell Hopkins, James Langford, Frederick Lavin, Raymond Lescher, James Merz, Brian Moran, Robert Parnell, James Reiher, Edward Rohrbach, James Short, Carl Skiff, Richarcb Sofranko.	*
BUSINESS STAFF: Loran Shaffer.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
ON the COVER the gala Mardi Gras BalL dated for nine tonight, comes to life under the talented pen of Artist Dick Navin.
The Scholastic

powers
poets
Catholics in Camden, N. J., these days are embroiled in a rather formidable controversy concerning the | christening of a bridge which connects the cities of Camden and Philadelphia.
Last June the Bridge Authority “officially” decided to name the bridge after Walt Whitman, later-nineteenth century poet whose main works have appeared in an anthology ! which he entitled, Leaves of Grass. Whitman became a familiar figure on the streets of Camden and Philadelphia during the final twenty years of his life. His writings during ^:his period are regarded by many as his best. Whitman died ”and was buried in Camden in 1892. On the strength of this I later citizenship and connection with the two cities bridge officials had good reason to honor Whitman for his poetry.
But after the announcement that Walt Whitman would be commemorated, certain groups in the Camden diocese vehemently objected to such an honor. Poet Whitman, they said, had been weak in his morals and some of his contemporaries had been shocked with the sensuality contained in his verse.
They are now championing Joyce Kilmer whose “Trees” brought fame to the Catholic convert, also a resident of OCamden. The cries against the use of Whitman’s name have been so long and loud that the Bridge Authority has finally decided to recast its ballots for the nomination.
It seems to us that, in this instance, the Camden Catholics are making nuisances of themselves.
In the first place, the morals charges against Whitman have never been fully substantiated. And the reason that certain verse in Leaves of Grass was considered shocking is that Whitman was the first American writer who openly expressed his thoughts concerning sex as a part of life. Read by today’s public his works would hardly raise an eyebrow.
Secondly, and more important, the bridge was named ^to honor Whitman the poet, not Whitman the man. Whitman was an artist and as such he is considered by many to be the foremost figure in American literature. Kilmer’s “Trees” is pleasant verse, but his was not the poetic insight that can be found in Leaves of Grass.
Art is something which must be judged independently of the artist. A personal weakness of will does not necessarily destroy the intellectual powers of a creative genius. Conversely, strength of character does not insure an intellect of extraordinary creative power. .
We think that the Camdenites would have done better ^if they had simply stayed out of the picture. Their vocifer-Obusness has grabbed a few headlines which reflect no credit on their thinking. And, as usual, that thinking will be termed universally representative of the Catholic Church by aroused outsiders.—P. L.
February 10, 1956
My friend, John Powers, is still in school after the semester finals. “Not so odd,” you might say, “so are a few thousand other guys.” But John, in his own words, is here only “by the grace of God,” because John is a resident of Vetville.
John and his wife Anne are typical of a lot of Vetville couples past and present—they’re struggling. John is doing graduate work in political science on the G.L Bill—this means work in the classroom and out because the Bill allowance doesn’t go very far with a wife, a son, and a baby daughter. “I’ve done everything from sweep floors to manage the Student Center around here,” says John, “and I’m not ashamed to admit it. I think what I’m getting is worth it.”
John isn’t like the rest of us. He doesn’t get an assignment that he can haul off to his room, tell his roommate to clam up or get out, and then do in relative peace and quiet. John gets out of class and then heads over to his job where he works for a few hours. Getting off there, he walks over to his middle-section apartment in Vetville where he has dinner. Dinner finished, he starts in on any number of odd jobs that Anne can’t quite manage herself, like fixing a broken chair leg, carrying out the garbage cans, doing evening shopping for groceries, clothes, and so on. Then the kids have to be put to bed amid much clamoring and squalling. It’s 9 o’clock or later before a text is ever, opened.
John made one big exception last year to his general policy of not asking any favors in the classroom because he is a married man. His little boy suddenly became very ill right in the middle of final exams. As a matter of fact, the very next day he had his biggest exam of the year. This was forgotten as John sat up all night with Jackie. There was some doubt as to whether the boy would live or not. The next day John appeared for the exam looking like the worst along Skid Row—his son still very much in danger. “I told the prof what the situation was,” he says half-apologetically, “and he let me take it later on.”
John and Anne aren’t poor, in the sense that they do have most of the necessities, but you do see John wearing a big wide-bottom tie of the pre-Ivy League era. Anne makes a lot of her own clothes but even though she is a very fine seamstress she doesn’t sport new outfits very often—plain cloth costs a lot of money, too. “Will I never get to the place where I can buy my family more than hamburger and wieners with spaghetti on Friday?” John will muse, but not as laughingly as he would like to.
O O 1	a
The strangest thing about John and Anne, though, is that they don’t fight the situation; they’re even quite happy with the little they do have. Sure John has a tough time studying with his family problems, thrown in, too. Sure Anne has to skimp along in a place pretty different from home (Richmond, Va.). But both of them realize that what they are sacrificing for now will pay off in the long run.
As I said before, John and Anne are only one case. Many, many others are going through the same thing, but they think that what they sue getting “is worth it.” It sort of makes some of us who take our paid-in-full education so . lightly a little bit ashamed.—J. A.
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ENGINEERS AND METALLURGISTS
Hamilton Standard Division United Aircraft Corporation Designers and Manufacturers of
INTERVIEWS
JET AIRCRAFT EQUIPMENT
AND PROPELLERS
JET FUEL CONTROLS
(Electronic & Hydro-Mechanical)
JET TURBINE STARTERS
(Pneumatic & Combustion)
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
(Variable Displacement)
AIR CONDITIONING
SYSTEMS
(Air Cycle & Vapor)
PROPELLERS
(for Turbine &
Piston Engines)
o CONTROLS & ACCESSORIES FOR NUCLEAR ENGINES
Engineering Staff Continuously Expanded for the Past 30 Years — and Still Growing.
Largest New Jet Aircraft Equipment Development Program In Our History.
Local Graduate Study Program with R.P.I. Available— Tuition Assistance.
Modern Plant with Extensive Research Facilities.
For appointment and additional information see your placement officer.
The Date:
The Time:
The Place:
Thurs., Feb. 23—Fri., Feb. 24
Check your placement officer Rev. A. F. Mendez
HAMILTON STANDARD DIVISION UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION Windsor Locks, Connecticut
io

‘LE BAL’ RINGS UP CURTAIN
•ON MARDI GRAS TONIGHT;
Chuck Foster Plays Amidst Paris Mood in Center; Carnival Bazaar Opens Saturday Night in Drill Hall
Le Bal Mardi Gras will open Notre ^Dame’s Mardi Gras season tonight in ™the Student Center. Five hundred couples will dance from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. to the music of Chuck Foster-
Streamers and balloons along with designs of the French painter Toulouse-Lautrec will set the gay theme for the semi-formal dance.
Two queens will be crowned at the dance. Miss Nancy Angland, a Rosary College junior from Oak Park, lii., the _ date of John Casey, weekend chairman, ^vill be crowned queen of the weekend. Miss Barbara Brennan, a Rosary College junior from River Forest, Ill., date of Nick Mavigliano, dance chair-man, will be crowned queen of the dance.
Chaperones for the dance will be the parents of the weekend chairman and dance chairman and their dates. Car permissions will be from noon today until 2 a.m. Saturday.
Chairmen and committee heads for &the dance are: Jack Casey, weekend ^chairman; Nick Mavigliano, dance chairman; Tim Murphy, tickets; Gene O’Connor, business manager; Jacques Fiehrer, refreshments, and Bob Morsches, decorations.
POST-GAME PARTY
The Student Senate will hold an after game party, “Boilermaker Follow-Up,” following the Purdue basketball game on Saturday, Feb. 18.
The dance will be held from 9:30 until 11:30 p.m. in the Student Center. Admission will be $.25 and there will be an advanced sale' on Feb. 15 and 16 from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Rathskeller of the Center.
Girls from St. Mary's Academy, St. .Mary’s College, St. Joseph’s Nurses’ Home, and the Junior Daughters of Isabella will be present at the dance.
Saturday at 7 p.m. the Mardi Gras Carnival begins in the Drill Hall. It will continue on Monday and Tuesday with a mixer in tbo Center for students and their dates planned for Sunday.
Two Carnival queens will be crowned at the opening ribbon cutting ceremony in the Drill Hall Saturday night. Miss Patricia Cummings, a Bradley University freshman from Washington, Ill., escorted by Denny Powers, Carnival cochairman, and Miss Mary Ann Lescher, a Loyola University sophomore from River Forest, Ill., escorted by Dave Collins, Carnival co-chairman, will reign jointly.
From the 40 bids submitted, 2-5 have been chosen as booths for the carnival. Games this year will include a variety of dice and card stunts, roulette type games, and at least one novelty idea.
A $50 prize will be given to the hall that has the highest percentage of its books sold. Five other individual cash prizes ranging from $75 to $10 will also be awarded.
In conjunction with the activities in the Drill Hall, a bingo game in the Vet-ville Rec Hall will take place on Monday night.
In addition to the drawing for the Buick there will be the drawing of tickets for four Irish Terrier puppies of the Notre Dame mascots. Tickets on the pups will be sold on Carnival nights.
The money system at the carnival will be handled the same as last year with “bogus bills” being purchased at the door.
Chairmen and committee heads of the Carnival are: Denny Powers and Dave Collins, Carnival co-chairmen; Phil Bradtke and Paul Noland, booths; Leo Linbeck, supplies; Joe Bill, publicity; Clem O’Neil, business manager; Bud Malloy, bogus money; Pete Cannon, raffles; and Herman Wolf, financial chairman.
MARDI GRAS QUEENS (top to bottom)
Miss Nancy Angland, Miss Barbara Ann Brennan, Miss Patricia Cummings, Miss Mary Ann Lescher.
University Receives Gifts Totaling $2,280,000; Alumni, Corporation Donations Top Record
'The University received a total of $2,286,101 in gifts and grants during 1955, it was reported recently by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation. A record number of alumni and corporations contributed to the University last year, Father Cavanaugh said, and there was an increase in industrial and government grants for research on the campus.
Notre Dame’s graduates and honorary alumni contributed a total of $776,352 to the University, Father Cavanaugh reported. More than 52 % percent of the school’s lay alumni contributed $525,350 to their alma mater. The average gift of 11,298 alumni donors was $46.50. Both the number and percentage of alumni and their total contributions represented an appreciable increase over 1954. Alumni centers with the largest contributions to Notre Dame included Chicago, Cleveland, Dayton, Detroit, Fort Wayne, Indianapolis, LaCrosse, Wis., Los Angeles, New York, Pittsburgh, South Bend and Tulsa.
The benefactions of honorary alumni during 1955 totalled $251,002, Father Cavanaugh’s report indicated.
Among Notre Dame’s contributors last year were 354 corporations and foundations whose gifts totalled $411,326. This represents an increase of 175 corporations and foundations which aided the University as compared with 1954. Not included is the $2,630,300 grant from the Ford Foundation to raise faculty salaries at Notre Dame. The Ford grant will be paid to the University during the next 18 months.
In addition to corporation gifts earmarked for Notre Dame’s Distinguished Professors Program, unrestricted gifts totalling $513,755 received during 1955
ACTIVITIES FEE
Student Senate Treasurer Jerry Murphy announced this week that the Senate Activities Fee of $1 may be paid in the Senate Offices between 3:30 and 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. The fee may be paid until Feb. 24 without penalty.
A $2 fine in addition to the activity assessment will be charged after that date. A .total of 4,001 students of 4,869 assessed have paid.
Murphy warned that only those who have paid their fee will be allowed to participate in Senate Activities. Identification cards will be closely checked.
have also been assigned to faculty development.
The Notre Dame Foundation was established in 1947 to coordinate the University’s fund-raising and public relations activities. Since that time, the University has received more than $17,086,000 in gifts and grants.
Noted Concert Pianist To Play Here Feb. 17
Grant Johannesen, internationally known pianist, will give a concert in the Drill Hall Friday, Feb. 17, at 8:30 p.m.
GRANT JOHANNESEN
Next Concert and Lecture Artist.
The concert is sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series.
Mr. Johannesen made his debut as a pianist in New York in 1944. Since then he has toured North and South America and Europe. He played at the International Piano Festival in Belgium in 1949 and was the first American to win first place at the Festival.
The young piano virtuoso has appeared regularly on the “Telephone Hour.” He has also played with the New York Philharmonic, Boston Symphony, and San Francisco Symphony orchestras. Besides these appearances he has made “Concert Hall Recordings.”
Mr. Johannesen, a native of Salt Lake City, Utah, also composes music. He has written music for voice, piano, and several other instruments. Several of his latest compositions were recently featured by the “Piano Playhouse.”
The general admission price is $1.50
and 75 cents for the faculty and students. Tickets for the concert will be on sale Feb. 15 and 16 at the Washington Hall box office from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and from 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. On Feb. 17 tickets will be sold from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and 3:30 to 5 p.m. Tickets may also be obtained at the door of the Drill Hall on Feb. 17 from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m.	।
Father Smith to Lead Annual Senior Retreat
Rev. Ferrer Smith, O.P., from the Dominican House of Studies in Washing- j ton, D. C., has accepted an invitation from the Senior Class to serve as retreat mastei- for their annual retreat, according to an announcement made this week by Chairman Jim Massey.
The graduating class has planned a two-day exercise beginning with Mass i on Saturday morning, March 10, and I continuing until evening on March 11, the fourth Sunday of Lent.
Father Smith is well known to the i(l seniors from the much-acclaimed lecture he delivered here last year on the Immaculate Conception under the sponsorship of the department of religion.
The retreat will be made up of six^ ( conferences and a question and answer period which will be held after the final conference. Facilities for off-campus seniors will be prepared in the Student Center.
At the request of the Senior Class, । ( cancelled cuts will be granted on Satur- . day morning for those men who are making the retreat. For this reason no extended week-end permissions will be granted.
-----------I
Senate Loan Fund Receives $2,000 Grant From University
A $2,000 addition to the Student Senate loan fund was recently received by the Student Senate from the University, announced Walt Peeney, Loan Administrator.
The fund, now amounting to $7,000, is used exclusively for 30-day loans of up to $50 to Notre Dame students. This amount is expected to be sufficient to^ f meet the peak pre-vacation demands for1 loans.
Peeney announced that the Student Senate loan office, located in the basement of the Student Center, will be open between 4:30 and 5:30 p.m. Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, and between , 3:00 and 5:30 p.m. Tuesdays and Thurs- 1 days throughout the second semester. '
Students wishing to borrow money ' simply fill out a short application form, , have their application approved by the # Senate loan committee, and pick up theiJ® i check. The whole process takes just one 1 day. In emergency cases the money is available immediately.
The Scholastic ?
i"
12
I ®Father Carey Announces Lenten Program; Includes Talks, Afternoon Masses, Retreat
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., prefect of religion, today announced the Lenten program of public devotions.
The Forty-Hour Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament in memory of the W forty hours during which the Sacred Body of Jesus lay in the sepulchre begins here this Sunday.
The Forty-Hour Devotion will open at the 9 o’clock Mass on Sunday morn-। ing. Adoration will begin at noon and run until 6:45 p.m. Monday and Tuesday the Blessed Sacrament will remain exposed from 6:30 a.m. until 6:45 p.m.
A Lenten series of five talks will be given at 6:45 p.m. every Wednesday in Sacred Heart Church by Rev. Paul i Bailey, C.S.C. The first talk is sched-I uled for February 22.
In addition to the Lenten series of talks and daily Masses in hall chapels, I there will be daily Lenten adoration of the Blessed Sacrament in Sacred Heart Church from 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. This year, volunteers for this adoration will be on a hall basis. Three halls will be assigned to each day of the week for the six weeks of Lent.
Again this year, an afternoon Mass
1 will be celebrated during Lent, Monday through Friday, at 5:10 p.m. In keeping with Church legislation, this Mass i will alternate daily between Sacred Heart ; Church and Dillon Hall chapel. The Mass is intended for faculty members, office personnel, and off-campus students who cannot attend morning Mass. Since campus students have an abundant op-9 portunity to attend morning Mass in their halls, they will be asked not to attend the evening Mass in Dillon Hall because of the crowded conditions that prevail there.
In order to receive Communion at the ’ evening Mass, the recipient must abstain from solid foods for a 3-hcur period and from liquids for one hour.
In addition to the public devotions, various halls will have the Stations of the Cross and similar Lenten ceremonies. The time of these devotions will be announced by the rectors so as not to conflict with devotions in Sacred Heart l Church. The Friday novena to the Sorrowful Mother will continue as usual throughout Lent in Sacred Heart Church.
A closed Senior retreat will be held on the weekend of March 10-11. On the same dates a campus-wide weekend of recollection will be held in all halls. Fr. Norton’s office has curtailed all social i functions on those days in order to con-•’ form with the scheduled spiritual program. The program for each hall will be posted by fhe individual rectors.
The dispensation enjoyed by Notre
Dame students from the laws of fast and abstinence is a local dispensation only, except for off-campus students. It ceases when campus residents leave the campus.
Fr. Carey added that, since the general laws of the diocese permit meat at a principal meal (noon or evening), campus residents may eat meat once a day at this principal meal, if this meal is taken off-campus.
THE STRUBBE FAMILY
Mama, Papa lecture Feb. 15.
Strubbes to Lecture At Marriage Institute
Mr and Mrs. Charles F. Strubbe of Chicago will give the third in the series of Marriage Institute Lectures at 8 p.m. Wednesday in Washington Hall. The subject of the lecture will be “Love and Marriage.”
Mr. Strubbe is an attorney, insurance agent for General American Life Insurance Company, and the Executive Director of Loyola University’s Office of Law Development. Both Mr. and Mis. Strubbe are members of the Executive Board of Cana Conferences and Chairmen of the Content Committee. Mrs. Strubbe writes extensively for Catholic publications, and is the mother of six children.
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, opened the Mar
riage Institute Feb 2. before more than 800 members of the Senior Class. His topic was “Courtship.”
On Feb. 9, Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd spoke on “Male and Female Psychology.” A graduate of Notre Dame with a Ph.B. in Commerce and a former naval officer, Mr. O’Dowd is a member of the Christian Family Movement and the Cana Conference of Chicago.
Other speakers scheduled for future Institute sessions include Dr. Lewis Leone, “The Doctor’s Point of View,” March 7; Rev. Francis Nealy, O.P., “Morality and Marriage,” March 15; and Dr. and Mrs. Linus Maino, “Success in Marriage and Happiness with Children,” March 22.
Al] of the sessions are followed by a question period and a coffee hour.
’Dome' Announces May 28 As Publication Release Date
The 1956 Dome has progressed rapidly and all deadlines to date have been met ahead of schedule, Editor Don Sniegow-ski recently announced. Half of the book’s material is already in the hands of the printer while more sections are scheduled for completion at the end of the month.
A tentative date of May 28 has been set for publication release.
Sniegowski pointed out that due to the dates of the Senior Prom and the Freshman Frolic, both in May, it will be impossible to include scenes of these dances in the Dome. However, pictures of the dance committees, queens and bands will be published.
Sniegowski announced that last year’s Dome received a first class honor rating of “Excellent,” awarded by the Associated Collegiate Press.
MOCK CONVENTION NOMINATIONS
Nominations for delegates to the 1956 Mock National Democratic Convention will dose on Monday, February 13. A total of 2,000 delegates, 628 of whom will act as alternates, will be needed.
Delegates will assume the role of electors of the Notre Dame Democratic presidential nominee, and will assist in political processes patterned after the Democratic National Convention.
Nominations can be made by anyone, including the nominee himself, by writing the nominee's name, campus address, and home state on a piece of paper and placing it in one of the various hall ballot boxes or those located in the hall and bus shelter. Elections will take place on February 19.
February 10, 1956
13
LAUSCHE CAUCUS AND MANAGER HUGHES
Politicos gather steam for Democratic Convention.
Kefauver Aggregation Headed by Resciniti; Hughes Named Lausche Campaign Manager
Campus politicos rallying for Ohio Gov. Frank Lausche, elected Student Senator Jim Hughes, a freshman from Farley Hall, as their campaign chairman for the Mock Democratic Convention to be held April 16 through 18.
Last Friday, nearly 100 students elected Hughes over his fellow Student Senators John Cusack of Dillon and Dave Kelsey of Cavanaugh at a rally in the Engineering Auditorium.
Hughes, originally not a candidate, entered the race late but won overwhelmingly on the second ballot. Hughes said that he spent several hours with Governor Lausche between semesters discussing problems affecting Ohio, in addition to other issues. Hughes served as a page in the Ohio legislature at Columbus, his home town.
Tuesday evening Sil Resciniti of Brooklyn, N. Y., was unanimously elected campaign chairman for Tennessee Senator Estes Kefauver. Resciniti stated that he hopes to form three of four committees and to develop Kefauver support especially in weak states by conducting a door to door campaign on campus.
Before 50 students in the Engineering Auditorium, he announced that he'would send letters to Kefauver’s campaign headquarters in Washington for aid in the local campaign. Resciniti urged anyone interested in supporting the candidacy of Kefauver to contact him at 236 Alumni.
Mock Convention Campaign Chairman
Bob O’Malley emphasized that a rally will be held for any prospective presidential nominee or favorite son supported by Democrats on the national scene. Thus far, rallies for Lausche, Kefauver, Harriman, and Stevenson have been organized since definite campus backing has formed behind these candidates. The campaign headquarters, 245 Alumni, will consider any official requests for additional rallies.
It was also announced by the Academy of Political Science, that a student keynote speech will be delivered in conjunction with a speech given by a national Democratic figure.
Prof. Bergin Takes Leave To Obtain Doctor's Degree
Mr. Thomas P. Bergin, head of the department of business administration, is now taking a semester’s leave of absence in order to complete formal work on his doctorate in business administration at Syracuse University. Mr. Bergin will return for the summer session and will resume his position the next semester.
Taking Mr. Bergin’s place will be Assistant Dean Edmund A. Smith. Mr. Smith held the position of acting head of the department from 1951 to 1953.
Mr. Bergin’s leave of absence to obtain his doctorate is part of a developmental program by the College of Commerce.
Open Travel Bureau In Shopping Center
After six months of negotiation with the First Bank & Trust Co. of South Bend, a travel agency has been opened on the second floor of the Notre Dame Bookstore. Operating as a branch of the bank’s travel bureau, the agency is d managed by Mr. Francis Tremege. It is open Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The agency is equipped to handle, at no charge, air line and bus tickets, reservations, car rentals, hotel and steamship reservations and itineraries for special tours. Because of its limited size, the agency can issue railroad information and schedules, but not tickets.
J Quick Connections
In order to assure quick connections with airlines and-*hotels, the agency has a telephone connection with the switchboard of the First Bank & Trust Co. The bank has a direct line to Chicago.
According to Mr. G. E. Harwood, University comptroller, this agency was added in order to make Notre Dame a self-contained city by rendering every service possible.
According to Tremege, his agency has information and can obtain travel films fox' students on the United States as well as many foreign countries.
Dowling-Bihn Set Fast Pace In Campus Bridge Tourney
Bernie Dowling and Joe Bihn continued to set the pace in winning the North-South Section with a score of .670 in last Sunday’s bridge tournament in the Student Center. Dick Rupp and Chuck Vandegrift led the East-West field with a score of .640.
Leaders for the series award, best five out of six games, at present are (best three out of four): Dowling-Bihn, 1900 ; Meisels, 1726; Rupp, 1715; Bradford, 1659; Heichelheim, 1650; Snyder, 1641; Toy-McGahey, 1621.
It was announced that the Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament will be held on Feb. 25 in the Student Center. Practice sessions on the par hands played in previous years will be held in the Student Center on Feb. 9, 14, and 16 at 5 p.m. The tournament is open to all undergraduates.
This Sunday the monthly Master Point Game for campus bridge players ■will be held starting at 2 p.m. Full master points are awarded to both North-South and East-West first place winners. All students are eligible to participate.
14
The Scholastic
'I *Gen. LeMay to Receive 'Patriotism' Award From Seniors at Washington Day Exercises
I, Gen. Curtis E. LeMay, head of the Strategic Air Command, today was named recipient of the annual Patriotism Award of the Senior Class. The .^.veteran Air Force commander will accept the award and deliver the principal
GEN. CURTIS LEMAY
. . . integrity and service . . .
address at the University’s 107th annual Washington’s Birthday exercises Feb. 22 at 8 p.m.
The Patriotism Award was established in 1954 to honor “the outstanding patriot of the year who exemplifies the American ideals of justice, personal integrity and service to country.” The recipient is determined by a ballot of Notre Dame’s graduating seniors. FBI Di-
rector J. Edgar Hoover and Bishop Fulton J. Sheen received the award in former years.
Tickets for the exercises will be distributed to undergraduates at Washington Hall from Feb. 13 through 17 between the hours of 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. Tickets will be mailed to the seniors, faculty, and administration. Mail requests for tickets from those outside of the University should be sent to Box 152, Notre Dame, Indiana.
LeMay has been commanding general of the Strategic Air Command, whose headquarters is at Offutt Air Force Base, Omaha, Neb., since 1948. While serving as commandei- of the U. S. Air Forces in Europe during 1947-48, he initiated the Berlin Airlift which successfully countered the Soviet blockade of that city. During World War II
General LeMay held top commands in Europe, the China-Burma-India Theater, and the Pacific where he headed the 20th Air Force and served as Chief of Staff of the U. S. Army Strategic Air Force. For two years after the war he was deputy Chief of Air Staff of Research and Development.
Also participating in the traditional Washington’s Birthday exercises will be Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s executive vice president, who will accept an American flag for the University from Joseph Bill, Garden City, N. Y., vice president of the Senior Class. William K. Warren, Tulsa, Okla., senior class president, will present the Patriotism Award to General LeMay. Philip Agee, of Tampa, Fla;, is chairman of the event.
Labor Meet Features Coal Assn. President
Joseph E. Moody, president of the Southern Coal Producers Association, who negotiated one of the first welfare funds with John L. Lewis’ United Mine Workers, will give his views on “UnionManagement Administration of Trust Funds” at Notre Dame’s fourth annual Union-Management Conference here Feb. 24.
Moody is one of six panelists who will discuss welfare funds, supplementary wage plans and proposed unemployment compensation revisions during a session on “New Trends in Negotiations.” Charles C. Killingsworth, head of the department of economics at Michigan State University, will serve as moderator.
Other panelists will include Thomas
Dick Navin and his covers.
E. Hansen, International Association of Machinists, Chicago; R. J. Meehan, Continental- Can Co., Chicago; Marvin J. Miller, United Steelworkers of America, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Claude A. Loesch, Indiana Manufacturers Association, Indianapolis; and Leonard Lesser, United Auto Workers, Washington, D. C.
A second panel will consider subjects such as layoff and rehiring procedures, incentive rates and day rate wage plans, and how much information a company should share with its union. Serving as panel chairman ■will be Ronald - W. Haughton, director of the Institute of Industrial Relations at Wayne University and permanent arbitrator of the B. F. Goodrich Co. — United Rubber Workers Contract.
The panel membership includes Ralph Edgar, Ball Brothers, Muncie, Ind.; Alfred L. Wickman of the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers Union, Denver; J. Warren Shaver, U. S. Steel Corp., Pittsburgh; Joseph W. Childs, United Rubber Workers, Akron; William W. Miller, Stewart Warner Corp., Chicago; and Nicholas DiPietro, Typographical Union No. 16, Chicago.
Campus Station Announces Department Head Revisions
Two appointments have been announced by WSND for the coming spring semester. Jack Moynahan, a junior from LaGrange, Ill., majoring in English, takes over the position of program director. Bill Chesson, an AB sophomore from Pittsburgh, Pa., is the new sports director for the station.
As a result of his new appointment, Moynahan intends to alter programming in an attempt to adjust schedules to meet student likes. Because of the success of the early-morning FM program, Moynahan is planning additional programming of this type.
February 10, 1956
15
4olia
first
A first-rate university subscribing to second-rate entertainment is not unlike an expensive hotel using roller towels, or a top-flight restaurant calling their hamburger “hamburger.” The patronizing of grade B movies and the employment of two-bit bands is what one would expect of a barber’s college. A seat of learning must also be a seat of culture.
’ While the entertainment to be found on the Notre Dame campus is not of the poorest type, it isn’t hard to see where some improvement might be made. Good entertainment, however, is expensive, and any venture concerning worthwhile attractions could well amount to a costly mistake. In order to avoid such mistakes a poll of the student body was taken to determine what possible presentations would be supported.
The results showed that some $25,000 are spent each week by the students in search of entertainment. They spend this money in the course of a total of 13,000 nights away from their books. If one out of ten dollars and one out of ten nights were spent in the support of theater, Notre Dame could support more road shows than the rest of Indiana combined. Our campus would be listed among the best one-night stands in the country.
Five percent of this time and money could easily support a- first-run movie house, and another five percent would be more than enough to schedule an appearance of the ten best bands in the nation. If one out of every five dollars was spent for good entertainment, there would be no lack of social and cultural advantages on campus.
It is quite apparent from this that both time and money exist in more than sufficient number. There is, however, a question of interest to be considered. The poll was also intended to gauge the
wanted: rate entertainment
amount of support (if any) that might be expected for various forms of popular and artistic entertainment. Happily enough, this interest does exist.
More than four-fifths of the student body displayed an interest in some form of the Legitimate Theater. They were
Folio here presents the results of a Fall Poll by the Public Information Committee of the Student Senate to provide accurate information on the prospects for the improvement of entertainment.
The gist of the graph is presented below. Accompanying it, a committee member makes a few comments on the present state of local entertainment and a number of suggestions based upon the results of the graph. The opinions expressed here do not represent those of the committee, but those of an observer strictly pro-entertainment.
asked if they would pay two dollars to see the Ballet Theater, the Metropolitan Opera, Teahouse of the August Moon, or To Spend a Summer (a non-existent play), in the vicinity of the campus.
'Sixty-three percent expressed a desire to see Teahouse of the August Moon while forty-nine percent displayed an interest in Opera. The non-existent play, To Spend a Summer, was supported by twenty-eight percent which implies that over one-fourth of the student body would like to see any road show that becomes available.
In listing the maximum price they would be willing to pay, the students indicated that they would fill a 1300-seat auditorium at matinee prices for almost any road show. A play such as Teahouse would triple this.
The idea of employing more famous
(
bands for formal and informal dances also received a favorable response. Sixty percent said they would pay a dollar fifty extra for Louis Armstrong at an informal, while forty-nine percent would pay two fifty extra to have Ralph Flanagan at a formal dance. It must be^ kept in mind, however, that some of* those who said no to these questions, do not go to dances at all, and therefore, the percentage of actual dancegoers who are interested, might well be somewhat higher than the percentages given.
Five possibilities were offered in the way of personal appearances. These were Mary Martin, Kitty Kallen, Adlai Stevenson, Roy Hamilton, and Herb Shriner. The degree of their popularity was in.® that order. Mary Martin did not do well ™ with the freshmen but was the favorite with the upper classmen. Over ninety-six percent of the student body was interested in at least one of these personal appearances.
Seventy percent of the students said they would go to a first-run cinema on campus at least once a week. An admission price of fifty cents was given in the question. All things considered, the A gross for such a showhouse as this might ” run in the neighborhood of $1500 per week. This would be good for a fii'st-run house in a city of 50,000.
Many colleges have first-run movies on campus. It is even more common to find the top offerings of the Legitimate Theater at major universities. Indiana and Purdue have recently sponsored such offerings as Tea and Sympathy, the Old Vic Repertory, the New York City Opera, and the Ballet Theater. There is ® no reason why Notre Dame can’t do as well. At Notre Dame many unknown groups, and entertainers who were over the hill, and well advanced into the dried apricot stage of life, appear.
It can hardly be disputed that the presence of good entertainment on campus would add a great deal of prestige to the University. No college is intended to be a place of all work and no play, and the existence of good entertainment is certainly commendable. Notre Dame a is already known for athletic achievement and the building of moral character. With a little effort it may well become known as a seat of culture and good entertainment.
Would attend campus cinema once each week Showed an interest in Legitimate Theater .... Showed an interest in Bands ■..... Showed an interest in Personal Appearances Nights spent out each week........_....... Amount of money spent each week........
Frosh.	Soph.	Jun.	Sen.	O.C.	Avg.
72%	70%	72%	81%	60%	70%
75	86	86	88	78	82
90	84	82	83	73	82
90	97	93	93	97	96
2.0	2.3	2.9	3.4	2.9	2.7
13.70	$4.00	$5.30	$5.40	$5.00	$4.60
				The Scholastic	
16
Out of the art of mediaeval heraldry;
symbol of a proud tradition
comes the seal of the school
by Jim Loeffler
OTTA BUY SOME BOOKS,” he L_~T thought, as he pulled the glass door open and walked inside the book store. “Gotta get a couple religion books and some English and some Political Science books. Boy, is that going to sock the old bankroll in the teeth.”
He started past the cashier’s counter and moved toward the stairs. Then he stopped. “And I bet there’s a big line upstairs, just to make matters worse. Heck, I might as well stay down here and pick up a few notebooks before I go up.”
He walked past the counter with the ND sweatshirts and the rack holding the windbreakers. Past the pennant section with the big ND banner, he moved and at the next counter he stopped. Quickly glancing over the shelves, he selected three brown notebooks with “35 cents” stamped on them and. displaying a large shield on the cover. On the top of the shield were the words “Notre Dame” and in the center was a circle with some Latin words inscribed around the edge and inside the circle was another shield containing a cross.
Had he stopped to examine the sweatshirts, the windbreakers, the banners and the books he had passed, he would have found a similar design on each. For all of these contained an unofficial reproduction of the ND seal—the symbol of the University of Notre Dame. And if he had looked at his hands, he would have found on his class ring the authentic stamp of the ND seal.
This seal, in its unofficial capacity on sweatshirts and books, and its legitimate place on class rings, diplomas, degrees, and other transcriptions of the Office of Academic Affairs, symbolizes the tradition and the purpose of the University
of Notre Dame. It is emblematic of Notre Dame as an institute of learning and of the school’s dedication to the Blessed Mother. It is part of the history of Notre Dame and part of the even greater tradition of the Catholic Church.
When Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell dedicated the seal as University President in 1931, he was not inaugurating a new fad in Catholic action; he was following a pattern established by the Church centuries ago. He was only continuing a profound part of the Catholic tradition —heraldry in the form of symbolism.
Heraldry as an art is almost as old as history itself. Symbols were used to represent individuals or families in bib-
lical times, in the Greek and Roman eras and in the famed Gallic empire of Charlemagne. However, heraldry did not develop into a mature expression of ideas and traditions until the Middle Ages, particularly the time of the Crusades. Then, Ecclesiastical heraldry, already in the Church since its early
years, became an important part of Church activities and has continued its value in Catholic tradition.
Father O’Donnell called upon one of the foremost authorities on heraldry in the United States, Pierre de Chaignon la Rose of Harvard University, to submit designs for the new ND seal. In early 1931, la Rose sent back to the University a colored sketch that was to become the seal of Notre Dame.
The seal, painted in Blue and Gold (the colors of the Blessed Virgin) consists of a circle inscribed with the words, “Sigillium Universitatis Dominae Nos-trae a Lacu”—seal of the University of Notre Dame by the Lake. Inside the circle is a shield with a clear blue field and a cross of gold, representing the Congregation of Holy Cross. At the base of the shield are two wavy lines (used in heraldry to represent water) signifying the “a lacu” (by the lake). The star in the left hand corner of the shield, reminiscent of the Star of the Sea, is Mary’s symbol in the coat of arms and along with the wavy lines expresses the dedication of the University . to the Blessed Mother.
In front of the cross is an open book emblematic of an institute of learning. On the book are written the words, “Vita Dulcedo, Spes,” part of an ancient prayer to our Lady, “Salve Regina” and translated as “our life, our sweetness, our hope.” The cross and this phrase symbolize the dedication of the University’s activities to the Blessed Virgin.
The Notre Dame seal has become one of the best known signs of the university. It is of even greater significance because it contains the idea of the University of Notre Dame—the dedication to the Blessed Mother.
February 10, 1956
by PAUL REILLY
House shaped like a modified tuba. Garden of world plants in the living - room, a painted map of the world under foot and a global sundial near the window. An architect’s nightmare? Not for Paul Grillo, Associate Professor of Ar' chitecture at the University of Notre i Dame. He designed it for himself.
1 Paul Jacques Grillo was born in [	France and lived in that country until
i	he came to the United States in 1947.
■ Shortly after graduating from the Ecole 1 de Beaux-Arts in 1933, he was presented > with the Prix- de Rome, the highest [ honor an architect can receive in France. J In 1938, his design of the National Li; brary and Memorial to King Albert of s Belgium won for him the second prize ’ in a public competition in which seventy * other architects competed. His homeland has benefited much from the work of its
S talented son.
i
I A Special Contribution
i On account of the size of his family, I Grillo was not drafted into the French < army during World War II. But when $ the government began building refugee ? camps, he offered his services. He had I noticed that the camps were being poor" ly constructed and located in strategic | bombing areas. He suggested that more | sturdy camps be built and on less dan-| gerous sites. In this wray, he thought, | their usefulness would not cease after g the war, and they would be more safe for | inhabitants. The government accepted g his suggestions and placed him in charge | of designing and building the camps. He I immediately began construction in the | area of Le Mans. This was Grillo’s im-| portant contribution to the war effort 1 and to the well-being of many French-I men.
I To man, whose needs and wants dess mand adequate shelter for both his livelihood and entertainment, the aid of an a architect is almost indispensible. Grillo $ proved this point by his designing ef-3 forts in France and Switzerland.
j When the mayor of a small hamlet in | the Swiss Alps wished to have his vil-( lage made into a resort, he called upon I Grillo. After carefully surveying the i	area, Grillo realized resort planning
:	would not promote a healthy economic
condition. The valley surrounding the 3 hamlet was divided into twelve commu-S nities, each too small to prosper by it-l self. The economy had to be organized •S activity, but also in regard to agricul-I 18
the versatile one
ture and industry. Following Grillo’s advice, the villages combined into a syndicate and subsequently developed a thriving economy.
Shortly after World War II, the Town Council of St. Gingolph contacted Grillo and asked if he would undertake the reconstruction of their village which had been almost completely destroyed by German S.S. troops. He enthusiastically accepted this task. It became one of
ARCHITECT-PROF. PAUL GRILLO
the most difficult jobs of his career. Many problems blocked immediate construction. Generations of land holders had reduced the individually owned plots to postage stamp size. Hence, Grillo could not adhere to the original layout of the town. The land had to be redistributed in spite of the fact that all of the plots did not have the same value; nor were they being used for the same purpose. The peasants had to be convinced that the new layout would benefit them. In the face of all these difficulties, Grillo put through his new plan ’ for St. Gingolph and finished the work.
Through one of Grillo’s students, a man heard of the talented architect. After satisfying himself that he was highly capable, the man offered him a job designing a resort and heading its construction. Today, in a valley of the Swiss Alps, lies the world-famed mountain resort of Meribel, which possesses
the longest ski lift in the world.
In the United States, Mr. Grillo has worked on projects which manifest the , same ingenuity apparent in his work in ; Europe. A house in Elkhart is now being J built according to his design. It is sit- | uated on the bank of the Christiana : Creek on an 11-acre plot of wooded land.
Its ultra-modern design blends perfectly . with the natural surroundings. A glass wall shaped in the fonn of a pentagon ■ faces the creek and allows a spreadingview of the bend. The ground floor extends to the waters’ edge, and the second projects over the creek. While eating breakfast on the second floor, it is possible to see trout spawning in the stream.
More Local Work
Saint Mary’s College also bears the mark of Grillo’s genius. The infirmary chapel, although small in size, is one of his greatest designing feats. The altar is a simple marble slab supported by a stone block incised with the symbols of the four Evangelists. The wall behind the altar is sheathed with ceramic tile (standard bathroom tile cut in small one-inch squares) placed on their corners so each piece is shaped like a diamond. From a distance, the entire rear wall seems to be a sheet of hammered brass.
Directly behind the altar, above the tabernacle, a large cross has been cut from the wall and filled with lucite. Centered in the cross is a monstrance in which the Holy Eucharist is kept perpetually exposed. Precious jewels, donated by women who have entered the Sisterhood or by their relatives, surround the Eucharist. Delicately etched lines springing from the center of the monstrance appear to be soft glowing rays when effected by the side lighting. The communion rail is a narrow chain held aloft by statues of the angels Gabriel and Michael. The kneeling angels face each other and hold the chain between them. The statues are constructed of thinly cut strips of brass. This small chapel which seats approximately forty nuns is a picture of simple beauty.
On Route 19, near Elkhart, lies the sprawling home of the Grillo family. It is a home as striking in its originality as it is in its practicality. It would be impossible to give an adequate description of Grillo’s home here, but some idea of the man’s ingenuity can be given.
Shaped somewhat like a tuba, the house possesses nearly perfect acoustics.' It was designed this way by Grillo in order that he might truly appreciate his concert grand piano and his high fidelity set. The exterior of the house is done in unfinished wood which blends beautifully with the rustic surroundings, a wooded area on the back of a lake. The unfin-
(Continued on page 30)
The Scholastic
Alaska (J’s cold co-eds.
Down to earth!
winter whirl
photos by STEVE FOX
Snowballs flash through the air, splattering in trees and bushes that protect the real target. A high-pitched laugh, a threatening retort, and one figure pursues the other until the ' final lunge sends both- rolling in the snozv. Skates abandozied at the side of the artificial pond sigziify disgust at the sunken, sodden ice.
*
Each year, St. Mary’s sophomore class features a gala affair —The Winter Carnival. The afternoon activity is centered on the snozu zuith the fresh air appeal in mind. The eveziing program changes progressively from suppez- to a humorozis skit follozved by dancing. Finally the scene shifts to the highlight of the carnival, the outdoor crowning of Mary, Ouz- Lady of the snozvs.
Our Lady of the Snows.
Irish Guard’s last stand.
Steamin’ swamp-water.

1985
by MORT KEILTY
ian Animals for First Year Zoology V Students” in the projector and settled back to watch his homework.
He had finished most of his work and was thinking about going into town to the feelies and a short “Spaceman’s Delight” at Joer’s when the dinner buzzer sounded. The student crossed to the tube in the wall marked “DINNER” and removed the plastic containers. As he opened the first a disgusted look came over his face.
“It’s meals like this that make me wish I lived back in 1956,” he declared. “Chili again!”
Melvin Fornbrusher was a typical Notre Dame student. He wore the usual university uniform from Filbert’s on the Campus—a yellow short-sleeved jersey, blue tight shorts, and a pair of white buck spaceboots, dirty, of course. At the moment, Melvin’s blue shorts were the target of an angry curse. “Holy Ganymede!” quoth the usually mild-mannered Melvin, “Won’t that laundry ever leam to crease these mashuba shorts correctly?” This coming from the Spiritual Director of Hinton Hall ordinarily would have been quite a shocking question, but today Melvin Fornbrusher was justified in such uncouth language. For the aforementioned laundry had once more triumphed. It had caused Melvin to be disgraced in front of the entire Coast Guard ROTC unit.
He could still see the red glow of the automatic inspecting robot, signifying
“Carelessness of Dress.” Now he’d never make Nuclear Fissionist, 15th class! Oh, the shame of it all.
He was about to curse his shorts and the laundry again when a black-robed figure stealthily glided into view on his U-THOUGHT IT; WE CAUGHT IT air scooter. Melvin stopped his curse abruptly and tried to make his mind a
20
blank. It might be one of the B.M.T.P., known by the students as the dreaded thought police. One false thought with them and your satellite was smashed. They took offenders to room 121 under the dome of the old unused, save for the police, Administration Building, and you could hear the screaming confessions of these unfortunate wretches all the way over to Ziggy Memorial Cafeteria.
The figure on the air scooter flew past, and Melvin sighed with relief. Quickly he hurried across the green concrete helicopter landing field. As he passed the old Nieuwland Science Hall he could see two students practicing on the cyclotron, and he laughed to himself.
“How stupid to cram,” he thought. “They’ll never pass the lab final that way.”
He hurried toward his room for it was getting a bit cool. That was another thing; the weather control was horrible. It was always a shade too cold. As he entered his lavishly furnished room he reminded himself again to watch his conversation. That new secret microphone system picked up every sound you made. Why, just the other night hadn’t they come for O’Brien down on the sixth floor because they heard someone jokingly refer to him as the brains behind the spaceship races-betting pool? Even Swytznievskivitch, the All-American bowler, had been questioned because of his comments about the playing habits of Uranus Tech’s left pinsetter.
He kicked his boots off and fell on his airbed, then reached over and turned on his interstellar hi-fi set, at the same time turning the air conditioning unit to the notch marked COMFY. He pressed a button. This turned the homework screen on. He placed the film marked “The Comparative Anatomies of Venus-
$
your first murders
by JACK QUAGLIANO
“Who are you?”
“I’m your friend.”
“What are you?”
“I’m similar to yourself.”
“What am I then?”
“As far as I can make out we are both entities realized by the Reader of some sort of Book.”
“How is it you know more than I do?”
“I believe it is because the Reader has ascribed to us both certain characteristics from the depths of his own experience and, as it happens, I have been granted a more comprehensive knowledge than you.”
“I feel what a Book is. The Reader ~ just uses it for his pleasure, and when he gets tired . . . what will happen to us?”
“When he gets tired he will imagine the words The End—and that will be the finish of us, friend.”
“How can the Reader imagine those words—are they not already there?”
“Not in this space; it is really blank. The Reader will just read until he gets tired and then .. .”
“It is horrible. Can we not prolong our life at all?”
“Not unless we do something to interest the Reader enough so that he will not want to stop reading.”
“Maybe if we went upside down, like
—JOTS?”
“No friend. That was a mistake. You made the Reader uncomfortable. He grows tired.”
“I’m sorry! You’re right—I feel it coming. It was nice to have existed with you, friend.”	1
“It was nice to have existed with you.” v “Goodbye.”
“Goodbye, friend.”
The Scholastic
college life
by HARRY WASOFF
You know, a fellow doesn’t mind the big things, things like having to live in a dormitory, or not being able (W° have a car» or things like that. It’s ™he little things that get a guy down.
So a guy has to study hard; he knows he is going to benefit by it. Guys will sit in front of their typewriters for hours, trying to get inspiration by concentrating on some topic they want to write a theme about. They don’t mind that; it’s when, at 11 p.m., they finally think of something to write and the lights go out. Just little things, you see. It’s the little (^things that get a guy down.
A. There are many wonderful social
functions.
1.	There are dances, a. No women.
2.	There are spoits like'bowling and pool.
a. Who knows how to bowl or pool?
^B. Disciplinary regulations are reason-V able.
1.	Upperclassmen may go out every night if they so wish.
a. They must be in by twelve.
2.	Students are allowed reasonable •	freedom.
..	a. Students may fly airplanes.
* C. A guy gets to live a clean, healthy life.
1.	Each hall is equipped with show-• el’S-
a.	You have to wait in line to get to use one.
b.	You will probably discover you have run out of soap.
2.	There is an infirmary on campus for the exclusive use of students, a. You have to be dying to get in.
So, you see, it’s really not the big things that get a guy down. Nobody cares about doing the things that are prohibited, anyway. Who even wants to ^go out and have a beer now and then, or stay out late at night with some dizzy blond or brunette? And, who misses having a car to take his girl out occasionally? There is always the bus to ride, if it happens to be going the same place you are. You can get a cab, but they are always full when you want one. If worst comes to worst, you can walk your girl, except that that is against school rules after dark. And, don’t forget, you have to have her in on time; you don’t ^want her to get campused. So, how are ^you going to get her back to the dorm? There you are. . . . It’s those little things again!
IT was in a bar that it happened. I suppose that makes it sound right away like the typical story about Average Guy meets Weird Stranger, Etc., but that’s where it happened. If I’d had my choice I might have picked the public libraiy or the press box at Ebbett’s Field or the top of the Statue of Liberty —just to be original—but it happened to be a bar.
I was sitting at a table with a bottle
10,000 years by PHIL GIBSON
of beer trying to think how to tell Ella— that’s my wife—how to tell Ella I hadn’t got that raise. Guys get turned down for raises every day of the year I suppose— it’s not like I’d lost my job or anything. But still, Ella had been counting on . . .
The fellah sat down opposite me so quietly I didn’t even notice him until I looked up. He was a dark, kinda hawkfaced bird. He looked at me kinda queer. I was going to tell him to do his drinking at another table because I wasn’t feeling too sociable just then, when he spoke:
“I sold my soul to the Devil yesterday.” That’s what he said—just like that. He talked in a smooth high-pitched voice —sorta precise like. Somehow it didn’t seem to go with his looks. He sounded and looked very tired.
Now I’m usually willing to humor a looney if he’s got a story that’s a little different. So, even though I wasn’t in the mood, I played along with him.
“Why tell me about it?” I asked.
“You are the only person I have ever told—I must confide in someone.”
“Well, it doesn’t seem like you would have told very many people if it happened just yesterday,” I said, a bit annoyed.
“He—the Devil—promised I am to live for ten thousand years. In return he is to get my soul when I die,” he went on, ignoring my remark.
“Looks like you’ve got a long time before you should start worrying,” I said, with a bit of a cynical smile.
He ignored me again—almost as if I hadn’t spoken. “It all seemed so wonderful then ... all the great events to be
seen . . . things not imaginable ...”
“Not really unimaginable, are they?” I put in. “Space travel, everything run by atomic power . . . though I suppose there’ll be a few we haven’t thought of at all. Oughta be mighty interesting..... Ten thousand years! That’s practically forever!”
“That’s what I thought . . . but now everything is different . . .” he spoke slowly, having at last really noticed me
—but not, apparently, the touch of sarcasm in my voice.
“But you’ve got only one day used up . . . ?”	•
“I have only one day left,” he said. “Tomorrow the ten thousandth year ends.”
“But,” I protested, “you said you made the deal . . .”
“Yesterday,” he said with a final note.
He got up and glided away quietly in the smoky darkness. I just sat there for a while.
* * *
Funny thing — when I got home I looked up in Ella’s encyclopedia . . . the one she got for a dollar a volume at the supermarket that time when she thought we should get more cultured. ... I had a faint memory—and I looked under Egypt. And you know . . . those real old pictures . . .
Some of them sure looked a lot like the fellah in the bar ...
All this stuff happened over two years ago. . . . Funny . . . seems like it was just yesterday ...	.
February 10, 1956
21
Ai a QlaMce
unless one takes the broad view. Th^ most original effort of the show is its (offstage) inclusion of a song written by Rooney (himself) and sung by Eddy Howard. It is almost needless to say that , the song may have even less of a part to play in the history of musical creation than will this picture in the glorious annals of the history of the cinema. Go Hollywood!	-
AVON
Guys and Dolls, B; (continuing through next Thursday); the original characters and title provided by the poet of Broadway, Damon Runyon, have undergone a double metamorphosis, through stage musical to Hollywood. They attest their vitality by emerging from this harrowing experience with much of the original tang remaining. The music is fine and the plot does not in any way seem to limit Hollywood in staging production scenes. Brando is at ease, Sinatra is not. Vivian Blaine seems to have lost the ability to reach her audience which she displayed so strikingly on the stage. And Jean Simmons will knock your eye out. Only objection: a bit too long.
The Trouble With Harry, B; (begins next Friday for a week.) Hitchcock of mystery fame, introduces comedy into the story and produces mixed emotions. A corpse (Hany) turns up and his various discoverers are sometimes delighted, sometimes horrified to find Harry in his present silent condition. British type humor effective, but more sensitive viewers may find the continual digging in and out of Harry morbid or dull.
COLFAX
The Benny Goodman Story, A-l; (continuing through next week.) Mixed comment on campus from jazz lovers, Goodman lovers, and movie lovers seems to indicate that this show has suffered the fate of too great publicity. Those coming to look for greatness, of one kind or another, failed to find it and were sorely disappointed. Perhaps the picture was not touched up enough to suit the prevailing taste. For a fuller review by a Goodman lover, see next page.
GRANADA
Man With the Golden Arm, B; (continuing through next Thursday.) The trend to realism in movies reaches a peak beyond reality in this brutal and controversial picture. Denied the Production Code seal for showing the use of narcotics, for impact the picture relies upon the air-hammer type of mood-tension-action familiar to viewers of the recent The Big Knife. Following the life of a cheap gambler with goals, crushing problems and even more crushing weaknesses, Man finds itself bound to the sordid settings and incidents surrounding such a character. It misses no opportunity to underline them with all the techniques of brilliant camera work. Though the movie-goer will see few pictures with the force of Man (and may be glad of that), he may also wonder whether all the force was justified. A good illustration of fine technique gone too far.
Forever Darling. No rating available; (Friday next, for a week.) Lucy Ball and Desi Arnez in a frilly antidote to its powerful predecessor. Light comedy in the Ball manner.
PALACE
Shack Out on 101, no rating available; (today and Saturday.) Despite the advertising and the associations, this story provides a neat and well-worked spy vs. F.B.I. bit, well aided by the good and able work of Frank Lovejoy, Terry Moore and Keenan Wynn. A budget picture and a pretty good one. Also run, Bobby Ware Is Missing, A-l, provides a poor second to its screen-mate. Working from a standard kidnapping theme, trite twists resolve the plot, topped off with a “rescue in the very nick of” sort of close. Many thrills for the aged.
(Sunday and through the week) Good Morning, Miss Dove, A-l, Jennifer Jones rides a somewhat doubtful vehicle with ease and sometimes brilliance, as she portrays a teacher of high moral character and strong will, who will not give in to the pressures put upon hex- by the small town society in which she must act. Such a situation must inevitably give rise to cliches, and the critical question is, are they real, and if so, are they then justified. An interesting picture if not a very interesting title. Also showing, The Twinkle in God’s Eye, A-l. And speaking of titles, well... Mickey Rooney plays a parson commissioned to bring religion into the hearts of the men of the wild west. Lest your imagination be carried away, this is not a slapstick comedy,
RIVER PARK
Man With a Gun, A-2; (ends tonight.) Robert Mitchum (of all people) and Jan Sterling in a western as well done as the title is dull. Though the “hired gunman” bringing “law and order” theme is becoming worn, a good script, competent acting and brilliant construction of^ suspense and climax lift this picturd* above its plot and far above its title. Maybe they ought to number pictures, or something. Also showing, It’s Always Fair Weather, A-2, with Gene Kelly and Cid Charisse in a summertime musical with another of those titles that scare you off. Not another run of the mill musical, Weather tries to have real people and tries to do something with them. They manage to plunge the poinard into-that arch-rival, TV, with color, vervt^ and originality, and the imagination in numbers and staging further liven the show. LIFE covered the sequence in which Michael Kidd (choreographer), Kelly (hoofer), and Dan Dailey (old man), get off the ground, even though attached to garbage pails. The best double feature in months.
The Tender Trap, B; (Sunday through _ Tuesday), ■with Frank Sinatra, is back^ again, with songs and Debbie Reynolds. The top drawing actor in the movies sings, swigs and switches from woman to woman so fast that no one can possibly mind if he gets caught in the trap in the end. He isn’t really caught; just resting. Featuring a hangover scene that is surely a classic, as judged by the most critical audience of all; the . Notre Dame senior.	’
(Wednesday only) Pennywhistle Blues, £ j no rating available. I know nothing*^ ' about this picture save that it is being presented as one of a group of four || foreign “art” films, including Red Shoes, 1 Miracle in Milan and Angelo. In my j opinion, the company speaks for itself; f that is, here is a fine evening of entertainment.
!f
(Following which), well now, me ij buckos, it’s Long John Silver, with Rob- i ert Newton, and Killers (shudder) ’j From Space. Rally, science fiction fans,^ ■! and demonstrate youi- allegiance to the ij movement. Just for the kids back home. -•
22
The Scholastic
Jay Walton
The long-awaited saga of Benny Goodman has come to town in a blaze of sensational publicity. But like so many highly touted productions it falls very short of expectations.
(^It is almost ironical that the life story of a man whose name is almost synonymous with perfection in his field should be,handled in such a careless and uninspired manner. If movie-goers attend this picture expecting to hear a jazz concert, they might be well-satisfied. But if they anticipate an intelligent dramatic presentation, the? exits will be crowded before Benny’s celluloid counterpart even gets warmed up. The problem dramatically is — he never uoes.
There are a number of factors that should have put “The Benny Goodman Story” a few notches above the average film biography. First, twenty-nine Goodman swing classics were tastefully chosen and effectively performed. Further, the co-starring of Donna Reed and Steve Allen was a promising variation from the pairing of more conventional
Allen Stiff and Cramped
Donna is beautiful, vivacious, and equipped with enough talent to keep the part of Goodman’s sweetheart and spouse from becoming stale. But Steve, a jack-of-all-trades in the entertainment field, appears bewildered and expressionless throughout the picture. Perhaps the mastery of the ad-lib that he shows on his fine network television show reflects a vibrant personality that is cramped in ^^e confines of prepared lines and directed actions. At any rate, his acting falls far short of expectations and it seems unfair to him and to the public to take him out of his element just because of promotional whimsy.
t{
* * *
Benny Goodman’s American story of success over adversity began in the
slums of Chicago. He got first clarinet !at the local synagogue and learned how i play it at Chicago’s famous Hull f ^ouse for underprivileged children. At
fourteen, Benny was a professional musician and by 16 he was playing Dixie-
February 10, 1956
benny goodman story
land on riverboats with jazz immortal Kid Ory (who appears in two exciting scenes in the picture) and drummer Ben Pollack.
In 1934, Benny organized his first big band—a group whose popularity swept the nation within a year. The crowning achievement came on Jan. 16, 1938, when the Benny Goodman band gave a concert in Carnegie Hall that has cast most other all-star sessions in the shadows.
A Big Discovery
When, in 1950, his little niece found in a closet the tape recordings of the ’38 event, the Benny Goodman Carnegie Hall Jazz Concert was presented to the
public as one of the greatest jazz albums of all time. During the forties he divided his time between classical performances and his great combo. Over a period of nine years, Benny won twenty-one polls in Doivnbeat magazine alone as clarinetist, bandleader, and soloist irrespective of instrument. When bop and the “new sounds” came along, Benny shirked them and kept playing his own kind of music to enthusiastic audiences young and old.
And he struck a great blow for tolerance when he ignored the sharp color line of the thirties in taking Lionel Hampton and Teddy Wilson on tour with his band.
The fantastic success of the modest, soft-spoken King can be attributed to intense practice of his instrument and to the near-obsession that he has for perfection. The great band that he had during the thirties didn’t just happen. It was the result of endless hours of rehearsal in which the utmost was demanded of every musician and “clinkers” were rewarded with a penetrating glare known to the sidemen as “The Goodman Ray.”
Harry James, no idler himself, is quoted as saying, “Benny used to practice fifteen times more than the whole band combined.” And Benny has said in his characteristically straight-forward manner, “If you’re interested in music, you can’t slop around.”
* * *
The greatest tributes to the Caliph of the Clarinet in the picture are the twenty-nine reasonably authentic renditions of his most famous performances. 'Rie show opens with the swinging “Don’t-Be That Way.” It progresses through Goodman’s early years with interesting spots of Dixieland by Ory and Pollack. During this period, the young BG blows a moving solo of “Good-bye” on the rooftop of his tenement home. The musical history progresses through the thirties where Benny, Hamp, Krupa, Teddy Wilson and company explode in a series of performances that vividly recall the days when swing-men were music’s chosen people and Benny was their sovereign. “One O’Clock Jump,” “Bugle Call Rag,” “Sing, Sing, Sing,” and the rest of the band’s masterpieces are done much like old times.
Dramatic Material Unused
Besides Allen’s ineptness, it is a basic lack of material that makes the picture unsatisfactory as dramatic fare. Goodman has led an interesting life. But viewing an hour-and-a-half presentation of it is too much like browsing through a well-worn and much imitated copy of Horatio Alger.
In an article called “Benny Sent Me”-(the name of a famous Goodman band original) jazzophile Leonard Feather sums up the man Goodman this way:
“Let us say that he is not just a soloist or a bandleader or a tradition-shattering pioneer. He is a symbol. A symbol of success through artistic achievement, observing no barriers, of triumphant accomplishment attained without respect for the confinement of poverty, of philistine conventions, of social mores. He is a symbol of the retort magnificent to all the little men who have ever said, It can’t be done. “Perhaps that, above all else, is why Benny sends me.”
It is too bad the production heads at Universal-International didn’t take it that seriously.
23
Hitch your future to a
HELICOPTER. . .
it’s going places
and so can you
Although acclaimed everywhere as the world’s most versatile aircraft, helicopters have had only a few short years to prove it. A product of your generation, they are... in fact... younger than you are.
Like you, they face a future that is at once challenging and promising, but the exciting details of that future remain to be discovered and worked out.
If you expect to be a graduate engineer shortly, all this can be most important to you. Sikorsky Aircraft, the company that pioneered helicopters,
is moving into high gear... going all out to keep pace with ever-increasing military and commercial requirements. Quite naturally, the world looks to Sikorsky to design and build the helicopters of tomorrow. And for the creative engineering, for the imagination, for the technical abilities that the future will demand ... Sikorsky Aircraft looks to you.
We would welcome the opportunity to give you a more complete picture of our company... and to see if there is a place in that picture for you. The next step is yours. Take that step and write to Mr. Richard Auten, Personnel Department.
IKORSKY AIRCRAFT
Bridgeport 1, Connecticut
ONE OF THE DIVISIONS OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
24
The Scholastic
JlUk
JORDANMEN FACE TOUGH SCHEDULE ON ROAD
gCagers Hope to Rebound on Eastern Swing; Navy, Crusaders, Friars Face Sagging Irish
by BOB EARLY
Noti-e Dame’s sagging basketball team, playing less than .500 ball all season, journeys east to play Navy tomorrow, Holy Cross Monday, and Providence (MTuesday. The hapless Irish quintet has shown badly in recent games, dropping an 81 to 76 decision at Indiana on Jan. 30, and then losing to Loyola 71 to 65 at Chicago last Saturday.
At Annapolis tomorrow Notre Dame meets a somewhat mediocre Navy team. The Middies are definitely lacking in height, the starting five averaging slightly over six feet, and are consequently weak off the boards.
A Big man f°r th® Navy is sophomore ^Frank Petinos who is averaging about
20 points a game in a forward slot. As a plebe he broke all school records with a 26-point average per game. At six feet two inches his rebounding is just fair.
Team captain Dave Smalley plays the
CAPTAIN DAVE SMALLEY AND COACH BEN CARNEVALE
The admiral confers with his skipper.
other- forward position. Although only six feet tall he leads the team in rebounding and is the best shot on the squad. He is very tough defensively.
George Bouvert plays the post but does not rebound well for a center. His scoring averages around ten points a game.
Guards Andy Dulik and Al Swanson work well together. Dulik is the littlest man on the team at five feet seven inches but also is the fastest. A just better than average shooter he bags about 12 points each time out. Swanson just recently broke into the starting lineup. He is scrappy and aggressive but a poor shot. However, his shooting has improved somewhat lately and he could become a threat.
Game time is 2:30 p.m.
At Boston the Irish run into the nation’s No. 14 team, Holy Cross. Led by All-American Tom Heinsohn the Cru-
FRANK PETINOS
Soph gunnery expert.
saders have lost only two games thus far, one being at the hands of topranked San Francisco. Last year Heinsohn, who is fifth in the nation’s scoring with 25.3 points per game and tenth in rebounding, scored 65 points against Notre Dame in two games.
Playing around Heinsohn are Joe Hughes and Joe Lieber at forwards and George Waddleton and Bill Prhovich at guards. Each man usually scores in the teens and Lieber occasionally goes over 20. Each man also is strong defensively and none of them can be called a weak rebounder.
Providence should be a much easier game than the first two, but playing three games in four nights might weaken the Irish lads.
At Indiana the Irish couldn’t stop the shooting of Wally Choice, Archie Dees, and Hallie Bryant. The Hoosiers were in control most of the night and won easily.
Against Loyola it was even worse. The Ramblers beat Notre Dame for the first time in 17 games in a series that stai-ted in 1915. Substitute center Jack Carpenter was the big gun for Loyola with 29 points.
Tuesday night the Butler University Bulldogs took revenge on the faltering Irish, administering an 81-74 licking on their home court. The victory made up in good measure for the thumping. But-lei- took in the Fieldhouse earlier in the season. The only bright note in the Irish game was a 34-point effort by center Lloyd Aubrey. .
25
DON TADROWSKI
Leading successful swordsmen.
Wayne Tech, U. of C. Are Next for Fencers
Notre Dame’s fencing team will be seeking its eighth, and ninth victories of the season tomorrow as they journey to Chicago for a triangular meet with Wayne Tech and the University of Chicago.
Last Saturday the Blue and Gold swept past Northwestern 22-5 and Iowa 17-10 to keep their perfect record intact. The win over- Iowa avenged the two 14-13 defeats inflicted on the Irish last year by the Hawkeyes. The Irish sabre team led the double victory by copping 15 out of 18 bouts while the epee team was close behind, winning 14 and losing only 4.
Don Tadrowski, Irish captain and last year’s N.C.A.A. epee champion, suffered his first loss of the season as he was defeated by Iowa’s Dave Dittmer, 3-2. However, Tadrowski won his other five bouts to bring his season’s total to a highly creditable 16-1.
Tadrowski, Dennis Hemmerle (4-1), and John Brogan (4-1), led the Irish epee team while Frank Dwan (5-0), Dave Friske (5-1), and Bob Eichelman (4-1) paced the sabre team. In foil, Julio Vizcarrondo won four bouts without a loss to run his season’s mark to 13-0. But the Irish foilists suffered their first setback of the year as they were defeated by Iowa, 5-4.
Irish Coach Walter Langford, .rates the double win as “another long stride toward what could be an excellent season.” Coach Langford also said that “our biggest test will come next Saturday when we meet Illinois and Wisconsin at Madison, the prize being the mythical midwest fencing championship.”
26
N. D. Trackmen Get Off to Promising Start 5 As Allard, Squires, Sophs Break Records -i
by JIM MERZ
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame track squad will carry its unstained record into the Jennison Field House at Michigan State to open relay action. Although the Irish have easily toppled a pair of dual opponents, Coach Alex Wilson expects trouble from Michigan State and Michigan, while the other entries, including Ohio and Illinois, pose not great threats. “We have a strong distance medley,” says Coach Wilson, “and should look sharp in all the relays.” . The flying feet of Aubrey Lewis and Joe Foreman will dash the 75-yard sprint, and Lewis will also jump the intermediate hurdles. The Irish will lead with an ace, Bernie Allard, in the high jump, followed by Soph Tom Sanfacon. Jack Cote will pole vault and broad jump, while Byron Beams and Mike Kaufman will toss the shot. In the relays, Bill Keegan, Frank Hemphill, Foreman, and Lewis will run the fast mile, and Bill Squires, Al Porter, Dale Vandenburg, and Ed Monnelly will tour the two-mile course. Coach Wilson will call upon Keegan, quarter mile, Vandenburg, half mile, Dick DiCamillo, three-quarter mile, and Squires, mile, to notch the distance medley. Bill Copeland, Porter, Frank Hall, and Alex Pestrichella will compete in the sprint medley.
Notre Dame jumped off to a fast start in their opening dual meet Feb. 1
HIGH JUMPER BERNIE ALLARD
against Purdue at the Notre Dame field house. In the 82-22 Irish victory, the Boilermakers were able to cop only the .x pole vault, while the Irish swept the 60-' yard dash and the 880. Bernie Allard soared 6 feet, 7% inches to set a new I dual meet record for the Irish. With an I accent on young blood, the Irish sophomores stood out, winning six of the ten Irish first places.	■
Allard, Squires, and company leveled a hopeful Missouri squad last Saturday i for their second dual meet win, 74-30.	|
Again Big Bernie smashed the high = jump records, this time adding the field	|
house record to his list. Allard kept the	S
throng of spectators glued to their seats | long after all the other events ended, as he cleared the bar at 6 feet, 8 inches. ; Another senior, Co-captain Bill Squires, | set a new meet record with his 4:13.6 r mile run.	t
Squires and Allard also broke the tape i in the half-mile and high hurdles re- | spectively. But Squires had to race from. 5 ' last place to first in the final lap to win. ’’ The Irish were whipped only in the	|
sprint and the pole vault, while Hemp-	g
hill and Cote broke meet records for the 440 and the broad jump. Cote sailed | 23 feet, 3^ inches to set his mark, and	g
then followed with second place in the	|
pole vault, behind Karl Englund of Mis- 5 souri. Aubrey Lewis sped ovei- the low
The Scholastic
MILER BILL SQUIRES
Eyes Spartan Relays.
hurdles in 7.3 seconds to win. In the ragged two-mile grind, Spike Daly caught Dick DiCamillo in the last lap, and they broke the tape hand-in-hand. Byron Beams also garnered five points for the Irish in the shot put.
Armstrong Stays Unbeaten As Wrestlers Win Fifth Meet
Two forfeit victories, plus two decision wins and a tie gathered the points as Notre Dame’s wrestling squad scored an 18-11 victory over Northern Illinois State Teachers College last Saturday afternoon. The meet was held at De-'WKalb, Illinois, where the Irish won their fifth victory in six dual meets this season.
By virtue of the two forfeits in the 130-pound and heavyweight divisions, Notre Dame gained a 10-0 advantage before the actual meet began.
ND 123-pounder Buddy Day drew with his opponent in the opening match to set the scoring at 12-2. Two straight decision defeats, suffered by Bob Pivon-— ka in the 137-pound bout and Captain WTerry Crowley’s loss at the 147-pound weight shot the Illinois school back into the match with the score reading only 12-8 in favor of the Irish. Chuck Henzy put Notre Dame back into a more comfortable position in the next bout with a three-point decision triumph at 157 pounds, but Mel Larsen of ND was beaten in his 167-pound division. Jack Armstrong then turned in his sixth straight win of the season at 177 pounds to give the wrestlers their triumph.
" Notre Dame is idle until next Saturday when the Irish travel to Macomb to meet Western Illinois.
Toledo, Detroit, Chicago Dominate Local Keglers
Notre Dame’s Kampus Keglers returned to action after a short layoff during exams. Chicago, Toledo, the Irish “A” and Detroit currently dominate in their divisions.
The Chicagoans, with a record of 35 won and 13 lost, hover over the Industrial Engineers, 26 and 18, and the Accountants, 28 and 20, in the early Wednesday night league. Chicago’s Nick Ranieri sports a 162 average for 33 games to lead the pack, although Detroit’s Bill Sebastian has averaged 171 for six games.
In the late Wednesday division, Toledo’s 26 and 7 mark puts them ahead of Delaware Valley and Cleveland, each with identical records of 22 and 11. Dick Torda of Toledo has averaged 169 for 33 games. Close behind him are McLaughlin and Weigand with 165 averages.
On top in the early Thursday competition is the Irish “A”, 22-11. In hot pursuit are the LaRaza Club, 19-14 and the
NEW SPORTS EDITOR
With this issue, the SCHOLASTIC wants to introduce its new sports editor, JOE NORTON. Norton is a junior majoring in journalism and was previously a reporter in the sports department and assistant sports editor. The former editor, Dave Davin, has left the SCHOLASTIC in favor of a more remunerative position here at the University.
Wisconsin Club, 21-12. Bill DeBot’s 30-game average of 160 for the Dairylanders is the best in the league.
Detroit heads a tight race in the late Thursday action -with a 34%-13% record to compare with a 3016-17% showing of the Met Club and a 29%-18% mark by the Irish Air Society. The active Mr. Torda emerges with a 183 average (18 games) in this section. Loda, with a 169 average and Indiveri, 162, both have bowled in 36 contests.
Next Seminar by Sailing Club Scheduled for February 15
Notre Dame’s Sailing Club initiated the first in a series of Sailing seminars on Feb. 1. This particular session dealt with the starting of the race and was attended by over 25 students as well as many of the faculty.
The hour and a half session was opened by a presentation of the material by Ray Nelson, commodore of the team.
The next meeting •will take place in Room 209 of the Engineering Building on Feb. 15th at 7:30. Bernie D’Almeida of Lisbon, Portugal, will discuss rigging, tuning, and crew.
Irish Gymnasts Eye Final Three Matches
The Notre Dame gymnasts, whose record to date is a 55%-40% loss to Northwestern on Jan. 28, will try to get even tomorrow when they travel to Evanston for a triangular meet with Northwestern and Wisconsin. The following -Saturday finds them meeting the University of Chicago in Chicago. They wind up their scheduled season Feb. 25 when they entertain Western Illinois in the Notre Dame drill Hall.
Lack of experience was the team’s main drawback in the loss to Northwestern. Since none of the squad had even high school experience, the meet was their first taste of actual competition. Ev Hatch, a senior from Walsh Hall, led the Notre Dame scoring, copping firsts in the high bar, flying rings, and tumbling events. The locals also pulled down a pair of seconds as Bill Brunot and Hatch placed in the parallel bars and the trampoline event, respectively.
Hatch expects the team “to do better next time” for not only will the boys be more experienced, but they’ll also have an able coach in Ed Jamosky, a former Wisconsin letterman who specialized on the sidehorse. Up to now the team has conducted practices and meets pretty * much on its own. But with an experienced gymnast guiding them, they should fare much better. Bearing watching are Brunot and his brother Jim in the parallel bars event, Paul Leit-zinger on the high bars, Roy Williams on the flying rings, and Hatch in the high bars, rings, trampoline, and tumbling events. The squad will also compete in a new event, free exercise, in the Evanston meet.
BILL BRUNOT
It must be harder than it looks.
February 10, 1956
27
the appointment of Laurence (Moon)
JOHNNY DRUZE
Marquette University moved one more big step toward the big-time football ranks last week when it announced the signing of Notre Dame’s Johnny Druze as head coach. Just three weeks ago Marquette officials announced Mullins, a Knute Rockne protege of the undefeated 1929 and 1930 teams, to the post of athletic director. It seems that Marquette is finally coming around to oui- way of thinking. Coach Druze hasn’t yet revealed who his assistants will be, but he says that he has all Notre Dame graduates in mind. Milwaukee doesn’t know it yet, but it may be seeing the start of a complete revolution.
One thing is sure, however. Marquette is getting a man of the highest caliber in Johnny Druze. Not only is he an able instructor in the fine arts of blocking, tackling, etc., but in his eleven seasons at Notre Dame he has always been the most popular coach on the staff. Terry Brennan wasn’t kidding when he said that Druze would be hard to replace.
Druze has an impressive record
as a player and a coach. He played end under Jim Crowley at Fordham from 1934 to 1937 and was captain of the famed “Seven Blocks of Granite” in his senior year. In 1939 he went to Boston College to work under- Frank Leahy. When Leahy came to Notre Dame in 1941, Druze, Joe McArdle, and Ed McKeever came with him. Except for a four-year cruise in the Navy during the war, Johnny has been a mainstay here ever since.
Johnny’s record as an assistant coach is probably the best in the country. In two years at Boston College, Leahy, Druze, & Co. teams won 20 and lost only two. In the eleven years he has been at Notre Dame, the teams have won 88, lost six and tied eleven. In addition to this impressive won-lost record, end coach Druze has turned out such amazing performers as Gene Goodreault (Boston College), Bob Dove, Jack Zilly, Leon Hart, Jim Martin, Bill Wightkin, Jim Mutscheller, Don Penza, and Dan Shannon, just to mention a few.
Campus Basketball Play $ Opens in Two Leagues
The Interhall Basketball League opened play last Friday night in the Fieldhouse. In the first game of a doubleheader, the Syrian-Lebanese Club defeated Central New York by a score of 31-22. In the final, the Kansas City Club beat Buffalo, 30-25. In the onkjj other game over the weekend, Cavanaugh defeated Dillon, 35-32.
The league is divided into two sections this season. One division is composed of the various campus clubs, while the other division is represented by the halls on campus. The Inter-Club division plays its games in the Fieldhouse and the Inter-Hall teams use the Rockne Memorial.
Each section is composed of 24 teams:" At the present, the teams are playing a round-robin schedule. When that is completed, the top eight teams from each division will be selected to compete in an elimination tournament to decide the campus championship. The championship rounds will be played on February 24 and 26.
There are two games played daily in the Rockne Memorial starting at 3:45. Beginning next week, there will be thret" games every night in the Fieldhouse with the first one starting at 6:30.
In regard to Johnny’s ability to take over the head coaching reins at Marquette, there is no question. For the better part of his stay at Notre Dame he was head scout, and much of the credit for those 88 victories is his for having had the opponents completely pegged. On the field, Druze has always been able to get the point across to his ends. If they don’t get it right away he personally shows them what he means. At 41 he is only five pounds over his college playing weight of 190 so he doesn’t have much trouble doing it. He is also a stern disciplinarian. Put it all together and you have the makings of a fine football coach.
Whoever said the “our loss is their gain” thing was right but in this case it’s a certainty. We’re sorry to see him leave but everyone wishes him the greatest success.	,
* * *
RED CROSS INSTRUCTION
The Red Cross Water Safety instruction course will be introduced next Tuesday at 7:30 in room 2-B of the Rockne Memorial.
A senior life saving award is a prerequisite for anyone interested in joining this course. The course will be divided into 30 classes. The first 15 lessons will be held in the Rockne pool under the direction of John Chomeau. The final 15 lessons will be taught downtown at the South Bend Natatorium.
The local trackmen have shown such fine form in their first two meets of the season that some of them have been mentioned as possible Olympic entrants. Seniors Bill Squires and Bernie Allard are probably the most logical contenders. Miler Squires broke his own meet record against Missouri and looks like he’s off to a good year. High Jumper Allard broke the Purdue meet record by soaring 6 feet 7% inches, and against Missouri he equalled his personal record of 6 feet 8 inches. Not bad for a starter.—J. N.
Chicago on Swim Schedule;
Interhall Meets Coming Up «
Swimming Club coach Gil Burdick has announced that the next meet for the Irish tankers will be with the University of Chicago on February 22 in the Rockne pool. Plans are also being made for future meets but no definite dates have been set. A tentative match has been arranged with Miami of Ohio for early March.
So far the club has split even in its first two meets, beating Xavier and losing to Loyola.	g
Mr. Burdick has also announced thar a series of interhall swimming meets will be held to stimulate interest in the club.
The Scholastic

enate Offers Travel Programs to Students;
Tours Include Study of European Countries
Notre Dame students can tour Europe for less than $10 a day this summer on one of the special student tours offered by the National Student Association and (^the National Federation of Catholic ^College Students. The Student Senate, in cooperation with these associations, is now operating a travel office in the Student Center.
The travel office located in Eoom 2 in the basement of the Student Center is open from 3:30 to 5:20 p.m. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays. Further information concerning these tours can be obtained at the travel office or from ’wthe campus travel director, Pete Sturte-- vant, in 201 Walsh.
A wide selection of tours ranging from NSA’s “Hobo Tour” (72 days for $650) to NFCCS’s “Ten Country Tour” (70 days for $975) is offered.
NSA’s tours, run in cooperation with other national unions of students, feature social and cultural contacts with the students of other countries. The “Hobo Tour” features extensive travel (^through Holland, Germany, Austria, Belgium, Italy, Switzerland, and France. The “Tri-Nation Tours” feature more intensive travel in England, France, and Italy; France, Spain, and Italy; or Holland, Denmark, Italy, Switzerland, and France.
Other tours offered by NS A include
a “Volkswagen tour” for $750 which includes the rental of the car, a “music festivals” tour, a “journalism tour,” and a “politics and economics tour.”
The NFCCS tours are orientated toward Catholic students. Visits to such famous shrines as Lourdes and Fatima and to the great churches of Europe are included, and an American priest serves as chaplain for each touring group of approximately 30 students. One of NFCCS’s most popular tours covers the countries of England, Holland, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, and France in 47 days for $695.
In addition to its European travel program, NSA is offering special tours over the Easter vacation to Bermuda, the Bahamas, Mexico, Hawaii, or the Caribbean islands.
The travel office also has information
MINOR SPORTS BUDGET
All captains of spring minor sports are reminded to have their budgets submitted to the Senate before Feb. 21.
They are also reminded that if they fail to do this, appropriations will not be considered for the sport.
All budgets should be submitted to the Physical Facilities Commission of the Senate.
concerning summer study programs at Oxford, London, Edinburgh, and Stratford-on-Avon. Partial scholarships are available.
Special student rates in Statler and Hilton Hotels in the cities of New York, Washington, Hartford, Boston, and Buffalo have been arranged.
Debate Team Travels To Azalea Tournament
Four members of the Notre Dame Forensic Society journeyed to Spring Hill College in Mobile, Ala., this past Wednesday to participate in the Azalea Debate Tournament. The tournament topic is the “Guaranteed Annual Wage.” The teams taking part in the meet are required to debate both the affirmative and negative sides of the question.
Prof. Leonard Sommer selected Bick Ninneman, Pat Curran, Francis Draine and Dick Schiller to make the trip.
The debaters have been invited to a tournament next week to be held at Wisconsin State College in Eau Claire, Wis. They will leave this coming Thursday and return Sunday, Feb. 19.
Those making this trip will be Paul Coffey, Jack Martzell, John Hirschfeld, Jerry Brady, Ninneman, Curran, Draine and Schiller.
They will again debate on the “Guaranteed Annual Wage” but besides taking part in straight debate, they will also compete in after-dinner speaking, oratory, the telling of folk tales, discussion, and extemporaneous speaking.
Fr. O'Brien Will Speak •On NBC 'Catholic Hour'
Eev. John A. O’Brien, author-in-resi-j dence at Notre Dame, will be the speaker on “The Catholic Hour” over the NBC radio network each Sunday during Feb-ruaiy at 2 p.m. Music on the broadcasts will be provided by Notre Dame’s Moreau Seminary Choir under the direction of Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C.
x he general theme of Father O’Brien’s talks will be “God and Courage.” His • subjects will include “The Stairs of Adversity,” Feb. 12; “The Challenge of • Life,” Feb. 19; and “Victory in Faith,” •	Feb. 26.
i Father O’Brien is nationally known as |	a convert-maker and for his writings on
the subject. Recently he has been instrumental in launching the Crusade for ® Souls in several dioceses. He is the f'	author of numerous books and pamphlets
,	including Foil Too Can Win Souls.
J । The Moreau Seminary Choir will sing P both Gregorian chant and polyphonic llj music on the Catholic Hour broadcasts. I| The choir is composed of 28 seminarians , B of the Congregation of Holy Cross who E are studying at Notre Dame.
9 February 10, 1956
“See, I told you — you can’t trust these IBM cards”
29
Parker-Winterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS llS’A-llZ’/s No. Main St. UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
hrker-Wiitenwd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
11514-117% No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult my campus representative:
JOHN E. KUHN, 308 Pangborn
Grillo
(Continued from page 18) ished surface allows the wood to age gracefully. There are two large trailers attached to the house. These trailers serve as living quarters for Grillo’s children. The children can enjoy the added privacy, and Grillo will not be left with an overabundance of unused rooms in their own homes.
The living room is a masterpiece. During the day it is lighted by a window 20 feet in length and extending from the ceiling to the floor. Directly inside the window is a small garden containing plants from various parts of the world. An example is a coffee plant Grillo carried in his pocket from Brazil. The moisture given off by the plants is kept from clouding the window by a blower system located at its base, which works much like an automobile defroster.
The sunlight which enters through the large window is rather unconventionally used. A square wooden post stands in the center of the window. From the base of the post a number of lines fan across a floor covered by a painted map of the world. As the sun travels across the sky, it casts a shadow of the post on the floor, making a global sundial. By considering the relationship of the lines to the shadow, it is possible to calculate the hour of the day in any part of the world.
May Design Ski Resort
In the future, Grillo may do a ski resort in Colorado; and with his partner, Dr. Seeler, he will draw up the plans for the rebuilding of the Church of Loreto at Saint Mary’s College. Last summer, he was commissioned to design a shopping center in the region of Squaw Valley near Reno, Nevada. However, shortly after the plans for the project were completed, the International Olympic Committee chose this area to be the site of the Winter Olympics in 1960. Grillo’s project may very well be much larger than the originally planned shopping center.
Paul Grillo’s achievements are not limited to architecture. He is an accomplished painter and muralist. During the past summer, while flying to California, he made several fine sketches from the window of the plane. These sketches include the Mississippi River, the Grand Canyon, and the Great American • Desert. He has done paintings in Brazil and in the French and Swiss Alps. His murals appear in Carnegie Hall and Longchamps. Also an excellent pianist, he has made several recordings. Concerning his versatility Grillo has this to say: “All these activities, from painting to playing the piano or designing a ski resort, are branches of art. And thus they all seem to fall naturally together.”
Apply Today! NFCCS Europeai Travel Program 4 all-inclusive tours:
“A”— 6 countries—4-7 days—$695 “B”— 7 countries—52 days—$765 “C”— 9 countries—60 days—$895 “D’‘—10 countries—70 days—$975 “Student Sailings” throughout June & July
contact PHILIP HURLEY NFCCS Campus Chairman Catholic Youth Travel Office 286 Fifth Avenue
NEW YORK 1, New York. Cabin accommodations on ships of first class lines such as Holland-America, Greek, etc., are rather limited, therefore:
APPLY TODAY!

AQUINAS LIBRARY Hi BOOK SHIP
We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
30
The Scholastic
9

Employment Opportunities
in Venezuela
with
Creole Petroleum Corporation
An Affiliate of Standard Oil Co. (N. J.)
Representatives of Creole will be on the campus on
Monday, February 20
to interview unmarried graduates with majors in ENGINEERING and GEOLOGY
See your Placement Director for interview schedules
Film Forum Indiana University Center
The University Center presents this series of films with a view toward bringing to students and others an opportunity to see and study the finest contemporary films. The Mu Delta Sorority, co-sponsor this series. Films will be shown on the following Wednesday evenings at 7:30 p.m. and again at 9:15 p.m., in the River Park Theatre, 2927 Mishawaka Avenue, South Bend. Each enrollment must designate whether it is for the 7:30 or 9:15 p.m. showing. Membership in the forum will include admission to the film showings; it is open to all interested persons. Membership and enrollment fee: $2.40.
THE FILMS ARE SCHEDULED AS FOLLOWS
February 15 —PEN NY WHISTLE BLUES
Highly unusual comedy with a South African cast. In English.
February 22—ANGELO
The story of a little Italian boy whose father was a Negro G.l. In Italian with English subtitles.
February 29—MIRACLE IN MILAN
Vittorio de. Sica's impudent, riotous, laugh on the lives and morals of our day.
Winner of the New York Critics, International awards. Italian with English subtitles.
Series of three $1.80
Film Critics, and Cannes Festival
Single 80c
FOR ENROLLMENT WRITE
INDIANA UNIVERSITY CENTER ROOM 220 CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
February 10, 1956
What Is
Wrong With
This Ad?
The ability to type is worth more (in dollars and cents) than the cost of a typewriter.
IF YOU BUY A typewriter on our Divided Payment Plan you will learn to type before payments have been completed.
So, actually the typewriter will cost you nothing but your time.
Announce Opening Dote For 'Caine* Ticket Sale
The University Theater box office will begin selling tickets for The Caine Mutiny Court Martial on Feb. 23 at 2 pan. The box office will be open from 2 until 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 until 9 p.m.
Prices will be $1.50 and $1 for the general public and $1 and 75 cents for students, faculty and employees. Approximately 20 percent of the tickets are allotted to season ticket holders.
A completely new switchboard for stage lighting will be used for the first time when the University Theater presents The Caine Mutiny Court Martial Feb. 29 through 'March 4, Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., announced this week.
HISTORY LECTURE SERIES
The history lecture series will continue next Thursday, at 7:45 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial lounge with the Rev. Phillip Hughes and Prof. Marshall Smelser leading the discussion. The topic of this lecture will be “Notions of Loyalty and Treason in the 17th and 18th Centuries.”
The public is invited.
Another electrical feature is the recently purchased dimmer unit.
Father Harvey also announced that the carpenter shop has completed a mothproof wardrobe for the storage of costumes. The University Theater has begun making and collecting its own costumes.
Other improvements include a new sky cyclorama, a beige corduroy travele^ curtain, a sharkstooth scrim drop, and new power tools for the workshop. Office space in the business part of Washington Hall has also been renovated.
'Finian's Rainbow' Named As Spring Student Musical
Finian’s Rainbow has been selected as this year’s musical production of th(^ University Theater, Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., announced recently.
Open tryouts will be held on March 6. Anyone interested in performing is asked to contact Father Harvey in his Washington Hall office. Special tryouts by appointment only are being held each Saturday in February.
Rehearsals will begin about the second week in March, recess for Easter, and continue until the opening presen-^ tation on May 9. Five performances^ will be presented, May 9 through 13.
NEXT VACATION:
a thrifting 7M trip
-to faraway places! e
Imagine! For just $91 down, you can visit 11 fascinating European countries! Other tours feature Bombay, Cairo! Take 20 months to pay with TWA's "Time Pay Plan"!
N. B. We also rent and repair typewriters.
What a wonderful way to see the world. You travel to European cities or exotic lands in the Middle or Far East. And you can study from 2 to 6 weeks at an accredited foreign university. Specialize in a subject such as literature, music, art—arrange your travel-study tour to include as many cities as you wish. Full college credit for those who want it.
. Best of all, TWA’s “Time Pay Plan” includes hotel expenses and
other costs as well as your roundtrip fare on TWA’s famous Constellation fleet. Start planning your trip by mailing the coupon today!
The Notre Dame Bookstore
I am interested in:
□ Tours Abroad
□ "Time Pay Plan"
□ Independent travel to
(countries)
Fly the finest.
■	TAAMS WOULD AlAUKtS
USA.- tUSOft • JUKICS • ASIA
John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director, TWA Air World Tours ' Department CM, 380 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.
Dear Sir: Please send me information on your 1956 Travel-Study Tours.
Name-----------------------------Position_____________
Address.
City.
State.
Phone.
The Scholastic
I । i
©i
Repercussion
(Continued from page 8) recommends for engineers before decrying the “in-plant training periods” which perfect “skilled barbarians.” He seems to contradict himself when he says we should have a period of apprenticeship, and then he says we do have in-plant draining periods.
'Mr. Matthews stated that without the social need, the engineering problem wouldn’t exist. This isn’t a world of make believe. The simple fact is that the problems do exist and therefore we do need engineers. Of course, we need executives, lawyers, and sociologists, but I also think we need just a few “skilled barbarians,” and they need to be understood, just as they should understand (p*thers.
Fred Swift, 243 Lyons
Editor:
. . . Unfortunate as the article is in its picayune attack, I do think it illustrates and voices the opinions of many other people—and students—who do not realize what engineering is, but do have ^jpinions of it. I believe, particularly on W;his campus, there should not be the ' inter-college and even inter-department segregation and isolation that do exist. An effort should be made to break down the walls that exist. . . .
Why Chancellor Adenauer reads The Reader’s Digest
James B. Carson, 1215 Lincoln Way West, South Bend
In February Reader’s Digest don’t miss:
DAKWTURB0W
\OPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
- EYES EXAMINED —
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
Get February Reader’s Digest at your newsstand today—only 25# 45 articles of lasting interest, including the best from leading magazines and current books, condensed to save your time.
In my country more than 500,000 people read the Digest in German each month. And they read not only about the people of the United States, but about the people of all nations. The Reader’s Digest has forged a new instrument for understanding among men.” J	G	G
—KONRAD ADENAUER, Chancellor of West Germany
LEARN TO LIVE WITH YOUR WORRIES. Some anxieties spur you to greater effort. But many simply distort your judgment, wear you down. Ardis Whitman tells the kind of worry you should learn to overcome, how to put sensible anxieties to good use.
THE ONE ANO ONLY BENCHLEY. When told his drink was slow poison, Benchley quipped, “So who’s in a hurry?”. . . Chuckles from the life of one of America’s best-loved humorists.
BOOK CONDENSATION: I WAS SLAVE IE-241 IN THE SOVIET UNION. Seized without cause, John Noble (a U.S. citizen) was sent to a Russian concentration camp to work in a coal mine. In episodes from his forthcoming book, “Slave IE-241,” Noble tells of Red brutality and how the “slaves” rebelled in 1953—a revolt he’s sure can occur again.
PRIVATE LIFE OF ADOLF HITLER. Was the Fuehrer insane? Did he really marry his mistress Eva Braun the very night before they planned to kill themselves? Is his body secretly buried? Hitler’s personal valet reveals hitherto unknown facts.
February 10, 1956
33
AMAZING PROOF*
YOU CAN*T MATCH
HOLIDAY PIPE MIXTURE
Custom Blended for MILDNESS
More men every year switch to Holiday, because it contains these five famous tobaccos from all over the world skillfully blended into a mixture of unequalled flavor, aroma and mildness. Each tobacco adds its own distinctive flavor and aroma, to make Holiday America’s finest pipe mixture. Try a pipeful—enjoy its coolness, flavor and aroma—and see for yourself why more and more men who smoke mixtures are switching to Holiday as a steady smoke.
GOLDFISH BOWL TEST
PROVES HOLIDAY’S FRESHNESS
If moisture can’t get in, naturally freshness can’t get out. Holiday’s heat-sealed wrap-around pouch is flavor-tight— for a fresher, cooler smoke. Easy to cany, too—no bulky corners.
YCS Installs Officers^ At Study Day Meeting
Paul Krapp has been approved by the Federation Council to replace Gerard Pottebaum as president of the YCS, according to a recent announcement by YCS officials. Each year the YCS officers select men to take their place, pencksx ing the approval of the Council. Other"7 new officers are Frank Feigl, secretary, and Ron Babcock, treasurer.
Other business considered at the Study Day exercises held at Eagle River, Wis., included a review of the social inquiry, an inquiry technique of observation, judgment, and action that the YCS employs in its group meetings. Krapp explained to the Council that the social inquiry is “the way and means by whict^ the YCS moves and generates ideas.”
Dick Clark, chairman of NCASC, elaborated on Krapp’s remarks, stressing the idea that the inquiry is “an occasion for individual and group development in Catholic action, with the weekly meetings as the primary source of this growth, both in apostolic spirit and effectiveness as a part of a service movement.” “It is the basis of common thought,” he said.
Following these talks, Father Louis Putz, C.S.C., YCS chaplain, explained that Young Christian Students, Young Christian Workers, and the Christian Family Movement are distinguished from other forms of Catholic Action by the use of the method of the social inquiry.
The schedule for this semester includes a National Catholic Action Conference where different Catholic Action^ organizations will meet to exchange^ ideas and give special recognition to an outstanding Catholic Actionist.
*PROOF
from an EXPERT
A sample of Holiday Pipe Mixture in a plain wrapper was shown to the custom blender in a nationally famous tobacco shop. ■“Can you duplicate this tobacco?” he was asked. After careful examination, he said, frankly, that he couldn’t. Although he could identify the types of tobacco used and could supply them in a S6 a pound mixture, he couldn’t guess the secret of the blend!
LARUS & BROTHER CO., INC.
AMERICA'S FINEST PIPE MIXTURE
Army Commissions Awarded To Eleven Spring Graduates
Eleven seniors were recently sworn in as second lieutenants in the United States Army Reserve. They will graduate Wednesday, Feb. 22. Presiding over the commissioning ceremony was Col. C. J.-. Letzelter, professor of Military Science.^ and Tactics for the Army ROTC unit.
Those commissioned were: John G. Cuddy, regimental commander during the 1954-55 school year, Corps of Engineers; John J. Ballance, Corps of Engineers; Richard L. Barnett, Armor; John B. Brince, Corps of Engineers; Francis L. Ferguson, Corps of Engineers; Russell G. Governale, Ordnance; John A. Hobbs, Finance; William D. Manca, Finance; Richard C. Peddicord, Artillery; Francis J. Reidy, Infantry; Alfred T. Schoenig^ Infantry.
Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., director of Military Information, spoke to
34
The Scholastic
^he seniors. He stressed the need for more Catholic officers—leaders who think more of cause and principle than of themselves. The newly commissioned second lieutenants will soon travel to their branch schools throughout the United States for more extensive training.
former Irish Gridder Picked as Alumni Head
Joseph I. O’Neill, Jr., a Midland, Texas independent oil operator, was elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association by the organization’s board of directors here on Jan. 20. He succeeds Dr. Leo D. O’Donnell, Pittsburgh surgeon, who will serve as honorary president during the coming year. G Newly elected vice-presidents of the Association include: John E. McIntyre, vice president and general manager of the Sibley Machine and Foundry Corp., South Bend, Ind.; Robert H. Gore, Jr., president of the Governors Club and Sea Ranch Hotels, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; and James L. Ferstel, Chicago attorney.
James E. Armstrong of South Bend was re-elected executive secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association for the •Cist year.
O’Neill, a former FBI agent, was graduated from Notre Dame’s College of Commerce in 1937. He played left end for the “Fighting Irish” and won Notre Dame football monograms in 1935 and 1936. He is married and has one daughter and three sons.
Graduate School to Offer □Mew Philosophy Doctorate
The degree of Doctor of Philosophy in economics will be offered by Notre Dame beginning in September, it was announced recently by Rev. Paul Beich-ner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School. The principal area of concentration in the new doctoral program will be, for the time being, in the field of industrial relations, Father Beichner said, although courses also will be required in the areas of economic theory and economic in-^stitutions.
9 According to Rev. Thomas McDonagh, C.S.C., head of the economics department, the doctoral program will meet a growing need in this country for economists with a Catholic background. The aim of the new Ph.D. program in economics, he said, will be to correlate purely secular’ aspects of economic theory, practice and policy with sound ethical and philosophical teachings. The program is designed to prepare the student for research, teaching, and active participation in economic affairs. Fellowships will be available on a competitive basis to aid graduate students enrolled in the program.
It’s a pleasure to get to know Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Each time you shave you can look forward to something special: the Old Spice scent—brisk, crisp, fresh as all outdoors... the tang of that vigorous astringent—banishes shave-soap film, heals tiny razor nicks. Splash on Old Spice—and start the day refreshed!
Add Spice to Your Life... Old Spice For Men
SHULTON New York •
Toronto
Friendship Photos
Silk Finish Photos 2'/; x 3'/. in. 20 photos from your picture, or 25 photos from your negative. Minimum order $1.00
4c„ will
WALLET PHOTOS, Box 470, Fostoria, Ohio
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JJMJ. Bldg.
February 10, 1956
35
J. Paul Sheedy* Had A Hangdog Look Till Wildroot Cream-Oil Gave Him Confidence
Poor old mangy Sheedy was hounded by a lack of confidence! Every girl
he talked to told him he was barking up the wrong tree. "Fido’nt get a
date pretty soon,” he howled, "I’m gonna flea the campus and go home
to mutter.” Then he got wise to Wildroot Cream-Oil. Now he has confidence in any situation because he nose his hair looks healthy and handsome, the way Nature intended ... neat but not greasy. Contains the heart of Lanolin, the very best part of Nature’s finest hair and scalp conditioner. Get yourself a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s biggest selling hair tonic. It gives you the confidence'you need to be a gay dog.
WILDROOT
CREAM-OIL ■
•>OM MCOOOC LANOLIN
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil gives you confidence!
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
MOOHSIWMM MUI VIS NTYNtSS KMOVK 10051DANOtUFF
WtlMOOT to. H»e.
Circle This Date
Friday, February 17,1956
You can discuss career opportunities with our representative at this time.
Our THREE-MINUTE STORY
is in your Placement Office
Electro Metallurgical Company
A Division of
Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
DOUBLE and SINGLE ROOM. Excellent location, especially furnished for students. Private bath. —Call CE 2-4153
University Establishes Fellowships in History
The University has established two graduate fellowships in history beginning in September, 1956 for scholars to work under the direction of Rev. Philip Hughes, the distinguished professor of Church History.
According to Rev. Paul E. Beichnei^ C.S.C., the dean of the University’s Graduate School, the two new fellowships will be known as the Dr. John Lingard Fellowships and will include a monthly grant-in-aid and tuition and fees at the University.
Recipients of these fellowships must have completed at least one full year of practical training in historical method and possess a working knowledge ot-Latin and French or German.	™
Father Hughes, one of the outstanding Catholic historians of the Reformation period, has published three volumes of his History of the Church, a three volume The Reformation in England and several other volumes on church history.
Dr. Lingard, after whom the fellowships are named, was the pioneer scientific historian of England. Like Father Hughes he was an English priest and achieved brilliant scholarship in writing the history of the Catholic minority in England.
Broussard Named Chairman Of Engineer Advisory Board
George Broussard, a senior chemical engineer from Kansas City, Kan., was recently elected chairman of the Engineering Advisory Board for the spring semester. Serving as the American Soa ciety of Chemical Engineers’ representative to the Advisory Board for his second semester, Broussard will take over the chairmanship from Jim Mason, a senior chemical engineer.
Composed of two representatives of each of the engineering clubs and the Technical Review, the Advisory Board coordinates all the student activities in the College of Engineering.
Among other activities, the Advisory Board has taken over the freshman advisory program from the Blue Circle^ In conjunction with this, the engineering group of the YCS has set up a tutoring service with the Board’s sponsorship. This service is open to all engineering students. Anyone interested in being tutored or tutoring may obtain information in 331 Walsh or 201 Alumni.
On tap for the Engineering Advisory Board in the spring semester is the annual Engineering Open House in April and a basketball tournament.
Other officers selected for the seconA . semester are: Walt Gill, vice-chairmanp Pat Poynton, secretary; and Jack Scriba, treasurer.
36
The Scholastic
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Dick Abraham of Bell Telephone Laboratories, here experimenting with closing the loop on a transistor feedback amplifier.
“I’m working with top names and top talent"
That’s one of Richard P. Abraham’s comments about his career with Bell Telephone Laboratories in Murray Hill, N. J. “In 1954, after I’d received my M.S. from Stanford,” Dick continues, “I was interviewed by a number of companies. Of these I liked the Bell Labs interview best —the interviewer knew what he was talking about, and the Labs seemed a high-caliber place.
“The Labs have a professional atmosphere, and I’m really impressed by my working associates. As for my work, I’ve been on rotating assignments—working with transistor networks and their measurement techniques, studying magnetic
drum circuitry, and doing classified work on Nike. This experience is tremendous.
“In addition to the job, I attend Lab-conducted classes on a graduate level several times a week. Besides that, the Labs are helping me get a Ph.D. at Columbia by giving me time off to get to late afternoon classes. That’s the kind of co-operation you really appreciate from your company.
“What are important to me are the opportunities offered by the job and the work itself. My wife and I own a house near Murray Hill, and we’ve found a lot of friends through the Labs. All in all, I think I’m in the right kind of place.”
Dick Abraham is typical of the many young men who are finding their careers in the Bell System. Similar career opportunities exist in the Bell Telephone Companies, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your placement officer has more information about these companies.
February 10, 1956
^ack P«ft
&
by Curt Matthews
a case for
M
privacy
Last summer a very popular book was Anne Lindbergh’s Gift From the Sea. Many of the pages of Mrs. Lindbergh’s book are devoted to revealing the inner satisfaction she found in being, for a time, completely alone.
Last month John Crosby, a nationally syndicated columnist and TV critic, expressed the view that to put TV cameras in court rooms was extending the license of communication a little too far —and a violation of certain principles of privacy.
Also last month, Clifton Fadiman, who is probably best described as a social critic, had some interesting ideas on privacy presented in Holiday magazine. He, too, made an appeal for the respect of privacy.
Whether it was just, coincidence that I ran across these three people expressing essentially the same idea in the space of three months or whether there is actually a growing concern over the passing of privacy from the American scene, is something I can’t be sure about. However, my contact with these ideas has prompted me to give some thought to the question each raised. That is, what has happened to privacy—is it really becoming a thing of the past?
It’s a question I’m not sure I can answer. I’m not sure anyone can. But, at least I think we can say that if privacy isn’t at present a lost experience it soon may be.
Privacy, it seems to me, is fighting a losing battle with the picture window, the telephone and This Is Your Life.
Whether this situation is a result of the demands made by society or of the promptings of mass communications is no easier to answer than which came first, the chicken or the egg. But, I think we can safely assume that both society and those who mold its demands have contributed equally to this wanton invasion of the intimate and the tilings concerned with it.
People are most interested in other
people. Simply because nothing complements a human personality quite like another human personality. Dog may be man’s best friend, but he’s not man’s most interesting friend. That position is reserved for “other” men.
It’s possible to name a few hundred examples to show the validity of this point but, for reasons of space, I’ll try to limit myself to just a few obvious but weighty ones.
As exhibit “A” I would offer the sort of television show that consistently climbs to the top spots of the Trendex ratings. Shows about people in their natural habitat. Shows like the $6^,000 Question—people making the big decisions; or, This Is Your Life—people revealed.
Television, our most intimate media, has finally discovered people, our most intimate showmen.
Another good example of the invasion of privacy can be found in the pages of what we call the popular- press. The reason it’s popular is that it, too, has discovered how to make people out of national political, theatrical, sports, and literary figures.	.
Our president’s golf score is probably better known than what bills he recently signed. And every sports figure knows that the best way to make headlines is simply to have family trouble. That somebody can run a mile in less than four minutes or leads the National League in hitting are simply excuses to examine their personal life.
No one cares what anybody does before the public. Society wants to be taken into the home of the national figure. People want to know the human side of everything—even to the exclusion of significance and, of course, privacy.
Probably the most glaring example of just how far this invasion of privacy can go is seen in advertising. Nothing is so personal it can’t be displayed in a four-color, neon-bright, center spread. Nothing can boost sales better than an “off-the-cuff” statement made by some national personality. People like to know
what kind of razor Ted Williams uses or what kind of sheets Miss Monroe sleeps on. Just keep it intimate.
From such examples it seems clear that privacy is swiftly going the way of the Passenger Pigeon and the nickel phone call.
It’s really kind of sad, I think. It’s getting so people are so unappreciative of privacy that they become indignant at someone’s attempt to obtain even a normal amount. We ought to have a National Conservation Service for privacy like we have for forests.
Added to the general disregard for privacy which society and the mass communicator, the architect and the scientist have combined to create, the average college student has even more, though I guess, necessary, impositions placed on his privacy.
We live two and three hundred to the building. What, I wonder, could be less private? We eat at tables of maybe 4fe or 50. Hardly an intimate group.
We do things in herds, as troops; seldom by ourselves. This special collective atmosphere greatly supplements the general appetite- society has for the intimate.
While it’s true that all this imposed gregariousness has definite advantages I think it’s no less true that it presents certain dangers.
So, the college student has to cope with the circumstances of his particular atmosphere, along with the general dis^ regard of society, to preserve his sense of privacy.
Thus, he becomes especially susceptible to losing his respect for the privacy of others and for the value of being alone at times. Man is a social being—but, he’s also an individual.
If we fail to recognize the dangers of exaggerated intimacy we may soon find ourselves desiring personal rather than significant fact, group rather than personal achievement, and accepted rathei than personal norms.	.
}
These, I feel, may be the really ,’sorry consequences of the passing of privacy.
PRINTED AT f&E MARIA PRESS
I
MISSILE AND CONTROL EQUIPMENT DEPARTMENTS • NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION • DOWNEY, CALIFORNIA
engineers, scientists, physicists, mathematicians...
IMPORTANT
ON-CAMRUS
INTERVIEWS
SOON J
North American Missile and Control Departments Representative Will Be Here (date)
You’ll learn first hand about the advantages and opportunities in choosing a career with a
future at North American. Here engineers and scientists are now discovering new frontiers in four exciting new fields:
ELECTRO-MECHANICAL
Missile Guidance Systems Fire and Flight Control Systems Computers, Recorders
ROCKET PROPULSION
High Thrust Engines
Propellants
Pumps
SUPERSONIC AIRFRAMES
Structures
Thermal Barriers Vibrations and Flutter
NUCLEAR ENGINEERING
Research Reactors
Medical Reactors
Power Generation Reactors
Contact your placement office today. Make an appointment to see North American representative, Mr.	on (date).
Interviewing hours 9 A.M.—5 P.M.
Or write, Engineering Personnel, Missile and Control Equipment Depts. 91-20COL, North American Aviation, Downey, California
ENGINEERING AHEAD FOR A BETTER TOMORROW
HoRTH Mm ER IC AN AviATION. INC.