., 
Noue Dame'siStudent MagaiJne
! i·· ... i 

' 
HE
f 
'"' 
E 
.,_ 
.r•.··•.·.·.:.,...·... 
A···.····. 
B 
l 



What Domers do for fun: 
1) Watch the Dome being regilded. 
2) Try to defend Digger Phelps' record. 

3) Check out the new North Dining Hall. 
Help us get the word out on other exciting campus activitie·s. 
Send your groups' information to Amy Weber, Calendar Department, Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student Center. 
Iii 
IC 
Teen Mothers Three Notre Dame psychology professors are studying the effects of teen parenting. by Dr~ama Kay Whitaker/ Page 6 
Sports 
Fish Out of Water Rolfs Aquatic Center will be closed until August because of defective caulking, so that the swim teams have been forced to practice in theantiquated Rock. by Lisa Eaton/ Page 15 
Big Ten Busters After a decisive win at MSU, Holtz's Irish will try to make a clean sweep of the Big Ten for the second year in a row. by Jim Maggio/ Page 18 
Sportsweek A roundup of lesser-known varsity sports, featuring Athletes of the Weeki.Page 17 
Departments Week in Distortion The '88 presidential campaign provides big questions./Page 3 On Other Campuses A University of Illinois administrator dresses up the campus./Page4 Music New offerings from Neil Young and Camper Van Beethoven./ Page 5 Coming Distractions A list of what's going on, both here and in the area./ Page 20 Final Word Dan Fahey protests the protesters at The Last Temptation of Christ./ Page 22 Ernie Pook's Comeek "Jump Shot"/ Page 24 
Life in Hell 

Editorial 
-I
Take the bites out of law enforcement Dogs aren't needed to break up parties./Page 23 
'._ I 
Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
nd printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in cholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre 
ame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are 
elcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic. 
o · ht 1988 Scholastic Ma azine. All ri hts reserved. Re roduction in whole or in art without ermission is rohibited. 
September 22, 1988 


Letters 
Dear Readers, 
When University President Monk Malloy was inaugurated as the 16th president of Notre Dame on September 23, 1987, it was done with plenty of fanfare, pomp and cir­cumstance. Unprecedented media attention followed the inauguration, probably the first time in school history that such attention had covered a non-athletic event. Notre Dame was clearly evolving. 
And yet for all of the interviews that were done with Malloy, including a spot on "60 Minutes" and an article over the sum­mer in the New York Times Magazine, a far-ranging interview with Notre Dame students in mind had yet to be done. Notre Dame magazine came closest in the sum­mer of 1987, but that interview centered mainly on academic issues, which, although important, are by no means the only part of what goes on here. 
Tomorrow is the first anniversary of the inauguration, and therefore an opportune time to come out with an interview with Malloy about many campus issues, from divestment and the alcohol policy to how he feels about the job after one year. In the end, I felt that specifics were sacrificed at the hands of the huge amount of ground covered in the interview. I hope that there are some of you who are interested enough to press for . those specifics in the future, because they can often serve to improve the quality of life on this campus. 
I should add one disclaimer to the inter­view: it is by no means formal. Malloy says in the interview that he would be more com­fortable and prepared were he to respond in a written form, and some of the issues that were asked in the interview might require written responses in the future. The conver­sational feel of the interview should be ap­parent, as Malloy's responses are reprinted entirely, aside from some minor corrections which were made for readability's sake. 
After one year in office, Malloy still tries to remain as accessible as possible. This interview, for example, began last Tuesday at midnight in his Sorin Hall room. Whether or not you agree with everything he has to say, Malloy's accessibility can only help to the university -and its students ­during the rest of his tenure. 
Sincerely, Terry Lynch Managing Editor 
' 
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. 
Scholastic reserves the right to re­ject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space limitations, Scholastic cannot print all letters received. 
Address all correspondence to: 
The Editor Scholastic LaFortune Center 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 

SCHOOL IS HELL T-SHIRT 
Other Stunning Designs: 
• WORK IS HELL 
• LIFE IN HELL IT/tr Cla.«irJ ., BONGO 
• I SWEAR TO GOD 
I DIDN'T DO IT 

Scholastic 
Week in Distortion / Mike Keegan 



Politics 
ade 
imple 
The '88 Presidential campaign brings questions and 'Keegan the Magnificent' provides answers 
A merica is in the midst of a crisis of of the Scout Reporter to find out that some-someone incorrectly added a "w" to imp and biblical proportions. Bentsens one named Duke had won." off to the presses it went. Sorry, Charlie, I hunting Quayles, Dukes probing Second, Newsweek, trying a tactical ploy to mean George. Bushes, Donkeys and Elephants sleeping steal the market share of The National In-Last, but not least mentally stimulating, at together, mass hysteria. The election year quirer, immortalized the constitutional ques-the Democratic National Convention, Ted has reached the height of its excitement. tion,"lsGeorgeBushawimp?". Remember, Kennedy, in reference to George Bush's (Whew, I can hardly stand it.) And the real according to the Constitution, "a president of Pinnochio-like actions of denying he had
r-'----------=-------'----'-----------,
questions have yet to be anything to do with the answered ... until now. decisions of the lran-Con-After extensive research, I111.•lll< 1\J.Qli$~ lXln~I~
\g~ tra Affair, posed the ques­the answers to those mind-cf I«'i'N~\'&'3 _t,.l\P 11\\il\l( W£. ~ictt tion to the nation, "Where boggling, highly intellec-~~~~,~D Cir THE MI-ICf> ~tR~!U was George?"
V""\'IV 11\1 ·~•~I\ 1 ,, fc:R W.Bir.>H ~L•S!i\ TNq dJl" tual, issue-related ques-Win\ i»N RMHER... ~l5 ~~'n ~ ~ 1\1.R~ To finally put this ques­
tions asked by our inquisi-P\lRJ~h\'f lt-\1f.RV1~~ ~i6~!.. tion to rest, I consulted the 
\'l11J.\ ~Rf..Tl!ER•..._ 
tive media, upholding the ins.ide man of politics, Mr. ideals of the free press and Doonesbury himself, Gary Joan Rivers, have been Trudeau. Between frames,. found. Gary told .me that Mr. Bush 
First, one must addresss indeed was not present at the question that has lead the Iran-Contra meetings. to many sleepless nights When I asked "Where was for all patriotic Americans. George?", Gary replied, Did Dan Quayle join the "He was locked in a closet Indiana National Gaurd in the White House, while because he thought it his evil twin decided that it would be the hotbed of would be a wonderful idea military operations during to divert funds from the ii-the Vietnam War or did he L-----------------------------' legal sale of weapons in 
actually think he was joining the Canadian the United States in order to hold office must Iran to the Contras." Well, there you have it, Mounties? be at least40 years old, a natural born citizen straight from a man who should know. 
After checking into the situation, I found ofthe UnitedStates,a 12-yearresidentofthe The burden of carrying these questions to out that the records of the Indiana National United States, and not a wimp." bed every night has been lifted from the Guard were actually forged. Dan Quayle did When I made an investigation into the rea-shoulders of reporters across the nation. not join this overt organization, but actually son behind the asking of this question, I Finally, freed from the political cell that has became the Den Leader for Troop 4 72 of the made a startling revelation. Newsweek , imprisoned its mind in black and white strips Boy Scouts. His alias was Rojo and one of when printing this issue of the magazine, of confusion, the press can now begin to ask his scouts, Jesse Jackson, says of his former actually made a mistake in the layout of the the questions that matter. Like, why does leader, "He never told me anything. When cover. The cover was not suppose to read George Bush keep saying ''Read My Lips"? we ran the election to see who would become "George Bush: The Wimp Factor" but "Mi-Does he have the answer to the meaning of head scout, I had to wait for the yearly issue chael Dukakis: The Imp Factor." It seems life written there? II 
On Other Campuses 



What A Drag 
University ofIllinois administrator dresses up the campus ...and himself, as well 
EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY 
Little Bo-Peep was spotted running around the University of Illinois campus last Friday morning, The Daily Illini re­ported. Early Friday morning, a University student spotted 
a strange subject dressed in absurd attire. The student notified police while a counterpart attempted to chase down the subject. An hour later, police received another call from the two students informing them that they were detaining the subject because he was "acting weird". According to reports, Little Bo-Peep was dressed in pink panty hose, a pink blouse, a pink skirt, white tennis shoes and white gloves. He was also donning a blond wig, a pink bonnet and a baby bottle in hand. As it turned out, the subject was an as­sistant administrator for the University who had lost a bet and, as a result, was forced to parade around all night When asked if he thought that his behavior and manner of dress would alarm people, he answered "I did not think about it." ... Obviously not! 
Female Students no 


longer have to pay extra for "birth control services" at the University of Arizona, officials at the university determined last week. The College Press Service reported that the university felt it was discriminatory to charge an extra fee for these special services when only a select few of the student body used them. To obtain the free contraceptives, however, the women still need to take a series of tests for sex-related diseases. 
Students who use drugs and/or sell them and are caught doing so will be stripped ofany federal financial aid, the House ofRepresen­tatives decided last week. The new provision, which is part of a massive bill to decrease the drug abuse in this country, was adopted by a majority vote of335 to 67. The Chronicle ofHigher Education reported proponents of the new rule hope it will serve as a strong deterrent to drug use on campuses. 
Wide receiver Hart Lee Dykes does not recall receiving $5,000 
from Oklahoma State University when he signed a letterof intent to attend the school. The NCAA has made allegations that 50 $100 bills were delivered to Dykes' family residence shortly before he signed with the Cowboys. According to further allegations by the NCAA, Dykes also received a $17,000 car after his freshman year and $125 a week allowance duing his sophomore year, the Tulsa World reported. Dykes initially refused to comment on the allega­tions, but when asked again last Sunday whether he was aware ofany of the violations he had this to say: "It doesn't ring a bell to me. I don't know where they're getting their sources at." 
And ifyou were wondering if you were ever going to receive your copy of the 1987-88 Creighton University yearbook, wonder no more. The yearbooks are finally in (The Creightonian revealed)! And now for the stopper. You are in luck ifyou did not purchase your copy last year (like you were supposed to). There are extras! Oh Wow! ... Better late than never, guys!II 
Scholastic 
-
Music/ Scott Sullivan 

The Wayward and the Weird 
Neil Young and Camper Van Beethoven do a little experimenting with their new releases 
Folks are folks, no matter where they roam. Neil Young is a wayward folk, and Camper Van Beethoven is weird folk. Both folks don't mind experi­menting with their styles on their new al­bums, Young's This Note' sFor You,and the Campers' Our Beloved Revolutionary Sweetheart. Neil Young can't sit still. It seems he's crawled through and over most rock genres in his long running career, and he hasn't stopped yet With his new band, the Blue­notes, Young somehow wandered into, what he terms "the dawn of power swing" with This Note's For You. Young is back with his prime anti-establishment vernacular. This time it's embellished with sweet melodies reminiscent of musical generations since deceased. Young is be getting sick of corporate rock and roll. The sarcastically self-proclaimed "Volume Dealer", who's received a lot of press lately about MTV's refusal to air his video for the title track, pokes at corporate endorsements for Pepsi, Coke, Miller and Budweiser. He claims to be endorsing only the integrity of his music in This Note's For You, with the radical, yet successful depar­ture ofhis powerswing. Ittook a few listens, but I believe him. The album takes off with "Ten Men Workin"', obviously referring to himself and his nine gathered Bluenotes. There's an earful ofhorns (saxes, trombones, trumpets) on the entire album, and they greet you with powerful swing-blues blasts. Young pro­claims their work ethic early on: "We are men at work/We got a job to do". He contin­ues with the swaggering, biting "This Note's For You". ' Young then dons a cheap light blue tux and transforms into a suave crooner on "Coupe de Ville" as well as ''Twilight" and "One Thing". Lounge lizards, eat your collective hearts out, and choke on an olive. These ballads, while at first seeming appropriate for a duet with Marge at the Holiday Inn's Gipper Lounge, are airtight and smooth. Young's originality really shows itself here. Feathered drums, gentle guitar and an eerie undulating sax capture the glowing noctur­nal sorrow he's after. 
Young voices his optimism with "Sunny Inside" and "Hey Hey" (that would sound good with a 'my my', wouldn't it?). Once again, the horns are pounding, and "Sunny", unfortunately or not, brings on memories of the Blues Brothers. Young is a wily species. He's captured themusic ofa generation and given it some ofhis own spunk and wisdom. 
Our Beloved Revolutionary Sweetheart, Camper Van Beethoven's trial run on Vir­gin Records is true to its previous designs, but more polished. These Happy Campers get the most out of every instrument they employ. There's a collusive bass line that underscores each track, a meandering fiddle, and some mighty powerful guitar licks, especially on the instrumental "Eye of Fatima Pt 2" and "Waka". 
This is an immediately likable album. It's "She Divines Water" epitomizes their crea­tive process. It slides from beautiful, full voices into screeches, whirs, pops and garbled mish-mash, then out and into a peaceful violin. Kind of like a glimpse of hell, when you know there's a way out 
Their memorable tunes exhibit the music that has influenced them. The twining gui­tars in "Devil Song" evoke images of the Turkish baths or a busy marketplace in India. (Snake charmer music-very origi­nal.) ''Turquoise Jewelry" takes off with a careening vaudevillian trumpet, sort oflike suburban strip music: "Take off that tur­quoise jewelry." If you've ever seen Fid­dler on the Roof you'll know what "Tania" is like. It's a Russian tribute toourown Miss Hearst. Itwinds up with the optimistic "Life is Grand". 
Anyway, enough of me trying to describe what only can be heard. I think my words contain wisdom, so buy 'em -the words and the albums: Neil Young's power swing and Camper Van Beethoven's love letter to a misunderstood hero.II 

got a bit of funk, some coun­try, and ifyou look and listen,  CAMPER  VAN  BEETHOVEN  
there's  some  remnants  of  
disco (don't be scared, it's  
hidden pretty well). Thecatch  
is that they've chewed up all  
the audio tidbits they've col­ 
lected through their years in  
this pop cultureofours, mixed  
it with their own individual  
treasures and come out with,  
well,  an  album about Patty  
Hearst,  their  own  Beloved  
Revolutionary Sweetheart.  
The resulting tunes bring to  
mind everything from dirges  
("O Death"),  to  triumphant  
choruses ("She Divines Wa­ 
ter").  The culmination  of  OUR BELOVED REVOLUTIONARY SWEETHEART  

.... 
TEE 





OTHERS 
Three Notre Dame psychology professors study. the effects ofteen parenting 
BY DREAMA KAY WHITAKER 
nn was fifteen, an exceptional 
student and an aspiring writer. We 
talked for endless hours on the telephone, went shopping together and made many a combined effort to finish our algebra homework. Wecoordinatedourclothing and ate chocolate, had slumber parties and cut each other's hair. Wepassed notes in biology and giggled too much, as teenagers often do. 
Now she was leaving my world, our world, of clothing and boys and lunch in the cafete­ria: Ann was pregnant. 
Friends went to her baby shower bearing absurd gifts: tiny pink and blue outfits, baby­sized socks for baby-sized feet, cute bibs decorated with animals and flowers and miniature hats and mittens. We ate cake and had fruit punch and Ann's mother smiled too much. We chattered nervously and admired, politely if uncomfortably, the gifts she re­cieved. The festivities ended and we were relieved. As I was leaving, I glanced at the room littered with pink and blue decorations and teddy bear print wrapping paper. I felt a certain sadness, a vague maturity beyond my years. I closed the door behind me and sighed. . 

Ann continued to attend school, clad m maternity clothes, and patiently allowed friends to feel her swelling stomach and lis­ten for a quiet heartbeat. Months later she became a mother and named her daughter Maria. 
She also was fifteen, an exceptional stu­dent, an aspiring writer/singer/actress and now -a mother. 

The issue of teenage pregnancy is becom­ing increasingly important in American soci­ety. Aside from preventing teen pregnancy, 
A 
the United States is faced with the problems of effecti~e ad6lescent parenting. Society mustprovide teen mothers with the resources and faculties to assume parenting roles and responsibilities. 

Three professors at the University of Notre Dame were awarded a grant from the Public Health Service to research and inves­tigate adolescent parenting. Professor John 
G. Borkowski, with the Department ofPsy­chology, is the Adolescent Parenting Project program director and principal investigator for this project Borkowski is being assisted by Professor Thomas L. Whitman and Assis­tant Professor Cynthia J. Schellenbach. The project, in its fourth and final year, will be completed in July of 1989. Although the principal researchers with the Adolescent Parenting Project are professors, graduate and undergraduate students have been given the opportunity to participate in the investi­gation. The program has allowed students to gain experience in the area of research. 
"At a good university, research and teach­ing go hand in hand," Borkowski said, c~m­menting on the dual nature of the project The nature of this project has allowed for student involvement and participation, as well as allowing faculty and students to work together in teaching and learning, making progress toward increased understanding of the human condition, according to Borkow­ski. 
"The general aim of the Adolescent Par­enting Project is to understand the major personal and social factors characteristic of adolescent mothers and to enhance their abil­ity to cope with required parenting roles and responsibilities," said Borkowski. "More specifically, the project was designed to accomplish three objectives: (1) To identify important personal, social and cognitive fac­tors that differentiate pregnant teenagers from adults and non-pregnant adolescents; 
(2) To use individual differen~s in ~sycho­logical and social factors to pr~dict ch1ldre_ar­ing practices and inappropriate parentmg styles; and (3) To assess and improve upon adolescent parenting skills." 
In pursuing the first objective, investiga­tors are searching for the major personal, social and cognitive characteristics that dis­tinguish pregnant and non-pregnant adoles­cents (between the ages of 14 and '18) from one another and from adult mothers. So far, 220 pregnant teens have been given. the opportunity to participate in the project. These teens are recruited in the South Bend area from every possible source: clinics, hospitals, parenting programs and referals. 
"The average age, at time ofbirth, is 17.2 years for the adolescent sample and. 25:4 years for the adult sample/ Borkowski said of the women participating in the study. Of the teen sample, 8.5% are married and 71.6% are still in school. For the adult sample, 53 .6% are married and 11.1% are still in school. The non-pregnant teen sample is composed entirely of unmarried adolescents with all but one in school. 
"The search for the distinguishing charac­teristics that separate the three groups is guided by a model of adolescent parenting which identifies cognitive readiness for par­enting, learning ability, personality and so­cial adjustment and social support systems as potentially important in differentiating th_e comparison groups," continued Borkowski. 
The mother's mental prepared1_1ess for parenting is related to herknowledgeofchild development, beliefs about effective parent­ing styles and attitudes on parenting. Mental preparedness for parenting is believed to be partially detennined by the intellectual m~­turity and experiences ofthe mother. Cogm­tive readiness is central as a distinguishing factor between pregnant and non-pregnant adolescents and the adult mother. 
Leaming ability is another characteristic defining the differences between the three groups. An interesting aspect of this study indicates that the intellectual level of an adolescent mother predicts the way in which she will react to and interact with her child. The lower the mother's IQ, the more willing 
6 
Scholastic 

she is to use physical punishment in dealing with her child. "An important point to note is that the average IQ for the pregnant teen sample is 84," said Borkowski. 
Although there is considerable data about the adverse consequences of teen pregnancy and parenting on the child, relatively little is known about the personality and social ad­justments of teen parents. Recent studies provide a profile of the pregnant teen as demanding, egocentric, passive, dependent and having difficulty in coping with stress. 
"Preliminary analysis indicates that there are personality and social adjustment differ­ences between pregnant teenagers, their non­pregnant peer group, and pregnant adults," Borkowski said. 
Both adults and non-pregnant teens were found to be more active socially than preg­nant teens, with the non-pregnant teens also being better adjusted academically than pregnant teens. A striking difference was also found between the pregnant teens and adults in behavioral adjustments. Pregnant teens reported significantly more behavior problems than adults. Profiles of pregnant adolescents showed them to be more anx­ious, obsessive, depressed, delinquent, immature, hyperactive. and agressive than adults. These differing profiles seem to support ideas regarding the stress experi­enced by pregnant teens. Findings suggest thatstressresultsbecausethemajorityofteen pregnancies occur while the teens are unmar­ried, thus preventing a normative life-cycle at that stage of development 
"Somewhat surprisingly, the pregnant teens seemed to demonstrate fewer behavior problems than their non-pregnant peers," said Borkowski. "Although this finding must be considered tentative, it suggests the behavioral problems associated with teen pregnancy may be due to age factors more than marital status." 


The final characteristic separating adoles­cent parents and adult parents is the social support system. In multiple comparisons of adult and adolescent mothers, critical differ­ences occured concerning the formation ofa social support system. Mothers who de­layed parenting had built a substantial net­work of social and emotional supports, as well as instrumental supports. Emotional supports provide for stability and allow the mother to cope with the stress involved in parenting. Instrumental supports, such as time and money, allow the mother to pro­vide for the care ofher child. Two important aspects which apply to the social support system of the adult mother are employment and marital status. The adolescent parents lacked a well-defined social support system. The instability of the social support system during the first six months of teen parent­hood forces adolescent mothers to rely on pare~ts and various community agencies to provide for her own welfare and the welfare of her child. 
The Adolescent Parenting Project is not only concerned with promoting an under­standing of the circumstances surrounding teen parenting, but also with the develop­ment of coping mechanisms which allow adolescent mothers to assume the roles and 
responsibilities of parenting. An inter­vention program was designed to as­sess and improve upon adolescent par­enting skills. 
"Three (test groups) have been formed from the sample of young, pregnant mothers," Borkowski said. "(The first) receives information in five, velopment and a set of simply-stated rules that are designed to teach parenting skills. (The second) treatment group receives the same information, followed by opportunities to utilize this knowledge -in concert with an instructor who models parenting rules -in or­der to gain a deeper understanding about when and how to employ concrete, highly specific parenting skills. The control group receives written infonnation on parenting and child development as well as staff con­tact but does not have the explicit training provided the other two groups." 


Dependent measures are collected prior, and subsequent to, the intervention phase when each child is six months of age. The dependent measures include an assessment of the child's cognitive and motor develop­ment, observations of parent-child interac­tions and testing of the mother's knowledge of child development 
Initial data revealed that improvements in parenting style and knowledge of infant development occurred in both treatment groups when contrasted with mothers in the control group. 
As the research and information gathering draws to a close, facts will be reviewed, conclusions drawn, and the findings docu­mented. The Adolescent Parenting Project has sought an understanding of the personal and social factors characteristic ofteen moth­ers. With increased knowledge and aware­ness, the project hopes to assess and improve upon adolescent parenting skills allowing teen mothers to better~e with the stress involved in parenting. Ill 


onk 
fter One 



University President Monk Malloy talks about tawide array of campus issues including the taskforce reports,financial aid, co-residential housing and gay and lesbian ·groups on campus 
Editor's note: Tomorrow marks the first anniversary ofFather Edward A. "Monk" Malloy' s inauguration as president of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. Scholastic managing editor Terry Lynch interviewed Malloy in his Sorin Hall room last Tuesday night. 
Photos by Allan Lim 
Question: After one year as president of Notre Dame, how happy are you? What's gone right? What's gone wrong? Give a general overview. 
Answer: Overall I've enjoyed the opportunity that having this position has allowed me. I think the dimension of it that has been most satisfying has been the cooperation and the good will among my fellow administrators. I've also had the opportunity to be on the road to meet with local Notre Dame clubs and with other friends of the university. I also find that they're very supportive of the direction of the unversity at this time in its history. 
As far as difficulties for me personally, I think the hardest thing to learn is how to say no. I receive invitations to do many things, a certain percentage of which would require me to be away from the campus. I try to use good judgment deciding which ones to accept and which not to. The same thing is true when it comes to activities on campus. I can't be everywhere at every moment Making good decisions about what is most important at a given time or in a given week is part of how experience helps on the job. 
What surprised you the most about the job? What, do you feel, were you least 'prepared for? 
I don 'tknow ifl was totally surprised, but you only learn firsthand about the flow ofmail that comes into the president's office. It's more difficult to keep on top of if I'm gone for a period of time. The mail is steady, whether I'm here or not. So one of the things I've learned -or had to learn -how to do was to organize my response when I returned from a trip to make sure that I don't have too long of a time lag responding to mail or letters. I subdivide that responsibility, once 
_I look at it, with Roland Smith, my executive assistant and in some cases with Father Jim Warner, chancellor to the president. 
I Scholastic 
I 
I 
I 
t 

Nothing jumps into my mind as far as being least prepared. There are some things you can only learn by doing them, so having had a chance to get involved in the job for a full year, I guess I feel more confident that I know what's required of me. 
In your inaugural address, you outlined the following aspects: 
1) building Notre Dame into a major research facility and shoring up the graduate school; 2) enhancing the minority role, both in the faculty and the student-body, and 3) enlarging the role of women in the university. What's been done in one year in these three aspects? What's left to be done? 
As far as building the graduate program is concerned, a certain 
part of that, of course, is the recruit-====,,,.....,_,.....,...,, ment of faculty, especially senior fac­ulty or chaired professors. We have done, I think, a goodjob ofrecruitment over the past year, and that continues to be a high priority. That is primarily the responsibility of the provost and the deans, but at the final stages of ap­proval of candidates for the faculty, I have to agree. 
We've also made a significant commitment of funds to developing our computer capacity and network here, and that is going to significantly improve that side of graduate life and the research capability of the univer­sity. We have been fortunate to get a number of commitments for library endowments for purchasing books, and that's another area where we felt defi­ciencies could be corrected. 

We've also been working hard on increasing the stipends avail­able for graduate students so that we could be more competitive in trying to get the quality of students that we would like to have. Finally, we have begun the expansion of the physics facility, which was a crying need in the natural sciences area. We are continuing to try to find funding for other research facilities and the instrumentation that they require. 
As far as minority presence at Notre Dame, we announced a $12 million commitment ofendowment offinancial aid for minorities. In this present freshman class, we havegone to 13 percent minority from eight percent two years ago, and I think all of us feel gratified that we are seeing that kind ofcommitment. We have a long way to go when it comes to undergraduate minority presence, but an even longer way when it comes to faculty and staff. Some of the obstacles are more difficult when it comes to that kind of recruitment, but it's a high institutional goal and it's something we keep working on. I think the quickest success we have seen has been in recruitment, and hopefully the retention, of minorities of undergraduate students. 
When itcomes to thepresence of women in the university, I think we'veseen a steady increase in the number and percentage oftenured women and women on the faculty, particularly in Arts and Letters and Law, where we've had the mostsuccess. Weare trying to achieve that same kind of improvement in other colleges with greater difficulty. There are efforts underway to address the whole question that was taken up in the Task Force on Marriage, Family and Other Life Commitments to look at the situation of the women who are married and have young children -or children of any age -in terms of our benefits package. That is being pursued vigorously, and there will be a number of steps announced in the next several months. 
Thebig problem in regard to support for men and women who are family members, orwho have family responsibilities, is affordability and maximizing the options available to them so people can choose among various benefits according to their interests and needs at a 
=-,-= given moment. Finally, the addition of women and the two new women's dormito­ries are also steps in the right direc­tion. 
Would those steps include day care facilities? 
We have been looking at a com­prehensive benefits package where there are a number of options avail­able, which would include provi­sions for choice when it comes to matters likeday care and other ways of responding to family needs. But it would not necessarily includeon­campus or university-supported day-care facilities. 
At this point in time, do you 

feel you will step down as president of Notre Dame at the end of your five-year tenure? 
I really have no idea what will happen over the next three or four years. Presently I enjoy the work and the opportunity to serve in this capacity. If I finish the full five years, I will be about 50 years old, and I think I will have to make a decision of whether I want to do it, and the board of trustees would have to make a decision about whether they would want to ask me to continue. But I honestly have no inkling presently. I'm just concerned about how it will go during the second year. 
I suppose the most I could say is that there has been nothing about the job so far that makes me feel weary or oppressed, or wishing for a relief ofsome great burden. I get up each day with enthusiasm and look forward to what the demands or expectations might be. 
What frustrates you the most about administering to this school? 
One of the hardest things about administering to a school like Notre Dame is that our constituency is spread out geographically. I like to be presenton campus as much as possible, and yet I know that I need also to be present to our 200 and some alumni clubs, and to represent the university in various national organizations and proj­ects. As a result, I try to take as many ofthe trips I take back and forth the same day as possible. 



Of the four task force reports, which was the best, in your opinion? Which needs further study? Did anything surprise you that was uncovered in that process? 
I was happy with the quality ofall four reports. I felt that the one that had the most difficult challenge in terms of comprehensiveness was the one on marriage, family and other life commitments. In a sense, they were asked to talk about the whole structure of modem life. Politically, the most difficult job was the alcohol task force, because students generally have the greatest interest in regulations in that area, and alsobecause it's a problem that's been with us for many centuries and doesn't present an easy solution. 
One ofthe things that I think was clear, ifyou read all four reports oneaftertheother, is that you can't talk any dimension ofNotre Dame without talking about many others. There was a lot of commonality ofinterests, and sometimes ofrecommendations, from one task force to the other. Thatdoesn'tsurprise me -I think that would beinevitable in an institution like a university. 
I was very pleased with the hard work that the members put in to the preparation of the task force reports. Many of them spent countless evenings in addition to regular meeting times in order to maximize the opportunity forothers to havean input. Having headed 

a couple of task forces before, I know how difficult it is to keep it all on target and on time. 
Critics say that student representation on the four task forces was: 1) too small, and 2) token. You and others from the task forces have countered that every effort was made to solicit student opinion. Since you personally attended some of the meetings held in dorms, can you recall anything specific brought up from the open inivitation ofstudent input that would not have otherwise been uncovered? 
One of the goals I.had in constituting the task forces was to make sure there was significant student representation. I think the smallest number (on a task force) was five out of 12. That was generally the pattern. I think that's the highest percentage ofstudents that has ever served on such a major thorough examination in the history of the institution. 
In order to make the task forces representative of not only students, but faculty and staff, and to keep them small enough to be effective, there were natural limitations to how many students could be involved. I have always enjoyed working with students, and I have great confidence that students, if appointed, will do a good job. 
I think it's important that everybody who looks at the final result recognizes that's the way representative government works in our society. We normally do not have direct elections or direct votes, but we have in~ividuals who represent cons.tituencies of one kind or another, and they, in a sense, stand in place ofeverybody else. I don't think, from my experience, that there was any absence ofopportunity either on the task forces themselves or when they went out listening in the various dorms. 
The fact that some students chose not to come (to the meetings), or had a very small frame of reference of interest, is something that may be inevitable. ButI think that ifthere's any lesson that you learn from those kinds of experiences, it's that ifyou want to have a voice in decision-making, you have to be willing to put the time and effort into expressing concerns. 
I think the last thing to say is that the task forces were agents of recommendation, and not of final decision-making. The university has a structure in which the board of trustees is the highest decision­making body, and the other officers and I are the highest normal decision-makers in the everyday life of the university. 
In our deliberations, we took very seriously the task force reports 
and all the other input we had received from student government and 
other sources. We solicited (input) from everyone, and the fact that 
noteverybody agreed with the final results isn't surprising. I think all 
you can say about the final product is that I think it was fully informed 
by the range of opinion that was expressed. 
The Alcohol Policy has caused a stir on the campus this fall. In an interview with the Observer earlier this year, you remarked that the other option open to the officers of the university this summer was to make the campus dry. Is that the ultimate goal, ancl is the new policy an intermediate step? Has the new policy affected the university's theory of "in loco parentis"? 
10 
Scholastic 


~ • I • • 
s'•, • ) ,-• ,,-_ I • • • • • ; 
The only ultimate goal ofthe present and previous alcohol policies was to promote responsible conduct. It has been my conviction that the central problem is the trivialization of drunkenness. I think it is fair to say that college peer culture promotes excessive use ofalcohol and excessive dependence on alcohol in social situations. We have an additional concern about people who may have a lifelong depend­ency on alcohol, but that is not presumed with regard to general conduct of students. 
We also have to be concerned, although it's not the primary object or intention, with the fact that, for the first time in contemporary American history, every state and di~trict in the country has a 21-year old drinking law, including the state of Indiana. 
university be in the Northeast Neighborhood? Is the university, in your opinion, obliged to help the community? Is it doing enough right now? 
One of the things that I am very concerned about is promoting better understanding and cooperation between the university and the neighborhoods and commul)ities that surround it. We have taken a number of steps to have meetings of both a social arid business sort to talk about matters of common concern. We've also tried to encourage our faculty, staff and students to participate in civic and other voluntary organizations. 
Jim Roemer has a primary responsibility as liason between the 
Notre Dame presently has a....---::--::--::--::-,--,.,..,-,----::---,-:---:----,-.,.,,......,.,......,.,--,---,..........-.,.,.-,--, university and the city government 
moderate policy. It is the judgment of administrators of the university at this time that that is a satisfactory compromise. If that proves notto be 
the case, then we would have to look 
at our other options. 
How widespread of a problem 

!~i~a;;s~so;h!h!:1:~:~u~e:~1;~~ 
increasing the presence of minori­ties on campus, or is more needed? ~~~~i~h:::;,e;~~:::::~;:~ ~;:~:i go from there? 
I think everybody can give his or 

' '' '' Notre n~Hrie presently haf a.·. . 
'lfib~er~t.e: ~alchll~J);policy. It is the judgmentofa~~iiiistrat?t:s'.of the 11niversitJTl;it·•.this:time t~at that is··a 
•>f~~ti~factory co111promise. Jf that pro~es:n<>.tt<> b~f}~e cas~iCt~~n we 
....... would haveto.Iriok at OUrJ)ther 

and business communities. Many other university administratiors and faculty have also had an instrumen­tal role in this regard. And surely 
the Center for Social Concerns and 
::a::: u:::i:ti:uns~i::t al:~ 
make a great contribution. 
to b:;t~~t!da~~ib~;~vt~i~~i~;:~ South Michigan as a shelter for the homeless with good programming, 
~~;ii:i~e~u~\~~~:!v;ow: i~~ volved in this way. I think the greatest thing we have to offer in this community is the talent, energy 

,, .i 
her own assessment of the quality of=---'-----'----___..;.-='---------"-"------'-------" and good will of our people. I have 
race relations in our society. My own experience, growing up in Washington, D.C., was always very much influenced by the presence ofblack people in my world. I knew friendship as well as hostility in the relationship between blacks and whites. As I look at contempo­rary society, I think the grounds for racial and ethnic hostility are different than they were 20 or 30 years ago. I know few people who espouse a philosophical position of racial inferiority. But I hear in society in general, and sometimes on campus, attitutes formed by the experience ofbehavior patterns attributed to some groups as charac­teristic. I think Notre Dame, at worst, simply reflects the society around it, and at best promotes a better level ofracial understanding. 
The Year of Cultural Diversity is a step in what I hope will be a process of exchange and bonding across such divisions. I think only ifminority population increases, will there beenough opportunity for that to continue as part ofeverybody's experience here. I do not think that a year of cultural diversity is sufficient, but we have to begin somewhere, and I think everyone would agree that this is a good place to begin. 
The problems of the Northeast Neighborhood are well docu­mented. You have personallyjustset up a shelter for the homeless in that neighborhood. First of all, what should the role of the found that the leaders of the community are eager for this spirit of cooperation to develop further, and I'm very gratified by the number of cooperative projects that have developed. 
In a university still heavily weighted to its undergraduate program, the faculty dilemma of teaching vs. publishing is an especially acute one. What's to be done? Is this a problem that will always be with us? 
Yes, it is a problem that will always be with us. I think we are fortunate at Notre Dame, because we have a strong tradition ofhigh­quality teaching and commitment to classroom instruction. The challenge is to promote and support the same quality of work at the level of research and publication. We also need to provide better assistance,.as the task force on teaching and instruction reported, for young instructors to become more self-consciously aware of their strengths and weaknesses as teachers and of the available support mechanisms to help them improve. 
I am convinced that unless faculty take seriously the intellectual life, including keeping up in their field and being periodically assessed by their peers, that there are great temptations to stop maintaining a lifetime agenda as an intellectual. 
11 



What's your opinion on the state of intellectual life at Notre Dame? How do you respond to charges that Notre Dame stu­dents, on the whole, are too passive about their education? 
It all depends. I've known bright, eager, fully-committed, self­directed students, andI'veknown others who were undisciplined and unenthusiastic. I think it is fair to say that a profile ofa Notre Dame studentcomes closer to the well-rounded individual than itdoes to the kind of egghead or sheer intellectual that some other schools might see as typical. 
There's a certain tendency on faculty's part to want to replicate themselves, and perhaps to have a selective memory on what their peers were like when they were in college. I think Notre Dame has students who have high capability, and our challenge is to assist them in becoming lifetime learners. I think we've seen some improvement in the quality of the cultural life on campus, and we want to take some quantum leaps in that area in the future. We have a goal to provide greater resources for the fine arts on campus. 
What, in your opinion, can be done about financial aid? Do you think that the university should adopt a so-called "Robin Hood" stance, and inflate the price of tuition in order to create more money for those who can't afford it by taking it away from those who can, or should the school remain committed to keeping costs as low as possible for the majority ofstudents at the expense of fewer grants-in-aid? 
Our primary strategy is to seek to fulfill the target of the present campaign, which is $60 million. If we are successful in meeting that goal, it will take us a good bit in the right direction. I think we need to continue to lobby in Washington for improvement ofthe financial aid available under the auspices ofthe federal government. The same applies to state government as well. I don't think any private institution, of its own resources, will be able to provide sufficient financial aid for all of the students who might merit admission. 
I personally am not convinced that it would be desirable to adopt a Robin Hood principle. One of the reasons I say that is that over 60 percent ofour students presently show financial need. The only way in which a Robin Hood principle can work over time is if a much smaller percentage shows need and a larger percentage has the capacity to pay higher costs. 
What's your opinion on the present residentiality system? What are its major advantages and disadvantages? Do you support co-ed housing or not? 
I think the present residential situation is one of the greatest strengths of Notre Dame. When you listen to graduates talk and explain their feelings about the university, and especially their intense loyalty toward the institution, much ofthat was forged in the dormitory structure. 
We don't have fraternities or sororities, and I think that's a wonderful situation to be in. But we do have 26 dormitories, each of which has its own tradition and distinctive spirit. We have small dormitories and large ones, and we have, I believe, very dedicated people working on the head staffs within them. Many other schools have tried to emulate what we have available. We can always improve it, but generally I'm very happy with the residential side of university life. 

I think we have some obvious disadvantages in the physjcal structures in some ofthe dorms. Wedon't have sufficient social space or study space in some cases. The decision to renovate all of the dorms within a seven or eight-year cycle was an excellent decision. I think it has improved the quality of the physical environment of most of the dorms. If we could be in a situation where we could provide housing for all of the students who wanted housing on campus, I think that would be ideal. And if we can ease the crowding in some dorms, that would also contribute well to improvement ofthe quality of life. · 
The task force on residentiality was the first public effort byNotre Dame to look at the question of co-residential housing. It is a topic that has been discussed in private or in letters to the Observer along the way. I think the evidence of the surveys taken is quite mixed. There is no overwhelming demand for or desire to live in co­residential housing by the majority of students. My own position is that I've always had an open mind about it, but I don't think that it's a change that should be made unless there is a significant body of evidence that it would promote the quality of residentiality at Notre Dame. I do not think that evidence is present at this time. 
What is your opinion on divestment of the university's South 
12 Scholastic 

African holdings? 
I asked the board of trustees to move toward a Notre Dame investment policy. Over two meetings of the board, we had intense discussions which resulted in the approval, in the meeting last May, ofsuch a policy. It details, I think, the values that underlie the proper re·sponsibilities for our investment portfolio. 
It is the primary responsibility of the investment committee of the board to make decisions about our holdings, trying to reflect as fully as possible the values and principles laid out in that policy. It has been the decision of the board, up to this point, to maintain a small number of stocks in companies that have a presence in South Africa, because that presence is thought to be beneficial to the best interests of blacks and all the other groups of the country. This is a matter which will continue to be discussed both at the level of the investment committee and at the level of the trustees as a whole. 
Should gay and lesbian groups on campus be recognized, in your opinion? If so, why, and if not, why not? Is the university keeping track of the situation at Georgetown, which is still mired in the courts? ·· 
No, I do not think that gay and lesbian groups should be recog­nized by the university. The situation at Georgetown is part of the public documentation on this issue. Georgetown University exists in a district that has the most liberal laws in the country with regard to matters of sexual orientation. That is not applicable in the state of Indiana. 
I think that those students who are homosexually oriented should be respected as any other student should be, and provided with whatever counsel, assistance or informal support as seems appropri­ate. I think all members of the university community need to purge themselves of prejudicial conduct or attitudes. I hope that we can find effective ways to promote greater levels of understanding about this difficult issue. 
So the reason why the groups should not be recognized is the difference in laws between the two areas? 
No, the reason is because official recognition would imply sup­port by a Catholic university of positions which seem in conflict with the official teaching of the Church. 
Having been a student athlete at Notre Dame, you've spoken many times about the advantages of athletics as a whole. You also must realize that times have changed greatly since you played basketball for Notre Dame. Is intercollegiate athletices getting out of hand, in your opinion? What can be done about it? 
Intercollegiate athletics has many functions, both in the lives of those who participate in it and also in the lives of those who witness it I'm convinced that Notre Dame has done a decent job of limiting abuse and allowing intercollegiate athletics to have a proper role in the life of the university. Unfortunately, I cannot make the same judgment about intercollegiate athletics in general. I think we have some severe problems that need to be addressed, and I hope that Notre Dame can have an instrumental role in that process. 
I believe that Father Bill Beauchamp and Dick Rosenthal, our athletic director, will become ever-important spokespersons for integrity in intercollegiate athletics and for a proper sense of balance about its place in the life of a college or a university. When I became president, I asked for assistance in formulating a statement on intercollegiate athletics. That was done, and I was involved in its formulation. I think it stands as a fitting statement that we expect to guide intercollegiate athletics. 
Realizing that this is not your decision, should athletic sched­ules be built around those schools that have similar attitudes toward student athletes? Should schedule-makers wash their hands of, for example, football teams like SMU and Texas A&M forever? 
It's hard to make judgments about particular institutions, since reform often follows decline and scandal. I think the most pivotal thing in determining our schedules ought to be a combination of the quality of play, the express standards of the school, and the traditions of competition that have developed across time. 
I think that there are, at any given moment, a few schools where the people involved in making those decisions at Notre Dame want to take a harder look because of problems that have developed, and that is being done on a regular basis. 


As an ethicist who has published and stated unconventional thoughts on aspects of Christian life, you know that there are conservative elements within the Church who are not happy with them. How much ideological heat do you feel now as opposed to when you were associate provost? Does being president of Notre Dame stifle you academically -that is, are you more afraid to publish now because of the added exposure of your position? 
I've always thought of myself as a fairly non-ideological person. On some issues I'd be described as a liberal and on other issues a conservative. I've never really bothered much about what camps I fit into. I have not felt any great pressure in my present position from any of the so-called camps -either the Church or the political environ­ment. I think that anybody in a public position needs to be more discreet and reflective about public comments because they also attach to the university and not just to the individual person. 
Because I do a lot of interviews with the media, I have found on occasion that I have been burned by unrepresentative quotations or misleading headlines. When that happens a few times, you try to learn from your experience in determining what the proper setting is for expressing your opinion at a given time. Generally, I would prefer to write my own text when something of great significance was being addressed. 
Do you have personal or political problems with the so-called "Catholic right"? Is the Vatican a problem insofar as the intellectual life of the campus is concerned? 
I do not feel that the Vatican is a problem insofar as the intellectual life of the campus is concerned. Notre Dame is a Catholic university and has an appropriate responsibility to the institutional Church. Yet I've found that we have sufficient freedom as a university to allow the great issues to be debated freely. I think that situation best serves the needs of the Church. 
I have concerns about fundamentalism in our time, whether it is within the Catholic or the larger Christian context. The great temp­tation of fundamentalism is Lo reduce the complexity of reality to simplistic terms and be ready to make harsh moral judgments of others. On the other hand, a deep religious conviction often underlies such sentiments. 
In light of the task force recommendations, is there anything besides those three aspects that has moved up in importance? Does you inaugural view of the needs of the university agree with your view today? 
An area that I would give greater stress to today is the development of international awareness and opportunities for educational ex­change. I think we need to do a better job ofencouraging our students to study abroad or to have s·ome inter-cultural experience during their undergraduate careers. 
I think we need to increase faculty awareness of the international dimensions of whatever subjects they teach, and I think we need to find better ways of bringing students and faculty from other countries 

s1iir..• {··•••.... Sit i•~·ks~I ... , .....•·Q\·~!Y t»at}I prp~le?.*r i?•
•· <Notr~J:)~me.~tuilentlcotrles)Closer tothe·• 
~i\~~;~ili~1if~i}~~.!~i~ij~\ ~ij~e-i.f ~.g~~ tit~~



lt!lililil1lf;~~~;F
... I~art1Ifo.;.~~nt;i!O···•··~~-Pli,~t:1f~1-th·~.~sel~~~,t~~..~.·)
,,,t~i1{itHii1il~"lfitlY¢: 
r 

i1l1~!1';liit : ifr tgneg!r~tf,;;,?' 

and cultures here as well. 
I would also say that I am becoming increasingly more convinced of the importance of ethics as a crying need in our society. I think Notre Dame has a particular opportunity to have a leadership role when it comes to the ethical dimension of education and preparation for various professions and career paths. ii 
14 
Scholastic 



Rolfs Aquatic Center will be closed until August because ofdefective caulking, so the swim teams have been forced to practice in the 
BY LISA EATON 

Thanks to pool repairs at Rolfs Aquatic Center, the Notre Dame swimming terun has gone from swimming in an ocean to swimming in a · puddle. For the first Lime in three years, the team has had to practice in the smaller, less sophisticated Rockne Memorial pool. Sev­eral of the team members are worried that the switch to the Rock will have a detrimen­tal effect on a team that has been improving, but still struggling in its third year with a Division I status. Rolfs is currently drained and urider . repair. In the meantime, the 60-plus mem­bers ofthe swim team are attempting to train at the Rockne Memorial Center, which is not adequately equipped to accommodate · the needs of the swim team. The problem at Rolfs involves the caulking along the extension joints. The 

antiquated Rock. 

caulking was allowing water to leak from under the pool. Notre Dame discovered this problem in the spring of 1987, but the university's commitment to hosting the Inter­national Special Olympics that summer de­layed repair work. 
Dennis Stark, director of the Rolfs Aquatic Center and former Notre Dame swimming coach, and the engineers in charge of repairs decided to drain and fix the pool during the summer of 1988. 
Once again the university had commit­ments that prevented the pool from being drained unti1July21. The workbeganonJuly 
25. · Stark was told by engineers that the pool would be completed by the end of August, which would not have created any conflict with the schedule ofthe swimmers since they could have begun training at Rolfs as ex­pected. 
Then a complication arose. The pool had to dry completely before the new caulking could be laid on the extension joints. The workers successfully coated the entire pool except for a small area of about one and a half feet where the bottom did not dry prop­erly. · 
The engineers decided to wait on fur­ther repair in hopes that the area would even­tually dry naturally. No one anticipated that it would take so long to dry, according to Stark. Stark and the engineers believed that 
"It is a four and a half million. dollar swimming pool, but right now its just a four and a half million dollar hole in the ground." 
-Bill Schmitz, s.enior distance swimmer 
15



( 
I 
i 
l I' 
I i, 
I 
i a large amount of water collected under the tioning. 
I pool and was evaporating back into the pool "We've been doing lots of weights,
I through the extension joints. running and aerobics," said Kelly Quinn, 
I Stark said he is very optimistic about the women's co-captain. "But it doesn't make 
I 
I repairs, and feels that the engineers have up for the water. There is no substitute." found a solution to the problem. Instead of The decrease in actual swimming time waiting an undetermined period of time for may have the greatest effect on the distance the pool to dry naturally, the engineers dee swimmers. "Just as a marathon runner 
I cided to apply a caulk that will cure under can't go out and run one mile and then be
I 
water. The pool is tentatively scheduled to be ready to run a marathon, we need a big base 
I 
I filled and ready for use in the first week of ofpool time in order to be ready for compe­I tition," said Schmitz. 
I October, if all goes according to Stark's expectations. All four captains said they are very · 
I' The pool's repairs are covered in the frustrated by the delays, and are trying to 
I I original building contract, so there will be no make up for the lack of pool time in other additional cost to the university. When the ways. pool was constructed, the engineers told Stark that problems are likely to occur to any new pool in the first few years ofits operation. Rolfs Aquatic Center was opened 1 in November, 1985. It is an Olympic­sized pool with eight lanes, two moveable bulkheads that allow up to three different activities to take place at the same time, and a state-of-the-art electronic clocking system. When it is in operation, itis one of the finest swim­ming facilities in the country. 
Right now senior distance swim­mer Bill Schmitz sees Rolfs in another light. "It is a four and a half million dollar swimming pool, but right now it ,coa:ii;;~~;f:.!!(!,,,!~~~I11~~ hi,!!ii lit!Iiilll:ili p.t.a,i;:t\,i;:~ ir! 

is just a four and a half million dollar hole in 
The swimmers are also feeling the mental the ground," he said. 
effects of the delay. Many swimmers are Co-captain John Froman said he thinks 
wondering if something like this would swimming in the the smaller pool will hurt 
have happened to a revenue sport. the team, as there are fewer and smaller 
Although Vogel said that the teams lanes in which to practice. The team is also 
realize they are not in a money sport, he having to cope with reduced pool hours 
added that the swimming program at Notre allotted for them at the Rock. "We're swim­
Dame has been a varsity sport for 32 years. ming about six to eight hours per week, 
Vogel said that it is frustrating for them to whereas a collegiate program should try to 
feel low on the list of the priorities for the reach 15 to 25 hours per week," he said. 
university. Head Coach Tim Welsh said he is 
For now, however, the swimmers are concerned that the swimmers are losing 
waiting to go back home to Rolfs. The relaxed swimming time, which they need to 
swimmers are trying to train in the Rock as regain their feel for the water and develop a 
ifit was going to be their home pool for the solid base to build on. What the team really 
rest of the season. needs right now is the time for the 
Women's co-captain Tracy Johnson breaststrokers to be able to swim for an 
emphasized the fact that not only is Rolfs a uninterrupted period of time, he added. 
wonderful facility to swim in, but it is also Welsh is attempting to make up for the loss 
the sight for the meets and itis preferable for in swimming hours by putting increased 
any athlete to compete and practice in the emphasis on strength and aerobic condi­
same facility. 
16 

Scholastic 
Welsh says he is highly optimistic 
about his teams' potential and talent for lhe 
coming season, but like any coach he has 
doubts. "This is the foundation part of the 
year and to some extent you don't find out 
about the foundation until you test it." 
The men's team, lead by co-captains Brian Vogel and John Froman, have im­proved markedly over the last few years, and have worked very hard throughout the summer in preparation for the upcoming season. Welsh said he feels that there is added depth in this year's team because of the addition of talented new freshmen. This, combined with the leadership of lhe upperclassmen, should help the team when 
they face traditional rival St. Bonav­
enture. 
The women are also greatly im­
proved this season and, like the men, 
have added to their depth. Johnson 
said he feels that this depth ought to 
allow them to win close meets which 
they may have lost in the past because 
they could not fill all positions. 
The two swim teams will receive 
their first test at the at the National 
Catholic Swimming Championships, 
which are being held this year in Phil­
delphia during the first weekend in 
December. 
The National Catholic meet, 

which was created by Notre Dame and will return here on a rotating basis, is a competition that allows the teams to travel and compete against other Catholic univer-. sities from throughout the nation. 
The members of the swim team are not the only ones who are feeling the effects of the delay. 
Swimming lessons have been tempo­rarily moved to the Rock as well. There are alsocommunityeventsthatNotreDamehas had to cancel until the pool is operational again. 
When the Irish swimmers begin their seasons with a home meet on November 4, they plan to dive in from their starting blocks in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. And, if all goes as planned, they should be. But, in addition to displacing freshman P.E. classes and kayakers, practice-schedule problems caused by Rolfs construction just may slow that initial dive into conference waters. II 

~-· ! . ' . , ,. . .,,, I --~ . . . 




sp rt 

MEN'S SOCCER 

The Irish men's soccer team pulled off two key victories this weekend to improve their record to 6-0-1. On Friday night DANNY LYONS recorded the season's first shutout in the team's 5­0 victory over conference foe Michigan State. DANNY STEBBINS, JOE STE~NBERG, JOHNNY GUIGNON, BRUCE MCCOURT, and RANDY MORRIS each scored in the win. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame gave up the first 

e 


four matches played by Irish freshmen. Playing in the #2,3,4, and 6 positions respectively were freshmen KA TIE CLARK, TRACY BARTON, KRISTY DORAN, and ANN BRADSHAW. CE CE CAHILL, currently ranked 40th among collegiate women tennis players, opened the match with a 6-3, 6-0 victory. 
The women are now off until Oct. 21 when they begin the MCC tournament in St. Louis. 
WOMEN'S GOLF 

goal of the game, but tallied the next five_ on their ~--Th-e_N_o..!tr.!..e~D~am~e~w~o:'....m~e:..::n~'.:::s:.::g_o:;-;lf:-:t-e-am=--,fi:;::m::-_, way to a 5-1 triumph over Dayton. Moms led all ishedfourthoutof six teams last week at the Lady scorers with two goals against the Flyers. Greyhound Invitational in Indianapolis. This week, the Irish face Western Michigan ROBERTA BRYER Jed the team with an 81, (Sept. 23) and Birmingham Southern (Sept. 25). followed by KRIS LAZAR and LIZ PODEN 
with scores of 88. WOMEN'S SOCCER The team then traveled to the Illinois State The Irish women's soccer team got back on Invitational on Sept. 17 and 18th. There they track last weekend with a solid 5-0 thrashing of overcameapoorfirstround,finishing 12thoutof 
COMPILED BY JEFF TILTON 
ATHLETE OFTHE WEEK: BRUCE "TIGER" McCOURT: 

,I 
His goal in the 5-0 men's soc­cer victory over Michi­gan State raised his position to fourth on Notre Dame's all-time scoring list He needs only two more assists to tie for ninth-place on the assist list, and with his last goal he moved into third on the Irish all-time goal scoring list with 40. 
the nation among collegiate men. He is one ofonly 
Western Michigan. SUSIEZIL VITIS, the team's 13 teams, to eventually place ninth. Lazar paced two freshmen in the nation ranked in the top 50. 
leading scorer, accounted for two goals while the Irish with rounds of 84 and 79 for a 163 total. KARNA SPENCER was responsible for the Bryer followed with a 170 total. SAINT MARY'S SOCCER team's first-ever shutout. This weekend the women play at the Lady On Sept. 13 the Belles defeated Chicago 4-0 
Theirishnowhaveathree-gamehomeSland. Northern Invitational at West Lafayette, IN. with goals from TRISH TROESTER, MOLLIE They open the week Wednesday with Wheaton L--------------:--:--::-::----MEEHAN, ELLEN BOYLE, and KELLY College, followed by Adrian College on Friday WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL COOK. On Saturday the team steamrolled over and St. Joseph's of Indiana on Sunday. It was a tough week for the Irish women's Findlay 11-0. Troester, GREER GILLILAND, 
volleyball team as they dropped both of their TERESE MARTINOV, and KATHERINE
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

matches at the Holiday Inn/University Park PRITCHETT each scored two goals.
In their first dual match of the season, the Classic in Ft. Collins, Colo. The first loss came The Belles are 4-0 heading into next week-Irish women's tennis squad crushed Bowling to 13th ranked Colorado State (15-10,16-18,15-end, when they will face Purdue at home. 

Green 8-1 with a mixture ofexperience and youth. 
9,15-12), and in the consolation round the Irish 
The team swept the sin Jes matches includin the 
ATHLETE 
OF THE 
WEEK: 
MARY 
K A Y 
WALLER: 
Waller, a tri­captain on the Irish women's 
volleyball team, was named to the all­tournament team at the Holiday Inn/ University Park Classic. This is the sec­ond week in a row she has received all­tournament honors. She provided the Irish with 23 kills in eight games at the Holiday Inn Classic. 


September 22, 1988 
fell to Houston (15-4,15-17,15-7,15-12). Fresh­
SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 

man JULIE BREMNER led the Irish in assists The Saint Mary's tennis team poweredand attack percentage at .403. ZANETTE through an exciting week of victories last week. 
BENNETT recorded a team-high ten block as­On Tuesday the women beat the University ofsists against Colorado State. 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee 7-2 and added an 8-1 winThe Irish head to Purdue on Wednesday, against Goshen on Wednesday. Over the weekend then come home to play Rice on Friday and the Belles won the Saint Mary's Invite, something Northwestern the following Monday. 
they had ne~er before accomplished. SARAH ------------------iMA YER took a first place and four teammates _____..2M~E~N~•S~T~E~N7 N.:.;l:::S~-:-:-:--::-::-:;-;-;--J added seconds in the singles competition. Mayer The Notre Dame men• s tennis team will also teamed up with CHARLENE SZAJKO for a 
open this weekend at the Navy All-Conference second place in the doubles competition. 
Tournament in Annapolis, Md. The tournament The women are off for a week until their 
features Arkansas, Illinois, Kansas, Texas match-up against Tri-State on Monday, Sept.26. 
A&M, Wake Forest, and West Virginia. The 
men will be led by senior captain BRIAN KAL­
SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL 
BAS and junior WALTER DOLHARE. Dolhare Last Tuesday the Belles' volleyball team lost 
is a transfer from Austin Peay in his first year at to Hope 3-1, but recovered nicely to place third at
Notre Dame. the IIT tourney. They travel next weekend to
The man to watch this season will be fresh IUPUI for a weekend tourney. 
man DAVID DI LUCIA, who is ranked 49th in 
17 


that has allowed only 20 points in its first two games. Nevertheless, Notre Dame head 



coach Lou Holtz knows that his team cannot 
look past the Boilermakers. 
"It's important for our players to re­
memberthis week how large theNotreDrune 
game ranks on Purdue's schedule," said 
Holtz. "I expect this to be a tremendously 
physical, competitive football game because 
that's been indicative of the Notre Dame ­
Purdue series." 
Purdue could give the Irish some prob­
lems with their talented secondary. Seniors 
Marc Foster and Ronnie Beeks are excellent 
safeties in a defensive backfield that Holtz 
calls "a real strength." 
Foster (6-0, 194 pounds) and Beeks (6­0, 205), along with cornerbacks Steve Jackson (5-9, 180) and Derrick Kelson ( 6-1, 186), will attempt to exploit what has thus far . been an ineffective Notre Dame passing at­
tack. In their first two games, the Irish have completed only five of 23 passes while 
throwing three interceptions. 
"We can't win unless we throw the ball," Holtz said following the Michigan State contest "I know that and you know that, but our players don't know that. Until we can pass for 215 yards a game on the average, wearen'tgoingto be happy." 
But even if the Boiler­makers are successful in shut­ting down Notre Dame's pass­ing game, they still have to contend with an Irish running attack that makes Irish fans very happy. Led by Mark Green and Tony Brooks, 

..~=.""'-" racked up 245 rushing yards BY JIM MAGGIO last week for his 100th career victory, againstastingyMichiganStaterushdefenseCome on, seven! Akers' young squad faces the unenviable last Saturday. This thought should be run-taskoftryingtoputan end to Notre Dame's Purdue will have to counter with a de­ningthrough themindsoftheNotre streak in Notre Dame Stadium. fensive line and Iinebacking unit that, com-Dame football team on Saturday. No, they "It's gonna be quite an uphill battle for bined, have only two· starters with two or won't be rolling any dice. They will be us, especially in South Bend," said Akers. moreyearsofplayingexperience,tackleBill trying to roll past the Purdue Boilermakers Considering their overall inexperi-Hitchcock (6-6, 277) and linebacker Jerrol 
and gain their seventh straight victory both ence, Purdue may be looking up Mount Williams (6-5, 231). Needless to say, stop-at home and over a Big Ten Conference Everest. The Boilermakers will try to cur-ping the run will be quite a project for the opponent tail a potent Irish running game with a Boilermakers, especially against a steadily 
Last Saturday's 20-3 thrashing of defense whose most seasoned players are improving Notre Dame offensive line that Michigan State by the Irish cannot be very safeties, and their equally-youthful offense looked very impressive against two of the encouraging for Purdue head coach Fred must try to score against an Trish defense better defenses in thecountry{Michigan and 
18 Scholastic 
Chuck Ray 

Tony Brooks stepped in at fullback when Johnson and Banks were Injured at MSU. 
Michigan State). 
Offensively, Purdue's hopes rest in the talented right arm of junior quarterback Shawn McCarthy (6-6, 224). He will look to get the ball in the hands of a couple of slick receivers.junior flanker Calvin Williams ( 6­0, 192)and sophomore split end Todd Moore (6-1, 169), as well as junior tight end Dwayne O'Connor (6-3, 235). The Boiler­makers' backfield, with sophomore tailback Jarrett Scales (5-11, 184) and 5 foot 9, 190­pound fireplug Darren Myles at fullback, complement an offense that has piled up 707 total yards in its first two games, 428 against Ohio alone last Saturday. 
Should the Notre Dame defense rise to the occasion once again this week, those 428 yards will be a distant memory for the Boil­ermakers. Notre Dame's defense simply dominated Michigan State last week, hold­ing them to a paltry 89 yards rushing while sacking quarterback Bobby McAllister four times and intercepting him twice. The two pickoffs came courtesy of Irish inside line­backer Mike Stonebreaker, who is wreaking havoc on the opposition (33 total tackles in two games) and making his jersey number 42 a permanent fixture on running backs. Sophomore nose tackle Chris Zorich has been outstanding as well, ranking second on the team with 19 total tackles. 


Purdue stacks up well in the battle of the special teams. McCarthy, while not han­dling the quarterbacking duties, serves as the punter with a 40.5 yard average. Freshman placekickerLarry Sullivan has converted on two out of three field goal attempts and been a perfect three for three on extra points. Calvin Williams returns punts while Scales and freshman tailback Ray Graham lead a kick return unit that averages 20 yards a shot. 
Notre Dame's special teams have had their share of success as well. Reggie Ho, the Michigan-game saviour with four field goals, connected on two more attempts against the Spartans and leads the NCAA with a three-per-game average, while Jim Sexton ranks seventh in net punting yardage 
.. ,....... ,., ' 

''It's hnporfanJ, fori our players. ·t()··r~membe{·.tJiis week how.Iatgetb~ Notre·· Dame game· ranks on Purdue's schedule~ I expect this to be a tremendously physical,· competitive foot­ball game . tJecause that's been indicative ofthe Notte Dame•~ PurcIJ¢. series.:' 


-..";;ci:<lJ Hoitz 
with an average of42.3. Ricky Watters' 81­yard touchdown versus Michigan and "Rocket" Raghib lsmail's 43-yard kickoff run against Michigan State are a strong in­dication that Purdue will have its hands full with Notre Dame's explosive return teams. 
Regardless of how the Boilermakers stack up on paper, Holtz knows that Akers will get the most out of his team come Saturday afternoon. Holtz points to Purdue's 20-6, home-opening loss to Wash­ington as being somewhat of a misleading indicator of their potential. 
"If it hadn't been for some untimely turnovers," explained Holtz, "Purdue could easily have beaten Washington and be coming in here 2-0 this week." 
"I'veknown Fred Akers for a long time, and there's no question in my mind he'll have Purdue in the upper echelon of the Big Ten very soon." 
For now, Holtz and the Irish fully intend to let Akers get Number 101 in West Lafay­ette. IJ 



COMI 

THURSDAY, SEPT. 22 

Lectiifo > . . • .. . . . >.. Kellogg Institute Inaugural Lecture "Parties, Unions, and Economic Perfonnance in Western Europe," by Prof. Peter Lange, Dept of Political Science, Duke University. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute and the Committee for Western European Studies at 4:00p.m. in room 131 of Decio Faculty Hall. 
\Touring Show .•· . ·. .··. •·••··• 
United States Air Force "Tops In Blue" 
touring show in Stepan Center on free, 
first come, first serve basis at 7:30p.m. 
Lecture.•:.··. 
Dept. of Modem Languages Lecture 
"America in the Eyes of Hispanics From the 16th Century to Present," by profs. Jose Anadon and Rafael E. Tarrago, of the University of Notre Dame. In the library lounge at 7:30p.m. 

]·TV' ~Offeahi:. ,.. ,.. 
Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry Satellite Distributed TV Program "Partners in Mystery: An Invitation to Involvement," concerning the Bishops' Response to Women's Concerns and featuring Bishop Joseph Imesch, Joliet, Illinois; Susan Muto, Principal Author, Epiphany Association, Pittsburgh; and Sister Mariella Frye, U.S.C.C., Washington, D.C. in the Center for Continuing Education Dining Room at 8:45p.m. 

iMovie ? . ·.·· ...••• 
Moonraker at 8:00p.m. and 10:15p.m. in 
the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 



FRIDAY, SEPT. 23 


Advisory Councils for the Law School 

I. 
and the Snite Museum of Art, at the 



G DISTRACTIONS 
Center for Continuing Education. 
AAMeeting 
Open Meeting for Alcoholics Anonymous from 7:30a.m. to 8:30a.m. at the Holy Cross House. 
Anti-Apartheid Rally 

Meeting on the steps of the Administration Building at 12:15p.m. 
: ·. . . : .. ·. 

Seminar •.. > ·• •·· ·•· ·· Chemical Engineering Dept. Graduate Seminar "Liquid Membranes--Past, Present, and Future," by Dr. Nonnan N. Li, Allied Signal, Inc., Des Plaines, Ill. At 3:30p.m. in room 356 of Fitzpatrick Engineering Hall. 


ND Women vs. Adrian College at 5:00p.m. in Moose Krause Stadium. ND Men vs. Western Michigan at 7:30 
p.m. in Moose Krause Stadium. 
Nurses' Cannin!! • 
Saint Mary's College 1988 Nurses' Capping at 6:30p.m. in the Church of Loretto Volleyball .. ·.• 
ND Men vs. Rice University at 7:30p.m. in the JACC Arena. 


The Manchurian Candidate, a ND Communication and Theater Film at 7:30p.m. and 9:45p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. An American GI is captured and brainwashed . Sent back to the United States, he becomes a pawn in the sinister plot to take over the country. Frank Sinatra gives one of his finest perfonnances. With Janet Leigh and Angela Lansbury. 
Zelig at 8:00p.m. and 10: 15p.m. in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 24 
AAMeeting 
Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Center for Social Concerns. At 9:30a.m. in the Multi­purpose room of the Center for Cocial Concerns. 
Football 
Notre Dame vs. Purdue in the Notre Dame Stadium at 12:20p.m. The Notre Dame Band will present an Hispanic show at halftime. 
Film. ·•. . ... Repo Man at 8:00p.m. and 10:15p.m. in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 

SUNDAY, SEPT. 25 
Soccer 
Notre Dame Men vs. Binningham Southern at 1:00p.m. in Moose Krause Stadium Notre Dame Women vs. St. Joseph's College at 4:00p.m. in Moose Krause Stadium 
Conference 
Year of Cultural Diversity Christian Business Values In An Intercultural Environment, "Values and Policies in the Global Economy: A European-American Institutional Challenge," by Clemens­August Andreae, Prof. ofPublic Finance and fonner rector, University of Innsbruck, and Reinhard Koester, McKinsey & Company, Cleveland. At 8:00p.m. in the Center for Continuinmg Education. 

MONDAY, SEPT. 26 

Playtime at 7:00p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium.Directed by Jacques Tati, this satire of city living is considered one of the most visually inventive films ever made. 
20 
Scholastic 




COMING DISTRACTIONS 
Open City at 9:00p.m. in the Annenburg 
Auditorium. A passionate effort to 
examine the truth after 20 years of Italian 
fascism have kept this film a living, caring 
human document. 
TUESDAY, SEPT. 27 
Films Laura at 7:00p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. A methodical detective investigates the murder of femme fatale Gene Tierney, only to have the corpse tum up alive. Laura is a polished, witty and utterly civilized approach to murder. 
Casablanca at 9:00p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Crackling intrigue, tingling romance, and a superb moody atmosphere make this taut melodrama one of the best WWII films. Bogart, in a memorable performance, is in top form as the owner of a Casablanca nightclub, where he is suddenly confronted with an old flame, Ingrid Bergman. 
Planes, Trains and Automobiles at Carroll Auditorium on the SMC Campus. At 9:00p.m. and 11:00p.m. through Thursday. 
South Bend Area 

Building, north of U.S. 6 and U.S. 31 intersection, LaPaz. Through Saturday from 9a.m. to 5p.m. 
Nappanee Apple Festival Variety of food, craft, and antique-and­collectible booths; 9a.m. to 6p.m. Friday and Saturday; Main Street, and U.S. 6. 

Michigan City Community Center for the Arts presents "Moon of the Falling Leaves," an all-Indian exhibit, downstairs galleries; exhibit of Robert Lake's photos of pre-Columbian sites in South America, upstairs gallery. Tuesdays through Fridays from 9a.m. to 4p.m., and Saturdays 10:30a.m. to 3:30p.m. 
Snite Museum of Art on the University of Notre Dame campus displays "New and Conserved Works of Art in the Galleries" and "Master Drawings of the 18th Century". Sundays lOa.m. to 4p.m., and lOa.m. to 4p.m. Tuesdays through Saturdays. 

Town & Country Moon Over Parador 2: 10, 4:30, 7: 10, 9:30 The Last Temptation of Christ 2:00, 5:00, 8:15 
Scottsdale Theater 
Tucker 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Who Framed Roger Rabbit 1 :45, 4:00, 6:45, 9:15 
University Park West 
Cocktail 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:45 Hot To Trot 1:45, 3:30 Married To the Mob 5:00, 7:15, 9:30 Messenger of Death 1:40, 3:40, 5:40, 7:40,9:40 
University Park East 
Young Guns 1:15, 3:20, 5:25, 7:35, 9:35 Coming To America 1:00, 3:15, 5:30, 7:45, 10:00 Nightmare On Elm Street 1:15, 3:15,5:15, 7:15, 9:15 Big 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9;30 _ 
Who Framed Roger Rabbit 1:45, 3:45, 5:45,7:45, 9:45 A Fish Called Wanda 1:30, 3:35, 5:40, 7:45, 9:50. 
Forum Center 
Betrayed 7:00, 9:25 Tucker, A Man and His Dream 7:10, 9:30 Nightmare On Elm Street IV 7:45, 9:45 
100 Center Cinemas 
Big Top Pee Wee 1:00, 3:00 The Presidio 5:00, 7:00, 9:00 The Dead Pool 5:30, 7:15, 9:15 
Chicago Area 
Aragon Ballroom 
The Ramones on Friday, Sept 23 at 
7:30p.m. Call 555-1212. 
Traffic Jam 
The Way Moves on Friday, Sept. 23, and 
American English on Saturday, Sept 24. 
401 West Ontario, call 440-1450. 
Cabaret Metro 
PereUbu and John Cale on Friday, Sept. 
23. The Godfathers, Saturday, Sept 24. 3730 North Clark. 
Park West 
A Dance Party with Dennis Brown, Lloyd Brown & We the People Band on Friday, Sept. 23.Arlo Guthrie on Sunday, Sept 25. 322 W. Armitage. 
Orphans 
Green on Friday, Sept. 17, and Otis and 
the Elevators on Saturday, Sept 24. 2462 
North Lincoln. 

Final Word 




Don't Let Them 
Tempt You 
A freshmar,, protests the protesters at The Last Temptation ofChrist 
BY DAN FAHEY . 


By now, you have no doubt heard many stories about the movie The Last Temptation ofChrist: Tales ofoutrage, emotion, and protesters outside of theaters have been widely publicized in association with this movie. In fact, much ofthe publicity which has accompanied the movie has been the result ofthe people who protest against it, instead of any actual merit of the film. Well, here is another story: the story of a person who protested the protestors. I decided to counter-protest after seeing the movie on September 3 at Town and Country Cinemas. Upon leaving the thea­ter, I encountered approximately 30 pro­testers. After reading their literature and conversing with several of the protesters, I realized that almost none of them had even seen the movie and that, in fact, they had gross misconceptions about what had actu­ally occurred in the film. In my mind, the protestors were committing a gross injus­
i\1 
tice. The very fact that people who had not 
I' 
J! 
i i 
I 

seen The Last Tempatation ofChrist might
I 
I 
1:. be discouraging others from viewing it, frightened me. I tried to make my point with 
f 
'I them, but they refused to :listen, and re­sponded by quoting scripture. My only recourse was to protest the protesters. 

So I returned that night, by myself, carrying a sign that stated, •~see this movie!/Don 't let these people tell you what the movie says/ See it for yourself and decide/THINK!" At this point, I avoided arguments with the other eight people positioned·outside of the theater ( only one ofthem had seen half ofthe movie) because !:was not there to take a stand on the movie; I merely wanted to oppose their ignorance. 
During the hour I stood in front of the theater, several people drove by, and dis­

played their middle finger for me, and one woman even yelled at me from her car. I responded to all with a wave ·arid a· peace 
sign, to which the woman yelped/'You're the one not at peace!" Apart. from these 
The next time I was able to protest was the following Friday, September 9. Again by myself, I now carried three signs. My third sign read, "May the Good Lord Shut your . Mouth and Open Your Mina," a motto from the '60s. The twenty protesters on hand all · i:ead my signs; yetthey made no comments. After the movie had begun, I proceeded to walk to my car. At this point, when I was 

· nehily 30 yards away,·the protesters began to ridicule and taunt me. My anger towards the prot~ters was quickly overcome by a feeling ofpity towards them. As I drove by them, they continued to point and yell. 
The entire aim of my counter-protest is to encourage people to think for themselves. Just as protesters who haven't seen the movie should not discourage people from seeing it, so should you -as the public-'­

not allow these, or.any people, to so easily tel~ you what to thmk and how to behav~. 

people, many people gave me encourage:. : ~his sho~ld extend _not only to your dec1­
ment The following night I ~turned with my friend Joe, and another sign which read, "Think for yourself!/ Pass judgment after 
youseethemovie!" Thatnight,manypeople encouraged us, and no one gave us any prob­lems. 
s1on of ~hether ~r not to see The_ ~ast .!emptatzon ofChrz:t, but also t~ dec1s1ons 10 your everyday hfe. THINK. II 

. 
Dan Fahey is a freshman living in Carroll 
Hall. He is from Bedford, New York. 
22 

Scholastic 




Take the bites out of law enforcement 
Police dogs aren't needed to break up student parties. Now, that seems rather 
obvious, but since the South Bend Police Department disagrees, it's time for 
students to force the issue. 
Two weeks ago, a young alumnus in town for the Michigan game attended a party 
and was bitten by a German shepherd police dog when the police broke up the 
gathering. The police said he was resisting arrest. 
Students should be worried. 
The relationship between Notre Dame students and South Bend residents always has 
an element of tension. And student parties are a significant factor in that tension. 
Admittedly, hundreds of students off campus at a party have the potential to get a 
little outofhand. Itcan't be a fun job to tell people that the party is, literally,over. But 
some facts remain: Over the past four years, there are two accounts of police dogs 
biting people who were attending student parties. There are no accounts of students 
assaulting officers oroffering much more than verbal resistance to the police. Students 
generally are notthat dangerous. And in the case oftwo weeks ago, it is highly unlikely 
that recent Georgetown Law School graduate Thomas Abood, 24, was endangering 
officers, a fact shown by the unclear nature of the police reports. 
Students, it's time to do something. Pressure the university. Tell them you are 
worried about the police tactics. And student government, instead of simply talking 
up good relations with South Bend, you have two missions: 1) truly promote an attitude 
of consideration towards locals on students part and 2) insist that the administration 
does go to bat for students on this one. 
Finally, administrators, we know that part of maintaining good relations with South 
Bend entails working with and supporting South Bend police. But when the police 
make a practice ofexcessive force, Notre Dame has the responsibility to her students, 
as well as the local community, to exert influence to stop unnecessary tactics that could 
result in real harm. 

-Scholastic 
Ernie Pock's Comeek by Lynda Barry 


24 
Scholastic 
~ 

---~------·_ ,. -~ -,,.. '. '~ ,.; . -. -' ~ 





WI-\E~ TO ~A~E U~

11 
TH~ 
i=ui.:i BE.e,u,:is 
P.T \;IJt-lRISE.. ! .1•1 M~-.l'::l EN, Pf.oPLE. 00r-l 'T U t-iOEQ.,;;'rA>.lO 
11-\IS (.OoJCEP°S SO 
BE. SvRE. To RE/.,11wo TKEM EVE.2'::l DA~. 
DROOLING M~OE 

E~~1ARM1~0. 
2. Tll.T 1-\e.AD F0R.WA2O. 
3. STARE. Bl-A,-,~½l • 
4. SALI\/P.TE.. 
6 5. ~~E.STO! 
'F R.USTRP..'"(c{;) BECJ:llJSE.. /:\IJ OB.JtCT DOeSr-:l'T WOR\:::. THE WAI:, ~OU 
WAr-iT 
SO ':,OU WANT TO SE. AN ARTIST 



A~n~ 
DIO ':100 l:.NOW !x,-J C.AIJ MA~ ':lOVl2. 
O1,uN P,Q:t ':.vPPl-lE:S'? THA"t:S Rl{:,t\T ! 
JUS"t' RcAc..\. IN ':10UQ. DIAPE..2S A.'-ll) 
SMEAR. WI-\ATE.Vl:J2. ':10U i:1.io A.L.L. 
Q\JE2. 1t-{E WA\.L. Wow!.' ~OU C.0Vl..t1 
~E. i:\N AVP.t-li-C:,~RDE. GE.N\V ~ !!( 
C+I-AP"teR 2 \-\OW to BE A W\l~ 1-':1EAR-OLD 
~OUR OUT\ ES 

(DBE. CUTE.. 
(DSCRE.AIV\ IF PRovo~D. 
h\scRE.Afv\ IF 

\.::;) IC:,r-JORE.D. 
® <,RAB IW~TI\11.JG ~OV CAN GE.T 1::,ove. HP.NOS ON. 
(DTA5r£. At.lljT+\lrJ6 ~OV CA.J JAM IN ':'.:)OUR. MOUTH.
© kE.E.P AN E1:1E. 
0'-l MOMl'II~. 
©19BB BY
MMt 

Gflo£tJJN6 

• TIPS  FOR ToODLcl2...S •  ~  
URGE.NT BVSl~t.SS TO A1lfalD To?  ~  
~OU MA'::, Fl'-1O IT FASTER. TO RE~T  ~  
TO CR.AWUtJG IN StTUATl0>JS Ti-lA.T  ~  
REQvtR.1::-Gru:AT 1-lAS-cE.  ~  ~  :)l  


@= ~==~~ 
" 
~ 
"' 
::;; 
a:; <Sl 
IP 
.r 

''THROW ft FETC.H" 
PERHAPS THE. BE.£T GAME. 
EVE.R. INVEiJTE.D 
~d) 

How TO PLA~ 
CD ~OU TI-\ROuJ TO':,. 

{[) MOMM':1 FETCI-IE.S. 0 RE.PE.AT. GAME. Is ove.~ t.ul-E,N MOMM'1 GIVES !:10\I ~ COOl<-IE: AiJD C,0£.S TO LIE t>OloJN. 
WARtJltJ6: nus IS'=!OUR0'-1\.':, C,HP,)J(.e IN URc. To LE6ALL~ Ru1'.l N/:\lc.e:DP.I\IQ FRc.E., SoGOFoR IT. 





SUB IN 

Address:.··_ City:___---'--'..;_;_______;_ Plt:ase make checks payableit6 : ... LaFprtuneStudent Center 
'NofreDam~: IN 46556 ...• 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x _._ years = $_·_ 






