A NEW IDEA IN SMOKING!
Switch to ifea
...smoke refreshed
nf liter
most
This inviting spring scene tells you how refreshing Salem tastes. Pure menthol-fresh comfort... full rich tobacco flavor with a new surprise softness ... modern filter, too. You smoke refreshed! New experience for any smoker. Try Salem!
er rated by
Fi. J. Heynolds Tobacco Company
Take a Puff—It’s Springtime!
It’s delightful to smoke Salem...you’ll love ’em!
Wedding Ring
THAT little round object is a new kind of Timken® tapered roller bearing for your car. It’s the big change in bearings that meets the big change in cars. It helps im-pro'e ride, increases safety, prolongs car life, aids styling, protects trade-in value. And it’s available!
It’s also a wedding ring.
With it the Timken Company recements the 57-year partnership between ourselves and the auto industry.
It’s the product of a whole new approach to the design, manufacture and supply of automotive bearings. A concept pioneered by the Timken Company and launched in a new kind of bearing plant, built at a cost of Si2,000,000. A concept mated to the swiftly changing needs of a fantastically mushrooming auto industry.
We call it the Moto-Mated Way.
From the Moto-Mated Way comes a whole new breed of Timken tapered roller bearings for wheels, pinion, differential, steering gear. Smaller bearings to save space. Lighter bearings to cut unsprung weight, improve comfort. Lower-priced bearings. Strong bearings to handle all the new power. Wear-resistant bearings to maintain your car’s resale value.
It’s how the Timken Company works with industry. Working drawing board to drawing board, we anticipate needs. Design new products and develop new production machinery and techniques to meet new demands. This kind of cooperation has paid off for the Timken Company and for the industries we serve.
It’s helped make "Timken” the best-known bearing in America. It’s kept us moving up. And if you think you’d like to keep moving up, you might be interested in what the Timken Company has to offer college graduates. For details, write for our booklet: "Career Opportunities at the Timken Company.” The Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton 6, Ohio.
TIMKEN
TRADE-MARK REG. Ua S. PAT. OFF.
TAPERED ROLLER BEARINGS
Timken® bearings keep America on the GO ... and you keep going up when you go with the Timken Company

December 14, 1956
5V
SMOKERS EVERYWHERE ARE DISCOVERING WHY
Viceroys
ARE SMOOTHER
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 98 December 14, 1956 No. 11
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
The exclusive Viceroy filter is made from pure cellulose—soft, snow-white, natural!
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
CHARLES McKENDRICK
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON
Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER ......... News	Editor
JAMES McDONALD  .......Copy Editor p
DAVID KUBAL .........Feature Co-Editor JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor '4? GEORGE CLEMENTS......Assistant News
JIM DULAN .......... Assistant	News
BOB VONDRASEK.................Assistant News . . HARRY McKEE............Assistant Copy	_
MARSH PIDGEON.................Assistant Copy DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr. HARRY CONLON ............Business Mgr. JOHN GLAVIN............Sports Editor	\
BOB EARLY...........Assistant Sports	-.
MIKE FITZPATRICK ......Assistant Sports	•-
News Staff : Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, Jack Coughlin, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, J. David Karnath, Bob LaMontagne, Jim^' Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Jerry' Leppek, Jim *' Naughton, John O’Hara, Ed Plumly, Walt Rudge, Dave Schwartz, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Bob Williams, Jim Yoch.
.	I
Sports Staff: Pat Defoe, Jim Goethals, f Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg i Rogers, Ed Rohrbach. Ted Thompson, Z Doug Zilliox.	y
Sports Features: Joe Bride, Tom Ed- i wards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon.	i
=^=^=^====^=^^ [ Member of Catholic School Press Association, As- | sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national * advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., ( 420 Maduon Avenue, New York City.	i
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
The Scholastic
CaMpUi ^OUtt
' MARDI GRAS FESTIVAL SET FOR MARCH 1-5
Cadillac, Ford Named ►Top Carnival Awards
A 1957 Cadillac will be awarded at the conclusion of the 1957 Notre Dame Mardi Gras, Emmett Malloy, chairman, announced this week. Mardi Gras festivities will be held from March 1 through 5, 1957.
The student prize this year is a 1957 Ford Custom, also to be awarded at the Mardi Gras Carnival on March 5. For Reach ticket a student distributes he has one opportunity to win the automobile. Proceeds from the Mardi Gras Ball, carnival, and ticket-book-sales go to the LaFortune Student Center expansion fund and a $4000 contribution to the Notre Dame Charity Chest.
Since 1953, the Mardi Gras has contributed to the LaFortune Student Center development, in that year paying for ^furnishings of the building. The student fund raising project has also helped provide for other improvements in the Center including the Rathskellar, Malloy emphasized. If last year’s contri
bution to the Center of $17,000 is surpassed this year, Mr. Joseph LaFortune will bear the rest of the $150,000 cost of expanding student facilities.
The Mardi Gras opens March 1 with the annual ball, during which the new Center addition will be dedicated. The renovation will be completed for the ball and will increase the main ballroom dancing space for an additional 150 couples. Also included in the new addition are a new “Huddle” and recreation rooms.
The carnival opens Saturday, March 2, and continues until the following Tuesday. The theme of the carnival is New Orleans, and a new booth arrangement to eliminate congestion will be introduced. Also new this year is awarding of the cars in two separate contests.
Committee members for the Mardi Gras, in addition to Malloy, general chairman, are Jerry Murphy, contest; Joe Reich, carnival; Don Renier, ball; Dave Morris and Terry McCafferty, booths; Ed Lynch, supplies; Tom Nicknish, bogus money; Joe McMahon and Tom Carroll, publicity; and Owen Desmond, business manager.
Debaters Cop Second In Pittsburgh Tourney
Last weekend the Notre Dame Debate Team ranked second in the University of Pittsburgh tournament. The fresh-mej and sophomore debaters recently wo; tournaments at Butler University an the University of Illinois at Chicago aj i on Dec. 1 the freshmen debaters v ,n another tournament at Butler.
At the Pittsburgh tournament last .•’riday and Saturday, the varsity debate team placed second in a field of 50 teams. The ND affirmative team of Paul Coffey and Jack Martzell and the negative team of Pat Curran and Gerald Goudreau gained 118 points in ten rounds, two points behind the winner, Northwestern University.	-
At Butler University the Notre Dame debate teams have swept two tournaments in the past two weeks, winning first place in each. Last Saturday freshman and sophomore debaters placed first in a field of 50 teams, while on Dec. 1 the first year debate team registered 16 straight wins without a loss at the Butler University Invitational Novice tournament. A Notre Dame team has now won two out of the first three of these tournaments. Eight men represented the University this year, on two separate teams.
Five of the Notre Dame debaters ranked in the top ten of the tournament on the basis of their point totals. The winning team was composed of Dennis Shaul, Thomas Banchoff, Robert Dempsey, and Gerald Goudreau, while the members of the second place team were Michael Phenner, Michael McCarthy, Claiborne Johnson, and Thomas Clus-serath.
The annual Freshman-Sophomore Invitational Debate tournament sponsored by the University of Illinois at Chicago was also won by a Notre Dame team. The ND team won the first place trophy with the highest point total of the tournament. They won over 200 debaters from 39 different schools.
December 14. 1956
7
Campus Clubs Announce Plans for Holidays; Annual Christmas Dances Highlight Activities
A full schedule of holiday social plans heads the calendar of Notre Dame’s geographic clubs for the coming Christmas vacation. Clubs from coast to coast have planned activities for the vacation period.
The Met Club will present its annual Christmas formal at the Starlight Roof of the Waldorf Astoria on Thursday, Dec. 27 from 9 p.m. until 12 midnight. Francis Walther and his orchestra will provide the dance music. Bids are being sold for $6.
In addition to the dance, the Met Club will sponsor its Holiday Basketball Festival on Wednesday, Dec. 26. The event will be held in Madison Square Garden. Tickets can be purchased at 212 Walsh.
Buddy Morrow’s orchestra will be the feature attraction at the Chicago Club’s Christmas Dance on Dec. 27. The dance will be held at the M and M Club of the Merchandise Mart from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. Bids are $4 on campus and $4.50 in Chicago.
Likewise on Dec. 27, the Buffalo Club, the Buffalo Alumni Club, and the alumni wives will jointly sponsor a dance at the Buffalo Track and Field Club.
The California Club will give two dances simultaneously on Dec. 27. Northern Californians will have their dance at the St. Francis Yacht Club in San Francisco while students from the Los Angeles area will dance in the Mayfair Room of the Beverly Wilshire Hotel.
The Cleveland Club of Notre Dame, together with the alumni of Cleveland, will hold a formal dance at the Midday Club on Dec. 29. George Duffy will play from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Tickets are available from Jack Doyle, 53 Sorin, and George Hahn, 156 Morrissey.
The Detroit Club and the Detroit alumni are sponsoring an informal dance in the Main Ballroom of the Sheraton-Cadillac Hotel on Dec. 27. Bids are $4.75 and dancing will be from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. On Sunday, Dec. 23, there will be a family Communion Breakfast at the Tuller Hotel, after Mass in St. Aloysius Church. Rev. John Walsh, C.S.C., of Fisher Hall will speak at the breakfast.
On Dec. 26, the Kansas City Club will hold a dinner-dance at the Hotel President. The affair will begin at 7:30, and Les Copely will play for the dancers until 1 a.m. Tickets are $13.
The Empire Room of Boston’s Hotel Kenmore will be the scene of the New England Club’s dance on Dec. 28. Bids are $5. The dance is informal, and will last from 9 p.m. to 1 p.m. Ken Reeves’ orchestra will provide the music. There
will also be a New England Club car on the New England States, leaving South Bend at 3:48 p.m. Wednesday, Dec. 19.
The Villagers of Notre Dame will hold their annual “Home for Christmas’’ dance Dec. 27 at the Knights of Columbus Hall on North Michigan. Music will be provided by Kenny Taylor. Dancing •will be from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Tickets are $3.50.
The Columbus Club of Notre Dame has chartered a roundtrip 'bus which will take students to Columbus or anywhere within 15 miles of the city. The price is $16 for the round trip, or $8 one way. On Dec. 28 the annual Christmas dance will be held at the Deshler Hilton Hotel from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Bids for the dance, “Midnight Sleighride,” will be $3.50.
Two holiday events have been planned for Notre Dame students and their friends living in and around the twin cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis. On Dec. 27 the annual Alumni Dance will be held from 8:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. Bids will be $3.50. A sleighride and party will follow the next evening, Dec. 28, from 7:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. The sleighride will cost $2.50.
A special student price of $6 is being offered for bids to the Cincinnati Alumni Club’s formal Christmas dance. The dance will be held in the Pavilion Caprice of the Netherland-Hilton Hotel from 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m.
ND-St. Mary's Group Leaves On Washington Tour Jan. 24
Dr. Paul Bartholomew will conduct a group of Notre Dame and St. Marys students on a tour to Washington D.C. between semesters, Jan. 24-30.
In addition to visiting the White House, the Washington Monument, the Lincoln Memorial and other important places in the nation’s capital, the trip will include stops at several historic . towns and sites including Mount Vernon, Jamestown, and Alexandria.
Those making the trip will leave from LaPaz station at 6 p.m. on Dec. 24. Meals will be provided on the train and the students will stay at the Hotel Dupont Plaza in Washington.
Cost of the trip is $135 and it will cover all expenses. For further information and reservations,' students may contact Dr. Bartholomew in Room 346 of O’Shaughnessy Hall or at 415 E. Poka-gon street in South Bend.
FATHER MAGUIRE
Sixty years a priest
Fr. Maguire to Mark Anniversary Sunday
An 85-year-old priest, who persuaded^ Knute Rockne to remain at Notre Dame : / as a chemistry instructor following his graduation, will observe the 60th anniversary of his ordination with a Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church Sun- s > day morning at 9 a.m.	;
Rev. Joseph A. Maguire, C.S.C., will ; celebrate his jubilee Mass at the same s altar where he was ordained to the priesthood on Dec. 21, 1896.	# 1
Father Maguire, who arrived at Notre .7 Dame as a seminarian 70 years ago, is ft one of very few persons who remember f the University’s founder, Rev. Edward c F. Sorin, C.S.C.	■
For more than 20 years after his ordination, from 1897 to 1920, Father Maguire was head of Notre Dame’s chemistry department. Rockne, whom he remembers as a “very fine teacher” wa^ not the only student of his who achieved f national prominence. The late Rev. ■Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., whose re- | search led to the development of syn- i thetic rubber, also was a student and [ later a colleague of Fathei- Maguire. 1
From 1950 to 1953, at 80 years of l age, Father Maguire returned to Notre f Dame’s faculty, this time teaching re- j. ligion, after serving in several respon-M sible posts of the Congregation of Holy ? Cross for 30 years.	E
For approximately 15 years, Father : Maguire was associated with St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas, serving as its president from 1934 to 1937. He was pastor of St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, from 1931 to 1934 and from— 1937 to 1940.
«
The Scholastic
Change
Until Wednesday of this week the Scholastic had allotted this page for a critical analysis of the newly installed pre-registration system. We had planned to publish two articles which, in our opinion. pointed out the disadvantages connected with the revised system.
However, I was informed that morning from a reliable source that the original four-day examination period would be extended. The extent of the change was not known at that time. This information necessitated a revision in our previous plans.
But before I say anything further, perhaps it would be best if I retraced the events of the past week. As you know quite well by now, the University has installed a new process for pre-registration and registration. Needless to say much confusion resulted in the changeover. But the long lines in the Office of Academic Affairs were not the only problem created. The exam period had to be trimmed down to four days with tests administered both day and night. As a result of the new system several extra days had to be assigned for registration after the semester ended. The semester break was all but eliminated.
Last Friday evening the Student Senate distributed a resolution to the student body. It contained background material on the change and listed a number of sound objections to the proposed exam revision. Compiled by Jack Crutcher and Bob Kiley the motion pin-pointed a number of the problems brought about by the Administration’s desire to revise the old, faulty procedure.
It was not until this statement was issued that the student body was informed of the shortened exam period and the five day registration interval before the Spring semester began. A great deal of resentment was heaped upon the Administration because of the change.
I would like to take this opportunity to commend the Blue Circle and the Student Senate, and especially Messrs. Crutcher and Kiley, for the valuable service they rendered to the student body in taking a firm stand on the matter. In times past the two organizations have not been as outspoken as they should have in seeking out the best interests of the student.
However, by its positive stand on a situation which vitally concerned the academic well-being of its constituents, the Senate took a step forward—building up its prestige with the students and gaining the respect of the Administration.
The Administration, by heeding the appeals of the Senate to revise the exam period, will tear down many of the barriers of resentment that were thrown up when the new procedure was announced. Also, a valuable lesson was learned. The same reliable source who informed me of the proposed exam extension said that in the future the Administration will have to sound out the opinion of the students themselves in matters so closely allied with the students’ best interests. It is only logical that in a program so vital to student welfare, the student body should have a voice in determining its academic fate.
As I stated before, in all likelihood the examination period will be extended. A meeting of Administration officials and student leaders is scheduled for this evening. The purpose of the session is to hear arguments from both viewpoints and draw up a proposal that will best meet the needs of both groups.
As it stands now the exam period is too confining for adequate preparation. The students owe the Senate and Blue Circle a sincere tribute for the job they have done, both in informing the student body of the unsatisfactory procedure and in striving to gain a more advantageous system.	—C. McK.
December 14, 1956
9

ROGER BENNETT, Dome Editor; DANIEL BERGEN, AFROTC Commander; JOHN BURE, NFCCS; THOMAS CALDER, Lawyer Assoc. Editor; CONRAD CONWAY, Chief Justice Student Court; FREDERICK CORKILL, WSND Station Manager; TERRENCE CROWLEY, Juggler Business; JOHN DOYLE, Junior Prom Chairman (not pictured) ; EDWARD FOX, Student Law Association President; RONALD FRANCIS, Glee Club President; ROBERT GORMAN, Lawyer Editor; HARRY HEYL, Juggler Editor; PAUL HORNUNG, Heisman Trophy Winner; ROBERT KILEY, Commerce Senator; EUGENE KOPP, Blue Circle Chairman; PAUL KRAPP, YCS President; PATRICK LOGAN, Student Senate President; EMMETT MALLOY, Mardi Gras Chairman; CHARLES McKENDRICK, Schol
astic Editor; JAMES MORSE, Football Captain; JEREMIAH MURPHY, Student Senate Vice-President; EDMUND PISTEY, University Dance Band Leader; ROBERT PLEUS, AB Senator; WILLIAM REEVE, Technical Revieiv Editor; ROBERT SASSEEN, University Theater; ROBERT SCANNELL, Dean’s List, Monogram Winner; THOMAS SCHRIBER, Freshman Advisory Committee Chairman; JOHN SCRIBA, Engineering Senator; THOMAS SHEHAN, Festival of Arts Chairman; GEORGE STRAKE, Senior Class President; WILLIAM SCHIERBERL, Grey’s Inn President (not pictured); ROBERT WEINER, Engineering Open House Chairman; ANTHONY YURCHAK, Marriage Institute Chairman.
Morse
Weiner
Reeve
Yurchak
December 14, 1956
College Group Conducts Annual Symposium; Students Hear Addresses on Catholic Action
The Catholic college graduate, in the opinion of many priests, is not carrying his weight in the lay apostolate with the result that the important work is still being done “by the relatively uneducated or poorly educated Catholic lay person,” Rev. Joseph Fichter, S.J., visiting professor of sociology at the University, declared here Saturday.
Father Fichter, an authority on parish sociology, and Donald Thorman, managing editor of The Ave Maria, were the principal speakers at the fourth annual Advent Symposium here. More than 200 college students from throughout the country attended the sessions which were sponsored by the National Catholic Action Study commission.
Thorman told the collegians of the role of the Catholic press in nurturing, sustaining and building up the lay apos
tolate. “Through its books, pamphlets, magazine and diocesan papers, the Catholic press is helping to motivate, educate and form the minds of its 20-million plus subscribers,” he said. Describing the Catholic press as “the voice of the lay apostolate in modern America,” Thorman said that young people cannot help but become better lay apostles if they read “selectively and regularly” as much as possible.
Father Fichter, who is head of the department of sociology at Loyola University of the South, observed moreover, that the status of the Catholic laity is changing “rapidly and upwardly” as compared to that of the priest. Whereas priests have tended to maintain approximately the same status which they had a generation or two ago, laymen with specialized professional training
often have more prestige than the par- W ish priest, the Jesuit sociologist said.
“It may be said that some lay people are too learned and too educated not only for the other- parishioners, but also the priests of the parish,” Father Fichter contended. “Pastors can often be taken aback,” he said, “by the advanced and so-called liberal attitudes exhibited by an educated person.” Pointing out _ that the level of education is rising very rapidly among Jay Catholics, Father Fichter said that the Catholic college graduate “is no longer the exception he once was. Some of the newer parishes,” he said, “are made up almost entirely of college people; and their number is increasing all the time.”
“The best contribution the college man can make is not necessarily to be out in front as a known and approved leader # in parish affairs,” Father Fichter said. “It is rather through contacts, through committee work and through personal relations that he is able to put over his -ideas.”
SHAMPOO FOR MEN
SHAMPOO
FOR MEN
IN UNBREAKABLE PLASTIC 8
Formulated for a man's hair and scalp.
Conditions while it cleans. 1.25 plus tow
SHULTON
Now York • Toronto
12
The Scholastic
H>uik Satu
IRISH JOURNEY TO LAFAYETTE TOMORROW
Dillon Cops Crown; Win on First Downs
Dillon Hall, champion of the West League with five straight victories, pushed through the mud on the InterHall field a week ago last Sunday for nine first downs to give them the InterHall football title over Zahm Hall after the teams had struggled to a 0-0 scoreless tie. Zahm, whose 5-1 record carried them to the top of the East League, could total only three first downs, and the winner was decided on that count. Five hundred people watched the game.
Only once in the battle did a team threaten, that being in the third quarter when Dillon’s offense, a weapon which ran up 100 points during the regular season, stalled on Zahm’s three yard line, inches short of a first down. The champions also failed on a second half field goal attempt from the loser’s 20 yard line.
Zahm’s plight was their inability to shake loose Norbie Shew, their elusive speedster who had scored 42 points, on runs never less than 40 yards, and who was the season’s yard-gaining leader.
Placing behind Dillon in the West League were Howard and Lyons who were tied for second, Badin in fourth, Sorin in fifth and Morrissey last.
In the East League, Cavanaugh finished in second. Off-Campus and St. Ed’s tied for third while Breen-Phillips and Farley rounded out the league.
Dillon dominated the All-Campus team placing five on the club. Dick Murphy, a junior from Milton, Mass., was named Coach of the Year.
ALL-CAMPUS TEAM
Joe Killian ....E............. Dillon
Len Barbarsi ....E............ Dillon
Chuck Connor ..T.......... Off-Campus
B. O’Connor ....T............ St.	Ed’s
Ed Banks .......G............. Dillon
Paul Douds .....G.............. Lyons
Tim O’Brien ____C.............. Badin
Frank Leahy.....Q.B........... Dillon
Norbie Shew ....H.B............. Zahm
Dick Lombardi ..H.B..........  Howard
J. Armstrong....F.B........... Dillon
Coach of the year: Dick Murphy, Zahm
Cagers Face Purdue, Valpo and Louisville;
Travel to Garden for EC AC Holiday Tourney
Notre Dame’s basketball team, with a 2-1 record, travels to Lafayette, Ind. tomorrow to meet the Purdue Boilermakers, who have defeated the Irish twice in the last two years. The cagers started off their season with wins over St. Joe’s and Wisconsin, before suffering their initial loss to Northwestern last Monday 75-60.
Purdue will be led by their standout center, Lamar Lundy. Lundy, as a junior last year, averaged 15 points a game and was the outstanding rebounder on the squad. Adding a solid scoring punch to the Purdue attack is 5-9 Joe Campbell. Campbell is a guard who has carried the load in the shooting column throughout the early Boilermaker games.
Rounding out the Purdue attack are two 6-6 sophomores, Wilson Eison and Bob Fehrman. Eison in particular- is regarded as one of the best young prospects that Coach Ray Eddy has had at Lafayette in a number of years.
The Fighting Irish return home on Monday night for a contest with Valparaiso University in the Fieldhouse. Valparaiso is ranked as the co-favorite with Butler University for the Indiana Collegiate Conference Championship this year. Included in their early season record is an impressive victory over St. Joseph’s, whom the Irish defeated in their initial game.
Following this encounter, the Blue and Gold travel to Kentucky for a game with the Louisville Cardinals. Led by All-America candidate, Charlie Tyra, the Cardinals are ranked as one of the top ball clubs in the country despite an early loss to Canisius College.
Tyra, a 6-8 center, is ranked as one of the best big men in the country. Along with him, Louisville will depend heavily on 6-5 Bill Darragh and 6-1 Jim Morgan, both of whom played important roles in the National Invitational Tournament Championship which the Cardinals captured last year.
The rest of the Cardinal lineup will be chosen from Jerry Goldstein, Hal Andrews, and Alex Mantel, three outstanding sophomores. As freshmen last year, each of these men averaged better than 20 points a game.
The Jordanmen then travel to New York’s Madison Square Garden to participate in the ECAC Holiday Festival Tournament on Dec. 26, 28 and 29. Other teams competing will be Fordham, Manhattan, NYU, Niagara, St. John’s, Temple, Villanova, Ohio State and Brigham Young.
Last year’s champion was San Francisco, who followed up their tournament win with an undefeated season and a national championship.
The Ii-ish will play their initial contest on the night of Dec. 26 against the winner of the NYU-Villanova game. The Wildcats are heavily favored over NYU in this game. They are led by Capt. Jim Smith who led them in scoring last year.
Niagara, Temple, St. John’s and Ohio State are all strong and should prove ample competition in the determining of-the championship.
Taps Gallagher’s Niagara squad is led by juniors Alex Ellis, Jim Maloney, and Tom Mulroy. The latter is a guard who scores well from any spot on the floor.
Dick Duckett of St. John’s, Guy Rodgers of Temple, and- Frank Howard of Ohio State also rank as three of the top players in the tourney.
LAMAR LUNDY Giant Purdue Center
December 14, 1956
JIM SMITH
JIM MALONEY
Niagara guard
DAN FLEMING
Temple forward
Villanova guard and Captain
TOM MULROY
Niagara guard
JIM FAHEY Villanova center
GERRY PAULSON
Manhattan forward
14
The Scholastic
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Travel with HTA
Unbelievable Low Cost
Europe flHH 60 Days from $525 V Orient _jP%_J^'~~~\43-65 o«y» from $998
UhttF I Many fours include stt *y	college credit.
.SPENDSAlso low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tours $528 up and J5	Around the World $1398 up-
tITA Chicago
The Wews
Is Out!
A Tender 1 lb. Ham Steak cooked just for YOU . . . At Frankie's . . . only $1.45 every Monday and Wednesday.
Diamonds
• Watches
J. Trethewy
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Order a full year's subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only *4.
Sport Shorts
PAUL HORNUNG and JIM MORSE were selected to represent the East in the thirty-second annual Shrine Game in San Francisco’s Kezar Stadium Dec. 29. Coach TERRY BRENNAN will be head mentor for the East team.
Hornung will also participate in the Hula Bowl in Honolulu on Jan. 6‘. He is the first Notre Dame player to receive this honor.
Hornung was selected by the Downtown Athletic Club of New York City as the John W. Heisman Award winner for 1956. He is the first recipient from a losing team since Jay Berwanger of Chicago in 1935.
Notre Dame’s All-Opponent team includes ends JOE WALTON of Pitt and LAMAR LUNDY of Purdue; tackles
TYLER’S BOWL PICKS
ROSE BOWL: Oregon State over Iowa ORANGE BOWL: Colorado over Clemson SUGAR BOWL: Tennessee over Baylor COTTON BOWL: Syracuse over Texas Christian GATOR BOWL:
Georgia Tech over Pittsburgh SEASON’S RECORD:
148 Right; 37 Wrong; 4 Ties. Pct. .800
ALEX KARRAS of Iowa and Oklahoma’s ED GRAY; guards ED VOY-TEK of Purdue and DAN CURRIE of MSU; center JERRY TUBBS of Oklahoma; quarterback KENNY PLOEN of Iowa; halfbacks, OU’s TOMMY MCDONALD, DENNIS MENDYK and CLARENCE PEAKS of Michigan State and ED SUTTON of North Carolina; fullback MEL DILLARD of Purdue.
Captain MIKE CONNELLY will lead the Notre Dame Swim Club against Central Michigan tomorrow at 2 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Pool.
Novice Bout Winners: DENNIS LANDRY of Howard, (130), ANDY STAN-ISZEWSKI of Fisher (135), BUD McGIVERN of Off-Campus (140), BOB LENSING of Howard (145), DICK KREUL of Morrissey (149), SCOTT BRADSHAW of Howard (152), BOB FITZSIMMONS of Off-Campus (156), JOHN STINBERG of Off-Campus (160), BILL BRELSFORD Of St. Ed’s (170) and JOHN CASAGRANDE of Badin (heavyweight).
another innovation
in
good taste by
lordjljest
first name in quality rormais
It's fun to go formal in this trim new tux with semi-peak lapel, natural shoulders, flap pockets, non-pleated trousers. Jet Black, all-season worsted,. - silk satin facing.
For name of nearest retailer or free format dress chart, write: West Mill Clothes, Inc.. 101 W. 21 St., N.Y. 11
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
December 14, 1956
That’s why American Express Student Tours are expertly planned to include a full measure of iudividwil leisure— ample free time to discover your Europe—as well as the most comprehensive sight-seeing program available anywhere! Visit England, Scotland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy and France—accompanied by distinguished tour leaders—enjoy superb American Express service throughout.
11 Special Tours ... 53 to 63 days ... via famous ships: He de France, United States, Liberte, Saturnia,
Guilio Cesare, Flandre. $1,448 up
Also Regular Tours ... 42 days . . . $1,301 up
You can always TRAVEL NOW—PAY LATER when you go American Express. For complete information, see your Campus Representative, 1 local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service, member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel
... or simply mail the handy coupon.
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••A* American Express Travel Service
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. clo Travel Sales Division
Yes! Please do send me complete information about 1957 Student Tours to Europe!
Name................................
Address........................................
City...................Zone.....State..........
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNDS WITH AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES-SPENDABLE EVERYWHERE
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
mltWTURBOW ^OPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring in the Pieces33
EYES EXAMINED
AQUIIIS UBUIYari noksnp
Oliver Hotel
207 W. Washington
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Phone CE 4-5777
A Non-Profit Organization
Glee Club to Present Yule Concert Sunday
The Notre Dame Glee Club will give its annual Christmas Concert this Sunday, in Washington Hall at 8:15 p.m. Tickets to the concert are free and may be obtained at the Washington Hall Boxoffice on Friday from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. and on Sunday, from 5:30 p.m. until 9. curtain time, 8:15 p.m.
The concert will consist of four parts. It will begin with the “Ave Maria” followed by other religious songs. The second part will consist of piano and vocal solos.
“Song of the Free” will 'be the third and main feature of the evening’s program. It is a chronological, musical, narration of the history of the United States. It starts with “Yankee Doodle” and progresses through spirituals, songs f popular in certain eras, songs of World War I and the depression. This feature is a revised version of the original that was written for the Glee Club by two alumni, Felix Pogliamo and John White. It has been revived this year and continued through World War II to the present by James Feeney and Thomas Laboe. Music setting, orches-tration and direction are by Daniel Pedtke. A seven piece band will accompany the group in this piece. The pro- • gram will conclude with Christmas carols.
Ron Francis, Glee Club president, announced that the Glee Club has recently done a half hour program for ABC radio which will be broadcast the evening of Dec. 18 on the “American Music ’ Hall.” This program is one in a series of Christmas programs from Dec. 17-24 which will feature the Glee Clubs of various colleges throughout the nation.
Marketing Club Donates To Bengal Mission Fund
The Marketing Club donated $110 to the Bengal Bout mission fund last * Thursday, thus starting the wheels turning on what the Bengal Bout com-	[
mittee hopes will become a swiftly mov-	’
ing bandwagon.
Frank Hennessey, president of the club, stated that the purpose of the gift was to promote what they considered to be the most worthwhile student function of the year, the Bengal Bouts. w Hennessey added that he hoped the donation would serve as an incentive to	f
other campus clubs to support the bouts.	!
The money was earned through the sale of green hats during the football season.
The Bengal Bouts this year are scheduled for March 25, 26 and 27. Ail proceeds go to the Holy Cross missions in Bengal, India.	*
16
The Scholastic
LIBRARY BOOKS
All books borrowed by the students from the Library are due on Dec. 14. If there should be a need for books up until the beginning of the Christmas vacation period, Dec. 19 arrangements can be made. —	—	w——VW — — — —
European Tour Plans Announced by Parnell
A two-month-long European Holiday tour under the leadership of Dr. Charles Parnell, associate professor of Modern Languages, will leave Montreal on June 12, 1957, it was announced this past week. The tour will travel through Britain, the Low Countries, Gennany, France, and Italy.
Time will be devoted to both planned, conducted tours, and leisurely obseiva-tions of Europe’s famed historical sights, such as London’s Westminster Abbey, the restored Cathedral of Cologne, Baden Baden’s renowned resorts, and the Palace of Versailles.
The tour will sail from Quebec to Plymouth, then go to London. Traveling through Amsterdam and Brussels, it will cross Germany by way of Heidel-burg, Munich, and Salzburg, then go on to Milan and arrive in Rome by way of Florence. It will go back up the Italian coast through Nice and reach Paris on July 31. The tour will leave LeHarve Aug. 3 and arrive in New York on Aug. 12.
The tour is open exclusively to students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s college. A deposit of $150 is required to hold a reservation, a second payment is due on March 1, and the final payment on May 1. Further information and reservations can be obtained at the Book Store.
* Caroling Slated Tonight; Mixer to Follow Singing
Buses will leave from the Circle tonight at 7 p.m. for all those participating in the annual Christmas Caroling party sponsored by the Student Senate. Girls from St. Mary’s and from St. Joe’s will join in the festivities, as will the Notre Dame Glee Club.
W The carolers will be taken to 15 different points in the city by the special buses which will then return the students to the LaFortune Student Center for a mixer that will run until 11 p.m. Refreshments will be served to the carolers and there will also be dancing to record music. Price for admission (h is $-25.
J. Paul Sheedv* Was An U»lv Duckling Till Wildroot €ream-0il Gave Him Confidence
"Sheedy, you’re quacking up”, snorted his girl friend. "Your appearance is fowl. Why don’t you wise up to Wildroot Cream-Oil ?” So J. Paulmarshed right down to the store and pecked up a bottle. Now he’s the sharpest
duck in school because his hair looks handsome and healthy. . . neat but never greasy. When last seen he was sipping a chocolate moulted with the prettiest chick on campus ( ... and she caught the bill!) So if the gals are giving you the bird, better get some Wildroot Cream-Oil. .. eider a bottle or handy tube. Guaranteed to drive most swimmin’ wild 1
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil gives you confidence
l ANOUN
CSEAM
ciao«$n<Mia KU(v»ona($s
IC3SI CMCWf
RESERVED SEATS ONLY! MAILORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY! Twice Daily (Mon. thru Thur.) 240 A 040; Fri. (3 Shows) 1,7 AID P.M.; Sat. (3 Shows) 2:30,7:30A1040; Sun. (3 Shows) 2, 5 A 040; Prices (tax ind.) Mato. (Mon. thru Fri.) $1.00, $1.50, $145; Sat. Mat. $240, $1.65, $145; Sunday Matinee, and Evenings. (Suu. thru Fri.) $2.75, $2.50, $1.50; Sat. Eve. $3.40, $2.75, $2.00.
Please endow.* stamped, self-addressed envelop*
See The New, The 3rd Cinerama the LOWELL THOMAS production
EVEN VENDEES ™e VOBLD "aiw|u'
as seen through the greatest wonder.. .■
Worth a trip to Chicago!
ClHERAMA
PALACE Theatre
December 14, 1956
17
! Rack pMfe
f

I
I by JOE TAFT
the holly
cycle
i
£
None could help but notice. The plot §	has begun. The	master	minds of the
I	Fall Cycle have	noticed	the gross na-
|	tional products’	gradual	decline. The
!	program sellers,	peanut	vendors, park-
ing lot attendants and all the other characters we know so well are receiving ;	their unemployment checks.
I Something must be done. As you well I	know, something is being done. The
। great tinsel shower is picking up steam
—the Holly Cycle is here. This year’s Holly Cycle has a subtly sharp undertone—it has begun even before the frozen turkeys thawed out for the special Thanksgiving TV dinners.
WHAT IS THE HOLLY CYCLE?
The Holly Cycle is similar to the Fall Cycle in that it is easier to describe than define. This is the time of the year when classrooms are preparing to unload their pale students, when newspapers display mysterious holly-filled boxes omnisciently announcing “Only 95 More Days ’Til D-Day,” when victorious politicians are burning their outdated campaign speeches, when defeated politicians are hunting for their campaign managers, when bankers are reaping the interest and principal of their savings clubs, and when department stores are raking the stale leaves out of the display windows and dressing the mannequins in scarves and topcoats.
Everyone straggles to win this endurance contest of spirit. This spirit is expressed in many diversified forms. Students, politicians, business men and housewives are scrutinizing their “Christmas Cards Received” lists with the hope that someone may be elimi
nated in the check-off against the “Christmas Cards Sent” lists.
Wreaths and holly decorations hang precariously from street lamps, fire plugs, flag poles, coat lapels, totem poles and the “Keep Our City Clean” cans. Students begin rehearsing their lines for the festive females and parents. Politicians prepare their Christmas cliches. Business men stock their offices with spirits and cheer. Housewives silently observe the shedding, prematurely-purchased trees. Children run competitive graphs on the mounting piles of presents.
The music of the Holly Cycle plays an important role in this avalanche of spirit.
New Christmas mambos, tangos, sambas, rumbas and waltzes are manufactured; somewhere in the deep South an ole hound dog yawns as he listens to the new ballad “Santa, Don’t Be Cruel.” Musical bing-bongs interrupt the playing of “Silent Night” over- the department store PA systems and add a comical note to the jingle bells of the cash registers.
And somewhere in Indiana two colleges continue their excellent relations through group carol-a-thons. The boisterous “ho-ho” from the display window Santas drowned out the outside musical systems, terrify babies, bewilder little children and confuse grown ups.
Many unusual organizations burst forth during the Holly Cycle. The V.B.A.—Volunteer Bums of America hire out many elves and helper Santas. Everyone, it seems, becomes a conglomeration of red flannel and ringing bells. The members of the U.S.A.—United Shoplifters of America review their
manuals in preparation for their regional and district conventions which in turn cause the D.S.D.A.—Department Store Detectives of America to reactivate 100,000 reservists.
This spiritual endurance contest pervades through the goods that make up the Holly Cycle. The magazine models are affected by this spiritual metamorphosis—the Lucky Strike lovers trade their rain coats for matching Santa suits, the grey haired Schenley man stops shaving, the Hathaway man dyes his patch green, the Marlboro man has a darker' tint of red added to his tatoo and the Schweppsman retires to his island retreat not to be seen until the advent of the Spring Cycle.
Gradually the boiling point is reached in this staccato of buying and selling until the perspective is trampled under by the cheery false faces. Everyone has donned a mask in the attempt to pacify the great economic god, the gross national product. All have heartily joined this masquerade in the clothing of wolves in an attempt to pilfer the sheep.
The wolves have, I believe, so commercialized the idea of Christmas that the period of Advent has changed into the liturgy of the shoppers guide. Christmas has become a gimmick to sell everything. If everyone loses the true perspective of the Christmas season— the commemoration of Christ’s birth and our spiritual birth—through the tinsel-ized Holly Cycle, the children of tomorrow may face an enigma when they ask, “Why do people give gifts during December?”
We just may have to answer, “Well let’s see, Junior, I used to know . . . I’ll look it up in the library.”	*

s
£
I
J
t
I
18
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
a
e
Got these in your holiday plans?
This all-Arrow outfit can make a Christmas morning. (With a couple of well-placed hints, it can be yours.) For your Christmas checklist: this stand-out Cabot sport shirt of imported cotton flannel, with the new short-point collar; and two college standbys, Arrow slacks and University styled crew neck sweaters.
Shirt, £5.95; sweater, £11.95; slacks, $ 12.95.
ARROW
—first in fashion SHIRTS * TIES * SLACKS
e
Smart way to say "Merry Christmas"
You’ll be giving (or getting) an “A” for
• “appearance” with this handsome Arrow Cabot. It has the newest of campus sport shirt collars.
Note the neat, short points. And its cotton flannel fabric is imported; new in our own big early-shopper selection of smart plaids and stripes.
Shirt, $5.95.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS (Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
GIVE CHESTERFIELD
IN THE CARTON THAT GLOWS" FOR REAL! •
*The world's first carton printed in luminous color.