A frank message to graduating electronic and mechanical
ENGINEERS
You know it ... we know it'. . . so let's be frank about it.	/
The demand for engineers^experienced or graduate —far exceeds the supply/And, from now on in, you are going to be sought after more than a triple threat halfback for next yea^s varsity.
You will be promised many things (including the moon with a fenc^/around it), and for a young man just getting started these things are pretty hard to resist. /
So, again, let^s be frank. We at Farnsworth won't promise youAhe moon. (Although we are working on some ideas that may eventually get you there and back.)zWe are an old, young organization. O/d, in the sense of being pioneers in the field of elec-tronicSy/(Our technical director. Dr. Philo Farnsworth invented electronic television.) Young, by being the newest division of the world-wide International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, devoting our efforts exclusively to research, development and production of military and industrial electronics, and atomic energy.
All of which makes Farnsworth big enough for stability and technical perspective, yet small enough for mobility, flexibility and recognition of the individual. Here you will be associated with and encouraged by a team of eminent scientists and engineers with many "firsts" to their credit in the field of electronics. Here you will be heard . . . not just one of the herd.
We earnestly invite you to hear the whole fascinating Farnsworth story. We're pretty certain it will make the decision for your future easier.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
MARCH 22
■ISSUES • MBEI» iNTERRIS •■ICIBVAVES«IIFR1BEB«SBLIB STATE • TEST EIBIPIEBT - IIBBSTII1L T. I.
FARNSWORTH ELECTRONICS CO., FORT WATNE, INDIANA
February 24, 1956


February 24, 1956
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Cliff Downer (right), A.B. in Mathematics, ’49, M.S. in Civil Engineering, '50, Harvard, on the site of a building construction project.
“Projects you can sink your teeth into”
Clifford J. Downer started his telephone career in the building engineering department of The Southern New England Telephone Company. At present he is working with the Bell System’s manufacturing unit, Western Electric, helping to build facilities for housing a Continental Air Defense project His assignment: a key liaison job in supervising a subcontractor’s work on a several million dollar construction operation.
“One of the most interesting features of my present job,” says Cliff, “is making decisions on the spot. For example, drawings showed where bedrock for footings would be reached. Excavations revealed a poor grade of rock. How much further
Interesting career opportunities of all kinds are also offered by other Bell Telephone Companies and Western Electric Company, Bell Telephone Laboratories and Sandia Corporation. Your placement officer has more information about these companies.
Boll Telephone System
down do we go? A hundred workers and tons of equipment are waiting for the decision.
“There’s a lot of future for a civil engineer in the telephone business. New and smaller types of telephone equipment will probably change our ideas about how telephone buildings should be built. It’s fascinating work, all right. And broadening, too, because it’s leading me to other engineering fields.
“It looks to me as if there are real challenges ahead — projects you can sink your teeth into. Besides, I’m convinced the telephone business recognizes and regards personal industriousness and drive.”
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 97 Feb. 24, 1956 No. 15
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate <M postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
>	JOHN ADAMS
Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK .. .News Editor ED JOYCE..................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN_________Production Manager DAVE KUBAL _________Assistant	News
^DAVE THOMPSON............Assistant	News
JAMES McDONALD__________Assistant	News
JIM STEINTRAGER.......... Assistant	News
JIM O’BRIEN ............Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN..............Art	Editor
HARRY CONLON .........Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator JOE NORTON ...........Sports	Editor
^JOHN GLAVIN......................Assistant	Sports
RAY LESCHER ............Assistant Sports
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Hatley, Joe Heimoski, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John. McMahon, Joe Mo-carski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, Mike Schofield, David Schwartz. Louis Stettler. Bob Vondrasek. Ray Walsh. SPORT STAFF: John Barthel. Andrew Carnazola, Patrick DeFoe. Robert Early, John Grady, Russell Hopkins. James Langford, James Merz, Brian Moran. Robert Parnell. Edward Rohrbach. James Short, Carl Skiff.
^BUSINESS STAFF: Loran Sheffer.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during th* school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
ON THE COVER the confident senior faces a whole covey of interviewers as a result of the workmanship of Artists Bob Miller and Dick Navin.
For the Best in Reference Books
School Supplies
Clarification
Editor:
Typewriters and Repairs
Architectural, Drawing and Fine Art Supplies
It seems necessary that the Lenten policy of the Student Senate concerning' social activities be explained more fully, since many people may have received the wrong idea from the Feb. 17 article in the Scholastic.
There will be several mixed social activities held during Lent. These events were not planned with the intention of breaking the penitential spirit of Lent, but rather the intention was to stress a more positive approach to the Lenten season in the way of increased spiritual activities on a hall level.
Any social events held during Lent have been approved by the Senate and the Administration with one important stipulation: A positive Lenten program must be undertaken by the halls in the form of daily adoration in Sacred Heart Church, hall spiritual activities, and a campus-wide weekend retreat.
Pat Logan,
Social Commissioner
Collegiate Stationery Sportswear, and Jewelry
Records, Radios, and Repairs
Greeting Cards
Photo Developing, Cameras, and Films
Luggage
The
Notre Dame Bookstore ON THE CAMPUS
Rumbles from Roseland
Editor:
I am writing about . . . the public opinion poll which was taken of the student body. ... I found the whole thing very encouraging. . . . It’s not often they show any signs of life around here . . .
The Student Senate is always afraid to lose money, it seems. Being a Commerce major, I happen to know that you have to spend money to make money and no business gets anywhere if they pinch pennies. What we need is more Commerce majors in the Senate . . .
As it stands now, this place is strictly square . . .
Rodney Phillips, Roseland
Big Spender
Editor:
... I would be glad to spend one-fifth of my spending money for the things that were suggested . . .
Bob Loeffler, 133 Zahm
INVENTORY
Repercussion ----------------    7
Entree ________________________  9
View __________________________    11
Campus Scene ___________________ 13
Folio ........................     17
At a Glance_____________________ 20
Showcase ______________________   22
Irish Scene _____________________25
Time Out ________________________28
Back Page _______________________34
February 24, 1956
7
Graduates
in Engineering... Physics... Mathematics

i
LOCKHEED
Aircraft Corporation
California Division
Georgia Division
Staff Representatives will be on campus to discuss your future
Monday, Feb. 27, 1956
in Lockheed’s expanding research and development program
Both divisions of Lockheed are engaged in a long-range expansion program in their fields of endeavor.
California Division activities in Burbank cover virtually every phase of aircraft, both commercial and military. 46 major projects are in motion, including 13 models of aircraft in production — extremely high-speed fighters, jet trainers, commercial and military transports, radar search planes, patrol bombers. The development program is the largest and most diversified in the division’s history.
New positions have been created for graduates in: Aeronautical, Civil, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering and Mathematics and Physics.
At Lockheed in Marietta, Georgia, new C-130A turbo-prop transports and B-47 jet bombers are being manufactured in the country’s largest aircraft plant under one roof. The division is already one of the South’s largest industries.
In addition, advanced research and development are underway on nuclear energy and its relationship to aircraft. A number of other highly significant classified projects augment the extensive production program. New positions have been created for graduates in: Aeronautical, Civil, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering and . Mathematics and Physics.
This broad expansion program is creating new positions in each division. Graduates in fields of Aeronautical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Mathematics and Physics are invited to investigate their role in Lockheed’s expansion.
Separate interviews will be given for each division.
Lockheed
Aircraft Corporation
California Division, Burbank, California • Georgia Division, Marietta, Georgia
8
The Scholastic
by William M. Malloy

a review of politics
A fter showing some pretty fancy footwork upon the cold slush we proved that we too had the constitutional right to take part in public assemblies. For at the invitation of several friends and enterprising enemies we found ourself at the controverted rally for the election of Adlai Stevenson’s campaign chairman.
8:23. First impressions. In precincts of bedlam. Cigarette smoke predominated. Political ideologies held in com-<mon seemed to have definite influence ^upon seating arrangement. Mr. Bob O’Malley was explaining nominating procedure and competing with divergent interest: row of fairer sex, St. Mary’s. We diverted.
Comment: Although we have irrevocable regulations in our conception of government that exclude (as much as possible) the participation of women in activities of the polls, we must confess the row of St. Mary’s girls (middle ^section; nine rows from the back) was of more immediate interest than the laudable yet slightly rarefied information of Mr. Bob O’Malley.
8:25. Interview: Miss M. G. Tunner (first name refused). Jr. Social Science major. Comment: Ve-e-e-r-r-r-y attractive; Miss Tunner embodies both the old-world-style education of St. Mary’s and the smart, healthy, modern, etc. attitude that would bring her to a N.D. political rally. However, she made it a^quite clear that we were not the object ™of her next campaign. Returning to the subject of politics: Question: What was her view as a St. Mary’s Social Science student of the mock convention? Statement: Miss M. G. said that she thought that democracy was a good thing and that everyone should be able to go to college.
8:30. Interview: Equally attractive Miss Josie Murphy on M. G.’s right. Phijosophy student. Statement: She didn’t know much about it. Comment: If ^anyone would like to challenge these two views they may get in touch with the girls by writing St. Mary’s College for Women, Notre Dame, Ind. The in
terview ended with the demand to know “just how much will we be able to take part in this?”
8:47. O’Malley still speaking. Screams: doors opened and mob of arms, legs, lungs carried a Kefauver sign led by Spike Daly, spirited by Dick Miller’s trumpet and singing Dixie. Presented unmistakable distraction. Finding that they failed to hold interest, ran on through and out the back.
8:48. Interview: Oificious-looking Jack Owen, official. Statement: From the looks of things he thought this would be the biggest convention.
8:50. Interview: Cas Taylor, chairman of executive committee. Statement: “The rally was designed to put the campaign on an organized and educational level. In this I think we have succeeded.”
8:54. Interview: Mr. Jip Peurrung, voter* and statesman. Statement: “Tonight's big battle will be between Mr. Bob Carrane and Mr. Henry Dixon. It will be close, I tell you, close.”
8:55. Suddenly Bob Carrane was nominated and speaking. Bob said: “I’m not up here to sell Stevenson, I’m up here to sell myself. (Cheers.) And if we want to have a good rally we have to get Stevenson; we need the best for president by our great country (cheers, screams.) I’m not able at this time to tell my campaign plans because this will hurt Stevenson. (Undecided pause —followed by awkward pause—Car-rane’s backers decide to do prudent thing. Cheers, etc.)
9:05. Interview; Steve Rogers. Statement: “No comment—and if you make one up I’ll sue you for libel.”
9:06. Interview: Richard Clark. Statement: “Unbridled emotion.”
9:08. Interview: Joseph Belsinki, representing political science department. Statement: “Biggest fault is immaturity on part of students.”
9:11. Thomas Hawekotte, (meticulously dressed, also from political science department.) Statement: “Interest is building up.” Belsinki: arranging the ballots), “This is hell.”
9:15. Speech, Henry Dixon. Comment: From the sound of the students both for and against Mr. Dixon it was evident that here was the man to contend with. He seemed to be universally loved or hated, respected or feared . . . one simply cannot take a neutral stand with Dixon. Here was the man that was accused of having a “well-oiled machine.” If anyone could beat the powerful Carrane party, and it was going to be tough, Henry was the one. He put his few notes on the rostrum and began. His speech was precise, brief, and points were made quickly, accurately^ and impressively showing adroit familiarity with political matters. Then the major fireworks began, the questions from the floor.
First question: Mr. Elmer Premo. (Received recognition from Dixon followed by shouts “Sit down, Premo!”) “Had Mr. Dixon had experience in politics, or has his family been in politics?” Yes, Henry answers, both he and his parents have been in politics, giving exact capacity of each.
Second question: Mi*. Mike Kiley (off-campus representative.) “In his speech Mr. Dixon made reference to communication with Mr. Stevenson himself. Just what was the nature of this communication?” (Pace moves even faster now, but Henry is ready for this.)
Dixon: “I’m ready to prove to you that I have had contact with the private secretary of Mr. Stevenson,” quoth Dixon, “and that I have been appointed Stevenson’s campaign manager for the University of Notre Dame.” (Thunderous cheers.)
Voice: “No conceit like self-conceit!” Henry: “That’s right, Spike-Daly, and no one should know this better than you.”
Comment: With this fast-thinking comeback and the above evidence there could be no doubt of the outcome of the election. Henry would carry the day and become the Stevenson manager. Yes, Mr. Dixon, march on, march on for Adlai. Rest confident, for “Entree” is with you.
February 24, 1956	9
e/vc//ve£/fs
ON CAMPUS
March 1 and 2
BHEMC
AfitP£4A/E COMPAAfY

Boeing has many positions open for graduating and graduate students. These opportunities are in all branches of Engineering (AE, CE, EE, ME and related fields). Also needed are Physicists and Mathematicians with advanced degrees.
Fields of activity include Design, Research and Production. Your choice of location: Seattle, Washington or Wichita, Kansas.
Personal interviews will cover the details of openings, the nature of assignments, Company projects currently in work, and miscellaneous information about the Company.
Come and learn about the excellent opportunities with an outstanding Engineering organization—designers and builders of the B-47 and B-52 Multi-Jet Bombers; America’s first Jet Transport, the 707; and the Bomarc IM-99 Pilotless Aircraft.
For personal interview appointments-consult your
3n£f/vc
30MP4KY
s^rrtf •
10
The Scholastic

prediction
opportunity
It’s that time of year again when seniors customarily take a quick look ahead to June commencement and wonder, “Then what?”. Four years of college are just about behind them, and they must now choose between continuing their education with graduate work, or plunging into the task of earning a living.
• For the senior in the market for a job (and the majority !of them are), there are many openings and opportunities available today. The feature story on Notre Dame’s Placement Bureau, which appears elsewhere in this issue of the Scholastic, indicates a pressing demand for the services of college graduates.
Today’s graduate is in the enviable position of being able to screen the large list of interviewing companies and then selecting only those which appear to have a future for him. Today the tables have been turned and things have almost reached a point where the graduate, instead of the business, conducts the interview. He plies the firm representative with ^questions about salary, opportunity for advancement, travel demands, location, specific positions which afford a specific type of work and other company policies.
Most company representatives have been trained to sell their firm to the prospective employee. Most of them do a very good job of this, too. Sometimes it takes a careful balancing and weighing of factors in an impartial way before a wise decision can be made.
In job interviews, penny-pinched seniors often consider the question of salary to be of prime importance. Frequently, too much emphasis is laid on compensation. We readily admit that finances do play an important role in our lives; _we have laid a good sum of money on the line to attend Wthis University.
But in the outlook of a student trained for four years at a Christian institution, material gain should always be subordinated to the prime purpose of life as Christians know it. A good salary in a job which is distasteful or even a source of dissatisfaction to the employee could lead to a serious disruption of moral and spiritual values. An honest Christian perspective rebels at the thought of idealizing material gain and twisting a good means into an evil end.
Supposedly, the Notre Dame senior possesses a certain set of Christian ideals; his thinking and outlook on life have been molded and shaped to some extent by his Catholic Auniversity training. Prospective graduates should keep these wideals in mind when mapping their course after commencement. It’s their future, and it’s their duty to make it a Christian future.—P. L.
At next week’s senate meeting a motion will probably come to the floor to the effect that no Blue Circle man should be allowed a seat in the Senate. The makers of this motion will say, among other things, that the Senate is the legislative branch of the Student Government and the Circle is the executive arm—everybody knows that these two should be separated.
They will say that because there are some men who are at present members of both the Circle and Senate, other capable men are being denied a chance to work in student government simply because there aren’t enough places for them. There will be a hint that the Circle, consciously or unconsciously, is feathering its own bed by having a powerful bloc in the Senate (all four of the Senate officers are Circle men).
While these arguments seem to have some value on the surface, they quickly collapse under a more thorough and practical investigation. In the first place, although the Circle is designated as the executive arm of the Student Senate, the best that can be said of it is that it is an executive arm.
The Senate employs a whole set of commissioners of its own who carry out most of the directives of the Senate. The Circle itself actually receives very few directives from the Senate each year—most of its work is concerned with the “traditional” work of the Circle, those tasks which were at one time directives but which have now become part of the yearly program of the Society (such as Freshman Orientation, ushering, ticket-selling, pep rallies, etc.).
And so any attempt to compare the Circle-Senate relationship to the Federal Government would be ridiculous and rather naive.
As to the point that men are being denied the right to work in student government because of lack of positions, all that need be said is that one of the biggest problems the Senate faces every year is getting people interested in student government.
And to me, it seems that denying any fellow the right to serve in the Senate because he is a member of another organization is not only against the Senate Constitution but the height of inanity. Why deny either organization the benefit of his leadership? In effect this measure would mean also that no Circle man could run for the presidency of his class. If he can handle both jobs capably, why not let him —if he has to choose between one and the other, one job may be left with the second best man. And little evidence is available to prove that a man can’t handle two jobs at once—the Student Senate presidents for the past two years, with all that they have had to do, have been Circle men.
The last point mentioned above, the fact that the Circle might be feathering its own bed by having men in the Senate, is answerable by merely looking at the work the Circle has done, and is doing. For the most part, this work seems to me to be jobs no one else wants to do. If any feathering is going on, none of the Circle men know about it.
If a prediction is in order, the Senate will use its good judgment and relegate this measure to the vertical file where it belongs.—J. A. '
February 24, 1956
11
ALL THE PLEASURE COMES THRU
t '
ri I 'A
VATEP

FILTER TIP
TAREYTON
1
CIGARETTES
MCKERN SIZE
©A. T. CO,
?!
Here you have the best in filtered smoking
—Filter Tip Tareyton, the filter cigarette that smokes milder, smokes smoother, draws easier... the only one that gives you Activated Charcoal filtration. All the pleasure comes thru... the taste is great!
PRODUCT OF
FILTER TlpTAREYTON
AMERICA'S LEADING
MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
12
The Scholastic |
CoMfUti
‘CAINE’ COURT TRIAL CONVENES WEDNESDAY
Stage Docket Booked For 5 Performances
The University Theatre will present its second production of the school year, The Caine Mutiny Court Martial, at 8:30 p.m. next Wednesday. Five performances of the play will be given from Wednesday through Sunday, March 4.
Ticket sales for the University Theatre’s production began yesterday at the
Touring Players Inc. to Give 'Richard III' Here March 9
Touring Players Inc. will appear at Washington Hall Friday, March 9, at A 8:15 p.m. to present their vei'sion of w Shakespeare’s tragedy Richard III.
Sponsored by the American National Theatre and Academy the troupe features such actors as Margaret and Lisbeth Blake, co-founders and producers of Touring Players, and John High who appeared on Broadway with Mary Martin in Lute Song. Television audiences know them for their appearances on “Omnibus.”
Tickets will go on sale at the Wash-£ ington Hall box office March 7 to 9 from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., and 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. General admission is $1 and $1.50 for the public, and 75 cents and $1 for students and faculty.
OFF-CAMPUS RESIDENTS
Students presently living off-campus who wish to be considered for campus residence in September, 1956, must notify the Office of Stu-• dents' Accounts by March 16 in order that their names be included on the campus room list.
Students currently living off-campus in September, 1956, do not need a letter from home nor do they need permission from the Prefect of Discipline to continue to reside off-campus.
If a student is under 21 years of age and wishes to live off-campus, or if he is 21 and his parents are paying for his education, a letter £ must be sent to the Prefect of Dis-~ cipline granting parental approval for off-campus residence.
Washington Hall box office, in the basement of the Dining Hall and all of the various residence halls.
The University Theatre box office will remain open daily from 2 to 5 and 6 to 9 p.m. Prices are $1.50 and $1 for the general public and $1 and 75 cents for students, faculty, and employees. The Friday and Saturday evening performances are almost sold out. Many tickets are available for Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday, however.
Allan Riley, Robert Sasseen and Phillip Donahue will play the leading roles of the stage adaptation of Heiman Wouk’s Pulitzer Prize winning novel The Caine Mutiny.
Riley, a newcomer to University Theatre productions, takes the part of the wily middle-aged lawyer and Navy Lieutenant Barney Greenwald. Sasseen, another newcomer, will perform as Captain Queeg who was relieved of duty by the next-in-command on the grounds that he was incompetent to face an impending crisis. Donahue, who saw service in all three productions last season, will portray the role of Lieutenant Maryk, the upright second in command of the Caine.
In supporting roles are Reginald Bain
MARYK AND GREENWALD AT WITNESS STAND
Donahue, Riley in ‘Caine’ quizdown.
as Willie Keith, Gavin King as Tom Keefer, Jim Cooney as Chailee, Joe Kelly as Urban, George O’Donnell as Captain Southard and Mike Kennedy as Dr. Bird.
Bain has had important roles in previous University Theatre productions The Alchemist and Detective Story, and starred in stage presentations at St. Mary’s. King and Cooney are giving their first performances in Washington Hall. Kelly has played in previous humor roles, a preparation for his role as Urban the signalman. O’Donnell- played Lieutenant Monahan in Detective Story and 'Mike Kennedy starred last year in Cyrano de Bergerac.
Other members of the cast include Benedict Harrington as Dr. Lundeen, Pete Wistort as Judge Blakely, Tom Brady as the Orderly. Members of the court include Tom Kiernan, Charles Conway, Kevin Solon, Bill Brisick, Earl Ware, and Joe Ryan. Bernie Gessner is the court stenographer.
Heading the technical staff will be John Kent, stage manager. Peter Jan-drisevits will assist him along with David Neal, electrician, Terry Nieuwlandt, stage carpenter, Dick Jones, property chairman, and Robert Moran, publicity chairman.
February 24, 1956
13
KEFAUVERITES ROUSE LOCAL RABBLE at Stevenson Rally, Feb. 17. Southern faction marched into Engineering Auditorium in an effort to stir up support for Tennessee liberal. Order was soon restored and Adlai's backers went on to select Hank Dixon as campus Campaign Manager.
Senate Group to Start New Movie Series; Drops Plan for Big Name Band Entertainment
The Student Senate recently instituted a Senate Special Projects Group as a result of the information received from the recent entertainment poll. The group is divided into sub-groups including the Senate Movie Series and Legitimate Theatre and Top-Name Entertainment.
Under the Movie Series two projects are already in the offing for the Notre Dame students.
Approximately 10 full-length feature movies sponsored by the Senate will be shown this semester. ..Two examples of the type of movies to. ,be'. shown are: A Streetcar Named Desire and Diary of a Country Priest. These movies will probably be a mid-week event and a small admission will be charged.
The other- half of the Movie Series will be a series of featurettes to be shown in the Student Center every Sunday afternoon and evening. These movies will be sport shorts, short comedies, and special features.
In the line of top name entertainment the Senate has dropped the idea of any name band concerts. This is being done because of the poor- showing at the Ralph Marterie concert earlier in the year. Instead, they are concentrating on “variety” type entertainment, contacting the Indiana University Belles choral group, the Indiana University Players, Inc., and Spike Jones’ Musical Depreciation Revue in the hope
14
that one or all of the groups will be able to appear here this semester.
The Senate is also inviting the remaining artists of the Concert and Lecture Series to a Coffee Hour in the Student Center after their appearance.
Badin Opens New Facilities In Basement for Study, Play
Badin Hall officially opened its new recreation and study facilities when Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, cut the ribbon and blessed the new rooms. In a short talk to Badin residents, Father Hesburgh remarked that the greatest value of Notre Dame is the opportunity to meet and associate with fellow students. Father said that Badin has always been noted for its “family type” attitude and that he hoped these new rooms would further this relation.
After the initial ceremonies Rev. Joseph Haley, C.S.C., Badin rector, entertained about 30 priests, many of whom were former Badin rectors. r
The new rooms include a large study room, a recreation room, card room, and; a conference room. The renovated space formerly housed the old barber shop, jeweler’s shop, and bookstore store room. Work began Oct. 15 and the students themselves did much of the painting and carpentry. \
Union Heads to AHencT Labor Meeting Here
More than 500 midwest union leaders and industrial executives will attend the fourth annual Union-Management Conference at Washington Hall tomorrow. The theme of the conference will be .. current issues in collective bargaining.^;
The principal speakers will be Joseph D. Keenan, international secretary of ’ the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and John H. Lind, manager of industrial relations for the Standard Oil Company of Indiana.
The conference will be opened at 9:45 a.m. by Rev. Thomas J. (McDonagh, C.S.C., head of the department of eco- _ nomics, with the first address by Mr.^ Keenan on the “Role of Unions in Industrial Relations.” The address will be followed by a panel discussion of supplementary wage plans, joint administration of trust funds, and proposed revisions in unemployment compensation. The panel discussion will be followed by a question and answer period and a recess for lunch.	-
The afternoon session will begin with . an address by Mr. Lind on the “Role of Management in Industrial Relations.” It will be followed by a second panel discussion of how1 much information a company should give its union, incentive rates and layoff and rehiring procedures. The conference will end after a question and answer period.
The conference, sponsored by the department of economics in cooperation with the College of Law, was organized four years ago by Rev. Mark J. Fitz- A gerald, C.S.C., director of industrial relations in the department of economics.
GRADUATION WEEK ROOMS
At a recent joint meeting of Senior Class officers, Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice president of Student Affairs, and Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., vice president of Business Affairs, a proposal was passed to use Pangborn Hall to accommodate the overflow of parents for the Senior Class Graduation Exercises.
Those who failed to get rooms at the Morris Inn for the exercises, will be given preference in obtaining these rooms in Pangborn.
There are a limited number of rooms remaining for the parents. Registrations for the rooms must be secured from Joe Bill, 118 Walsh, before March 9. There is a $1 down payment on reservations with no refund.
The. Scholastic
rarent-Son Weekend Slated for March 17-18; Moms, Dads to Inspect Inside of Campus Life
Dixon Named to Run Stevenson Campaign
The Junior Class will sponsor its annual Parent-Son Weekend on March 17 and 18, according to General Chairman and Class President Frank Pedace. | Every year the Junior- Class invites parents to the University during the second semester to give them an inside picture of campus life.
This year’s Weekend will begin at 9 a.m. Saturday, March 17, with registration in the Morris Inn. Registration will last until 12 noon and parents can purchase luncheon and dinner tickets while registering. Guided tours of the campus, O’Shaughnessy Hall, Nieuwland ^Science Hall, and Lobund will be conducted by the Blue Circle during this time.
The parents will then accompany their sons to the Dining Hall where they will eat lunch under usual student dining conditions. Off-campus students and their parents will also be able to use Dining Hall facilities. The lunch will be held from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Following lunch a reception will be ^held in each of the colleges and ROTC units until 4 p.m. Along with the receptions will be a continuous showing of “Football Highlights of 1955” in the LaFortune Student Center from 3:15
Mardi Gras Nets $30,011 For Combined Charities
Financial reports on the Mardi Gras week-end show that gross receipts for the festival were $30,011.40.
The Mardi Gras raffle grossed $20,663 while the carnival accounted for over $8,000. The remainder was made through the dance and various incidentals. The money will be used for the combined Student Center fund and campus charities.
Winner of the new Buick was Mr. John Visotsky of Clifton, N. J. The student who sold the winning ticket and thus received the Plymouth convertible • was William Pietrusiak of Morrissey Hall and Garfield, N. J.
Mr. Visotsky was notified of his prize Wednesday at 1:15 a.m. He didn’t remember buying the ticket at first. Finally convinced of his winning, he recalled purchasing one ticket from his employer, Mr. Pietrusiak, Sr.
Walsh Hall received the $50 prize for the best raffle percentage. Walsh barely edged Alumni, which had a higher total.
The Press Club booth had the largest gross receipts at the carnival. The West Virginia booth won first prize in the decorations contest.
Leo Linbeck of Houston, Tex., sold the largest number of raffle books.
to 5:15 p.m. Last year’s and next year’s football captains will be at the Center to meet the parents.
At 7 p.m. parents and sons will return to the Dining Hall for the President’s Dinner. The main speaker will be Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Pedace will serve as toastmaster. Entertainment will be provided by the Glee Club.
Rounding out Saturday’s activities will be an informal open house in the Center from 9 to 10 p.m. Father Hesburgh and other University officials will be present to personally meet the parents.
The Weekend will be brought to a close on Sunday morning with a 9 o’clock High Mass in Sacred Heart Church. A special section will be reserved at this Mass for parents and sons.
The parents will stay at the Morris Inn, Oliver Hotel, LaSalle Hotel, and Hotel Morningside. Special buses will be provided to bring the parents to and from the hotels.
Committee heads for the weekend are: Roger Bennett and Bill Rigali, hotel chairmen; Jerry Tannian and Nick Conlon, publicity chairmen; Ed Keenan, AB representative; Marshall Catanzaro, Science representative; Don Lieg-ler and John Suttner, Commerce representative; Bud Freidheim, Engineering and ROTC representative; and Jim Kennedy, Blue Circle representative.
CAMPAIGN BOSSES AT STEVENSON RALLY
Ashbaugh, Carrane, Manager Dixon.
Henry Dixon, a senior from Dixon, Ill., edged Bob Carrane by three votes for the Adlai Stevenson campaign chairmanship last Friday in the Engineering Auditorium before nearly 200 students. Dixon is the son of the former Illinois Lieutenant Governor in the Stevenson administration.
Dixon won on the third ballot after the candidacies of Warren Ashbaugh and John Callahan fell short. The official results were: Dixon 98, Carrane 95.
The rally was interrupted by a “Kefauver for President” demonstration which included a large banner, a little music and singing, and a parade around the auditorium.
The Academy of Political Science guaranteed an equitable decision by -discounting the first ballot, since it was evident that some students had cast more than one vote. The results, originally announced as an eight-vote victory for Dixon, were rechecked. Cas Taylor, Bob O’Malley and Jerry Murphy, members of the Academy, recounted returns giving Dixon a three-vote margin of victory.
Representatives from St. Mary’s made their first appearance of the political season in support of Stevenson.
During the course of the. evening Dixon was asked to show a telegram from Adlai Stevenson’s private secretary. The complimentary words on the telegram caused much furore among the ralliers.
February 24, 1956
15
Holy Week Changes Explained in Report
Holy Week ceremonies in your parish churches will be somewhat changed this year, according to a recent publication of the University of Notre Dame Press,
NATIONAL BRIDGE TOURNEY
Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., the National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament will be held at the Student Center.	,
A set of specially prepared hands will be played, and eventually the scores of Notre Dame contestants will be compared with those of collegiate bridge players throughout the country to determine a National Champion.
All students are invited to participate. There are no resstrictions on entrants except that they be collegiate undergraduate students.
entitled An Analysis of the Restored Holy Week Rites for Pastoral Use.
This 128-page volume, based on the addresses of four liturgical experts and the discussion of priests from 46 dioceses, is a report on the recent seminar on the new Holy Week-ritual conducted by Notre Dame at the request of the National Liturgical Conference. It has been edited by the University’s Liturgical Committee, headed by Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., who was chairman of the campus seminar.
A special feature of the book is a series of 65 practical questions submitted to the speakers by diocesan representatives attending the seminar. The questions and the experts’ answers should be invaluable to pastors in planning this year’s Holy Week ceremonies in accordance with the recent decree of the Vatican’s Sacred Congregation of Rites.
Varied Student Art Work On Display in AB Galleries
Several new groups of art work
hy
Notre Dame students are now on display in the showcases of the art wing in O’Shaughnessy Hall.
Featured in the front cases are paintings after the trovipe-l’oeil technique^ where sharp focus clarity of brushwork tends to deceive the eye. The paintings are by students of Robert Leader.
Also on exhibit is a group of studies in three dimensions by Frederick S. Beckman’s classes. These are abstract sculptures in plasticum and painted wood-and-paper forms, designed to cultivate the spatial concept in design.
Stanley S. Sessler, head of the de-o partment, is showing a new group of -drawings in charcoal, conte crayon, and other media of various subjects. These were drawn by students of his sketch and life classes.
The Treasurer’s office of the Student Senate presented the following financial statements to the Senate at a recent meeting. They are now presented to the student body in the hope that the students will have a better understanding of why their Activities Fee is needed and how it is spent. An earnest attempt will be made to provide monthly reports of this type through the Senators and on the hall bulletin boards during this semester.—JERRY MURPHY, Treasurer.
Profit and Loss Statement for the
EXPENSES:
Office and Senate ............................$	304.43
Nat. Students Assn............................   333.95
N. F. C. C. S................................... 328:00
Blue Circle .................................... 622.31
Spiritual Commission .............................. .60
Academic Commission	2....................... 427.00
Physical Facilities Comm........................ 100.35
Social Commission............................. 3,349.40
Parties and Mixers............................ 1,331.86
Senate Dances ................................ 4,137.33
Hall Council.................................... 402.45
Public Relations Commission..................... 388.45
Miscellaneous ................................... 27.95
Student Trip ................................. 2.961.05
Old Bills .....................................  348.16
Semester Ending January 31, 1956
INCOME:
' Activities Fee ...........................  $	4,299.15
• Social Commission.....................      1,652.07
Parties and Mixers.........................   1,289.66
Senate Dances ............................... 6,035.83
Concessions Profit ............................. 38.04
Miscellaneous ................................. 551.74
Student Trip .....................:.......... 3,332.25
$17,198.74
Total Income.....................$17,198.74
Total Expenses................... 15,063.29
$15,063.29
Net Profit...................................... $	2,135.45
.	Balance Sheet
ASSETS
Cash .......................................$3,899.66
Petty Cash ................................... 350.00
Accounts Receivable:
Classes ................................ 1,225.00
Dances ................................... 740.61
Miscellaneous .......................... 1,320.30
Equipment .....................:.............. 784.00
$8,319.57
*Note: Unearned income represents Second Semester Activities Fee.
January 31, 1956
LIABILITIES	
Minor Sports Fund Liability ....		$	50.00
Unearned Income 			 4,181.00*
Class Funds:	
1955 			$ 85.49
1956 			 320.18
1957 			 339.43
1958 	.'...		 32.38
1959 		.:	 150.00	927.48
Net Worth:	
Beginning Balance				$1,025.64
Profit for the Semester				 2,135.45	3,161.09
-	$8,319.57
76	The Scholastic
^olio
You can be replaced!” is the standard sound-off of most personnel-pestered executives, but the man behind the frosted glass of the Main Building’s Room 122 is different: his encouraging epigram—“You can be placed”! The prefix has been expunged by the Notre Dame Placement Bureau and its dynamic director, Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C.
by DON ZEIFANG
no place like placement
To the Bureau, a placement doesn’t imply setting up a senior on a football tee and booting him toward his goal. Rather, it means helping a senior find his place in life. The senior can’t expect the Bureau to get a job for him. It’ll prepare his oatmeal for him, but he has to eat the oatmeal himself.
Last Friday was a near-typical day in the Bureau’s hectic life. (The situation may have been even more trying than usual—one of the staff’s six members wasn’t there.) At first glance, the Placement Office can easily be mistaken for the den of the Prefect of Discipline, which is located one floor above and serves an entirely different purpose— that of displacement. The scene was much the same, however. Neatly-attired undergrads sat outside the door, nervously crossing and uncrossing legs, alternating glances at their watches with apprehensive stares at the outdated bas-relief of the lofty ceiling. They .were
One of a thousand signatures.
struggling through a fateful day; so were some of their classmates upstairs!
Two doors, one on each side of the foyer outside Room 122, led to five small interviewing rooms — the scenes for many moments of truth. Occasionally some important-looking gentleman would stride forth from either door, call a name, and gladhand the man who had responded by unlocking himself from his seat. Pleasantries could be heard as they walked back into one of the five inner sanctums.
Several seniors were scanning the interview schedules on the Bureau’s bulletin board. One well-settled engineer turned and answered several queries by saying that:
1)	'This was his third or fourth interview coming up.
2)	He thought the Bureau was a great thing.
3)	Seniors shouldn’t try to force their qualifications down an interviewer’s throat.
4)	Commerce and A.B. men seem to be pretty well taken care of too.
A man in his late twenties walked out of the office. His name was McShay, he was an interviewer for General Electric’s advertising and public relations training program, and he was a very busy fellow. Stopping for a few minutes, he related a few insights into the recruiting of employees on the college level, which is rapidly becoming “a big business.” He went on to say that, in general:
1)	Interviewers are invariably late.
2)	The Placement Director has almost invariably lost the interviewing schedule. (He pointed out, however, that Father Mendez hadn’t.)
3)	His department has a dozen interviewers working in 50 colleges.
4)	He spends one week a year interviewing students. His strained voice implied that one week was plenty.)
5)	To avoid being held up by plane groundings, he always travels by train.
A telegram, glaringly displayed on the bulletin board, read: “Unable to keep our appointment at 9 o’clock AM because we were grounded Cincinnati. Will arrive as soon as possible.” It was signed by an interviewer from a west coast aii-plane manufacturing corporation.
* * *
Father Mendez, the priest behind the interviews, is an alert man—alert to the responsibilities of his job and alert to the opportunities for expanding the scope and efficiency of the Bureau. He likes his w-ork and thrives on it. Although not powerful in stature, his personality conveys a sit-up-and-take-notice feeling to those around him. Sitting behind his desk in a partitioned section of the Bureau’s office, he rattled off rapid-fire answers to unasked questions, prepared at all times to clarify a point
r (Continued on page 21)
February 24, 1956
17
SluMcaAe
agonized end clear
by DAVE McNUTT
Not one of all the purple host Who took the flag today Can tell the definition, So clear, of victory,
.4s he, defeated, dying, On whose forbidden ear The distant strains of triumph Break, agonized and clear.
—Emily Dickinson
J#	*	*
ACOB’s FINGERS twitched a little as he opened the letter. He had waited a long time for it.
Dear Jacob,
I’m not going to apologize for not writing because I was a little bit peeved at being called “ignorant.” I know you were trying to solve a problem for yourself, but there are certain things you can’t do.
I saw that picture of you and Marilyn in the paper. It looked like you were having fun.
Well, I have to leave now. The doorbell just rang.
Gloria
Jacob read the first paragraph over again. Slowly he folded the envelope and threw it into the basket. He sat down hard on the wooden chair. He unfolded the letter and scanned it again.
“Certain things you can’t do.” He had thought she would understand even if the others didn’t. His father and mother had been ashamed. His friend Jack, the best friend he had ever known . . .
“Certain things you can’t do.” You can change political parties and no one will even notice. You can change a coat or a car or a house. But you can’t change your religion, not if you’re a Jew.
He had thought she would understand ; instead, she was angry. And they were supposed to be married in September. By then he would have enough money and she could leave her job in New York and come to Chicago. But now . . .
He had thought she would understand about that night alone and how frightened he was and the feeling he had in the church. He had explained to her about Father Ryan, how he had helped him. But she didn’t see it. He had written that he had discovered something new, something that had made all his thinking before seem ignorant, and she had taken it as a per
sonal insult. He hadn’t meant it that way.
And that picture with Marilyn. There was nothing wrong with that. Men in the advertising business had to be seen in public. They had to keep up appearances. Gloria knew that.
He stood up and walked over to his desk. There was a paper still in the
typewriter. A piece of an ad for a small lumber company. He often did minor work like that at home.
He yanked the paper out, making the roller crackle with a tearing sound. He would often just sit down and write something when he felt depressed. It usually helped.
The roller crackled again as he put in a clean sheet. The keys began to click. It took about a minute. He took the paper out and read it to himself.
We walk the corridors alone
With shoes that ring on empty stone:
Echoing steps, nothing
But echoing steps.
We must speak to someone. Someone speak!
But no one hears, no one hears
But the empty walls. The only voice
Is the barren stone,
Echoing back.
It is cold down here under the ground.
There is a dim light,
From where I do not know,
Just barely bright,
Like a subway.
It is damp and cold and slowly Sweat falls down the stone walls.
We think a thought; we want to write it
Down. But there is nothing
But the wall to write it on.
And we have no pen.
If we want to write, it must be done in blood.
He didn’t like it. He read it again aloud, but softly. It sounded better. He set it on his desk and went to lie down.
Writing the poem hadn’t helped. He still felt bad. There was a hard bubble^ in his throat and his chest was filled^ with lead. He got up and went to the desk. A lot of work to be done. He put the half-completed ad back into the typewriter. But nothing came. It was a good thing he had only three days until his vacation. But those three days dragged like bags of sand.
Then the three days were over. He had nothing to do. He had planned to go back to New York to see her, but he£ didn’t. Not yet. He was afraid he ‘ would have to give her up, but that seemed too much to ask. For two days he fought within himself. Finally, he decided that, in the long run, it would be best to give her up. He had hoped that this decision would lighten the loss. But it didn’t.
It was late afternoon. He lay down on his bed. He wasn’t tired, not physically anyway. He just wanted to lie a down. He thought of Gloria, but forced his mind away. A radiator was whining softly, like pain. He could shut it off. But he didn’t. He thought of praying. But he didn’t. He only wanted to lie there, doing nothing, never to do anything again.
It was good there was nothing to do. He could do nothing anyway. He thrust his hand between his knees, folding his shoulders so that they felt like a lead coat about him. Nothing to do. Wanting Q nothing to do. Why? It was Gloria, he admitted. If he could be with her now, he would. He said he had given her up for God. What God? Where was He? Not here. He knew that right now, if he could have her, he would go to her. No! He had given her up. Perhaps. But only because he had never had her anyway. He thought of her, saw her smooth skin whispering, “Love ...” Maybe.
He rolled away from the thought, like the sheet over a corpse.
“The Lord is my shepherd: I shall not ® want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. . . . And though I shall walk in the valley of the shadow of death, I shall fear no evil. For Thou art with me ...”
No good.
About 6 o’clock he got up and went to the desk. He began typing. He re- -vised what he typed. He typed again. Finally he was finished. It was a letter.
Dear Gloria,
I got your letter. I guess I de- -serve it. I’m just an oaf who doesn’t say things the way he means them.
18
The Scholastic
“ As far as I could see, there was no reference to you in the word “ignorant,” only a reference to my own stupidity. I just didn’t think.
।	I’m just stupid that way, I guess.
5	I hope you can see that, if I were
'I thinking straight like I should have {	been, I would never have said such
■-	a thing to anyone, least of all to
• you.
I guess half the people I know ■ saw that picture in the paper. One of the fellows at work remarked, “Wow! What a touch-up job they did on you!” I notice you said it looked like I was having fun.
I wasn’t.
j	Jacob
He read it over carefully, then folded
•it, and put it into an envelope. He put on his coat and went out, taking the letter with him.
; It was cold and dark and the wind ' cut at his ears. Scraps of leaves and [ old newspapers were scratched along the sidewalk by the wind. It all seemed so unreal.
He passed a Catholic church. The I gates in front of the doors were locked.
God’s house is closed for the night, he ^thought. Is there a God? he wondered. ^Is there a Gloria? Unreal.
Finally he came to a mailbox. He held the letter in his hand. He looked at it closely, turning it around so he could see both sides. He dropped it into the slot.
He started back the way he had come. Past the church. He wanted to go in, but the gates were locked.
Suddenly, as he came to a clear space where there were no buildings, the sky Roomed out in front of him, different ^from any night sky he had ever seen: a night like a night never seen before— ! sky silvered with waves of sea—bright with a light from the moon, not the moon, for brighter, much brighter than moon—a night like a night never seen before, a night illumined with a strange । light.
' Perhaps it was only that he seldom saw the sky at night. Maybe it was like that often. Only he hadn’t seen it before. Still it seemed strange. Like ?^the end of a world, or the beginning of one. He wondered what it would mean to him years later when things that now seemed important would be trifles, and things of real value would be recognized.
World undone? World begun? Jacob didn’t know.
As he entered his apartment building, the night and the sky and the light faded, and only the thoughts remained.
He opened the door to his room. He went to the phone. He dialed. CU-8-5-1-7-3. The line buzzed once, ice, three times. Then a click. “Hello. May I speak with Father
Ryan, please?”
by JOE ACCARDO
WE propose to find a line of inquiry whereby we shall be able to reason to that generally accepted prime motive of scholastic purpose, namely, all-night lights. Now, since reasoning is an argument in which, certain things being laid down, something othei- than these necessarily comes about through them, we must give proof dialectically, that is, from opinions which are generally accepted, and by demonstration, that is, from the certain thing as proved undeniable since they are performed in nature always, for only by dialectics and demonstration are we able to prove anything, except those things which we take on faith usually from or in vii-tue of a higher nature than ourselves, like God for example, remembering always that at one time we reasoned
to a God, who since He is all-perfect cannot lie, and therefore, believing Him is no hardship.
It is generally accepted that there are not enough light hours for the average student to use, if he should want to obtain the maximum from his studying, card playing, bull-shooting, crap shooting, horsing around, and those incidentals such as eating and sleeping. Since this is generally accepted, we have already obtained our truth by dialectics; no one will argue this point.
We can easily demonstrate our point when we consider the number of people using candles, flash lights, oil lamps, matches, or the various forms of indirect lighting, lighting indirect of purpose or indirect in application.
We must remember, though, that light is only the means for obtaining certain purposes to an adequate measure. Without light (the privation of light is many times called darkness), our ends may still be obtained but perhaps with more difficulty.
In consideration of this, we must
a problem solved
recall that at times we do enjoy light, but at specific times, light is not afforded. Thus, we must consider what time is. In so far as the “now” is a boundary, it is not time, but an attribute of it; in so far as it numbers, it is number; for boundaries belong only to that which they bound, but number (e.g. ten) is the number by which we discern like objects, one having more or less than another. Time, then, is both continuous by the “now” and divided by number.
It is clear, then, that time is “number of movement” in respect of the before and after, and is continuous since it is an attribute of what is continuous. Or as time is sometimes described as the Distance divided by the Rate.
The question now before us is “How can we produce light during those periods when light is not afforded us?” There will be some who will take an adamant stand in favor of candles, flash lights, matches, etc. We must discount these ideas since they are not conducive of the intellectual development of a college mind. Even a grammai- school student could produce light by these means. This idea would only work on an individual basis, and the resulting economic problems would cause more difficulties. What is needed is an all inclusive plan.
It is apparent, then, that we need a vibrating or circulating electric charge (which we will call a transmitter or oscillator) to set up in the region all around it a fluctuating electric and magnetic field; realizing, of course, that when other electric charges or magnetic poles are introduced into this fluctuating magnetic field (as in an antenna or receiver) they are acted on by electric and magnetic forces that change with the same periodicity as the trans-mittei-’s original oscillations. We must make sure though, that this is true.
It might be important to remember that if we use the symbol Ex to wimb the radiation energy emitted per second, per unit area of emitter surface, per unit wavelength interval, then by considering CT and C2 as constants and E a number about 2.718, we might be so bold as to say:
Cix-5
EX ~eC2/XT —1
Thus, we conclude that if someone could give us this between the hours of 11 p.m. and dawn, we would satisfy our fondest of desires, all-night lights.
19
February 24, 1956
At a (fiance
AVON
The Prisoner (now showing) A-2. A British film, with Alec Guiness. Set on a higher intellectual plane than most of his fans will anticipate, with more dialogue than action.
The Stratton Story (four days). A re-issue starring James Stewart and June Allyson in the story of a major league pitcher, the tragedy that befalls him, and how he overcomes it.
The Three Musketeers (three days). Another oldie with Gene Kelly, Lana Turner, the late Alan Hale and Gig Young.
COLFAX
Helen of Troy (begins tonight) A-2. One of those super-colossal, stupendous built-up deals which took so many years to make at a cost of so many million dollars. In spite of this stigma attached to it, Helen of Troy manages to portray the story of Paris and Helen adequately. However, some critics, upon watching the film, are said to have muttered concerning Hosanna Podesta, “This is the face that launched a thousand ships??” Also with Jack Semas.
GRANADA
Picnic (now showing) B. A prize-winning Broadway play and an academy award nominee on the screen, with William Holden, Rosalind Russell, Kim Novak, and Susan Strasburg. Need I say more?
PALACE
The Last Hunt (now through next Thursday) B. Here at last we have a western with a new angle. This time it’s Bison we’re concerned with rather than cattle, with Robert Taylor, Farley Granger, and a red-headed Indian named Russ Tamblyn. Also: Night Freight, with Forrest Tucker and Thomas Gomez.
Battle Stations (begins next Friday). Another attempt to hop on the gravy train created by Battle Cry, To Hell and Back, et al., this is a typical war picture concerning life on a carrier during W. W. II. Plenty of action; but it seems wasted because everyone can sense just what the action will be. John Lund plays a Catholic chaplain. Also, William Bendix, Keefe Brasselle and Richard Boone. Also Fury at Gunsight Pass. Not half as bad as the title indicates. A western of the familiar pattern, but helped along by good direction and a nice piece of acting by Richard Long; with David Brian and Neville Brand.
RIVER PARK
Tight Spot (tonight and Saturday). Edward G. Robinson and Ginger Rogers in a typical Robinson-type film. Also Randolph Scott in Ten Wanted Men.
Anchors Aweigh (Sunday and Monday). A re-issue of a pretty fair musical with Gene Kelly, the B.F.H.E. (Before from Here to Eternity) Frank Sinatra, and Kathryn Grayson.
Miracle of Milan (Wednesday only). A one-night stand for this Italian import, last in a series of fine foreign films.
Honky Tonk (begins next Thursday). An ancient cinema; probably brought back to capitalize on the Clark Gable-Lana Turner combo success (?) in Soldier of Fortune.
STATE
The Tall Texan (tonight and Saturday). An old but pretty fair western with Lloyd Bridges and Lee J. Cobb. Also another saga of the old west, The Man From Butte.
Flame of the Islands (Sunday through Tuesday) B. Yvonne De Carlo cast as a reformed Shady Lady with Howard Duff and Zachary Scott. Also Treasure of Pancho Villa. Plenty of action and beautiful Mexican scenery in this picture-built around
the possibility of a certain amount o^ j gold buried in 1914 and never recovered. 1 With Rory Calhoun, Shelley Winters and Gilbert Roland.
Finger Man (Wednesday and Thursday) Frank Lovejoy and Peggie Castle, with Lovejoy doing a creditable per- , formance. Also Headline Hunters—Rod	,
Cameron cast as a newspaperman rather i than a cowboy, with Julie Bishop and.. Ben Cooper of The Rose Tattoo.
WASHINGTON HALL
The Shrike (Saturday, the 25th). Jose , Ferrar in fine performance as a mentally ill man. June Allyson does an about face, and still does a good job. Well worth the 0< you’ll pay to see it. -
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM
The Late George Apley, this afternoon^ ; and evening; admission 25c, shows a™ ? 3:30 and 7:30 p.m.
In order to bring more and better movies to campus, but of wider range than the English department series in । the past, the Student Senate is sponsoring a new series of popular and distinguished films. The series gets off to a : good start with this screen version of John Marquand’s Pulitzer Prize-winning : novel. Dealing with the ever-present-, conflict of parents and children and thd^ J inability of the tradition-bound upper crust of Boston society to recognize reality; it succeeds very well, both as a satire and as an ai-tistic portrayal. With Ronald Colman and Peggy Cummings.
CENTER AMPHITHEATER
Topper Returns. Sunday at 1:30, 3:00, 4:30, 7:00 and 8:30 p.m. Admission free. The hilarious Thorne Smith char-^ acter re-resurrected from the dustjW past.
•Roland Young and Joan Blondell in this modern type ghost story which has, since the issue of the movie, been revived in a popular television series. Another senate series first, Topper Returns kicks off a row of free Sunday movies, with appeal for the masses. Type of movies will be judged by attendance at the first ones presented.
—Reviews by Harry Blanton
UNIVERSITY THEATRE •
On stage: Caine Mutiny Court Martial from Wednesday through Saturday, curtain time, 8:15.
MUSIC
Sophisticated Jazz Concert in the Student Center Saturday night from 7:30 to 9:30 for couples.
WSND
Sunday night, 9:55, Insights Into Music. Sunday from 3 to 4, Adventures^, in Sound. Tuesday at 8:30 it’s Campus" Quiz. Monday through Friday at 1:30, Just Music until 3 :30.
20
The Scholastic
by JIM O’BRIEN
this modern stuff
can look at a tree and see “board feet," or two-by-fours, as such a person might be to look on the work of the artist.
If you are interested in seeing a little modem art “in the flesh,” either to look at it with a fresher insight, or just to shake your head and wonder at the forms which madness can take, the Art Gallery in O’Shaughnessy Hall is featuring a small display of contemporary art from 2 to 5 p.m. each weekday. They aren’t all “horrors,” either. Stop in and take a look.
The guy downstairs burst into the room (sans knock, as usual), strode across the floor, thrust a magazine under my nose and, in a voice choked with emotion, said, “Take a look at this. I could do better than that myself!” ) Recovering quickly, I took a look at the magazine and discovered the source of his mighty passion. The past week’s issue of Time magazine (the student’s friend) in its Art section, featured a six-page illustrated spread, presenting the recent efforts of eight modern artists. The color illustrations made a pleasant, if splashy oasis in the arid grey wastes of business and politics, and thereby attracted some attention, .consequently generating many bull sessions.
Accompanying the illustrations was a rather loaded critical review, as colorful as the paintings themselves, although not exactly kind in its comments and comparisons, plus thumbnail sketches of the artists themselves.
Bull sessions on the subject were invariably charged with great emotion, mainly directed against the defenseless • artists, and the question which immediately came to my mind was “What is everyone getting so excited about?” For it is a fact that most viewers of modern art fly into a rage at the very sight of it.
Perhaps they think the artist is trying to “pull a fast one” and coerce the public into buying his painting just because it is supposed to be “modern.” The prevailing opinion, as stated above, holds that anyone could paint a picture with as much appeal as the modem work to which they would compare it. However, if one were to suggest that they become professional artists, they would probably feel that they were not equipped to do so. This implies that the person who has become an artist at least feels that he is equipped to do so, which might make a little bit of difference.
Again, and most important to the discussion at hand, and perhaps, to all discussions of art, a painting, or a work of A art, as such, is not a symbol of anything ^else; it is itself and its only value lies here.
Our lives are filled with symbols;
words are the most common examples, but they are not a large majority. The familiar blue sign with a bell on it says “here is a telephone.” The person who sees the sign knows this right away, although the symbol is not a picture of a telephone, but merely suggests it.
Because of the proliferation of symbols, it is almost natural for us to expect that a work of art be a symbol also; a device to remind us of something else. And when a work of art does not remind us of something else, we think it has failed; that it is no good.
This is probably the objection of persons who don’t like art at all, and feel uncomfortable in looking at a painting, because it may not look exactly like what it appears to represent, to symbolize.
And they say, “what is the good of it?” This attitude is certainly emphasized by many modern painters. Even the worst art lover in the world may recognize the Mona Lisa as a painting of a woman, although they may never have seen a woman who looked like that, and don’t care if they do. But in the world of contemporary art, with its ■ cubes and lines and splashes of color, the viewer cannot even draw this little symbolic meaning out of the work. Consequently, he feels that he is being cheated or fooled, because what he thinks art ought to do, is not being done. His error in thinking has been exposed and he must choose between admitting that he was wrong or denouncing modern art as wrong, bad, not art, etc.
I think that much of the problem lies in the fact that we are brought up to look for meanings, rather than for things themselves. Children just look at things, and children are fond of ■bright colors and shapes which don’t mean anything to them outside of the shape itself. They get pleasure out of it. They don’t know what a word means, but they can see the shape of the letters just as well as an adult. The adult has learned to see the meaning, but in doing so, he has lost sight of the word itself.
Perhaps modem art is trying to work backwards a little, trying to get back to the thing itself. Perhaps the modem artist is as horrified by a person who
Placement
(Continued from page 17) for a secretary or solve a student’s problem. He moved his eyeglasses from graying temples to desk and back again as he sped through the Bureau’s facts of life:
“Do you know that about 500 interviewers representing 300 different companies are visiting Notre Dame this February, March, and April? Notre Dame is attractive to them. Four thousand high school seniors applied for admission here last year. Of these, 1400 were admitted; only 1200 will be her© next fall. Nine hundred to 1000 will graduate, and they have to keep a 77 average to do so.
“We’ve got the only national undergraduate college in the country. Think it over—the only one. Students are here from all of the 48 states.
“What we’ve been trying to do is bring in more companies looking for A.B. and Commerce men. As it stands now, more than one-half of the companies interviewing at Notre Dame are interested in only one-third of the senior class—the Science and Engineering men. Mr. Herbert Bott, a half-day counselor, is working with the Commerce and A.B. men in that regard.”
Voices could be heard outside the door; the director had to finish a heavy Friday afternoon work load. His eyes shone as he mentioned his other official positions—Director of Student Aid and Scholarships, including the Fisher Loan Fund; Director of Summer Conventions; Assistant Director of the Summer Session. He passed along something about C.S.C.’s dying young.
With a handshake, smile, and the supplying of some mimeographed information about the Bureau (“The trouble is that so many seniors don’t read this information.”), Mendez resumed his dual role of task master and task doer.
The etchings on the frosted glass— tropical birds hovering over luxurious palm trees—seemed now to have some sort of significance. Maybe to a jobseeking senior those feathered things are birds of paradise.
21
February 24, 1956
Going, going . . .


Mutual attraction.

how the money
rolled in
Photos by ED MERTZ
Cool characters rake in the dough.
wo weeks have passed since the Mardi Gras Carnival, but it has not been forgotten by those who ventured to the Navy Drill Hall. Every time wallets are opened, memories are refreshed.
Financially, the Carnival was a huge® success. It set a new all-time record by garnering a gross take of $31,000 and a net of $22,000. The first Carnival held in 1946 ranks a close second.
If you drop a few dollars at the Press Club booth, you aided it in setting a new record for the most successful moneymaker for individual booths. It gathered in $1,300. The Commerce Forum came in second, thanks to the generous crowd that patronized their Over and^ Under booth. The California Club’s Big Six had its share of losers, and it ranked third.
Lyons Hall and Vetville placed behind the West Virginia club in the race for the best decorated booth at the Carnival. A dixieland band and remarkable authenticity made West Virginia unbeatable.
News that the proceeds will not go into the bank accounts of the Carnival chairman and his committeemen will certainly surprise no one—especially the®' Carnival chairman and his committee-men. More needy souls will reap the benefits as $5,000 will go to the Charity Chest. The remaining $17,000 will go toward further decoration in the LaFor-tune Student Center.
At 8:00 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 11, Rev. Edmund Joyce officially opened the playing tables by crowning Pat Cummings and Mary Ann Lescher Queens of the 1956 Mardi Gras Carnival. Along with Queen of the Weekend Nancy Angland who was crowned the preceding Friday^7 night by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, Queens Pat and Mary Ann made the
The Scholastic
Reaching deep for a winner.
Notre Dame campus a virtual kingdom. This is the first year queens were chosen for the Carnival.
Two cars were given away, and on Tuesday night, Feb. 14, Father Hesburgh drew the ticket. Bill Pietrusiak of Morrissey Hall won a 1956 Plymouth convertible for selling the winner’s ticket, and John Vosotsky became the possessor of a 1956 Buick sedan. Mr. Vosotsky, who is from New Jersey, would like to sell the winning stub. For a couple of grand, the buyer will receive the Buick also.
To Jack Casey, Chairman of the weekend, to Denny Powers and Dave Collins, Chairmen of the Carnival, congratulations for your efforts in bringing a very profitable and enjoyable Mardi Gras Carnival to Notre Dame.
Shutting up shop.
February 24, 1956
23
go around
How times change!
Not so very long ago, an engineer struggled to obtain a degree. Yet afterwards he just couldn’t find a job that would let him utilize his hard-earned knowledge, much less start to build a career. Today, however, the demand for engineers exceeds the supply ... so much so that there are not enough to go around.
We need engineers and skilled technicians. That hundreds of other companies do, too, is extremely well evidenced merely by thumbing through your newspapers and magazines. Why should you choose us above them? Perhaps you shouldn’t. Neither should you come to that decision without first becoming fully aware of our . record ... who we are, what we do, where our future lies. For, in whatever field you choose to pursue a career, your transition from neophyte to veteran will not depend on ability alone. Without ample opportunities to demonstrate your talents, you’ll not be able to prove your potential value in any industry.
We would like to tell you about our company. We hope, too, that you will reciprocate and give us the opportunity to evaluate you. You can do this by writing to Mr. Richard Auten, Personnel Department.
SIKORSKY AIRCRAFT
ONE OF THE DIVISIONS OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
BRIDGEPORT 1. CONNECTICUT
24
The Scholastic
S

FENCING TEAM AFTER ALL-TIME RECORD
flrish Fencers in Crucial Triangular Meet;
Face Unbeaten Wisconsin, Illinois Tomorrow
by JIM LANGFORD
Notre Dame’s undefeated fencing team will be seeking to break the alltime Notre Dame record of 17 straight wins tomorrow afternoon, as they journey to Madison,’ Wis., to cross blades with Wisconsin and Illinois. Since both of these teams are also unbeaten, the triangular meet may well go down as one of the greatest in the history of Midwest fencing.
The Blue and Gold will also have a little revenge in mind as they will try to reverse a tough 14-13 loss to Wisconsin last season, and a bitter 14-13 defeat handed them by Illinois in 1953 which broke an Irish victory skein at 17, the same number which they now have.
Wisconsin, last year’s Big Ten champions, have won ten matches without defeat this season. The Badgers are led by Co-Captain Len Parmacek and Frank Tyrell in sabre, co-captain Malcolm Miller and Bruce Bachmann in foil, and Eric Kindwall, an All-American fencer in 1954, and Chuck Barnum in epee.
VIZCARRONDO, TADROWSKI, AND HEMMERLE
Illinois, conqueror of eight foes this season, is a perennial fencing power. The Illini have won the Big Ten crown five times in the past six years and are co-favored with Wisconsin to win it again this season. They are led by defending N.C.A.A. champion Herman Velasco and Ron Hewitt in foil, Art Shankin, the pre-meet favorite to win the Big Ten individual title, in sabre, and Larry Kaufman, Jim Damann, and Jay Sheffield in epee.
Irish Coach Walter Langford calls the match the “crucial meet of the season” and he added: “On paper, we are definite underdogs to Illinois and we are about even ■with Wisconsin. It will take a great deal of Notre Dame spirit and effort for us to win tomorrow.”
Last Saturday, Coach Langford’s lancers won their 16th and 17th consecutive meets, 11 of them this season, as they topped Ohio State 15-12, and edged Michigan State 14-13. The Irish epee team led the double victory as they copped 12 out of 18 bouts. Irish Cap-
FRISKE ON THE OFFENSIVE “En garde!"
tain Don Tadrowski won five and lost one, to boost his season’s total to 26 wins and two losses, only seven wins less than the all-time Irish record of 33 wins in a season. Denis Hemmerle also starred for the Irish epeeists as he captured five bouts in six tries. His record this year now stands at 22-5. John Brogan, despite a leg injury, also aided the Irish cause considerably with two key wins against Michigan State in epee.
Senior star Julio Vizcarrondo won all five of his bouts to extend his season’s record to 19-1 in foil. Pierre DuVair (2-1) and Bill Fox (2-1) also stood out for the Irish foilists.
Dave Friske (4-2) was the only successful member of the sabre team which suffered its worst day of the year, losing 11 of 18 bouts. Friske’s season mark now is 15-9.
The Irish swordsmen would like nothing better than to present Coach Langford with the Madison trophy. If spirit can win a fencing match, Notre Dame should certainly have enough of it. The boys are working harder than ever before in the season to work out the faults which might cause them to lose. They know that both Illinois and Wisconsin are tough “on paper,” as their coach terms it, but are determined to turn in their best effort of the season tomorrow. To remind them of their purpose they have tacked up the banner “For De Landero and Langford.” And they mean it.
February 24, 1956
25
Squires, Skutka Try for Record To Highlight Interhall Meet
The 1956 Interhall Track Meet will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 28. The program is scheduled to get under way at 7:45 with the shot put. The broad jump will follow, then the high jump and 440-yard run.
The next event will be the highlight of the evening as freshman miler Tom Skutka and varsity runner Bill Squires will be matched in a three-quarter mile run. The race will be an attempt to lower the three-quarter mile record of three minutes, one and two-tenths seconds.
The meet will continue with the 60-yard dash, 60-yard low hurdles and 880-yard run. An 880-yard relay will conclude the evening’s competition.
Everyone is eligible with the exception of those who have earned freshman track numerals or varsity monograms.
As a special attraction, the Notre Dame Band will perform throughout the meet.
Wrestlers Face Warriors In Search of Sixth Victory
Eastern Illinois State Teachers College handed Notre Dame’s wrestling squad its third loss of the season, 17-11, last Saturday afternoon in the Navy Drill Hall.
Eastern Illinois took an early lead by capturing both the 123- and 130-pound divisions as Bill Daniells and Bill Shadow outpointed Notre Dame’s Joe Schaefer and Bob Calabrese, 11-1 and 4-2, respectively. The Irish fought back with two wins in the 137- and 142-pound matches. Bob Pivonka pinned Keith Myers, and Captain Terry Crowley outpointed John O’Dell, 8-2.
Eastern regained the lead as John Murphy pinned Mike Gleason in the 157-pound division and Roy Hatfield beat Mel Larsen, 9-6, to gain the 167-pound decision.
Jack Armstrong won his eighth straight match for the Irish in the 177-pound division by decisioning Eastern’s Howard Current, 5-0.
Eastern Illinois heavyweight Ray Fisher iced the meet by decisioning Bob Salvino 5-4 in the final match.
The Irish will travel to Marquette next Wednesday in quest of victory number six against a strong Warrior team. The grapplers will then conclude their regular season against Wheaton College, at Wheaton, on March 3.
At a future date, yet unknown, five Irish matmen will be chosen to participate in an inter-collegiate tournament to be held at Case Tech.
26
Struggling Cagers Face DePaul in Stadium; ' Meet Marquette in Milwaukee Wednesday
by CARL SKIFF
Coach Johnny Jordan’s quintet will meet the DePaul Demons tomorrow night in the first game of a basketball doubleheadei- in the Chicago Stadium. Game time is 7:45. Marquette will play Loyola in the other contest. Next Wednesday, Feb. 29, the Irish will travel to Milwaukee for a game with Marquette.
DePaul defeated the Irish, 77-74, in an overtime battle earlier this season at Notre Dame. Trailing the Irish by 14 points with a little more than six minutes to play, the Demons, sparked by Bill Robinzine, fought back for the victory. The Irish expect more trouble from Robinzine tomorrow night. The gangling 6-2 guard averaged 15 points a game last year. His driving lay-up shot is his most potent weapon.
DePaul’s real scoring- threat, however, is Ron Sobieszczyk. The Irish defense bottled up Sobieszczyk the last time the two teams met, but whether he can be stopped again is another question. The 6-3 forward became the third highest DePaul scorer last week when he ran his three-year total to 1,111 with a 27-point outburst against Manchester. A player who can score well from both the outside and the inside, Sobieszczyk also has a natural knack for defensive ball.
MORELLI, SMYTH, LUNDY, AND AUBREY “. . . leggo Lamar!”
Rounding out the Demon’s starting five are Dick Heise, Ken Jaksy, and Ed Curtin. Coach Ray Meyer has rated the 6-6 Heise as one of the most spirited-’® and determined players on the Demon squad. Heise has considerable speed for a big man and is a valuable asset to the Demons’ fast-working offense. Jaksy, DePaul’s 6-6 center, averaged 13 points a game last year and is one of the most skillful pivot men in the game. Curtin, a scrappy, aggressive guard, is the Demons’ playmaker.
DePaul dumped a favored Kentucky team last Saturday, 71-69. The winning 1 basket was scored by Dick Heise, who finished the night with 20 points. Sobieszczyk was high man for the Demons with 25 points.
The win over Kentucky may have caught the eye of the NCAA selection committee and a win over the Irish might secure a bid for the Demons.
In the game next Wednesday with Marquette, the Irish will once again tangle with the Warriors’ 6-9 Terry® Rand, the club’s leading scorer and rebounder. Rand is a definite threat with his jump and set shots. The Warriors, who have accepted an invitation to play in the National Invitation Tournament in Madison Square Garden, also have
The Scholastic
TANGLE OF THE TITANS One for the Irish.
scoring threats in veterans Gerry Hop-fensperger, Don Bugalski, and Bob •Walczak. Jay Schauer, a 6-6 sophomore, and John Glaser will also see action in Wednesday night’s game.
Notre Dame’s chances for ending the season with a .500 percentage went by the boards last Saturday night when the Purdue Boilermakers dumped the Jordanmen 80-68 in the Fieldhouse. . Coach Jordan found a solution to his 5 scoring problem however, in forward Joe Morelli. Morelli sparked the Irish with 25 points, but Purdue’s defense ^stopped high-scoring Lloyd Aubrey to i send Notre Dame skidding to another I defeat.
1 Aubrey, averaging 23 points a game i before the Purdue contest, scored only 1 three field goals and two free throws. 5 Forward John Smyth hit for 18 points, | but high scoring guard Bob Devine tallied only nine points and played a sub-j, par floor game. Purdue, led by 6-6 f Lamar Lundy, trailed 47-44, when they hit for 12 points without return to take i — the lead with 11 minutes left in the 9game.
The Irish snapped back to winning form Monday night however, and ! downed Marquette’s Warriors 88-85. 1 The game marked the last home ap-s pearance of the season for Coach Jordan’s eagers and they went out in ’ grand style. Center Lloyd Aubrey led ? the departing seniors with a 36-point | effort. Bill Weiman contributed ten and | Captain John Fannon added five. Joe Morelli tossed in 19 from the forward S^slot before fouling out to grab second place in the scoring honors.
; Marquette center Terry Rand led the i. Warrior offense with 34 points. The | February 24, 1956
Irish couldn’t do much at all with Rand in the first half and he ended the period with over 20 points, mostly on tip-ins. But a little crowding by Aubrey and junior forward John Smyth in the second stanza kept the lanky Warrior from running wild.
The win broke a three-game losing streak for the Irish and there was an added satisfaction in knocking off the cocky rivals from Milwaukee.
Behind by 12 points at one time in the second half, the Irish proved to themselves and the cheering audience that they had what it took. They grabbed the lead with a little over two minutes left and went on to win.
Four Kegler Leaders Retain Top Positions
After two full nights of action in the Kampus Kegler league last week, the four previous leaders, Chicago, Detroit, the Irish “A”, and Toledo, again retained the top positions in their respective leagues.
In the individual average department, Dick Torda continues to monopolize the late Wednesday and Thursday night leagues with averages of 169 and 178. Jim Trino, sporting a 171 in 30 games and Bill DeBott, maintaining a 161, continue to pace the early Wednesday and Thursday leagues respectively.
The Chicago Club, though losing some ground to the currently hot California Club bowlers, still leads the early Wednesday night league comfortably with a 40-16 won-lost record.
Jim McLaughlin’s average of 168 continues to crowd Torda’s 169 while John Zeller’s marks of 270 for single and 632 for a night’s play, lead the loop.
In the late Wednesday league, Toledo holds a slight five-point edge in total points over Cleveland, although the Clevelanders lead the league in average pins per game with a mark of 850. Cleveland also holds the four-league high in total pins for a game with a respectable 2873.
In the most exciting divisional battle, the early Thursday league, the Irish “A” hold but a two-point edge over Wisconsin and LaRaza who are both tied for second. The Met Club also remained in close contention in the standings, only four points out of first. The 221 single high of Bill Fanning and a 6035 total cumulative pins of Frank Kwak are high for the league.
In the late Thursday league a battle continues to rage for the top spot. At the present time, Detroit leads both the Irish Air Society and the Met Club by a narrow percentage. Pete Loda holds the high single of 240 while Torda holds the high set mark of 614 as well as top average in loop play.
Cinder Squad Faces Hoosiers Tomorrow
Indiana University will provide the opposition for the Irish track squad when the two teams clash tomorrow afternoon in the Fieldhouse. The Irish, who have won their only two dual meets to date, will be putting their string on the line against a team which defeated them badly last year. However, Coach Alex Wilson feels this year’s meet should be much closer, since his boys have shown vast improvement.
Greg Bell, the highly-touted sophomore who won the National A.A.U. broadjump title as a freshman last year, probably will be the standout of a Hoosier squad expected to be strong in places but lacking in depth. Bell, whose leap of 26% feet indicates he will dominate the event in the Big Ten, will be pitted against N.D.’s Jack Cote who did 23% against Missouri to establish a meet record.
In the sprints, Notre Dame will have Aubrey Lewis, Alex Pestrichella, and Frank Hall going against some of Indiana’s strongest men in Bell, Bill Mace, and Ed Hampton.
The big question for the Hoosiers rests in the 880, mile, and two-mile runs which are normally their events of greatest strength. Coach Gordon Fisher has only three returnees for these events —Bob Lawson, Tony Pentino, and Max Fiscus. The Irish should pick up some valuable points here with distance men such as co-captain Bill Squires and Dale Vandenberg, “Spike” Daly, Ed Monnelly, Dick DiCamillo, Bill Keegan and Al Porter forming the nucleus of the squads which will compete in the (Continued on page 28)
BILL SQUIRES
Right Behind Delany.
<9
The Fieldhouse returned to normal Monday night. The Irish eagers finally jelled in their last home game of the season and pulled off an unexpected but definitely satisfying upset in dumping Marquette, 88-85. Very few were ready to admit it could be done after the poor showing Notre Dame made against Purdue Saturday night, but no one denied that Coach Jordan’s boys had redeemed themselves in good measure this time.
Marquette had come down here anticipating sweet revenge for the thumping they took last year in the Milwaukee Auditorium as they were preparing to go to the NCAA tournament. The Warriors felt they would be able to rub it in good by beating the Irish on their home court. In view of the Irish season record, they had a perfect right to think so.
But it wasn’t to be; the Irish weren’t reading the newspapers.
Last Year’s Upset Repeated
Last year it was Jack Stephens who led the Irish to the upset of Marquette, one of the top teams in the country at the time. The Warriors weren’t rated as high this year, although they have accepted a bid to the N.I.T., but perhaps victory meant more to the Irish this time than it did then. The final home contest in a player’s career, especially after a bad season, sometimes inspires him to greater things. This evidently was the case Monday night. Seniors Lloyd Aubrey, Bill Weiman, and John Fannon played a determined brand of ball that they hadn’t exhibited before in the season. Single game record holder Aubrey led the Irish with a 36-point barrage, two more than Marquette’s highly touted center Terry Band. Aubrey’s ferociousness almost cost Notre Dame a trainer midway through the second half. When Gene Paszkiet wanted Lloyd to leave the game for treatment of a cut inflicted by Rand, Lloyd expressed his reluctance to leave the game by pushing him aside. But harmony was restored, along with a piece of Aubrey’s forehead, and the big center returned to the game.
But although Aubrey was high man for the night, he didn’t overshadow his teammates by any means. Guard Bill Weiman was the playmaker Monday night. Weiman kept the ball moving and had the Warriors off balance most of the time. Even when they had a 12-point lead in the second half Marquette couldn’t settle down to sew it up. If Marquette scored on a quick play, Weiman would bring the ball back up just as fast. If he couldn’t hit Aubrey or anyone else in the open, he drove it in himself and tossed up one of his left-hand specialties. Captain John Fannon came off the bench in the second half to help the cause. Fannon got only five points but he was very much in evidence whenever a loose ball was to be found. He combined 'with Aubrey and John Smyth to give the Irish a pretty fair control of the backboards.
The Team Won It
The seniors didn’t win it by themselves, however. Smyth got nine points and rebounded well. Bob Devine hooked up with Weiman to split the Warrior defense and got nine of his own. And junior forward Joe Morelli, who found the range against Purdue last Saturday, continued in good form to get 19 points and rank second in the Irish score column. Morelli’s play in the last two games has been phenomenal and it looks as if Joe might have finally found himself.
The Irish eagers faced a little additional opposition Monday night besides that of the Marquette team. The antics of Marquette Coach Jack Nagle and the immature conduct of some of the Marquette students didn’t actually hurt the Notre Dame effort but it could certainly have been dispensed with. Nagle was so aroused at one point in the game that he went out on the floor and grabbed Bill Weiman. A few of the Marquette rooters expressed their disappointment by throwing things on the court. It must be tough to lose a ball game in Milwaukee.
So congratulations are in order to Johnny Jordan and his team—and to the Notre Dame students who brought back the old roar and gave the boys a little inspiration. Who cares about Providence? We beat Marquette.—J.N.
Swimmers Set Records Against Ball State, UIC
The Notre Dame Swimming club con~* tinued its record breaking pace by pil^ ing up impressive victories over BaljQ State, 58-26, and the U. of Illinois o^ Chicago, 68-16, over the weekend.
The Irish swept seven of 10 firstS places against Ball State in a mee|® which was highlighted by Paul Ker-^ win’s record-tieing time of 25 seconds^ in the 50-yard free style race. Other^ Notre Dame firsts were picked up byS’ ; Mike Connelly in the 220-yard free-Si style; Ed Healy in diving; Jim Garrity^ in the 200-yard backstroke; Jim Swaim-if, in the 440-yard freestyle; and the 300-’^ and 400-yard freestyle relay teams of^ Dick Katis, John Kroha, Bill Holland Kerwin, Dick Nagle, and Mike Regan.W^
The Irish really opened up against the: • U. of Illinois of Chicago in the Rockne? pool last Sunday as they set six records and tied another in sweeping all 10 ? events.	।
Records were set by Mike Connelly in 1 the 220 freestyle; Ed Healy in the 200- S yard breast stroke; Mike Regan in the | 100-yard freestyle; Paul Kerwin in the^. 50-yard freestyle; and the 300 and 400-yard freestyle relay teams.
Thinclads Face Indiana	J
(Continued from page 27) 440, 880, mile and two-mile events.	’
Jerry Lane, who has done over 51 feet in the shot put, will be pitted against N.D.’s Byron Beams. Stevenson of the Irish will probably find Brealon Donaldson, a 14-foot vaulter, as his " opponent.
One of the best duels of the afternoon $ will find the Irish recordholder Bernie J Allard going against Indiana’s Cal 1 Boyd, who holds all the I.U. marks in j the high jump. Against Missouri Allard ? broke his own record when he cleared the bar at six feet, eight inches. Boyd’s best has been 6 feet, seven.
Loss of National Collegiate and A.A.U. Champion Milt Campbell leaves j Indiana’s hopes in the hurdles up to his I -brother Tom. Not likely to be a hurdler^ of Milt’s stature he could nevertheless^, supply some tough opposition.	|
Competing in the National A.A.U. j championships in Madison Square Gar- t den last Saturday night, Notre Dame 1 garnered six points to finish in a tie | with Per.n for fifth place. Bernie Al- | . lard finished second behind Ernie Shel- , ton of Los Angeles in his specialty, the ’ high jump. Allard leaped six feet, eight ’ inches, an inch shy of Shelton, to tie . , his previous high. In the mile run Bill (./ Squires finished second to Villanova’ Ron Delany. This was the first time in;| decades the Irish have been represented kin the Garden meet.
28
The Scholastic
■a.
1'
Campaign Chairmen Vie for Student Support As Democratic Mock Convention Approaches
Three preliminary rallies have been held in order to elect campaign chair-I men for three of the candidates for the ■ presidential nomination of the mock k ^convention to be held here on April 16, *	“7, and 18.
The rallies held thus far have represented: Gov. Frank J. Lausche of Ohio; Sen. Estes Kefauver of Tennessee; and Gov. W. Averell Harriman of New York.
Personal contact with every state chairman and every delegate and his al-। ternate is to be the strong point in the , Lausche campaign. The purpose of this effort will be to show positively that I ^tbis candidate is the best man for the nomination, thereby gaining the support of any wavering delegates, and of any others who can be persuaded into chang-.7 ing their backing. The main attempt of ij the Lausche supporters is to become the 4 rallying point of all independents and (i of all those opposing Stevenson.
V Dignity and intellectuality are to be the tone of the Lausche campaign. As Jim Hughes, campaign chairman, said:
} ^“We hope to carry on the campaign on . ^an intellectual level as befitting college students.”
Through the distribution of mimeographed copies of stories which have J appeared about the Governor in national » magazines, Hughes intends to make the campus aware of his candidate. Though starting slowly he plans to ' increase strength as other states switch from their favorite sons.
“Sincerity, aggressiveness, and organization are to be stressed in our campaign,” reported Sil Resciniti, campaign chairman for Tennessee’s Kefauver.
This will be a 'strictly positive campaign for the Senator, placing emphasis
ARMY ROTC AWARDS
Army ROTC Cadets, Corporal | John W. Dewes and Cadet John H.
Treanor, were awarded Chicago Tribune Gold and Silver medals on 9 Feb. 20.
The awards were presented on the basis of military achievement, scholastic attainment, character development, and leadership qualities. The presentations were made at ceremonies held in the Navy Drill Hall.
Cadet Corporal Dewes, a sophomore from Hopkins, Minn., received 1 the Gold Medal and Cadet Treanor, j	a freshman	from Pelham, N. Y., re-
>	ceived the	Silver	Medal	for	their
r*	outstanding	work	during	the	first
f	semester.
on his personal qualities and experience. Definite steps are going to be taken to make the students conscious of the Kefauver movement and to get student cooperation. Informal rallies at student gatherings, and spontaneous demonstrations are to be some of the means used to achieve both of these.
Resciniti personally plans to talk to all 'state delegation chairmen to learn their sympathies and thus find his main sources of strength.
As to the prospects of his candidate, Resciniti stated, “We are emphatically convinced that Kefauver’s capabilities are such that we can emerge from this campaign second to none.”
He urged anyone sincerely interested in supporting the candidacy of Kefauver to contact him at 236 Alumni.
“Our aim is to get not only enough support from the whole campus to have Gov. Harriman nominated, but also to show that he is a very strong prospective candidate,” asserted Dave Davin, who, together with Jim Cummings, is cocampaign chairman for Gov. W. Averell Harriman of New York.
Informal rallies are to be used to educate the students about Harriman’s ideas. Through individual discussions with state delegation chairmen, Davin intends to gain their support. Campus demonstrations will be used to make the students recognize Harriman.
“We don’t plan on changing our support, since we firmly believe that our candidate is strong enough to win,” commented Davin.
Delegate Elections Complete; State Group to Pick Heads
'The complete list of delegates to the Mock Democratic National Convention, April 16-18, was announced yesterday by the Academy of Political Science. Elections took place last Sunday in the Dining Hall.
Only 17 states and territories had runoffs in .delegation seating. Among them, New York had 442 candidates contesting for 135 seats, Illinois 167 for 85 seats, California 143 for 90 seats, with Michigan, Indiana, and New Jersey also showing large surpluses of delegates.
Those not elected will fill the remaining places in incomplete delegations. Among the 2,000 positions for- delegates and alternates, 200 are expected to be filled by St. Mary’s students.
State delegation caucuses will be held for the selection of individual state committee chairmanships, announced Jack Owen and Jack McGraw of the Delegations Committee.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
M2 S. WALNUT
uniis UlKUYaii ink snr
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing
Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
Friendship Photos
Silk Finish Photos 254x3^2 in. 20 photos from your picture, or 25 photos from your negative. Minimum order $1.00
WALLET PHOTOS, Box 470, Fostoria, Ohio
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
February 24, 1956
29
JACOBY'S 1
BRIDGE)

1
At Notre Darnel
NORTH	1
It’s a pleasure to get to know Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Each time you shave you can look forward to something special: the Old Spice scent—brisk, crisp, fresh as all outdoors... the tang of that vigorous astringent—banishes shave-soap film, heals tiny razor nicks. Splash on Old Spice—and start the day refreshed!
Add Spice to Your Life... Old Spice For Men
SHULTON New York • Toronto
Sunny Italy Cafe A NOTRE DAME TRAD/T/ON
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JJM.S. Bldg.
	Spades Hearts Diamonc Clubs WEST	A Q 9 A Q J 10 Is K 8 5 4		
		Q	2	EAST
Spades Hearts	J 8 6 K 4		Spades Hearts	K 4 9 3 2
Diamonds	9 7 6		Diamonds Q J 10	
Clubs	A 9 8 6 4		Clubs	10 7 5
Bidding North 1H 2D 3NT	SOUTH Spades 10 7 5 3 2 Hearts 8 7 6 5 Diamonds A Clubs	K J 3 East	South P	1NT P	2NT P	P			We: P P P
3

Opening lead: 6 of clubs.	j
Last Sunday the winners in the week- V ly duplicate bridge tournament at the student center were Tom Betterton and	'L,
Pat Bradford, with a .611 percentage.	’’
The above was one of the more in- p teresting hands played at the tourna-«L ment. After the opening lead, declareri won the trick with the Jack in his own f ’ hand. He then led a heart toward dum- ■ my. West now made a bad play. Since he figured North would play a low tj[ heart from dummy anyway, West	L
played his King, hoping North would	j
not notice this, and would give him the 1 trick. South was not quite this sleepy. n He played the Ace of hearts, and fol- ' lowed with the Queen, Jack, and 10 of hearts in turn.	O !
Now South led a diamond to his Ace, then a spade to the Queen. East won the King of spades, and returned the Queen of diamonds. Discarding a spade from his own hand, South played a low ' diamond from dummy.	;
East now played his club, South J played low, and West made the mistake of taking his Ace of clubs and leading another club. If West had played a low ,: club, allowing North’s Queen to win the trick, the lead must now come off dum-^ my which holds at this point the Ace-£r® of spades and the King-8 of diamonds. In either case declarer can only take two more tricks.	'
However, when West won his Ace ./ quickly and led another club, a diamond ? ! was pitched from dummy as North won < the club King. This put him back in his ; 1 hand and enabled him to take a second it spade finesse, thus making four no Q trump.	p’1
Although correct defense can hold the hand to nine tricks at no trump, 10 or^ 11 tricks could be made very easily ifI the hand were played at hearts.
—Jim Jacoby	i
30
The Scholastic
^lo+re Dame to Assist With Atomic Project
Notre Dame and 13 other- Midwest educational institutions will mobilize their atomic scientists to design and develop the world’s “finest and most powerful” ultra-high-energy accelerator, ^Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, announced last week.
The U. S. Atomic Energy Commission has authorized the mammoth project and will support construction of the machine at a site to be selected later, Father Hesburgh said. He explained that the project is “beyond the resources of any single educational or re-^search institution and therefore is de-^pendent on Congressional authorization as well as effective and joint cooperation of the government, the major universities of the Midwest and their scientific manpower.”
According to Dr. Bernard Waldman, director of Notre Dame’s Nuclear Physics Project, the proposed accelerator will generate “billions of volts” and will project particles of very high energy Ato bombard substances. This bombard-~'ment, he said, will produce “new particles that never existed before.”
The most powerful particle acceler
ator in existence today, Dr. Waldman said, is the bevatron at the University of California Radiation Laboratory at Berkeley. An even more powerful installation currently is under construction at the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, he added. The accelerator to be built in the Midwest, when completed, will be still more powerful and will serve to maintain United States leadership in atomic research, Waldman declared.
ATTENTION SENIORS
All seniors who have not yet turned in their application forms for the Placement Bureau are requested to get them in by next Friday, according to a notice from Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., placement director.
Every Monday morning new interview schedules for the following week are made available in Room 118 of the Main Building where they are left until Friday. Once removed from Room 118, no student may cancel or otherwise change an appointment he has made.
The Placement Bureau states that any appointment which is not kept will be regarded as a cut. Three such cuts will cancel all further use of the Placement Bureau’s services.
mkWTURBOW \OPTOMETRIST
—‘ OPTICAL REPAIRS --
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
--- EYES EXAMINED ---
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Creole Petroleum Corporation would like to say THANK YOU for the interest shown in our organization during our recent visit to your campus.
We also appreciate the many courtesies extended our representatives by your Faculty and Placement Director. If you were unable to schedule an interview and are interested in Employment Opportunities in Venezuela
Please forward your qualifications by mail to 350 Fifth Avenue, New York 1, N. Y.
February 24, 1956
31

32
The Scholastic
rr. O'Brien Writes New Marriage Text
Young people should not expect to find nappiness in marriage, but rather to earn it by restraint, forebearance and plenty of hard work, according to Rev. John A. O’Brien, a noted marriage coun-^^eloi- and author-in-residence at Notre Dame.
Detroit Edison Co.
Electrical Power
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
“Married life is no Garden of Eden from which' all trials and sufferings have been outlawed,” Fathei- O’Brien writes. “It is part and parcel of the great web of human life in which are woven strands of pleasure and pain, joy and sorrow, laughter and tears. Happiness in marriage, as in all of life, comes from the sense of duty well done. In rheir faithful fulfillment of their duties to each other, to their children and to theii- God, husband and wife will find the largest measure of happiness.”
Wedding Preparations Outlined
In Happy Marriage Father O’Brien devotes special chapters to the subjects of courtship, choosing a mate and mixed marriages. The arrangements and preparations necessary for a Catholic wedding are outlined in detail.
The author also analyzes why marriages fail. Drunkenness, Father O’Brien says, is the chief cause of divorce. Other factors contributing to marriage failures, he says, are adultery, irresponsibility, incompatible temperaments, in-law trouble, sex maladjustments, mental illness, religious differences, and money troubles—in that order.
WSND Emphasizes Music In New Programming Idea
t Promoting a new concept in programming, WSND is designing its shows with a view to more music and less chatter. It is the intention of the new programming to keep the listeners informed on current events and sports with seven daily newscasts and to devote almost all ©remaining time to shows featuring music.
? “Insights into Music,” a new Sunday evening show, is a program emphasizing classical music and featuring a short } ‘ explanation of the various works presen; ted in an effort to increase appreciation of them.
. Monday through Friday afternoons at 1:30 p.m. a two-hour pop session is
। scheduled and Sunday afternoon “Adventures in Sound” plays the unusual in ^ri-fi.
#7 " These programs are some of the first to be put on the air following the new system. More are in the planning stage.
Research and Development Plant and System Design Equipment Engineering
Planning for Growth Purchasing
Sales
Electrical - Mechanical Engineers
Reserve your appointment time at Placement Office to see our representative.
FRIDAY, MARCH 2
Will Also Interview Sophomores and Juniors Interested in Summer Employment
electrical engineers mechanical engineers physicists
Let ARMA talk with you about YOUR future in the Dynamic and Challenging Field of Electro-Mechanical Instrumentation
See ARMA when our representative visits your campus shortly. Ask your Placement Officer for details.
Or j/ou may send inquiries to: Mr. Charles S. Fernow Administrator of Technical Education
ARMA
Division American Bosch Arma Corp.
Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.
February 24, 1956
35
i-
two facts'
by Curt Matthews
of life
■
This is one of those years when everyone’s attention turns to things political. A good deal is said and written about everything from farm supports to foreign policy, and always with an eye towards the coming election.
Just what effect all this party publicity has on the general public and the average voter is hard to judge. However, I think, a good deal of this publicity that originates at party head-quarters clearly demonstrates only one thing. There are more than a few party supporters whose sentimental attachment to the party is so strong that they often do and say unreasonable things.
That is, they are sentimentally so attached to the idea of being a Democrat or a Republican that they often purposely forget, intentionally neglect, or knowingly twist the facts.
People who demonstrate this particular soit of sentimental attachment often campaign under the title “Old Guard.” They usually begin and end every point of discussion and dispute with the same sentence or some modification of the same idea.
It runs: “My father was a Republican, and his father before him, and they always told me and I’ve always believed ...” With such people the real core of an issue is seldom significant. What matters more to them is how the party stands on this or that issue.
They have a sentimental attachment based on nothing more solid than the fact that their mother happened to marry a Republican, or Democrat, as the case may be.
Of course, such politicking has its definite advantages. You never have to go to all the trouble of looking up the facts yourself. The party supplies all the facts and even indicates how you should feel about them. It’s all very convenient. Just not very mature.
Another example of unreasonable ac-
34
tion completely based on sentimental attachment was the trial last fall in Mississippi which freed the men charged with the killing of a young negro boy.
(Let me make clear that it is not my intention to bring up here the tender question of segregation. I hesitate to even mention the word. I allude to this incident only for reasons of example— not of conviction.)
It seems to me to be a classic case, though by no means the only one or the most serious one, of unreasonableness based solely on sentimental attachment. Those responsible, for what has been recognized by both North and South as a possible flout of justice, were sentimentally so attached to their position that nothing, not even cold, hard, simple, undisputable fact, could sway their opinion.
I’ve always sort of sympathized with the people of the South in their effort to keep alive a certain color, charm, or personality that is wrapped up in all that magnolia blossoms and riverboats signify. Pride in the Civil War happens to be a part of that color.
But the unfortunate thing is that some of the people in Mississippi seem to have an undue sentimental attachment for the principle of the Civil War rather than the fact of it.
Again let me stress that I in no way intend to build a case for or against segregation. The incident I have chosen to illustrate this point of unreasonableness brought on by warped sentimentality is not a judgment—just an example.
There’s one more kind of sentimental attachment worth considering, I think. It is really so general I’ll have to treat it in a general way. You find it in the people who insist on banging their heads against concrete walls.
By that I mean they’re always trying to alter things and improve conditions so as slowly to mold their own little Uto
pias. Now I’m not implying that certain things can’t be altered and certain conditions aren’t well worth changing, ’ but the people I’m referring to usually expend their energies struggling with ; the immutable.	;j
We all run into such people: “Why doesn’t everyone appreciate Bach?” or | “Why can’t we just isolate the United -States?” or “Let’s have free beer every^ . second Tuesday.”
These people also have a counterpart, or opposition if you will, whose motto is: “It’s always been done this way...” Unlike the Utopia hunters these people have a sentimental attachment to things as they are regardless of how unreasonable such things mav prove to be.
Utopia hunters have a sentimental attachment to something that they personally appreciate and they fail to un-^ derstand why everyone else doesn’t ap-"' preciate and reverence their ideas for the improvement of the breed the way they do.
What really upsets such people is that their ideas are usually recognized as the “golden standards,” but the masses still ignore them.
What these people are forgetting is that so far we’ve only had one Utopia, | and Adam-Eve and company made short work of that.
It’s unrealistic to have such a senti- ~ C mental attachment to the ideal, the per- r feet, that you wind up doing and think- L ing unreasonable things. Let’s face it, man has been ejected from paradise on earth. And since that time he has had to fall back on wars, research labora- J tories, divorce and prayer in an effort ' to get what he wants.	j
Two of the most basic facts of life	J
are: one, that we all must work for	$
what we get and, two, we have to payzr< for our mistakes. The Utopia seekers^ 4 forget the first—those people in Missis- M sippi, the second.	y
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
THIS IS ONE WAY TO LOOK
FOR A CAREER,
You can’t depend upon a crystal ball with your future at stake. Bell Aircraft has something tangible to offer ... a rewarding career with the engineering team which is recognized for its important contributions m aircraft, guided missiles, electronic systems and other diversified fields. Here are exciting assignments — demanding creative engineering and rewarding individual ability and initiative. Get the facts from our representative.
Our representative will be on campus:
March 12 and 13
BUFFALO 5, N.Y.
or Address Inquiries to: Manager, Engineering Personnel
Your Bachelor Degree can earn career oppartunilies in these technical areas:—
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS
ELECTRONICS
Guidance Systems Instrumentation
Telemetering
SERVOMECHANISMS
Electronic Design Analogue Simulation
TESTING
Missile Acceptance Testing
Test Equipment Design
•	Flight Test Instrumentation Installation
•	Service & Training
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
Rocket Development
Research Laboratories
Servomechanisms Hydraulic and Valve Development
Structural Test
MATHEMATICIANS and PHYSICISTS
Dynamics Analysis
Aerodynamics
Electronic Development
Servomechanisms Development
Rockets Research
To holders of a Master or PhD Degree, Bell offers exceptional opportunities in advanced research on a variety of projects.

■S'-
and pleasing to the
Firm
1
£
PACKS MORE PLEASURE
The more perfectly packed your cigarette, the more pleasure it gives... and Accu-Ray packs Chesterfield far more perfectly.
lips... mild yet deeply satisfying to the taste — Chesterfield alone is pleasure-packed byAccu-Ray.
To the touch ... to the taste, an Accu-Ray Chesterfield satisfies the most... burns more evenly, smokes much smoother.
because it's More Perfectly Packed!
Satisfy Yourself with a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray
CHESTERFIELD
UGGETTt
Mn»S TOBACCO
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco CO-


MILD, YET THEY