
ACE ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 272-7535 --HOURS-­7,30 AM To 5,30 P.M. Closed Sunday • GARDEN • PAINTS SUPPLIES • TOOLS • HOUSEWARES • PLUMBING & • HARDWARE ELECTRICAL • SPORTING STJPPI.!ES GOODS 1~-,~­FREE PARKING FRONT & REAR 219 DIXIE WAY NO. IN ROSELAND1~ --­ Ch..ck C.1.,hlng Convenience -M.1.,. $10 -with v,1/id SMC or ND ID. FULL SERVICE POSTAL STORE HOURS:SUB-STATION 9 AM-9 PM MON.-SAT. Postage Stamps Pmel Post 9 AM-12 NOONRegistered Mail Posbl Money Drdm Certified M;iii Posbl Cards SUN. O;iily 5 p.m. Pickup Sub-station Hours: 9 o.m.-5 p.m. Mon.-Fri. 9 o.m.-1 p.m. Sot. RosELAi\io1fPHARMAcv 405 D11i1 Wax NPdb IVS 31) Ba1el1nd 272:§060  

Bring this ad with you for 10% OFF on the typesetting of your resume. Otter expires October 31, 1983. Otter good only for typesetting. 
of~~~nt 
I!!ilM,". 

TheNow Printer5,. 
Your resume should also be special. A professio_nally typeset resume is important because it shows you in your best light. We are typesetting professionals and can help you look your best. 
247 Dixieway North South Bend, IN 46637 
219-277-3355 
. . -. -. ---.... -. . . : . ' ·. . . ., . 
. . . . . , 

Vol. 125, No. I, September, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

FEATURES 
6 Celebrate the Grand Opening 7 The Building Boom 8 Inside Student Gouernment at SMC 9 Steppin' Out 

IO Inside "The Obseruer" I I Inside Psych Seruices 
· I 1 Eulogy for a Demipedagogue 13 The Man Behind the Mystique 17 lnex= 18 Seruing Up a Smile 20 To See the Pope 22 Behind the Notre Dame Football Tradition 24 Tom Cushing-Continuing the Tradition 26 Inside Student Gouernment at ND 27 The Summer of People 

REGULARS 
2 The First Word 

4 Notables 14 Gallery 16 Poetry /9 Fiction/New Kid 25 Cinema/Risky Business Indeed 
1983 
Maureen T. Karnatz Keuin Donius Lisa L. Fitt Patty Curran Dauid Dziedzic Ed Domansky Norm DePlume Joe Rice Maureen Stubbs Jim Herr Anne Zink Kathleen Doyle Tim Doyle Brian Callaghan Beth Zangmeister 

Kathy Curran Keuin Donius and Mary Ann Potter Margaret E. Young Melita Schaum and Joe Holtermann Bud Luepke William Noble Macfarlane, Jr. 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the Univ.er­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
I 

The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vaca• tion and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $9.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright © 19 8 3 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 





TheFirst Word 
by Kathy Curran 

Because this is my first public forum this year, I have had to wait until now to welcome you all back. Amid our first rounds of exams and papers, games and tailgaters, dances and dates, it is almost shocking, though, to remember we really just arrived here. We should still be flashing our tans. We should still feel rested from our vacations. And we should still be planning to carry out our "I'd better improve last year" resolutions. 
But quite a few of us, unfortu­nately, are no longer bronzed gods and goddesses. We are already exam­ining the bags developing under our eyes. The resolutions, once so well planned, have been deemed contrary to our characters. In essence, we have faded. 
I have to laugh when I remember myself sitting on a South Bend­bound plane repeating, "I will not speak on the phone to Phoenix for 45 minutes. I will not eat desserts after meals. I will not write my Scholastic editorials the night before they are due." 
Yes, I was an idealist this summer. Pressures were few and I had a lot of time. As a matter of fact, it was almost fun to plan how I would im­prove myself. 
Yet, it should not have been a game. My goals are not unrealistic, nor are they insurmountable. I can write letters. I can avoid analyzing the pies and cookies SAGA food service has to offer. I can even plan ahead. I need to look at my idealistic resolutions and realize they are real­istic. 
We, as college students, need to be practical dreamers. This is no contradiction of terms-we need to think about what we want to be­come and where we want to go. Yet, we need to make plans to achieve these dreams. It is the beginning of the year-think ahead so you can plunge forward and conquer. D 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
1983-1984 

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
James S. Ganther 


GENERAL MANAGER 
Charles G. van Ravenswaay 
ST. MARY'S EDITOR 
Kathy Curran 
Production Manager 
Tom Sapp 

Photo Editor 
Michael P. Leary 

News/Sports Editor 
Kevin Donius 
Culture/Fiction Editor 
Laurel Ann Dooley 
Copy Editors 
Kathleen Doyle 
Janet Drobinske 
Art Editor 
Keevie McCarthy 
Advertising Manager 
Jeannie Euch 
Business Manager 
Jim Dever 
Distribution Manager 
Stephen Busk 
. Advertising Staff Reginald V. Daniel, Rich Cameron 
Production Staff Rob Sienkiewicz, Mary Arn, Joe Krumenacker, Sue Fischer, Angie Hooten, Maura Mandyck, Fred Zim­merman, Kathy McGarvey, Laura Dowden, Kathy Weber, Mark Weimholt, Tracy Reimer, Chuck Krill, Mary Pace, Joe Dant, Becky Miklos, Diane Emard, Ursula Crooks, Barbara Stevens, Mary Thompson, Becky Blaisdell 


Photo Credits 
Mike Leary, pages 3, 4, 6, 9, 12, 14, 32, John O'Conner, pages 4, 7, 25, Claire Chou, page 5, John Komdare, pages 6, 8, Chas Phillips, page 8, Greg Abbott, pages 11, 24, 29, 31, Robert McMonagle, pages 13, 3 I , courtesy of The Observer, page I 0, courtesy of Joseph Harmon, page 22, 23. 
Cover by E. F. Skahan Co 
Illustration by Dale Mainer 

SCHOLASTIC
2 
•  •  •  '  - - •  •  •  •  •  '  r  •  
.  .  .  .  .  - .  :.  .  -.  
•  '  4  •  •  ?  


(Left-Right) Sitting: Michael P. Leary, Janet Drobinske, Kevin Donius. Standing: Charles G. van Ravenswaay, James S. Ganther, Jeannie Euch, Jim Dever, Laurel Ann Dooley, Tom Sa'PP, Kathleen Doyle, Kathy Curran. Missing: Keevie McCarthy and Steve Busk. 
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 Please send me a subscription to SCHOLASTIC for ...... years at $9.00 a year. I am enclosing $ ....................... . . ................... CASH .................. CHECK 
Name ................................................................................... . 
Address ............................................................................... . 
City ..............................................................•....................... State ........................................................ Zip ................... . 
Let your friends and family know what's going on at ND. 



Send them a subscription to Scholastic magazine.· Only $9.00 per year. 





Scl1cdastic 
Notables 

Board of Trustees University President Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., has an­nounced that four persons have been added to Notre Dame's Board of Trustees: John Brademas, President of New :York University and former Indiana congressman; Ignacio E. Lozano, Jr., publisher of La Opinion Student Receives Fellowship Thomas M. Parrill, a 1983 Notre Dame engineering graduate, was one of forty-one recent college gradu­ates throughout the nation to receive a fellowship from the Office of Naval Research. While earning a bachelor's degree in metallurgical engineering and ma­terials science at Notre Dame, Parrill was awarded the Reverend Thomas A. Steiner Prize, given to engineer­ing students recognized for their leadership qualities. In addition, Par­rill was elected to the Tau Beta Pi and Alpha Sigma Mu honor societies. Parrill will pursue his graduate studies in materials science and en­gineering at Northwestern Univer­sity.  in Los Angeles and a 1947 graduate of Notre Dame; Newton N. Minow, former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission and di­rector of the Public Broadcasting Service; and Dr. Arlene Reed-De­laney, an Albany, N.Y., psychiatrist. These appointments bring mem­bership of the board to forty-six, thirty-nine lay persons and seven priests. New Philosophy Chairman Richard F. Foley, an associate pro­fessor who has been teaching at Notre Dame since 1976, has been named chairman of the philosophy department. Foley has been a codirector of the undergraduate program in philoso­phy and coordinator of that depart­ment's honors thesis program since 1979. In 1982 he directed the Arts and Letters London program. A prize-winning essayist, Foley has had several papers published in scholarly journals, and his research has been supported by the National Endow­ment for the Humanities. Foley replaces Michael Loux, who was recently named dean of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters.  


Lewis "Family Hall" 
Lewis Hall served as a summer 
resort for 1,700 persons from forty 
states who took advantage of the 
1983 "Family Hall" program. 
Returning alumni and their fami­
lies have had the opportunity to stay 
in a residence hall set a·side for their 
convenience during the summer since 
the program began in 1976. During 
their visits, the guests are free to use 
most of the University's educational 
and recreational facilities. 
More than 12,200 former students 
and members of their families have 
used the program in its eight-year 
history, and many have returned for · second visits. 
SCHOLASTIC 









St. Mary's College 
New Dean of Students 
Sister Karol Jackowski assumed her duties as the new Dean of Stu­dent Affairs on August 1 at Saint Mary's College. This former Direc­tor of Residence Life replaced Dr. Kathleen ,M. Rice, who resigned last spring. Ms. Patricia Rissmeyer, from the University of Massachusetts in Amherst, has been chosen as the new


Notre 
Director of Residence Life. 
Dame 



Summer Camps 
Summer campers between the ages Holy Cross Hall of ten and eighteen brought a change 
If you had visited the campus over

of pace to the campus in July, as 
the summer, you would have found

Saint Mary's sponsored three sum­
construction going on in Holy Cross 

mer camps. The Paula Program for 
Hall where St. Mary's workers were

Gifted and Talented Girls featured

Season Tickets 
enclosing .the stairways to comply

instruction and laboratory experience 
with fire safety regulations. It also

for junior high school girls. Each of
In order to meet the demand for might have been difficult to walk be­
the 20 participants in the camp
single game tickets by contributing tween Holy Cross and LeMans halls,
boasts a Scholastic Aptitude Test
alumni, the University was forced to as the sidewalks were torn up while
(SAT) score higher than many col­
cut back on the number of football the tunnels were being repaired. 
lege freshmen. The second camp was The problem, according to Univer­
season tickets available this year. 
the Sports Summer Camp for young sity officials, is that the 59,000-seat 
athletes wishing to receive· instruc­Counseling Notre Dame stadium, built 53 years 
tions in the sports of their choice. With the opening of the new ago when the University had 5,000 
The 10th annual Fine Arts Camp of­Haggar College Center, the Counsel­alumni, now must cope with ticket 
fered campers a total immersion into ing and Career Development Center requests from 71,000 alumni. 
art, stage crafts, drama, music and relocated the Career Resources Li­dance. brary into the former Student Activi­ties Offices. Another full-time pro­fessional staff member, Jeff Roberts,

Moose Krause Award 
was added to increase service to the In athletics, Gail Casey was St. Mary's students. This Center is

Voluntary Support 
awarded the coveted Moose Krause now open Monday nights from 7 p.m. Notre Dame raised slightly more 
Award which is given by The Ob­to 9 p.m., along with its regular than $27 million in the fiscal year 
server. The award is presented to hours, for career exploration. ending last June 30, according to the 
the Outstanding Female Athlete of University's development report. It 
the Year from the Notre Dame­is the second ·largest amount ever 
Saint Mary's community. An All­amassed in a single year by the Uni­
American and an Academic All­versity. 
American in swimming, Gail is the Corporations donated $7.4 million, 
first Saint Mary's woman in the while individuals and foundations 
award's history to receive this honor. contributed $6.6 million each. Par­ents of students accounted for $5.7 million and $690,000 was pledged in 

Holography
deferred gifts. Half of the alumni solicited gave to their alma mater, 
.j~~•;)S·C:',;,'if>!+!\\¥1]!1),,

Two holograms of Doug Tyler, as­
{ • ~ 1---,, ,., .,••.• -··~'-,-.L,.. ,.:.Z?mt•t.··J..1~,­

this percentage up slightly from the 
sistant professor of art at Saint •••• previous year, with an average gift 
Mary's, are on display in Bath, En­of :$300. · 
gland, in the show "Light Dimen­According to the last-published 
sions -The Exhibition of the Evolu­survey of the Council for Aid to 
tion of Holography." The show, Education, Notre Dame led all Cath­
which features the work of thirty­olic institutions and was 19th among 
four holographers from twelve coun­all American private universities in 
tries, is the largest ever· of holo­voluntary support. 
grams. 
. 

September 1983 
lu..,.. 


Celebrate the Grand Opening 

What is it about Saint Mary's Col­lege that is creating all kinds of frenzied excitement and wild hys­teria this fall? If anyone is still un­certain, it is the completion of the new Haggar College Center located in the old library in front of Lake . Marion. 
A much-needed addition to Saint Mary's College, the Haggar College Center offers many attractive oppor­tunities to students, faculty, adminis­tration, and alumnae. Not only is the center a fun place to spend spare time, it provides a chance for the community to get to know one an­other better. This can be accom­plished in a number of ways. For example, club meetings, informal re­citals and displays, and class dances can be held in the center. Also, sev­eral student organizations house of­fices in Haggar. Besides the student government offices and workrooms, the Blue Mantle and The Observer are located on the third floor of the center. 
·Because Haggar furnishes needed social space on ,campus,. the center invites students to play an active role in their school. The center also al­lows the entire community to relax 
by Maureen T. Karnatz 
and make new friends while enjoying favorite activities. Finally, the center integrates all school functions, testi­fying to the unity of Saint Mary's Christian community. So do not let Haggar go to waste -it is an oppor­tunity to take hold of and put to use! It is THE place to be on Saint Mary's campus this fall! 

Maureen Karnatz is a St. Mary's College student from Bay Village, Ohio. This is her first contribution to 
Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC 



The Building Boom 
by Kevin Donius 

"It's a matter of getting hit with everything at once," said Donald Dedrick, Director of the Physical Plant, referring to the state of af­fairs that has led to all the con­structing and renovating that has been going on around campus. 
The simultaneous realization of sev­eral long-term projects in addition to the standard improvement and main­tenance work accounts for the un­usually large number of workers banging hammers and rumbling trucks that have found their way on campus in recent months. 
The biggest project under way is the new Arts and Letters faculty building, located behind O'Shaugh­nessy Hall. Funded by a donation, the $6 million building is expected to be finished by next April and will house 250 faculty offices, each with a window view. It will be similar in style to O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Another big project is the building of the swimming pool on the east side of the ACC. The pool will be named the Rolfs Natatorium, in honor of the two main sponsors of the multimillion-dollar project, Thomas J. Rolfs and Robert T. Rolfs. The Rolfs brothers both graduated from Notre Dame (Tom in 1944, Bob in 1950) and are currently chair­man and president of Amity Leather Products of West Bend, Wis. The facility is still in the planning stages and is not scheduled to be completed until the spring of 1985. 
The walking mall, located in front of the library where the old field-house used to be, is expected to be completed in a few weeks. When the Midwest," according to Dedrick. The engineering auditorium's new seats and remodeled projection room 


finished it will consist of walking • should improve it both as a class­
paths, benches, trees, and a fountain. "I think it's going to be the center of student traffic," says Dedrick, who adds, "I think the students will be very pleased with it." 
Movie-and theatergoers will be pleased to learn that both Washing­ton Hall and the Cushing Engineer­ing Auditorium have been remod­eled. Though the work at Washing­ton Han.will not be completed until next year, the theater itself will soon be ready for use. New seats, im­proved acoustics, and modernized stage equipment will make the the­ater "one of the best of its kind in 
September 1983 

room and as a movie theater. 
Working with funds provided by the donations of Joseph LaFortune, Jr., Dedrick has tried to make the LaFortune Student Center both more aesthetic and more functional. The main entrance way has been ex­panded and remodeled, and The Huddle has been cleaned up and re­furnished with wooden booths. La­Fortune's revitalization will be com­plete in October when the new furni­ture arrives. 
Some improvements that many students may not be aware of took place in a few residence halls. Sorin, Walsh, Pangborn, and Fisher halls underwent 1.7 million dollars' worth of renovations. Walls, doors, carpets, plumbing and heating systems, and windows were repaired or replaced, and chapels and lounges were re­fined and upgraded. In Fisher Hall, sixty singles were converted into thirty doubles. 
"Our goal is to go through all the dormitories and bring them up-to­date," said. Dedrick. "And then we plan to get into a regular mainte­nance schedule." 
Other less costly projects include the paving of the D-6 parking lot, the installation of lights on the bas­ketball courts outside Stepan Center, and the upgrading of the Snite Mu­seum sculpture courtyard. O 


The agenda is passed out among the members seated in a circle on the third floor of the new Haggar Col­lege Center. The furniture still hasn't arrived. The secretary .reports, then the treasurer, then a review of the last meeting. These all seem to fly by. But, then we get to old and new business. Something is always being analyzed or organized. 
But, that is the way it should be. Constant change, continual improve~ ment, endless enthusiasm -every­thing we strive for in our actions. We are the Saint Mary's College Stu­dent Government. Our main objec­tive is to continually and consistently· provide opportunities for student involvement, academically, socially, spiritually, and culturally. 
This year the structural frame­work of the government has been rearranged in order to better serve the students of Saint Mary's and the members of this community. 
The Board of Governance, chaired by Student Body President, senior Elaine Hocter, analyzes current is­sues and policies that concern this campus. The board reviews old and new policy and is continually aware· 
of the effects of such policy on all of us, the students. The board consists of student commissioners in charge of athletics, alumnae, development, Christian life, elections, judicial and social justice, and the residence hall and class presidents. Last year, the main issue addressed and enacted was the new weekday parietal sys­tem. This year, the board is discuss­ing the publicity system on campus as well as Saint Mary's involvement in Fall Festival at Notre Dame. 
The Academic Council of Saint Mary's addresses issues dealing with 
the curriculum and the College major 
requirements. This year the council is ·headed by senior Madeline Hoch, vice-president for academic affairs. · The council consists of student repre­sentatives from each academic ae­
partment of study. 
The Programming Board is the 
last of the three-faceted structure of 
Student Government. Chaired by the 
vice~president for student affairs, 
junior Lee Ann Franks, the program­
ming board, a committee of the 
Board of Governance, is responsible 
not only ·for student activities, but 
also the integration of new policy 
into our everyday lives. This board is 
manned by student commissioners 
for movies, speakers, entertainment, 
traditional events and residence hall 
and class vice-presidents. The pro­
gramming board plans every social 
and cultural event on campus, from 
traditional extravaganzas such as 
Oktoberfest, Christmas Bazaar, and 
An Tostal to Little Sisters' Weekend, 
the speaker series; films, concerts and 
plays. This· branch of student govern­
ment also works closely with the 
Counseling and Career Development 
Center to bring Saint Mary's stu­
dents the College to Career Days and 
Women's Opportunity Week. The 
board also cooperates with the halls 
and classes to arrange formals, 
SYRs, Masses and service projects. 
The main objective of this board is to 
create a cohesive, cooperative, and 
fun-filled calendar of events for Saint 
Mary's students. 
Overall, Student Government brings 
all of its members into close touch 
with faculty and administrators, 
uniting the campus community while 
doing so. The members also serve on 
other committees in order to repre-
Inside Student Government at SMC 
by Lisa L. Fitt 
sent the student body in all decision­making processes of Saint Mary's College. This not only,_concerns this campus, but off-campus residents as well as the South Bend community. This student government is very ac­tive in charitable and civic functions in our community, including work with the United Way Fund drive and volunteer work atLogan Center and other local facilities. 
This year the Student Government is pleased and proud to boast a new focal point, The Haggar College Center. The government offices and conference rooms are located in the renovated library, and the Center provides much-needed space for so­cial, cultural, and spiritual events. 
The meeting is adjourned. The en­thusiasm· rekindled and the worries put aside, the government members mingle, their minds and ideas, as they take a step toward the door and a step closer to a better Saint Mary's College community. D 



Steppin' Out 
by Patty Curran· 

I can honestly say thatI was more ready to be a "big time" college stu­dent last year than I am· now. My sister was a sophomore and loving every minute of college life while I was living at home with mom, dad, and the rest of the clan. My idea of college life did not involve books, just parties. At home, on the seemingly rare occasions that I was allowed out of the house, 12: 30 a.m. was my curfew_. Yet, when I stayed with Kathy, we socialized for as long as the moon did without having to sneak in through the back door for fear of a wakening my 6'6" dear old dad. I thought I was a college kid and did this place rock. 
Now I am. no longer a visitor and somehow, responsibilities have crept into my life while I wasn't looking. I no longer have teachers who ;re­mind me every day that there will be a test on Chapter 5 and cupcakes for Mary Jane's birthday on Friday. There is no one here who will wake me up with a kiss and a warm break­fast after I have slammed the snooze button on the alarm clock for the fifth time. 
It's pretty scary -to arrive at col­lege in a '67 Chevy pickup truck be­hind an ungodly amount of Mer-
September 1983 

.,,·-· ­
' -,,.,_ I '\'· .. l (;;, 
cedes Benzes, limousines, and U­Haul trucks. If that was not enough, it seemed like homecoming queens had taken_ over the campus. . 
I'd love to lie and say that I feel completely comfortable here now, but that would be very far from reality. In high school I was estab­lished. I knew everyone and every­one knew me. I knew all of the teachers, what they expected of me, what I could get away with, and how they graded. Here I was no dif­ferent from anyone else. I was Just one of many.freshmen going to each class .fifteen minutes early so that I could be positively certain that I was in .the right ;room _and in the right building. 
Everyone seemed to have so much more than I, too. I was tickled to death when I found three new sweat­ers and two pairs -of -pants for my college wardrobe. I was thrilled with my bargain blender, only to be wel­comed by a roommate who brought two of them along with a refrigera­tor, a 9" color television, and a toaster. My mother always told me that a good personality is much more i valuable than any material objects could ever be. Well, at the time, I would have been very willing to trade a little of it for some material goods, if anybody was willing. 
After attending a few classes, I decided that not only was I lacking in beauty and material goods, but also in intelligence. I've always tended to be the type of girl who puts more emphasis on the social aspects of life. Neglecting academics seems to have been a defect of mine ever since birth. I don't know why, but I've always figured that knowing the Pythagorean theorem won't get me any closer to the pearly gates, but connections would. 
Nearing the end of my first month here, finally I feel a little more con­fident. I had a hard time getting to know some people, but the ones I have grown close to are well worth the search. I am starting to get to know the teachers and that has helped, too. I am realizing that I do not need to wear the crown of Miss Teen America, be a member of the 50% tax bracket, nor a National Merit finalist. I have just got to be myself. It is not necessary to know everybody -having a few strong friendships is much better. I have realized that I must make the most out of the education that is offered me here. I've invested in a desk calendar because I vow th.at I'm going to be an organized student and budget my time. Promises aside, I can honestly say only one thing ... I'm going to like it here. D 

Patty Curan is a St. Mary's CoUege student from nearby Mishawaka, In­diana. T_his is her first contribution to Scholastic. 
9 

Inside ''The Observer" 
by David Dziedzic 
What's the most significant por­tion of The Observer? Is it the front­page, attention-grabbing news story? Or is it Mike Sullivan's insightful sports column? Or the popular car­toon "Fate"? 
All of these items are significant. But perhaps the most significant part of the paper is the masthead and accompanying motto -"the inde­pendent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." This one sentence summarizes the essence of The Observer. 
Independence is the most impor­tant quality that a newspaper can possess. If a newspaper is not free to gather news and to express opinions in its own fashion, it cannot serve the community. The Observer values its independence more than anything else. 
The Observer is fortunate because the administrations of both schools agree that a newspaper's indepen­dence is important. Both schools col­lect fees from the students to be used to cover the cost of printing. Cur­rently this -fee is $5 per semester. Both schools allow The Observer to use its office space relatively free of charge. 
The cost of producing and printing the paper, however, is far greater than the revenue generated from stu­dent fees. Therefore, The Observer must solicit advertising from numer­ous outside sources_. Compared to other newspapers, The Observer's ad­vertising rates are very inexpensive. Discounts· are also given to campus organizations. 
Independence, however, is a dan­gerous word. It is very easy to get carried away with the idea of inde­pendence and ignore the implica­tions that this term conveys. 
What kind of independence does The Observer have? Does the word "independent" mean that The Ob­server is free to print whatever it likes, regardless of the consequences? Certainly not. 
. Independence is a double-edged word. While The Observer does in­deed possess "freedom from" outside influences, this implies an important obligation -an extremely important obligation -to the readership. 
The Observer has a duty to act as the voice of the student body. It must provide a forum for the discussion and investigation of issues and ideas. For example, The Observer, as a newspaper, should annually endorse a candidate for student body presi­dent. It should also comment on ac­tions of the University and the Col­lege. In short, any news that affects the students should be considered appropriate for treatment by The Observer. 
This leads to the second important aspect of the paper's logo -the fact that it is a student newspaper. Be­cause The Observer is run entirely by · students, there are bound to be many practical problems. 
For example, students can only devote so much time to extracur­ricular activities such as The Ob­server. The fine line between educa­tion and involvement is frequently crossed at The Observer. Some peo­ple get so wrapped up in running the newspaper that they· forget about their studies. 
This is very easy to do, especially for members of the General Board. For these people, getting the paper out on time often takes precedence over an overdue term paper. This can be attributed to pride. Every day on the "Viewpoint" page, the names of the General Board members are listed for everyo11e to read. If the paper is late, or incorrect, or ugly, the fingers are pointed at these board members. 
While having the most competent people doing all ofAhe "hands-on" work may result in''a better overall product, it can result in a major problem -The Observer can become a cliquish organization. Therefore, one aspect that the 1983-84 edition of The Observer will emphasize is re­cruiting. 
There are always positions avail­able on The Observer staff. Students do almost everything at the paper, including selling the ads, pasting up the copy, and paying the bills. The only thing that the students don't perform is the actual printing. The third floor of LaFortune probably wouldn't hold a 10-ton offset press. 
. 

David Dziedzic is a senior American Studies major fram La Habra, Cal­ifornia. · He is the editor-in-chief of The Observer. This is his first con­tribution to Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC 

¦ 

Inside Psych Services 
To many people, the thought of visiting the Counseling and Psycho­logical Services Center (C&PSC) is one that is quickly dismissed. Most have the fear that they will be con­sidered "crazy" for seeking such counseling. Others may feel that their problem is not severe enough to merit a session with a psycholo­gist. 
Dr. Patrick Utz, in his first year as Director of Counseling and Psy­chological Services at Notre Dame, understands such problems and hopes that students will come to realize that the°Center deals with a variety of emotional conflicts, not just those that involve referrals for severe problems. 
"Any agency has an image that is in some ways hard to change," said Utz, "and when you're talking about an agency that does counseling, there is always the question, 'Is the person crazy for coming here?' 
"Clearly we see ourselves as deal­ing with a broad range of prob­lems," continued .Utz. 
Located on the third floor of the Student Health Center, Psych Ser­vices, as the center is commonly called, offers a number of services for various problems students may encounter. 
Utz's staff of 19 client-seeing per­sonnel deal with such things as roommate conflicts, depression, feel­ing lonely, anxiety about grades or from being away from home, gii;l­friend-boyfriend problems as well as alcohol and .drug abuse problems. The center also provides vocational guidance and -life and career plan­ning services through a variety of workshops that are planned each semester. 
Information on alcohol and drug abuse can be obtained by calling 239-5085. 
The staff of 19 is broken down into a wide range of educational back­grounds ranging from six Ph.D.s to seven second-year doctoral students, who serve as counseling trainees. The staff also has one ACSW (psy­chiatric social worker), one Psy-Me (a special doctoral degree), an ABD (all studies completed except for dis­sertation) and three fourth-year doc­toral students. 
September 1983 
by Ed Domansky 
Some may wonder at the reasons for having doctoral students on the counseling staff, but Utz explains a dual role of his facility. "We are a merged agency. There used to be two agencies, one which was primarily service and the other which was pri­marily for training people who were getting their degree in Counseling Psychology." He adds further, "With the merger, a year and a half ago, a second function we have, in the Counseling and Psychological Ser­vices, is to provide training for the doctoral students in the Counseling Psychology program." Willis Bart­lett of the psychology department is in charge of the training program. 
When a student wishes to receive counseling, the professional services are usually arranged for by appoint­ment. The ·appointment may be ar­ranged in person or by calling the office at 239-7336. The office is open Monday through Friday from 9 a.m.­5 p.m., but emergency and a 24-hour answering service is available by calling 239-7336. Likewise, provisions are made for anyone requesting im­mediate therapy. 
When a student arrives for a coun­seling session, he or she is assigned to an available counselor. If as­signed to a student counselor, those who choose not to see a student may request the guidance of a doctoral­level person and will then be as­signed accordingly. 
Utz stresses, though, that having students on the staff serves a two­fold purpose. "First of all it is to provide good counseling and sec­ondly, as I mentioned before, to pro­vide training," he said. Some stu­dents may even find themselves more comfortable and able to talk more freely to someone they feel is nearer to their own position. 
No matter whom a student sees for counseling at the C&PSC, along with quality and professional advice, the center guarantees that all work is done with strictest confidentiality. 
"We make a tremendous effort not only to maintain confidentiality, but to maintain an atmosphere of confi­i 
I 
dentiality," said Utz. "By that we I" mean that we would never do any­thing to even imply that information was being leaked out." 
The only exception to confidential­ity is when a person is believed to be 
(continued on page 30) 
11 


. . . . --­
~~~---~--­

Eulogy for a Demapedagogue: 
A Tribute to Michael J. Loux 
by Norm DePlume 
Every profession has its gallery of heroes, and teaching is no different. Some of its members are fictitious: Professor Kingsfield, Sr. Mary Ele­phant, -Mr. Chips, and Henry Hig­gins; others, like Helen Keller's Annie Sullivan and Churchill's Mr. Summervell, come to us from his­tory. Still others are in our very midst: Emil, Niemeyer, Eikenberry, and Fr. Burke. Most, as time passes, regrettably retire and then just fade away. But one was administratively assumed, and now walks among the deans. Theman was Michael J. Loux, philosopher-king. 
His tenure -now seems to us nasty, brutish, and short. Before he found us, we were like men sitting in a cave, unable to apprehend the true light. We were tabulae rasae, ec­lectic ousiai; we were matter with­out form; we were atoms raining in a void. But he saw in us much more. To him, we were human-in-potentia; we were monads, big with our fu­tures; we were rational animals with innate categories. Singlehandedly, he saved us· from that unexamined life .. which is not worth living. 
Bane of the slovenly, one could set · a watch by his afternoon dashes down the stairs of O'Shaughnessy Hall, the next paper assignment · tucked under his. arm. With impas­sioned caveats to keep up with Jones, he taught u~ of ente and essentia; he derided and defiled the Berkelean Dictionary; he illuminated the Five Demonstrations, and unravelled for us the Prof of Scotus. Now aca­demic, now peripatetic; he cast for­ever in our mental substrata the wisdom of the ages from Thales to Kant, and at his feet. we learned how . a man becomes musical. In fact, one 
student, Lulu Liverpool, put our sentiments in song: "How do you thank someone WhQ has taken you from Plato through to Hume?" An­other, Alex MacEdon, a ROTC-type who never became musical, said it this way: "I owe my life to my fa­ther, but to Dr. Loux the knowledge of how to live it well." 
Once, Notre Dame was visited by the Amazing Kripke, and Dr. Loux implored us to attend his lectures. He then refused our requests that the next day's paper be a,ccepted late, and gave us instead Loux's Razor: "It would be worth getting an 'F' to see '.Kripke!" As "MC" of these same lectures, he gave his typically daz­zling ·five-minute summary of what his guest had said the night before. Kripke, eyes wide, cleared his throat with characteristic crudeness, and asked with childlike astonishment, "How do you do that?" . 
It could not last. He knew it. Like Socrates before him, he understood the . cyclic nature of our existence. This time, it was not a cup of hemlock; but a piece of paper, a memorandum from the President. And while his dwelling is now a full 
n 
two stories below his former one, we prefer to remember him as one who taught, "not wisely, but too well," and we concede that, at least by one standard, he has moved "up." 
He is succeeded by Alfred· Fred­doso and Cornelius Delaney, both enormously competent and talented men, whom we welcome with all best wishes. The king is gone; long live the kings! r-'? 
Professor Loux, ~if you can hear me, please accept the following· poor blessing: may you disprove the Peter Principle; may your. esse never be percipi; may you find, when I am dead, that solipsism is false; and may you someday regain your free­dom, and find yourself back Jn the History of Philosophy half-an-hour before the Provost knows you're gone! D 
Norm DePlume, a dead ringer for the Unknown Comic, is currently '[YUr­suing a degree at the University. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
I Ill -;Ill.ILilj] 11;m1·· 
. \ . 
':li
·.fi• 
-....,-.
,\, 
·-'.·;•:-~.;-_.. . 1 
,.:1 



·a., 
:.•_:. . 
_.a;,._­

Prof. Michael J. Loux 
SCHOLASTIC 




The Man Behind the Mystique 
by Joe Rice 

Notre Dame. Who is the man be­immobilized the University for a full varsity events held throughout the hind her mystique? Is it Rockne? Or week, fighting his way through snow­school year. The major reason he Leahy? Or is it, perhaps, Krause? drifts up to five feet deep: "I was so gives for choosing to avoid the foot­No. To those who know, the name worn out the first night, I thought I ball games is that he would rather that stands out abov.e all is ... you was going to die." After that, Eddie work, as he doesn't "care for the guessed it ... Kazmierzak. arranged to have his meals brought crowds." 
Edward Kazmierzak (better known in from the kitchens of Corby Hall. Even so, Eddie has had quite a to his mother as "Eddie, the Towel Sometimes Eddie's job brings with hand in Notre Dame's football for­Man") has been providing support it a bit of the unexpected: "I remem­tunes since 1959. It is seen by some 
for the Notre Dame athletic commu­ber, sometime in the late '60s, being as more than mere coincidence that nity for the past twenty-four years. thrown in the pool after a swim · Ara Parseghian's office was on the Having lived all of his life in the meet. I didn't think it could be done!" second floor of the Rockne Memorial South Bend area (he is fifty-two), And then, other times, it has an ele­when he won his first National Eddie has a natural affinity for Notre ment of the dramatic: "I remember, Championship in 1966. And, although Dame, and especially for the patrons · a few years ago, some guy hit his Eddie would neither confirm nor of the Rockne Memorial. Many of head on the board." An alert student deny the persistent rumors holding . those patrons develop such an affecc tion for Eddie that they return to visit long after they have graduated. Others have continued to send Christ­mas cards over the years. Eddie is so well remembered, in fact, that fa­thers will often tell their sons to look him up when they get to Notre Dame. Says Eddie, "It's strange when you meet the sons of people you knew; it makes you realize how old you are." 
It is not only the old, however, who appreciate the contribution that Eddie makes to Notre Dame. Every summer the University conducts a variety of sports camps, and partici­pants often retire to the "Rock" after a long, hard day for a relaxing swim. These campers, aged eight to sixteen, get ·along famously with Eddie, to the extent that some even call him "Uncle Eddie." Eddie enjoys this and he also enjoys observing the youngsters at play. "They're funny," he says with a smile. "They can't lifeguard, Noel O'Sullivan (now var-him responsible for the Green .ferseys wait to get in the pool, then, two·· sity· golf coach at Notre Dame), of the }ilte '70s, as well as the "genu­minutes later, they can't wait to get pulled the diver to safety, but there . fleet" play which defeated Purdue in out." Sometimes old friendships are were several anxious moments as · the. late '60s, many who were tuned renewed as these same campers re-Eddie awaited word on the extent of in to the 1982 Pitt game saw an un­turn as Notre Dame freshmen. the diver's injuries. (They were not mistakable Kazmierzak touch present 
Despite the obvious rewards, Ed-serious, to Eddie's great relief.) It's in the flea-flicker play which broke die's job is not an easy one. Often, in no wonder that Eddie says, matter-the Panthers' back. Eddie had no fact, it is nearly impossible. For of-factly, "I'm not much of a swim-comment on.all of this, of course, but instance, during the Blizzard of '78, ming fan." ' . his modesty has always been one of Eddie valiantly kept the "Rock" Eddie may not be a swimming fan, the characteristics which have en­open from 7 a.m. until 2 a.m. for but he is a Notre Dame fan. Al-deared him to the Notre Dame com­seven days and six nights, serving though he has never been to any munity. In regard to Gerry Faust, about fifteen hundred students each collegiate football contest, he intends however, Eddie did admit, "I. know day. He recalls 1:rving to reach the · to attend the Notre Dame-Colorado him pretty well." · South Dining Hall for dinner on the game on Oct. 1 of this year. He does With a talent like Ed Kazmierzak first day of the record snowfall that attend many other nonvarsity and 
(continued on page 30) 

September 1983 



"and jesters take flight at dusk" 14½ in. x 12 in. 14½ in. x 12 in. 
SCHOLASTIC

14 





Gallery 



__ ,,. 
Etchings by Margaret A. Young 
Margaret A. Young is a BA candidate at St. Mary's College, Her images derive from very immediate experiences. Letting her accidents work for her, she draws into the plate without any structured ideas. Margaret is interested in work that is bold and captivating and she approaches her own work in a similar fashion. 

September 1983 
'. . -----------­
-~~ 
. ...:.._ ----------­


ii I i 

Poetry 
May Rain on the North Coast 
Last night it was the whales again. We stood under the spars of the cutty Regina Maris and you were about to say something sad and unretractable. 
They rose with three great, wet sighs, suddenly alongside, as big as buildings 

moving with us like scrolls scribbled with old scars, barnacles, calligraphy; the rutting, calving, dying of monstrous generations. · 
They blundered back into the dream-dark sea 
but a microphone drilled over the ship's rail brought up their crying: atonal, plaintive, echoing. 

Listen. Nothing lasts. Not even oceanic interruptions that stay our resignation for a while. It is the perpetual end of a coastal weekend, 
the last shell collected, the last petulant cry of wheeling tern, a dream that always ends on those sand beetles you pointed out to me: 
turquoise, dung-grey, with the ancient design battered on their backs, scrabbling on all six legs towards antiquity. 
by Melita Schaum 
16 

remember when 
remember when you were a little one who didn't understand all the bother and hurry 
you rode in the back seat and drew pictures lightly in last night's frost on the windows 
you rode and admired your drawings they were your friends you watched the morning dampness slowly swallow them again and drew another 
remember when you drew little figures remember when you laughed with them remember when you really didn't mind 
where has all that gone? 
by Joseph Holtermann 
SCHOLASTIC 


··rn..··e?( ..........
-

··byMauree~. Stubbs 

..:.-·..··.. ¥•····:_·.•···ou·will0r~meinbe~this,or··You'llIIeVerJa.i:ch up. . 
.... : . ·The naturallog of ex is sure to i>'e onthe next .·...~ .. ..·... ·· •• test ... why doesn't he justcallit the unnatural·..·. log of . ; .this is.just as bad a,sHsi:ehihi to aSu,nday> •. 
.Mass. homify...:::..impqssiole to.coricentrafe ori those either;.·. Maybe he was a· seminarian before he: be¢ame a,math ..··. :::te'acher, : . :Now cut that out.. C:oncenfrate 011 .. ; . the math department must' have "peculiar physical . ·aj:>pearance'' as one of its prerequisites for a teaching. 
positiori here . _, .• good; though '; ; .. the way;he)ooks is enough to keep anyorj.e from falling asJeep. But Einil ... 1s :a· differerit story; with. his Sominex voice ahd those . 
· warm; comfy seats ; .. coffee is the answer!•;.. -: alas; 
Mom says not to .drink.sci.much.coff~ancefJurks.· .. in that caffeine: Mom, c'cinie on, Vitami11·c isn't the•· ..· ..· · answer to all the _wodd'.5 problems\<< sheJs.• a:, proper: . ·· 
mother.--,-chicken_ broth.and warm socks<; :~trange ... •. .how•much··betterwe get•along when~epar.ated.by:a ·•· ·..· 

:c distance of 300_ miles., ; . not strange, ·perllaps. a little :. sad .. , :we're too much alike, I think,and that's what .: ca:uses.frictiori . , . fri~ti()n:.__qh; Dad, I miss your ·•.· · 
•
di11n~r-,timecdissertations,6n Jhe forces of physics. 


•i'.U• neyer forg~t the time. you gotup iti.the middle of.·. . .. your mashed ppfatoe~ to go get.a pied~ of wood in order .. · to better explain the principles of center of. gravitYas . they pertain to the F'osberry Flop /. •· that si;mrids like . . 

.-my)iome ecqnomics catastrophe in.eighth•grade-:----rriy!> ·.· ·. 
•·raspberry. flop· c , :• the ·good·old day~(of ·eighth.grad~ -.. 110'.homework,la:x t.eachers,.fµn coo:king,-CC>UI:s~s, :· .disc9vering boys ; ·; ':. Yve_ never ,bee~-~ :thfo .~ince... ..· 


To See the Pope 
T he sun was just coming up, its rays beginning to fall on the stretches of freshly plowed fields, just beginning to stream through the plate-glass windows of the McDonald's. Signs hung from the ceiling: "Win $1,000"-"Try our new extra-crunchy, hot apple pies"-"We have McDonaldland cookies." Bernadette could see the workers back in the kitchen; they moved slowly, almost in slow motion. Bernadette stood at the counter. She 1ooked from the window to the signs to -the kitchen, then up at her dad. "Can I have blueberry pie, Dad?" she asked. Her father smiled, and his smile almost seemed to break his face in half, it was so wide. His h~ir was messy; it stuck out in a ring all the way around his head-kind of like Bozo the clown's, only stiff and gray instead of curly and red. His smile was like a clown's, too, only not so funny. Her father's· smile was more patient and kind than it was funny. Standing there in an old stained undershirt, -with messy .hair, pants that didn't quite fit around his waist, and his huge grin, Bernadette's father really didn't ·look like Bozo at all. He looked more like the tramps they had on television shows. "You may, if you could__:_but you can't," her father answered her. "I'm not sure they have blueberry pies at six-thirty in the morning, or any pies, for that matter." "Do they have hot chocolate?" "Yes, we could have some hot choc::olate. But what about eggs or something like that? Would you like pancakes? Sausage? Maybe you want a roll with blue­berry filling." "Yeah! .Do they have them? I'd like one with blue­berry filling if they had one." Bernadette's father smiled even wider; his smile really did go from ear to ear. He laid a large hand with stubby nails all caked with black on Bernadette's wavy hair. "If that's what you want, that's what I'll get you. Why don't you find us a table in the sun so ·that we can· look out the window while we eat?" he asked her. "Okay, I'll find us one." Bernadette looked around. A businessman ·sat by himself in a corner. Another couple, dressed for work, sat in the . middle by the trash cans. There was an empty booth by a window on the .side wall. Bernadette slid in against the window. Outside the window, some sparrows hopped around on the blacktop, pecking at crumbs left over from previous customers: The sun felt good. It was going to be a warm spring day. "Look what I have for you, Bernadette,".Bernadette's father said, setting a Danish before her as if it were a delicacy on a silver tray covered with a silver dome instead of a breakfast roll on a styrofoam plate. "Blue­berry Danish, the treat of all trea-ts. Eat and enjoy." Bernadette giggled and looked up into her father's face. "Thanks," she said. , · Her dad plopped down across the table and whipped out a napkin to lay in his lap. He opened a little styro­foam box and poured syrup onto the pancakes inside. He forked a round sausage and held it in the air half­way to his mouth. 
by Anne Zink 

"So, Dutch, are you excited?" he asked as he stuck the whole sausage in his mouth. 
"Yeah." 

"Just another hour and we'll be there. Sure am glad the first-graders could spare you for the day, Dutch­girl; the Pope doesn't come to America often. The only time I saw the Pope was on t.v., and now here he is just five hours away. from us. Imagine seeing the Pope in Chicago! Doesn't happen every day, Dutch." 
"Uh-h_uh_." 

Bernadette picked at her Danish. A school bus pulled up in the parking lot and a bunch of high school kids poured from its doors. They. crowded and. pushed up to the counter to order. 
"I want an Egg McMuffin, please." "Can I have eggs and pancakes? And give me a Coke, too, will you? Thanks, that's "it.'' "Just a Danish. No, nothing:else. No, l don't want anything to drink. How much?" 
"Yeah, an Egg McMuffin and milk." 
"Suzie. Hey Suzie! Will you order me some hash browns when you get up there?" 
The boy yelling for Suzie sat at the table behind Bernadette and her father. A noisy crowd of students joined him-the girl named Suzie last of alL Bernadette could hear them laughing and giggling, and talking among themselves. She turned around to see what was so funny. She saw the girl named Suzie hold a finger to her lips in an effort to get the others to be more quiet; she heard someone mention something about dirty T-shirts and beer-bellies. They seemed to know a lot of jokes. 
"Who are those people, Dad?" Bernadette asked, 
"Looks like some kids on a field trip to me, but I don't really know." "Oh." "I could ask them who they are." He leaned forward a little to get a. good look at 
the next table. He saw one of the boys pouring syrup on pancakes. "The pancakes are really good,'' he called to the boy. . . . -. 
The boy. looked up to see who was talking to him. 
"Really?" he asked, raising his eyebrows. 
"Yeah, I just had some. Where are you folks headed­
you going someplace special today?" 
"We're in CYO and we're going to s_ee the Pope.in 
Chicago today. It's our trip for the year." 
"Is. that right? Where are you from, then?" 
"We're from Wisconsin-a little town just north of 
the border. We left about an hour ago.'' 
"That's something. We're going to see the Pope, too. It looks like it's going to be a nice day for it. This is my daughter Bernadette; she's in. first grade. We come from Wisconsin, too-but it's about five hours from where we come from to Chicago, so we took a little break for breakfast here. They have pretty good pancakes.'' · 
."I like 'em," the boy answered. 
· Bernadette finished her Danish and piled her napkins 
on the plate. Her dad stuffed his napkins in his paper 
cup and put it on the tray. He put Bernadette's. trash 
with it. 
SCHOLASTIC 


"Well, you kids enjoy your day. It's really some­thing that you get to see -the Pope, you know; he doesn't come often. Maybe we'll see you there, even. But if not, enjoy yourselves." 
Bernadette followed her father out. Bernadette's father waved at one of the high school girls on the way out. She just stared at him. 
As the car rattled around a big curve by the lake, Bernadette opened her eyes. She stretched, spreading all her fingers and toes, yawning, like a cat. She leaned up and folded her arms on the back of the front seat. 
"Are we there, Dad?" "Just about. I -think we park up here just a little ways." 
Further up the road, around another curve, a po­liceman directed cars into a parking lot. The parking lot seemed to go for miles to the north and south; there were a lot of cars. The sun shone down on the cars, causing the heat to rise in waves. Lt was like another lake-in the air. 
Bernadette noticed very little as they followed the crowd towards the park where the Pope was to say Mass. · Giants seemed to be on every side of her, the people were so much taller than she was. It was all that she could do just to keep up with her father. Her father held out a hand and she grabbed it, afraid of being left behind in the crowds. When Bernadette and her father finally reached the park they saw that it was already beginning to fill up. People were lying on blankets around a huge stage with a canopy top and streamers draped along its sides. Everyone was sleeping or talking, resting after their trip, waiting for the Pope to arrive. Bernadette's father got as close to the stage as he could without crowding anyone, and laid out the blanket he was carrying rolled under his arm. He set a small cooler down on the edge of the blanket and sighed. 
"This is it, Dutch; We might as well get some sleep­
the Pope won't be here for another seven hours." 
It was one-thirty before Bernadette woke up again. 
Everyone, including her father, was standing up now. 
Someone stepped on her arm; a handful of people 
crowded past her. The whole park was packed. Even 
across the road to the back of the park people were 
jammed tightly together, standing on the sidewalk, 
sitting on roofs or on the edge of a bridge almost three 
quarters of a mile away. The park looked like a huge 
amphitheater because of the way the ground sloped 
up towards the road. 
Bernadette saw three of the kids from the McDon­
ald's pushing and squeezing their way to the front; the 
girl Suzie was one of them. Bernadette glanced at the 
people around her. Those right in front of her all had 
dark skin and dark hair. .Most of them looked as if they 
were ·about twenty years old. One girl had a thick. 
braid hanging down her back to her waist. One of the 
men was wearing olive-green trousers like her father's. 
There were old people behind Bernadette, and old 
people to her left. They had white shiny hair and looked 
as ifthey were strong enough to stand and wait for the 
Pope.· A family was on her right, Two blond-haired 
kids who c;ouldn't have been more than a year and a 
half old sat on a blanket at their parents' and older 
brothers' and sisters' feet; they had on tiny hooded 
sweatshirts with the hood up over their ears. .They 
looked like two cuddly, little, chubby dolls with their 
light blue pointed heads. One of the Spanish men in 
front of Bernadette unwrapped an American flag and 
waved it high in the air. 
September 1983 
"It'll be another half-hour or so, now, Dutch," Berna­dette's father said. "How about a glass of lemonade and a sandwich while we're waiting?" 
They both ate bologna and drank lemonade stand­ing up. All around them the crowd pushed and shoved. A few more high school kids tried to push their way forward, but a look from the Spanish woman with the braid stopped them. 
"If another person tries to pass here, I'll break his arm," growled one of the men under his breath. Another couple pushed their way past Bernadette and her father's blanket. 
"Where the hell do you think you are going?" the Spanish man exploded. "Don't you know that we have been standing here since five o'clock this morning just so that we would be able to see and hear? Now here you come charging through like you own the place or some­thing. Why don't you go back where you came from!" 
One of the little -twins on Bernadette's right woke up and started crying-his older brother told him to shut up. A white-haired man tapped Bernadette's father on the shoulder and asked if he couldn't please step a little -to the right. The American flag in front of Bernadette and her father waved and cracked in the wind. The corner of it hit the lady with the braid. "Be careful with that, brother," she snapped. 
Bernadette began to wonder if the Pope would ever come. A young boy ran past Bernadette and her father, bumping into Bernadette and nearly knocking her down. Bernadette reached for her father's hand ·and clung to his arm, pulling herself in close to his big body. 
Her fath~r looked down at her. 
"Kind of nasty around here, isn't it?" He bent down in front of Bernadette and looked into 
..

her face. "How would you like to sit on my shoulders? You could see a lot better then." 
Bernadette nodded and her father hoisted her over his head onto his shoulders. From her new height Ber­nadette could see over the crowd. A whole line of priests dressed like altar boys were processing up the stairs of the stage-there must have been three hundred of them. They all ca-rried songbooks, and their singing blasted from loudspeakers hanging above the stage and sitting on the ground near the crowd; a fence kept the crowd back. At the very end of the long double-line walked a small man in a -tall hat, carrying a staff like the ones that shepherds carry. His hand moved in the air to the outline of. a cross-he was blessing the people, first on one side of the aisle he made as he walked, then on the other. It took almost fifteen minutes for the little man to get from the side of the crowd where he entered to the top of the stage. When he .finally got there, the little man removed the tall hat; underneath was the 
tiny shell of a hat sitting .on the back of his head-the 
little hat underneath was round and red. · 
"Peace be with you, my brothers and sisters," the 
Pope said in English. _ _ 
_ "Ouch!" God damn it, you're stepping on my foot!" 
a teenager just in front.of Bernadette and her father 
yelled. ' 
<CMommy. Mommy. Mommy," one of the little twins called, patting his mother on the leg. "Mommy. _Mommy." · The mother didn't seem to hear. 
The old· man tapped Bernadette.'s father again. 
".Could you please step a little to the right_:_I can',t see," 
he said. 
A priest Ht incense in a silver ball up at the altar. 
A -couple more teenagers tried to squeeze past. 
(continued on page 29) 
21 


Behind the Notre Dame Football Tradition 
by Kathleen Doyle 
Behind all tradition stand the indi­viduals who shaped and lived the origins of that tradition. The Uni­versity of Notre Dame thrives on a history and heritage which is en­riched not only by the past and con­tinual attempt for academic excel­lence, but by the notoriety resulting from athletic achievement. 
Football is undeniably a dominant aspect of the Notre Dame tradition. There is something special that lies behind the mystique surrounding the Fighting Irish football program that characterizes not only the spirit of competitive sports, but a philosophy of life. The origins of this tradition are traced into the past and surround the legendary Knute Rockne. His players not only won many cham­pionships, but took what they learned from him on the field and made it part of themselves. 

I had the opportunity to speak to one such player, Joseph Harmon, a member of the 1922, 1923, and 1924 Notre Dame football teams who spoke at the student managers' banquet last spring. Harmon said that Rockne strongly believed that football builds character. "Rockne said that it built character because football requires unselfish sacrifice and you have the same thing in foot­ball as you have in life. You have your ups and downs, but you can't get discouraged. If you get a bad break, you have to work that much harder to be successful," 
Harmon earned a monogram in 1924 as a second-string center behind captain Adam Walsh, one of the Seven Mules. Reflecting further on Rockne, he said, "Rockne was a great fundamentalist. You had to know how to block, how to tackle, how to pass if you were a center, how to pass the ball correctly at all times. He said that the center was the key to the offense . . . if you got a bad pass, you had a bad play. 
"Rockne was a great psychologist and always, in the locker room, he would prey on your emotions to get you keyed up for the game. And the players all believed in what he said. After that, they would go out to play, to give everything 100 or 110% at all times." 
The mystique of Notre Dame foot­ball may lie in the attitude Rockne tried to generate. There was more to football <\han learning plays. As Harmon · said, "Rockne's philosophy of football was like the philosophy of life. As I mentioned before, unselfish sacrifice, that was his idea. And that is what you have to do in life ­sacrifice. You have to take the good with the bad. But you can't quit, you always have to just strive to do it, 


First row, left to right: Harry Stuhldreher, Bill Cerny, Don Miller, john Weibel, Jim Crowley, Adam Walsh, Edgar "Rip" Miller, Ed Hunsinger, Elmer 
Layden, Joe Bach Second row: Knute Rockne (coad), Clem Crowe, Noble Kizer, john McMull~n, Joe Boland, john McManmon, Chuck Collins, John Wallace, Charlie Glueckert, Doc Connell, Bernie Livergood, Eddie Luther (cheerleader) 
Third row: Leo Sutcliff, Eddie Scherer, Wilbur Eaton, Harry O'Boyle, Dick Hanouseck, RP-d Edwards, Joe Maxwell, Joe Harmon, Red Her~nden, Vincent Ha"ington, Tom Leib (assistant coach) 
SCHOLASTIC 

to correct your mistakes and to do better the next time." 
Rockne commanded a great deal of love and respect from his players. Harmon stated that this love for Rockne was probably the greatest single factor which made teams coached by Rockne great. "The play­ers would die on the field for him." 
··rn Harmon's. opinion, the rela­tionship between coach and team has a "100%, total effect" on the num­ber of games won by a team. "I don't think if you don't like some­body that you are going to play up to your potential. Whereas, if you like somebody, you'll play above your potential. And it has a great varying on the number of games won or lost by a team." 
Rockne was liked not only by his players, but by fellow coaches throughout the country. Harmon cites one example: "Bob Zuppke was the head coach of the University of Illinois, who had a great team that year in 1924 with Red Grange. Red Grange . was then called the Gallop­ing Ghost. We left Chicago to go to New Orleans on the way to the West Coast to play in the Rose Bowl. Zuppke had all his players and him­self there to wish us good luck and to show how much he liked Rockne and Notre Dame. And believe me, it was 14 below zero when we left." 
The 1924 Irish team of which 
Harmon was a part captured the first 
National Championship for a Notre 
Dame football team and Rockne. The 
team won the Rose Bowl on Janu­
ary 1, 1925. Harmon recalls the trip 
to the Rose Bowl: "We left Notre 
Dame during Christmas vacation 
holidays and we went from South Bend to Chicago. We took the rail­road out of Chicago to New Orleans and then we worked out there for three or four days. We then left New Orleans and went to Houston, Texas, training there for a few days before heading for the University of Ari­zona in Tucson. We stayed there until the day before we left for the Rose Bowl in Pasadena. We arrived there the night before the game, New Year's Eve. 

"I regarded it a great honor to even be on the team. To play in the Rose Bowl, is, I think, one of the high spots of anybody's life. And I will always remember having the op­portunity to play in such a great spectacle as the Rose Bowl." 
The 1924 team was undefeated on its way to the Rose Bowl victory and featured the talents of the famous Four Horsemen and Seven Mules. The backfield and line were chris­tened in 1924 by Grantland Rice after Notre Dame triumphed over Army. The Four Horsemen were Harry Stuhldreher, quarterback; Jim Crowley, left halfback; Elmer Lay­den, fullback; and Don Miller, right halfback. The linemen, dubbed "the Seven Mules" were Chuck Collins, end; Joe Bach, tackle; Noble Kizer, guard; Adam Walsh, center and team captain; John Weibel, guard; Rich Miller, tackle; and Ed Hunsinger, right end. These players achieved fame throughout the country, but the other team members showed no 
resentment of their notoriety and a team camaraderie was maintained. Harmon said, "To my knowledge there was no resentment. We all knew that naturally you have better players than you are probably and they have proved that so they have won the number-one positions. But it was a great honor to even be on that team and to participate in playing in the games. · 
"I was second-string under Adam Walsh at center. It was an honor for me when I had the opportunity of playing with the Four Horsemen in my senior year when Walsh was hurt in the third game of the season, the Army game." 
Notre Dame football today differs from that of Rockne's day in the type of training done by the players. The conditioning was much like the present, with Rockne's team doing calisthenics for at least one half­hour every day before practice. But Rockne's teams did not have the modern machinery used in football today. Boxing, surprisingly, was an important part of a Notre Dame football player's training under Rockne, 
"We worked out in the gym prac­tically every day of the year and Rockne was a great advocate of box­ing. We used to have to box one another all the time in the gym workouts. 
"We lifted weights, but they weren't like the weights we have today. They had machines fastened to the walls and you stretched your muscles by bringing the weights up and as you got stronger, you put bigger weights on them. 
"Rockne believed in conditioning very much and he could tell just by looking at you and asking you to do something whether you were in con­dition or not. Being in condition is the principal thing of being able to perform in football." 
Harmon graduated from Notre Dame in 1925. Soon after he began his successful high school football coaching career. After eight years at St. Xavier in Louisville, Kentucky, Harmon moved to Cathedral High School in Indianapolis, his alma mater, winning the city champion­ship in 1940. During his coaching ca­reer Harmon followed Rockne's phi­losophy. "I wanted to get the best out of my players just as he got the best out of his." 
Many of Rockne's players went 
on to become coaches at major 
universities. Frank Thomas later 
coached at Alabama and Jim Crow­
ley became head coach for Florida. 
Noble Kizer and Chuck Collins went 
on to Purdue and North Carolina, re­
spectively. These players were able 
to take what they learned from 
Rockne and apply it to other teams. 
(continued on page 31) 


September 1983 

Tom Cushing-Continuing 


the Tradition 

When people strike up a conversa­
tion about the University of Notre 
Dame, rarely will their first sentence 
end without mention of her great 
tradition. While Notre Dame is rich 
in tradition in many areas, the one 
most talked of is the football tradi­
tion: 
Years down the road, people will 
look back on the 1982 season and 
think of the "Gold Rush" defensive 
line.· The names of Griffith, Autry, 
Gann, and Clasby will come to mind. 
These are the names that will be re­
membered and given credit for carry­
ing on the tradition of Notre Dame 
football. How did these men reach 
the level of skill necessary to earn 
such a name as the "Gold Rush"? 
One way was through the help of .quarterback Tom Cushing. 
~any of you are probably wonder­
ing how a senior walk-on quarter­
back could possibly help skilled de­
fensive players improve their skills: 
Well, Tom Cushing is one of the 
quarterbacks who runs the prepara­
tory team. The prep team's main job 
is to prepare the first-stringers for 
the game on Saturday. 

It was not as simple a decision as Tom makes it sound. to just walk on the football team. He had to partici­pate in all the winter conditioning drills with the team and also lift weights. When springpractice opened there were 50 players trying to walk on the team. Tom was one of three to make the team that spring. 
"When I first came to Notre Dame, I came for academic reasons," said Cushing. "I had decided to give up playing football and concentrate on studying. But after being hurt in ·interhall football and seeing the var­sity play, I realized how much I really missed playing organized foot­ball. So in the spring of my fresh­man year I decided to walk on the 
team.11 . 
Tom said, "It was really an honor to make the football team with Rockne and all of the tradition here. It is just neat to be a part of it." 
Since Tom has joined the team it has not been all glory and honor. At. this point in his career he has yet to play in a varsity game. However, de­spite this he still has good times to talk about and also some bad times that he has experienced as a member of the team. 
Tom commented, "I have had sev­eral thrills as a team member. The first was the L.S.U. game in Faust's first year. After we won that game we shot up to number one in the polls." · 
He continues to speak of his thrills. Another was the Pitt game last year. "Although I didn't travel with the team, I was in the locker room after­wards and it was just pandemo­nium." 
As is true with all players, there come times when disappointment is also experienced. It did not take long for Tom to experience his first dis­appointment. 
"The losses in my first season were hard to 1.ake," says Cushing. "I was so excited on finally being a part of the tradition and here we were los­ing. I felt like a jinx." 
At first it was very tough for Tom 
by Tim Doyle 
to be a team walk-on. He knew his 
chances of playing were slim and he 
did not know any of the players. He 
also had the pressure on him as a 
quarterback, because ·if he made a 
mistake the coaches would see it 
right away. As a member of the foot­
ball team he had to devote a lot of 
time to the team. This made it tough 
on him because his roommate and his 
other .friends in Alumni Hall were 
doing things he couldn't do because 
of football practice. 
What is it. that keeps Tom from 
just giving up? He has been facing 
an uphill battle and he continues to 
strive for a goal. His response is not 
surprising coming from an Irish 
gridder. 
Tom said, "The thing that kept me 
going, especially at first, is the fact 
that I .never have quit at something 
I have tried. My goal is to be able to 
say that I. played in a Notrg Pame 
football game." · As Tom is in his final year as a 
student and a player at Notre Dame, 
he· is making future plans. He will 
graduate in the spring with a busi­ness degree in accountine-. He plans 
(continued on page 30) 

Tom Cushing 
SCHO:t,ASTIC 




Cinema 

Risky Business Indeed 
by William Noble Macfarlane, Jr. 

Risky Business is a decadent movie about Evil. The central character, Joel Goodson, undergoes a gradual and veiled transformation from a Good Son to a Graduate of the Eighties: he gives up his soul for the World. Thus, Risky Business is not at heart what it pretends to be. It is not a love story. It is an anti­love story. And, because it has been hailed as The Graduate of the eighties, and is in many ways an en­grossing visual work of art, it is an important movie worthy of interest and discussion. 
From the first scene on, one finds the character of Joel Goodson gen­uinely likable. He is indeed a "good son." He has many of the fears most Notre Dame students had at the end of high school; he wants to get into a good college like Princeton and he wants to have a successful future. He has gotten good grades. He is in the Future Enterprisers Club. Basically, we like him because he is like us. Without quite knowing why, Joel wants to be Good. 
But the powers that be have other plans for Joel. When his parents leave town Joel is subjected to the temptations of the World. His best friend persuades athe continent Joel to say "What the Heck'' while he still has the chance, but in more coarse terms. "Say 'What the Heck,' Joel," his friend softly coos, "be­cause 'What the Heck' means free­dom, and freedom means opportunity, and opportunity means success." Against the specific request of his fa­ther, Joel takes out the new Porsche and cruises into town, but not after grinding a few gears first. In a scene that I am sure many ~an relate to, he cranks up his father's million-dollar stereo and romps around in his un­derwear. So far; Wha:t the Heck is working out just fine. But his friend goes one step further, and by answer­ing a magazine advertisement, sets up Joel with a call girl named Jackie against Joel's protests. Jackie turns out tp be a black female imperson­ator who sticks Joel with a $75 cab fare. But the amiable Jackie leaves Joel, with another call girl's phone 
September 1983 
number. Enter Lana, "What every white boy on the lake wants." 
Alone, in his dark room, red fluorescent light flashing in his win­dow, Joel calls Lana's answering service under the name of Ralph. Speaking slowly, he pulls a catcher's mask over his face, and gives his ad­dress. It is as if everything good in him is urging him to hang up before it is too late, but he consciously makes his choice, willing it, plunging headfirst into· the sexual abandon that will hauntingly, eerily follow when Lana arrives. 
The next morning when Lana asks for her $300, Joel is forced to miss school and cash a Savings Bond his grandmother gave him. While he is out, Lana takes off with his mother's glass egg. This egg will come to sym­bolically represent Joel's soul. For the moment, Joel wants the egg back. "You never -told me about the Dark Side of What the Heck!" he com­plains to his friend. As a result of his efforts to get his egg back, his life becomes ever more entangled with Lana's. He ends up saving her from her irate manager, G·1ido, "the killer pimp.'' Lana takes to hiding in Joel's house even though he is unsure about the idea. When Guido shows up the next day, he proves to be a ferret of a man, and gives ~oel a stiff warning about messing with another man's livelihood in a sluggish econ­omy. The Dark Side gets darker and Joel fails some mid-terms because he is now missing school, and, because · of ever more strange circum­stances, somehow manages to drop his father's Porsche into Lake Mich­igan. He turns to Lana, who accepts him. into her. arms· with cold eyes that he cannot see. He is falling in love, but the street-smart Lana· al­ways keeps her distance. 
Realizing that between Joel's friends and their $avings Bonds, and Lana's professional.· associates there lay opportunity for . capitalistic enterprise, they both decide to go into the brothei business. As .re­volting as .this may be, the situation provides for the funniest scenes. of the movie when the interviewer from Princeton shows up at the climax of the festivities. By now Joel has fully embraced the What the Heck outlook on life. Learning from Lana, he strives to have "no guilt, no doubt, no fears" like a true capitalist. De­spite the interview, things are work­ing out pretty well for Joel. He has got his egg back, he is "earning" more than enough money to repair the Porsche, and his modern relation­ship with Lana is Teaching a climax. Part of their business partnership in­cluded her promise to become his girlfriend. 
"Well, are you really my girl­friend, yes? No? Maybe?" he asks her. · 
"Yes," she says, ·"no, and maybe." 
As she goes into his arms, Joel's voice-over intones, "Trust . . . if I had my way trust would be a four­letter word." And Joel is par-tof the modern relationship where the com­mitment of trust is indeed a four­letter word. There is no room for 
( continued on page 30) 

William Noble Macfarlane, jr, is a somewhat gregarious fellow who majors in history and likes to go to movies. He is a senior. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 


Inside Student Government 
Can Student Government solve the world's problems, end the nuclear arms race, get Springsteen in con­cert, and save the lawns? Or is it simply a do-nothing organization which aspires much, but in actuality does quite little? I can confidently answer "No" to both questions: Any­one who believes that a student or­ganization can change the face of the globe is quite naive. However, any­one who feels it can accomplish noth­ing is similarly naive, or perhaps merely uninformed or misinformed. This article will provide you, the in­terested reader, with a better under­


l'i standing of how Student Government works here at Notre Dame. About a week ago, I was ap­111 proached about writing an article on 
1 
[" Student Government and its place under the Golden Dome. I accepted
iii 
11 the invitation and thought that it would be an excellent opportunity to relate to students and faculty mem­bers exactly what it is that we do, what we have done, and what we in­tend to do. 
Officially, we are the body which represents the student body on any and all pertinent matters. Wherever a student voice is requested we will voice our opinion. And more often than not, even when it is not re­quested, we'll voice it anyway, just in case there's someone listening. Student Government is a fairly large group of people doing a multitude of different jobs-providing hall leader­ship, planning activities, and pro­posing change where it seems neces­sary. There are some who might feel that the Administration considers us a "necessary evil," but thus far their reception to us (and more impor­tantly, to our ideas) has been very favorable. Working with, and not against, the Administration in most situations usually is most beneficial for each group and their interests. 
In looking at Student Government, it is first essential to understand its setup, and the different organiza­tions contained within its jurisdic­tion. At the top of the pyramid of leadership is the Student Senate.. Founded in 1981, it is the most rep­resentative of all student organiza­tions. It is composed of 5 elected Senators from various campus dis­tricts, the Student Body Vice-Presi­
26 

at ND 
by Brian Callaghan 
dent and Treasurer, the Student Union Director, the Class Presidents, the Judicial Coordinator, the Off­Campus Commissioner, and four members of the Hall Presidents' Council. The Senate meets every Monday night at 6 pm in Room 124 Hayes-Healy, and all meetings are open to the public. The Student Body President acts as the chairman of the Senate. 
It is the job of the Student Senate to propose resolutions and present them to the proper administrative officials, to oversee the allocation of the $220,000 collected from Student Activities Fees, and to research areas of concern to the student body. Since its inception it has been the primary force behind such projects as the Deli lines in the Dining Halls, the establishment of a full-time Off­Campus Housing Director position, the installation of lights on the Stepan Basketball Cour,ts, and a lengthy student response to the PACE Report. 
Working in conjunction with the S£.nate are a number of other organ­izations. The Student Government Cabinet consists of three Executive Coordinators and the six or seven commissioners each of them assists. · Each of the members of the Cabinet has a special area of concentration such as Minority Concerns, Security and Freshman Orientation. It is their job to work on proposals tha,t can be presented to the Senate. Cabinet members are not elected, but instead are chosen from a pool of applicants by the Student Body President and Vice-President. 
Also under the domain of the Stu­dent Senate is the Student Union. The Student Union is essentially the ac­tivities planning and coordinating board of the Student Government. It is primarily run by the Steering Committee which is made up of Stu­dent Union personnel as well as elected Student Government officials. The daily management of the Stu­dent Union is handled by the Direc­tor and the Comptroller, who have a team of commissioners under them. The commissioners put in long hours to insure that movies, lectures, con­certs, and cultural events run smoothly and are well-publicized. They also provide services such as re­frigerator rentals, the Irish Gardens flower shop, and the Student Union Record Store. 
There are other groups which share a close affiliation with Student Government also: the Hall Presi­dents' Council (HPC), which is made up of the 24 dorm presidents; the Class Officers who run all activities for the classes; and the Judicial Boards which have input on both dorm and campus-wide issues of dis­cipline. Finally there is the Om­budsman service which is an infor­mation service for the campus, pro­viding meal and entertainment info 24 ho1,.1rs a day at 239-OBUD. 
Nowithat I've told you what Stu­dent Government is, I'll next try to explain how an issue gets acted upon. A group of hall presidents or a mem­ber of the Cabinet might bring a resolution before the HPC for dis­cussion. It will later be voted on, and if approved, it will go to the Senate. If passed by the Senate, it goes before the Campus Life Council which is comprised of students, rec­tors, faculty members, and the Dean of Students. If it is affirmed by the 
C.L.C. it then goes to the Vice-Presi­dent for Student Affairs. If he ap­proves the measure, then it is imple­mented as soon as possible. If he re­jects the proposals, appeals to the Provost and finally to the President are possible. Most resolutions do not have to go through this entire route, as some go directly from the Senate to other areas outside the jurisdic­tion of the Office of Student Affairs, such as the Athletic Department or the Office of Business Affairs. 
Now that you understand the channels for legislation, it might be of some merit to mention some proj­ects we've already accomplished. Many of the renovations to the cam­pus done over the past summer were to a large extent the result of student input over a number of years. The Engineering Auditorium is now sur­prisingly comfortable, LaFortune's facelift is well under way, and ,the theater portion of Washington Hall will soon be complete. Also, 1.he D-6 parking lot was paved and expanded at the expense of the largest mos­quito breeding ground and wildlife 
(continued on page 28) 
SCHOLASTIC 

The Summer of People: 
A Summer Service Proy·ect Report 
by Beth Zangmeister 

I came to Indianapolis the last 
week of May. Sr. Mary Quinn of 
Holy Angels picked me up at the 
Greyhound bus station and took me 
back to the rectory to introduce me 
around. In summers past, the Notre 
Dame Summer Service Project vol­
unteer has stayed at Holy Angels. 
The convent was full, however, so 
after some phone calls, Sr. Mary 
found a room for me at the St. 
Andrew's convent. . 
St. Andrew's convent isn't really a convent anymore. One nun, Sr. Betty Hopf, lives on the third floor. The two floors below her constituteSimeon House--a "congregate living facility for the elderly." Sr. Betty was very kind to me. She is a busy person: she walks every morning, swims fre­quently, gardens, cooks, is involved in interparish committees, and -if you ask me -does more of the work of running St. Andrew's Parish than the priests do! In spite of her many responsibilities, Sr. Betty went out of her way to be kind to me. She is one of the main reasons my summer service project turned out so well. 
The ten old people that lived below Sr. Betty and me were glad to have a "new grandchild" staying with them. Fortunately or unfortunately-de­pending upon how you look at it­I could not slip into or out of the building without having to go through their living room. The min­ute I was spotted, I was almost phys­ically snatched and hauled over to a rocking chair so that I could hear all they had to say. Much of the time, I felt as though I were doing them a service by chatting with them. They each seemed ravenous for someone -anyone at all-to talk to. I felt sorry for thein, so I endured it as patiently as possible for the first few weeks. After a while, though, I found that these old people were more in­teresting than I'd first thought. Each of them has a great store of humor and wisdom. Their day-to-day lives may often appear dull, monotonous, empty, and depressing, but they themselves are as rich and full as you would expect a human being to 
September 1983 
be who has lived and loved and suf­fered and laughed so long on this earth. 
I didn't realize how much I'd come to love them and their eccentricities until it came time to say good-bye. I found that I had gotten to know them better than I would have thought possible in eight weeks. I hope to visit Simeon House in the fall, but in the meantime I have sharp pictures of each of the resi­dents in my mind: Rose -who loves nothing more than to wait on others -to cut a piece of cake or pour a cup of coffee for anyone who looks too tired to get up. Helen -who tells the same jokes and stories over and over again -yet tells them so well that you end up laughing each time. Marguerite -who tromps out to the day care center's playground on a sunny day and hangs her laun­dry -underwear and all -from the monkey bars. Al -who insists on knowing every ingredient used to prepare a particular dish before he'll as much as smell it. Clotilde -a charming, birdlike lady who will sud­dently rise up shakily from her chair and announce that she is going out for a walk "so that she can be sure that she's still alive." 
I missed a lot of buses because of my daily interviews with the Simeon House folks, but I was able to break away eventually each day to go out to the two multiservice centers that I'd chosen to work at. At the Near Eastside Multi-Service Center 
(NEMSC), I worked in the Social Services Division. There I saw peo­ple who came mainly for food as­sistance, but who had a great deal of other deeper needs as well. They came in asking for food, transporta­tion, utility, or housing assistance, but they needed much more than this. They seemed to be suffering from a more spiritual kind of pov­erty -a deep, underlying lacking that was the cause rather than the result of their outward difficulties. 
Many of the people that came to the center were unsure of themselves and of their world. They were search­ing for a purpose in life, but were unable to find one. They couldn't discover any reason why they should struggle to survive in a world that was senseless in their eyes. Others were even worse off. They no longer had the motivation to ask deep ques­tions and to look around for mean­ing. They had lost their will to be independent and self-sufficient. They were so tired of struggling for food, clothing and shelter, that they no longer cared about what means they used to attain these things. Having lost their pride and self-respect, they had stopped searching for anything beyond a way to satisfy their daily needs as effortlessly as possible. 
At NEMSC, I had trouble recon­ciling myself to all of the paperwork -and to my own lack of success in 
helping people who needed assistance so badly. I wanted to do no less than make unhappy people happy, and I was saddened by the fact that more often than not, I could do nothing. I could be frank and honest with them, I could treat them with respect, and I could give them a few cans of soup and vegetables; but I could neither solve their deeper problems, nor give them the desire to solve them for themselves. Many times, the little I did do for them did not seem to be worth all of the necessary paper­
work. 
The other caseworkers at NEMSC -Judy Hamilton, Cheryl Homscher, Chris Phillips -were all extremely encouraging and helpful to me. They had a great deal of patience with me -even when I was fumbling along and was surely more of a nuisance than a help. They were fun people to be around too -cheerful, kind, and optimistic even on hard, bad days. 
At the Metro Center, I worked with the day care center and the youth camp. Although my job at NEMSC was probably the most en­lightening and enriching for me, I'm glad that I worked several days each week with the children. There I had at least the illusion that I was mak­ing someone happier. If a child is afraid or unhappy, all you have to do 

. -----------­
·----------~--~---------------------~--­
is hold him in your lap and rock him for a while. If you want to make a young person feel better about her­self, all you have to do is pick up a crayon and draw her picture, and her self-esteem will immediately shoot up like a rocket. Children take a lot more patience and energy than I'd thought, however, and I was con­tinually amazed by the endurance and exuberance of the teachers and youth camp leaders. 
Usually I am a rather introverted person. I tend to close in upon myself and my own thoughts and become completely unaware of the sufferings and joys of people around me. I wasn't quite so oblivious to the out­side world, however, during my sum­mer service project. Perhaps it was because Indianapolis was new to me -perhaps it was because city life in general was new to me--but what­ever the cause, I found that I was very interested in the lives of every­one I saw. Even the people I passed on the street I would look at closely. I don't think I necessarily felt any deep compassion or charity for them. Mainly, I was just curious. "Who are you? What are you going through?" I asked silently of everyone I saw. "What do you have to say about this strange phenomenon called exist­ence? Is life a good thing or a bad thing?" · 
. I was greatly surprised by the interchange that went on, in just a few seconds, between the other per­son's eyes and my own. It is a diffi­cult thing to explain, but I believe that there is a great difference be­tween hurriedly glancing at a per­son and really looking at him. The first takes no effort at all, whereas the second takes a great deal of spiritual energy. Especially when you are angry, tired, or sad, it takes a lot of effort to look closely at people -because you know that along with the strength, beauty, and joy that you will see, you are sure to find pain, disfigurement, and trag­edy. 

People seem to know when you have bothered to look closely at them -when you have struggled to really see them. And they don't seem to mind at all. Instead, they consider it a compliment. They receive an inter­ested, wondering look as a gift. Old people welcome it, because they are normally looked at with condescend­ing, patronizing, bored eyes. Teen­agers on the street appreciate it, be­cause usually they are looked at with fearful,· suspicious eyes. Small chil­dren are delighted by it, because they are ordinarily looked at with tired, preoccupied eyes · (if and when any of them are looked at at all). 
It is too seldom that we really look at each other. It is unfortunate that we so rarely look at each other, be­cause of ·all the needs we human be­ings have, I think that this need is one of the greatest -the need to be seen. I saw many poor people during my eight weeks in Indianapolis, and what they seemed to want most of all was to be seen -for their suffer­ing not· to be ignored. "I do not ask you to feed me, clothe me, house me, admire me, love me, cry for me, com­fort me, talk to me, or even iisten to me. All I ask is that you look at me," their faces seemed to say. "All I ask is that you look me in the eye. You don't have to do anything else. Go ahead and walk away after you have seen me. But please, while you are here and I am here -while we are both in this moment of time together -do not close your eyes to me." 
When I look at my summer service project in this way, I can conclude that not only did I grow and learn and gain, but that I was able to help others as well. I could not tell people how to manage their finances. I could not give them financial security. I could not make their medical diffi­culties disappear. I could not end their family problems. I could not make troubled relationships better. I could not deaden the pain of growing up. I could not instill ambition in the apathetic. I could not give a philoso­phy of life, a sense of purpose, or a belief in God to the despairing. There were many things I could not· do. I couldn) give happiness to anybody -not':for long anyway. But I could look at people, and in looking at them, let them know that they were not so hopeless, so evil, so hideous after all. By refusing to close my eyes, I could let them know that deep down, they had something good -something holy -that was well worth the trouble of looking. D 
Beth Zangmeister is a senior Arts and Letters major from Fremont, Ohio. This is her first contribution to 
Scholastic. 

Government_________----'-____ 
(continued from paae 26) 
habitat this side of Kokomo. Al­though student contributions did play a fairly sizeable role, it would be wholly inaccurate not to recog­nize the research, time and effort expended by Mr. Thomas Mason, the Vice-President for Business Affairs, and by Mr. Donald Dedrick, the Di­rector of Physical Plant •to get these projects off .the ground and ca­ordinated through their completion. 
Two other accomplishments to date include the successful drive for grad­uating seniors to donate their room deposits to financial aid, and the May meeting with the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees. The former raised over $13,000 for scholarships to needy students, $3,000 of which will be spent this year, and $10,000 of which will be put into an endowed Class of 1983 scholarship fund. At the meeting with the Trustees, we stressed the need for increased financial aid re­sources at the University, students' concerns about the responsible use of alcohol, and the need for improved computer facilities if Notre Dame is to remain academically and tech­nically strong and up to date. The Trustees are a very astute group of people who are commissioned with the responsibility to establish and maintain University policy, and they welcomed our input. 

The only information which re­mains to be presented to you is what we plan to accomplish in the coming year. A system where men could use .the laundry facilities in women's dorms on a supervised rotating basis is being researched, and by the same token, word is being spread that women can, and always have been able to, use St. Michael's. Laundry. It is strongly recommended that women use it for jeans, towels, and shirts, and all they have to do is drop it off there. We also have peo­ple· looking into underclass usage of Senior Bar on occasional weekends during the year for nonalcoholic events, as well as ways in which stu­dents and faculty members can get more involved with each other out­side of the classroom. 
An evaluation of the present rector system will be taking place, looking at specific duties of the head staffs. and how they could be better im­plemented. Similarly, a student-pub­lished teacher evaluation booklet will hopefully be distributed early in the second semester before preregistra­tion. In·. November we will be dis­tributing literature on MCI's dis­count phone rates, as push-button phones will be installed in all dorms 
(continued on page 31) 
SCHOLASTIC 



Pope 
(continued from page 21) 
"Well you kids enjoy your day. It's really some­thing that' you get to see the Pope, you know; he doesn t ' come often. · Maybe we'll see you there, even. But if not, enjoy yourselves." 
"We're looking for somebody," one answered. They gave the Spanish man a shove a~d brushed.past ~im. 
Bernadette could smell the mcense famtly m the breeze. But then the direction of -the wind changed, and a gust whisked the smell away. The flag snapped in the wind, hitting Bernadette sharp~y on the arm. Bernadette hugged her father's head tight and leaned down. · · 
"Dad. Could I please get down now?" she whispered softly in his ear. ·. 
"Sure," he answered through her fingers. 
He lif.ted her off and set her gently on the ground. All Bernadette could see from the ground was the backs of people. She sat down and leaned against her father's strong legs. Her father watched the Mass, ab• sorbed. 
"Could you please step just a little to the right," she heard someone ask. Bernadette turned her eyes to the right; the twins were asleep. 
When Bernadette woke up, it was Communion time. There were the three hundred ·priests serving Com­munion; the people left as they received. Bernadette rubbed her eyes and looked up for her d~d, but ~e w~s nowhere in sight. The Spanish man was still carrymg his flag and was· still right in front of her. One of the old grandpas was in front of her, too. . 
Bernadette ducked under -the flag, squeezmg past the Spanish man. "Hey girl! Come back. You'll get los~­your father is going to look for you here," the Spamsh man with the flag yelled as· he saw Bernadette brush past. But Bernadette didn't hear. . . 
She circled to the left and then to the right, cranmg to see her father. Anxiously she scanned the Com­munion line he should have been in-but with no luck. She stepped on someone's toe: "Goddamnit! Who's on my toe?'' she heard. 
The hooded twins were being towed towards the parking lots. The girl named Suzie was just ahead; but still Bernadette's father was nowhere to be found. 
Frantic now Bernadette ran on through the line, searching. Whe~ she caught up to Suzie, she grabbed Suzie by.the hand and shook her whole arm. 
"Have you seen my dad? Have you?'' she asked Suzie. · Suzie just looked at her. "Your father?" she finally answered. . 
"Yeah, you saw him this morning. We were at McDonald's and he said hi to you-he asked where you were from. He was sitting right behind you. Don't you remember?" -. 
The girl still stared at her. "I don't know your dad," she said. 
Bernadette dropped Suzie's hand and pushed past her. The people around her still pushed and shoved~ even with Communion going on. No one asked her if she needed help. No one gave her help when she tugged at their arm and asked for her father. Her face began to get red, and big drops of water welled up in her eyes, trickling down her cheeks. Where can he have gone without me? she thought. How could he forget me? 
She made it to the front of the Communion line. No dad. 
She looked behind her. No dad. 
She didn't know the way back to the car, but she followed the crowd. She fell down the steps by the fountain once; no one seemed to see her. Finally she sat down to rest. She poked at the blood on her scraped knee, and she washed it with tears. I have no dad any­more, she thought. 
But she still kept searching. She passed the family with the twins, and she passed some of the same high school kids who had been laughing at McDonald's. And she couldn't see her father; she just kept following the crowd. 
The first parking lot Bernadette came to was full of school buses. It was the wrong one. The next parking lot contained buses, as well. Bernadette still couldn't see her father. 
She kept on and on, crossing .the street-and then crossing back. All around her were people's legs and people's backs. At last she found a parking lot full of cars. She ran up and down, back and for-th-row after row. But her father's car was nowhere. She came to a wire strung between wooden horses-it had red flags on it. She slipped underneath it into another sec­tion of the parking lot. Rows of cars stretched on be­fore her. Bernadette's legs felt weak, and her knees wobbled, tears blinded her. She leaned against a shiny blue car, lost. · She closed her eyes, and then opened them again to search once more over the tops of the cars all around her. She thought she saw an old rusty car three rows ahead-she closed her eyes, in prayer this time, and then stumbled towards it. 
In a minute she recognized the car of her father; she ran a few steps, then walked hurriedly. At first she could see no one near and thought the car was deserted. But as she got closer she saw a figure standing to the side of the car, leaning against it-a man in a dingy white undershirt with his arms folded on top of the car, his head buried in his arms and his stiff gray hair stick­ing out over the top of them. Bernadette ran to him and hugged the legs in the olive-green trousers. Her father raised his head, and without a word he bent down for her. 
Bernadette threw her arms around the dad in the dirty white undershirt, and was lost in his kind arms. She had been to see the Pope. D 

Anne :!,ink is a senior Arts and Letters major from Anderson, Indiana. This is her first contribution to 
Scholastic. 
September 1983 

Cushl'ng-------. the egg, for Joel's remaining profits
because, as he says, "Don't you know 
(continued from page 24) 
on interviewing this fall, but says he is leaning towards law school. 
"My time as a player at Notre Dame will always mean. a lot," said Cushing. "I walked on the team be­cause I knew I would never play football once I graduated from col­lege. Playing at Notre Dame is just a thrill. To help the defense do well on Saturday and know you helped to win the game is just so great. No­body knows that I helped but me. It is a personal satisfaction and reward. It's the best." 
Tom Cushing has worked hard fox three years as a walk-on quarter­back. In speaking with him, he never mentioned the fact that he has won the "Coach's Award" during spring football two years in a row. I think that says a lot about Tom Cushing as a person. Anyone who knows Tom knows he is not the type to blow his own horn. 
As the 1983 football season con­tinues and you are cheering the de­fense for a great play, stop a mo­ment and give a cheer for Tom Cushing and the other prep team members. If Tom Cushing has not played when the Air Force game rolls around, wouldn't it be nice to hear chants for him from the crowd. I know I will be chanting for him because he deserves it, 
"Cushing, Cushing, Cushing, . . . We want Cushing ..." D 
Tim Doyle is a senior Finance major from Sturgis, Michigan. He also writes for The Observer. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 


Cinema ___ 
(continued from page 25) 
trust in his relationship based on sexual gratification and contractual pragmatism. Their relationship is not based on a loving commitment at all, and therefore it flies in the face of true love. It is in fact anti-love. But this fact does not prevent them from making their strange anti-love on a train that very night. 
When Joel returns home the next day in the repaired Porsche, he finds that the man from the Dark Side of What the Heck, Guido the Killer Pimp, has stolen all the furniture in his house as revenge for Joel's "theft'' of Guido's ladies of the evening the night before. But the Dark Man is willing to return the furniture, even 
30 

that I like you, Joel?" All the furni­
ture is in place just moments before 
the parents return from their trip. 
Right away Joel's mother dis­
covers that her egg is cracked, and 
expresses her disappointment in Joel. 
When Joel looks at the egg he cannot 
see the crack. All is forgotten a little 
while later when Joel's father re­
ceives a call from the Princeton in­
terviewer. Apparently, Princeton is 
going to accept Joel after all. The 
movie ends with Joel laughing with 
the beautiful Lana under the Chicago 
skyline at night. 
Visually, Risky Business is a daz­
zling movie of flashing, colorful im­
ages and of rhythmic music by Tan­
gerine Dream. It has slices of life 
that touch upon our own lives. The 
camera beautifully captures leaves 
rolling in the wind across the grass, 
subway trains slipping into empty 
Chicago streets in the middle of the 
night, and the "let's pretend we're 
grownups'' aura of high school poker 
games. The heavy splotches of sen­
sual red in the backdrop of almost 
every scene remind one of a modern 
painting. The telling of the story has 
a quick, fluid timing and a subtlety of 
delivery. On the surface it is a funny 
satire on the careerism of middle­
class America. And yet the mastery 
of the cinematic art only adds to the 
distaste one finds after seeing Risky 
Business. After all, beneath the 
fluorescent veneer of the movie one 
can only find decadence. It is a re­
working of the age-old Faustian 
theme of selling one's soul with the 
particularly modern twist of the 
philosophy of What the Heck. What 
the Heck, or moral anarchy, tries to 
have life both ways. It says that los­
ing your soul is okay if you get into 
Princeton. It can take a genuinely 
likable fellow like Joel Goodson and 
make him into a despicable person. 
The slick, artsy cinematic delivery 
dresses up, even exalts immorality,
but cannot fully hide the fact that beneath the handsome features and preppy clothes Joel is simply a Pimp. That his modern suburban home is a Whorehouse. That the Dark Man likes him. That his girlfriend is a distrustful Whore. That his egg is cracked. That what he calls the busi­ness of "human fulfillment" is a very ugly thing in the real world, where Pimps don't get into Princeton, and Trust is a five-letter word. What the Heck is a lie. All Porsches will even­tually rust at the bottom of the lake, -and flashing red lights mean stop, not go, and always will. D 

Eddie--­
(continued from page 13) 
doing such valuable work for the University, the future looks bright for all of us. And it can only be en­couraging to know that, although he admits that an undefeated season might be "too much to expect,. too soon," Eddie predicts a Top Ten finish and an appearance in a major bowl game for the Fighting Irish in 1983. Perhaps, if his prediction comes true, it might be appropriate to greet the team with shouts of "Ed-die!" when it returns home victorious. D 
Joe Rice is a senior Arts and Letters major from Mishawaka. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 


Services
•, 
(continued from page 11) 
a danger to himself or to others. 
"By virtue of the law we have to 
take some precautionary proce­
dures," explained Utz. 
As far as fees are concerned, there is a charge for the counseling ser­vices and it ranges from $4-$15, with the actual amount being agreed upon by the student and the office. How­ever, "if money is a problem, we don't charge anything," stated Utz. "It's a floating fee which is nego­tiable to the point of not being used. We don't want a fee to in any way 
·inhibit anyone from using our ser­vice." 
Classified as a branch of Student Affairs, the Counseling and Psycho­logical Services Center seeks to serve the Notre Dame community in a sup­portive manner. 
"The purpose of an agency such as ours is to support the academic mission of the University without being directly involved," said Utz. "We see ourselves as a campus men­tal health center, but primarily in the sense that we are here to help students function in their academic environment." 
In order to better serve this func­tion, the image of C&PSC -as be­ing only a place for those with se­vere emotional problems -must be altered to make students feel more comfortable about using a facility that in reality can be very beneficial if given a chance. 
"We wiU change our image," Utz said, "if people who come here with various kinds of problems are more 
SCHOLASTIC 




Knute--­
(continued from page 23) 

Rockne died March 31, 1931, but the football tradition he began at Notre Dame continues. It is sustained in great part by the students. As Harmon stated, "I think when you play for Notre Dame you feel the students are backing you 100% and that's why you give 110%.'' 
The Notre Dame football tradition was given to us by a legend of the man who possessed the belief that many of life's basic lessons can be 
.-------------,-----, 
willing to share with their friends the fact that they chose to come here, their reasons for coming and most importantly, that it was helpful and useful to them." D 

lastic. 
NeW Kl'd 
weren't as lucky as de warehouse dog 'cause all I see is dat big black chest on white boy's shoulder keep headin straight, den a high-pitched scream, den Mr. Ed. layin' on de floor wid his arms spread like he was Jesus Christ on de damn Cross. 
I had to let go wid a laugh at dis. I couldn't help it fo nuphin. But de mother, she struggles out her chair wailing en wid de tears streaming. "My. darling hand­some boy," she cries, "what have the niggers done to you?" De kid sat up a little stunned. Then, seeing de sympathy he was goin' to siphen off his mamma, starts 
crying en yelling like his arm was broke off. Wid dat, his ' mom wheels on me and Luther, but 'fore she can speak, a low voice call out, "The boy would not move from my path. The chest was heavy. All I could do was to drop the box on him or kick him out of my way.'' 
De lady was shocked wid dat. De blubber stawt qua.kin' again, but this time with wimpish tears. De kid tole de truth and de woman couldn't deny it but 
September 1983 
~ -' ­
--~-------­
_________. their yearbooks ( on the t]:iird floor of LaFortune), and their discount 
(continued from page 19) 

learned through playing football. The Rockne concept of football generated the mystique which surrounds the Fighting Irish and elicits emotion from fans and opponents alike. This tradition is part of the Notre Dame heritage and will hopefuly be main­tained throughout the school's his­tory, while remembering that there is more to Notre Dame football Rockne-style than winning a Na­tional Championship. If Notre Dame fans remember that, the tradition will be, as it was and is today, the greatest of any university. D 
Kathken Doyle is a junior English major from HarrislJurg, Pennsyl­vania. Along with writing and edit­ing for The Observer, Kathken is one of the copy editors for Scholastic. 
This is her first contribution. 

Government----­
(continued from page 28) 
during Christmas break, enabling the use of such a service. 
As you can see, the year is shaping up to be a rather busy one, and from a personal point of view I am quite optimistic about the 1983-84 school year. I am very lucky to have Peggy Prevoznik as my Vice-President as her hard work, logical mind and cheerful optimism are a good com­plement to my more illogical and perhaps cynical nature. Three other assets are Julie Vormezeele, the Stu­dent Body Treasurer; her 16-year­
veteran counterpart Mrs. Louise Nye, the Bookkeeper; and the familiar face with the Scottish accent, Mrs. Margaret Linhart, our secretary, who can tell people where to get their Co-ex tickets (South Dining Hall), 
didn' want to admit it. I tole Luther dat de machine shur didn' seem queer, but dat I doan' know. Luther, he doan' argue or nuphin, jus' put a thinking look on his face. 
When we finish up and is ready to leave, here come old green teeth strutting forward suckin down a beer but wid de tobaccy still bulging in de cheek. De beer gut comes right to me en Luther en leans close like he's tellin' a secret. He says, "How can ya all work with a kid like that? Seems spooky to me." 
I let de thoughts flow, den I look at de hoosier, den over at de white kid. Den I says real cool-like, "Cause me en him is friends.'' I see Luther's jaw drop like lead at dat; but dat's what I said and I weren't ever sorry I said it either. D 
Bud Luepke is a freshman from St. Louis. Obviously, this is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
31 
-
movie theatre tickets (at the S.U. Record Store on the first floor of La­Fortune). All in all we have a top­rate group of people working for us and should be fairly successful if the momentum keeps up. 
In concluding this piece I would like to urge all of you reading this to please take an active interest in what Student Government is doing. Let us know your opinions and ideas. Although we cannot really make policy, we can influence it, but only with your support. With your help we can strive to build a reputation of realism, independence and enthusi­asm in the hope of making this place just a little bit better than it was when we took office. If we can attain that goal it will be an accomplish­ment of which we can all be proud. D 
Student Body President Brian Cal­laghan is a "not-so-thrilkd-with-Ac­counting" major who hopes to get a job as a Vice President in a major multi-national firm after graduation. If interested call him at 239-1668. This is his first contrilJution to Scho­
lastic. 






The Last Word 
by Jim Ganther 

If there is any month worthy of designation as "Re­flection Month," it would have to be September. Enter­ing hot and still, leaving with bluster and chill, Septem­ber is the natural bridge between summer and autumn; a perfect pause in the year to ponder the past and the future. As I enjoy the temporary phenomenon known as Indian Summer, I have a tough time convincing myself that the real item has slipped into the past. As a senior, it has yet to sink in tha,t my formal education is also nearly behind me. It is September, and I reflect. 
* * * 

Randy and I go to the pizza parlor after school, like we do every week. We eat french fries and discuss our college plans as we play Space Invaders. 
"Were your parents happy when you got accepted?" Randy asks as he lines up his misssile base for a shot at the passing mystery ship. 
"You bet," I reply. "Mom kissed me and said she was proud and all; Pop just shook my hand and sniffled a lot." · 
Randy says he still doesn/t know if he will attend Marquette or the Air Force Academy. His missile base gets. creamed by an unnoticed alien bomb; I take charge of the video game and Randy relieves me at the french fry plate. 
I tell Randy that it doesn't matter which school he attends. We promise each other we will write. We will always be friends. 
* * * 

Senior year can be a depressing experience, if you let it. Somewhere in the course of it, it occurs to you that soon the friendships you worked so hard to establish will slip into the past·as surely as the last season. Ordinary events can take on a melancholy dimension: the last registration day; the last home football game viewed from the student section; the last meal in the South Dining Hall (some events, of course, bring about less sadness than others). 
It is now that the class of '84 begins to realize that Notre Dame isn't such a bad place after all. Food service, maid service, and laundry service are nice amenities. I shall miss them. 
* * .,.. 
The crowd surrounding the Stepan Center is enor­

mous, and its constituents are chanting "We are (clap 
clap) N.D.!" A TV cameraman records the event from 

his perch in an elevated cherry picker. Toilet paper 
flies in all directions like so many white comets. I catch 

a roll and use it to wipe the sweat from ·my forehead 
before throwing it back. 
Suddenly he arrives, and the throng erupts with even greater enthusiasm. "Ger-ry! Ger-ry!" We meet LSU tomorrow, led into battle by the man from Moeller. He tells us we go to the greatest school in the land. We believe Mm. It is going to be agreat year. 
* * * 

But all is not melancholy for the current kings of campus. There is satisfaction in dispensing advice to wide-eyed freshmen. There is the excitement of job . interviews and plant 1:rips. Senior Bar can be patron­ized without bon:owing someone else's i.d. Classes can at last be taken pass/fail, and there is at least the possibility of being exempted from finals. 
The list of blessings poured forth on seniors could go on forever, but most of them disappear soon after the cap and gown are folded up and tucked away.. But . something lingers long after the sheepskin is conferred: the memories accumulated over four undergraduate years. 
Since I'm a junior, 1 feel a little bit silly crawling on the roof of Regina Hall on the night of the Great Panty Raid, but what the heck-someone lws to show these freshmen how it's supposed to be done. I already have a nice monogrammed sweater from a gullible McCandless sophomore, but I need one more item to improve on my score from last year. I tap on the window before me, and the resident opens it. 
Five ·minutes and all my compliments later, I drop to the ground with the sweater and a new silk nightie, but minus my car keys. The owner of the nightie took them as a deposit; we agreed to trade back at an up­coming party. I walk back to Alumni Hall, but it is a small price to pay. What the heck-someone has to show these freshmen how it's supposed to be done. 
* * * 

It is September, and the leaves are beginning their short trip to the browning.earth. It is: time for autumn, time to move· on. · The .school year is ·still young; if there is still time for me.,to catch up in my reading for my U.S. For~ign Policy class, it is too early 
·to really start missing this place. But with only eight 
months of Notre Dame left,jt is not too.early to start 
appreciating it. 
SCHOLASTIC 


BIG@ 

LUMBER CENTER 
o ARMSTRONG CEILING Tllf • POWER IOOlS 
• CABlNETS • lUMBER 
o PlYWOOD • HARDWARE 
• OLYMPIC STAIN • PtuMB/NG & 
o PANELING ELECTRICAL SUPPUES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE ... 
We make "'doing 1t yourself' 
EASY 
I I 
~ 

~@1=1·+ 

.......... 
===="=--==­



;~ 272-6500 
125 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
ROSELAND

LUMBER 
CENTER 

A Public Service of This Newspaper '191!1 & The Advertising Council ~~ 



People
are 
dying
foryour
help.
Give 

blood. 
Red Cross
.A:counting


-ronyou. 
C.ulluJ,Jl Updahz 
ART 

... at the Snite Museum of Art 
until Oct. 22 -Annual Faculty Exhibitian 
until Oct. 9 -Madern Drawings !ram the Permanent Collection. Included are works by Henry Moore, Poul Klee, Joan Miro, Graham Sutherland and others. 
Oct. 11 -Douglas E. Bradley, Curator of Ethongraphic Arts. Snite Museum­Noontolk "The Veracruz Split Fig­ure: Quality in Pre-Columbian Art." 
at Saint Mary's 
until Oct. 14 -In all Galleries -"National Association of Schools of Art and Design: Student Drawings Traveling Exhibition." 
Oct. 7, 8, 13, 14, 15-The Skin of Our Teeth by Thornton Wilder ­O'Laughlin Auditorium. Wilder's Pulitzer Prize­winning comedy which celebrates humanity's struggle for order with­in a seemingly chaotic universe. 
k--._ The original 'V~ clown-delivered ~.,O balloon bouquet 
0~ 


256-0062 
(forntcrlv Balloou Bowkay) 
2812 Lenson Drive Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 








