Volume 72, No. 20	March 17, 1939 «
*-
- ?*
I* it skwr brutality? Germany claims
ours this lovely girl will be
AOMATICAILY MURDERED
Beginning a new mystery novel
FALSE TO AI1 MAI by Leslie Ford
WHATSBHHNDTHE
PERSOmONOFlHEJEWS?
she is “purifying” her race. Yet Italy, with
few Jews, and Japan, with none, fouow her
lead. Why? Demaree Bess, noted foreign
correspondent, reveals how anti-Semitism
cloaks a calculated, systematic foreign pol
icy, tells why England and France are wor
ried for themselves, and suggests an attitude
for the United States to bring to an acute
international problem.
Jewish Pawns in Power Politics
by DEMAREE BESS
FANNIE HURST
writes in the Post this week a moving and sympathetic story of a bygone era. Step back into the years with Mamma and Hat First National Bank. OWE ANY MONEY? Know anybody who has more bills than he can handle? Lowell Brentano reveals A New Way to Pay OH Debts. See page 23.
THE SATURDAY
THE killer will be home safe in bed. No living person will be a witness. The police will even call it “suicide.” And only the cry of a Siamese cat in the night, and a woman’s sudden panic, will keep a dozen others from sharing Karen Lunt’s fate. The perfect crime? Almost! Open your Post tonight and start hunting for clues, as Colonel Primrose faces his strangest, most baffling case. First of six installments.

_____________________________..worm Tractor sale! Nobody can do that without having a fight on his hands.   The Beaver Dam by WiLUAM
K.O. THE CHAMP? Wfflie Parks watching champ’s latest fight, spotted one possible way. Read One More Round, a short story by Don Tracy.
mov,e« of the
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 72
March 17. 1939
No. 20
LANDON WILL SPEAK TO PRESS CLUB
BENGAL SEMI-FINALS MONDAY AND TUESDAY; THIRTY-TWO SURVIVE OPENING ROUNDS
By William C. Fay
Hon. Alfred M. Landon, republican presidential candidate in 1936, will be the principal speaker at the annual Notre Dame Press Club dinner on Friday, March 24, at 7:15 p.m., in the faculty dining room. The importance of Mr. Landon’s speech has led to arrangements for a radio broadcast over the NBC network from 9 to 9:30 p.m., C.S.T.
Because of the limited capacity of the dining hall, Notre Dame men are advised by the committee in charge to make their reservations early. Reservations are one dollar each, and may be procured from members of the Press Club or at the cigar stand in the Cafeteria.
William J. Matson, William L. Piedmont and Lee S. Read are the committee in charge.
Bookmen Meetings
The Bookmen held their bi-monthly meeting in the Law Building Wednesday evening, March 8. John Walsh, president of the organization, supervised the informal discussion which centered around the values and techniques of various contemporary novelists.
At the previous meeting of the Bookmen on February 28 at the Rose Marie Tea Room, Father Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., head of the graduate school of philosophy, discussed “St. Thomas and the Intellect.” Following Father Ward’s paper there was an open forum in which the members questioned the speaker and discussed some of the problems that he had suggested. Of particular interest was the discussion concerning the relationship between the active and the contemplative life.
Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell, the moderator of the Bookmen, has invited the organization to hold its next meeting at his home. At this meeting, which will be held after Benediction on March 22, various selections from modern poetry and drama will be read and considered by the members.
They’re ready, willing and half of them able to survive Monday and Tuesday night semi-final round battles in the BENGAL BOUTS. They are the thirty-two youngsters who climbed out of the ring last night and the night before, tired and battered, but determined to keep swinging for a corner seat
Bengaleers are Busy It’s the real thing.
'Queen's Husband' Slips Into Washington Hall Wednesday Night
•
The Notre Dame Players, under the direction of Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C., will present their second production of the year, “The Queen’s Husband,” in Washington Hall, next Wednesday and Thursday evenings at 8:15 o’clock. The play is another delightful comedy from the pen of the successful young playwright, Robert E. Sherwood, author of Petrified Forest and The Road to Rome.
Ray Sadlier is King Eric VIII. Miss Doris Ward, who plays the part of Queen Martha, haughty and dictatorial wife of Eric, is a graduate of the University of Wisconsin. She recently directed “Night Must Fall,” a production of the Turner Little Theatre of South B.end. Miss Barbara Southard and Bob Blake play the romantic leads.
in the BENGAL BOUT FINALS where the eight University boxing championships will be decided next Friday night, March 24.'
Semi-final (March 20 and 21) and final round bouts will be fought in the Fieldhouse ring and will begin promptly each evening at 8:15 o’clock BENGAL BOUT TIME.
The preliminary rounds produced the fastest action seen during the seven years the Scholastic has sponsored the bouts. Both George Nate and George Vander Heyden, the competent South Bend Amateur Athletic Union referees who have handled the fights in other years, declared that Professor Dominic Napolitano, of the department of Physical Education, has raised his best conditioned crop of Bengaleers.
The Little Professor’s assistants ran off the preliminaries efficiently. Bill Sheehan, Gene Young, Hi Firman, Bernie Witucki, Harry Richwine and Andy Murphy divided the judges’ duties; Andy Schleuter and Professor Elvin Handy rang the timekeeper’s bell; ring clerk Professor Stephen Bocskey and glove clerks Joe McKeon and Ed Broscoe kept the ring cleared for action.
The big noise so far has been announcer Bernie Fagan who opened a skylight in proclaiming the appearance of “TTTiiiiiiiiggGGGEEEERRR LLLuuuuuuu sssEEE, the Priidde of Waalllsh Haaallll.”
General admission tickets for the semi-finals will be on sale at the gate for ten cents. General admission tickets for the finals may be purchased from any Scholastic reporter, or at the gate. General admission is twenty-five cents; reserved seats are one dollar.
The “Huddle” is again offering a trophy for hte best display of sportsmanship in the bouts. Last year’s winner was Vince Guracharri.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
4
SENIORS WILL TEST ROMBERG THESIS
THE WEEK
By Bill Donnelly
Herman M. Romberg, senior philosophy major from New Haven, Conn., has been chosen by the Notre Dame Schoolmen as the formal de-fendens to present the thesis in the fourth annual public philosophical disputation to be held in Washington Hall on April 24.
Peter J. Repetti, of Newark, N. J., will take the role of informal defend-
Herman M. Romberg “Questions please.”
ens and will lead the public discussion at the conclusion of the formal disputation. '
General chairman of the disputation will be Thomas E. Roche, president of the Schoolmen, who will open the program with a brief explanation of the purpose of the discussion.
Immediately preceding the formal part of the argument two papers will be given by senior members of the Schoolmen. John J. McGovern, of Pittsburgh, Pa., will present an essay on, “The Intellect and Man.” Mr. McGovern will point out the fundamental importance of man’s mind as distinguishing him among God’s earthly creatures. By means of the intellect man is able to recognize and order the problems of this life and direct himself to his final destiny.
John E. Walsh, of Chicago, Ill., will give a paper entitled, “The Search for Certitude.” He will discuss the schools of thought that branched from the mind and body theories of Rene Descartes, father of the modern philosophy. .
The thesis to be defended is: “The Integrity of the Human Intellect.”— 1. Existence and nature of the Intellect; II. Proper and adequate object of the Intellect; III. Ability of the Human Intellect to attain the proper object. After the general proposition has been stated Mr. Romberg will seek to establish its validity.
Attacking the argument as argu-entes are: Ted Frericks, Albert Pa-cetta, Irving Klister, Carl Fricke, and George Haithcock. These objectors will try to show weak points of the thesis and the formal defender will strive to clear up their difficulties.
Top of the Week
THE BENGAL BOUTS.
Ambition
We have always regarded Badin Bog as a plot of ground that suffered from a frustrated desire to be a lake. It really tries hard, and there has been everything fro m irrigation ditches to miniature dams to keep it from achieving its wish. But it certainly must have been proud of itself last Sunday morning when two . .near-sighted geese actually mistook.it for a lake and went strutting around its hypothetical shores until a couple of fellows informed the geese of their mistake and chased them back to the real lake. We can just see the bog swelling up with pride though at the way it had duped those two silly geese. “They won’t be playing softball here this spring,” it probably gloated, “They’ll be playing water polo!”	'
• *
Protest
Nine indignant people have written to us in the past week. They are the nine people who indiscreetly admitted that they listened to “The Periscope.” They tell us (each and every one) that the only reason they ever listened to the program is that they thought it was the thing to do. But now that they have discovered the truth of the matter, and since they have no “good” reason for listening, they have decided that they won’t tune in any more either. Which leaves only the wind and the waves.1
• ’
Advice
Sammy Dolce, the Bengal Bouter, was sparring playfully with a friend in the dining hall the other day when the friend suddenly whipped out with a couple of haymakers. Immediately Sammy cautioned him: “One of the first things you must learn about boxing is not to swing wildly!” You freshmen who don’t see anything funny about that sentence will understand when you see Sammy fight in the bouts, that is unless his style has undergone a radical change since last year.	.
•
Argument vjith an Editor	•
We had a nifty “Top of the Week” last week but the editor censored it
N-l This figure may be interpreted in two ways: (a) Only the wind and the waves are left to listen, (b) This leaves only Ed O’Connor broadcasting over the air waves. The correct interpretation is left up to the reader’s judgment.
and substituted “Bengal Prelims.” The latter is all very nice, good busL ness, and all that sort of thing, but we just asked him in a nice way what was wrong with the one we had had. “Look,”-he said, “don’t-you know by now that you can’t even mention Benny Goodman around here?” “We didn’t say we liked the guy,” we protested. “We just said the University was threatening to move to Iowa because he was elected honorary state senator in Indiana.” He just shook his head. “Why we even condemn the trend,” we went on. “Before long the legislature will make' a law that you have to be able to double truck before you can pass the State Teacher’s Exam.” But he shook his head. So all because of an over-cautious editor we can’t tell you fellows about .Benny Goodman. (And if this paragraph gets, in we’ll believe anything can happen.)
Announcement	'.	■■
Tomorrow afternoon at 3 o’clock Jim Raaf of Walsh Hall will give a milking exhibition at the University farm. Jim is modest about his achievements, but the following message sent from Missouri by a girl named Katie on the back of a postcard depicting a peaceful pastoral scene of cows grazing, tells its own story: “Dear Jim, Hope this won’t make you too homesick—but thought it might remind you of the milking contest you won at the County Fair. Do you still have that beautiful blue ribbon? It just matched your eyes. Hope you’re keeping in practice.—Katie.” .
Notes on the Dining Hall	.
An agent reports that Mr. Connolly, the dining hall manager, gave a speech down town in which he said that no meal in the Notre Dame dining hall repeats itself in 11 days. We thought there were a few of those meat courses like albatross or that “Heigh - ho Silver” stuff that kept coming , back every other day but we suppose it must just seem, that way. And anyhow, if you get stringbeans with it one day and lima beans the next that makes it a different meal, Formula XZ2 instead of Formula XZ1.... Another agent, one from the kitchen, reports something we suspected, all along: the cooks don’t even eat the dining hall meals they prepare for us. They eat caf stuff with" cream in coffee, French bread, etc.... This agent also gives us a few facts on the new doughnut machine. He says it took something like from 7 p.m. to 1:40 a.m. to make 5,000 doughnuts.
(Continued on Page 21)
MARCH 17, 1939
5
VILLAGERS FETE '39 BASKETBALL TEAM
By Bill Scanlon
The annual testimonial banquet of the Notre Dame Villagers Club honoring the 1938-39 basketball team and coach will be held at the Columbia Athletic club on Monday evening at 6:30 o’clock.
Bernard F. Hiss has been named general chairman of the event. An invitation has been sent to Coach Bill Chandler of Marquette to attend the affair. He will attend if Marquette does not participate in the New York invitational tournament.
Costin to be Toastmaster
Jim Costin, former sports editor of the News-Times, will be toastmaster. Mayor Jesse I. Pavey of South Bend, Coaches George Keogan and Elmer Layden and members of the basketball squad will be called upon to speak. Members of the Anderson and Muncie high school basketball teams may also be present.
Others on committees who will assist include: William Carpenter, ticket chairman; Francis Fergus, publicity chairman; Hugo Wihterrowd, reception chairman; and officers—Robert K. Rodibaugh, president; Richard S. Alberts, vice - president; Joseph F. Hartzer, secretary; William Preko-witz, treasurer; and Benedict F. Murdock, sergeant-at-arms. Tickets may be purchased at Brownson Hall recreation hall.
Script Writing Contest
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., faculty adviser of the Radio Club, announces that a script writing contest will be held among the students of the University. The students have been .trained for this writing and special courses given by Instructor Richard Sullivan. Mr. Orville Foster also inaugurated a radio discussion group to develop technique in script writing.
The contest will close March 27, and contestants are urged to submit their entries to any of the following: Ed Grimes, Walt Johnson, Ed O’Connor, Ray Kelly, Bob Jehring or Jim Magarahan.
The entrants are requested to limit their sound effects and characters. The entries will be judged by a Radio Club committee which will award a prize of ten dollars to the winner. Stories worthy of presentation will be broadcast over Station WSBT.
KANSAS CLUB PLANS ROCKNE PROGRAM
Mal Elward, head football coach at Purdue University, will be the principal sepaker at the annual anniversary program held in memory of Knute Rockne. Elward was a teammate of Rockne. This yearly trib-
Charles McNamara
His chib honors “Rock.”
ute, sponsored by the Kansas-Oklahoma Club, will be presented in Washington Hall Sunday evening, March 26.
The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, will speak of their association with Rockne.
The committee in charge of the program is trying to obtain exclusive pictures, edited by the “March of Time,” which deals solely with Rockne and his Notre Dame football teams. If successful, the pictures will be shown on the campus for the first time.
The Kansas - Oklahoma Club has sponsored the program in honor of Rockne each year since 1931. Charles McNamara, president of the club, has appointed Jim Graham as general chairman of the program, Lloyd Worley as chairman of the picture committee, and Edward Corry as chairman of the publicity committee.
N.C.C.M. Hears Talk By Father Cavanaugh
•
The Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., of the University Sociology Department, will deliver a paper on “Hygienic Marriage Laws” at the National Conference on Christian Marriage. The conference will be held in Washington, D. C., under the auspices of the Catholic Conference on Family Life and the School of Social Science of the Catholic University. An article by Father Cavanaugh on a similar topic appeared in a recent issue of the Journal of Social Hygiene.
”?" GETS A MONICKER IT'S "IL PONDEROSO"
By William C. McGowan
It doesn’t seem fair to ? to call him ? anymore. He’s been training faithfully for Kell (though I don’t know why he bothered to train at all!) and the Bengal Bouts have already begun—yet I’m still calling him ? in print and **!!??!* privately. It’s time he had a name.
What to call him? He’s big as a barn, strong as an ox, and smart as a whip. “Barnyard” is the common denominator for this group. But “Barnyard” lacks any euphonic qualities. It just doesn’t fit his personality.
Try another. A few weeks ago I said he was capable of taking on the football squad, one team at a time. That still goes. And since it’s a task equal only to ? or “Southern California,” I’d have to call him’ “Southern Cal.” Still, to call him “Southern Cal” would make him a local anesthetic when he’s really universal in that respect.
I’d name him “Euthanasia,” only sometimes his blood is up and he likes to mangle his victims before sending them on. Therefore “Euthanasia” will never do.
Someone with a bad head might suggest “Masked Marvel.” That’s out because ? doesn’t wear a mask. “Terrible Turk” is no good either since ? is not Turkish. Neither is he Dutch; so “Flying Dutchman” is also irrelevant. “Cranium Crusher”—while doser to the real ?- than the others— would still limit him.
There is running through ? however a mingled strain of brute and poet. Since he learned to read I’ve often found him snuggled in a corner with Johnson’s Lives of the Poets, or rocking gently to the majestic rhythm of Paradise Lost. Indeed, he has shown an especial fondness for Milton’s work and calls Lyddas “his boy.”
Wait! There’s an idea.
Physically ? is huge and powerful. Temperamentally he’s thoughtful, yet ponderously whimsical. Artistically he inclines toward poetry of “high seriousness.”
There is only one word that describes succesfully all these divers qualities of ? “IL PONDEROSO” does it.
Papal Title Explained
The “White Father of Christendom” is a title often given to the Holy Father. It has no significance other than the fact that the ordinary color of papal garments has been white since the .reign of. Pope Pius V (1566-72), who was a Dominican.
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OUR DAILY BREAD
Liturgy
It is not without significance that the coronation of Pope Pius XII took place on the feast day of St. Gregory I, the Great, Pope and Doctor of the Church. Gregory occupied the Chair of Peter from 590 to 604. The Liturgy, especially the mass, took its present form under his inspiration and direction. The Gregorian Sacra-mentary, one of the hooks that make up our missal, takes its name from him. The same is true of the Chant which Pius X and Pius XI so fervently desired to see restored to its rightful place for the instruction and edification of the faithful. The coronation mass last Sunday differed but little from a papal mass at the time of Gregory. The Mass is the sum of human homage, the same today as in the seventh century of Gregory and then on back to Calvary and the upper room of the Last Supper.
Mass Calendar: March 19 to 25
Sunday 19—Fourth of Lent. Lae-tare Sunday. Simple. Mass proper. 2d prayer Intercession of the Saints (A Cunctis). 3d Living and the Dead (Omnipotens). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday 20—St. Joseph. Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Confessor. Double of the first class. 2d prayer the ferial. Credo. Last Gospel of the ferial.
Tuesday ■ 21—St. Benedict. Abbot. Greater Double. 2d prayer the ferial. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Last Gospel of the ferial. . St. Benedict, the apostle of liturgical worship, was the founder of monasticism, the bulwark of the Church and refiner of civilization.
Wednesday 22—Ferial. Simple. 2d prayer Intercession of the Saints (A Cunctis). 3d Living and the Dead (Omnipotens). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. R.
Thursday 23—Ferial. Simple. Collects as of yesterday.
Friday 2U—St. Gabriel. Archangel. Greater Double. 2d prayer the ferial. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo. Last Gospel of the ferial. Gabriel, meaning the “Power of God,” was sent to announce to Mary the glad tidings of the Incarnation.
March 25—The Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Double of the first class. 2d prayer the ferial. Credo. Last Gospel of the ferial.
Announce 57th Laetare Medal Award Sunday;
Custom Dates Back to Days of Father Sorin
By Edmund Butler
On the fourth Sunday of Lent for the past 56 years Notre Dame has been presenting the Laetare Medal. The award is made to some man or woman of the Catholic laity in recognition of past achievement and as an incentive to further and greater service in promoting Catholic ideals. The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will announce this year’s recipient Sunday morning at the 8:30 o’clock Mass.
The significance of such a presentation takes its origin in the Divine Office of that day when the priest commemorates the call of Moses to the leadership of God’s chosen people. From ancient times this mid-Sunday of Lent has been a day of rejoicing. The first word of the Mass is Laetare, “Rejoice.”
Popes Began Custom
The popes began the custom of presenting the Golden Rose, a precious and sacred ornament of pure gold, to some person or locality conspicuous for its Catholic spirit and loyalty to the Holy See. The significance of the • rose and Laetare Sunday, the day on which it was blessed, have so blended that the day is often called Rose Sunday, and rose-colored vestments and altar decorations (sign of hope and joy) are substituted for the penitential purple of Lent.
Prime Minister De Valera Traces Irish History In Dublin Address to New York World's Fair
In a recent international broadcast Eamon de Valera, prime minister of Eire, sent his greetings to the New York World’s Fair from Dublin. The following paragraphs are excerpts from his speech:
.. Every Irishman looks back with pride to the contribution which Ireland made to the spread of learning and culture throughout the continent of Europe in the seventh, eighth and ninth centuries; with pride also we recall the part which Irishmen played a thousand years later, on another continent, in the foundation and development of what is today your country, the United States of America. The special section of our historical exhibit will be devoted to these events....
“We shall likewise portray in some detail the part played by people of Irish blood in the great event which the Fair is intended to commemorate, the foundation of the United States and the inauguration of George
This American counter-part of the “Golden Rose” flowered a number of years ago when several members of the faculty met one night for an informal discussion. Their conversation finally turned to the association of religion and educators. Much was said about the zealous work on the part of some outstanding Catholics. One member, Professor James Edwards, was attributed with this declaration:
Medal Dates from Father Sorin
“Men and women who have added lustre to the name of American Catholic, by their talent and virtues, deserve good-will and encouragement. It is my opinion that our university might well take some definite action in that regard — take the initiative, as it were, in acknowledgement of what is done for faith, morals, education and good citizenship.”
And so this suggestion was favorably received and adopted at a meeting with Father Sorin, founder of the university, Father Walsh, then president, and Professor Edwards. Though it was originally intended that the medal be presented on Laetare Sunday it soon became evident that this was impracticable. Now the recipient’s name is disclosed at that time and the presentation takes place at a later and more convenient date.
Washington as its first president 150 years ago; Carroll of Carrolltown; Matthew Torrington, John Barry, Stephen Moynihan, to name only a few of the many thousands of Irishmen, Catholic and Protestant, who shared the common purposes and labored together to bring them to fulfillment, belong to the Irish no less than to American history. . . .
“Before I close I want to give you this vision of Ireland’s future written by a great Englishman nearly a hundred years ago. ‘I look,’ he said, ‘towards a land both old and young; old in its Christianity, young in the promise of its future; a nation which received grace before the Saxon came to Britain and which has never quenched it. I contemplate a people which has had a long night and will have an inevitable day. I am turning my eyes toward a hundred years to come and I dimly see the island I am gazing on become the road of passage and union between two hemispheres
(Continued on Page 19)
MARCH 17, 1939
7
HO HUM.... FROSH ELECT OFFICERS
FITZGERALD RECEIVES LOUVAIN FELLOWSHIP
HOBBES WAS A BIT OF EVERYTHING
By Jim O’Donohoe
By James Brugger
By John Willman
What was that dead silence over all the Freshman Halls for the past few weeks? Wasn’t there a freshman class election going on? Someone found out at the last minute Tuesday morning that two of the candidates were ineligible. Only 219 Freshmen voted for the men who will be their class officers.
Elected president by a large majority was Paul Lillis, who won over Ed Sullivan of Brownson 135 to 87. Lillis, football player and scholar extraordinary, is from Freshman Hall out of New York City.
The race for secretary was closer, however, as Leo Haggerty of Zahm nosed out Robert Donohoe of Cavanaugh by the narrow margin of one vote, 110 to 109.
John Mead and Edward Monohan were not opposed for the positions of vice-president and treasurer. Their opponents were disqualified.
Now that that is over, the first year men can go back into their hibernation until the Sophomore elections, when they may again awaken and yawn with glee as they think of the energy they are saving by not walking over to Carroll Rec to vote.
Debaters Meet Florida
Monday evening at 8 o’clock, the varsity debating team will meet the University of Florida in the Law Building Auditorium. Professor N. Norwood Brigance of Wabash College will judge the debate. Friday and Saturday, March 24 and 25, the debating teams will take part in the University of Wisconsin debate tournament, at Madison. Frank Parks and Milton Williams, affirmative; and Albert Funk and Frank Fitch, negative, will make the trip.
Trip For Sociologists
Professor Frank T. Flynn is making plans to have the Juniors and Seniors majoring in sociology visit the State Prison at Michigan City, Indiana, and attend a clinic which will be arranged for them by prison officials. Those who intends to make this trip are requested to consult Mr. John Radelet, Walsh Hall, for particulars. Mr. Flynn is a member of the parole board at the State Prison and teacher of Criminology and Penology at Notre Dame.
The Belgium-American Educational Foundation has honored Dr. John J. FitzGerald, Ph.D., with a one-year Advanced Fellowship to the University of Louvain, in Belgium. Five other Americans, representing the
Dr. John J. Fitzgerald, Ph.D. Will return to Louvain.
University of Pennsylvania, University of Alabama, Western Reserve, Yale, and Harvard, also received Advanced Fellowships. .
Dr. FitzGerald will use his Fellowship for research work in philosophy. He will leave for France next September.
Joined Faculty in 1937
Dr. FitzGerald received his bachelor’s degree at Boston College in 1933. Later he did graduate work at Louvain, and, in 1937, he received his doctorate in philosophy. He joined the faculty of the University of Notre Dame in September, 1937, as instructor in metaphysics and cosmology.
The Belgium-American Educational Foundation was established from funds remaining after the liquidation of the Relief Commission in Belgium during the World War. It aims to further intellectual relationships between Belgian and American universities. The Foundation is headed by Herbert Hoover. Since its inception in 1920 it has resulted in the exchange of 640 students between the two countries.
At the Academy of Politics meeting Tuesday evening, David Holman discussed “The Political Philosophy of Thomas Hobbes.” Holman traced the many philosophical ideas of Hobbes and applied them to contemporary world conditions.
Hobbes’ mechanistic theory presented the idea that the human appetite has its roots in man’s sensuos-ness. Man is credited with reason, but the conclusion is drawn that every man is a potential murderer to gain his own end.
Hobbes followed Kant in the Christian tradition. However, he also was of the Spinoza school with a modified principle of “might is right.” His happy supposition was that natural right will limit might. By the same token just and unjust actions are not governed by human laws.
In prescribing the best form of government hereditary monarchy was favored. Individuals must accede their inherent ruling power to the state head. This is a duty of a member of any state.
In “De Give” the theory was promulgated that the Church must be subordinated to the state if there is to be peace: In the “Leviathian,” which smacked of political propaganda for Charles II, atheism was regarded as inevitable without revelation. This replaces the nationalistic theory with a pretentious revealed one. Therefore, political philosophy is needed to supplement the natural law.
After a study of Euclid, Hobbes considered Politics a science. He based his opinion on the fact that mathematics was the only pure science and his political philosophy was based on Euclid’s mathematics.
At any price the aim of the state is to preserve peace. Violent death is the supreme evil. Modern philosophy takes right as a starting point whereas the classical philosophers took law. ... If this is admitted, we must regard Hobbes as the father of the political code of Mussolini and Hitler.
At the same meeting Chancellor Fred Sisk announced that the procedure of the Politics radio program will be changed tonight. The program will take the form of the “Information, Please” broadcast by allowing each participant to plague his cohorts with a list of unrehearsed questions. The first of the new series will present Joseph Nigro, Ed-' ward Sandstrom, Redman Duggan and Fred Sisk.
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
VINCENTIANS
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Graham Starr
COLLEGE PARADE
By Fred E. Sisk
Recently a 17 year old boy charged with auto theft was brought into the police court of an Eastern city. He was brought before the court as a criminal—not the juvenile delinquent he had been a month before in the Reformatory. He had been sent there for burglary. A second offense would mean a long term punishment. He was 17 now, and, if convicted, would be sent to the state prison. Neglected by his parents in a childhood sickness, he had been left deaf in one ear.
Certainly all this must have been in the judge’s mind. He sent for the father to see if something could be done for the boy. The father notified the judge—notified him through someone else without so much as a personal call—that he would not be bothered with “that kid and tell the judge to do what he likes.”
Vincentians Step In
But there were men in the city— business men who could find time as Vincentians to help out any "kid”— who took the boy in hand. They showed him what a father should be like; by their example they made him realize that had a place to fill in society. He did fill his place and made good. He did more—he gladdened the hearts of those men who could see the definite, recognizable effects of their efforts.
Youngsters like this one are not molded over night. The turn to crime or away from it is a slow process. We are all aware of the fact that the youngster must be directed lest his mischievous pranks grow into petty crimes and finally into those that send him to the state or federal prison. That is why the work of the N. D. Vincentians at the Y. M. C. A. in South Bend is so important. Athletes and honor men, outstanding for their activities, nevertheless have found time to direct gym classes of delinquent boys. Ping Pong and pool are followed by a club meeting; that by basketball and a swim. There is no mention made of the fact that the N. D. man helping out is a Vincentian. But the youngsters begin to wonder who he is and why he comes.
Silent Charity Speaks the Loudest
The ’Commonweal of a week ago carries an interesting article that reveals the impression this silent charity makes on the outsider. Impressions of another sort are not infrequent, either; one Vincentian tells of a basketball game his group lost because one player was without shoes, and the other team made “impressions” on' his feet whenever he took a shot.
This time it’s Francis Robert Parks, sociology major from Rice Lake, Wis. The “high brow” with an average in the upper brackets (92.29 to be exact) intends to enter the University of Wisconsin law school next fall. But the sad part about it, says Frank, is the six - month apprenticeship requirement.
Secretary of the Wranglers, campus forensic society, Frank has been on the varsity debating team for two
years—this year on the “A” squad. The fiery senior always takes the affirmative and in many cases annihilates his opponents with his gift of versatility.
Is a lover of the great out-of-doors, fishes extensively and catches the tigers of the Northland—muskies. His parents have a large farm where they raise Belgian draft horses, and in the summer time when he isn’t admiring the beautiful animals he plays tennis.
Never signs out because the date has already been set for next August.-A lovely little lass. According to his roomie, Roland Martin, the “sucker” worries about getting a certain letter every week, and does more debate work than school assignments. He was chairman of the Notre Dame Catholic oratorical contest last year. For the past two weeks he has been in cold storage because of “flu” and so missed the recent debating trip to Iowa City, Iowa.
He had the worst double room for two consecutive years, because of the proximity of prefects—tough ones at that.
Tradition Has a Peculiar Power . . .
It can even produce a valued price on a pair of shoes that have been tramping around on different college campi for the past 13 years. Up until now the pair of shoes have been “schooled” at Harvard, Princeton, Notre Dame, Dartmouth, Rutgers, M.I. T., N.Y.U., McGill, Cornell, Northwestern, Georgia Tech, and are now being worn by an Alabama student. The educated “clod - hoppers” will travel next to the University of Kentucky for the first semester of 1938-1939.
If this hobby of educating shoes becomes a habit, we foresee something along this order: You at Slippery Rock U. send us your size 15 AA “gunboats,” and we’ll crate our 16 AAA’s and send them both on the next freight west. After our 16’s have spent one semester there, we would like you to forward them to the Department of Bootery at Wayward Aggies.
—o—
So I Turned Off the Alarm . . .
A fellow is lazy when he gets up at 5 a.m. in order to have a longer day to idle.—Pelican
Lyceums Aren’t a Breed of Snakes...
But for a good many of us descendants of the earlier stock, “lyceums” might mean almost anything. To our more experienced ancestors, however, “lyceums” meant a speaker in the town hall, and the subject could have been heavy or light, dark or transparent, or from “soup to nuts.” Lyceums now come back-into fashion at the Utah State Agricultural College where they have a regular lyceum bureau to schedule speakers and performers for the college town hall. Late “lyceum-man” at Utah State was Burns Mantle, play critic and editor of a yearly collection of the best plays of the year.
In and About the “Parade”
Northwestern is offering a series of lectures to help Mr. and Mrs. Income Taxpayer fill out their blanks.. .WHA University of Wisconsin radio station, has recently been named the outstanding social service radio station in the United States for 1938... At Loyola University in New Orleans some students have formed the Brotherhood of Pipe Smokers Association of Loyola university.... Topics include, . “What kind of a pipe have you?” “What tobacco do you use?” “Try my mixture, it’s good.”.... Suppose, Pipe Smokers Association that someone wanted to discuss, “Have yuh got a cigarette?”
MARCH 17, 1939
9
THEATRE
By Ray Sadlier
Aside from a few unique and experimental retrogressions t o stage technique and presentations of centuries ago, the present-day theatre is a complex and integrated mechanism. While individualism on the part of a performer has not been entirely eliminated, an actor now has an “advanced” point of view. He is an artist member of a group of performers who, like the misicians in an orchestra, have a common purpose based on a philosophy of common effort.
Their common purpose is to produce an effect on an audience—not many effects, but one effect. To the production of one effect all are contributors—not only all the players, but also all the artists of the theatre: the scenic designer, the costumer, the electricians, and those who control the incidental music transitions, backgrounds, and other desired sound effects.
. Hard Work Necessary
It may appear, superficially, that the actors, especially the leads, are the main bulwark of a show. Yet, it remains that long, tedious hours of concentrated planning and intense productive effort have made possible the interpretation on the part of the actor. To the Stage Director, then, is allotted the task of coordinating this complicated mechanism of the play; for, of necessity, there must be a Supreme Court—otherwise chaos! The Director must interpret the playwright’s recorded genius, and he must recreate it through actors, scenic design, lighting, music, tempo, make-up and costuming.
The contention that actors “make” a play is to a great extent fallacious. The actor serves as no more than a mirror whose job it is to reflect the Director’s vision. This view, though, is by no means derogatory to the actor. Ability, stage personality, technique and interpretation are personal qualities which cannot be achieved entirely by Directorial stimulation or other external forces. The point to be made, though, is that the actor is an individual mechanism which must be properly placed in the delicate machinery of the whole before a finished picture may be presented.
Plug for “Queen’s Husband”
“The Queen’s Husband,” the Players’ initial production under the direction of Rev: Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., is scheduled to open next Wednesday evening, March 22, and to close its “run” the following evening. It is rumored that this current production
will meet with quite satisfactory approval. Long weeks of rehearsal have the cast in fighting trim.
Prof. F. Kelly promises a lavish set; and from Chicago have been garnered the brilliant costumes of royalty! All in all, “The Queen’s Husband” has the potentialities of becoming a remembered incident in our cloistered life. So, until curtain-time, next Wednesday evening, His Majesty, Eric VIII of—?—(we still don’t know what kingdom we rule)—retires to experiment with grease-paint and crepe-hair. What a life!
RADIO
By Bernard Feeney
New Interest
The announcement of a radio script writing contest elsewhere in this issue is indicative of the rising interest in radio within the local Radio Club. At recent meetings more organization and a greater spirit of cooperation have been noted. Criticism of present production by members has stimulated a desire for better programs. Since the best of the scripts in the new contest will be selected for dramatization , it is thought that this should help greatly in promoting radio dramatics.
The Man Behind the Voice
This week, it’s Dick Bohn of Alumni Hall and Chillicothe, Ohio. As the expression goes, he is “way behind the voice” for Dick is the chief engineer at the local studio, and so usually isn’t on the air. However, at times Dick has announced and engineered programs simultaneously; so far this year his score on this is five times! He still recalls his first broadcast. Dared by Walt Hagen, he got
a bad case of mike Charles r. Bohn fright! While he has engineered 80% of all local shows in the last four years, he still hopes for new equipment to handle the work properly.
New Programs
Also indicative of this new interest are a few new programs. Walter Johnson’s new series called, “College Quiz” is ready to start. Featuring Hall competition, the initial broadcast will be aired over WSBT from 8 to 8:30 tonight. Next Thursday night the Bengal Boxers will be interviewed. Tonight, in honor of St. Patrick, local radio Irishmen have scheduled an interesting travel talk
featuring the important historical and scenic points of their land. Consult your newspaper for the hour of these last two broadcasts. Tonight’s Academy of Politics at 7:30 offers a different type of program. Seeking an informal manner, their topic, “American Government and Politics” will be aired in quiz form.
Campus Radio Log
Mon. 7:45 — Faculty Talk — WFAM.
Tue. 7:00 — Men of Yesterday — WFAM.
Tue. 9:15 — The Modemaires — WSBT.
Wed. 9:00 — Periscope of the News — WSBT.
Thur. 9:30 — Music Department — WSBT.
Fri. 7:30 — Academy of Politics — WFAM.
MUSIC NOTES
By William Mooney
It seems very appropriate that this week something be said of Irish music. The material for these few words was found in a work entitled, Manners and Customs of the Ancient Irish, by E. O. Curry, Volume 1.
In the Middle Ages, Irish music was built on a different scale from the diatonic scale of our modern music. The scale was homophonous and consisted of five tones roughly corresponding to our notes C, D, E, G, and A. Irish musicians must have been acquainted with the bare rudiments of harmony, but the native music was little above the primitive stage. The growth of Irish music was very slow. Artistic developments of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries required resources which could only be found in the courts of princes, in large cathedrals, or in rich abbeys.
Irish Music Isolated
The unhappy political and social state of Ireland was wholly incom- ' patible with the artistic cultivation of music. The introduction of Protestantism into England completely isolated Irish music. Irish harpers no longer wandered over Europe, and European minstrels ceased to visit Ireland. The Catholics, deprived of their cathedrals and abbeys^ and ultimately forbidden all public worship could no longer use even the simple chants of the Church. The new harmonic music, which received its impulse from Protestantism, had no influence whatsoever on the Irish music of that period, owing to the impas-
( Continued on Page 18)
10
The Notre Dome Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Mark J. Mitchell______________________Editor-in-Chief
Vincent DeCoursey___________________________Managing	Editor
William P. Mahoney__________________________Literary	Editor
William C. Fay__________________________________News	Editor
Donald Foskett._______________________________Sports	Editor
Tom Powers_______________________________________Art	Editor
Rev. L. V. Broughal, C.S.C...........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, Post Office Box 1S5, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Wednesday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Vol. 72	March 17, 1939	No. 20
"You Can Fool some of the People..."
LAST Sunday’s Chicago Tribune carried an editorial entitled “The American Insane Era,” which bluntly accused members of the Administration of being “play boys.... making a game for their own delight out of the needs and resources of the country.” Aside from the gratuitous assumptions and far-fetched conclusions of this particular editorial, the underlying theme, a defense of and justification for poor oppressed capitalists, is important as an index of a dangerous tendency.
We neither want to attack nor to defend the Tribune's position on the merits of the capitalistic system, nor on the unworthiness of the present Administration. Steps toward a redistribution of wealth might not be the worst possible inclination for a government. Neither are we completely satisfied that the New Deal has not done some good. But these are not the things we wish to contest. The point is that the editorial represents an aspect of what seems to have become a regular practice of the Chicago Tribune. Such statements as this one are typical of the practice: “Only a few of the railroads have anything for the stockholders. Many of them have nothing for their bondholders and are in receivership. All of them are bled by taxation.” The obvious implication is that railroads are bankrupt because of the imposition of excessively high taxes by the federal government. In point of fact it is well known that most of the railroads were in the hands of receivers before the present administration took office.
This dishonest use of facts to mislead the reading public is an insidious and thoroughly contemptible practice. Yet the Tribune invariably does it. Tribune writers almost inevitably confine their use of the facts and statistics involved in a story strictly to those which completely support their particular point of view; never are adverse facts admitted to consideration. And sadly enough, most of the supposedly straight news reporting suffers from the same perversion, so that there is hardly a part of the paper free from the taint of falsity and misconstruction.
The policy is positively dangerous. For, though a free press may be a blessing, that freedom, abused by the distortion of objective truth in favor of a particular class or group, becomes a curse.
That the policy represents a tendency in American journalism is evident to anyone who reads thoughtfully in any variety of newspapers. That the policy can and ultimately will result in positive harm to the paper itself
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
should be equally evident. The decline and fall of the Hearst empire was not solely the result of its owner’s extravagances. Just the kind of “yellow journalism” against which we have protested played a large part in that now well-known collapse.
Therefore, it is not only in the interests of a more truthful and ethical journalism that we decry such flagrant malpractice. It is to the interest of the newspapers themselves to look towards future circulation and advertising, and think twice about trying to fool all of the people all of the time.—Mark J. Mitchell
The Coronation
THIS event was nothing less than a formal declaration in the face of the whole modern and semi-paganized world of the supremacy of the spiritual principle in man.
This was being enthroned as the real basis of all authority and government, and all those ethical judgments on which the very existence of our civilization depends.
In a world that has gone blind to almost everything but material considerations; a world in which, owing to its rejection of Christian ethics, no bond or oath could be trusted, the coronation once more enthrones the religious principles, the only principle by which our civilization can be saved from complete disaster.
Alfred Noyes in Chicago American.
The Catholic in Catholicism
ON HIS recent visit to the United States, Jacques Maritain remarked that the Catholic is not Cathol-cism. M. Maritain’s remark has particular significance when we think of those Catholics who take an active part in the liturgy and those who merely fulfill their obligations. To claim membership in the Mystical Body presupposes an interest, and following that interest there is an obligation. Toward these two participatory requirements some Catholics are lax; unfortunately many more are sophisticatedly uninterested.
The Catholic Church is the Kingdom of God on earth. It is an active society of those members who, by faith, profess to follow the teachings of Christ and participate in the liturgy of the Church. As members, the individuals assist at, and take part in, the various liturgical rites of the Church. Membership, then, signifies activity, function, action. For the most part, either by desire or by precept, the faithful are fully responsible to the rites of the Church. Sacraments are received frequently and the Commandments of the Church are obeyed. For many, unfortunately, this is the end of their activity.
It is this group, the Sunday Catholics, that the advocates and crusaders of Catholic Action are anxious to reach. To assist at Mass alone is not Catholicism; to make one’s Easter duty and do nothing more is not Catholicism. Catholicism is far more meaningful and inspiring than that. Catholicism, when fully appreciated and realized gives one a full life, a holy life. Catholicism is Catholic Action. Better still, Catholic Action is Catholicism.
The clergy, besides administering the sacraments, act as spiritual advisors to the laity. They have an active duty as well as an accepted duty. So, too, the laity, the business man, the teacher, the laborer, the clerk, even the student—all these have an active duty to perform. They must not only believe in the doctrines of the Church, but more importantly, the must live them.—John J. Kohn.
MARCH 17, 1939*
Among the Magazines
With JOHN J. DEANE
The college student today professes to a bored cosmopolitanism that damns the good things of home as not quite modem and looks over the far hills for new thought. To bring home a very Catholic point we have incorporated several foreign magazines into our review to show that truth is quite the same the world over.
The Dublin Review: January.
J. L. Benvenisti in “Christian Morals and the Means Test” upsets our smug democratic conception of charitable care for the unemployed by proving that, if our economics were informed to a greater degree with Christian ethics the problem of unemployment would soon be solved. It is not solved because we are not sufficiently concerned about it to solve it. We are sufficiently concerned to display a certain journalistic lachrymos-ity and shake our heads, but we tolerate and acquiesce in a political and economic order under which it is inevitable. The authoritarian states have, in point of fact, destroyed the cyclic phenomena of unemployment, and are correcting the distorted relation between town and country by precisely such an invasion (invasion of individual rights of property and gain). Hitler takes forty percent of all company profits, and makes the dividend recipient pay income tax in addition. Since most company profits are a tax on the community, then Hitler’s action is simply a refunding of that tax and this would appear to be morally justified. Apparently, as Mr. Benevisti sees it, the totalitarian state has stolen a march, in the right direction, on the democracy. Is our aversion to eating humble pie sufficiently strong to prevent us from following in Der Fuehrer’s footsteps?
Michael De La Bedoyer, in “What is This Nec - Paganism” puts the blame for its existence directly at the feet of Christianity. Before Christianity the pagan state conceived man, not as an individual, but as one stone in the structure of the state; however, with the advent of Christianity there came a new concept of man, man as an individual. Then slowly was NeoPaganism born. Out of Christianity, its doctrines and its faith, there grew a new kind of Paganism, at one and the same time intensely strong, because deriving from the strength of Christian conviction, and extremely
subtle, because to a very large extent clothed in Christian dress, with its other-worldly supernatural formulas, surviving in appearance but gradually losing their inner meaning. In other words, the magnificence of the Greco-Roman heritage was suddenly given new life through its fertilization, as it were, by the Christian teaching about the individual and his sublimity. And so, Mr. Bedoyer warns, if Christianity does not soon get to work, it will find itself hoist with its own petard.
Barbara Ward, in “Planned Economy in Catholic Social Thought,” admires the Catholic economic viewpoint as expressed in the Papal Encyclicals. Catholic social teaching, she writes, is remarkable in that, before all else, it is an attempted synthesis; it is not an accident that the two important social encyclicals, Rerum Novarum, and Quadragesima Anno, which appeared forty years later, condemn not only the glaring evils of capitalist society, but also the two extreme doctrines of social change—Fascism and Communism—which claim to cure them. The Catholic system is balanced; it is fair; and because it is fair, it has displeased both camps. Nevertheless, the social programme of the Church aims above everything else at balance, the balance achieved by combining planned economy with individual freedom, state control with private ownership, economic independence with political needs and social justice. But it would be gross misinterpretation of Catholic teaching to assume that the outline given in the Encyclical of a structural change in economic life is all that is necessary to bring about a change in society. This longed-for social reconstruction must be preceded by a renewal of the Christian spirit from which so many people engaged in industry have at times lamentably departed. Otherwise all our endeavours will be futile and our home, will be built, not upon a rock, but upon shifting sand.
Blackfriars: January.
To the philosophy majors and, more specifically, the Thomists, a hitherto unpublished lecture of the late Father Bede Jarrett, O.P., should have an especial appeal. “The Holiness of Truth” puts in front of the reader one aspect of the teaching of St. Thomas Aquinas. As a teacher he
was forever insisting upon the holiness of truth, that is, all that knowledge can do to make a man the better, lover of God. But since man can love only that which, his intellect knows, and since God is thereby restricted to a rather narrow portal in reaching the heart of man, i.e., his intellect, Aquinas insists also upon the great importance of the contemplative life because it means in itself the gaze of the soul on God and in consequence the increase of our knowledge of God. The article merely illustrates how ever-new St. Thomas Aquinas is; this hurrying world would do well to desist from its rushing to ascertain more accurately the end toward which its haste in carrying it.
The Catholic World: February.
“Do Communists Think,” by William H. Kelty, asks a question that should result in much red agitation. Professedly, there is a no more open mind than the Communist mind, and the Communist is indignant when accused of irrationality. Mr. Kelty agrees, the Communists do think, no doubt, but theirs is the colored thinking of the pure fanatic. It is the thinking of Ivan the Terrible and of Juan Vicente Gomez — of men intent upon . power and lacking a balanced set of values. That Communists work in the name of humanity, says Mr. Kelty, only makes their tactics more despicable. Ivan and Gomez were at least frank about their sanguinary purposes. Communism produces an insidious kind of thinking — a kind that may result in the destruction of religious worship, and of civil rights as it has done in the Soviet Union, in Spain and in the other countries which have suffered ideological wars. It is a kind of thinking that should never gain widespread support in the United States of America.
“Franco’s Spain,” by Joseph F. Thorning. Now that the Spanish war is drawing to a close it it well to look to the political significance of the establishment of a Spanish government that is quite-friendly with Italy and Germany. Dr. Thorning ponders a return to the regency. Everywhere, in Spain, he writes, there is speculation about the probabilities in favor of a restoration of kingship. There is a strong traditional urge to bring back royalty as a symbol of national unity. Franco himself favors Prince Juan, the youngest son of Alphonso
12
XIII. Nevertheless, in the event that Prince Juan is invited to accept the responsibilites of kingship, One may be certain that he will not be permitted to act as an absolute monarch..
America: March 4,1939.
“Fascist Trends Show Evidence of Nazi Influence,” (Anonymous) accounts for Mussolini’s sliding popularity with the Italian people because of the Anschluss. At that time Mussolini’s attitude seriously offended the Italian people, offended them in the deepest of their Catholic instincts. Once offended, they were not easily reassured. The Duce took no steps to reassure them. The impression grows throughout Rome that the Duce has lost his power; that, for some reason or other, he is completely
under the thumb of Germany’s Nazi dictator. But why worry about the fate of one Dictator? For this reason: Catholics are a loyal crowd; they are, too, a wary crowd. They will defend the Duce from the lies of the Communist, but very often they do not know of the change that has come over Italy, and without realizing it, they may be harming the Catholic cause by continuing to extol the Duce as though he were the Duce of several years ago. The only possible Catholic attitude today, especially in America, is one of uncompromising impartiality. The Church is fighting two enemies, Communism and Racism, and Racism is no less ugly when it dons Fascist garb, nor is it any less dangerous.
“The Catholic Cadet at Stately
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
West Point,” by W. H. Baumer, Jr., is an interesting and informative article on the Catholic cadets at West Point. There are four hundred and twenty Catholics among the members of the Cadet Corps, because of the close-knit spirit of the Academy convictions translated into action by the Catholic cadets are a compelling example to those cadets of other faiths, and so the four hundred and twenty work for much good. They carry their whole-hearted approach to cadet life into their religious practice with a commendatory spirit. Notre Dame has aided, in an indirect way, to the support of the Chapel at West Point. In order to cover the annual expenditures of the Chapel there has-been a benefit dance at the Hotel Astor after the Army-Notre Dame football game. How far-reaching our roots.
Niall's Greatest Raid
By THOMAS PATRICK WALL
Niall of the Nine Hostages was a mighty raider of the seas, the terror of far coasts. The squat, tower sterned merchant galleys of the Romans knew him and regretted it; the little stucco walled coastal towns of Roman Britain knew him and mourned brothers in slavery; the receding legions knew him and longed for safe, sunny Italy. Much had Niall raided, much booty taken, much fear inspired.
In the Year of Our Lord, 389, Niall grew restless and his fighting men clamoured for the sea. Ireland was at peace and these were fighters. In search of adventure, treasure, and slaves the sea warriors took ship, therefore. The Western Ocean foamed under their long oar; the sun dimmed in the brilliance of helm and sword; the sea bird was silenced by the blasts of their trumpets.
Across the Irish Sea near the promontory, now called St. David’s Head, the Little Roman town of Benavum Tabernae squatted by its narrow estuary and drank in the splendor of the new-dawned day. People moved through the narrow streets on the way to daily tasks. Before one of the larger houses two men sat and talked while a stripling of a boy knelt at their feet and listened. One of these men was Calphurnius, the decurion, the other an officer of the neighboring small garrison, and the boy was Patricius, son of the decurion.
Niall, in characteristic fashion was
sweeping close in along the Welsh coast. Near Benavum a force was landed secretly to take the high passes back of the town, the only landward retreat. Leathern sails still glistening with morning dew are tied to their spars; long oaken oars alone now drive the ships in close formation toward the opening of the little bay. The towns folk, still unaware of danger, suddenly are aroused by the distant sound of many trumpets sounding battle, a sound of terror in those days that always preceded the attack of the Gael. Instinctively, soldiers rush to posts, doors and windows are bolted, women and children are put on the road to the hills, eyes are turned to the sea. Silence reigns broken only by the lapping of water on the shore. Suddenly around a headland, sweeps into view, a long, manyoared ship, running toward the town over the water, like some strange monster of the deep. The estuary becomes alive with more like monsters. Long-haired warriors, swinging axe and sword, spill from the decks as keels grate on the strand. Up from the shore they rush, dashing like a wave against the defenses. Clash of steel on steel, panic, screams of terror, cry of victory, and then silence broken now and then by distant cries somewhere back of the town where the land forces of Niall have fallen upon hapless refugees.
Only the young and the strong are
spared . . . and these for slavery. Into the holds of ships they are thrown along with their former treasures, no longer human beings . . . but slaves, things to be bought and sold.
So it was that Niall Neeallach found booty and high adventure, but had he been the most imaginative of men he could never have imagined the value of the treasure that lay in one of his bottoms, a boy of sixteen, orphaned now of father and mother, separated from his sisters and friends, begging his God for light and strength.
Six years this pearl of Christ labored as the humblest of slaves, as as swineherd, speaking to his Creator, “a hundred prayers a day and as many at night” as he later said. The spark of the Holy Ghost was fanned in him by the Irish breezes and there came a night when a Voice spoke to him and told him it was time for him to leave his masters and take up a new and greater work, the “Conquest” of Ireland.
Years elapsed in training but the day came when Patrick returned filled with the fire of the Holy Ghost to convert his former oppressors, but that story is well known throughout the whole world, for Irishmen since his time have wandered everywhere, armed no longer with the sword, but with the Word of God, not to enslave, but to free men from the bondage that is Godlessness.
MARCH 17, 1939
13
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
IRISH GRIDMEN GET DOWN TO WORK
BENGALEERS REST AFTER GRUELING PRELIMS; RESUME FIGHTING MONDAY AND TUESDAY
By Jim Newland
Warm spring weather enabled the Irish football forces to trot out on Cartier Field early this week. The first object on Coach Layden’s program is to put an edge on the abilities and functions which stagnated during the winter. Blocking, tackling, charging, shifting, and ball handling all have to be worked on along with the necessary conditioning process.
Linemen are doing plenty of legwork to strengthen that leg-drive for the next campaign, and Line Coach Joe Boland is emphasizing the necessity of learning to do a thing right first before putting it into practice.
Line Blocking Stressed
Shoulder blocks, cross blocks, and • check blocks all have their peculiar function, and if this is to be attained, the boys have got to know just how to throw that black. Backs have been drilling in offensive tactics primarily, with emphasis on passing and kicking.
Monday found Elmer Layden’s coaching staff dividing the squad up into groups to work with the individual candidates. Newcomers were given special attention to start them off right in the-Notre Dame style of play. Incidentally, if things shape up right, this same style of play will be on display tomorrow when the first dogfight of the year is staged. One thing this scrimmage will determine will be how far advanced in condition the men are. Evidently, not a few of them will find that the winter was a long, soft one; also, that excess fat comes off the hard way.
One Regular Back
Since Captain Kelly is the only starter left from last year’s line, competition for the forward wall will be dingdong from now on. Although the entire second string line of Kerr and O’Brien ends, Harvey and Gallagher tackles; Riffle and DeFranco, guards; and McIntyre center is back intact, needless to say their names have not as yet been picked as starters against Purdue. For one thing, the squad numbers over 150 men—a sufficient ■ number to include at least one darkhorse. Jak Kline has handed up some fine big Freshman' candidates and these ment together with last year’s 3rd, 4th, and 5th teams should produce some outstanding players.
With several spectacular fights in the background, victorious mitt-slingers in the initial preliminaries of the Bengal Bouts prepared today to undergo the “second operation.” The second rounds of the preliminary battles will be held Monday and Tuesday. •
Hiimmmimimaiimiiiiitiaimutmmmiiiuiniiimiimimmi
Bengal Action
Scene from, last year’s production.
iiiiaiaaaaaiaaaiaaaiaaaaiaiaaaiiiaaaiiiiaaaiiiaiiaiaiaaaaaiaiiiaaiaaaaaaaaiaaa
Promising Material On Freshman Squad
When Basketball Coach George Keogan looks around next year to find men to replace Captain Earl Brown, “Duke” Ducharme, and Eddie Sadowski, he is certain to cast eyes at George Sobek and Bernie Crimmins, outstanding freshman guards. Two other freshman guards of “no little ability” are Bob “Whizzer” White and Bob Hargraves.
Although Mark Ertel and Rex Ellis both return next year, Frank Quinn of Indianapolis, an excellent ■ passer, is expected to give both boys a “run for their money” for the center position on Notre Dame’s 1940 basketball edition. The freshman’s play revolved around Quinn. Jim Kelley of Kentucky, a tall lanky boy, is being used at both forward and center.
Other promising forwards are “Red” Carnes, Harvey Doering, Art Pope, Steve Bagarus, a South Bend boy, who despite his size is a very good shot under the basket, Cornelius Ducey, and Rod Maguire.
Five technical knockouts featured the opening night of preliminary scraps with four defending champions successfully holding their respective titles in blistering first round battles.
Opening Wednesday evening with 14 fights, Bengal scrappers gave certain evidence that the coming fights, culminating with the finals a week' from tonight, will be the best in the eight-year history. A packed house witnessed the opening fights.
After Vince Guracharri defeated McCanna in the initial attraction of the evening Jimmy McClaren defeated Grisanti, winning by a technical knockout in the third round. A chap named Duffy, a newcomer to the Bengal show, gave the fans a “Joe Louis” specialty by sending Ervin Stefanik to the canvas in less than one minute, in the third fight in the 125 pound division. By winning so decisively, Duffey is certain to cause plenty of trouble in the coming fights.
Swinging blistering rights and lefts -from all angles, “Swingin’ Sammy” Dolce won over Daner in the three rounds in the 135 pound class. Dolce is defending his title for the third time, and from the class he showed in the opening preliminaries, he has a fine chance to repeat.
Dick Leahy, defending champ in the 145 pound division, held his crown only after considerable opposition from Charley Dillon. This fight-was probably the most closely contested of the opening evening.
Jimmy Brown, another title holder, won over Rorick in a slow deliberate scrap, and Larry McLaughlin K.O.’d Ray, a contender in the 145 pound division.
While each individual fighter put on a marvelous show for the huge crowd, credit is also due to the men who worked hard for over a week putting up the ring and arranging other necessary matters.
The second round of preliminary fighting is expected to he witnessed by a jammed house. There will be 14 fights each evening.
14
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NICKMEN FINISH INDOOR SEASON AGAINST SELECT FIELD AT BUTLER RELAY CARNIVAL
47 VARIATIONS ON A THEME BY KELL
By Pete Sheehan
The Notre Dame track men, who successfully defended then- Central Collegiate Conference title last Saturday, will participate in the Butler Relays at Indianapolis tomorrow afternoon and evening. Last year the Irish garnered 18 points to finish in fifth place.
Last year the Irish took first place in one event—the pole vault. Dan Gibbs, the winner, has departed but “Diz” Dean is expected to score in
Trackster Halpin
“Confined to relays”
this event. Ted Leonas, who cleared 6 feet 4 % inches last week will jump against three Big Ten aces—Allen, of Michigan, Diefenthaler, champion from Illinois, and Smith, of Northwestern. Allen and Leonas shared honors at Ann Arbor last month when neither boy could go higher than 6 feet 4 inches. Bill Dougherty will finally have a chance to take up where he left off at Champaign. The Sophomore jumping star cleared 24 feet but committed a foul and had to be contented with third place although he finished less than an inch behind the winner.
Weights Should Be Tough
Beinor and Faymonville will have plenty of trouble competing against Watson, of Michigan, who broke his own record last Saturday when he put the shot 51 feet 8% inches.
Dave Reidy, the sensation of the C.C.C. meet, will be counted upon in both the high and low hurdles. Last Saturday he tied two records, won every one of the nine heats in which he participated and made the fastest time of his career.
. Coughlin, Saggau, and Tucker will run the dashes; Capt. Rice, Halpin, Hestor, Wilkinson and Donnelly will confine their activities to the relays.
Baseball Squad Moves Info Cartier Field
•
Captain Joe Nardone, only returning monogram winner in the outfield, will shift to center field, Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline announced this week as baseball drills moved out-of-doors following a spurt of spring weather. Last season Nardone played left field.
With the end of the basketball season last Saturday, four experienced players from last season turned out for the drills. Rex Ellis, six-foot, four inch basketball center, won a monogram as a pitcher. “He will be slow in working into shape, however,” Jake commented, “because the others are a month ahead of him.”
Other eagers likely to make strong bids for varsity posts this season are: Ken Oberbrunner, first baseman or outfielder; Lou Wagner, and “Gag” Gaglione, another pair of auxiliary men both as infielders and outfielders. “The selection of the men to flank Nardone in the outfield will depend almost entirely on hitting ability,” Kline furthered.
In practices recently in the field house, Coach Kline lined up two infields that appear to be among the better cadnidates out. On the No. 1 team, Larry Doyle played first; Hy-mie' Crane, second; “Motts” Tonelli of football fame, shortstop; and Chet Sullivan, third. Doyle and Sullivan won monograms a year ago.
The other team had Farrell, first base; McGuire, second base; Hogan and Kelly alteranting at shortstop; with Crimmins at third. Art Verhoes-tra and Bob McHale handled the catching duties.
Coach Kline hopes to get a group of practice games with South Bend teams as soon as weather permits.
Honus Wagner, grand old warhorse of the Pittsburgh Pirates, headed south for the 27th time this week as the great army of major league baseball players went into training. Honus’ biggest objection to the game nowadays is that “the players are too friendly.”
Last week, you will remember, I told you how impatient Champ Kell was getting. Well, he’s not getting any better with a passage of time. He is in such a state of constant flux, that on our most recent visit we could not keep track of him. He changed positions so many times that he reminded your reporter of a ballet dancer’s nightmare. “I yam merely keeping my diverous and sundry muscles from stiffening,” explained the Killer.
But perhaps I should tell you that mentally the Champ is a very orderly
The “Killer”
“.... humility.... is noble.,..”
person. He has methodically checked off each and every day on his student calendar. I saw that Our Bet had March 24 circled, and between the lines a very efficient little note: 9:15 p.m.—“fight” in de Bengals; 9:16 p.m. —call de coroner; 9:17 p.m.—hit de hay. That just goes to show how close the Champ figures on his bouts. “Of course I gotta work in a shower somewheres,” the Champ said, grinning expectantly at the calendar.
Occasionally the Pouncer looked preoccupied; every now and then he would mumble something about six days, or 165 hours, or 9900 minutes, or 594,000 seconds. The supreme humility of the Champ is sometimes noble and awe-inspiring. The Champ confessed to me with boyish modesty, that he had not compiled the above figures, but that his managers had done the work for him. “They change ’em every day. I likes to watch ’em shrink. An’ pretty soon there’ll be me in the ring, an’ me doin’ de routine on this Thing, an’ the crowds yellin’ for me to finish him off, an’ all de fun. Gee!” said the Killer reminiscently, as he recalled the fine “Finis” he wrote all over Joe Race last year.
Then I pulled a boner. I mentioned the Killer’s current opponent. Previous experience should have taught me a lesson. He literally roared me out of the room: “If me opponent is entering this fray to get exercise he (Continued on Page 17)
MARCH 17, 1939
15
AWAIT FINAL ROUNDS OF WINTER SPORTS
By Jack White
The University Winter Sports Tournament went into its sixth week Monday. Scheduled to close at the beginning of the month the carnival has been delayed to some extent.
At any rate there is one new champion; and a score of semifinalists are awaiting final matches. The new titleholder is Sophomore Frank Plano of Lyons Hall, who showed well in his Thursday night billiard defeat of Mike Shea of Alumni. The affair was no runaway, but the senior appeared soundly trounced by the cue of Champion Plano. In attaining the finals, Shea conquered Lyonite John Kerrigan, while Plano overthrew a final threat in Bill Fish, of St. Mary’s.
The fieldhouse handballers are almost in the semifinals. Favorite Sal Trentacoste, and Al Van Hollebeke are assured of semifinal matches, the former with the winner of the Byme-Metrailer contest, the latter with Bill Piedmont or the winner of the Mona-han-Lynaugh match. Four double teams are in the semifinals, and a champion is near at hand. The four pairs are Bergman-Metrailer, Bradley-Trentacoste, Mulligan-Schorsch, and Sexton-Brown.
218 Is Bowling Tops
Interest is still running high at the Walsh Bowling alleys. Father Erns-dorff has the students baffled with his high-scoring jousts against the best of the campus aces.. Rolling 218 Father Ernsdorff disposed of Ray Schnorr to place himself in the fourth round. The following are still in the third round: Murry, Adrian, Kuhar-ich, Selna, Mcdonough, Herrick and Vollmer.
In one of the finest letdowns evei-recorded, the ping-pong men who do their playing in Carroll Rec are still in the undeveloped stages of their competition. Ten contestants are lingering in the third round of the singles, and in the double event, two matches have been played. Kotte-Schaller, and Neild-Castleman alone of 16 starting combinations are left to swat it out. The Brownson ping-pong tournament is farther advanced, but spirit is waning. Four singlists are advanced to the fourth round. They are Minogue of Howard, Greene of Lyons, MacDevitt, St. Ed’s, and Huff, Howard. One match will bring the doubles to a close. Greene and Heckler of Lyons are ready to meet Garvey and Glenn of Lyons in what appears to be a very fine match.
INTRODUCING
By Eddie Huff
Eddie Broscoe is a “3 in 1” man; he was varsity right end for three years, is current captain of the gym team, and he is coaching the Bengal boxers who swept into tournament action this week.
When Ed receives his B.S. in physical education this June, he will be-
Bengaleer Broscoe Watch him in the gold comer.
come another “3 in 1” type as he assumes the head coach’s duties at Cleveland’s Benedictine High in football, basketball, and track. Benedictine is a small parochial high school, which maintains its athletic equity in a major public high league.
Ed is a veteran Bengal bouter, having fought champion Max Marek as a freshman. In the ’37 and ’38 tourneys he was “mixed up” in the “shady” wrestling bouts involving his former protege, “Killer” Kell. Ed has regained his amateur standing again, and this year’s Bengals has him listed in the role of coach.
It is not generally known about the campus that Ed is a life member of the Youngstown all - time scholastic football eleven, but when the names of the city’s all-time greats are discussed, “Broscoe at right tackle” becomes associated with names like Pitt’s Donchess, Ohio State’s Fesler and Kabealo, and Notre Dame’s Mike Koken and Harvey Brown.
Edward Francis Broscoe wanted to do postgraduate work upon leaving Cheney high, and consequently spent a year at Dickinson Prep in Pennsylvania, before coming to Notre Dame. He was named editor of the school’s annual and most popular man at the Williamsport institution on the same ballot.
When Pete Sheehan, chairman of the Youngstown - Notre Dame dance, presented Ed to the home folk at Christmas time, Broscoe grasped the microphone and stole the show with
GOLF LINKS AND NEW QUARTERS TO OPEN
According to Father Holderith, golf coach, and director of the course, • the school golf course will be opened for the students’ use on or before the end of this month.
Simultaneous with the opening of the course will be the opening of the golf quarters in the southwest corner of the new Rockne Memorial. Lockers and showers will be available to all golfers upon payment of a 75c lock deposit fee. They money will be returned at the close of the semester, when the locks are turned in.
The old clubhouse is now in the remodeling process, and when the season opens it will be used as shelter for those who are waiting to tee off. The underpass will be used in going to and from the Memorial.
The golf team will begin practice as soon as the course opens. So far the personnel of the squad has not been chosen, but from the results of the Fall tournament Father Holderith has gathered information that will be helpful in selecting the men who will compose part of the team. For those who did not enter the tournament last fall, however, there still remains a chance of making the team. All those who are interested in trying for the squad should turn in their names to Father Holderith sometime next week, as he would like to know just how large a group he will have to choose, from.
There will be an interhall golf tournament this spring, as in the past, but the plans for this event are not yet complete. It will probably take place, though, a few weeks after the Easter vacation.
All campus clubs that are planning on sponsoring golf tournaments this spring are requested to communicate with Father Holderith as soon as possible, so that the tournament dates may be alloted without confusion.
There will be a small shop in the golf quarters of the Memorial where golf supplies may be purchased at reasonable prices. Also, for the benefit of those who do not play golf, the shop will sell squash racquets and balls, and handball gloves and balls. The store will serve as an oasis for the hungry and thirsty athletes, in addition to these other activities.
a well-delivered pep talk, merely a touch of what he will release between halves of next year’s games as he exhorts his young ’uns.
Ed is likely to double in swing during the Bengal Bouts should a mike be available for his emulation of the late Joe Humphries.
16
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Andy Wilson
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TENNISTS HOLD FIRST WORKOUT OF YEAR
Most of the indoor sports ended last weekend — basketball, fencing, track (at least its home schedule), and the billiard division of the University championship tournaments. The basketball team, in defeating a New York University quintet that looked much better than we had expected, ended with 15 victories, 6 defeats, and the highest scoring average any Notre Dame team has ever registered — 46.9 points per game. The defense, in allowing opponents an average of 35.4 points per game, was slightly disappointing, possibly because we had come to expect low defensive averages after the last three years, in which the Moir-Nowak teams held their opponents to 27, 28, and 30 points per game. However, we have enjoyed watching this year’s team very much — we like their bustling aggressiveness even more than the certain graceful, veteran nonchalance of last year’s bunch. Sadowski and Riska, Brown and Ducharme certainly make up one of the fastest teams we have ever seen.
•
The home track season indoors ended satisfactorily if not too excitingly, with the Irish scoring 45 points on 4 firsts, 3 seconds, 3 thirds, 2 fourths, and 1 fifth place. Dave Reidy’s two hurdle victories, both record-tying, were the outstanding individual accomplishments. Hard-luck team was Drake, with seven out of nine entries kept at home because of flu, outstanding absentee being little Bill Feiler, one of the finest of collegiate two-milers, and chief threat to Greg Rice’s two-mile championship. Then of the two men who managed to get to the meet, Drake’s 13-foot pole-vaulter, “Chuck” Eivins, sprained his ankle during competition, and was forced to quit. . . . Friday night’s preliminaries in the 440 and 880 were the first races in a month and a half for Pitt’s Johnny Woodruff. He pulled a tendon in his left leg running in the Millrose Games at New York early in February. Long-legged John has ever been bothered by the sharp turns of the wooden Madison Square Garden track, and has never been able to do his best there. . . . We were looking for our “All Big Six” friend, Elmer Hackney of Kansas State, favorite to win the shot. We were told by one of his Kansas teammates, however, that he was “a-rasslin”’ in the Bix Six meet. We thought this rather funny, until we ran across an account of the wrestling meet in the Sunday papers. It seems that Elmer, though he was the upset victim of one Howard Buck
of Iowa State in the heavyweight division, is considered one of the country’s best Olympic prospects at his weight. In spite of his defeat, his team just beat out Iowa State for the team championship by one point, 30-29.
•
Frank Plano, sophomore, from Lyons Hall and Merrill, Wisconsin, is the new University billiard champion. Last week he defeated “Mike” Shea of Alumni Hall, scoring his 100th — and winning — point after about 75 minutes of cautious play. Both men were a little taut and off their games, each taking 70 turns before the match was over, and averaging little better than one point per turn. The match was even for the first 40 points; then with Shea trailing, 39-41, Plano put on the best “run” of the game, 11 points, to put himself far out in the lead. Shea came up once more to within 7 points; but with the score 61-68, Plano ran off 7 straight points, his second best streak. The final shot was a genuine nerve^wracker. With the score 99-74, and the three balls almost in a straight line and widely spread, Plano shot from the upper-end of the table. The cue-ball struck the first object-ball at the table’s center, but glanced off too far. Plano picked up the chalk and turned away, to let Shea take his turn. But the cue-ball was still moving. It struck the far rail, angled back up the table against the side-rail, then against the upper end, then back down the table again, rolling ever slower, and ever closer to the third object-ball. Three inches, two inches, one inch—and it stopped, flush against the side of the object-ball, making just the necessary contact for the point.
Plano had to work hard for his championship. The luck of the draw, scratched entries, and so on, forced him to play two more games than Shea in order to reach the finals. Also, being totally unknown to those arranging the draw, he was placed in the middle of the upper bracket, while those men known to be good players were spread, so that if all went well, the best men would not be eliminating each other until the semifinals. Frank started meeting the “seeded” players as early as the third round. However, he ran off most of his matches without much trouble, getting his strongest fight from Bill Fish in the semi-finals, and of course, from Shea in the finals. 'Fish, who claims the highest run of the tournament — 22 — has also the most inter-
(Continued on Page 20)
Gone are the rosy dreams that Coach de Landero held for 1939 when he walked his Irish tennis varsity out of Earlham fieldhouse last May. His squad had won the state team championship; his sophomores, Bill Fay and Charley Rodgers, had captured the state doubles title—and previously Fay had been nosed out for the singles crown.
Only Captain Eddie Kilrain and Bill Arnold were to be lost by gradu-
Coach de Landero
Things looked better last May.
ation. But the southern twins, Capt.-elect Fred Simon and Whit Gregory, Johnny Wolf, and Frank Reppenhag-en, all double monogram winners, remained to promise a strong ’39 varsity.
Familiar Faces Missing
But Wednesday afternoon Coach de Landero looked in vain for some of the familiar faces when the netmen took their first workout. Rodgers was missing; he had accepted a bank job in Detroit. Wolf was missing, a victim of poor health which bothered him last spring, even when winning six singles matches in nine starts.... so Coach de Landero looked to his sophomore candidates for replacements.
He thinks he has found them in Jack Joyce, Jack Walsh, Norm Heckler and Don Gottschalk. Joyce, especially, is promising and probably will team with Fay to make up one doubles combination. Heckler . and Walsh are steady defensive players, the type to score consistently at the fifth and sixth positions.
Coach de Landero thinks the top of the batting order will take care of itself. Fay stepped into the no. 1 spot last year and scored seven wins in nine matches; Gregory, off his autumn play, is greatly improved and should make his last year his best; Simon will supplement Gregory to make a dependable doubles team and his flat shots should score in singles.
MARCH 17, 1939
17
KELL PROMISES
(Continued from Page H) will not get much. The only exercise he’ll get will be de walk from his comer to de center of the ring. I will send him into de subconscious realm wid me newest device, the Boy Scout’s Delight. Using the opposition’s appendage as material, I will weave him into a series of knots that will thrill de spectators. I hope de current apposition is long-legged enough to complete me pattern. Trouble is, if this fellow get near de ropes I will become confused.”
Look Over the Field Before You Judge/
ST. PATRICK'S DANCE TONITE Sponsored by the PENGUIN CLUB
40c per Person (Advance)
Door, 66c, Tax Paid
TICKETS AT CLARK’S AND WALGREEN’S
PALAIS RO YALE
Without obligation on your part, we’ll do everything on our part to present the full Renfranz-Rasmussen story of quality and value. We’ll happily show you any and all of our fabrics, patterns, and models. In fact, we’ll actually fit you to the proper garment, according to our expert knowledge. Then you compare Renfranz-Rasmussen clothes to any suit you know, and we’ll stand by the comparison on all counts.
30-
For NOTRE DAME Men—we are featuring the three-button Tweed Suit — the authentic University style.
RENFRANZ-RASMUSSEN, Inc.
106-108 South Main Street — Opposite the Court House
18
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC NOTES
(Continued from Page 9) sable gulf which existed between the Irish people and the whole English system.
At the beginning of the 18th century the native Irish were, for the moment, effectively crushed. The majority of the Catholic gentry were either pauperized or in exile, while the few who held land were deprived of the means of culture. Irish music found a .last refuge in the homes of the peasantry. This isolation kept it free from foreign influence but at the same time deprived it of true artistic development.
Irish Music Emerges
But Irish music was to emerge from its crude homophonous state. Various influence caused this awakening. The irresistible influence of sacred music, and the appearance of the popular bands caused the old Irish melodies to become harmonized and modernized. Ecclesiastical music was a great influence on all types of music throughout European history, and since the music of a band must necessarily be harmonized, the ear was gradually trained by these bands to harmony.
NOTRE DAME MEN
We invite you to enjoy GENUINE
ITALIAN SPAGHETTI
30c
Delicious Meat or Mushroom Sauce and Real Parmesan Cheese
“SINCE 1914 —FINE FOOD”
Stratigon Restaurant
114 N. Michigan Street
NO JUICES REACH MY MOUTH
MEDICO FILTERED SMOKING
MEDICO’S patented filter, combining 66 Baffle interior and cellophane exterior, is greatest scientific smoking invention ever known. It traps nicotine, juices and flakes; and breaks up hot smoke stream, resulting in cool, clean, sanitary Filtered Smoking in Medico Pipes, Cigarette and Cigar Holders.
NEWEST SHAPES
FINEST BRIAR
MONEY CAN BUY
Irish musicians at present are doing nothing for Irish music either as archaeologists or as artists. Collecting old music and publishing it is not a paying business, but even on the modern concert stage Ireland is poorly represented.
The harp is a traditional instrument of the Irish. Various ancient manuscripts, written in the 11th and 12th centuries, refer to the harp and a similar instrument called the Psalterium. The Psalterium seems to have been an instrument of the ecclesiast-
Notre Dame Men!
At Cyr’s Barber Shop, corner of Main and Washington Streets, across from the Court House, there are four registered barbers. It is a completely sanitary’ shop. A lathering machine eliminates the unsanitary brush. Sterilized, individual combs are used for each customer. Compressed air completely cleans you hair after it is cut —and yet at Cyr’s it costs no more!
Cyr's Barber Shop
Corner Main and Washington
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lene or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
GENUINE FILTERS FOR MEDICO PIPES PACKED ONLY IN THIS RED A BLACK BOX

ics, while the harp was reserved for lay purposes. Music, and especially the harp, has been so closely related to Ireland that we find the figure of a harp in the center of the Irish flag.
- ■	■ ■	I SV
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES B1_OG., SOUTH BEND
*** 11 - " ' '
"You've Got Something HERE"
“. . . Frequent schedules (a train every hour),for one thing, and the kind of dependability that lets you “get there” when you plan to. Just board a convenient South Shore train — you’ll speed along to your destination unhampered by traffic, at less cost than driving.
CALL
MR. C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
301 N. Michigan Street PHONE 3-3111 for more information about
Tickets and Service
CHICAGO SOU IH SHORE ft SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

MARCH 17, 1939
19
DE VALERA ADDRESS (Continued from Page 6) in the center of the world.
“ ‘Thither, as to a sacred soil, the home of their fathers and the fountainhead of their Christianity, the students are flocking from north, south, east, and west, from America, and Australia and India, from Egypt and Asia Minor, with the ease and rapidity of a locomotion not yet discovered, all eager to learn true wisdom, and hence when their stay is over, going back again to carry over all the earth peace to men of good will.’
“Everything John Henry Newman
Enjoy a Longer SPRING VACATION
FLY HOME BY Flagship
American Airlines Flagships serve 57 major U. S. cities directly. Excellent connections ont of South Bend to points East, Southwest and West. 10% saving on round trip fares. Meals aloft are complimentary. Stewardess on every ship. See American Airlines representative Frank Itzin, 23 Lyons Hall for full details.
foresaw for Ireland would not be pleasing to all of us, but in the eloquent sentences which I have extracted and given to you, there is indicated a destiny which generations
Visit Our New Complete Record Dept.
VICTOR	BLUEBIRD
Larry Clinton	Artie Shaw
f “I Get Along Without You Very Well”	f “Alone Together”
( “The Masquerade Is Over”	( “Rose Room”
RODIN, Inc.
132 North Michigan Street	South Bend, Indiana
— Open Saturday Evenings Until 9 —
of Irishmen have had in view, which it will be the glory of the present generation of Irishmen to fulfill and in which you, our American friends, have already earned a share.”
AMERICAN AIRLINES?^
The American Standard of Service
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Are You A Jitterbug Perforce?
Rumor has it that tight, creeping, pinching shorts are largely responsible for jitterbug gyrations.
Settle back m’ hearties into a comfort- • able pair of Arrow Shorts, no seams to
bind and more room to park. Arrows are expertly tailored of durable fabrics, and completely Sanforized Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than i%).
Shorts ... 65c
Tops .... 5Oc	.
ARROW UNDERWEAR
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 16) esting address, 179 St. Mary’s Holy Cross, Ind.
We found out that Frank Plano hadn’t been in the tournament as a freshman last year—being sick in bed at home at the time. He said that he’d been playing billiards for about five years. Most of his “stuff” he acquired by himself, though he did get some help from his father and friends. Back in Merrill now though, very few of his friends care to take him on, so fast has he developed. But after all, Frank’s skill is no surprise to them; and should be no surprise to us; you see, Frank’s dad owns the finest billiard parlors in town.
An interesting sidelight — Bob Weaver, senior law student, and one of Father Lynch’s helpers over in Dillon, came up when the pairings were being made and asked to be
matched with a “sucker” so that he might at least get past the first round. For the last three years it seemed, he had been unfortunate enough to meet the ultimate champion of runner-up
GOLF - TENNIS SQUASH SPORTS APPAREL
For the finest equipment at the right prices visit "RECO" Northern Indiana's largest Sporting Goods retailer.
THE "RECO" STORE 113 N. Main St. South Bend
"Look for the Log Front"
in the opening bracket. So after going over the list of unknowns, the matchmaker obligingly fixed Bob up — with a “sucker” named Frank Plano.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
L E M O N T R E E S Optometrists and Opticians
Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
LEARN TO FLY with HCCKERT FLYING SERVICE, Inc.
Bendix Field
STUDENT COURSE, $45.00 Trial Lesson FREE!
Charter trips to anywhere in the United States in Stinson.
See campus representative CHAS. CARROLL
114 Dillon Hall “Our business is in the ar”
No writhe, no jig, no squirm
There was a young fellow named Titus Whose wiggles and squirms did delight us; But our paper reports He now wears Arrow shorts
And no more does he dance like St. Vitus!
ARROW SHORTS have no chafing center seam . . . they’re roomier... and San-forized-Shrunk, fabric shrinkage less than 1%. Get yours today.
65c up. Tops, 50c.
ELLSWORTH'S
MARCH 17, 1939
21
THE WEEK
(Continued from Page 4)
And yet with all this supply and only one-third of the student body on hand, the entire batch disappeared in less than five minutes after they started serving it. It seems that with all their cultural training Notre Dame students have not forgotten their preUniversity habits as doughnut-dunk-ers. We have nothing to report on the Tuesday night batch except that it is the first time we have ever heard cheering when the food was brought in.
Odds and Ends
It’s a good thing the N.Y.U. basketball players didn’t know the name of the fellow who was selling the apples... Already we hear of a fellow who thought the two pools in the Rockne Memorial were connected undei' water. He blithely dived into the smaller one to swim through to the big one and—owoooh, we get sympathy pains even thinking of it....
We hear of a fellow in Alumni whose bed collapsed under him the other night. That’s nothing in itself but this fellow is so inherently lazy that although it was only the head of the
heads-up/ dress-up/ Start in top STYLE with A STETSON/
SAM’L SPIRO e CO.
South Bend’s Headquarters for- Stetson Hats See them here, at $5 up to $7.50 i
Here’s the Stetson snap-brim that puts you in the upper class...be you a snooty senior or a lowly frosh. Its smart lines are flattering to your smooth suits...to your covert topcoat. And this Stetson is doubly flattering in the new International Colors for *39!
STETSON
*5 to *40
bed that tumbled—the hind part remaining firm—he slept out the rest of the night with his feet up in the air and his head dangling a few inches from the floor.
22
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Marine Corps Reserve
Marine Corps Reserve applicants will be given a preliminary examination at the University on March 23 by Chief Pharmacist’s Mate Lakin, U.S.N., who will accompany Major Max D. Smith and First Sergeant Henry, U.S.M.C. In announcing his first visit, Major Smith stated that, since a large percentage of rejections in previous years have been for poor teeth and faulty vision, he would arrange for the preliminary physical examination in order to permit remedial action to be taken before the candidate presents himself for the final examination.
Students who wish to enter the Marine Corps summer camp should fill out application blanks and have parents complete the permission blanks before March 23 if possible. The parents’ permit is required only for those applicants who are not 21 years of age. Forms may be secured in the Registrar’s Office, Main Building, or from George Wallace, 215 Dillon.
THE HUDDLE
Pipe Headquarters
Always clean and free from goo no matter how often you smoke it. Chai* lenging higher-priced pipe* in brier quality and value.
NANDKENCIIEF TEST PROVES ■ESSBI GURI KEEPS VITAL ZONE SPOTLESS
Hf55OnGURRO munno
FIVE sophomores at a New England university had hcen assigned to report on the residential districts of a southern city, its principal products and the location of its plantations.
Hour after hour they thumbed through book after book in the library—all to no avail. Then one of them had a happy idea—why not telephone the city’s Mayor? They did—and in a few minutes had all the information they needed.
No matter what the question—in college, in social life, in business — you’ll find the telephone is often the quickest, most economical way to .get the answer.
Factory in a Meadow
A dozen small Ford plants dot the meadows within fifty miles of Dearborn. These are the “village industries”—with windows bright in the sun and wheels turning to the harnessed energy of once lazy streams.
Many of their workers are farmers who love fine machinery. After harvest and before greenup, these farmer-workmen park their cars in neat rows beside
the plants. Inside, with the newest, most modern machines, they build Ford parts.
With the money earned, they buy that fertile forty just east of the pasture lot — families go to school — houses grow wings — barns are filled with provender and sheds with machinery.
These Ford families have one foot on the land and one in in-dustrv. Thev raise food for them
selves and feel secure. They know that if slack times come, farm and garden will still provide employment.
Life is pleasant in the villages. Working conditions are almost ideal. Men do better work and are proud of their contribution to Ford quality. It shows up in the fine performance and all-around dependability of the 1939 Ford cars.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
THE UJIIVEHSITT LIBRARY -LOUKWIER LIBRARY-MOTREDAHE, LOCAL
ssssms®
Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
The GREAT WALLENDAS the premier high wire artists of the world
THE GREAT WALLENDAS a Combination that has thrilled millions all over the world.
combination
. . . and the TOP Combination for more smoking pleasure is Chesterfield (the can ^t-be-copied blend) The sun never sets on Chesterfield’s popularity because Chesterfield combines .. .blends together... the world’s best cigarette tobaccos in a way that’s different from any other cigarette.
When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure... why THEY SATISFY
Cliesterfielc
...the blend that cant be copied the right combination ofthe worlds best cigarette tobaccos