*
TRY THIS GREAT-TASTING, NEW AND DIFFERENT CIGARETTE ~ TODAY!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem, N. C.
Today’s the day to trv this new and different king ,-ize cigarette! Cavalier is a great-tasting cigarette — and the smoke feels good to you, too . . . smoke after smoke!
The king sixe smoke with the king sixe taste!
You draw plenty of fresh, naturally rich taste through the cooling extra length of Cavalier's top-crop tohac-
cos. Sure — it s the king size smoke with the king size taste. The flavor's
all then*! And so i.- the pleasure of smooth, eas^-going .-moke that jeels good to von. The smoke feel.-as good as it tastes! Enjoy new Cavaliers today.
NORTH AMERICAN HAS BUILT MORE AIRPLANES THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY IN THE WORLD
engineers, scientists, physicists, mathematicians...
CAN YOU THINK BEYOND MACH 2?
Designing Airborne Vehicles of the Future travelling at speeds so great that thin air becomes a blazing, solid wall... is the challenge that North American offers to aeronautical engineers and to specialists in most other sciences.
Join North American’s engineering operations at Los Angeles. Here's where the F-100 SUPER
SABRE*—holder of the world's first supersonic speed record—was designed and built. Share the knowledge and experience that has led to North American's supersonic supremacy. Be a part of a compact team of top engineers and scientists. Work on the most advanced projects right from the start. Enjoy personal rewards and recognition from challenging assignments.
See your Placement Office for an appointment with the North American Representative, or Write:
Bill Nance, Dept. 56COL, Engineering Personnel Office, North American Aviation, Inc., Los Angeles 45, Calif.
Engineering Ahead for a Better Tomorrow
; I ; ’Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
March. 16, 1956
3
k

Gilbert’s
Campus Shop
5
J
^GILBERT'S
March 16, 1956
I

John E. Young is working toward his B.S. in chemistry from California Institute of Technology this June. He has maintained honor standing in classwork while serving on the school newspaper, in the debating society, and as treasurer of the student body. John is interested in chemical research and development.
John Aaron answers:
Well, John, it’s hard to define the difference in a way that will satisfy everybody, because one always finds a lot of overlapping between research and development work. But most -people agree that there are differences, especially in time sequence. Research work comes first, because one of its main objectives is to establish or discover new scientific facts that will supply the foundation for new industrial developments. In other words, research men seek new knowledge about matter, generally working with small quantities of it.
Development work comes later, and Du Pont has two main types. First, there is new process development. Here scientists and engineers modify, streamline, and augment the findings of research so that new chemical products can be profitably made on a large scale—or existing products can be made by newer and more efficient methods. Pilot-plant and semi-works operations are usually included under this heading.
Second, an important kind of development work is directed toward improvement of existing processes and products. Here the men study how to obtain yield increases, utilize by-products, increase outputs, and solve sales service problems as they arise. This may require considerable research, and that brings us back to the overlapping I previously mentioned.
There are genuine differences, John, but a good deal of similarity, too—especially in the constant need for imagination and creative effort. I think you’ll find that research and development work are equally challenging and rewarding at Du Pont.
John B. Aaron worked for Du Pont as a summer laboratory assistant even before he graduated from Princeton with a B.S. in 1940. After military service he obtained an M.S.Ch.E. from M.I.T. and returned to Du Pont in 1947. Over the years he has had many opportunities to observe Du Pont research and development work. Today John is process and methods supervisor at the Philadelphia Plant of Du Pont’s Fabrics and Finishes Department.
want TO KNOW MORE about working with Du Pont? Send for a free copy of “Chemical Engineers at Du Pont,” a booklet that tells you about pioneering work being done in chemical engineering—in research, process development, production and sales. Write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington 98, Delaware.
"ES. U.S. PAT. OFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING...THROUGH CHEMLSTRy
Enjoy “Du Pont Cavalcade Theater” on TeJeviiion
6
The Scholastic
by William M. Malloy

‘pensees' and diary of professor x
A tweedy-looking- teacher walked out of O’Shaughnessy a few days ago after dropping a notebook. We made haste I to retrieve it in the very best of beagle 1 style but lost the man in the hundreds | of lunch-bound stomachs. Finding the 1 A worried volume nameless we timidly ex-| ^plored the orphaned pages and discov-’ ered that we were in possession of a I combination diary and pensees. We wish to make it clear to those that might be offended by such action that we do not make a practice of entering (uninvited) the personal notes of people—particularly those of professors. However, we , think that you will agree that the | thoughts are of such public interest and ? noble character that it would be down-< Wright shameful not to pass some of them i	along.	.
; * * *
Thurs., Feb. 16. All men are equal in in the eyes of the Government.
’ Fri., Feb. 17. Today a boy bled to 1 death while waiting in the student in:	firmary. Nose bleed.
Mon., Feb. 20. Debate topic chosen i for our team, (tourney with U. of Iowa | next Thurs.) Resolved: That all North ' ^Koreans should be made to wash their ^feet before entering the rice paddies.
Must see Prof. Sommer tomorrow!
Sat., Feb. 25. Two of my pupils have a really unbeatable singing combination. Everyone that heard them said so. Sang tonight in the Surf Club at the Palais Royale.
“A dorp lop a doo-le-oop la A TRAIN,” sang Bill Jackman.
“Slue bop a tweddlie ouu ouu A TRAIN,” sang Jim Flanagan.
_ They were good.
9 Tues., Feb. 28.
Oh heaven,
Thou have left me in my hour of need,
Oh life,
Thou are as unkindly as an ever . opening wound, Oh eleven,
. The hour is swift and now my heart must bleed, (speed?)
• Ah strife,
Thou -| -|	-| -| tomb. (Soon?)
(Balloon?)
Wed., Feb. 29. Plot for a novel'. Ramona meets . . .
Fri., March 2. If ever a man needed to get a good hold on reality or . . .
Sun., March 4. Whatsoever it is that thou goest about, considei- of it by thyself, and ask thyself, What? because I shall do this no more when I am dead, should therefore death seem grievous unto me?
Mon., March 5. To get people to church during lent . . . double eagle stamps for High Mass.
Wed., March 7. Dentist appointment.
Sat., March 10. Managed to make the symposium “On Universals.” Amazing. Simply amazing. Law auditorium; took my place in front of a graduate student and two professors. Passionately arguing about how many angels could dance on the head of a pin. The graduate student insisted on thirty-two. No, said one of the professors, that was rather a lot. The other professor mumbled something about “later scholastic degeneration.” I, myself, have noticed that the magazine has not been up to par lately.
Fr. Bochenski was the speaker. The issues were handsomely met, giving Alonzo Church, (Platonist), and Nelson Goodman (nominalist) much to worry about. Always in good taste, Fr. Bochenski is a moderate realist. With such men I’m sure we will always win the fight for existential, yet intelligible being. Amazing.
Thus read the strange document. But we have received another source of personal thoughts. Mr. James Flanagan has sent a report of baseball spring training. It reads:
Sliding into homeplate at Cartier Field ... I missed. Result: pebbles were dislodged from the turf, which though showing the beginnings of the cooperative thaw, still remained hard for those who play the game on a peatbog during the pre-dawn hours.
Something must be done about predawn hours. The Administration has considered eliminating them altogether. But the religion department believes this to be un-Thomistic. “Besides, some of us eat early breakfast.” It remains, then, a perplexing problem.
Establishing a new Student Center building at second base has been the. suggested solution.
Objections: 1) There is no electricity at that hour. Therefore, there could be no activities concerning sight.
Objection 2) The grass gets cold at night. '
Objection 3) What about crab grass? On the contrary, Church says it’s all in the mind; therefore, we need strong wills, not electricity.
Reply to objection 2) : Wear knickers. Also there is a steampipe passing under shortstop, most of us can grope around there. Other provisions can be made for bare feet.
SUCKER LIST
Mr. Russell Hemphill.
Mr. Curt Matthews.
Mr. John Adams.
Miss Nancy McNamara. ’
Mr-. Larry Gillespie.
Anyone else wishing his or her name in “Entree,” send it along with 25 cents to same, c-o Scholastic.
Late name to be added:
Gregor Mendel.
March 16, 1956
7
In Defense of Charity
Editor:
I’ve been intending to write this letter for a long while now. Mr. Jay Madigan’s judgment on the Caine deserves some little comment. Being a member of the technical staff of the University Theatre’s production of the Caine Mutiny Court Martial, I can’t object to Mr. Madigan’s criticism of our production. Not being a literary giant, I can’t take his so-called criticism and tear it apart word by word. But he so obviously transcends the limits of common courtesy and Christian charity I must object.
Admittedly the University Theatre is amateur. We strive for professional results, however, and it was generally conceded by every one of about 30 priests, students, or faculty members I personally talked to, that with the Caine we came pretty close. However, I may be prejudiced because of the fact that I worked on the production.
Mr. Madigan obviously didn’t like the Caine, or at least the parts he saw, with the exception of Queeg and Keefer. I understand that. We all have our opinions. Perhaps he tried to be constructive in his criticism, but he failed, because each of the things he pointed out as correctible mistakes was either physically impossible on the Washington Hall stage or interpretations of the director, something Mr. Madigan has ignored completely.
The theater is part of the University of Notre Dame, whether Mr. Madigan likes it or not. Good criticism is invaluable, his isn’t.
You and your staff obviously put in long hours and hard work on the Scholastic and for that you deserve some well-earned praise. However I don’t include Mr. Madigan in the above comment.
The Scholastic has a good deal of influence with the student body. We found that out Friday night when we didn’t have the sellout we would have had if Mr. Madigan had missed his deadline. However, Saturday we had a packed house, so you don’t have complete control, at least, not yet.
D. Neal
252 Zahm
INVENTORY
Entree ....................       7
Repercussion ..............       8
View ......................       9
Campus Scene —.................  11
Folio .....................     ,14
At a Glance..................    20
Showcase ______________________  22
Irish Scene __________________:...25
Back Page ...................    34
The Notre Dame
EARLY SPRING
BOOK SALE
PRICES AS LOW AS
25c
ALL ORIGINAL EDITIONS
SOME OF THE TITLES AVAILABLE ARE:
FLEMISH DRAWINGS: XIV-XVI CENTURIES: A collection of great drawings by such as VanEyck, Bosch, Breughel, Van der Goes, etc. Publ. at 2.50......SALE 98f
GOETHE THE POET: A critical biography of one of the great poets of Western Literature. Publ. at 5.00
SALE 98?
GENERAL DEAN’S STORY: The story of a great general’s experience as a P.O.W. in Korea. Publ. at 5.00 ..............SALE	98<f
THE MYSTERY OF THE CHARITY OF JOAN OF ARC by Charles Peguy: The best poem on the significance of the French saint. Publ. at 3.00 .........  SALE	98c
ST. ANTHONY OF EGYPT: A short biography illustrated with reproductions of great paintings. Publ. at 1.00 ...........SALE	25f
ROMAN BRITAIN: The early Roman period in Britain with illustrations .............SALE	25?
BRITISH CHESS: A history of Chess in England with interesting illustrations......SALE	25?
ANNAPURNA, by M. Herzog: The absorbing story of how men conquer a mountain. Publ. at 5.00. SALE 98?
GOD’S SECRET ARMIES: The spiritual underground at work behind the Iron Curtain. Publ..at 3.75
SALE 98^
THE APOLOGIE AND TREATISE OF AMBROSIE PARE: The writings of the “Father of Surgery.” Publ. at 3.50 .....SALE	98c
SELECTED WRITINGS OF JOHN RUSKIN: Ed. by P. Quennell.
SALE 98^
Only Limited Quantities
So Better Hurry
NOTRE DAME
BOOKSTORE
ON-THE-CAMPUS
Scholastic
Vol. 97 March 16, 1956. No. 1 8^
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS
Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE
Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ...News Editor ED JOYCE....................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN_________Production Manager DAVE KUBAL _________Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON..........Assistant News«y
JAMES McDONALD ..........Assistant News JIM STEINTRAGER .........Assistant News
JIM O’BRIEN .............Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN................Art	Editor
HARRY CONLON ..........Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator JOE NORTON ............Sports	Editor
JOHN GLAVIN_________.....Assistant	Spoflj?
RAY LESCHER ............Assistant	Sports
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomai Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Hailey, Joe Heimoski, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mo-carski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, Mike Schofield, David Schwartz, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh. SPORT STAFF: John Barthel. Andrew Carnazola, Patrick DeFoe, Robert Early, John Grady, Russell Hopkins, James Langford, James Merz, Brian Moran, Robert Parnell. Edward Rohrbach, James Short, Carl Skiff.
BUSINESS STAFF: Loran Sheffer.	*
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during- vacation and examination-periods at the University ol Notre Dame. Address all manuso-ipts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
ON THE COVER Artist Dick Navin employs an authentic Celtic style inW rendering the time-honored theme of St. Patrick preaching with the three-leaf clover.
8
The Scholastic
Foundation
bouts
The people here throw everything out the windows (there ’	is no such thing as a glass window) right on to the street.
i	As 1 walk to Perpetual Adoration Convent every morning
■I to celebrate Mass, I have to pick my way among the debris *	—dead chickens, goats3 heads, rotten vegetables, feathers,
3 and human refuse. The main street is only 20 feet wide, with no sidewalks, but with narrow gutters on each side, J ^down which flows the filth of the whole city. A person with | ^a weaker stomach than mine might have difficulty, but Tm used to it now.
| One of the greatest things the Holy Cross Fathers are | doing here is in the line of education. Almost all the MosH lem leaders beg to have their children in our schools. St. II Gregory High School has an enrollment of over a thousand, g and could easily double that if we had the room. We hope 8 that by teaching them (the Moslems) the profane subjects, '1 we can illuminate the subjects with slants of morality that 9 ^are Christian, for we can never teach Christianity openly it ^ln the schools where we have Moslems in attendance.
1	* -jj- ■»
| Co wrote Father Albert Croce, C.S.C., some three years | O aS° about Dacca in Bengal, India, where he was sta-.3 tioned as a missionary. His words candidly summarize the poverty and need of the Bengalese, the hardship and misery | they undergo, and the hopes and aspirations of the mission-U aries who toil for them.
His description is very distasteful and hard to visualize 4 for us who live midst the “brave new world” comforts and 0 luxuries of push-button existence.
The Bengal missions are far removed from the Field-f "louse. But the two are connected. For the annual Bengal | Bouts on campus help support some 24 established mission | stations in that far-off land. They help maintain three hos-| pitals, 14 dispensaries, two foundling homes, five orphan-iages, 99 primary schools, seven intermediate schools, five high schools, two colleges, eleven hostels, two publications, a home for the aged, a preparatory seminary and the Convent of Perpetual Adoration.
This will be the Silver Anniversary of the Bouts. Their purpose is the same; only the participants will differ from those of prior years. The Bengal Bouts depend on fellows to enter the ring—and they’ve got about 75 of them. The ^Bengals also rely, very heavily, on spectators outside the ring—this is up to us.
If you’re interested in “guts, leather, and Catholicism,” support the Bengal Bouts.—P. L.
Our country seems to have a strange addiction to declaring certain weeks during the year as This or That Week. To a few students on the campus. Foundation Week coming up next week will just be another bit of press-agentry to group in with “Be Kind to Animals Week.” And some may go a little further in shrugging it off by asking whether the University is really that hard up, that they have to start pounding on the students’ doors collecting nickels and dimes.
Actually, Foundation week is no idle bit of press-agentry, nor is it a fund-raising drive of any sort—Foundation Week has a solid and far-reaching objective in mind, the substantial betterment of Notre Dame, and the stakes are not penny ante.	-
To begin with, about half of Notre Dame’s 21,000 alumni have graduated since 1945—this means that its alumni as a whole are rather young, just getting started financially, and therefore not in a very good position to contribute much money to the support of the University. Since the average tuition only pays for about two-thirds of the student’s upkeep (nothing for improvements such as professorships, new buildings, and the like), the money that really keeps Notre Dame in its place as one of the top Universities in the country must come from friends of the University and corporations.
How, then, does Foundation Week tie in with all this? Ask any salesman for the answer, because that’s what the Foundation people are, salesmen. They’re selling two things, Notre Dame and a program to improve Notre Dame, and they have many points to recommend their products. Of course, they use all the ones that immediately come to mind, need, service, worthiness, and so on, but a big point that was overlooked until last year is the endorsement of the Foundation by the students themselves.
Surprisingly enough, this is a big factor in selling the Foundation to corporations, friends of the University, and to Notre Dame’s own alumni—apparently, they feel that if 93 percent of the students (last year’s Foundation Week total) will support and endorse anything there must be something rather outstanding about it. And so the University isn’t out scrounging, for nickels and dimes, it’s asking for the endorsement that these represent. In case the student body is a little bit hazy as to what it is beneficiary to because of the Foundation, it has received the O’Shaughnessy Hall, Fisher Hall, the Bus Shelter, Pangbom Hall, arid so on are a result of Foundation work, not to speak of the outstanding professors who have joined the faculty in the last few years, various scholarships, the Fisher Loan Fund, and others. Indirectly, the recent Ford grant was a ripe product of the Foundation tree.
Percentages are the things that count in something of this sort—a few deadheads, therefore, can put quite a large wrench in the works. Consideration of what the Foundation has done, and will do, shows a pretty big pot for the small ante of a nickel that the students are being asked to make.—J. A.
March 16, 1956
9
10
The Scholastic
OamfwA Scene
FOUNDATION DRIVE OPENS NEXT MONDAY
^Plastic Cars Offered For Nickel Donations
A new plastic sports car—for a nickel, is what the Foundation Committee is offering each donor as Notre Dame’s second annual Foundation Week opens next
Blue Circle Continues Drive For Membership
Applications for membership in the Blue Circle Honor Society for the 195657 school term are now being accepted by the Blue Circle Membership Committee.
Students wishing to apply must fulfill these requirements: have an accumu-^lative academic average of at least 80 percent at the time of application; have completed one semester at Notre Dame; have a satisfactory disciplinary record; have shown interest in the activities promoted by the Blue Circle; and be approved by the organization.
Applications are to be sent to the Blue Circle Honor Society, Committee on Membership, c/o 232 Walsh Hall, . Notre Dame, Ind. Applications will be W accepted through March 21.
Karl Martersteck, chairman of the Blue Circle, explains that the membership board tries to learn about the applicant’s personality, attitude towards the Circle, and the reason for application.
Martersteck adds, “The applicant must have enthusiasm and interest in the Circle and its work. He must be able to talk intelligently, think clearly, and spend time and effort in his job.” a Jon Konzen, chairman of the Mem-^bership Committee, sums up the qualifications of a Blue Circle man. “He must have clear thinking, common sense, tact, and time. He should be genuinely interested in the function of the Blue Circle and not primarily concerned with personal glory.”
The Circle will hold a meeting for all prospective members after the Easter vacation. At the meeting an explanation of the interview will be given as well as answers to any questions.
Shortly after the meeting the individual applicant will appeal- before a board of four members which will make the preliminary screening.
Monday, Chairman Vic Clesi announced this past week.
This year every student is asked to donate at least one nickel to the Foundation. Those who donate will receive a small brochure explaining the workings of the Foundation along with the miniature plastic car and driver’s license as a souvenir.
Foundation Week will give students an opportunity to become acquainted with the work of the Foundation and to take an active part in its program.
A goal of 100% has been set up for this year’s drive. Last year 93% of on-campus students participated. Letters are being mailed to all off-campus students containing return envelopes to the Foundation Week committee.
This program is a student activity operated by a special Senate committee. The president and hall council in each hall will work hand and hand with the committee. Appointed hall coordinators will supply information to the hall councils and act as liaisons between the halls and the Senate committee.
Foundation Week serves as an orientation for the students to Foundation work and also is used as a selling point to prospective corporations, foundations, and individual donors. It points out the participation of the whole family of Notre Dame men in the growth of their
FATHER CAVANAUGH MAPS FOUNDATION PLANS Chairmen Clesi, Powers get final briefing.
school. In 1955, 175 more corporations contributed to the Foundation than in the previous year.
Mr. Allan J. Powers, a Foundation representative and head of the campus orientation program, is acting as coordinator between the Foundation and the Student Senate.
Committeemen in addition to Clesi are Harry Wasoff, publicity, and Gene Salem, financial manager. Hall coordinators are: Dave Furlow, senior; Al Wein-sheimer, junior; Vic Clesi, sophomore; and Tipp Mann, freshman.
The University presently has an endowment of §10,670,000. This endowment which has been donated to Notre Dame by various benefactors has been invested, the returns on the investment are used to finance student education. However, in comparison with other private universities, the Notre Dame endowment is relatively small. Two of the Ivy league schools, Harvard and Yale, possess capital of §440 and §152 million respectively.
The student at Notre Dame pays but 70% of the cost of his education. The remaining percentage falls on the shoulders of friends and alumni of the school, whose contributions are channelled through the Foundation.
The University’s income diverges into many departments. The total wages and (Continued on page 31)

March 16, 1956
11
Annual Parent-Son Weekend Begins Saturday As Moms, Dads Taste Junior Campus Life
Parents of 325 Juniors will participate in the fourth annual Parent-Son Weekend, starting tomorrow morning.
For early arrivals a presentation of excerpts from Faust will be presented tonight as part of the Concert and Lecture Series. The performance begins at 8:15 in Washington Hall.
The weekend will officially open tomorrow morning with registration in the lobby of the Morris Inn, from 8 a.m. to 12 noon. Luncheon and dinner tickets will be available at the registration desk. Guided tours of the campus, O’Shaughnessy Hall, Nieuwland Science Hall, and Lobund will be conducted by members of the Blue Circle during this time.
The parents will have an opportunity to eat lunch with their sons in the Dining Hall, under usual student conditions. Off-campus students and their parents will also be able to use Dining Hall facilities. The lunch will be held from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. A separate section will be set aside foi' the juniors and their parents.
Following lunch there will be a reception in each of the colleges and ROTC units until 3:30 p.m. The places for these receptions are: Commerce, in the Rathskeller of the Student Center; Science in the Science Library of
COL. MILTON M. TOWNER congratulates Cadets Lynn Hankes and Charles Kappert after presenting the Chicago Tribune Gold and Silver Medal Awards to the two sophomores. The cadets were selected for demonstrating qualities of character and military achievement.
Nieuwland Science Hall; Arts and Letters in the Great Hall of the O’Shaughnessy Building; Engineering in the Engineering Building; Navy in the Drill Hall; and Army and Air Force in the Social Science Building. The various deans, faculty members, and instructors will be present during this time to meet the visiting parents.
A continuous showing of “Football Highlights of 1955” will take place in the Student Center from 3:15 to 5:15 p.m. Last year’s and next year’s football captains will be at the Center to meet the parents.
Highlight of the weekend will be the President’s dinner, which will be held in the east wing of the Dining Hall, at 7 p.m. The main speaker will be Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Frank Pedace, Junior Class president, will serve as toastmaster. The Glee Club will provide entertainment.
An informal open house in the Student Center’ immediately after the dinner will finish the day’s activities. Father Hesburgh and other University officials will be present to meet with the parents.
The Weekend will be brought to a close on Sunday morning with a 9 o’clock High Mass in Sacred Heart
Church. A special section will be re-" served at this Mass for parents and sons. The parents are invited to attend classes with their sons Saturday morning.
Frank Pedace is general chairman for the weekend. Other committee heads assisting him are: Roger Bennett and Bill Rigali, hotel; Jerry Tannian and Nick Conlon, publicity; Ed Keenan, APgj representative; Marshall Catanzaro,"” Science representative; Don Liegler and John Suttner, Commerce representatives; Bud Freidheim, Engineering and ROTC representative; and Jim Kennedy, Blue Circle, representative.
Plan ROTC Smoker March 26 in Drill Hall $
The second annual Tri-Military Council Smoker will be held in the Drill Hall on Monday, March 26, from 7:45 to 11:30 p. m.
Honored guests at this smoker will be the detachment heads and their staffs. A crowd of at least 600 ROTC men from the Army, Air Force, Navy, and Marines is expected to participate.
Basketball Tournament
Activities for the evening will begin with a basketball tournament to determine the campus ROTC champion. The Marines will oppose the Army in the first game, which starts at 7:45 p.m. The final game to decide the campus champion is scheduled for 8:45 p.m. The defending champion is the Army unit.
Drill Team competition will follow, tc^ pick the campus champion for the year. ' The Army will perform at 9:15, the Air Force at 9:30, and the Navy at 9:45 p.m. Each team will be allowed a maximum of ten minutes to perform.
At present, the joint smoker committee is endeavoring to obtain American Legion and VFW judges for the drill competition to insure impartial selection of the winner. The Air Force is the present campus drill team champion.
Following the drill competition ther^ will be a presentation of plaques anSt awards. Refreshments will then be served. At approximately 10 p.m. the full-length movie will start. The smoker should end about 11:30.
Advance ticket sales for the Smoker will take place in the Rathskeller of the Student Center on Monday and Tuesday, from 5 to 7 p.m.
General chairman of the smoker is Lloyd Stauder of the Army. Assisting him are: Dan Bergen, Air Force, publicity; Hugh Murphy, Army, refresh^’ ments; Bob Weiner, Navy, entertainment; Tom Mahoney, Air Force, tickets; and Joe Ryan, Navy, facilities.
12
The Scholastic
Opera Festival Casts 'Faust,' 'Aida' Scenes
NATO's General Gruenther Named Winner Of Notre Dame's 1956 Laetare Medal Award
“A Gala Night at the Opera” will take place tonight in Washington Hall at 8:15 p.m. when the Concert and Lecture Series presents Clarence Cramer’s Opera Festival. General admission tick-^ets are $1.50 and $1, but will be sold to students, faculty, and staff of the University for $1 and $.75.
Featured will be the “Garden Love ; Scene” from Gounod’s Faust and the “Nile Scene” from Verdi’s Aida. In addition to these scenes there will be sev-; eral other popular operatic selections in the performance.
, The featured tenor in the company is ' ^Jim Hawthorne, who has appeared in ; grand opera, concerts, and many times
MONA PAULEE
Soloist at 'opera' tonight.
on television. Hawthorne, who was raised in Canada, got his start in the musical world in the Broadway production of “South Pacific.” He went on to opera roles and television, appearing on “The Voice of Firestone” several times.
[ Other members of the cast include: j Ellen Faull, soprano; Mona Paulee, con-1 tralto; Algerd Brazis, baritone; and Desire Ligeti, bass.
The Opera Festival, begun in 1927 by Clarence Cramer, assisted resident orchestras and choruses in large stage performances of the great spectacle-operas from coast to coast, featuring distinguished casts from the Metropolitan, New York City Center and San Francisco Opera Companies. In 1942 it was forced to close because of the war. It re-opened last year and was well received by critics in various sections of the country where it performed.
General Alfred M. Gruenther, supreme allied commander in Europe, was named last Sunday as recipient of the University’s Laetare Medal for 1956. He is the fourth military figure to receive the award which has been presented annually since 1883 to an outstanding American Catholic layman.
‘Devotion, Integrity, Leadership’
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, in announcing the selection of NATO’s commanding general, said:
“General Gruenther exemplifies to a superlative degree the devotion, integrity and resourceful leadership that the United States expects of its military men. His brilliance, evident even in his student days at West Point, has long been recognized throughout our defense establishment. In Europe, where he commands forces representing 15 nations, he is respected as a statesman as well as a soldier. The University of Notre Dame, in conferring its Laetare Medal on General Gruenther, honors him for all these things but especially for his virile spiritual life. He personifies the military power and the spiritual strength which are the western world’s bulwark against the Communist tyranny.”
The Laetare Medal winner is named each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent and an occasion of joy in the liturgy of the Church. Formal presentation of the medal is arranged for a time and place convenient to the recipient. AFL-CIO president George Meany received the award last year. Other recent Laetare Medalists are Diplomat Jefferson Caffrey, Thomas E. Murray of the Atomic Energy Commission, Actress Irene Dunne, Philanthropist I. A. O’Shaughnessy, and General J. Lawton Collins. Other military figures who received the Laetare Medal are General Hugh A. Drum in 1940 and General William Starke Rosecrans in 1896.
Former SHAPE Chief
General Gruenther was appointed Supreme Commander of all NATO forces in Europe as well as Commander-in-Chief of the U. S. European Command in July, 1953. For the previous two-and-a-half years he had served as chief of staff at SHAPE (Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe), first under General Eisenhower and later under General Matthew Ridgway. The land, sea and air forces under Gruenther’s command have been described as the most powerful peacetime alliance of free powers in the world’s history.
Decorated with the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, and the Bronze Star for his World War II service, General Gruenther is credited with planning the North African invasion, the amphibious assault on Italy and the campaign up the peninsula which resulted in the surrender of all German forces in Italy and western Austria on May 2, 1945. During most of this period he was chief of. staff of the Fifth Army and the Fifteenth Army Group commanded by General Mark Clark. From July to November, 1945, Gruenther was deputy commanding general of the U. S. Force in Austria and led the U. S. Mission in Vienna to ar-
GEN. ALFRED M. GRUENTHER
Laetare medalist for 1956.
range for the establishment of the first American troops in that city.
General Gruenther’s post-wai* assignments have included service as deputy commandant of the National War College; director of the joint staff, a planning group assisting the joint chiefs of staff; and deputy chief of staff for plans at army headquarters.
Bom in Platte Center, Neb., Gruenther was graduated fourth in his class at the U. S. Military Academy Class of 1918. - Between 1919 and 1941 Gruenther served eight years as an instructor at the U. S. Military Academy. He also was graduated from the field artillery school, the chemical warfare school, the command and general staff school, and the army war college.
In 1922 he married the former Grace Elizabeth Crum. They have two sons: Richard and Donald, an Army major.
March 16, 1956
13


Schiller and Ninneman; one-two!
expert elocution *
by BOB SEDLACK
Too often and TOO much, the name of Notre Dame is connected with sports alone. But athletics is just one facet of the many-sided unity of life at Notre Dame. Few people realize this, and, regretfully, fewer still consider this of much importance. To these and to our beloved “subway alumni,” the smmum bonum is for us to have an unblemished record in intercollegiate competition.
Last Saturday afternoon a Notre Dame team scored an impressive victory, not on the football field or hard-court, but on the tiled floor of the Nieuwland Science Building, where the finals of the National Invitational Debate Tournament were held. An impressive victory it was, because the Notre Dame representatives won not only the Bev. William A. Bolger rotating trophy, but also the first and second-place awards for individual excellence in the tourney.
Schiller; Ninneman triumph
Our representatives, Dick Schiller and Rick Ninneman, won the team trophy for Notre Dame for the first time. Dick, a senior from Aurora, Illinois, also won the plaque for the outstanding individual debater of the tournament. The second-place plaque for excellence went to our other debater, Rick Ninneman, a sophomore from Tomah, Wis.
This is the first time Notre Dame has won the trophy—the previous winners have been Dartmouth College in 1953, the United States Military Academy in 1954, and Wilkes College in 1955. From this list alone it is easily seen that the competition has not been easy.
But let’s see who else competed. The “name” schools were well represented by Boston University, Dartmouth, Kansas State, Kentucky, Loyola, and Purdue. From the smaller schools, such respected names as Bradley, Case, Millsaps, St. Joseph’s (of Philadelphia),
Wilkes, and Wisconsin State were present. To sum it up, a remark overheard after the final round on Saturday morning. One of the midshipmen from Navy replied to the query of the coach of the Military Academy, “Win or lose, we feel it is an honor just to be invited.”
Preparations for the Tournament began weeks ago under- the careful guidance of Prof. Leonard F. Sommer, director of Forensics, and General Chairman Paul B. (he likes to use his middle initial — in honor of a favorite uncle) Coffey. Their behind-the-scenes work is the reason that the tourney came off so well. (Even the Indiana weather cooperated for a change.)
Aside from the actual overseeing while the tournament was in progress, there was much work involved. Among other things, reams of paper were used in drawing up schedules, information sheets, and lists of classes to be given excused cuts. This last was necessaiy, for many students helped out besides the two front-line debaters.
Another important item, well-handled by the committee of Joe Slade and Bernard Morris, was the arranging for room reservations. By the time that
Dartmouth doings; co-ed contemplation.
the debates started, all participants were comfortably accommodated, eithei-in the Morris Inn, which served as the center of debate doings, or in one of the downtown hotels.
Teams arrive Thursday
Activities began on Thursday night, March 8, with the arrival and registration of the teams in the lobby of the _ Morris Inn. Jack Martzell, Peter De-^ Vito, and Frank Draine handled this end of the chore. Jack later said that the hardest part of his job was carrying “that (censored) large trophy” all the way over to the (Morris Inn for display.
To facilitate the assigning of opponents, a representative of each team drew a number during registration. The numbers had already been paired and rooms in the Student Center assigned^ for the debates. When all the teams" had picked a number, the announcement of opponents for the six debates was made.
The rest of Thursday night was left for unpacking, preparation of speeches, or tours of the campus, which were conducted by the student timekeepers who
14
The Scholastic
Dartmouth takes a tip from timer.
did yeoman jobs during the entire ; tourney.
| A general atmosphere of conviviality 4 and good-fellowship pervaded through-S] out the debate. In fact, one competitor 3 remarked to Paul B. Coffey that he had f^never before met so many nice people gl^at a debate. To which Paul B., a long-| time cynic, answered something about 3 not turning one’s back on any of them. j| The debates had been arranged so 3! that Round One commenced at 10:00 g a.m. Friday, Round Two at 1:00 p.m., g Round Three at 2:30, and Round Foui’ at 4:00. The last two rounds were de-3 bated at 9:00 and 10:30 a.m. on Saturday morning. Each team entered was 4 ^. guaranteed these six rounds of debate. jwThen the top four teams (on the basis s, of victories) were chosen for the semifinal round.
| The catch was that no one knew how | he or anyone else was doing during 5 the first six rounds. The judges, who | were the coaches of the teams, were “re-3 quested not to announce their decisions | to the teams or to give oral criticism.” J So to the questions of well-wishers, J Dick and Rick and the other debaters • were only able to answer, “I don’t : ®|know.”—for they didn’t.
Each team consisted of two undergraduates prepared to debate both sides of the question. Each college entered only one team (although Notre Dame had two, in ordei- to keep an even number after the late withdrawal of one university.) The information sheet further stipulated that “debate will be conventional style, with speeches of ten and five minutes.”
However, this warrants a little more [explanation and a general description of just how the first six rounds proceeded.
The first affirmative speaker began
the constructive speeches by stating the views of the affirmative on the topic. The topic of the tournament was, “Resolved: that the non-agricultural industries of the United 'States should guarantee their employees an annual wage.” The first affirmative generally started by defining “non-agricultural industries” and by showing how or why the annual wage should be paid.
This definition-type approach seemed to be the safest because, in one of the semi-final rounds, the first affirmative neglected to define “non-agricultural industries” and was immediately challenged by the first negative speaker. After the initial statement of the problem, the first negative speaker took the floor. Here the actual bloodletting started.
Negative criticism
The negative speaker usually begins by pointing out defects or misquotations in the argument of the preceding speaker. Then he proceeded to show how a guaranteed annual wage would be “economically infeasible.” The second affirmative took the floor for his destructive speech. He cited half-quotations or mistaken percentages or questioned the use of certain material used by the negative side. Next, he attempted to clarify the position of the affirmative side once again. Finally, the second negative took over and lashed out at the faulty reasoning or non-sequitur arguments of his opponents.
With this, the ten-minute ‘constructive’ speeches ended. The timekeepers assigned to each team held cards telling how much time was left for each speaker. (Everything said after the timekeeper has flashed the stop card is disregarded by the judges.)
While one side had the floor, the
other side listened carefully for- a few moments to their arguments and then began hastily thumbing through card files, reference books, or notes in order, to refute the evidence used by the opposition. Most of the matter, however, was not at their fingertips, but rather in their heads. In the debate between Army and Boston U., one speaker from Boston utilized a quotation concerning the reduction of unemployment. As soon as the cadet from West Point got the chance, he read the quotation, including the word “slight” that had been omitted by the Boston student. This point may seem insignificant, but it does illustrate the astuteness of the debaters during the tourney.
Between constructiye and rebuttal speeches (which were five minutes long), there was an optional five-minute break. This, though, was usually waived by the debaters who were anxious to prove their opponents wrong while the faulty phrases were still clear in the minds of the observers and judges.
In the four rebuttal speeches, the affirmative spent their time in showing how they had proven the necessity of a guaranteed annual wage and how the negative had not disproved their statements. The negative, on the other hand, claimed that the affirmative had not answered their attacks and that they had shown that a guaranteed annual wage was not only impractical, but also impossible.
Each debate lasted about an hour and a quarter. With the debates scheduled
A weighty decision, then . . .
March 16, 1956
15
Blackrobe optimism presages victory.
at hour-and-half intervals, this left the debaters about 15 minutes between rounds. Most of them sat around the Student Center, smoking, talking, or debating (a busman’s holiday) in between times. Possibly the most interesting discussions took place when three or four coaches would get together and start arguing pro and con the annual wage. A good thing it was, that there were only a few minutes between the organized diatribes.
This is, generally, what happened during the first six rounds of debate. After the final preliminary debate on Saturday, there was a prevalent feeling of relief. Everyone was glad to have it over. Almost all of them were wondering who had been selected for the semifinals. At this time, John Hirshfield and Stan Kusper really got busy. It was their job, as members of the Tabulations Committee, to count up the points that had been scored by the judges, and to determine the best speakers in the preliminary rounds.
Tension at Banquet
The word-weary debaters straggled out of LaFortune in twos and threes, and headed towards the Morris Inn, where the Debate Banquet was to be held and where the announcements of the awards were to be made. Rick Ninneman was rather apprehensive as to the outcome of their final debate with Dartmouth. He expressed the desire to defend the negative against Dartmouth. His wish was to come true.
The banquet began shortly after 12 in the sedate surroundings of the Morris Inn. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs, said grace. The debaters sat down to dine. After the meal, Chairman Coffey introduced the speakers, the first of whom was Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Student Affairs. Father Norton had no sooner begun his welcoming speech when Steve Fox, Scholastic photographer, sauntered up near the speaker’s table and attempted
16
to blind Father Norton with his flash camera. After a few comments, Father Norton continued his speech and welcomed all the debaters back to the Fourth Annual National Invitational Debate Tournament. He especially extended a welcome to the girl debaters and hoped that they would be quite at home in company with the Lady on the Dome.
An uneasy stir was caused when he said he didn’t know how the teams stood but that he wished to congratulate all on their fine performances and invited them to return again.
Next, Father Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame, began his speech by saying that he felt like the Christian who had deterred the lions by telling them that if they ate him they would have to give an after-dinner speech. He then proceeded to compliment all the debaters and to explain that, in these days of the return to liberal education, debate was an excellent means to self liberal edu
cation.
Then Prof. Leonard F. Sommer, Notre Dame Director of Forensics, was introduced and made the announcement that everyone was waiting to hear. Bradley, Dartmouth, Notre Dame, and Wisconsin State College were the semifinalists. Only two teams had been undefeated in the tourney so far, Notre Dame and Bradley. Many disappointed faces were in evidence. Father Moore ended the banquet with grace after meals. To a number of teams the end had come after a difficult journey. These prepared to pack and return to their respective and respected colleges.
To the four remaining teams, things
Top team takes
were beginning anew. Dartmouth, th^ Affirmative, was to face Notre Dame, the Negative. Bradley, the Affirmative, was to debate Wisconsin State, the Negative.
Shortly after the banquet broke up, the semi-finals began in the Nieuwland Science Building. The Dartmouth first affirmative began by saying that he had always thought of the Tournament as a “dream tournament,” although, with Nc^ tre Dame winning the first two awards for the best debaters, it was turning out to be a Notre Dame dream. Here, however, all cordiality ceased and the debate began in earnest. And it was a great day for the Irish.
In the finals, it was Notre Dame against the two girls from Wisconsin State. ND won the toss and elected to take the negative. This debate wa^ much harder. Both sides fought har^ to press whatever advantage they seemed to have. The words of Father Norton came back. “There are so few fields in which girls can compete with
boys, we are glad to have you here.”
The turning point seemed to come however, when Rick Ninneman, in his rebuttal speech, said, “The burden of proof is on the affirmative. It is not our duty to show why the guaranteed wage doesn’t work, but merely to sho^ that it doesn’t.” The end came at 4:20 and congratulations were offered all around.
A few minutes later the awards were made at the Student Center, pictures were taken, and only the shouting was left to be done. Dick Schiller and Rick Ninneman had proven that there is much more to Notre Dame than its reputation for athletic prowess.
r Bolger trophy.
Father Joe Barry
F YOU
ever want a warm hello

1 saying hello to Father Barry, has a knack for greeting people.
try He He
24 gives them a warm smile, a cheery re-q sponse and almost always calls them by


S3 g
first name. He knows hundreds of faces and the names that go with them.
Father Barry developed this knack by dealing with people in all kinds of ways. He started life in Syracuse, N. Y. and first saw Notre Dame as a seminarian. He then became a parish priest and, several years later, an army chaplain. Now he is back on the campus as both parish priest and chaplain.
As a parish priest at St. Joseph’s church in South Bend and Christ the King in Roseland he got to know people’s everyday problems. This became valuable background for him when he became an army chaplain in February, 1941.
The army afforded Father Barry a challenge. From the minute he entered chaplain school at Harvard until the day he was discharged he was in constant contact with men—all kinds of men. Attached to the famed 45th division he saw 511 days of combat, spiced with four amphibious landings—Sicily, Salerno, Anzio and Southern France. All the grim tasks that forced themselves on
the young priest spirit.
His men called most of the war
could not break his
him Father Joe but correspondents called
him “the frontline chaplain.” He did everything from anointing the dying to baking a cake for some soldier’s birthday. Twice he turned down promotion to major because it meant leaving the outfit he was so attached to.
He was what the men expected in a chaplain, a spiritual leader and a friend. His cheerfulness kept up the morale of
the men. He sympathized with their
Campus Personalities
all around guy
by FRANK PERRETTA
problems, belittled their fears and gave them spiritual guidance.
He said Mass anywhere and everywhere. The tailgate of a truck might be the altar; a foxhole, the confessional. Sometimes the Mass would be interrupted. Once when he was saying the Dominus Vobiscum he found his congregation gone? When he saw the shell he ducked too, white vestments and all. Another time neither the priest nor the men moved even though danger was near.
The army understood and appreciated all he did. On Aug. 31, 1945, Father Barry was awarded the Silver Star. The award read, “his cool efficiency and cheerful acceptance of the danger and hardship of war was an inspiration to all who served with him and it aroused them to greater efficiency.” Father Barry also holds eight battle ribbons.
And now back at Notre Dame he is both pastor and a chaplain—pastor of the Sacred Heart church and chaplain for the off-campus students. As pastor he holds services for about a hundred families in the basement of the Sacred Heart church. His parish keeps him busy arranging weddings, baptisms, and making sick calls. Father said there are
Mass on a Truck, Texas Style
about 60 marriages performed here each year and “a continual flood of baptisms from Vetville.”
As chaplain for the off-campus students he is busy. He counsels them, gives them spiritual guidance, administers the sacraments and finds time to make friends with many of them.
Another duty that Father Barry feels necessary is his periodic visits to St. Joseph’s hospital. Whenever a Notre Dame student is in the hospital because the campus infirmary cannot take care of him, he can be sure of one daily visitor. The small priest is always there when a student enters surgery and remains there until the boy comes out.
Last month when one of the students fell ill his parents came out to see him. Knowing the visiting hours were so short and realizing the parents were out-of-towners Father Barry was quick to play the role of the host; he took the couple to the ballet on campus.
Father Barry has his office on the ground flooi- of the Student Center. It’s always alive with many of the students who have come to see him. They have responded to his card: “If you have any problems come in and see me; if you don’t, come in and tell me how you do it.”
March 16, 1956
17
the partition of Ireland
by BURKE CUENY
For 700 years, the Irish race has been subjected to British rule; oppressed by some of the most cruel, hairraising episodes ever recorded in history. Today, this well-loved race still fights, determined to wrest the northern part of Ireland away from British rule. Though 26 counties are free since the Partition act of 1920, the color orange, symbol of the northern six counties’ allegiance to the British, is enough to stir the rage of any Irishman.
The British mind regards the six counties as the just price that Ireland has had to pay for her independence. The price was paid in the Partition act. In defiance of this view, it is the living resolution of the Irishman, from South and North, that a united Ireland must be won . . . not by the traditional fighting but by diplomacy: notably an appeal to the world on the basis of British injustice and the resulting Irish blood, sweat and tears.
During the years that Ireland had been under British “care,” her national unity never caused a Bull eyebrow to raise until the Tories and the Liberals were engaged in a clinch for power. The Liberals, then in power, had pledged the Irish their independence, much to the wrath of the Tories. When the Tories proposed Home Rule, attempting to upset the Liberal’s cart and still keep the Irish under- their thumb, the Liberals saved themselves by dropping their pledge and substituted the idea of partition.
Prior to World War I, Britain worked feverishly to force Irish acceptance on partitioning or dismembering the Irish Nation, because the attention of the world was being focused on the situation by the indignation of the furious Irish.
In December 1918, the Irish, tired of British stalling, held a national election despite the occupying British army. Out of 101 electoral divisions, 78 declared for “independence.” All was quiet for a year. England had done nothing so the Irish representatives assembled in Dublin, asserted Eire as an independent nation and established her government and legislature.
Instantly, sleeping John Bull sprang into life, moved his black and tan “police army” into Ireland proclaiming martial law; murdering and jailing all leaders, the clergy included. Towns and industries were partially destroyed or completely wiped out. Failing to destroy the determined Irish grip on their independence, Westminster presented the
18
Partition Act of 1920 which divided Ireland into two parts: five-sixths free and one-sixth British controlled.
Ireland is composed of four provinces containing 32 counties; of which 26 received absolute freedom. The other six, part of the Ulster Province, were maintained as part of Britain under a Home Rule plan. They have their own government and Parliament and representatives in British Parliament. These six counties in Northeast Ireland are the center of controversy.
WEARING OF THE GREEN!
Around St. Patrick’s day each year, the wearers of the green are moved to rage by the sight of an orange shirt, tie or other item of apparel. Many do not know the background of this strange emotion; others may not have the facts at their disposal. FOLIO presents here a few insights into the situation in the British Isles.
As the writer said as he turned in the story: “If the viewpoint seems biased, look at the facts!”
Ulster has nine counties; seven of them predominantly Catholic and overwhelmingly Nationalist. Three of the counties: Donegal, Cavan and Monaghan remained free while the rest: Tyrone, Armagh, Derry, Fermanagh, Down and Antrim were declared pro-British.
Ulster has no unity or natural boundaries within itself. Looking into the British basis for division, Antrim’s and North Down’s 552,000 Tories to 149,000 Nationalists clearly show Tory control. Armagh, Derry, Fermanagh, Tyrone and South Down together have 281,000 Nationalists to 268,000 Tories. Were all these counties given a chance to vote, they would undoubtedly cry for unity with Eire. But the concentration of Tory votes from Armagh and South Down not only control their area, but also supersede the other four and a half counties, and thus explain how Britain holds six of the nine counties. This also shows how these counties are “pro-British” and why the boundary line divides houses rather" than a definite area. For, if Donegal,' Cavan, and Monaghan or any part of them (which are now free) •were added to the “pro-British” area,
there would be a decided majority o^ nationalists.
The Partition Act itself was at least a slender link between the north and the south which could have strengthened the two. But in 1925, an act was passed which prohibited a veto of Orange activities and another act in 1929, ceased to uphold a proportional representation of minorities in the partitioned area^ This brought the hopes for unity to a crushing end. The British were also to get 8 million pounds annually from the six counties as provided for in the original act.
This yearly sum was not met the first year, nor did the net sum for the first ten years equal the contribution for one year. Last year, the British magazine, Investor’s Chronicle, admitted that Eng-land has been sinking money into thtW six counties with discouraging results. During the first four years of partition, the Northeast paid the Imperial treasury 6 million pounds. In the next eleven years, it received ten million more than it gave. Thus, at the end of fifteen years, Britain had lost 3,800,000 pounds!
In 1952, Britain gave the northeast 19,128,000 pounds when she herself could not carry on and had to ask 121,- _ 000,000 pounds from the United States^ in defense aid. In return for this subsidy, the net Imperial donation from the six counties was 8,500,000. So, Britain actually gave over 11,000,000 pounds to the six counties. Above all, America unknowingly helps England defend herself from the Irish with our loans!
The reason for Britain’s losses is indi- 1 cated by her blindness to Ireland’s economic condition. Ireland has always depended heavily for an exchange of trade^ between the industries of the North andw the agricultural and textile business in the South. When Britain cut the richest part of Ireland off for herself, she inherited greater unemployment problems, higher transportation costs, a division of her shipbuilding and aircraft con- ' tracts between the mainland and the six Counties, topped off with a large payroll for its “police force.”
These poor economic conditions were ignored by the 1925 Boundary Cornmis- _ sion which was created by the signers of ; the 1920 Partition Act. In 1920, when | the British were slow to make a boundary, the Irish representatives pressed	.
the issue, declaring that the Partition	।
Act would never be signed without a ’ provision for a boundary change and this forced Lloyd George to agree. It was stated that the purpose of the boundary commission was “to determine in accordance with the wishes of the inhabitants,” the boundaries between Ireland • proper and the six Counties. It was £ : assumed in the 1920 agreement that most * ' of the nationalist areas would become
(Continued on page 23)	i
The Scholastic	|
s
Nixon and the Republicans
a decision to make
Aby BOB O’MALLEY
Late last September, immediately following President Eisenhower’s sudden heart attack, an enterprising reporter cornered Leonard Hall, the
Chairman of the Republican National Committee, and asked him what he would do if the President could not run . W for a second term. “I’ll jump off that • bridge when I come to it,” replied Mr. Hall, and he was never more serious.
As it turned out, Mr. Hall’s inclination to jump off a bridge decreased in \ direct proportion to the increase in the President’s health. Happily, it now || seems extremely unlikely that Mr. Hall or any of his associates will even get their feet wet. •
For obvious reasons, President Eisenhower’s decision to seek re-election has eased the fears of Republicans everywhere. In truth, there are some ReI publicans who would feel much more comfortable with a Republican President other than Mr. Eisenhower, mainly because he is not ipso facto opposed to everything the Democrats are for. But (and here’s the rub) politics is politics and the surest thing in politics today is that the President is the best Repub-;!W lican candidate.
Under ordinary circumstances, Eisen-G hower’s heart attack would have caused I the Republicans, the President included, to suspect that his renomination, even assuming that he. is in fact fully recov-G ered, would nevertheless be a very risky S business. The difficulty was quite sim-pie. How could the voters actually be convinced that Eisenhower was phys-3 ically able to serve another term? ; The problem, I think, has been rei	solved to a considerable extent by the
President himself. He has been so dis-J	armingly frank and seemingly has so
;	carefully pondered his decision that he
'	has managed to create the general im-
i	pression that he will certainly not try
1	to put anything over on the electorate.
|	There has been, it seems, a general dis*	position to take the President’s state-
1	ment at face value: if he says he can
3	serve another term, well then he can.
j It is quite possible that in fact there | does not exist this general confidence in the continued good health of the President. If not, the GOP is in for a rough \	time of it, and nobody realizes this bet-
|	ter than they do. Barring extremely
| March 16, 1956
unlikely complications, it is clear that Eisenhower' will be the Republican Presidential nominee. However, the healthy suspicion within the Republican high command that the voters might doubt Ike’s ability to serve another term has focused attention on the list of potential Vice-Presidential nominees.
That is why the big political story today is Vice-President Richard M. Nixon. Should he or should he not be kept on the ticket? No discussion of Republican politics is adequate without an inspection of the complicated set of
circumstances regarding the Vice-President’s status, but there will be no attempt here to chart Mr. Nixon’s course for him, as the current saying has it.
Basically, the conflict about Nixon is one of indecision among the top Republicans as to his true ability as a votegetter. By and large, there has been no doubt concerning Nixon’s general worth and all-around ability. He is indisputably one of the ablest men in Washington today, one of the most valuable officials in the Eisenhower Administration.
Still, Nixon has managed to irritate a lot of people. His undeniably partisan antics have caused such an unusually violent reaction among the Democrats that some of the GOP leaders have come to suspect that quite possibly many of the Independent voters feel a similar aversion to Nixon. This is ample cause for alarm, since without the Independ
ent voters the Republican Party is doomed at the polls for the simple reason that the registered Democratic voters greatly outnumber the registered Republicans.
Thus, there has arisen within the GOP leadership a rather nebulous but seemingly influential group who would prefer to see someone besides Nixon on the ticket as Vice-President. Their reasoning runs something like this: the ordinary voter, somewhat doubtful about Eisenhower’s ability to serve a full term, will closely evaluate the Vice-Presidential nominee, disapprove him if it is Nixon, and protest by either refusing to vote or by voting Democratic. In any case, say the Nixon opponents, the Republican ticket will suffer.
Is their logic valid? Cei-tainly it is, if only they can prove the truth of their basic premise: that many of the Independent voters don’t like Nixon. So far, absolutely nobody pretends to be able to prove or disprove this premise.
There is, however, some reason to believe that an alarming number- of Democrats and Independents who supported Eisenhower in 1952 have in fact become disenchanted with Nixon. The explanation' of this is not so easy to come by, although it seems safe to assume that the fault does not lie wholly with Nixon.
Apparently at the bidding of the President, Nixon has become the semiofficial commander-in-chief of the Republicans in their running skirmish with the’ Democrats. No matter what the issue, Nixon leads the charge. In this line of duty, he has been necessarily forced to extremes of political partisanship. Many times he has gone too far. The great majority of the political hot potatoes have been tossed his way to dispose of as best he could. The natural assumption is that he’s made some enemies along the line but nobody seems to know just how many. .
It has been said that Nixon’s main trouble is that he has travelled the road of rabid partisanship in an era when political moderation is the order of the day. There might well be some truth to this. But even if Nixon, with an eye to his chances for the top spot in I960, desired to exchange the Vice-Presidential hotseat for a more statesmanlike position in the Cabinet, and allowing that he could easily arrange this transfer, his problems would still remain unsolved. One move in this direction and Nixon’s enemies would make political sport of him as having been unceremoniously dumped from the ticket. It would be a charge that no amount of denial could counteract.
President Eisenhower, who seemingly has a high regard for Dick Nixon, has told his Vice-President that he maychart his own course. Under the circumstances, no man was ever handed a tougher assignment.
19
At a QIgmcg
STATE
AVON
The Night My Number Came Up; (through Saturday). A fine new British film with an old but brilliantly executed plot. The hero dreams of boarding a plane which crashes. Suddenly he finds himself living his dream. The suspense is chillingly built, plausibly resolved.
Yearling; A-l; (Sunday through Tuesday). A reissue starring a couple of old-timers, Jane Wyman and Gregory Peck. Story of a youth maturing in the swamplands, which is worth viewing. In color.
Northwest Passage; A-2; (starting Wednesday). Another reissue boasting good performances from Spencer Tracy and Robert Young. Sounds like a sea story, but we can’t be sure. 1
COLFAX
Man Who Never Was; (all week). A Fox production starring that distinguished gentleman, who always seems to become undistinguished before the film ends, Clifton Webb. Gloria Grahame decorates the technicolor production.
GRANADA
Til Cry Tomorrow; (through week from Saturday). Here is an emotional story which should give fair warning to the budding campus alcoholics. It is a biography on an alcoholic who has taken the cure, Lillian Roth. Susan Hayward turns in the best performance of her career as she gives uncompromising reality to the scenes in which Miss Roth is overcome either by too much or too little alcohol.
Richard Conte and Eddie Albert turn in fine contributing performances. Miss Roth’s sordid life was first brought before the public on the TV show, “This Is Your Life,” and the book, “I’ll Cry Tomorrow.” An innocent drink to soothe her nerves after the death of her cnildhood sweetheart embarked her on a life of drinking. She was to drink her way through a promising stage career, and two marriages, the first of which was brief and loveless, and the second an episode of cruelty. Although the story is kept basically intact, it is saved from the stigma of soapboxing by the disciplined acting of Miss Hayward.
PALACE
Lone Ranger; A-l; (all week). Another cliche performance by the masked marvel of the old West. Ole Kimosabe received very high ratings on the “wiggle tests,” for the younger set. The tests, administered by critics who find themselves at a loss in reviewing this type of picture, measure how much the kiddies squirm in their seats while the film is being shown.
Jaguar is another kiddie-type pix on the same .bill. Maybe it would be blasphemy to compare it to the Tarzan series, but nevertheless, Jaguar stars Sabu, the elephant boy, and his simian counterpart, Chiquita.
RIVER PARK
Indian Fighter (Friday and Saturday). Kirk Douglas plays another hair-on-the-chest role, who makes a play for a young Indian maiden. This activity runs con-commitantly with much fighting between the Indians and whites. Kirk plays the Indian-loving arbitrator. A Dog’s Life, from Harding’s famous short story “The Bar Sinister,” about life from a dog’s point of view. Nondescript cast.
20
A tremendous double bill featuring a couple films on the second trip around. Marty, number one candidate for Best Picture of ’55, features Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair in the tale of the middle-aged butcher who wants to get married. This seemingly uninteresting plot becomes of intense interest through the efforts of the unlikely hero Borgnine, and the trenchantly honest script.
Every character, every line is "real; so much so that the viewer keeps thinking of something his friend has said, or something he himself has said. There will not be a picture of this type ever made better. If you haven’t seen it, don’t miss it. If you have, you won’t^ need this recommendation.	'
Also, Love Me or Leave Me, affords excellent entertainment for those who missed it first time around. Doris Day is starred in one of her rare dramatic roles, and she performs well as a Chicago syndicate hood’s doll. James Cagney provides the force in the show as he bulls his way through a strongarm part which must have been written with him^ in mind. Doris’ renditions of ten Rogers and Hart songs are unexpected high points in the realistic, unsugared Hollywood version of the brash 1920’s.
—Reviews by Terry Plunkett
WSND
Sunday night, 9:55, Insights into Music. Sunday from 3 to 4, Adventures in^ Sound. Tuesday at 8:30 it’s Campus* Quiz. Monday through Friday, Just Music from 1:30 to 3:30.
WASHINGTON HALL
Clarence Cramer’s Opera Festival at 8:15 p.m. tonight. Famous opera stars will sing the Aida Nile Scene and the Faust Garden Love Scene.
WNDU
Daily: Disney’s Magic Kingdom, 10 a.m. Martin Block Show, 2 p.m. Monday: Voice of Firestone, 7:30 p.m., Saturday: Metropolitan Opera, 1 p.m. Old New Orleans, dixieland, 7:05 p.m. Sunday: Sacred Heart program, 8:15 p.m.; Music You Want, 10:30.
WNDU-TV
Tonight: Celebrity Playhouse at 8:30, Lamplight Theatre at 10:30. Saturday: Perry Como Show at 7 p.m. Sunday: Comedy Hour, 7 p.m.
The Scholastic
-f
1
"I
$4
$
WTP’oday 52nd Street is a street of 1 cheap bars and strip joints. Silenced are the horns that fashioned a musical revolution on this street a short ten years ago. The story of those kindred souls grouped together in all night sessions of earnest discussion, working and playing, is probably a tale told better by a poet.
It is a story that began about twenty Wyears ago, when Benny Goodman loomed large on the American j'azz scene. Even at that early date, it was evident to thinking musicians that “swing” was a limited form of musical expression that would strangle itself by its own devices. At that date, Jimmy Blanton, in the Ellington camp, and Charlie Christian, in the Goodman band, began serious experiments with new rhythmic patterns, while ^Roy Eldridge and Lester Young were introducing new concepts of tone and phraseology.
The switch from hot to cool, has been superseded by three distinct musical phenomena. After the ostracizing of Bop, ’ there came a period of frigidity to j'azz, I when the lethargy of the individual mu-| sicians threatened to remove all traces of a driving element from the jazz I picture. This has been replaced by a £ warmer, more rhythmic conception now | in vogue among most of the major* musicians of both East and West coast I schools. At the other extremity of the | musical thermometer, there has appeared I an illegitimate, almost immoral brand of | jazz, popularly called “rhythm and I blues” or “rock and roll.” In short, I the nomenclature has tripled, but with I relatively little change in musical values.
With all too few exceptions the forward L progress in jazz halted when Charlie " Parker’s creativity began to lag.
It would be pointless here to enter into a discussion upon who picked up the threads of the ideas spun by Blanton, Christian, Eldridge, and Young and fused it into an organized unity of musical thought. Whether it was Monk, Parker, Gillespie, or Eckstine, is unimportant. Perhaps it would be easier not to speak of it as the product of one man or a group of men, but rather as an evolution of forms.
B| No matter who the originator, the fact remains that it was from the horns of John Birks, (Dizzy) Gillespie and Charlie (Yardbird) Parker that Bop drew its first critical notice. In 1943, the Bird joined Diz and little Benny Harris in the Earl Hines band. Together this clique, joined together by a similar sense of musical expression, produced new ideas and new voicing techniques that was to expand into a whole new theory of jazz. Billy Eckstine and t Sarah Vaughn were impoi*tant contrib-" utors to the book of that imaginative Hines group. But when Billy left to form his own group, the band lost its
by CHRIS REITZE
big name attraction and shortly there-aftei* folded.
It was in 1944 that Bop arrived on 52nd st. When the Dizzy Gillespie— Oscar Pettiford group, with Don Byas, George Wallington, and Max Roach opened in the Onyx Club, the next two years were the most exciting and productive for the inhabitants of the street, and were climaxed by a big RCA Victor Album, “New 52nd Street Jazz” featuring Coleman Hawkins in one group
and Dizzy along with Milt Jackson, Ray Brown, Al Haig, Bill de Avango and Don Byas, in another.
These were the golden days of Bop. From this time on, due to adverse publicity and the general apathy of the public toward any type of liberal thought, Bop came upon hard days. There was the sporadic successes of the large Gillespie crews in 1947 and 1949. Meanwhile, the First Herd of Woody Herman became America’s leading band playing the Bop-inspired arrangements and compositions of Neal Hefti, Ralph Burns, and Shorty Rogers. Later, there was the artistically successful Second Herd, sporting such stars as Stan Getz, Terry Gibbs, Chubby Jackson, and Ernie Royal. A bit more successful was Charlie Ventura’s Bop for the People. But the tide had turned against Bop, not as a musical form, but as a supposedly mysterious cult of sex-perverts and drag addicts.
‘KMPC’ in Los Angeles banned Bop, because, as Time magazine, later explained, “What bebop amounts to is hot jazz overheated, with overdone lyrics full of bawdiness, reference to narcotics...”.
bop ’56
Which seems to be a roundabout way of banning an eight-note rhythmic pattern based on the vertical structure of De-bussyian Impressionism; an adequate description of Bebop. It is curious to note that this same press and radio are making their livelihood today by bringing to the public “rock and roll” for which the Time definition is quite apropos.
But Bop has spread around the world. Like so many other, artists, the Bop musician found himself more welcome in Sweden, France and Gei*many than at home. But jazz is typically American and it needs to get its strength from American shores; so its artists all return.
The hoppers have withdrawn themselves. Dizzy has become a showman, while Bird before his untimely death, blew in wide circles, sometimes wonderfully inventive, at other times, obscure and unintelligibly.
Bop is and isn’t dead. As a school of formalized expression it is finished. Its impact will always be felt. It lengthened the melodic line and harmonic sense. It has a profound influence on most of the leading j'azz soloists of the times: Miles Davis, J. J. Johnson, Ray Brown, Max Roach, and Milt Jack-son, all winners of the Downbeat Poll of ’55 had played with the 52nd Streeters, while other Poll winners, Getz and Mulligan, have at various times, been associated with bop-inspired movements.
No, Bop is not dead. For today there is underneath the surface of jazz, a new vitality; there are the beginnings of something new, something like the days of early Bop, made possible because some men suffered to bring to the world a new form of musical expression.
SELECTED DISCOGRAPHY OF BOP
Dizzy Gillespie—Dizzier and Dizzier.
Bud Powell—Blue Note 5003.
Woody Herman—Classics in Jazz.
Stan Getz—Prestige Prep.
Miles Davis—Capitol EAP 1-2— 459.
Charlie Parker—(assorted new releases on Savoy, Clef and Norgran).
Illinois Jacquet — Jamsession — Apollo.
Gillespie Getz—Norgran	EPN
3-4.
The Young at Bop—Emarcy.
Lennie Tristano—Classics in Jazz.
March 16, 1956
21
a toast to the Irish
by BRYAN WOODS
Ihave A toast,” he said. “Fine,” I said.
“On this St. Patrick’s Day,” he said, “I think we should drink to the memory of the Irish in America.” We drank.
“You talk as if there were no Irish left in America.”
“There aren’t.”
“Have you ever seen St. Patrick’s Day in New York? Enough Irish show up there that they have to have the whole force on duty.”
“Oh yes,” he said. “The drunken Irish, the Notre Dame worshipping Irish, the television Irish. Oh yes, they’re there. But the spirit of Ireland is dead. Let me tell you a story about a man and his son. I think you will see the parallel.” We ordered another round and he began his story.
* * *
“This is the story of Kevin and of his son Michael. Kevin was a huge man, with a leonine head and a great mane of black hair. He had a soft low-pitched voice and a deep laugh. Just hearing that great laugh of his made you want to laugh yourself. And . he laughed often. He loved to laugh.
Kevin was a brilliant man who had studied law at Harvard and had opened an office in Worcester. To that magical voice of his was coupled a marvelous gift for logic and rhetoric so that his words were music. He had more natural charm than any man I have ever met. His only secret was that he loved people. He should have been a great success as a lawyer. But he was a failure.
As his wife Bridget often told him, it was his own fault. She said he was lazy, which was not true, but that is not the first time that lack of ambition has been taken for laziness. She said he did not appreciate money and that was so. She said he was too fond of Irish whiskey and the truth of that depends on your point of view.
Bridget was a strange tormented woman and she hated Kevin. She had borne him three sons, who had all died soon after birth. All these deaths had been a terrible cross for both of them. Kevin, after weeping openly at the funerals, sunk into that black despair that is the curse of so many of the Irish. Soon enough he would take to drinking, drink himself into a stupor, and then into insensibility. When he re
covered from these binges he was all right. But each death had warped Bridget a little more so that she began to hate him for ever getting over his grief. And in some unknowable way she had come to blame him for the deaths of the children. So that when the fourth child, also a son, was born she became fiercely protective. She could hardly bear for Kevin to even come near the child, whom they had christened Michael.
At this time his practice was becoming slimmer and slimmer. If he was
trying a suit for a wealthy client as often as not his only preparation would be a pint of his beloved Irish whiskey. He would joke -with the judge, make ridiculous asides to the jury, throw back his great head and laugh during the most serious parts of his address to the jury, and generally conduct his case in an uproaringly funny manner. This endeared him to the courtroom regulars, and most of the judges looked upon him benevolently, but he won few cases.
It was not that he was not able to win, for every so often he took charity cases and seemed to get great satisfaction from winning a case where he would get no fee. He would prepare his case meticulously, and present it brilliantly. This rarity would never fail to amaze the judge who had been expecting the usual farce. After one of these brilliant cases he usually had a few
extra clients for a while. At first h<£ would work well and start to really earn some money, but then one day he would show up at the courthouse with a full load on and start the process over again. The courtroom regulars came to know when he would be in this condition, and would jam the court where his case was being heard. This went on for many years.
All this time Michael was growingW up, and under the influence of his mother he began to be ashamed of his father. His mother told him again and again that he must do all that he could so that he would be a success and not like his father. She helped him with his schoolwork and while other boys were out playing in the streets, she kept him at home studying and reading. His father was a great lover of classical a literature, so he was made to read the ■ biographies of the great men of the past. His mother died when he was 15, a bitter old woman at the age of 45. She made him promise her at her deathbed that he would be a lawyer and a success. If he had studied before his mother’s death, it was nothing compared to the way he studied then.
When it came time for him to go to college, he refused to take any help a from his father. He was able to obtain -a partial scholarship to Harvard, and by working he made up the rest. He took a small room off the campus and spent his days in study and work. He went on to the Harvard Law school and graduated Summa, cum Laude. He entered a firm in Boston and soon was made a junior partner. He was a brilliant but coldly logical young man with few friends. Success was the goal of his life and he was interested in noth- W ing which would not help him attain it. He was able to marry the daughter of a socially prominent but quite poor family. On the part of the family this was convenient as he already had a reputation as a rapidly rising young man who would soon be quite rich. On his part it was convenient because the name of his wife’s family would help him in his work. The funny part of the whole thing was that the girl herself loved him.
Michael had not seen his father in years but he now received a letter’ from a relative telling him that his father had had a stroke and was not expected to live more than another week. He and his wife went to Worcester and found the father in the city hospital. Michael had been all set to arrange for his father to be put in a private room, since he expected to find him in one of the wards. But the old man was in a private room with a special nurse. One of his father’s friends was paying for • it, and when Michael offered to take over the cost he was told that it was a
22
The Scholastic
^ttle late to begin to worry about his father now. When he finally saw the father it was a shock. His great mane of hair was snow white.- He had been almost totally paralyzed by the stroke and could move only his head and one arm. But he welcomed Michael warmly and joking about his condition, he threw back his head and laughed the • joreat lau&h that Michael remembered so : ^Vell. He died three days later.
• The funeral was the largest that anyone in the city could remember. The rj governor was there, both senators in ’ Washington sent a wreath, some of the | biggest businessmen in the state were 1 there, judges, politicians, the President ' of the Bar Association, were all at the funeral. And there were people. Little people, friends of his father whom •Michael had never seen, but who wept over his coffin. The police blocked off : the main streets of the city for the fu-,	neral procession to the cemetery. It
•	shook Michael more deeply than he had
: ever imagined possible. And later when .5 the will was read that began “To my
J
I#
.” he wept bitterly.
* *
son, Absalom .
*
I drank my drink and we sat in silence for a moment. The story had jdeeply moved me and it seemed to bring 'back sad memories to him. Finally I said, “Your story is a very tragic one and seems to have an awful lot of meaning but where is the analogy between it and the death of the Irish spirit.”
“Well,” he said, “that is easy enough to explain. Now Kevin represents the spirit of the Irish that came to this country. They had their faults, and indeed many, but they were a warm and full people who lived their lives to the Tull whether in happiness or in sadness. But Michael represents the Irish today who have made a Golden Calf of success and now worship it. They have become cold businessmen. That may be all right for the English or the Germans but that is not the spirit of Ireland. And so I drank to the memory of a great race.
Irish Partition
(Continued from page 18) part of the Free State. The outcome: the boundary was not altered an inch.
Not quite satisfied, England traded some of the barren land in the six counties for as many nationalists as could be controlled by the clever proportional representation in the Belfast (Six County) government. The Lloyd George boundary which had been denounced by all Ireland in 1920, was upheld by the English, despite the protests of the Irish Free State Representatives who declared W that the Partition Act would never have been accepted unless there had been a provision for a boundary alteration.
The Boundary commission should never- have allowed the boundary because the economic disorder, to say nothing of the social calamity, was the cause for the hole in the British coffers. The commission should have eliminated the controlling body in Belfast or else united all Ireland so that it could operate as one unit as in the past. There is little doubt that the Belfast Government is little more than a puppet organization upheld by the proportioning of the areas so that protestants, though few in some districts, could control a vast majority of the Catholics.
Since Britain manipulates Northeast Ireland, she collects most of the taxes, oversees all activity by her armed troops and ignores the education of the Catholic children whose sect is as great as the protestants in the province. The voting is well controlled. The Ulsterarea is the industrial stronghold in Ireland but it has been considerably weakened by the lack of national feeling and the lack of trade with Eire; two prime effects of British “Vulturism.” Cut off from the rest of Ireland by border posts and armed sentries which form the “John Bull Curtain,” strong social and business relations have been reduced to a meager thread.
The Free State is primarily agricultural and Catholic. Its government has been improving and developing industry to replace the loss of that provided by Ulster. The only block to this is a lack of coal. Eire wants to consolidate its friendship internationally; especially between America which has most of its blood relations. The government has an act which provides a separate independent school for the education of all nonCatholics who dislike the Catholic system. Wherever the non-Catholics feel a need for a school, they obtain it. All inhabitants are entitled to a democratic vote in the government.
The Irish Republican Army has been outlawed by the Irish government which feels partition can be ended by peaceful, diplomatic means. It realizes that if the Western World will see the injustice of partition, it will be a better means than bloodshed as in 1916.
Reasons for ending partition range from nationalistic to economical, from spiritual to geographical . . . the system has even been denounced by northern Presbyterian bishops!
Since it is apparent that partition was enacted for British interests, England can hardly c jndemn totalitarianism when she keeps Ireland divided as part of her professed policy. Aside from Britain’s capitalization, a few professional politicians and several hundred smugglers have benefited by this act which has no moral, legal or human justice. For if a plebiscite were taken today, the Irish would again rally.
Save time on the Holiday... FLY UNITED AIR LINES!
1
Whether you’re bound for the ski country, sunny California,your favorite resort, or “Going Home,” you’ll save precious vacation time by flying United Air Lines. Fast, dependable, ’round-the-clock service to 82 cities coast to coast. Check the time you’ll save at your United ticket office or your travel agent!
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
March 16, 1956
23
frank message to
graduating electronic and mechanical
ENGINEERS
You know it ... we know it'. . . so let's be frank about it.	/
The demand for engineers—experienced or graduate —far exceeds the supply/And, from now on in, you are going to be sought after more than a triple threat halfback for next year's varsity.
You will be promised many things (including the moon with a fence/around it), and for a young man just getting started these things are pretty hard to resist. /
So, again, let's be frank. We at Farnsworth won't promise you/the moon. (Although we are working on some ideas that may eventually get you there and back.)'We are an old, young organization. Old, in the sense of being pioneers in the field of elec-tronicSy/fOur technical director, Dr. Philo Farnsworth invented electronic television.) Young, by being the newest division of the world-wide international Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, devoting our efforts exclusively to research, development and production of military and industrial electronics, and atomic energy.
All of which makes Farnsworth big enough for stability and technical perspective, yet small enough for mobility, flexibility and recognition of the individual. Here you will be associated with and encouraged by a team of eminent scientists and engineers with many "firsts" to their credit in the field of electronics. Here you will be heard . . . not just one of the herd.
We earnestly invite you to hear the whole fascinating Farnsworth story. We're pretty certain it will make the decision for your future easier.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
MARCH 22
<
■ISSUES . HUI • ANTENNAS • NICIIWAVES • INFRAIEI • S ■ LIB STATE * TEST EINIPBEN T • INB ■ S T ■ I AL T. V.
§
§
a


FARNSWORTH ELECTRONICS CO., FORT WAYNE, INDIANA
24
The Scholastic
Dliik Sc»M
CROWLEY NAMED BENGAL AWARD WINNER
^Fencers Sweep Final Meets For 15-2 Slate
Four decisive victories over last weekend closed out another fine fencing season for Notre Dame Coach Walter Lang
ford’s skillful charges. Fenn and Oberlin Colleges were cut-down 19-8 and 18-9 last Friday night in Cleveland. On Saturday afternoon ND gained two more wins, over Syracuse 18-9 and Buffalo
16-11, to finish with an excellent 15-2 mark for the season.
The foil, saber and epee fell to the
Irish against Fenn’s Foxes while wins in two events but a narrow loss in the saber carried Notre Dame to their victory over Oberlin. The same occurred against Buffalo and Syracuse in Buffalo. The Indians were humbled in all three events while the Irish disposed of Buffalo by capturing all but the saber.
Individually for Notre Dame, John Brogan won five straight matches to pace the Irish on Friday while Denis Hemmerle, another epeeist, garnered nine wins without a loss in both meets and brought his season’s mark to a torrid 35-7. Don Tadrowski, ND defending NCAA epee champion, topped one of his own records by winning nine bouts to end up with a potent 37-9 win record that sets a new high for individual wins in one season. Tadrowski also became the winningest fencer in Irish history as he upped his three-year total to 76 triumphs, eclipsing Bob Schlosser’s 71 wins record set during the 1947-50 seasons.
1955-56 IRISH FENCERS
V	Langfordmen end successful season.
Former Irish Football Great to Be Honored For Work on Pennsylvania Athletic Commission
Jim Crowley, one of the immortal Four Horsemen of Notre Dame and at present
the chairman of the Pennsylvania State Athletic Commission, has been named to receive the 1956 annual Bengal Bout Award as the “man who has done the most for boxing in the last year.”
He will receive the award March 24, the night of the finals, and will present
trophies to the Bengal Bout champions.
Cleanup In Pennsylvania
Crowley was appointed chairman of Pennsylvania’s athletic commission by Gov. George M. Leader in May, 1955, shortly aftei- the mysterious collapse of Harold Johnson in a bout with Julio Mederos. The governor suspended boxing in Pennsylvania for 60 days to give Crowley and his fellow commissioners a chance to revise the boxing code.
Heading the list of Crowley’s “get tough” policy was a medical advisory board which would appoint the ring physicians for* each fight. Crowley also proposed that the medical group rotate the ring physicians’ assignments so there would be no hint of collusion.
Crowley also insisted that his commission exercise better control over outside promoters in the state. He demanded that out-of-state applicants furnish whatever information the commission requested.
Crowley’s boxing code, aimed at cleaning up the fight game in Pennsylvania,
also called for the fingerprinting of all applicants for licenses; compulsory accident and death insurance on all fights at the expense of the promoter; barring of women as participants in both boxing and wrestling; and strict standards for fighters aimed at improving and guaranteeing the “safety, health and welfare of participants.”
A native of Chicago, Crowley became one of football’s immortals as left halfback in the Notre Dame backfield of 1922, 1923 and 1924. The backfield of Crowley, Don Miller, Elmer Layden and Harry Stuhldreher was tagged the “Four Horsemen of Notre Dame” by the late Grantland Bice.
He later coached at Georgia, Michigan State and Fordham. It was while at Fordham that Crowley turned out some of the finest football teams in the nation.
Crowley served with Admiral William (Bull) Halsey in the Pacific during World War II and later became commissioner of the now defunct All-Amer-ica Professional Football Conference. He then went into the television and coal enterprises in Scranton, Pa., before his appointment as chairman of Pennsylvania’s athletic commission.
’55 Award to Schulberg
Crowley joins a distinguished list of boxing celebrities who have dedicated their lives to the development of boxing. Last year Budd Schulberg received the Bengal award for his one-man attack ' on underworld influence in boxing through his articles in Sports Illustrated.
One of boxing’s most colorful fighters, former welterweight champion of the world Kid Gavilan presided over the bouts in 1953. Gavilan gave the crowd a special buzz with his enthusiastic comment to the winners of “keep punching keed, I like the way you fight.” In 1952 the greatest fighter of our decade, heavyweight champion of the world, Bocky Marciano acted as honorary referee besides accepting the Bengal award. Marciano called the Notre Dame bengals as “the fastest collegiate boxing that he has ever seen.”
25
March 16, 1956
Badin Nips Cavanaugh For Local Cage Title
Trackmen Run in Cleveland Relays Tomorrow; > Mile Team Scores First in Milwaukee Meet
Badin Hall, displaying a well balanced and excellently directed attack, overcame a seven point halftime lead by Cavanaugh Hall to stun the talented freshmen 53 to 48 and snag the Campus Basketball Championship in the Fieldhouse on March 6 before several hundred rooters.
Cavanaugh entered the fourth quarter with a 38 to 36 advantage, but Badin’s center, Ron De Nardo evened things up in 15 seconds as he tipped one in. With seven minutes to go, Joe Ellam’s jump shot gave the determined sophs a lead which they never relinquished. Immonen, Hipskind, De Nardo, and Ellam came through with four consecutive field goals to stretch Badin’s margin to ten points.
In the next two minutes, Vita, Whaley, and Just did their best to start a rally for Cavanaugh, but Dave Immonen dumped in four markers for Badin. Cavanaugh, giving all they had to the finish, added four more points in the last ten seconds of the game on baskets by Whaley and Just.
Bill Whaley led all scorers with 21 points; he was followed by Joe Ellam’s 16, Bob Giarratano’s 13 and Ron De Nardo’s 12 points.
The championship squad consisted of Joe Ellam—the leading scorer; Ron De Nardo, Jerry Hipskind, John Kennedy, Dennis Conway, Dave Immonen, and Mike Layden.
Kennedy, De Nardo, Ellam and Conway were picked on the All-Tournament team.
BADIN'S INTERHALL CHAMPIONS
Flashy Sophs sweep to title.
The Irish thinclads will travel to Cleveland tomorrow to compete in the Cleveland relays with hopes of equalling or possibly bettering their last Saturday’s performance in the sixth annual Milwaukee relays. As in the Milwaukee relays, Coach Wilson plans to enter his lads in three events: the one mile and two mile relays and the high jump.
Tentatively, the foursome of Bill Keegan, Joe Foreman, Aubrey Lewis, and Bill Squires will carry Notre Dame’s colors in the mile relay. Running in the two mile relay for the Irish will probably be the combination of Squires, Al Porter, Dale Vandenburg, and Dick DiCamillo, backed up by Bill Newell, Pete Maroney, and John Linehan as spares. High jump ace Bernie Allard will represent Notre Dame in the third event in which the Irish are competing.
The two mile relay team, considered by many experts as one of the top three in the nation will again, as it did last week in Milwaukee, compete with a great Pittsburgh relay crew. The Irish relayers will be out to avenge last week’s loss to Pitt and Michigan State in Milwaukee.
In last Saturday’s action in the Milwaukee relays, Notre Dame’s only entries, the one mile relay team, Bernie Allard in the high jump, and the two mile relay team finished first, second and third respectively. These were the only events Notre Dame entered.
Th Irish one mile relay team com
posed of Keegan, Foreman, Levis, and Squires won the Milwaukee Athletic Club mile relay in the fast time of *■> 3:20.8.	zJ
Pittsburgh, on the other hand, rese^ its own meet record in copping the" two-mile relay with a 7:35.2 official clocking. Michigan State edged Notre Dame for second place in the event.
Bernie Allard shared a three-way tie for second in the high jump event with a leap of 6-6%. First place was delegated to Ernie Shelton of the Los Angeles Athletic Club who jumped 6-8%.
In other events in the meet, Abe Wood-^ son of the University of Illinois equalled": the world, American indoor, and meet . record of 6.1 seconds in winning the 50-yard high hurdles. Also, meet records were broken by Arnie Sowell in the Conrad Jennings 1000 and by Olympic star Mal Whitfield in the 600-yard race. Sowell, who shares the world standard of 2:08.2 with Milwaukee’s Don Gehr-mann, cut the meet record time to 2:10. Whitfield was timed in 1:12.6 in the^ University Club 600.
One other notable participating in the meet was the currently controversial miler Wes Santee, the person responsible for drawing the record crowd of 10,200. Santee won easily over two other entries with a 4:10.5 timing behind the cheering crowd.
Wrestlers End Season e In Case Tech Tourney
With the close of a successful year for the new-born Irish varsity wrestling squad, Coach Tom Fallon sent a solid quartet of matmen to the Case Tech 4-1 Tourney last weekend, to ply their power against top-notch wrestlers from the East and Midwest. The four Irish hopefuls, Jack Armstrong, Captain Terry Crowley, Bob Pivonka, and Chuck Henzy, all eased past the preliminary bouts, but none could follow the tourney trail to first place.
But Coach Fallon was satisfied with the results, for his squad was facing men from Lehigh, Bowling Green, the University of Toledo, and other wrestling powers. “We sent the boys to Case Tech for experience, not trophies,” said Coach Fallon, “and they got plenty of it! This was our first crack at tournament wrestling, which is more gruelling than our usual dual meets.”
Notre Dame wrapped up its first sea- " son of varsity status with a pleasing 6-4 , record.
26
The Scholastic
1
* Success Story: Notre Dame to N.B.A.
by JOHN GLAVIN
“He’s aggressive; he drives well; he’s a real good rookie.” These words of praise about Jack Stephens, former No-
Dame basketball great, from Charlie Eckman, Fort Wayne Zollner Piston coach, echo the sentiments of practically every National Basketball Association coach.
A couple of weeks before the annual All-Star Game in January, this writer overheard a couple of reporters of the respective teams which had assembled for a cage doubleheader in Rochester’s |?ew War Memorial. They were considering who would receive the Rookie of the Year honors and since the season was only one-third gone, it was mere speculation.
IRISH STAR . . .
Stephens in his Fieldhouse days.
The names of Philadelphia’s Tom Gola, Ft. Wayne’s “Corky” Devlin and Rochester’s Maurice Stokes came up frequently. One of the reporters was quick t‘° note that “this fellow Stephens from ^St. Louis will come into a great deal of consideration.” And well he should.
The all-time scoring record holder at Notre Dame has impressed everyone throughout the league -with his steady play. Just a look at “Junior’s” pro record indicates his value to the Hawks who battled with Minneapolis and Rochester right down to the wire for the two final playoff berths in the Western Division. The season was completed ^last Wednesday.
Including games of Feb. 26, he is the fourth highest scorer on the club -with 584 points in 60 games for a 9.7 average.
The 6-2 Stephens has hit on better than 37 pei* cent of his shots and also has made 188 out of 275 free throws. He has taken down more than 300 rebounds which is all the more amazing when one considers that a 6-2 man in pro ball is considered a “little” man. Junior* is one of only twenty players who has yet to foul out of a game. During his college career, he fouled out of only two contests.
What does his coach think of him? “Jack has come along since the beginning of the season,” said Red Holzman. “He has good spirit and a tremendous will to win. Exceptionally strong for his size, he has fit into our system quite well. He should continue to get better and could turn out to be one of the great players of this league.”
When asked if he found the change difficult from college to pro ball, the personable Stephens said, “It’s a change, all right. It’s a whole new system. Now I can’t afford to make any more mistakes. Play gets tighter and tighter in this game all the time. The game is your job and you have to scrap to keep it.”
Rookie Stokes of the Royals batted in two rebounds in a period of about twenty seconds as this writer sat in the stands with Stephens who had just finished a game with Fort Wayne. He had obliged to remain a few minutes before hopping a train for the next night’s game. Asked what the difference was between the rookie and the veteran, he stated that, “Experience is the biggest factor. The rookie can shoot as well as the veteran but he doesn’t have that necessary experience and therefore has a tendency to make more mistakes. A rookie may look like a million bucks one night and then the next night he might be equally cold.”
Playing guard, Stephens usually draws the top backcourt ace for defensive assignments. When asked who were the toughest players he has run up against, he was quick to reply that “Bill Shar*-man and Jack George are the toughest for me.” Sharman is with the Boston Celtics while George is a veteran Philadelphia Warrior* who has come into his own this year.
“George doesn’t have to score,” said Jack. “With the likes of (Neil) Johnston, (Paul) Arizin and (Tom) Gola to score, he’ll hurt you in other respects by playing a topflight floor game. Sharman works you to death. He’ll wear you out to get in position for a shot and then when he does get it, he makes it.”
A capable floor leader during his collegiate days, he has continued to show the same quality for being a floor general -in the pro ranks.
Stephens says playing pro ball is “enjoyable.” “You become a much better ball player very quickly. You play better defense, you learn to perfect your shots. But most of all, you learn through your mistakes.”
Although he is one of the outstanding rookies in the NBA which has its best crop of rookies in history, he is undecided as to whether to return to the game after this year. He has a hitch with the Air Force to serve beginning in April.
During his stay at Notre Dame, Junior tallied 1,314 points in four seasons, a
... St. LOUIS ROOKIE New Hawk backcourt ace.	!
’	I
record which undoubtedly will stand for* j quite some time.	j
Last Spring, he	made	the	24-game	|
swing with the College All-Stars and 8 averaged 11.6 points per game.	He	and	|
Tom Gola were the only players to play | all the way across the country. For | his efforts, he received runner-up hon-
ors for the Most Valuable Player award | to Gola. This was the best showing ever | by the collegians who only lost by a four | game margin.	,1
Stephens follows many other Notre | Dame players who have entered the play	|
for pay ranks. Among these are Kevin | O’Shea, Frannie Curran, Leo Barnhorst | and Dick Rosenthal. Whether he returns | to the game after the service or not, . g he will go down as one of the best year- | lings in the NBA this season.	|
27 I
March 16, 1956
-----------------0	_■	. ...	..
CONVAIR
(SAN DIEGO)
MARCH 20
REPRESENTATIVE
TO INTERVIEW
ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, AERONAUTICAL
ENGINEERS ABOUT TO GRADUATE
At Convair, in beautiful, smog-free San Diego, California, you will find the diversity of challenging, far-reaching projects that offers you the unlimited career opportunity you seek.
This is young country, beautiful, exciting country —the very heart of the busy, vital aircraft and missile industries. And good, young engineers are needed now to grow with new, long-range aircraft and missile programs.
You will find the Convair Engineering Department a genuine "engineer’s” engineering department — imaginative, energetic, explorative. You will discover the very latest engineering equipment, excellent working conditions, salary, personal job advantages, and opportunities for continuing education.
Remember these facts about Convair: Convair was awarded the Nation’s first production missile contract and the first production contract for supersonic all-weather interceptors.
Convair has the greatest diversity of aircraft engineering projects in the country, including high performance fighters, heavy bombers, large flying boats, transports, trainers, seaplane fighters, vertical takeoff aircraft and guided missiles.
Convair has a completely integrated electronic developmenr program devoted to advanced development and design on missile guidance, avionic projects, radar systems and special cathode ray tubes.
Now you are invited to ger full information about your career at Convair. Talk it over with our Convair Engineers on your campus soon. GRADUATING CIVIL ENGINEERS interested in the field of aircraft structure are also invited to apply.
Graduate degree candidates in Engineering, Mathematics or Physics are invited to discuss Convair opportunities in the general field of advanced engineering analysis and design.
CONVAIR ENGINEERS WILL INTERVIEW ON YOUR CAMPUS MARCH 20 — Apply for Appointment NOW!
CONVAIR
A Division of General Dynamics Corporation
sunny, smog-free San Diego on the coast of Southern California offers you a way of life judged by most as the Nation's finest for year-round climate, beauty and indoor-outdoor living. Sailing, fishing, swimming, golf, skiing, mountain and desert resorts, Hollywood and Old Mexico are all within minutes.
The Scholastic

28
Marterie to Play for Junior Prom on April 27; 'Moments to Remember1 Motif for Weekend
Ralph Marterie and his orchestra will provide music for “Moments to Remember” at the Junior Prom Friday, April 27, Chairman John Reardon announced Shis past week. The formal dance will oe held from 9:30 p.m. until 1:30 a.m. in the Student Center. Four hundred and eighty bids will be available at $8 apiece.
Other events scheduled for the weekend include a dinner-dance Saturday evening at the South Bend Country Club and a Communion Breakfast Sunday morning. At the Saturday dinner-dance ^music will be provided during the meal Wind evening dancing will be to the melodies of Ed Pistey and his combo.
Only 200 tickets are available for the dinner-dance. They will also sell for $8. The Communion Breakfast tickets will be $3. A guest speaker for the event will be announced at a later date.
A new system for obtaining bids has been set up this year by the dance committee in order to cut down the long ^waiting lines.
V At 8 p.m. next Monday in the Engi-। neering Auditorium, numbers will be distributed to the first 480 juniors desiring prom bids. Following the Easter vacation, the holders of these numbers will be given appointments with the dance । committee in the Student Center at which time the purchase of the bid will take place. Those who want tickets for the dinner dance, the communion break-' fast, and hotel accommodations will no->ify ;he committee when they receive the numbers Monday.
Car permissions and 2:30 a.m. residence will be given for the night of the prom. Decorations at the Student Center will be concentrated on “Moments to Remember” of the Junior Class, following the theme for the week-end.
WHY NOT?
Drive a ’56 Chrysler or Plymouth home at Easter! Save the cost of freight to your home town.
BUY NOW!
See Jack Moulder, ’38
MOULDER MOTOR
215 So. Lafayette, South Bend Chrysler — Plymouth

Sunny Italy Cafe
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
Corsages, which must be obtained through the committee, will be included in the price of the bid. Present plans call for the corsages to be made from Hawaiian baby orchids.
The cover of the Memory Book is being designed by Don Flock while the Prom program is being planned by Dick Szot. Both promise “something different which will be well-received by your date.”
Reardon announced the chaii-man of the various committees as follows: Ed Keenan, tickets; Pat Williamson, publicity; Bill Reeve, memory book; Bill Maddux, hotel; Orlando Maione, decorations; Bill Garvin, entertainment; Bud Malloy, dinner-dance; Norris Harding, refreshments; Terry Conway, Communion breakfast; Dan Kelly, business manager; Al Lum, corsages.
RALPH MARTERIE
Highlights ‘Moments to Remember.’
Frolic Bid Sole Slated For March 22 in Center
Tickets for the Freshman Frolic will go on sale next Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in the basement of the Student Center, dance chairman George Hahn announced recently.
Tickets will also be sold March 23, from 5 until 7 p.m., and March 25 from 6:30 until 9 p.m. Bids are $5.50.
Hotel accommodations will be made at this time and tickets for the Communion Breakfast on Sunday morning will be sold.
Hahn said that 375 bids are available and those remaining following the Easter vacation will be put on sale April 12 and 13.
David Carroll and his orchestra, nationally known recording group from New York, will play for the formal dance on May 4 from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. in the Student Center.
Two o’clock residence and car permissions will be granted. A special rate on summer tux will be available, and a blind date bureau will be set up.
Other events ovei- the weekend include the President’s Review by the combined ROTC units Saturday afternoon, May 5, and a Student Senate dance Saturday evening in the Center.
Yurchak Selected Head Of Inter-Campus Group
Tony Yurchak has been named head of the Inter-Campus Commission, an organization recently established by the Student Senate. Two national organizations, NSA and NFCCS, are now combined under the Commission. The unification was brought about in an effort to attain more efficient operation, thereby enabling the national organizations to be of greater benefit to the student body.
The Inter-Campus Commission exists to coordinate the activities of student government and the student body with similar activities at other schools. It will deal mainly with ideas, passing them on to the proper groups for consideration.
The Commission will serve as: a source of ideas that will attempt to improve the local educational community; a means of representing the student body at regional and national conventions and workshops; a stimulating force to awaken the students to their responsibilities as Catholic college students to family, state, and Church.
To facilitate better operation, the Commission will be divided into five subcommissions, each handling a specific field. These subcommissions are to deal with the topics of, student government, student affairs, educational affairs, internal affairs, and religious affairs.
'MEET YOUR CANDIDATE’
Students will have an opportunity to meet the participants in the student body presidential race at a “Question Your Candidate” meeting this Sunday, at 7:45 p.m., in the Engineering Auditorium.
Bob O’Malley will moderate the meeting which will give the students a chance to question John Cusack, Terry Conway, Pat Logan, and Jerry Murphy, candidates for the office. A portion of the meeting, from 8 to 9 p.m., will be carried over WSND.
March 16, 1956
29
ENGINEERS
* Mechanical	* Civil
• Chemical	• Electrical
Interviews With Engineering Seniors Will Be Held
March 22,1956 For Positions As Engineers In The Manufacturing Department Standard Oil Company (Indiana)
Contact Your Placement Office For An Interview Appointment
"AREYOUINSTEP?
asks ANNE FRANCIS co-starred in MGM’s
“FORBIDDEN PLANET” in CinemaScope and^Color
The girl in your life, like Anne, dresses > '	im-
properly for each occasion. And she expects you to be in step, too, with shoes like:	) ■
City Club style T771 City Club style 84462 City Club style 84680 for leisure "off for class and bust- when you're a tours"	ness	“dressed-up knight"
Choose your 3-pair shoe wardrobe from these and hundreds of other smart City Club styles at your dealer’s, from $8.95 to $18.95. Also ask to see Wesboro shoes for young men, from $7.95 to $9.95.
(3fy Club by Peters B distinctive shoes for men
as advertised in ESQUIRE
Sen. Sparkman Blasts At GOP, 'Ike' Failures
The 1952 vice presidential aspirant, Democratic Senator John J. Sparkman of Alabama, blasted the Republican party today in a statement prepared especially for the Notre Dame Moc^ Democratic National Convention.
Sparkman declared that the 1952 Republican victory was made possible “by broken promises, misleading propaganda, and lavish campaign contributions from those who are today receiving preferential treatment.” He called for “a deliberate examination ... of the 1952 Republican victory.”
Sparkman stated, “The confidence of-many millions selves to justify the re^, turn of the Democratic Party to national power. It will offer protection to small business from monopolistic practices. It will assure the farmer of a fair price for his produce. It will make possible for city and rural families to have low-cost electric power.
“It will promote fair wages and safe working conditions for employees. It will work for decent housing in good, surroundings. It will use, for the bene^ , fit of all, the national resources that belong to all of us. The Democratic Party will govern fairly for all interests and not just for a few selected interests.”
The Sparkman statement forwarded to the Academy of Political Science emphasized the year 1956 as “one in which we may well determine the kind of world which we shall have for the next generation.”
Sparkman urged young Americans tr^ “learn to take part in the political life of our country, not just as voters but as workers and as party officers and public officials.”
In other Convention activity. Sen. Homer Capehart, Indiana Republican, spoke at the second of a series of distinguished speaker banquets sponsored by the academy of Political Science last Wednesday. Guests included students and faculty members of the department of political science, and students be---lonsring to the Ft. Wayne, Indianapolis;• and Villagers’ campus clubs.
AESCULAPIAN PARTY
The Aesculapian Club has planned a party with St. Joseph’s Nurses Home in the Rathskeller of the Student Center tonight from 7:30 to 11:30 p.m. After the movie, “April in Paris,” there will be records and refreshments. Admission will be $.35 per person, and only club members will be admitted.
Tomorrow night the Student Cen- ' ter will be used in conjunction with the Junior Parents-Son week-end.
30
The Scholastic
t*
Foundation Drive
(Continued fi-om page 11) salaries paid out by Notre Dame have increased 21 times since the early days of its existence. At the same time the operating budget as a whole is 22 times greater. Despite this increase, enroll-^inent has only tripled in that time. .W Besides wages and salaries, Notre Dame also must meet the tremendous cost of maintenance. Since the yearly upkeep of a new building is estimated at , •5% of its cost, the expenses of just one building such as the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall total about $100,000 per year.
In 1947 Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., then president of the University,
DDlMCCTnM
DARTMOUTH
saw the difficulty in raising such funds, so he established the Notre Dame Foundation. At that time the Foundation set up a program with their major objectives being to enhance the faculty, embark upon a badly needed building campaign, and to raise $25 million by 1958. Nearly three-quarters of that amount has been raised.
Last year, over $2 million was donated in order to help balance the school’s operating deficit and to provide for needed facilities. This sum is exclusive of the Ford Foundation grant, which will be turned over to Notre Dame within the next 18 months. The Ford grant will be invested in accordance with the terms of the donation and the income will be applied to professors’ salaries.
The work of the Foundation has been significant in the construction of ten large buildings on campus. Among these are Pangbom Hall, Fisher Hall, WNDU-TV’s studio, and the Hammes Shopping Center. Still remaining on the ten-year program are two student residence halls, another dining hall, new library, fieldhouse-auditorium, and a new administration building.
Now Arthur Murray combines parties with lessons to speed you on your way to popularity
Si
There’s no better way to build your confidence than to go to parties. That’s why Arthur Murray invites all students to special parties to give them a chance to practice what they’ve learned with different partners. Why not find out about this unique party way of learning to dance. Come in now. Open 10 A.M. to 10 P.M. daily. Visitors welcome.
FOR YOU...A l/2Hr. FREE TRIAL Lesson Come in now for your Special Half Hour FREE TRIAL LESSON, and your success as a dancing partner is guaranteed.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St
CE 2-3339
TURBOW ^OPTOMETRIST --- OPTICAL REPAIRS ---
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated
“Bring in the Pieces”
--- EYES EXAMINED -----
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
. 602 S. WAINUT
March 16, 1956
31
J. Paul Sheedy* Was Up A Tree Till Wildrool Cream-Oil Gave Him Confidence
"Gorilla my dreams, I love you,” said Sheedy outside his sweetie’s window.
But she was playing it cagey. "Get lost Gargantua,” she said. "I’ve seer :
better heads on coconuts.” Then Sheedy got wise to Wildroot Cream-Cii.
Now he has confidence in his <zpe-earance because Wildroot keeps his hair handsome and healthy looking the way Nature intended... neat but not greasy. Contains heart of Lanolin, Nature’s finest hair and scalp conditioner. So don’t monkey around with messy hair. Get Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s largest selling hair tonic. In bottles or unbreakable tubes. It gives you confidence in any situation. Use Wildroot Cream-Oil every day and you Congo wrong.
WILDROOT g
CREAMOIL ■
Ma
LANOLIN
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil gives you confidence
(■OOMS tM Kilt MOTW$ OCTNtSS
I00S1 OUQIUf (
Juniors Organize Intensive Sports Program for Spring
The Junior Class has initiated a comprehensive sports program which will continue for the remainder of the spring semester. Bud Freidheim, tournament chainnan, urges all juniors to support the program which aims to promote class, unity in a common interest.
Only requirements for entrants are that they be juniors and not lettermen in the particular sport in which they are entered.
Trophies will be awarded to the winners in each sport while medals will be given to second place winners. Except for the handball tournament, which is already well underway, there is still plenty of time to hand in entries to the^ various division chairmen.	1
The handball tourney is being run by Don Leone in 151 Dillon. Bill Holland and Nick Grasberger, 41 Pangborn, will accept softball rosters with 12 members per squad until Easter vacation. Softball action starts on April 16. Bob Jur-man of 329 Pangborn is in charge of tennis, which will run from April 23 until May 15.	_
Basketball play will begin sometime after the conclusion of the interhall playoffs. Chuck O’Neill, 224 Sorin, will handle the basketball tourney with teams of eight men entered. Entries will be accepted until Easter. The speedsters get their chance after Easter also.
Pat Sheerin, 338 Sonh, will run the track tournament.
A golf tourney will complete the program under the direction of Joe Piv- _ nicka, 214 Pangborn.
For Your “Crew Cut” kru-hut HAIR TRAINER
WITH LANOLIN
Ahh! Such big and delicious steaks . . . every Tuesday and Thursday
GE 3-0
If you have stubborn hair to comb, KRU-KUT will keep it in place. At Drug Stores and Barber Shops.
Friendship Photos
Silk Finish Photos 272x3'/. in. 20 photos from your picture, or 25 photos from your negative. Minimum order $1.00
ea.
WALLET PHOTOS, Box 470, Fostoria, Ohio
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JJM.S. Bldg.
'Dome' to Celebrate Birthday With 50th Anniversary Issue
When students receive the golden anniversary edition of the Dome this spring, they will see a pictorial story of “the old and the new,” contrasting the University of today with the small school of a half century ago. This part __ of the Dome will commemorate the 50th anniversary for the yearbook.
The editor of the 1956 Dome is Donald Sniegowski, a senior English major, who won a Rhodes scholarship recently.
This year’s Dome will compare pic- I torially the changes that five decades . have made in the campus and student 1 life. It will illustrate Notre Dame’s / athletic record as well as the Univer- J sity’s academic growth and develop- \ ment through the years.
Editor Sniegowski’s chief aides on the 1956 Dome are Associate Editor Robert « Morsches, and Business Manager Fred Brinskelle.
32
The Scholastic
>______________________________
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing
Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
A III H US LKRAIY aid Hum nok ship We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Engineers Offer Tutor Aid To Freshmen, Sophomores
All freshman and sophomore engineering students will be able to obtain tutoring aid in the Dean’s office of the Engineering Building announce Al Karnath and Don Carlin of the new Senior Y.C.S. Engineering Group.
The service will be open from 3 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. on Mondays, and from 1:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. on Tuesdays and Fridays.
The student who is seeking aid will be informed by postcard when a tutor has been obtained, and the student will be requested to return to the office at a specific hour in order to meet the tutor. This process adopted to handle the problem of getting the student and tutor to-gethei- will take about three to six days.
At present, 25 tutors have been listed by the group. Each one has a 90 percent average in the subject he will tutor, or is on the Dean’s list.
ABSENTEE VOTING
Sophomores and juniors on the Dean’s list who will not be present for the campus elections on March 26 may vote by Absentee Ballot on March 22 between the hours of 5-7 p.m.
Off-Campus residents will vote in the Bus Shelter, juniors in Dillon Hall, and sophomores in Morrissey Hall.
The ballot will have the place for Candidates’ Names left blank. The voter may write in only the name of a person who has been nominated for that office. I.D. cards must be presented by the voter in order to be allowed to vote for president of his college. Anyone switching colleges must have a certificate of his change from the Dean in order to be allowed to vote in his proper college.	-
Only those on the Dean’s list may vote 6n this date.
I J
9
QlKORSKY AIRCRAFT
TO * HEUCO"®-
MARCH
March 16, 1956
33
Kock Paq*
by Curt Matthews
sense
*
and humor
According to almost anyone’s estimate of favorable character traits a good sense of humor would generally rank quite high. A sensitivity to the lighter side of life is recognized by all of us as a valuable asset.
We often hear about the growing tensions and pressures of our age and, to the extent that this may be true, we all need moments of comic relief in our daily lives.
Humor can provide a good change of pace from the more pressing activities of everyone’s day. And those who appreciate humor can find something refreshing in their contact with the humorous.
Those who are able to laugh at what is properly funny usually show a certain balance in their other character qualities. Maybe this is because those who can’t seem to laugh at anything usually develop quirks of personality that the person with a sense of humor can laugh off.
Just what particular things you find funny are matters of general taste. Some prefer The New Yorker cartoon; Martin and Lewis completely fill the comic needs of others.
A person’s individual taste in humor depends on many things, not least among them, of course, his intellectual development. A child finds many things funny that adults not only find unfunny but actually irritating.
And even among those of supposedly similar intellectual development there is a great dissimilarity in the kinds of humor they appreciate. For instance, some college students like their humor crude; others, refined. Some like it blatant; others, sly. And there are examples of proper humor to fill all these tastes.
Although a sense of humor is something everyone thinks he can recognize, not only in himself but also in others, I think, of all the personality traits none is more generally misunderstood.
I think few people have ever actually thought about that phrase “sense of humor” enough to realize just what it
really means. Too often it is taken to mean someone who laughs a lot or even all the time.
This is a complete mis-interpretation of what really constitutes a sense of humor. To have a sense of humor means to be sensitive to what is humorous. It does not mean the ability to laugh at everything—simply because not everything is funny. To have a sense of humor means your humor has sense to it. Someone who finds everything funny is obviously not sensitive to what is humorous.
Therefore, I think, we can say that he lacks a sense of humor regardless of how much he may find funny. Your sense of humor is not judged, I think, by how much you laugh but rather at what and when.
With this definition of the sense of humor in mind it recently came to my attention that for some peculiar reason the Notre Dame campus seems particularly plagued with people who are much too eager to laugh at what is definitely not intended to be in the least way funny.
In considering this deficiency I have to single out Notre Dame, something I’ve always tried to avoid in the past, since I feel there’s enough finger pointing in our direction without my adding to it.
However, I feel justified in breaking my principle on this point simply because, from talking to others, I find I’m not alone in the opinion that the Notre Dame student seems outstandingly conspicuous for his lack of a real sense of humor.
Of course, the classic example of this (something that has almost become a tradition during my four years on this campus) is the situation repeatedly found in Washington Hall. Anyone who has ever attended a movie there knows what I mean when I say that the slightest quip or the most naive situation, which might deserve a mild and reserved smile, seems to be for some a justifiable reason to enter a series of convulsions.
But, as good an example as this might be of my point of the insensitivity of^ some Notre Dame students towards** humor I see no reason to linger on it 1 since I feel enough has been said from other points of view about this situation. •.
There are other just as obvious and r weighty examples of this lack of humor sense. At a recent Marriage Institute talk many of the seniors, who by nature are supposed to possess a certain amount of cynicism towards all humor, displayed little real senstitivity when they laughed at statements of simple® fact sincerely put, and which I’m sure were not in the least intended to be -funny and which in fact were not.
If you need still further evidence of the failure of some students to recognize what is funny, I could point out the little incident that occurred at the Notre Dame-Indiana track meet a couple of weeks ago. As the meet progressed it became increasingly evident that the winner of the high jump, the last event, y would win the meet.	-•
The crowd was respectfully silent as ' the Indiana jumper prepared for his last jump. But, just as he approached the bar someone in the Notre Dame section thought it was a good time to omit some sort of animal sound intended, I imagine, to break the tense silence and give us all a moment of comic relief. This, I ask, is funny?
The people who laugh or try to be funny when it isn’t called for remind me of the case of the people who ap- M plauded when it wasn’t called for. That , happened a few years ago when a noted conductor had just completed a stirring ' part of the symphony. The audience was duly moved but instead of remaining respectfully and appreciatively silent for the rest of the concert, suddenly broke into applause.
The conductor stopped the performance, slowly turned to the audience and said in a scornful tone, “Stop, you idiots.” His words could well apply to > those whose laughter only shows their insensitivity to what is properly hu- 2 morous.	t
34
raiMTKD AT AVK MARIA FRUi
Comfort has always
—first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR
been a college requirement
And, Arrow underwear offers pure comfort in. any position. The Arrow Tee has a neckband that won’t enlarge, keeps its good fit always. $1.25. Boxer shorts, with contour seat, in novelty patterns or solid colors give you style with no-bind wear. $1.50. Arrow Guards (knitted briefs), offer the same complete comfort as all Arrow underwear. $1.20.




A short story on comfort
Plain or fancy, boxer style or brief, our Arrow shorts give you comfort in any position. The Arrow Tee (shown here) is right for sports, or worn as an undershirt. Any way you use it, it has comfort plus. Tee, from $1.25. Shorts, from $1.50. Guards (knitted briefs), $1.20.
GILBERT’S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)
So Quick on the QRNN ’
2. SUPERIOR FILTER. The flavor comes clean! Only L&M has the Miracle Tip—pure white inside, pure white outside, as a filter should be for cleaner, better smoking. L&M is quick on the draw, actually improves your enjoyment.
1. SUPERIOR TASTE. L&M is good to your taste — its superior tobaccos, rich yet light and mild, are especially selected for filter smoking. For the flavor you want, here’s the filter you need.

EFFECTIVE FILTRATION
KI N G SIZE
4-
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO
America's Best Filter Cigarette
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.