The Notre Dame Scholastic
E Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing*! at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LX.VIII
March, 15, 1935
No. 20
GLEE CLUB PRESENTS
FIRST CONCERT SUNDAY
The Notre Dame Glee Club under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta will present its first formal concert of the season next Sunday evening at St. Joseph’s parish hall, South Bend.
During the past week the club has put the finishing touches to the repertoire and has arranged the final pro-
WlLLIAM J. CASAZZA The singing president.
gram. Two soloists will appear with the club, John F. Ryan, who has appeared with the club in the past, and Francis X. Schaefer who will sing his first solos with the Glee Club at this concert.
“The Italian Salad,” a musical treat written in the form of the finale to an Italian opera, and featuring William O’Brien as soloist, has been added to the repertoire.
In the group of Sacred songs “Em-itte Spiritum” by Schuetky-Singen-berger will be presented as a new addition to the group.
The complete program follows:
1.	Motets
a.	Laudate Patrem ................Gounod
b.	Ave Maria (1545-1613)________Vittoria
c.	Terra Tremuit ________________Neckyes
d.	Emitte Spiritum ....Schuetkq-Singenberger
2.	Songs for baritone voice
a.	I Love Life.______________.Mana-Zucca
b.	Roses of Picardy._______________.Wood
Mr. Francis X. Schaefer
3.	Part Songs
a.	June Time______________________Browne
b.	There’s a Hole in the Bottom of
the Sea ________________Arr. by Lake
c.	The Mascot of the Troop________Herbert
4.	Humoresque
Italian Salad __________________Genee
Mr. William O’Brien and chorus
“TURN TO THE RIGHT” TO BE GIVEN SUN. AND MON. IN WASHINGTON HALL
Monsignor Guilday, Famous Historian, Lectures Tonight
One of the most distinguished of Notre Dame’s honorary Alumni, the Right Rev. Peter Guilday of Catholic University, will lecture this evening in Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. Monsignor Guilday, who in 1925 received the degree of Doctor of Laws from the University, ■will speak on the life of the Most Rev. John Carroll of Baltimore, first Catholic Bishop of this country, the bicentennial celebration of whose birth is now taking place.
Monsignor Guilday is recognized as one of the foremost authorities in the field of Church history, particularly American Catholic church history. For the purpose of stimulating interest in the study of the part played in American history by Catholics he founded in 1919 the Catholic Historical Revietv. A few years later he established the American Catholic Historical Association to promote the study and investigation of Catholic History in general. As head of the History department at the Catholic University of America, Monsignor Guilday has interested a large number of graduate students in the study of the historical method, the science of paleography and it was in this connection that he organized one of the first seminars of general Catholic history to further his work.
Part Two
1.	Part Songs
a.	The Night Watch ________________Kountz
b.	Why Don’t You	Try --------------Yon
c.	Little David Play	on	Yo’ Harp ____Lewis
d.	Mosquitoes ______________________Bliss
2.	Songs for tenor voice
a.	That Tumble Down Shack in Athlone _____________________________C'arlo-Sanders
b.	A Little Bit of Heaven_____________Ball
Mr. John F. Ryan
3.	Songs of the campus
a.	Hike, Notre Dame!____________Casasanta
b.	Down the Line!”______________Casasanta
c.	When .the Irish Backs Go Marching
By ________________________Casasanta
d.	Victory March Shea
CURTAIN OPENS AT 8:15
By Paul Foley
“Turn to the Right,” a three act comedy, in which Thomas Proctor, Abe Zoss, and Joe Mansfield share the
Thomas Proctor
Joe Bascom is his role.
leading roles, will usher in the first dramatic effort this year for the University Theater group. The premiere is scheduled for 8:15 o’clock Sunday evening with a second performance at the same hour on Monday.
The play is being produced under the direction of Professor Frank Kelly in the capacity of technical adviser; the University carpenter shops are furnishing the sets, while the New York Costume Company of Chicago is providing the wardrobe.
“Turn to the Right” is a light attempt to portray a cross section, of 1900 rural American life, and relies strongly upon characterization rather than details of plot or story.
Although the first attempt of the year to produce student drama, the initial production offers many elaborate scenes, among which is the famous peach orchard set.
Extreme care has been taken in casting and direction of rehearsals. Irwin Goldman has been assigned the role of a scheming, conniving Jewish tailor; Thomas Proctor as the “Jack Dalton” country boy who is. determined on going straight; Joe Mans-
(Continued on Page 8)
March 15, 1935
One
Symphony Orchestra To Give Concert In Washington Hall
BRO. LEOPOLD SUCCUMBS AFTER LONG SERVICE
TO HONOR JOHANN BACH
By Roy O. Scholz
The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra will present its second concert of the season, March 21, in celebration of the 250th anniversary of the birth of Johann Sebastian Bach. Professor Richard Seidel, the conductor, has chosen a suite by Bach to commemorate the occasion.
The entire first part of the pro-
Professor Richard Seidel He will honor Bach.
gram will be occupied by this classic “Bach Suite,” a group of short instrumental numbers arranged for the symphony orchestra. The first number will be “The Little Prelude” which is an introduction. This will be followed by “Polonaise” which is a processional march or dance said to have originated in the triumphal march of soldiers returning before the king of Poland.
Included in the suite is the chorale, “0 Thou with Hate Surrounded.” Bach is particularly remembered for his choral music wherein his genius asserted itself in a marvelous weaving of melody in a classic form with daring harmonic coloring.
The second part of the program will be devoted to a more recent type of music. It will begin with the “Raymond Overture” by Ambrose Thomas. This composition was first played on the campus four years ago by the symphony and has not been repeated at a concert since that time. Delving into light opera music the orchestra will then play selections from Emmerich Kalhman’s “Countess Ma-
(Continued on Page 4)
Junior Halls Wrangle Over the Approaching Conner-Tancredi Bout
By John Moran
Politics has entered the Tancredi-Conner bout! The wrestling match between the two mighty mastodons, “Cy” Conner, “The Barefoot Wonder,” and “Nick” Tancredi, “The Son of Kong,” which is scheduled as a special attraction of the Bengal Bouts, has taken on a political aspect.
Down in Louisiana, “Kingfish” Huey Long has threatened to call out the state militia if the two Badin-ites keep monopolizing the newsreels, and shoving him off the front page. “It’s getting so bad lately,” the Kingfish told Congress the other day, “that editors are shoving my pictures and speeches back among the comic strips.” Wrathfully indignant, “Hooey” has threatened to challenge the two local boys to a free for all, and has declared that he would pay the expenses of the whole Louisiant State University student body so that it could come north to see him beat the upstarts. “And they won’t have to pay me back either,” the “Kingfish” stormed, “this one ■will be on the tax payers.”
Back in Mechanicsville, N. Y., rabid supporters of “The Son of Kong,” have formed themselves into a “Tancredi For Mayor” club. So sure is the Badin north-winger of being elected to Mechanicsville’s highest office, that he has arranged to audit several politics courses.
Not to be outdone, the aroused citizens of West Springfield, Mass., cradle of “The Barefoot Wonder,” wired “Cy” this week, and offered to back him for governor if he won. When asked about the proposal, Conner merely smiled knowingly. “Not enough money in being governor,” he said, then added blandly, “I would consider a good paying job though, like being tax-collector, for instance. You know I promised to pay half of Tancredi’s hospital expenses, and I’m afraid the bill is going to be terrific.”
“Is it true,” we asked the barefooted one, “that you’ve been troubled with bunions lately?”
“What!” he thundered, banging his fist down on the desk and upsetting the ink well in our lap, “that’s some more of Tancredi’s propaganda. “Look,” he said, shoving a sheaf of letters under our nose, “six shoe
(Continued on Pagre 20)
In the quietness of night that surrounded St. Joseph Hospital, Brother Leopold, C.S.C., the oldest Brother in the Community, met the call of death at 2:20 a.m. Monday morning, after a lifetime of service that extended over 98 years. His funeral rites were held Wednesday morning from Sacred Heart Church.
To the innumerable alumni and { clergy who knew him, the persevering little religious’ death will mean the
Brother Leopold, C.S.C. R. I. P.
passing of a man who w’as admired even by those who never knew him personally but only through his work for Notre Dame. To the present generation of students the faithful Brother was a familiar tradition of an earlier Notre Dame.
Seventy-two years of Brother Leo- •( pold’s life was spent at Notre Dame.
He was born Sept. 3, 1836, in a small hamlet near Heidelberg, Germany, the second oldest child of a family of nine. He came to New York City with his parents early in life, the family eventually settling at Reading, Pa.
Brother Leopold, known as Joseph Kaul to the secular world, entered the novitiate at Notre Dame in July, 1863. After completing his training, the young religious was of valuable assistance to Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University, in publishing the Ave Maria magazine. As a typesetter and publisher the deceased Brother labored faithfully until he assumed the position of postmaster here at Notre Dame, which office he held for several years.
In 1876 Brother Leopold began his forty year span as manager of the candy store, where, as time went on, he became somewhat of a tradition among the students. As a merchant he won the friendship and admiration (Continued on Paste 9)
Two
The Scholastic
MICHIGAN STATE BEATS NOTRE DANE DEBATERS
Torn Conley, Chet Grant to Time Bengal Bouts; Two Judges Named
Notre Dame lost its only decision debate on the affirmative case of the question, “Resolved, that the nations should agree to prevent the international shipment in arms and munitions,” when a critic judge gave a
Franklyn C. Hochreiter
Alabama ivas amazed.


negative team from Michigan State College his vote last Wednesday evening.
Debating for Notre Dame were Robert Schmelzle, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and Richard Meier, a sophomore in the same college. On the Michigan State team were Donald O’Hara and Donald Hittie.
Supporting what is in its very nature the most difficult side of the question, the men from Notre Dame presented excellent arguments in favor of their plan and showed a marked superiority in their rebuttal. It was judged, however, that the negative case disproved just a sufficient amount of affirmative material to win the decision.
The critic judge was Prof. L. S. Winch of Purdue University. Notre Dame split with Michigan State this season since a negative team from here beat a Lansing team a week ago.
Last Friday afternoon a negative debate team from the University of Alabama won an audience decision from a Notre Dame affirmative.
Representing Notre Dame were Franklyn Hochreiter, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, and Richard Meier. The Alabama case was debated by Walter Gewin and William Maloney, the latter being a former Notre Dame student. Both men from Alabama were seniors in the College of Law at that university.
Although the Notre Dame case was superior to that of Alabama, nevertheless the audience seemed to enjoy more the southern accent and wit of the negative than the logic and factual information of the affirmative.
Sheedy and McGrath Continue Intensive Training for Fight
By William H. Tourney
A little box, harmless and innocent in its appearance, and not unlike many other little boxes, added a new element of mystery to the McGrath-Sheedy brawl of a week from tonight and caused havoc among the Brothers in the post office when word got around that they might have allowed an infernal machine to pass through their hands unnoticed.
Shortly before noon yesterday, Sheedy was handed an ordinary package slip by his rector in Sorin. Hallmates became suspicious when the Talker quickly tucked the slip in his hat band, and after looking around to see if his actions were being observed, he stole furtively away in the direction of the post office.
Brother Air Mail takes up the story: “This fellow aroused my curiosity when he first came in. He took off his hat, pulled a slip out of the band, and threw it across to me. Now the Sorin guys do a lot of funny things around here, but this fellow said he would have me promoted if I didn’t tell a soul about giving him the package. Then he grabbed it from my hands and ran like heck along the path in front of Walsh.”
Now listen to Gerry Doyle: “I was down in the Sub looking for a penny that had slipped between my floor boards when somebody brushed past me and tore into one of the rooms down there. Just before the lock on the door clicked shut I was able to recognize Sheedy.
“I yelled, ‘What’s new, Mike?’ but there was no answer. I thought it funny that Sheedy had no reply to that one, so I sort of hung around in front of the door. All was quiet at first, then a horrible plea rent the air. ‘My gosh, Mike,’ a voice shouted, ‘you’re not going to use that thing on him, are you? It’s inhuman. Even the Romans never tortured the martyrs with anything as painful as that.’ Then came Sheedy’s sullen reply: ‘I ain’t stopping at nothing.’
“I ran upstairs to get Father Farley but he was over in the gym. So I went back to the Sub and tried to knock down the door. They must have a double panel there, for I lost the shine on my shoes trying to kick it in. But, alas, it was in vain.
“As I returned to my room I could hear Sheedy’s cunning laugh float
SHEEHAN NAMED A JUDGE
The list of officials for the Bengal Boxing show was completed this week. Two registered A.A.U. officials, William Sheehan and Eugene Young,
7
Tom Conley
One of two timers.
have been secured to judge the bouts and Chet Grant and Tom Conley, assistant football coaches, will time the bouts.
The naming of these experienced men insured excellent handling of the bouts. Sheehan, a South Bend merchant, is an A.A.U. judge and has acted in that capacity at N. D.’s track meets for the past several years. Young, trainer of the Irish athletes, is also an A.A.U. judge and has had considerable experience picking boxing winners.
The naming of two timekeepers constitutes an innovation for the Bengal Bouts. One timer will keep track of the actual fighting time while the other will measure the time between the rounds. Both Grant and Conley are well qualified for this work, Conley served in a similar capacity at last years’ Bengal Bouts.
through the air with the greatest of ease. I don’t think I’ll ever be able to forget that laugh. It was like something from the grave.”
Immediately after Gerry’s discovery was made known, light refreshments were served and the meeting adjourned until a week from tonight when you, too, dear reader, will hear Sheedy’s cunning laugh and, perhaps, find out what is in that box.
^March 15, 1935
Three
VILLAGERS TO BOLD BASKETBALL BANQUET
CAMPUS STATION OFFERS VARIED PROGRAMS OVER RADIO
NEW JERSEY CLUBBERS SPONSOR NOVEL PLAN
The election of next year’s basketball captain and announcement of monogram winners, coupled with a brilliant array of speakers and a varied musical pragrom will feature the second annual civic testimonial banquet to be tendered the Notre Dame basketball team by the Villager’s Club next Tuesday evening, March 19, in the University dining halls. All members of the frosh and varsity squads will be guests.
The Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., ' will serve as toastmaster for the affair and will introduce a number of prominent speakers among whom are Noble Kizer, Purdue director of athletics; Al Feeney, former Notre Dame football star, now Indiana’s director of public safety; Elmer Layden, director of athletics; George Keogan, basketball coach; and the Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., directoi' of the Fort Wayne diocese C.Y.O.
Other speakers on the program include Dr. Cliff Carlson, Pitt coach; Paul Hinkle, Butler mentor; Ed Krause, former' Notre Dame All-American, athletic director at St. Mary’s College, Winona, Minn.; Frank Lane and Nick. Kearns, cage officials; Wilfred Smith, Chicago Tribune sports writer; Leo Fisher, Chicago American; and Robert Proctor, Elkhart attorney.
Musical entertainment will be provided by a Glee Club quartet, with solos by John Ryan, tenor, and Jimmy Mar ohn, accordionist. Tickets, $1.50, are on sale at the N. D. athletic association offices.
Committee chairmen in charge of the banquet Tuesday night are: Kurt Simon, general chairman; John Far-abaugh, tickets; John Foy, arrangements; George Leyes, speakers; Tom Owens, dinner; Charles Spangenberg, publicity; Harry Poulin, reception.
SYMPHONY
(Continued from Page 2)
ritza.” The program will be concluded with one of Johan Strauss’s ever popular waltzes, “Artist’s Life.”
The complete program follows:
Part 1
Bach' Suite ________Johann Sebastian Bach
Little Prelude Polonaise Sarabande .
Minuet Chorale “Oh Thou with Hate Surrounded.” Gravette
Intermission—Part 2
Raymond Overture___________Ambrose Thomas
Countess. Maritza-------Emmerich . Kalman
Artist’s Life-----------------------Johann	Strauss'
Four
The programs which were broadcast during the course of the past week over the campus radio station in the Engineering building consisted chiefly of interesting talks on a variety of subjects.
The sixth of the series of campus radio programs was broadcast Monday afternoon at 4:30. The program featured Professor Wesley Bender, of the College of Commerce, who was
Professor Wesley Bender Delivers radio address.
interviewed on the “Economics of the Townsend Plan.”
“It’s a scheme to hire people to spend $200 a month,” stated Mr. Bender, in regard to the plan. “It’s not a dole but a pension to promote spending.” The speaker discussed the mechanics of this plan which proposes to tax business transactions, and claimed it was better to tax incomes.
“Where the states have failed, the federal government must not fail.” This statement followed the lecturer’s contention that he favored a pension act.
The Irish of Notre Dame had a half hour all their own over the radio Wednesday evening from 8:30 to 9:00 when station WSBT presented an advance St. Patrick’s Day program in the Notre Dame Hour from the campus studio in the Engineering building.
John Ryan and George Miller, glee club soloists, sang several Irish songs. Arthur Davidson and Joseph Bucci played old Irish numbers on the violin and piano.
The highlight of the program was the presentation by Miss Louise Bro-mann, a senior at St. Marys, and Joe Rattigan, of “The Farewell,” a poetic
With so many campus city clubs torn by internal strife and several organizations laboring under burdensome deficits the announcement by the New Jersey Club of a new plan of carrying on club activities in conjunction with the Alumni Club strikes a cheery note on the rather drab scene of club squabbles.
Philip P. Arnheiter, acting-Presi-dent of the New Jersey Club, explained the formation of the new plan whereby the Alumni Club and the Campus Club will work in cooperation with each other.
Throughout the proposed plan there are four conspicuous elements:
(1)	The Alumni Club and the Campus Club shall have equal supervision of the Summer Outing and the Christmas Formal. The profits from these two functions will be placed under the supervision of the Alumni Club.
(2)	The Senior Banquet will be under the supervision of the Campus Club. The expenses will be met by an assessment of an annual fee payable by the Campus group. The Spring Dance, while sponsored by the Campus Club, shall have co-chairmen representing each group. The Alumni Club should set a limit to the profit that may be derived by the Campus Club from this dance. The profits should be in proportion to the possible expenses of the Campus Club for one year. Excessive profits will be placed under the supervision of the Alumni.
(3)	The Alumni Group will sponsor the Summer Dance, the Annual Retreat and the Freshman Banquet. The Alumni will have complete charge of the latter two, while the Summer Dance will be conducted along the lines of the Spring Dance.
(4)	The profits acquired by the Campus Club shall be limited and a budget established by the Alumni Club.
4
sketch by the Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., which depicted the parting of an exiled Irish brother and sister when the sister was about to return alone to the longed for land of martyrs and memories.
Why “Copperfield” is absorbing, its adaptability to the screen and some of Dickens’s characteristics were clearly and precisely pointed out by Professor H. C. Staunton in his radio broadcast Friday March 8, from Notre Dame.
The Scholastic
MET CLUB IS STILL BAFFLED BY FINANCES
K. OF C. HEAR DEAN KONOP TALK AT COMMUNION BREAKFAST
SHANE LESLIE HONORS ST. PATRICK’S MEMORY
By Paul Foley
Sandwiched in between attempts to locate their errant constitution, corral straying committee members, and count letters from creditors, the sachems of the Metropolitan club found time during the past week to hear another story of the many and tortuous plans devised to take over the maintenance of the step-child imp,—the much-discussed deficit.
The latest sucessor to the sugar-coated pill conjured up for the alumni group, was offered at last Sunday’s meeting of the club and offers the somewhat naive suggestion that the S.A.C., with its “funds for student activities” take over the burden incurred by the dancing New Yorkers. It could not definitely be ascertained this week whether the S.A.C. had referred the matter to the St. Vincent de Paul society.
In addition to the Ouija board plans, the Met club inaugurated a new game this week called “Constitution, Constitution,* Who’s got the Constitution?” After many inquiries it was established that the only existing copy of that much quoted, much maligned, document was serenely reposing somewhere in the trunk of James Dunnigan, last year’s president, when it was last heard of on the campus. At present there is no copy, and has been none all year, within reach of either the officers or members of the club. The absence of the written law of the club has not, however, prevented quotations of it from cropping into meetings and discussions of the organization.
The report of the Investigating Committee this week showed that several of the creditors of the organization have answered letters concerning the debt. Most of the replies have been received and reviewed by the committee and include both South Bend and New York concerns. One large creditor, who holds more than half the debt of the Christmas dance, the Yonkers Crochet and Beading Co., located at the same address as that of Pres. Maffei’s home, corresponded with University officials and Pres. Maffei, so that the committee entrusted with the investigation had no official knowledge of the stand of the Yonker’s concern.
Last Sunday’s meeting, in addition to plans, counter-plans, and general bickering, also brought forth a belated attack on a story appearing in The Scholastic, issue of March 1. The statement, principally a blanket denouncement of a story that had been unchallenged for almost two weeks, roused little but echoes.
With each day bringing forth new revelations of laxity in regard to
The Knights of Columbus held their monthly Communion Breakfast last Sunday. The Knights received Communion in a body at the 8:00 o’clock mass, and took breakfast in the Lay Faculty dining hall immediately after. That these affairs are growing in popularity was evidenced
Dean Thomas F. Konop “Don’t be swayed by radicals.”
by the fact that the largest crowd in recent years attended this breakfast.
Chairman John Busichio deserves much credit foi’ his handling of this month’s Communion Breakfast. His program was balanced and pleasing, and was enjoyed by all present. The only disappointment lay in the fact that those brothers who attended for the sole purpose of having their pictures taken for the Dome were sent away unphotographed.
Professor Thomas F. Konop, dean of the College of Law, was the speak-er of the occasion. Mr. Konop’s topic was “Police Powers of the Government and Their Relation to the Rights of Man.” Professor Konop gave illustrations of the apparent hardships imposed by the government’s use of its police power, but explained that this exercise of power was essential to keeping man together as a social being under a government.
planning, the appointment of committee chairmen, the contracting for music, favors and other incidentals of the past two or three affairs of the club, campus observers believed that a general assessment of New Yorkers was inevitable when the smoke screen of impractical schemes and plans finally blows away.
After a lapse of two weeks, Mr. Leslie will resume his series of Tuesday evening lectures on April 2, his subject being, “The Man in the Iron Mask.” The lecture on “Greek Tragedy” will be heard on April 9, and the following Tuesday Mr. Leslie will talk on “The Irish Epic.”
Speaking from the glowing background of a wealth of personal lore, Shane Leslie addressed a capacity crowd in Washington Hall Tuesday night on the intriguing subject of “St. Patrick’s Purgatory.”
Starting his discourse in the dim light of prehistoric Ireland the speaker traced the development of the people in the northern counties through the coming of the Celts, down through the years to the time of St. Patrick.
From Mt. Slavish, scene of his early works, St. Patrick was traced along his journey to Lake Derg. Professor Leslie told of the illustrious saint’s founding of the famous See of Armagh, with its historic cathedral and university.
It was with the coming of St. Patrick to Lake Derg, however, that the real Purgatory started. On a small island in this lake, scarcely more than three-quarters of an acre in area, is the famous, almost legendary cave, the actual scene of St. Patrick’s ordeal of penance and prayer that has become known as his Purgatory.
“The Middle Ages had three great Christian legends,” Professor Leslie said. .“One was the fantastic belief in a great Christian emperor who held sway over the vast, little known realm of China, another was the oft-repeated tale of the Wandering Jew, that will-o’-the-wisp who was said to appear periodically in various parts of Europe, the last was the story of St. Patrick’s Purgatory.”
So great became the fame of Ireland’s “Red Lake” that pilgrims began flocking to the spot. The actual cave, however, with its queer, almost fantastic ritual became a mecca for the most heinous of sinners, a grotto of repentance for those to whom absolution had been refused. It was the gathering place of hopeless cases.
Professor Leslie went on to recount many of the weird stoi-ies that have been written or told by pilgrims who have spent the required time in penitential works in the cave of St. Patrick’s Purgatory.
“For the most part the ordeal they (Continued on Page 8)
March 15, 1935
Five
JOIN F. CUSHING, ’06, ADDRESSES ENGINEERS
Mr. John F. Cushing, C.E., ’06, donor of the Engineering Building, addressed the Engineers club last Friday on the subject, “Marine Construction.” As president of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company, Mr. Cushing spoke to the embryo engineers on the vastness of the industry and of the corporation which he represented.
Through the medium of slides and motion pictures, Mr. Cushing explained the complex mechanism of such machines as huge Deisel driven Dredges and Sand Suckers. The speaker avoided technical terms when at all possible and at no time did he fail to explain any difficulties that might confuse the listeners.
In stressing reclamation of land, so pertinent to Marine construction, Mr. Cushing pointed out as prime examples the Imperial Valley of California, the soil of which was taken from a swampy lake, and the sites of Grant Park and the Century of Progress grounds in Chicago. Mr. Cushing’s own corporation reclaimed the two Chicago sites, filling in an area approximately one mile wide and ten miles long. On this reclaimed land stands such notable buildings as Soldier’s Field, the Field Museum, The Planetarium, and the Shedd Aquarium.
Motion pictures showed the ponderous dredges discharging water-soaked clay behind the breakwaters constructed as dikes. Detailed views of Soldier’s Field and the Outer Drive followed showing what had once been turbulent Lake Michigan.
Previous to Mr. Cushing’s talk, papers were read by John Loritsch, a junior in chemical engineering, who spoke on “Chemistry in the Modern World,” and Edward Lejeune, a senior civil engineer who spoke on “The Origin and History of Bridges.”
Cracow Club
Last Wednesday evening at 6:30 in the Law Building the Charles Phillips’ Cracow Club discussed plans for holding the First District Convention of the Polish Student Association of America here at Notre Dame in May. The plans decided upon are all tentative until their practicability has become assured.
Eugene J. Rybicki, secretary of the club, spoke quite extensively of Quo Vadis by Henryk Sienkiewicz, a Polish author of some distinctiion. A resume of the story was given in Polish. Rybicki also spoke of th style used by Sienkiewicz in writing this story.
Phil Purcell is that vigorous, bareheaded youth you’ve seen, on almost any winter day, bounding along Niles Road on his way into the village. For, to keep that distinctive stride in form he must exercise it almost every day; and so Phil is off to town in the afternoon on the most trivial errands
with the ill-concealed intention of keeping in shape. This fine, uncommonly buoyant gait was acquired as a lad in the mountains of the far West.
For, whether ranging the Wasatch mountains at Salt Lake, his home, or running down mountain lion and hurdling pesky moose in the Jackson Hole country, this strapping boy scorned the unsportsmanlike advantage, the enervating convenience of a saddle horse. Rather than violate the hunting code of the rugged West, he roamed and hunted on foot. Under this exacting condition Phil’s stride developed into that inimitable springy style that puts to shame the legends of clumsy Paul Bunyan’s league-long steps.
Forsaking the life of a hunter and trapper Phil attended Judge Memorial High in Salt Lake City; there he played first team basketball and captained the football team. At Notre Dame he limited his formal athletics to boxing and in his sophomore year won the light-heavyweight championship in the Bengal Bouts. Although last year he did not defend his championship, this year, as a senior, Phil is again in training for the Scholastic Bouts. Interhall football, contract bridge and golf are the distractions of fall, winter and spring. Another
MANY N.D. MEN WORK IN BENGAL MISSIONS
Overlooking the town of Mymensing in the heart of Bengal live several Notre Dame men. Part of the time these alumni of Our Lady carry Christianity through the jungle. Then they come back to Mymensing to recuperate from tropical fever which they inevitably contract. In a humble presbytery around which rages cholera and blackwater fever, they dream, perhaps, of days at Notre Dame.
The Rev. Christopher Brooks, C.S.C., of the class of 1912, is one of the many Notre Dame men who have been to India. Known in his campus days as Christ Brooks, he hailed from Watertown, Wisconsin. “He was barred from athletics,” says the 1921 Dome “because of his feet, which stretched all the way to first base whenever he got up to bat.” If large feet are any sign of intelligence it must have been true with Chris Brooks: he was an outstanding Latin scholar. After his graduation he studied for the priesthood, joined the Holy Cross Mission Band, and now labors in India.
In 1924 Lawrence Graner and Joseph Rick left the campus, each with a string of activities after his name. Above squalid Mymensing back in the jungle, the Rev. Lawrence Graner, C.S.C., and the Rev. Joseph Rick, C.S.C., mingle with pagan people in their Christianizing work. In the post-war days Larry Graner, from Franklin, Pa., was a serious-minded youth who made the debating team and who studied under the Holy Cross Fathers for nine years. He was already ordained when he graduated.
Joe Rick possessed the Southern generosity and hospitality of his Houston, Texas home. His reputation for generosity earned him the slogan, “Go to Joseph” when anyone was in need about the campus. His activities were wide when at Notre Dame. He played football under Knute Rockne, sang in the University choir, was a member of the St. Thomas Philosophic society, and of the Knights of Columbus.
These three are not the only priests in India who have worked and played on Notre Dame’s campus. All the Bengal missionaries are Notre Dame men.
extra-curricular activity is the S.A.C. to which he was elected in the spring of his sophomore year. As two-year S.A.C. man, Phil conducted the annual swimming meet and is now chairman of the committee on campus clubs.
The Scholastic
WRANGLERS INDUCT MENDERS AT BANQUET
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
JACQUES ADDRESSES UY FACULTY GROUP
The Wranglers, honorary forensic society of the University, held their winter induction banquet for new members at the Rose Marie Tearoom in South Bend, last Tuesday evening at six o’clock.
John Heywood, freshman in the
Clifford F. Brown They took him in.
College of Law, who was chairman of the dinner, acted as toastmaster.
The new men were introduced to the society by John Locher of the committee on membership. The following, who were installed at the banquet, spoke on the program: Pierre de la Vergne, freshman; Richard Meier, Charles Meyers, Robert Weaver, and Edward Boyle, sophomores; Clifford Brown, junior.
The purpose of the society was explained by Arthur Korzeneski to the six new members. He went on further to express how the tradition of the society has instilled into graduated members that spirit of cooperation which has carried on after their exodus from the University.
Korzeneski pointed out how two men, though now in public life, recall happy years as members of the Wranglers. As a mark of their esteem for the society each one has been the donor of a trophy for activities sponsored by the organization. The Lemmer trophy, awarded in interhall debating, was presented by a former Wrangler; while the recent cup won by the contestant from Fort Wayne, Indiana, in the Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest was received from Mr. Joseph McNamara, a former Wrangler, and now deputy attorney general of the state of Indiana.
Announcement
The comprehensive examination for seniors in the College of Arts and Letters who have economics as their major subject will be held on Thursday, April 11, from 1 to 5 p.m. in Room 327 Main Building. The examination will cover the essential principles and problems of economics and distributive justice.
Ed. Note : As a result of last week’s note on the professorial rating sheets at Indiana, we were informed that our oivn Prof. Smithberger has been doing just that sort of thing with his classes for several years. Congrats professor'. Why not spread the idea?
HUMILITY
It was a DePauw freshman, probably telling his ‘Hop’ date how it felt to be collegiate. Said he. “Before I came to this campus I was one of the most conceited men you ever saw. But since my fraternity has knocked some of the conceit out of me I am one of the best men in the pledge class.”
And they want to abolish “Hell” week!
ooOoo
To any student receiving all “A” grades the U. of California offers a refund of five dollars ($5.00) on his tuition fee. That’s what we call an inducement.
TRANSLATE
This one from the Mountain Echo of St. Mary’s (Md.) :
Puer ex Thurmont lens a school Tombe clans une pasture Kicked par une mule Non possit ascendre Il y couche instead Quelle awful fortuna Esse kicked a la head Evite ces pastures Hi mules current well Si vous n’etes pas careful Ils kick te ad infernum.”
ooOoo
Ohio State’s Student Bar association has just promised free legal aid to any student involved in a scrape with the law. Killing two birds with one stone!
RHODESMEN
The big three — Yale, Harvard, Princeton—led the pack when the 32 U.S. Rhodes Scholarship awards were announced. Respectively they placed 4, 3 and 2 students. Twenty-three school had one representative a-piece. You know, of course, the award carries a yearly stipend of 400 pounds for two years’ study at Oxford. If good enough you can earn an extra year.
ooOoo
Tradition at Southern Cal. says that on the first day of spring every year the fire alarm must be rung, so that the collegians may watch the engines pay their annual visit to the campus. $150 a trip?
CLIPPINGS
Coeds at Iowa State Teachers are learning how to wrestle. . . which means they should be able to throw some mean quizzes. . . -
Monday evening, at the. Mishawaka Hotel, the Arts and Letters Faculty Club of the University, under the presidency of Professor David Campbell, of the English Department, entertained Professor Emil Jacques, of the Department of Fine Arts, who
Professor Emil Jacques Spoke to faculty.
addressed the Club on the subject of “Art and Culture.” Stanley Sessler acted as toastmaster, and introduced the speaker.
Dr. Jacques interestingly compared the cultural value’ of Art and Literature, saying that the former expressed not the individual only but the whole civilization which produced it, and that unlike literature it addressed itself in a universal language to all men. He decried, therefore, the tendency of the modern university to make Literature the medium of culture. Prof. Jacques discussed the present state of Art studies in America, pointing out the failure of both Church and university to teach Art by rigorously insisting that the best architecture, sculpture, and painting should alone be permitted in their respective institutions. The course of clerical studies, said the speaker, should include education in Art.
Professor Jacques stressed the need in America of a native school of Art, saying that foreign influence had won too much dominated American Art schools. He advocated the dominance of Art in American life immediately after that of Literature and Music.
Twenty-five members of the faculty of the University attended the meeting. A discussion on various schools and theories of art followed the paper, and aroused much interest and some amusement, especially when one professor advocated copying the ideas of savage and primitive people, “because they were nearer to the Creator.” The need of a Fine Arts Building for the University was stressed in the discussion, which continued until a late hour.
starch 1}, 1935
S even
KILMURRY SPEAKS AT IRISH CLUB MEET
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
“CATALYZER” CONTAINS INTERESTING ARTICLES
An interesting and instructive treatment of the Irish Renaissance by Edward J. Kihnurry, president of the Bookmen, featured the last meeting of the Irish Club of Notre Dame. In tracing this notable historic movement in Celtic literature from the last decades of the 19th century down to the present, Kihnurry touched upon such great figures in the field of Irish letters as William B. Yeats, Lady Augusta Gregory, George W. Russell, Padraic Colum, and the immortal John M. Synge. It was these poets, especially Yeats, Lady Gregory, and Russell, who established in Dublin the famous Irish Literary Theatre now known as the Irish National Theatre.
Following a general discussion by the club members of Kilmu'rry’s subject, James McDevitt, president of the organization, presented a paper on the historic Book of Kells. Confining himself chiefly to the technical merit of the work McDevitt pointed out the reasons why it is the choicest relic of Irish art in the world today. Experts in the field of design after careful microscopic study declare it undoubtedly. possesses in its plates the apex of Irish endeavor in the sphere of design while its originality and arrangement have yet to be equalled.
Final plans were made for the annual Irish Club “smoker.” Mr. Shane Leslie will be the guest speaker of the evening. The Lay Faculty Dining Hall on the evening of March 15 at 7:30 p.m. will be the scene for the festivities. Co-chairmen Flynn and Shay wish to announce to those who are planning to attend that they have made ample provision for a complete evening of entertainment.
UNIVERSITY THEATRE
(Continued from Page 1)
field, campus announcer, in the difficult role of Gilly, the buddy and partner-in-crime of Muggs, played by Abe Zoss.
Richard Baker, a newcomer to the University Theater, is cast as Deacon Tillinger, a crafty, grafting gentleman with an eye to acquiring certain properties. John Sweeney will play Sam, the country youth with the big ideas whose brain child is a typical get-rich-quick proposition. The part of Morgan, the big city millionaire’s son is given to Harold Miller.
In addition to student talent several actresses have been secured from South Bend to take the feminine roles, among whom is Miss Irene Pyle, who will portray Elsie, the pink and white heroine.
Eight
STUPENDOUS!
There is only one class in school at present who’ll be able to tell their grandchildren about the Perroni-Heitz battle-to-the-finish back in ’32. When the bloody canvass was dry-cleaned two weeks after that pagan spectacle of sheer brute strength and the local police department had been led astray with false clues, the mortal remains of poor Bernie Heitz were at last discovered.
It was not until a conscientious conductor began looking beneath the dusty seats of a New York Central day coach on an Army trip two years later that any trace of the mad Per-Toni was found.
The seniors this year have never recovered from the horrors of that night. Even at this late date many of the men of Corby clutch each other’s hand in fear as they pass the room Perroni so innocently emerged from the night of the kill. Some say it’s haunted now; others would have you believe the white likeness of the mad man is seen stalking the corridors on nights after the dining hall has served mystery balls, seen waving his arms madly and chanting an eerie protest to the gods of the kitchen.
We never go over to Corby at night, though, so we’ll have to take their word for it. We did see the fight and can easily believe any tales of evil resulting from that orgy of leather and flesh.
For a time it appeared that the University and South Bend police would prohibit future spectacles of that sort; for. three long years we trooped faithfully over to the gym to witness the annual Bengal bouts. They were always good, but tame. Fighters had the instinct to kill, but were refused the implements; only boxing gloves were allowed.
And now comes this year’s show with a revival of some real fighting! Sheedy versus McGrath. A snake against a tiger. Both armed to the teeth, straining at the ropes that bind them. Each carrying concealed weapons while the officials conveniently look the other way! A natural!
Ah, folks, in this tainted age of commercialism when so-called fighters quibble about the amount of purses and train in night clubs, vacation in Florida and look pretty in the movies, it is a welcome sight to watch two typical and red-blooded American boys slap each other into a mess of bloody flesh, kicking each other around from pure love of kicking. It is a sight awaiting only a small payment of two bits on your part. Two bits that will feed hungry pagans and converted tigers in the wilds of Bengal.
“Corrosion and Corrosion Testing” is the featured article in the latest issue of the Catalyzer. This article was contributed by F. J. Mootz, Ph.D., ’30, and contains a general discussion of corrosion, its cause and prevention. Although the writer primarily outlines the problems met with in the coal-tar industry, he stresses importance of preventing corrosion in all chemical enterprises . because of the high maintenance costs and loss of production time which it causes.
The editorial in this issue is concerned with “reviewing” for examinations. According to this article, the usual method of freshening the memory is not satisfactory, and it. is unfortunate that the process should be viewed with alarm or anxiety. The following quotation from the editorial sets forth a better plan:
“The practice of reviewing is not confined solely to re-reading portions of textbooks and working some of the problems given there. One of the most fruitful methods of reviewing is accomplished without the aid of textbooks. This method consists of a rather leisurely consideration of a theory, scientific principle, or mathematical concept. By this we mean a process wherein one looks at the theory, principle or concept from new angles with the idea of coming to a fuller understanding of them based upon new and varied perspectives.”
Reports of the various scientific organizations, the gold medal award to Father Nieuwland, the Freshman Page, and Personals complete this issue of the Catalyzer.
LESLIE LECTURE
(Continued from Page 5)
describe were probably exaggerated,” the speaker said, “but in any event they form a most interesting literature. The tracing of the influence of these writings through European literature is in itself a fascinating task. It appears indisputable that much of the inspiration for the description of sufferings in Dante’s Inferno, previously credited to Moslem sources, really has its root in this lore of Patrick’s Cave.”
Professor Leslie’s lecture was illustrated by the; use of a new map of northern Ireland prepared by the University Art Department, slides of ancient Irish e maps, and one slide showing a page from the famous Drummond Missal, with the Latin Canon of the‘ Mass written in Gaelic characters.
: The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, March 15
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial rooms at 6:30 p.m. for editorial board at 7:00 p.m. for general staff. Symphony orchestra practice, Washington Hall 6:30 p.m. Lecture by Right Rev. Monsignor Guilday, 8:00 p.m., Washington Hall.
Saturday, March 16	.
Movie, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:15, “Murder in a Private Car.”
Sunday, March 17
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m. “Turn to the Right,” Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m.
Monday, March 18
Elimination bouts for Bengal Boxing show, gymnasium 8:00 p.m. “Turn to the Right,” Washington Hall 8:15 p.m.
Tuesday, March 19
Symphony orchestra practice, Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m. St. Vincent de Paul Society, K. of C. rooms, Walsh Hall, 6:45 p.m. Economic Seminar, 6:30 p.m., Law Building.
Wednesday, March 20
Sermon and Benediction, Sacred Heart Church at 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Thursday, March 21
Symphony orchestra concert, Washington Hali, 8:00 p.m. Servers’ club meeting, 7:45 p.m., Sacristy.
BROTHER LEOPOLD
(Continued from Page 2)
of countless numbers, and was known to most of the students as “Brother Leep.”
Coupled with these activities during this period the pious Brother for a time taught music and directed the University choir. In 1916, Brother “Leep,” after 40 years of service, was relieved of his duties in the candy store by Brother Mauritius, to retire and devote the remainder of his life to God by leading a meditative life in the Community House.
Many things still engrossed the attention of this vital man, however, even in his old age. Brother Cyprian, who knew him for many year, said, “It seemed to us that Brother ‘Leep’ must have made a vow never to waste a minute of time, for he was always found doing something for somebody. Even until the last few years he would insist upon raking up the leaves and sticks around the Community House.” This fully characterizes the aged Brother in his later years. ’
THE Will
By William A. Kennedy
Food
Well, the Boston Globe would have you believe that we’re not the champion doughnut eaters any more. And even after our announcement last fall that N. D. was to stand for National Doughnut in a west coast baker’s National Doughnut Week.
W. Russell Pillsbury of Vermont, says the Globe, can eat 20 doughnuts in 29 minutes. Whereas, in 1927, it required somebody here 30 minutes to do the same trick. We’ll let that statement rest for the time being.
But we still have Mallett, and we’ll back Mallett, who can down eight pies in ten minutes, against a Pillsbury any day of the year. Even though Pillsbury might have the jump with his name.
Then there’s Slim. People call him Slim because he’s six foot five and doesn’t weigh much. Which seems like a good reason to us. Slim, however, eats 12 pies. A rather consistent eater, he is, and not so much the gastronomic dilettante as Mallett. He packs in a terrific amount of fodder, and in the dining hall, all neighboring tables contribute enthusiastically to the sum total. And then, three times a day with a sigh and a faint groan, he betakes himself to the waiters’ table and begins anew.
That, my dear Boston Globe and my dear W. Russell Pillsbury, is Slim. You and your 20 doughnuts!
- •
Step-Child
The Met Club situation went into its third month with another Sabbathget-together last week. Things are beginning to settle down now, and from all indications it looks like the show will have a long and successful run this spring. Political Editor Paul Foley will probably be able to stretch out his material to give him his column a week until June; the S.A.C. will continue to put up bulletins at the last possible minute; and the boys will meet every so often to listen to the report of the committee (which
ECONOMIC SEMINAR MEETING
At a meeting of the Economic Seminar Tuesday evening, Phil Purcell presented a paper on Social Insurance. He dealt chiefly with social insurance in regard to government supervision. Purcell stated that ‘social insurance includes more than the insuring of unemployment and invalidism but it is with these two phases that the present discussions in Washington are chiefly concerned. It is in these two fields that there is the greatest actuarial difficulties and the least actuarial development of all
had the measles last week) and talk things over.
Junior, III
Perhaps you’ve heard of Ryan,.Ill, a third-year chap. More probably, you’ve just heard him. However it be, it was one evening that a group of his playmates came to his room and grabbed him. “The New York Philharmonic’s on,” they said, “c’mon!”
Ryan hurried to their room, and sure enough, there was a symphony being broadcast. “Ah I" he said softly, which was unusual. He sat enthralled. “Wonderful! Marvelous! The greatest music anywhere. Nothing like it!”
For fifteen minutes he sat and listened. Then the announcer spoke:
“The next selection by the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra—”
Brother Leopold
Modest, lovable Brother Leopold, C.S.C., 99 years old, died Monday. Very few students knew him, because he had seldom left his room during the past three years. But he knew the students, and enjoyed watching them. And, could he somehow know of this little paragraph, he would say in his high, feeble voice: “Me? Someone writing about me? What do. they want to write about me fore?” The answer would be simple, but still he wouldn’t have understood.
•
Top of the Week
The freshman named Bright who has a 96% average and cannot account for the other four.
The C. I. C. meet last Saturday afternoon. A lot of new records, a big crowd, the narrow lane for Murphy to run down, the ohs and the ahs, Nick looking into his hat as Murphy soared up and up and over, and most especially, the kid who gave his one, lonesome bar of candy to Murphy as a prize.
the phases of insurance. Purcell said: “If someone would show us how to spend what we have got, instead of trying to tell us to save what we haven’t got he would be doing the world more good than the advocates of Social Insurance.” He traced the current trend in social insurance and the current opposition on the subject and concluded by saying, “Social insurance is feasible only in those fields that have been widely developed by private enterprise, that is, by private insurance companies.”
starch 15, 1935
“2^in e
1 he Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victunis Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus FOUNDED 1S65
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.	.
ous subjects should be questioned and the first, last and only query should not be, “Is it tough?” The members of the Sophomore class should avail themselves of all possible information before they make this important decision. By doing so they will make a more serious, more sensible and more worthwhile choice.
JOHN D. CARBINE...................... Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING.............Managing-Editor
Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCI______________________Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN______________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
. ROY 0. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY._________________________The Week
WILLIAM H. TOUMEY___________________________Dome Dust
VINCENT A. GORMAN, Jr_____________________College Parade
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY_____________________Graduate Assistant
News Staff JOHN J. MORAN...............................News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN____________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL-------------------Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN JOSEPH RATIGAN
PAUL FOLEY.__________________________IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI_____________________FREDERICK SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH.____________________JOHN A. GILLESPIE
ANTHONY F. O’BOYLE----------------------------FRANKLYN	HOCHREITER
BERTRAM SMITH___________________________LOUIS DA PRA
LINDSAY PHOEBUS______________________HARRY A. BALDWIN
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST_____________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER---------------------Assistant Sports Editor
. JOHN L. GLANZNER.__________________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN I. FLANAGAN JAMES A. WALDRON
EUGENE VASLETT.-------------------------JOHN CACKLEY
JAMES MCMULLEN
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY-----------------------Graduate Manager
■	MEMBER
Associated Collegiate $ress
-5i934	c 1935 e-
’	KADISOW	WISCONSIN
March 15, 1935
WORTHY OF CONSIDERATION
A long column of sophomores will, within a few weeks, be standing in line waiting to preregister for their major subject. This major will consume the greatest proportion of their time which is spent in the class room or at study for the next two years. And yet strangely enough, a surprisingly large percentage of this group have no idea of what their major will be. Another larger group do not know what major is suited to their peculiar talents and abilities, but are intent upon naming a major because their roommate has chosen it, because their older brother took it or because someone told them that it was easy. On the final day of preregistration another group will hurriedly and disinterestedly choose their majors because of sundry, ephemeral and unstable reasons. Such indictments may not apply to all sophomores, but they certainly apply to a large number of typical sophomores.
Sophomores who have, thus far, neglected to give serious thought to their choice of a major subject would do well to give the matter their immediate attention. Professors, especially the heads of the various departments, should be consulted as to the subjects offered in their curriculum. Upperclassmen majoring in the vari-
T en	•
A REAL NOTRE DAME MAN
A gieat Notre Dame man died this week. Brother Leopold, C.S.C., passed away at the age of 98. Brother Leopold had been at Notre Dame while many generations of students came and went. He joined the congregation, attended the University and taught in its classrooms. When old age barred him from teaching he asked only that he be allowed to do odd jobs about the campus in order that his connection with the student body might be continued. In his last years infirmities kept him from doing even these odd jobs—-but it did not prevent him doing all that he was able to do. All day long he said his rosary over and over again for Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. No man could serve any institution more faithfully than Brother Leopold did Notre Dame.
REESTABLISHING AN OLD TRADITION
It has been more or less of a custom during recent years for every conceivable type of organization, save student organizations, to give banquets, dinners and testimonials for Notre Dame’s athletic teams. The Scholastic has no quarrel with such organizations. Their affairs nave always been successful, and have always been on a nigh plane.
There is, however, no reason why student organiza-xions should not sponsor such banquets and dinners. After all, in the last analysis, the athletes merely represent their classmates—the members of student organizations—on the fields of sport. It is especially fitting then that student organizations should sponsor banquets for Notre Dame’s teams.
The Scholastic welcomes, therefore, the announcement that the Villagers, the year’s most active city group, will banquet the Irish basketball squad next Tuesday evening. The Villagers are to be congratulated on reestablishing an old tradition which, we hope, will become a future custom.
The list of speakers scheduled for the banquet very effectively refutes the objection that students should not be permitted to run such affairs because they would be unable to obtain enough prominent speakers to make the banquets successful. The Villagers have secured such speakers as the Reverend Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., Noble Kizer, Dr. Cliff Carlson, Paul Hinkle, Frank Lane, Nick Kearns and Al Feeney. Such a list of names would do any banquet proud.
AN EXAMPLE WORTH FOLLOWING
The New Jersey Club announced this week a new and very sensible policy of financing its functions. Other campus clubs, especially the harassed Metropolitan Club, would do well to follow the Jersey Club’s example and attempt to set up some sort of working agreement with the alumni.	•
T he S c ho las tic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
IdNTEDS
FROM the
^PRESS BOX 3
PITT PANTHERS WIN RELAY TO
CAPTURE C. I. C. TRACK TITLE
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
COMPARISON
In an attempt to place a price tag on the athletes who competed in the C.I.C. meet here last week we compared their marks with those established in the annual Big Ten meet at Chicago. In only nine events could comparisons be drawn and this because the distance involved in the high hurdles was not the same and because the Conference did not include a low hurdle race in its program.
The nine events compared show the C.I.C. marks to be superior in seven instances. Only in the 60 yard dash and the shot put was the Big Ten on top. Jesse Owens clipped off the dash in :06.1 to equal Ralph Metcalfe’s unrecognized time made here last year. There is little to choose between the two mile times. Lash of Indiana covered the distance in 9:21.3 while Bill Zepp of Michigan Normal was clocked in 9:21.2 to establish a C.I.C. record. Further comparison revealed the Big Ten was not the equal of the C.I.C. participants in the mile, half mile, 440 yard dash, high jump, pole vault, and relay.
NOTES
Five records in eleven events speak well for this year’s field. Zepp in the two mile jaunt, Rosenkrantz in the 880, Vince Murphy in the high jump, Lloyd Seibert in the pole vault, and the Pitt relay team, set the new marks. Mullins of Western State and Fleming of Pitt equalled Roy Boilie’s 1930 mark of :07.2 in the low hurdles. Fleming "did the trick in the finals while the Teachers’ captain did his equalizing in his semifinal heat.
With the Irish being nosed out by three points it was only appropriate that a gang from Pittsburgh should do it. A national holiday should be proclaimed when the Panthers are tamed. We nominate their relay team for graduation. Are any of them
(Continued on Page 15)
JUMPS AT GARDEN
Capt. Vince Murphy
He’ll surprise N. Y. fans.
SPRING FOOTBALL STARTS WITH LARGE SQUAD REPORTING
Head Coach Elmer Layden launched the initial practice of spring football last Tuesday afternoon despite the inclement weather conditions. There were nearly 160 men who answered Coach Layden’s summons. Of this number about 90 were freshmen who were getting their first taste of spring drills. Two hundred and fifty suits have been issued to men signifying their intentions of reporting, and before the week is over the whole squad will be sharing in the workouts.
The teaching of fundamentals will occupy the majority of the mentors’ attention in the spring training. Six seniors lost via graduation whose positions are not easily filled, presents quite a problem. Replacements for the three first string members of last year’s eleven must be developed. It is hoped to have the training period terminated with the Easter vacation if the weather gives the pigskin devotees any sort of a break.
MURPHY BREAKS RECORD
TABLE OF POINTS
Pittsburgh ____23	1-6. Washington___5	1-6
Notre Dame ....20 1-6' Butler  5	1-6
Mich. Normal	16 1-6, Wayne -------3
Marquette _____13	j	Hillsdale	-3
Mich. State_____ S 1-2' Detroit------2
Western State	S 1-61 Iowa St.	Teach 0
North Central 61-2 Loyola ___________0
Grinnell _______ 6	' St. Viator ___ 0
By James M. McMullen
The proverbial Pittsburgh jinx’cast its shadow over the ninth annual Central Intercollegiate Conference Track meet Saturday, as the underrated Panther thinlies gained a close decision over the Irish contingent, 231-6 to 20 1-6. Close behind the two leaders of the field of 16 entries, were Michigan Normal, Marquette, and Michigan State who finished in that order. ‘
The big jamboree was replete with surprise, and record breaking performances, close team competition, and the renewal of old rivalries. Five conference marks fell by the wayside, and one was tied, as the large field was deciding the issue. Michigan State, champs of last year, made only a mild bid toward retaining their honors, after being accorded high rating in pre-meet dope sheets.
Three of last year’s champs successfully defended their titles. Vince Murphy, Irish leader of the Irish, Ray Sears, expert miler of Butler’s Bulldogs, and the relay team of the champion Panthers, are kings for another 12 months. After clinching first place in the high jump, Murphy went on to shatter the Conference record with a leap of 6 feet 734 inches. His attempt to better the world’s indoor mark with a two more inch raise of the standards, failed, largely because of fatigue. The baton passers of Pitt lowered the time, they themselves set for the mile relay, in downing the Notre Dame four in the decisive event.
Lloyd Seibert of North Central, turned the meet into a surprise party, when he vaulted 13 feet 5% inches for another new C. I. C. mark. The lad from Naperville, had never pre-(Continued on Page 19)
March 15, 1935
Eleven
Temple Owls Submerge Irish Hoopsters In Final Contest
ST. EDS, BADIN WIN INTERHALL PLAYOFFS
TWO SENIORS FINISH PLAY
Playing before a large crowd in Convention Hall, Philadelphia, the Notre Dame hoopsters dropped the final game of the season to the Temple Owls by the score of 34-26. In one of the roughest games ever witnessed in the Quaker City, the boys from Temple avenged last year’s defeat. Three Temple players as well as Don Elser of the Irish were forced out on personal fouls.
Coach George Keogan His average slumped.
Almost as soon as the game was under way the Temple team jumped into the lead and at the half way mark were out in front by a fairly comfortable margin. However, Notre Dame came back strong and staged a ten point rally that brought them to within two points of the Owls. From then on Temple tightened up and garnered eight markers while holding the Irish to only two.
Wade Leads Irish
Rosan, the Temple star,, proved that he is one of the sharp shooters of the East by leading the scorers for the evening with nine points. Wade was high point man for the Irish with two field goals and three free tosses giving him a total of seven points. Captain Jordan and Joe O’Kane gave a fine account of themselves in play ing their last game for the Blue and
Gold.'
The box score:
Notre Dame (26)
G F P
O’Kane, If _____2	1	1
Ford, rf________1	0	1
Hopkins, rf_____0	0	1
Peters, c-f_____1	4	3
Elser, c________1	1	4
Wade, Iff_______2	3	2
Jordan, ig______0	1	, 0
Bonner, rg______0	0	0
Ireland, rg_____0	2	1
Totals 7	12	12
Temple (34) G F P Rosan, If ____2	5 2
Mes’kinger.rf 2 0 4 Dublin, rf____0 0 0 Juenger, c —.1 2 4 Fox. c________1 1 4 Casper, Ig-c ..3 11 Freiberg, 1g ..0 0 0 Brown, rg ____2 -3 1
Totals ....__11	12 16
Referee—Lane, Umpire—Kennedy.
S.A.C. To Hold Annual Swim Carnival in Town Natatorium on April 5
The annual swimming meet, under the direction of the Students Activities Council, will be sponsored on April 5, according to an announcement made early this week by Phillip Purcell, chairman of the meet. The South Bend natatorium has again been selected as the place for this popular carnival.
Purcell announced that any student "wishing to participate should communicate with him or see him personally in 106 Walsh Hall. He urges immediate action in view of the fact that the meet is but three weeks distant and that a certain deadline "will be placed on time for entering.
The usual large field of contestants is expected to participate in the Council’s lone sporting venture of the year. Last year five University records were established. It is felt that the quality of swimmers who are expected to enter this yeai’ will lower some of these marks. A full card of events has been promised, with medals to be awarded to the various winners and runners-up.
TWO TWO - FISTED SLUGGERS
Bud, Marcy (left) and Tex Durkin (right) are likely to meet in the lightweight finals again this year. Marcy was the victor last year in the evening’s best bout.
The Scholastic
By John L. Glanzner
Hail to the interhall cage winners, St. Ed’s and Badin, undefeated and champions of the heavyweight and lightweight divisions.
Brownson and St. Ed’s thrilled the handful of spectators last Sunday in the gymnasium with the best display of defensive strength seen this year. Ahead at the half, 6-3, Brownson faltered by the wayside by the count of 15-13. With ten seconds remaining Hennessy,. who had been a thorn in the side of the Brownson forwards all afternoon, dumped in two free throws to clinch the game for St. Ed’s.
The St. Ed’s team, composed largely of last year’s interhall winners, started slowly, but gathered momentum and with a dazzling second-half attack became the rulers of the heavyweight domain. Sharing the St. Ed’s hero bench with Hennessy was Chick Levicki, who accounted for nine points in addition to grabbing rebounds off both backboards in sterling fashion. For the losers, the bouquets fall to Schwartz, the lanky center, a great basketeer and the man who kept Brownson in the thick of the battle.
In the lightweight tilt, Badin led throughout and coasted to victory over the lighter, tenser Carroll five, (Continued on Page 17)
T w elv e
CAPT. MURPHY TO JUMP IN NEW YORK K-C MEET
Preliminaries For Bengal
Boxers To Be Held Monday
By John Cackley
The Irish thinlies, unbeaten as yet in dual competition, will be represented in the K. of C. games and the Armour relays this week-end — one man being sent to New York, while a contingent of fourteen will embark for Chicago.
Captain Vince Murphy, whose, leap of six feet seven and one-fourth
Don Elser
He faces stiff competition.
inches boasted a new C.I.C. record last Saturday in the local fieldhouse, will be Notre Dame’s lone contestant at Madison Square Garden. In 1934, ‘Murph’ tied for first place along with Threadgill of Temple and Woodbury from Dartmouth, making a three-way deadlock when each could venture no higher than six feet five inches. Incidentally that performance was his best of the indoor season. Basing his prediction on previous exhibitions, Coach Nicholson asserted that there is a strong possibility of the Irish leader clearing the bar at six feet ine and one-half inches, establishing a world’s mark that would in all probability not be toppled for quite a while. The only serious threats that Murphy will have to contend with include the same two athletes that shared jointly in last year’s honor: Spitz, former titleholder, and Johnson, a California protege.
The remaining Gold and Blue outfit will be pitted against the ‘cream of the crop,’ when they stack up against a colorful array of mid-west track luminaries in the Chicago gymnasium. Although Pitt managed to eke out a win in the one mile relay during their recent appearance here, and will no doubt be present for the Armour meet, the combination of Rubly, Frawley, Parsons, Bow-dren, and Bernard are expected to furnish them “a run for their money.’ Nick manifests that much hope for victory lies in the two mile aggregation—composed of McGrath, Ducassa, Shiels, and McKenna.
Mike Layden is again looked to be a mainstay in the Irish quests for points, when he assumes his customary role on the high and low hurdles, (Continued on Page 15)
Irish Five Humbles St. Xavier Net Stars With 42-34 Licking
Another victory in the fast closing basketball campaign was chalked up by the Irish hoopsters last Saturday night when they defeated the St. Xavier team of Cincinnati, 42-34 on the losers’ court. 4,000 spectators, the largest crowd of the year to witness a St. Xavier cage tilt, turned out for the Cincinnati appearance of the Notre Dame team.
At all stages of the contest the Irish were in complete control of the action on the court, although the Musketeers threatened and at times overcame the Notre Dame lead.
St. Xavier trailed the Irish early in the first period but rallied and passed them in the middle of the initial period. A rally on the part of Notre Dame in the closing minutes put them ahead once more and they led 19 to 16 at the end of the half.
The Irish held their lead for about five minutes of the second half then relinquished it once more to the hard fighting Musketeers. The scoring was evenly divided during this period and the lead changed hands several times. A final spurt by the Irish aided them in drawing away from the Cincinnati team in the last five minutes of play and winning the game.
Joe O’Kane, together with Don Elser, was responsible for more than half the points scored by the Irish. O’Kane tallied 12 points and Elser 11. The highest scorer of the game was a St. Xavier man, Sack, who scored 13 points during the contest. Ford, with eight and Ireland with five points were the other scoring leaders.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (42)	St. Xavier (34)
G F P	G F P
Ford, f 		.3 2	2	Sack, f ..		4	5	2
O’Kane, f		.5 2	3	Sweeney,	f —2	1	1
Elser, c 		.4 3	2	Bucklew,	c —.2	2	3
Ireland, g 		.0 0	0	Kruse, g		0	1	1
Jordan, g 		.0 0	0	McKenn,	g —.4	1	0
Wade, g 		.1 0	3				
Hopkins, f 		.1 0	1				
Peters, f 		.1 0	0				
Totals ________16 10 15 Totals ________12 10 7
Walsh To Coach Bowdoin
Adam Walsh, captain of the 1924 National Champion Notre Dame eleven, recently signed a contract as head football coach at Bowdoin College. Malcolm E. Morrell, Bowdoin athletic director, announced last week that Walsh would report on July 1. Since leaving Notre Dame in 1925 Walsh has acted in the capacity of head coach at Santa Clara College and assistant at Yale and Harvard.
WEIGHING IN AT 4:00 P.M.
By James A. Waldron
The quest for the Bengal Boxing championships will reach its ^ro-final stage on Monday, Mach 18th, at 8:00 o’clock, when the preliminary bouts will be run off in the boxing room. From the fifty-odd candidates will emerge sixteen well-trainea, clever men who will match their boxing abilities for the University titles, on Friday night, March 22nd.
Every contestant must weight in on Monday afternoon at 4:00 o’clock in the varsity locker room. Each man must come within one pound of his divisional weight limit or he will be forced to fight in a heavier class.
Under the capable handling of Tom “Kitty” Gorman, the third man in the ring, each bout will consist of three two-minute rounds with no draw decisions. Dr. McMeel, assistant University physician, will be on hand to examine all those who are entering, at 7:30 on Monday evening of the preliminaries. No contender may enter the ring without having passed this physical examination.
Surveying the divisional championships, one would find that most of last year’s titles are vacant and await the “better”, man. In the heavyweight division, the defending titleholder, Reno Zarantonello, has been handicapped by illness, and it is doubtful whether he will be in condition to resist the stem opposition for his crown. The outstanding challenger is Max Marek, International Golden Gloves champion, who is seeking the Notre Dame heavyweight crown.
For one of the best fights of the Bengal Bouts, the light heavyweight division will supply the action. There are half a dozen good boxers, equally proficient and experienced in the boxing technique. Heading the list is the defending champion, Harry Marr, with Bob “Jocko” Conlon seeking another chance to redeem himself after last year’s defeat. On the sturdy frame of Bart McKernan, a hard-hitting aggressive fighter, rests the middle weight crown. The “Hege-wisch Pride” is fully prepared to battle all challengers and from the calibre of these eager hopefuls, Bart will have his hands full.
Looking at the lighter weight divisions, we find that all but one title will have a new name claiming ownership. In order to provide the light men in the school with an opportunity to win a championship, a new division, the bantamweight, was added. With Anthony “Bud” Marcy putting (Continued on Page 20)
^March 15, 1935
Thirteen
Fencing Squad Chalks Up Seven Wins In Second Year of Existence
By Joe Prendergast
The Notre Dame fencing team within the past week or so brought the ’ most successful season of any athletic endeavor on the campus this year to a close. The team, under the able guidance of Coach Pedro de Landero, went through a schedule of seven difficult opponents without a blemish on its record.
Fencing was organized at Notre Dame in the fall of 1933. The sport was an innovation at the University,
there being no record of any previous fencing team in the annals of Notre Dame athletic history. Coach de Landero worked hard with his small band of ten men, six of whom had never had a fencing weapon in their hands before. The schedule consisted of eight matches. The result at the conclusion of the campaign listed three wins and five losses; a fine accomplishment considering the circumstances. Of the seven members on last year’s team, three were lost through graduation leaving Kehoe, Grosso, C. de Landero, and Caresio as a nucleus around which to build the 1934-35 outfit.
Two up and coming sophomore stars strengthened the squad at the start of the season, namely T. de Landero, brother of the team’s captain, and McAuliffe. The first match was with Washington University on Feb. 11. Notre Dame overcame the visitors in this series of bouts to win out 11 to 6. Purdue was met next
Fourteen
and went down before the Irish sabre wielders, 12 to 5. The Wildcats from Northwestern University were defeated by Captain C. de Landero cohorts on Feb. 9, 11 to 6. The team then journeyed into Ohio on an extended road trip where Wittenburg, Ohio State, and Cincinnati were met and conquered, 9 to 5, 10 to 7, and 9 to 8, respectively.
The Cincinnati victory margin was the smallest of the season. The losers
won all four epee bouts and only for valiant work in the foil and sabre by the Irish, the result would have told a different story. Purdue University, in the second match between the two schools during the season, felt the wrath of the Irish sword-handlers to again be victimized—this time 11 to 4. This was the closing contest of the year for the team and brought the season to a successful ending. In the course of the campaign the Notre Dame fencers accounted for 73 points as against 41 for their opponents.
The complete record of the five regulars follow: Caresio won 17 bouts and lost 10; C. de Landero won 11 and lost 1; T. de Landero won 13 and lost 6; Grosso won 15 and lost 5; and Kehoe won 15 and lost 8 bouts. The total—71 victories and 30 defeats in 101 matches. Besides the above five, Myron, McAuliffe, and Snooks saw service during the season.	.
COACH KLINE SEEKING I LEFT-HANDED PITCHER
. Some 50 candidates reported to I Baseball Coach “Jake” Kline, in the I gymnasium last Tuesday afternoon, | in answer to his general call for base- J ball men. Of this number, 11 have | already won their monograms in this I sport.	1
Last year’s infield is intact except I for -Paul Kane, diminutive second 7 baseman, who was lost by graduation, j while not a man has been lost from j last spring’s varsity outfield. How- S ever, it is expected that Vic Mettler | and Dan Cunha, who were moved to the outfield last spring, will get an- J other chance to win a position in the 3 infield. This year’s team should be i strengthentd considerably by the re- 4 turn to school of outfielders Francis j “Christy” Matthews and Velscheck J both of whom won monograms in baseball in former years.
Kline Makes Statement
Coach Kline, in speaking of this year’s team, said, “Competition for positions should be especially keen ■ this year, and I would not be at all ; surprised to see some of the men who I were in there last year, replaced by । new men. Everyone will have an	|
equal chance to win a position on the J team, and no team will be picked until J after the-squad goes out of doors.” |
“Since “old man weather” still 1 seems to have a three and two count 3 on Coach Kline and the baseball 1 squad, daily practice will have to con- ] tinue in the gymnasium for several 1 days.	|
.
The inclement weather has given | the battery men a considerable start 1 on the rest of the nine, and some of | them are rounding into shape rather a quickly. Nevertheless they will con- j tinue to strive for control, until the j weather changes sufficiently to allow | the squad to go out-of-doors.	J
Howe Military Academy Rifle	i
Team Falls Before Irish Squad j
—
The Notre Dame Rifle team de- I feated Howe Military Academy team I in a shoulder to shoulder match, 926 | to 915. The match was shot March | 9 on the LaSalle Club range.	|
Ten shots were fired in the prone | and sitting position. This was the j first time the Notre Dame team has 3 fired the sitting position. A return 1 match, to be held on the Howe range, I is scheduled for early April.	|
Notre Dame points were scored in j the following manner: J. Minarick | 195, J. McGrath 191, B. Beyrer 179,	3
J. Connell 179, C. Landmesser 182. J
The Scholastic H
« GOLF TEAM SEEKING HATCH FOR APRIL 17
SPLINTERS
UNIVERSITY GYM TEAM LISTS FIVE EXHIBITIONS
The Notre Dame golf team, under-the coaching of the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., looks forward to a very successful season this year with five of last year’s team returning. Captain Vince Fehlig and John Mon-tedonico were the only men lost by the graduation route. Men that are expected to report for practice as W soon as the weather permits are: Captain Johnny Banks and William Cole, seniors; arid Win Day, who has for the past three years held the University championship, Pat Malloy, and Herman Greene, juniors. Sophomores that showed promise in the fall tournament were: Lou Fehlig, John Marbach, Tom Doyle, Harrison Pierce, and Harry Baldwin. The veterans are to compose the team, although it is expected that a number of these sophomores will break into the lineup during the year. Father Holderith hopes to have a clean record for the year, and help keep the wonderful record that the golf team has made over the last four years, with only one defeat, which was handed to the Irish by Purdue in 1931.
Looking over the cards turned in by some 25 frosh in the fall tournament, John Montedonico, appointed • freshman coach by Father Holderith, expects to have a talented squad report to him in the spring. Among ’ the most promising that turned in cards are: Maihles, Taylor, Leonard, Castleman, McCabe, and Morris Nee, who last year was the winner of the junior championship of the District of Columbia. These men handed in £ scores that averaged from 75 to 78.
Father Holderith wishes to announce that there are a few changes in the schedule that was published last week. Michigan State will be met on April 20, and the Purdue match is not definitely settled. April 17 is an open date. ■,
Many improvements have been made during the winter- months by Mr. Keeley and his helpers, such as placing many new traps and bunkers about the course in an effort to lure slices and hook shots—making the game more interesting for the experts and harder for the duffers. A . special improvement has been made on the 11th and 15th greens; these holes have been surrounded by sand traps making a pitch shot the only possible way of approach to the green.
In addition to these many technical improvements the landscaping has been bettered by Mr. Keeley through the planting of many shrubs and trees ♦ around the course.
Search 15, 1935
(Continued from Page 11)
married or is that practice limited to the gridmen?
Jim Sheils, netting a fourth in the half mile run, negotiated the distance in 1:57.1, the fastest race he has ever run. In addition to his one point, Notre Dame scoring was done by Jordan 2, Bernard 1, Elser 5, Edwards 2, Murphy 5, Layden 1, McCarthy 1/6, and the relay team 3 points..
It’s practically impossible to get away from this Pitt team. Their vaulter, Pelucha, who finished second at 13 feet, 2 inches, failed to clear 11 feet on his first trial. Later at greater heights he succeeded twice but gave the bar a good bump or two. The bar refused to fall and Pelucha continued in the graces of luck until put out at 13 feet, four inches.
Notre Dame may attribute its loss to extreme weakness in the mile and two mile field. The Irish runners were completely outclassed by the field in these events. Pitt has Fleming to thank for its victory. This Panther scored firsts in the 60 yard dash and low hurdles to become high scorer of the meet with ten points.
Particularly inspiring was the applause given Vince Murphy as he attempted to clear the cross bar at 6 feet 9 1/4 inches, to establish a new world indoor record and tie the outdoor mark. It was in the air Saturday that Vince was to smash the C.I.C. mark and it*s in the air for tomorrow that Cornelius Johnson is in for some mighty stiff competition at the K. of C. games in New York.
At the coaches meeting Friday night Carl Olson, Pit coach, offered Nick two to one odds that the Irish would wind up on top Saturday. To which Nick said, “Oh yeah?” And now we’d like to say “Oh yeah!” Conrad Jennings, Marquette director-of athletics, left the meeting early and in a huff after being ruled out on a question of a Jesuit quartermiler qualifying. Now, Conrad!
The gymnastic team, under the supervision of Mr. Scannell, has been very busy this "winter in demonstrating their activities before the various schools and Y.M.C.A.’s of this section. The program calls for performances on the horizontal bar, parallel bars, and features tumbling, elephant vaulting, Indian club and wand drills. The duration of each entertainment generally requires approximately fifty minutes.
This is the second year in which this group has been an official or-ganizatiohj giving a definite number of exhibitions. The 1934 squad was quite a success from the viewpoint that no less than twelve presentations were enacted in South Bend and nearby cities. Riley High School graced the card last week, while previously three engagements were produced down-town, one being on Feb. 4 in the local Y.M.C.A. Although dates have not been definitely decided upon, the following places are to be visited by Frank Maxwell and his men:La Porte, Dowagiac, Valparaiso, and Benton Harbor. Under the sponsorship of the Student Theater, the finale will be given in Washington Hall marking the initial attempt to do general gymnastic work on its small stage.
The personnel of the team is as follows: Frank Maxwell (capt.), Ed O’Hara, Dale Pillers, Matthew Ron-zone, Joseph Donnino, Bart McKernan, Lawrence Palhovic, Phillip Walker, Harold Hauser, Kervin Byrne, and Andy Puplis. Mark Sheil assisted by Peter Johnen takes care of the managing duties.
K. C.-ARMOUR MEETS
(Continued from Page 13)
while Jordan, even though annexing but a third during the Central fes7 tivities, looms up as a ‘dark horse’ in the sixty yard dash. Jack Edwards and McCarthy are slated to participate in the pole vault. The former succeeded in knotting the count a year ago, in the ‘Windy City’ with Chuck Howard for fourth position, as they soared over the stand at twelve feet. Don Elser, although having confined a great amount of activities to basketball this winter, will bear the Notre Dame colors in his specialty—the shot put. Freimuth is the Gary giants’ biggest rival, tossing the sixteen pound weight during the Big Ten conference for fortyeight feet, eight and seven-eights inches, bettering Elser’s heave in the C.I.C. by something over eight inches.
F if t een
American Chemical Society Meeting
Dr. Harold S. Booth, professor of chemistry at Western Reserve University, will be the speaker next Wednesday night, March 20, at the regular meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical society. Dr. Booth is a recognized authority on the preparation and properties of compressed gases, and is also interested in chemical microscopy. It is upon the latter subject that the lecturer will address the society in’the Engineering building immedately after Lenten devotions.
The talk entitled “Chemical Research Through a Microscope,” will present the possibilities of this relatively new method of qualitative analysis. One of the difficulties often encountered in qualitative analysis is the small amount of samples available.
)— ~
Headquarter for Arrow Shirts w MAX ADLER
On the Corner — where Michigan crosses Washington
THE TRUMP.
Ellsworth’s is
Arrow Shirt
Headquarters
Our Men s shop has all the new Arrow styles
Trump -	- 1.95
Mitoga 2 00 and up
Par -	-	2.00
Devon - - 2.50
Gordon 2.00 and 2.50
ARROW TIES AND UNDERWEAR TOO
iElldUHirtlfs
\ /
: /THE HEMPSTEAD	The Shaped Shirt	THE GORDON
in all models '
Variety is the Spice of Style!
Undergraduates instinctively turn toward ' Arrow because Arrow has the most comprehensive.arrayof shirts in America from, point of collar, styles, models, ; colors, pat-terns, fabrics, and designs.1 You name it— . • Arrow has it—-and when you buy remember only. Arrow shirts have Arrow;collars./.
* Stop by at your local dealer today :	;
Prices range from $2 to $3.50	.
ARROW SHIRTS
SANFORIZED SHRUNK / :

Sixteen
The Scholastic
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
Michigan City, Indiana boasts possession of the best football prospects in Midwestern prep school circles. . . . the lad with the rosy future is BILL BERGANE . . . LES BORDEN, former pigskin captain at Fordham, has sung “The Rosary” in public at least 2,000 times . . . The much talked of basketeers of N.Y.U. are cashing in their fame ... all indications point to a larger total attendance than the Violet football team was able to lure . . . Back in ’20, only 19 colleges were able to speak of stadia for athletic games . . . now there are 75 . . . GENE SARAZEN has knocked around quite a bit . . . and Gene says that the Oakmont Links in the Alleghany Valley is the toughest golf course he ever navigated ... 57 year old MICHAEL SCOTT, winner of the 1933 British Amateur, has been trodding the fairways for exactly 46 years . . . BIG JACK TORRENCE, Louisiant State’s artist in the shot put,’ never threw the weights before he entered college . . . Dimensions: Height, 6 feet three —weight, only 300. . . .
Azucar, that grand old upset of the Santa Anita Handicap, has faced the barrier in this country 23 times. . . . only three efforts found him out of the money . . . Speaking of the ponies, Russia is getting track conscious . . . • all the animals are the property of the state . . . Baseball’s only twin battery has been broken up . . . CLARENCE JONNARD, receiver for the Fort Worth club, got the walking papers that will separate him from his pitching brother, CLAUDE . . . DENTON TECUMSEH YOUNG, Cy to a few intimates, struck out 2832 'batters during his 23 year service in the majors . . . Down at Big Springs, Texas, the trapshooters are' going big time . . . at a meet there, 1500 very live ravens were released as targets for the boys. . . . 524 cups and 73 titles are all in the possession of VIVKTOR BARNA, five times winner of the world’s table tennis championship . . . and for two .seasons now, FRANK HENNAN has been awarded the American Motorcycle Association’s trophy . . . FRANK ’ garnered the largest number of points throughout the past two years, in the iron steed competition. . . . Washington Senator’s will wear red, white, and blue in games both at home and abroad, this year . . . DONNA FOX is headman on the Olympic four man bobsled tryout winners ... he uses a headphone to communicate with JIM BICKFORD, his brakeman on the rear of the bob.
ARTHUR M. WEHRMANN, chairman of the Metropolitan A.A.U. Handball committee, has refereed 1,286 contests in the past 30 years. ... and GEORGE F.| FOLEY, Philadelphia promoter, arranges and directs 75 dog shows in the United States every year . . . MANAGER JIMMY WILSON, of the Phillies, seems to have had his own ideas about the personnel of his club . . . only three of the Quaker City representatives of 1933 are still on the roster—PHIL COLLINS, AL TODD, and SNIPE HANSEN . . . JIM BROWN, of Syracuse, was a little hot under the collar when he was turned down for crew duty because of his 235 pounds . . . seems as if Jim wasn’t getting enough exercise. ... all he does now is throw the weights for the track team—when he isn’t active as the mainstay on both the wrestling and boxing teams . . . We see it’s impossible to race dogs in a major league ball park, but what about the light opera that is to hold sway after the ball games at Navin Field, Detroit ... A young brother of BARNEY ROSS, appropriately monickered Sammy, was offered 3150 by his mother to stay out of the squared circle . . . the kid passed up the offer . . . WILLIAM L. FINLEY has made 200,000 feet of motion picture film and 60,000 stills of animal life since 1901. . . .
BOBBY JONES is to make bis last appearance in a big tourney at his own Masters’ Tournament in Augusta, Ga., April 4 . . . The Grand National Steeplechase has taken its toll on thoroughbred horse flesh . . . 36 oat eaters have been killed making the jumps, but the classic has yet to claim a human life . . . NICK AREMARCK is not the only big league ball player with a hobby of collecting birds
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 12)
25-19. A victory ceremony was staged for the winners on the Badin mezzanine with speeches and prizes for the victors.
Tobin, the Frank Merriwell of Badin, looped in ten points and sparkled throughout. The Badin guards, Lange and Reagan, silenced the Carroll guns except for Thorn-berg. Thornberg led the second half rally when Can-oil was straggling wildly to overcome a top-heavy deficit with eleven points, and it was no fault of his that a faster, smarter' Badin team sped on its way to the championship.
Badin ran up ten points before Carroll could tally and led at the half, 13-2. Then Carroll rallied and outscored, outplayed, and outfought the Badinites after the intermission only to fall short of victory.
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL TAKES LOCAL SURVEY
Members of the Notre Dame conference of St. Vincent de Paul are making a tour of self-introduction of the society to South Bend social agencies to gather information about the services rendered by those societies, and to offer the aid of the St. Vincent de Paul to the city agencies. •One agency has already availed itself of this last offer, sending to the society the cases of two young boys in need of big brother service. Society members make a study and case-history of such cases, and then work on the individuals from a professional angle. When all the information has been collected, a manual of the South Bend agencies and their work is to be made up by the St. Vincent de Paul Society as a means of simplifying inter-agency work, and eliminating duplications of services.
Work of the Society’s Federal Education drive is nearing completion, and is to be followed soon by a similar survey on the rural routes, to be made in automobiles provided by the federal authorities. Students wishing to participate in this work may do so by communicating with Vince Mc-Aloon, president of the society, in Lyons Hall.
The Rev. George O’Connor, C.S.C., pastor of St. Augustine’s Negro parish in South Bend, visited the society’s meeting last Tuesday evening, and thanked members for their work in his parish.	.
Notre Dame Men May Apply For Rhodes Scholarships
From the office of the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, came the announcement this week that application may now be made for the Rhodes Scholarships tenable at Oxford University. Students interested in these scholarships may obtain copies of the official regulations, application blanks, and other desired information from Father Carrico.
The next competition for these valuable scholarships will take place in December of this year and all application entries must be in the hands of the officially .appointed secretary of the committee of selection of the State of Indiana not later than Nov. 2, 1935. For this state the secretary of the selection committee is E. R. Baltzell, Esq., 1100 Hume-Mansur building, Indianapolis.
The points of eligibility governing the competition for these awards are: 1. The candidate must be between the ages of 19 and 25; 2. He must be a citizen of the United States and unmarried; 3. He must have completed his Sophomore year at college.
Seventeen.
-March 15, 1935
remember how I brought you twonetl

^cruA Qvd -vue/nd
LEAVES
CENTER
W
Copyright 1935, The American Tobacco Company,
I give you the mildest, best-tasting smoke—because I am made of center leaves only. The top leaves are unripe, bitter, biting. The bottom leaves are coarse, sandy, harsh. The center leaves are the choice leaves. They are mildest, mellowest, yet richest in fine tobacco flavor. And I offer you the fragrant, expensive center leaves exclusively. I do not irritate your throat. That’s why I dare to say, “I’m your best friend.”
LEAVES ^prgU

ejether
THE MILDEST SMOKE
7& TBefl&v
C. I. C. MEET (Continued from Page 11) viously exceeded 12 feet, 10 inches, so had been completely overlooked, in favor of Irish Jack Edwards, who placed third behind Pelucha, veteran Pittman.
Michigan Normal’s famous pair, Abe Rosencrantz, and Billie Zepp, turned in the other record breaking efforts. Rosencrantz finished a full 15 yards in front of the Marquette entry of Beckett and Kubash, in the 880 yard run. His great finishing kick enabled him to clock the distance in 1:55.1, almost two seconds faster than the previous record held by Alex Wilson of Notre Dame. Tom Ottey, who had defeated Zepp in the two mile last year, was forced to trail the Michigan Normal star, for the second time in three weeks, as he set his new conference mark of 9:21.2.
The man largely responsible for the Pitt victory was dusky Arvel Fleming, high point winner of the meet. After defeating Waite of Washington, and Jordan of Notre Dame, in the 60 yard dash, Fleming came back to tie the Conference record in the 65 yard low hurdles. Mullins, highly touted Western State captain, was placed second, and Layden, Irish hurdler, was given the fourth position, in the 7.2 seconds effort.
Elser was worth five points to Notre Dame in the shotput with a heave of 47 feet 7% inches. Don did his tossing Friday night in a hurried performance before leaving on basketball duties, but it was good enough to down the consistent Davis of Hillsdale, last year’s champ. Bob Bernard accounted for another Irish point when he ran fourth to Kiger of Pitt in the 440 yard dash.
Summaries:
MILE RUN—Won by Sears (Butler) ; Hurd (Mich. State) second: Daly (Detroit), thirj; Gaidner (Mich. State) fourth. Time, 4:18.4.
60-YARD DASH—Won by Fleming (Pitt.) ;
	Your opportunity to secure SUMMER EMPLOYMENT with the John C. Winston Company, publishers of such high grade reference works as Dr. Copeland’s Home Medical Book, Winston’s Universal Reference Library, Winston’s Universal Hand Book, and Winston’s Wonder Book of Knowledge. $3.00 per day (minimum) is guaranteed to students working full time. The work is dignified and can be made much more remunerative as several Notre Dame men will testify who have worked for this company in the past. Thorough training and supervision by field managers will be given those applicants selected. Assure yourself of profitable summer work by applying today to the John C. Winston Co. field manager, now in South Bend. Mr. A. J. Sampson, of the John C. Winston Co., will interview all interested students in room 201 at the Jefferson Hotel until Sunday noon, March 17th.	
ine teen
Waite (Wash.) second: Jordan (Notre Dame) third; Phillips (Marq.) fourth. Time. :6.3.
440 YARD DASH—Won by Kiger (Pitt.) ; Ford (West. State). second: Jessel (Marq.) third: Bernard (Notre Dame) fourth. Time. :50.2.
SHOT PUT—Won by Elser (Notre Dame) : Davis (Hillsdale) second: Mallard (West. St.) third: Elliot (Marq.) fourth. Distance. 47 ft., 7% in.
60-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Eber-haid (Mich. Norm.) : McElroy (Wayne) second; Clark (Grinnell) third. Time. :7.8.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Zepp (Mich. Norm.) ; Ottey (Mich. State) second; Gordon (Grinnell) third; O'Neil (Marq.) fourth. Time. 9:21.2. (New C.I.C. and gymnasium record.)
POLE VAULT—Won by Seibert (N. Central) : Pelucha (Pitt.) second; Edwards (Notre Dame) third: McCarthy (Notre Dame), Davis (Butler) : Uckele (Mich. State) : Johnson (Pitt.) : Johnson (Wash) : and Ruttewske (Mich. Norm.) tied for fourth. Height. 13 ft. 5% in. (New C.I.C. indoor, and gymnasium record.)
880 YARD RUN — Won by Rosencrantz (Mich. Norm.) ; Beckett (Marq.) second; Kubash (Mani.) third: Shiels (Notre Dame) fourth. Time. 1:55.1. (New C.I.C. indoor, and gymnasium record.)
65-YARD LOW HURDLE-Won by Fleming (Pitt.) : Mullins (West. State) second: Waite (Wash.) third: Layden (Notre Dame) fourth. Time, :72. (Ties C.I.C. record.)
MILE RELAY—Won by Pittsburgh (Kiger. Croat. McDonald. Connelly) ; Notre Dame (second ; Grinnell, third: Michigan Normal, fourth. Time, 3:21.5. (New C.I.C. indoor, and gymnasium record).
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (Notre Dame) : Cuff (Mich. State) second: Allen (Mich. State), and Miller (N. Cent.) tied for ' third and fourth. Height. 6 ft. 7)4 in. (New C.I.C. indoor ami gymnasium recoid.)
Armstrong to Attend Meeting
Mr. James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Board and chairman of the program committee for the National Catholic Alumni Federation, attended a meeting last Tuesday in Chicago to discuss plans for the Annual Convention of the Federation to be held in Chicago April 25, 26, and 27.
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
THESES and other manuscript work typed. 10c per sheet (double spaced), .one carbon copy free, you furnish paper, call 4-3907 or come to 409 Pythian Bldg. Hours 2 to 5 pm. except Fridays.	It.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
. 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Established 30 Years
L^MONTHEES
OPTOMETRISTS 222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
▼
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR
OWN LABORATORY.
7wenty
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 13)
on some added poundage, his vacated featherweight crown will rest on a new head. This year “Senator” Marcy is seeking th lightweight crown which also was vacated because champion Hal Gooden has taken on too many extra calories. Moving into the lightweight class with Marcy is Tommy “Tex” Durkin who battled with “Bud” for the title last year' The Texan kid is out to square all accounts if he can wade through the wealth of fighting material in this division.
As Hal Gooden comes into the junior welterweight class, last year’s title-holder, “Memphis” Bill Whitman is on hand to defend his crown against all opposition. Bill will have to step lively to ward off the other contenders in this class led by Mark Kerin, last year’s runner-up. In the welterweight class, “Larruping” Lou Purcell is eagerly waiting to defend his title against all comers. Heading the list of challengers is Kevin Kehoe ■who finished in the “second” money in last year’s battle with Purcell.
TANCREDI - CONNOR
(Continued from Page 2)
companies want me, ‘The Barefoot Wonder,’ to endorse their perfect fit shoes. “You may quote me as stating,” he stormed, “that my feet will absolutely be in the pink that night.” To prove his point, he took a vicious kick at the door.
“Well, so long,” we said, seeing that the “Wonder” was started on another, furniture smashing spree. We grabbed our hat and opened what . was left of the door. • All • the way down the corridor we could hear occasional crashes. Pretty soon the crashes stopped, and we knew the- . door had been demolished.
Wrestler Tancredi, professionally known as “The Son of Kong,” was very reticent when interviewed about what he expected to do to his opponent from the south wing of Badin. “I really feel so sorry for the “Wonder,” he sighed, “that I’ve arranged to endow a' maternity ward in St. Joseph Hospital in his memory. It will be called “The Barefoot Wonder Maternity Ward for Motherless Children.”
Deeply moved by such thoughtfulness, we mopped out tears, and asked, “Is it true that King Kong has called you an impostor?” The strong man nodded and picked up a telegram.
“Don’t die laughing,” he chuckled, “listen to this.”
Hollywood Zoo >
Hollywood, California Bengal Bouts	.	.	.
Notre Dame, Ind.
Wrestler calling himself “The Son of Kong” is a fake stop Would chai-
lenge him but am doing six months for income tax evasion stop will be murder to put Tancredi in same ring with Conner stop'
King Kong
“Sounds pretty bad,” we ventured. “The Son of Kong” merely laughed.
“It’s a good thing he’s got four walls and an iron cage to protect him,” Tancredi said, “I could handle him with one hand and “The Barefoot Wonder” with the other.”
Latest report reveal that the boys in Howard Hall, predicting a sure thing, have placed theii- money on • “The Barefoot Wonder.” Alumni inmates, however, mindful of the way Conner dusted their ivy last fall in ducking several “Gold Coasters” after the Army game, have vowed to get vengeance on the doughty “Cy” by backing “The Son of Kong” to the ' limit. As one rabid partisan put it, “ ’The Barefoot Wonder’ is going to have his toes stepped on.”
To which the barefooted one insultingly replied, “I wonder.”
COLLEGE
day night—Kellogg's Col-
lege Prom night 1 Every week this Prom is broadcast with all the thrills and merriment of a different college campus. Wonderful music to dance. Beautiful songs. Excitement of athletics.
It's just like going to a different college every week! Don't miss a single Kellogg Prom.
EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT 7:45—Eastern Standard Time WiZ Network—N. B. C.
The Scholastic