CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
1/3 in July 1/3 in August 1/3 in September
No carrying charge
PALM BEACH COOL WASH'N WEAR SUITS . . . 39.95
Here’s the perfect suit for the hot, sultry weather ahead! Handsomely tailored . . . holds its press . . . when it needs freshening, wash it! . . . by hand or in a machine ... let it drip dry . . . and its ready to wear again with little or no “touch-up” ironing needed. See them soon ... in handsome light or dark colors.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
ENJOY THE ADVANTAGES
OF YOUR OWN
WHITE FORMAL COAT
ifrerSi.\
BY RUDOFKER
Tropical weight format
Trousers .... $12.95
$28.95
Look your best at every important formal occasion this summer in your own white tropical dinner jacket. As cool and comfortable as your favorite sport coat . . . correct in every detail . . . perfectly fitted for you by our master tailors. Get yours soon, charge it the Campus Shop way.
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
May 13, 1960
On Campos Maxfihulinan (Author of “I TFas a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
EUROPE MADE SIMPLE: NO. 2
Last week we discussed England, the first stop on the tour of Europe that every American college student is going to make this summer. Today we vail discuss your next stop, France—or the Pearl of the Pacific, as it is generally called.
To get from England to France, one greases one’s body and swims the English Channel. Similarly, to get from France to Spain, one greases one’s body and slides down the Pyrenees. As you can see, the most important single item to take to Europe is a valise full of grease.
No, I am wrong. The most important single item to take to Europe is a valise full of Marlboro Cigarettes. Oh, what a piece of work is Marlboro! If you think flavor went out when filters came in, treat yourself to a Marlboro. The filter works perfectly, and yet you get the full, zestful, edifying taste of the choice tobaccos that precede the filter. This remarkable feat of cigarette engineering was achieved by Marlboro’s research team—Fred Soft-pack and Walter Fliptop— and I, for one, am grateful.
But I digress. We were speaking of France—or the Serpent of the Nile, as it is popularly termed.
First let us briefly sum up the history of France. The nation was discovered in 1492 by Madame Guillotine. There followed a series of costly wars with Schleswig-Holstein, the Cleveland Indians, and Captain Dreyfus. Stability finally came to this troubled land with the coronation of Marshal Foch, who married Lorraine Alsace and had three children: Flopsy, Mopsy, and Charlemagne. This later became known as the Petit Trianon.
Marshal Foch—or the Boy Orator of the Platte, as he was affectionately called —was succeeded by Napoleon who introduced shortness to France. Until
* * *
Next week, this week, every week, the best of the filter cigarettes is Marlboro, the best of the non-filters is Philip Morris; both available in soft pack or flip-top box.
4
Napoleon, the French were the tallest nation in Europe. After Napoleon, most Frenchmen were able to walk comfortably under card tables. This later became known as the Hunchback of Notre Dame.
Napoleon was finally exiled to Elba where he made the famous statement, “Able was I ere I saw Elba,” which reads the same whether you spell it forwards or backwards. You can also spell Marlboro backwards—Oroblram. Do not, however, try to smoke Marlboro backwards because that undoes all the efficacy of the great Marlboro filter.
After Napoleon’s death the French people fell into a great depression, known as the Louisiana Purchase. For over a century everybody sat around moping and refusing his food. This torpor was not lifted until Eiffel built his famous tower, which made everybody giggle so hard that today France is the gayest country in all Europe.
Each night the colorful natives gather
at sidewalk cafes and shout “Oo-la-la” as Maurice Chevalier promenades down the Champs Elysees swinging his Malacca cane. Then, tired but happy, everyone goes to the Louvre for bowls of onion soup.
The principal industry of France is cashing travelers checks.
Well sir, I guess that’s all you need to know about France. Next week we’ll visit the Land of the Midnight Sun— Spain.	© I960 Max Shulman
DISTURBED	C
Editor:	~
To Mr. Easterly I suggest a checking \ of his “facts” about Northern discrimi- $ nation. The many Negro citizens of 7 Kenosha, Wisconsin, my hometown, would be surprised to find out that they had “24 hours to leave town.” Such a A statement is completely false.
Bill Scheckler	■
211 Walsh Hall	;
Kenosha, Wisconsin |
Editor:	i
In re the article, “Southern Situation Sit-In ’60,” by Skip Easterly, Alabama State College is not in Birmingham, but in the State Capital, Montgomery. Per- * haps this is a good example as to the research he did before writing that piece ’ of literature.
Did Mr. Easterly also forget that in t some of our Southern states there exist laws and ordinances forbidding Negroes v and whites to congregate in the same place for the same purpose, and that this ’ could be the reason why there have been > so many arrests during these demonstra- r tions? Also, there are such things as in- / citing to riot (unconsciously or other- . wise) and loitering which invite police action. Laws are made to be respected, A not broken.	'
Mr. Easterly would have done much bettei- by telling our student body why the Southern white is so indignant to \-these sit-ins. Such demonstrations will y only make matters worse, not better. Force is not the answer. It is to be y’ found in a way to make the Southerner- y want to change such existing laws and accept the Negro as he should be ac- y cepted.	y
Skip, work on that one.
Dennis Penny, -4 327 Howard J
Editor:	i;
It looks as if the new team running our “student organ,” the Scholastic, y are just as bad as the last bunch! Once a again another pro-NAACP, antisegre- i gationist article. There was only one article this time but its length made up for that, you fellows were sure to see!
How about doing as I suggested in my (Continued on page 24)	(
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Srhnludir


Xi



i-.F

■‘4' c'
V
T,
te A
&



The Notre Dame

Vol. 101
No. 24
MAY 13, 1960

Founded 1867

editor-in-chief
RONALD BLUBAUGH
associate editors
E. (TED) THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE
news editor and staff ROY RUBELI Wade Clarke . . Arthur Graham . .	\
Thomas Weiss
features editor and staff -	-
CHARLES RIECK
Francis Smith . . Thomas Sullivan .
William Sweeney William Veeder . '
sports editor and staff . THOMAS ROSE William Cary .	.
, J. (Jay) Kilroy ;	.
copy editor and staff ;
• WALTER RUDGE George Casey Peter Geniesse . Thomas Marciniak- \
art editor .
JERRY FLORENT
photographer	.
WALTER DALY, Jr.
business manager and staff ROBERT HORN Thomas Carey . Joseph Finnigan . .
circulation manager : 7 . r LAWRENCE LEACH
'moderator
REV. CHARLES CAREY, c.s.c.
; hews reporters , ; ‘ Philip Larrabee ? John Ohala /	Thomas Schlereth
?	William Sparks
sports' reporters 5"\ ' x? John Bechtold
^'•■bxJerry Hewitt Varis ’
£ • $ Thomas Walsh


3
%



Richard Ballot , _
'2^S.r	■<« va	t»
THEIR BUSINESS, BUT: We don’t pretend to have all the answers nor do we want to tell the student government how it should run its own internal affairs. However, it seems to us that a rather strange thing happened at the recent selection of Student Senate officers for the coming year. No less than two Keegan nominees were turned down by the Senate and in their places were selected persons nominated and favored by outgoing seniors. Certainly it is a rather strange thing when the newly elected Student Body President cannot even have his own choice of officers to work with in the coming year. If we should have to speculate as to a reason, we would say that it was the result of a “Stop Clark” movement, the initial beginnings of which could be seen long before the pre-Easter elections. The Scholastic criticized such a plan from the beginning and it seems that the student body agreed with us. But the Student Senate is a different matter. Apparently caring little either for the obvious choice of the electorate or for the desires of the newly elected president, the Senate decided to chart its own course. It is our hope that this start will not prove to be a source of constant trouble in the 1960-61 Senate.
A SECOND LOOK: On May 19th a former Notre Dame student by the name of Dr. Thomas Dooley will appear at St. Mary’s. Known throughout the country for his foreign medical missionary work in Indo-China, Dooley is in this country on one of his many fund raising trips for MEDICO, the medical group with which he works. Locally he is greatly admired, and at times this admiration almost approaches worship. Obviously this feeling is based on the fact that Dooley attended this University. Still more obviously, it is not based on an accurate knowledge of what exactly the Doctor is doing in Indo-China. While people at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s are quick to shower him with compliments, people in Europe and Indo-China, many of them learned medical authorities, question Dooley’s motives and even his actions. Some condemn him harshly. In a recent article in a national magazine Dooley was said to be extremely egotistic and was accused of practicing 19th-century medicine in a hit-and-run fashion. It is not our attempt to discredit Dr. Dooley, but the Scholastic feels that a more thorough examination of his work and background (other than the fact that he went to school here) is in order before we can put him on a pedestal by characterizing him as a great “Notre Dame man.”
A UNION MAN’S UNION MAN: Notre Dame was privileged this week to have David J. McDonald, president of the United Steelworkers of America, on campus for a short talk in the Engineering Auditorium. McDonald has long been considered one of the nation’s ablest and most dynamic union men and his record in the steel industiy is a credit to both his own organization and to American labor in general. After a few brief remarks, Mr. McDonald entertained a question and answer session which proved to be rather interesting. At that time the labor leader made a point which we believe is well worth reiterating. In answer to a query about Teamster Boss James R. Hoffa, McDonald replied that condemning a man before he was proven guilty was a much more dangerous thing than all the conniption found in shady unions. Possibly the Michigan labor boss is guilty of what he is accused, but is it not a fundamental provision of our way of life that a man is presumed innocent until proven guilty? Should this fundamental tenet of our way of life be twisted to say the opposite, those who would preserve democracy by so destroying criminals are, at the same time, destroying themselves.
NUMBER THREE: The last issue of the 1959-60 Juggler is off the press, and the staff of Notre Dame’s literary and art journal has done another excellent job. The spring Juggler, using an olive green lining for its smooth white cover, contains a larger number of fiction works than its two predecessors and has an expanded art section of 12 pages. As usual the magazine features some of the best campus writing from a wide variety of authors, including many old contributors and several newcomers. In spite of many difficulties incurred in setting up the issue, including the last minute deletion of a story and a painting, the Juggler staff was able to speed up its press time in order that the final copy would be in the hands of subscribers before final examinations. The new Juggler is a credit to everyone who had a part in its publication, especially its editor Jim Yoch. The Scholastic is confident that its sister publication, next year under the guidance of Chris Watters, will maintain the exceptionally high standard it has set for itself this year.
—B. T. & T.
5
W'
fe •
s s
s
HG3BE3 HSE BESE
□EgJB BHD
3
nntuaa
X
3
V
SEE
9
0SHB
1
NIM3ISI1 31 n vlNiahldiol
Contents
VMM
HEE
ADMldM
BHunsra
□HUSHES
At the Theaters
18
Editorials
BBS
SUH
IDS
E0EH
DC
HHE
BEJfflHE
■V N SIWM
w
3
3 X V
9
a
3. N N n d
Back Page
Campus Scene
Commentary
Critical Horizons
tflMSNVTGDX
KQDL
KROSSWORD
ACROSS
1. The season for a head cold
6. D____:
he smokes (It.)
10.	Fed like gelatin
11.	Stone with . NewYork inside
12.	Den Linden’s first name
13.	Pig (French)
14.	Less than a gnat
15.	Sweetie's last name
16.	Lots, in paper talk
18.	Make a_____ change to Kool
19.	Poetess Millay
20.	You need help
23.	They're the last word
24.	Tough knot to crack
27. You’ll____ a real change with Kool
30. Alexander's land
34.	Swiftly
35.	Flake out
36.	Little governor
37.	Plowed land
41.	Museum piece
42.	Description of Kool package (3 words)
45.	Raison d’___
46.	Middle of Dinah
47.	This comes soon
48.	Juan, Ameche, Cornell
49.	Place on
50. Kiss and makeup
DOWN
1.	Longhair
2.	Resorted to low humor
3.	Wicker
4.	The Prexy
5.	They’re bound to spread
6.	Dude, like
7.	Closed
8.	Oodles
9.	Surpasses
17.	Only Kool gives you real Menthol_________
18.	French gal’s name
20.	Kools____ the brand for you
21.	Ego’s alter ego
22.	Understand
25.	Sizable saline solution
26.	Heart penetrant
27.	Horsed around, but petulantly
28.	City with wine in the middle
29.	There's one in the town
31.	Fair, lovable chick
32.	Best buy your Kools by it
33.	For this you gotta reach
38.	It’s skinny as Sinatra
39.	Magnani
40.	June 6, 1944
43.	Electrical engineers
44.	He puts up fintonnaa
10
26
11
5
15
Escape
Our Cover
Repercussions
Sports Picture
ARE YOU KODL. ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*
9
'4
10
4
21

No. 13
TO
11
13
12
16
19
18
27
34
36
42
47
45
50
48
25
22
23
30
YOU NEED

<1

35
4
37
When your throat tells
THE
01960, BROWN * WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP.
r also a AVAILABLE1 WITHOUT
, ALTER j
a real change

KGDL

ofKGDL
6
The Scholastic
1
insincere
>
Whenever one is about to leave an institution which repre-» sents a certain segment in his life, such as Notre Dame represents to upcoming June graduates, it is often customary to sit back and take stock of both that institution and his relation to it. In any consideration of this type it is necessary to in* spect the objectives of both the University and the student.
As has been pointed out by Cardinal Newman and many others, K the idea of a University is to educate students by “teaching universal knowledge” to its students. It is the student’s task * to educate himself, with the help and guidance of the university.
* Modern educators have continually stressed the importance of the achievement of knowledge through exploration of ideas r (“universal” ideas says Newman) on the university level. The student must, as it were, teach himself. And he must be al-K lowed to do this with good guidance but not overbearing authoritativeness. The head of Notre Dame’s education depart-k- ment recently stated that “the campus is the place where commonly accepted ideas can be explored and subjected to criticism without fear of . . . reprisals.” He went on to point out that “there is a recognized danger in permitting students who do ” not have the full responsibility for all of the implications and consequences of their thinking to move freely in the world of
* ideas, but this is a calculated risk . . . essential to the notion of higher education.”
J This is absolutely true, and in recent years there has been a very slight tendency at Notre Dame to follow this pattern in b the realm of purely academic endeavor. The broadening of some courses of study to include non-Catholic points of view has * helped to bring about a more liberal approach to the teaching of “universal knowledge.” The addition of faculty members of '' other faiths has certainly had a good effect in this direction.
There is, however, still much ground to be covered. Some departments have yet to profit by the steps taken by others, and a more “universal” and broad-minded program to cover the k entire breadth of learning is still a long way off.
In the passage from Father Walsh’s speech quoted above, * universities were encouraged to permit students “to move freely in the world of ideas.” This is in full agreement with ’ Newman’s statement that “knowledge . . . exerts a subtle influence in throwing us back on ourselves, and making us our ’ own center, and our minds the measure of all things.” If, then, the educated man is to measure all things, the training for ' such judgments must be had at the university, and it must be of such a nature that it encourages the student not only to * think, but to act for himself. It cannot be imposed from without. The school cannot attempt to restrict or force upon the 1 students those actions which they must learn to do for themselves, any more than it can force them to learn that which they must learn foi’ themselves. After the student leaves the authority of the enforcer of such actions, he will have gained 4 no respect for what has been forced upon him, but only a resentment of it. Then, says Newman, “you have succeeded but in this — in making the world his University.” Certainly the L process of daily living, for example, of rising in the morning and retiring at night, is the direct interest of the student and should remain within his realm of decision.
If the student can be allowed to “move freely in the realm of ideas” and can be allowed to flirt with the “recognized danger” of which Father Walsh spoke, then he must be allowed ' to act freely, within reasonable limits, in the conduct of his r affairs. Any failure on the part of the school to follow this pattern of governing the conduct of its students, while at the *' same time recognizing and supposedly fostering the ideals of a liberal education is completely hypocritical. You cannot * strive for an ideal on the one hand and completely disavow it on the other. Worse yet, you cannot pretend to strive for an ideal in which you do not really believe.
The question is: Where does this University stand?
—C.T.
May 13, 1960
barbarian
With the arrival of the spring months, the time is approaching for the Notre Dame Monogram Club’s annual initiation exercises. During these rituals, letter winners from the vari- ; ous major teams will be subjected to a number of indignities both before the entire student body and in the privacy of the Fieldhouse. Since the practice has been rather long established . (except for one short interruption by University order), few question it and the demonstration is regarded as a sign of the season. However, for the record, the Scholastic intends to point out a few facts concerning this initiation.
First of all, there are actually two Monogram Clubs. The one we know is the campus group composed of students who have won letters. This group admits members by initiation . only and, in actuality, parallels the geographical dubs in -structure. The benefits of membership (at the present) are few indeed. The group can claim to have three principal activities each year: a banquet, a picnic, and the initiations. . Meetings are few and far between and there is a much doser unity among the members of the heterogeneous geographical -clubs than exists between the members of the campus Monogram Club.
The other Monogram Club is composed of those alumni meeting the requirement of having won a varsity letter. Ad- : mission is AUTOMATIC upon graduation. The member is entitled to place advance orders for football tickets in a particu- . larly good section of the Stadium. These tickets are in NO WAY CONTINGENT upon belonging to the campus organization. .Moreover, the members receive a certificate signed by Mr. Krause, the director of athletics, and by Father Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University. This certificate is the University’s offidal recognition of achievement in athletics by its alumni. -
Considering the facts, there seems to be little reason for a student joining the campus Monogram Club, unless he enjoys . the abuse he suffers during the initiation, or unless he enjoys handing out such abuse to subsequent joiners. In the past, members have been recruited by the luring promise of football tickets; in actuality the joiner would have received these re- : gardless. Again, the monogram winner has the right to wear his jacket or sweater, regardless of his status with the campus group.
It is not our purpose to destroy the campus group. Certainly it has a right to exist as much as any other student organization. However, we feel that its annual spring shenanigans have done little but destroy the symbolic meaning behind the Notre Dame letter. They degrade college athletics and humiliate persons who have worked in sincerity toward the . goals held up by coaches and athletes. Furthermore, these ini- ' tiations are insulting to the nature of a University which ' ’ claims to be “striving for excellence.”	' "
Our suggestion is a simple one. Those candidates who are “eligible” for admission to the campus Monogram Club should weigh their decision carefully. When they are contacted by members of that group and told what they are expected to do, they might be wise to inquire into the advantages of membership. Above all, before submitting meekly to the taunts of would-be initiators, new monogram winners might reflect upon what they are about to participate in. If they are objective in their evaluation they might come to the conclusion that they are merely helping destroy the high ideals that atHeties are supposed to encourage.	\	.s4^3
- -
RON BLUBAUGH LOOKS AT
LIFE
It’s been a busy week that’s just passing. An airplane crash has shocked and jolted the world; a maiden princess has become a bride; and a teenager hero has proven that effective salesmanship will create a market for all sorts of garbage (rock ’n roll). Add to this a very revealing article on the past and LIFE of May 16 comes out to be one of the finest issues of the year. Now for the details.
“Why did he get caught?” That seems to be the best question of the day. Few of us are willing to question the value of the expedition but it would seem that the first rule of being a spy is that you don’t get caught. LIFE enters into the question of American aerial reconnaissance with a full series of photographs. Included are a view of the “aggressor” aircraft, the probable rocket which lowered it, and the now
ill-reputed pile of twisted metal which is supposed to be all that remains of the wrecked American “bandit.” It all adds up to a big public relations victory for our rotund friend but, I wonder, what does he think about all the ones that got away?
MEG IS MARRIED—DOWN WITH TRADITION
Following the example set last year by Japan’s Crown Prince Akihito, Margaret has tied the knot to a commoner. An unusual wedding it was, too. All of the British royalty turned out as did the masses but the most celebrated guests were Tony’s three mothers and his father, “Manville” Armstrong Jones. It seems that the bridegroom’s father has been a rather active husband and the royal authorities were at a loss as to which mother should receive the invitation. However, the solution was a happy one because all three became guests and they threw in Tony’s charwoman, Mrs. Betty Peabody, for good measure. It all looks like a real fine show.
Then there’s the one about all around good guy, Dick Clark. You know, he’s the fellow who has taken that damnation of all music, rock ’n roll, to the TV. Dick has always been one of the Pat Boone type who guides the musical misery of America to even greater pains through his much-watched American Bandstand. But this time Dick got caught in the cookie jar. It looks like he has been right in there with the rest of the D-J’s helping to build himself a personal fortune. Regardless of his guilt or innocence, however, the U.S. teenager is sticking by him. That’s what I like about our youth in America. It is loyal.
CONVENTION TIME 1912—THE VICTORY OF A SCHOLAR
Walter Lord, author of Day of Infamy and others, will soon publish a new book entitled The Good Years. LIFE this week has obtained rights to publish an advance selection and judging from it, a very interesting book is about to hit the market. This particular article deals with the Democrat Convention of 1912 when it took that party no less than 46 stormy ballots to come up with a candidate. Elsewhere in LIFE is a story on a big U.S. gamble: the Ubermensch have rearmed. Russia certainly fears the superior fighting men that Germany has managed to turn out in two World Wars and so the new force of 256,000 promises to be a good risk. With the Luftwaffe back overhead, the Panzers are this time rolling along in American M-48’s. Although new troops look more like G.L’s than Germans, they follow a distinguished military tradition not found here. Those of us in the Army are thankful for one thing: this time they are on our side.—Adv.
For the Best in BOOKS
SCHOOL SUPPLIES
TYPEWRITERS •
MONOGRAM SPORTSWEAR
•
SEAL JEWELRY • CLASS AND MINIATURE RINGS •
RELIGIOUS ARTICLES •
SPECIAL GIFTS FOR GRADUATES
•
AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
on-the-campus
The Scholastic
£ieap»
- by DIRTY JIM AUSUM
night check is over; lights out
* The clrive-in movie where we’d go, And somehoiv never watch the show, * We will have these moments to remember.!
* * *
4 EAH, moments to remember, and I souvenirs
from four years to remember too, little things and big ones, all of them unforgettable.
I was looking through my chest the other
*' day, but there wasn’t anything in it ex- cept
for the usual rib cage, heart, lungs, etc. so I ceased this introspection and began to look around my room. I wasover-..	whelmed
by the number and kinds of trophies
> I had picked up. Of course, some of them were cheap and gaudy, but then how »	many
guys can afford to keep anything worth-11	while
and still go to school? This, you realize, is all in jest, and it simply isn’t true.
Lots of guys can, what with scholarships and summer jobs and all. One guy I know
had a job for three summers as a fink,
.	and
" he fit in so well around here after that
„ that he didn’t .even need any money; he was fawned upon and idolized in his ,	leather-
sleeved jacket. But I seem to be getting away from the idea of souvenirs, so
*'	please
allow me to stop this headlong plunge into
reality and return to the things I found in my room. Ovei- in the corner, there i^. was
a copy of an idea I once submitted simultaneously
to the Cooper underwear company and
!	the	.
f philosopher and man about being, Mari-[	tain.
S I suggested that Mr. Maritain do a series of five-minute television shows sponsored by the Cooper folks, and they could call the series Jaccqie Shorts. While it is
11 true that the company decided not to do
1	the
T show (Mr. Maritain objects to the very
$ existence of blue shirts), they did send me a beautiful robe that they call their Medea model. I haven’t had a chance to
. wear it yet, but I will when it gets
I	cold again. It’s an awfully
!	warm looking robe.
a
a --------
|	1. Quagliano,' College Chemistry.
I May 13, 1960
AND WHO COULD EVER FORGET
that revolting girl friend of mine, Pauline? The only time anyone ever said anything even remotely nice about her was once when she led a wildcat walkout
of the foundry workers at Jones & Laughlin
in Pittsburgh and somebody said look, there’s a striking girl. And yet, she’s been a true morale boostei- for all the guys
who know both her and me. Several of them
have been heard to say that now they know
they’ll never have to many the world’s worst woman. Well may I say that if I don’t,
I most certainly won’t. And she does serve a useful purpose, at that.
I love her for it. But beauty isn’t everything,
there’s her mind. And there’s her mind, and there’s her mind and there’s her mind.
But she’s a sweet thing. She once borrowed
an old phrase and said to me, “The trouble	,
with you is that you don’t know what good
clean fun is,” to which I replied, “No, what good is it?” But it is silly to go on with her. Why doesn’t one of you go on
with her instead, way on, like to the moon.
IT’S NOT ALL IN WASHINGTON HALL
The University theater, I mean. Some of the best acting since I’ve been here has taken place in quite different places, like Frankie’s basement. I once saw the whole
Molly Bloom soliloquy enacted there. Of course nobody could think of what to do for
an encore, but it was a moving scene nonetheless. And Joer’s used to be a popular
spot for underclassmen Thespians, too. I have heard some truly moving recitations
there, such things as “Uhh, I don’t have it with me,” “I left it in my room,” “Somebody took my wallet,” and “Father took my Notre Dame I.D., but I have this Collegiate Press Card.” It is likely, though, that the very best acting takes place in the office of the Dean
of Students. How well I can remember the
morning of March 4, 1959. At 9:30 ajn.
(a lot of the mornings are a.m. now) your
correspondent entered the office, and for nearly thirty minutes he staged a magnificent
performance. He spoke softly, then let his voice swell to a roar. He grimaced, he shook,
he wiggled his ears. He pleaded, he . sobbed,
and tears welled up in his eyes. Finally, when he was through, the Dean jumped
to his	_
feet and burst into applause. Then, as the room grew silent, the Dean spoke.
. “Son,”
he said, “You have just won a week’s suspension
and a year’s probation. Would you like to go today, or tomoi-row?” I really didn’t mind that so much, but when the awards were
made at the end of the year I didn’t even get dishonorable mention.
AND NOW I SHALL SING MY
SWAN SONG
But what I want to know is, how come I’ve
never progressed beyond the ugly duckling
stage? But I am not hitter, and I won’t try to show my contempt for all of you by drowning you in acid comments, because you
simply are not contemptible. No matter how
many times people tell you that you are, don’t pay any attention. Even if they tell you one hundred times a day, don’t believe
them, because you are all good boys and girls. And besides, I don’t want this to seem like the end of something. Think of the years ahead of you. You brighter ones will go out and make money and have families
and be happy, while the majority of you can stay here and help me with my
Senior Essay.
Then, in the evenings, we can gather around a friendly cup of grog and pass the time away reciting limericks not unlike this one,
with which I choose to close my career.
Oh ye St. Mary’s women perfidious, . And ye Notre Dame classmates insidious, In My whole education
There’s been one revelation.
These four years have been perfectly hideous.	-
9
minis
LIBRARY ud BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
OUR COVER: Depicted today are two activities which when combined draw the energy of a considerable segment of the student body: the Presidential Review and the Engineering Open House. Two apologies of sorts may be due: one to the engineers for that utterly useless gadget being built — the art editor is not in engineering; the second to the Navy and Air Force ROTC units for being slighted — the art editor is also rather partial to the Army.
FOR YOUR
• BILLFOLDS
• BRIEF CASES
• GIFTS
• LUGGAGE
Hans/- Ri ntzsch Shep

BTsOCLAL CHEMISTRY III
Formulae for Proper Mixing Dr. X. Ploshun
Michigan at Colfax
11:00-12:00 P. M. Fri.-Sat. Prerequisite: Applied Magnetism I Sc II. Experiments dealing with relative evaporation, dryness and messiness of: H2O on hair, H2O and alcohol tonics on hair, H2O and hair cream on hair. Hypothesis: Only ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic is made specially to work with water. It leaves hair neat and manageable. Axiom: ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic replaces oil that water removes. Field trip demonstrating natural attraction of women to men with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic on hair. (D.Juan’s 1st law of gravitation). Reverse propulsion of women to men widi messy hair. (D.Juan’s 2nd law of negative movement). Laboratory facilities available: ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic, water, comb. ।-----------------
Vaseline
•VASELINE' IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROU GH-PON D'S INC.
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE

I; ‘ENGINUITY’ THEME OF ANNUAL OPEN HOUSE
. Space Expert Speaks - At Week-end Affair
by BILL SPARKS
* Superb ingenuity and prowess in the field of engineering was unveiled this afternoon as the 1960 version of the annual Engineering Open House, “Engi-"• neering Enginuity,” got underway. The policy of this year’s program is to de-7‘ velop the question, “What is engineer, ing?” in its socio-historical aspect.
Mr. John Kilmer, a space expert from Minneapolis Honeywell, was the featured speaker at the Engineering Show which opened the week-end activities this aft-A' ernoon. Mr. Kilmer discussed the “Engineer in Space” before a gathering of students and professors in the Engineering Auditorium. The program, under the direction of Gary Sheuring, was initiated with a welcome address by Dean ' Goglia followed by the presentation of the Engineer of the Year awards by the staff of the Technical Review.
In the main ring. The Drill Hall will hold the fascination of many throughout the week end as it will again house the Auto Show. Under the direction of Pete Martin, a mechanical engineer from New Bethlehem, Pa., the finest collection of cars and exhibits ever shown at Notre Dame will be presented. A variety of ~ sports cars, foreign cars, along with 1960
TOM HIRONS, JIM KAVAL, PETE MARTIN AND DON HEWITT A last minute meeting for Engineering Open House Committee
model compact cars, will be on display for viewing.
The Plymouth XNR, an experimental sports car, will hold the admiration of the many spectators as will its Ford counterpart, the Futuristic.
Foreign car enthusiasts will have a complete look into the Mercedes-Benz 220 SE, the first full-sized passenger car with fuel injection, the Moretti coupe and the Italian experimental Alfa-Romeo Bat V.
The Meister-Brauser Racing team of Chicago ’will have their 200 mph sports racing cars, the Scarab and the Bocar, on hand.
Three private owners will display their own uniquely-designed autos. To round out this year’s auto show will be the 3-D design studios of the Department of Art. This 'will include drawings and models done in courses throughout the year.
Chariot races, though not common to everyday living, will provide an entertaining spectacle at the half-time of the Old Timers’ football game tomorrow afternoon. Each engineering department will compete for the rotating trophy with the chariots, “horsed” by students receiving their commands from the driver. The hundred-yard race will be colored by the ancient costumes of the participants.
Adding luster to an already brilliant Open House will be the eleven departmental exhibits featuring nearly one hundred individual displays. General Chairman of this year’s week end is
Tom Hirons, a senior mechanical engineer from Adrian, Mich.
As viewers begin their tour, they will be met by a full-sized Talos missile sent by Bendix in the lobby of the Engineering Building.
Some eye-catchers. Among the more prominent displays will be an architectural garden, a shock wave demonstration, a digital computer, X-ray diffraction, an explanation of the Niagara Falls power plant arid a geodetic dome walk-in display. The Engineering science department will present a- nuclear reactor cooled with molten metal.
The Auto Show and various exhibits will be open tomorrow from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Guided tours will begin in the Engineering Building as will remote broadcasts by WSND.
Aiding Hirons will be Don Hewitt, coordinator; Jim Kaval, publicity;. Joe Bendick, projects; John Donlon, secretary; Ralph Danna, outdoor display and Carl Houck, guided tours.
Doctor Dooley Speaks Thursday in Drill Hall
Dr. Thomas Dooley, graduate of Notre Dame and well-known head of the international medical missionary organization Medico, will speak here at 7 pan. on Thursday, May 19. The talk will be in the Drill Hall.
Dooley first began his medical missionary work when assigned by the navy to aid the 600,000 refugees from Communist North Vietnam in 1954. After fully realizing the physical condition of the Vietnamese and the great amount of disease present, Dooley decided to return to South East Asia after his discharge from the navy. In 1956 he returned to Nam Tha, in the kingdom of Laos, and there set up a hospital with the aid of several other Americans, some of whom had worked with him in Vietnam.
Besides personally treating the multitude of illnesses, Dooley also taught the people personal hygiene and educated Laotian medical practitioners. He continued his work there for a year and then returned to the U.S., leaving the hospital in charge of Laotians.
Dooley, realizing that there was too much work for one doctor, organized the Medico organization. Since then, he has had many volunteers and has set up more hospitals in Laos.
In his work Dooley stresses to the patients the fact that all the medical aid which they receive comes from the United States. In this way he hopes to fight Communism and to act as an American diplomat.
May 13, 1960
11
Freshmen to Feature Top CJF Orchestra
Amidst a setting of fish nets, palm trees and an exotic tropical island the freshman class will hold their spring formal, “Jamaica Farewell,” in the Student Center tonight. Four hundred couples will dance to the downbeat of Lowell Latto and his Band from Ohio State University from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
Latto and his Band are well known to Notre Dame students as one of the top finalists in this spring’s College Jazz Festival competition. Latto himself was selected as the “Best Leader of the CJF” and also cited for the outstanding development of his band. Charles Suber, editor of Downbeat mag-
MISS MARILON PIERSON To reign over “Jamaica Farewell’’
azine, said at the Jazz Festival that, “This band from Ohio State will match any professional band on the road.”
Responsible for the initial social event of his class is chairman Donato Baldino of McHenry, Ill. Co-ordinating nine sub-committees that made the formal possible, Baldino is enrolled in the school of Arts and Letters and hopes to major in English here at Notre Dame.
Miss Marilon Pierson, Donato’s date for the evening, will reign as queen over the Jamaican festivities and will be crowned by the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., vice-president of the University.
Assisting Chairman Baldino are John Cunningham, executive chairman; Mike Becker, ticket chairman; Lee Piovarcy, business manager; Bob Bartolo, chairman of the Communion breakfast; Joe Kelly, publicity chairman; Dick Juck-niess, decorations designer; and Ed Collins, accommodations chairman.
Father Hesburgh will speak to the freshmen and their guests at the eight o’clock Mass this Sunday in Sacred Heart Church and also at their Communion breakfast to follow in the North Dining Hall.
Technical Review' Names Scheming Editor; Plan Improvements in Article Scope, Variety ‘
Garry Scheuring, a junior from Iona, Minn., has been named as the editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame Technical Re-vieiv. Scheuring, an aero engineer who has worked on the Review ever since his freshman year, will replace this year’s top executive, Tom Shishman. Garry had served as the magazine’s copy editor this year.
Also named to new posts in the staff are associate editors Tom Medland and Joe Ogurchak both seniors next fall. Medland, who comes from Logansport, Ind., and is seeking a mechanical engineering degree, was the feature editor of the Review this year. He is an active member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Also in the market for an M.E. degree is this year’s articles editor, Ogurchak, who makes his home in Akron, Ohio, and is also a member of the A.S.M.E.
Into the position of business manager will step this year’s office manager John McLaughlin, an electrical engineering major who comes from Washington, D.C. Hank Mittelhauser will assume the dual role of office manager and advertising manager in the 1960-61 publications.
Other new heads that have been named to the Review staff include: Bill Long, articles editor; Joe Bendick, copy editor; Dan McGinnis, features editor; and Bob Dusterberg, circulation manager. All of these men with the exception of Junior Dusterberg, are sophomores this year.
Newly appointed editor Scheuring is also a member of the Aeronautical Science Institute and is very interested
1960 Beaux Arts Ball Set To Theme of 'Aborigines'
Architects will find themselves far from the familiar atmosphere of drawing boards and blueprints tonight while attending the annual Beaux Arts Ball. The theme of the Ball, which will be held at the Moose Lodge, South Bend from 9:30 p.m. to 1 a.m., is “Aborigines and Old Lace.” The Ball will be a costume party.
During the dance, the new officers of the Architects Club will be invested. They are: Raymond Gaio, president, Richard Quinn, vice-president, Robert Canizaro, secretary, and treasurer, Joe Giattina. Gaio is now secretary of the organization and Quinn, a fifth year architect, was past vice-president of his junior class.
A variety of entertainment has been arranged for the Ball. Music will be provided by the Sam Thomas Trio plus one and Martin Yarborough, folk singer. Of special interest will be Latonga, native African dancer.
Chairmen of the event are Thomas Lamb of Chicago and Steven Roake of Great Neck, N. Y. Both are seniors.
GARRY SCHEURING
To engineer Tech Review
in seeing the formation of a chapter of the American Rocket Society here on * campus. In the coming issues of the Review he hopes to improve the scope * of the magazine giving it much more variety and making some of the articles * more technical, while reducing others more to the layman’s level.
University Announces Faculty 4 Professorships and Associates
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., announced recently the promotion of 28 * University faculty members.
Advancement of four men to the rank ’ of full professor was announced. They are Thomas F. Broden, law; Ernest L. “ Eliel, chemistry; Lawrence H. Lee, engineering science and Ernest E. Sandeen, 4 English.
Named associate professors were Wil- ’ liam T. Bonwich and Edmund J. McCarthy, marketing management; Leo M. 4 Corbaci, assistant to the vice president for academic affairs; Joseph M. Duffy, "4 Jr.; Seymour L. Gross, English; James I P. Kohn, chemical engineering; Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C., theology and B James M. Spillane, modern languages.
Sixteen instructors have been elevated to the rank of assistant professor. Ineluded are Robert E. Burns, Arthur L. Hennessy, Jr., James E. O’Neill and Rev. »'• James J. Zatko, history; Rev. James P. Doll, C.S.C., and Rev. John W. Lubbers, c C.S.C., theology and John W. Houck, business organization and management. Also Lester H. Lange and Cecil B. Mast, mathematics; Lewis E. Nicholson and Terence J. Spencer, English; Joseph V. Roberts, general program; Kenneth M. Sayre, philosophy and John A. ter Harr, modern languages.
12
The Scholastic
I
Ehrensing to Head YCS Coordination Group; Initiate 'Team' Setup to Increase Efficiency
JL ^bauid Otte
Taking charge of campus YCS activ-> > ities next year will be Rudy Ehrensing, who will head a committee of ten juniors k and seniors who will plan and coordinate projects of the YCS relating both to the , * national YCS program and the local chapter needs. The committee will meet
>. bi-weekly with Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., chaplain of the Notre Dame group, and will be the decision-making body for the group’s affairs on campus.
r Ehrensing, a pre-med junior from New Orleans, La., carries a Dean’s List average and is a member of the fencing team. Senior members of next year’s rt committee will be Mike Corcoran, sociology major from Sibley, la.; English majors Joe Keyerleber, Shaker Heights, Ohio, Mike Smith, Augusta, Ga., and Jerry Wolfe of Owensboro, Ky., a physics major.
Members of the committee who will be juniors next year are science majors Jack Mattox of Tulsa, Okla., Frank Courreges of Shreveport, La., Walt Wil-lihnganz of Lafayette Hill, Pa, Joe Tan-nian, a liberal arts student from Portsmouth, Ohio and Fred Springsteel, a math major from Kerkland, Wash.
* Notre Dame’s local group will be composed of various sub-groups or “teams,”
* which are composed of students with similar interests. These groups will then be responsible to the central ten-man T committee.
Next year’s “team method,” a new system for the campus YCS group, is being used in an effort to carry out the group’s . work more effectively and efficiently. It is hoped that the new set-up will in-_ crease communications between the separate local campus groups as well as
JERRY WOLFE, JOSEPH KEYERLEBER, RUDY EHRENSING AND MIKE SMITH Senior committee members to guide YCS fortunes.
between Notre Dame and YCS groups on othei’ campuses.
The YCS organization started here in 1940 under the direction of Father Putz, who has been chaplain since that time. During the past year the group has been active in the race relations controversy, promoted the dialogue Masses on campus and took part in the national convention in Chicago.
The group also continued its earlier programs: the campus book exchange, tutor program, campus press and the Leo XIII Lenten Lecture Series.
New Class Schedule Planned For Eliminating Late Lunch
Beginning next September, classes will begin at the following hours: 8:30, 9:30, 10:30, 11:30, 1, 2, 3 and 4 p.m. This future administrative policy of holding afternoon classes on the hour has been originated for efficiency purposes.
The new policy will see the end to late lunch permits, a nuisance to over 450 students this year. By eliminating the 12:30 class all students will get at least 40 minutes to eat.
Another reason for the change is to use more space efficiently. Next year there will be available 149 classrooms, six fewer than at the present time. In order to compensate for this loss a more reasonable class schedule will be devised.
This year only 6% of the students attend 4:30 p.m. classes. Only one fifth of the classrooms are in use for the 12:30 p.m. class, which is to be eliminated.
NEW ERA?
There is no denying the fact: the John Keegan regime of student government has begun. Everyone seems to have their own hunches on what it will bring to Notre Dame, but they don’t necessarily concur. In fact, they don’t even concur on John Keegan. One wonders why.
Monday’s meeting of the Senate took only one-half hour, but it started one-half hour late. At it, Keegan asked for “initiative and high goals,” pro
mised recognition for performance, and said he sought a “well-knit and compatible group.” No issue there, I guess, like motherhood.
Keegan’s helpmates were announced: Walt O’Toole, director of student organizations; Tim Hinchey, finance committee; John Walsh, academic commissioner; Mike Nash, student affairs commissioner; John Clark, social commissioner; John Kromkowski, international commissioner; Dave Sommer, head of the jazz festival; George Bott, executive secretary; Don Rice, head of the student responsibility committee; Brian Tuohy, head of the publicity committee; and Al Hamilton, WSND representative.
The new administration is going to try to have a student trip plane to the fall game with Miami, hopes to have a big-gei- and better homecoming week end with a queen and all kinds of big-name entertainment, and promises to have another one of those infamous bonfires.
Bernie Lee, a student ousted at Alabama State Teacher’s College at Birmingham, was given $70 as partial subsidy for the desegregation speech he will give here Sunday. He’s a favoiite of the NSA, NFCCS, and the YCS, but not of the Southerners. It could be interesting.
Another move on that subject was made Monday, and it was to table again the civil rights fight. A strong motion was going to be made sympathizing with the sit-ins, but this did not rest well with everyone. A more moderate one might be presented, depending on the pro and con brochure being put out by the Senate, and what happens because of it. Unless a direct referendum is called, the old question will inevitably arise: should a politician vote what he wants, or what his constituents want? Monday night, -7:45, could be hairy.
In other action, the Senate loaned $35 to the Class of 1962, which apparently is mighty poor, and $200 to summer storage for their first activities. Both will be paid back. A help of $100 to aid in the formal application for an engineering honor society was also suggested, but tabled.
And the Keegan people are under way.
May 13, 1960
13
f
When things get too close for comfort

STICK DEODORANT
•	Old Spice Stick Deodorant brings you safe, sure, all-day protection 1
•	Better than roll-ons that skip.
•	Better than sprays that drip.
•	Better than creams that are greasy
and messy.
1.00 plus loa
By land or by sea—you need this Social Security!

AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
14
The Scholastic
Cfutical JlofiijOMl
CONSIDERABLE skepticism attended the announcement of the University Theater’s plans for a production of The Most Happy Fella. Frank Loesser’s singing marathon poses enough difficulties to make a troup of professionals blanch, and far more seasoned college groups than ours have shied away from it. The skepticism was ill-founded however, for Father Harvey and his large cast present a production that in almost every way does complete justice to the material. There is very little one can say about a production like this except it is very good, very good indeed. There are moments that stand out as worthy of particular attention and there are, inevitably, flaws which mar, however slightly. But in the last analysis, the only really significant thing is that the production is a success on all fronts.
The script is an adaptation of Sidney Howard’s They Kneiv What They Wanted, a play which is less than a dramatic masterpiece. But the union drama and music is an uncommonly blest one, and the score is one of the best that modern theater has produced. The action concerns an aging California vintner’s attempt to bring a little sunshine into his declining years by marrying a young waitress. He sends her a proposal accompanied by a picture which purports to be of himself. When the waitress arrives and finds the young man of the picture not to be her intended but his young foreman, trouble ensues. But, when he is involved in an accident she nurses him back to health and a beautiful relationship is blossoming when more trouble ensues. The strength of the script lies in its well-developed characters and the relationships between them which are, if not subtle, at least complex.
Loesser’s score is not merely a conglomeration of set pieces for which the action comes to a screeching halt. The songs and fragments of songs run throughout the play, and there is cohesiveness in the scorescript, which is equalled perhaps only by My Fair Lady. And Loesser has given his singing actors far more difficult music than the affable tunes of Lerner and Loewe.
‘Most Happy Fella’
by Bernard McElroy
The first problem a director must solve then is the monumental job of casting, and to succeed he must have one of two kinds of people at his disposal; either singers who can act or actors who can sing. Father Harvey has met with great success here, for the thing which most strikes one about this production is that a great deal of first rate talent has been gleaned from among the students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. Certainly none of the players fill then- roles to perfection. Those with the best voices often are not the actors the roles require, nor can all the good actors acquit themselves without fault in the music. But there is such a good balance struck, such evidence of thorough training and preparation, that whatever shortcomings there are become negligible factors.
The Tony of Mike McKee is a case in point. He is not ideally suited to the role either physically or vocally, his tenorbaritone being a shade light and Ids appearance reminding one of County Cork more than old Napoli. But McKee knows his business and if he does not dominate the stage, he invariably graces it well. Dramatically he succeeds consistently in conveying the enthusiasm and good nature, and at times even the loneliness and longing of the character. His acting is technical and suggests being carefully planned rather than brilliantly conceived. But one must not underrate careful planning; the final scenes of the play are acted with taste and conviction that could not have been otherwise achieved. Vocally he displays an ability to husband his resources and he gets into trouble only when trying to push his voice beyond its limitations. Then there is a tendency to spread, and if the top notes are powerful, they are also hard-driven. He fares best in the most lyrical portions of the score, and his work in the ensemble, “How Beautiful the Days,” is one of the best singing bits in the performance. Myrna Walker possesses the best voice which the trans-Dixie lend-lease policy has so far yielded. Far from being the usually wobbly soubrette, she posseses a voice of great warmth and considerable power, and, except for a noticeable break between the lower and upper ranges, she uses it quite well. Dramatically she is more successful as the tender, worried girl of the later- scenes than as the independent rootless one of the beginning. She is not always conscious of the relationships between characters, but she performs with sincerity, and it is a pleasure to hear a female lead in Washington Hall sung well.
Another exceptional voice is possessed by Fred Gade. His light lyric tenor, a voice of extremely pleasing quality which he uses with considerable skill, is heard to better advantage in Washington Hall than in the cavern across the road. He sings “Love and Kindness” so very well that one is quite willing to overlook the fact that he cannot act.
The exact converse is true of Joe Harrington as the young foreman. That he can act is well known to anyone who has seen his previous work. The foreman is the only really well-developed character in this production, the only one who stands (Continued on page 19)
May 13, 1960
15
NO DRUMS... TRUMPETS
• <■
By BARRY FITZPATRICK
Last week an article in defense'pf the sit-in demonstrations recently ' popular with the Negro in the South appeared in this magazine. At the present time two alternate resolutions concerning these demonstrations are before the Student Senate at Notre Dame and an inquiry is being distributed to the student body in order that the senators may ascertain which, if either, of these resolutions would be acceptable to the students. A great deal of interest has been generated over this issue on the national as well as the campus level. The purpose of this article will be to outline the rationale adopted by those who oppose the sit-in demonstrations as an instrument in promoting better race relations.
Edmund Burke has said:
It is my contention that the sit-in demonstrations run a very high risk of so violating the harmony of the social order and so disturbing the continuity of the social fabric as to make them highly questionable from a moral point of view as well as from a political one.
In last week’s article the general implication was made that the Southern political leaders were unjustly discriminating against the Negro in their widespread condemnation of the sit-ins and the prohibitive measures which they have taken. One cannot help but wonder whether the author bothered to consider the reasons why these leaders have been so outspokenly critical of recent
Negro tactics. Governor Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina, after prohibiting . further demonstrations, made the following statement:
It became perfectly obvious to every- , one on the scene that things were " getting out of hand ... I had to take cognizance of the explosive nature of "* the circumstances . . . Our warnings have been to colored and white dem-dnstrators alike.
On March 20, Governor Collins of Florida, a longtime moderate on matters : of race relations, spoke via radio and TV to the people of his state. Governor Col- " lins explained that he was “ashamed” of the situations which had come about as >■ a result of the sit-ins in Florida, that there were “mobs forming in this nation ‘■Jj and in this state” and “that we are going ■ to have law and order in this state. I ’ don’t care who the citizen is.”
But I want to call your attention to the fact that the right to demonstrate ,,. in all cases is limited by the fact that if there is any clear and present danger that demonstrations will incite public disorder, it is unlawful.
Governor Collins applied this rule in March of this year just as he had ap- I plied it two	years ago when the Ku Klux	j
Klan announced a “peaceful” demonstration.	I
The Scholastic	I
16
Mr. Skip Easterly, the author of last week’s article, three times cited the fact ( that in all sit-in demonstrations staged J by Southern Negroes, the parties in-< IL volved were “well dressed, orderly, and || non-violent.” Can Mr. Easterly really be ,-'S so unrealistic as to believe in any possi-[| bility of non-violence when 3,000 Negroes 4 r> march on the State Capitol in Mont-t gomery, Ala., and are subsequently met by 10,000 white men marching in the opposite direction. Can he, and other ( L proponents of “non-violent” demonstra-I tions, really consider these demonstra-i, jk tions conducive to an orderly citizenry | when unmistakable signs of Klan rebirth r (f. are in evidence. In one Alabama county 1	400 crosses were burnt in a single night
j: following a series of Negro sit-ins. Three f weeks ago seven people were shotgunned ,. L in Biloxi, Miss., during a “non-violent” demonstration. In Nashville, Tenn., fol-4- lowing a three-week “cease fire,” oppos-? ing forces did battle with shovels and ik' knives. Even Mr. Easterly has admitted I that the baseball bat is more and more jL frequently finding its way into “non-vio-j lent” demonstrations. If any doubt re! mains concerning the “clear and present” • danger of violent outbreaks occurring at f 1. '“non-violent” demonstrations, let someone account for the large number of law < enforcement officers which appear at | each demonstration, even the student , j demonstration here in South Bend, April
I 7th.
I i-U
' '* AN ADMISSION
- I will be the first to admit that most of the violence is brought about through the action of the whites; nevertheless, the fact remains that with the existing i* racial situation in the South, the philosophy of “non-violence” is a contradiction in terms.
Can any real balance be seen between these and other outbreaks of violence and the concrete results of the sit-ins to date, the integration of four lunch counters, two in border states, Texas and Missouri, and two in North Carolina, a state heretofore considered a front-runner in the alleviation of racial discrimination.
This matter has been introduced in order to point out the ill effects which the sit-in movement may have on the general welfare and order of society and the injustice to the community which may result.
Supporters of this movement insist on calling the charges on which the Negroes are arrested “trumped up.” The fact that these “non-violent” demonstrators are charged with Breach of the Peace seems entirely unjust to these people. Black’s Legal Dictionary defines Breach of the Peace as: “a violation or disturbance of the public tranquility and order” and American Jurisprudence 8, 835, 83, complements this definition with: “nor is actual personal violence an essential element in this offense.” Thus, failure to have the demonstrators arrested when “clear and present danger” prevails could be construed as a violation of a public
May 13, 1960
official’s duty and denial of equal protection of the law to those members of the society whose rights are jeopardized by the demonstrations.
At this point I want to pause and make it very clear to the readers that I am by no means an opponent of the Negro or in favor of denying the Negro his rights. I agree wholeheartedly with the premise that certain practices by which the Negro is suppressed are in disharmony with Christian principles. I do, however, feel that the answer to this problem is not to be found in the sit-in demonstrations. Those who disagree with this point of view may feel that the new attention and publicity accorded the situation since the first of February may aid the Negroes’ fight. There is, however, very little evidence in support of this contention. The movement may, in fact, have a result exactly opposite to the one hoped for.
IRONY OF N. CAROLINA
It is indeed ironic that the two centers of sit-in activity are also recognized as front-runners in the formulation of workable integration plans and in the destruction of existing racial barriers. Greensboro was one of three North Carolina cities which agreed to desegregate its schools immediately following the Supreme Court decision of 1954. Many of the city’s restaurants are desegregated. The city library and public recreational parks are open to all races as is the new City Civic Center. A Negro serves on the seven-member council, put into office by white votes since the Negro population is not large enough (26% of 120,000) to elect a candidate in a city-wide election. Negroes also hold positions on all major city commissions.
Nashville, Tenn., where school integration under the model “Tennessee Plan” had begun very shortly after the 1954 decision, has recently been transformed into one of the hotbeds of racial turmoil in the South. Negro leaders in Nashville do not seem to realize the difficult political situation they have created for themselves. The effect of the sit-ins on the career of Mayor Ben West, long identified with Estes Kefauver as a true friend of the Negro, may be catastrophic from the Negroes’ point of view. Taking into consideration the political pressure brought about by the demonstrations, the next municipal election may return a segregationist.
Do the Negro demonstrators in the South and their counterparts on this campus and elsewhere realize how far back they could be set if the sit-ins caused the political upheaval they are capable of. If Mayor William Hartsfield of Atlanta is voted out of office by the noiser segregationists in that city, rallied by the common antagonism stirred up by the demonstrations, what would become of all the fine work that man has done for the Negro. In some areas (notably housing), Atlanta’s progress with this problem is far superior to that of many Northern cities according to the re
port of the U. S. Civil Rights Commission.
A TELLING STORY
North Carolina, generally recognized as the South’s most liberal representative with regard to racial difficulties, has -a four-way Democratic primary May 28. Do the advocates of sit-in demonstrations on this campus realize that I. Beverly Lake, a professor of law at Wake Forest and one of the most violent of Southern segregationists, changed his mind and entered the race against the more liberal Governor Luther Hodges only after enough racial trouble had been stirred up by the sit-ins to make the racial problem a significant campaign issue. Thus, instead of a political step forward, the Southern Negro, as a direct result of the sit-in, may be faced with a rather substantial leap backwards.
Earlier in this article intimations were made regarding the legality of the sit-in demonstrations. This is such an essential point that it warrants more detailed consideration. The legal principles involved center primarily around the notion of “disturbing the public tranquility and order” and the idea that the sit-ins violate the rights of private property guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The right and, indeed, the duty to protect the community from a breach of the peace'is inherent in the police power of a state. It would therefore seem that on any occasion where “clear and present danger” of a breach of the peace is in evidence, public officials have the right and the duty to take prohibitive measures. Measures of this sort have been taken in almost every instance of Southern sit-in demonstrations and justly so, for I think the facts clearly show that the possibility of maintaining the public tranquility and order during racial demonstrations is slim indeed. Mr. Chief Justice Vinson, in delivering the opinion of the Supreme Court on Feiner v. N.Y. (1951) cited the language of another case, Cantwell v. Conn. (1940), as being appropriate:
When clear and present danger of riot, disorder, interference with traffic upon a public street, or other immediate threat to public safety, peace, or order appears, the power of the state to prevent or punish is obvious.
That the Southern leaders were entirely within their rights and that they acted with a great deal of wisdom and out of concern for the public welfare seems a rather well founded conclusion. But there is another legal principle with which the proponents of the sit-in movements must take issue, “the right to acquire, enjoy, own and dispose of property.”	.
Since the Civil Rights Act of 1875 was held unconstitutional (1883), the ’ Supreme Court has never varied from the viewpoint that the Fourteenth ' Amendment prevents racial discrimination by the state and that the Bill of Rights insures against discrimmation .
' 17
by the Federal Government. Neither prevents discrimination by private parties; in fact, neither prevents private individuals from doing anything. The Court has consistently upheld the right of private property owners, accused of violating the due process clause of the Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment, to enter into restrictive covenants regarding disposal of real estate. The situation surrounding the sit-ins seems essentially the same. Thediscrimination is on the part of private individuals, the store managers, and the Negroes are in no way denied any civil rights. They are being denied an entirely arbitrary social privilege.
On the other hand, the Negroes may themselves guilty of violating the rights of others. Aside from the obvious danger to the community which is brought about by the “non-violent” demonstrations, the rights of the store owners are being trampled upon. The demonstrations are causing large disturbances in the stores. Regulai- customers, fearful of becoming involved in the demonstrations, have been staying away from the stores. Business is, in general, being disrupted. This seems a direct violation of the rights of stores owners by denying them their right to enjoy their private property.
Section 241 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code of 1950 provides that: “If two or more persons conspire to injure, oppress, threaten, or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United States or because of his having so exercised the same . . . they shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years or both.”
I would like to suggest that certain principles invoked in labor disputes may possibly be applicable to the sit-ins. Any state has the right to ban picketing when no direct economic connection between pickets and picketed can be demonstrated. This can more properly be applied to pickets at Northern branches of chain stores which operate on a segregated basis in areas where local tradition deems it necessary. It has been suggested before that this amounts to a kind of “secondary boycott.”
In last week’s article Mr. Easterly deems “utterly ridiculous and extremely false” any statement to the effect that the NAACP has stages or instigated any of the demonstrations. How then does Mr. Easterly account for a letter-which is in my possession and which was written to a person on this campus by a committee of the NAACP urging that the recipient stage a demonstration and outlining the committee’s rules for such demonstrations. How does he account for the admission made by the first Negro to sit-in in February, Ezell Blair, that after the first day he and his companions solicited and obtained the support of the local Chairman of the NAACP, Dr. George Simkins? How does he explain the elaborate plans for the forthcoming legal battle now being drafted by Thurgood Marshall NAACP
18
General Council. Although these facts can add little emphasis to my position, they do show that the sit-in movement has a good deal more organization than one cares to admit. They are not the spontaneous thing Mr. Easterly would have us believe they are. Of course last week’s commentator has admitted to spending only twenty days in the South and may not be as well informed as he should be before passing a final judgement on the sit-in movement.
I do not pretend to pass any sort of final judgement on the merits of the sit-in movement. That is not my job; nor is it Mr. Easterly’s. We should merely tabulate theadvantages and disadvantages to which this movement may lay claim. It would seem, however, that the disadvantages far outweigh the advantages.
Last week’s well travelled reporter, the Student Senate, and the student body should also keep in mind the low
AT THE THEATERS
Continuing its present British kick, the Avon presents this week a murder mystery called Sapphire. Sapphire herself is a Negro-passing-as-white (a current fad), and appears briefly at the beginning, beautifully mangled and murdered in full color. Detectives Nigel Patrick and Michael Craig then set off to find the murderer (or murderess) and meet with the usual success. It would be unfair to name the killer here, and I won’t do it — because I don’t know whodunit. But the movie is better than the normal British treatment of murder, and might be worth seeing.
The Colfax has Robert Taylor treading the same jungle path Gregory Peck, Susan Hayward, and Ava Gardner carefully followed some years ago with more success. In Killers of Kilimanjaro, there is nothing of the Snows and Taylor spends his time making noises like a Great White Hunter and casting glances in Anne Aubrey’s direction. The plot is simple in its dullness, and Taylor refuses to stop playing the brave man out on his own. This detracts from whatever you can find in the Cinemascope and Technicolor gadgets. Nothingness.
Probably the only thing downtown which is really worth your money is The Unforgiven, showing at the Granada until May 18. John Huston directed this un-typical Western starring Burt Lancaster, Audrey Hepburn, Lillian Gish, Audie Murphy, and Charles Bickford. In every aspect of the movie, you can feel Huston’s touch of precision, and the result is not only a powerful clash of interests but a very entertaining motion picture. The stars are a little uncertain in a couple of scenes, but even Lancaster turns out a convincingly good performance. You should not miss this Movie of the Week, which will give you over two hours of good viewing without a dull moment. Much more than TV can offer at present.
The State is keeping up its so-so double feature binge by showing The Purple Gang and The Atomic Stibmarine. The former tries to capitalize on the success of Al Capone, and does a poor job of it. Barry Sullivan, playing a sort of onscreen Untouchable Ness, almost singlehandedly captures a mob of no-goodniks and brings them to justice. In the meantime, his wife loses her unborn baby and goes thoroughly insane. Very good, wholesome, family fun.
The Atomic Submarine is supposed to appeal to headline conscious adults, but whom are they trying to kid? Starring an atomic sub, Arthur- Franz, and Dick Foran, this horrible thing dips into the science-fiction stew and sprinkles the liquid on the polar seas. See the thrilling and deadly hide-and-seek game played by the atomic sub and the radioactive-type blotch on the radar screen.
Last Thursday, the University Theater did an unexpected thing: they premiered an extremely enjoyable musical. The Most Happy Fella is a lively show in its own right, and as staged by the University Theater it becomes even livelier. Mike McKee is excellent, though in parts he has trouble breaching the solid wall of music Mr. Biondo places between the stage and the audience. McKee’s gray temples were accomplished by putting a hat on his head and painting white all the hair that still showed, and James Thurber had a hand in the painting of the act curtain, but aside from this the staging was fresh and good. Myrna Walker and Karen Koehnemann are definitely two of the best stage personalities who have ever crossed the Dixie. Don’t miss this show.
Coming up: Andrew and Virginia Stone’s gutting of the He de France is put on screen as The Last Voyage, coming to the Colfax next week. Tennessee Williams, Marlon Brando, Joanne Woodward, and Anna Magnani join forces in The Fugitive Kind, a movie to watch for, soon at the Granada.
—Tony Wong
The Scholastic
probability of the general racial prob-	■
lem being solved on a national level.	I
They should remember that if they en- E dorse this movement formally they are L doing a great injustice to those students , who live in the areas where this problem * prevails and ultimately to their own v cause. For it is these students who may one day attain the responsibility of local 4 leadership in the affected areas and thus be in a position to do something. Noth- < j ing will be accomplished by an emotional crusade on the part of this or any other .-A student body. Nothing will be accomplished by making the breakdown of « racial barriers a surrogate religion. The armor of Christian principles is a strong one indeed, but it is one thing for an individual to apply them in his everyday life and quite another to inject them as weapons into a movement bent on sud- s denly breaking down a class structure which was three hundred years in the making.

A
> f
'►
i
V
campus character:
'Happy Fella'
(Continued from page 15)
out as a genuine person. Moreover, Harrington has an intensity and communicativeness about him which dominates
the scene whenever he is on stage. In the first act he very nearly succeeds in making the play his story, which is not as it should be. His singing is competent, if a bit ragged about the edges.
All these roles however are well filled.
I
r
>-
L
BLACKSTONE TORT
Tom Karaty as Herman displays considerable versatility and strikes the best balance of the evening between vocal, dramatic and hoofing arts. He is an affable comic, a vigorous dancer and can sing music that is definitely not for a voice of limited range. Karen Koehne-mann can’t sing or act (unless shouting and grimacing is singing and acting) but she can dance and she has about her a certain frantic energy which permeates her entire performance. Much more important, she has a good deal of instinctive savvy about how to string an audience along and make them love it. Phil Jones, Dick Nowery, and Bill Flaherty as the chefs all evidence good voices and their ensemble work is flawless. They are pretty funny too.
One of the most pleasant surprises is the chorus. In the past, Washington Hall choruses have tended to be thin and somewhat less than musicianly. In this instance, however, under the direction of Father McAuliffe, they produce sound which is full and well blended, and the diction and cueing is well-nigh perfect.
Father Harvey’s direction has all the sureness of a professional, which of course he is, and things move along at a lively clip. Simply for trying Most Happy Fella he deserves all available accolades, but for trying and succeeding so well, he and his hard-working crew thoroughly deserve the SRO signs they will be displaying tonight and tomorrow.
I
AIR. FORCE OFFICER TRAINING
SCHOOL
FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES
Pride of the law school, Blackstone has never lost a moot trial. But there’s nothing moot about his preferences in dress. He finds that when he’s comfortable, he can trap a witness and sway a jury like Clarence Darrow.
So he always wears Jockey brand briefs while preparing his briefs. Exclusive Jockey tailoring gives him a bonus of comfort he gets in no other underwear. Fine Jockey combed cotton is more absorbent, smoother fitting, too.
Tolookyourbest, feel your best, take a tip from Tort. Always insist on Jockey brand briefs, $1.25. Your campus store has them now! COOPER'S INCORPORATED • KENOSHA, WIS. tyockeu ® BRAND W briefs
Three-month course leads to a commission as a Second Lieutenant. If you are graduating this June, you may be eligible for admission to the new Air Force Officer Training School. Successful completion of the three-month course wins you a commission, and a head-starton a bright, rewarding future in the Aerospace Age.
The School is open to men and women college graduates with certain technological and administrative skills. If you are selected for the School, you will receive Staff Sergeant pay while a trainee. Graduated officers may later apply for advanced training and graduate study at government expense. Male officers may also apply for flight training as pilots or navigators.
For the career-minded young officer, the Air Force way of life can be stimulating, exciting and full of meaning. He will be serving himself, his family and his nation. This is the Aerospace Age. It is a time when a career in Air Force blue has so much to offer the young man or woman who qualifies.
The Air Force is seeking only a select group of college graduates for admission into Officer Training School. However, we’d be happy to send detailed information to any senior who is interested. Just write: Officer Training School Information, Dept. SCL04, Box 7608, Washington 4, D.C.
There’s a place for tomorrow’s leaders on the -w- y Aerospace Team. I
Air Force
May 13, 1960
19
CANOE TRIPS
An exciting vacation of fishing and camping in the Quetico-Superior wilderness. For everyone —no experience requited. Only $6.00 per day. Write now for complete information to Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Ely, Minnesota
WILDERNESS CANOE TRIPS
We furnish everything for a thrilling M vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wilderness! Aluminum canoe, complete camping outfit, fine food—all at low daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates. (P.S. Girls make canoe trips, too!)
Border lakes Outfitting
P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED
OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
FULBRIGHT SCHOLARS
About 900 Fulbright scholarships for graduate study or predoctoral research as well as scholarships for study in Latin America under the Inter-American Cultural Convention will be offered for 1961-62. Applications will be available May 20.


LAST CHANCE
Tonight and tomorrow night mark the final showings of the University Theatre’s spring musical, “The Most Happy Fella,” in Washington Hall. Tickets are available for the price of $1.50 at the Washington Hall Box Office after 4 p.m.

1
1
4

$

4
I
I.

212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
New Court Favorite!
from our University Shop DISTINCTIVE SPORTWEAR FOR LATE SPRING AND SUMMER
*5

RACKET STRING
•	Mv* lilts gut
•	StaytlhnllRr
•	Lusts longer
•	Snugs cunt rolled
•	HMsture Immune
ALWAYS SPECIFY
XBMMWMK QUALITY STRINGS
Approximate Stringing Cost VANTAGE Tennis.......88
PRO-FECTED Tennis....$7
Badminton....St
MULTI-PLY Tennis.....88
Badminton....$4
Wool-and-Orlon* Acrylic Blazers, $40 1 Wash - and - WeaP Dacron* Polyester and Cotton Plaid Odd Jackets, $35
India Madras Plaid Odd Jackets, $35 Dacron - and - Worsted
Tropical Odd Trousers, $19.50 ‘ Wash - and - Wear*
Odd Trousers, $12.50 and $15.50 Colorful Sport and Knit Shirts, $4 to $8.50 Bermuda Length Shorts, $7.50 to $12.50 ^DuPont’s trademark
ESTABUSMD1BSB
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. HEW YORK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
4
1
At teams shops and sporting goods stores.
20
The Scholastic I
PidiM

. N.D. GRIDDERS TEST OLD TIMERS TOMORROW
•I
u	——	e
School Field New Site u Of '60 Spring Contest J,	by JOHN BECHTOLD
?,	Tomorrow afternoon at School Field,
7 r the annual Old Timers-Varsity football ’ game, which concludes spring practice every year at Notre Dame, will take place. School Field is located at 416 & South Eddy Street in South Bend. * Kickoff time is set for 2 p.m.
In 1955, this annual spring game was also held at School Field, the site of all 1 ' high school football games in South 1 Bend. The reason for* the move is that the playing surface in Notre Dame Stadium is being resodded.
The idea of an Old Timers game was conceived by the late Knute Rockne in : * the late twenties, mostly for the purpose r of creating more interest among the players in spring practice. Since that 4. time, it has been continued every spring, y Last year, in what was Coach Joe Ku-I , harich’s debut as the Notre Dame mentor, the Varsity won, 21-7.
1 The 30th annual game will be played । tomorrow with many former Irish greats J 7 returning to action. Heisman Trophy ' winner and three-time All-American end i Leon Hart heads the star-studded list.
1955 All-American fullback Don Schaefer will see plenty of action in the V backfield. The line will be anchored by 1 such stalwarts as Gus Cefelli, Ray Le-] mek and Fred Poehler at tackles, George Nicula at guard, and Ed Sullivan at center. Catching the passes for the Old Timers will be 1954 Co-Captain Dan Shannon and Dick Prendergast.
ED SULLIVAN 1957 captain returns
One of Notre Dame’s greatest passers, George Izo, and possibly their most famed field-goal kicker, Monty Stickles, will be making their final college appearances when they compete for the Old Timers.
Izo, who was twice accorded national “back of the week” honors for his terrific performances in the latter stages of the 1958 season, was handicapped most of last year by a leg injury, but came back to pass the Irish to victories over Iowa and Southern California in the final two contests on the schedule.
Stickles, an outstanding pass-receiver who is expected to team up with Izo considerably in tomorrow afternoon’s contest, twice won All-American honors at end, but he will be remembered longest in Notre Dame grid history for his clutch field goals. As a sophomore, his 29-yard boot with eight minutes remaining in the game upset Army, 23-21. As a junior, a 21-yard placement was the difference as the Irish edged Duke, 9-7. Last year' as a senior against Navy, with the score tied at 22 points apiece and only 32 seconds to play, he sent a 43-yard boot through the uprights for another Notre Dame victory. In his three years Stickles kicked five of seven field goal attempts, although he had nevei- attempted one prior to the successful placement against Army as a sophomore.
In the next-to-the-last game of the 1959 campaign, the talents of Izo and Stickles produced a victory over Iowa in the last two minutes of play. Notre Dame trailed, 19-13 at the time, but then a 56-yard touchdown pass from Izo to sophomore halfback George Sef-cik tied the score. Then Stickles place-kicked the 20th and game-winning point.
Izo was the second college player picked in this year’s professional draft, while Stickles was a first-round choice. Izo will perform for the St. Louis Cardinals this fall, and Stickles for the San Francisco Forty-Niners.
Other seniors from last season’s Irish squad playing for the Old Timers .tomorrow include last season’s captain, Ken Adamson, at guard, Jim Crotty at halfback, Quarterback Don White, and center Bob Scholtz.
Against this array of past Irish stars, next fall’s varsity hopes the tradition of the varsity winning will prevail tomorrow. The tentative starting lineup for Coach Kuharich’s blue and gold features experience at every position. At ends will be Les Traver and Max Burnell. Sophomores Bob Bill and George Williams start at tackles. Nick Buoni-conti and Norbert Roy will open at guard. 205-pound Tom Hecomovick anchors the line at center. Quarterbacking the varsity will be George Haffner, 180-
GEORGE IZO
Switches to Old-Timers
pounder from Chicago’s Mt. Carmel „ High School. Two speedsters, Ray Rat-kowski and Angelo Dabiero, operate at halfbacks. Bill Henneghan, a quarterback last year, opens at fullback for the Irish.
Last Saturday the varsity prepared for the game by holding a scrimmage at School Field. The practice session proved to be the longest of the season for the Irish footballers. Starring for the varsity were Clay Schulz at quarterback, freshman Chuck O’Hara at halfback and fullback Joe Perkowski. Four units participated in the Eddy Street action.
In last Saturday’s scrimmage, the Greens finally defeated the Whites, 4726, but only after three extra quarters of action. At the end of the fourth period, the score was tied 20-20. The third and fourth teams began to move the hall better for the remainder of the scrimmage.
Schulz, the Irish defensive quarterback, took over where Haffner and Daryle Lamonica left off. With the score still tied, Schulz quickly led the Green unit to three touchdowns.
Several members of the Notre Dame line were tough at their positions throughout the afternoon. Ends Traver, Burnell, Leo Seiler and John Powers played long and hard with Traver catching two passes for touchdowns.
The middle of the Irish line proved to be rough competitors. Leading the way were Buoniconti, Roy, Bill, Dave Hurd, and Ed Burke.
Jim Sherlock, a freshman -end from Mt. Carmel, proved to he competent at kicking extra points as he converted on five of seven attempts.
Mav 13, 1960
21
1
Wilsonmen to Battle MSU In Dual Meet at Lansing
Tomorrow at East Lansing, Mich., Notre Dame’s spikemen attempt to duplicate last year’s win over Michigan State. The Irish will not have an easy time in accomplishing this feat as the Spartans have eight returning lettermen and several gifted sophomores.
Heading the lettermen list is Captain Bob Lake. Lake once ran a 4:04.9 mile in a losing race against Penn State. He is slated for action in the mile or the 2-mile event.
25-year-old Willie Atterbury, a world record holder in the 600-yard run, will give the Green a trying time in the middle distance races. Lettermen Jim Carr, Brian Castle and Tony Smith give the Staters additional middle distance strength.
Pole vaulters are in good supply at East Lansing with Mike Kleinhaus, reportedly shooting for a 15-foot clearance, and Lee Ekstrom both having earned monograms last year.
Michigan State appears to be weak in the weight events with Al Neumann in the shot put as the only letterman available for action.
Sophomore Sonny Akpata is expected to be the top State broad jumper, while another soph, Zach Ford, is probably the Spartans’ number one 100-yard and 220-yard dash man. Another competitor at these distances is football halfback Herb Adderley.
The mile relay team of Atterbury, Castle, Carr and Ford, Smith or Lake should not prove to be too gracious a host to the Irish foursome.
Last Wednesday the Big State Meet, featuring such powers as Indiana and Purdue, was held at Notre Dame’s Cartier Field.
In the final contest of last Saturday’s meet Army’s mile relay team presented the Cadets with the five big points which gave them a 72-68 victory over* Notre Dame.

JERRY FITZPATRICK
Triple winner against Army
KEGLER BANQUET
The Kampus Keglers will draw another successful season to a close with a banquet at the Palais D’or on Thursday evening, May 19. Chow time is slated for 6 p.m. Ed Silliman is in charge of the evening’s festivities which will be climaxed with the presentation of awards.
Purdue and Indiana Golfers Oppose Irish in State Meet
Notre Dame’s golf team faces a big test this week when it faces Indiana and Purdue on the Indiana University course Saturday. To the winner of this 36-hole medal play tournament goes the title of Big State Meet Champions. Last year Indiana won the Big State Meet with a score of 751, Purdue was second with a 754 and Notre Dame finished third with a 783 total.
Both Purdue and Indiana are golfing powerhouses. Purdue, Big Ten Champion and number two team in the country last year, has most of its starting team back. Indiana has seven returning lettermen from a team that finished third in the Big Ten last year. For Indiana, the two men most feared by the Irish are Ron Royer and Jon Sommer, both of whom can break 70 and have recorded scores as low as 64.
On Monday the Irish go to East Lansing to play a dual meet with Michigan State. The Spartans have five out of their first six starting men back this year and their record to date is almost spotless. They have defeated both Northwestern and Wisconsin by over 17 points apiece.
Purdue, Indiana and Michigan State will be Notre Dame’s three toughest opponents. However, the Irish have done well, having lost only to Iowa.
The number one spot on the team is held by Captain Terry Lally, while second, third and fourth spots go to Christie Flanagan, Tom Grace and Frank Hund respectively. It’s a tossup as to whom will play the fifth and sixth position but Ray Patak, Phil Schuster and Bruce Odlaug are three who have shown they desire these two spots.
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., head coach, has attributed the success of this year’s team to four main factors: the great improvement shown by Lally and Flanagan; the ability of sophomore Grace to fill the number three spot, the dependable winning play of Hund and the addition of Rev. Clarence Durbin, C.S.C., to the coaching staff.
Father Durbin has been able to take over most of Father Holderith’s leg work and is constantly available to the team members whenever* instructions are needed. He brings to the team the benefits of his years of coaching and championship golf experience.
ND Baseballers Meet
Tough Michigan Foes 4
The Notre Dame baseball team, which boosted its over-all season record to a I, nifty 14-3 last week, will play two Big Ten teams this week, meeting Michigan State at East Lansing on Wednesday ' and then entertaining Michigan in a J return match on Thursday at Cartier 4 Field. Game time for this game will be f I 3 o’clock.
As of May 8, Michigan State was in J eighth place in the Big Ten with a 2-4 J record. The big stickman for the Spartans is catcher Bob Monczka. Pitching mainstays are righties Mickey Sinks 1 and Don Sackett.	* ।
In an earlier game on May 2, the Kline-men defeated Michigan, 8-4, on the latter’s home field. Effective nine-hit j hurling by Nick Palihnich and three base hits by second sacker Jack Gentem- u po paced the Irish. The win was Palih-nich’s fourth straight of the current campaign. In this game Gentempo i' raised his batting average to .475, high I on the team.	'j
Revenge was sweet for the Irish last Friday as they settled an old score with the Broncos of Western Michigan by ri swamping the Kalamazoo nine, 12-2, at Cartier* Field. Prior to this game, the t Irish had been beaten seven times in a row by the defending Mid-American « Conference champs, including two games
in the District Four NCAA playoffs here " last year.
The Irish wasted little time showing -< their superiority as they tallied all 12 runs in the first five innings. Winning^-pitcher Jack Mitchell himself paced the J attack with a trio of singles. Third baseman Dan Hagan had a double and , i two singles to tie Mitchell for individual honors. First baseman John Carretta I had two doubles and three rbi’s; right fielder Frank Finnegan blasted a triple which drove in two runs.
22
The Scholastic

Visiting Spartan Netmen Engage Irish Tomorrow
Last Wednesday, the Notre Dame varsity tennis team met Western Michigan University at Kalamazoo. This week they return home to face Toledo University on Tuesday.
Previous to the Western Michigan meet, the Irish had compiled a 8-4 record in competition this year.
On May 6 and 7, Coach Tom Fallon’s racketmen were at Iowa City, Iowa, competing in the two-day quadrangular meet with Iowa, Northwestern, and Ohio State. On Friday, the first day of the meet, the Irish whipped Iowa and Ohio State, with identical 7-2 victories. Don Ralph, Bill Heinbecker, Ray Bender and Brian Campanaro all posted single victories for the Irish over the Buckeyes, while Ralph and B. Heinbecker, Bender and Pete Heinbecker and Stevenson and Campanaro took a clean sweep for Notre Dame in the doubles competition of that match.
Against the state University of Iowa later- in the day, Notre Dame’s Ralph, Bender, the Heinbecker brothers, Stevenson, and Campanaro again brought home the victory for the defending Na
tional Champion Irish team, while the doubles team of Ralph and Heinbecker defeated the Hawkeye representatives, 8-5. Iowa’s Utley and Voxman proved too strong for the Bender and P. Heinbecker team, as did Nadig and Narin when they defeated Stevenson and DeWald.
On Sunday the Irish streak stopped as they lost to Northwestern University, 6-3, to place second in the entire meet. Notre Dame’s top men, Ralph, B. Heinbecker and Bender won their matches, but P. Heinbecker, Dee Stevenson and Brian Campanaro of Notre Dame lost.
Inside competition. Rain forced the match inside, where Northwestern duplicated the Irish feat of the day before by defeating the three Irish doubles teams for a sweep of the doubles matches, a victory in the match, and first place in the meet. Winners in
Storage for Winter Garments
the doubles for the' Wildcats were Messick-Heiben, Koniki-Lockhart, and Krem-Bard, defeating respectively the twosomes of Ralph-Heinbecker, Bender-Heinbecker, and Stevenson-Campanaro of Notre Dame.
Tomorrow Fallon’s squad meets Michigan State University on the Irish courts. They meet the University of Michigan on Monday, again on - their home courts. As M.S.U. beat Northwestern 5-4 earlier in the season, Notre Dame will have their hands full in tomorrow’s match. Although the Wolverines may be a slight bit weaker than in previous years, they are always one of the top contenders for the Big Ten Crown, and must be considered as such this year.
Because of the scheduling of the Old-Timer’s Game tomorrow, Coach Fallon is trying to arrange to have the tennis match with the Spartans in the morning.
only $2.95
—PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
STUB! ii nm
European Year Plan
A full academic year for undergraduate students at the University of Vienna including three Field-Study-Tours through Europe. English-taught courses. German language study. Housing in Austrian homes.
Time: SEPTEMBER to JULY.
Application deadline: JUNE IS.
COST: $2,125 Price includes: Ocean transportation, room, board, tuition and travel in Europe.
INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES 35 East Wacker Drive, Dept. R.
Chicago 1, Illinois
Please send this coupon for detailed bulletin.
name
address
“IT ISN’T" necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional amount.
CALL CE 4-3188
OR
STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER LINCOLN WAY EAST
1st corner across the river on the Bus line
city	sew stale
Schaal
Mav 13. 1960
23
Tomorrow’s Security must be planned TODAY
PETE HASBROOK, ’60 CE 4-0330
jack McKenna, ’60 AT 7-1738
Prudential Agent
The Pradential INSURANCE COMPANY OFAMEHCA
» mated Me'—wr riwnyiny
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
last letter to “Repercussions” (which you so carefully deleted for publications)— let the anti-integrationist get his opinions in the Scholastic in a long article. There are two sides to every story but you are making sui-e only one of those sides is heard! This is good journalism?
By the way, of the three letters you put under the heading of “Our Southern Readers,” mine was the only one written by a Southerner (Laredo, Texas) — one was from Washington, D. C., and the other was from Detroit, Mich. Just goes to show once again that not all Northerners agree with you. What are you going to do about it?
Don Hendon
153 Cavanaugh
(ED: The deleted section mentioned above appeared in the latter part of a rather long letter. As enunciated in the past, it is our policy to shorten letters too long for publication. In regard to the second complaint, it was not our in-tention to characterize the writers as “Southerners” as much as to attract attention to the letters. Apparently Mr. 4 Hendon feels that identification with his home region attaches some sort of stigma to a letter writer.)
OKLAHOMA!
Editor:
In regards to a letter from the exchairman of the Oklahoma delegation directed at the Scholastic’s “Commentary” column, it would be well to bear in mind the following FACTS.
(1) In spite of the fact that J. How- a, ard Edmondson, Democratic Governor
(Continued on page 25)
This year,
fly home In the quiet comfort
of United’s DC-8 Jet Mainliner
There’s no better way to travel anywhere than a United Jet Mainliner®.
The DC-8 is fast, of course. It whisks you coast to coast in a few short hours. But it is 'more, than fast. It is quiet and smooth . . . flies up where the air is serene and peaceful ... with hardly a vibration from the powerful engines.
The DC-8 Jet is comfortable, too. It has big, wide aisles that even a giant football tackle can roam in, casually. The DC-8 seats, largest on any jet, have air vent, light and
stewardess call buttons built right in—no reaching overhead. Your trip in this superb aircraft is topped off with United’s extra care service that makes you feel like a king whether you fly de luxe Red Carpet® or economical Custom Coach Service.
Try the best—fly United’s DC-8. Fly it home; then for a really big treat, fly to Hawaii for a wonderful vacation. Economical Custom Coach and United tour prices make it possible on a moderate budget. See a Travel Agent or call any United Air Lines office.
24
The Scholastic
LAST CHANCE
The last issue of the SCHOLASTIC ' will appear one week from today. May 20. All material for this issue must be in by Monday night. Office s hours will be Sunday and Monday ( evening, 7:30 to 11:30 p.m. At „> other times contact the new editor in 'i room 319 Badin, or his department * heads.
‘ NOTHING HOLDS LIKE t SPERRY TOP-SIDERS
For your personal safety afloat and ashore
k
i
for non-slip safety highest flexibility greatest comfort
White or Navy Men’s & Women’s Juniors’ 1J4-4J6

ON ANY DECK OR COURT
At Shoe, Sports, Marine Dept. Stores. Write for
-A_______dealer name, style folder
fam
WP-JflSiDSl
J*-	®
Box 338T Naugatuck, Conn,
Repercussions
(Continued from page 24)
of Oklahoma, did, in fact, commit himself to Senator Kennedy, it should he noted that the 29 delegates chosen by vote are unanimously in support of Lyndon B.- Johnson. Further, breaking a long-established precedent, Governor Edmondson will not be among the delegates from Oklahoma at the 1960 National Democratic Convention, due to his stand in support of Mr. Kennedy.
(2)	In 1956, at the National Democratic Convention, (to be distinguished from the 1956 Mock Democratic Convention) the Oklahoma delegation, it will be remembered, supported Harriman for the Presidential nomination on the party ticket, and chose Kefauver for the VicePresidency. At no time did Kennedy receive Oklahoma delegate votes in 1956.
(3)	“And finally, for your information,” it is unrealistic to suppose that Oklahoma is financially capable of surpassing Texas as the industrial center of the Southwest. The primary occupation of this state of Oklahoma is still agricultural, and will remain so for some time.
Complimenting the staff of the Scholastic on their work in publishing a magazine accurately informed, I feel that the “Commentary” column is quite well worth reading.
A. Stone Hartnett 430 Morrissey
FOR THE Independent Traveler...
Here is an opportunity to join a unique organization made up of people interested in unregimented European travel. Members have a source of travel information and referrals with no commissions involved; bases of operation in New York and Europe as well as a meeting place for members to socialize and have fun; shopping tips and discounts, lists of English speaking doctors and dentists; low cost travel insurance, hotels and food sources; social activities, and many other services. If you are planning to travel to Europe ■ - • send for full information on the benefits of membership to .
Overseas Guest Club
509 FIFTH AVE, N.Y. 17 / OX 7-5157
RENEW YOUR SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTION NOW!
itsYOURSfor as little as $39~ P®r month
Ramb/ert!^zix^v©&ih)
The Rambler American 2-Door Deluxe Sedan, above, is America’s lowest-priced car—only $1795*. You save at least $117* over other U. S. economy cars. Parks anywhere. Full family room. And so easy on gas. You save when you buy— you save as you drive when you Go Rambler.
•All pries and price comparisons tend on raMtatarenr souestod delivered prices at factory. Optional eqeipment, transportation, state and local taxes, it any, extra.
See Your Rambler Dealer Today
May 13, 1960
Back Paq&
custom and violence

by RONALD KIENLEN
A.
Ronald Kienlen, a junior in the General Program, is currently serving on the Student Government Academic Commission. A member of the Young Republicans, he is widely known for his strong conservatism.
This week he undertakes a refutation of the extralegal means used by inte-grationists in the South. Branding the demonstrationist theses of last week as immoral, he claims that the customs of society can be changed only by new customs and law, not violent opposition.
THERE is a tremendous enthusiasm and idealism among those who are rabidly exhorting the cause of racial equality. Only the fool could ever doubt that in “The best of all possible worlds” we would have racial equality. Any philosophy which embraces the ethic of charity would have, as one of its goals for mankind, the perfection of man’s social actions. This means racial equality. We must definitely strive to attain it, just as we must strive to attain world peace.
The real question confronting us is how to eradicate the social wrong of racial discrimination without damaging society. It would be wise to keep in mind the distinction between a social and a private wrong. (The word social is presumed to have the connotation of public.)
LAW — NOT THE ANSWER
Any attempt to eradicate a social wrong must also be an attempt to strengthen the bonds of society. The bonds of society are not strengthened by greater discipline, more laws, or a tightening of existing controls. Instead, such measures point to a corrupt society—to a body of men who have no common bond. What is more, such laws cannot cure society; they only perpetuate the authority. This is apparently the situation in countries like Russia, China, and Cuba.
The task before us then, is not just one of law and social discipline, but a task of social education. Desegregation would fall under the scope of law; integration under social attitudes. By desegregation is here meant the process of removing all legal sanctions which establish racial discrimination in the use of public materials. Since this is a legal function, consideration must be given to the legal process which exists to guard personal liberties. ■
In this consideration, care must be given to the precedent of some 175 years
which constitutionalized racial discrimination. Recognition must be given to the unique events which changed the meaning of our Constitution without a change in the Constitution itself.
Whatever your point of view in regard to the Supreme Court’s decision, you must recognize that this decision altered tremendously the legality of many laws. But this gigantic stride toward racial equality, in terms of legal status, should not be jeopardized by inciting legal opposition to racial equality. Opposition might take the form of altering the composition of such public materials as educational facilities, ending in racial discrimination through devious but legal means.
Desegregation, however, is not the solution to the problem of racial equality. The real answer lies in integration. Integration is achieved only when social attitudes are favorable.
We are forced to recognize the reality of social attitudes in considering the religious issue in politics, and the constitutional reference concerning a religious test for public office. Only by a proper social attitude can equality be actually achieved. This means integration into society of Negroes, Jews, and other minority groups.
Social attitudes are probably best changed through education, community improvement activities, and salesmanship. It would remain for someone with experience, in the field of social relations or advertising, to show how the desired social attitude might best be achieved.
The grim realization must now be obvious— there is no room for social disturbance by minority groups as a means for attaining minority legislation and favorable social attitudes. Sit-ins and demonstrations are among that type of activity which hardens social attitudes against the minority group demonstrating. Even if enough power can be massed (as in the opinion of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.) in order to change existing regulations, the damage done to social attitudes must very carefully be weighed.
CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE
This consideration is undoubtedly Machiavellian, but it is also in agreement with Aquinas’s position on custom, law, and the order of society.
Gov. LeRoy Collins’ speech (U. S. News & World Report, April 4) is worth reading in regard to the question of civil-disobedience and the racial question generally.
An organized program wherein viola- 4 tion of the law is planned cannot but reduce respect for the very law which has "4 just made segregated schools illegal, or it will incite drastic punitive measures. 4 Most likely it will do both.
Any drastic measure must offer ~ greater benefits than the evil involved in obtaining the benefits. The drastic meas- * ure can only be used when other means have failed. These are two of the principles outlined by Pope Leo XIII in discussing labor strikes. Certainly the m moral questions involved are similar.
Certainly the orderly and peaceful v, progress reported in our press (cf. U. S. News & World Report, April 25) is much -Jl preferred to the violence created and the reactionary laws enacted (cf. U. S. News & World report, April 4 and 18). If the violence which is created, by demonstra- * tions in many communities, and the widening rift between the races are con- *■ 1 sidered, it does not appeal’ that the benefits will exceed the evils.	'
IMMORAL DEMONSTRATION
Moreover, in considering the short time lapse between the Supreme Court deci- ' sion and the time of the first boycotts * and demonstrations, It does not appear that all other means—except demonstra-tions—have been exhausted. The progress in civil rights legislation—though it satisfies neither the radicals nor the . reactionaries—is definitely not exhausted. On the other hand, demonstrations have served to disrupt a favorable social attitude (cf. U. S. News & World Report and Time, March 21).	j
On either one of the two preceding I grounds, benefit or necessity, it would I appear that most, if not all, demonstrations in those areas of racial discrimina- 1 tion are immoral.	sJ
In these last few sentences, it might ’ be well to remark on Mr. Keyerleber’s wj statement as it appeared on the Back V Page of May 6. Mr. Keyerleber’s as- I sumption is that students are the most I qualified “to form sound opinions because of the availability of reading material . . . and the greater capacity for knowledge of college students.” The question should definitely be asked Aren’t there things in life that can only be learned by living life? If students < know as much as Mr. Keyerleber seems to imply, why is it often said that col- A lege really only begins an education?
It is now clear that the author is a conservative, but before you radical liberals cry reactionary, reread this article.
26
The Scholastic
Sask
dnlhgp
Hpqwrmettt
-l/WOH-
Wherever you go . . . you look better in an Arrow shirt
This Classic Knit Sport Shirt by
Arrow has long been favored by the university man. Year ’round comfort, smart styling in 100% cotton. Completely washable. $4.00. Also shown, University Fashion walk shorts, slim, pleatless front. $5.95 up.
Choose from our
Arrow knit shirt collection
A fitting choice for the man who prizes good looks as well as comfort—this Arrow knit shirt with custom detailing. See our many handsome models in solid styles or with contrasting trims. In long-wearing
British mesh. $4.00.
-GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
EDUCATION CORPORATION OF AMERICA
123 WEST 3rd STREET • MARION, INDIANA
Asks and Answers
THE QUESTIONS OF FINANCING HIGHER EDUCATION ...
OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
WILLIAM M. JONES President Finance—I nsurance
WILLIAM J. WAMPLER
Vice-President Retail Oil
PAUL E. YOUNG Vice-President Life Insurance
JOHN D. DEANE Treasurer Public Accountant
ARTHUR H. NORTHRUP Secretary Attorney
HARRY F. COOKE Min ister—Agricul tura list
JOSEPH A. OSBORN Manufacturer
MARY STEELE OWENS Professor Franklin College
DR. FORREST W. QUACKENBUSH Head of Department of Biochemistry, Purdue University
DR. MILO A. REDIGER Vice-Pres, and Academic Dean Taylor University
EDWARD WIELAND National Director of Education The American Legion
QUESTION: How many students were in college during 1959, in Indiana?
ANSWER: 94,332.
QUESTION: How many students expect to go to college in 1970, in Indiana?
ANSWER: 163,220.
QUESTION: Do these figures include vocational schools?
ANSWER: No, the vocational program is so vast that no figures are available.
QUESTION: How many parents have made specific financial plans to send their children to college?
ANSWER: 40% have made such plans, BUT the median amount saved last year was only $150.
QUESTION: How does the Education Corporation of America offer a solution to this problem?
ANSWER: The Company was formed for the primary purpose of encouraging young men - and women to further their education beyond the high school level through financial aid.
QUESTION: Since many students work during the summer, can they profitably participate in this Company’s program of financing higher education?
ANSWER: Yes, a student can make from $2,000 to $5,000 this summer, selling Income Bonds & Corporate Securities of the Education Corporation of America.
QUESTION: Howcan students do this job ...?... they are not trained salesmen.
ANSWER: Students are qualified for this work because they know the product (education) and its importance better than anyone else.
THEREFORE . . . The Education Corporation of America invites all students in the state to write for further details on this program. The company urges even those students who may have already made plans for the summer to inquire into this profitable plan.
Send this coupon to: Education Corporation of America, Mailing Department, 3353 N. Keystone Ave., Indianapolis 18, Ind. v V
Gentlemen: I would like to have sent to me, the complete details of Education Corporation of America’s T program for financing higher education, and how I may participate profitably in this program.	Jk
NAME ....................... ADDRESS ......................................        I
CITY .......    ,	INDIANA TELEPHONE NUMBER ................................         '	'
.	-4-u
SCHOOL I ATTEND...................................................................
THE ABOVE INFORMATION IS TO BE SENT ME AT NO OBLIGATION