THE NOTRE
DAME SCHOLASTIC
•t
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include . Corn Flakes, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee——the. coffee that lets you sleep.
mjtvti coasnsanos
allbran gEADYTO eat
ABOVE all others the college man knows the importance of keeping fit. Classes, sports, campus activities all demand it.
Your strength and energy, your health itself, have no greater enemy than constipation. Its poisons, seeping through the system, sap vitality and often cause serious illness.
Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN can protect you from this threat This delightful cereal is guaranteed to bring prompt and permanent relief from constipation even in chronic cases. Eat two tablespoonfuls every day. It is delicious with fruit Ask for it at your campus restaurant or have it served at your fraternity house.
3
(V
Hito?
ALL-BRAN

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
385

A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A VERY HAPPY NEW YEAR
। Men of Notre Dame
v We appreciate the preference given to our S:	cabs on the part of the students and in turn
if	our drivers will endeavor to continue their
f:	prompt and courteous service to all
I?	Notre Dame.
INDIANA
Cab Company
For Service
Call 3-7147
9
A FAIR PRICE FROM THE START 1
9
386	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
South Bend s Gift Store N. D. Men — Their fathers — Their brothers
Just as we know what you want for yourself — we can help you with your gift problems for Dad and Brothers.
Don’t delay — let us show you the many acceptable presents we have for them..................................
And don’t forget yourself— You will want one of these Grid Overcoats by Kuppenheimer
*35otj»40

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
387
NEW YORK LIFE BUILDING
CASS GILBERT Architect
Reproduction from an old print showing one of the steps toward present day Vertical Transportation.
ONWARD AND UPWARD
Civilization marches onward and upward. The development y requires tall buildings which increase land values by giving added income from costly real estate.
The elevator by making the skyscraper possible has in this way added untold wealth to the cities of the world.
Developed step by step from the crudest early apparatus, the modem elevator is a marvel of mechanical genius—speedy, safe, dependable.
Since Elisha Graves Otis produced the first safe elevator in 1852, Otis has been the “World’s Word for Elevator Safety”.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
OFFICES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES OF THE WORLD
388
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

t
f
Wishing to all A MERRY CHRISTMAS
Perfect
Gifts
For
Men
An unusually large assortment, offering a wide selection of rich fabrics and smart pat-terns—snappy, colorful designs as well as the more conservative gifts that will be appreciated by every man. Shop early for convenience.
Make the gift problem this year one of simplicity and economy. We have made every effort to comply with the wants and wishes of the student.
Remember your Pal, Good Friends and send Gifts home
I
ADLER BROTHERS
Apparel for Men, Women and Boys
I	.
105-107-109 South Michigan St.
108 West Washington St.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	389

With the Speed of an LArrow—’
Rapid long distance telephone service from Indianapolis enables you to reach almost any Indiana town more quickly than heretofore. Give Long Distance your name and tele-* phone number. Then tell her the town you wish to reach and the telephone number, if you know it. Otherwise give her the name in which the telephone is listed and the street address. If the operator requests you to hold the line, it will be but a few moments until you have your party or a report of the conditions.
You can now have the charges on your station'to'station calls reversed, at the same rate as if you charged it to your own telephone, providing the rate is twenty'five cents or more.
Indiana Bell Telephone Co.
390
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

s
csSr<^srs$««?$^^
For all Students and for all the Faculty we wish
1 Yery Merrie Christmas and
Happy New Year
I
I
Sam’l Spiro & Co
The Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
391
Gnc
is 72	Noire Dome -5ch.olasiic
Disce-Quasi-tSemper- Viciuruj-Vt vc- Quasi- Cray- MorSuruy
JOHN V. HINKEL, ’29
, Editor-in-Chief
HARLEY L. McDEVITT, '29. .Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
DAVID W. SAXON, '29
Managing Editor
J. ARCHER HURLEY. ’30
JAMES M. RAGEN, JR., ’29..Ass’t Man’g Editor
MURRAY HICKEY LEY, ’30
Literary Editor
HARRY A. SYLVESTER, JR., ’30.. Sports Editor
JOHN BERGAN, ’31
News Editor
NEWS
1928
The Week
BERNARD A. WALSH, ’29..The College Parade
JAMES J. WALSH, ’30.....Music and Drama
THOMAS A. CANNON. ’31........Club	Editor
JOHN H.
STAFF
ZUBER, ’31_______Interhall Sports Editor
MURRAY YOUNG, ’29
BASIL RAUCH, ’29
BAYARD KURTH. ’30
GILBERT PRENDERGAST, ’30
WILLIAM H. MORAN, ’30
VINCENT MCINTIRE, ’30
FREDERICK N. DAVIS, ’30..
JAMES L. RIZER, ’30 .
JAMES H. RORKE, 31
FREDERICK J. BAUER, ’32
ANDREW McGUAN, ’32
VOL. LVII
ROBERT C. BALFE, ’31 CLEMENT K. COLE, ’31 EMIL TELFEL, '31 JAMES J. KEARNEY, ’31 JOHN KIENER, ’32
BUSINESS STAFF
Local Adv. Mgr.
Foreign Adv. Mgr.
PAUL HALLINAN, ’32 JAMES COLLINS, ’32 MYRON E. CRAWFORD. ’32 GERALD DUFFY, ’32 EUGENE DUFFY, '32 ROBERT J. FISCHER, ’32
HARRINGTON J. NOON, ’29
CHESTER
M. ASHMAN, ’30
. Local Cir. Mgr. Foreign Cir. Mgr.
EUGENE J. CARLIN, '29
FRANK J. CONBOY, '32
GEORGE J. SMITH, ’32
JOHN BLANDA, ’31
JOHN LITCHER, ’32 WALTER E. TERRY, ’32
DECEMBER 14, 1928
NO. 13
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week......................
Next Week’s Events___________
Campus Clubs _________________
College Parade_______________
The Wink___________________
The Editor’s Page-________-__- “Be of Good Cheer”-- The Escape----------_________
It Was Christmas Eve..._____ Christmas Symphony ______ Gagers Trounce Armour Tech—.. AH Interhall Teams ____—
Lyons Defeats Howard for Title. Splinters From the Press Box....,
.Archer Hurley________ James K. Collins______ Thomas A. Cannon. Bernard A. Walsh...
Louis L. Hasley______ L. L. Shaley_________ .John Nanovic________ .Murray Hickey Ley Harry A. Sylvester.
John H. Zubei H. A. S., Jr,....
392
393
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408 .
410
410
413
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC.				University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class	matter at	Notre	Dame,	Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate
of postage. Section		1103. October 3,		1917. authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men
392
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“She had often noticed his ungartered socks crumpling down about his shoe tops”— I was musing over this instance of feminine exactitude and approving the heroine’s prudence in refusing the “down-gived suitor” when with a clatter of juvenile hobnails, and loud-voiced dissensions my- door was thrust open. John Hinkel shoved in a lusty foundling and withdrew hastily. It was that unprincipled brain child—The Week. The abused prodigy told me how he had been tossed about from scribe to scribe, misrepresented in high circles, and finally turned loose in the Publications office. John, having heard the wails of the waif, and not knowing what else to do with him, had hied him to my room. Here, then, he is without a birth certificate, rattle, record of vaccination, or even the exclusive diet list which I have heard was prescribed by his cautious doctor.
Through a confusion of anti-cough smoke, remarks, wise and otherwise, and the other “bull session” incidentals the Scholastic galaxy argued pro and con, fore and aft, on the condition of the university in general and the staff in particular last Friday night. Both Peruna and general twelve o’clock pers were advocated to invigorate the free-lancers, but a compromise was finally reached in which it was agreed that the Scholastic knights of the quill should, and of right ought to, receive credit hours for their endeavors.
Rumor has it that Mr. McCready Huston, who recently exposed the politics of Indiana to the Cycloptic eye of publicity, continues in his weekly lectures on novel writing. One for whose sincerity I can vouch has proposed that the students who assiduously attend this series should each of them write at least one novel. Our library has always gasped from an insufficiency of the newest of the new; what then would not a novel from each enthusiast do to swell the files ? One can’t write of college life, as we can’t see the woods for the trees; nor of futures as the trees thwart the woods. At all odds, its an idea, and if
bothered by trees or woods, as you please, then write about something midway—we might suggest the home town pump, or the complexities of South Bend social life.
Lyons Hall has brought the interhall championship cup to the “gold coast”—that’s a term that isn’t heard much any more. What with proximity to the refectory, the embryo golf course, and good skating, together with these new found football laurels there are fewer and fewer quips at -the expense of the new development. We can remember when the unaesthetic shunned the western frontage, but times and politics change, and now even monogrammed sweaters are seen in rooms that flaunt chintz curtains and elevated ash trays.
Candy store statistics prove the increased number of those whose pre-vacation lethargy induces a late sleep, and the resultant consolation of Brother Leander’s celebrated ten-penny breakfast. The street car windows are steamed over these chilly mornings, and the frost has nipped even the day dogs into activity. The skating Saturday and Sunday was excellent; something unusual, especially on ice that was as new as the 1929 N. D. calendar. Downtown we see newsboys, stenographers, debutants, All-America quarterbacks, and occasionally a little boy or girl, contending with one another for front line positions in the crowd that watches the electric train or the animated clown. These are all indications of the nearness of vacation, Christmas vacation. As a well-wishing fellow we want everybody to enjoy the holidays. We hope that the girl friends have been as faithful as their letters would lead one to believe. And that fathers will revive the belief in Santa Claus by being generous with the Christmas checks despite the low bulletins the university felt obliged to send some of them. We hope for all this, and more. As fellow-students, as gentlemen, and as scribes of the Scholastic we wish you all a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. —A.H.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
393
***	*»* *•*	*** ♦J» *** *3*	*?* »3» »3* *3* »3« »3« *3* ❖ *3* *3*
* NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS *
♦J*	«j» **•	«£♦ «$» <£♦ **•
FRIDAY—Movies, “Just Married,” Washington hall, 6:30 and 8:30 p. m.—Toledo Club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 7:30 p. m.
SATURDAY—Basketball, Albion College vs. Notre Dame, University gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
SUNDAY—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.—Wranglers meeting, Public Speaking room, Walsh hall, 10:00 a. m.
MONDAY—Scribblers’ meeting, Scribblers’ room, Rockefeller hall, 8:00 p. m.—Lecture, McCready Huston, University Library, 8:00 p. m.—Cleveland Club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 7:30 p. m.
TUESDAY—Basketball, Northwestern University vs. Notre Dame, University gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY — Le Circle Francais meeting, Hoynes hall, 7:30 p. m.
THURSDAY—Christmas vacation begins at noon and continues until 8 a. m., January 4.
FRIDAY—Basketball, University of Indiana vs. Notre Dame, University gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
DOCTOR MAHIN SPEAKS BEFORE SCIENCE ACADEMY
The 44 th annual fall meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science, which was held in the student auditorium of the University of Indiana at Bloomington, last Friday evening, featured an address by Doctor Edward G. Mahin, professor of analytical chemistry and metallurgy at Notre Dame, and retiringpresident of the academy.
Other papers by members of the University faculty were read before the leadingscientists of the state.
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
SOUTH SECTION OF GYM ASSIGNED TO STUDENTS FOR CAGE GAMES
Students will occupy the south section of the Gymnasium at the basketball games during the present season, according to J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics. Athletic books must be presented at all contests. Students will enter by the south door of the Gym.
JUNIORS DISCUSS PROM; CLASS ASSESSMENT TO BE LEVIED
At a meeting held last evening the Junior class discussed the “prom beautiful” which is to be held Friday, February 8. President Robert Hellrung outlined the progress made
ROBERT KUHN
General Chairman 1920 Junior Prom
thus far by the various committees, and proposed several plans for the successful completion of the Juniors’ annual social event. The class has adopted the slogan, the prom beautiful,” to describe the main feature of this year’s dance, which is,
of course, the decorative scheme.
No selection of an orchestra has as yet been made, but Coon-Sanders’ Nighthawks, Jack Chapman’s orchestra, and several other equally prominent musical organizations are being seriously considered for the important role in the production. Owing to the proximity of the Christmas holidays, however, any definite announcement on this score will have to be deferred until the beginning of the
new year.
Because of the expenditures consequent upon the preparations for a social function of this kind, it has been decided to charge class dues this year. Every member of the Junior class, therefore, is asked to contribute the sum of fifty cents to help defray expenses. There will be a canvass of the halls for this purpose, again, on Monday evening of next week.
Robert Kuhn is general chairman of the affair. The complete committee personnel will be announced in the next issue of the Scholastic.
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
The Reverend William A. Carey, C.S.C., registrar of the University, returned to work this week after several weeks vacationing in Wisconsin.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
394
FATHER NIEUWLAND TENDERED RECEPTION BY NOTRE DAME ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
The Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., professor of chemistry at the University, and prominent scientist, was tendered a recep
EEV. JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, C.S.C. Professor of Chemistry
tion by the Notre Dame Academy o f Science and the faculty of department of chemistry o f the University, last Tuesday evening, December 11, in Science Hall. Father Nieuwland
celebrates the silver anniversary of his entrance into the priesthood this- Christmas.
Robert Schulze, president of the Academy, was chairman. Father Eugene Burke, C.S. C., assistant Provincial of the Holy Cross Congregation, was the first speaker, and he portrayed the priestly character of Father Nieuwland, his dominating personality, and his keen sense of humor.
Mr. Froning, head of the chemistry department, then reviewed the work of Father Nieuwland in the scientific world: his great activity in the field of botany and his prominent position in acetylene chemistry. Many valuable books and papers have been written by Father Nieuwland, and his discoveries and work with acetylene have made him well known. Father Nieuwland is a member of the Council of the American Chemical Society and a fellow of the Indiana Academy of Science, of which he was recently elected vice-president.
In behalf of the faculty members of the chemistry department and the Academy of Science, Father Nieuwland was presented ■with a testimonial of his services. He then gave a short talk in which he stressed the important part of research in the advance of civilization and the qualities necessary for success in such endeavors.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HOLD MEETING TUESDAY
The regular bi-monthly meeting of the Knights of Columbus was held in the council chambers in Walsh hall, Tuesday evening, December 11. Grand Knight Edward P. * McKeown conducted the meeting and announced that the Sousa concert sponsored by the organization was an unqualified success. Plans were also announced for an initiation of the first, second and third degrees after
7 /
the Christmas holidays, the date to be announced at a future meeting. Suggestions as to better attendance at the meetings of the council were made by various members.
The appointment of Raymond Drymalski as editor of the current issue of the Santa Maria, official publication of the council, was made by Grand Knight McKeown. Mr. Drymalski had already taken over the duties of the editor and he promised that the slightly delayed publication would soon be in the hands of the members.	t
Following the business meeting the assemblage was entertained by a three-round boxing exhibition by Johnnie Burns of Brooklyn and Billy Magarral of Pittsburgh. Jack Chevigny refereed. Between rounds and after the bout musical selections were ren- < dered by Robert Sullivan and his orchestra.
Eats and smokes brought the evening entertainment to a close.
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
MONOGRAM MEN INITIATE ELEVEN * CANDIDATES
The annual fall Monogram Club initiation for the benefit of the new members who won their monogram awards during the past football season was launched on Sunday evening of this week. The initiation continued throughout the week. The final degrees will be given Saturday and Sunday evenings in the gym.	.
Those being initiated into the club are: Laurence Mullins, Denny Shay, Ted Twomey, * Richard Donoghue, Edward Collins, Thomas Murphy, Manfred Vezie, John O’Brien, Frank Carrideo, Thomas Conley and Joseph Nash.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
395
CHRISTMAS “JUGGLER” APPEARS ON . CAMPUS
The annual Christmas number of the Notre Dame Juggler appeared yesterday. Both the art work and the written work are
up to the Juggler’s usual high standard,
CHARLES GASS
which is in itself sufficient recommendation.
The cover, by Paul McElroy, i s reproduced from an oil painting, an innovation in the college magazine field. Mr. Norbert Engles’ poem, “While You Are Sewing,” with decorations
p
Business Manager of "Juggler" Uy j^cEll’Oy jg particularly good. The ' dramatic department presents a very attractive picture of the very attractive Mary Eaton, who is at present connected with “The Five O’clock Girl,” a review of the current show “Hold Everything,” and recommendations for some of the current offerings in New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, and Boston. .
The five dollar prize for the best art work submitted was awarded to Edward J. Kirwin. Particularly notable is his drawing, “Santa Visits the Vanderfellows.” The prize for the best written work was awarded to Lionel Thiessen. The customary prizes will be offered for the best written work and the best art work submitted for the next issue, which will be the Prom Number.
The Christmas number of the Juggler is a magazine that you will be proud to take home with you. It is a fine number, and the Funny Fellow is to be congratulated.
MERRY CHRISTMAS^ AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
HUSTON STRESSES NECESSITY OF ATTITUDE IN NOVEL WRITING
The necessity of an attitude in writing a novel was the topic of McCready Huston’s fifth lecture Tuesday evening to the student writers of the University. He defined an
attitude as the writer’s viewpoint or theory which he wishes to give to his story and said that this was essential regardless of the type of novel: historical, sentimental or merely a tale-telling plot or a “social document.” In the latter, which interprets a phase of social life, it often happens that the author’s attitude offends someone or advocates a social change.
Mr. Huston gave as an example of the inportance of an attitude the difference in the two books, “The Cathedral” by Hugh Walpole and “The Shadow of the Cathedral” by a Spanish author. Here the setting and the material is the same, yet the different attitudes taken by the writers give two distinct stories.
There are limitations, however, in assuming an attitude in that certain conventional rules must be observed. These have been dictated by popular opinion and unless they are followed no one except the author’s friends may read the book. Mr. Huston, at the close of the lecture, answered a number of questions that were previously handed in by the students. Next Tuesday evening the sixth and final talk on novel writing will be given.
■MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
FATHER RANKIN AND MEREDITH NICHOLSON VISIT UNIVERSITY
The Reverend Rush Rankin, S. J., noted educator and author, and dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Georgetown. University, Washington, D. C., was a visitor at Notre Dame last week. During his stay here Father Rankin was the guest of the Reverend George Marr, C.S.C., professor of Philosophy at the University.
Mr. Meredith Nicholson, prominent Indiana author and lecturer, stopped in South Bend last Saturday as the guest of Mr. McCready Huston, well-known author and journalist, and special lecturer in the department of English at Notre Dame. While in South Bend, Mr. Nicholson made a brief visit to the campus, being escorted by Mr. Huston and Mr. John Brennan, assistant-professor of English at the University.
Sr
396
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FATHER O’HARA, OLDEST DAY-DOG, ATTENDS OFF-CAMPUS SMOKER
Approximately 250 Day-dogs attended the Off-campus smoker last Wednesday evening in the Knights of Columbus home in South
REV. JOHN F. O’HARA, C.S.C.. Prefect of Religion
Bend. Besides the usual order of eats and smokes they were entertained by several vocalists, boxing contests and interestingtalks by Notre Dame alumni and professors of the University.
The surprise of the evening was the introduction of Father John F.
O’Hara, prefect of religion, as the oldest off-campus student. Father O’Hara gave rem-iniscenses of his days spent off-campus while attending the University. Senator Robert Proctor, a prominent alumnus of Elkhart, Indiana, spoke of the true Notre Dame spirit. The Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, and Professor Daniel O’Grady, of the department of philosophy, kept the Day-dogs interested.
James Koontz entertained -with a cardmagician act. Herman Zeffrin, baritone, sang two songs, and Kenneth Rexstrew and Edward Brennan sang a duet of popular numbers, accompanied by Howard Miller. To top the entertainment were three hard-fought boxing matches.
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
DR. CAPARO AND SECRETARY WEISS ATTEND A. I. E. E. CONVENTION
Notre'Dame was represented at the meeting of the Student Activities of the Great Lakes Region of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers on December 3 by Dr. Jose Caparo, counsellor, and Mr. Fred Weiss, secretary of the Notre Dame branch.
Plans for a student convention to be held in Chicago in December, 1929, in connection with the Regional convention, were discussed.
In the reports, Notre Dame showed the highest per cent of attendance and was third in activities of all the colleges that are members of the institute in the Great Lakes region.
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
CHICAGO CLUB COMPLETES AR-
RANGEMENTS FOR XMAS FORMAL
According to Thomas M. McNicholas, general chairman, arrangements for the Chicago Club Christmas Formal Party to be given Thursday, December 27, in the Drake Hotel, are virtually completed. Bill Donahue’s famous Illini band will play for the dance, attractive favors have been ordered, and most of the club members have signified their intention of being present at the dance which is expected to eclipse all previous social affairs sponsored by the Club.
Dancing will be from ten until two-thirty. Besides the Main Dining Room of the Drake, the Avenue of Palms at the hostelry has also been secured to take care of the large crowd of students, alumni and invited guests expected to attend.
Chairman McNicholas extends a cordial invitation on behalf of the Club to all Notre Dame men who will in the vicinity of Chicago on the date of the dance to attend the affair. Students remaining at the University or who reside in South Bend and other nearby points, are also invited.
Reservations for the party can be secured from the general chairman, from any of the personnel of the committee on arrangements, or from any of the officers of the Windy City organization. They may also be secured by mail by addressing the Chicago Club, Drake Hotel.	'
Assisting Mr. McNicholas are the following men who constitute the committee on arrangements: Edmond P. Collins, president of the Club, Harold P. Reynolds, John T. Houlihan, and Thomas J. Purcell.
»
*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	397
HEAR YE! STUDENT LAWYERS;
TRAUGHBER ANNOUNCES COMMITTEES
Subsequent to the announcement by Gerald E. Roach, president of the Law Club, pertaining to the selection of J. Thomas Traugh-ber, of Clarksville, Tennessee, as general chairman of the annual spring formal of the Law Club, comes the personnel of the committees for one of the most exclusive affairs of the scholastic year.
Well versed in the promotion of formal events, Chairman Traughber, having had a hand in the success of the past two formals of the Law Club, and being instrumental in the direction of the Sophomore Cotillion and Junior Promenade of his own class, comes now with the statement that each committee has organized and is functioning to perfection.
To wit: the ticket committee announces the opening of the sale of tickets for the exclusive affair to be held on the evening of Friday, Februray 1, 1929; exclusive, accordingly, in that the limitation of the tickets will be set for 400 couples.
To wit: further that the arrangements committee announces as the venue of the exclusive affair of the year, the Palais Royale. And to wit: further that the music chairman, as is customary, has proceeded to Chicago to return with the most exclusive colored orchestra that the pleasure-mad Windy City can offer.
The personnel of each committee is as follows:
ARRANGEMENTS—Donald S. Baldwin, chairman; Thomas J. Griffin, Joseph J. Hemphling, James A. Allen and John W. Dorgan.
MUSIC—John J. Lyons, chairman; William P. Dowdall, James T. Connors, Robert A. Grant, and Thomas S. Markey.
PROGRAMS—J. Ross Harrington, chairman; Matthew J. Cullen, Williard F. Wagner, Walter E. Parent and Daniel J. McNally.
(PUBLICITY—Joseph J. McNamara, chairman; William J. Coyne, John J. Canty, Edward P. McKeown and Richard L. Novak.
RECEPTION—Francis A. McCullough, chainnan; John P. Smith, George E. Beamer and Joseph M. Scales.
INVITATIONS—Thomas Virgil Happer, chairman; Joseph S. Angelino, Russell C. Kuehl, Donald M. Donahue and Robert Newbold.
TICKETS—Joseph S. Sullivan, chairman; Albion M. Griffin, Ivan Le Blanc, Robert F. Eggeman, John F. O’Malley, Clarence J. Donovan and Francis E. Dailey.
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
FOOTBALL MEN GIVEN MONOGRAMS;
MINOR INSIGNIA TO HARRIERS
Major monograms were recommended for 24 members of the 1928 football team Saturday by Coach Knute K. Rockne, director of athletics at the University. Of the winners twelve men received their letters for the first time. Seven will graduate and seventeen will be back next year. August Grams, student manager, was also given an award for his work during the football season.
The winners of the awards were: Captain Fred Miller, George Leppig, James Brady, John Niemic, John Chevigney, Fred Collins and Jerry Ransavage, who will not return next year. Those who will be back next fall are: Ted Twomey, Frank Carrideo, John Law, Timothy Moynihan, Jack Cannon, Manfred Vezie, John Elder, Laurence Mullins, Denny Shay, Edward Collins, Thomas Murphy, John O’Brien, Richard Donoghue, John Colrick, William Dew, Thomas Conley and Joseph Nash.
Seven member of the cross country team were awarded minor monograms. They include: Captain William Brown, John Brown, John Vaichulis, James Biggins, Robert Brennan, Joe Quigley and Ray Conners. Of this number but three will return next year. They are: Quigley, Biggins and Conners.
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
FATHER CARROLL HONORED
Edward S. O’Brien, noted short-story authority, in his latest compilation, “Best American Short Stones of 1928,” places the Catholic World as one of the foremost shortstory magazines of the United States, and the story, “How Shane Found His Soul,” by the Reverend P. J. Carroll, C.S.C., professor of poetry at the University, as one deserving honorable mention. This story was published in the magazine March, 1928.
398
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
LAW CHOSEN CAPTAIN AT ANNUAL FOOTBALL BANQUET
John Law, right guard, was elected to captain next year’s football team at the conclusion of the annual football banquet last
JOHN LAW
Football Captain Elect
Wednesday night in the dining hall. Law, who was selected to succeed Fred Miller, present captain, by the monogram winners of this season, will be playing his third year of varsity competition.
The banquet was the final gathering of the 1928 squad and was marked by the attendance of many notable alumni and
guests. Coach Knute Rockne presided as toastmaster and presented the prominent guests to the group, which included members of the varsity, reserves, and freshman squads, and student managers.
The Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, was the first speaker. He pointed out the fame and good will which Notre Dame football teams have brought to the University in their trips throughout the nation.
Coach Rockne then summarized the 1928 season, commending the fighting spirit in the face of great odds and mentioning defects which should be corrected in the future. He emphasized the necessity for training during the winter months in preparation for spring practice. The reserve and freshman football teams and the managerial staff were praised for their work during the year.
Mike Donahue, chairman of the St. Joe Valley Alumni banquet a week ago; Elmer Burnham, coach of the South Bend High school football team, and Frank Hogan, Notre Dame alumnus, were other speakers, along with Tim Galvin, another prominent alumnus, who paid a tribute from the alumni to Rockne and the team.
Short talks were given by the members of the team, who have played their last game: Jerry Ransavage, Jim Brady, “Butch” Nie-mic, George Leppig, Fred Collins, John Doarn, Joe Morrissey, Captain Fred Miller, and Jack Chevigney, who will return next year as a member of the coaching staff, Rockne announced. Student Manager Gus Grams and “Botts” Crowley, who has been in charge of equipment, were also called upon.
Coaches Tom Mills and John Smith, and Ed Healey, former Dartmouth star, who assisted the regular staff this year, were presented, along with several former Irish stars, including Paul Castner, Bernie Livergood, Frank Coughlin, and John Wallace, as well as other guests.
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
FIVE MEN TO SPEAK IN FINALS OF BREEN CONTEST
Five men, Frank McGreal, Charles Haskell, James Roy, Frank Corbett, and Patrick Duffy will be the participants in the finals of the Breen oratory contest to be held within a week after school is reopened in January. These men won the right to speak by being-selected from the fourteen who took part in the preliminary trials which were held in Walsh hall Tuesday and Wednesday, Dec. 11 and 12.
The finals of the competition in the contest which will be held in Washington hall are expected to be greater than those in recent years, according to Mr. William Coyne and Mr. Frank Kelly, who are in charge of the contest. All the speakers in the trials har excellent speeches on a wide variety of topics.
Those who spoke on Tuesday were: Rigley, McGill, Hanna, Beamer, Williams, McGreal and Haskell. The speakers on Wednesday were: McCauley, Gentili Baer, Frantz, Duffy and Corbett. The judges of the first group of speeches were the Reverend Francis Boland, C.S.C., and Professors Daniel O’Grady and Raymond Snyder; for the second group: the Reverend Francis Cavanaugh, G.S.C., and Professors Vincent Engels and Pat Manion.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
399
' *** ••• *•* *** & ❖ *♦*
❖ MUSIC AND DRAMA *
For the past three months there has • been much speculation about the activities of the University Theatre. Those of us . who are interested in the drama, and especially the drama as presented at Notre - Dame, felt no little anxiety as to the fate of our student playwrights and actors. We • had witnessed the remarkable success attained last year. We had seen our dramatic organization grow and develop from a comparatively inconsequential group into a powerful and vital factor in University life. Moreover, we had confidently proph-• esized even greater and more brilliant achievements for this season. It is but natural, therefore, that, when no productions seemed to be imminent or even contemplated, we should have become slightly doubtful, and perhaps a little pessimistic. Now, • however, with the announcement of the first presentations of the University Theatre, revivifying our interest and rekindling our hope, we may cheerfully consign our recent doubts to the scrap-heap.
, The initial productions of the University Theatre will take place on Tuesday evening, December 18, at eight-fifteen o’clock, and will consist of two plays, both written and performed by members of the student body. These plays, “Tomorrow”, by Rich-• ard Parrish, and “Son Patrick” by John Mullen, were first produced as a part of the Commencement entertainment last June. Owing to the fact that the majoriy of the students were unable to attend at that time, Professor Frank Kelly, under » whose capable direction the productions are organized and presented, decided to revive the plays at the beginning of this season.
Richard Parrish’s “Tomorrow” concerns itself with religious intolerance in a Central American Republic. It has many of the dramatic qualities that characterize the finest Broadway offerings. In “Son Patrick” John Mullen has incorporated all the freshness of Irish sentiment with a powerful
tenseness of action that is unusual in any play by a student author.
The casts of the two plays include John Leddy, William Coyne, Alfred Doyle, John Keefe, and other men equally well known to the student body.
On the whole, therefore, next Tuesday evening should prove to be both enlightening and entertaining, a pleasant Christmas gift from University Theatre to the students of Notre Dame.	—J.J.W.
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
FOOTBALL MEN HONORED AT TESTIMONIAL BANQUET
The Fighting Irish of 1928 and its famous coach, Knute K. Rockne, were the guests of honor Thursday evening, Dec. 6, at the greatest testimonial banquet ever tendered a Notre Dame team. The affair was held in the University Dining hall and was attended by 1,250 alumni and friends of the team.
The Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University, presided as toastmaster. The Notre Dame Alumni of St. Joseph Valley Association sponsored the banquet.
Notables from every walk of life were present to shower praises on the team. In addition to the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and Father John Cavanaugh, Mayor James J. Walker, New York City’s chief executive; A. R. Erskine, president of the Studebaker Automobile Corporation; three famous grid coaches: Richard Hanley of Northwestern, Doctor Clarence Spears of Minnesota, Glenn Thistlethwaite of Wisconsin, K. K. Rockne, director of Athletics at the University and Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herold, and. Examine)', were the speakers of the evening.
Coach Rockne, in his speech, turned the spotlight from himself to the team. He praised them individually and collectively, stating that the graduating players, Fred Collins, Jack Chevigney, Johnny Niemic, George Leppig and Freddy Miller, were as fine a group of men as he had ever coached. He also declared hat he would not exchange the 1928 eleven for the finest team in the country.
400
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By Thomas A. Cannon
§ THE CAMPUS CLUBS
INDIANAPOLIS CLUB
The Indianapolis Club will hold its annual Christmas Dinner-Dance in the Roof Garden of the Hotel Severin on Thursday night, December 27. John Rocap is general chairman of the dance.
METROPOLITAN CLUB
The annual Christmas Dance of the Metropolitan Club will be held in the Cascades Room of the Hotel Biltmore in New York City on the evening of December 28. Warren Fogel is general chairman of the dance.
CLEVELAND CLUB
The Christmas Formal of the Cleveland Club will be held in the Mid-day Club, Friday night, December 28. Ed Day and his band will furnish the music. Norman J. McLeod is general chairman of the dance.
CHICAGO CLUB
The Chicago Club will hold its Christmas Dance in the Main Dining room and in the Avenue of Palms of the Hotel Drake on Thursday night, December 27. Thomas McNicholas is general chairman of the dance.
MISSOURI CLUB
The first annual Christmas Dance of the Missouri Club will be held in the Tower Room of the Hotel Congress in St. Louis, Wednesday night, January 2. John Rowland is general chairman of the dance.
DETROIT CLUB
The Christmas Formal of the Detroit Club will be held in Allen’s Inn on Wednesday night, January 2. Jean Golkette’s band will play for the dance. James IL Carrol is the general chairman in charge.
PITTSBURGH CLUB
The Pittsburgh Club will hold its annual Christmas Dance at the Pittsburgh Field Club on Tuesday night, January 1. Dewey Bergman and his Webster Hall orchestra will play for the dance. Jim Dodson is general chairman in charge.
JOHNSTOWN CLUB
The first annual Christmas Dance of the Johnstown Club will be held in the Sunnehanna Country Club in Johnstown, Pa., Thursday night, December 27. Eugene Raymond is general chairman of the dance.
NEW JERSEY CLUB
The Christmas Formal of the New Jersey Club will be held at the Newark Athletic Club in Newark on Wednesday night, December 26. Joe Abbot is general chairman of the dance.
AKRON CLUB
The Akron Club will hold its annual Christmas Formal in the Knights of Columbus ballroom in Akron, Ohio, on Friday night, December 28. Claude Horning is general chairman of the dance.
FOX RIVER VALLEY CLUB
The first Christmas Formal of the Fox River Valley Club will be held at the Elks Club in Aurora, Ill., on Thursday, December 27. William Chawgo is general chairman of the dance.
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB
The Connecticut Valley Club will hold its first annual Christmas Formal at the Hotel Bond, in Hartford, Connecticut, Friday night, December 28. Richard Lacey is the general chairman of the dance.
GRAND RAPIDS CLUB
The annual Christmas Formal of the Grand Rapids Club will be held in the Pantlind ballroom in Grand Rapids on Friday night, December 28. Earl Leach is general chairman of the dance.
PEORIA CLUB
The Peoria Club will hold its first Christmas Formal in the Hotel Pere Marquette in Peoria, Ill., on the evening of December 29. William Moy is general chairman of the dance.
EAST PENN CLUB
The Christmas Formal of the East Penn Club will be held in the Hotel Sterling in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., on Wednesday night, December 26. Michael Yanulewicz is general chairman of the dance.
VILLAGERS CLUB
The Villagers Club will hold its Christmas Formal in the Palais Royale ballroom on Friday night, December 28. Norman Hartzer is general chairman of the dance. .
BOSTON CLUB
The Christmas Formal of the Boston Club will be held in the Swiss room of the Coply Plaza Hotel, Friday night, December 28. Charles Colton is general chairman.
BUFFALO CLUB
The Buffalo Club will hold its Christmas Formal in the Hotel Statler on Thursday night, December 27. Less Hoffman and his band will furnish the music for the dance. Frank O’Mahara and Martin Travers are the chairmen in charge.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
401
THE COLLEGE PARADE
By Bernard A. Walsh 3
5B535HSH5H5E5HSHSHSHSE5H5ESHSHS25H5BS25HSHSS
Princeton’s School of Science building, famed, to quote the Daily Princetonian, as an “eyesore” and an “architectural monstrosity,” was recently destroyed by fire. The Princetonian selected a number of prominent campus figures and interviewed them on the question: “Where were you Monday night between 11 and 12 p. m. ?” President Hibbens proved an alibi and Dean Gauss answered as follows:
“I wish to take this opportunity of denying a rumor that has been rather widely disseminated these days. It will be remembered that my house was next to Dickinson Hall when that building burned; and now was next to Science when that burned. The report, however, that we are moving to a new location half way between Alexander Hall and Witherspoon is false. As for the fire Monday night (caused, I understand, by defective wiring) , I regret to say that my family and I retired early and were unaware until this morning of the conflagration. I remember hearing certain noises during the evening, but I try to overlook such things at the end of the football season.”
*
Something new in the way of athletic memorials, as told by the Daily Northwestern :
“When the gymnasium of the University of Colorado was built, the system of recording 'on the walls the championships of the university was inaugurated. For each championship, a brick marked with the year and the sport is set in the wall. To date there are seventy-two bricks, and they represent nine different sports. In the last year two new bricks were inserted in the lobby walls of the men’s gymnasium as a result of titles in 1928 baseball and gym.” ■
* * *
A charming new custom at Purdue, according to The Exponent:
“Fireworks were in vogue at the D. U. dance when one of the pledges in showing off the pet alligator lost control of it and it hit one of the fair guests. Do they usually throw pet alligators at their guests ?”
❖ *
From the Mountain Echo, Mount Saint Mary’s College, Emmitsburg, Md.:
“■Our idea of a perfect football team would be eleven Scotchmen plowing down the gridiron toward a basket full of gold pieces placed between the goal posts.”
Or toward a twenty-three year old tradition.
Sjl
A journalism professor at the University of Minnesota, who insisted on promptness at his classes to the extent of locking the door when the bell rang, arrived a minute and a half late and found himself locked out. When the required ten minutes had elapsed and no prof was in sight, the class silently departed via the back door.
Anti-Cigarette Leaguers, what is the comeback to this item from The Maroon, bi-weekly paper of Loyola University of New Orleans ?
“Cigarettes are of great benefit to the students of the South Dakota School of Mines. A large gymnasium has been built for the college entirely from the proceeds of a cigarette tax.”
Plans and pictures of Boston University’s proposed new educational plant have been presented to the trustees of the university. The unit of buildings will cost $15,000,000, which will be raised by popular subscription, and will be constructed on a fifteen-acre plot of land which the university owns in Boston.
* * *
“A romanticist is a young college graduate looking for a ten thousand a year job.”
—Rockhurst Sentinel.
I
402	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TO A DANCER (L. F. H.) If I could see you as you are, All peony-decked, a flashing star With twinkling feet that trip O’er cloud banks, and that glide On rainbow beams;
If I could watch you, angel sprite, Dance your way in setting light Beneath the flowered trellis. Crown of hope above
A hoped-for heart;
If I could hold you, lovely one When your dancing feet have done, To tell you, that your heart Has danced its way Into my oivn.	—WAZMUS.
* * *
WE THINK SO TOO
Deal- Winker, please enter this in your next column as a contribution. I feel that I have a right to defend us, and I am sure that you will have just consideration for our rights. I thank you.
You writers, explicit of the meaning of “Wink” as an individuality at Notre Dame, in your transient bombast lamenting the gloom after 11 p. m. have inserted an unpardonable crack. You said that the process of administering the merciful “wink” had to be simple for the sake of the watchman. If you would only have the simple' forethought (but deplorably not) of removing your besmirched and obnoxious corduroys and donning your slumber garb, even after the merciful wink, you would not occasion your gall to boil up into those vast recesses that keep your ears from flapping one against the other. Ah, if I but knew thee, I would not hesitate to manifest my cunning at manipulating thy ruthless larynx, what with deftly caressing thy proboscis. However, as there is little hope that I will ever learn your identity, I will feel amply avenged at reading this rebuttal of your unfounded allegation in the column devoted to “The Wink” in the next issue of the Scholastic.	—napoleon.
Now, now, my dear Napoleon, I cannot for the life of me see just what it is that you object to. I personally think that your real desire was not so much to defend somebody against something, as to have your contrib. appear in this column. Come, come now, confess.
* * *
Editor of the’ “Wink”:
Beneath find a work which rivals in its beauty and in its depth of thought the masterpieces of old.
Having no desire to prostitute my art and looking upon commercialism as a great evil I am offering this to you free in preference to selling it to some of the great weeklies. Kindly take cognizance of the great favor being done and print this in the next issue. Congratulating myself on my generosity, I am sincerely,
CHARLES, THE BLUE-EYED CABIN BOY.
“FEES”
(With apologies to no one—not even Joyce Kilmer.)
I think that I shall never see, A thing as large as lawyers’ fee. A fee that rolls in day by day, In their coffers to molding lay.
Lawyers whose hungry hands are pres’t, Against the “roll” beneath my vest. The men who may in summer sow, Their zvild oats at Monte Carlo.
Upon whom money falls like rain, From the purses they quickly drain. Fees are paid by fools like me, From them Our God alone is free.
—CHARLES, THE BLUE-EYED CABIN BOY.
Charley, old pal, we are certainly glad that someone congratulates you.
* * *
At mzj feet stiff and stark, Lies a little meadow lark. To him that was soaring towards the sun; Death the end of all must come.
For him today, tomorrow for me; Thus the Lord has decreed, To all now death must come;
Since Adam ate the “pomme.”
—ONE-HALF THE POET.
4"
Because such an atmosphere is at once fraught with interest and at the same time will make ye Erring Knight feel moar at hoam and, belike, be conducive to the promotion of chivalry and such, ye Erring Knight solemnly announces that he intends to surround this column with an atmosphere like to that of ye goodly King Arthur and his Table Round. Ye Erring Knight furthermoar solemnly extends an most cordial invitation to all and sundry that they may enter into the Lists for the Jousts held each week in this column. In addition to which ye Erring Knight wishes for you each and every one, a Merrie Yuletide and also wishes to remind you to bring back choice anecdotes of the Holidays.
—YE ERRING KNIGHT.
a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
403
HOLYDAY OR HOLIDAY?
Christmas—the day when men are happy, contented, and appreciative of their fellowmen. The day when men temporarily forget their petty discords, their jealousies, their enmities, their sorrows, their troubles, and their pain. The day when men embroiled in the harsh vicissitudes of the struggle for existence, pause for a brief respite and reflect that after all the world isn’t so bad a place in which to live. But above all, the anniversary of the birth of Christ—a time of joy, of happiness, of mutual appreciation of one man for his neighbor.
In this modernistic world, however, when too many men have prostrated themselves before the great god Speed; when too many men have sacrificed their ideals on the altar of Money; when too many men have cast religion to the winds, have literally “dropped the pilot,” and have carelessly bettered their coporeal bodies at the expense of their spiritual souls, Christmas as the birthday of Christ, has regrettably lost some of its real significance. Millions and millions of people in the world, but particularly throughout the United States, are commercializing it, exploiting it, misinterpreting it so that its true meaning is forgotten. To these people, Christmas is merely a time to exchange gifts, to literally “eat, drink, and be merry.” They have no adequate conception of the proper significance of the day. And yet, they are apparently as happy as men can be.
But the happiness which Christmas bring to them is but artificial— artificial because it is constructed upon the false and ultimately destructive premises of self-aggrandizement, self-glorification, and self-exaltation, and because they consciously or unconsciously, cunningly or through ignorance, either entirely disregard or carelessly overlook the true sentiment actuated by the magnificent event which took place almost two thousand years ago in that little stable in Bethlehem. To these people it is not a day of reverence, of awe, of pious reflection on the priceless gifts of life, of reason, and of hope for salvation that an omnipotent and a merciful Creator has bestowed upon men. To them it is just another holiday, perhaps a little more important and joyous than others, but a holiday and nothing more.
Let these people selfishly exchange their materialistic gifts. Let them “enjoy” their “holiday” as much as they can. Let them be superficially as happy as men can be. But unless they appreciate the true meaning of Christmas, the day the world received a new lease on life, the most glorious day in all history,—the day Christ was born—their happiness is not genuine, but only “make-believe” as the exigencies of the occasion demand. For in the last analysis, they cannot appreciate Christmas, because they
do not appreciate Christ.
—J.V.H.
A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
The culmination of human friendship, of human appreciation, and of human good fellowship, is embodied in the above greeting. No other combination of words in any language, from the English to the Sanskrit, carries more true meaning, is received with such reciprocal feeling as are these eight words. In them is expressed in simple fashion the greatest happiness that one human being or group of human beings can wish for another.
So we of the Scholastic staff take this opportunity to extend to the officials, faculty members, students, alumni, and friends of the University a sincere wish for a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. —J.V.H.
404
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Be Of Good Cheer ”
LOUIS L. HASLEY

“And it came to pass, that in those days there went out a decree from Caesar* Augustus, that the whole world should be enrolled.” (Luke 2.1.)
N THE rapid scurrying of restless feet, in the avid grasping of covetous hands, and in the incessant clashing of over-
zealous minds, all bent upon securing possession of a wordly court and castle, many a precious life gains momentum so great that it becomes uncontrollable, and finally plunges from the narrow road deep into a gaping chasm.	-
Life was not meant to be a chariot race. Those who join the race have not the time to ask themselves, “Is this life?” In his Walden, one of the masterpieces of American literature, Henry David Thoreau says, “I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived.” The philosopher reasons that life is to be lived slowly and deeply, with frequent pauses to consider his own strength and the direction of his journey. Christmas is properly such a stopping place.
It is with these thoughts in mind that I recount a quaint narrative that has been persisting in my troubled brain during the last week. I do not know its source; I know only that I shall rest the easier for telling it. But to the story.
At a little station of a railroad that spans the length and breadth of our land, a StationMaster anxiously paced the platform. It was a clear December night, and the air was keen and still. Unmindful of the cold, he wistfully watched the horizon and strained his ears for some sign of a train that was not yet quite due. Time dragged. Finally his vigil
was rewarded, and a rushing monster leaped out of space. The noise at the station became deafening, and as the train thundered by, a few gay hands were waved from the speeding coaches. In another moment the meteoric hulk had vanished and the Station-Master was alone again—still waiting, waiting. Was no train going to stop? But the station was not built near a town, and the only reason that trains ever stopped was to allow someone to visit the lonely Station-Master. His heart was filled with a vague yearning, and' he hoped that the next train would bring him company.
Presently he could discern, afar off in the semi-darkness where the snow blended with the star-sprinkled blue, a slowly-moving light. Little by little it grew brighter and more bright, closer and more close. The Station-Master’s heart leaped with joy. For behind the gleaming light was a silent and seemingly endless train. A short distance from the station it stopped, and the passengers alighted. From their numbers arose a chanted chorus of heavenly hymns. Adeste Fidelis and Venite Adoremus—both sung together, but, to the Station-Master, each separately heard! And as he listened, he knew that these were the shepherds who came to him, bearing gifts of Love, Adoration and Thanksgiving.
It is believed that at the head of this vast pilgrimage there was borne an immense shield upon which was an exquisite cameo of a golden dome surmounted by a figure de Notre Dame. Closely behind and in the vanguard of the great throng, there marched nearly three thousand valiants, joining not only in the blessed hymns, but adding also a faint, though fine, undef-strain of some noble Victory March. I am told that the crowd
THE NOTRE DAME
arrived at the station in the middle of the night; and when the Station-Master had poured out his heart to them, telling them of the length and direction of their journey, he bade them receive their passage. And as each man received, the Station-Master pronounced these kind words, “Be of good cheer.”
Afterward, rumor had it that joyous greetings were exchanged, tinkling bells rang out,
SCHOLASTIC	405
and the train passed on. The Station-Master was again alone. The little red light in his station burned gleefully and all was peaceful and quiet. His heart swelled as he recalled the tribute of his faithful. He had had many birthdays before, but each succeeding one seemed ever more happy. Now his people had resumed their journey, and he knew that throughout the coming day they would “be of good cheer.”
The Escape
L. L. SHALEY
(A Short Short Story.)
THREE Russian soldiers stopped before the door of a low, dingy house on the outskirts of Moscow. One, an officer, rapped sharply. There was no answer.
Inside, a slender hand, trembling with age, cautiously parted the tattered curtains adorning the single window on the front of the house. A time-wrinkled face, the bones of which were almost devoid of flesh, peered out. The eyes, sunken and almost lifeless, filled with apprehension at the sight of the uniformed men. Another rap sounded, louder than the first. She adjusted the old shawl that hung about her shoulders, and shuffled toward the door, but before she could reach it, the soldiers had entered.
The officer addressed her.
“Madam, we have come for Nikolas Rizer-off. Is he here?”	•
“Nikolas—my son? What could you want with him? He got leave from General Len-ine to be with me—in my last hours.”
“Madam, your son is a deserter,” the offi
cer replied. “We want him immediately.”
The old lady raised her head slowly, a look of terror in her eyes. She turned around; and with a feeble voice called through a partially open door to an adjoining room.
“Nikolas—My Only! Come and show the officer your leave from General Lenine.”
There was no answer. The officer stepped into the room. No one was there. The covers on the simple little cot were crumpled, and a breeze idly flapped the tail of the curtain in an open window.
The officer looked out the window, and then returned to the room where the two soldiers and the trembling old lady were waiting.
“No use,” he pronounced. “He escaped. We may as well return.”
The three soldiers filed out.
Walking down the street, the officer smiled complacently.
“It is well that I had guards stationed around the house,” he said.
406	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
It Was Christmas Eve
JOHN NANOVIC
T WAS Christmas Eve. Paul knew that, but he would not believe it. Maybe it was because he was lonesome. He hadn’t been lonesome other years; but other years he had been at home. What made him stay here over the holidays, anyway, instead of going home? Well, he had learned.
He had learned too much, but not enough. He had learned that the smiling, cheerful Santa Claus in that store window was another fellow from school who worked five hours each day to “get through.” He knew the clown, capering to amuse the idle shoppers, had been out of work for six months, and would be out of work again after tonight, wondering how to get some money for his wife and child. The smiling clerks, eager to wait on him even when they were most rushed, seemed foolish to him. Those smiles of theirs! Did anyone take them as real? Could anyone believe that a clerk, working almost feverishly all day, could still smile, and keep smiling until nine o’clock at night, and mean it? He went out exasperated.
It was tiresome to walk the streets. Five o’clock is a busy hour any day, but this day it was too busy. People were shoving and pushing. Everybody was in a hurry. Where was everybody going? Why did everybody have to rush? Did it mean anything? Oh, everybody was going home; away from work, tiresome work. Paul had worked. He knew work was tiresome. He hated work. He hated even to watch men work. Yet, that afternoon he had spent two hours watching men work. It was at the Slimson Building. They were going to build an annex, and dozens of men were digging a big hole for it. Paul couldn’t see why they didn’t use a steam shovel.
He had watched those men for a long time as they picked and shovelled and hauled the dirt up the single plank runways. He had watched particularly one man, because that one seemed most tired of all the men there. He looked old, and made you think he was older even than he looked. A tight black cap
let just a few stray silver streaks show. The back of the neck seemed deeply lined. The shoulders were stooped just slightly. Struggling with a heavily loaded wheelbarrow, he was an easy man to single out as he pushed his burden up the plank. Returning with a lighter load, the man was still the beast of burden he had been as he pushed upward along the plank. The stoop in his shoulders was equally pronounced. The restraining gait, as if crying out against the eager wheelbarrow hastening downward, showed the more the burden on the man. And on his face, as red and wrinkled as the back of his neck, was a deep scar, like a pirate brand, from the corner of his right eye, along the side of his cheek, almost to the edge of his mouth. It stood out upon his face as a lone drop of rain in the sun, left upon a window pane after a sudden shower. Paul would always remember that face and the sorrow on it.
He walked a few blocks, carelessly glancing at the windows, filled with last minute suggestions; at jewelry shops, their displays now thinned out. Every now and then he would stop and watch the crowd, all hurrying. Queer, how happy some of these people seemed. It was the spirit of the mob—everybody happy, everybody smiling. What did it mean ? They might not be so happy if they saw the struggle and toil of some. What was the spirit of a day’s happiness, when others had years of toil to pay? How could these others find it in themselves to be happy, these who worked all day, bearing the burdens of grief; these clowns in the windows, and those puppets down in the pit. . . .
A little boy bumped into him. Paul looked at the lad—smiling, laughing, almost jumping with glee. In one hand he carried a lunch box, well battered. With the other he held the hand of a somewhat stooped man, one of the thousands on their way home from work. There was a happy smile upon the man’s face—and a scar.
It was Christmas Eve.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
407

(Cfjristmas ^pmpfjonp
(^berture
£

F THIS earth ....
An iced ball of fire from the planet stuffed basket
Of a God with solar systems for flame-set finger* rings . .
Of this earth I sing ....
.2?= §

Of this city ....
A drop of red pitch from the cloud hands of that great earth-walker The Old Man of the Skies ....
Of this city I shout ....
£
h
*
But of the creatures in this city ....
Tiny tree trunks, thought branched, achievement leafed;
Little vases, each with flower offerings for a flowered God;
Alabaster amphoras ever pouring white-red wine
Into the hour-handled chalices of the days;
Sharp four bladed knives to cut the hair of year-tressed Time;
Of these creatures, Men, I thunder .... and mutter.
And to them I address my stone-threaded words.
W
s
$
I §
W
•g
Cfjrfetmas Bap
The enormous tree of Dawn grows up the Eastern sky, And hewn in the vast bole is stable, there, Mary, freshly crowned with white motherhood, Joseph, vessel of clay, holding gifts from God, Shepherds, partakers of the noble communion work, mutely adoring, Their words, pebble-turned in their mouths, Wise men, wholly unwised in the Great Presence, offering myrrh-wreathed homage, And the Infant, center of the stabled Universe, (Know you the world was in that stable and that stable in the world?) God, shortly resident in palace of flesh, Ordained to fire that flesh to mightlier life than ever it saw before, Or will again.
Three words wrench themselves from human speech And fly at the stars like eagles unleashed, Burning with the unbearable splendour of their message, •‘Christ Is Born!”
$=
i
3
S
s
§
H’Oboi
Oh you race of humans, saw you across the crimson flyleaf of the Book of Day, The Writing of God?
Heard you the symphonies rolling from all the wildly shouting stars?
Saw you the sun swinging madly earthwards for joy
At its Maker’s descent into Human Life,
And the moon oceaning the skies with fountains of milk?
Felt you the blood in your veins freeze to red prayer,
And the bone castles tremble with new dignity, Knowing God, too, moved to the music of their song?
Saw you, heard you, felt you, these wonders, Made yours by the unutterable glory of Being?
Saw you? Heard you? Felt you?
a=
$ 1 i -s if § if
5$ i i 1
—MURRAY HICKEY LEY.
I
&
I


I
s

408
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPORT NEWS
Netmen Swamp Armour in Opening Game
Jachym and Crowe Lea d Attack—Entire Squad Runs Wild— Score, 54-14-
The 1928-29 edition of the Notre Danie basketball team got off to an auspicious start last Monday night, under a 54-14 score. With Captains Crowe and Jachym leading the attack, the Keo-ganites went into a commandi hg lead early in the game and were never headed.
There was nothing to it. Some eighteen
basketeers wearing the Blue and Gold of Notre Dame, went through, hurdled over and romped around a bewildered Armour Tech five. The half ended with the Keoganites leading, 27-8. So air-tight was their defense that Tech’s only field goal of the first half came with less than a minute to play.
The second half was a repetition of the first with practically the entire squad getting into the game. Frank Crowe continued to toss them in from all angles, besides playing a whale of a defensive game. Eight field baskets and a foul were the contributions of last year’s all-Western selection in about a half of the actual playing. The diminuitive third team forwards, “Geever” Gavin and Mike Teders, took up the burden of the song where Messrs. Crowe, Jachym, Newbold and McCarthy left off, and proceeded to hang up five baskets and a foul between them. They may come smaller than this pair in intercollegiate competition, but we haven’t seen them.
All in all, it looks as though Dr. Keogan has developed another set of Western champions. Crowe was unstoppable and Jachym and Vogelwede’s floor work was excellent. “Ooney” Donovan played his usual fine defensive game and Ed Smith showed why he was an all-Western selection for guard last year.
Tech, though outscored and outplayed in a most decisive manner, died gamely. With Tell, Simpson, and Ott leading them the Windy City squad fought as only a good team can, but a defense that ruined their plays at inception robbed their efforts of their just due.
Summary:
NOTRE DAME (54)			ARMOUR Robin, f		TECH (14) B F P		
B	F 1	P 0				
Crowe, f	8				__0	1	1
Jachym, f	3	3	1	Simpson, f		__1	1	3
Vogelwede, c	0	0	3	Tell, c		__1	2	2
Donovan, g	1	0	1	Manz, g		__0	1	2
Smith, g	1	0	0	Augustine, g _	__0	3	1
Newbold, f	1	0	0	Ott, f		__1	0	0
J. McCarthy, f	1	3	2	Fee, f		__0	0	0
Busch, c	0	0	2	Rowley, c		__0	0	0
Dew, g	0 M. McCarthy, g_0 Teders, f	2 Gavin, f	3 Buteroc, c	1 Carrideo, g	0 Moran, g	1 Leahy, f	1 Brown, c	0 Kizer, g	0	0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0	1 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0	Ruthkowski, g	__0	0	0
—	——	—		—	—	—
Totals	23	8 13		Totals		__3	8	9
Referee — Kearns, DePaul. Umpire — Warren, Muncie Normal.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
409

GEORGE GIPP
A year or so ago and he was here
With fame and praise about him like a song; But in the moment of his high acclaim Death came, and teas inexorable and strong.
He died, and legends greiv about his skill; Above the gridiron’s restive sky they burn, And potencies engender in his name,— Though shadows watch the tributary urn.
Within the anxious fury of a game
When hope had died beneath the bitter strife His name was lifted like a trumpet call And all those hearts rose with a cry to life.
(Written for the eighth anniversary of George Gipp’s death, and inspired by the Army game of this year.)

1928 FOOTBALL REVIEW IS BEST EVER ISSUED; OUT TOMORROW
The official University Football Review is expected to be out tomorrow, according1 to Thomas Purcell, editor, and John T. Houlihan, business manager. If the pre-readings are any criterion, it promises to be the best Review ever issued. Included in it are many pictures of different thrilling plays of the season’s games and individual pictures of the players. Feature articles by such prominent sports writers as Warren Brown, Walter Eckersall, Grantland Rice, Westbrook Pegler and W. 0. McGeehan are also included.
There are no less than thirty-six individual pictures and sketches of the members of the varsity squad used in the Review. Some of the striking action pictures of the games are: the touchdown play in the contest with the Navy, the winning pass caught by Johnny O’Brien in the Army game, and the run by Mullins in the Southern California tilt. The individual and group pictures of the stars of former years with appropriate comments on each are very interesting.
Among the special articles is a very amusing one, entitled “To See or Not to See,” by Warren Brown. Franklyn E. Doan, editor of last year’s Dome and former sports editor of the South Bend Neivs-Times, has a feature called, “The Cigar Store.” “Tribute to Jack Gleason” is a very impressive eulogy by the Reverend E. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., director of interhall athletics and rector of Sophomore Hall. W. 0. McGeehan, noted sports writer of the New York Herald-Tribune, has contributed an excellent article captioned, “Gipp.” Stories by Coach Knute K. Rockne, Captain Fred Miller, Harry Sylvester and J. Gilbert Prendergast, the latter two members of the sports staff of the Scholastic, also appear in the Review.
The Review carries a complete record of every member of the football squad of the season just completed. Full statistics of every varsity player are listed. Several pages are devoted to the reserves and accounts are given of interhall and freshman football activities.
410
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ALL INTERHALL TEAMS FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM Left end______ Citro—Sophomore	Hardaker—Lyons	Crane—Morrissey
Left tackle...Walters—Lyons	Reilly—Freshman	Smith—Corby
Left guard... McCabe—Walsh	Mahaffey—Howard	Hoffman—Sophomore
Center______....Shaffer—Lyons Higgins—Howard Ward—Off Campus Right guard__..Hamilton—Off Campus Walsh (Capt.) Corby Bender—Freshman Right tackle_Steepler—Sophomore Rigney—Lyons	. Tompkins—Corby
Right end.....Endress—Corby	Magee—Brownson	Sullivan—Lyons
Quarterback...Francis—Lyons	Nigro—Off Campus	Smurthwaite—Carroll
Left half-back.... Mangin—Lyons	Cozak—Corby	Law—Off Campus
Right half-back..Hewson (Capt.) Lyons Terry—Freshman	Pappas (Capt.) Soph.
Full-back  Howard—Sophomore Travers—Lyons	Orint—Brownson
HONORABLE MENTION
Jane—Walsh, r. h. b.; Woods—Howard, r. t.; Kane—Corby, c.; Dur-cott—Freshman, 1. h. b.; Georgio—Freshman, f. b.; Chevallier—Howard, 1. h.; Norton—Morrissey, f. b.; O’Malley—Corby, 1. g.; Smith—Off Campus, f. b.; Cannon—Sophomore, r. e.
LYONS TRIUMPHS IN ALL-GOLD COAST BATTLE TO WIN INTER-
HALL TITLE
The campaign is over, the last battle fought, and the clearing smoke of the final engagement reveals Lyons sitting alone on top of the pedestal that two months ago it shared with the eleven other teams of the two interhall leagues. Unscathed by the claws of defeat during their regular schedule of Yellowjackets added another jewel to the crown already set with the title of Division II when they decisively downed Howard last Saturday on Cartier Field to assume undisputed ownership of the Interhall Championship. It was the first time in the history of interhall football that two Gold Coast teams have met for the title and Lyons showed its appreciation of the great moment by walking off the field on the long end of a 6-0 score.
Lyons won the toss and elected to receive, leaving Howard to defend the north
goal. Receiving the kickoff on his own fifteen yard line Mangin ran it back to the thirty three where half of the yearling team downed him. Hewson hit the line for fifteen, Mangin added ten, and a pass Hewson to Francis netted another ten. Stiffening suddenly, Howard took the ball on downs and, failing to gain, punted deep into Yellowjacket territory. Lyons, again stopped, was forced to kick, and the quarter ended with the ball still see-sawing back and forth.
Just after the opening of the second quarter Napolitano fumbled almost on his own goal line after Mangin’s long punt had rolled dead on the five yard line. Walters recovered for Lyons on the one-yard line but Howard flashed a sudden show of intestinal fortitude and held for downs. Oelerick kicked out of danger but the yearlings respite was short. Mangin’s return punt slipped from Gleason’s fingers and Dolan fell on the slippery ball on Howard’s six-yard line. Again it seemed that
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	411
It is considered the height of bad form, they say, to carry your own sandwiches to a tea—or to pack your own blanket for the week-end— but luckily, no such outlandish conventions surround the smoking of your own cigarette.
“I’d rather have a Chesterfield,” fortunately, is a phrase which not only remains "good cricket’' in polite circles—bur at the same time brands the smoker as a person of rare
discernment and excellent discrimination.
And small wonder, considering all the remark implies. Good taste, top quality, the rare sparkle of tobacco goodness—all these combine to justify the choice of that man who thus shows his keen judgment.	'
"I’d rather have a Chesterfield”—a neat line, that—the mark of a real connoisseur and the password of six million smokers.
Chesterfield
MILD enough for anybody . . and yet. • THEY SATISFY .
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
412
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

If f %
Her Moment Is Another Girl’s Week-end! . . .
Imagine
“THREE WEEK ENDS”
With
CLARA BOW and
NEIL HAMILTON
Keep your eye on Clara! She’s out for the old “Do-Re-Me.”
a & a &
!
$

I
*
& a
&
SAT-SUN-MON-TUES
Written Especially for Paramount by ELINOR GLYN
A Publix Theatre
fOUFAY
THEATRE »
-f
Paramount Pictures
Victor McLaglen
As The Two-Fisted Hard Boiled “Sailor Frink”
h F 1!	in FOX MOVIETONE HIT
t *	“THE
F F	RIVER
F	PIRATE”
I	With
I	LOIS MORAN
	NICK STUART
	EARLE FOXE
	and
F	DONALD CRISP
it
WED.-THURS.-FRI.
t	1
&

I
Lyons was to be denied but Feilder, after three plunges had yielded a yard, sliced off tackle, squirmed out of the arms of a would-be tackler, and sprawled headlong over the goal line. Mangin’s kick for the extra point went wide.
Howard came suddenly and offensively to life at this point. Running the kickoff back to their own thirty-five yard stripe the yearlings took to the air. Two passes, Oelerick to Gleason, netted twenty and fifteen yards respectively but the half cut short Howard’s first and only scoring threat.
After an even third quarter Lyons was again given a chance to score. Napolitano attempted to catch a punt while standing on his own goal line but the water soaked ball again eluded him and O’Malley recov ered for Lyons on the one-yard line. With everything set for another score Travers elected to cut through tackle for a touchdown but forgot to take the ball with him and Woods recovered for Howard on his own five yard line. Oelerick punted out of danger, Lyons kicked back, and the gun ended the desperate series of Howard passes.
Higgins, Woods, and Oelerick, starred for Howard while Walters, Francis, Mangin, and Hewson of the victors showed the
I way to the rest of their teammates, g The lineup:
Howard
Mikes			R.E	
Dynewiecz	_R.T.
Matousek			R.G	
Higgins 			C._	
Mahaffey		—	L-G	
Woods 			L.T			
Dunlevey			L.E	
Napolitano			Q.B	
Chevallier			R.H	
Oelerick _	_ _ L.H. _
Foley			F.B	
Lyons
. Sullivan ._ Rigney O’Malley ._ Shaffer __Barry Walters Hardaker _ Francis . Hewson _ Mangin
Travers

f i
I I
Substitutions—Howard: Gleason for Foley, Stanix for Matousek, Ander for Dunlevey. Lyons: Partland for Sullivan, Dolan for O’Malley, Steinbacker for Rigney, Feidler for Travers, O’Shaugnessey for Steinbacker, Regan for Hardacre.
First downs—Lyons 7, Howard 5. Referee— Morrissey, Sorin; umpire—Kelleher, Corby; head linesman—Kosky, Sophomore. Time of quarters— 15 minutes.	—J. H. ZUBER.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
413
*2* *♦* &	♦♦♦	*♦* *•*	*♦*	*♦* ❖	*3*
❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖
$	+2*	*♦* *** & & & & & ♦♦♦ *♦* *** &	*♦* **•
We can see no ether team with a better claim to the national championship than Georgia Tech. Only the lack of a more comprehensive schedule may be held against the Southerners. If they win the Tournament of Roses, however, there can be no disputing their claim to the w. k. mythical championship.
❖ ❖ * *
Another undefeated eleven went down to defeat when Charlie Bachman’s Florida Alligators lost to Tennessee, 13-12, last Saturday. Florida went on the field, 5-1 favorites, which only goes to prove the truth of Barnum’s famous statement.
sj:
It is most unusual to find an athlete who excels in both basketball and track, yet the Conference boasts two of them in “Rut” Walters of Northwestern, and Virgil Gist of Chicago.
❖ * ❖
There may be a college with a smaller pair of forwards than “Geever” Gavin and Mike Teders, but we have not heard of it.
-S'
It seemed as though Frank Crowe couldn’t miss the basket last Monday. It is seldom that one sees such a fine exhibition of basket shooting so early in the season.
*
The right forward on Armour Tech is deaf and dumb, but he managed to put up a very fine game.
* * *
Prospects for a good track team seem brighter now that Joe Abbott is in training; there was some doubt about his competing this year due to his illness of the past summer, but it takes a lot to put the lanky Jerseyite out of competition. ■
* * *
Pete Morgan and Bob Brennan are about due. They have been running for a long, longtime and if anyone ever deserves to come through, they do.
I
S
f
I I I
I
*

*
»
WEEK OF December 16th
$
2? i
SUN., MON., TUES.
A scintillating story of a nice, nice girl who used steam shovel methods in “digging for gold”—
“PHYLLIS OF THE FOLLIES”
With ALICE DAY And an all star cast of “Show People.

i 8 8 8 S I S 8 i s i s
WED. TO SAT.
It thrilled New York—
It startled Boston—
It burned up Philadelphia— and it’ll STORM South Bend—
IT’S—
“Mother Knows Best
With
MADGE BELLAMY
LOUISE DRESSER
BARRY NORTON
film you should see for several reasons.”
—N. Y. American.
*
I f I I I I I I f f
s
PALACE
FOUR DAYS STARTING SUNDAY
Radio’s Most Popular Star “Yours very truly”
LITTLE JACK LITTLE
In his first vaudeville appearance in South Bend.
I g I I I t I
ip 3 i
I 1
S
Feature Photoplay SINNERS IN LOVE With
OLIVE BORDEN
Coming Thursday LEE GAIL ENSEMBLE -Whirlwind Terpsichorean Divertissement.
£ I I f
if
■I
I
I
I
5
8 s
BILLY SHONE & CO. In “Lobby Follies” And Other Acts.
%
Feature Photoplay TOM MOORE in HIS LAST HAUL”
2?=
I
I 5 I

414
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

Christmas Suggestions
Say “Merry Christmas” to “Her,” to the “Roomie” or the friends at home with a gift of Notre Dame Jewelry. Our large selection of Notre Dame Jewelry, Pillow Tops and Blankets offers many suitable gift suggestions.
For “Him”
For “Her”
RINGS
PINS
ASH TRAYS BELT BUCKLES KNIVES LIGHTERS WATCH FOBS MEMORY BOOKS
BRACELETS COMPACTS
RINGS
PINS LIGHTERS
BOOK ENDS CALENDARS PAPER KNIVES
N. D. Pillow Tops and N. D. Blankets
MAX ADLER
f
M
ON THE CORNER
MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON

't
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
415

8
8
I
I
THE OLIVER
BARBER SHOP
Wishes you
A MERRIE XMAS
8
8
8
I
and a
if
if
9
jlHeme Xmas
anb
I § i I i i ■i a
HAPPY NEW YEAR
205 W. Washington Ave. THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
I I a if if s if a if a
if
I i
8
-«
if
I
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
311 North Michigan Street
I	I
EXCELLENT WORKMANSHIP
—RELIABLE.
JIMMIE’S SHOE REPAIR SHOP Under New Management
---o--
ON THE CAMPUS
$
if a
&
if i 1
1. if
a if
a
Shoe Style Headmiarteff
Back of Rockefeller Hall. ----------o---
ALL WORK GUARANTEED.
---0---
s: 8 8
8
1
All the latest
Scotch Grains
f 24 Hour Service
Modern
I james McAllister
8 I sr S f
I f I I
if $ i I I I i 1 I I 1 a
BEACON’S
I
I I
o

I
8
I
a

8

&
&
&
8
8
8
&
8
8

8


f 8
8


$
I s


if g
a 1
--al--
114 West Washington Ave.
$ «
416
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I f I if If if f if f I *
Comment
A BASKET BALL COLUMN

8
I I &
The seasons greetings to
1
if
s I 4:
if
I I f f f
I $ f f If 8
BY A WRITER WHO
KNOWS HIS STUFF.
Read It Every Day in
THE
NEWS-TIMES
j
8
1
I
I
I
* & &

I f f I f 8 I
GYM SHOES
SWEAT SHIRTS | 1 I
4=

8
$
&
BERMAN’S
i
If f f
If
8
if
!
“If it comes from Berman’s it must be good.”
I

&
If
&
8
4=
i
if
126 North Michigan Street
RADIO
RIFLES
The Men of Notre Dame
CAFE
The Favorite Rating Place Notre Fame Men
Merry Xmas Boys
Leave your Christmas flower orders and
them
t»sr»S-rS$^
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE. TELEPHONE 3-5149
I
4=
£

$ 1 .« 4= 8
8
4=
s 4=
4?
4: :§
a
4=
8
8
8
y	I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
417


*
I * w

&
CARL D. LOVE, Mgr. H. CLIZBE KING
SI JHerry tliusmias
Are your Suits ready for the trip home?
UTILE DUTCH CLEANERS
Representatives in Halls
Hotel LaSalle
Telephone 3-5687
ft
3
8
*
er-
if
1
■/03 y/iai>i 'Afreet
'tana
Louisiana Texas NewMexico Arizona California Oregon Nevada Utah
&
I 8 I i I 8 8 I 8 8 I 8 s if I 8 8 8 8 a

I
w t
I
$
Go One Way—Return Another
TO DAY’S westbound traveler makes the most of his trip by going one way, returning another and seeing all the scenic wonders of the Pacific Coast while there. Southern Pacific offers you four great routes with a vast network of connecting lines reaching out to all the scenic attractions of the Great Southwest and Pacific Coast. For complete information and illustrated literature, write, dep’t. X.
Southern Pacific
E. W. CLAPP, Traffic Manager, 310 South Michigan Blvd., Chicago, Ill.
Ties to $5
***
Scarfs
$3 to $10
***
Pajamas $3 to $15
Lounging Robes $9 to $45
Shirts $2 to $6 ***

if
8
■s
if ft
if ft
8 8 s ft
$
I s
W	$
| IMPORTED & DOMESTIC MEN’S WEAR |
&	................._ _ ft

6
If
I
!>■ I t &


GILBRO’
Formerly Army Store 330 S. Michigan St.
SHEEP LINED COATS $6.48 up
ARMY FIELD SHOES $3.85 up
CORDUROY PANTS $2.95 up
CHRISTMAS GIFT. One-half Off
Handkerchiefs, Scarfs, Socks brown and black Kid Gloves.
and
1 if ft if
if
8
8
8
I 8
8 8 ft if
8
8 8 s if
8
8
8
a
ft
418
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Bring
Your
s
Christmas
List to
Navarre
i
THE CURRENT STYLES IN
CLOTHES, HA TS. SHOES
AND HABERDASHERY FOR
LOUNGE, SPORTS AND
CAMPUS USAGE WILL BE
EXHIBITED IN YOUR TOWN
ON DATE GIVEN BELOW.
YOU ARE CORDIALLY IN-
A TTENIL
I Wyman’s
I
She will be Glad to help you Shop! She knows Just the Thing that will Please Mother or Sister
I
the Girl a a perfect $
Brin g i
Wyman’s X
Salesper- *
and, as for g Friend, she’s 1 mind-reader! 1 your List to 1 and ask Any
December 17-18
MONDAY and TUESDAY
1121 N. Notre Dame Avenue
JOE SHEEHAN
Representative

I
I

I 1
PETERSON’S
FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK
JACKSON BOULEVARD,CHICAGO


g son to direct you to i Joan Navarre. You’ll | enjoy Shopping with f Her. She will shop for f You, too. Write or 1 phone 3-5101.
THE SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISERS DESERVE YOUR PATRONAGE

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
419

THE
UNIVERSITY
LAUNDRY
$ f * £
Back of Main Building
I
I I g

s:
Launderers to the Particular Student
PAY CASH or
HAVE IT CHARGED
to your account.
Socks Mended
Buttons Sewed On
lS	S
Eont Experiment. With your Appearance
AT THE BEST MEN’S SHOP
$

$


g
&
I g

Plan now
for your trip to Europe on American ships $184.50 and up, round trip
Tourist Third Cabin
THOUSANDS of students last year took vacation trips to Europe on United States Liners. Thousands will go this year. Many of them have planned already, and are making their reservations now. They’re "travel-wise.” They know about the delicious cuisine on these ships, the generous staterooms, the wide, sun-swept decks, the American standards of comfort and luxury, and about the courteous stewards who speak your own language. Your student agent or your nearest steamship agent will tell you about Tourist Third Cabin accommodations that are always "a good buy” on the Leviathan, George Washington, America, Republic, President Harding, and President Roosevelt.
United States Lines
is?
g	Headquarters for	g
| DUNHILL-SASIENI AND THREE-B IMPORTED |
$	PIPES	M
I	GARDNER’S	|
&	Main and Jefferson
I	i
420
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

s: 8 I
Sr
&
Home
•i
5
:§

if
8
8
Men of
Notre Dame
9 I i S
M
sr
8
8 8
&
$
$
i
$ 8 8 8 8 & Sr g Sr 8 8 *
Holidays
1 1
I I
I
I
Sr
Sr 1 S: &
S: & Sr $
Sf I I 8 I I I *
If you live east of South Bend, Merry Christmas to you, and you’ll see us again after the holidays are over .... If you live west, northwest or southwest, Merry Christmas and more .... a quick, comfortable ride home or to Chicago, and back again after the New Year. Make your baggage arrangements now with Mr. Oberfell, Traf-. fie Department, 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 2-5764.	'
1
I I 1
1
1
I I i
50WH0RE
^■B ■ ■ ^ ■■■
I i
&

I I 8 l i f
& Sr
Sr
8
&
Sf * Sr
I 8 &
We wish you
A Merrie Xmas
and a
Happy New Year
Hotel LaSalle
J. KENNETH QUALLEY—’27 JOS. E. WHALEN—’29
&
I
$ :S
a-
I
I
I a
$
A

n
I
& Sr * Sr 8 I 8 I I 8 8
s:
8
8
I
*
& a
Jforetier
SntroiJucing
Qty Ojristnias g>tore
^Itetoortffsi

a
a
&
1 $

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	421
DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE
for
Am
alarms
tnulth
¥
F
1
T
F
F l i I
F
F g
F
F
Hotel LaSalle
Barber Shop
Accomplished
Service
SIX EXPERT BARBERS MANICURE
N. D. Men Always Welcome.
You’ll be delighted.
WintirBallroomliwitesloul rsM*,s^^
11
and here are just the

PHONE 3-1254
skates to wear
The
ance make skating a pleasure. You’ll be proud of these fine tubular skates attached to shoes. Sizes for everyone, for every kind of skating.
s
I

i
A
$
£
FlL^Sllnl
1
1
1
1
1
1
I I
i
Drs. Singler & Probst !
DENTISTS 3
261 ASSOCIATES BLDG.
«	:S

J@E KHN©| J T

Manufactured by
Alfred, Johnson Mate Rompanp wNorth Av* rhicana U.S.A.
Hat ranntetad With Natter, fohn tan fUg-C*.
The Choice of Champions
Send for this Free (■Book on Skating
A Quality Outfit for Beginners

For sale by Leading Sporting Goods, Hardware and Department Stores £
•	: f
PATRONIZE SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISERS j
IT PAYS TO LOOK WELL
SOUTH SHORE
BARBER SHOP
Botkin & Campbell, Props.
SIX CHAIRS
SERVICE
105 West LaSalle Street
Next door to East Victoria Lunch.

I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17 say “Merry Xmas” with same Gift
Evanston, Ill. Dec. 31, 1927 Larus & Bro. Co.
Richmond, Va.
Dear Sirs:
I happen to be blest with a host of very fine friends, mostly “highbrows” —professors, scientists, etc. Generally at Christmas time they show their remembrance and all that with some little gift—a box of cigars, fishing tackle, a book—all that sort of thing.
Well, this Christmas many seemed to centre on tobacco. Now, mark you, these fellows have no communication with each other. They live in widely separated parts of the country, so it was no “put-up” joke on me or anything like that. But here came seventeen boxes of tobacco, and sixteen of them the familiar blue “Edgeworth!” The seventeenth was a very flossy walnut, brass-trimmed box, but if I know tobacco, the contents were Edgeworth with a little perique in it.
Just coincidence, perhaps, but a queer one. Am not an habitual smoker of Edgeworth, so they weren’t catering to any especial taste of mine. Looks like a consensus of opinion among the “highbrows”—or quite a batch of ’em—that Edgeworth is the stuff, the proper caper for a gift.
Sincerely yours, F. A. Fitzpatrick
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
Dr. Frank M. Powers
University Physician
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT "7 OUR STORE IS THE j
Charter
of South Bend
The character of the suits and overcoats tailored by Charter House will earn your most sincere liking.

MAX ADLER CO.
South Bend, Indiana
When making purchases, remember that our advertisers deserve your patronage.
424	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

YOUR
ou can’t isolate a
VITAMIN
YOU can take the biology expert’s word for that. And you can believe the physiology prof when he says they are essential to health. You will get a good start on your daily quota of vitamins A and B in a breakfast of
Shre dded
FATHER
Would be Interested!
If you are going into business your father hopes that eventually you will become a business executive.
He would be interested in anything that would enable you to reach this success in business. He may like to know about Babson Institute.
Here you could receive an excellent training for business leadership. In a small conference group, working in a business environment and under the direction of business men you would be taught the fundamental laws of business.
When you write your Father or when you are home for the Christmas Holidays tell him about Babson Institute.
Send for Booklet!
Every college man who is ambitious to succeed in business should read our booklet “Training for Business Leadership”. It explains in detail the work given, the unique features of our course in business fundamentals and how leadership is achieved. A copy will be sent free. Get one to take home for the Holidays.
Mail this Coupon Now!
BABSOM Institute
gC301 Wellesley Av., Babson Park. Mass, g 1 Send me, without obligation “Training I I for Business Leadership” and complete ■ I particulars about Babson Institute.	■
g Name	z
J College	I
! Address	I
Wheat
WITH WHOLE MILK OR CREAM
■
g	------------------------------
| Home
| Address
■ .
J City	State
Office: 3-6978
Residence 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
When making purchases, remember that our advertisers deserve your patronage.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
This
Changing World
To-day, you can see big buildings erected noiselessly—by electric welding.
The structural steel worker is dropping his clattering hammer for the electric arc. Silently, swiftly, rigidly, economically, buildings are being fabricated by electric welding, which knits steel with joints as strong as the metal itself.
Building silently! Nothing seems impossible in this electrical age.
Not only in building construc-tionjbut in every human activity,
we instinctively turn to electricity to add to the comforts of life and to eliminate the wastes of production—another evidence that the electrical industry
is maintaining its leadership in this changing world.
Not only industrial equipment, but electric refrigerators, Mazda lamps, and little motors that add to the comforts of home, are manufactured by the General Electric Company. All are identified by the G-E monogram—a symbol of service.
95-607DH
GENERAL ELECTRIC
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY. NEW YORK
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Ain't It a Grand and Glorious Feelin'?
By BRIGGS
But TmE- first pressut Turms out To be old golds
CHRISTMAS for Some Folks Just December 25th io YoJ
OH-K-H-BOY! WHAT A GRAND A CHEER.Y BEARER OF XMAS AND GLORIOUS CHRISTMAS* GOODWILL- THE SPECIAL
er. LvilMCX. Em. IM*
.. . not a cough in a carload