
II 
II
Unn 
Violence in Sports is on the Risef ·· -­

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE Entertainment reviews and previews,·· Out of Bounds . and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In-depth news and sports coverage. 
Read one for the Gipper! Campus Watch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses. 
Campus Life stories to keep you informed of what's happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening ... you're probably reading Scholastic! 
If you don't have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription! 
~--------------------~----------------­
Please send __ years of Scholastic Lo: 
Name: 

Address: ______________ 
City: ______ State: ___ Zip Code: __ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 · x _ years = $ ___ 
Please send form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 

CONTENTS 


NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 


3 Out in Left Field 4 Color Me Diverse 6 Timber! 

8 When the Notre Dame Family is Family 
9 Rescue 631 

10 Unsportsmanlike Conduct 
14 The Newcomers 

17 .Out of Bounds 18 Rolling With Da Flavor 19 It's Oscar Time Again 
1 

FROM THE MANAGING EDITOR 
The pristine white mountains of Lillehammer, the Olympic theme songs, the tales of competition and glory and gold ... It is easy, especially during the Olympic Games, to forget that sports are becoming more and more violent 
No one at Notre Dame has to be told what kind of loyalty and passion that athletic events can inspire. We cheer enthusiastically, we rush the field after big wins, we wear tee-shirts denouncing the other side as convicts. The student body rides a wave of emotion after every win or loss in Notre Dame Stadium. Sometimes, however, this emotion turns into rage, or jealousy, or hatred. 
But it is not just football anymore, or hockey, or boxing. As the Harding/Kerrigan debacle shows, no sport is immune and no athlete is safe. It seems as if the cut throat competition that used to take place within the sidelines or the rinkor the ring has moved outside. Healthy 
· rivalry has become intimidation. Sports have always been about being number one, but in today's world, they are also about cold, hard cash. Notre Dame's healthy deal with NBC is proof that even amateur competition carries a hefty price-tag. Money brings with it greed, often a meaner greed than competition inspires. 
And so tennis stars get stabbed and ice skaters get whacked. Fans get more vociferous. Where will it end? T. Ryan Kennedy takes a closer look at this disturbing phenomenon in sports on page 10. 
Also in this issue ... In News, Chris Regan takes a look at multiculturalism at Notre Dame. This thorny topic, and the opinions behind it, has ramifications for many students at Notre Dame. J. Patrick Coolican responds to the issue in his commentary. Ever wonder what it would be like to have a parent teach at Notre Dame? Chris Lenka finds out in a Campus Life story. Don't forget the weekly departments, like Out ofBounds and On Other Campuses. · Lastly, Final Word this week features outgoing student body president and vice president Frank Flynn and Nikki Wellman, and the incoming duo of David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh. See what they have to say. Enjoy the Issue ... 
Katie Wiltrout Managing Editor 


ScholRstlc ispublishedwttkly througnout the school ytarerc,pt 
utters to ScholRstlcmust bt typed a11d /11cbuh the writer'• 1'amt, duriJcg erami11Rti011 and t1tlClltia11 ptriDds at the U11it1tnity of 
addrt1s and phOllt ,rumbtr, lbiivtnity 1tudt11ts should i11cbuh Notre Damt, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 adpri1cted at Tlu,.P"Ptn, their ytaruc school and colltgt, Faculty 111t11tbtrs1hould i11cbuh l11c, Mllfonl, IN46542. The subscrlptio,c rate is $25.DO!ytar and 
thtir dtpartm,11t, All l,tttn must bt slgntd, Na11tts will bt back issue• art llt1Rilablt ..t $1.25lcopy. The opi1<ID11i erpnsstd 
withheld upon rtqutlt ill ctrlauc ucsta11c,•• uc ScholllStlc = thou of the authon and tditon and do not Scho/JJstlc r,s,n,e, the right to rtjtct /ttt,,s that"" libtlau. or uassarlly rtpnst11t the opuc/o,cs ofthe tlltirt editorial board of 
obsct11tbythe lRws oftht UllittdStatts, ScholRstlca/sowilltdit Scho/JJstlc or of the lbiivtrdty ofNotre Dame, its admucistra­
for copyfittucg, gr""'matical or sptllucg trron and Schowtic tlD11, faculty or stwu11ts, Editorials signed Schowtlc rtprtst11t 
,tylt. Bwwstofspact,ScholRstlcca11110tpri11talll,tttrsrtetlvtd. the c,pbiio11 of the 11tt,jority of the ertcutivt tditorlal board, Manuscripts =wtlcmN, All1111solldtud 11taterials btam,t the 
Addrtu all corrtsp011dt11ct to : proptrly ofScholllStic. · 
The Editor ScholRstlc Copyright 1993ScholRstlcMaga:dttt, Allrights rtstrotd. Rtpro­
UJForlwtt Center ductio11 uc whoIt or/,. parltillthoutwritt,11 ptTMlu/011 isprohib­Notre Da11tt, IN%556 ited, 
2 
NEWS co-MMENTARY 
Out in Left Field 
Multiculturalism: submission to the cause ofpolitical correctness 
The proper function of the academic institution is the pursuit of universal and eternal truth and wisdom. Recently, however, the university has become nothing more than an uppity political opera­tion, spinning like a weather vane to the newest radical winds ofthe American left Notre Dame has long resisted this trend, as evidenced by the general lack of politicization of the curriculum. However, in light of the Colloquy's talk of "diversity," despite its good inten­tions, Notre Dame is surrendering its integrity to the thought police of political correctness. George F. Will has said that the unifying theme ofthe West's rich tradition is that reason matters supremely, whereas accidental char­acteristics like race are irrelevant in the scheme of things. Our culture is unique because advancement and status are not tied to family history. In contrast, multiculturalists claim that one's cul­ture, and thus one's values and philosophies are determined by the accidental characteristics of race and ethnicity. As Linda Chavez recently noted, culture is part of the genes, rather than part of the . mind. Hence, character is determined by the color of one's skin. 
' by J. Patrick Coolican · 

The frrst prerequisite for a multicultural university obviously lies in a racially and ethnically diverse student body and faculty. Page 37 of the Colloquy says the following: "Affirmative action entails setting public goals for ourselves ... and finding the resources necessary to achieve our goals." "Goal" is a cynical euphemism for quota, and quotas present many moral as well as practical problems for the university. For example, should the son of a West Virginia coal miner be denied acceptance while an equally qualified son of Bill Cosby is admitted? Does this really improve the "diversity" of Notre Dame? At Berkley, applicants compete against members of their own ethnicity. This situation is the inevitable result of quotas, and one can imagine the dilemmas involved. For example,·an Asian student is denied acceptance while a less qualified white or black candidate is accepted. Most importantly, h_owever, accidental characterisitics like race and ethnicity are suddenly elevated to class universities who identify themselves as "victims." With separatism comes a small group mentality and a suspicion of other groups which are seen as oppressive. They demand speech codes to protect themselves from perceived racists on campus. The curricu­lum now includes "multicultural" works, while Socrates and Shakespeare are cast aside as dead white oppressive males. Incom­ing freshmen are required to attend sensitivity training sessions. 
The reader's response is, "never could this happen at Notre Dame." Unfortunately, the Colloquy's seemingly benign intentions of"diversity" will inevitably lead to the aforementioned sequence of events as it has at dozens of other American universities -a racial polarization ofan institution, once established to preserve the value of freedom and reason. 
Am I suggesting• that the Notre Dame status quo is perfect? Certainly not. Obviously there exists a lack of diversity at Notre Dame, but we must defme the problem as a lack of diversity of personalities. The stereotype of the beer drinking, Sega playing, studying, Notre Dame male contains some truth. Notre Dame needs more artists, writers, philosophers and future Rhodes Scholars and fewer class presidents and captains of the tennis team. In addition, Notre Dame lacks people who understand the rigors ofpoverty and impoverished public high schools. The solution is to begin to give merit scholarships to talented students. The administration re~ 
"The solution is to begin to give merit scholarships to talented students. The administration responds with, 'We do not buy students.' But apparently we do buy athletes."' 
supreme status. Rather than being judged as individuals, we are judged on the basis of who our parents are. · 
A quota system inevitably results in the acceptance of some unqualified applicants, and an unfortunate stigma is attached to an entire minority group. The minority group recognizes the stigma and begins to exclude themselves, eventually embracing "Chicano­Studies" departments, black-only student unions, and a general separatist philosophy. They are middle class Americans at world sponds with, ''We do not buy students." But apparently we do buy athletes. 
Notre Dame should educate, not pander to political bullies. To submit to the diversity fascists would be an act ofcomplete coward­ice. I suggest that you have your parents write to the university, unless you enjoy the prospect of sitting in front ofPatty O'Hara, explaining your unwanted staring and promising to attend sensitiv­ity training sessions as penance for your intolerance. D 


8 

1 r 


Colloquy calls for increased ethnic diversity at Notre Dame, but the questions of why and how have yet to be answered 
by Christopher Regan 
The president of the University of Notre Dame has enshrined cultural diversity in Notre Dame's future. The prestigious placement of this topic in the Colloquy ranks it alongside residentiality, financial aid and Catholic character, arguably the bedrock principles on which Notre Dame rests. When the university displays such firm resolve to move in a given direction, certain questions must be asked: What exactly is diver­sity? How much does Notre Dame desire? Why does Notre Dame desire it and what will it do for the university? What is Notre Dame prepared to do to attain it? The multicultural diversity movement is . by no means restricted to this campus, and in the end, its very existence raises questions about the nature of education at any American university. According to Iris Outlaw, director of the office for multicultural affairs, diversity includes, "not only ethnicity, but different socio­economic arenas." The diversity at issue need not be cultural, it can be economic. In this regard, Notre Dame clearly pursues an affirmative action policy by restricting, in large part, its financial aid to students who demon­strate need. There is relatively little controversy surrounding financial aid distribution along financial lines, but the question becomes more difficult when it is ethnic or racial diversity that is sought The justifications for increasing ethnic diversity by artificial means at Notre Dame are extensive, sketchy at points arid they have not been clearly explained by anyone, anywhere, yet 

Even Father Edward Malloy, C.S.C., diversity's most powerful champion on campus admitted, "It is nebul9us." 
"The world itself is diverse. Diversity at Notre Dame allows the university to enhance the educational opportunity it provides," said Outlaw. -­
At the heart of this argument lies the keystone of multiculturalism -demographics. Those who defend multiculturalism point to the declining numbers of white males in the work force and infer that larger numbers of minorities will be replacing America's predomi­nantly white employment base. In fact, white males will constitute about 45 percent of the work force in the year 2000 and while their numbers are declining, it is largely due to the influx of white women, who together with white males will still be 84 percent of employed Americans for the next decade. 
The university has been predominantly white for its entire history. Yet Notre Dame students have no reputation for failing to succeed in later life because there were too many white people in their dorm. It seems that the university and its students have gotten along quite well without diversity for around a century and a half, argue those who defend Notre Dame's record on cultural diversity. 
Nevertheless, the Colloquy states that, "A great change in propor­tionate numbers and collective attitudes has emerged. We are moving in the right direction, but in some units of the university 
4 

16,--,--,--.-,-,---,-,-,---,---,_-,---,...,....,-,m,_,-,--,---, 
"I am personally con­
essary, or that Notre 

vinced that our providential 
14-t--t-t-ir-t--t----t--t--t-+-t-t---t--+-t--t:::iffttffittfflt...+:=l 
Dame's diversity require-

role in higher education is 
ment has been met. Still

-6' I 2 -+--+-+-1--i-1--+-+--+-+-i-l'--l--+-+--w11Hi!lH­
inextricably connected to 
others would maintain that 
o 
i:tl

our Catholic identity," 
there is something decid­

c: 10-+--+-+-l--i-l--+-+--+-+-i-l'--l--+---Hl_H-m_fffl.l.ffl--H­
wrote Father Malloy in Col­
edly un-American about
]

loquy. · 
multiculturalism. Despite

U) 8 ++-+-H-+=+---tt!lmrfflJHAf1'f!!ltrwttffl!fffittffl-/ffl1fffltm-HmH 
This statement contra­
this criticism, affirmative 

C: 6 -+-+--Hllll-1-1-m+ilff-Hii§H
dicts the vision of Notre 
action is defended vigor­
Q.l 
8

Dame as a mirror of 
ously by the university as 

~ 4-fflltffl'tffl-fffitfflfiHH-t
America. This statement 
its only means of ensuring 

clearly separates Notre 
2 --ttl!ttmti!!tHfflffltil!ltttlaffliltt.lllftflttl!IH-DWl!!ffim-HllittllittmtmHfffltmtl»l 
a student body that repre­

Dame from the rest of 
sents the entire country, 

America. It is only because 

and of preparing its stu­
this university is unlike 
dents for the world ahead. 

other universities and the 
. 

progress has been painfully slow and un­even." . 
A host of multicultural groups have sprung up and various organizations have hosted a number of diversity 'events.' The office of multi.cultural affairs brought a dance troop and a comedy group to help Notre Dame celebrate "Hispanic Heritage Month." Speakers came to campus to re­mind the students of Martin Luther King Day. This effort was put forth not only by black student groups but by the student gov­ernment, which felt it was important to rec­ognize King on his holiday, even though classes were in session. 
How far must this diversity extend in order for our campus to maximize the in~ vigorating power of minority admissions? Presumably, if Notre Dame stopped admit­ting anyone but minorities, that would be too far, but how much diversity is enough? 
"Our aspiration relative to America is to provide an educational experience more true to the general population than in the past, with particular concern for ethnicity. It also includes international students," said Father Malloy. 
That statement would provide Notre Dame with an absolute criterion for deter­mining an appropriate level for diversity. The university should "look like America." However, a university that looks like America is not w_hat Notre Dame is moving toward, because Notre Dame has a commit­ment to Catholic character. This predomi­nation of Catholics is obviously a threat to diversity on the campus, but no move is being made to correct that. 
nation at large that it has a "providential" position in higher education, according to the administration and the trustees. 
. "We are not Notre Dame the white univer­sity; we are not Notre Dame the male univer­sity; we are Notre Dame the Catholic univer­sity," said Father Malloy in response to the 
"We are not Notre Dame the white university. We are not Notre Dame the male universityo We are Notre Dame the Catholic university." 
-Father Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 
charge that a Catholic character precludes multiculturalism in a large degree. Thus, to combine the Colloquy's committment to Catholicism and Father Malloy's committment to multiculturalism would in-
Minority Student Enrollment 

crease diversity of some kinds, but not oth­ers. 
The most fundamental assertion behind the idea of cultural diversity is that people of different races or ethnicities are inherently different from one another. The idea is that a man of Irish descent who grew up in Beverly Hills is somehow culturally differ­ent from a man of African descent, born two blocksaway. Doesthismakeanysense? Do either of these young men really have more in common with their ancestors half a world away than they do with each other? The advocates of diversity seem to think so. 
"Exactly how this differs from the tradi­tional racist notion that all blacks (Jews, Mexicans, Chinese, etc.) think alike is un­clear," said Linda Chavez, the director of the Center for the New American Community. 
The American tradition has always fo­cused on assimilation of cultures,ratherthan factionalization and separatism. Multiculturalism seems to fly in the face of America's motto, e pluribus unum, (out of many, one), according to those who take issue with the notion of multiculturalism. 
The policy of affirmative action is largely accepted in the Notre Dame office of under­graduate admissions office. Geographical quotas, racial quotas and a host of other demographic factors fit in to the admissions equations that determine who is accepted at Notre Dame. Some argue that a policy which favors one ethnic group or another is inherently unfair and takes away from what ought to be the foremost criterion foradmis­
sion, academics. 
Others claim that 
multiculturalism is unnec­

NEWS 

Timber! 
Illegal lofts are coming down 
by Mark J. Mitchell IV 

I've never seen so much concern over the use ofwood since Homer wrote about the Trojan Horse," said Father Tom King, C.S.C., rector ofZahm Hall. "It's ludicrous that there would be so much concern from students about where their beds sit, and it's ludicrous that Student Affairs would choose this time to demonstrate so much concern over loft construction." The issue generating so much concern is a directive from student affairs regarding the construction and placement of lofts in the residence halls. "This is part of a survey being conducted by risk management, the fire department and support services. Basi­cally, we're going through the dorms and we're looking at how the lofts have been built, and wehave found some discrepancies between the construction ofthe lofts and the rules and codes," said fire chiefJack Bland. "My understanding of the problem is that sometimes RAs don't enforce the loft regu­lations as closely as they should, and some­times rectors don't see all of what students have built So now they're checking the lofts in all the donns to make sure they confonn with the codes," said Father Stephen New­ton, C.S.C., rector of Sorin Hall. "By and large, students are rather perturbed that their lofts are being scrutinized now when they were not at the beginning or the end of the year." 
"I think this is part ofa new policy on loft placement It seems that the greatest con­cern is over where the lofts are placed in relation to doors and windows," said Father King. "Itseems to me that they're concerned about lofts that have inset lighting and lofts which are too close to the ceiling," said 
Father Newton. tually, we are checking 
on lofts which interfere 
with sprinklers, smoke detectors; which pose an electrical danger and which have been constructed as more of a second floor, not an elevated bed," stated Bland. 
"Students are both­ered that they are being questioned about their lofts halfway through the school year, but I don't believe that they will be requested to take down their lofts now," Father King said. "The residents with the most outrageous constructions are the ones who are the most concerned about having to alter their living arrangements. But I don't see anyone hav­ing to make radical changes now -next year is a different story," Father Newton said. 
· But contrary to the rectors'. feelings and against what any of the students want to do, once risk management completes the survey and records all the lofts in violation of the codes, according to fire chief Bland, ''They will berequired to modify them or take them down." 0 


SCHOLASTIC 

. ­
NEWS COMMENTARY 

fax: 631-9648 

GOSSIP, ALLEGATIONS &INNUENDO 
ry,he past week has been fun for the Gipp.
1. Over the last couple days, your spy from LaFortune has been calling around to get an ·estimate on the number of pudding glasses broken after last week's article. The South DiningHall'smariagergavetheGippthetruly believable figure ofzero. This made the Gipp smile. 
CHEETOS; FRITOS AND CHUNKS 
All-nighters rot This surely comes as no revelationtoanyoftheGipp'sfaithfulfollow­ers. The Gipp' s least favorite aspect of these stamina-fests is the vending machine food. 
First, the Gipp is always a bit wary about paying 40 cents for anything containing more than 25 percent of one's daily allowance of lard. Chip companies may find this surpris­ing, but the Gipp really prefers not to feel his heart working harder as he eats his cheddar­flavored crackers. 
But what friglitens the Gipp more about substances from the vending machine is the processed food rotating under fluorescent light without an expiration date. A special case among these has to be the hermetically sealed sandwiches. The Gipp rather suspects that these sandwiches are really just for show. Every three days or so, the Gipp thinks, they are removed, cleaned and repackaged. 
NEW WAYS TO PUT OFF PAPERS 
TheGipplovese-mail. Heseesitasthenext generation of the answering machine, where one can avoid humans until interaction be­comes vital. Plus it is a great way to put off wntmg a paper. 
Now there is a new toy called Mosaic. One of the Gipp' s engineering friends introduced it to him in between complaining how little sleep she had gotten. Mosaic is a program on all the computers here that connects one with anything from weather maps to Tarot read­ings. The Gipp' s time killer of choice, though, is called "100 Ways to Confuse Your Room­mate," put together_by the ND's computer guru Mike Miller. 
Some of the Gipp's picks: 
2. Get some hair. Disperse it around your roommate's head while he/she is asleep. Keep a pair of scissors by your bed. Snicker at your roommate every morning. 
16.BuyaJack-in-the-Box. Everyday.tum the handle until the clown pops out Scream continuously for 20 minutes. 
60. Steal something valuable of your roommate's. If he/she asks about it, tell him/ her that you traded it for some magic beans. Give some beans to your roommate. 
THE REVOLUTION SPREADS 

The Gipp was paging through the South Bend Tribune this Sunday when two familiar faces stared at him from the page. Hungeling and Orsagh now have coverage of their coup (in full color, no less) 
on a local level thanks to the · writing of our favorite ObserverJock Stripper, George Dohrmann. 
Soon after, another of the Gipp's Junior Campus Watchers passed on the tip that the twosome appeared in the Allentown, PA, newspaper, The Morn­ing Call. 
The Gipp expects to see David Letterman chatting with the Dy­namic · Duo within a couple weeks. 
. On the losing side of the election, dear Ms. Karen DuBay alleg­edly received around 40 or 50 harassing phone calls during the week of the election. A quick ca1I to security revealed that no report had been filed. Of course, the Gipp's heart bleeds for the ticket whose run-off plan involved discrediting the opponent 
ON THE JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND BISHOP-ENDORSED FRIDAY ABSTINENCE EXEMPTION ALLOWING PARENTS TO PARTAKE OF HORS D'OEUVRES 
Cocktail weenies, cocktail weenies, cock­tail weenies. 
Thanks for reading again, ever-watchful Darners. Next week, the Gipp explores for­bidden spots beneath the campus. Until then, take the long trail, eat all your kale, learn to ~d Braille and should that still fail, sail the Gipp mail. . 

CAM Pu·s LIFE 
,",•! i 
I 
I 
When the Notre Dame Family is Family 
Students whose parents teach at Notre Dame 
by Chris Lenko 

For many students independence is one of the most wonderful things about go­ing offto a university. College means being able to stay out all night, eating Cheerios for dinner and never having to clean your room. After all, what your parents don't know won't hurt them, right? Imagine, though, what it would be like to spend every day looking over your shoulder, living in fear that Dad might be lurking in the aisles ofthe Huddle, or catching sight of Mom throbbing to the beat ofXYZ Affair at the Acoustic Cafe. Fortunately, for most students, the above scenarios are highly un­likely. However, for the many students whose parents are professors at Notre Dame, these situations are more than the stuff night­mares are made of. While most students are comfortable seeing their parents in small doses at Christmas and Easter, for some the Notre Dame family is literally family. Does having a parent who is a professor compromise one's freedom and indepen­dence? According to many students, the answer is no. While they may be sharing the Notre Dame campus with one or even both of their parents, children of professors gen­erally agree that with a little bit of effort, they can lead independent and autonomous lives. Hans Detlefson, whose father, Michael, is a philosophy professor, and mother, Martha, is a secretary in Decio, said that the Notre Dame community is big enough for all of them. "My parents and I made a deal before I came to Notre Dame," he said. "We would try to make it as if I was going away to school." Detlefson claims that he ·never actually runs into his parents on campus and only sees them when he makes an effort. 
Greg Borkowski, whose father John Borkowski is a psychology professor, finds that he is "always looking over his shoul­der," but only runs into his father occassionally. "!guess I see my dad more often than anyone else does" he said, but Borkowski doesn't find his father's pres­ence on campus a big problem. 
Sheila Weigert has to work twice as hard as Detlefson and Borkowski to avoid her family. Her father, Andrew Weigert, is a sociology professor and her mother, Kathleen Maas Weigert, is the faculty liasion/academic coodinator at the Center for Social Concerns. Weigert said that she tries to avoid her parents. Although her family lives in Granger, Weigert only goes home during breaks. "I even do my laundry on campus," Weigert said. "It's actually more convenient. My room is right upstairs, and I can do homework; whereas if I went home, I would be sitting around for two hours. I try to pretend home is not right here." 
However, there are.some disadvantages associated with having a parent who is a Notre Dame professor. Borkowski said that if he messes up, his parents find out more easily than other students' parents would, and things are hard to hide from his father. 
For Detlefson, living in South Bend is one of the drawbacks that comes to mind. "Go­ing home for fall break just doesn't have the same excitement it does for most people," he said. 
These students said that they aren't usu­ally singled out by their professors and that most treat them with the same respect they would show any other student Yet some said that their parents occasionally find things out about them from other professors. 
None ofthe students had ever taken a class taught by one oftheir parents, although most said they would consider it ifthe class was in their major or ifthey were very interested in the course. Weigert said that her parents will not let her enroll in any of the classes that they teach because of-the difficulties their relationship might create. 
However, all of them have had friends who were in their parents' classes and have learned how to take their friends' criticisms and compliments in s~de. Detlefson, who said his father "is known to be a hard grader" has said he has learned not to take friends' comments too seriously, andW eigertclaims that her friends help her to see a whole new sideofher parents. "I'm finding out how fun and different they are in class," she said. "My parents seem to have a good reputation on campus, and I hear nice thingsaboutthem a lot." 
While they run the risk of bumping into their parents and occasionally put up with some teasing, all the students agreed that there are some advantages that come with having a parent teach at Notre Dame. Most obvious is the remittance of tuition fees for students whose parents are faculty mem­bers. In addition, Borkowski commented on the benefits of having a parent who knows how things work at Notre Dame, and Weigert appreciates the advice that her par­ents give her on professors and classes, both from their own experience and from the feedback they receive from their students. 
All in all, the advantages seem to out­weigh the drawbacks, and none of the stu­dents feel that having a parent who teaches at Notre Dame compromises their indepen-· denceinanyway. They don'tknowifthey w.ould prefer not having their parents around; After all, they've never had it any other way. . . 




8 


CAMPUS LIFE 
RESCUE 631 
. Medical services volunteers provide emergency first aid at many university sports and functions. 
by Maureen Schultz 

The railing around the stadium ramp was 
. unsteady to begin with. And when the mass ofexcited students began leaning on it, it became even mme unsteady. Then, sud­denly, the railing crashed to the ground, taking eight students with it The ushers, untrained in medical aid, immediately made a phone call, and medical services rushed to the scene. Made up of 80 student volunteers, medi­cal services is a team offirst-aid administra­
tors who are responsible for en­suring the well~being of the crowd at Notre Dame varsity sports games, in addition to many other responsibilities. Al­though they do hot assist with any varsity player injuries, they administer first aid to anyone in the crowd or_ on the sidelines who needs medical attention. Older spectators who have heart attacks, lost children, and intoxi­cated students wlio fall are all the responsibilities of student vol­unteers who work for medical services. / 
However, medical services does not concern itself solely with the crowds at varsity sports. In fact, the bulk of their time is double major in pre-professional studies and philosophy. added, "All types ofmajors, from phys­ics graduate students to business students, are volunteers." 

Why then do these students spend numerous hours helping others with neither monetary in­centives nor the desire to use it to place on resumes? Rohs ex­plained the satisfaction she re­ceives from medical services: "It gives me the confidence to faceanemergency. It'saunique feeling knowing how to react and keep people calm, and it's nice knowing that everyone is . . Brent Tadsen working together to help some-
MedlcaI services volunteers at the Garth Brooks one else." 
concert. 

spent at intraµmral and club sporting events. Because Notre Dame has many popular and highly competitive interhall and club sports organizations, the participants often get bumped ·around and injured during their games. At each of these games, medical services is waiting on the sidelines should their services be needed. 
Ruth Ann Heberle, director of medical services, explained their role on campus. "We are in charge of coordinating medical 
FEBRUARY 17,1994 
coverage. That includes getting a physician, an ambulance or administering first aid." 
Senior Karen Micha, Saint Mary's Col­lege student coordinator, further explained, "We attend all inter hall sports competitions, concerts, Keenan Revue and various other activities." 
No prior experience is necessary for in­volvement in medical services, so training is provided for those who wish to join. They are trained in first aid, CPR and basic life support. At the beginning ofeach semester, recertification is also offered. 
The amount of time spent actively in­
volved in the group depends on each indi­
-vidual student's schedule. During football weekends, the students can expect to work long hours. "On average, we spend between six to 12 hours per week working activities," commented sophomore Ted Donnelly. 
However, Glenn Cassidy, Notre Dame student c~rdinator, said, "During the busi­est times, a team member can spend up to 15 hours working. Every night, Rec. Sports needs us to be there, and that usually lasts about two hours. Football games are gener­ally eight-hour days." 
As is typical at Notre Dame, the time and the hard work involved with assisting others is done on a purely volunteer basis. The medical services members receive no mon­etary compensation and, interestingly, few participate because medicine is a part of their future studies. 
· Cassidy, a psychology major, said, "Most people assume only pre-med students are involved [in medical services], when actu­ally every discipline on campus is repre­sented." Student coordinator Amy Rohs, a 
Th d f lei · 

. e a vantages o wor ng m medical services are numerous. Volunteers gain experience in an area outside their in­tended professions, giving them first-hand knowledge oflife-saving techniques. They also gain a sense ofconfidence in emergency situations. "The best part of medical ser­vices is getting the chance to meet people. I've made some very good friends through the group," said Donnelly, echoing a com­monly cited advantage of medical services involvement D 


Unsport 
With attacks and brawls on the rise, 
organized sports are looking more 
like a street fight than a pastime 
Conduct 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 

From the time of stick-wielding Bruin Ted Green to last year's playoff episode with Capital Dale Hunter nailing Pierre Turgeon, violence in hockey has been part of thesportsculture. Nowasbrutalitybeginsto leave the hockey scene, violence is seeping into figure skating, tennis, the NBA and into college football. How long will it be before Fred Couples takes a crack atJack Nicklaus with a sand-wedge? Sports has entered a ·new era, in which athletes and coaches are no longer heroes but targets. What ever did happen to the idyllic days ofJoe DiMaggio? The recent attack on Olympic figure skater Nancy Kerrigan should be nothing new to the sports fanatic who has seen tennis star Monica Seles stabbed by a crazed fan, heard the cries of trampled Wisconsin foot­ball fans, or witnessed the fall ofa deranged parachutist into the center ofthe boxing ring during the Bowe-Holyfield bout, the fire­cracker spectacle of Vince Coleman, in­creased fights in the NBA and this year's Colorado-Miami football melee. 
Even in college basketball the NCAA has implemented new rules against fighting. These include the suspension of fight par­ticipants for at least the following game. 
"The new NCAA rules against fighting are great," said John MacLeod, Notre Dame head basketball coach. "A couple of years ago we had some flare-ups and a whole lot of people got hurt. Rules have been enforced to stop players from hanging on the rims and all the woofing and taunting that goes on. And since the NCAA recently instituted the tech­nical foul for talking, there will be a lot fewer fights in college basketball." 

But such rules do not affect rambunctious fans who often get out of hand, as they did at Texas Tech two weeks ago. After rival school Texas A&M defeated Texas Tech, 89-88, Texas Tech fans blocked the Aggies runway, and then charged at A&M coach Tony Barone and his players, triggering an onslaught of fisticuffs. 
Of course, it is on the court where the players lose their composure all too often. "Basketball is a tough, demanding, physical game without people trying to separate your shoulder on the way to the basket. When someone takes a swing at us from now on, we are not going to take it. We are going to do something. We have complained loudly about elbows in the face, for example, and we've sent in films. It's really just a matter of protection," continued MacLeod. 
MacLeod is no stranger to the physical game. He coached in the NBA for eighteen seasons and is one of only nine coaches to reach the 700-win plateau. "The NBA is a lot rougher than colk~ge. But it has new rules, too, and there are heavy fines if you ever get off the bench during an altercation. All the fight tapes are sent to New York where NBA officials judge the degree offining." 

Aside from the Notre Dam-Miami tunnel fracas in 1991, violence has yet to be a problem at the university-on the basketball court, the football field or anywhere else. "In .25 years, I've never had a football player involved in a game fight or thrown out of a game," noted Lou Holtz, Notre Dame head football coach. "In that Miami game, we were lined up on the back of the end zone in front of the tunnel for pregame drills. The Miami players were going to the locker i:qom, someone jostled someone~ It was really a question of intimidation. It was a matter of logistics and high emotions." 
10 

Three feet of plexlglass, one A.C.C. security guard and a South Bend police officer help to prevent any scuffles among fans or an encounter with the players. 
Holtz recalled the Notre Dame-Miami showdown of 1989, when Notre Dame play­erS went to the Orange Bowl and avoided a fight. "Games versus Miami were as hard­fought and bitterly contested that you'll 
. find. But Notre Dame does not use rough­house tactics. I have tremendous respect for tJ:ie game of football. It is not an alley game. It takes great character and sportsmanship to play." 
Miami's free-for-all against Colorado in September was not surprising. It was the school's sixth brawl since 1988. What was 
· surprising, noted Sports Illustrated, was "how many other teams wagged tongues, 
• threw elbows and, inevitably, swung hel­mets and fists." The magazine called the weekend of September 25, "college football's brawlingest weekend ever." In 
· the end, officials bounced 20 players from games. "You would like to think that there is no problem here, but that is not the case," said 
. Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal. "Fight­ing and brutality is the antithesis of what sports is about. Properly, the NCAA has taken steps to insure this is not a permanent part of college athletics." In spite of the chaotic rush after the . Wisconsin's fQOtball victory over Michi­gan, the pandemonium after the Florida State game and a hostile Boston College 
. crowd on November 20, Holtz remains unfazed and is not worried about the fans getting out of control, home or away. "I have never, ever felt threatened by the fans. The University of Notre Dame has the greatest fans in the world, and they rec­ognize the tremendous effort of the opposition. You know, Notre Dame is on the verge of record-breaking road wins, and sure the fans will get on you, but I have never felt threatened, even away from home." 
However, according to Rex Rakow, director of security, though no players or coaches have bodyguards, the danger is there. "There have been threats against Notre Dame coaches in the past We have also received many comments 


about opposing coaches and teams. We treat all threats as serious, and we've stepped up security when certain things are going on," said Rakow. 
"We had one bogus event, really a poor joke," noted Rosenthal. "The problem at Wisconsin was a tragedy. But we have never had anything as significant. After the Florida State victory, Sean Wooden's knee wasinjuredbecausesomanyfansjumpedon him to celebrate. However, we do have a security administrator at each event to insure that nothing serious can ever happen." In addition, there are 70 policeman and several detective units patrolling at each football 

In a 
scramble for the ball, a Hofstra player makes an open field tackle on Keith Kurowski. Kurowski 
left the 
game late 
In the 
second half with a sprained ankle. 
Brent Tadsen 

game. 
Much ofthis increasing violence in sports maybe attributed more to the spectators than to the athletes involved. The fans have instigated the recent aforementioned inci­dents, including the Wisconsin occurrence, the parachutist's plunge at ringside, the Texas Tech-Texas A&M episode, the Sean Wooden accident and the Seles slashing. Even the Kerrigan attack, although alleg­edly a scheme of Tonya Harding's, was perpetrated by a man who impersonated a photographer. "I think violence outside of the arena and outside the game is a concern and an increasing problem," said Boston Globe sportswriter, Dan Shaughnessy. "!tis a situation where spectators feel they need to be part of the action and get themselves on TV. That's where these acts of violence are generated." 
Sports is where people go to escape the insanity ofpolitics, ofbusiness, of crime, of all that envelops our society. The Olympics used to be special because it united nations and was a place for athletes to shine. Cer­tainly the United States' image and that of the Olympic games themselves havebeen marred by events like the Kerrigan-Harding incident What is happening to sports? "Where have you gone, Joe DiMaggio?" 
. 
11

FEBRUARY 17, 1994 




Send information for your event to: Jenny Tate, Cpming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or.call 631-7569. 
Thursday 17 
Movie: "Singin' in the Rain," 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater, LaFortUne, $1. Acouslic Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m.,. LaFortunc. Basketball: Notre Dame women vs. LaSalle, 7:30 pm., JACC. SMC vs. Conc(X'dia, 7:00 p.m., Angela. Freshman Four: One-Act Plays, 8:00 p.m., Lafortune Ballroom, $. Forum: "At the Limits of Liberalism: Thooias Aquinas and the Prospects for a Ouistian Feminism," Jean Portci-, 12:15 
• p.m., 131 Decio. 
Sophomore Uterary Feslival 
Friday 18 

Tennis: Notre Dame women vs. Miami, 4:00 p.m., Eck Pavillion. Film: "Strictly Ballroom," 7:00 & 9:00 p.m., Snitc, $2. Movie: "Cool Runnings," 7:00 & 9:30 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, SMC,$. Folk Dancing: 7:30 p.m., Clubhouse, SMC. 
Sophomore Uterary Festival Notre Dame Encounter Retreat: 
Fatima. 
Junior Parents' Weekend 
Saturday 19 
Indoor Tnck: Notre Dame vs. Drake, 
12:00 p.m., Loftus. Tennis: Notre Dame women vs. Ken­tucky, 11:00a.m., Eck Pavillion. Film: "Strictly Ballroom", 7:00 & 9:00 p.m., Snitc, $2. Movie: "Cool Runnings," 7:00 & 9:00 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, SMC, $. Shenanigans JPW Concerts: 1:00 & 
2:30 p.m., Anncnberg Auditorium. 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat: 
Fatima. 
Junior Parents' Weekend 

S 
·B.! De 
T, 
NI 
Pa Ci 
Cr 
8~ Ni Fa Ju 
Touch Four 
Dial 239-2500, then press: x 6050 for news headlines x 6052for world news x 6121 for top pop albums x 6571 for prime time TV x 6129 for video releases x 1031 for local weather 
x 6736 for national weather 
x 6123 for movie reviews 
x 9463 for thought for the day 
x 6238 for TV sports events 
x 6230 for national sports report 
x 6263 for college basketball 


SPORTS 

The Newcomers 
Dave Roberts and Bob Davie, the new Notre Dame football offensive and defensive coordinators, look forward to being a part of the 1994 team 
by Brian Hiro 

With the losses ofstalwarts like Aaron Taylor, Jeff Burris, Bryant Young, Tim Ruddy, Lake Dawson, Jim Flanigan and Kevin McDougal, Notre Dame Head 
· Coach Lou Holtz knew next year would be a difficult year to rebuild his football team. But he did not anticipate performing the same task on the coaching staff. 
But this first became nec­essary when Irish defensive coordinator Rick Minter left to become the head football coach at the University of Cincinnati. And then offen­sive coordinator Skip Holtz escaped his father's broad shadow to head the football program at the University of 
Connecticut. As a result, Notre Dame was left with two vacancies that many coaches around the country were anxious to fill. Holtz hired Northeast Louisiana's Dave Roberts as offensive coordinator and Bob Davie of Texas A&M as defensive coordinator. 
Roberts, 46, was head'I 
coach of Northeast Louisiana for five years be­fore accepting the Irish post on January 6. He compiled a 
3?-20-2 record (.644) at 
· 

Northeast Louisiana and de­veloped the program into a Division I-AA power. Last year, with a 9-2 record during the regular season, the team finished fourth in the final poll after dropping a first-round playoff game. It averaged 472.8 yards of total offense (third in I-AA stats), 39.2 points (third) and 283.1 passing yards per game (10th). 
Roberts' most impressive season coach­ing was in 1992. That year Northeast Lousiana finished the regular season ranked numberone in the I-AA poll and advanced to the quarterfinals ofthe playoffs. Nine senior players from the te~ earned All-America honors and four were selected in the 1993 NFL draft. The Indians won the conference crown with a perfect7-Q_record while defeat­ing opponents by an average of18 points per game. Following the 1992 campaign, Rob­erts was named Southland Conference coach of the year by his fellow coaches, the top coach in the state by the Louisiana Sports 

-rent a sen 
Dave Roberts, Notre Dame's new offensive coordinator; was the head coach at Northeast Louslana. -He led the· -Indians to a number one ranking at the end ·of regular season play In 1992. 
Writers Association and na­tional coach ofthe year by NFL Draft Report. 
He cites Lou Holtz as the main factor in his deci­sion to_leave Northeast Louisi­ana. When he was an assistant atpavidsonCollege in the mid­70s, he would travel around the country trying to visit big-name coaches. None of them would give him the time ofday, except for the coach ofNorth Carolina State, a guy by the name ofLou Holtz. Roberts recalls a time when Holtz spoke to him for close to two hours at a football clinic. ''That left a big impression on me," said Roberts. "And then when the opportunity came to coach with him many years later, the best football coach in· America at the best school, I thought it was some­thing that comes along once in a lifetime, kind of a no-brainer." 
14 


Bob Davie, the former assistant head coach at 
for the lrlsh.

personnel. But he is looking 
forward to the "real thing" come March. 
"I'm eager to get to spring practice and get involved 311d see what the players can do," he said. "I'm excited because even though Notre Dame loses a lot of players each year, and that's the case again this year, there nre some quality young men here, and I justwant to get out on the field." 
Although Irish football fans may not have heard of Roberts before he joined the staff, they should be familiar with Bob Davie. After all, he roamed the· opposite sideline ,in the last two Cotton Bowls as defensi~e coordinator for Texas A&M before he was hired at Notre Dame on January 13. Davie, 39, is a Sewickley, Pennsylvania, nativeandcoachedatA&Mfornineyears, four as outside linebacker coach and the ­last five as coordinator. In 1993, he added the title ofassistant head coach. During his time there, he molded the Aggie defense into a dominant unit that earned the nick­name the "Wrecking Crew."· Last year, Texas A&M ranked third in the nation in total defense with 24 7 .6 yards per game, third in scoring defense with 10.8 points per game and first in pass effi­ciency with 75 rating points. In 1991 the defense was the best in the country, allowing just 222.4 yards per game. 
· Among the players he has coached are pro standouts Quentin Coryatt, William Thomas, Aaron Wallace and John Roper, as well as. future stars Patrick Bates, Aaron Glenn and Sam Adams. 
Davie has ties with current Irish offensive line coach Joe Moore and recruiting coordi­nator Tony Yelovich, both of who played a role in Davie's decision to come to Notre Dame. But like Roberts, the key figure was Lou Holtz. 
"When I came up and spoke with him, he really impressed me," said Davie. "His inten­sity and drive are amazing for someone who's had as much success as him. And to be able to maintain that, that's why he's successful." 
Unlike past Irish defensive coordinators like Minter and Barry Alvarez, who both stayed for two years before moving on to head coaching jobs, Davie does not plan on leaving any time soon. "I've had some opportunities in the past to be a head coach and my goal is to someday be a head coach," he said. "ButI didn't come here for that rea­son. I came here to be the defensive coordinator. I'd like to be here as long as I can." 
Many doubt whether Notre Dame will ever be able to field a dominant defense, one the level of Miami and Florida State. Although not yet dominant, Davie dis­agrees with the talk that the Irish defense has been subpar. 
"Any time you've won as many games as they've won, it [the defensive philosophy] is working well. It all ties in with your whole concept of things and that starts with the head coach," said Davie. They've been very good on defense. Sometimes too much is made of the X's and O's and what scheme you run. The important thing is the win-loss record and the fun­damentals with which you 

play." 
The adjustment process that goes along with a new coaching job can be quite difficult The coach has to get a feel for the environment, the personalities of the other staff members and the talents ofthe players. But this adjustment can be easier ifthere is more than one newcomer, as is the case with Roberts and Davie. "I'm glad that he's here," said Roberts of Davie. "When you leave your family, like he has and like I have, it's nice to have someone to talk to. We're always here because there isn't anyone to go home to. So we've had a chance to talk, and I'm sure we'll become really close friends because of this." Davie echoes the sentiment "It's nice because he and I are both new here together. He's been my chauffeur, my dinner buddy and my companion. We'll be able to explore and investigate things and bounce ideas offofeach other. So I'm glad he's here." And Notre Dame is glad to have them both here. 
FEBRUARY 17, 1994 
·. ~ , .. l.. • , • • • ' • • r~ • • -• • ' • 'c .; 
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

Beth Morgan: Morgan, a freshman from Bloomington Hills, Indiana, led the women's basketball team over Evansville to retain first place in the MCC. Morgan led all Irish scorers with 21 points, which brings her season scoring average to 19.5 points per game. 
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

Andy Zurcher: Zurcher, a senior from Parker, Colorado, upset the number one men's tennis player in the nation this past weekend in the Irish' s match with the Longhorns of Texas. The Irish dropped the match to the national champion favorites 5-4. 
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!1° Light Appetites: Big Appetites: · 6 Inch Cold Cut Combo 6 Foot Party Sub • SR 23 At Ironwood • US 31_N (By North Village Mall)  

REVIEW & PREVIEW 

by Miranda C. Sanford 

Everybody Loves Football Commonweal magazine recently featured an article discussing the Pope's most recent moto propio, or Papal decree, which appar­ently orders "American Catholics to recog­nize the University of Notre Dame as the nation's number-one football team." The papal declaration, entitled Victoriae splen­dor, warned the public against "undue ac­quiescence" in certain polls and computer­ized rankings -like the ones which awarded the National Championship to Florida State University. Archbishop Will­iam Keeler of Baltimore, president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, stated the bishops recognize "the appropri­ate role for secular expertise in an area like football and the possibility of disagreement among people ofgood will." He cqntinued to declare that the words of the.Holy Father "not only carries a special weight for Catho­lics but can provide a unique contribution to the discussion of this divisive question among all citizens." The Pope's words were poignant and powerful as he stated, "Some people have suggested that -the rightful autonomy of championship .:: can be separated from truth, defining victory according to subjec­tive judgments aggregated by modern meth­ods of polling oMiccording to mechanistic rankings emerging from computer sciences ... These theories radically sever the intimate relationship between victory and the living encounter-of opposing teams." Upon hearing about the decree, Coach Lou Holtz said that he "felt vindicated.'; How could he not -if the Pope openly supports us then we really do have God in our comer! · 
. Keep Those Pants Up! Marky Mark committed the unacceptable at a concert performance on January 21 by· 
dropping his pants. Twenty-six-year-old Sandra Gessner alleges that when Marky "dropped his pants and invited the crowd to approach the stage, she was pushed over a friend's wheelchair, knocked to the floor and trampled by a crowd._" In the lawsuit she has filed, she is seeking "unspecified dam­ages" from Mark, concert promoters and the city of Portland. 
Milano Moves to 90210 Remember when Alyssa Milano played the sweet little Samantha on the television sitcom Who's the Boss? Well, sweet no more, she may be the next 90210 "bad girl" replacing Shannen Doherty. Recent ac­counts assert that director Spelling and Milano are both considering adding Milano in Doherty's place. However, before Spell­ing and Milano could meet, the L.A. earth­quake intervened, damaging the 9021Qsets and postponing the talks for the time being. Personally, I think Spelling should get Doherty out of there and put in Milano. I mean, after that stellar performance as Amy Fisher, who could hold a candle to her! 
From Indian to Irishman Recently released, In the Name of the Father is a movie which combines a fasci­nating story line and excellent acting result­ing in a true spectacle. By the directorof My Left Foot and starring Daniel Day Lewis, this movie presents the story ofthe question­able events surrounding the 1974 Irish Re­publican Army bombing of the Guildford Pub in London. Gerard Conlan (Daniel Day Lewis), an Irishman recently immigrated to London from Belfast, becomes the center of the story as he, his family and his friends are falsely accused of the unannounced IRA bombing. Used as scapegoats to quell na­tional riots, they are quickly convicted on trumped up charges. The movie follows tllis compelling, true story of democracy gone bad under waves of public anger. Lewis' performance is stellar and this movie earns 
four stars. The soundtrack is also incredible as is presents new releases by U2. A definite must-see! 
Up & Coming The Oscars are quickly approaching, and it will be interesting to see how many Schindler' s List rakes in, considering it was nominated for 12 awards. Also, Rudy, the 
movie which held us all in throes of excite­ment this fall, failed to receive any of the three predicted Oscar nominations: best supporting actor for Chares Dutton, Best original screen play by Angelo Pizzo and best original score by Jerry Goldsmith. I am slightly shocked that they did not atleast get the one for best score because every sporting e:vent recently, from the Superbowl to the Olympics, has been using the Rudy theme music ... Also this week are the continuing Olympics and the Ladies' Figure Skating competition (which I know the guys love) will be broadcast mainly next week starting Monday ... Thursday night at 8:00 in Wash­ington Hall is senior Notre Dame student Pete Dillard's production ofMacbeth. This performance is entire I y student run and will definitely be top notch ... Another "not to 

miss" will be the leprechaun reunion. Yes, that's right, the "small" alumni gathering will have all of the former Notre Dame leprechauns in Chicago. That's cute, little men running around talking about the good old days. I wonder if Rudy will address 
them. _ 7 · 

ENTERTAINMENT 

by DaRon Holmes 

Since its beginning; rap music has faced opposition regarding its longevity, culture and influence on younger generations. When rap music began, around 1978 or 1979, it received accusations of being "just a fad." Times when breakdancing was the "in" thing for young crowds are no longer; however, rap music has continued to prosper and grow into a new flavor of music. While rap artists like the Sugarhill Gang and Kurtis Blow no longer perform, other artists such as Run DMC, Boogie Down Productions and Public Enemy managed to maintain the bridge between old school and new school rap artists. 

Listeners and artists in the rap world agree certain artists receive all of the "props" for keeping rap music alive over the years. Run DMC has been performing for the past eleven years and is still going strong. Boogie Down Productions and Public Enemy, like Run DMC, have survived the changing times and innovated as they went along. Today, the description "rap music" describes multiple styles. Now the artist burst onto the music scene
i: 
with not only the old school rap style, 
Ii 
but also his or her own creative flair. These days, an artist's longevity in the I field of rap depends on targeted audi­
.,
,, 
ences. 
i 
New school artists include A Tribe Called Quest, Black Sheep, Das EFX and, of course, Snoop Doggy Dagg. These four artists instituted their own styles that forever changed one of the faces of rap. A Tribe Called Quest has a mellow, jazzy style that is full of"def' bass beats and smooth lyrics. Black Sheep, like A Tribe Called Quest, has a very mellow style, but also adds a dancehall sound to its music. Das EFX brings something very different to the table: an underground sound which they like to describe as "Straight From the Sewer." And finally, Snoop Doggy Dagg is the only rapper of the four from the west coast 'Snoop,' who is the latest apprentice of the beat master Dr. Dre, combines a silky­smooth sty le with the hard core flavor that is often associated with the west coast areas. These four artists were mentioned the most 

fresh sound. 
when a poll was taken ofwhich artists are rap fans favorites. "One group you can count on having a great album, even if you haven't heard one single on it, is A Tribe Called Quest," said one fan. Another fan went on to say, "Das EFX, Das EFX -straight from the sewer -always comes with the funky, dope lyrics." There is no doubt who is the hottest rap­per in America at the present. Snoop Doggy Dogg's "Doggystyle" has reached multi-platinum faster than any other rap album in history, besides Dr. Dre's The Chronic. Many attributeSnoop'ssuccess to his hard-core style and silk-smooth lyrics. However, not everyone who listens to rap likes Snoop, nor do many non-rap music fans for that matter. Some people insist that his style of mu­sic, and those like him, does noth­ing but contribute to America's street problems. "Snoop Dagg ain'tnothing but a ex-convict com­pleting a work release. Rappers like him are the reason why young people are becoming so violent," stated one vehement rap opposer. One rapper who is used to de­fending the hardcore rap style is Ice Cube. Recently, Ice Cube did an unusual interview with the radio station WJSC 950 AM in Chicago. During . this ·interview, Ice Cube defended the violence portrayed by rap artists today. "Many artists feel obligated to promote ordepict what they feel occurs in everyday society." He continued to state, "how can people accuse rappers of 
18 

being too violent when violence 
of the white students polled either was what this very country was built listen to or like rap music; most of upon -even in the national anthem these same students didn't have a we sing of rockets glare and bombs preference as to which style they bursting in air." listen to. Only 40 percent of theWhen asked about musical students questioned felt that rap preferences, many Cauca­music portrays too much violence sian students split when it came to and all of these students were the question ofrap music. Music is women. one powerful form of communica­Whatever the social ramifica­tion in American society that allows tions, rap music is here to stay. expression of individual opinions. These artists do not mean to of­
· When polling people on campus, fend any more than Maplethorpe one finds that many "rap opposers" does with his photographs, even are also "conservative Americans." though society deems otherwise. 
Mercuryrecords 
Ice Cube addressed this issue during YAGGFU Front Is an example ofa new West Coast rap group Perhaps the controversy accom­
the interview with WJVC. He sug-expanding on sounds of preceding artists. plishes an important task in re­gested that many .middle and upper class, the fact that their teenagers want to identify vealing peoples' fears, not though debate, white families try to keep their children from and relate to young minorities through rap but artistic expression. hearing rap music because they fear their music. . -The quotations and statistics were ob­
kids ability to relate to it. He said, "We see Here are some percentages regarding rap tained by random polling of individuals in today many young white teenagers enjoying music ( out of every IO students polled): 70 the Notre Dame student body by the author. rap music and we sometimes see their par-percent of students eitherlike or listen to rap Their names have been removed to insure ents telling them that this shouldn't be, as music; 60 percent of these students like the the anonymity ofthe people questioned. . well." Ice Cube went further to say that East coast,jazzy-smooth flavor as opposed American conservatives will have to face to the hardcore, Westcoaststyle. SO percent 
It's Oscar Time Again! 
H9llywood heats up in.expectation ofupcoming awards 
by Scott Johnson and Miranda C. Sanford 

Tt'sahoax-aHollywood tragedy. IfSo .IJ Married an Axe Murderer had been released in January instead of early August, I'm convinced Mike Meyers would be walk­ing home with at least two little gold tro­phies. However, following in the tradition of past Oscar ceremonies, comedies and mcist films released during the first 10 months of the year have been shunned from the Oscar nominations. 
This year Steven Spielberg looks as if he will be the "big winner'' and guest of honor at the awards ceremonies since Schindler' s List has been nominated for 12 awards. The film, a "typical" Spielberg matsterpiece, was an awesome, breath-taking and emo­tionally draining three hours. This film definitely qualifies for the best picture, best actor, and best supporting actor awards. 
Surprisingly Martin Scorsese's film, The Age ofInnocence, with Daniel Day Lewis, was not nominated for any listed awards. However, Lewis' most recent film, In the NameoftheFather, was nominated fora few awards, including best actress. 
An excellent nomination for best picture, inmyopinion, is The Fugitive so,naturally, "Give it up for Harrison Ford!" 
As far as best actor is concerned, Tom Hanks is in strong contention for the award from his portrayal of an AIDS victim fight­ing against societal prejudice in Philadel­phia. 
Some interesting selections were made for female roles. Emma Thompson earned a best actress nomination for her excellent portrayal ofthe lawyer working on behalf of the unjustly sentenced peoplein/n the Name ofthe Father. Holly Hunter finally earned a nomination for best suporting actress in The Piano after failing to receive any for roles inearlier films such asBroadcastNews and Raising Arizona. Once again, though, these movies are recent releases and nomi­nations ignored stellar performances ofboth Pfeifer and Ryder in The Age oflnnocense. 
The Oscars may be following their familliar and repetitive path, but the films they recognize possess mezmerizing beauty and craftsmanship. Definitely pay atten­tions to the lesser noted nominees like The Joy Luck Club and Farewell My Concubine, because they illustrate the stong communi­cative power of film. D 


ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
News of the Bizarre from the Nation's Universities 
Transsexualism Class Denied 
Thelong-debated question regarding the state's role in university education has raised its ugly head once again. The Chronicle ofHigher Education reports that Arizona Governor Fife Symington, a Republican, has raised serious objections to a course to be offered by Northern Arizona University. The course, entitled "Transsexualism and Society," plans to look at expectations and gender roles mandated by one's sex. The course will be taught bya graduate student who is a transsexual. Governor Fife objected to the course on the grounds. that "it strikes me less as a serious intellectual endeavor than an obscene gesture directed from the ivory tower of the academy toward the hard-working men and women on whose labors it depends." But Governor, tell us what you really think of the course. 
Northern Exposure at its Finest 
There's just no accounting for taste. According to The Chronicle ofHigher Education , a group of 66 students and faculty members from Gustavus Adolphus College in Saint Peter, Minnesota, obviously have a deathwish. Twice a week the group, which calls itself the Gustavus Sauna Society, dons their bathing suits and crowds into the sauna in the college's athletic complex. The group remains in the sauna until the heat becomes unbearable and they are forced to run outside into whatever conditions await them. And since it is Minnesota we are speaking of, the sauna goers are usually met by snow and extreme cold. To their credit, this is certainly one unusual way to beat those winter doldrums. 


Spring Break Options 
Given the current weather conditions, a week in the sun stands as an alluring and rejuvenating alternative for many students. Spring break promises to be greeted with a mass exodus to the South. But the Penn State Weekly Collegianpresents another alternative to sunny Florida or Mexico. People from Concord Spring Break are pushing a~different option -spring break in New York City. The trip, which will be conducted in a "party bus," offers three meals a day plus a midnight snack, volleyball, skiing, ice skating, tanning booths 24 hours a day and three nightclubs without cover that have bands playing every night, all for only $425 dollars a week. The students will stay at an upscale resort, the Concord Resort Hotel, in Kiamesha Lake, New York. The resort plans to make this deal available for several week-long sessions during March. The resort also plans to bring in several musical groups to entertain its guests. Bands sched­uled to appear include Run DMC; Violent Femmes, They Might Be Giants, Fishbone, the Lemonheads and Shootyz Groove. After the hellish cold we have been subjected to lately, however, it would take some sort of freak accident which annihilated the entire southern halfof the United States to lure most of us up north. Even then, the odds are pretty slim. 
20. 
WEEK IN DISTORTION 
The Pilgrimage to Adulthood 
The King's critical role in the transition 
by Theo Helm 

ry,he great author Thomas Wolfe once 
1.wrote "You can't go home again." It's too bad he didn't mention anything about trying to return to the joys of childhood. Recently I've been experiencing a little dis­tress in my life, a kind of quarter-life crisis. Well, like any deserving guy seeking to rid himselfofthe blahs, I decided to try to regain the joys of my childhood. 
One of the first things I remember from my youth is birthday parties at the local roller-skating rink. (Boy, was my childhood exciting.) I remember my first vision of roller-skating: I stumbled onto the wooden floor as they began to play the disco-ized version of the theme from Star Wars. As soon as the ~oviy theme began to play, all the lights in the rink turned off except for a sole strobe light. It was an electrifying experience. There were what seemed like a million people skating flawlessly in har­mony, in what seemed like slow motion from the strobe light. ·· 
After the Star Wars theme song, there was a breakdancing contest in the middle of the rink, as there was on every Saturday after­noon in the middle ofthe 80s. People wear­ing parachute pants and those red Michael Jackson jackets with all the zippers on them spun at mach speed on big sheets of card­board. It was then my dream to be able to dance like that. Thankfully, my mother would neve~ buy me parachute pants, so my dream had to die -a good thing, on reflec-­tion: 
Then~tookpartinmyfirst"coupleskate." A girl asked me to dance/skate, and after I made sure none ofmy second-grade friends were looking, I said yes. Ofcourse, I fell on my face the minute I got out there. 
So over Christmas break some friends and I decided to _re-conquer the roller-skating rink. Looking back now, it was not a wise idea We went on a Friday night (that's how exciting my home-life is) and the parachute pants and zipper jackets had been replaced by tight jeans, big belt buckles and big hair. The type of people I saw there I don't re­member seeing when I was little. The Star Wars theme had been replaced by cheesy r&blovesongs. Thereweretwomen,MEN, skating who were doing tripleaxels and flips over other people in an effort to woo the redneck girls sitting on the side, who didn't come to skate but to hang out. 
I knew it was all over for me when I tried skating fqr the first time in years, fell right on my stomach, and some 40 year old man with sideburns the size of the King himself leapt right over me and spun around in the air. 
Couple-skate was another story alto­gether. I remember innocent hand-holding from when I was little. Now these people had taken couple-skate to a new level. People were doing things on skates that I didn't know people could do in bed. I'd never seen a couple be able to skate while simultaneously sticking tongues down each others' throats and holding on to each oth­ers' butts for support. The only thing that reminded meofskating when I was little was falling right on my face the first time I tried couple-skate. 
I came from the roller rink discouraged, butstill hopeful. There was always bow ling. I remember bowling in grade shcool, wear­ing those funky little shoes that would squeak all over those glistening lanes as my ball would head straight and true for another strike. Butwhen I went bowling, I was again disappointed. They still had those cool shoes, but I think that all the scary people I saw at the roller rink followed me to the bowling alley. 
I was left with one shining hope -the bastion of eternal childhood -Chuck E. Cheese. If there was one place I could find thejoys ofmy childhood, it was this fortress of steaming hot tasty pizza, glimmering skee-ball machines, arcades the size ofsmall forest villages, and that big pit of plastic balls that they let you jump in. 
So I tried my last option. I walked in, and almost instantaneously lost all hope. Gone was the arcade I once got lost in as a child, the place where for hours I could play Pac­man, Centipede and that cool Dragon's Lair game that looked like a cartoon. They had been replaced by three generic games, and the leftover space was used for a display counter that showed all those cheap lOcent prizes you could buy with tickets you won at skee-ball. The skee-ball machines were there but the thrill of winning tickets had somehow slipped away. Even the pizza was bad. I knew I had to face my impending adulthood when the girl said I was too big to play in the big pit of plastic balls. 
I came home and sat in my room, mulling over my situation. I was going to have to grow up -childhood joys held nothing for me. I looked up and saw theElvis clock I got for Christmas and was mesmerized (it has a pendulum consisting of Elvis' legs that swing back and forth every second). Then it dawnedon me. One cannot grow up without some kind of rite of passage. I needed the pilgrimmage that makes all men the men they are. Memphis was only 10 hours away. It was time for my pilgrimmage to Graceland. Malcolm X had his mecca; I have Graceland. I immediately made plans with some similarly distressed friends of mine, and the King is expecting us this weekend. I am leaving a boy and will return aman. D 
FINAL WORD 
.

Looking ~orward. 
. Iby Dave Hungeling and Matt Orsagh 
Dave Hungeling and Matt Orsagh are the 1994-1995 student body president and vice president. 
'\"1 That a long strange trip its been." 
VVAboutfour weeks ago while sitting in room 005 MorrisseyManorsomeone had an idea. Joe,asenior from Chicago, wondered how cool and funny it would be ifsomebody from his room ran for student body president. Joe questioned why everyone who runs/or office always takes the whole thing so seriously. He wanted to see somebody take a light-hearted ap­proach to the election, and send a message to Notre Dame: There is no reason why students should not have fun while they are in college. 
What resulted from the collective efforts ofTyler, 
Angelich, Fitz and Rob was a platform like none this 
campus has ever seen. 
We never imagined that we would be able to pull it 
off. We could not see the majority ofstudents buying 
what we were saying. Our ideas were ridiculous, far­
fetched and not serious enough. The other candidates 
were much more qualified. We ran only because we 
knew our friends would get a kick out of it. 
Looking back now it seems to make sense. Notre 
Dame is not full of conservative students who are too 
afraid to act like normal functioning college kids. 
Notre Dame loves to have fun. Notre Dame simply 
needed a little motivation. It look two average guys 
from Atlanta to say "let's not take ourselves too 
seriously," and the students embraced the idea. 
The support we received during the campaign and 
after the election has been tremendous. We are 
thrilled that many students agreed with what we were 
trying to say and what we are planning on doing. 
The day after the run-off election, the reality of winning began to sink in. The size of the task ahead of us is intimidating. We realize that there is a lot of work to be done and that a lot is expected of us. At moments when we worry about how hard this all will be, or when we wonder if we are truly qualified to accept this position, we think back to the reason we. · decided to run in the first place. Our priority will 
always be to have fun, and hopefully make students . glad they go to Notre Dame. 
We definitely plan on continuing with what we 
proposed on.ourplatform. We are planning to change 
certain aspects of student government We will keep 
everything which is in the best interest of fun, and we 
encourage everyone to become involved. We would like to see the position and influence of the student body increase during our term. 
Many people see this election as a statement to the administration -that students warit their voices to be heard. We believe we will make the students' voice more effective'. We will not apologize for having a narrow student perspective on life. We do not claim to· have the intelligence nor the experience that those in the administration have, but we do believe that the students deserve respect. By respect we mean that university officials take the time to explain why things are done the way they are. Every student at theis school is smart enough to accept reasonable explana­
. tions. The university should recognize and respond to our concerns. The administration and the students should be able to work with eachother. While our views may differ, the students' point ofview should be given equal consideration; mutual respect should be the norm. Although we do not believe we will be able to move mountains, we will make every student con­cern our concern. 
We realize that in the past student government may have turned some people off. We want everyone to know that we are just two regular guys who now happen to be student body president and vice presi­dent. we· want to stay in touch with everyone as best we can, but we will only be aware of the concerns which people voice. ­
While we plan to further the cause of student issues, we are determined to remain as light-hearted and free­spiritedas we have been throughout the campaign. We will never take ourselves so seriously that we would view this position as a job or allow it to become anything less than fun. We are expecting next year to kick some serious ass, and we hope that everyone continues to be excited about the possibilities. If two normal guys like us can win the support of the student body, maybe the Grateful Dead is not such a long shot "Once in a while you see the light, in the strangest of places if you look at it right." 
Finally, we wish to thank Frank and Nikki for their hard work and service this.past year. They have been helpful in ma!.cing the transition to our term as smooth as possible. We wish them well in their future endeav­ors . .:. D 
FINAL WORD 
Looking back over the last year, the first words that come to mind are ''Thank you." We could not have accomplished anything thispast year without the help ofthe dedicated people that campedoutin our office on the second floorofLaFortune day after day. So many people crune together over the course of the year to contribute to the numerous projects Student Government works on. We hope that in this pastyear, you may have taken advantage ofthe Guide, the Book Fair, and the Job Network, along with otherprograms. Our privileged role as student representatives is to serve as a liaison to the administration, to let the voice of the students be heard. We have attempted to open up a channel of communication between students and the administration on issues dealing with student -. the quality of undergraduate education, harassment policies, security issues, 24-hour space and others. We hope that in future administrations, discussions shall continue and, in the end, provide results for the student body. In this year's election, the student body voted for a change. We respect your decision and hope that you will support Dave and Matt throughout their year of office. We encourage you to support their programs and become involved in their administration. We would like to thank the entire student body for providing us with the opportunity to serve you and for giving us support throughout the. year. However, we are still in office until April l, so please drop in if you would like to become involved orif you have an issue to discuss with us. Before we sign off, we would like to thank each student who put in a great deal of time and effort this year in student government Each of these students deserves individual recognition. They made the year much more enjoyable and rewarding for everyone. Thank you once again. God bless! 
Frank Flynn and Nikki Wellman are the 1993-1994 student body president and vice president. 

Looking.'Bae!(
Iby Frank Flynn and Nikki Wellman 
FEBRUARY 17, 1994 

Bruno's North Bruno's South Open for carry out and delivery only. Accepting reservations on weekends. Order any regular size pizza and receive Available for private parties and banquets. two liters of Coke or Diet Coke FREE! One 16 inch pizza for $8 (dine in only). 
Prices do not include tax. 2610 Prairie Avenue· 115 N. 31 Oust North of campus) 288-3320 273-3890 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer. free delivery of our pizza right to Notr~ Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. ­

Grist For The Mill Rick Grey 
WOAH, r 1>0/JT Wk!J/JA A-t:6U~
Ol'.AV, lVE'~E. 
LOOJ:., THIS .JUST' V)!J'T woi:r.. our,

Bur IF VOO~E A/o-r
ALOIJE. 60WA 

kEV. 'rbO ~ ME, toE 11(EJ you 
MAN. :[ Al.WAl'S HATFD

Jv5r A DRV!JJ(.Elv
TALK, \1:)U 

l:J-.X)tu, 5//.,\PATIC.O/ :[ W~t\­
"MR. ED'/

HALLUc.J/J,,,_nolJ1 WHY
1?0TT"EN Ll-N cJ 

BE 'rl'.lo°K ~hi.., HELP you 
0.>J'T J\IJY011J£ £WE
lSREUJ 'Z 

oor 1F :c CA/J/ 
1-tEA-R \IOU Z 

THA.T'.s 

YD $WEE.T TJ-lAIJb/ l.05£.
1)0JJT °"DO IBAT / 
TH~ M\S;,11-lb UN( Tl-lE.1?.E.., ' 

HEY ~~'l/ wow, w?.t'f W<r,:l ( 
YDV ,t1St> ME.. Ut/0 6

YCV LDO~ w:E. ( JOS'r TR'f//J' To c,R.Et\t. 
AC.Q0;\1/Jf £1) ••• 

'r\'.)0 ,'.'.OuLD u5E.. Tl-lE. ill:. FOE._ YA-1 t'/'t(___( "DA-Tf WITI-\ 
WE.LL, l'.EEP YOU"t

"RE L Sfl)D AUJMIIJOM UPS SU~E Sll 
I 
lt)ol->T 1-!A 


vJh"-1­-n-.t ...  
~'MON!  
lSG"eP Bt;GP BEEP 8E"E"P  AAAAfl AAAVi/1.16t-1 ! Sob~,. s., '.  
&:;e-P  
1%"e"P  
r::,a;=p  
(  
AAA AAA AA-AAA  



The -Student Union Board Presents: 


A 
usti 

Come for the music, the atmosphere, or just for the fun. 
This and Every Thursday Night 
9:00 to Midnight in the Huddle 

ingin' in th · Rain 
Starring Gene Kelly 
Thursday, February 17 In the Montgomery Theatre Show times : 8:00 pm and 10:30 pm 
Look··for the SUB Movie Poster for 

coming attractions 



