The Notre Dame
(xUve	UStOH ®
WINSTON is the cigarette selected by Capital Airlines to serve passengers aboard the new Viscount.
^Vinston changed America’s mind about filtei’ smoking! This cigarette gives you real tobacco flavor — the full, rich flavor real smokers want. You know what they say: “Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!”
Winston also brings you an exclusive filter that really does the job. It filters so effectively that the flavor really comes through to you — smoothly and easily. Have fun — have a Winston!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
2*^**W»
1
LIKE A
CIGARETTE
SHOULD 1
WINSTON TASTES GOOD
Bisk®
„..cigabbtTE


WINSTON
tk ea^-dnawiMf kfei eiqanetiz I
at the Campus Shop . . .
THE IVY LEAGUE
SHIRT by Wilson Brothers
H.95
Perfectly styled in The Ivy League Manner by Wilson Brothers. Fine oxford cloth with button-down collar, with button in the back for neater, trimmer appearance. Get yours now.
WIN A 1955 STUDEBAKER COMMANDER SPORT COUPE
Some lucky Notre Dame student will win this smart 1955 Studebaker Commander “E" Sport Coupe—in time to drive home for Christmas! Nothing to write . . . come in for details. Given by Gilbert’s and Wilson Brothers.
Open a Gilbert Charge Account
9
PAY ONE-THIRD
March 1st April 1st May 1st
No Carrying Charge
On The Campus — Notre Dame
October 28, 1955
3
THE
en a Gilbert Charge Account!
IVY LOOK”
PAY
*
tailored by Daroff
SLACKS
$1150
^GILBERTS
SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Authentic Ivy League trousers . pleatless front . . . slim trousers . belted back. In charcoal tones.

March 1st	NO
April 1st CARRYING CHARGE
May 1st
BOTANY 500”
Slender lapels . . . natural shoulders . . . flap pockets . . . center vents . . . slim trousers . . . smarter looking in rich charcoal grey, charcoal brown or lamp black. See them at the Campus Shop today!
Imported flannel
IVY LEAGUE
Home of Wilson Brothers Ivy League Shirts

The Scholastic

Dby William M. Malloy
‘entree’ thinks cinerama nice
WE have A plan. It is possible to install Cinerama in Washington Hall within a single fiscal year! ^Entree has investigated the eminently unsatisfactory conditions in Washington Hall and advises improvement. Presumably there will be complications, but the effort is now plausible.
Desiring an accurate knowledge of Cinerama we recently made a visit to Pittsburgh to discover the pros and cons of the ambitious enterprise which the installation of this modern miracle in —Washington Hall would surely be. And ■Are are eager to tell you how much our ? old “talkie theater” needs an emotional lift like Cinerama. For the benefit of those who have not witnessed this Leviathan of Lights and Celluloid let us explain that it is no mere movie, but rather the height of human adroitness.
In Pittsburgh, when we bought our ticket (which was half the fun and more than half the money) we found that we . had a reserved seat just like in a real ^aseball game. After being ushered to our seat by a gentle but militarily attired maid we declined many invitations to purchase a program hoping somehow to enjoy the show in spite of our ignorance. The theatei- was luxurious. We especially liked the alternating columns of the Doric and Corinthian orders that bravely supported a most un-theater-like sky of scrambled clouds. Rich brown curtains warmed by footlights . and filled with the mystery of promise, ^the excitement of surprise, loomed every-Qrhere on the horizon. Here and there ' Romans, two-by-two, discussed law while : climbing to then* seats or casting glances at the colossal screen with expectantly nervous casualness. We noticed that several bishops and their assistants were present.
Warningly, music started into life -from secret places and was taken up enthusiastically by several brats on our left and counter-pointed by their respectively desperate mothers. These Mbree voices had a Khachaturian grandeur and a most unearthly urgency implying, we supposed, the out-of-this-world caliber’ of Cinerama. However,
many squeaking boxes of popcorn throughout the audience soon forbade prolonging this ethereal effect to all but the most experienced escape artists. (It cannot be too widely known that we disapprove of popcorn in the more serious theaters and recommend that it be replaced by Hershey bars or some other-commodity less offensive to our auditory sensations.) This symphony—music, brats, mothers, popcorn—endured an unbearably long time before the lights finally dimmed. And then it began.
But wait! Something was wrong. The movie screen was hardly bigger than the normal CinemaScope, which everyone knows is a cheap imitation of Cinerama. Waiting for further developments we tilted back in our not very gratuitous seat to enjoy the show.
And what a show! First we were informed that we were going on a Cinerama Holiday, another one of those interesting travelogs with comments by the “I’ve been there” set from the seats in front of us. Next we learned (in a marathon monolog accompanied by drums, trumpets and cymbals that gave us a brief and intricate step-by-step story) of the invention of Cinerama, and that the inventor perished shortly after its completion. During this narration, subtle comments were tucked in, hinting to the effect that Cinerama might be a good thing and this cause was presented with such efficiency that it shamed both the efforts of the angels announcing the birth of Christ and the nagging roar of the people cured by Hadacol.
Finally, we met two charming couples that were simple and plain, one of which made us feel glad that we do not abuse language as they do in Kansas (that’s getting a bit too simple) and the other, Europeans, who never let us forget that after all this was America and that they, • in Eui’ope, “don’t have it half so good” as we do.
Well, the American couple got into a very special airplane and flew to Switzerland chanting the divine praises of Cinerama, and then, just when we were sure that it was time' (see page 13).
for the intermission, the screen got bigger and bigger and bigger and GOOD LORD, IT’s . . .
CINERAMA
Our first impression was that of three movies stuck together. After we discovered that all three had approximately the same subject matter it seemed more like badly overlapping wallpaper.
For fear of falling into the vastness of the thing we instinctively grabbed the hand of the man sitting next to us. We withdrew it apologetically, but the kindly man smiled understandingly at our awe, for he too was overwhelmed by this latest of gods made by modern science.
“Ain’t nature grand,” he gasped, “just look at them mountains,” indicating the screen which seemed to be everywhere about us. We said that it was. Perhaps he was some latent artist, some hidden Tonio Kroger being brought out of his shell; another wondrous effect of Cinerama.	. ,
The scenes unfolded endlessly, ranging from bobsled rides to risque Paris night clubs, and when it was all over we could not have been more exhausted had we taken the trip ourselves.
Entree wishes to announce that it will take upon itself the responsibility for the installation of Cinerama here at Washington Hall. Those wishing to be on committees that will undoubtedly be needed should send their names, addresses and a short sketch of their abilities to Entree c/o the SCHOLASTIC. Those wishing to donate to this cause, please make out checks to NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION FOR CINERAMA AT WASHINGTON HALL. .
We cannot help but feel that Cinerama should be installed in Washington Hall. Hundreds of students might be brought out of their shell just as the lonely old gentleman we sat next to in Pittsburgh. We do not mean to criticize unjustly the status quo of our movie facilities here on the campus but we do feel it ain’t quite enough to bring the students out of their shell. Students should be brought out of their shells.
October 28, 1955
fapj&icuUfoH
California, Here We Come!
Editor:
RECEIVED TODAY FIRST TWO ISSUES OF Scholastic (Stop) COVERS BY NAVIN TERRIFIC (Stop) WHOLE ISSUE STIMULATING KEEP IT UP (Stop)
George Moty Redding, Calif.
We’re So Veddy, Veddy . . .
Editor:
Move over New Yorker, and you, too, Atlantic; the Notre Dame Scholastic has gone high-brow, and is now in the process of elevating five thousand heretofore unresponsive college students, to the heights of aesthetic bliss.
No longer is our magazine lowered by dull graphic covers. Sense has given way to significance and the pages are full of hidden meanings for us to enjoy. For those of us who did not realize this, we were told very explicitly in the second issue, in an article called “Apathy” (which means “a lack of passion,” according to Webster). . . .
We have been told in the third issue, that we are not to listen to The Yellow Hose of Texas. (It doesn’t have the classic quality.) We have also been told in the same column that we should only pay attention to the ads which are printed in the classic tradition, or in other words, that we should choose our chapeaus from the New Yorker, and our athletic supports from Sports Illustrated.
So far the Scholastic has seen fit to give the New York Times a break, in that it has not turned into a daily. But it seems that the other high-brow periodicals are in for a time of it. When did Park East ever show the imagination to publish a Socratic dialogue on football. When did the Atlantic ever think to charm its readers by telling them they were un-appreciative slobs. Apparently they have much to learn from the revolution that has taken place on the campus at Notre Dame.
James Manahan 249 Badin
INVENTORY
.	Page
Entree ....................      5
Repercussion —...............    6
View ........................    7
Campus Scene ...............     9
Folio .......................   16
At a Glance .................   20
Showcase .................  ...	22
Irish Scene .................   25
Time Out..................      28
Back Page ....................  34
6
V by AL CAPP
THAT RECORD'LL REPEAT Kget? itself FOREVER.?-D-IT'LL DRIVE FOSDIGK I QQOT STARK, RAVING MAD.? 
oiucharue!
they DIDN'T RESIST//
I CAN’T UNDERSTAND WHAT.?-fVE HAD A MOST ENJOYABLE TIME.?-EXCUSE ME FOR PRIMPING UP.?— I MUST
ATTEND THE [J' SYMPHONY CONCE
^SOMETHING STUPEFIED THEM.? r-
I LOME THE NEXT PART, WHICH GOES -IT KEEPS YOUR HAIR IN TR/M-9^. IT'S NON-ALCOHOLIC CHARUE-T^ DuM-p££ DuM — MADE WITH SOOTH/NG
SPECIAL ADVICE:
ONLY A CREAM DRESSING GROOMSy HAIR THE NATURAL WAY!fS| absolutely non-alcomolic.with natural INGREDIENTS.
BUY AMERICA'S FAVORITE.?
WILDROOT" CREAM-OIL™
UMOMH * MOMS rMMtf «««$ OtMSI tUOVK
The Notre Dame	.
Sc/ioJastfc|
Vol. 97 Oct. 28, 1955 No. 5 J
— - ------ it-
Discc Quasi Semper Victurus
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS
Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ....News Editor ED JOYCE..................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN........Production Manager DAVE KUBAL ........Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON__________Assistant	News
JAMES McDONALD ........Assistant	News jl
JIM O’BRIEN ...........Feature Editor I
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator I RICHARD NAVIN..............Art	Editor
KEN WOODWARD.........Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator I
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Bicdka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley, James Heimoski, Tom Holberg, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, Joh' McMahon, Joe Mocarski, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, David Schwartz, Jim Steintrager, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh.
DAVE DAVIN . JOHN GLAVIN JOE NORTON .
...Sports Editor
.Assistant Sport?
Assistant Sports
SPORTS STAFF: Jack Barthel, Andy Carnazola, Paul D’Amore, Pat DeFoe, Dick Donovan, Bob Early, Joe Foreman, Jim Goethals, John Grady, Russ Hopkins, Jim Langford, Fred Lavin, Ray Lescher, Brian Moran, Vince Naimoli, Bob Parnell, Jim Reiher, Ed Rhorback, Jim Short, Carl Skiff, Dick Sofranko.
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon, Loran Sheffer.A
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the • school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
ON the cover Artist Richard Szot says:
Beat Navy!
The Scholastic

1 officeholders
I I
E DOFF OUR HAT this week to the successful A campus politicians who were booted home in the recent elections. We sincerely hope that Notre Dame’s student government will be the better for their having7 been voted into office. A lot can be gained by the student who । participates in student government; in turn, he can gain a , lot for his fellow students.
• Student government is a strange thing here at Notre Dame. The would-be officeholder is first of all caught up ■ in the gladhanding, introductions, and last-minute platforming of his campaign. He makes a personal, door-to-door tour of his particular constituency. He tacks up and passes A out campaign literature. He works hard at it.
Anticipation of the outcome at the polls runs high. This, in itself, is quite an experience. Assuming the result is favorable the newly elected thank-you’s his way through the gamut of congratulatory pats on the back, handshakes and “nice going’s”. The good feeling of victory fills him.
, But the test of a good leader hasn’t yet begun. The glory of victory soon loses its shine, and the officeholder be-
1 gins to serve the term of his office. This involves, for the most part, very little glory.
L	There are periodic meetings to attend. Activities must
। ^be mapped out for the benefit of his electorate. Personnel W to form committees for one event or another must be chosen.
Bulletins and other information must be prepared and distributed to keep constituents posted. There are always those never-ending details to be cleaned up.
This is no path of glory. Gone are the pats on the back, the handshakes, and the “nice going’s.” The electorate begins to seem uncooperative and unappreciative. About the only recognition the officer receives is an infrequent mention of his name over WSND or in a Scholastic news story, in connection with a mixer being held “for the men of Morrissey with the Junior Daughters of Isabella.”
There’s an element of self-sacrifice which the zealous ^participant in student government must possess. The week-I wend that wasn’t taken because preparations had to be made for a social. Boning up for tomorrow’s big test out in the corridor in the wee hours of the morning, because of a late meeting the night before. The mixup in plans for the hall ■ smoker which meant foregoing the Academy Award winner showing downtown.
This is the hallmark of the sincere, conscientious officeholder. He must get his reward only from a sense of accomplishment and the experience and knowledge he has culled from his participation in student government. He Iis no flamboyant, colorful man about campus. His work is .done mostly behind the scenes. He gets this work done -^efficiently and thoroughly, with no fanfare.
I A student government is judged by the merits of its 11 participants and their accomplishments. We hope Notre I j Dame’s will be adjudged a good student government.—P. L. I i October 28, 1955
another
IWAS TALKING to a fellow not long ago who apparently thought the Blue Circle wasn’t worth so much as a pinch of salt. He brought up any number of reasons to support his thesis, all of them more or less the usual run—the Circle picks only its friends for membership, the Circle feathers its own nest by choosing student senators for membership, the Circle is filled with fellows who do nothing but polish the old apple with various members of the administration, Circlemen are snobs, the Circle is too exclusive, the usual run of things.
I have no doubt that the fellow was sincere, as many of the other critics of the Circle are—their great fault is that they just don’t know what they’re talking about. But one point that these discussions invariably work around to is not so easily chalked off, and that is that perhaps the Blue Circle shouldn’t be the only honorary society on campus.
In an age of university education when the great emphasis in campus life is on fraternal living, Notre Dame stands practically alone in its concept of non-fratemal living. Whether this is good or bad is not pertinent, what is more to the point is the fact that along with social fraternities the purely honorary7 ones have been eliminated. The Blue Circle was established as Notre Dame’s only honorary society and its membership severely limited. Forty-four men make up this year’s Circle.
In interviews for law school, medical school, various graduate schools, and even job placement interviews, the question invariably comes up, “Do you belong to any honorary society?” Nine hundred seniors have to say “No” every year. If the interviewer persists, the situation becomes rather awkward to say the least. The interviewee has to admit that Notre Dame does have an honorary society, but that he has either been turned down for membership or he hasn’t applied, either of which are rather significant admissions to make.
Now the Circle isn’t so pretentious as to think it encompasses all the areas for which honorary societies have been set up—it is a service organization, the membership requirements of which include some of these standards. There might be quite a bit of added prestige for the graduating members of the Circle to say that they belonged to Notre Dame’s only honorary society, but this prestige is being gained, it seems to me, at the expense of quite a few others.
I’m not rabble-rousing for a return to Notre Dame of the honorary fraternities—I think perhaps it would be a good idea for the University to develop its own distinctive honorary societies—and I’m not for watering down the campus with a lot of meaningless societies either; some sort of golden mean could be achieved in time it seems to me. As it is, all too many fellows are being left in the lurch, honorwise, simply because they don’t have the time or taste to become a member of a service organization. A practical solution to the problem eludes me at the moment, but I do think the matter merits some consideration.—J. A.
7

Underwear
SHIRTS • TIES HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR
— first in fashion
with

comfort plus
It’s more than mere underwear. Worn alone or under an Arrow sweater or shirt, this Arrow Two-Purpose Tee Shirt is a campus favorite. Wear it with comfortable Arrow shorts—they feature exclusive contour seat that can’t bind! Boxer shorts in novelty patterns, $1.50. Tee, from $1.25.
they’re comfortable...
Smart men on campus keep plenty of Arrow two-purpose Tee Shirts on hand . . . for sports or worn with Arrow
1




V
sweaters and shirts, they’re stylish casual outfits. Pick up enough Arrow Guards too—* these briefs are a long step ahead in comfort. Tee, from $1.25. Guards, $1.20. .
GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)
8
The Scholastic
I .
CaMfuti Sctm
.SOPHOMORES WALTZ TONIGHT AT ANNUAL CLASS COTILLION
3 5	.
•• 1 t 1
I
I Blue Barron's Music to Set 'Autumn Flagship' Adrift; Annual Irish-Navy Tilt Tops Three-Day Voyage
® A sea voyage atmosphere will prevail tonight when 500 sophomores and their dates walk up the gang plank of the “Autumn Flagship” in the Student Center for the annual Sophomore Cotillion.
From 9 p.m. until 1 a.m., dance-goers will drift with the “Music of Yesterday and Today” by mood-makei’ Blue Barron and his Orchestra. During intermission, Dick Miller and his Sugarfoot Stomp, ers will churn up the seas with their WDixieland, played Notre Dame Style.
Miss Jane Mulhall will reign as queen of the Cotillion. Dave Kubal, general chairman of the dance committee, will be her escort. Miss Mulhall, a resident of Chicago, Ill., is a senior at Aquinas High School.
Preceding the dance, the second year men and their dates will attend the pep rally which will set the stage for the festive weekend. They will gather in ^the Field House at 7:20 p.m. to hear ; speeches by Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., rector of Dillon Hall; Bernie Witucki, Irish backfield coach, and Pat Bisceglia, guard on the Irish football squad. The group will then move in “snake dance” fashion to the field opposite the Morris Inn for the homecoming bonfire.
Saturday morning, sight-seeing strolls to view the hall displays will occupy the couples until game time.
• The afternoon will be spent in the Notre Dame 'Stadium, where the Irish will play host to the Navy’s Midshipmen in a game honoring Knute Rockne. Halftime ceremonies will honor the current Notre Dame team, the 25th to take the field since the death of Knute Rockne. Mrs. Rockne; many of the coaches who succeeded Rockne, and some of his former players will be present.
A trophy will also be awarded at , this time for the most original and ap-j propriate hall display for the homecom-p^ing weekend decorations contest.
Ed Pistey and his band will play for \ the Victory Dance Saturday evening 1 from 8:30 to 11:30.
The weekend will draw to a close Sunday morning with a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn after the 9 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Bob Duffy, breakfast chairman, announced that the Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will be the guest speaker.
Car permissions, which began this noon, will end at noon Sunday. A 2 a.m. sign-in-time has been set for tonight. Corsages will be permitted.
Prefects for all the sophomore halls are invited to attend the dance.
Committee chairmen for the Sophomore Cotillion weekend are: Jim Keough, special assistant; Tom O’Donnell, business manager; Bernie McGowan and Dave McMahon, tickets; John Higgins, entertainment; Jack Hough, publicity; Bill Hilvert, hotels; Stan Lorens, refreshments; Bob Whearty and Drew Aman, decorations; and Stu McKeever, memory books.
Navy Dignitaries to See Irish Game Tomorrow
A large number of high ranking Navy officers, including Admiral the Earl Mountbatten, first sea lord and chief of Naval staff of Great Britain, will converge this weekend on Notre Dame for the Irish-Middie clash.
Other distinguished guests of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, include; Admiral Arleigh A. Burke, USN, chief of Naval Operations; Admiral Arthur W. Radford, USN, chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff; Admiral Jerauld Wright, USN, commander-in-chief of the U.S. Atlantic fleet; Rear Admiral W. F. Boone, USN, superintendent of the Naval Academy and Capt. R. T. Keith, USN, commandant of Midshipmen, at the Naval Academy.
It is expected that Secretary of Navy, Charles S. Thomas, and the Under Secretary of the Navy, T. S. Gates will also be present.
JANE MULHALL
. . . Soph ‘Flagship’ Queen . . .
Pistey's Combo to Entertain At Halloween Dance Monday
Ed Pistey and a combo of seven, will entertain for the Jack-O’Lantem Ball to be held Monday night, the Eve of All Saints, from 8-11 pun.
Costumes will be required to add to the Halloween theme of the dance. The outstanding male and female costume will each be rewarded with a prize.
The decorations are to be tinted with pumpkins and so forth which blend into creating a Halloween atmosphere.
The price of admission is $1 per couple, and apple cider and donuts will be served at refreshment time.
The girls from across the Dixie are assured date permissions, and bus service from St. Mary’s will be provided. The Green Goblins plan to be present.
SMC PLAY
“Heartbreak House,” a play by George B. Shaw, will be presented in Angela Hall at St. Mary’s College Nov. 9 through 12.
Mike Kennedy, AB sophomore, and Gayle Baumer of St. Mary’s will play the leading roles.
Others in the cast are: Tom Kiernan, Barey Morris, Lee Crogher, Bernie Gessner, Joan Mettor, Ge-orgianne Weber, and Betsy Feran.
Ed Warren will direct the play.
October 28, 1955
9
MODEL HOUSING DEVELOPMENT GETS ONCE-OVER
Architects complete exhibit for Middie weekend.
Third Architectural Exhibit Opens Tonight; Student Designs Displayed Through Sunday
The architectural students will hold their third exhibit of the year this coming weekend, Orlando Maione, publicity chairman for the exhibit announced last week. The showing will be held in the Architecture Building from 8 a.m. till midnight, Friday through Sunday.
Special features will include a prize winning thesis which illustrates the complete process of designing the new Indianapolis Speedway Hall of Fame from the initial survey to the final blueprints.
Scale Model Towns
Also featured will be two scale model towns which demonstrate the problem of suburban land development. Other exhibits will include: water color patterns, freehand sketches, detailed design plates, and real life and abstract studies of sculpture.
The features of the exhibit will represent all phases of the architect’s training. All architectural students are exposed to an intensive program which incorporates strong elements of both science and art.
A true appreciation of beauty, an accurate sense of proportion, and a creative imagination are required. The curriculum includes in its program courses which will give the students a complete technical and artistic background.
The exhibit was organized under the
10
auspices of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Institute of Architecture. All exhibits were donated by students.
The Committee in charge of preparations for the exhibit is Chairman Dick Galehouse, Bob Erdman, Gervais Sob-sefski, Tim Cohane, Tom Cooke, and Tony Puillo.
Mixers, Coffee Hour Add to SophWeekend
In conjunction with the sophomore weekend, the Senate is sponsoring an after-rally party and a post-game coffee hour, as well as the usual Victory Dance.
After the pep rally which starts at 7:20 p.m. in the Fieldhouse, there will be a snake dance to the tennis courts for the bonfire. Immediately following the blaze there will be a mixer in the Drill Hall with girls from St. Mary’s College, St. Joseph’s Nurses Home, and the Daughters of Isabella. Admission is §.25; sports shirts and slacks are required.
Post-Game Coffee Hour
Saturday afternoon in the Student Center, following the football game, there will be a post-game coffee hour for parents, students, and their guests. Coffee and donuts •will be served.
Saturday night there will be a Vic
tory Dance in the Drill Hall featuring Ed w Pistey and his Lettermen. Decorations will follow a nautical motif.
Sunday, the second in the series of round robin freshman parties will take place. Cavanaugh will be at the Student Center; Zahm at St. Mary’s College; and Breen Phillip’s at St. Mary’s Academy.
Saturday at noon, as part of the homecoming festivities, there will be a Dixieland Jazz Concert on the front porch of -Sorin Hall. Everyone is invited.
Physicists Construct Improved Generator
Nearly 1,800 cubic feet of compressed nitrogen rushed noisily from a huge steel tank surrounding the University’s W old electro-static generator on Oct. 19. The loud hiss marked the end of its use as a research instrument by the physics ‘ department. Research operations will be resumed as soon as a modern improved ; generator is completed.
Present at the unusual Wednesday afternoon ceremony in the rear base- i ment of the old Science Building were . nuclear physicists Dr. Bernard Wald- ' man, who used the old generator for:W years and is in charge of construction of I the new model, Dr. Walter C. Miller, i and other scientists participating in nu- i clear research. Dr. Miller is a close	'
associate of Dr. Waldman, and a long-	;
time Notre Dame researcher. “It was ■ the generator’s swan song,” said Dr. ‘	;
Miller after the event.	•
Change to Nitrogen
The gas was released through an em-* $ ergency valve which was previously part j of a fire extinguishing system made necessary when oxygen was used as the I insulating gas. Recurring fires forced a change to less troublesome nitrogen in 1944, and the valve had not been used since that time.
Soon workers will begin the task of moving the bulky 20-ton tank from the old apparatus to the new location. The transporting job will take about two months, and at the same time, fiinishingjl touches will be applied to the new gener- * ator. Dr. Waldman hopes to start experimental work again by the first of the year.
Dr. Waldman said that the new generator will be used in connection with strictly theoretical studies of the interaction of electrons with matter. Or, in layman’s language, what happens when electrons hit something.
“This field is quite new. As a matter of fact we are, as far as I know, thef^, only research organization in the world ' which has a program of this sort,” concluded Dr. Waldman.
The Scholastic
Festival of Arts Program Set for Nov. 13-19; Will Feature Works of Mestrovic in Exhibit
:	The Festival of Arts 1955 style, will
,	be held from Nov. 13 through Nov. 19,
■'	and will feature the works of Ivan
Mestrovic.
• Mestrovic has recently been awarded the Fine Arts Medal for 1955 by the American Institute of Architects, which ; cited him as “Master of Sculpture.” A sixty-piece exhibit of his work, the ■ largest ever made, will highlight the j cultural exhibit of the Festival. Jt will I remain on display in the art gallery of ’ O’Shaughnessy Hall every afternoon 1 until Jan. 31.
Though sponsored by the College of A Arts and Letters, under the supervision of Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., the Festival is primarily a student project.
Those students participating in the arrangements, under the direction of M. F. Beckman, faculty advisor, are: Stan Skrocki, general chairman; Bob O’Malley and Jack Bure, co-chairmen of publicity; Tom Wageman, in charge of physical facilities; John Guian, music; Fred Christian, in charge of art • work; John Meagher, discussions chair" man; and Leland Croghan, movies director.
Prof. R. N. Krakusin of Colgate University will supervise the setting-up of the Mestrovic exhibit. Aiding Prof. Krakusin with this task will be three of . Mestrovic’s graduate students: Mike Skop, Ted Golubic, and Alf Svendson.
The Festival will open Nov. 13 with an afternoon reception for Mestrovic in the Great Hall of the O’Shaughnessy ^Building. On Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday afternoons modern classical films and selected classical shorts will be shown.
A discussion of Ben Jonson and the Elizabethan drama will be held Wednesday afternoon. Monday night Peter Watts will give a talk on Christian
Theatre Season Ticket Sale Continues Until November 4
Rev. Arthur S. Harvey C.S.C., has wannounced that season tickets for the University Theatre will be on sale Monday through Friday from 2-5 p.m. in the lobby of Washington Hall until Nov. 4.
These season tickets will cover all i three University Theatre productions, i They are: The Alchemist, a comedy by Ben Jonson set to run Nov. 16-19; The Caine Mutiny Court Martial, by Herman Wouk; and the annual student musical which will be staged next ■ '^spring.
Students, employees, and faculty members may purchase orchestra seats for
I $2.50 and balcony seats for $2.
: October 28, 1955
sculpture. A recital by the Fine Arts Quartet will be held Tuesday night in the Student Center.
Wednesday through Saturday nights, Nov. 16-19, the Alchemist, will be presented in Washington Hall, as an integral part of the Festival activities.
Grillo Awarded Citation By Architectural Board
Paul J. Grillo, associate professor of architecture at Notre Dame, has been awarded a citation by the National Board
PROF. GRILLO
Cited for professional achievement.
of Architects for his work in teaching architectural design here. Prof. Grillo is the first member of the Notre Dame faculty ever to receive such an award.
The citation was presented at the annual convention of architects held in Minneapolis this summer. A committee of architects, chosen by the board, selects the award winners and submits them to the board for approval.
Prof. Grillo studied at the University of Caen in France where he received his bachelor’s degree in 1929 and at the Ecole des Beaux Arts where he obtained his A.D.G.F. in 1933. He joined the Notre Dame staff in 1951.
Prof. Grillo, in addition to teaching here, is designing the new church now under construction at St. Mary’s College.
The citation which he received is now posted in the Architectural building. It can be seen at the open-house agricultural exhibit which will be held the weekend of the Navy homecoming game Oct. 28-30. Students are now at work completing the work and setting up the exhibit.
Knights Stage Drive For More Members
The Notre Dame. Council of the Knights of Columbus is now conducting its annual membership drive, Jim Olin, grand knight, announced recently. In discussing the drive, Olin said, “Everyone is invited to investigate the prospects of becoming a knight.”
Membership information can be obtained at the Council office in the basement of Walsh Hall Monday through Friday from 4 to 5:30 pan.
This year, first degree initiations will take place on Nov. 7 and -30 at the Council chambers in Walsh. Candidates for second and third degree will be initiated at the Mishawaka K. of C. on Dec. 4. In addition, they will hold a Communion breakfast at the Morris Inn.
Olin has hopes of boosting the Council membership, which now totals 800, to new heights.	"
“This is the oldest and largest collegiate Council in the United States,” he explained.
“The K. of C. offers a program fitted to making the well-rounded Catholic man. It does this through its spiritual, fraternal, social, and athletic divisions.”
Members are required to take out a $1,000 insurance policy offered by the K. of C.’s if they have not yet reached their twenty-sixth birthday. “The reason behind this,” Olin explained, “is that insurance members have proved to be the more stable members.”
Of those members dropped in a ten year period, only three per cent were insurance members. He went on to say, “We want members to stay in, and we prefer that the ones who join take the insurance policy, and remain active in the council.”
Law Enrollment Totals 166; Students Represent 24 States
Notre Dame’s College of Law has a total of 166 students enrolled for the fall semester, according to figures recently released by Dean Joseph O’Meara. These men come from 24 states with 44 law students from Indiana, followed, by Illinois with 22, and New York with 21.
There are 50 different colleges and universities represented by the undergraduate backgrounds of this year’s law classes.
Twenty-nine of these men entered the law school in the combination program, while 69 gained their Notre Dame degrees before starting law study, and one man entered under the veteran program.
The geographical range of the other universities and colleges is extremely varied, from the University of Hawaii to Yale, and from Ottawa University to the University of Texas.
11
POLITICOS GATHER ON INAUGURATION NIGHT
Pause before storm of governmental year.
Hall Councils, Senators Elected in Balloting; Class Officers Chosen by Freshmen Voters
In campus balloting held Thursday, Oct. 20, 46 students were selected officers and senators from their respective halls.
Elected officials in the senior halls were: Alumni, President, Tom Sweeney; Senator, George Blake; Walsh, President, Don McIntire; Vice President, Phil Bradtke; Secretary, Hal Spencer; and Senator, Don Carlin; Fisher, President, Thomas Kershisnik; Vice President, Don Walz; Treasurer, Charles Chun, and Senator, Tom Swope.
The following were elected presidents in the Junior Halls: Sorin, John Casey; Pangborn, Fletcher Murphy; Dillon, George Strake.
Hall Senators for the juniors are: Jack Bure, Soi-in; Al Reichart, Pang-horn; and John Cusack, Dillon.
In Sorin there is a special type of hall constitution where representatives are elected from each floor. These representatives are: Dick Pollenz, basement; Tatum Eason, first floor; Jim Skulski, second floor; and Tom Judge, third floor.
The sophomores elected Tom Edwards, Bob Moretti, Gerald Hayes, and Gep Durenberger as presidents in Howard, Morrissey, Badin, and Lyons, respect-tively.
Senators for the Sophomore Halls are: Pete DeVito, Howard; Joe Ryan, Morrissey; Jerry Slater, Badin; and Dick Meyer, Lyons.
Freshmen elected their class officers
in addition to hall officials. Elected were: George Hahn, president; Bronko Na-gurski, vice President; Fred Zulke, secretary; and Anthony George, treasurer.
The following were elcted officers in Farley Hall: Dave Mann, president; Neil Ball, vice president; Nick Dempsey, treasurer; and James Hughes, Jr., senator. Bob Burns, Dick Donavan, and Larry Richart are the new presidents of Zahm, Cavanaugh, and Breen-Phillips. Senators in these halls are: Joe Harrison, Dave Kelsey, and William Bradley.
Kevin Smith and Tom Lopina were elected president and senator of St. Edward’s Hall.
Off-campus representatives were elected as follows: Villagei’s and off-campus sophomores, Bud Toepp; junior senator, Vincent Campbell; senior and freshman senator, Michael Kiley.
Senate Academic Committee Sponsors Essay Competition
Prizes totaling $75 will be awarded in the essay contest sponsored by the Academic Committee of the Student Senate, Richard Clark, academic commissioner announced this week. The winning entry will be published in the Scholastic.
The contest is the first of several projects which the Committee has planned. In suceeding months, a series of movies based on the classics, will be presented.
Dedicate Art Studio $ Tomorrow Morning
Another of the University’s building projects, the $75,000 sculpture studios adjoining the O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts, will be dedicated tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University^ president, will preside at the dedication " ceremony.
The new studio is a gift of Mr. and Mrs. I. A. O’Shaughnessy of St. Paul, Minn. Mr. O’Shaughnessy, president of the Globe Oil Co. and a member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees, will be present at the dedication rites as well as the other board members attending their semi-annual—, meeting on campus.	V
Situated at the southeast corner of the Liberal Arts Hall and connected to it by a breezeway, the new structure was erected principally for the use of Sculptor Ivan Mestrovic. It contains two studios, 17 feet in height, and covers an area 80 by 20 feet. Ellerbe and Co. of St. Paul, Minn, designed the building and Thomas Hickey and Sons, Inc., South Bend were the contractors.
Currently Mestrovic is executing a^ life-size sculpture of “Christ at Jacob’s Weil” to be placed in the O’Shaughnessy Hall courtyard. His “Pieta” was recently moved from the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art and will be brought to the Notre Dame campus.
Sommer Announces Frosh, Breen Contests^
Professor Leonard F. Sommer, Director of forensics, announced recently that dates have been set for both the Freshman Oratorical Contest and the Breen Oratorical Contest.
The Freshman Oratorical Contest is open to all freshmen of the University. Speeches are to be from five to seven minutes in length; any subject may be treated, but the oration must be original. The preliminary round will be held on Tuesday, Nov. 22, at 4:30 p.m. in Room» 1-C of the Student Center.	-
The final round will be on Monday, Nov. 28, at 7:30 p.m. in Room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Building. Before the preliminary round, all entrants must submit a written copy of their speech, and must deliver the oration strictly from memory.
The Breen Oratorical Contest is open to any student of the University, including freshmen. Speeches are to be eight to ten minutes in length, and may cover any topic, but must be original. Th<^< preliminary round will be held on Tues-
(Continued on page 32)	,
The Scholastic I
12
“Never send to know for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee,”—Donne.
* ROTC Men 'Present Arms' at Military Bcdl; Land, Sea, Air Queens Will Wear Crowns
ND Geologists Attend Tri-State Conference
On Oct. 15 and 16 geologists and geological students from, six states took part in the 19th annual Tri-State Geological Field Conference. This year the trip was held in West Central Illinois with headquarters at Canto, Ill.
Among those participating in the trip were Dr. R. C. Gutschick of the Notre Dame geology department and three University students, Ray Miller, John Windolph, and Jim Miles.
The field conference is held each year in the Tri-State Region of Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin. This year’s trip was under the direction of Harold R. Wan-less of the University of Illinois.
The principal subjects of study for the members were the Pennsylvania cyclic sedimentation, records of successive glacial and interglacial stages of 25,000 to 30,000 years ago, and the development of the Illinois Valley in westcentral Illinois.
One of the main purposes of the trip was to give the student a wide range of problems in interpretation of geological formations. After examining the land and its formation at various locales, discussion periods among the professional geologists and the students were held.
Among the sites visited by the trip members was the Fiatt mine of the
Local ROTC men and their dates will “Present Arms” when they unfurl this year’s formal military ball on Nov. 18 in the Student Center.
Highlighting the ball -will be the music of Don Carron and his orchestra, 0 and the crowning of a separate queen I	for Land, Sea, and Air. The queens
I	will be escorted by General Chairman,
J Frank Beytagh, Navy; Burt Lesh, Army; and Dave Brucker, Air Force.
The dance will be held from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. Regular car permissions I will be in effect.
Another added attraction will be i	afforded the guests of the ROTC men at
'	the football game on Saturday. Drill
teams from the three services will give 0 an exhibition of precision marching.
Behind the theme “Present Arms” will j be the idea that as leaders and officers, | the ROTC men will be dedicating their ’ services to God, Country and Notre
Dame.	'
Bids will go on sale Nov. 7, 8 and 9 in the basement of the Student Center from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. A limited num-Iber of game tickets and breakfast bids will be sold along with the dance bids. Prices for the dance tickets are $3.75. J0 Under the new system set up by the ¥ Student Senate, those wishing blind • dates will be able to secure them by \ seeing committee head Don Machenberg, ! October 28,1955
15 Sorin, during the week before bid sales. Twenty-five hotel rooms have been reserved. Reservations can be made at the time of bid purchase. These rooms will be held aside by the hotels until a week before the dance.
LOCAL ‘ROCK-HUNTERS’ AND HELD TROPHIES Recall tales of geology jaunt.
Truax-Traer Coal Co. where they saw some of the newest developments in strip mining.
Trip-goers made a total of seven stops. They slept outside in sleeping bags for two nights while on the trip.
13
Lecture Series for Engineers Announced; Plan Tours of Milwaukee, Gary Industries
Several departments of the College of Engineering have announced a series of activities to be held during the next few weeks.
George Brown, head of the computer lab of Bendix Corp., will address the electrical engineers on the subject of analog computers and their functions, on Nov. 9.
The department of mechanical engineering is planning to sponsor an inspection tour of the United States Steel plant in Gary, Ind., and certain industries in Milwaukee, Wis. About 45 senior members of the American Society of Mechanical Engineering are expected to go on the three-day trip, which will leave the campus on Nov. 1. Faculty members accompanying the students are Dr. M. K. Newman, and Dr. E. W. Jerger.
The American Society of Civil Engineers will hold a meeting on Nov. 2, when a talk will be given by Mr. William J. Reardon, president of Reardon Industries Inc., Cincinnati, 0. Mr. Reardon, a member of the Ohio Turnpike Commission, will speak on “Toll Roads.”
The American Institute of Architecture will meet on Nov. 2. The speaker will be Mr. Clarence W. Clarksom, a representative of the Corning Glass Works of Chicago. Mr. Clarksom will talk on “The Lighting Technique in
Professor Bott Named to Aid Placement Bureau Director
Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., director of the Placement Bureau, has announced the appointment of Prof. Herman J. Bott as assistant to the director. Prof. Bott, for 30 years a member of the College of Commerce staff, in addition to his teaching duties, will devote half of his time to the growing needs of the Placement Bureau.
■The addition of Prof. Bott to the Bureau’s staff is in keeping with the progress made by the commerce department recently. A special office in Room 118 of the Main Building has been set aside for interview schedules, company literature files, etc. This innovation will lessen the formerly crowded conditions and enable the students to acquaint themselves with the opportunities offered by various companies.
Seniors may stop in at the Bureau offices in the Main Building on any day, Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 12 noon and 1:30 to 5 p.m., to browse through the company literature and sign up for the interview schedules.
14
Architectural Work.” A movie, “Glass and You,” will also be presented.
On Oct. 31, the department of chemical engineering will present one of a series of professional activities seminars, with a talk by R. J. Kreuz, of the Standard Oil Co., of Whiting, Ind. On Nov. 7 a second seminar meeting will be given by Mr. P. L. Dee, of the General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y. A third in the series of seminars will be given on Nov. 14, with Mr. R. E. Van Steengurg, of the National Aniline Division, Allied Chemical and Dye Corp., Buffalo, N. Y., as the speaker.
The Y.C.S. group of the College of Engineering will, in the near- future, present a student discussion of the different aspects of the engineering curriculum, results of which will be correlated with those of a faculty board now studying the college.
Draft Still Enforced; Deferments Plentiful
“The draft is still very much in force and the very best authorities in this matter expect it to remain so for the foreseeable future,” stated Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., military and draft student counselor at the University.
He continued, “We have in America today to all extents and purposes, Universal Military Training. We therefore expect that every able-bodied man will be required to spend at least some time in the military service of his country.
“It has been our experience in dealing with the many draft boards throughout the country, that they are far more lenient in the granting of student deferments than could ever be discovered by a mere reading of the law, or- suspected by a reading of the newspapers. To appreciate the present and future operations of the law we must realize that its rigidity is regulated by the manpower needs of the Armed Forces.”
Father Woodward added, “Students who maintain a minimum average of 80 are reasonably safe from being drafted out of school. The academic averages of those who have been drafted from this university is 74.4 per cent. This is quite low when you consider that the average which must be obtained for graduation is 77.”
In conclusion Father Woodward said, “If times change, if new or added friction develops between the nations, then so will the tempo of the draft be increased. In any event, the higher a student’s average, the safer he is from the call of his draft board.”
'Bookmen1 Start Year $ With Literary Review
The Bookmen opened a new season of discussion and review of literary works with the submission of a paper by President Tom Wageman, on “Stan-islevsky’s Conception of Art in the Theatre.”
The primary purpose of the Bookmen is to present papers on literary works from 1850 to the present time, which will stimulate discussion and controversy among its 21 members.
These papers cover a large field, including everything from poetry to novels. As Vice-President Phil Hurley put it, “the papers presented aim not so much at the stating of something, but stimulate the discussion of ideas with which the papers are concerned.”
The second and third in this series are offerings by Hurley and secretary Jerry Hornback. Hurley’s paper will be “The Comparison of Hopkins and Wordsworth as Nature Poets,” while Hornback will review the book The Little Prince by Antoine de Saint-Exuprey.
Teaming up with the Wranglers, the Bookmen have started a freshman organization entitled the “F.W.B’s.” Their purpose will be to discuss problems and topics of interest. They will meet every two weeks, operating in a very similai- way to the older groups. A club charter will be drawn up later.
University Receives Grant For Health Research Work
The University announced recently that it has received grants totalling $ $49,556 from the National Institute of Health research at its	LOBUND	In-	-
stitute and departments	of biology	and	|
chemisti-y.	1
The LOBUND Institute was awarded	I
a grant of $29,814 for research directed by Prof. James A. Reyniers on “The Rearing and Study of Germ-free Animals.” Prof. Reyniers is the founder and director of the Institute which has developed the germ-free animal as a unique tool in biological and medical A research.	|
Prof. Charles E. Brambel, head of j Notre Dame’s department of biology,	|
received a giant of $12,193 in support	I
of his research on “Blood Coagulation Inhibitors.” A grant of $4,358 was	*
awarded to Dr. Donald T. Chalkley,	)
assistant professor of biology, for re- I search on “The Differentiation in Vitro 1 of Regeneration Blastema.”	1
Rev. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C., and Dr. | James V. Quagliano, both of the chem- A if istry department faculty, will share a I $3,191 grant for “Studies of Amino- A acid and Protein Metal Complexes.”	h
The Scholastic	I
* National Student Association Maps Program; Grad Candidate Tests ! To Include Special Foreign Student Activities Will Begin on Nov. 19
j The campus unit of the United States National Student Association has outlined a multi-phased program for the 1955-56 school year. The program set forth by Campus Co-ordinator Tom Shehan includes activity in four fields: International Affairs, Educational Affairs, and Student Government Commission.
The International Affairs program I will promote special activities for the I foreign students of the University. A ! civic and industrial tour of the community will be conducted. An exchange with students at the University of Chi-^.cago is planned. This will be for a short w period in order to acquaint students from both universities with campus life elsewhere.
An international room in the student center has been proposed. The organization of a cosmopolitan club for all foreign students and those interested in foreign students is another project. Visits with American families at Thanksgiving and Christmas and mixers • with St. Mary’s College are also envisioned for foreign students.
As part of the international awareness program for American students, an exchange of students with Canadian universities and the operation of a travel bureau for summertime trips to Europe, South America, and the Orient will be established. The observance of a United Nations Day is also planned.
The Educational Affairs program will work for emphasizing the Catholic ideals £hn education. The NS A will review the policies of the National Education Association and promote an academic free
dom week. Meetings with campus clubs will be held. Discussion of mutual interest to both the NSA and the club is intended to acquaint the club with the workings of the NSA and inform the NSA members of the needs of the club.
The Student Affairs program includes plans to contact other universities in the area in order to establish a dance band schedule. This would make available better entertainment for campus dances at a lower cost. A consumer’s guide to businesses in South Bend, evaluating quality and giving prices and locations of restaurants, barber shops and so forth, already has the approval of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce. A file of the procedures and workings of student affairs will be gathered.
The Student Government Commission will study the financial, judicial and constitutional situation in student government. Minutes of Senate meetings will be filed categorically. This will provide a basis of precedence for future policy. Another facet already in operation is the radio program “Mr. Chairman” presented each week over WSND. The program is a source of information on Student Senate, Blue Circle and Administration plans and activities.
The Local Office of NSA is located in Room 2 of the student center. Chairman Shehan points out that the only qualification for membership is interest in the group.
The Graduate Record Examinations, required-of applicants for admission to a number of graduate schools, will be administered at examination centers throughout the country four times in the coming year, Educational Testing Service has announced.
This fall, candidates may' take the Graduate Record Examination on Saturday, Nov. 19. In 1956, the dates are Jan. 21, April 28, and July 7. Educational Testing Service advises each applicant to inquire of the graduate school of his choice which of the examinations he should take and on which dates. Applicants for graduate school fellowships should ordinarily take the designated examinations in the fall administration.
The tests offered in these nationwide programs include a test of general scholastic ability and advanced level tests of achievement in 16 different subject matter fields. Candidates are permitted to take the Aptitude Test and/oi- one of the Advanced Tests.
Application forms and a bulletin of information may be obtained from college advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau St., Princeton, N. J., or P.O. Box 27896, Los Angeles 27, Calif.
A completed application must reach the Educational Testing Service Office at least 15 days before the date of the examination for which the candidate is applying.
Architecture Dept. Designs Sets for University Theater
Sets for The Alchemist, first of this year’s University Theater’s productions are being constructed under an experimental program. The Architecture Department, in conjunction with the Theater, planned designs for the sets last spring. Several patterns were selected and altered so that they would conform to the local adaptation of the play.
The design finally selected for the play, which is to run from Nov. 16-19, was planned by Reno Masini. Masini an architecture student, made the alterations on the sets this fall.
The stage crew under the direction of Tony Nieuwlandt is nearing completion of the sets. Assisting Nieuwlandt in the construction of the sets have been Joe McArdle, Pete Jandrisevits, Tom Arnold, Dave Neal, Bob Daley, and Tim Murphy.
October 28, 1955
15
i 4
I
“A poor life this is if, full of core, We have no time to stand and stare.”—Davies
THE VICTORY DANCES held after every Irish football game, home or on the road, have become weekend fixtures here on campus. Bearing sucliA । names as Boilermaker Bop, Spartan	j
Stomp, and Hoosiei’ Hop, the dances all	।
have as their general theme the weekend game.
The responsibility for seeing that everything goes all right in connection with the dances rests on the shoulders j of Jack Casey, dance manager. A few of the steps he must take in organizing the affairs will give an idea of the^ amount of work his job requires. W
victory is
“Drum on your drums . . . sob on the long, cool, whining saxophones. Go to it, O jazzmen.”—Sandburg
First he must make reservations with the Vice-President of Student - Affairs a month in advance if the Navy Drill Hall is to be used, as is the case on home game weekends.
On Saturdays when the Irish play away, he makes arrangements with Mike Wade, manager of the Student Center, at least a month ahead of dance time. Then Jack must present his budget to the Social Commissioner, contact the^ Dean of Women at St. Mary’s, give the" Vice-President of Student Affairs a copy of his budget form, and have posters made and distributed no later than the Monday preceding the Saturday- night dance.
Prior to last year, victory dances were usually held at a downtown hotel, but with the opening of the La Fortune , Student Center, they were moved on campus.
One of two bands is contracted for a victory dance. Ed Pistey’s Lettermen,A a six-piece group made up of N.D. students, make with the music at some of the dances, while the Collegians, a fifteen-piece outfit composed of both students and local musicians, play at the others.
The highlight of each dance is the crowning of the queen. The lucky girl’s name is drawn out of a hat. She is then

crowned by Casey and presented with a locket and a kiss by her escort.
Entertainment is provided in a variety of ways. A jazz band may perform, a singer may present a couple of numbers, or there may even be a comedian of sorts in the crowd.
The Middie Dip, this week’s dance, will be somewhat extravagant with decorations honoring the visiting team.
sweeter...
by HARRY BLANTON
The Navy team will be present, with its captain’s date designated “Queen of the Dip.’’
The Navy dance, like all others, will get under way at 8:30 p.m., and fold at half an hour before midnight, with no • regulations for arrival or departure. Refreshments are always available for those who want them.
As one dance ends, the next week’s, is already taking shape. It must be given a name, something catchy, the bulletins must be placed in all the halls, it must be plugged over WSND. And all the arrangements have to be made in plenty of time.
It takes work and planning, but evidently, the work has paid off because the Victory Dances are well in 9 the black this year.
Tentative plans are being made for a possible Queen’s Ball, to which all the queens chosen at the dances will be invited, and one will be chosen Queen of Queens. This would be a second semester dance. It’s still in the planning stage and must be classified as just an idea at present.
The Middie Dip will probably be the biggest of the victory dances this year, with a particularly large crowd. Since M this week is not only homecoming weekend, but also Sophomore Cotillion time, there should be plenty doing over at the Drill Hall come 8:30 tomorrow night.
“Pleasure in moderation relaxes and tempers the victor’s spirit.”—Seneca
October 28, 1955
17
Children’s Hospital therapy pool in full swing.
by Tony Speranza
Animated waterwings inspire trust.
water-built muscles*
ON A CERTAIN DAY, a young man wearing a Notre Dame Jacket, passes through the entrance to Northern Indiana Children’s Hospital. He walks quickly through the lobby to the physical therapy department. Aftei- donning his bathing suit, he carries the limp body of a child into the warm waters of the department pool. . . .
In eager anticipation.
* * *
Last year more than eighty students from the University of Notre Dame spent well over three thousand hours
working as swimming instructors at the Children’s Hospital.
-It was in the Fall of 1952 that Doctor Leslie M. Bodner, M.D.; Miss Virginia Fitch, R.P.T.; and a few members of the American Red Cross inaugurated the^ swimming program foi- polio victims at the Children’s Hospital. From the program’s inception, volunteers were needed to help the physical therapists in this aquatic work. It was at this time that the Notre Dame men came on the scene.
The swimming instructors have their work clearly cut out for them. They must teach the children put in their care to swim. Although the instructors do not “treat” the patients, the swimming movements they teach the youngsters are greatly beneficial to their progress™ in recovering from the crippling effects of polio. While the children are learning to swim, they are not only becoming adept in the water, but they are also reconditioning the muscles that have been injured by the polio virus. In this way, under the expert guidance of the physical therapists, the swimming instructor plays an important role in the work of rehabilitating polio-afflicted children.
Sometimes a workout in the pool is painful for the children, though the in-A. structors strive to make it as pleasant as possible for them. Nevertheless, both the children and the instructors derive
18
The Scholastic
a great deal of enjoyment from their relationship. Indeed, it is heartwarming to see the happy smiles and hear the gleeful laughs of the children as they splash about in the pool.
Nor are the children lacking in appreciation for the help given to them by the swimming instructors. One day, nine year old Raymond Smith asked his ther-£ apist if “the man from Notre Dame” would return that day “to play” with him in the pool. When the therapist told the little fellow that she was not certain of the instructor’s return, Ray ■ lowered his head and said in dejected ' tone: “Well, I’ll just stay in the water alone until he comes”. The therapist, used to dealing with children and accustomed to their ways, realized that in _ his child’s manner, Ray was paying the W instructor the highest compliment he could give.
“All the boys are perfect gentlemen. They add a great deal of enjoyment to the day’s work, and the whole department looks forward to having them return each week.” With these words of praise, Mrs. Dorothy Phillips, the head of the physical therapy department, describes the attitude of each member of the staff. Miss Maria Pena, R.P.T. also finds the £ Notre Dame students to be “pleasant fellow workers”.
“Although most of their work is done in the pool”, says Miss Juana Rittle, director of the swimming program, “the boys are always willing to do anything they can to help the children and the members of the staff. Last Fall, we were without the services of an orderly for a period of almost two weeks. During this time, some of the boys did not teach a swimming as they were scheduled to do; " instead they carried the patients to and from the ward in order to relieve me of this heavy work.”
Swimming instructors at the hospital get no pay. However, they are not without rewards. Two instructors who have donated many hours of their time to teach swimming at the hospital have explained the benefits received from this work. Mike Luberto says: “I think there is no more effective way of gaining a better understanding of the handicapped and V their problems. The boys who work with these children find it a great deal easier to cope with their own problems when they see the bravery of these little children”. John Chomeau adds: “The satisfaction of watching a child regain the use of his limbs and of knowing that I had some small part in effecting his recovery is all the reward that I could ask for”.
For the past two years it has been the special project of the Detroit Club to send its members to the hospital to work as instructors. A year ago, the Third Order of Saint Francis began the same practice. In the future, however, the
The “pulley” lowers patient into water.
swimming instructors would like to form a formal organization of their own. Although they have held meetings and have attended a supper-dance given especially for them by the staff of the physical therapy department, the instructors cannot claim membership in a distinct club.
Miss Juana Rittle, looking to the future, has expressed her hope of seeing the number of swimming instructors increase until there are a minimum of five instructors a day working in the pool. Also, she would like to remedy the drop in the number of instructors during the Christmas and Easter vacations and during the summer months.
❖ * *
. . . The little boy walks and he is happy. The young man in the Notre Dame jacket teaches and he is satisfied. . . .
I christen thee . . .
Volunteer instructors chat with regular staff.
At a QlcMce
COLFAX
Quentin Durward (tonight through Thursday); MGM; CinemaScope; color; R. Taylor-K. Kendall—Robert Taylor plays the title role in this adaptation of Sir Walter Scott’s novel. He starts out trying to get a certain countess for his uncle to marry, and ends up in love with her himself. He has to rescue hex- from an evil count, and the two fight it out in a burning bell tower, swinging at each other on bell ropes. This is a good one for anyone interested in authentic French chateaus.
GRANADA
The Tall Men (began yesterday, plays for two weeks); B; Fox; CinemaScope; color; C. Gable-J. Russell—Clark Gable plays the ideal (?) man, the one man whom everybody else wishes they were like. He and his brother come to Montana in 1867. Broke, they decide on a life of crime. Their intended victim makes a deal with them and they agree to get a herd of cattle and bring it back to Montana. On the way out they meet Jane Russell prospecting for gold, and Clark finds out that he isn’t what she’s looking for in a man. After assorted adventures, they return, and Clark finds out that he’s the right kind after all. Confusing?
PALACE
Illegal (tonight through Tuesday) ; A-2; Warner; E. G. Robinson-N. Foch—The title tells what this kind of movie ought to be. Robinson is a district attorney who sends an innocent man to his death, and who turns to alcohol when he discovers his error. Later he begins defending criminals and becomes involved with one of them. His conscience bothers him, and he is killed while regaining his self-respect. If this had happened much earlier in the film, it wouldn’t be so tedious to sit through. Mobs Incorporated, with Reed Hadley, is the co-feature.
RIVER PARK
The Silver Chalice (ends tomorrow); A-2; Warner; CinemaScope; color; V. Mayo-J. Palance—If you missed this the first time you might as well do so again.
Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing (Sunday through Wednesday); B; Fox; CinemaScope; color; Wm. Holden-J. Jones—William Holden, in Hong Kong, meets and falls in love with Jennifer Jones. He can’t marry her because his “cruel” wife won’t give him a divorce. After doing an awful lot of discussing, he gets killed in the Korean War. The Girl Rush; B; Paramount; VistaVision; color; R. Russell-F. Lamas—This is a waste of good talent. In a word, lousy.
, The Wild One (Thursday through Saturday); B; Columbia; M. Brando-M. Murphy —Marlon Brando plays everybody’s hero, the guy in a black leather jacket who rides a motorcycle. This picture goes no place, although the audience may go towards the exits. Far Horizons; A-l; Paramount; VistaVision; color; C. Heston-F. Mac-Murray—This is supposedly the story of the Lewis and Clark expedition to explore the American Northwest. Socajeawa doesn’t look like the history books show her, and that’s an improvement. This story isn’t much like it is in the history books, and that’s not.
STATE
The Santa, Fe Passage (tonight and tomorrow); A-l; Republic; color; J. Payne-F. Domergue—Indians, gun-runners, two boys, girl. Nothing. You’ve seen it all before, why see it again? Bowery to Bagdad, with Leo Gorcey and Huntz Hall, is no better than it sounds. Not as good!
V I
Dragnet (Sunday through Tuesday);^ 1 A-l; Warner; color; J. Webb-B. Alex- 1 ander—Hey, this one’s already been to I Washington Hall! If you’ve seen them	1
on television, you know what to expect,	|
except that this is longer. Five Against I the House; B; Columbia; G. Madison-K. I Novak—A far fetched story of an at-	'
tempt by some college students to rob	'
a gambling house in Nevada, but only^ for a “joke;” then one of them goes I nuts and forces them to do it for real.
Cry Vengeance (Wednesday and i Thursday); B; Allied Artists; M. Stev-ens-M. Hyer—Mark Stevens plays an ex-cop who was framed and sent to San Quentin. The frame also involved the deaths of his wife and daughter. When he gets out of prison, all he wants to . do is get revenge. He gets it. A veryW brutal film. Port of Hell; A-2; Allied Artists; D. Clark-C. Mathews—You may think the title’s appropriate before this one’s over. Please use the exits in the rear.
WASHINGTON HALL
Marty (Saturday, 6:40 and 8:40);
A-2; United; E. Borgnine-B. Blair—If _ you want to go to a show tomorrow,w there’s no need to go downtown; this is easily the best in the area. It is the story of a Bronx butcher, Ernest Borgnine, who leads a rather lonely life, and of a schoolteacher, Betsy Blair, with the same trouble, who meet, and come to love each other. This is a film about ordinary people, but it stands high above the ordinary movies.
Island in the Sky (Monday, 3:30,^ , 6:30, and 8:40); A-l; Warner; J™ I Wayne-L. Nolan—A transport plane is forced down on a frozen lake in the northern part of North America. The crew of five does its best to stay alive until a rescue party can reach them (if it’s going to). The camera switches from the rescue party to the lost crew, and back again, building up suspense by this device. Some fine acting enables this movie to hold interest even though the ending is obvious.
Strategic Air Command (a week from tomorrow, Saturday, Nov. 5; 6:20 and 8:40); A-l; color; J. Stewart-J. Allyson —Jimmy Stewart is a professional baseball player recalled to active duty with the Air Force, and June Allyson is his j wife. He resents being deprived of his g lucrative job, and his wife resents his F change of status. Eventually they, and i the entire audience, come to realize the 1 importance of his job and to understand I that without the men of the Strategical Air Command our country would be in^’ a dangerous situation. Excellent shots of the large bombers.
20
The Scholastic
w	LECTURES
Political Science—“Soviet Foreign. Policy and the West,” round table conference, S. D. Kertesz moderator, 104 O’Shaughnessy, Monday, 4 p.m.—“The Role of French Diplomacy in the PostWar World,” Professor J. B. Duroselle of the University of Paris, 101 Law, Monday, 8 p.m. This is the second in A the series, “Diplomacy in a Changing W World.”
THEATRE
Heartbreak House by G. B. Shaw, is being readied for a 4-night run by the ' St. Mary’s Theatre, November 9—12 in St. Angela Hall. Mike Kennedy, Notre Dame sophomore, has the male lead, and Gayle Baumer has the female lead.
£>	EXHIBITS
The West or “rotating” Gallery of the University Art Gallery will remain closed until Nov. 17 to prepare for a showing of some of the works of Ivan Mestrovic. The East Gallery, which houses the University’s permanent collection, will follow its regular- schedule, being open from two to five p.m., Monday through Friday.
a	RADIO—TV HIGHLIGHTS
* WSND
Tonight: Meet Your Opponents, 5:30. Tomorrow: Around Town, 12:30; Music for Johnny-Stay-at-Home, 5:20 till midnight. Sunday: Ave Maria Hour, 12:30; Sunday Showcase, 2 p.m.; BBC Presents, 7 p.m.; Voices of Walter Schumann, 10 p.m. Monday: College Concert, 7:15 p.m.; White Plume, 8:30 p.m.; Musical Guide, 10:45 p.m. Tuesday: Mr. Chairman, 7:15 p.m.; Karnpus Kwiz, ^8:30 p.m.; Insights into Music, 10:45 i p.m. Wednesday: Nothing, 8:30 p.m.; | Musical Guide, 10:45 p.m. Thursday: ! Focus, 8:30 p.m.; College Concert, 10:45 p.m.
Monday through Friday: Pamper the Pupil, 5:20 p.m.; Afternoon Concert, 3:30 p.m.; Invitation to Music, 6 p.m.; Jill Corey Time, 10:30 p.m.
Showtime (1:30 weekdays and 9:30 p.m. Sundays) will have American in Paris Sunday, Kiss Me Kate, Monday, ^Lost in the Stars. Tuesday, Peter Pan Wednesday, Damn Yankees Thursday, I . and South Pacific Friday.
WNDU
! Tomorrow: Notre Dame vs. Navy, |	1:30; Tommy Dorsey, 5:30; Football
Final, 10 p.m.; Saturday Night Dancing Party, 10:15 till midnight. Sunday: Tex Beneke, 1:15; Sacred Heart Program, 8:15 p.m.; Sammy Kaye, 8:35;
. Hour of the Crucified, 9:15 p.m.; Claude ^Thornhill, 9:35 p.m. Monday through Friday: Out of the Sack, 6 a.m. to 7:30 a.m.; Paul Harvey News, 11:55 a.m.; Concert Miniatures, 1:15 p.m. Martin
Block Show, 2 p.m. Monday: Voice of Firestone, 7:30; Freedom Sings, 8:30. Tuesday: Sammy Kaye, 8 p.m.; Music Box, 9 p.m. Wednesday: Sammy Kaye, 8 p.m.; Music Box, 9 p.m. Thursday: Sammy Kaye, 8 p.m.; Rhythm On Parade, 8:30 p.m.; Music Box, 9 p.m.
WNDU-TV
Tonight: Boxing, 9 p.m. Tomorrow: Notre Dame vs. Navy, 1:15; Perry Como Show, 7 p.m.; Your Hit Parade, 9:30.
a ‘cute’spectacular
Alice in Wonderland would seem to be a natural for coloi- television. One can imagine a producer being overjoyed with the chance to do it. The possibilities appear unlimited.
Yet the best thing in the production of Alice in Wonderland on the Hallmark Hall of Fame was the commercials. The audience learned the origin of greeting cards and of Christmas cards in glowing color. Perhaps from the point of view of a “gourmet” of vivid colors the production was a success, but from an artistic viewpoint it was a failure.
Throughout the whole show there was a conscious striving to be “cute”. What could have been an enjoyable experience for all, both young and old, was apparently aimed exclusively at the eight year- old audience.
The script was adapted by Florida Freibus, one of the two who adapted it for the stage in the 30’s. Since it was supposedly a hit on the stage, Miss Freibus must have lost her touch.
Alice was played by Gillian Barber, a British child actress, who looked exactly like Alice should. However, she lacked the simplicity of children, seeming somehow artificial. Even her voice contributed to this impression, making one feel that it was being forced to a higher pitch than is normal.
The costuming was, on the whole, deplorable. There was an obvious copying of Sir John Tenniel’s familiar illustrations. However, the creatures that Tenniel drew were drawn as actual ones, while in the play, the costuming made them seem false. They were grotesque or “cute” and were unable to portray any expressions or even to move their mouths properly.
The White Rabbit was particularly horrible, looking like nothing so much as a cuddly toy to be taken to bed by an infant. His manner of getting about was also terribly “cute”, as he bounded up and down like the storybooks for small children describe.
The actors’ speech was often unin
Sunday: The Catholic Hour, J2:30; Meet the Press, 5 p.m.; Roy Rogers, 5:30 p.m.; Alcoa Hour, 8 p.m. Monday: NotreDame vs. Navy Filmed Highlights, 8:30 p.m. Tuesday: The Martha Raye Show,. 7 p.m.; Fireside Theatre, 8 p.m.; Eddie Cantor Show, 9:30 p.m. Wednesday: Screen Director’s Playhouse, 7 pun.; The Patti Page-Perry Como Show, 9:30 p.m.; Greatest Pro Football Highlights, 10:30 p.m. Thursday: Ford Theatre, 8:30 p.m.
telligible, perhaps due, in part, to a. muffling effect of their costumes. However, it was apparent that much of this was due to the desire to get the voice to match the character. Most who attempted this fell far short of their mark. The Dormouse was singularly unsatisfactory, speaking in a high falsetto that made the viewer want to throttle him.
The fun of all the nonsense verse was almost entirely removed. The “cute” recitals (with gestures, pantomimes, and what have you), plus the slurring of many words, made them just as dreary as the rest of the play.
This production was a mixture of both Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass, the sequence of events not following that of the books exactly. However this didn’t take a thing away from the play, in fact, the arrangement seemed ideal for a performance.
Particularly disappointing were the Tea scene and the Trial scene. The Tea scene could have been, indeed, should have been, the humorous highlight of the whole piece. Yet poor acting, inarticulate speech, and an obvious playing down, made it undistinguished. Almost the same may be said of the Trial scene, which is the obvious dramatic high point of the story. Alice became only superficially involved (as opposed to the novel, where the involvement is a highly emotional one), and the whole scene seemed unimpoi-tant.
Not everyone turned in poor performances; both the Red and White Queens did admirably, especially the latter. Her delivery was just right, making at least one delightful scene.
The overall effect of this production was that of an attempt to imitate a cartoon. Instead of taking advantage of the dramatic possibilities open to them, the actors seemed to be doing their best to portray Donald Ducks and MickeyMouses. If that was truly their aim, then the hour and a half wasn’t wasted. —John Kearns
October 28, 1955
21
SluMUC&te
by Toni O'Regan
Tom O’Regan, a Sophomore from Lyons Hall and Chicago, takes the combination program of Electrical Engineering and AB to fill in his spare time. He is primarily a WSND disk jockey, interested in commercial radio or television after graduation. His first appearance in the SHOWCASE he officiously dedicates to the recently successful-or-not campus “politicos.”
WILLIS ORLOFF WANTED to be president. Ever since the age of five he had aspired to be president of something. This desire was instilled in him by his father, a crack shyster lawyer in the town of Hillville, and his mother, Hillville’s crack shyster-cracker. Each evening during Willis’ early childhood his father came home lauding the crafty art of self-deceit—politics. His mother interrupted by slashing at her husband with a washrag and reminding him that their son should try to be like other little boys, and be president.
So Willis tried to become president. He maintained an eight-year semidictatorship in Uptown Central Catholic Grammar School as president of each class. A prime reason for such an unrivaled reign may have been that the other pupils dared not enter his lofty sanctum. Though Uptown Central Catholic had no student government, it was generally recognized that Willis was president.
The secret ambition of the Orloffs was to see their little president deliver the farewell address as valedictorian upon commencement of his class. Willis considered himself an obvious natural, and began rehearsing the speech. Sister Magnolia didn’t; she asked Willis to stop rehearsing because she planned to choose another boy. Willis’ parents more and more politely lauded their son’s sterling achievements, they less promptly wrote Sister Magnolia a series of polite poison pen letters. As they less subtly hinted at a reduction in their contribution to the Uptown Central Catholic Building Fund.
Bewilderment clouded the faces of the audience at the commencement as Willis delivered the address. Superbly
22
politician
quoting passages form The Idea of a University and Lincoln’s “Gettysburg Address,” Willis emphasized as he put it, that, “We eighth-graders are embarking upon a new era, one in which our existential ends can be realized only through the realization of the ultimate principles, of which a member of the present generation ought to be supremely conscious.”
Willis entered St. Omar’s High School. Endowed with his father’s rhetoric and his mother’s ambition, he reached the presidency all four years.
He budgeted his time between a thorough reading of the dictionary and practice in his oratory. His well-kept brief cases always contained two dictionaries, one standard unabridged and one etymological, a scarred copy of Robert’s Rules of Order, and several volumes of Cases in Constitutional Law. Willis’ mother helped enrich her son’s speaking experience by leasing auditoriums and theatres for his practice of delivery. There all the friends and relatives of the family sat enraptured as Willis practiced his political addresses.
In his capacity as president of the senior class, the honor of valedictorian fell to Willis. He delivered a remarkable 2-hour and 45-minute address, remarkable chiefly from the standpoint of stamina, which his parents had published in all the local newspapers. Delving deeply into Aristotle’s Metaphysics and Machiavelli’s Prince, as well as Dalton’s Atomic Hypothesis, he reiterated the postulate that “To lose oneself in subconscious predilections of transcendental incertitudes resulted only in the reincarnation of ambiguous platitudes, incongruously apropos.” As parents and teachers alike wiped away the tears, they affirmed that with such uplifting principles to guide the rising generation, they could not fail in their endeavors.
* * *
The freshman hall’s study room was packed to capacity. Through the blue cigarette fumes one could find a small group of clean-shaven, well-dressed, but nervous young men seated at a table. By far the majority, however, were unshaven, sloppily-clothed creatures, slouched on sofas, straddling chairs, or sprawled on the floor.
The show began with a talk by a
blase upperclassman, who stipulated^ that all of the speakers should restrict themselves to five minutes. Among the candidates for hall president, Harry Girch talked for fifteen minutes, and the crowd moved restlessly. When Oliver Stooke rambled on for half an hour, many of the potential voters squelched theii- cigarette butts against the wall and silently left the room.
Willis rose, and eyeing the audienceW just the way his father did the jury, he spoke: “Gentlemen and comrades, as you are aware, I am a candidate for the presidency of this hall. I believe that I am endowed with the ultimate in qualifications: intelligence to conceive ideas congruent with your best interests, foresight to provide tenaciously for all your various needs, the will to choose correctly after having reflectively pondered^ all the consequent alternatives, the . . . the . . .”
Maintaining his gaze at the audience, Willis shuffled around for his notes. Just then, one of his opponents flipped a halfsmoked cigarette down the table; it came to rest on his notes. Willis snatched up the butt from his smoldering notes and gazed at it for inspiration. He glared about angrily; his opponent sat complacently. “That, fellows,” Willis^ bellowed, “is typical of my inferior opponent, maliciously hurling a cigarette down the table to distract me. His crime is twofold: first lack of respect for the proceedings; secondly, deceitfully endeavoring to mock me in the presence of my voters. Well, his plan won’t work, I tell you. My parents continually warned me not to be bothered with such scandalous trash. I shall be president of this hall, and my first act shall be to^ ostracise him.”	™
As Willis continued his peroration a number of passersby, attracted by the shouting, joined the audience staring at the inspired orator, who raved on, oblivious to the effect he was creating. Though apparently rapt, there was much nudging of elbows in evidence, and an occasional red-faced listener choked suspiciously.
Later, when Willis made a token tour of rooms in the hall, he was met with _ the same attentiveness and even antici-W' pation. He felt this was to be his triumph supreme.
* * *
Needless to say, the election results were rather unfavorable to Willis, who failed to gamer a single vote. When his campaigns for Senator and for State Club chairman were similarly received and doomed, he began to suspect that he had been goofed. Throughout the year, we. was unable to come to a decision on this matter, for, in the true spirit of# the campus politician, “He didn’t see the line that he had handed out so long.”
The Scholastic
Catholic youth Week
nation’s hope
^T-tO READ THE PAPERS of the [ nation, it would seem that modern youth has truly gone to the dogs. However, the National Catholic youth week hopes to show that for every delinquent given space in the press, there are 100 young people who are a credit to their families and their community.
As a means to this end, the week beginning Sunday, October 30, has been ^proclaimed by Pope Pius XII and Presi-Wdent Eisenhower as the fifth “National Catholic Youth Week.” The Youth Week will attempt to show the importance of youth, the talents, abilities and resources of the young people of America; and to focus attention on the vast youth program functioning under Catholic auspices.
To achieve these aims, a nation-wide schedule is planned in which radio and television stations are contacted for an-JBnouncements; and wide coverage in secular and Catholic newspapers and magazines is planned. The theme for the publicity releases will be “Youth—Our Hope” in keeping with the idea of the Week.
The publicity program connected with
PROSE
The ‘SHOWCASE’ is interested in $ any type of prose fiction of any length over 800 words. For submissions or further details, contact Jim O’Brien in 303 Walsh, by mail or in person.
Catholic Youth Week is sponsored by the National Council of Catholic Youth in Washington, D.C., and its subsidiaries in every parish, school, and college throughout the country.
Here at Notre Dame it is being promoted by the National Federation of Catholic College Students and the Student Senate Spiritual Commission, under the leadership of George Dakoske.
Sunday, the feast of Christ the King, has been designated National Catholic Youth Communion Sunday. On that day the special intention is to honor the Immaculate Heart of 'Mary, the Mother of Purity and patroness of Catholic youth.
In promoting the ideals of Catholic Youth, Youth Week hopes to indicate the value of the high ideals of Catholic Youth, based on a sound Christian philosophy. This should indicate that the youth of America is a great potential asset, rather than a heavy liability.
Youth Week seeks also to provide an outline for the help and guidance of youth during the period in which they most need this kind of assistance. The emphasis will be on constructive encouragement rather than criticism.
The focal point of Youth Week centers about the National Catholic Youth Communion Sunday. Thus, by emphasis upon spiritual values and the possibilities of youth, Youth Week asks adult America not to miss the healthy forest for the diseased trees, and to give youth a chance to prove itself, according to the principles of Christian Catholicism.
Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
mniis UlUKYui NIK SIIP
We SeU Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Joe Nabicht’s Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Our Speeialtg
“Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
91.15
FISH, SMS, CHIPS
At Prices You Will Appreciate
COMPLETE OPTICAL SERVICE!
◄ EYES EXAMINED
◄ GLASSES FITTED ◄ OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced. Broken Lenses Duplicated. “Bring in the Pieces”.
You’ll go for those $1.00 specials
DR R.W TURBOW
\PPTOMETR1ST
207 W. Washington. OLIVER HOTEL CE4-5777
October 28, 1955
23
Giant Book Sale
65 percent
Starts
OFF List Price
Nov
Wed
Notre Dame Bookstore
•OX- THE -CAMPUS”
Store Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9-5; Sat. 9-2
Creole Petroleum Corporation would like to say THANK YOU for the interest shown in our organization during our recent visit to your campus. If you were unable to schedule an interview and are interested in

EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES in
Plan now to see us on our return visit in the Spring or forward your qualifications by mail to 350 Fifth Avenue, New York I, N. Y.
24
The Scholastic
Seem
.IRISH SET SIGHTS ON UNBEATEN NAVY
Cage Practice Opens Nov. I With Core of Six Veterans
Johnny Jordan will begin his fifth year as head basketball coach when the Irish begin their fall practice on Nov. 1, in preparation for the coming 25 game schedule which will begin against the University of Detroit, on Dec. 3.
Only All-American guard Junior Stephens will be missing from the squad that won 14 out of 24 games last season, including the Sugar Bowl Championship. This brings Jordan’s record as the Irish mentor to a total of 71 victories in 99 games.
Returning to recapture the regular _ positions they held last year are: Cap-tain-elect John Fannon and John Smyth at forwards, Lloyd Aubrey at center (his 16.9 average was second only to Stephens last season), and Bill Weiman at guard. Striving for that fifth position or any other spot they can capture will be Lee Ayotte, Paul Hornung, Joe Morelli and a promising quartette of sophomores in guards Bob Devine and Ed Gleason, and forwards Jim Williams and John McCarthy.
Regardless of the starting five, this " year’s Irish bench will have more experience. This might be the difference as won-loss records go.
Navy's Grid Power Puts Win Streak on Block As Homecoming Crowd Awaits 29th Renewal
by TYLER GLAVIN
Navy’s undefeated and untied Midshipmen invade the home of the Fighting Irish tomorrow afternoon in what promises to be one of the top grid clashes of the day if not of the entire year. A capacity Homecoming Crowd is expected to watch the game.
This will be the 29th renewal of a series which started in 1927. Since then the
Middies have been on the short end, winning only four times. The last time they
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
NAVY	NOTRE DAME
Beagle ....... LE	.... Prendergast
Hopkins (C) .... LT	... Edmonds
Dander _______ LG	- Bisceglia
Whitmire ..... C -------------- Mense
Hower ........ RG	 .. Martell
McCool ....... RT	(C) ... Lemek
Smith ........ RE	_  Scannell
Welsh ........ QB ........... Hornung
Oldham ....... LH	.Morse
Burchett ..... RH	—... Studer
Guest ________ FB	.—	Schaefer
Kickoff—1:30 p.m.—EST
won was in 1944 when they soundly trounced the Irish 32-13. The following year the score ended in a 6-6 deadlock but since then the boys from Annapolis have absorbed nine consecutive defeats. What makes the Irish record even more impressive is the fact that in the last nine years Navy has failed to score more than one touchdown per game.
This could be Navy’s year to make up for their past record. The fourth ranked team in the nation hasn’t lost since the Irish defeated them in the mud at Baltimore last year-, 6-0. Since then they have run up.nine straight wins including a Sugai- Bowl victory over Mississippi.
Navy’s staunch defense is indicated by the fact that only Penn State has
AUBREY LEWIS SCORES ON NINE-YARD JAUNT AROUND END AGAINST PURDUE Irish Sophomore turns in one of best running displays to date.
October 28, 1955
25
PAUL HORNUNG
Irish general finding his way.
been able to cross the middie goal line this year. Their offense, which is terrorizing the East, is led by their two All-Americans, Passing Quarterback George Welsh and End Eon Beagle.
Last week the Irish showed great improvement in their pass defense. Coaches say the greatest defense against a passing team is rushing the passel' and the Irish did this to great advantage against Lenny Dawson and Company. Time and time again the likes of Mense, Bisceglia, Scannell and Prendergast rushed Dawson, causing him to throw wildly. Jim Mense played his usual stellar game and spent a great part of the afternoon in the Purdue backfield.
Paul Hornung played probably his best game of the year. Calling plays like a veteran, he kept the Boilermakers defense guessing.
Welsh—One of Nations Best
The pint size Welsh will probably give the Irish fits all afternoon. His tremendous ball handling and ability to run Split T option plays with great finesse makes him one of the nation’s best quarterbacks. “George is a genius at calling plays,” says Coach Eddie Erdelatz. “He is the best split T quarterback in the nation. He has the respect and confidence of the other players—and he has guts!”
At left halfback will be Sophomore Ed Oldham. He ranked as the best of the Plebe backfield crop last year. He is a good hard runner with exceptional speed and also kicks extra points.
At the other halfback spot will be Chet Burchett. A very elusive back, he will probably be Welsh’s favorite back-field target.
Dick Guest, a pile-driving fullback, is a good blocker and exceptional on defense. He was Navy’s leading punter
26
last year. As a second string fullback in ’54 he averaged almost four yards per carry.
Beagle was voted the outstanding college football player of 1954. He was Navy’s top pass receiver last year with 23 catches and again this year he is Welsh’s favorite target. He takes great pride in harassing the opposition and is as much a standout on defense as on offense.
At right end is Earle Smith, a converted quarterback. A sure-fingered pass catcher, he is often used as a decoy as Welsh pitches stikes to Beagle.
Lettermen Capt. John Hopkins and Pat McCool will hold down the tackle slots. Hopkins is the ‘take charge guy’ and is frequently opening gaping holes in the opposition’s line, making things much easier for the hard running Middie backs. McCool is big and fast and
DAWSON OVERSHOOTS
Lynch pursues Chernicky
probably the most vicious tackler on the squad.
Vern Dander and Jim Hower a couple of non-lettermen will start at the guards. Dander is the middle guard on defense. Hower has played both center and fullback but has been switched to guard in order to take advantage of his outstanding defensive ability.
Rounding out the starting lineup is big, rugged Center Wilson Whitmere. A good blocker, he has showed steady improvement on defense. This is shown by his bang up play against Pennsylvania.
This could be a make or break game for the Irish this year. The Middies have been rolling along with comparative ease but a win by Terry Brennan’s crew tomorrow could put the Irish right back near the top of the national football heap.
Penn Follows Navy
Next Saturday, the Irish travel to Philadelphia to face the Quakers of Pennsylvania who have lost eighteen straight including a 26-0 loss to Navy-last week. Penn plays a highly rated Penn State team tomorrow.
This will be the sixth game of the series, the Irish winning four with one^ game ending in a tie. Last year the Irish were victorious, 42-7.
r
Quakers—Schedule Victims
The Quaker squad is definitely better than the ’54 squad from which 16 letter-men have returned. They are the unfortunate victims of a tough schedule which they must face without benefit of spring practice.	.
Penn’s key to an upset rests on the ability of Quarterback Jack McCarthy to make their “bobtailed” combination offense work to perfection. He has been bothered by injuries all season and if he is unable to play, Rich Ross, a gifted triple-threat sophomore, will take over.
Coach Steve Sebo will choose his starting halfbacks from the trio of Ned Hyland, Charles McKinney and Frank Riepl. Hyland led the team in pass receiving last year. McKinney who is’ very deceptive, is one of the best runners on the squad and Riepl, a sophomore, has shown great promise during the early games.
At fullback will be the leading scorer, Stan Chaplin. He is the workhorse of the ball club averaging over four yards per carry last season. Last year against Notre Dame he took off on a 45 yard jaunt.
At one end will be Bob Lebengood whoi played halfback last year. This speed merchant will be one of the fastest ends
(Continued on page 31)
RON BEAGLE
Middie All-American returns.
The Scholastic
’East and West Divisions See Full Schedule
As Interhall Football Completes First Week
| Five teams share the lead after the J	first week of play in the Interhall Foot-
I	ball League. In the Eastern Division
I St. Ed’s and Off-Campus emerged victorious while Cavanaugh and Breen-<Phillips battled to a scoreless tie. In the Western Division Morrissey, Alumni, and Dillon copped opening game vic!	tories.
I In a game played Oct. 18, St. Ed’s, under the tutelage of Dave Vochres, got off to a flying start by defeating Farley ।	6-0. The game was a scoreless battle
’	until the last period when, on a quick-
opener, Paul Hession scampered twenty Ayards for the game’s deciding tally.
Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh opened their seasons on Friday the 21st with neither team crossing their opponent’s goal. Cavanaugh got to within B-P’s f fifteen yard stripe on at least three different occasions but the charges of Jack Toth could not come up with a ' pay-off play. The Breen-Phillips eleven, I coached by Brozier and Vechazone, had ' an opportunity when they blocked a ^Cavanaugh punt, but likewise couldn’t Wbash in on the break.
The only other scheduled game, between Zahm and Off-Campus, was awarded to Bob Holland’s men when the Zahmites could not field eleven men. i In all there are thirteen teams competing this year, each of which is coached by a physical education major. Qualified state officials work each game and the contests are played under the regulation NCAA rules. The winning ‘	be awarded twenty-two gold
; football pins with the losers receiving a like numbei* of silver awards.
Howard Defense Strong
Last Thursday, Dillon, coached by John Reardon, managed to score nine points against a surprisingly strong Howard defense while putting up a strong defense of its own in posting its first victory of the year. Dillon scored on a touchdown and a conversion and added a safety in the second half. Mike ^Storen is the Howard coach.
Also on Thursday, Alumni won a close 7-0 victory over Badin. The game was a tough one to lose for Coach Don Mackenzie and his Badinites as Alumni scored the only touchdown of the game with less than four minutes remaining in the contest. Badin threatened early in the first period but Alumni held on the five yard line. Coach Gene O’Connor’s boys from Alumni scored once in the third period but a penalty nullified '^he touchdown.
In the Morrissey-Lyons game played last Friday, Morrissey, coached by Bill Berber, ran up a total of 19 points in
October 28, 1955
the first half and coasted to an easy 25-0 victory. The Lyons team, coached by Jim Morris, suffered from the lack of reserves and found the going tough all afternoon. Morrissey’s first two touchdowns were scored on the ground while the last two came by way of the air route. They scored on the last play of the game in registering their fourth touchdown.
Walsh, the other member of the Western League drew a bye in the League’s first week of play.
Navy Halftime Ceremony To Commemorate Rockne
Tomorrow’s game with Navy has been designated the Knute K. Rockne Memorial Game by Edward W. Krause, director of athletics.
This season is the 25th year for the
KNUTE ROCKNE
Tomorrow—a dedication.
Notre Dame Stadium. It was dedicated on Oct. 11, 1930 when “Rock’s” last Irish team played Navy. Notre Dame won that game 26-2. Rockne was instrumental in forming the Navy series ’that resumes tomorrow.
Mrs. Bonnie Rockne, of South Bend, Jesse Harper, coach at Notre Dame during part of Rockne’s playing career, and many of the coaches who succeeded the great Irish mentor at Notre Dame will be introduced at halftime ceremonies.
Rockne was killed in a plane crash March 31, 1931.
At the helm of the Irish football team for 13 years, Rockne compiled a record of 105 wins, 12 losses, and five ties. He had National Championship elevens in 1924, 1929, 1930, and five undefeated, untied seasons.
During his days as a player, “Rock” was an end. It was the forward pass
combination of Gus Dorais to Rockne that beat Army in that famous game in 1913, 35-13.
It was Rockne the coach who believed in football as a character builder and strove for a sound mind in a healthy body. It was Rockne the coach who developed such players as George Gipp, one of Notre Dame’s most illustrious players; Harry Stuhldreher, Elmer Layden, Harry Crowley, and Don Miller—the “Four Horsemen.” It was Rockne who introduced such things as the Notre Dame shift and trim football uniforms, and looked first for speed and brains in his players.
It was Knute K. Rockne, a Norwegian immigrant to the United States, who helped set football on the plane it is today at Notre Dame—a sport to develop youth, subservient to the academic part of the University. TomoiTow, the people in the “house ‘Rock’ built” pay him tribute, a tribute he well deserves.
Fall PracticeWinds Up For Veteran Klinemen
A veteran-studded Notre Dame baseball squad finished up its fall practice this past week. Expectations for a successful season are expressed by all affiliated with the team.
When asked about the physical shape of the squad, Coach Kline said, “The boys came back in pretty good shape this fall. There have been no sore arms oi- other minor injuries.”
Coach Kline has been particularly impressed with the showing the sophomores are making this year. Kline seemed very pleased about their improvement over last year. He hastened to add, however that the starters will probably be mostly from last yeai-’s hard luck squad. N.D.’s 1955 squad compiled a record of seven victories against ten setbacks,, seven of the ten defeats being decided by a single ran.
Speaking of this year’s squad, Kline said that the probable opening day starters would be monogram men, First baseman Lesso, Second basemen Hurley, Shortstop Carideo, and Third baseman Sniegowski. When asked about Carideo, Kline smiled and said, “That kid is a fine shortstop. He has a good pair of hands; he and Hurley ought to be one of the top double-play combinations in collegiate ranks.”
The starting outfield corps will probably consist of Teschke, O’Drobinak and Nespo. Last year’s reserve outfielders, Keller and Yaeger will also see limited duty.
Catcher Kohorst is a fixture behind the bat and Pitchers Bunker, Besser, and . Hammett seem to be the best as Kline’s first line chuckers.
27
ers. For five came, tough, ready,
Notre Dame begins the second half of a typical Notre Dame schedule tomorrow afternoon. Typical because scanning it over reveals no “breath-rdays Terry’s gang have had to play each one as they and out to lick the Irish. And the other side of the hill does not show any greener grass or brighter sunshine.
Some will say Pennsylvania will be a pushover, on the heads of their long losing streak. But I’ve yet to see or hear of a club that doesn’t begin to do incredible things when i they line up across from I Notre Dame. Teams get I higher than Murphy’s kite -just running on the field when Notre Dame comes | to town, and Penn will be ’
TERRY BRENNAN exception. “Duffy” DEAN STUDER •	Daugherty quipped, about
the Michigan State-Notre Dame game, “I wasn’t worried about getting our boys 'up’ for the game with Notre Dame. They were so high that we had to shake the trees around the field to get them down for practice.” And Navy no longer fights in ships—tomorrow for a little while they’ll be carrier based.
•y*
Last week many people had the right to take a bow for the Purdue defeat. Terry Brennan—who came back to get the revenge for his lone ’54 defeat. And he controlled it with finesse. Many were surprised to see the new Irish unbalanced line offense. This is the first time in quite a while Notre Dame has done such shifting. And the good part—it worked. Terry is in much the same position as his team—young and inexperienced. But together they’re learning; the hard way at times but nevertheless— learning. He also dug into his bag of tricks and produced something else last week—a junior halfback who proved he could run with the best of them—Dean Studer.
Studer stepped in at halfback and immediately looked like he grew up there. In the course of the afternoon he wandered through Purdue’s defense for 106 yards, averaging 7.6 yards per carry and one TD. This all goes to show what desire and determination can do. And what the Irish have in the way of backfield material. Things aren’t as blue as they looked in September. In fact they’re quite green, Irish green.
And while people are bowing, make room for Notre Dame’s line. They did a neat bit of chasing Len Dawson all over the acreage during the afternoon. Little wonder his passing was ineffective. Most of the time Notre Dame used a four man line for pass defense. I think Dawson must have thought he was seeing double more than once. Many times he must have been sure there were at least eleven men back there with him, plus the ones tagging at his receivers’ shirt tails.
Tomorrow Navy, Welsh and Co. row in. Despite the fact that the Middie quarterback set an Academy record for passing against Penn State and that Navy has been scored on but twice, they’ll haul their leaky barge out with a 14-7 hole in the side.—D. D.
Wrestlers Promoted;
Attain Varsity Status
The first varsity wrestling team in the history of Notre Dame will meet Findlay College of Ohio Tuesday evening, December' 13. The match will be held in conjunction with the Notre Dame-Illinois basketball game.
The Notre Dame wrestlers operated as a club for four years before they attained varsity status. By their sincerity and capability they proved to the University officials that they were worthy of representing Notre Danie’s respected name in sports. The recognition of wrestling as a varsity sport is also in keeping with the University’s expansion of the athletic program and^' the enrollment.
Amateur wrestling is a respected and greatly popular sport. One of its most important facets is that it provides an opportunity for boys of any weight to compete for a varsity monogram.
The weight classes will range from 121 pounds to heavyweight at approximately ten pound intervals. At present, the team has need of candidates for the lower weight classes and it is hoped that^ large numbers of the “small men” will turn out.
The wrestling team will be coached by Mr. Thomas Fallon who first became interested in wrestling while an undergraduate at Notre Dame. After serving four years in the Navy, Mr. Fallon obtained his master and doctorate degrees from Columbia University. When he joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1951, Mr. Fallon organized the wrestling^ club and served as faculty advisor foi' the four years of its existence.
Anyone interested in trying out for the team should contact Mr. Fallon in his office in the Rockne Memorial.
DAVIN’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Texas Christian over Baylor So. California over Minnesota Penn State over Pennsylvania Army over Colgate Boston College over Xavier Georgia Tech over Dyke Maryland over So. Carolina Miami over Pittsburgh Michigan State over Wisconsin Oklahoma over Kansas State Auburn over Tulane Yale over Dartmouth Michigan over Iowa U.C.L.A. over California Texas A & M over Arkansas
Percentage to date—.545 (including four ties)
28
The Scholastic
Harriers Whip Indiana; Quantico, C.T.C. Next
Led once again by Bill Squires, the University of Notre Danie’s cross-country team whipped Indiana University’s harriers 18-41 on the Burke Memorial golf course last Saturday. It was the fourth straight win for Coach Alex Wilson’s powerful squad.
Tomorrow the Irish will play host
BILL SQUIRES
N.D. Senior comes home way ahead.
; to Chicago Track Club and Quantico, Va. I Marines. Featured on the Marine team l will be Wes Santee, America’s number one miler. Anothei- Marine running is Jack Gits, a former Notre Dame track-ster.
Next Saturday the team will travel to Indianapolis to compete in the Indiana Intercollegiate Championships. With the team running as well as it has been S^tely Coach Wilson predicts a victory for his boys and will even go so far as to hint at a National Championship for Notre Dame. ’
AND SAVE MONEY, TOO!
Summary: ND—18; Indiana—41.
Squires, ND; Michno, ND; Philpott, I; Monnelly, ND; Daly, ND; Schoenig, ND; Pentino, I; and Linnemeir, ND.
Penn Loses 18th Straight As Trojans, Navy Romp ™ Navy and Southern California both romped to their fifth victories of the season last Saturday afternoon while the Irish were turning down Purdue’s bid for another upset victory. Meanwhile, Pennsylvania, who was defeated by the Middies, and North Carolina took it on the chin to round out the results for Notre Dame’s four remaining opponents.
Unbeaten Navy used reserve players । most of the way in their 33-0 thrashing । of Penn’s winless Quakers. With pass-jR’tent quarterback George Welsh sitting F o_i the bench and a junior varsity signal caller directing the attack, Middies tal-(Continued on page 30)
Accept a Free Trial Lesson
Learning to dance at Arthur Murray’s can open up a whole new world of fun and good times for you! Accept Arthur Murray’s half-hour trial lesson free and see how quickly and easily you’ll learn his famous “Magic Step’’ . . . the key to all dances. This simple basic step, which even a beginner can master in one lesson, will make you one of the most sought-after partners on the floor. So don’t delay. Come in now. Studios open 10 A.M. to 10 P.M. daily, and visitors are always welcome.
ARTHUR MURRAY
SOUTH BEND — 120 E. Wayne — CE 2-3339
ELKHART —524 So. Main —2-7090
ROCCO'S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11 — 1:30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 a.m. — 12 Midnight
DR. N. FIZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
October 28, 1955
29
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S
STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
Opponents
(Continued from page 29) lied 19 points in the second quarter and rolled on for the win. The hapless Quakers, ND’s opponent next week, extended the longest major college record without victory to 18 games.
Reserve quarterback Charlie Carpenter threw two touchdown passes and scored once himself as Wake Forest’s Demon Deacons scored four times in the last half to overwhelm North Carolina’s Tar Heels 25-0 in an Atlantic Conference tilt.
In a West coast struggle, Southern Cal relied on the talents of versatile
tailback Jon Arnett to gain a surprisingly easy verdict over California, 33-6. Arnett scored three times and churned out 116 yards rushing. The Trojans held a scant 12-0 lead going into the final stanza and broke through for 21 points to insure the victory. The Trojans have only a defeat by Washington to mar their record.
O-C Wins Cross Country Run
An Off-Campus team won the annual interhall cross country meet last Sunday morning, paced by Merlin Doba, Mike O’Connor and George Kleindorfer who came in first, fifth and seventh, respectively. In the process Doba and second
What you should know about International Business Machines
International Business Machines Corporation is one of America’s leading engineering, manufacturing and selling organizations, serving business, industry, government, science and education.

MB MB PRODUCER OF ELECTRONIC DATA ■	PROCESSING MACHINES,
■	ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS,
AND ELECTRONIC
■■	■ W ■■ TIME EQUIPMENT.
®
OFFERS
EXCEPTIONAL CAREER OPPORTUNITIES TO

^niorS ^nd
CAMPUS

You’ll be joining a company with a 41-year record of growth, stable employment, and one of the lowest employee turnover records in the country.
INTERVIEWS
FOR MID-YEAR GRADUATES ONLY NOVEMBER 15

Your future will be as big as you make it, with advancement entirely on merit.
Liberal Arts • Business Accounting • Engineering Mathematics............
Sales
Excellent salary and employee benefit program with life-long advantages for you and your family.
Physics • Mechanical Electrical Engineering Physics (with Electronics)
Complete initial training in each of the employment classifications listed.
Defense Field Engineering

CALL YOUR COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICE fok appointment, today!
If you ..nnot jcend interne..^, write; for more information to Byron N. Luther International Business Machines Corporation
590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.
Sales and Service Offices in Principal Cities throughout the IT S.
4
1.5
30
The Scholastic
• ft
place winner, Mike Haverty of Farley both broke the record for the mile and one half course, set last year by John Reickert of Lyons. The previous record of 8:12 was cut down considerably by Doha’s 8:02 and Haverty’s 8:03.
I Off-Campus’ winning point total was i 13; Farley was next with 16 points and I Dillon, third with 28 points. Medals will I ft'be awarded to the first five places.
4 Assistant Track Coach Leo McEvoy f is also forming plans for an indoor in! tramural track meet before Christmas.
ND-Penn
(Continued from Page 26)
| the Irish face all year. At the other I end will be Charley Gill.
•f A Anchoring the Quaker forward wall j w‘is Tackle Fred Dustin. He averaged J over fifty minutes of playing time last J	year and is considered one of the Ivy
I	League’s best tackles. At the other
’ tackle will be big, burly Dick Pomy-I galski or Earl Killian, a 235 pound mass of immovable humanity.
At the guards are Captain Jim Shada ! who is rated the most aggressive, hardest hitting man to play football at Penn
in the last decade, and Phil Assmus, a rough, tough lineman who loves to bang at opposing forward walls.
Holding down the center slot will be Bernie Rohabacher who has been shifted back to the pivot from tackle.
UNIVERSITY OF
NOTRE DAME PRESS
presents
18 POWERFUL SHORT STORIES OF MIDWESTERN FARM LIFE
MEN IN THE FIELD
By Leo L. Ward, C.S.C.
This collection of short stories is published as a memorial to Father Ward who was, until his death in 1953, head of the English Department at Notre Dame. The complete manuscript for MEN IN THE FIELD as arranged by Father Ward for publication was found among his papers after his death.
The stories are appealing in their subject matter, in the cross section of life they show—the days and ways of real com-belt farm life of a generation ago. They hold more than the exact detail of farm life, they hold its spirit.
October 29, 1955.	^0.0V
AT THE BOOKSTORE
A Notre Dame Tradition "Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the
Italian accent on Fine Food
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J.TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JJM.S. Bldg.
October 28, 1955
31
... and get a better shave! Old Spice Pre-Electric Shave Lotion sets up your beard—tunes up your shaver. Stops dragging, clogging and over-heating. The new, non-oily lubricant, “Isophyl”,* prepares the skin for easy gliding... lubricates the shaver cutting edges for greatest efficiency.	100 No federal tax
_1_	*Trade Mark
ND Faculty Expands Under Professor Plan
Since the inauguration of the Distinguished Professors Program in 1953, the University has added professors from all over the country to its faculty staff. Professors who have come into the University this semester under the pro-^ gram are Dr. Antonio de Luna, named visiting professor of law and acting , editor of the The Natural Law Forum; j Prof. Ivan Mestrovic, celebrated sculptor > of religious subjects; Rev. Philip Hughes, an outstanding historian; Dr. Charles B. Brambel, new head of the I department of biology; Dr. G. F. D’-Alelio, head of the department of chemistry; and Rev. I. M. Bochenski, O. P-^ ;
Coming into the University at the be-^ ' ginning of the second semester •will be Prof. Thomas G. Ward, who will join the Lobund Institute; Prof. Edward F. Caldin, philosophy; and Prof. Michael P. Fogarty, economics.	\
The Distinguished Professors Pro- । gram is made possible by contributions of the alumni to the Faculty Develop- I ment Fund and by the underwriting of ' various corporations. This money is^ used to draw top professors to theW-' i University and also to increase	the	1
salaries of the professors already here	j
at the University. In this way, each | department has the opportunity	to	!
augment its staff with the best in	the	'
field.
SHULTON New York • Toronto
Speech Contests !
(Continued from page 12)
day, Dec. 6, at 3:30 p.m. in room 1-C of^ I the Student Center.	.
The final round will be held on Monday, Dec 12, at 7:30 p.m. in Room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Building. As in the freshman contest, all speeches must be submitted in writing before the preliminary round and must be delivered from memory.
All entrants in these two contests , must register with Mr. Sommer in Room ' 344 O’Shaughnessy no later than a week • in advance of their respective prelimin-^ ary round. A cash prize of $10 will be ~ given to the winner of the freshman	I
contest, while the winner of the Breen	I
Contest will receive a medal. This was ' established by Patrick Breen, a former j student, in 1877.	I
Last year’s winners were Bernard | Morris of Chicago, Ill. in the freshman contest, and Richard Schiller of Aurora, Ill. in the Breen Contest.
Concerning these contests, Mr. Som- I mer remarked: “They are excellent op-Q^ [ portunities to gain experience and re- I cognition in the field of forensics, and I sincerely urge all students to participate.	I
The Scholastic	I
32
Parker-Wiiterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS llS’/a-llZ’/i No. Main St. UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Winterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
IlS’/t-UZ’/z No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
OPPORTUNITIES
STILL EXIST FOR
GRADUATING ENGINEERS
AND PHYSICISTS
If we missed meeting you and visiting with you when our representative was on your campus recently, please send us your resume right away and we will give it prompt, personal attention.
As a division of General Dynamics Corporation CONVAIR-FORT WORTH occupies an important place in the long-range development of the Nation’s aerial defense as well as commercial aviation. CON-VAIR’S scope of activity offers interesting, highly remunerative career opportunities.
Address all correspondence to H. A. Bodley, CONVAIR Engineering Personnel Dept.
Fort Worth, Texas
A DIVISION OF GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION
FORT WORTH, TEXAS
An enlarged reprint of the above cut-out silhouette, suitable for framing or pinning up, will be sent free to any engineering student on request.
Consult my campus representative: JOHN E. KUHN, 308 Pangborn
October 28, 1955
33
Hack
a vote for
by Curt Matthews
the ivy league
LAST WEEK I read a very interesting- article that appeared in Holiday magazine. The title of the piece was “The Natural Superiority of the Ivy League Men.” Maybe you read it too. It was promoted as “the most infuriating magazine feature in 1955”.
After reading the title I was prepared to be infuriated. Here we go again, I thought to myself, with a lot of that Rah Rah hokum about Harvards and the Yales and those six other dear old schools who supposedly out-dress, out-party, and out-live everyone in the collegiate world.
However, instead of being infuriated I found myself agreeing with almost everything that the author, Mr. Henry NIL Robinson (Columbia ’23) had to say, not about the ivy-covered traditions of eight eastern schools but, about how those schools produce superior students through superior education.
The only thing I could object to is calling this superiority “natural”. It’s far from natural—it’s the calculated result of education that is education.
This may sound like a form of treason but let’s look at the facts as presented. Mr. Robinson says that the students in Ivy League schools are carefully selected. He goes on to say that these carefully selected students are instructed by carefully selected professors in carefully set-up classes. Therefore, he says graduates of Ivy League schools are most likely to be better educated individuals. That seems to follow. If you start with the best, and give them the best, then you should wind up with the best.
But, does the Ivy League start with the best, work with the best and thus finish with the best—the superior man? From the evidence 'Mr. Robinson offers I, for one, would have to say yes.
Only two percent of the applicants get into Ivy League schools. Because of this small rate of acceptance and the lack of pressure forcing the schools to let anyone in who has paid his city, state, and federal taxes, Ivy League schools flunk out only about two percent of their freshman classes. Put this two
percent beside the foity percent of first year flunk-outs at the average state university and what does it mean? Simply that there are a lot of people starting and attending college that have no business there at all. I’m as much for democracy as the next voter but let’s all face one simple fact: somebody has to drive the buses and repair the automobiles in this world of ours. There’s certainly nothing disgraceful about being the very best auto mechanic in the city if that’s what you are fitted for. It’s certainly better than being the tenth best salesman or clerk, to my way of thinking.
• Bernard Iddings Bell, in an essay called Perennial Adolescence, expresses the same idea with these words: “Man exists to do creatively, as craftman-like as may " be, all things that must be done: great things like government or mothering or the healing of minds or bodies; small things like making beds or hoeing corn or driving a truck. . . . He finds inner peace who works at whatever is in front of him not for the pay he gets or for what he can buy with that pay, not for the applause or gratitude, but for sheer joy of creativity.”
Ivy League admittance boards realistically believe that lots of the jobs don’t require a college education. And we only muddle our system and deceive ourselves when we pretend that they do.
If the Ivy League actually and strictly follows this idea of college education only for those who need and deserve it then it would be hard to deny they start with the best.
Once there, Ivy League schools give these select few what seems to me the kind of education that is coming to be recognized today as the only real education—education of the whole individual.
Dean McGeorge Bundy of Harvard is quoted in the magazine article as saying: “Harvard exists for the student who wants to become a liberally educated man. It is not the place for a person who is interested only in agriculture, journalism, or accounting. It is a college for those who feel the need for a broad
development of their powers, for a greater understanding of their world, and for an enriched cultural life.” This, A to my way of thinking, is education. Anything but education of the whole man is not education but merely pragmatic training that enables us to put food on our tables and clothes on our backs. 'Such limited and specialized training definitely has a place in our world and I would be the last to advocate a pure and strict liberal education without any practical training to keep us all out of the poor house.	A
However, I would be just as quick to denounce the opposite extreme that lets a man graduate from college and call himself educated without having read something of a St. Thomas or an Aristotle or without some knowledge of a Hopkins or a Melville or a Frank Lloyd Wright or a Cezanne.
These, and people like them, have shaped the culture of the world the college graduate is expected to live in. A How can he claim to be educated if he knows nothing about them or his culture but only concerns himself with the half-life he calls his “vocation”?
So from the facts presented it appears that there is such an animal as the Superior Ivy Leaguer. However, it must be remembered that aims and ideals were discussed in proving his existence. He lives and breathes only in so far as the institutions that claim him follow those aims and ideals. Also, a very important^ point, the curriculum of these schools™ must be of such a nature as to support those worthy ideals and aims. These are things of which I know little or nothing, not having spent much time on Ivy League campuses. However, for myself, I at least admire the aims and ideals of the Ivy Leaguers.
Also it might be good to mention that the Ivy League has no monoply on superior individuals who are interested in educating themselves as whole men. 1^ first came in contact with the tvhole mai^K idea in a mission I made my freshman year in Sacred Heart Church.
34
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
All the pleasure comes thru
©A.T. CO.
All the pleasure comes thru in Filter Tip Tareyton. You get the full, rich taste of
Tareyton’s quality tobaccos in a filter cigarette that smokes milder, smokes smoother, draws easier.. .and it’s the only filter cigarette
with a genuine cork tip.
Tareyton’s filter is pearl-gray because it
contains Activated Charcoal for real filtration. Activated Charcoal is used to purify
air, water, foods and beverages, so you can appreciate its importance in a filter cigarette. Yes, Filter Tip Tareyton is the filter ciga-
rette that really filters, that you can really taste... and the taste is great!
IN
KTipTAREYTON
PRODUCT OF
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
Enjoy a Cool Mildness
impossible before
__thanks to the Miracle of
Notice the extra flavor that
comes through. Yet because this measurably better cigarette smokes more slowly — you enjoy a cool mildness never possible before.
SMILE IN YOUR V
SMOKING!
KTNC
xerr A MYERS TOBACCO co
Chesterfield
Made the Modern Way_ with



Get truly modern cigarette enjoyment! With electronic accuracy. Accu-Ray checks and controls the making of your Chesterfield. For the first time you get a ...
Xperfect-smoke-column-from-end-to-end.'j,
So put a smile in your smoking! Buy Chesterfield! Smoother ... cooler ... best for you!
<£) Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.