	Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.	-
Vol. XVI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 12, 1883.	No- 35-
The Dude.
A Legendary Ballad.
[In the fantastic mythology of Persia, the “ dudes ” are a race of mischievous sprites employed by Eblis to lure the peris from paradise. They are punished by being compelled to gulp down molasses and brimstone from the Great Horn Spoon.]
i.
The dude hath donned his silken socks, And devilled his flaxen hair
Till it stands erect,	-
With marked effect *
To catch the popular stare;
For well he knoweth those radiant locks .
Impart an sesthetic air.	.
Ii.
He now to his gay gondola comes, And twiddles his light guitar, ,	Prepared to float	'
On the castle moat
- By the light of the evening star, While snatches of opera tunes he hums, Or puffs at a choice cigar.
in.
“ Oh, come and sail in my gilded boat—
“ Come sail on the moat with me;
“ By yon pale moon,
“ By the Great Horn Spoon,
“ I swear to be true to thee.”
The maiden lists to his amorous note, And into the boat steps she. .
IV.
But, alas! the tide was running high, And the gondolier was drunk;
And the gilded bark
With maid and spark	•
Deep under the waters sunk, ’ . And had it not been-for a fisherman nigh, They had slept in an oozy bunk.
v.	'
Dishevelled and wet they fished her out; Dishevelled and wet was he;
And the gondolier
Went home to his beer, And got on another spree;
But the dude remarked: “ You’re damp, no doubt.”
-	To which she replied: “ I -be.”
VI.	’
Now, ladies all, bewaie of the dude,
When glimmers the young May ntioon, Nor go with him,	- ■
Unless you can swim,	'
To sail on the broad lagoon;	•
And, dudes, remember that many have rued To swear by the’Great Horn Spoon.
Shirley Wilgoe Wilde, ’98.
Indian Jugglers.
Translated for the “ Scholastic ” from the German of Dielifz.
Travelling from Bombay to Madras, I delayed several days in a little village on my way, in order to visit a subterraneous temple hewn out of the solid rock. I had chosen my camping place under a magnificent group of cocoa-nut trees, and in their cool shade was quietly awaiting evening in order to pursue my journey, when I beheld a crowd of Hindoos approaching to the discordant sounds of their musical instruments. The foremost, a Hindoo juggler, held in each hand a cobra di cafella^ the most poisonous snake of . which even India can boast; when he was sufficiently near, he threw the snakes on the ground and began to play on a kind.of flute whose shrill tones charmed the hideous .reptiles into executing a most extraordinary dance. In the mean time, another Hindoo had arranged their apparatus on the ground, the tambourine * summoned the village children, and in a few moments we were. surrounded by a circle..of naked olive-skinned urchins, awaiting with eager curiosity the magical ’ performers to which the snake-dance was the prelude.	.
Different from his serious and solemn. Egyptian brethren, this Indian juggler had all the loquacity of his European compeers, and although he only spoke the Hindostanee dialect and we were in the Mahratta district, so expressive were his gestures and the play of his features that his hearers seemed at no loss to understand his words.
He first placed on the ground a puppet representing a soldier with a sword and bow. This automaton shot arrows at different surrounding objects, according as he commanded, and with such correct aim that each time the object was knocked down. He then took a handful of buckwheat and put .it in an empty cloth. This cloth was well shaken and again opened, when it was found full of snow-white rice, the buckwheat had disappeared.
546	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I could hot discover how those tricks were performed, and must preface the still more incomprehensible perfomance which followed by the remark that this Hindoo, unlike all the European jugglers I have seen, had neither table, goblet, sleeves, nor pockets. '	-
His whole clothins' consisted of a turban and a girdle round his loins, and his baggage of two old bamboo baskets, containing' the snakes, which appeared and disappeared with a rapidity that defied the sharpest observer. One of them was lying in the basket just under my eyes and at a good distance from the juggler; the latter took a handkerchief, opened it, shook it like a flag in the wind, then folded it on the ground and commanded the snake to come out, and, to my utter astonishment, the reptile, which an instant before I had seen coiled up in the basket, crept out of its folds. •
He produced after this a second puppet, at most six inches long and scarcely three in thickness; out of this came at his order a large, live pigeon, it was followed by a second, then a third and a fourth equally large. The four pigeons must have been hidden in the puppet if the thing were done naturally, but, for my part, I could not have hidden in it four starlings. At each act of his strange performance our sorcerer muttered incantations and traced cabalistic circles with his stall. At'last he put away the cobras and showed the audience a pair of highly polished wooden soles, slightly broader than his feet; while uttering a long speech, he managed—Heaven knows how—. to attach those soles to his naked feet, and then executed such springs and steps as the most neatly sandalled ballet-dancer would have hesitated to attempt. One moment he raised his feet in the air; another, he struck them violently on the ground, but the soles never fell off, yet the man had no adhesive substance on his feet, and he could let the soles fall off like glass when he chose.
The last act of this Indian magician’s performance surpassed all I had hitherto witnessed. One of the tambourine players, a tall, stout youth, was bound hand and foot and tied up in a fishing net with a dozen of strong knots. In this state he was placed on the ground within the circle of spectators, and a basket, two feet high and one foot broad, was left opposite him. “ Shall I throw him into that tank?” said the juggler, pointing to a pond which lay beside a .neighboring pagoda; “ he is a good-for-nothing fellow, and I may not find so good an opportunity of getting rid of him in a hurry again.” The whole assembly glanced expectantly at the glittering waters which lay beneath the shade of a stately palm-grove,—“Yet, no,” he continued, “ I shall send him off to make a journey through the air, wherever you please, gentlemen, to Delhi, Calcutta or Benares.” Then, taking the fettered youth, he put him into the basket and pressed down the lid. There remained a considerable space between it and the edge of the basket, but he threw a mantle over all. The body of the youth seemed to contract and become smaller and smaller, the net and bonds which had fettered him flew into the air, the lid of the basket
closed of itself, while a voice, seeming to come from the sky, cried out: “Good-bye!”
“Hurrah! ” said the juggler, joyfully, “ he is gone to Benares; he could not stay in such a narrow space!” It really appeared impossible for the man to have fitted into a basket which would hardly have been large enough for a child of three years old. “I may as well pack up and take leave of the company,” continued the magician; the basket was tied round with twine and about to be lifted to the back of the buffalo which carried their few effects, when he suddenly added, “Wait a moment, lest the fellow should be hidden in the basket. Everything is possible.” And, snatching up a long sword, he gave the basket a furious thrust. A stream of fresh blood gushed forth and the horrified expectations of the bystanders had been wound to the highest pitch, when the lid was suddenly thrown back and the young man jumped out of his narrow prison, perfectly sound and uninjured.
This trick may seem simple to anyone who has not beheld it, but, to extricate oneself in an instant from the meshes of a tightly knotted net, to remain for a quarter of an hour in an inconceivably narrow space, and to contrive therein to avoid a powerful sword-thrust, all this appears to me to demand marvels of agility, patience and dexterity.
The assembly now broke up, the juggler and his company pursuing their way to their native city; the sun sank behind the mountains and the people crowded round the tank to perform their religious ablutions, while the fat kingfisher, the solitary dweller by those peaceful waters, sat with majestic gravity on the top of the pagoda, like the presiding deity of that heathen fane.
I, for my part, mounted my little horse and trotted on through the clouds of dust, which the parting rays of the sun made golden, quite engrossed by the strange things I had seen, o	J	o	o
One thing is certain: the Indian jugglers far surpass not only those of Kahira, but the most renowned European professors of natural magic.
B. S.
Night.
The night steals on. The twilight gray Darkens and fades with the light away; And black oblivion reigns o’er all, Grim silence breathes around the pall Of the day-god’s brightness,—dark and chill. The fading sun behind the hill
Sinks westward, soft and low.
Peace and quiet reign all sublime, And one more wave in the sea of time Has broken its strength on eternitv’s shore, Its glory and grandeur are seen no more; But on the beach of Life’s great sea An impress is made in eternity—
And the soft winds gently blow.
The billows roll, and the ebb and flow, Like'the lives'of men, still come and go;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
547
And Death’s great harvest (ills the grave, As the sand on the shore which the ocean save Fills up the space of the wave’s last kiss, Till nought remains of earthly bliss, As the days do come and go.
William H. Arnold, ’83.
Slemish and St. Patrick.
In the north of Ireland, County Antrim, about four miles from the flourishing- little manufacturing town of Ballymena, is Slemish—a mountain 1427 feet above the level of the sea, and the culminating peak of a range of low hills that skirt the northeastern portion of Antrim. The formation,is basaltic, with here and there an upper stratum of limestone resting upon the hard, dark basaltic rocks. This stone is much used for building purposes, and nearly all the public buildings and churches in this part of Ireland are constructed of dark basalt. The Giant’s Causeway, on the northern coast of this county, is of the same formation, and attracts numberless tourists every year from every quarter of the world.
The view from Slemish is highly picturesque. On the north and east, apparently at the base of the mountain, are seen the silver waters of the North Channel, which separates Ireland from Scotland, and when the atmosphere is clear and the sky cloudless, the distant shore of Scotland, on the other side of the channel, can be distinctly seen. Towards the north, nestled on the seashore, and surrounded by overhanging precipitous hills, is Carnlough, a watering-place of some note, whither many health-seekers resort in the summer months, for sea-bathing. Near the village is Garron Tower, the residence of the Marquis of Londonderry, a magnificent mansion, on the top of a hill, and commanding a splendid view of the North Channel.
But the most picturesque view from Slemish is towards the west. Here is a magnificent valley through which the gentle Braid wends its way to the more majestic Main. On both sides of the river the ground rises with a gradual slope, and is kept in a high state of cultivation by the industrious peasantry of the beautiful valley. In autumn, the fields of grain, green clover, and other crops, through which the current of the Braid gently flows; the farm-houses white as snow glittering through the trees that encompass every dwelling, the bleach-greens covered with shining linen, the towering chimneys of the factories—those hives of industry for which this part of Ireland is remarkable—together with the sparkling waters of Lough Neagh at the farther end, and the towering- summits of the Derry mountains to close in the distant prospect, present a picture which it is difficult, if not impossible, to describe, and to be appreciated must needs be seen.
1400 years ago this part of the country did not present so many contrasts; it was then in a state of primeval wildness;, but nevertheless, the emerald vale, the heath-clad hills, the silver Braid, the
buzzing bees, the lark in the heavens pouring forth her song upon the breeze, the.-fragrant flowers, the perfumed violet, the humble daisy and the primrose, the wild rose, all “ born to blush unseen , and waste their sweetness on. the- desert air,” were in abundance, and it was, no doubt, a fit place for the poet to indulge his varied fancy or the recluse to pour forth his heart in silent prayer without fear of distraction. Christianity had not yet cast its hallowed influence. over the “ Island of Saints.” The country was yet in pagan darkness; but the time was not far distant when the pagan gods were to be annihilated, the pagan idols made to “bite the dust,” and the star of.Christian hope and love and fear shed its benign light over the land.
In the neighborhood of Slemish lived Milcho, a pagan of some prominence. History furnishes but few details of his life and character, but, like most pagans, he was proud, imperious, tyrannical Patrick, the future Apostle of Ireland, was his slave. Seized by some pirates on the. coast of France, it is probable he was sold by them to Milcho. Here his employment was herding swine for his master. In this humble and servile em-plovment, Patrick spent some years of his early life. But he was a Christian, had Christian feelings, Christian aspirations. The humble swineherd was not to remain in obscurity; Providence had destined him for a great, a noble, mission. The cloud of pagan darkness that o’ershadowed Hibernia was to be dissipated, and Patrick was to be the instrument by which the happy result.was to be accomplished. How mysterious are the works of God! This youth, “ to fortune and to fame unknown,” was to become a shining light whose name would be known and revered at the uttermost ends of the earth. Doubtless, Patrick as a Christian, while tending his herds in this remote district, isolated from friends and. kindred, frequently invoked the Most High for the conversion of the Irish people, and it is not improbable that God imparted to him a foretaste of the great and glorious work he was destined to perform. The people among whom he dwelt were chivalrous, impetuous, high-minded, susceptible. Patrick, while a slave, acquired a knowledge of the character and habits of the people to whom he was to bring “ tidings of great joy.”
This youth was to work a great and. a lasting change in the country in which he was a slave. He was to free the minds of the Celtic race from the trammels of pagan idolatry, and to plant in its stead thejloctrines and practices of Christianity. Himself a slave, he was-destined-to free a.whole country from the slavery of pagan rites, pagan injustice, pagan crime. . Druidism was to be supplanted by the holy, the pure., the sublime religion of the Cross.: The strongholds of Druidism .were to be assailed, and the false religion, of centuries swept from the face of the land. A great, an overwhelming, a sublime change was to be effected. The. principles and practices that had held, a. firm footing in the country from time immemorial were to be eradicated; in a word, a revolution was to take
548	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
place not only in the habits and customs of the people, but also in their hearts. And Patrick did accomplish this revolution. The history of his conversion of Ireland is well known,—familiar as “ household words.” And the labors of Patrick are still bearing fruit, not only in his own land, but in every country, in every clime, where the English language is used.
’Tis strange, the very language of Ireland has changed; her rulers are no longer the hereditary sons of her soil; she has been assailed with persecutions and misgovernment of every form and degree, but still she remains faithful to “ the one Fold and the one Shepherd,” and is, so far as religion is concerned, coming through the trying ordeal of centuries of persecution, as pure, as unflinching, as uncompromising, and perhaps more so than she was in the period subsequent to the time of St. Patrick. What a lesson! Whilst every vestige of liberty, of nationality, of property, was snatched from the Irish people by a foreign, a tyrannical, an unprincipled Government, yet, “ through weal and through woe,” they have remained faithful to the teachings of their beloved Saint. The seeds of virtue and religion implanted in the minds of the Irish people by the teachings of St. Patrick have never been eradicated. The Catholic Church and the Irish race are inseparable. Wherever the Irish race has settled, there the Catholic Church must flourish. The United States sufficiently illustrate this truth.
The influence of the Reformation was felt in Ireland as in other European countries, but the number of those of purely Irish origin who embraced the doctrines of the so-called Reformers was small indeed; the majority of those professing the Protestant religion in all its varied phases, at the present day, are nearly all descendants of importations from other countries. These supplanted the aborigines, and drove them to remote districts. This was especially the case in some parts of the North, where for a lengthened period the Catholic religion became almost extinct; but the light’is once more shining with great brilliancy, and the religion of the saintly Patrick is again bursting forth into all the beauty and effulgence of noondav.
It is a peculiar circumstance that the country around Slemish—hallowed by the footsteps of the youthful Patrick, was for a long period the stronghold of Puritanism arid intolerance. Catholicity is, however, creeping in slowly, but steadily and surely. Broughshane—a village in the immediate neighborhood, was a very hot-bed of Presbyterianism; but, owing to the indefatigable exertions of Very Rev.-J. Lynch, the worthy pastor of the Ballymena Catholic church, even this stronghold has been assailed, arid the village from which for centuries - Catholicity and Catholics had: been swept away, now boasts of its little church and school, both in a flourishing condition, and the Holy Sacri-rifice is offered up every Sunday not far from the spot where St. Patrick spent a part of his life as a slave.'	.
-	J. McC.
Sadlier’s Series of Readers.*
The publisher deserves great credit for the really handsome style in which these books are gotten up. In the matter of paper, printing, engravings, and binding, the Excelsior series of schoolbooks cannot be excelled, and, so far, have not been appproached by the school-books of even such opulent publishers as the Harpers and the Eclectic Company. This is something for Catholics to be proud of; for, as a rule, our publishers are behind their competitors in the manner, if not in the matter, of their publications. We, who had been accustomed to look upon the Metropolitan series as the best books of their kind— and in many respects the higher books of the Metropolitan series are superior to all others in matter—must acknowledge that the older house of the Sadliers have trusted too much to the well-earned reputation of their school-books and have neglected their appearance. Before one even opens the Excelsior books he is so favorably impressed by the beautiful engravings on their covers that he naturally expects something attractive inside. And he is not disappointed. We feel sure the handsome pictures—like a page from St. Nicholas —and the excellent print, will go far to lighten the drudgery of the school-children who use these books; and in sooth the difficulties of our irregular and fearfully complicated orthography need all the adventitious aids that can be had.
But the excellencies are not confined to the work of the publisher. The author has done well,—as only a practical teacher could do. The grading is superior. Unlike other primary books, we do not find here on the first page a conglomeration of long and short vowels, and even diphthongs. At least 20 pages are devoted to the short vowels alone, two lessons or more to each. And even in the succeeding lessons the vowels are not mixed. Several lessons are given with no vowel save short a, others with only short <?, i, o, and z/, respectively, so that these primary sounds as short sounds are made familiar, and become fixed in the mind of the youngest pupil. The diacritical marks for the vowels, too, which are used throughout the work, will aid the learner in words of doubtful pronunciation, until he is accustomed to them, and, besides, enable him to consult the dictionary intelligently. Another excellent feature is the joining of the digraphs ch, sh, zh, ivh, ng, th (aspirated, as in /^ink), th [dh, breathed, as in /^em), completing the phonetic
♦Sadlier’s Excelsior First Reader: Arranged in Easy Graded Lessons ‘ upon the Essential Features of the Word System, Object Lessons, and Phonetics. By a Catholic Teacher. New York: Wm. H. Sadlier & Co.
Sadlier’s Excelsior Second Reader: Containing a Complete Course in Articulation, Exercises in Spelling and Pronunciation, and Choice Illustrated Readings.
Sadlier’s Excelsior Third Reader: Containing a Treatise on Elocution; Graded Readings. With-full Notes, and a Complete Index. . Do.
Fourth and Fifth do.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
549
consonantal alphabet. This is carried throughout the five books before us. Further the author dared not go, we presume, on account of the silly popular prejudice which insists on retaining an alphabet of 26 letters for a language containing 38 distinct sounds. The joining of the digraphs does not, however, at all change the usual form of the letters, thus avoiding- all ground for cavil, while phoneticians and philologists will rejoice at even this step towards a phonetic spelling. It is to be hoped that the time is not far distant when new letters, or conformations of the old ones, will replace the common digraphs in our spelling. In the Anglo-Saxon orthography previous to(Cax-ton’s time, the aspirated and breathed sounds of the digraph th (th, dh) possessed distinct characters, and there is good reason why they should have them now. We need only refer to the harsh aspirated sound frequently heard in “thither” and similar words, even when pronounced by people of more than ordinary intelligence. Although cognate, the two sounds are as widely different as those of t and d or and b.
As before remarked, one of the chief points of excellence in these books is that they give a clear rule for pronunciation; other books, even Willson’s, are lacking in this respect, some of them giving only the marks for accentuation. In the Excelsior, the phonetic principle is closely followed in everything except the division of syllables in derivative words.
We are glad to see the steps here taken towards ■a phonetic spelling. It has been estimated that $10,000,000 a year are wasted in Great Britain on account of the present cumbrous system of orthography, and there is a proportionate waste of money, not to speak of the value of time to teachers and children, in this country. Until a thorough reform of our orthography is effected, children must waste their time and addle their little brains in persevering efforts to memorize such words as pleasant and present; shoot and fruit and compute; science and conscience; receipt and deceit; bruise, lose and shoes and fuse; met and debt; meat and street: door, brood, crude, stood: hawk, chalk; puff, tough; laugh, calf; and the inevitable drill on the tetragraph ough' must go on, even “ Though the tough cough and hiccough plough them through.”.
As Mr, Graham remarks, it is not surprising that a foreigner learning English complained of a “cow in his box” (a cough in his chest); and another, on learning that “ague” was pronounced as two syllables and “plague” as one.syllable, wished one half the English had.the “ague” and the other half the “ plague,” adding that he would have nothing further to do with such a barbarous language.
“ The nimble lie
Is like the second-hand upon a clock;
AVe see it fly; while the hour-hand of truth Seems to stand still, and yet it moves unseen. And wins at last, for the clock will not strike Till it has reached the goal.”
—Longfello-tv 's Michael Angelo.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—Prince Gortschakoff’s autobiographical papers will soon be published.
—Jules Verne’s new work, which is nearly ready for publication, is entitled “The Green Ray.”
—The roof of Milan Cathedral is threatened with destruction by the thousands of doves which for centuries have made it their home.
—Ex-Secretary Blaine is writing a work entitled “Twenty Years of Congress; From Lincoln to Garfield. A History of National Legislation. from 1861 to 1881.”
—The costly Law-library of the late Mr. Justice Clifford is to be purchased by citizens of Maine, and will be retained in Portland as a free library for the use of Maine lawyers and law-students.
—New York has a weekly paper of eight pages printed in three languages—English, German, . and Bohemian. Its name is Progress, and it is the official organ of the Cigarmaker’s Progressive' Union of America.
—The first appointment of a woman to the posh tion of a “Royal Professor of the School of Music ” ever made in Germany is that of a niece of Richard Wagner, who has just received that honor from the King of Bavaria.
—Jules Sandeau, the French Academician and friend of George Sand, who died in Paris recently, was the first novelist who entered the French Academy simply as a novelist. Since then drily two otheT novelists have found favor in the eyes of the forty, namely, Octave Feuillet and Victor Cherbuliez. Balzac, Dumas, Gozlan, Flaubert, Goncourt, and Alphonse Daudet are not novelists after the heart of the Academy.
—The rarest of all autographs is that of Moliere. The longest is about six lines long, and is a receipt for money. M. Soleirol had probably a number of forged autographs of Moliere; his whole collection was a “ bogus ” assortment of frauds. One genuine and interesting signature, on Corneille’s “Imitatio Christi,” was cut off with the fly-leaf and lost by a country book-binder. An example is said to have been bought for a few pence in America.
—Dr. Schliemann is very busy in the preparation of his German and English work on his latest excavations. To Carl Blind he recently wrote: “Proofs in point of fact of your views as to the kinship between Trojans and Thrakians, ' which latter were interpreted as belonging to the eastern Teutonic race, I have found near and in the tumulus of Proterilaos, in the Thrakiari Chersonese, for the gardens all around, and the tumulus itself, are strewn with fragments of that wonderful pottery which only occurs in the first and oldest settlernent of Troy, and nowhere else.”
-____Arrangements have been made for a tour of the West by a concert company under the direction of Dr. Leopold Damrosch, of New York. The company opens in Cincinnati and will go as far west
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
as Denver. Dr. Damrosch takes with him an orchestra of fiftv-six musicians selected from the Symphony Society of New York. The solo singers are Mme. Schalchi, who will sing at Cin-' cinnati, Buffalo, and Toronto, and Mlle. Isadora Martinez, Soprano. Guarantees amounting to $70,000 have been received from twenty-seven cities. The company will start on the return trip on June 4.
—Wagner was not a rapid or regular worker, though he used to say that he was always composing. Most of his poems had been written when he was young, which accounts for the rough hew-ing of the verses, and he was wont to recite passages of them to himself as he went out for his afternoon’s walk, accompanied by his two Newfoundland dogs. Walking, he would seize tunes floating through the air, “ now like mists, now like swarms of=' bees buzzing on the wing, now like legions of singing gnats ” (this is what he writes in his unpublished autobiography), and try to make them settle on his verses “ as on a mirror.” .
—The Annuaire desjourneaux de Paris gives a list of 1,291 periodicals published in that citv. Qf these, 50 relate to religious subjects, 110 to jurisprudence, 240 to npolitical economy, commerce, and finance, 22 to geography and history, 128 to recreative reading, 38 to instruction, 62 to literature, philology, ■ and bibliography, 11 to the fine arts 3 to photography, 9.to architecture, 3 to archaeology, 15 to music, 29 to the theatre, 70 to fashions, 3 to hair dressing, 138 to various industries, 92 to medicine and pharmacy, 51 to science, 24 to military and naval arts, 28 to agriculture, 18 to horses, 23 unclassed. ’ The number of daily political journals is 67. Journals devoted to finance, industry, and teaching have considerably increased in number.
Scientific Notes.
.—One of the latest foreign inventions is that of the manufacture of bottles, etc., from cast iron, containing some twelve per cent, of silicum, a compound which is said to resist the action of the strongest acids.
—The Royal Swedish Geographical; Society has decided to appoint a committee, consisting of Profs. Nordenskjord and Gylden, and Consul Elfn-ing, to -consider the proposal for an international meridian and common time.
—The. LondonAawce/ says it is dangerous to wear red stockings. It finds that a tin salt is. used as a mordant to fix the dye'. Becoming more easily soluble at each washing, it forms, with acid excretions from the feet, an irritating fluid which often produces dangerous trouble.
—A small reservoir charged with liquid carbonic acid is used in the Berlin fire-engines to make steam before the fire is well under way. At the Krupp works, if has been recently stated, liquid carbonic acid is utilized, not only in the manufacture of J com pressed steel, but for production of ice and: seltzer water.	\	.
—Fruit may be ripened by, the electric light,	‘
but it is said that it is unpalatable. Strawberries	|
grown in this way last year under the direction of	|
Prof. Siemens were worthless. Some melons	|
ripened were of such poor quality .that to render	8
them eatable they would need to be strongly flavored with condiments.	|
—The experiments in acclimating the tea-plant 8 in Southern France are making encouraging prog-	’
ress. Grafts upon camellias have withstood temperatures below the freezing-point in the open air.
A hundred and twenty trees near Messina, Sicily, ' planted three years ago, are vigorous and in full leaf and flower. The question now to be decided is, whether the flavor is maintained undamaged.
—Dynamite is one of the many products of combinations of nitro-glycerine, and is about thirteen times as powerful as gunpowder. The discovery of this dangerous and potent explosive was made, in 1S46, by Ascagne Sobrero, then a pupil in the laboratory of Pelouze, the eminent French chemist, who devoted twenty years of his life to the investigation of the chemistry of oils and fats.
—The Abbe Moigno' advocates the promotion of a joint-stock company, with the view of exploring; the bottom of the Red Sea, “ to discover there the proof of that great event narrated by Moses 3,000 years ago. To pi ovide the needful funds to carry on excavations which would have for their result the restoration to light of the remains of the Egyptian armies engulfed in the Red Sea, with the chariots, horses, arms,'treasures, archives, and perhaps the King himself—that Pharaoh who was conquered by Moses—this will indeed be a noble enterprise!” The Abbe estimates the cost of the excavations at 300,000 francs.
—New applications of electricity multiply of late years. Dr. Guidrah, of Victoria, claims to have so far perfected an instrument called the electroscope as to be able to transmit by electricity vibrations of light, and thereby to repro-	[
duce scenes to the eye from a distance many	1
. times beyond the range of human vision. According to the London papers, a trial of this instrument took place recently at Melbourne, in the presence of scientific and public men:
“ Sitting in a dark room, they saw projected on a large disk of white burnished metal the race course at Flemington, with its myriad of active beings. Minute details stood out with perfect fidelity to the original, and as they looked at the wonderful picture through binoculai- glasses it was difficult to imagine that they were not actually on the course itself and moving among those actions they could so completely scan.”
—One of the most ingenious adaptations of electricity, recently introduced, is that by which machinery, when in motion, may be instantly stopped —as in the case of an engine. A wire rope, coiled around the stem of the.throttle valve of the engine, carries a weight which is held in place by a rest, . and the whole arrangement is such that the passing; of an electric current along a wire releases this rest and causes the'weight to fall: The tension thus, thrown upon the wire rope acts upon the -j throttle valve, cuts off the supply of steam, and consequently stops the. machinery. Buttons, with
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
wire connections, are placed in different parts of the works, and on pressing any one of these, the passage of an electric current acts as above mentioned. In any factory, these electric buttons can be placed in every room, or several of them .in a large room, as may be required. Should any one happen to be caught by the machinery, the simple pressing of a button in the most distant part of the, factory will quickly stop the whole.—N. T. Sun.
—The marvellous growth of the telephone system during the six years that have elapsed since that instrument was brought out, says the London limes, is well shown by statistics recently published by the Compagnie Internationale des Telephones, and relating to telephonic systems throughout the world at the beginning of October, 1882. The compilation is necessarily somewhat incomplete as regards small and distant places, but the value of the main results is not thereby much impaired. It is in America, of course, where telephony is freer than on this side, that the development has been greatest. New York counts 4,060 subscribers; Chicago, 2,726; Cincinnati, 1880; Boston, 1,325; San Francisco, 1,300, etc. Some of these figures refer to May. There are now in the United States more than 100,000 subscribers, and certain small towns, with populations less than 1,000 have yet thirty to fifty telephonic subscribers—some even more. As regards absolute number of subscribers, Paris comes third, after New York and Chicago: it had, Oct. 1st., no fewer than 2,422 subscribers, while London had only 1,600; Amsterdam, 700; Stockholm, 672; Vienna, 600'; Berlin, 581; Brussels, 450; Turin, 410; Copenhagen, 400; Mexico, 300; St. Petersburg, 145; and Alexandria, 118. While the annual subscription is 600 francs in Paris, 500 francs in London, and 400 in the provincial towns in France, it descends to 300 francs and 200 francs in Belgium, 135 francs and 130 in Italy, and only 120 francs in Switzerland.
College Gossip.
—Amherst will soon have a new library building suitable for 230,000 volumes.— Concordicnsis.
—The Harvard Daily Herald is authority for the statement that Cornell wishes to produce a Sanskrit play.
—Everett graduated at 17 years; Webster at 15; Story at 20; Channing at 18; Longfellow at 18; Emerson at 18.
—All the English Cabinet, save Mr. Chamberlain, are University men—seven Oxford and , six Cambridge.—Astrnm.	.
—At Girton College, the ladies’ annex to Cambridge University, England, the gates are closed at dusk in summer and at 6 o’clock in winter.
—Princeton has received upward of $2,500,000 since Dr. McCosh took charge. Dr. Musgrave recently gave $80,000.—Concordicnsis.
—Yale College talks of adopting a new yell. Anybody knowing of anything particularly hor
rible will please forward a diagram.— Concordi-ensis.
—An exchange states that it is so difficult to write in the style of ^Eschylus and Sophocles because the Attic is to be reached only by the highest flights. ,
—Strasburg University has a library of four-hundred and twenty-four thousand volumes, although it was founded only ten years ago.— Western Ed. Journal.
—The Harvard man was unlucky enough to have his prize fight, but the Columbia duelists had only finished their coffee and were about to use their pistols when they were led away to jail. — Vidette-Reporter.
—The highest rent paid for a room in the new dormitory at Williams. Morgan Hall, including heat, is $180-—Harvard Herald.	'
High enough, in all conscience. Six months on a western ranche would benefit immensely the soft occupant of such a room.
—Professor Huxley said, in a recent lecture, that he had no sympathy with a kind of sect or horde of scientific Goths or Vandals who think that it would be proper and desirable to sweep away all other forms of culture and instruction except those in physical science.—Home Journal.
—The cost of producing the “Antigone” in Toronto University last year was twenty-eight hundred dollars. Subscriptions to the amount of five-hundred dollars were received, and a surplus of sixty dollars was left on hand; as one-hundred had been subscribed conditionally, part of it was returned.—Astrum Alberti.
—At Columbia all students living on Manhattan Island are required to attend chapel at 9.30 a. m. Princeton requires its students to attend chapel at 8.15 a. m. on week-days and 11 a. m. on Sunday. At Brown, chapel attendance- is considered in the same way as other exercises, and attendance at 8.30 a. m. is compulsory. The Amherst student is expected to attend chapel every week-day at 8 a. m. and church twice on Sundays. Vassar has an evening chapel, with full church service • on Sundays. Williams rejoices in two chapel exercises every day and a regular church service on Sundays.— Vidette-Reporter.	.
—Found in a Senior’s notes on Literature and Oratory: “The sacrificial hymn is called the dithyramb. A goat was the offering, because probably the goat skins were used as bottles for holding wine. Hence, killing of the goat was made sacred to Bacchus. All got drunk, or ‘ as full as a goat’ (slang use); or got their old skins full, or became hide (goat’s hide); sometimes spoken of . as ‘ chuck,’ ‘ ftill ’ 01- ‘ corned,’ according to the stage of inebriation. Hence, the goat is a symbol of the Bacchanalite, and used on beer kegs to indicate Bock beer, Latin ‘ caper] to cut a caper as is indulged in. by those having too much of the ‘ juice.’ Personified under the name of John Barleycorn, hence corn juice or ‘corned,’ etc., etc.” This Senior will doubtless graduate.—Cornell Era. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame. May 12, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University ofNotre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate lor the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should, take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.^o fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Oiir Staff
Geo. E. Clarke,’83.
Albert-F. Zahm, ’83.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84.
Wm. H. Arnold, ’83. R. M. Anderson, ’83. J.Larkin (Law),’83.
—The Cornell Daily Sun congratulates the student, on the inauguration of what it calls the seminary plan, or, rather, the incorporation of this with thedecture or what is called the “ University ” system. It is strange that the editors of many of the college papers can for a moment imagine the lecture-system pure and simple to be anything more or less than an unmitigated evil,—a necessary evil in many places, it is true, owing to the very large number of students attending class, but none the less an .evil for all that.. With’the proper means, and. with due care on the part of the student, the gist of a lecture can be retained, but how few do. retain it! They trust chiefly to memory, and in a short time the lecture is for them as though it had never been delivered. . Whereas with the textbook conned, and the chief points committed to memory and elucidated in the class-room by the Professor—rin thq way of a lecture, if you will,—it stands to. reason that a more lasting impression is made. .	'?»	: .	.
, —The.Law Classes have recitations daily. . In the Jxinidr class, the. following? programme. is fol-, lowed:? A,lesson of moderate length; is assigned in one. of the standard text-books successively used 'during? the: Scholastic;, year. - ;Theflcssqn?.is to-be carefully studied, and it forms the .subject of the
Professor’s lecture at the next class-meeting-. In his lecture he reviews, illustrates, and simplifies the subject matter of the lesson, stating wherein the Common Law has been repealed or modified in England and in the States, particularly in the States where the members of the class reside. He often refers to leading cases and authorities bearing . upon the subject under consideration; and, also, by means of hypothetical cases, the students are taught the practical application of legal principles. At the close of each lecture the Professor examines the students on the lesson and the lecture, using carefully prepared questions, thus striving to reproduce and impress upon their memories the most important points in both the text and his lecture.
—On last Tuesday evening the Rev. P. J. Van Schie, of Denver, Col., delivered before the students a very entertaining and instructive lecture on “ Lourdes and its AVonders.” Father Van Schie is especially well qualified to speak on this subject from the fact that for some three years he had been the resident English and German chaplain at Lourdes, and very many of the wonderful cures wrought at this holy shrine came under his own personal observation. This fact imparted additional interest to his words, and made the rational arguments which he adduced in favor of the truth of the apparitions still more forcible and convincing. The reverend speaker prefaced his lecture with a brief description of Lourdes, the apparitions and the tests applied to the alleged miracles wrought. Then, proceeding to.the subject proper of his remarks, he showed by arguments from reason and common sense, (1) the truth of the apparitions of Mary Immaculate to the young peasant girl, Bernadette; (2) the wonderful existence of the spring; and (3) the fact that many of the wonders wrought were true miracles, or phenomena which could be accounted for in no other way than by the direct interposition of God. These three facts were fully demonstrated, and in a manner to convince any candid and well-meaning mind.
At the conclusion of the lecture, Mr. George E. Clarke presented the thanks of the students for tlie instructive evening with which they had been favored.
. Correspondence.
[We willingly give space to the following communication, and the comments of our Botanical Editor, to whom naturally it was referred.. He and all of us hope to1 hear often from our friends of St. Laurent:]
. - St. Laurent. College, April 28, 1883.
Friend Scholastic: .	\
Your weekly visits are always welcome, and duly ap-preciated by your numerous well-wishers at St. Laurent College; but by none’more so than by the members of our Linnaan Society.. We . peruse, week after week, your sprightly effusions with great interest: We have been par-ticularly pleased to read in’your latest issue the Botanical notes of MrtN/H. Ewing;;’ We, too, have taken such notes,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
553
and it might prove interesting to him, and, perhaps, to others also, to know the precise difference of climate there exists between Notre Dame and St. Laurent, near Montreal. If we are well informed, Notre Dame is in Latitude 41 degrees, 41 minutes, 45 seconds, North; the Latitude of St. Laurent is 45 degrees, 31 minutes, 5 seconds, North. The difference of Latitude is then 3 degrees, 49 minutes, 20 seconds, or 265.661 miles. But the mean isothermal line of the two localities does not differ as much as the Latitudes would lead one to suppose. And this we intend to prove by comparing, the precise dates of the blossoming of the same identical plants, both here and, at Notre Dame.
No sign of vegetation appeared in this region, this year, earlier than the first of April, when the buds of the Salix viminalis—our Osier—began to swell up and unfold their bracts or scales. The following is a table of the same plants appearing at Notre Dame and St. Laurent: Hefatica Triloba at Notre Dame April 9, at St. Laurent, Hefatica Acutildba April 16; Caltha falustris at Notre Dame 'April 14, at St. Laurent, Caltha falustris April 26; Cardamine falustris at Notre Dame April 15, at St. Laurent, Cardamine falustris April 26.
For the information of Mr. Ewing, we would also mention that, on tire 26th of April, we found in full bloom, on the banks of the Ottawa, 2 miles north from the college, the following additional plants: Claytonia Virginica, San-guinaria Canadensis, and Dicentra Canadensis. Trillium erectnin, Trillium grandiflorum, Erytkronium Americanum, etc., etc., will blossom in a few days.	.
Ever Yours, Dear Scholastic,
C'J” .
Sec. St.D. Din. Society.
From this it would seem that spring begins about a week later at Montreal than with us. But they have caught up with us already, if Claytonia Vjrginica was in full bloom on April 26th. We found it just struggling into expansion on the 30th. For Cardamine palnstris in the above, our correspondent probably meant Cardamine rhbmb'oidea. Dicentra does not grow wild in our immediate neighborhood, but may be found in the clay soil of the thick woods on the other side of South Bend. The elegant Chinese species, Dicentra spcctabilis, began to bloom in our garden on the 6th of the present month.
Botanicai. Editor.
The Academy.
The, 7th regular meeting of the St. Thomas Aquinas’ Academy was held May 10th. As this was to be the last debate of the Society for this year, every care was taken to make it even more interesting and successful tha^ any before. Rev. Fathers Walsh, Toohey, McNamara, and O’Brien, Prof. Hoyne, and the students of the. Collegiate Course were present. Rev. Father Fitte, C. S. C., presided, assisted by Prof. McSweeney. At this exceptional meeting two debates took place; one on the “Spirituality of the Soul,” and the other on “The Free Will of Mah;”—two of the most important and difficult questions in Psychology. It is a fact that a few dare to call in question the spirituality of the soul, though no sensible man can feel proud to be lowered to the same level with his horse or his dog. And again, although most meh will admit that they are free,yet there are some (and, strange to say, even among the most learned scientists,)
who would fry to deprive man’of his most glorious prerogative—liberty.	; ,
We need not say that the two. questions debated are among the most practical of the day, for the present century, passionately addicted to liberal ideas, is, at the same time, a most ardent worshipper of materialism. The first thesis against which Messrs. McCarthy and Larkin were appointed objectors, had for its defender Mr. C. Tinley. Certain it is that the subject was handled with great skill, and defended with clear and copious arguments. In his treatise, he briefly and satisfactorily refuted the pernicious doctrine which would confound the human soul, intelligent and free, with the mechanical and physical forces of nature. He drew his first arguments from the union of soul and body, showing that the soul has a subsistence of its own, independent of the body. He then proved the simplicity of the soul, and concluded from thence its indivisibility, its spirituality —hence its immortality. He briefly refuted materialism, and exposed the absurdity of the opinions of Locke, Hume, and Condillac. In conclusion, he presented several arguments, some of which were taken from St. Thomas, in favor of the spirituality of the soul.
Then followed the second thesis on Liberty. After a luminous exposition of the point at issue Mr. Michael Donohue proceeded to develop the three principal arguments on which the whole question rests, namely : the testimony of consciousness. the universal consent of mankind, and the dangerous consequences resulting from the denial of liberty. In vain did Messrs. W. J. O’Connor and J. J. Molloy try to undermine the edifice built up by the young philosopher; Mr. Donohue stood unshaken, answering every- objection in a concise, forcible and irresistible manner.
Rev. President Walsh, in a few, well-chosen remarks, expressed the full satisfaction of the audience, saying that the young gentlemen deserved great credit for the manner in which they con-r ducted their two debates; and while the first paper exhibited more of literary qualities, the second showed a remarkable display of logic, and firmness of thought. This fair appreciation must be especially gratifying to all the members of St. Thomas’ Academy who have shown during this classic year a more than ordinary zeal and taste for philosophical pursuits.	'
.	. Botanical Report.	: .
Fortnight ending May 8, 1883. .
, April. 26.—Anemone. nemorosa,RR\vdD&cywf^ woods near the river. Ranunculus repens, creeping -crowfoot: same locality. Nep eta Glechoma, groundivy: on. sandy bank of river. Viola tricolor, pansy: garden of the. presbytery..,	-	...
April 28.—Rammculus fascicularis, early crowfoot; in roadside grass. Epigcea reports, trailing arbutus,May.flowers or: ground laurel; in wintergreen marsh. Vinca A/inor, periwinkle, often erroneously called myrtle; in graveyard.
.	I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
April 29.— Viola pedata, birds-foot violet; woods near Mishawaka. Tulipa Gesneriana ; just beginning to bloom in gardens. Hyacinthus orientalis in full blossom. Crocus vermis, going out of flower. Narcissus pseudo Narcissus, beginning to bloom.
April 30.—Araliis lyrata; sandy bluffs along the river. Ranunculus, abortivus, small flowered crowfoot; wet flats below. Claytonia Virginica, spring beauty; north shore of St. Mary’s Lake.
May 2.—Polempnium replans; river flats.
May 3.—Prunus Cerasus, cherry, in gardens, begins to show its white corolla. Fraxinus Americana, white ash; in College avenue.
May 4.—Thalictrum dioicum, meadow rue; river bank. Zanthoxylum Antericanum, prickly ash; flats below. Phlox divaricata, woods by the river.
• May 5.—Pyrus communis, pear tree; orchards and gardens. Prunus serotina, wild black cherry; woods.
May 6.—Fritillaria imperialis,crown imperial; gardens. Ribes aureum, flowering gooseberry; gardens. Cerastium arvense, field chickweed: sandy bank of river. Cydouia yaponica^-eopaxxese. quince; gardens. DiceiitraSpectabilis, bleeding heart; garden. Fragaria vesca, strawberry: in the grass bv R. R. track. Iris pumila, dwarf iris; in graveyard. Phlox subulata, ground pink; sandy river bank. Vtola blanda, sweet white violet; woods near fairground Viola Canina, var. Pluhlenbergii, dog violet; same locality. Muscari botryoides, grape hyacinth; graveyard. Pyrus Plains, apple-tree, orchards.
May 7.— Viola striata, pale violet; graveyard. Vicia Caroliniana, north shore of lake.
May 8.-— Trillium erectum, birthroot; river flats. Cercis Canadensis, red bud or Judas tree, woods near river. Lithospermum canescens, alkanet; north shore of lake.
It is not pretended that the above list includes all the plants now in bloom; but merely such as have fallen under the notice of the botanists.
Florus P. Bloom,
Sec. pro tem.
-	Personal.
—F. P. LefSngwell, of ’72, is practising Law in Chicago, Ill. His office is at 162 Madison St.
—We were' pleased with a visit from the Rev. J. Lang, the genial and accomplished Secretary of the Diocese of Ft. Wayne.
—Joseph Browne, ’S3, of Brownsville; Texas, in a letter to Prof. Edwards, sends kind greetings - to alb the members of the Faculty and to the Columbian Literary Club.	.
—Among the visitors during the past week were, E. M. Dasher (Minim), ’72; Mrs. Dr. Rooney, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Mr. Jacob Hetz, Muskegon, Mich.;' Mrs. M. D. Law, Denver, Col.; and Miss Genevieve Fenton, South Bend.
—Col. Elmer Otis has been promoted to the
full colonelcy of the Sth U. S. Cavalry. The Colonel’s numerous friends at Notre Dame rejoice to hear of this well deserved promotion. All are glad to learn that he will, ere long, again visit Notre Dame.
—We learn from a letter from Very Rev. Father Sorin, dated Paris, April 33d, that he intends starting on the 34th for the Eternal City, and after a visit of two weeks return to Paris. His friends on this side of the ocean hope his next move will be in the direction of Notre Dame.
—We are glad to learn that Rev. D. A. Clarke, ’70, the distinguished editor of the Catholic Columbian, has fully recovered from his late severe illness. Father Clarke intends visiting Notre Dame in a short time. .He will meet with a hearty welcome from his many friends here.
—Letters have been received from Lieut. Col. A. J. Dallas, U. S. A., who is now stationed at Fort Lyon, Colorado. Col. Dallas, whose nephew is a student at the College, is one of Notre Dame’s best friends, and whenever he can find time to visit here, he may be assured of a hearty welcome.
—AV. Ad. Hardenberg, of ’79, is passing a few days at the College, on his return home after an extensive tour through Europe. His trip across the ocean has proved of great benefit to him, and he is now looking strong and vigorous. All his many friends are glad to meet and welcome him most heartily.
—Rev. James Rogers, C. S. C., of ’79, and during his student days one of ve editors of the Scholastic, is now the efficient and popular VicePresident of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati. His many friends here will, no doubt, be pleased to hear of Father Rogers’ signal success in his chosen field of action, for which his erudition and genial disposition have so well fitted him.
—Rev. P. J. Van Schie, of the Cathedral, Denver, Col., passed a few days at the College during the past week. The Reverend gentleman was on his way to New York, having been engaged to lecture at the Paulist Church in that city. While here, he kindly consented to entertain the students with a lecture on Lourdes, a compliment which was highly appreciated. Father Van Schie was for some' years one of the resident chaplains at Lourdes, and to his eminent scholarly attainments adds that amiability of disposition and courtcous-ness of manner which make and retain friendship everywhere. His visit was a welcome one, and will be long remembered.
—We are pained to announce the death of one of Notre Dame’s best friends and most devoted patrons, Mr. Thomas Keenan, of Lindsay, Ontario, which sad event occurred on the 39th ult. The deceased was in the 71 st year of his age, and during all his life was remarkable for his activity, public spirit and energy. He was especially devoted to the cause of education; and many a school, convent, and college, experienced his never-failing interest. Several of his children were for a number of years students here' and at St. Mary’s, and he himself
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
555
was a frequent, and always welcome, visitor. All at Notre Dame extend their heartfelt sympathy to the afflicted family in their bereavement. May he rest in peace!
Local Items.
—Attention!
—Beware of burglars!
—Muldoon could not prove an alibi.
—He was seen going out the front door.
—Mike astonished the natives, last Monday. •
—Competitions next week in the Classical Course.
—What has become of the Scientific Association ?
—The crews arc hard at work with their daily practice.
—Grcgori’s new painting is rapidly approaching completion.
—Beautiful St. Joseph’s Lake is now the favorite resort of botanists.
—A new supply of Greek type has been ordered for work on the Libretto.
—Professor McCormack has the thanks of the Juniors for favors received.
—The Philopatrians will appear next week in “ The Prodigal Law Student.”
—B. Bernard has made great improvements in the garden back of the Presbytery.
—That morning cornet soloist is in danger of being sand-bagged. Take warning!
—The groves around St. Joseph’s Lake have been fixed up, and now look admirable.
—“ Three years’ residence in Detroit certainly should learn a person navigation.” Why not?
—The youth with the high-water pants dodged the review, last Thursday evening. ’Twcre well thus.	'
—The sermon to-morrow, Whit-Sunday, will be preached by the Rev. Chaplain of St. Joseph’s Farm.
—No championship game of ball has been played this season. Do “our cousins” wish no games?
—The large crucifix, in the grove back of the Professed House, has been beautifully bronzed by B. Frederick. ’
—The “awkward squad” were out on last Monday evening, and went through many interesting manoeuvres.	T
—,We had big	storms	of .wind,	rain and	hail last
-	o	'	•	t
Wednesday and	Thursday,	-but	no	damage	was
done in the- neighborhood, o	-
—The rain at night during the past week was ample verification of our weather-prophet’s predictions for the month of May.
—A choice collection of rare and beautiful trees have been planted in the Park. They -were bought of Parsons & Co., Flushing, Long Island, N. Y.
—In the Junior department, the best Bulletin
for the. month of April was received by Master. J. Smith;, W. Mug was second, and J. Halligan . 3d. best.	.
—The Juniors’ side of the house is pretty well crowded. We expect soon to see the sign, “ Standing room only.” The western wing is now an imperative necessity.	.
—The energetic Director of the tailoring es-tabh'shment has introduced into his shop a new patent stove; with all the modern and latest improvements, for “ the goose.”
— At a societv meeting the other evening one of our youthful Daniel Websters began his “speech before the house” in this wise:- “Hon. Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen.”
—The manner in which the First Communicants conducted themselves, as well as the splendid ceremony 'on the occasion, are things that will not soon be forgotten by those who witnessed them.
—^Esthetic minds are not as yet in perfect accord as to the perfection of the design of the Minims’ park. It is proposed to hold a convention, when it is hoped the question at issue will be definitely settled.
—Rev. President Walsh has very graciously given his sanction to the name the “Princes” wish to give their park. The young gentlemen have decided not to publish the name until the park is completely finished.
—The game for the baseball championship, which was to have been played on last Thursday between the “Star of the East” and the “University ” nines, was postponed on account of the rain. This contest promises to be very close and exciting.
—The students of the Junior Law Class have, for some time past, been studying the law of real property. The text used is Kent's Lectures on real property, and, by way of review, the Second Book of Blackstone's Commentaries. They will next study the law of contracts, bills and notes.
—We are happy to say that the petioles of the Rheum Rliaponticum have again made their appearance in our dining-rooms in the shape of dessert. This is ’ard on the Prunum Asiaticum which for so long a time has well and nobly held the en- . viable position of Moderator of the Department of the Interior.
—The literary reunions of the Crescent Club during this month will be made additionally interesting by means of-a series of lectures. Prof. J. F. Edwards will lecture on “Assyrian Antiquities”: Prof. Unsworth, on “English and American Authors”; and President Walsh will- give his entertaining “ Reminiscences of Paris.”
—The Orpheonics are hard at work rehearsing the operetta of “ The Picnic,” by J. R. Thomas.
■ The energetic Director-purposes to bring it out in grand style with full orchestral accompaniment, and will make it a leading feature of the closing exercises of Commencement Day. Before that time, however, occasion will be taken of several soirees, to give public rehearsals of the work, which will be good news to our music-loving friends. - J .. •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
—The i8th regular meeting of the Sorin Lit© ©
erary and Dramatic Association was held on May 7th, in St. Edward’s Hall. Well-written compositions were read by Masters G. Stamm and W. Stange. Master C. Harris read an original poem on the “ Founder of Notre Dame,” which reflected great credit on the voting gentleman Masters G. Costigan, J. J. McGrath, and R. Morrison delivered declamations with energy and taste. The meeting closed with an interesting speech from the Chair.
—The 26th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society was held May 3d. A lively debate on the “ Statesmen of America ” was comprised in the programme of exercises. The principal speakers were Masters A. Browne, D. Taylor, C. Porter, W. Mug, M. Foote, M. Dolan, AV. Jeannot, E. Dillon, R. Reach, and M. O’Connor. A well-written criticism on the previous meeting was read by Master J. Smith. Public readers for the coming week are Masters C. F. Porter, A.
© ___ ' ■*
Browne, D. Taylor, J. Fendrich, W. Jeannot, J. Smith, and J. Courtney.
—Two of the most prominent visitors during the past week were Masters Charlie Henry, of Cincinnati, and Charlie McPhee, of Denver. Their combined ages make exactly twelve years. This would lead one to infer that they were “ light weights”; and he would be right in his inference as far as physical influence is concerned. But did he experience but a tithe of the moral power with which these “ future Presidents of our Republic” swayed the wise and sedate rulers of our little commonwealth here, not to speak of the members thereof, who, in vulgar parlance, were nowhere in the presence of these “ young gentlemen,” he would at least retire to reflect upon the future in store for our beloved country. Anyhow, the little Charlies, by their winning ways and gentle manners, made hosts of friends during their stay, and all hope they will soon return again.
—The brick work on the Dome may now be seen above the roof. There is a slight delay, however, owing to the non-arrival of the iron-work which is daily expected from Chicago. The iron fastenings require to be deeply imbedded in the brick structure, and until they arrive the work cannot proceed. But it is certain that another week will not elapse before everything will be on hand, and then the work will be prosecuted vigorously and without further delay. Immense quantities of lumber are heaped, up in the yard back of the College; al! of which will be used in the construe-tion of the Dome. When one considers that upwards of 500,000 brick, together with the thousands of feet of lumber collected bn the premises, to say nothing; of the iron work which will form the externa! elliptical body, he can form an idea of the collossal , proportions of this monument to the Mother of God, unique in this country.
—Last Sunday the First Communion boys took their promised trip to; St. Joseph’s Farm. , They first attended 8 o’clock. Mass, and, then, accompanied by their worthy Director.and a number of in
vited guests, went bowling along through the rich farming country of Harris Prairie. The time on the road was passed pleasantly, jokes and laughter resounding through the circumambient atmosphere, to say nothing of the aesthetic delight created by the sight of the beautiful landscape covered with verdure on which the herds were browsing—until 10.30, when the Farm was reached. The first place visited was the dairy. It is needless to say that the boys did ample justice to a few gallons of the lacteal fluid ere they separated to enjoy themselves in small groups, according to the fancy of each. After dinner, which, by the way, all say was one of the best they ever enjoyed, they separated once more; some to'amuse themselves riding horses; others looking at the fine stock, beautiful fields, clear streams; and others, still, in playing different games, swinging, jumping, etc. A lunch was prepared for them at 4.30, after which they returned to the College, where supper was awaiting them. All were well pleased with their visit, and unanimously agree in saying that they never spent a more enjoyable time than the few hours they remained at St. Joe Farm.
—The following is the programme of the entertainment to be given by the Columbian Diamatic Club, on this (Saturday) eve, May 12th, complimentary to Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., VicePresident and Prefect of Discipline:
Part i.
Music...............................N.	D. U. C. B.
Chorus.................................Orpheonics
Address...............................C. A. Tinley
Music...................................Orchestra
Part ji.
Prologue................................J. Farrell
MACBETH.
(Al Tragedy in Five Acts^ arranged especially for the occasion.')
Dramatis Personae.
Duncan, King of Scotland............W.	H. Johnston
Malcolm )	u.	o	(	J. F. Grever
Donalbain	1S	OnS’	)	F. Kaufman
Macbeth ) Generals of the King’s Army, j I* Reilh Banquo }	0	(J- J- Conway
Macduff)	( J. Marlette
Lenox (•	Scottish Chiefs,	j A. P. Coll
Rosse )	(W. Ruger
August..................................E. O’Brien
Fleance, Son of Banquo.......... 1.. C. C. Kolars
Siward, Earl of Northumberland, Commander of
English Forces............................T. Lally
Seyton, Macbeth’s Attendant..............L. Mathers
L. Macbeth..............................D. C. Saviers
Hecate...................................L. Austin
1st Witch.............<........  ;.......O. Spencer -
2d Witch....  ...........................W. Cleary
3d Witch................................... E. Witwer
Physician...............................F. Monahan
1st Officer .'..........................H. Fitzgerald
2d Officer..................................J. Keller
Attendants—A. Jones, J. Kleiber, F. Black, G. H. Smith
D. Claffey, T. Ashford, A. Grout.
Officers, Soldiers, Assassins, Messengers, etc..
During the Play, there will be appropriate Instrumental and Vocal Music by the University Orchestra ■ ' and the Orpheonics. ;	.	Tableau. .	-
Epilogue............ ....................... H. Morse
Closing Remarks.......................... —---------
Music.. ..;.....;...;...........N. D. U; C. B.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ashford, Anderson, Arnold, Bailey, Bowers, Brady, Burns, Bolton, J. Burke, Browne, Buchanan, Banigan, Cavanagh, Coll, T. Carroll, Clarke, A. Coghlin, Conway, Clements, Claffey. Donohue, Drover, Delgado, Jas. Delaney, Eisenhauer, Ewing, Fenton, Fleming, Farrell, Gray, Grever, Golonski, Gooley, Grout, Galarnean, Harris, Johnston, Keller, Kolars, Koehler,-Kuhn, T. Lally, Molloy, W. J. McCarthy, Meyer, McCabe, McErlaine, Mullen, S. Murdock, C. Murdock, Magoffin, Morse, T. McNamara, J. McNamara. Morris, Mathers, Noble, Neeson, Ott, O’Dea, Orchard, O’Connor. Otis, O’Reilly, O’Brien, Pour, Parrott, Rogers, W. Ryan, Rudge, C. Smith, Saviers, Solon, Terrazas, Whalen, Whitman, Yrisairi, Zahm, Zahnle, Zurbuch.	-
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arnold, Arkins, Browne, Berthelet, Bacon, •Brewster, Braunsdorf, Curtis, Crawford, Cavaroc, Danielson, Dupke, Dolan, Devereux, Dorenberg, De Haven, Dunn, Dillon, W. Dennis, Divine, Eisenhauer, H. Foote, M. Foote, Fishel, Foster, Fisher, Gibert, Grothaus, Gerlach, Gandrup, Hagerty, J. Henry W. Henry, Hess, Hibbeler, Halligan, Hannavin, Hickey, Howard. W. Hetz, Jeannot, Kahmann, Kerndt, Kengel, Keegan, J. Kelly, M. Kelly, Livingston. McCawley. Mug, Metz, McGordon, McDonnell, Miller, Porter, Rothschild, Reach, J. Ryan, Schott, Schillo, Smith, Seegers, Stark, Schaeffer, Subert, Taylor, Violette, Wilkinson, Walsh, Waixel, Warren, Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Anglin, Ackerman, Adams, Beall, Bunker, Chaves, Colwell, Cummings, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Coad, Dirksmeyer, Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Delaplane, Dungan, Fix, Hopkins, Hynes, Huestis, Harris, Johnson, A. Kelly, Krause, Kellner, Kane, Keeffe, Luther, Landenwich, Lare, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, McNaughton, McKey, McGordon, E. McGrath, J. McGrath, J. J. McGrath, McGuire, McPhee, Morrison, Metz, Moss, Masi, F. Mullen, A. Mullen, Nester, Noonan, F. Otis, B. Otis, Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Rebori, Roberts, Spencer, Stange, Smith, Stewart, Sommers, Schmitz, Studebaker, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Schmauss, Schicker, Thomas, W. Tomlinson, C. Tomlinson, W. Walsh, E. Walsh, Welch, Wright, Whitney, Warner, L. Young, C. Young.
Class Honors.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Messrs. Browne, Dickerson, W. Coghlin, C. Porter, Kolars, Donahoe, Otis, Johnston, Dunn, Solon, Conway, Zahm, Molloy, Arnold, Fitzgerald, Fleming. O’Neill, Larkin, Farrell, Gray, Ewing, Steele, Noble, McIntyre, Burns, Guthrie, W. J. McCarthy, Kuhn, C. Murdock, F. Gallagher, Tinley, W. O’Connor, Anderson, A. Coghlin, E. Fenlon, T. Fenlon, Flynn, Jas. Heffernan Cleary, Jas. Delaney, H. Porter, W. H. McCarthy, Clarke, MatHers, H. Smith, E. Yrisarri, Peters.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Hopkins, J. J. McGrath, Morrison, Johnson, Harris, A. Kelly, B. Lindsey, G. Costigan, W. Prindiville, Thomas, Stange, E. Walsh, Roberts, E. Costigan, Dungan, McKey, Noonan, C. Tomlinson, W. Tomlinson, E. McGrath, Kellner, Hynes, Delaplane, Cain, Whitney, Masi, G. Stamm, Spencer, Luther, Colwell, Dirksmeyer, Sommer, D. Prindiville, Rebori,' Beall, Landenwich, C. Young, C. Lindsey, Ackerman, Stewart.
For the Dome.
Kempner & Greenburg, Sout		h Bend,	Ind			$25.00
L. Lipman,	Cl	G	G	-			25.00
A. Russworm & Sons,	ll	Cl	G	... ...25.00
Knoblock, Ginz, & Co.,	G	G	G		25.00
E. D. Meagher,	G	- G	G		25.00
D. Warner & Son,	G	G	G		25.00
John Hay,* * Misspelled last week.	G	G ft-	G		.25.00
Saint JFlary's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University. ’
—By mistake, the name of Clara Richmond was omitted from the list of those who drew for the prize in Grammar, last week.
—The Rt. Rev. Bishop of Denver celebrated Mass at six o’clock, on the Feast of the Ascension. Those who made their First Communion received at his Mass. At the eight o’clock Mass Confirmation was given, and the Rt. Rev. Bishop preached an eloquent sermon.
—The warm and affectionate condolence of all at St. Mary’s are extended to the family and friends of Mf. Thomas Keenan, of Lindsay, Ontario, Canada, who died April 29th. For twenty-three years this pious and estimable gentleman has been among the warmest friends of the Academy. Several of his daughters have here received their education.
—The right to draw for the badge awarded for polite and lady-like deportment among the Juniors, on Monday, was shared by Elizabeth Dig-nan, Mary Dillon, Josephine Spengler, Manuelita Chaves, Marion Morgan, Clara Richmond, Caroline Naylor, Ada Shephard, Mary Otis, Agnes English, Effie Johnston, and Belle Snowhook. It was won by Miss E. Dignan.
—On Sunday evening the Second Senior Class discussed the question, “ Resolved, That in Woman a Knowledge and Practice of Housewifery (all things being equal) is more Promotive of Happiness than Simple Intellectual Culture.” The arguments for the affirmative were piesented by Miss Belle Gove; those for the negative, by Miss Etta Call. No decision was passed, though praises were bestowed upon the discussion.	'
-—On Sunday at two o’clock, in the Chapel of Loretto, the Rev. Chaplain received the following young ladies to full membership in the Society of the Children of Mary: Misses Mary Chirhart, Elizabeth Considine, Catharine Harrigan, Catharine Lancaster, Annie Mooney, -Mary Maginn, Ellen O’Connell, and Frances Schmauss. The Act of Consecration was read by Miss Lancaster. Miss Ellen Kearns read the demand for admission, and was received as an Aspirant. Those who received their First Communion and Confirmation on Ascension Thursday, were presented with, engravings supplemented by certificates of these important events, Father Shortis accompanying the presentation with a very impressive instruction.
The American Princess: Her Dominions and. Subjects.
(Conclusion.)
Midshipman Impetuosity, with a most obsequious inclination to his commander, stepped forward at this moment, and said: “ I beg leave to recommend to the princess the propriety of immediately affixing her signature to this document,”— .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
presenting a parchment which he held in his hand, “ Should she see fit to do us this honor,—I mean, should she extend to us this mark of her confidence, she will render herself the legitimate and idolized object- of devotion to a very large number of able protectors. But allow me first to hold a few moments’ conversation with the imperial child.” Turning to her, he said: “Your father, fair princess, is unquestionabhr a most magnanimous potentate: a sovereign without an equ.al in.the entire world.”
“But,” interrupted the saucy voice of Lady Self-Indulgence, “a sovereign as he is, he has certainly treated his child in a very cruel manner. See how he has deserted her at the very moment when his fatherly care was most needed! and, little one,” she said, addressing the princess, “ was not the information he confided to you, were not the promises he made you a while ago, very, very equivocal, very fanciful, at the best? ”
For just one instant the two pictures presented to her view, that of the Kingdom of Falsehood and that of the Empire of Truth, passed before the mind’s eye of the little princess. She was indignant at the imputations cast upon her beloved father, but was too bewildered to say anything, and when the warlike Lieutenant Foolhardy Fearlessness replied to the words of Lady Self-Indulgence, in a tone of well-feigned earnestness and sarcasm, the child had not a doubt of his sincerity: “ Who are you,” said he, “ that you dare to insult the venerable reputation of the Emperor, and that in the presence of his deeply-injured child? Who gave you the liberty to express yourself in this insolent manner? I shall not countenance any such treacherous language. I command you to leave these apartments, if you cannot make better use of the confidence placed in you.” Then the Lieutenant turned to the princess and said: “Pray, accept the allegiance, the protection of one who is in honor bound to shield the helpless.”
“ Gladly,” replied the child, “ for I believe you to be my true friend.”
“You shall see that I mean to prove the fact, poor, deserted little one,” he answered. “Now,” he continued, rising from his kneeling posture, “ if you follow my advice, you will sign this paper without delay. Great will be the peace of mind sure to result from such an act of prudence on your part. Pray have the goodness to read the document, and to honor me with your decision upon my advice.”
The princess obeyed, and read as follows: “I, Princess Veracity, lawful' heiress of his’-Imperial Majesty, the Emperor Truth, in consideration of the protection which I shall hereafter receive at the hands of my future champion and guardian, my Lord Chancellor Human Prudence, do hereby, freely, and without reserve, make over to him all my right and title to my expected inheritance.” As the poor little princess read, she cast a blank look at her pretended champion.	>
“Understand, fair princess,” he said, quickly, “this will result in a most charming arrangement of your affairs. How could you,.timid as you are,
assume the responsibility of directing the affairs of dominions so extensive? Are you not, even at present, most painfully conscious of your personal inability to take upon yourself so heavy a burden? Should you not be delighted to have kind friends to relieve you?”
A thrill of horror passed through her frame as she pointed to the name of “Human Prudence.” “Do not fear his generosity, O princess,” said the Lieutenant; “ he will act the part of a father to you. Sign the paper if you wish to secure your happiness.”
With a sickening feeling at her heart, the child o	o	7
took the proffered pen. A fiendish smile passed over the face of the officer. But wait a moment, false knight. What does the defenceless, maiden do? She lifts her eyes to heaven. “ Sweet Heart of Mary, be thou my salvation I” trembles like a strain of celestial music on her lips. She is about to sign her name to the fatal “deed” by which she will renounce her glorious inheritance. As she was forming the first letter, suddenly a hand was clasped about her wrist. The false knight staggered backward, as if he had received a blow from a giant. The mysterious hand was that of the Angel of Prayer. -
“ What are you about to do, child born to the Kingdom of Truth? Will you sign away your birthright, and that at the recommendation of your most bitter.enemies?” said the angel. He made the Sign of the Cross, and drew a shining sword, while the pretended cavaliers, and empty-headed False Independence, and presumptuous Self-Indulgence stumbled backward, and were soon out of sight.
As the din of the retreating army of Falsehood died away, harmonious sounds vibrated the air, and the angelic forces of kingly Self-Control stood before the princess. In a moment the child was in her father’s arms.
“Thank God, your arc safe!” cried the father; “you have passed the fearful ordeal, and the Angel of Prayer has preserved you. Had you not called upon the Blessed Virgin, Mother of God, for assistance, you would be at this moment a selfmade wretched pauper, dragged about at the mercy- of the vile deceivers who came so near betraying you into the hands of your enemies. If from vour experience you have learned how skillful are the artifices of the minions of Falsehood, all will be well.”
Years passed, and the princess maintained an uninterrupted and vigorous warfare against her foes. ^At her holy death,-she was crowned as empress of the beautiful dominions of. .her Father, that lovely land of which he had given her a glimpse through the telescope.	.
There is not- a child in all America, blest with faith, with true Christian faith, who is not a counterpart of our “American Princess.” For fear the names of those in the ranks of Falsehood may be forgotten, let us repeat those of the most deceptive. Beware of False Independence; of sophistical Self-Indulgence, of Worldly Prudence, of Impetuosity, and of Foolhardy Fearlessness.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
559
Above all, do not forget that it was the Angel of Prayer who saved the princess; who prevented her from signing away, forever, her right to the Kingdom of her Father.
Boll of Honor.
FOR. POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses-Adderly, Crawford, Chirhart, A. Dillon, Dunn, Feehan, Fenlon, Gove, Ginz, Hunt, Harrigan, M. Hawkins, Keenan. King, Kearns, Laffer, Lancaster, McCarten, Mooney, Maginn, Neu, O’Connell, A. Rvan, M. H. Ryan, Ramsey, Sullivan, E. Slattery, Schmidt, Spotwood, Schaefer, Steinem, Van Patten, Wiley. 2d Tablet—Misses Beal, Clarke, Campbell, Danforth, Dolan, Durphy, Eldridge, Fox, Fendrich, Gallagher, M. Heneberry, Heckard, Hunter, Halter, Harris, Johnson, Kirkham, Mohl, Munger. Madole, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Reiser. F. Schmauss, Todd, Taylor, Walsh, Wallace, Williams.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Best, Chaves, Dignan, Dillon, Agnes English, B. Haney, T. Haney, Johnston, Morgan, Naylor, Otis, Richmond, Spengler, Snowhook, Shephard. 2d Tablet—Misses Considine, Keifer, Schmidt, Van Horn, J. English, Paul, Prescott.	,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Advanced Course—Miss Laura Fendrich.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Campbell, Sullivan, Wiley.	‘
ist Class—Miss J. Reilly.	'
2D Division—Miss M. Beal.
2D Class—Misses Barlow, C. Donnelly, Gove, M. A. Ryan.
2D Div.—Misses Fenlon, Hunt, Keenan, Kirkham, Neu, L. Wallace.
3D Class—Misses Fox, Leydon, Shephard.
2D Div.—Misses Crawford, A. Dillon, Durphy, Ginz, Shickey, Van Patten.
4T11 Class—Misses Adderly, M. Dillon, Lancaster, Mohl. Morgan, E. Slattery, Todd, Walsh.
2D Div.—Misses M.’ Ducey, L. English, Evarts, Fehr, Feehan, Gavan, M. Heneberry, Halter, Laffer, Leach, Ramsey, Schmauss, Van Horn.
5TH Class—Misses A. Babcock, Dolan, C. Ducey, Hibben, Munger, Malbceuf, Murphy, V. Reilly, M. II. Ryan, Snowhook, E. Wallace.
2D Div.—Misses Chirhart, Call, Clarke, J. Duffield, A. Duffield, Hamilton, M. Hawkins, Fisk, Lucas, Morrison, Moshier, McCauley, T. Slattery, Stackerl, Spengler, Taylor, Williams.
6th Class—Misses Chaves, Danforth, Dunn, B. English, Johnston, Keifer, Myers, M. Schmidt, Jr., M. Schmidt, Sr.
2D Div.—Misses Black, Barry, Gallagher, Harris, L. Heneberry, Hetz, Martha Hawkins, Johnson, Legnard, Mary Otis, O’Connell, Richmond, M. Rodgers, Reiser.
7TH Class—Misses Browne, C. Babcock, Castleman, A. English, Eldridge, Fritchman, Harrigan, King, Kearns, Mooney, Maginn, C. Sawyer,, Spotwood, Schaefer. ,
8th Class—Misses D. Best, J. English.
9TH Class—Misses S. Campau, M. Ducey.
ioth Class—Misses Burtis, Lindsey, Morley, Naylor, Martha Otis, Robinson, A. Schmauss.
HARP.
4TH Class—Miss M. Dillon.
5TH Class—Misses Leach, M. Ducey. ,	-
6thClass—Miss Neu.
guitar.
6th Class—Miss C. Ducey.
,	VIOLIN.
Miss M. Hawkins.
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING,wPAINTnG and SCULPTURE.
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough m the Preparatory. Academic and Classical giades.
Tne institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive hernariuins of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thou=ancs of volumes
No extra charges for Ge> man or French, as these languages enter into the iegtilar course of academic stuoies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on ’he plan of thel>e«t Musical Conservatories <»f Europe, is under charge of a compiele Corps of teachers, eleven In number. It comprises a laige Music flail, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, aim organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition —A larce Musical Library’ in French German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music. Vocal Culture. Chorus Singing and Hatmony.
.	THE SCHOOL OF	.
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE
is modelled on the great An-Schools of Europe,drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English. French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with tlie School of Design Graduating pupils who have passed credir-ably.through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of ?Xusie. or in the Art De-paitmeut.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rales of the institution.	,
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for 4 which address	•	'
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ina.
G. F. NEVIUS,
■ DENTIST. .
Office—101 Michigan, cor. of Washington St.,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
In order to prevent irregular dentition and premature decay of Children’s Teeth, frequent examinations are indispensable. The Doctor will make no charge to Parents who desire to know the condition of their children’s teeth.
■ The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention, from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	- _ -
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of. Five Months .
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this
Department.	' .
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Class of 1S62.
JAMES M. HOWARD, Attorney at Lazu,
Valparaiso, Indiana.
NEW PLAYS.
FOR MALE CHARACTERS ONLY.
IF I WERE A KINCf a Drama in Four (4) Acts. Postage free. Price.................$050
LE BOURGEOIS CENTILHOMME, or The Upstart. A Comedy in Three (3) Acts, adapted from the French of Moliere. Postage free. Price....... 25
THE RECOGNITION/ or The Triumph Of Justice. A Drama of the 15th
Century, in Four (4) Acts. Postage free. Price,. 50
Several other Dramas are in course of preparation, and will be issued at an early day.
The above dramas are written for the purpose of drawing out the elocutionary ability of the participants.
Address,
JOSEPH A. LYONS, Publisher, Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD L. WILSON’S
PERSONALLY PHOTOGRAPHED VIEWS OF
THE ORIENT,
EGYPT, ARABIA and PALESTINE
For the Magic Lantern, For the Graphoscope, For the Stereoscope,
• For Archaeologists, Architects, Geologists, Bible Students, Antiquarians, Artists, and all lovers of the beautiful.
This Grand Collection is Unique.
Made During the First Hale of 1882.
A FULL CATALOGUE SENT FREE.
Also my own views of Naples, Pompeii, Herculaneum, Rome, Paris, and London.
Stereoscopic Size, ----- $3.00 Per Dozen. 8x10 inches, -----	$9.00 Per Dozen.
Careful selections made personally.
EDWARD L. WILSON, . . Publisher of Photographic Books. 912 and 914 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILAD’A.
(Second Floor.)
FOR TUITION PURPOSES, THE
DENVER
Scientific Museum
CAN FURNISH A FULL LINE OF	„
«
Skeletons, Skulls, Skins of Native and Foreign Birds and Animals.
MOUNTED SUBJECTS and ALCOHOL PREPARATIONS ALWAYS ON HAND.
Choice, Well Crystallized Minerals a Specialty.
Taxidermist and Dermoplastic Work
DONE IN A SUPERIOR STYLE.
Orders promptly attended to. The best Preservative for Zoological Specimens for sale. ,
Address
RUDOLPH BORCHERDT, ocl-83	DENVER, COL.
L. S. & M. 8. Railway.
On and after Monday, Jan. 1, 18S3, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.25 p.m.; Buffalo, S.00 p.m.
11.23 a-m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.55 a.m.
9.10 pan., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo 3-55 a.m. .	-	-
6.21 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.2S p.m.; Cleveland, 1.35 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.05 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 5.50 a.m.
5.07 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.55 a.m. Chicago, 8.00 a.m. .
8.05 a.m Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 9.07 a.m. . Chesterton, 9.57 a.m; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.30 p.ml, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.30 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.15 p.m.; Chicago, 4.40 p.m.
4.35 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22; p.m.; Chicago, 7.40p.m.	•
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt.; South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland..
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.