
bokistic
DISCE-QUASI- SEMPERVICTURUSVIVEQIASE

Vol. LUI
j-.„ NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, September 27, 1919.
No. 1
with the Presidential office, in this institution during these :past fourteen .years, and. which were so unselfishly devoted to the single aim of making thia University ever greater, and more respected, have made the spirit and the ideals -If you’re sickof the dwellings of fools and kings,' of Fatta ^valitugS fo^	ft™
/Where you’re moiled and earned and striven,	hallowed traditions of Uns place, even
- as his kindly image is forever "enshrined in the . If no one waits in the twilight still,	hearts of those who have known him. r can have
. i	nothtas ‘ojishten the Ibad. ■ better	nysdf-.* for you Stall.that
’ . Strike out for.the town past.the crest of the hill	/ /-
. -.	' , . .a c j . .a - f we may be guided, in our mutual relations and
. And .the land round the bend in the road.	* -J < '	-	-. .- a . <
.	-	our mutual: work, by that same spirit and those
.................... .................. same ideals through which he was enabled to accomplish so much for Notre Dame.
., The Land .Round the Bend in die Road.
BY ANDREW. K MOYNIHAN, ’20.
[I 1^ you d°n’t fit in with the scheme of things In the marts Where the slaves are driven,
- Go down throughthelanesof the barley, and corn, By the stream that croons for the bay, "
For the blue little bay where the ships at morn ..Toss-impatient to"take us away.	., -.A-'/-, - An - 2 _. . ., ..-
. ..	. i	be said without exaggeration, is coincident with
WeQwill ship heart-free, down the-world tomorrow	the OpeningAnf a new era in human history/
The great warhas effected changes in the world such ashave never before been brought about within a similarperiod of time. Our own nation, perhaps as much as . any. other, is changed.
-' 7 We stand today; in/ an entirely new position ; " before the world, while within. new comlitions 'have arisen that are unlike anything we have ever experienced before. Whatever may be ourinternationalpolicies,it is certain that the civilized : world b will henceforth	us
for help and leadership, as it never did before. Whatever maybethe fortunesor theshibboleths/ of our political parties, it is certain that altogether new problems—social, econonric, industnal,7p litical, ethical—which are <alculat^ to affect
The year upon which we are entering, it may

With the sun and the sea and .the. wind;
; - Though we never can part from an instant sorrow, ~ We can leave some -memories behind.
A : : Yes, if no one; waits in the twilight still, - And there’s nothing to lighten the load; .
Strike out for the town past the crest of the Nil ! And the land round the bend, in theroad..-
Essentials in Education.*
BY THE REVEREND JAMES A. BURNS, C. S. C-i PH.D.
IN; speaking to you, my dear young men, on 'this occasion, the solemn religious opening pfthe s<bolasticyear,Ithink I maypresume,
alwut brie/wEp. is/Tjk^j^
theiwtioninni<^vit^ways,have^nn^out



•Discoursedelivered at the formal opening of the schoolyear.inSacredHeartChurch, Nbtre Paine, Smday};4^t«OTbttjri,;i9i9.fh>^

2	TSde None Game ©chdascic
ambition. Rightly looked. at, they are only means to an end. They are valuable chiefly for what one may do with them. They make possible things which are immeasurably more precious than they are themselves for human life-—things which may be comprehensively described as service to God, to one’s country, or to one’s fellow men, in large and unselfish ways. Only that education is fully worthy of the name which is calculated to awaken these higher and nobler ambitions of life, and to prepare one effectively for their realization, over and above the mere attainment of what is commonly called success.
* Now, what is meant by an education such as this? What are its essential qualities? and what are the means to its acquirement? Our consideration of the matter will be apt to be more z	profitable if we look at it from the standpoint of
- the student, rather than from other possible vantage points.	•
True education . implies and demands two essential things on the part of the student. The mind is nourished and developed by assimi-■ lated truth, and this means, on the part of the student, study—earnest, intelligent, patient and painstaking study. The reasons for this are .	so obvious and elementary that I do not consider
it necessary to advert to them, and yet there are certain important aspects of the matter which are only too easily lost sight of.	'
Not only must the essential work of mindtraining be a strictly personal affair, but it is equally certain that the amount of mental advantage that is gained by the student at college is, ordinarily speaking, directly proportional to the amount and quality of his own personal efforts. The college or university may, in this respect, be likened to a gymnasium. Lectures and books, lessons and exercises, of whatever" kind—these things are merely .	apparatus, through the use of which mental
growth is aided and stimulated. We know that, a boy who goes to the gymnasium will, generally ■ speaking, make progress in the. work just to the extent that he devotes himself to it with earnest purpose. Gymnastic or athletic skill will inevitably result from steady practice, under -	efficient direction; but his progress will evidently
- be dependent upon the time and attention he devotes to the work.. It is precisely the same in the work of the great , mental gymnasium we .	call college or ‘ university. The equipment is
there; the competent, skillful direction is there;
but progress will be in proportion, not so much to these elements, as to the responsive efforts which are made by the student himself. Greater efforts will bring greater and more lasting results; little effort, or no effort at all, will mean, in the long run, little or nothing of real, lasting mental advancement or profit., It is fundamentally a matter of personal effort. It will be helpful, therefore, to remember that it is chiefly when you are alone, in your room or at your desk or in the library, that you are determining how much this University, with all its vast educational equipment, is ■ really worth to you.
Again, the intellectual growth which comes to ■ a young man at college, as the result of well directed and earnest study, is small in comparison with that which his mind will in cansequence experience later on in life. There are capacities or powers in the soul which must be awakened now, or they are likely to remain forever sterile. How often we see a boy who is bright, and dever beyond his fellows at college, and yet who is far outdistanced in the race of after life by a student of only moderate talents! Why? It is because—and every experienced teacher knows how true this is—it is because, in the one case, the deeper springs of thought and knowledge within the mind remained’ all untouched or undiscovered, while in the other, through patient searching and laborious effort, joined to the quickening experiences of maturer age, they were turned into perennial sources of mental vigor and power. It is here that we really find the supreme test of the value of the work done by a student at college, as well as the crowning merit, of an institution of higher education.
Our Blessed Lord, in describing the growth of the Kingdom of God within the soul, said that it is “as if a man should cast seed into the earth, and should sleep and rise; night and day, and the seed should spring and grow up whilst he knoweth not; for the earth of itself bringeth forth fruit, first the blade, then the ear, afterwards the full corn in > the ear. And when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he putteth in the sickle, because the harvest is come.” The description is equally applicable to the growth of the kingdom of the mind. The work of these college years—this springtime of your life—has a mysterious, wonderful potency. Every hour of purposeful study, every mastering of difficulties, every enlargement bf mental vision,
Noure fitameSchokwric -	3
every studious habit formed, every new intellectual interest aroused, besides the benefit it brings you here and now, is sure to bring you a hundredfold more in the years to come. For these things are, in very truth, as seed which you are day by day casting into the earth; and whilst you know it not, whilst you sleep and rise, night and day, this seed will of itself spring up and grow, putting forth blade and ear, and ripening into the full com of a glorious harvest of knowledge, wisdom, and intellectual power.
But there is another essential element which must.be supplied by the student in true educa- . tion—it is self-discipline. The will, no less than the mind, needs to be trained; and the training of the will, like that of the mind, is something
which, in the last analysis, has to be done by the student himself.
Millions of American young men had occasion to learn, during the war, the discipline of the modem army.. They found, on entering the camps, that there were strict laws and regulations which had to be learned and obeyed without question. They realized that these laws and . • regulations were necessary for the .efficiency of the army—necessary ultimately for the preservation of their own liberties; and they learned them quickly and obeyed them cheer-_ fully because of this intelligent knowledge of their purpose. If our armies attained their high efficiency in so short a time; if, when assembled on the fields of France, they became an invincible host, which broke the enemy’s might at almost a single blow, it was, we know, because the young men of America had thoroughly learned this lesson of military discipline, and had loyally subordinated their own wills, with all their personal interests, to its imperious behests. '
Of infinitely greater consequence than any rules of military discipline are the laws whidi every man is called upon by his Creator to obey, - by reason of his rational nature. These laws embody the fundamentally unchangeable relations of a man with God, with his neighbor, and with himself. They are the laws of individual life, of the family, of society, of legitimate government, of religion. They are found* imbedded in the human conscience, or prodaimed by God through His accredited representatives. These laws do indeed put a restraint upon the' ' will; but it is a restraint which, far more truly than in the case'of the army regulations, has . do other en4 than to preserve and augment the
individual’s legitimate freedom. They thus constitute what St. Paul has so aptly called man’s “reasonable service.” It is by endeavoring to know and understand these great laws of life and morality and their ultimate purpose, by conforming one’s conduct to them and ever striving after more perfect conformity with them, that, with the help of divine grace, the will is liberated from the tyranny of the passions and enabled to bring these disorganized elements of fallen nature under orderly subjection and control; is enabled to rise above the sordid, selfish, merely material aims that dominate the lives of most men; even those who are classed among the educated; is made capable of sacrifice, and of the noble and holy ambition of working for the welfare of others, whether it be in the
service of society or the state, or in the service of
the Church. Such a will, thus purified, strengthened, become master of itself and of all its own inferior powers, is like a commander at the head
of well-disdplined, victorious soldiers: it is prepared, in the words of the Apostle, to “fight the good fight,” to wage victorious warfare, not only against flesh and blood, but “against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the world of this darkness, against the spirits of wickedness in the high places.”
It is to the glory of this University that she has ever made this kind of training one of her primary ’aims,' and that she has consistently proclaimed that without this training and discipline there can be no such thing as true education, which must necessarily consist in the development of the entire man. She has her own laws and regulations which she has found by experience to be requisite for the orderly^ and fruitful carrying on of her work. She asks obedience to these laws and regulations^
both because they are partial expressions of those deeper and more fundamental laws which
God has set in the human heart and in the heart of human society, and because, through conscious and willing obedience to them, you ■ will be acquiring that self-discipline which, as I have said, is of the very essence of true education.
She surrounds you with an atmosphere of -religion, for religion not only clearly reveals the Creator’s laws, but it also supplies the most efficacious means and motives, for their faithful z observance. Religion brings divine grace and . the-sacraments; it teaches humility and prayer; it places before us the example of Christ and. the saints; and it shows us virtue and vic*,
Nocre dame.Schokwck?.
with their inevitable consequences—peace or misery, reward or punishment, both in this life and in the life to come. You will be encouraged to. the utmost, therefore, to make the most generous use of those supernatural aids which our holy religion affords so abundantly, in order that, in the development of both mind and will, you may be constantly sustained by the light and strength which emanate freely , . from the Author of all truth and goodness.
It is this kind of education, my dear young men, the training of the mind to intelligent, independent activity, and the training of the will to self-prompted, rightly-motivated obedience/ to all lawful authority, that America stands in urgent need of today, as never before. Only - education such as this can furnish Ghurch and . state' with the men who are imperatively required for a happy solution of the new and vital problems that have arisen on every side. You are here,, by the blessing of Divine Providence, with the loving, anxious solicitude of1' your parents, and through your own choice, to prepare yourselves in these ways. It shall be the.concern of this University that no opportunity or help or counsel which she can provide for you will be withheld; it must be . your concern that no one of the precious talents which the Master has confided to you shall be wasted or buried in the ground. United, our . prayers shall ascend to the Throne of Heaven ' - this morning, to the end _that your work this . year may be such as will worthily answer the - opportunities offered you here, the hopes and expectations of your parents and friends, the needs of bur beloved country, the manifold, solemn responsibilities placed upon you, upon each one of you, by the hand of Almighty God. .
Knowledge
.	, -' When half-gods go -	■ •
The gods arrive.—Emerson.	-	.
I fancied -I had felt <- -/ - ' 'Love true and sweet: '	•.
Then, I had never.knelt?	'
. . . Kissing Thy feet." •?'. /
. I dreamed that I had drunk .
- - The .dew love sips,; ?' / / j .. Dream in oblivion sunk ~	:
J At Thy- touch onmylips! .
: Thycreatures,cIhadthought, ;
; --.-Codd .be .loyed;. apart:
'. Now.creatures countfornaught v - Save inThy wideHeart.—-s. a.
Summer School Verse. .
’ The First Class. .	-
. {Early Mass in Walsh Hall.)	-
In the gray of early morning, when the day Is brushing mists from sleepy eyes away, _ Down to the Lower Room, , =	-	.
Still dim in candled gloom,	-
Silently , the students'pass	.	.
To where the Master waits His class. ’	'
In the accustomed way,	’
Introibo ad allare Dei, . -The lesson opens; and with eager hearts '	-
. We follow all the parts. > Quickly they move, .
. Borne on by love. Sometimes He speaks, by silences; again, ■ His voice re-echoes in one’s heart,—and then, (O Love!) He writes His message, round and high, Where all may see! "	'
We gaze, and humbly try’ .	. .
To fathom this. Love’s deepest mystery, Then bow our heads in shame. _ But He, the gentle Master, does not blame The poor, dull soul that fails to learn; '	-
No, each shall have her turn.
There shall lack nothing on" the Teacher’s part,— See, how He breathes into each waiting heart
The Word of God!	’
And each; as on that Pentecost among ’	-
’ The.first converted, bears Him speak her tongue, . -
Then goes her. way,	-	. •	? .
Clear-eyed and trusting, -gay ’	"	.
; Into the sunlit promise of another day. -.	'	-	-	—SISTER ANCILLA, O. S. U.
. The Minims’ Pump. .	. -	.
Just an iron pump with tin cups on a chain,	”
x A wooden platform and a narrow drain,
A bush, , some tress hear .by to give it shade—	'
. It stands there where the minims long have played.' .
No sparkling water irbm a western spring,- .	'
z Nomountain streams such sweet refreshment bring, No wayside well has half the charm tbstay :	.
My thirst as that qld pump .where minims play. _
. How many times, . when, travel-stained,! sought, „ v-. That self-same pump, its cpding'waters brought -
Old memories. and days that used tq be :	'
Across the yearscame crowding back tb me.' /' ?
Justanironpumpwith tin cupsonachain, - . .- <A wooden platform and'a narTow drain, / > ' J. It stillstandswherethemerryminims play— ; ;;
‘ . 1 An^old' loved friend of manhobd’syesterday. ~ ' : '/	(HOLY CROSS).
/' L/.?/HcSTASY. ^ pbes mght fdlowhbqp??■•':/?:?..■-csmn^re^	'f.L-'-'. ? f ;
WasW;ewt^^	? -
//.	“URSULINE
'V.
’Cfie Notre dome Scholastic
5
The Summer Session.
Development of Instrumental Music. Reverend
.	---- .	Joseph Donahue, of the Department of Physics,
The second summer session of the University an authority on the subject of sound, gave to of Notre Dame opened on June 28th last and the scientific students six lectures that were closed the 8th of August. ?It was conspicuously thoroughly indicative of careful research work.
distinguished from the preceding session by a notable increase in enrollment. More than five hundred students registered for. the various courses. At the previous summer session Walsh . Hall was given over to the ladies; with'such a marked increase in attendance this year Badin Hall was also converted into a ladies dormitory. The men occupied Sorin and Corby Halls under, the rectorship of Fathers Eugene Burke and Patrick Haggerty respectively. There were in
His lectures dealt with: Sound—its Production, Transmission, and Perception; The Characteris- -tics of Sound—Its pitch, strength and character; Velocity, Refraction, and Reflection; Resonance and Interference, Beats and Beat-tones; The Theoretical Nature of Sounds Produced by -Musical Instruments; and the Arrangement of Sound—Musical Intervals and Temperament.
The Library Association of Indiana convened at Notre Dame within the summer for its annual
- attendance nearly three hundred nuns, repre- session, and the members were the guests of the
senting some twenty-five different orders.
'Early in the session the school was honored by a visit from the Reverend John A. Dillon, superintendent of schools of the diocese of Newark, New Jersey, who gave.five very inter-
librarian at the opening of the Italian art exhibit in the Library. Father John A.- Ryan, D. D., of the Catholic University, author of notable
&
esting and instructive lectures on Catholic Education. Father Dillon chose the following subjects for his lectures: The Problem;. The Child, the Root of the Problem; The Parent, the Crux of the Problem; The. Teacher, the
works in "Economics, ddivered a very timely and instructive talk in Washington Hall in support of the League of Nations. Father Ryan was at . the time attending the meeting of the Catholic War Council at Notre Dame.	.
Tuesday, August the 5th, marked the opening of the annual congress of the Priests’ Eucharistic
Critical Element of the Problem; The State, League. Bishops, abbots and hundreds of priests the Uncertain Element of the Problem. The attended the meeting. On Wednesday, the. faculty of the College of Music presented several Feast .of the Transfiguration, a pontifical high
delightful and varied programs. Mr. William Middleschiilte, one of the most noted organists ■ and composers of the present time, gave in the
University Church a- series of masterly organ recitals embracing the compositions of the ancient, the middle-age, and the modem masters.
Mass'was celebrated in the University church. In the evening over six hundred people joined in a magnificent procession erf the Blessed * Sacrament after which Benediction was held on . the porch of the Main Building. . The final ■ business arrangements, were finished the next day and the session closed on Thursday at noon.
Mr. 'Frederick'.’Paulding, the Shakespearian, lecturer, so well known at Notre Dame, was

. All of his recitals were largely attended both by students and by visitors from South Bend and -vicinity. Mr. George O’Cpnneli of the vocal department, a composer and artist of. merit,.. again welcomed at the University for a scries.oi? rendered several excellent concerts in Wash- ]	„ .	„	.	_
ington Hall. Mr. Q’Connell has a pleasing masterly presentation of the Merchant of Venice, tenor voice of unlimitedrange and power, and Romeo and Juliet, and other of the great , : his well-selected Spanish,' French, Italian, and Shakespearian" plays. Mr.: Rudolph Reuter, a e Trish songs gave him the opportunity to display representative artist of the Chicago Conservatory his ability to its best advantage. The University of Music, gaye a splendid piano recital, which ‘ choir, under the direction of Father Marshall, was thoroughly appreciated. -The dosing exam-
• gave an impressive concert in the Sacred Heart- inations, -- held on August/ 6th, 7th,; and. 8th, / Church, presenting all the various styles of -marked the end of the second-summer school Church music as set forth in the MotuProprio of-Notre Dame.. The 1919 session practically
:4 of .Pope Pius X. Aseries of five musical lectures . established the summer sessions of the future by^/-f. w^rte delivered by; Professor Becker in-Wash- its remarkable success, the result pf efficient-J .;
/•ington Hall. His subjects ware: .The Making of management and tireless co-operation ; on the _/?a	part .pf .ihe/stu^^
Music of .the;Andeht\CuituredyNations; They •	PaulScofield.
readings. He delighted his audiences with his.
3



I	%	.	.
' ’ . - %
6	. .	^fieNone&nneSdidkOTic
of social unrest and godless tendencies, and the imperative duty of all pastors to safeguard their flocks by zealously arousing their interest and increasing their devotion to the “Hidden'God.”
Of the many beautiful ceremonies of the ' Congress, the most impressive was undoubtedly the grand procession with the Blessed Sacrament. through the college grounds. The priests marched in white vestments, and the bishops in mitre and cope immediately preceded the Blessed Sacrament. Hundreds of nuns, including the Sisters of Holy Cross from the convents at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s and representatives of many congregations attending the summer school followed the Sacred Host, adding to the solemn grandeur of the scene. Benediction was. given from an altar which had been erected in front of the Main Building. As the venerable Metropolitan of Milwaukee raised the Sacred Host in blessing over the assembled multitude, the deep-toned voice of the great bell thundered forth from the church tower, and the clouds, threatening rain a moment before, broke into ' fleecy, golden forms, letting the last rays of Jie sun steal through to gild the scene with soft effulgence. After the Divine Praises had poured forth in grateful adoration from a , thousand overflowing hearts, the white-vested priests arose and with outstreched arms intoned the “Pater Noster. ” It was a tableau truly in keeping with that day’s festival, The Transfiguration; and many a soul, lifted nearer to its Maker, and sensing in a faint degree what the joy of the vision of the eternally transfigured God must be, cried out with St. Peter, “Lord, it is good for us to be here.”
' The Holy Hour, also conducted by Bisbop Schrembs was a soul-inspiring ceremony. During the exposition, priests and people joined in the glorious words of the Church’s grandest hymns—“Adoro Te,” “Veni Creator,” tbe . “Magnificat,” and the “Ve Deum.” Tbe beautiful and practical meditation prepared by Bishop Scbrembs for this occasion was truly a masterpiece of Eucharistic devotion. = ’ Those attending the. conferences were most . fortunate in having men so learned and pious to givethe discourses. Thepapers were scholarly .. and forceful, abounding-inpractical suggestions andzealous exhortationsforthefurtheranceof ; ' the interests of the Holy Eucharist.'■ Rt. Rev . \ Joseph Chartrand’s treatiseon“ThePriest and his Personal Relation to .the Holy Eucharist” k ; was worthy of fhe feputation of so devoted an :
- *	'-'--I	'' *	-".“A
The Eucharistic Congress at Notre Dame.
Towards the dose of summer school in the . first days of August, the Silver Jubilee Convention of the “Priests’ Eucharistic League” was held here at Notre Dame, where, a quarter of a century before, its members had met for the first time in the United States^'Tt was then under. the zealous leadership of the saintly Bishop of Covington, Kentucky, Rt. Rev. Camillus Maes; it is now-in charge of Rt. Rev. Joseph Schrembs, Bishop of Toledo, who officiated for the first time at this meeting.
/ The number of priests in attendance was not SO-large as might have been expected but every section of the country was represented, ^.mong the distinguished dergy present wde: Rt. Rev. Joseph Alerding, of Fort Wayne; Most
. Rev. Sebastian Messmer, of Milwaukee; Rt.-Rev. Edward Allen, of Mobile, Alabama; Rt. Rev. Joseph Chartrand, of Indianapolis; Rt. Rev. Msgr. John Peterson, rector of St. Mary’s Seminary, Boston; Rt. Rev. Msgr. Alfred Manning, Lima, Ohio; Very.Rev. Bede Maier, 0. S. B., founder of the League in the United States and Very Rev. John Graham, S. S. S., Director-General of the League. Hundreds of priests and many bishops expressed by letter or telegram regrets for their inability to come and made encouraging assurances of their co-operation. <.
The Holy Father through the Cardinal Secretary of State' imparted the Apostolic benediction to ' the members of the conference and expressed ' the desire “that through, such union,1 apostolic zeal and sanctification of clergy may be fostered and increased.” The message was read by Bishop Schrembs at the opening session in Washington Hall, the assembled clergy standing . during the reading. After this the delegates . were welcomed to the diocese by Bishop
Alerding.	.
On Monday evening, August the 8th, the directors of the League met in the library to arrange the program and appoint the com-
• mittees. The Congress was publicly opened the following morning with;the.solemn pontifical Mass, celebrated by Bishop Schrembs. A solemn procession started front the Administration Building and passing around the Quadrangle preceded the Mass? Most Reverend Sebastian
. Messmer delivered the opening sermon, discours. ing on the beauties of the Eucharist, the; need . . for ever greater devotion thereto in these times


'Sfie Noure dome Scholastic
.7
apostle of the . Blessed Sacrament. Among the other papers read, were: “The Priest, Ministei of Holy Communion” by Rt. Rev. Msgr. John Peterson, of St. Mary’s Seminary, Boston, and “The Confessional in its Relation to the Eucharist” by the Rev. Arthur Barry O’Neill, C. S. C.	.
Ou the third and last morning of the Congress, a solemn pontifical Mass of, requiem tor the •repose of the soul of the recently deceased Bishop Maes, the first president-geneial of the League, was celebrared oy his successor, Rt. Rev. Joseph Schrembs. A short session, closing the Congress, was then held, and the Silver Jubilee Convention had passed into history. May God spate for - further triumphs in His service the men who so energetically conducted it.
-	W. H. Robinson.
Thoughts.
BY STUDENTS OF THE SUMMER SCHOOL.
r
Let no hour pass without a smile.
Not every man that looks wise is so.
Who occupy the pedestals in your pantheon? An hour of thought is worth a day of reading. The only true scholar is the lifetime scholar. What is worth dying for is surely worth living for.	,
Argument often generates more heat than light. .	;
Nationality is human nature with a local coloring. *
" Wisdom must temper humility lest folly be its end.	'
, Everyone believes- easily what he wants to ■' believe.
, The wise man is silent because he has too much to say. . ,N
A word in the head is worth two in the dictionary.
.	Amid these radiant beauties many sigh for
Saving, money is sometimes the sheerest artist’s brush or.the writer’s pen, but who extravagance.	thinks to prav for the poet’s appreciation/
Great works, like great rivers, have small If an artist were to paint the sunset on. St.
.....	: Josephslakesome realist would urge him to
The World has nothing more beautiful than- pirfjjrp Nature as she is and not as he imagines a happy home.	, ,	.	her to be. . •.	'	.
Is the suffragette selling her birthright for a ' it is likely that the political aspirants in 1920
•- mess of pottage?	' will base .their claims to public recognition upon
. God in His wisdom gave man the head and the number of bombs they received during the
woman the heart. .
Trial shows the mettle of a man and war the ' mettle of a nation.	-
There are tons of silt on some of the finest bed rock in the world.
He "who habitually makes excuses is but. another kind of'coward. .	’
Many who seem to know much are but -parasites on dead men’s brains.
So many think that a man’s virtue depends upon the length of his face.	.
Striking for higher wages is striking for "your altars and your fires.”
In school, as at dinner, too m&ny courses are apt to give indigestion.
Was there ever a child who did not fall in love with God at first sight.
Ireland was the first ship of state launched off the west coast of Europe.
The man who is ashamed of his religion is ashamed of something he has not.	*
The green felt on the Peace Table ought to , have reminded the Conference of -------
Is the path to the library meant to symbolize the roughness of the road to knowledge?
Our life should not be so full of business as
-to exclude rest and cheerful recreation. -	.
A'serious fault with our education is its effort to feed rather than create an appetite.
We never know what we can do until we have to: we have stood prohibition for three long months.
Congress seems to, have felt that “open * covenants openly arrived at” called for woman suffrage. *
. Sometimes our success depends upon ,our stepping aside and letting someone else finish ‘ the job.	.	.	’
“Looking backward” may be aU right as an occasional pastime, but when it becomes a -preoccupation the feet follow the eye.

&
S3
recent reign of terror. .


Now dame Scholastic
^□tpe^am^cholastic
DISCE-QUASI-SEAWERVJCTURVSAWEQ^
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. L1II.	SEPTEMBER 27. 1919- NO. 1.
other members of the former faculty who are no longer with us we acknowledge our debt of gratitude for their years of unselfish service in our interest. However far away duty may take them, they will be followed by the affection of all who have been privileged in their association here. May they be attended in their new positions by all the success they chemselves can wish for.—The Editors.
Board of Editors.
William C. Havey, ’20
Charles A. Grimes, ’ 20
Cornelius Palmer, ’20 Thomas H. Beacom, ’20 Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21
Robert E. O’Hara, ’20 Paul Scofield, ’20 Thomas J. Tobin, ’20 J. Sinnott Meyers, ’20
James W. Hogan, ’21
\V7E of the Scholastic take advantage of * ’ this first issue of our magazine since the change in the administration of the University to extend to Father Burns, the new president, to Father Irving, the new director of studies, and to the other new members of the Faculty our congratulations and on the part of the student body to assure them of the continued loyalty which the students of Notre Dame have always been proud to yield to those at the head of our great school. We wish and confidently hope for them in their work a success commensurate with their qualifications and zeal. May Notre Dame under their direction and by the grace of God grow in her good work to’the fullest proportions.
Not only the old students who were present in the University chapel last Sunday but all indeed who have attended Notre Dame since September of 1905 will testify how well deserved are the beautiful words of tribute paid by Father Bums in his sermon at the opening of the school year (published in the first pages of this issue) to his illustrious predecessor, Father Cavanaugh. We would not impair that tribute by any addition but merely ratify' it as the expression of our sentiment towards him who has done so much for our beloved Notre Dame and for us. To Father Cavanaugh, Father Schumacher, Father Eugene Burke, and the
There is in this country since the end of the war a notable awakening of the missionary spirit. In the days of strife the American people were prompt and The Call of the’ generous in helping those
Bengalese. of other lands who were suffering from the desperate privations consequent upon the modern warfare. This . philanthropic work naturally interfered with the attention and support which would otherwise have been given to the cause of the foreign missions. The souls of the Far East were more or less forgotten. It can now be happily otherwise, and America is harkening to the cdll of her missionaries. Considerable enthusiasm has already been aroused by the wide circulation of literature in behalf of the missions. Not the least of the periodicals devoted to this cause is the one being issued this month for the first time,by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, the Bengalese, the purpose of which is “to aid-by prayer and alms the foreign missions in the Diocese of Dacca, in India.’-’ This organ will surely be of great help to the workers in that vineyard, most of whom are graduates of Notre Dame. Very few .of us have the call to do what they are doing, but all can and should help this publication which means so much to the missionaries, who are so truly our own. We must unite in making it completely and quiddy successful.. Let the Notre Dame spirit function in this direction where it can do xso much of the greatest good. We should hail the appearance of this new magazine as the beginning of a new era in the work of the Holy Cross missionaries. Let us be sure that these men of Notre Dame have at least the benefit of our most fervent prayers, of our donations to the “poor-Ben boxes” in the various halls of the University, and above all of our staunch and practical support of the paper which represents their interests.—T. c. d.
4
Moure dome Schda«ric
9
Father Burns, President of Notre Dame.
The remarkable growth and development of the University , of Notre Dame is remarked in the article on Notre .Dame in the Catholic Encyclopedia as being due, in large part, to the • superior excellence of her presidents. The truth of this statement becomes immediately apparent when we recall a few of the names in that long list beginning with the great Sorin and ending with our beloved Father Cavanaugh.
REVEREND JAMES A. BURNS. C. S. C.
Exceptional men they were—men of learning, vision, and broad catholicity, and Notre Dame stands today a monument to their faith and genius.
It is small wonder then that the members of the Provincial Chapter of the Holy Cross Congregation deliberated long and prayerfully in their selection of a new president. The necessary qualifications were such that only a man of the highest attainments could be considered. Wide executive experience, deep spirituality, profound learning, tact, and resourcefulness, together with exceptional ability in the work of education^ are only a few of the requisite
qualities. Hence knowing the traditional standard set up for the presidential candidate, and the rare qualifications needed, it is no surprise that the choice fell upon the Reverend James A. Burns.
For the past nineteen years Father Burns has served as president of Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C., where his able and zealous work in behalf of Catholic education has been a constant source of inspiration to the many student priests of Holy Cross who during that period have come under his direction. Nor have his efforts been confined to the interests of his own Congregation. Always a close student of American educational- conditions, he has been a persistent advocate of the Catholic school system, and his numerous contributions on the subject to Catholic magazines, together with the publication of an authoritative two-volume “History of Our Catholic Schools,” and a comprehensive study of thd entire field of Catholic educational effort, entitled “Catholic Education: A Study of Conditions,” have won for him high rank among the American educators of today. He was one of the founders of the Catholic College Conference in 1889 and of the Catholic Educational Association in 1904, having served in the capicity of vice-president and director of the latter from the time of its organization to the present. In 1905 he received the degree of Ph. D. in Philosophy and Education from the Catholic University of America, at Washington, D. C.'
It is, however, as a product and now as head of our University that Father Bums is of greatest interest to students of Notre Dame. A native of Michigan City, Indiana, he obtained there his early education, after which he came in 1881 to Notre Dame to take up his studies in preparation for the priesthood as a member of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. During his college course he took an active interest in athletics, played on the varsity baseball team as catcher for two seasons, and in recognition of scholastic excellence was given the Quan Medal in his senior year. In 1888 he graduated with the degree of Bachelor of Arts and entered the Novitiate. After teaching for two years at Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wisconsin, he was transferred back to Notre Dame, where he remained for eight years, teaching chemistry and Greek, serving meanwhile first as prefect of Sorin, then as rector of that hall, and finally as superior of the Community House.
^fie Nowe dame^chokwdc
io
When in 1900 the call came for a president of Holy Cross College at Washington, Father Burns was chosen for the place. While his duties in this new position called for his close and constant' attention he nevertheless maintained his active interest in Notre Dame and made it a practice to return for a considerable part of each summer. In this way he has kept in dose touch with the progress of the school, with all its wonderful development during the last two decades. His relations with Father Cavanaugh during the presidency of the latter have always been very close, and.he has thus come to know very intimately the problems and needs of the University.	_
In Father" Bums, therefore, we have a president who is no stranger to Notre Dame: a man who knows and appreciates her past, understands her present, and is capable of directing her future to the highest development.
J. W. Hogan.
- Obituaries. .
’	Eugene McAleenan.
To Mr. and Mrs. George R. McAleenan and their daughter the faculty and students of the University extend prayerful sympathy on the tragic death of their son, Eugene McAleenan, which cast gloom over the opening days of the preparatory school. Ijugene was drowned in St. Joseph’s Lake, while swimming. Heroic efforts to save him were of no avail. Eugene practiced throughout his life a special devotion to the Holy Cross, and, by a providential disoensation, he was called to Heaven on the Feast of the Exaltation of the Cross. The worn crucifix that he had carried for years was found under his pillow. Daily Communion was his delight, and he had received Our . Lord devoutly a few hours before his death. His devoted mother received the tragic news on the Feast of Our Sorrowful Mother. Reverend Matthew Walsh, C. S. C., Vice-President of the University, attended the funeral, which was held from St. Paul’s Cathedral, Pittsburg. A solemn requiem Mass attended by the facility and students of - the school was offered in. the University church last Thursday morning for the deceased. The Scholastic bespeaks the prayers of the students for the consolation of the bereaved family.
. Mrs. Albert H. Keys. .
The students, faculty, and alumni of Notre
Dame wish to express, through the columns of the Scholastic, their sincerest .sympathy to Albert H. Keys, E. E-, ’i?, whose wife died ou August 31, shortly after giving birth to a son. To lighten the burden of bereavement od this loyal graduate it is promised that many prayers will be offered for the repose of his beloved wife.
Mrs. Mangan.
The many friends of Michael Mangan, ’20, of Holy Cross Hall, were saddened to learn of the death of his mother in Limerick* Ireland, on August 9th. We extend to him and his brother John through the Scholastic our heartfelt sympathy and the promise of prayer for her soul.
-	Ji
Changes at Notre Dame. .
At the annual provincial chapter of the Congregation of Holy Cross held early in the summer more important changes were made affecting Notre Dame than ever before in the history of the University. Various circumstances were responsible for the new arrangements, chief among which were the requirements of . the new Canon Law and college conditions consequent upon the war. The most important of the changes, that in the presidency of Notre Dame, is noted in a separate column.
Father Thomas Irving, superior of the. Seminary for seven years, has succeeded as director of studies, Father Matthew Schumacher, who was made, president of St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas.. Accompanying Father Schumacher to his appointment were Father Michael Quinlan, for years professor of English and prefect in Sorin. Hall, and Father Schreyer, one of the priests • ordained last June, both of whom will teach there. Father Gallagah was appointed "to succeed Father' Thomas Burke as prefect-of discipline, and the latter ,was assigned, to the office of secretary, vacated by Father Moloney, who is now travelling secretary of the Alumni Association. Father John Devers, was placed, in charge . of Carroll Hall, succeeding Father James Quin- . Ian, who. will teach history-and economics, and Father. George Marr, for several years professor in; Columaia, Portland, Oregon, was made head of Sorin and professor of senior Latin.
The new superiors assigned were: Father , GeorgeFinnigan,chaplain in the army, for the past year and a half, superior of.-the.Seminary; \ Father Joseph Boyle, superior of the''-Mission


'Sfie Nocje dame Scfctocie
u
Band; Father William Lennartz, master of novices; Brother Florentius, superior of Dujari^ Hall; Father William Connor, chaplain at St. Mary’s. Father Boland, formerly president of Columbia University, was appointed purchasing agent for Notre Dame.	/
Father De Wulf, lately president of St. Edward’s College, is now teacher of analytic mechanics at Notre Dame; • Father Gassen-smith, formerly professor at Columbia, prefect and professor at Notre Dame; Father Eugene Burke, formerly professor of English and rector of Sorin, President of Columbia University, Portland, Oregon; Father Crumley, professor
of English and Philosophy and formerly vicepresident at Notre Dame, professor at Columbia; Father Oswald, Dean of the Classics at Notre Dame for the last decade, professor at Columbia; Father Edward Finnegan, late chaplain in the army, professor at Columbia; Father James McElhone, assistant-superior of the Seminary; Father James Stack, for the past year engaged in parish work in Austin, Texas, professor in the arts department at Notre Dame.
Brother Albeus, who spent more than a year in Australia canvassing for the Ave Maria, is back at his former post of prefect in Brownson. Brother Aloysius, stationed for the past two years at Columbia, has taken the place of Brother Maurelius in the candy store, Which has been transferred from the basement of the Administration Building to the new storeroom under the tailor shop.
—w. c. H.
Local News.
—Father Burns, president of the University, visited the various rooming halls during the week and read the rules of discipline. It is probable that he will address the day students sometime during the coming week. .
—Brother Emilius, the postmasteT at Notre Dame, urgently requests of all students at the ; University to have the; mail coming to them addressed to the particular halls in which they • reside. Doing this will insure to the student the prompt delivery of his mail—which cannot .be guaranteed in any other way.
—The scholastic year was formally opened last Sunday . in Sacred Heart Church by a solemn High Mass. The sermon, which is - printed elsewhere in' the LScholastic, .was
preached by the Reverend President Burns. Father Matthew Walsh was celebrant, Father Thomas P. Irving, deacon, and Father James Gallagan, sub-deacon.
—Father Gallagan, Prefect of .Discipline, desires to call the attention of the new students to the point of University rule that the front steps and proch of the Main Building are for the use of the faculty and visitors only. All students are asked to use. the entrance under the front steps in going to and from the Main Building and the rear steps inside in going to the first floor and the class rooms.
—Members of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus have returned to the University with firm determination to put the proposed fund for the social center building “over the top.” Many of them devoted their spare hours during the summer months to securing donations from various friends of the school and with their personal savings materi-
. ally augmented by ment are prepared dividual quotas.
—Just preceding
their vacational employ-to “balance up” the in
the opening of school
important retreats were held at Notre Dame. The first, preached by Father Thuente, O. P., to the priests of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, lasted from the eighteenth to the twenty-second of August. Later two retreats for the priests of the Archdiocese of Chicago occupied two weeks, approximately three hundred priests attending from August twenty-fifth to the thirtieth and the same number from September
first to the sixth. The retreat for the Chicago priests was given by Father M. J. O’Connor, S. J.
—At the dose of the summer session more than seventy paintings done by the students -of the art course were exhibited in the corridor of the first floor of the Main Building. The dass in painting unddr the masterly instruction and direction of Dom Gregory Gerrer, O. S. B., fully sustained the reputation of Notre Dame’s department of fine arts. Scenes about the campus provided inspiration for most oi the landscape paintings. There were also on display some remarkable studies in still life and an excellent portrait of Father Maher, the venerable': -Holy Cross priest who cdebrated this year the golden jubilee of his ordination. :	.
—It is announced that the Holy Cross Community will soon erect here at Notre Dame a new building as a home and house of study

12
3fie Nocre $cnne. Scholastic
for the seminarians who have completed their year of novitiate. The -site of the building, which is to be called the Scholasticate, is on the north bank of St. Joseph’s Lake between Calvary and the Novitiate. K The cost of the proposed building will be approximately $75,000; the architecture will conform closely to that of
_ the buildings of the campus.
that the Holy Cross Mission Band will have a - portion of this new building reserved for its members. It is likely also that a miraculous shrine of the Sacred Heart will be erected in the - s
Scholasticate. ,	-
—One of several important events at Notre Dame within the summer was the gathering of a number of bishops, priests, and laymen for the purpose of preparing a preliminary program to be submitted to the American hierarchy of archbishops and bishops, now assembled in Washington City. In the first meeting the work was divided into three parts and assigned to special committees, which brought in reports to the assembly for general discussion. After . three days the work was completed, and Bishop Muldoon, the presiding officer of the meeting, dismissed the member?. The program prepared embodies the counsel ot some forty of the country’s most competent authorities and experts .in religious and social work.	'
—Notre. Dame is upon the threshold of an extraordinary scholastic year.. She rejoices in, among other things, the return of many of her old men from overseas duty with the American forces, the prospect of an invincible football team, and a record enrollment. More than fourteen hundred students have registered in Father Moloney’s office, about nine hundred of this number being of collegiate rank. Two hundred students, unable to secure rooms on the campus are living in South Bend. - The overcrowded condition will be relieved somewhat by the • addition of eleven new rooms which are now
being prepared in Sorin Hall and . by the use of the old library in the Main Building, which
Tobin, who acted as financial secretary last year and also as director of the building fund ................................ campaign, wasunanimouslyelected grand -Twenty-five of the sophomore and junior knight Walter Miller,. deputy grand knightin seminarians have interrupted their regular 1916}-before his'- entry, into the government . ? courses at the University in order to enter upon service, was; re-dect^ to toa
their novitiate year. This number, together with officers elected were:;
■ last year’s graduates from the seminary, raises - Beapom; warden, Frank Coughlin; financial. •' the number of novice in: the Novitiate to secretary;AldaiJ.Cusick;recorder,-A.Lyndon . • • thirty. ? The decision of; the superiors of the Bryce;treasupd,J(»ephM?Maag;advocate, Community tosendsemmarianstothe Novitiate JosephTierney;insidegumd/^
is being converted into a dormitory.
after their freshman year comes after careful deliberation and marks a return to the policy initiated some years ago but discontinued for the last few years. After a year in the Novitiate, the seminarians reside in the new Scholasticate and complete their courses at the University, after which they will go to Holy Cross College,
It is probable . Washington, D. C., for their four years of theological study.	.
The Monitor of Newark, New Jersey, for May 24th had in its editorial column the following comment on Notre Dame’s substitution of Latin-American subjects for the traditional English history?
Did you ever wonder why good. American-boy brainstuff should be burdened with the dates and fictions of English history, and why that history is the only foreign history in' many of our schools? You need wonder no longer regarding one of our leading institutions, at least,- for Notre Dame University has simply wiped this favoritism off its slate, and its students will learn of our neighboring American countries instead. Good work! May it be the beginning of the end of this unfairness. *Tis time enough to learn the history of that pompous little land across the sea when we study the general history of the world.- We have been woefully neglectful up to this of the history of the nations from whom our Republic has derived its sons an< narticularly . of the lands to the south of us. Now- that-we think in world terms, we should study our brothers and let our "cousins” get a little wholesome retirement.,
—Organization of the local council of the Knights of Columbus was effected Tuesday night, September 23rd, when the members met for the purpose of electing new officers. A large number' attended and -showed an enthusiasm in the proceedings which augurs well • for the successful work of the Knights during the. coming year. Every effort will be made to insure the completion of the Social Center Building which the members last year voted to erect. Anothef ambition of the council is that Notre Dame may be represented by an initiation team capable of creating new Knights in the-first, second, and third degrees. ' Thomas J.

r £$
'SfieNocredame Scholastic
13
outside . guard, C. Kasper; trustees,' Rev. —An interesting essay entitled “The Heritage Joseph Maguire, C. S. C., Rev. Wm. A. Carey, of Notre Dame” occurs Tn the Grail, a weekly * C. S. C., and Frank P. Goodall, retiring grand magazine edited by the Benedictine Fathers. .
Miss Mary E. Sullivan, who attended the summer session at the University, is the author '
knight.	.
•—The Notre Dame branch of the Friends of ' Irish Freedom held its first meeting of the year in the basement of Walsh Hall Monday, night, the 22nd of September. Many new advocates of Erin’s cause added their names to the roster and gave every evidence of being in hearty sympathy with the plans of the organization as set forth by Father Cornelius Hagerty in his introductory remarks. .The members were - unanimous in their desire to see a course in Irish history added to the curriculum of the University and in response to a motion the . president of the branch appointed a committee which will endeavor to get favorable action on the matter. The educational propaganda earned on last year will be continued and every effort made to encourage interest in current Irish
questions. The enthusiasm of the branch was - , ., , , ...	. ..
1- , . . ,	A (°ld student), were among the recent visitors
. stimulated by an announcement that Notre	’
Dame had invited Eamonn De Valera, President of the Irish Republic, to include Notre Dame in his speech-making itinerary. The election of officers resulted as follows: president, Thomas J. Tobin; vice;president, John Buckley; financial secretary, Paul Conaghan; corresponding secretary, Alfred N. Slaggert; recording secretary, Thomas Beacom; treasurer, Walter Douglas; orator, Walter O’Keefe; guard, Walter Millar; trustees, Reverend James A. Burns, Reverend Cornelius J. Hagerty, and Reverend Paul Foik.
Tobin-Beacom.
Personals.
—Cards were received ^recently announcing the marriage of'Miss Ella LaLiberty, and Mr.
of the essay.	-	■	.	'
’ —From Scranton, Pa., comes the news of the ’ -marriage of Miss Anna Harte and Mr. Joseph Martin Walsh (E. E-, ’14). The young couple will be at home after the first of September in . Honesdale, Pa. The Scholastic extends congratulations and best wishes. _	'
—A photograph of a new electric light plant 1 installed in the City of Cojimar, Cuba, by Mr. Antonio Espinal, Jr., has been received at the University. Mr.. Espinal was a student here . some few years ago, and his early success will be a source, of gratification to former ' teachers./	.
- —Timothy Galvin, (Ph. B. T6), Frank Kirkland (LL- B. ’17), and Art Carmody
at the University. Tim was a varsity debater -in his time; Kirkland used to run the hurdles; and Art camped upon the baseball field from ■ April until June.	.	.
—Granville Tinnin, (old student) is now vice-president of the newly organized First National Bank of Lusk, Wyoming. Mr. Tinmn is held in the highest esteem throughout the state of Wyoming, and “ wherever he is known,” to quote the Lusk Standard, “his name is a synonym, for square dealing.”	.
—The Scholastic takes pleasure in announcing the marriage of Miss Elinor Wolf and Francis P. Mulcahy on July 23, in New York City. “Mui” was a campus celebrity of his ' time and was one of the first to respond to .the colors. He was commissioned a captain in the . aviation section of the Marines. .
J. J. Myers (LL. B.’04) on June 18, at Carroll, —Prominent among summer marriages of Iowa. We join with the 1904 class in felicitating interest to. Notre Dame was that of Miss our fellow-alumnus.	*	‘	Wanda Smith and Mr. Cecil E. Birder, (LL. B.,
—Bernard Voll (Ph. B. ’17), Breen Medalist ’14) which was solemnized at Minneapolis, and President of his class, has entered the Minn., July 16. Mr. and Mrs. Birder will bp Harvard College, of law/ Bernie was wounded at home after October the first, at ParkRiver, / twice while in the service, but has recovered North Dakota. Sincerest wishes for happiness /
all his old-time vigor.	. , / '
; —July newspapers-recorded the wedding of
and success ! .
—Among the mid-summer arrivals from France was Sergeant Paul Rush, student at the
. Miss . Marie Buck and Mr. Simeon Kasppr in
Chicago; Mr. Kasper will be remembered as a; University in 1909. Mr. Rush, who is prominent student at the University, in: 1911-14. The in the.lumber, industry in the South, enlisted S^-wnLARTTr extends felicitations. . ?. - - in. the forestry , division of-the Twentieth Ell-



*4	. '^fieNowe dameSchokwric
_ - /
gineers immediately after our entrance into the war. Paul will be remembered by old students as a varsity pole vaulter in his day.
—Simon Farrell (M. E., ’14), famous in Notre Dame baseball history, renewed old acquaintances during a brief visit this summer. Mr. Farrell holds a responsible position with the Pitometer Co., 25 Elm St., New York City, a consulting hydraulic engineering concern. He has recently completed a survey of the water . system in Springfield, Ohio, and was commended highly for his exceptional work.
—One of the recent happy weddings held in South Bend was solemnized on June 25, when Catherine Lucile Weber was married to Mr. Jack Spalding Young (B. S. ’17), of Lexington, Kentucky. The ceremony was performed in St. Patrick’s Church before a large assembly of friends. Jack was a popular student in his day, and Mrs. Young is a lady of many accomplishments. The young people will make their home in South Bend.
—Harry “Butch” Baujan (Ph. B.. ’17) dropped in to visit us during the week and donned his old football uniform just for old-time’s sake. “Butch” says that it’s hard to think that he’s been graduated for two years, with “Dutch” Bergman, Fritz Slackford, and George Fitzpatrick back in the old Sorin Sub. He seems to be the same old Butch, despite his two years of war, and we only wish he could be with us in football this year.
—The Scholastic is in receipt of the announcement of the wedding of Miss Lulu Van Dyke and Lieutenant Thomas H. King, July 1, at Louisville, Ky. “Tom” will always be remembered . as one of Notre Dame’s • most ' representative athletes, starring both on the gridiron and the cinder path. The young people will be at home at, 209 Haldeman Avenue, Louisville, Kentucky. Sincerest. regards to you and your bride, Tom! .
—The Honorable .Victor J. Dowling (LL- D. ’17), Justice of the Appellate* division of the Supreme Court of New, York, has been made a - Chevalier of the Legion of Honor . . In conferring this .distinctidn upon Mr. Dowling - the French Ambassador, M. Jules Jusserand, said: “In bestowing on you our . national order we- have done nothing but shown our heartfelt gratitude for your devotion to; that good cause which was victorious on the day when it became our common cause.” . Justice.
Dowling had already been made a Commander of the Order of the. Crown of King Albert of Belgium. Those who have followed the lifework of .our distinguished alumnus will vouch for the fact that honor was never more ~ worthily bestowed.
— Eddie Meehan, our long-distance track star, looked after Notre Dame’s laurels in the recent inter-allied games at Paris. As a member of the winning 1600 meter team, he received a bronze medal, a certificate signed by Gen. Pershing, a silver medal from the French Minister of War, and the personal congratulations of General Pershing. Eddie is with us again and in spite of a heavy class schedule; . promises to be in better shape than ever before the track season opens.
—Mr. Patrick E. O’Brien (student of 187073), of San Antonio,, Texas, visited the University during the summer. He had a long and interesting talk with Reverend Timothy Maher, C. S. C., who “reigned” in the secretary’s office during a long period following the Civil War. Mr. O’Brien, like hundreds of others during recent years, paid tribute to Father Maher’s remarkable power of “growing young.” We have long suspected and now respectfully hazards the opinion that a certain genial confrere has discovered “the secret of perpetual youth.” However, the- reverend'1 Doctor guards this secretwell.
—Upon the occasion of the triumphant return of General John J. Pershing to the United States, the Reverend President of the University telegraphed the following message of . welcome:	■	,
;	Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 6, 1919.
General John J. Pershing,. , New York City. *	-
On behalf of the faculty and students of Notre Dame University^ and, especially of the many hundreds of her sons who, as soldiers, officers or chaplains fought or labored under your command to bring about a glorious termination of the world war, I bid you . welcome home. ■	.
■	' .	. J. A. Burns, President.
General Pershing acknowledged the greetings of the University with the following appreciative reply:' r .	. - -	:
■ . .	-New:York City,..Sept. 12, 1919. .
James A. Burns, ; . "	. .	'	. .	.
I -thank, thefacplty'and students of Notre Dame for their cordial message of welcome, and for their .	..
^contribution to the success of the A. IJ. F.; < ? . .	.
- I’	; john/J-'Pereldng.; • ‘ ■


$fie Nocre domeSchdcwcic
15
Athletic Notes.
FOOTBALL PROSPECTS.
Notre Dame is swinging' hard into her fourth decade of intcr-cjllegiate football competition. This season, the thirty-first, already bids fair to be in many ways the biggest and most successful. Full of the remarkable fighting spirit which marked the work of the handicapped elevens of the war time in their top-heavy schedules, and encouraged by the return of numerous veterans of the pre-war days,. Notre Dame is priming for a banner season. As in former years, the schedule of games will take the team far into the East and West. The same strong teams are to be met again, and one jld rival of ten years ago is once more slated. Every position on the team will be battled for by. seasoned monogram men of other years. At least two letter men are out for every place, and in some instances three or four. Fifteen candidates are competing for the backfield honors, among them ten letter men who have carried the ball to Notre Dame victories in other years. Squads in some other years, have been larger, but not nearly so well seasoned at the outset. The 1919 crew numbered last week thirty-eight men, of which nineteen wore the monogram of fonper service, for the Gold and Blue. With such a number of “old heads” to pick from the coaches can devjte less attention to the elementary training, and can give the huskies such a session of. hard and fast preliminary work as no Notre Daine squad has yet received. In view of the intense competition for every position on the team, the scrimmage work this year should be early and interesting. No man has his place pre-empted and the days off will be days lost. The men should from the start be capable of gruelling work that will make the . first efforts. of other years look like child’s play. The interference will be faster and more deadly, the tackling harder and more accurate, the team play many degrees better. Every man on the squad has had experience with the S. A. T. C. or training camp teams of last year, and the fact that most of them are only recently returned from the service should vouch for
their physical trim. The students’ interest in mixing it for the guard positions, Smith and the development of the team is evident from H. Anderson, monogram men of the war years, the fact that four or five hundred are out every Ambrose the interhall star, Connor and Saun- . day to witness the. work/. Speculation is rife as ders, of last year’s squad, andGooley, a new to whether the old men will be able to hold their man. The sdrap for the tackle honors counts own against the comparative youngsters who three monogram meh, Coughlin and Degree,
made such wonderful football history for - ’ Notre Dame during the war years. On the other hand the heroes of ’17 and ’18 are wonder- . ing if they will be able to-stand with the men they read about or watched three years ago fighting for Notre Dame. Despite the rivalry aroused to a fighting pitch, harmony to the one purpose of victory is evident. Coaches Rockne and Dorais, the veterans and the new meh alike are all determined that the best team that can be picked shall represent this university. And the fact is, if the prospect means anything, that Notre Dame is - going to have one of the greatest elevens in all her glorious football history.
The future of the team depends greatly, of course, upon the men who have in hand its instruction, selection and grooming. For this work the squad enjoys the services, of Coach Rockne and Assistant Coach Dorais. “Rock” , begins his second year as athletic director at Notre Dame after three years as assistant -coach with Jesse Harper, and one phenomenal year of his own work. Last year he faced a very tough task: only four old men answered his call, his new material was green and the lightest in the history of the school, disastrous injuries, ill health, and a heavy schedule made' the outlook all but hopeless. But the coach and his men faced the difficulties, and finally pulled through one of the most successful seasons we have had. With everything in his favor this year there should be no question. “Gus” Dorais, the little general who made them .all watch and step in ’10, ’n, ’12 and ’13, is with Rockne as assistant coach, the backfield being his specialty. If we have a “Rock” line and a Dorais backfield the achievement of N. D. on the 1919 gridiron is going to be well worth watching.
As to- the men who are fighting for places on the Gold and Blue teams of this year, and who will again cany the “Fighting Irish” spirit with them to the four points of the compass^-there is first at center Madigan, a ’17 monogram man, Holton, the Texan of former years, \ Trafton, the Chicago giant; and Maher and . Dooley, out for their first year. Six men are /

i6
Noctv domeSchckwdc
jf .the 1916 team, Crowley, of ’18 fame, and Vohs, Cudah y Murphy and Shaw complete the ring. For sensational wing forwards, such as Notre Dame has in past years developed, the choice is to be made from E. Anderson, Kirk, and Hayes. All three are letter men, the first two of last year, and Hayes is a ’17 man of the Irish stock.- Donovan, Prokup and Kiley, veterans of 1918, round out the merry party of contenders for the end positions. Field generals are not so numerous, but their quality has been tested and rated 100% in past seasons. Of the four men out, three are survivors of the war-year campaigns. Pearson, Bahan and Brandy, letter men of the 1917 crew, are the leaders, with Sexton out for the first time. The rest of the backfield positions are crowded with competitors,—three positions for eleven men, and seven of them wearers of the big N. D. For halfbacks the coaches have Bergman and Malone of the 1915 “travelling - Irish,” Fitzpatrick of ’16, Gipp of ’17 and ’18, and Barry of last year. Other halfback material appears in Kasper, the 1916 interhall sensation, and Mohardt, also an interhall product who had varsity experience last year. Stuhldrer is also bidding high. At full, tyro more old-timers are bidding for places. Slackford, of the 1916 letter list and 1915 experience, is back for a berth. Walter Miller, a ’16 man and a ’17 _ letter man, is out. His kicking-is so far the best on the squad. Wynn and Phelan are out and working hard for the place. The former had experience on the ’18 squad. .
The men mentioned complete the list of ' those who are out in action and who can be counted on to be in trim for the. first games. There are .several others who are yet doubtful as to their return to school—among them Chet Grant, the ’16-’ 17 basketball, baseball, track and football man, who is still oversea!s, but who expects to be home at any time to take up his work at Notre Dame.
Thus the backfield is well stocked and with
Sixty'freshmen answered the first call to the
■ the usual round of work should easily rank gridiron Monday. John Miller,’of the varsity with .the best combinations of the last decade, in 1915-16, will , drill the youngsters for the , Much depends, of course, on the development scrimmages^ with - the :va^	.begin .
of a steady kicker and accurate passers. It late this week. Sherwood Dixon, of the 1917 has the line plungers and the usual unexcelled varsity squad. will assist Miller. in the work. interference;. The line is'the big problem for Thefreshman squadisthe largest crewtoreport. the coaches, as it has been for years. lt will be Coaches Ro<±ne, Dorais, and Dixon are going a light line compared to some we have had, to hdp.lti» ^st-yew med. “put’one; over” on but it willhave speed. fight, and brains. Notye the varsityoneoftheseevenings. .
Dame has. staked her football fortunes oh that
type of line for.four years and won every time. Finally the coaches will do their level best to put a record-breaking team- on the field, and the squad will give' all that is . in them to the work. The results may be all that the most optimistic .student can hope for and more; yet it will all be of little avail if the student body is not behind its team in every move. Rumors of the pessimistic kind and bear stories must be “called” promptly, unless they are of official nature. The famous “fighting Irish spirit” has typified Notre Dame athletic teams, and the football teams in particular, for many years. It should be typical of the student body also in support of the team. This year is, in many ways, the biggest in the history of the University. It is justly expected that every Notre Dame man will do his part in making it-the “greatest ever” in Athletics.
- ' ***• - .
Cross-country will be the next call on the list of sports to be issued some time this week, and by the end of next week the squad should be rounding into fair shape. The largest squad in . the history of the school is expected, and every man who intends to do any running in the spring should get but this fall for the preliminary work.	z
-- *** . .
The improvements on the gymnasium are well under way and will be rushed to completion. Coach Rockne announces that the hew addition will provide locker, dressing-room, and shower accommodations for every college-man in school. Ten new showers and patent , steel lockers will be features. The “Gym” accommodations will be for college men only, and it is hoped that every man will come out for at least one branch of sport. Notre Dame is competing in collegiate sports with many schools twice or three times her size, and to hold-her own must depend on the popularity of athletics among her students.


Che Moure Same Scholastic Advertisements
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. Main Office, Cor. Mich, and Colfax Ave.
BELL 5^4 HOME 5515
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICE
One or two passengers, ...	$1.00
Each additional passenger, - - -	.50
Special trip for Baggage, - - - - $1.00 Each additional Trunk, - - - - * .50 Suit Case, - -- -- -- -	.25
The Oliver Hotel
European Plan
BEST IN THE WEST
300 Rooms	Fireproof
THIS HOTEL OPERATES PERFECTLY APPOINTED
CAFES
CIGAR AND NEWS STAND BILLARD HALL - BAKE SHOP BARBER SHOP
HAIR DRESSING AND . MANICURING PARLORS
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc. RATES REASONABLE
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM
, OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Waiter service after 9 o’clock P. M. if desired.
Auditorium Hotel CHICAGO
Introducing to you a new collar
BARRACKS
designed for com* : fort and style.
[Now on sale.
^/ion(^Iars
OLDEST BRANDIN AMERICA
.. _ UNITCOSMIWTACOmwCO.TI»OV.M.T. >
801* BT	___
MAX ADLER CO., SOUTH BEND. DID.
On the corner of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.
Special attention shown students and alumni of Notre Dame. ,
JOHN J. CALVEY, Manapr
I
Che Houre Same ^cholasdc AdCepUisemenCs
No. 126
Die First National Bank
South Bend, Indiana (Oliver Hotel Building)
Capital, $ 105,000 Surplus and Profit, $145,000
Mechanics-Tools
Draughtman’s Tools
G. E* Meyer & Son
Hardware Merchants
115-i 17 West Jefferson Boulevard ~ (Opposite Portoffice) ' Fine Cutlery	South Bbnd, Ind.
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR., Vice-Prest.
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier.
C. J. WHITMER, Ass’t Cashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES
' Wb Issue FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowbst Market Rates and Lbttbrs of Credit Patablb Throughout thb World
Try Our Traveler’s Cheques
The Dome
Official Portrait Photographer
McDonald
211 South Main St. o .. n .. T . Opp. PMt onu«	S^pth Bond, Ind.
Safe
SPALDING
Base Ball Equipment
UNIFORMS, CAPS, BELTS STOCKINGS, SHOES, BATS, BALLS, GLOVES, MASKS, ¥TC. •
A.G. SPALDING & BROS
■ air STATE STREET, CHICAGO .
Ideal Laundry Company
“Get the Ideal Habit"	,
Three collections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your packages at the •
Notre Dame .News Stand
Cox Sons & Vining 72 Madison Ave., New York CAPS A ND GOWNS
Silk Faculty ; Gowns "and Hoods. -Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship. . Gownsfor Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
Schuler, KHngel & Co.
WftelgMle Fruite md Produce ' .
CitizensNational Bank
i i2-i4 W. Jeffersbn Blvd. South Bend, Ind.
■i:



IB pr
kb r, •;





I i 0?
■
■5 QQ .
!
I®
JliJarp’s College anb Scabemp
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
i .	•	■	. ■	■	■	■ .'	• ■ .'	0
Academy
Church
College
Gymnasium


s
Recognition by the Indiana State Board of Education
College—Standard; Normal Department—Accredited; Academy (High School)—Commissioned ‘ Credits accepted by the leading Universities -
• . ' । . J ' ' ' / ' '
An institution where your daughter is assured of all the benefits of an exclusive school, while surrounded with all the comforts and protection of home life. St. Mary’s is devoted to the development of the highest type of womanhood in the girls entrusted to her care. .	'
Many features of this school of high ideals, its broad campus and well equipped commodious buildings, cannot be touched upon in the limited space of this announcement. The President, therefore, cordially invites correspondence from parents having daughters !to educate, and will take pleasure in mailing an illustrated catalog and descriptive literature. Address the President.,	.	■
ST. MARY’S COLLEGE AND ACADEMY	y
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY '
NOTRE DAME P. O.. INDIANA l	'

□

a
7
l Iniber^i tp of J^otre ©amt

NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
V
College of SIrte anb letters.
Departments of Ancient Classics, Modem Literature, History, Political Economy, Sociology, Domestic Commerce, Foreign Commerce, Journalism, Library Science.
College of Science.
Departments of Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Pharmacy, Agriculture.
College of Srcfjiterture.
Departments of Construction, Design.
College of engineering.
Departments of Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Mining Engineering, Industrial Engineering.
College of lato.
i
College of Jf ine &rt£
Departments of Artistic Drawing, Painting, Cartooning, Instrumental Music, Vocal Music.	'
>.

J
Preparatory ftcljool.
Variant Courses.
&L Cbtoarb^aH.
For Young Boys.
J
«
as
Notre Dame is recognized by all educators, by tire press and. by the public a college whose work is of the same grade as that of the most highly endowed .
&

colleges or die best state universities. Its atmosphere is strongly Catholic and no young man who has ever attended the University cd Notre Dame can escape its influence in after life.
f
The discipline is paternal, and aims at giving young men the fullest liberty consistant with earnest study and manly Christian character. Rooms at reasonable rates. Catalogue sent on application..	.
J
Address:
THE REGISTRAR
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA ,
