GETA
FREE
TRIAL ISSUE OF
Follow all the best in Notre Dame sports with Irish Sports Report. We bring you all the latest—more news, more experience, more action color photography and more of what you're looking for than any other publication!
ISR is published weekly during football season, monthly after the season—22 big issues for just $28 a year. Take advantage of this great offer and see for yourself why Irish Sports Report is the No. 1 Notre Dame sports publication in America! Follow the Fighting Irish—subscribe today.
Irish Sports Report
The No. 1 Publication in the Nation devoted exclusively to Notre Dame Sports


1 -800-457-3533
CALL ANYTIME • 24 HOURS A DAY
Irish Bomb MSU

S
sc
E
R
FORM
□	Please send me my FREE trial issue of Irish Sports Report.
□	Please send me my FREE trial issue AND sign me up for a subscription to ISR.
□ 1 Yr/22 issues- $28	□ 2 Yrs/44 issues - $50 □ 3 Yrs/66 issues -$72
NOTE: Subscriptions sent 2nd doss moil. For FASTER 1st class delivery, odd $22/yr. For ist doss delivery during football seoson only, odd $12/yr.'
PAYMENT:
□
Payment enclosed Discover MasterCard
Visa
Charge Card Account#
Expiration Date
Signature
Name (please print)
Daytime Phone
Address
Cify/State/Zip
iWAIL TOs Irish Sports Report/Subscription Dept., 225 W. Colfax, South Bend, IN 46626'Q;:'

1993-1994 Scholastic editorial board:
7 '.T- ; ""■/■' -y ■ EditorinChief ' k,.f < ■ \ 'y^yy 7 7 Managing Editor . ■>." 7 7... . 7.. ■’/■ -1' .7 < 77. 7-7? -,.;7>7£?.7	; News Editor	7'	-- :7: y-y. y.yy. ■
■	::	7	7	7 Sports Editor >7 .;7<? ;• ... ,■.
7 77.7777;,77 Campus Life Editor .7 ; .7 7:. ; -' •'/.-'■.■/•--J-:
yy .y.y Xc?y,y Entertainment Editor -7	.••••'	;;	'• :7
Departments Editor ’	'-7
,/•••. ‘y;^-yyyy:Copy Editor •< •• _•	-y • -7;
< , y\ 7.7 y-y..	" Photography Editor '	?■'■
y 7 ‘y >	Layout Manager. '• •.. :■ 7; y .; j./ • \ 7 ••;.• •
:'.y-yy--.\	Graphic Arts Manaager
.J.',- y:‘:y.'..■■" •	-Z;'^Systems Manager ' .;.:	' y y - "
' ^-^yy^-'y y -y^y Business Manager \y^-:'y	7 ...
.	7	Advertising Manager ■
Applications can be picked up at the Scholastic office, 303 LaFortune. No experience is necessary. AU majors and years are encouraged to
■< '7 <	y--"-^' /■ apply. Questions? Call 239-7569; 7
7^^^	0	may pick up
7 7;S77m thciifcppy of the 1992 Football
7 Review by bringing their ID to 303
S/7B'l;--7^'7LaFbBune^;during Office .hours :B7-L7.77.2-57p.ih.-Monday 4hrough Friday.;,
Extra copies :-B;7;7-’,;<7:-.,'Aiava^^
1992 FOOTBAU REVIEW ' #	- ....	' . . . .
■
CoMBMSI
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
5 NORTHWESTERN BY AMANDA CLINTON
8 MICHIGAN BY JIM KUSER
12 MICHIGAN STATE BY J. BRADLEY KECK
15 PURDUE BY NIK MATHEWS
18 STANFORD BY AMANDA CLINTON
21 PITTSBURGH BY AMANDA CLINTON
24 BYU BY GREG BORKOWSKI
28 NAVY BY KATE MEDIEROS
31 BOSTON COLLEGE BY AMANDA CLINTON
34 PENN STATE BY PEG WARD
38 use BY KEVIN WEINMAN
42 COTTON BOWL BY JIM KUSER
47 FINAL REGULAR SEASON STATISTICS
Cover photo by Ken Osgood
Ken Osgood
Reggie Brooks (40), Rick Mirer (3), Jerome Bettis (6)
48	50	52
INDIVIDUAL	SCHOLASTIC	FINAL WORD
HONORS	ALL-OPPONENT BY BERNARD MANNELLY
TEAM
1992 FOOTBALL REVIEW
SCHOLASTIC
j&NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGA ZINE
fl992yE^tl^R^
\Disc$XtiasiS^ ftyiveQiMsi-C&Sr
Founded: 1867:
i 2 J ■"	7

ipit&O Patrida
MANAGlNGlEDlO ^ai^ef Sr kenhy - (;

EXEGUTiyEEbiTOR
David. JrHoisihgerr
C^PUS-U^^ Bditorrh^


.;; Editors: MarkMitcheir
r. <:	= A ’	.-. ' '. ...'■ ■■ : " ->' /


'Assistot^^
iENTERTAINMEN^
;Edi tor: J Bradl by ■ Keck
BEPA^ Editor^
apH^GI^PHY^g
: Editor?Ken Osgood •	■:
■■■ ■:<■';>.>-: = *?,/,'■';■.■ ■■ ;; -J'.";--4z xii->
>COPY r ./'.•■ ;,. . ./-i
^Editor: Chris:	.
liGiwAi^^
^^UTgwgfisi5
: /-Manager: Chin Wang ■ i
gManSg^::^reaBiiey|g^
:|Manager:;Eite^
Manager: Mark'Fitzgerald



a E
After much time and toil, Scholastic presents its annual Football Review issue. This issue of Notre Dame’s student magazine represents the combined efforts of writers, photographers and editors who worked tirelessly to bring to you an interesting and informative recap of the 1992 Fighting Irish football season.
As a senior, the fall of 1992 was my last as a Notre Dame student. It was therefore the last time that I entered Gate 17 of Notre Dame Stadium to sit—or rather to stand— with my classmates and cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame. For me, andl think for most of my classmates, the 1992 season was the most satisfying out of the four that we spent in the shadow of the Golden Dome.
This year, we witnessed many memorable moments. We saw Rick Mirer set school passing and scoring records and Craig Hentrich set school kicking records. We saw Reggie Brooks’ spectacular run to stardom by becoming the first running back in Lou Holtz’ seven years to rush for over 1,000 yards in a single season. In short, we ' saw what was one of the nation’s most productive offenses net 38.8 points-per-game. But arguably the biggest story was that we saw first-year defensive coordinator Rick Minter turn a defense that was down in the dumps after a 33-16 loss to S tanford into the king of the mountain in a 28-3 Cotton Bowl win over Texas A&M.
Over our four years, we witnessed great games. We watched Notre Dame win three out of four major bowls and wind up with final AP rankings of 2, 6, 13 and 4. We watched Notre Dame complete the “Decade
Scholastic is pu blished weekly throughout the school year except during examinaiion and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. Thesubscription rat e is$25M0/year and back issues are available at $125 {copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. AH unsolidtied materials become the property of Scholastic,
Copyright 1993 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction m whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
of Dominance” over Southern Cal. Two other games, however, stand out as being special. “Notre Dame moments” we call them. A 29-20 home win over Miami two years ago and a 17-16 home win over Penn State this year. We will never forget Rocket’s 94-yard kickoff return for a touchdown against the Hurricanes or Mirer’s touchdown pass to Bettis and two-point conversion to Brooks with 20 seconds to go against the Nittany Lions. These were the only two games in our four years after which we tried to tear down the goalposts. We never did, but we tried.
We saw it all. We lived it all. We loved it all.
It is the wish of the Scholastic staff that this issue will serve as a keepsake of this exciting season — not only a keepsake for today as you pull it out of your mailbox, but also as a keepsake for tomorrow as you pull it off of your bookshelf.
This issue could not have been presented to you without the assistance of John Heisler and his staff at Notre Dame Sports Information, particularly photographer Mike Bennett.
Finally, we dedicate this issue to the late Edward “Moose” Krause for his tireless service to Notre Dame athletics.
Read and enjoy. Editorial comments are always welcome — just drop a note to the Scholastic sports department.
JimKuser
Sports Editor
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writex's name, address and plume number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also wiU edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556

Dadi" - Mil——Jb
SWEET
HOME
CHIC
Nick Spangler .
It's off to the races for Regggie Brooks on this 72-yard touchdown run. The senior tailback tallied 157 of Notre Dame's 391 rushing yards against Northwestern.

Notre Dame blew into the Windy City and blew out Northwestern
by Amanda Clinton
Irish fans were expecting to blow out the Northwestern Wildcats. But the first half of this game was far from easy for Notre Dame.
The Irish had a difficult time dealing with the wild play-calling of the Wildcats, but once Northwestern had exhausted every fake punt, reverse and flea-flicker in its playbook, Notre Dame had no trouble disposing of the pesky Wildcats.
The scoring began with junior tight end Oscar McBride catching a 5-yard touchdownpass. McBride, playing the game with his jaw wired shut from an injury acquired nine days earlier, Scored his second touchdown of the game on a similar play in the second half.
The Wildcats tied up the game with 47 seconds left in the first quarter on a 14-yard run by wide receiver Lee Gissendaner. This was Northwestern’s only touchdown of the day.
In the second quarter, sophomore tailback Lee Becton gave the lead back to the Irish with a 3-yard touchdown jaunt to cap off an 86-yard drive.
As the Notre Dame football team jogged off of Soldier Field at halftime, it was hard to believe the score. The Irish were only
leading the Wildcats, a team which consistently finishes the season in the basement of the Big Ten, by a score of 14-7. Northwestern limited Notre Dame to only three offensive possessions in the first half.
“At the half it was important for us to remember we were ahead. Sometimes a team can come in and get down after playing like that. We had to remember we were leading,” stated Holtz.
Said senior tailback Reggie Brooks, “It was frustrating for us in the first half. That’s where Rick helped. He kept calming us down, telling us not to be too over-anxious.”
Mirer can be credited with holding the team together, as well as completing 8 of 17 passes for a total of 165 yards and two touchdown passes.
Despite the slow start in the first half, the momentum changed after halftime with the
help of senior defensive end Devon nine carries, one of which was a 72-yard
McDonald. McDonald became an inspirational leader in the absence of senior linebacker Demitrius Dubose. Dubose suffered a two-game suspension for NCAA violations. In addition to being an emotional leader for the Notre Dame defense, McDonald also tallied seven tackles and three sacks by the end of the day.
Stated McDonald, “Those sacks were a team effort We needed something badly at
the time. Something had to happen.”
While McDonald took over Dubose’s leadership role, junior linebacker Peter Bercich inherited his position at linebacker. Bercich finished second on the team in tackles with eight.
“I was disappointed with the way I played,” said Bercich. “It’s a new spot Certain situations caught me off guard.”
At halftime Devon McDonald encouraged his defensive teammates to pick up the intensity.
“We came into the locker room, after the coaches got through I asked, ‘What’s going on?’ It was time for someone to stand up. I’m a senior. It’s up to me to make sure we get it going,” explained McDonald.
. Senior tailback Reggie Brooks also made something happen in the second half. Despite a thigh bruise, he tallied 157 yards on ;
touchdown. Brooks also carried on a 45-yard run but was taken down by the Wildcats before he could reach the endzone.
• Brooks answered the questions about whether he would measure up to the high standards his brother Tony, now a Philadelphia Eagle, set while playing for Notre Dame.	!
Explained coach Lou Holtz, “I always | thought Reggie could be better than Tony.” ■
as
a
1992 FOOTBALL BEVIER
Countered Brooks, “Tony always said that too. That’s just like him, though.”
Holtz not only answered questions about the ability of Reggie Brooks, but he also discovered who would be his starting tailback.
“I made a comment earlier that we don’t
have anybody proven at tailback, but I felt we’d be good at tailback. I felt Reggie, Willie, Lee Becton and Jerome Bettis performed well,” explained Holtz.
Brooks, Becton and Clark accumulated a total of 224 yards while junior fullback Jerome Bettis amassed a total of 134 yards on 19carries.
A Rick Mirer/Mike Miller connection changed the pace of the game in the second half and proved to be a turning point for the Irish. Mirer launched a 70-yard pass to Miller who ran it into the endzone for a touchdown. This momentum change occurred with 5:47 left to play in the third quarter, when Northwestern was only trailing by seven points.
“I had good protection. Northwestern was in man coverage,” explained Mirer. “I just threw it out there and let him chase it down.”
Stated Holtz, “A post pattern by Miller with the other receiver running an underroute. It was a perfect pass. Mike Miller made some good things happen out there today.”
Mirer also tried his foot at
punting. In the role of a “pooch punter,” Mirer successfully kicked the ball 37 yards where the Wildcats were trampled on their own 3-yard line. .
In addition to this new kicking game, senior place-kicker and punter Craig Heinrich returned to his position after being injured during the 1991 Tennessee game.
While the Irish offense answered ques
tions, the defense left many wondering. How could Notre Dame allow Northwestern
to accumulate 408 yards? Many wondered whether this was a preview of the defense for the season to come or a strategy to let Michigan enter the game the following week with an overconfident attitude.
Stated McDonald, “We’ve got a week to
prepare. We have to batten it down. We’re
nick apangie
"Big" Irv Smith (6 feet 4 inches tall and 246 pounds) is eager to embrace "Little" Mike Miller (5 feet 7 inches tall and 155 pounds) after Miller's 70-yard touchdown reception.
not playing Northwestern next week. Michigan is bigger and stronger, like a pro team.”
Many also wondered why the Irish al
lowed Wildcat quarterback Len Williams to throw for a total of 281 yards when his average last season was only 148 yards. Notre Dame also allowed Northwestern to dominate the beginning of the game by let
ting the Wildcats plow down the field 70 yards on the first drive and 80 yards on the
next.
Said Holtz, “We never made them work for a lot of passes. That’s what’s disappointing. But let’s give them credit.”
“Defensively it was a 'bend don’t break.' Wecan’tplay thatway. We did not respond
on defense the way we had hoped. We never
disrupted their rhythm the entire game. We just can’t play that type of football. We’re kidding ourselves. We have to be more aggressive,” remarked Holtz.
Said Northwestern head coach Gary Barnett, “The slogan we established this year was ‘expect victory.’ We didn’t do that today and anything less than that and we’re not satisfied.”
But Barnett should be pleased with the Wildcats’ ability to contain the Irish for as long as they did. Barnett attempted to stifle the Irish attack by running a fake punt which, although successful, was not enough to counter a powerful Notre Dame offense. Wildcat quarterback Len Williams, who is the short man in the punt formation, received the snap and tossed the ball to his teammate Greg Gill for a 17-yard gain and a first down.
Despite a change of pace in the second half, where the Irish tallied 28 more points and did not allow the Wildcats to score again, Notre Dame did not feel that it had beaten North
westem the way the third best team in the nation should have. Notre Dame dominated the running game, amassing 391 yards to Northwestern’s 81 yards, and the Wilcats
dominated the air, passing for 327 yards and holding the Irish to 170 yards.
Explained Mirer, “It doesn’t feel like we beat them 42-7. They played us really tough.”
Unfortunately for the Wildcats, it was not tough enough.	□
6
SCHOliSTIC



Game Summary
Scoring Summary
■ / '	J 1	2	3	4 Final ' ’ J ’’
Notre Dame 7	7	14 14 42	/
Northwestern 7	0	0	0	7	;	:
1st Quarter NDrMcBride 5 pass from Mirer (PAT.) at .6:12 NW: Gissendaner 14 run (PAT) at:0:47.
2nd.Quarter	ND:.Breton 2,run (PAT) at1:54
3rd Quarter . . ND: Miller 70 pass from Mirer (PAT) at,5:47 .
:	. ND: Bettis 24 run (PAT) at 1:48	; . . .
. 4th Quarter . ND: Brooks 72 run (PAT) at 6:47	'
ND: McBride. 5 pass from McDougal at 3:27 .
Iteam
	ND	nw-:
First Downs		26
Z ; RusMng	18	1 •
>. Passing	-		18.
P enal ty	r. ;■	■-L ;
IRushing	391 :	81	'
Passing	.170	7327 ==/
, Total Net Yards	’561...	408
- ■ . Average Gain Per Play>.„.^.	7.9	;5.2/:>
Fumbles-Lost	■	o-o	Wz
Penalties** Yards -	5-60	6-64';- :
Punts-Averages	.	2-45.5	5-39.4:
Kickoff Re turns	.	38..	38 -3
3rd Down Conversions	5-15	.11-14 .
Individual Statistics
Rushing: ND- Brooks 9-1574, Bettis 19-1304, Becton 6-37-1, Clark 4-29, Mirer 847, Zell ars 1-5, McDougal 1-7, Miller 1-6, Burris 1-5, Lytle 1-2, Failla 1-0, Johnson l-(-4). NW- Lundy12-35, Wright 2-22, (jissendaner 1-14-1, Williams 14-6, Smith 2-4.
Jackson 1-2, Holgorsen 2-(-2)	'	'	; ;	' •< '
Passing: ND-Mirer 17-8465-2-1, McDougal 14-54-0 NW- Williams 40-26-281-0-0, Holgouren:5-3-46-b-0 7 : Z.
Receiving: ND- Miller 3404, Smith 2-31, McBride 2-10, Jarrell 143, Lytle 1-12. NW- Lundy 8-79, Morris 5-65,.	'1 . .<
Gisseridaner 4-55; Wright 3-44, Cross 3;24, Senters 3-24, Gill 1-17, Gamble 1-14, Smith 1-5 . .	t .	. .. .	■. Zt-’:
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
Only $1.49!
Light Appetites!
6 Inch Cold Cut Combo:

SIM
Big Appetites!
6 Foot Party Sub.
From $37.95!
Oyer 30 Locations In The Michiana Area!
MM
U ■ Mmmmwin 17 —
GRIDIRON
GRUDGE MATCH
Holtz's 17-17 tie in '92 stirs memories of Parseghian's 10-10 tie in '66
by Jim Kuser
1KT otre Dame fought back from a 17-7 fourth quarter deficit to 1 n even the score at 17. Michigan, however, took control of the ball with 5:28 to go in the game and composed a methodical drive that milked the clock down to 1:12. Then, be it justified or not, a series of events occurred that looms largely over Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz, just as a similar series of events occurred in 1966 that still looms largely over former Notre Dame head coach Ara Parseghian. The play-by-play for the final 72 seconds of the 1992 Notre Dame-Michigan game tells the tale.
There are 72 seconds to go in the game. The 69,075 fans in attendance are on their feet. Notre Dame Stadium is really rocking. It’ s-first-and ten for the Michigan Maize and Blue at the Notre Dame 30. A few of short-yardage gains could set up a game-winning field goal. Wolverine quarterback Elvis Grbac — he’s their leader— steps to the line to take the snap from center. Receiver Derrick Alexander — he’s their game-breaker — is split wide to the right. Tailback Ricky Powers is in the slot. Grbac audibles. The ball is snapped. Grbac drops. Here comes a fierce rush from Irish cornerback Greg Lane on the left. Grbac scrambles right. Grbac sets, throws ... Interception! Irish free safety Jeff Burris has intercepted Grbac at the Notre Dame 12.
First-and-tenfor the Irish with l :05 remaining. This has been a barn-burner throughout. The score is deadlocked at 17. Mirer steps to the line. He hikes and hands to fullback Jerome Bettis who rumblesup the middle for seven. Second-and-threefrom thelrishl9 Penalty flags are down. Illegal procedure on Notre Dame for a5-yard loss and a repeated down. Second-and-eight from the Irish 14. Mirer again steps to the line. He hikes and drops to pass. He sees receivenLake Dawson but overthrows out of bounds at the Notre Dame 40. Third-and-eight from the Irish 14. Time out assessed to Notre Dame with 0:07 left. It will take a Hail Mary to win this one.
Mirer lines up. Center Tim Ruddy snaps, Mirer curls right, sets, throws deep... Broken up at the Michigan 32 by free safety Corwin brown. Final score: Notre 17, Michigan 17.
Notre Dame tight end Irv Smith blocks Michigan llnerbacker Matt Dyson. "A game like this Is fought up and down the lines," said Wolverine head coach Gary Moeller. "It was a war out there between two tough teams."
Anger. Apathy. A myriad of mixed emotions amounting to nothing more than emptiness. Not since 1969 when Notre Dame tied Southern Cal 14-14 had the 59,075 faithful Fighting Irish football fans witnessed a tie atNotre Dame Stadium. This tie, however, was criticized as being comparable to the much more memorable 10-10 tie at Michigan State in 1966. In that game, Coach Ara Parseghian admittedly played for a tie in a match-up between the number-one Irish and the number-two Spartans. Notre Dame went on to win the national championship, and Parseghian made no excuses for a tie.
“We’d fought hard to come back and tie that game up,” said Parseghian. “After all that, I didn’t want to risk givingitto Michigan State cheap. If we’d gotten reckless, it could’ve cost us the game.”
There is a distinct difference, however, between Holtz’s tie against Michigan in 1992 and Parseghian’s tie against Michigan State in 1966. Unlike Parseghian, Holtz explained emphatically that
B
he did not play for a tie.
“We’ve worked too hard for too long to settle for a tie,” said Holtz. “We were going for the win.”
So why a running play up the middle and into traffic with 1:05 left—a play that cost Notre Dame precious time — instead of a passing play out-of-bounds and away from traffic ?
Nick Spangler
The Irish defense held fullback Tyrone Wheatley (whose 235 yards on fifteen carries earned him Rose Bowl MVP honors In 1993) to 27 yards on six carries and tailback Ricky Powers (whose 1,197 yards in 1991 earned him all-BIg Ten honors) to 30 yards on eight carries. However, running behind an offensive line averaging 6 feet 4 Inches in height and 282 poundsjn weight, the other Wolverines gained 142 yards on the ground.
Holtz explained, “On dur last possession, we were backed up. Michigan didagood job of mixing its coverages. We wanted to find out what coverage Michigan would be in, so we ran the ball. I thought we could spring it loose, and we almost did.”
Michigan head coach Gary Moeller defended Holtz’s decision. “I was nervous when they had the ball,” said Moeller. “I would never second-guess Holtz’s thinking, especially when he has had a lot of time to think about a game plan.”
Moeller might, however, .second-guess
his own thinking. Referring to his decision to let Grbac throw on first-and-ten from the Notre Dame 30 with 1:05 to go in the game, he said, “I know what I was doing. I just wanted to punch the ball down field a little bit and get a field goal. I guess I got too fancy.”
Grbac, maligned by many Michigan fans for turning the ball over with time running
out, apologized by saying, “I was just trying to throw the ball high. I didn’t take into account the defensive player back there. It was just a very stupid mistake on my part. What more can I say? I'm sorry.”
Neither coach was happy to tie.
Said Holtz, “It’s been a long time since I’ve been in a tie [in 1982, as Head Coach at Arkansas, Holtz tied SMU, 17-17]. It just doesn’t seem like the game should be over. I don’t know how you’re supposed to feel. It was a crazy game that left me with an empty feeling.”
Said Moeller, “No way am I happy with a tie. We came in here fully expecting to win. I’m very disappointed.”
The players seemed to be a bit more upbeat about it
Mirer said, “A lot of people were second-guessing, but it’s easier when you’re behind than when you’re tied up. If you’re behind, you just go for it, and you have nothing to
lose. We had only one time out left, and we came at them the best we could. We didn’t want to give the game away. I’m disappointed in people’s reactions. That was a great football game. We played well enough to win, but it just didn’t work out. Those things happen.”
Grbac shared Mirer’s sentiments. “We should’ve won the game,” he said, “but we didn’t. We really played so well as a team. It really hurts not to win a gamelikethis. This isjustlike two years ago [a 24-19 Irish victory made possible by the heroics of Raghib “Rocket” Ismail who returned two second-half kickoffs for touchdowns and consequently graced the cover of Sports Illustrated that week with the words "Rocket Man" written across his chest].
Not only did Notre Dame and Michigan tie each other on the scoreboard, but they also tied each other in turnovers. Notre Dame, boasting one of 1992’s most effective rushing backfields, fumbled four times, losing three. Michigan, boasting one of 1992’s most efficient passing quarter
backs [Grbac was the nation’s most efficient passer in 1991] was intercepted three times. “I guess it is typical of an early season game, but you never like to see it, especially in a game of this magnitude,” said Holtz.
The two teams tied in several other statistical categories. The Irish netted 398 yards of offense for on 69 plays for an average gain of 5.8 yards per play. The Wolverines, by contrast, netted 378 yards of offense on 63 plays for an average gain of 6.0 yards per play. Each team punted three times, and each team returned only one of

T|
Jf$ i*




1W 5
fc


1



1
'^1	'^'
i
Jpl'* ’ -s
' $w

w?*'3 ... ' <

' £
'
Wk^ _

r^T
M

1


I
f
Wp

<en Osgood
Nick Spangler
Michigan's Elvis Grbac was rated the nation's most efficient passer In 1991, but it was Notre Dame's Rick Mirer who had the better game In the 17-17 tie between the Wolverines and the Fighting Irish. Grbac completed 17 out of 28 passes for two touchdowns but three Interceptions. Mirer completed 14 out of 26 passes for no touchdowns but no Interceptions.

'&
iK
GoiSuMAB
■y- '‘i
2-:
Scoring Summary
Filial
?^::

> z5 < Notre Dame ;y • 7 :y	-•
OWoW
O|Nb:i|if	:22{: ^5^2
^Sdi^uaitCT : .; UM: Wheatley 27 pass from Grbac (PAT) at 0:57
;4tHlQuatter;^a.UM:5Aiexarid^
r- ^... ■■ " \,s;2; <■..: ■/- ■'■	<
NDi'Bettis 2-nik(PA^
FirstDowns....
nd
\ It US 11 Illg ^Tassin^ ■ j-z? j Td ta I \ N et: .¥ a.r.cl s ►»«*»«»»»<«««»•>»«*•>
Fumbles-Los t*.u.......i..i^«i
Perialties-Yards4 ♦ » V V • * * «« ♦	* *
J>■ ■■■:.■".^^ / ' h %;■>■■■■	■ ■■■ ■	" *'
■gPunts-Ay er ages S?KickQfJ^ k 3ri Down;Conversion
•<L
^137^
08^-
7:^8"-
:®UM:3
■=g6^Pkhi
hgOS;!‘s 2.3136^
^3.785=
,y.<-o^
:■
;1«


:3<
'■^. '■{

■•:< :



¥


&
y. :.A.;. :..^K;


:;:L^:S


. f ?:;
■

O^lylng^pfe 6-89; Johnson 3-22; Bettis 2-25 ;7 Smi&&i8; Miller 1 -7 UM- Alexander 6-92-1; Smith 4-70; McGee 4-39:
W^atle^i2^;-;i^geto/i-i4;?ioimsdn^7p2,32;2y;2:.2i2js;yy7.--g-o;i:-2s325:-2z2-2^-2
■
SCHOLASTIC
A
times, and each team returned only one of these punts — each for five yards. Finally, Notre Dame controlled the ball for 31:55. Michigan, by contrast, contolled the ball for 29:05. A game cannot get much closer than that.
And so it was. Anger. Apathy. A myriad of mixed emotions amounting to nothing more than emptiness. Notre Dame would again feel the anger after an early-season loss at home to Stanford. Michigan would again feel the apathy after two late-season ties at home to Illinois and on the road to Ohio State. Perhaps a tie was an appropriate outcome for this game between two seemingly evenly matched football teams.
Moeller proved to be prophetic by saying after the game, “A tie takes no one out of anything. It was just a hard-hitting football game between two fine football teams that are going to do good things this season. This was a learning experience from which positive things can be drawn”
Notre Dame went on to beat Southwest Conference Champion Texasj A&M in the Cotton Bowl by a wide margin, 28-3. Michigan went on to beat Pac Ten Champion Washington in the Rose Bowl by a narrow margin, 38-31. The Final AP Poll ranked Notre Dame fourth and Michigan fifth. Only a few votes separated the two. Believe it or not, it was nearly another tie. □

byJimKuser
■ n first-ahd-ten front the : ^ with 5:22 left inf;Ae first'quart ;tailbackRcggie Brooksreceivedanoption pitch on asweep right.He bounced offof twotacklers in the; backfield, a third ,-	'	'	'
tackler at the five, and two more
-. Last year, Brooks was known as “Tony ’s little brother,7^
Brooksbecamea manof hisownfame-—-andsoon fortune—by becoming ^ ifta sirit^jlrou Holtzicartie to
Brooks is the fourth running back inIrish history to
tacklers at the one -' beforefallinginto the: end zone;
“The Kfichigan f ■ defenders hit ; me,” said Brooks, , “but! just saw thep end zone and;
■ went for it.”
7^ With this spectacular.	run,-
Brooks stepped: into the spotlight-as a back capable of breaking “the bigone.” He and Beths became the “Thunder and Li ghtn ing” backfield. He; Bettis, : Lee Becton; and Jeff Burris -became, the “Killer Bee” backfield; This backfield com r piled statistics beyond belief.
: Brooks rushedfor : 1;343 yards on 167; carries and : thirteen ! TO
/Bettis?T6f;825 yards on 154 car-
'■: ries aridtenTDs;
Becton; for 373: Jyardson68car-
1

^inrush:: for. ,000
yards in a serisori.
-777-“-—77—-r ; ..
, Senior tailback Reggio Brooks bounced Into the national spotlight after bouridhg off of five Michigan tacklers eh ioutetbtheehd zbneW
KenOsaoodi
Heestablishedan all- time 1 ;Notre : Damerecordwith his 7.6-yardsper carry career average. He finished 1992with an 8.04-yaids per ■tarry season average, missing Notre Dame’sail-time markof8.1isetby George Gippin <192Q.;|K;<x|5fi Brooks brought many memorable momentstoFight-ing Irish football fans, ^Here are some ;df them: Heisman Trophy CandidatejNotre Dame National Monogram Club TeamMVP;NBC/ Chevrolet Notre DameMVPver-sus Michigan (13 carries,69yards, one TO), Purdue (15 carries, 205 yards,three TOs), Brigham Young (15carries, 112 yards),andBoston
ries,174yardsT
riesandthreeTDs;andBurTisforl4yardsonseven jABC/ChevroIetNotreDameMVPversusSduthern ctmes smrt threefTDs. IJritoks
sigiuficahtlytotheirtrt&in;th£Co&^
Si^iajrahedffdrtiiS’jy^
I^tiri;ffr75.ya^^20carti^an<ijim^^

W—...
by J. Bradley Keck
In this third week of the season, the Irish traveled to Michigan State with a lot of items on the agenda. Notre Dame had tied the week before against the University of Michigan, 17-17. Head coach Lou Holtz was severely criticized for playing for the tie, as the Irish became very conservative with the football as they regained possession in the closing seconds. As a result of this and their poor play at Northwestern (despite scoring a 42-7 victory) Notre Dame fell in the polls. This was to be expected, but as an added tweak to a frustrated leprechaun’s nose, the Irish were ranked behind the Wolverines. Notre Dame had to regain their composure quickly and came to East Lansing looking to avenge the previous weeks’ performances.
With little in their favor, Notre Dame could only pull behind their coach and fight the long battle to regain some respect The Irish also knew that they needed to get back on the field and play almost flawless football for the rest of the season if they had any hope of posturing themselves for a National Championship bid. Unfortunately for Michigan State, this new Irish resolve would only hasten their demise.
Holtz knew that there was a lot at stake but was not willing to tip his hand as to how the
Irish would regain the respect that had been swept from beneath them the previous week. On the Friday night before the game, Holtz took his players through a relaxation and visualization session. This type of drill Holtz uses every evening before a game. It is an exercise designed to let players lay back and see themselves preforming then-assignments, making tackles and generally succeeding on the field. These sessions help build confidence, help players to say, “Yes, I can play the perfect game,” and help them to mentally see themselves doing so.
The night before the Michigan State game, Holtz asked all of the players to visualize the first play of the game. He did not tell the players which play to visualize. He only asked them to pick any play and see themselves executing their particular assignment on that play perfectly. The results were extraordinary.
The next morning, Holtz approached . quarterback Rick Mirer and asked him what play he had imagined the previous evening.
“He said ‘Pass 53,’” recalled Holtz. .
Pass 53 was an interesting choice for Mirer. This pass play is centered around a deep middle pass rout by the wide out The play, one of offensive coordinator Skip Holtz’s favorites, had not been used by the Irish since the Southern Cal game last season. Due to Holtz’s conservative style of
football, it seemed the most unlikely of plays bugging me to put that sucker back in.”
From that “dream” of a first play onward, the Irish would not relent in their use of the offensive fire-power encapsulated by Pass 53. In the first quarter alone, Mirer passed for a total of 144 yards while completing six of his first seven pass attempts. This would not be a Saturday for ties.
The first offensive series for the Irish — beginning with Pass 53 — ended with a touchdown pass from Mirer to Oscar McBride. In what would foreshadow Mirer’s three passing touchdowns in a little more than two quarters of work, Notre Dame’s quarterback pulled within two tosses of Joe Theismann’s career touchdown mark with the 4-yard pass to McBride.
Mirer’s second touchdown in the air came at the conclusion of the very next series. Again Mirer went to his favorite target of the day, Dawson, and found him in the end zone for a 7-yard scoring strike. Mirer was now only one touchdown away from Theismann’s record.
The record was almost tied immediately in Notre Dame’s third possession of the first quarter. After overthrowing Dawson on first down (Mirer’s only incompletion of the quarter), the Irish went right back to the air. Again the target of Mirer’s crosshairs was Dawson, and again Mirer’s arm was true.
Dawson caught the ball for a gain of 59 yards before being forced out-of-bounds by Spartans free safety Todd Murry.
As many balls as Mirer could throw, Dawson was willing to catch against Michigan State. On the day the Mirer-Dawson connection teamed up for five completions and 126 yards.
“I hope it’s going to be like that in the future,” Mirer said. “We’ve seen that throwing the ball downfield works, and I think that coach has wanted to do it for a long time.”
“I love to see our offense work like that,” echoed Dawson. “It shows we’re very versatile and can hurt you in a lot of ways.”
Notre Dame did indeed hurt the struggling Spartans (3-11 over the last two seasons coming into the game) in a number of ways. Two plays after Dawson’s second big catch, Mirer found Clint Johnson for a 23-yard
gain. Then Lee Becton cruised into the end zone for a 4-yard gain and Notre Dame’s firstrushing touchdown of the afternoon. The third touchdown of the first quarter for the Irish put the score at 21-3 at the close of the stanza.
A field goal by Michigan State’s Jim Del Verne was the only time that the Spartans even got close to the Irish end zone in the first quarter. Their offense gained only 54 yards, and quarterback Jim Miller had one pass picked off by Irish secondary star Tom Carter.
Notre Dame’s defense was also rallying after the return of their captain Demetrius DuBose from his two game NCAA suspension. DuBose, in his first series back in the Blue and Gold, broke up two passes and made one tackle.	\
“It felt strange—real strange,” said DuBose after the game. “But it also felt absolutely great.”
DuBose’s return was great indeed for the Irish defense. He led the team with ten tackles and showed that he had not lost the form which had earned him a preseason All-American nomination.
; After Carter’s interception, the Irish had control of the ball going into the second period. Three plays and 34 seconds later, Mirer went deep once
again, this time finding the other Irish receiver who had also dreamed of Pass 53, Ray Griggs, for a 39-yard touchdown. This touchdown continued Notre Dame’s air superiority over the Spartans, and put Mirer’s name right beside the legendary Joe Theismann’s in the record books for the most passing touchdowns in the history of Irish football.
With his career total now at 31 touchdown tosses, Mirer was beaming after the game.
“It was fun out there today,” said Mirer.
It was not only fun for Mirer, but also for Holtz, who was uncharacteristically positive after watching his quarterback tie Theismann’s record, passing for a total of 260 yards.
“Rick Mirer was absolutely brilliant out there today,” said Holtz. “This was a day where we had two and a half quarters offensively you won’t see very often. ... I
Rick Mirer launches the Irish air assault.
would have liked to have run the football better; we only threw the ball more because we couldn’t run the football.”
Along with Mirer’s brilliance, some other players had some impressive performances. Jerome Bettis had 76 yards on 14 carries, including three plays totaling 23 yards to close the first quarter. Griggs had three catches for a total of 78 yards, including the 39-yard touchdown grab. Craig Hentrich also kicked a 26-yard field goal on the only possession of the first half in which the Irish did not find the end zone.
One other exceptional performance on the day came from Lee Becton. Becton had the one early rushing touchdown and a total of 34 yards on 9 carries. However, Becton’s biggest play came just after Michigan State scored their first touchdown of the game, late in the second quarter. With just under three minutes to go in the half, Miller hit
Spartan fullback Tony Rollin for a 1-yard touchdown pass. Then, on the ensuing kickoff, Becton caught the ball on the 22-yard line, streaked across the field to the left sideline and blazed 78 yards for a touchdown. This was the first time a Notre Dame player had returned a kickoff for six points since Clint Johnson did it against Hawaii last year. Becton’s effort brought the scoring total to 38-10 at the close of the first half.
At the beginning of the second half, the Irish forced Michigan State to punt on its first two possessions, killing any hopes for an early Spartan comeback. On their first series of the half, the Irish defense held Michigan State on a crucial third-and-two, when Germaine Holden hit Scott Green in the backfield for a 1-yard loss.
Irish offense began to sputter for the first time in the game after scoring on their first six possessions; they were forced to punt. The Irish defense again stifled Michigan State’s attack. On this Spartan possession of only five plays, John Covington had two tackles and Bryant Young sacked Miller for a 9-yaid loss.
On the day, however, the Irish defense did give up 483 yards and allowed Michigan State’s star running back Tico Duckett to amass 94 yards
1992FOQTBALL REVIEW
13
s
on 14 carries.
“I don’t think we played well defensively. I really don’t” said Holtz after the game.
If just the statistics of the contest were looked at, that would appear to be the case. In reality, the Irish second-team defense gave up 21 points and 218 yards late in the third and throughout the fourth quarter. While Michigan State remained with its first team to avoid embarrassment, Duckett amassed 32 of his total yards and a touchdown. In spite of these facts Holtz was no less furious over his team’s defensive play.
Michigan State coach George Perles was relieved that Holtz called off his first string defensive dogs and pulled Mirer early in the third quarter. His team was no match for the Irish even if Notre Dame was playing poorly on the other side of the ball.
“The score could have been worse,” said Perles. “Lou was a gentleman today. He could have probably tacked on more. They’re an outstanding team.”
The final two scores by the Irish came in the third quarter. First, Brooks galloped six yards to put the score at 45-10. And then, 3:52 after the Irish stopped Michigan State’s next drive, Notre Dame’s second-string
quarterback, Kevin McDougal, found freshman phenomenon Derrick Mayes for a 38-yard touchdown pass that Mayes grabbed with grace despite getting only one overextended hand on the ball in the back of the end zone.
After losing to Notre Dame for the sixth time in a row and dropping its second contest in as many years to the lowly Central Michi
gan Chippewas the week before, the Michigan State players were extremely disheartened by the 52-31 loss. The Spartan offense failed to produce points against the Irish first-team defense, and its own defense was peppered by Mirer’s recordsetting passing game. Except for the three touch
Notre Dame sat on Michigan State’s Tico Duckett (35) all day, but he still managed to gain 94 yards on the ground.
downs against the Irish defensivereserves, the game was a disaster for Michigan State from start to finish.
“This kind of embarrassment is not something you want to face week in and week out,” lamented Michigan State cornerback Myron Bell. Bell was just one of the defensive backs beaten deep on the first play from scrimmage, Pass 53.	□


Sco rj n gSu ® m	J;

'Michigan
-Ist-'Quafter-
NDfMcBrideXipass from Mir
MS:'Pel'VemeM4;FGat;9:185-'P>
ND:Daws6h:7?passfrom^
\Np:B66tbn4:t^n'(PAf^
/TD:?Griggs39';pass:fromMirer;(PAt).at^
ND
NDi
MS;
Hyntrieh 26F
3rd Quarter
J4dt^juarter:
.. iRolliiiLpass from?Miller (PAT))at2:42??^^ ;
ND:: Bectqm7^	■ at 2128	/
''Np:d3roqks.;6 rund'FATd'ai 6;i'3':;K
ND: Mayes 38 pass;from McDougal (PAT) at 14:55 'MS: Thomas 16- fun (PAT) at; 11:43 "A?
MS: Duckett 15 run (PAT) at7:50 .
	../MS •
First Downs22--- -	■ 28 //:
j j \V.:"./'Bashing-	' JQ ; •'	■'■?'/i5/!'- /
:..	- JO:?- ■	:: :13:/ :p
■ '. ptPenalty	.....i..........■ - ■ .•	7:<0//'//-
, I^ushiug*..**..178’ ■	252
Passing	331,	231 //'•
:Total ■ Net Y ar cis	'	483?//;
Average Gain Per Play.......	•• 5.8
	•• / 1-0 t //
Penalties-Yards	:	-'? 5-59
Punts-AveragesL....^^	7 5-26.65
; PklckbffzBieturns «««««•..*••*...... 53- -	161
3rdDownConv^	8-14	6-13

: ' / -/W' Rushing: ND- Bcltis l4-76, Brooks 10-56-1, Becton 9-34-1, Zellars 3-8, Loz.ano 2-6, Failla 1-4, Lytle 1-3, McDougal 2-0, Burris 2-(-4), Miller l-(-5) MS- Thomas 21-146-2, Duckett 14-94-1, Miller 5-12, Goulboume 1-1, Greene l-(-l) A-/:;/-:, f assing: NI>- Mirer 25-13-260-3-1, McDougal 2-2-52-1 -0, Failla 3-1-19-0-0 MS- Miller 41-23-231 -1-2 Receiving: ND- Dawson 5-126, Griggs 3-78, Smith 2-21, McBride 2-18, Mayes l-38, Johnson 1-23, Jarrell 1-19, Bettis 1-8 MS- Cbleman 7-76, MacFarland 4-43, Rollin 4-15, Muhammed 2-34, Marlin 2-23, Grabowski 2-16, Greene 1-15, Abrams 1-9
iNotre Dame 48 - PunaI
Take That
DuBose, McDonald and company took it upon themselves to shut out the upstart crew from Purdue
by Nik Mathews
T t had been a long day for the Boiler-JL maker offense. •
Purdue had managed to gain only 226 total yards on the Notre Dame defense. Moreover, both of its quarterbacks, Eric
Hunter and Matt Pike, had been limited to a combined 124 yards through the air. The Boilermaker rushing attack, led by the heralded Jeff Hill, who gained only 19 yards on 13 carries, had been completely squashed.
The scoreboard, which read 42-0, indicated exactly how dismal and unproductive the Boilermakers' nationally televised afternoon in college football’s mecca had been. As they marched down the field with under six minutes remaining, Purdue was well aware that the game was out of reach. What they were struggling for then, however, was a little respect But the Notre Dame defense was on its own mission for respect.
Ranked 96th nationally out of 107 Division I-A teams in total defense as a result of surrendering 423 yards per game, the motivated defensive unit had manhandled Purdue’s offense all afternoon. Ten astounding third down stops in 13 tries were particularly impressive and encouraging.
The Boilers, who now threatened
from the Notre Dame 1-yard line, stood between a good day and an exceptional day for the Irish defense. In the words of defensive end Devon McDonald, “We worked
so hard, getting the shutout was principal.”
When Purdue quarterback Matt Pike mishandled the second down snap, he conceded the victory in the battle for respect to the Irish. Although the fumble recovery by Brian Hamilton that preserved the shutout meant nothing for the outcome of the game,
- ' - Ken Osgood
Spearheaded by senior linebacker Demetrius DuBose, Notre Dame's defense swamped Purdue's offense on a rain-sodden field..
it was imperative for the confidence of the
once much maligned Irish defensive unit
Defensive lineman Bryant Young commented on the inspired play of the defense,
“This game will go a long way in helping our defense believe in itself.”
While the Irish defense stopped the Boilermaker offensive attack, the Purdue defense was unable to stop Notre Dame. Neither team was able to sustain a successful passing game. With torrential downpours,
the quarterbacks had a difficult time holding onto the ball. But the rain did not stifle the Notre Dame ground attack. When senior quarterback Rick Mirer could not hold onto the ball, he only completed 6 passes out of 16 attempts, the Irish changed their strategy to a running game. Boilermaker quarterbacks Matt Pike and Eric Hunter only completed 8 passes out of 26 attempts, but neither could get the running game moving.
“It was difficult to throw the ball. I talked to Rick Mirer and he agreed. We just couldn’t get a grip on it,” remarked Pike.
At first Notre Dame had a difficult time adjusting to the rain factor. The Irish only led by a score of 13-0 at halftime, due to a series of incomplete passes. But the third quarter marked a change of pace when the Irish came tearing out of the locker room to score three touchdowns in just eight minutes. Tailback Reggie Brooks scored two touchdowns, while fullback Jerome Bettis was credited witfi one
touchdown.
Bettis summed up the day by saying, "Today I was the 'other' back I learned some tips from Reggie."
S
Bettis, who himself had an excellent day with 93 yards rushing, was referring to the exceptional play of Brooks, who rushed for 205 yards on just 15 carries with touchdown runs of 63,20 and 80 yards.
Brooks’ phenomenal outing made him the first Notre Dame back in the Holtz era, and the sixth ever, to run for over 200 yards in a game. In fact, it was the first time since Allan Pinkett rushed for 217 yards in a 1983 loss to Penn State that a Notre Dame player had rushed for over 200 yards.
The combination of Bettis and Brooks was responsible for almost 300 of the 458 yards on the ground, the most by a Lou Holtz team in his seven years as head coach at Note Dame. All told, the offense compiled a whopping 580 yards on the day for the 3-0-1 Irish.
Purdue head coach Jim Colletto commented, “Their backs are very good. We played hard up until 13-0, but Bettis and Brooks are so good that they took over.”
Bettis and Brooks, however, were not the only reasons for the offensive onslaught
Another contributing factor in the Irish success was the dominating effect that field position proved to have on Purdue all afternoon. The Boilers spent most of the day pinned deep in their own territory. Of their 14 series, 11 began inside their own 29-yard line, including possessions on the 1,4,8,9,13 (twice) and 15-yard lines.
While the offense proved that it was among the nation’s best, the defense showed, with an inspired performance, that it should be taken more seriously.
“Coach Holtz took us aside and said, ‘Hey, this is the situation.’ He told us we’re the number 96 defense in the country, and that’s not the way it is around here,” explained linebacker Demetrius DuBose. “That appealed to our pride. We knew we were going to win the game, but we knew our defense had to play well.”
By holding Purdue to nine yards in total offense in the first quarter, not allowing a first down until 18 minutes into the game and allowing only 64 by halftime, the Notre Dame de
fense showed that it deserves a higher ranking than 96th out of 107 teams.
.. ■ ■:. jr,:	............. .;SI,y	r:	:	?
“If we played like we did, it takes a lot of pressure off the offense,” explained DuBose. “They don’t have to worry about
Ken Osgood
The Irish defense created much cause for celebration after recording a 54-0 shut out over the Boilermakers.
scoring too many points. That’s how we want to play. We don’t want to put our offense in a bad situation. It was nice to help them for a change.”
The Boilers were only able to cross midfield four times. One of those drives ended in a punt, another was fumbled on the Irish 1-yard line and two were misfired passes that ended in interceptions.
The Notre Dame defense was in the process of reorganizing after adjusting to three different defensive coordinators in the past year. Gary Darnell is now at Texas, Holtz took over for the remainder of last season and, finally, Rick Minter has settled in at the position. But now things are beginning to change. The Irish have begun to take a more simplified approach to the defensive strategy.
“We kept it simple. We played good, aggressive, hard-hitting football. It was great,” remarked McDonald.
Added defensive lineman Bryant Young, “I thought we played outstanding. This is definitely what we needed to establish our
selves for the rest of the season.”
Praised Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz, “I thought we played excellent defense. Let’s give credit to our defensive coaches and to our defensive football team. They have taken a lot of heat, and I thought it was an outstanding performance. It wasn’t the way we played, but the intensity with which we played, the physicalness with which we played. I thought it was an outstanding performance.”
The only memorable Irish mistake was the end of Craig Hentrich’s amazing string of 130 consecutive PAT kicks. Notre Dame’s remarkably consistent kicker missed a point after attempt when the snap by Lance Johnson bounced on the ground before reaching the hands of holder Matt Johnson. Hentrich’s kick went wide right Early in the second quarter, Hentrich also missed a 31-yard field goal attempt. Another attempted extra point was blocked by backup kicker Kevin Pendergast. On the whole, it was notagreatday for the kicking game, primarily because the
slippery field conditions made setting the ball difficult
The Purdue game was by Holtz’ account the most complete game the Irish had played up until that point. It proved to be one of the most complete and dominantgames of the entire season. In addition to being Brooks' step into stardom, it will be remembered as a turning point for the Notre Dame defense, which amassed a significant amount of confidence and began a trend of drastic improvement that would take root
against Brigham Young three weeks later. The Irish defense was also rewarded a respectable 32nd overall defensive ranking
Reggie Brooks rumbled over Purdue, netting 205 yards on15 carries and three touchdowns. Brooks' outing made him the first Notre Dame back in the Holtz era, and only the sixth in the history of Irish football, to run for over 200 yards in a game.
the following week.
This 48-0 battering that Purdue endured was the harshest defeat the Boilermakers
have ever had to suffer in the 64 game series with Notre Dame. The Irish had not trounced a team so significantly since a 48-0 victory over Army in 1974. This was Notre Dame's first shutout since a 1991 win of 38-0 over Navy.
Commented Purdue head coach Jim Colletto, “It was just a matter of them being much more physical up front than we were. They tried many different sets and fronts on us that we were just unable to control. We prepared hard for this game, but they were too tough.
We had some spurts, but they were the dominant team today. They can go a long way.”	□


BlMiW
3 ■ jS; J j.''	Final
A A"
	^1^64^
AP^^	

■ND;<Mn-ef:6;run (PAT-failed)'at^5aa: a|:;
(Becton ruh):atTQi23;
44?? 1: ol 44 < ‘ND: Bettis 24 run .(PAT): at 7:50: •' ''A4O4!^
|tb^axt<4|.:gNP^
AA^is.SA/jiWNDtnMcDpugailiSJrahyyticklfailed^
1
■■ i ;	;. .'. ’. ■ ■ j; ■ ”: ? ...44- A-' "• A; 4.4a j' .4	4 \ : ’• -i 4‘ :	A:ND4:	PU
■ ' •	i:. yi" Penalty-' a :•< -Rushing	< ;To.tal.T^.et-.Yards »*««aaa'aaaaf'a«aaaaaaa«a*a**a»*»«.. - ■P’niii b les.** Isos tai»*aaaa»*a»**aaaaa»»aa aaaaaaaa»aaa*a ?: ties-Y" ur ds .a«*««***«*««aa<««aa*r»a«aa****»? Punts-Ave^ i a 1	plT' Returns. »aa<aaaaaa**aaaaa*aaa»aaaaaaaa»a.: ■	A4A:.CA A45ihA 4:152: A-580 4 716 ::-<o040;h4 ' oj.9H75h- . 46-34.8 l-6;;:':4	13 44AA4A 46'AA.AA 3 ; ■::1O24-C7 W24 A W1 280	, 3.8 '3-1 •' •' ■ .'1-5/A-2 10-33.1 ::5-76^:4:
<;cin;A;3rd Down ® ony	<	6-14 :	434134LA
Ruling: ND - Brooks 15-205-3, Bettis 18-93-2, Becton 7-53, Mirer 5-26-1, Stafford 446, Zcllars 3-13, McDougal 2-3^^^^ Lytic 2-11, Johnson 2-2, KIusas l-3, Lozano l-1 PL! - Coleman 3-48, Connors 6-34, Hill l3-13, Hunter 4-7, Alston 1-5,'
Passing: ND - Mirerl6i6422;0::0 'PU - Pike 19-5-88 W^Huhter 7-3-31. W
Receiving: ND - Daws<m:2357y ettis 2-38, Griggs4^	Ross 2^30.	i-20^
Simmons l-lb,.ColdmanVi-y.'4Aw' .A AAW^
BILL
Hick
Cardinal quarterback Steve Stenstrom picked the Irish secondary apart as he completed 21 passes on 32 attempts for 215 yards and two touchdowns.
NqTre^Dame 1 Sm—bd 3

WELCOME BACK,
by Amanda Clinton
What happened? How could Notre Dame lose to Stanford by a score of 33-16 at home? Well, when you commit five turnovers, it is almost impossible to beat anybody, especially Stanford. What makes Stanford so special? Three things. First, its defense was touted at the time as being one of the nation’s best. Following the Cardinal’s 24-3 manhandling of Penn State in the Blockbuster Bowl on New Year’s Day, this preseason prediction proved to be prophetic. Second, when a great offense like Notre Dame’s plays a great defense like Stanford’s, the offense must create scoring opportunities and then successfully convert on these opportunities. Translation: don’t turn the ball over. Third; the Irish were playing against Bill Walsh, who was making his debut in Notre Dame Stadium as a head coach after a season of commentating on NotreDame’shomegamesforNBC. Walsh wearsthreeSuperBowl rings to attest to his ability to convert on turnovers.
Explained Notre Dame Head Coach Lou Holtz, “We didn’t make the plays. But you can’t make any when you turn the ball over five times.”
Notre Dame dominated throughout the first quarter but started to
Bill Walsh returned to Notre Dame Stadium in a role that Fighting Irish fans would rather forget: coach, not commentator
show fatigue and frustration in the second quarter before being being hammered in the third and fourth quarters.
“That’s my fault,” Holtz apologized. “We worked too hard in practice this week with the stress of exams hanging over the heads of our players. We were tired.”
The Irish scored their last touchdown of the game five minutes into the second quarter. The Notre Dame team that ran out of the tunnel after halftime went on to perform as if it had left its speed and its strength, its confidence and its composure in the locker room. In short, the Irish self-destructed after starting too strong.
The game began as if it had been tailored to be a blowout by the Irish over the Cardinal. Stanford received the opening kickoff. When Cardinal junior quarterback Steve Stenstrom got the ball in his hands for the first time, Irish senior linebacker Demetrius DuBose hammered him from behind, forcing him to fumble. Irish senior defensive end Devon McDonald tried to grab the ball as it bobbled around in the end zone, but Stanford outside guard Brian Cassidy fell on the ball for a safety. Two points and possession for Notre Dame.
Notre Dame received the ensuing kick and glided down the field for an easy touchdown. On a third and four from the Cardinal 12-yard line, Irish senior tailback Reggie Brooks caught a pitch to the right and sprinted into the end zone to increase Notre Dame’s lead to 9-0 with 12:35 left in the first quarter.
It all looked so easy, but for the rest of the first quarter neither the Irish nor the Cardinal could put points on the board. Once the second quarter began, however, Notre Dame was back on another scoring drive. The Irish fought their way down to the Cardinal 2-yard line where Notre Dame senior quarterback Rick Mirer pitched right to junior runningbackJeff Burris who joggedintotheendzone without even being touched by a Cardinal player, making the score 16-0. This was the last time the Irish scored in the game. For the next 41
				
18				
				
minutes, the Irish were held scoreless.
Stanford received the kickoff after the Irish scored their second touchdown but was unable to convert on this opportunity. The Irish defense only allowed the Cardinal a 2-yard gain in three plays from scrimmage. But Stanford found the ball back in the hands of its players after Mirer tossed a pass to senior split end Ray Griggs who caught the ball and ran with it but fumbled after being nailed by Cardinal senior strong safety Seyon Albert. Stanford senior cornerback Darrien Gordon recovered the ball and returned it to the Irish 23-yard line before being pushed out of bounds.
Turnover Number One.
With almost nine minutes left in the second quarter, Stanford reached the Notre Dame 6-yard line. The Cardinal easily slid into the end zone by running a reverse right with senior running back Glyn Milbum carrying the ball. The Cardinal failed its two point conversion attempt by overthrowing a receiver because of pressure by Notre Dame junior linebacker Anthony Peterson, leaving the score at 16-6.
For the remaining eight minutes in the first half, the ball changed hands several times, but neither team could convert its drives into scoring opportunities. The first half
concluded with the score stuck at 16-6. Notre Dame dominated the first half in terms
of rushing yardage with 27 carries for 143 yards, compared to Stanford’s 19 carries for 137 yards. However, the Cardinal beat the Irish in passing with 99 yards to Notre Dame’s 88. Stenstrom attempted 19 passes and completed ten. Mirer attempted 18 passes but completed only four. Herein lay : the hidden key to the rest of the game: > Stenstrom had the hot hand, and his short, ? sideline strikes eventually overextended the : Irish linebackers and picked apart the Irish secondary.
“Early on, Notre Dame just missed some breaks and gave up some turnovers,” explained Cardinal senior free safety John Lynch. “The game could have been a blow
out in the second quarter, but things like that kept us in the game and helped us gain confidence and get it going. Notre Dame was thinking that they should be winning big by now, and they were ripe for the taking.”
The second half started off on a bad note for the Irish. In the first half, Notre Dame allowed only one costly turnover, but the Irish coughed up the ball four times in the second half. Notre Dame received the kickoff, and on the first play Bettis received a pitch to the left and fumbled when he was hit by Lynch. Cardinal senior outside linebacker Dave Garnett recovered the ball on
A typically turnover-proof Notre Dame offense turned turnover-prone against an opportunistic Satanford defense, losing four out of five fumbles.
the Notre Dame 22-yard line. Turnover Number Two.
With momentum heading its way, Stanford easily converted this opportunity into a score. On the Irish 8-yard line Stenstrom passed to sophomore wide receiver Justin Armour over the middle. Armour caught the ball on the 1-yard line and stepped into the end zone making the score 16-13.
“We came in expecting to win,” boasted Stenstrom. “We knew we were playing a great football team and that this would have to be our best effort if we wanted to win. We studied the Tennessee game where Tennessee just kept playing and playing and used that to motivate ourselves.”
The next Irish possession, Notre Dame
drove all the way down to the Stanford 37-yard line where Bettis was throttled by Cardinal senior outside linebacker Ron George and once again coughed up the ball. Stanford’s junior cornerback Vaughn Bryant recovered the ball on the Cardinal 35-yardline. Turnover Number Three. But the Notre Dame defense halted the attempted Stanford scoring drive at the Notre Dame 46-yard line.
The Notre Dame offense took to the field after Stanford punted the ball away, but remained there for less than a minute before the Irish also had to punt.
Stanford then plowed down the field to the Notre Dame 20-yard line where Stenstrom tossed a ball to senior running back J J. Lasley who caught the ball at the Irish 16-yard line before darting down the field into the end zone, putting the Cardinal ahead 20-16.
The Irish plugged down the field to the Cardinal 9-yard line, eating up five minutes. With fourteen minutes left in the fourth quarter, Mirer launched a pass intended for senior tight end Irv Smith, only to have it intercepted by Stanford’sLynch who returned the ball to the Cardinal 24-yard line. Turnover Number Four.
Stated Holtz: “The real turn-ingpointwas with the score 20-16 we had the ball on their 9-
yard line and threw the interception. And to have them take it back down, that was a real
crusher.”
The Cardinal then proceeded down the field to the Irish 20-yard line where Stanford, on a fourth down with only one to go, opted for the field goal to push the score to 23-16.
When the Notre Dame offense took the field, it once again remained there for less than a minute.
The Stanford offense proved to be unstoppable as it drove down the field for another touchdown. The Cardinal penetrated to the Irish 14-yard line where Stenstrom handed off to Milbum who darted right and sprinted in for the touchdown and the score 30-16.
Notre Dame junior flanker Clint Johnson fielded the kickoff and ran nine yards up the gridiron where he attempted a desperation lateral pass to sophomore tailback Lee Becton but was intercepted by Stanford freshman cornerback David Walker at the Irish 8-yardline. Turnover Number Five.
The Cardinal was unable to get into the end zone. S tanford was on the Irish 1-yard line on a fourth down but opted to go for the field goal, making the score 33-16.
When Notre Dame received the ball for the last time, with over two minutes left on the clock, it was unable to create a scoring drive, ending the game with a score of 33-16. By the conclusion of the game, the Irish had given the ball to Stanford five times. Mirer attempted 38 passes in the game, completing only 13 with one interception.
Said Holtz: “Mirer has a lot on his mind, but there are no excuses. I’ve been in the game long enough to know that you have days like that He’s not infallible.”
On a more positive note, the Irish
defense put forward a valiant effort, only allowing the Cardinal into the end zone four times, stopping a two point conversion and forcing Stanford to settle for field goals twice. The Notre Dame defense performed well considering the amount of time the
Ken Osgood
“It's tough to swallow something like this,” said an aggravated Holtz.

Sc^rihg Summary
<7'7' ' ■	■  ;
‘-Noire"Daxne ■;:■' -Sy-T: 7 0 6 ■; 16
1st Quarter
2ndQuarter
'3rd- Quarter;
'4iK\Qujtfter;
:Np:^Fumbie;recov.eiy by Cassidy, safety at 14:50 ND: Brooks J 2 run (PA at 12:35 / < : : / C iro^Bu^
‘ Milburn 6 ru	;7-7> 7..
SU:
SU:
SU:
SU:
SU:
Armbur;8passfr^	at 14:24
Lasley 20 pass from Stenstrom p !Abrarris<37irc;at:8:22?.'^.''	V—
MilburrilMrunX	i . 7 77 :'
defensive players were on the field.
Said DuBose: “It was tough on the defense to be on the field so much. Our defense played well. Stanford’s been in school for only three days, and we’ve
already been into midterms this week. We’re tired.”
With the dream of a national championship ended by a game marked with so many unusually unimpressive performances, the Notre Dame players jogged off the field in defeat with their heads hung low. The Irish coaches, players and fans knew that this was not the normal Notre Dame football team. This was an off day.
Despite the fact that Notre Dame had the same number of turnovers as when the Irish last played the Cardinal at home two years ago, Walsh insisted that this was not a factor.
“The last game there was an explanation as to why Notre Dame lost. Let’s not do that again,” lectured Walsh. “We beat Notre Dame this time and the last time. Stanford beat Notre Dame two years ago and this year. Pure and simple. We won this game!” □.

' / <. ’■ J" <7 <	<ND< y	■suP 'y.y
First .Do^vns <•.»»»..*».,.«••..;**.<«*......*•...•***	.-‘■21 <■:"<	
7 Rushing		
		
->,■	'■ ■ ^Passing‘		S9?7:<<?'?:
:	3?enalty	,	"-y-y-	
Rushing	y 154: <	157	-
- -Passing ■	,	;<'i95.yy	
//rotatN^	:y349yy	■372;-'"
:: 7 ■ f ^Average Qam:P^ Piay ^..^	■y-^y^	:4.7:<;y:<
	yy^yy^	
P enalties-Yards;;.*.	'&&&	
: Punts-Averages	:■	5-47.8	5-43.6
7 Kickoff ^Returns *.*'.*.*.*.*..,	I'i	■ 17 ;*<
: 3rd Down Conversions	10-19	8-18
sutfAbr^
lllf
J^ush ingirl^	etti^ 17-54;Bectdn 5-20, 'Burris i-2-1, Mi^	SU: - Milburn 20^ 119-2, Robert
>L^ley 5U47^	7 <7
Tassing:lO-Mi^^	■ ■ ■7	?
:jA^our'3yi;;:l^lb^^	"7'7 77777
Hue- D/me'52 - Bib——
Nothing
Janey
The Irish kept the ball on the ground and ran wild
by Amanda Clinton
T> efore the game, Pittsburgh students _D were allowed onto the field en masse, creating a circus-like . atmosphere while waiting for their team to charge into the stadium from the locker room. With fists shaking in the air, homemade signs and taunts, the Panther fans blocked the tunnel and the entrance of the Notre Dame football team into the stadium. One student, with police officers chasing, pushed to the front of the crowd and shoved a sign in front of Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz which read, “33-16 Stanford.” While police officers grabbed the student, Holtz called after them to bring back the sign.
“I felt our players ought to see it. I thought that was great It was really great, and I compliment the Pitt students on the enthusiasm they had down there on that field,” raved Holtz.
After a devastating loss to Stanford, the Irish bounced back despite the hostile crowd and an energized Pittsburgh squad. But the game plan was different. The Panthers witnessed the return of the run.
Stated Holtz, “I thought we played football Notre Dame style. It was nothing fancy.”
With a total of323 yards on 48 carries, the Panthers could not hold off the Irish, but in the first quarter it seemed questionable. After the first fifteen minutes, Notre Dame was up by only one point, 7-6.
Stated Pittsburgh head coach Paul Hackett, “We spent all week on how to stop the run, and they got 300 yards. Someone has got to make the big play, and we didn’t.”
The Panthers received the kickoff but were unable to get a first down, so Pitt was forced to punt the ball away. The Irish
received the ball at the Notre Dame 48-yard line, but Notre Dame was only able to move down to the Panther 21-yard line, where the Irish were on a fourth down with nine yards to go and opted for the field goal. Senior kicker Craig Hentrich, a normally automatic place kicker, was wide right
quarterbackRick Mirer then tossed upapass to Miller for an 18-yard gain. After an injured rib against Stanford, junior wide
r
enne
Nose tackle Jim Flanigan brings down a Panther runner for a loss in the backfield.
on his 38-yard attempt
The Panthers then devoured the clock
taking six and a half minutes and 16 plays to fight their way down to the Irish 3-yard line, where they had three yards left to go on a fourth down and opted for a field goal. With five minutes left in the first quarter, Pittsburgh was beating Notre Dame 3-0.
After this slow start, the Irish woke up. It took Notre Dame only four plays to put seven points on the scoreboard. Sophomore flanker Mike Miller received the kickoff at the 5-yard line and danced, his way up the gridiron for 29 yards to the 34-yard line. Senior fullback Reggie Brooks pushed his way up the middle for three yards. Senior

receiver Lake Dawson was back in action.
With a perfect pass from Mirer, Dawson gained 37 yards for the Irish, bringing Notre Dame to the 8-yard line. Bettis took the handoff and easily glided into the endzone, making the score 7-3.
The Pitt offense took control of the game and drove all the way down the field but were stopped by the powerful Irish defense once within striking distance of paydirt. The Panthers only made it to the 11-yard line before they were forced to settled for another field goal.
“It’s disappointing because of how things started out,” stated Pitt sophomore running

back Tim Colicchio. “We were fired up and
sophomore defensive back Anthony Dorsett
came at them. Then we came out real hard
and started slipping again. We know we could have played against them.”
The first quarter ended with Notre Dame on top by one point, * 7-6.
But within three minutes, the Irish tallied another touchdown.
Bettis powered down the field from the Irish 29-
and brought down at the Irish 38-yard line
Mike Bennett
Tailback Reggie Brooks splits the seam on this
18-yard scamper into enemy territory.
yard line for 29
yards, his longest
run in the season up to that point. On a second down with 15 to go, Mirer attempted a pass to senior tight end Irv Smith but it fell to the ground incomplete. On the next play, with a confidence not witnessed in the Stanford game just a week earlier, Mirer looked for an open receiver but could not
find one. He scrambled and dodged defenders before throwing a pass to Dawson for a 14-yard gain. Mirer then held onto the ball for the next two plays, carrying the Irish to the 1-yard line. Junior tight end Oscar McBride ran into the endzone, turned and easily caught a perfect pass from Mirer for a touchdown, putting Notre Dame on top 14-6.
The Pitt offense could not gain a first down on their next possession. With a sack by Irish senior linebacker Brian Ratigan of Pittsburgh quarterback Alex Van Pelt, the Panthers were forced to punt the ball away into a charged Irish offense.
With 11 minutes left in the first half, Holtz sent in the second string. Explained Holtz, “I thought it would be good for morale to shuffle people around.”
Junior quarterback Kevin McDougal was in for Mirer. He directed the offense into the endzone? in just five plays. Sophomore
tailback Lee Becton took over for Brooks and took control of the running game. After a handoff from McDougal, he took off down the field and was almost in the clear before he was grabbed around the ankles by Panther
for a gain of 27 yards. On the Panther 31-yard line on a third down with six to go, McDougal shot off a bullet to freshman wide receiver Derrick Mayes who pulled in the pass and ran into the endzone for a 31-yard gain.
“I was happy that we were able to rebound
Wide receiver Mike Miller races downfield on this 18-yard reception
from last week,” said Mayes. “There was no doubt in my mind that when we stick together and believe in each other we win.”
With the scoreboard reading Notre Dame 21 - Pittsburgh 6, the slowly fading Panther
offense took to the field, and within two plays senior quarterback Alex Van Pelt threw the ball into the arms of Irish cornerback Tom Carter for an interception. Notre Dame started off on the Irish 34-yard line. But with Mirer back in as quarterback, the Irish were unable to get a first down.
Said Holtz, “They had some turnovers and,; we didn’t have any. That’s a big turning^ point in any football game. People will look at it and won’t realize how tough a game this j really was.”
Despite receiving the ball on their own 41 -yard line, the Panthers were unable to convert their opportunity into a score. But when the Irish offense returned to the gridiron, they were easily able to tally another seven points. In nine plays and three and a half minutes, the Irish drove down the field from the 18. Brooks received the handoff on the; Panther ten yard line and carried the ball down to the three. On the next play, Bettis scored a touchdown on a 2-yard run. The half ended 30 seconds later with a score of 28-6.
The Irish dominated in the first half with 318 total yards compared to Pitt’s 136. Notre Dame started off the second half,
punting the ball away when the Irish could not convert a fourth down. On the other hand, the Pittsburgh offense came out of the locker room charging. In 15 plays and 78 yards, the Panthers struggled down the field
SCHOLASTIC
for a touchdown, to narrow the margin to fourteen points, making the score 28-14.
The Irish countered with another touchdown set up by Bettis. He received the handoff on the Panther 27-yard line and plowed his way up the middle for a gain of 17 yards. On the next carry, Bettis took the ball into the end zone with a 10-yard run, pushing the score up to 35-14.
When the fourth quarter began, the Panthers had the ball on the their own 47 when Van Pelt tossed up a ball for sophomore wide receiver Dietrich Jells but had it picked off by junior free safety Jeff Burris. In just three plays, Notre Dame was back in the end zone. On the Irish 31-yard line, on a third down with 12 yards to go, Mirer rolled left and lofted the ball to Mayes. The ball floated into his arms, and he glided into the end zone for a 69-yard touchdown.
The Panthers countered by fighting their way into the end zone with a less impressive scoring drive. Van Pelt threw an 8-yard touchdown pass to junior wide receiver Chad Askew to make the score 42-21.
Despite an attempted onside kick by the Panthers, which the Irish recovered, Notre
Fullback Jerome Bettis scores one of his three
touchdowns of the night.
Dame was only able to notch a field goal, eight plays later, increasing the difference to 24 points, making the score 45-21.
The Irish kicked off to Pitt, but the Panthers fumbled the ball and Lytle recovered for the Irish on the Panther 28-yard line. Sophomore quarterback Paul Failla took over the offense on the next series. Notre Dame used the run to take the Irish to the 4-yard line where Failla capped off the scoring
drive with a touchdown. After the field goal, the Irish were on top with a score of 52-21.
“It was encouraging to go out and play well on offense, especially since a lot of people got to see action and execute well,” stated Mirer.
With three minutes left on the clock, the Panthers tried to drive down the field to diminish the extent of their loss but had to punt the ball away. The game ended with the Irish on top, 52-21, marking the fifth straight time Notre Dame has defeated Pittsburgh. And after a devastatingloss to Stanford the week before, the Irish left Pittsburgh with restored confidence and buoyed spirits to take on Brigham Young at home.	□

iXl^Scbring^umniai'y
2 J 3	' FiAal	.-■	. <■', ; ...First Il o'wns - .■ 'Rustling	»*«.>*'*•*«»* A ;X-:AA :• A.-//■X'X? Xx.\PassingL;^^ .. -- " ,■? Penal ty»»«»	. ■' ■/ A A '■ .. A' Rushing at 11:41 •••’' ■ r ’i-Total'N^et- (PAT) alASO-AAA A- Average Gain Per Play A.--. A■ ■ A XX>■:::A A/Fumbles-LbstAAA^^ at5:56 ;: ?-X — k?;. ?PenaItieS‘*^’arcis**'***,»,»»»*»»»»«»«««»i****»»»**k	"i"NDk'k:.	?252;:ksk ;:^27kkJk; v2-l;k§:&
Dame "7; 21 y- 7:^ " 17 .52 "k >': i k		;\f24-?y; ■	
A • J	UP: Conley-20	: X; X- / -<: AX A :	A" iXpass^ AMcDbugal 3rdk^	5./passfromVah Pelt/2 ON		3,L<k? 308 • 7 8.02 0-0 Bk«-60:?k	
.'XX /	11 run {PAT) at 2:29 •.; ; X4di Quarter * ND: Mayes 69pass from Mirer (PA X T /X/-fe/AA/- / /DP: Askew 8 pass:frdm• Van. Pelt; (P "XXAXXX XA A	25-/F^at5:2d-AxX - / J ' ►' ‘ -a. ; , * I ' 5	» s * % '	’ 5 ‘ \ v ‘	’	1	, >'	k %' ; ; X v	’ b !	bn* _	v i t	‘	" 1 1 ' \	' “	: , ■	ati3:16 • -	- F^iekoff. Returns ATy'aX8:46XX::';X:^ ‘A * C * ? ' "A :	b A’ b aa > A' cb X, /h >* 7	: b' ;; X /; j X	- ' <; ' b	k ■■ .'^“45 *5 ■ ■	' .4’4 1:^3'-' y23S^ 9-i9g;/
ftushing: W- Bettis 13:-94-3; Brooks 14-84, Becton 8^65/Mircr 7-^
UP-Colicchiol5-61,Dukesl0-20;Brooks3-2,VanPW
Passingi ND-Mirer 16-9-482-2 0; McDougal 1-1-31^
Receiving:Np-Mayes2-100,Dawsoil2-51,Jarrelll-20,Griggs2-;6,Mi!lerT4
Bouyer 6-62, Belvin 5-36, Davis 4-60, Coliccluo 2-12, Askew l-8, Martin l-6, Curran l-6	^^ > : k,; / / ,kk. kk'-G;:\
i I

,	.	Nick Spangler
The “Thunder and Lightning" backfield of tailback Reggie Brooks (shown above) and fullback Jerome Bettis struck for 113 rushing yards apiece against Brigham Young.	'

Holtz-o-mania
Friday’s proclamation became Saturday’s performance
by Greg Borkowski
The Brigham Young football weekend marked the introduction of a new phenomenon at Notre Dame called “Holtz-o-mania.” During the Friday nightpep rally, in front of a full house in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz spoke a proclamation that resounded off the ears of enthusiastic Irish fans. Holtz made a promise few could forget. “We will not lose another game at home,” he belted out This confident outburst was followed by a violent spike of the microphone.
Devon McDonald later said, ’’After he spoke at the rally and then just threw the mike do^vn, I could have jumped on the moon after that. That carried over to the game.”
Holtz-o-mania broke loose once again on gameday. In front of a capacity crowd of 59,075 at Notre Dame Stadium, Lou Holtz charged onto the field after a missed holding
call and applied the dreaded sleeper hold on referee Thomas Thamert.
This newfound intensity that Holtz created proved to be a turning point in both the game and the season.
Previous to the game, B YU possessed one of the most proficient passing attacks in college football, causing some to worry if Notre Dame’s defense could handle it. However, Notre Dame itself boasted one of the best overall offenses in college football. This first-ever meeting between the two football teams had the making to be a high scoring affair.
Fears ofBYU’s offense were temporarily dispelled early in the game after a punt by Craig Hentrich buried the Cougars on their own 6-yard line. On the next play, BYU quarterback Ryan Hancock and running back Jamal Willis misfired on a handoff creating a fumble. Senior linebacker Demetrius DuBose recovered the ball in the end zone for Notre Dame’s first touchdown.
BYU did not give up. Kicker David
Lauder nailed an 18-yard field goal to put BYU on the scoreboard. The Irish countered in the middle of the second quarter with a 65-yard drive ending in a 1-yard toss from senior quarterback Rick Mirer to senior tight end Irv Smith, making the score 14-3.
The BYU passing game continued to remain effective. In the closing minutes of the first half, the Cougars reached the Irish 20-yard line twice, having to settle both times for field goals. At halftime, the Irish lead was only five points.
The second half marked a change of pace for Notre Dame. Senior tailback Reggie Brooks, sidelined with an injury in the first half, returned to boost the Irish offense.
“I couldn’t accelerate and get around the comer on the sweeps. But I could make the plays that hit straight up, the little counteiplays, and the misdirections,” remarked Brooks.
Early in the second half, senior wideout Ray Griggs snuck behind the Cougar secondary for a 54-yard touchdown pass play
that increased the Notre Dame lead to 21-9.
The Cougars countered with a 78-yard scoring drive of their own capped off by a 5-yard pass from sophomore quarterback Ryan Hancock to Tim Nowatzke.
Turned away once before at the 5-yard line, the Irish offense returned on their next possession as junior fullback Jerome Bettis plowed into the end zone. This 18-yard rumble increased the Irish lead to 28-16.
On the next two Cougar possessions, Hancock, threw interceptions. McDonald pressured Hancock to throw the first one to junior Irish safety Jeff Burris. Five plays later, Bettis scored on a 5-yard run.
Junior cornerback Tom Carter snagged the second interception on the Cougar 30-yard line. Just five plays later, Burris, who also plays halfback on the goal line offense, pushed his way into the end zone from the 1-yard line to make the final score 42-16.
B YU did eventually pass for 339 yards, 244 of which came in the first half, but the second half belonged to the Irish both offensively and defensively. In the last 23 minutes of the game, the Irish offense tallied 21 unanswered points, while the defense forced Cougar quarterback Ryan Hancock to throw three interceptions. Two misdirected passes were snagged by Jeff Burris and one was caught by Tom Carter.
“We kind of influenced the coaches a little bit. We told them we wanted to play man,” stated Burris. “We felt we could put a little pressure on him, and they responded.”
By the conclusion of the game, BYU had only accumulated 3 yards rushing. Yes, only nine feet. Junior free safety John Covington inspired the defense to hold the Cougars to a virtually nonexistent ground game, with 13 tackles. He also lead the Irish defensive unit to hold BYU to under 100 yards of total offense and one touchdown.
“Our defense came together in the last 25 minutes,” remarked Holtz.
In the second half, Notre Dame amassed 323 yards, 229 of which were rushing, and controlled the ball for 36 minutes.
Lamented BYU head coach LaVell Edwards, “Their ability to run the ball, control the clock and get long drives, plus our inability to run were the biggest factors in the game.”
Hancock completed 28 of his 56 attempted passes for a total of 339 yards, one
touchdown and three interceptions.
“They just came out and took charge in the third quarter. Their big thing was their ability to run the football and score,” explained Edwards.
Part of the defensive success could be attributed to Holtz’s strategy of using five defensive backs—Jeff Burris, Tom Carter, John Covington, Greg Lane and Bobby Taylor—to stifle the Cougar passing threat
Stated Holtz, “They played as well as as I’ve ever had a secondary play while I was coaching. We had a chance to make seven interceptions.”
With the defense playing well, the Irish offense had plenty of time to add to its lead. Despite injuries, both fullback Jerome Bettis and tailback Reggie Brooks contributed to the lead with spectacular performances. Combined, they rushed for 226 yards. Bettis ran for 113 yards and two touchdowns, barreling in on runs of six and 18 yards. Brooks suffered a groin injury only one week before the game but still managed to carry the ball 14 times in the second half, amassing 113 yards.
Brooks explained, “I didn’t know what to expect. I was kind of cautious about how to go about running. The second half coach said he was going to put the ball in my hands. So I had to come through and perform.”
About Holtz's explosive speech, defensive end Devon McDonald said, "After he spoke at the rally and then just threw the mike down, I could have jumped on the moon after that. That carried over to the game."
Mirer also performed well, completing 12 of 17 pass attempts for 164 yards and two touchdowns. The second of these was an impressive 54-yard bomb to senior flanker Ray Griggs. The passing attack was made possible by the tough offensive line play.
Explained Holtz, “We said this would be a game of challenges, and the offensive line had to take it on themselves to answer one.”
Stated junior center Tim Ruddy, “We had a hard time in the first half, we had a lot of running plays but couldn’t get a rhythm going. So we said we would try to run it, try to take it to them.”
Junior guard Aaron Taylor explained the difficulty in the first half by saying, “The first half, we were always one block away from getting the job done and moving the ball. I think the second half we had to get things done up front. We just had an attitude change, stopped talking, start rolling and playing football.”
Despite the Irish offense pouring in 28 points in the second half, the two moves that caused the most excitement were made by Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. At Friday night’s pep rally, Holtz promised that his team would not lose another game at home the rest of the season, despite the powerful opponents of Boston College and Penn State looming ahead. Although Holtz
11992 FQQTBALL REVIEW
Ken Osgood
Brigham Young, parentally a passing team, threw the ball 56 times for 28 completions totalling 339 yards. However, cornerback Tom Carter (above) and company Intercepted three Cougar passes and allowed only one touchdown through the air.
would later comment that he should not be held accountable for things he says at pep rallies, the promise had been made.
Then, during the second half, Holtz saw a BYU offensive lineman commit a holding penalty. Since referee Thomas Thamert apparently missed it, Holtz re-enacted it for him, or — more appropriately — on him. What resulted was a 15-yard penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct and a resounding ovation from the fans. Holtz later apologized for the incident, claiming that he only wanted to show how he interpreted the play. Holtz’s stranglehold fired up the defense even more, assisting to their superb effort.
“You saw how hyped he got with the officials. People watch their leaders and when your leader is as pumped as he was, it trickles down,” explained McDonald.
This 42-26 victory over Brigham Young was especially satisfying for Notre Dame because it marked a turning point in the season for the defense and since the Irish have had trouble playing well after having an extra week to prepare for a game.
“I think the open week really helped us preparefortherestoftheseason. Wetackled better, we executed better and we played well in the second half for the first time in a






	:W>SS	
’ First Downs ^y*****************-****************** ».;■		:20&;W.:
		yssss
• ^FSSSlllg M*»*»«'«**i *»»»»• J	7		
's	Penalty ♦**»»»».»'»'»*'..	. bW: ‘Siu	'SSys
Rns 11 in g i»»n *»**««•	. ■		
■' 'PaSSlUg «•<••«** »«>**• •*»*«**••••»****»•« waaa**^#*****'	.		
< To tn I e t n rd s■ mm\ ?		
■	. J; . Av er ag e - Gain Per Pl^<^		
;FumWs-E^		
, Pen a I ti es	rds - »*** «»•******»«»»*** »*'»«»»• *»»» ;.; :		
	!t;5^3&!:	
; JCickoff Feturns **»«««a*ak*a*a**«*«**a>*^a*«**«		^59i«?r
3rd DWn	S1SSS33,	
;■■ my ,.>/!■ Sy, ■ ‘S' SS‘S	-,S'	S<S 'SS		
10:37 ;
•?:2hdI<2u¥rter3z;'N^
’•^thiju^rfer Z
Rushing: ND-BeUis21-U3-2,Brooksl5-112, ZeHars 6-37,Lytle5-22, Mirer 11-7, Staffordl-4, Burris
BY -Hall 5-27, Hunter 1-13, Heimuli l-6, Willis 4-5, Hancock 5-(-38)
Receiving: ND - Griggs 3-78-1, Bettis 2-23, Maves 2-21, Smith 6-1, Pollard.1-13, Dawson 1-9, Zellars l-3, Miller 1-1 BY-Rex7-76,NMwarzke4-68-l,CTnstensen 4-33, Heimuli 3-51, Drage 3-25, Hall 3-23, Domanl-33,Winisl-17,
long time,’’.said Holtz.
This solid victory helped build the team’s confidence heading into the season’s last four games, three of which were against top 20 teams Boston College, Penn State and Southern Cal. With a dominating rushing attack, a consistent passing attack, an improving defense and a promise of victory by a typically conservative coach lingering in the air, Holtz-o-mania continued to mount with the anticipation of more difficult match-ups in the future.	□
Wide receiver Ray Griggs streaks down the sideline to score on a 54-yard touchdown pass from Rick Mirer
by Jim Kuser
; Notre Dame had a total of 37 on the se^
-	y	S W&r. ■	compared to, 11 last season. Since die/
his defense relinquished 21 points; After. Brigham Young game, Notre Dame shut focusing pn defensive strategies for a week, down Heisman hopefuls like running NocreDamebeatBrighamYoung,42-16.In backsChuckieDukesofBostonCollege
■ he Notre Dathe Stadium’s capacity Minter’s estimation, this was the first game arid Richie And^son pf Penn State, both of crowd of 59,075. had come to see the in which all of his,defensive pistons fired. T whom had been averaging over 100 yards Irish shake the thunder down upon the ■ “We were living third downs like a game before being held respectively to Stanford Cardinal on Saturday, October 3. Murphy’s Law until, that game,” said : under fifty and eighty yards against Notre Instead, it saw the Cardinal soar to a 33-16 Minter.'	: . / ' ? • Y. Dame. This season, the defense held four
upset victory. The Irish offense; ranked ; . To say; that the defense picked up its bf college football’s top ten offenses to: first in the country at that time, had sput- performance “a little bit” is art understate- between lOO and 150 yards below their tered. As for NotreDartre's defense, it took ment. Afterrecording a season highsix averages, i ;	:
the hpat for relinquishing 33 unanswered, quarterback sacks against Southern Cal, . .. Arguably.Notre Dame’sbestdefensi ve , game was against Boston College. En rbute to a 54-7 victory, the .Irish defense played, according tbMinter, “55. minutes' of perfect de-. ferisive football in which we
points. Changes had to be
made. ’ . 1
Enter first year defensive. coordinator Rick-Minter.	.
“In thegame of football,
the performance of the defense is often judged by one thing: the final score,” said Minter. . “In the Stanford game, we were lacking our fundamentals, and so we had to regroup.” : .. \' ■. ■
A doctor of defense, Minter assessed the ailment, rationalized its cure and performed .the appropriate surgery.	■ 7;.' . ...
“We beefed up bur underneath pass coverage," said Minter.
KenOsgooc
’ allowed only fifty yards; no third down conversions and ; rib defensive penalties. In the last five minutes, however, we gave up a 48-yard t reception, a touchdown, a third down conversion, 122
' yardsand a penalty. Wejet-. I ourselves down.”:' T;' \ ; Perfection is Minter’s expectation. “It is the obliga-
. - • tjqn Of oiir defense tocbmb; '.. 'into the .'game and {to jgaye? ...' thingsas we found theriifor; . bur offense to attend to. We i - play in thenameof pride and in this case. ..? pride is a
'h'shutout”
' After focusing on! defen-. —	... ......  ,	. . . .	:
Dame beat Pitt 52 21 second half of the season. "All we needed was a change of '
Notre Buie 38 - Naw^
Notre Dame sinks Navy again
by Kate Medeiros
Halloween held no major surprises for the 58,769 fans at Giant’s Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey. Nor did it hold any surprises for Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish nor Navy’s Midshipmen. As expected, the Irish dominated the game, defeating the Midshipmen by a final score of 38-7 for their 29th consecutive win over them. Describing a methodical dismantling of one team by another is boring at best, informative at least. Read on and realize that nearly every player on the Irish roster on both sides of the ball and on the special teams had a hand in disposing a the Midshipmen.
The Irish defense was able to halt the Midshipmen , offense from their first possession. Linebacker and co-captain Demetrius DuBose, defensive end Karmeeleyah McGill, cornerback Greg Lane, and defensive tackles Brian Hamilton, Jim Flanigan and Bryant Young all played key roles for the Notre Dame defense. The Midshipmen defense, however, was not so fortunate. Notre Dame took the lead about nine minutes into the first quarter with its first possession. The Irish offense remained strong even without key players like full
back Jerome Bettis, offensive guard Todd Norman and tight end Oscar McBride, all of whom were sidelined with injuries.
After one incomplete pass, quarterback and co-captain Rick Mirer passed to flanker Lake Dawson who completed the 18-yard pass on the Navy 31-yard line. Tailback Reggie Brooks then made three carries, the first for 15 yards, followed by one for three yards and a final carry for six yards. Full back Ray Zellars then carried for two yards, bringing the ball to the Navy 5-yard line. Free safety Jeff Burris, platooning at fullback, rushed five yards to make the first touchdown for the Irish. Kicker Craig Hentrich’s extra point was successful, rounding the score off to 7-0.
The Midshipmen failed to score on their next two ball possessions of the first quarter. Navy quarterback Jason Van Matre and fullback Duke Ingraham had a hard time breaking down the Notre Dame defense with Irish free safety Jeff Burris, defensive back Bobby Taylor, defensive end Nick Smith, DuBose, Lane and Young swarming about the field in a frenzy.
The Irish were also unsuccessful in their next two possessions as Middie defensive back and co-captain Chad Chatlos, linebacker Javier Zuluaga and defensive tackle
Robert Kuberski kept the first quarter at one touchdown for the Irish, despite being physically dwarfed by the Irish front line.
The second quarter offered much more excitement for Irish fans. The Irish brought the score up to 10-0 with a successful 32-yard field goal by Hentrich.
On their first possession of the second quarter, the Midshipmen suffered another unsuccessful touchdown attempt at the hands of DuBose and Hamilton who split the tackling duties on the drive.
Notre Dame scored again on its next possession. After an incomplete pass by Mirer, Brooks rushed up the middle for two yards, putting the ball on the Notre Dame33-yard line. Mirer then passed to flanker Adrian Jarrell for 16 yards, but Jarrell fumbled the ball out-of-bounds at the Notre Dame 49-yard line. The next two plays were unsuccessful passing attempts by Mirer to wide receiver Derrick Mayes and Zellars. Mirer then ran the ball for 14 yards, running out-of-bounds at the Navy 37-yard line. Brooks rushed the ball for three yards. Becton then made an unsuccessful rushing attempt, keeping the ball at the Navy 34-yard line. Split end William Pollard caught Mirer’s 9-yard pass to bring the ball to the Navy 25-yard line. Brooks rushed for one
more yard before catching Mirer’s 24-yard pass for a touchdown. Once again Hentrich’s extra point was successful, bringing the Irish to a 17 point lead.
The Midshipmen were once again successfully held off by the Irish defense, with McGill and Flanigan leading the tackling brigade this time.
The Irish’s next ball possession was yet another successful touchdown drive. Mirer started off the drive with an 11-yard pass to Dawson, bringing the ball to the Notre Dame 46-yard line. Brooks rushed for nine yards but was then pushed back for a loss of one yard on thenextplay. Brooks carried the ball four yards to bring the ball to the Navy 42-yard line. Split end Ray Griggs caught a 23-
Lou Holtz stands silent, shocked by the ease with which Navy scored their only touchdown, a 22-yarder in the fourth quarter.
yard pass from Mirer on the next play to put
the ball on the Navy 19-yard line. Zellars then carried the ball for nine yards. Mirer followed with a 6-yard run to set up Brooks’ 4-yard touchdown rush. Hentrich’s extra
point was good, increasing the Irish’s lead to a comfortable 24 points.
The Midshipmen gained no points on their next possession. Meanwhile, the Irish’s last possession of the third quarter was yet another success. Irv Smith, a tight end, caught an 11-yard pass to get the ball to the Notre Dame 42-yard line. After two incomplete pass attempts, Mirer completed a pass to reserve tight end Pete Chryplewicz for 16 yards. Mayes then caught a 25-yard pass from Mirer putting the ball on the Navy 17-yard line. Brooks then set up Mirer’s touchdown pass, rushing the ball for 14 yards. Mirer completed his final touchdown of the second quarter with a 3-yard pass to Smith. Hentrich’s extra point was success
ful, bringing Notre Dame’s lead to 38-0.
Navy’s final possession of the second quarter was a disaster, with Irish defen
sive tackle Brian Hamilton sacking Van Matre at the Navy 27-yard line.
The third quarter held little excitement for either team, as both the Irish and the Midshipmen remained scoreless. The Irish were penalized four times in their first possession alone for a false start, holding (twice)
and pass interfer-' of being shut out.
e n c e . Hentrich punted the ball for the Irish, putting it on the Navy 16-yard line. Navy’s
touchdown attempt was once again left
unfulfilled as defensive end Devon McDonald took it upon himself to wreak havoc in the Navy backfield and drop the opposition ’ s backs for a pair of losses behind
the line of scrimmage. Navy punted the ball for 46 yards, putting it on the Notre Dame 21-yard line, The Irish were again unsuccessful in their attempt for a touchdown. Hentrich punted again for the Irish, and put the ball on the Navy 6-yard line.
Navy ended the quarter with another uneventful possession. The Irish, having suffered a bad quarter, were still secure in their 31 point lead.
Sophomore Paul Failla stepped in as quarterback on the Irish’s first possession of the fourth quarter. Becton rushed the ball up the middle for a 13-yard gain, putting the ball on the Notre Dame 29-yard line. In the nextplay, Bectonran the ball again for again of two yards. Fallia made a 12-yard pass to
Pollard. On the next play, Chatlos intercepted Fallia’s pass, but gained no yardage on the return, putting the ball on the Navy 45-yard line for the Midshipmen.
The next attempt for a touchdown by the Midshipmen was once again shot down by the seemingly unsurmountable Irish defense. McGill, Bryant and strong safety
John Covington each made two tackles. Defensive back Brian Magee closed the possession for Navy by pushing Van Matre back three yards.
Next, Kevin McDougal stepped in as quarterback, the third signal caller for the Irish on the day. On the first play, he was pushed back four yards by Navy’s defensive tackle Stacey Yopp. Then McDougal’s next pass was intercepted by defensive end David Shaw. This set up Navy’s possession of the ball on the Notre Dame 22-yard line.
With five minutes left in the final quarter, Van Matre passed to Pritchard for 22 yards, giving the Midshipmen their first touchdown of the game. Kicker Tim Rogers extra point was successful, bringing Navy’s point total to seven and avoiding the humiliation
Matt Tate kicked off for 47 yards, putting the ball on the Notre Dame 18-yard line. Mike Miller showed a little shake and bake and returned the ball for 40 yards before being pushed out-of-bounds at the Navy 42-yard line.
Zellars carried the ball up the middle for a
gain of two yards. Becton followed this with three rushes for a total gain of 12 yards. With the ball on the Navy 28-yard line, split end Clint Johnson carried the ball for 14 yards.
1992 FOOTBALL REVIEW
Zellars once again rushed the ball for a gain of five yards. Finally Becton carried the ball up the middle for nine yards and a touchdown. Kevin Pendergast, who stars for Notre Dame’s soccer team and was acquired as a back up kicker by Irish head coach Lou Holtz, booted the extra point to bring Notre Dame to its final total of 38 points on its last possession of the game.
The Midshipmen’s final possession was once again scoreless. Cornerback LaRon Moore, linebacker Pete Bercich, Lane and Magee held the Irish’s final defensive attempt strong. McGill sacked Van Matre on one of the final plays of the game for a Navy loss of two yards.
The Irish returned from the Meadowlands with another win to latch under their belts. They had defeated what was said to be a greater foe than the Midshipmen themselves, namely the cockiness and complacency that accompanies any game between one of the best teams in the country and one oftheworstteamsinthecountry. WithNotre Dame’s current winning streak against the Midshipmen at 29 games, the Irish had a lot
Mike Bennett
Reggie Brooks scores on a 24-yard pass from Rick Mirer. This was the first of three touchdowns that the Irish would score in their explosive 24-point second quarter
to celebrate. But with tough games ahead Southern Cal on the road, the Irish had to against number 11 Boston Colleg and num- keep themselves on track and prepare for the ber 14 Penn State at home and number 13 grueling schedule ahead. <	□


; 4 Final ?	Pirst l!ovrns	,.NDV NA/\ ;/3015
Notre Dame. 7 24 . 0 •. 7 • ^3&/;	,	’	‘	■ Rlislring i»»m:	
.:./2 4 7 Navy;.<	;• 0	0	01	7 ::	Passing	'/ '.B
	> ' ?/ Penalty;.;;;;			 R.nsti ing. **..*«••*.**•.*»(.	/	' . 0 ?■	0	-
;lsfQuarte^^	7-'		/i223-;/j'i60?:''
:2nd Qua^	-	•	Passing .**••*«***«•.*•«*»»**•••••.*•.***•*.**.**«••***«	; 253	93
:	; ND: Brooks 24; pas s fro ni M irer (PAT j *at 9:02 :	■' ■ Total Wet Yards	**••••***••••*'.<	^^76	253 J.,
■Kf-' 7P-at:4':2r/?;.	.	. .	' Average Gain Per Play	?	6.1 : 3.6: ■.
Smith 3 ■ passfrom Mireri (PAT) at-;!9. 7	,	.: PunibleS"JuOSt	...	;4-0;'::/' 4-0
'41# Quarter/Matre (PAT)”	> Penalties-Yards ••***«••.*«««*««»»««»**•«•«•**'.	./7-64 ' . 2-15
:. • 7■; >./7	; / 'PuntS“Averages*»».««>*.*»*«**o*	3-41	7-40.6
	■ KkiekoffjPe turns	m«: •	^i?-4o	5-ii3
	; 7 3rd Down Conversions	■	1044 . 4-16

/ Individual Statistics... /
•.//RushlngrND^lirppks.'lB-^^	Mirer 3-31, Zellars 6-22, Johnson 1-14, Burris 1-5, McDougal4-(-7) ’
James 6-13,- Hines 1-6,,Smart 2-(-6) 7..'/	• -;i :■	3
<Passing: ND-. Mirer 24-15-221-2-0, M^^2-1-12-0-1 NA - Van Matre 14-9-93-1-0, Seoane l-0-0-0-0 j; Receiving: ND'-Dawson 3-38/ Jarrell2-27,Griggs 2-47, Smith 2-14-1, Pollard 2-21, Mayes 2-45, Miller 14,Brooks l-24-l.;: 'Johnson l-20 NA - James 3-23> Screen 3-25, Pritchard 2-314, Jefferson. 1-14 /	.7y	:


Welcome to the BIG
TIME
Midnight struck on Boston College's Cinderella season as the Irish grounded the Golden Eagles
Nick Smith follows the bouncing ball after Notre Dame's defense forced a fumble in the Boston College backfield.
by Amanda Clinton
A sNotreDamefanspiledintotheJoyce /V Athletic and Convocation Center, a boisterous contingent of Boston College supporters chanted for their team. When the pep rally began, the Golden Eagle fans stopped cheering and started harassing the speakers. Even Lou Holtz had to try to ignore their rude display as he belted out his speech. Not until Dan Wagner, the leprechaun mascot, asked the crowd what the difference between Notre Dame and Boston College is, and supplied the crowd with the answer: class, did the Eagle supporters quiet down.
This episode proved to be a metaphor for the game played the next day. Boston College was all talk but no action as the Irish easily trounced the upstart undefeated Eagles. Notre Dame players commented after the game that the vocal fans at the rally only added fuel to their fire and desire to teach Boston College the lessons of football.
Just six minutes into the game, the Irish cruised to an easy touchdown, and the Eagles learned that they might have under
estimated the talent of Notre Dame.
The Irish were on the Eagles’ 9-yard line. Quarterback Rick Mirer faked up the middle to fullback Jerome Bettis, freezing the defense, before tossing a pass to tailback Lee Becton, who was left alone. Becton looked over his shoulder and easily caught the ball before jogging in the end zone for the first Notre Dame touchdown. The Boston College players looked dumbstruck at the ease with which the Irish were able to tally their first seven points. Lesson Number One: It is easy to be intimidated in Notre Dame Stadium.
With she minutes and 36 seconds left in the first quarter, Notre Dame was on the Boston College 37-yard line. Mirer threw a pass to Bettis, who was running down the side of the field. Bettis caught the ball and easily faked out an Eagle player on their 12-yard line before cruising in for a touchdown, making the score 14-0. Lesson Number Two: When Jerome Bettis comes rumbling towards you, the best thing to do is step aside.
Chuckled Bettis, “Coach tells us we’re, running backs. If we can’t make one person miss, we aren’t worth anything.”
Boston College held onto the ball for three plays before quarterback Glenn Foley was hit so hard by defensive end Karmeeleyah McGill that Foley coughed up the ball and Irish defensive tackle Brian Hamilton recovered the fumble on the Boston College 21-yard line. Lesson Number Three: You can run but you can’t hide from the Notre Dame defense.
It only took Notre Dame three plays to tally another touchdown. Mirer held onto the ball, ran past three defenders splitting two tacklers and sprinted into the end zone on a 26-yard run without even being touched, pushing the score to 21-0 with four minutes left in the first quarter. Lesson Number Four: Quarterbacks don’t just pass, they can run too.
Said Boston College head coach Tom Coughlin, “I admit that after their first three scoring drives, we weren’t as effective or competitive. I take my hat off to Notre Dame.”
The second quarter was just as much of a blowout as the first, with a shaky Boston College team and a Notre Dame squad fueled on momentum.
1992 FOOTBALLlg|lEW
Nick Spangler
Ken Osgood
Boston College put no pressure on Rick Mirer because of the blocking of Aaron Taylor and the rest of the offensive line.

With just one minute and 47 seconds left in the second quarter, Notre Dame was back on the scoring trail. The Irish got down to the Eagles’ 1-yard line where Mirer went right on an option but ran into Boston College senior inside linebacker Tom McManus. Mirer, who almost made it into the end zone, wildly pitched the ball to Brooks who shot
his hand up and secured the ball into his arms before stepping in the end zone for yet another Irish touchdown, making the score 280. Lesson Number Five: When things go wrong, they tend to get worse for opponents at Notre Dame Stadium.
Said Coughlin, “At 28-0,1 sensed a loss of confidence. Never say die always applies, you hope, but that wasn’t the case for us today.”
After Foley was sacked by Irish defensive end Devon McDonald, the Eagles had to punt the ball away. When the Irish took control, they got to their own 26-yard line on a third-and-twenty. Brooks took theball and ran into McManus, but broke away and outran his pursuers on a 74-yard run for another touchdown, making the score 34-0. During the game Brooks reached 1,000 career yards rushing, making him the seventh player in Notre Dame history to reach that mark. Lesson Number Six: Youcan’tcatch what you can’t see.
With 9:51 left in the first half, Boston College got a chance to try to convert on the offense. Once again they had to punt theball away. When Notre Dame took control, Mirer threw a pass to split end Ray Griggs, but the ball bounced off his hands and landed
in the arms of Eagle sophomore cornerback Michael Reed. Boston College was unable to convert and turned it over to Notre Dame. But the Irish were only able to manage a field goal.
The first half ended with Notre Dame on top, 37-0. In the first half, Boston College was only able to manage two first downs and 16 rushes for a total of negative seven yards. Compare that to Notre Dame’s 15 first downsand29rushesfor217yards. Thelrish tallied 347 total offensive yards to the Eagles’ 11.
Stated Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz, “Every time we’ve had a big lead at the half and lost the game, we’ve always had something disastrous happen right before the half. We’ve also never been up 37-0 at the half before. But you always realize that if you can do that in the first half, they can do it in the second half.”
To the dismay of Boston College fans, the Eagles were unable to do much better in the second half. Notre Dame received the ball on the kickoff and moved down the field for another touchdown. On the Boston College 3-yard line, Mirer faked to sophomore fullback Ray Zellars and shot off a pass to Irish safety/running back Jeff Burris in the end zone. For an Eagle defense that was ranked twelfth in the nation, it began to appear overrated. Lesson Number Seven: The Irish do their talking on the field.
When the Eagles got their hands on the
ball, they drove down the field all the way to the Irish 14-yard line, but Notre Dame cornerback Greg Lane tipped an intended pass from Boston College’s Foley to well-covered junior flanker Ivan Boyd. Notre Dame’s Burris intercepted theball in the end zone. Lesson Number Eight: The best offense is a good defense.
“We didn’t in our wildest dreams expect this, but we will learn from it,” said Boston College’s McManus.
The Irish offense took to the field and drove down to the Eagle 24-yard line but were unable to make it to the end zone, so Notre Dame kicker Craig Hentrich notched a field goal to push the score up to 47-0.
After the Eagles attempted to make a mark on the scoreboard and failed, quarterback Kevin McDougal took over for Mirer. With 10:55 left in the game, Notre Dame knocked their lead up to 54 points. When the Irish got down to die 2-yard line, junior fullback Dean Lytle plowed up the middle into the end zone to make the score 54-0.
Lamented Coughlin, “I’m not astounded by the score because! am probably punch drunk. That’s an awful lot of points to score against a defense rated as high as we were.” Lesson Number Nine: Respect is something
32
SCHOtlllii^
Facing a fierce Notre Dame pass rush that recorded four quarterback sacks for a loss of 44 yards, Glenn Foley
completed only 11 passes out of 28 attempts.
you must earn.
After Boston College received the kickoff, it only made it to its own 20-yard line before punting it away. Sophomore quarterback Paul Fallia then took over for the Irish, but the offense had to punt the ball back to Boston College. When senior running back Chuckie Dukes was on the trail to score, linebacker	Demetrius
DuBose hammered Dukes and stripped the ball. Irish sophomore defensive tackle John Taliaferro recovered the ball on the Notre Dame
22-yard line. But the lauded Holtz. “We got up on them early.
Irish stalled and had to punt it away again.
With just 57 seconds left in the game, Boston College was finally able
to get on the scoreboard with a touchdown making the final score 54-7. The Eagles fought their way down to the Irish 4-yard line where Foley threw the ball on a slant to sophomore tight end Pete Mitchell who was in the end zone.
Said McDonald, “Personally, I’m mad that they got the seven points. That’s the goal we didn’t achieve.”
At the end of the beating, Coughlin along with his Eagles was absolutely devastated. He attempted to look on the bright side when he said, “This stings. This hurts. But we didn’t get anyone hurt. I don’t think we hit hard enough to get hurt.”
Lesson Number Ten: If you are going to talk the game you had better be able to play the game.
“This is the one time I can stand up here and say our football team was outstanding in all areas. We are on an emotional high,”
Rick Mirer performed brilliantly. It was just our day. Boston College is a good football team, but we are an excellent football team today.”	□

ScoringSu mmary
• 1	2	3	4 Final. ■"
Notre Dame 21 16	10. 7	54 J ,:
'	1	.Boston College 0 . 0	0	7. 7 . '
./ 1st Quarter , ND: Becton 9 pass	from Mirer (PAT) at 9:49
ND: Bettis 37 pass	front Mirer (PAT) at 6:36
ND: Mirer 16 run (PAT) at 4:22	<
7 2nd Quarter ND: Brooks1 run (PAT) at'13:13	.' " !'
- 7 .	:	: 7.	ND: Brooks 73 run at 9i57	7/	.	.
.	:	5	:	ND: Hentrich 37 FG.at 1:05	/	'	. /•:
3rd	Quarter	ND: Burris 3 pass from Mirer	(PAT)	at 11:1'6	.
= ■.	.	.;	7: ND: Hentrich 42 FG at 1:54	'	.	•	.. "	/	J
4th Quarter ND: Lytle. 2 run (PAT) at 10:56 . J •• ;.7. \	BC: Mitchell 4 pass from Foley (PAT) at 0:57
Team Statistics
First Downs Rushing
■\ Passing
• ■ Penalty
Rushing ---------------------
P ass ing. m*..	•■•.•mm*.*..
Total NetYards. •**•»»»•»»»»••»»**•••*' : .	- Average Gain Per Play
Fumbks-Lost*••••*»»»•««*
Pen alhes-Y a rds *•»•»••.»»*,•*•••*****» Punts-A ver ages....................... lCickoff..R.e tums»»»»»»«)i»»M«<n»»»*M
3rd Down Con versions.........
ND
26 '
17
8/
340 :
236?:
576
7.3
8-60
BC
^55-
■•■'■121
.176
■3.1
SJ2-2?
’4-36
2-42.0 10-41.9
23 5-10
109
N13;
■•>■■? •	\;	■? Jndividual<Statisti^:
pushing: ND - Brooks 18-174-2, Lytle 8-43-1 ^Becton 7^5/Bettis'5-26, Hentrich 1-16, Zejlars;^
Stafford 5-7, McDougal 2-6, Burris 1-5, Lozano T-l BC DukeO7-74, Cai^	Greerrel-4p:^:
Passing: ND - .Mirer 18-13-180-3-1, McDougal 3-2-56-0-0, Failla 2-0-0-0-0 B CPoIe^ZMn^ keceiving: ND> L Sniith:1-51,Mayes 2-56, Dawson 2-25,. Miller :2-22, Bertis i-37,'GriggsX-ll^e^^
Becton1-9, Pollard 1-9, Burris i-3 BC - Mitchell 4-20, price. 1^	1-16, L^o l^
Miller 1-6	'•	'■	' < ' . -	;	v'.

Notre Dame - Penin-StateTB
Why They Play The Game
Another classic confrontation at Notre Dame Stadium
by Peg Ward
'ITTTith the temperatures W dropping and the snow falling, the Day of Reckoning— November 14, 1992 — had arrived. “The cold, the snow, black shoes, plain uniforms and a traditional rival. This is what football is all about. This is why we play the game,” proclaimed Notre Dame linebacker Demetrius DuBose.
DuBose and the other Fighting Irish football seniors would be making their final appearances in the House that Rockne Built, and they were determined to capture a victory that had eluded them for the past two seasons — a win over Penn State. In their two previous games against Penn State, the Irish had lost by scores of 35-13 and 24-21.
Coach Lou Holtz, comment
ing on these two games, said, “We didn’tplay well against Penn S tate in the second half two years ago in our stadium, and we did not play well at all last year at Penn State. I think our players feel the need to redeem themselves for that.”
The question still remained: Would Lou Holtz and the Notre Dame football team send
the Nittany Lions back to Happy Valley with	and fans, all reveling in an incredible vic-
their tails between their legs, or would the Irish once again be denied a win over Joe Paterno’s charges?
The Irish players took to heart Holtz’s call for redemption and beat Penn State, 18-17. With the score staying close throughout the game, the contest went down to the wire. Notre Dame, down 17-10 with a little under five minutes left in the game, orchestrated a drive down the field that was capped off by quarterback Rick Mirer’s 3-yard touchdown
.	.	Brent Tadser
This pass to Ray Griggs fell short. Moments later, the senior wide receiver made a clutch catch that kept Notre Dame's winning drive alive. .
. pass to Jerome Bettis. This set up a spectacular two point conversion catch by Reggie Brooks, the senior running back who truly emerged this season as the “go-to man” for the Irish. The victory was the most thrilling in recent memory. As the final gun sounded, the crowd rushed the field, transforming it into a sea of cheering students
tory. ■
The game opened with the Irish offense taking the field. Senior quarterback Rick Mirer and company wasted little time in marching into Lion territory. The drive was keyed by two receptions by senior tight end Irv Smith. Mirer hit Smith for a 19-yard pickup, and two plays later, as the Penn S tate defense blitzed, the offensive line held strong and Mirer was able to find Smith along the sideline for a 14-yard gain that
brought the Irish to the Penn State 15-yard line. Then, the Lion defense buckled down. Faced with fourth down and four yards to go from the 9-yard line, Holtz opted to call in the kicking unit. Senior placekicker Craig Hentrich converted the 26-yard field goal attempt and put the Irish on the scoreboard early, 3-0.
The teams would trade interceptions on the following two possessions.' The Notre Dame defense spoiled Penn State’s offensive debut by playing with a vengeance. With Penn State still on its own 45-yard line, Irish linemen Karmeleeyah McGill and Bryant Young brought down Lion quarterback Kerry Collins in the backfield for a 5-yard loss. Two plays later Notre Dame regained possession of the ball when free safety John Covington picked off Collins’ first pass attempt of the game. Collins

na
34
SCHOLASTiC
intended receiver was tight end Ryan Grube, but as the ball arrived, cornerback Tom Carter put a severe hit on the Penn State player, causing the ball to be deflected into the hands of Covington.
Notre Dame regained control of the football at its own 49-yard line, but like Penn State, it too would have a difficult time holding onto the ball. Under heavy pressure on the Lions’ 27-yard line, Mirer missed
Brent Tadser
Snow showers made for slippery footing, but the ’’Thunder and Lightning" combination of Reggie Brooks and Jerome Bettis still struck for 146 yards on the ground.
target Dean Lytle on a throw over the middle, and the pass was intercepted by Lion safety Lee Rubin. It was once again Penn State’s turn to show some-offensive firepower. This time the Lions took full advantage of the opportunity. Penn State drove 72 yards down the field and, despite a strong goal-line defensive effort by the Irish, running back Richie Anderson leapt up and over into the end zone to put Penn State on top, 6-3.	'
Both teams lined up for the usually routine extra point, but Notre Dame free safety Bobby Taylor had other intentions. In what would become the key defensive play of the game, the freshman phenom blocked Penn
State kicker V.J. Muscillo’s point-after attempt. “That’s something I take pride in,” said Taylor. “I tipped one earlier this season against Michigan State. I just went as high as I could. Fortunately, I timed it right.” This outstanding defensive effort wound up giving the Irish the one point cushion needed for the victory.
Penn State’s touchdown came with 1:26 left in the first quarter, and neither team
would put any more points on the board until the final ten seconds of the first half. Throughout the remainder of the first quarter and continuing well on into the second, the Irish and Lion defenses held the opposing offenses in check. The second quarter would see four consecutive punts and a turnover by each team. Finally; with 4:14 left in the half, Notre Dame regained possession of the ball, and, led by the rushing tandem of Reggie Brooks and J erome Bettis, the Irish ground attack came alive.
Collectively referred to by coach Holtz as “Thunder and Lightning," this dynamic duo blasted through Penn State’s defensive line, forcing the ball down to the Penn State 6-
yard line. Bettis carried the ball 15 times for 89 yards during the game, despite being sidelined with a sprained ankle for the opening quarter of the game. Brooks, meanwhile, set a career high of 23 rushing attempts accumulating 88 yards.
Highlighting this drive was freshman wide receiver Derrick Mayes’ 12-yard reception. Mayes prevented a possible interception when he wrested the ball away from Lion linebacker Brian Gelzheiseron the play. The Irish still could not put the ball into the end zone, however. Earlier in the quarter Mirer overthrew Irv Smith in the end zone on a fourth-and-one play from the 5-yard line. This time, Holtz opted to take the three points. With time running out in the half, Hentrich put the ball through the uprights, and the score was tied, 6-6.
The third quarter, much like the first half, was dominated by the defenses, Penn State punted three times and Notre Dame twice, but the Irish did manage to put three points on the board after a ten-play, 54-yard drive. Starting from the Irish 26-yard line with ten minutes left in the third quarter, Mirer connected on passes of nine and 30 yards to wideout Lake Dawson. Bettis rushed for 15 yardson
the drive to bring the Irish down to the Penn State 20-yard line. The Irish still could not convert on third down, however, and were forced to setde for the field goal. Hentrich converted the 37-yard attempt with 5:27 left in the third quarter to put the Irish on top once again, 9-6. The third quarter ended with the same score. It seemed as though both teams were saving up all their fireworks for the final period.
With the competition stiff and the score tight, the stage was being set for a last-second victory. Notre Dame had possession of the football at the start of the final period, but after a failed fake punt-attempt, Penn State regained control at its own 34-yard
1992 FOOTBALL REVIEW
■

line. The Nittany Lion drive was impressive, as five rushes by Richie Anderson totalled 25 yards and receptions of 15,7 and 5 yards by OJ. McDuffie brought Penn State to the Irish 15-yard line. The defense hung tough, however, and Bryant Young sacked Collins for an 8-yard loss to push the Lionsbacktothe23. Penn State struck back. On third down and eighteen Collins hit Troy Drayton for a 22-y ard pickup that carried the Lions down to the 1-yard line. The Irish defense dug in deep, refusing to let Paterno’s team into the end zone. Led by Demetrius DuBose and Devon McDonald, Notre Dame stood firm at the goal line and forced a Penn State field goal. Muscillo converted the 22-yard attempt to even the score at 9-9 with eight minutes left in the game.
On the ensuing possession, Notre Dame started from its own 32-yard line. Bettis broke through the Penn State defense for six yards, but on the very next play was taken down in the backfield for a 3-yard loss. On third-and-seven, Mirer threw over the middle to Irv Smith. Smith pulled theball in,
but as he struggled to pick up the first down,
Well, the true test of faith was at hand as the
Brent Tadser
Irish players come together to console one another as time runs out and it seems that the game Is slipping away. 
he collided with two Penn State players and fumbled the ball. With Gelzheiser recovering the fumble, die Lions offensive unit took over and began a march down the field that seemed to spell defeat for the Irish.
Lions running back Richie Anderson ran right for four yards, and then found nine yards of daylight down the middle to bring the Lions to Notre Dame’s 31. Following a run by Brian O’Neal, Collins hit McDuffie on a slant pattern for a 15-yard gain. The drive concluded with O’Neal picking his way through the Irish defense, carrying the ball 13 yards into the end zone. The score, after the extra point by Muscillo, was 16-9. It seemed as if the Irish were starting to be haunted by the ghosts of past losses that had come at the hands of Penn State.
Notre Dame football teams and fans alike, however, have not been ones to give up hope so easily. At the pep rally the night before the game, Irish leprechaun Dan Wagner assumed the personality of a Jimmy S waggart-like preacher, asking the crowd, “Do you believe? I said, DO YOU BELIEVE?”
Irish offense took the field. Notre Dame, with pride and confidence on its side, would not disappoint its believers.
The winning drive was truly one of championship proportions. With 4:25 remaining and Notre Dame trailing 16-9, the only realistic hope that the Irish had was to put the ball into the end zone and then go for the two point conversion. The march down the field started with a few steps backwards, though. On the first play, linebacker Rich McKenzie sacked Mirer for a 6-yard loss. Mirer followed it up with a stunning 21-yard completion to Bettis and a 15-yard scramble to the Penn State 33-yard line. Ray Griggs then hauled in a 17-yard reception. From there on in the rushing game took control. This was Notre Dame football at its best. With time running down, Brooks and Mirer alternately carried the ball, pushing the Irish to the 4-yard line. Finally, with fourth-and-goal to go and 25 seconds remaining, Holtz called a timeout. It was do or die. The two teams met at the line of scrimmage and the ball was snapped. Mirer dropped back, looked and
threw over the middle to a wide open Bettis
in the end zone. With twenty seconds remaining, the touchdown brought Notre Dame to within one, 16-15.
There was never any doubt that the Irish would go for the two point conversion. The only question was who was going to get the call to put the ball into the end zone. The pass went to Brooks, but if you talked to Lou Holtz before the game, you would not have thought that the Irish were going to throw to him in this situation. Said Holtz, “You wouldn’t believe this, but Reggie Brooks has bad hands. He wouldn’t be the first guy I’d want to throw to.”
The play actually called for Mirer to throw to one of three players who were lined up wide on the left Everyone was covered, however, and as Mirer rolled right he saw that Brooks, the “fourth option” on the play, was open in the end zone. Mirer released the ball and.Brooks pulled the ball into his grasp with all the grace and assuredness of a Pro Bowl receiver. The Irish went ahead 17-16 and with four seconds left, the
spectacular catch guaranteed an Irish win.
What was Brook’s reaction to the winning play? “Well, I made the catch. I had no doubt in my mind that I was the guy to catch it. I thank the Lord that I got open on the play. Rick just checked off on his other receivers and spotted me in the clear”
The victory not only ended another Notre Dame football season at home, but also ended a long standing rivalry between the two teams, evening the overall record at 8-81. Penn State joins the Big Ten conference next season and will no longer play Notre Dame. The win served as the storybook ending to the home season and the rivalry between the Fighting Irish and the Nittany Lions, between Lou Holtz and Joe Paterno, between the Gold and Blue and the White and Blue. It will surely go down in the long book of Notre Dame football as one of the great games for Fighting Irish football fans to remember.	□
This was the scene at Notre Dame Stadium after the Irish pulled out a lastminute victory over the Nittany Lions on a touchdown pass to Jerome Bettis and a two-point conversion to Reggie
Brooks.

Scoring Summary
;? XX ? * A . '.I' ■ 1	- A3‘A. 4. Final
Notre Dame J: 1-.3 A X 3 / A. 3 xx3 :A17
Penn State < 6 A 0	0	10 16
1st Quarter
:2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4 th j-Quarter.
ND: Hentrich 26 FG at 9:54 x	-A
PS f Andersoh'l run-(PAT-failed) at 1:26.:. ;A ND: Hentrich 31 FG at :09 h '■ ■ f •. A: A’ ■'' i A ND: Hentnch 37	. -f - Aaa; A
PS A Muscillo 22:FG; at 8:35 \. a	• A j •
PS :' O’NeaL13 W (PAT) ar4:25f ; a ;
ND: Bettis 4;pass .from.	pass;
.- •: :• .• from Mirer); ' x A:‘7:■'Ac 7 Ax; .; V .• A ■
HeimlBBtW
XJX; '-AxcA'' AA>;-rrj-A"AAc.•	:<	
First Downs.......................-----"	14 . -■
	JX	' A
	
Passing	—	9	6	' ■;
A;'	Penal ty ............ J--A AAA Rushing......................————	0	■ 0 J 180	107
Passing	—	164	131 X34A'A238<>:;
1 otai JN ei xaras	
A<-' : .Average Gain Per :PIayA»...,<.»	
	XsAAXAl
Ob) tlfi S**^^3Lr^)S:;4**<**>**o*,*<***’**	**•**•-.<-	4-32	2-10
	?r4X$A;X36-Q;
b aPu lits* AbVe	i^i**^**^**^^^	
: nfCi clcof f11^61 urns ♦4t««u«M***H\*»M4**m****»*	2-21	5-100
3rd Down Conversions	6-17 i' 5-16
A ccB: c -Ac: A A A AA Al A A |A In d i v i d ua; I Stat is ti	A A A; X A A; A Al A
Rushing: ND - Bettis 14-68, Brooks 23-78, Lytle 3-35, Becton 2-5, Zellars i-3, Mirer10-(-9) PS - Anderson 26-73-1 :.:;:jdrNW6-30-LiAAAiA^AA9lOWl:>;:C°llins'A’?)A^
- P aid	ND ■ - Mirer ’23-12-164-1 -1, Hentrich T-O-QrO-O. PS. A Collins 28*7* 13 l-Q-L Ax.A. AAA AA::A Al 1.: '■; - AAA. A A A
Receiving: ND - Smith 4-59, Dawson 2-39, Bettis 2-24-1, Jarrell 2-13, Griggs 1-17, Mayes 1-12 PS - McDuffie 3-46, f p	AAtkAi A A AA1A A A A AAl A A A A A A A A--A A:A -

It Was A Close Call, But Notre Dame Won : Its Tenth Straight Game Over Southern Cal
i	by Kevin Weinman
Notre Dame traveled to Los Angeles over the Thanksgiving weekend with the hopes of recording their tenth straight ; victory over Southern Cal, finishing the regular season at 9-1-1 and enjoying the sunny climate during a scheduled trip to Disneyland. Irish players came home realizing that you can ’ t have everything, however, as the Disneyland excursion was nixed after the team physician's recommendation that the plethora of ill players be able to return to ' South Bend to recover from cases of the flu 3 before classes resumed.
Notre Dame completed a “Decade of Dominance” in this inter-sectional rivalry by defeating coach Larry Smith’s Trojans, 31-23. Yetaquick scan of some post-game facts and figures seems to indicate otherwise. Southern Cal quarterback Rob Johnson set career highs with 27 completions in 41 attempts for 302 yards, while former Heisman
candidate Rick Mirer completed five passes out of 14 attempts for 74 yards.
Enter the Reggie Brooks factor. Noteven an intense case of the flu could stop Reggie, despite dizziness and vomiting before and during the game. Brooks accumulated his yardage on 19 rushes, averaging nearly 12 yards per carry. Three of his runs went for more than 40 yards. His three touchdowns coupled with fellow flu-mate Craig Hentrich’s field goal and four extra points meant that sick Irish players outscored the Trojans, 25-23.
The game was not a sure Irish victory at any point prior to the ten second mark of the fourth quarter when Tom Carter intercepted a weak pass from Johnson to ensure yet another year of Trojan frustration. The Trojan passing game had few problems moving the ball from the outset. After receiving the opening kickoff, Johnson marched Southern Cal 60 yards for the game’s first score, a 35-yard field goal by
Cole Ford. On the drive, Johnson was four for five for 37 yards. His lone incompletion occurred when he underthrew an open Travis Hannah on third-and-three on the Irish 18-yard line.	:
The Irish responded by storming 74 yards i down the field in seven consecutive rushing ! plays in only 2:38. Brooks and JeromeBettis alternated carries, gaining 35 and 34 yards respectively. The drive, which former USC and Los Angeles Rams coach John Robinson	i
called “One of the most physical drives I i have ever seen,” ended with Brooks swinging wide right off a pitch from Mirer and | scampering 12 yards for six points. Bettis , i had the big carry, a 27-yard rumble after I hitting men inside and bouncing toward the right sideline.	,
The Trojan offense gave the defense some time to rest by putting together a touchdown drive and moving ahead, 10-7. Curtis Conway, who Trojan fans liken Raghib Ismail, caught two passes for 33 yards. His
second reception culminated in a nifty run as Conway slashed and cut to his right three times before finally being brought to the ground by Jeff Burris. Deon Strother poundedtheballin from the 1 -yard line two plays later for the score.
The Irish answered with a whimper in contrast to the roar of their previous drive. After moving the ball nowhere in two plays, Mirer threw what was ruled an interception to Stephon Pace at the Notre Dame 31. Replays seemed to show that the ball never touched Pace’s hands and was trapped between the turf and his legs.
j
i
i
The Trojans moved nine yards in two plays before 245-pound short yardage specialist Wes Bender was stuffed for no gain on third-and-one. Larry Smith elected to go on fourth down and pulled a clever play from his bag of tricks, a play that was successful in USC’s 31-21 win over Washington State.
Johnson took the snap from center and squatted momentarily as if he had fumbled, then rose to pass to tight end Yonnie Jackson, who was stealthily creeping toward the end zone. But Jeff Burris stayed at home and batted down the pass, saving what could have been a touchdown.
Hurt by an ill-advised option pitch by Mirer to Brooks who was promptly flattened by Willie McGinest for a 5-yard loss, the Irish began a swapping of punts with a 54-yard boot by Hentrich. Mike Miller evoked memories of Ricky Watters’ negative 17-yard punt return in Miami in 1989 with a 12-yard loss of his own off a
39 yard John Stonehouse punt
Notre Dame was fortunate in putting three points on the board on its next drive. After Mirer completed his first pass of the game with 6:32 left in the second quarter, a 15-yard ■ strike to Adrian Jarrell, he and the Irish offense faced a third-and-five at the Trojan 19. Under pressure from Pace and McGinest, Mirer buried the ball in the turf with no eligible Irish receivers in sight, an act the officials awarded with a yellow hankie. The grounding penalty could have knocked the Irish out of field goal range, but during the ensuing discussion, an official was apparently
Reggie Brooks, sick with the flu, ran for 232 yards and three touchdowns, Including a 55-yarder. He was
selected the game's MVP for his efforts.
convinced Mirer was throwing to someone, won his argument and waived the foul. Hentrich booted a 37-yard field goal to knot the score at 10 points apiece.
Conway frightened Irish fans with a 30-yard kickoff return, but several plays later he would hand Notre Dame an undeserved gift. After a 23-yard pass to Strother and a 13-yard run by Dwight McFadden (USC’s longest in a game in which they only mustered 78 yards on 37 carries, not a typical “Tailback U” performance), Johnson fired a pass from the 26-yard line to a wide-open Conway streaking toward the end zone. The
ball bounced harmlessly off his hands. “It was a lack of concentration,” Conway later remarked. Cole Ford slid a 38-yard field goal across the uprights for a 13-10 Trojan lead.
From this point onward, Trojan tacklers played Reggie Brooks as though they feared catching the flu from him: they no longer seemed to get near him. Brooks had quietly amassed 61 yards at this point, but had not broken one for over 10 yards. His next 10 carries netted 166 yards. After two consecutive completions by Mirer, Brooks got the call and responded.
After working his way through the Trojan front seven, Brooks exploded, accelerating through the secondary, making Trojan safeties miss from both directions. His 55-yard score put Notre Dame ahead for good, 1713. However, the outcome was far from determined.
Notre Dame’s defense took the momentum provided by the offense and stuffed Johnson and
'
Although this was the tenth straight victory for the Notre Dame over USC, its was not an easy win for Coach Holtz and the Irish.
USC’s offense on three plays as the second quarter wound down. Stonehouse punted
the ball weakly, and Charles Stafford, an up-man, drifted back to make the catch. Mike Miller moved forward to catch the short
punt, colliding with Stafford. Jeff Kopp was
quick to jump on the fumble for the Trojans, who now were in position for a late score.
Johnson, with 15 seconds to move 28 yards fora touchdown, spotted Conway across the middle.
During the run after the catch, it was not clear whether the shifty Conway would pirouette his way into the end zone or dance the Trojans out of time. John Covington and Karmeeleyali McGill stopped him at the Irish 14 with two seconds remaining. Ford nailed a 32-yard field goal to provide the 17-16 halftime score.
Mirer opened the second half by promptly hitting Irv Smith for 29 yards across the middle, but the Irish were stopped at midfield. The Trojans were forced to punt as well after Bryant Young sacked Johnson on third-and-nine.
Notre Dame drove 65 yards in seven plays, culminating in the second of Brooks’
three long runs, a44-yard carry off a Mirer pitch. Brooks continued to entertain the Notre Dame contingent at the Coliseum, a significant and vocal portion of the 90,063 in attendance. The eight point lead provided by Brooks’ heroics would loom large for the remainder of the game.
The Trojans, out-scored 14-3 over the previous nine and a half minutes, fought back. Johnson completed four out of four passes for 44 yards and the Trojans took advantage of a personal foul facemask call during a quick 67-yard touchdown drive to bring USC back to a 24-
22 deficit Larry Smith Young dropped Johnson four yards behind elected to kick the extra the line of scrimmage to record the third
pointrather than go for the two point conversion. With 18 minutes to play, Smith de
cided it was too early to go for two.
As a result, Smith set the tone for the rest of the game, ultimately dooming the Trojans
to a last minute long shot drive for no more
than a tie.
Notre Dame and USC traded ineffective
drives before the Irish took over first-and-ten on its own 20. Mirer gave the ball to Brooks, who charged 27 yards before he was aware of a holding call against the Irish. Had the play stood, Brooks would have broken George Gipp’s season record for yards per carry, and would have been one yard shy of the Notre Dame single game rushing recore of 255 yards set by Vagas Ferguson against Georgia Tech in 1978. The Irish then pro
ceded to stall and Hentrich punted to Conway.
Again, Conway flirted with a breakaway with a 30-yard punt return that easily could have gone for much more. It was a moot point, however, when a Trojan was flagged for illegal use of the hands. The Trojans got as far as their 42-yard line before Brian Hamilton and McGill recorded back-to-back sacks. McGill hit Johnson as his arm wascockedbutnotyetmovingforward. The officials ruled the ensuing fumble as an incomplete pass, and the Trojans were allowed to punt.
After stalling in its previous two possessions, the Irish running game again came alive. Brooks broke yet another big one, a 43-yarder down the left sideline. At the Trojan 18, Bettis was given the opportunity to get in on the scoring, and he carried the ball four straight times up the middle. The fourth run resulted in a nine yard score, increasing the Irish lead to 31-23.
Conway took the kickoff 20 yards. Bryant
consecutive sack for the Irish, who sacked Johnson six times in the second half. On
third-and-fourteen, Johnson’s pass was dropped by Johnnie Morton, one of several passes he dropped in the fourth quarter.
However, the Trojans were given a reprieve
when Demetrius DuBose was flagged for roughing the passer. The Irish stood up the
paui Webb
Stomping to a tune of 6.9-yards per snap, Notre Dame's offense netted 405 yards.
Trojans four plays later on fourth-and-four and took over the ball near midfield.
Three runs up the middle netted eight yards and Hentrich booted the ball into the end zone. The Trojans had time for one final drive, and needed a score and a two point conversion to salvage a tie. Johnson hit Morton twice and Strother once to move the Trojans to the Irish 43. Morton again dropped a pass 18 yards down field to setup a third-and-one. After a 5-yard run and a 4-yard pass, the Trojans went deep.
Tom Carter did not buy Johnson’s fake left and stayed with Travis Hannah step for step down the right sideline. But somehow Hannah came down with Johnson’s rainbow, snagging a 41-yard reception from Carter’s hands. USC had a first-and-goal at the Irish 5 with 25 seconds and one time out remaining.
Devon McDonald then chimed in with what, at that point, was arguably the defensive play of the game, blitzing in untouched from Johnson’s right, hitting him for a 7-yardloss. The sack and following use of the final time out eliminated any possibility of a run. Johnson dropped back, looking left
from the start and tried to loft the ball to Morton in the comer of the end zone. Carter played it perfectly and drifted back for the easy interception.
“My man did a hitch and I tried to stay with him so that the quarterback would think the receiver behind me was open,” Carter explained. “But you could kind of read where he was going, and I had drifted back about when he threw. I saw the ball all the way. I knew I was going to make the interception.”
This win, like the last three wins, was certainly not easy for the Irish. But this game, like the previous nine between the two schools, was won by the men from South Bend. Rob Johnson underestimated the full effect of the Decade of Dominance. “This is my first loss to Notre Dame, but one is just as frustrating as ten for me,” he claimed. Ten, then, must be as frustrating as 100 for Trojan faithful.	□
Rick Mirer and the Irish offense were frustrated by USC on three of their last four possessions.
GameSummary
Scoring Summary
'1	2	3	4; Final
Notre Dame , 1 ‘ 10 7	1 • / 31-/7v>7' ‘ ,..
.Southern Cal . .10 6.7. 0 23:':.'.7; , ' :7‘7.- ?■
1st Quarter SC: Ford 35 FG at 10:21.	7	7 7';
\ ND: Brooks 12 run (PAT) at 7:23
' 7 ■: <	- SC: Strother 1 run (PAT) at 3:15 .7- 7 7;
2nd Quarter ND:Hentrich 37 FG at 4:55 ‘	’ .7? /<..
• - SC: Ford 36 FG at 2:39	; 4
ND: Brooks 55 run (PAT) at 1:19 7 :	:
.' 7 ' \ SC: Ford 32 FG at 0:00	. ■ 777:7777
3rd' Quarter,' 71 ND: Brooks 44 run (PAT) at 7:02.’.: < ■ u <:
r . : j: SC: Cray ton 18 pass from Johnson at 3:05 4th Quarter ND: Bettis 8 run (PAT) at 7:58
OlBlOtOci
	ND	SC' :7 4
First ■ ©owns 4**««**»* *«**»**«****M«a*i*****«****4*«	20 7.	; 2477.7,;
I^uslimg •»•*»■»•*>>***••••>•	13 7 ■	:'7j777:'
PHSSUlg	' 5'. .	■	15 .;
\ ■ ■■	' Penalty	2	•	72.- 777 7
; Rusli Ing	330 . .	.78
Passing	75 .	302 ?77
Total Net .Yards «••*••***,"•■«••»**««••«•**«*•**	405.	380 77
;'a7- Average Gain Per Play	.619 - ■	: 4;9 .
Fumbles -JUos t m,M*»*»**«**» ■»***••»»»•••»•»»»•««.	i-i	0-0777?
Penaltl es-Yards ••••»M*«»*******»**»if*****»»»-»*	5-50 7.	4-24 :
Punts-A verages	5-44.6	5-37.8
JKlcJcotf Returns *»**«*••••**•••»#••»»••»»««•««	40 7.	967
3rd Dowh Conyers^^	4-9-.:	74-13747
		
■ ’ :X;-	? Individual Statistics
Rushing: ND-;Brooks 19-322-3, Bettis 18-89-lyBecton 3-p, Mirer 5-(-3):^ .-Mooney 2-5, Bender 3-3, Johnson 10-(-19); ;• ■? ' ?.7'.;' 7vj;;;-' 17.77'7:?7 - •-:7’ - -	7	• ..77--.v';;-: 7-7
Passing: ND-:Mirer 14-5-75-04 SC- Johnspn 41-27-302-1-1.; .	,-M -77.7 7.
Receiving: ND- Jarrell 2-29, Smith 1-29, Bettis: 1-11, Griggs^Morton 9-91," Conway 7.7847 Strother^
Crayton 2-24, Mooney 1-6, Jackson 1-4 . \7;7:\4.7,7	77;7 ;;7:7.7'777:7777777,

Notre Dame's record-setting senior klcker/punter Craig Hentrich boots the ball to begin the final game of his college career.
!
i
!
i ।
}
i
McDonald, Mirer and Company crush Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl Classic
By Jim Kuser
TT ow bad a beating was it? So bad that Al the score Notre Dame 28, Texas A&M 3 seemed to say, “Sorry, but being the Southwest Conference (SWC) champion isn’t that impressive. Sorry, but being undefeated against a bunch of unranked teams isn’t that terrific. Sorry, but number five Notre Dame is better than number three A&M.” How bad a beating was it? So bad that Aggie enthusiasts, experiencing the bitter loneliness of being beaten to the bone by the Irish, emptied the stadium before time expired. The loneliness of the Lone Star State then swallowed the Aggies and the Aggies alqne.
“They thoroughly dominated us,” said A&M head coach R.C. Slocum. “I give Notre Dame a lot of credit. They were well prepared and are an excellent football team. I said we could play anyone in the nation, and Notre Dame concerned me as much as
anyone. I’m not accustomed to being beat like that. It’s frustrating.”
One coach’s frustration was the another’s elation.
“This was a great game for us,” beamed Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. “I think we’re the best team in the country. At the end of the year, we were playing better than any team I’ve been around.”
On both sides of the ball, Notre Dame beat A&Msobadlythatitseemedasin. Thelrish netted 439 yards against an Aggie defense that had been heralded as “the pride of the SWC.” The Irish netted 290 of those yards on the ground compared to the Aggies’ 78. Coming into the game, A&M had received some of the nation’s highest ratings in rushing defense and rushing offense. In the third quarter, Notre Dame blew the game open by outscoring A&M 14-0 as the Irish got 125 rushing yards on 20 carries compared to the Aggies’ 11 rushing yards on 7 carries. In short, it was a beating so bad that
when down 21-0 with 14:27 to go in the game, Slocum called for a 41 -yard field goal for fear of being shut out.
Slocum defended his decision to go for the field goal. “Obviously at that point we had a long haul to get ourselves back into a position to win the ball game,” he said. “It was not a real tough decision. We simply wanted to get some points on the board to help the team.”
It helped. But it didn’t help much. The Cotton Bowl was the worst defeat suffered by A&M during Slocum’s four-year tenure at the university. This was also the worst margin of defeat suffered by A&M during its history of bowl appearances. The only consolation that the Aggies could find in the loss was that the SWC champion competing in the Cotton Bowl has had a recent history of being blown out by bigger and better teams. Five consecutive SWC champions have lost in the Cotton Bowl, and no SWC champion has scored a touchdown in the last

n
three Cotton Bowls. “The Pride of the South” has become the whipping boy for the men of other college football conferences, including the independents.
Notre Dame’s drubbing of A&M confirmed the skeptics’ concerns that the Irish were underrated and the Aggies overrated. The Aggies played only one ranked team during their regular season (Stanford) compared to the six ranked teams that Notre Dame played (Michigan, Stanford, Brigham Young, Boston College, Penn State and Southern Cal). The Aggies won that game. They beat Stanford, 10-7. The Irish won four of those games, lost one and tied one. They lost to Stanford, 33-16. Stanford was the only common opponent between Notre Dame and A&M, but the Aggies played the Cardinal in their first game of the season and the Irish played the Cardinal in their fifth game of the season. Much water passes under the bridge between the first and fifth weeks of the season. Much more water passes under the bridge between the fifth week of the season and New Year’s Day. A message beamed as clearly as can be throughout the Lone Star State after the Cotton Bowl Classic: this was a classic blowout.
Senior linebacker and cocaptain Demetrius DuBose attested to this, saying, “Things change a lot from week to week. We’re playing a different brand of football now than we were back in the beginning of the season.”
Senior quarterback and cocaptain Rick Mirer agreed, saying, “I’ve been on some good teams over the last four years, but for the last seven games, this is the best team that I’ve played on.”
Notre Dame’s superiority over A&M wasn’t so apparent from the outset of the Cotton Bowl. Take Reggie Brooks, the senior tailback who teamed with junior fullback The Irish defense allowed only this fourth quarter field goal. “We gave them three points too many,” said defensive MVP Devon McDonald.
Jerome Bettis to form the. ‘Thunder and Lightning” backfield for the Irish. On Notre Dame’s first possession, the typically surefooted Brooks slipped and fell to the field untouched on back-to-back runs. Shortly thereafter, the typically sure-handed Brooks fumbled the football in scoring territory to terminate a methodical march down the
field.
But when junior wide receiver Lake Dawson broke the scoring seal, the sun began to set fast on the Aggies. Throughout the
The floodgates opened for the Irish offense after Lake Dawson scored on this 40-yard middle screen pass with 37 seconds left in the first half.
1992 FQQTBALL REVIEW
ns
I
I
i i
first half, the Aggie pass rush had been pushed around by the Irish offensive line. Suddenly, with 37 seconds left in the first half and Notre Dame at the A&M 40-yard line, Aggie linebacker Jessie Cox blitzed. What appeared to be a desperation shovel pass by Mirer to Dawson in order to avoid being sacked by Cox was actually a planned screen pass to thwart the anticipated blitz. Dawson took off through the Aggie linebackers and defensive backs before tiptoeing into the end zone to put the Irish up by a touchdown. Suddenly, the offensive floodgates opened for the Irish.
“Our offensive line escorted me into the end zone,” said Dawson. “A&M blitzed all day long. We called a middle screen, which is a delay, and executed it into the end zone.”
Mirer termed it the turning point in the Cotton Bowl. “I think it was key to put some points on the board to show the defense that we could score for them,” he said. “They played so well in the first half. It was a great boost going into halftime, to get a little bit of a lead and get a little bit of confidence. It
showed when we played better in the second half.”
“That was a good ol’ momentum swinger,” said an aggravated Slocum.
In the first half, the Irish tried to dance around the Aggie defenders. In the second' half, the Irish took the tape off of their shoes for better traction on the slippery turf and took it to the Aggie defense.
Senior offensive lineman Justin Hall said, “We didn’texecute very well in the first half. In the second half, we opened up some holes. We went back to basics and just started running the football. We executed really well in the second half, and things just went our way.”
Bettis could have claimed the Cotton Bowl offensive MVP for the Irish for scoring three touchdowns and accumulating 101 yards in total offense, but Bettis said, “Rick deservesit. I think Rick really led us. Idon’t think we could of stopped on offense today.”
Mirer was why the offense could not stop. His passing statistics weren’t overwhelming, but he came through when it counted,
completing 8 out of 16 pass attempts for 119 yards. It was his 40-yard screen pass to Dawson that enabled Notre Dame to take a 7-0 lead into to the locker room at half time, and it was his 26-yard dump pass to Bettis in the third quarter that enabled Notre Dame to . build a 14-0 lead. That was Mirer’s last pass attempt. He then showed his skill as an option quarterback, finishing with 55 rushing yards on 13 carries.
Notre Dame’s formidable front five — left tackle Lindsay Knapp (6’6”, 271 lbs.), left guard Aaron Taylor (6’4”, 294 lbs.), center Tim Ruddy (6’3”, 278 lbs.), right guard Todd Norman (6’6”, 289 lbs.), and right tackle Justin Hall (6’4”, 297 lbs.) — blew A&M’s defense off of the ball over and over again in the second half as the Irish ran on 33 consecutive plays and controlled the ball for over 22 minutes, sustaining successful scoring drives of of 65, 87 and 82 yards. The last drive covered the distance on 16 consecutive running plays and consumed 9 minutes and 24 seconds, making any attempt at mounting a comeback impossible

Seo ri ng Su m m ary 1’^	2 ^3	4 Final
Tearri Statistics
Notre Dame	: '.I'. 14 7	28
•Texas A&M	0	3	3 ■;
?2hdfQuafter ^;3rd,Quarter}
'4'thi;pu'.arter
ND?Da wson 40 pass Tfom^ - (PAT) at 0:36
ND: Bettis 26 -pass from Mirer (PAT) 'at?7': 17
ND-Be^
	-ND	A&M
Do whs *»*»y«\«****>M^»^*>*f<<^>>»*-^*«a«***::	..28/,	. 11 .. •;
, : 7	JlllShlIl^.***»»>itt****;»«i r*«* **t**r'Oe'-*-O***	: 20	8 v.
/;??ATass,mg?..^			6 .	..	2.:... ..
7;■;:■■ ‘?	..''^2 \-/	-1 / J
: Rus h ing:«*»**«*******»***y ***•*•*• •■'n*	•«»’»**	290 -	78; '
PASS th jg. **	4 ** * ••»«««*	.	149	87 : .
^TotaTN'et ^Vahds a****^*************^^*****^***.	439	165 7 . :
	- :5;41'y	3.2	-
- Fxiuib ieS"Dost .»**f«**».*i*--		2-2
, Penal ties*?5^ahds; *««*•*•*«•••«»«*«*	. ■	••..:--3i30//	^7-42- -
1 Pitnts*Averages	/A.4-3,8.0-	6-40.5
^KTclcpf f; Ret urns, H«**»*^**«*f*		5.98
■3r<TDqw^	-i;	12-17.::	3-12


RushlngrW	13-55, Becton 5-26, Bums 2-8;:Davis 1-8, Zellars 1-3 A&M- Thomas 20-50,
■Mitchyi i-i2;Tuiiig^^u,;c^cL3<5:>>;/;<<^;5;'>;	?
T£sjng::Njp^Mim4'6^41^FaillaW	[	.1' .
Sle'ceiying':. NP^'Daw>6rid/-'46'dv’SmTtli	3-59, Schorp 2-14,.
MifcheBcigWGrdc^HT^^/^	iV?
for the Aggies. Notre Dame’s offense, ranked third in the nation, rolled up 439 yards, 290 of which where on the ground with Brooks and Bettis gaining 115 and 75 respectively.
“You saw what happened today,” said Taylor with a smile. “They got their butts kicked.”
Slocum said that his team “lived and died by its defense.” During the season it lived. During the Cotton Bowl it died. The Irish defense, however, lived its life to the fullest, dominating the Aggie offense throughout. Only the field goal separated the Aggies from a shutout. Such a performance should please any Irish player. Well, almost any Irish player.
“We gave them three points too many,” said senior defensive end Devon McDonald, who was the Cotton Bowl defensive MVP for the Irish with seven solo tackles (four for losses totalling 22 yards), three assisted tackles, one blocked pass and one sack. “We’ll have to live with that. We justplayed man- ■ to-man and made some tackles.”
“Our coaches had them well scouted,” said DuBose. “We were very prepared to stop them. They didn’t do anything to surprise us.” . The Aggies didn’t get a first down until late in the first quarter and didn ’ t get any poin ts until early in the fourth quarter. Their longest drive was 46 yards, and the closest they got to the goal line was the Notre Dame 24-yard line. Freshman quarterback Corey Pullig was sacked four times for 20 yards in losses and completed only 7 of 18 pass attempts for 87 yards. Playing catch-up in the fourth quarter, Pullig completed only one out of six pass attempts.
“They came at me with a lot of different things,” said Pullig. “Our offensive line couldn’t pick everything up.”
The Aggies, who scored only five points in their last two Cotton Bowl appearances (they got a
The Cotton Bowl was the last time that senior quarterback Rick Mirer and senior linebacker Demetrius DuBose, the team's co-captains, would wear the Gold and Blue.
safety in last year’s 10-2 loss to Florida State), gained only 78 rushing yards and 165 total yards. Coming into the game, the Aggies boasted averages of227.8 rushing yards and 385.6 total yards.
The Aggies had been successful throughout their season with the combination of Greg Hill and Rodney Thomas running the ball. However,.only Thomas’ services were available after Hill ’ s suspension from the team for receiving payments that violated NCAA rules. Hill was A&M’s leading rusher throughout the season with 1,339 yards.
“We were inconsistent on offense,” said Slocum. “We couldn’t string anything together. How we would’ve played with Greg Hill is a hypothetical question that cannot be answered. We had a good tailback in there in Rodney Thomas. There just weren’t a lot of running opportunities. Wecouldn’tfindanywhere to run, and it wouldn’t have made any difference who our tailback was today.”
Despite playing on an invitation only basis, Notre Dame moved into a second-place tie with A&M for the most Cotton Bowl victories (four). The Irish are 4-2 in six Cotton Bowls and the Aggies are 4-4 in eight Cotton Bowls. Texas has the Cotton Bowl record of nine victories and a record of 9-9-1.
With the win, another memorable Irish moment was made. Notre Dame went to 10-1-1 on the year and a national ranking of. fourth, but there was something a bit more special than that about this win. This one was won for Holtz. “After tying Michigan 1717, people said Coach Holtz should have done this or should have done that,” McDonald said. “After losing to Stanford 33-16, people said Coach Holtz should have done this or should have done that. After all of this and all of that, we wanted to win this one for him. Arid we did.”	□
1992 FOOTBALL REVIEW
45.-
congratulates the victors of the 1993 Cotton Bowl
The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame .
Come and celebrate at Parisi's which offers a not only outstanding Italian food but an atmosphere that is just right for any Fighting Irish Fooball Fans
Pizza & Carry Out Seafood Entrees
Veal • Chicken • Scampi Carbonara ♦ Eggplant
Parmigiana
Italy's Favorite Pasta's
Cocktail • Beer • Wine
4 O
o
1412 South Bend Avenue
232-4244
CONGRATULATIONS
the family in
Welcome Back Specials
1
■s2.000FR£.
I lad 20c With Carry evt tH«i
H.OOOFFn'K.
Q Limit 1 Coupon Par Pina
I
■E Ac A EE Sandwich Urr Purchase
LcOUPON EXPIRES MARCH 1"
Open Sundays 4 to 10 pm
Serving Pizza, Sandwiches, Soft Drinks,	h
Cold Drafts, and a Salad Bar	'
Mon. thru Thurs. 11 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. pH .
Frl. & Sal 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
713 E. Jefferson, So. Bend	'
288-4981
3724 Grape Road
Mishawaka - 256-0928 JT. . WW S3 Zl Sa ।
to the
1993
COTTONBOWL VICTORS
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
FROM YOUR FRIENDS AT:
BARNABY’S
1992 Final Regular Seasob^s—^S:
RESULTS AND ATTENDANCE		Rushing	ATT	YDS	LG	AVG	TD	Punt Ret.	NO	YDS		LG AVG TD	
9/5 at Northwestern W 42-7	64,877	Brooks	167	1343	80	8.0	13	Johnson,M	1	10		10 10.0 —	
9/12 MICHIGAN T 17-17	59,075	Bettis	154	825	29	5.4	10	Stafford	2	15		15 7.5	—
9/19 at Mich State W 52-31	76,188	Becton	68	373	27	5.5	3	Miller	25	172		20 6.9	—
9/26 PURDUE	W 48-0	59,075	Mirer	68	158	20	2.3	2	ND TOT	28	197		20 7.0		
10/3 STANFORD L 16-33	59,075	Lytle	22	124	25	5.6	1	OPP TOT	9	82		28 9.1	—
10/10 at Pittsburgh W 52-21	52,155	Zellars	26	124	19	4.8								
10/24 BYU	W 42-16	59,075	McDougal	11	41	20	3.7	1						
10/31 at Navy	W 38-7	58,769	Clark	4	29	12	7.3	—	Defensive T		A TOTINT SACKS			
11/7 BC	W 54-7	59,075	Stafford		29	6	2.6							
			11				■						
11/14 PENN STATE W 17-16	59,075	Hentrich	1	16	16	16.0	—	Dubose	50	30	87			1/12
11/28 at USC	W 31-23	90,063	Johnson,C	1	14	14	14.0	—	Peterson	50	25	75	—	1/7
		Burria	7	14	5	2.0	3	Burris	51	22	73	5	—
		Lozano	4	8	3	0.7	—	Covington	49	14	63	3	—
TEAM STATISTICS ND	OPP	Klusas	1	3	3	3.0	—	Lane	44	13	57			2/12'
		Failla	4	2	4	0.5	1	McGill	38	16	54	—	4/22
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS ....265	207	Johnson. M 3		-2	4			Young Flanigan	37	14	51			8/64
		Miller	3	-11	6	—	—		36	15	51			3/20
Rushing	162	85	ND TOT	555	3090	80	5.6	34	McDonald	29	17	46	—	7/71
Passing		90	112	OPP TOT	399	1222	30	3.1	9	Carter	26	14	40	5		
By Penalty	13 3rd Down Conv...81/150	10 72/249							Taylor,B	28	9	37		—
TOTAL NET YARDS	5174	3599							Hamilton	22	12	34	—	4/41
Avg. Per Game .470.4 NET YARDS RUSHING .3090	327.2 1222	Receiving NO		YDS	LG	AVG	TD	Ratigan Bercich	17 15	8 5	25 21	1 1	2/15
								Smith,N	15	5	20		
Avg. Per Game .280.9	111.1				59	18.5						—	—
Total Rushes	555	399	Dawson	25	462			1	Gibson	13	6	19.	—	1/9
NET YARDS PASSING ..2084	2377	Smith,I	20	262	29	13.1	2	Magee	11	3	14	—	—
Avg. Per Game .189.5 Interceptions	........8 PENALTIES/YARDS	..61/539	216.1	Griggs	17	312	54	18.4	2	Holden	8	1	9	—	—
	15 41/379	Bettis Miller	15 12	239 184	37 70	15.9 15.3	2 1	Lalli Lozano	6 8	3 0	9 8	—	—
FUMBLES/BALLS LOST17/11	20/8	Mayes	10	272	69	27.2	3	Zellars	4	4	8	—	—.
TIME OF POSSESSION	335:50	324:10	Jarrell	10	138	20	13.8	—	Davis	7	0	7	—	—
		Johnson,C.	5	65	23	13.0	—	Goheen	7	0	7	—	—
		McBride	5	29	14	5.8	4	Bryant	4	3’	7	—	1/4
		Pollard	4	43	12	10.8	—	Nau	6	0	6	—	2/10
SCORE BY PERIOD 1 2 3 4	TOT	Zellars	2	14	11	7.0	—	Moore	4	1	5		—
		Brooks	1	24	24	24.0	1	Grasmanis	3	2	5	—	—
ND			103	11877111409		Chyplewicz,!		16	16	16.0	—	S ample	3	2	5	—	—
OPP	35	323972	178	Lytle	1	12	12	12.0	—	Taliaferro	4	0	4	—	1/5
		Becton	1	9	9	9.0	1	Lytle	1	2	3	—	—
		Burris	1	3	3	3.0	1	Bettis	2	0	2	—	—
		ND TOT	130	2084	70	16.0	18	Saddler	1	1	2	—	—
Passing C A YDS LGTD INT		OPP TOT	206	2377	48	11.5	10	Johns on, L	1	1	2	—	—
								Hentrich Mannelly	1	0	1		
Mirer	120 234 1876 70 15	6								1	0	1 1	—	—
McDougal 8	11 177 40 3	1							Leahy	1	0		—.	—
Failla	2	7	31	19	— Hentrich	—	1	—	—	—	1	Kick Ret.	NO	YDS	LG	AVG	TD	Knapp	1	0	1	—	—
								Pollard	1	0	1		
	... >-■												
ND TOT 130 253 2084 70 18	8	Miller	9	261	50	29.0	—	Johnson,C	0	1	1	—	—
OPP TOT 206 387 2377 48 11	15	Becton	4	114	78	28.5	1						
		Johnson,C	8	152	53	19.0	—						
		Brooks	3	39	17	13.0	—						
		Burris	2	25	14	12.5	—						
		ND TOT	25	591	78	22.7	1						
		OPP TOT	47	842	35	17.9	—■						


Individual Honors and Award Winners
Pete Bercich, linebacker
• GTE District V Academic All-America by CoSIDA
Tom Carter, cornerback
•	Associated Press and Football News AllAmerica (third team)
•	United Press International All-America (honorable mention)
Jerome Bettis, fullback
•	Football News All-America (honorable mention)
•	A nominee for the Doak Walker Award, given to the nation’s outstanding running back by the GTE-SMU Athletic Forum
•	ESPN/VIS A Player of the Game vs. Pittsburgh (13 carries for 94 yards, three TDs)
Lake Dawson, split end
•	Associated Press and Football News All-
America (third team)
•	United Press International All-America (honorable mention)
Demetrius DuBose, linebacker
•	United Press International and Football News All-America (honorable mention)
•	Nick Pietrosante Award (by vote of players to individual who best exemplifies characteristics of the late Irish All-America fullback)
•	One of the preliminary candidates for the Butkus Award, which goes to the top linebacker in the country
•	Selected to play in the Senior Bowl all-star game
Reggie Brooks, tailback
•	Associated Press, United Press International, Football News and Newspaper Enterprise Association (World Almanac team) All-America (second team)
•	Notre Dame National Monogram Club team
MVP (by vote of players)
•	One of three finalists for the Doak Walker Award, given to the nation’s outstanding running back by the GTE-SMU Athletic Forum
•	NBC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Michigan (13 carries for 69 yards, one TD)
•	NBC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Purdue (15 carries for 205 yards, three TDs, including scoring runs of 80,63 and 20)
•	NBC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Boston College (18 carries for 174 yards, two TDs)
•	ABC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. USC (19 carries for 227 yards, 3 TDs)
•	The Sporting News Offensive Player of the Week vs. USC
•	College & Pro Football Newsweekly Offensive Player of the Week vs. USC
•	Selected to play in Senior Bowl all-star game
Jeff Burris, strong safety
• Football News All-America (honorable mention)
48
Justin Hall, offensive tackle
•	Football News All-America (honorable mention)
•	United Press International All-America (honorable mention)
Craig Hentrich, kicker/punter
•	Football News All-America (honorable mention, as both punter and placekicker)
•	Selected to play in Hula Bowl and Japan Bowl all-star games
Lindsay Knapp, offensive tackle
•	Notre Dame Lineman of the Year by the Moose Krause Chapter of the National Football Foundation Hall of Fame
•	State Farm/Mutual Broadcasting Student-Athlete of the Year
• GTE District V Academic All-America by CoSIDA
• Selected to play in Japan Bowl all-star game
Devon McDonald, defensive end
•	ABC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Northwestern (seven tackles, three sacks)
•	Selected to play in. Hula Bowl all-star game
Anthony Peterson, linebacker
•Football News All-America (honorable mention)
Tim Ruddy, center
•	GTE Academic All-America (first team)
•	GTE District V Academic All-America by CoSIDA
•	Football News All-America (honorable mention)
•	Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Student-
Athlete Award
• Toyota Leadership Award on ESPN vs. Pittsburgh
Irv Smith, tight end
•	Newspaper Enterprise Association (World Almanac team) All-America (second team) Football News All-America (honorable mention)
•	Selected to play in the Senior Bowl all-star game
Rick Mirer, quarterback
•	Football News All-America (second team)
•	United Press International All-America (honorable mention)
•	One of six finalists for Johnny Unitas Golden Arm Award, given to the nation’s top quarterback by the Kentucky chapter of the National Football
Foundation Hall of Fame
•	One of 10 finalists for Davey O’Brien National Quarterback Award
•	ABC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Michigan State (13 of 25 for 260 yards three TDs)
•	NBC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Penn State (12 of 23 for 164 yards, including fourth down TD pass to Jerome Bettis and two point conversion pass to Reggie Brooks^ both with 20 seconds left) ; '	<
•	Selected to play in Hula Bowl and East-West Shrine all-star games /■
Bryant Young, offensive tackle
• Football News All-America (honorable mention)
Aaron Taylor, offensive guard
•	Associated Press, United Press International, Walter Camp Foundation and Football News All-America (honorable mention)
•	Selected to play in Senior Bowl all-star game
Scholastic AmiBhbm^^	—
Corwin Brown Defensive Back Michigan
Patrick Bates
Defensive Back
Texas A&M
.F
John Lynch Cornerback Stanford
Phil Yeboah-Kodle
Linebacker
Penn State
Marcus Buckley Linebacker Texas A&M
Chad Chatlos Cornerback
V Navy
Todd Rucci Offensive Tackle Penn State
BobKuberski Defensive Tackle Navy
Tyoka Jackson Defensive End Penn State
Derrick Alexander Johnnie Morton
Wide Receiver
Southern Cal
Wide Receiver Michigan
Mike LiVorio
Offensive Tackle
Joe Cocozzo Pittsburgh
Offensive Guard
Michigan
Miek Hinz • Ron George ; Nose T ackle Defensive T ackle Southern Cal Stanford
Chns Hutchinson Defensive End Michigan
Byron Rex Tight End Brigham Young
E.J. Sandusky
Center
Toby Heaton Penn State
Offensive Guard
Michigan State
Steve Stenstrom Quarterback Stanford
Bill Walsh
Coach
Stanford
■ Glyn Milbum Craig Thomas Running Back Running Back Stanford Michigan State
Curtis Conway Lee Gissendaner Brad Hunter Kick Returner Punt Returner Punter
Cole Ford Kicker
Southern Cal Northwestern Brigham Young Southern Cal
50
Final Word
Fifth Year
Reflections I by Bernard Mannelly
The ride has ended but the thrill it has given me is something that I will always cherish. I have spent the past five years trying to uphold the tradition that so many people have built in over a century of football atNotre Dame. Yes, there are numerous other institutions that boast great football, but none compare to Notre Dame’s 11 National Championship teams, seven Heisman Trophy winners and countless All-Americans. Most of all, no other school can compare with the integrity that this tradition has established.
The dream to play for Notre Dame was instilled in me when I was very young. My dad went here, and, like many boys, I wanted to follow my Dad’s steps. I lived and died with Notre Dame football. The realization of my dream has been a great journey. There were many days when I questioned myself; is it really worth all of the sacrifice and pain? Your body takes quite a pounding after playing five years on the offensive and defensive lines. Now that I have had a chance to contemplate this question, I have realized that to get the most out of life, you have to endure the trials and tribulations that often accompany it.
This journey gave me the honor to be a part of one of the 11 National Championship teams. My first game in Notre Dame Stadium was against Michigan. It was to be decided by the foot of the Michigan place kicker who missed wide left. Thus began our drive for the National Championship. Our ultimate contest was “Catholics versus Convicts.” The play that sticks out in my mind is the interception by Pat Tenei as number one Miami went for two points that would have won the game for them. We then faced USC in a match-up of number one versus number two, and we solidified our ranking by leaving Los Angeles with a 27-10 victory. We faced number three West Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl. They had a great quarterback, Major Harris, but he could do little against our. defense, and we scored 35 points to ensure Notre Dame’s first National Championship in 11 years.
My sophomore year was the year that the “Rocket” was launched. In the season opener at Michigan, Rocket began to work his magic as he returned two second-half kickoffs for touchdowns that won the game for us. We had many memorable games that year, including a last-minute win made possible by
Tony Rice’s dive into the end zone as time ran out, and the end of the longest winning streak in Notre Dame history (25 games) at the hands of Miami in the season finale. But we bounced back and beat number one Colorado decisively 21-6 in the Orange Bowl.
Junior year was marked by the emergence of Rick Mirer, “The Golden Boy.” Rick played with poise in his first start, leading us to a28-24 win over Michigan. A home game against Air Force was very satisfying for me because I saw my best friend from high school, Rob Perez, get his first start at quarterback for the Falcons. The big game of that season was a 29-20 win over Miami. In a rematch against number one Colorado in the Orange Bowl, Rocket took off for the last time in a Notre Dame uniform as he ran back a last minute punt for what seemed to be the winning score. The touchdown was called back by a questionable clipping call, and we were denied victory by a score of 10-9. .
The most bittersweet year for me was senior year. We had a damn good team but couldn’t put all the pieces together until the Sugar Bowl. We lost three games against Michigan, Penn State, and, in the seniors’ last home game, Tennessee. People counted us out and criticized us for being invited to play number three Florida on New Year’s Day. Jerome Bettis had a field day as we crushed the Gators 39-28.
This year was my fifth and final. The completion of our “Decade of Dominance” at USC and our bashing of number three Texas A&M were overshadowed only by our home game against Penn State. It was the ultimate game. The seniors came ready to play, Rick Mirer and Reggie Brooks allowed us to walk out of Notre Dame Stadium for the last time as winners. We recaptured the spirit of Notre Dame in that game.
As a backup, this year’s Boston College game gave me the opportunity to put out my best effort. The game was a blowout, but it proved to me once again how special this place and this experience is. For Devon McDonald, Justin Hall, Lindsay Knapp and me, these have been five wonderful years. We are the only fifth year class ever to have won four different major bowl games. For me, it has been an honor and a privilege to ply for Notre Dame. It is something that I earned, and it can never be taken away from me. This great dream of mine has been realized.
■
isasisi
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
WISHES TO CONGRATULATE THE 1992 FIGHTING IRISH FOOTBALL TEAM AND WISHES ITS SENIORS THE BEST OF LUCK:
Chris Barry Chris Delli Carpini Dennis Feerick Sally Goethals Darin Harnisch Nicole Higgins Cam Johnson Julie Longstreth Dora Martinez Doug Montgomery Jeff Squyres
David Bibbs Carrie Dwyer Mary Glode James Gruver Katy Hart Kelly Holland Keri Latherow Jason Lubanski Kate McLean Al Pisa Tom Ward
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME