RASMUSSEN
MEN'S
SHOP
CLEAR THE FAIRWAYS! John F. Bariscillo of Bradley Beach, N. J., picks his weapons for his spring golfing maneuvers on the Notre Dame course. Elaine Lubbers, South Bend, shows him the new tee-to-target driver at Reco’s. John’s perfectly dressed for the 19th hole. His suit is the breeze-soft TIMELY Plateau, the suit with the weightless feel ($70.00). His celebrated VAN HEUSEN Van Britt shirt with French cuffs ($3.65) is accentuated with the crushless, prominent-pattern DURATWILL tie ($1.00).
for
“Campus Clothes’’
TWO ENTRANCES: MAIN AND WASHINGTON
106-108 MAIN	130-13 2 WASHINGTON
2
The Scholastic
Slavick Replies
Editor:
In regard to the letter in youi- magazine last week condemning the Juggler review of A Streetcar Named Desire-.
Whatever the Catholic Theatre Movement be, its judgment of any theatre is certainly not the direct concern of the critic of a work of art, whose judgment of a thing as a work of art must be concerned, alone, with the end of the work—the thing made. His concern is not directly with ethics or morality.
The critic of the art must view its being and nature objectively. He must be cognizant, in a very special sense, of the amorality of art, knowing that it is above, outside, and apart from morality. His end is to judge the truth and beauty of the thing made (reference: Art & Scholasticism by Jacques Maritain; Art by Eric Gill). Of course, this does not
mean that as man, the artist himself, is not subject to morality.
Obviously, the Catholic Theatre Movement is dealing with the morality of seeing this particular work of art—they have, in some manner, determined that it will be an occasion of sin to those who view it.
However, these two judgments, that of the art critic, and of the Theatre Movement, must be made absolutely apart, even though one critic may deal, in the same collection of words and paragraphs, with both aspects of the work—acting in each regard individually, as a critic of literature or art on the one hand, as a moralist on the other.
Reviewers in the Juggler attempt to review works of art first as art, and then, if so desiring or if the work especially warrants, an effort is made to consider its conformity to the Christian aesthete and to morality. And there can be a Christian criticism of art as such: a critic understanding the whole wisdom of Christianity can judge how
near the work reaches the. truth in its end.
I will not say that my review realized such a criticism. However, in some way it did judge the “art-success” of Williams' fantasy, and briefly did make the claim that he “shows ... a prudent concern . . . and a fine response to value.” To argue that he demonstrates a response to moral value or a Christian approach to reality would require more an essay than is here permitted.
I would be on the side of God. The question is: which side is He on?
William H. Slavick 124 Walsh Hall
"The Barber"
Editor:
I should like to express my sincere appreciation to you for the grand cooperation extended our efforts to make the opera, The Barber of Seville, presented by Charles L. Wagner on Feb. 26, a complete success. In the columns of the Scholastic, we received the utmost con-
Dance and Enjoy It
Alice and George Davis
the exclusive
GEORGE DAVIS way!
'J
Now you can save money and become a good dancer in half the usual time, with the finest private instruction obtainable anywhere. Learn the latest steps . . . acquire variety and confidence . . . then you can really relax while dancing. Lose that dancing fear once and for all. Let a George Davis expert show you how to thrill your friends with a newly "remodeled" Fox Trot, Waltz, Rumba, Polka ... or any other dance, in just a few hours. Our studios are open till 10 p. m.
Phone or come in for FREE interesting analysis lesson!
* Join our new dance club. Have a grand time while you practice the latest steps and make new friends.
[ Dasce- Stllios 1
345 Lincoln Way West, South Bend
Member of CHICAGO NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF DANCING MASTERS
March 11, 1949
3
sideration.
(Kev.) Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Chairman, Program Committee.
A success it was, and SCHOLASTIC is happy to have had a small part in it. We hope Father Kehoe and his committee can bring more of the same to ND.— Editor.
Homogenized Gratitude
Editor:
On behalf of the Milk Pumpers’ Union, Local No. 711, we, the officers, wish to thank you from the depths of our homogenized hearts for your fine picture of one of our intelligent, alert specialists. Thanks once again and more milk to you.
We remain,
Leopold Yrbaskoraski Richard Schollessmeyer Zygmont Zcmacisesak Maxey McBride
Pumpers Yrbaskoraski et al refer to a cartoon Scholastic ran a couple of weeks ago depicting their stony-hearted refusal to allow more than one glass of milk at breakfast and dinner.—Editor
Faraway Praises
Editor:
I received your issue of Feb. 11 a few days ago and I think it was wonderful. The changes that you put
in were swell. Here’s wishing you the best of luck. . . .
Harold Ellingson 609 E. 64th St., Tacoma, Wash.
Our thanks to far-off Reader Ellingson.—Editor.
No Surrender for Wilcox
Editor:
The fish takes the bait. We come full cycle, and the controversy over opera in English vs. Opera in Something Else blossoms forth in all its pristine vigor. I accept the challenge.
I do not deny that the translation of The Barber of Seville employed- at the recent performance left much to be desired. Ludicrous it was in places, but nevertheless some of the most outspoken critics of the vernacular found themselves laughing at the jokes, because they could understand them. But to say that since the translation in this case was slightly awkward, all translations must be equally awkward, is to give the baby the heave-ho with the bath.
Translating a romance-language opera into English is no job for a hack poet, of the stripe employed by the Met in its absurd libretti. I am cognizant of all the difficulties. I know that it is hard to fit English words to music designed to be sung in Italian, but a good poet, paid
well for his effort, and given a free hand at the translations, could do that. Certainly some of the dialogue would sound odd; no odder, I add, than in Italian.
Dialogue in an opera always sounds awkward, because it is not natural to sing prose which should be spoken to sound really sensible. It would also be difficult to educate the initiate to listen to their own mother tongue; indeed, it would be a real feat, considering the social importance involved in going to something you neither understand nor care about except for the fact that you will be duly seen and noted.
Last, I am willing to make a large concession. Some operas, particularly dramas, in which the spoken or sung words actually mean very little, could be left alone. The protagonists of Art Inviolate could attend these to the exclusion of those cheapened by translation. Someone asked me how I would translate Brunhilde’s Battle Cry. That’s easy; I wouldn’t. Not even a German can understand what she says anyhow. It would take many poets many years to translate much of Wagner into recognizable English. Such is not the case with operas like The Barber, which depends so much on its being understood by its audience.
Se si voule sentire alle opere in Itali-(Continued on Page 8)
Come to AMers • • • for the best in Rainwear
KOROSEAL . . . ALLIGATOR . . . RAINFAIR
priced from • • •
7.95 to 26.75
Be ready for “weather” ... in a sweet new raincoat. You’ll find a big selection here . . . from the compact new Koroseal “Stormer" that folds up into an easy-to-carry envelope when the sun comes out ... to our rain, wind and storm resisting Alligators and Rainfairs . . . that are tailored and styled like fine topcoats.
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER: A. J. GRIECO, 400 MORRISSEY HALL
4
The Scholastic
The Week
By Bob Vierhile
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Culture Crisis
This magazine has been harping to its readers for the last week or so that they are nothing but a pack of T-shirted bipeds who pass up culture like cross-eyed females. By one of those strange coincidences of Notre Dame life, culture was tossed into the laps of these so-called unappreciatives last Saturday night. Over in Washington Hall, a standing-room crowd twiddled their thumbs in anticipation of Henry Morgan’s assuming his customary position in front of the cigar store in “So This Is New York.” What happened? Four tuxedoed fiddlers stepped onto the boards and started strumming Opus 50, No. 1 in B-flat major. The Juilliard Quartet had taken Washington Hall and the Sat-urday-nighters by Strauss.
O'Connor, Fitzgerald and Zalejski
Next Thursday, by gory, will be the international holiday of the sons of Erin, St. Patrick’s Day. As a party who knows little about the Irish, except that they are the noisiest tenors at Sweeney’s on Saturday night, I feel that this day has been getting far less prominence than it deserves at Notre Dame. Such an important occasion should be celebrated with dancing in the quadrangle to the tune of gently popping O’Keefe’s corks. If you don’t think so, we offer the testimony of John A. Connor, an ex-Scholastic editor and former WEEK wallower:
“The Irish have plenty to croon about. Take a look! Irish monks converted Europe. Irish laborers built the American railroads. Irish soldiers formed the bulk of Washington’s Revolutionary Army. Irish whiskey is the best in the world. Irish girls the prettiest. Irish homes are the happiest. The Irish in-
CAMPUS CLUB STATEMENTS
Treasurers of all campus clubs participating in the Student Relief Mardi Gras Carnival last week are asked to submit their financial statements to Al Allgaier, business manager in 421 Badin Hall as soon as possible.
vented the Superman myth and the death fast. Ireland can boast of Brian Bora, O’Connell, MacSwiney & Collins, O’Connor & Goldberg, Barry Fitzgerald, Zalejski, and Maureen O’Hara. Irish generals (MacArthur and Eisenh O’Wer) are the greatest in the world. The Irish are the smartest people in the world.”
Joe Miller and Friends
We spent a couple of hours last week browsing through current college humor magazines. We didn’t learn much from our research except that most colleges have women, and this, we judged, was nothing to joke about. The one unusual thing we noted was the long process of telling and re-telling a joke goes through before it hits print. Here is the torture trail which one gag furrowed before it tickled the rib of a college editor.
The Joke: “Admiral Perry gives a lot of credit for the discovery of the North Pole to his dog.
Its history: March 11, 1909—a sophomore at Michael Halliday High in Chicago thought it up while munching on a withered persimmon.
March 11, 1919 — Col. McCormick sprung it on his Public Relations Regiment as they were being discharged at Fort Dix.
March 11, 1929—J. P. Morgan read it in the Reader’s Digest just as Hockan-ham Can dropped 91 J. P. chuckled, then dropped dead.
March 11, 1939—B. Brimsbrook Tremaine, successful and world-renowned owner of Tremaine Trucking, Inc., told it to 881 beaming Notre Dame commerce students. They howled.
March 11, 1949—The Scholastic printed it.
Spring Suggestions
Somebody ought to give Jake Kline a hand and build a short outfield fence in Cartier field. We’ll give the first baseball player who hits one over the present wall our 50 shares of Bookstore stock. . . . Suggest that the caf add the Racing Form to their periodical rack before Derby Day. ... If all the students who sleep in class were laid end to end, they would be more comfortable. . . . Why not transfer all of the commerce students at Notre Dame to Michigan and raise the I.Q. of both?
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
An Amazing Offer by
HOLIDAY
Pipe Alixfure
The pipe char every smoker wants—DANA, the modern pipe, with brightly polished alumi^ num shank and genuine imparted briar bowL
Gal your DANA HPE Sadit
50*
with inside wrappers from 12 pocket tins of HOLIDAY PIPE MIXnU
A - Ad.-
Offer Limited to USA—Expires Jane 30. ]9O
$100 or MORE! Every Houri!
Sell name plates for front doors
Every order pays you — in cash — immediately!
Free Sample
Write Dept. 158
NATIONAL ENGRAVERS
214 Summer St., Boston, Mass.
March 11, 1949
5
Entertainment

MARCH 11
COLFAX (through March 16)—One Sunday Afternoon. Dennis Morgan wants Janis Paige, but Don Def ore gets her, so Morgan has to be content with Dorothy Malone, who turns out to be the peach of the crop, after all, which, in toto, supplies the complete plot for this tuneful, technicolor, hit musical.
PALACE (through March 16)—Blood on the Moon. Robert Mitchum and Barbara Bel Geddes co-star in this superwestern. Has more plot to it than most. Winner Take All, one of those typical Palace co-features, shares the bill.
STATE (through March 12)—Wallflower. Hollywood’s version of Broadway’s original turns out to be a pretty silly affair, with overtones of simpleton Janie mixed into its ingredients. The accompanying film is Pride of the West.
MARCH 13
GRANADA (through March 16)—Let’s Live a Little. Hedy Lamarr as a psychiatrist, and Robert Cummings as her patient do much towards making this a sparkling comedy. Rose of the Yukon—A new one with the old script.
STATE (through March 16)—Hangmen Also Die and Blockade (reissues). Two shockers that shouldn’t command attention.
MARCH 14
WASHINGTON HALL (through March 15)—The University Theater offers its second presentation of the season. The program consists of three one-act plays: Lady Gregory’s The Rising of the Moon, Kenneth Sawyer Goodman’s Dust of the Road, and Emmet Lavery’s Monsignor's Hour.
RIVER PARK (through March 17)—Henry V. Laurence Olivier’s masterpiece returns to the South Bend area.
MARCH 17
DINING HALL—St. Patrick’s Day Banquet. A noble event sponsored by the Irish Club. For $1.50 you’ll get the privilege of eating upstairs, with a well-planned program of entertainment thrown in as an added attraction.
PALACE (one-day stand) —Arthur Godfrey Talent Show, on stage, and Chinese Venture. Vodville returns to South Bend with Godfrey’s talent winners. The master of idle chatter, however, will probably be basking in Miami’s sun. The flicker is another of those prizes they throw in for good (?) measure.
COLFAX (through March 23)—Yellow Sky. Gregory Peck, Anne Baxter and Richard Widmark are the stars. Some post-Civil War desperadoes stumble across the desert until they trip over a ghost town laden with a cache of gold. Peck reforms in time to satisfy his following.
GRANADA (through March 19) — Unfaibhful'y Yours and the King of the Olympics. Linda Darnell and Rex Harrison romp through Preston Sturges’ concoction. The plot deals with a suspicious symphony conductor and the plans he cooks up to foil his supposedly-unfaithful wife. The flicker becomes repetitious and gets mired in slap-stick before the third reel, but still manages to be a better-than-average comedy.
STATE (through March 19)—Shine On Harvest Moon and Fighter Squadron. Ann Sheridan and Dennis Morgan star in the pseudo-biographical musical based on Nora Baye’s life, while Edmund O’Brien and Robert Stack zoom through the co-feature in all the Air Corps glory that the Warner Brothers could conjure up.

Scholastic got one of those you-prob-ably-won’t-print-this-you-dirty - dog letters last week. The epistle, apparently written from the depths of a great bitterness, demanded to know what is ever done about all the student gripes that accumulate during the year. The writer prefaced his remarks with the announcement that “Most likely you will not print this letter, for various reasons that we will not discuss now.” The letter wasn’t printed and won’t be. The reason: it wasn’t signed.
No Name, No Print
We cannot run letters concerning serious matters of opinion unless they’re signed — that’s a standard policy of newspaper ethics. (Letters strictly intended as jokes, of course, are printed with or without a signature.) If you want to see your arguments in the public print, always make sure to attach your name to them. We print very nearly all the signed letters we get. Usually only a wholesome respect for the libel laws keeps a letter out of the magazine — and sometimes the law suffers a slight bruise, too.
Scholastic’s aim is to make the “Letters” column what we said it would be last fall: a sounding board of student opinion — mature, seriously considered opinion if possible. Anonymous popping off strays far from that definition.
Including Gripes
As for the gripes: keep them coming. Gripes are as much a part of student opinion as anything else, and the Scholastic will do what it can to get them answered. But make sure you know what you’re talking about and that your expressed convictions are sound and sincere— not just literary sulking. Whining for the sake of whining never accomplished any reforms.
And don’t forget to let the Student Council know about your gripe, too. Part of the Council’s job is the rectification of student complaints; if it can’t get a satisfactory answer to student problems, it has little reason for existence. Tell your hall Councilman your troubles; that’s what he’s there for. But don’t expect him to work miracles. Student government at Notre Dame has not yet achieved the status it has at some universities.—Bob Stock
The Scholastic
flohe
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 March IL 1949 No. 19
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor ROBERT T. STOCK
Associate Editors
JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR ______________________News
JOSEPH DUKERT Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN Features
HARRY MONAHAN.__________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT________Assistant Sports
JOHN WALKER________________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN Librarian
L. A. KYSER________________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE_________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK______________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL—__________Circulation JOHN S. BRENNAN_Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Emily Post will tell you not to bolt your food. Doctors will whisper that swallowing hot dogs whole does no good to your stomach, to say nothing of
the hot dog. But the bureaucrats who conduct the Notre Dame dining halls, a spot where you can eat dirt, cheap, will tell you if you don’t eat and get out, you’ll be out at St. Joe farm as hog food. But every so often there’s that
strong individualist who will calmly munch his pate de fois gras even though the clean-up crew is walking off with the table. Photographer Hal Munger found such a student and the result is this week’s cover.
Scholastic Opinion
Loud Cheers For a Student Endeavor
No final figures have been released yet, but from unofficial estimates, it looks as though the Student Relief Campaign has once again given Notre Dame something to be proud of. The total ND contribution— probably about $27,000—won’t be as high as last year’s Country-leading $35,000, but it will still reflect great credit on those who sacrificed their time and energy to put the drive across. Almost every student had a hand in the campaign, but special honor should go to Jack Dempsey, the general chairman, and John Moorhead, the Mardi Gras chairman. They did the planning, the worrying, and the head-scratching, and their plans clicked.
There isn’t any particular pleasure in working on a thing like this. There’s no pay and darn little glory. The students who directed the campus campaign, the ones who planned the carnival, worked in the booths, sold tickets—everyone who had anything to do with it—got nothing for their efforts but the knowledge that they were giving a little help when it was needed most to foreign students. They deserve the congratulations of the whole University.
The Mardi Gras carnival was a particularly fine demonstration of student spirit and leadership. Everyone pitched in to help, and the customers had a wonderful time. There was a community life and feeling about the things that’s too seldom present in a big university. The Mardi Gras should happen every year—relief campaign or no relief campaign. We presume there’ll be another national drive next year for student relief, but eventually when the need is not so grear the yearly campaigns may end. When and if they do, we hope the Mardi Gras still goes on at Notre Dame.
No Moss on Council Backs
The Browser, Scholastic’s own Drew Pearson, took up the Student Council last week. The substance of his observations was that this year student government is making some real progress at Notre Dame. The Council, said Max, has a new firmness of purpose and direction unbeknownst to former campus legislators. The editoral page can but echo his remarks. After a slow start last fall, the Council has picked up more and more momentum until now it seems to know what it’s doing and to be very energetically doing it. Already plans are being shaped for the student trip next fall. New and more satisfactory ways of supervising -campus clubs are being worked out with the administration. After a year’s lapse the Council has voted to send ND delegates to the National Students Association conference next summer. The Thursday-afternoon showing^ of the old sports movies is a Council project. And a new constitution, more clearly defining the Council’s powers and prerogatives, will soon be finished.
There are still plenty of roadblocks in the Council’s way. It’ll take patience and hard work to move them aside. But with the cooperation of the administration and the support of the student body, the present intelligent, conscientious Council can make long leaps toward making student government a vital part of Notre Dame. Without either of these essentials the Council can’t help failing. Notre Dame is supposed to develop leadership; given a chance, the Student Council can help carry out that ideal.
March 11, 1949
7
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) ano, si puo andare a Roma, dove si canta nella bella lingua vera. Se si vuole sen-tirla in Francese, si puo andare a Parigi. Ma se si puo sentirla in Inglese, dove si puo andare? Forse in Inghilterra, ma non mai in America. Come ho detto 1’anno adietro, se si vuole sentire a un’aria bellissima, la cantaro—in una voce come gli angeli.
Joe Wilcox Off-Campus
Please, Mr. Wilcox, we are in favor of letters in English anyhoiv.—Editor.
Unmetered Mutterings
Hany Monahan, Sports Editor:
Nuts to you, oh chubby Hwry. We have read your indiscretion In drivel, drivel from the Press Box. We, too, dread an insurrection From fencers, fencers ambidextrous. At least the fotogs — six or more — Never try to predict the score.
A Disgruntled Photographer.
Carpenter and the C.C.C.
Hany Monahan, Sports Editor:
I sincerely hope you weren’t serious in the recommendation you made in your column of Feb. 25 — that the Central Collegiate conference be disbanded temporarily, until such time as a place can be found for its indooi- track championships.
The 3-C outdoor track and field meet has been conducted annually at Marquette since 1928, except for 1944 and 1945 when they were held at Great Lakes. . . . Because the outdoor Centrals are held at a time when there is no conflict with the Western conference meet most schools from that conference and many others are annually entered.
Your recommendation apparently would do away with the Centrals, including the outdoor meet.
I have seen many splendid 3-C indoor meets in the Notre Dame fieldhouse.... Michigan State will be absent and will somewhat reduce the indoor field — I think a nice compact meet can still be run at Notre Dame.
It occurs to me that 3-C officials might consider interesting authorities at Butler university or the University of Chicago in the meet.
Please don’t follow through on your recommendation that the Great Idea of Rockne, (Ralph) Young (Michigan State), and (Conrad) Jennings (Marquette) be suddenly dissolved.
Cordially yours,
Ted Carpenter, Director,
Marquette Univ. News Bureau See Splinters From the Press Box.— Editor.
DISCOUNT
On Any TAILOR-MADE Suit, Top-coat Overcoat, Sport Coat or Slacks
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
115/2 North Main "Upstairs"
8
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 19 MARCH 11,1949
Student Government Gets Shake-Up
Bill of One-Act Ploys Opens Monday Evening In Washington Hall for Two-Day Performance
By VIC DORR
Washington Hall first nighters will see a student dramatic production for the first time since last fall’s The Milky Way when the curtain parts on Lady Gregory’s The Rising of the Moon at 8 p.m. Monday. Sponsored by the University Theater and under the direction of Francis J. Hanley of the Department of Fine Arts, this will be the first presentation on the current program of three one-act plays to be produced March 14 and 15. Following in short order on the same agenda will be Kenneth Sawyer Goodman’s Dust of the Road and Emmet Lavery’s Monsignor's Hour.
Plays Follow Peace Theme
Although each of the three plays follows a general theme for peace, the meaning of it is presented in three different ways. In The Rising of the Moon, a yearning for internal peace within a nation is seen as the action takes place on a quay in Ireland. It concerns an Irish rebel, a ragged troubadour, and two policemen in a heated discussion over the peace of individuals in a suppressed country. Maurice Mahon, Donald Curran, James Maher and Jack Powell play the leading roles.
In the second one-acter, Dust of the Road, the peace angle assumes a domestic note. Centered in a bleak mid-western farmhouse after the Civil War period, it is the story of a farmer and his wife and their search for family happiness. Characters will be played by Lawrence Lopina, Jean .Richard, James Carrig and Stephen Hauser.
Monsignor’s Hour, the final performance of the series, expands its scope to a world peace theme. The action takes place in the Vatican Art Gallery some 15 years in the future, where an American monsignor meets a cross-section of the Vatican hierarchy. In it, under un
usual circumstances, an unusual solution is offered for world problems. The cast is large, including some nineteen actors, and the play shapes up as one of the best.
Develops Repertoire Talent
According to William J. Eisen, of the Department of Speech, who is director of the University Theater, “These three plays represent an attempt to develop talent along a repertoire line with some
Rumley
JIM BEYMER AND BILL OWEN Monsignor Has His Hour
of the members of the cast.” He explained that there are several students in these one-act productions who play different roles in different plays. Among them are Stephen Hauser, Lawrence Lopina, Maurice Mahon and Miss Jean Richard. Also in the casts of the three plays are several veterans from the first
(Continued on Page 12)
Council Drafts Plans For New Constitution
In a burst of encouraging energy last week the Student Council recognized the need for a change and took definite steps toward doing something about it. A fresh constitution has been drafted, paving the way for a new era of student government at Notre Dame. It was up before the Council for approval Tuesday night at its regular business meeting.
No immediate action was taken on the new constitution. According to Kevin Harrigan, Council president, the Student Council will meet on March 14 to approve the constitution. But the newly-drafted document must first be ratified by the student body before it is accepted campus law. Council members say this latest shake-up will bring about revisions in representation and election procedures, with an over-all aim toward better representatives and a stronger student government.
Plan Special Meeting
With this in mind, the Council plans a special meeting on March 22 to be attended by the four class presidents, hall representatives, Council members, and representatives appointed by off-campus students. According to Bob Campbell, chairman of the .constitutional committee, the new constitution must be accepted and approved at this meeting before it can be offered for campus-wide ratification. In halls where there is no active council or where students wish other representation, Campbell said a vote may be held by floors for naming delegates to this meeting.
Primarily the purpose of the March 22 meeting is to hear ideas of students (through their representatives) desiring to assert any opinion about the constitution and its provisions; and to explain -to the representatives the working intricacies of the constitution, its by-laws and procedures. A vote of approval will be requested of all representatives at the meeting and the amendments (if
(Continued on Page 12)
March 11, 1949
9
Honor N.D. Scientist For Radar Research
Dr. Edward A. Coomes, professor of physics and a graduate of Notre Dame, was awarded a government citation by the Army and Navy Departments for his “outstanding contribution to the work of Scientific Research and Development during World War II.”
The citation signed by Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson and Secretary of Navy James Forrestal, was presented to Dr. Coomes last week by Col. P. C. Bullard, Executive of the Indiana Military District.
Dr. Coomes was granted leave of absence from Notre Dame in 1942 to join the staff of the Radiation Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to conduct research in microwave radar.
“The important thing about the project,” said Dr. Coomes “was that one could make a good sized contribution to military endeavors by direct use of fundamental physics.”
His work consisted of development of cathodes for radar transmitter tubes which were required for such military purposes as aircraft warning systems, radar control of gunfire, and aiming systems for high level bombing.
Dr. Coomes is the second Notre Dame scientist recently to be honored by the government. Dr. Charles C. Price, Head of the Department of Chemistry, received a similar citation last Fall.
Freshmen Slate May 14 As Date for Social Debut
The freshmen class got their social ball rolling last week, and signs point to a highly successful conclusion. Ed Vasta was appointed chairman for the frosh “Spring Tonic” dance which is tentatively set for May 14, in the Navy Drill Hall.
The jamboree will be strictly formal, with an eye peeled to the first year men’s pocketbooks.
Jack Ross’ orchestra committee is on the lookout for the right band to fit the “Spring Tonic” theme, which will be carried out by Dave Lajoi and the decoration specialists, while Bill Reilly is making provisions to house out-of-town feminine guests in South Bend.
LATE MASS IN CAVANAUGH.
Bev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C.. Prefect of Religion, announced the beginning of an 8 o'clock mass to be said during Lent in Cavanaugh Hall Chapel.
POLITICO GENE HULL (standing, front) AND HIS BAND — Play for WND
Fr. Cavanaugh Leads Family Rosary on WND
Radio station WND added another feature to its ambitious spring schedule Wednesday night, when Notre Dame’s own “Family Rosary” program was initiated.
Recitation of the rosary was led by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, and will continue as a nightly (Sunday thru Friday, 10:15) part of the university’s religious and radio fare.
“Live Music” featuring the lively Gene Hull and his band is becoming a featured spot on the Thursday evening menu of programs. The half-hour show can be picked up on WND at 7:30 any Thursday evening.
WND’s on-the-spot airing of opening night at the Mardi Gras carnival last week, was credited with boosting student interest in the affair. This remote broadcast was handled by Andy McCormack and Jim Farrell, and featured a half-hour of music by Gene Hull's orchestra.
Although Jack Benny has switched to CBS, ace sportscaster Frank Tripucka has renewed his contract with WND to do the Bengal Bouts this year. The Bengals start on Monday, March 28, and Frank will be at his ringside mike to call the punches for students who will be unable to attend the brawls.
Student officers of the various campus clubs and social organizations are reminded to submit announcements of
meetings to WND, if they wish them to be included on the new Bulletin Board program, each Tuesday at 7 p. m.
Lenten Retreats Start On N. D. Campus
Lenten hall retreats began last week end with a two-day program of devotions for the students in Breen-Phillips, Farley and St. Edward’s. Services were conducted by the Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C.
Although the turn-out for the initial retreat was unusually small, the Rev. Edmund Murray, C.S.C., assistant prefect of religion, declared that a large crowd was expected to attend this week’s exercises for the men of Cavanaugh and Zahm. The conferences Saturday and Sunday will be preached by the Rev. Alfred Mendez, c.s.c., whose topics will be: “Temptation,” “Sex and Purity,” “Mass and Sin,” “Communion and Life,” and “Mary and My Future.”
This week’s retreat will begin Saturday night at 7:30 with a conference in Cavanaugh Hall Chapel, followed by recitation of the rosary at the Grotto, and confessions in the Main Church. Sunday’s program will start at 7:30 a.m. with Mass and a sermon. From 9 to 11 a.m., a marriage forum led by the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, c.s.c., will be held in the Cavanaugh Reading Room. A Holy Hour at 11, another conference at 1 p.m., and an outdoor Way of the Cross will round out the ceremonies.
10
The Scholastic
Sons of Erin to Hold Feast on St. Pat's Day
All true sons of Erin will gather in the upper dining hall next Thursday, March 17, at 6 p.m. to celebrate the feast of St. Patrick. The festivities, which promise to outdo Phil the Fluter’s Ball, include a full course dinner, followed by entertainment.
Sponsored by the newly-hatched Irish Club, the alfair is open to all students and faculty members and their wives. President Dennie O’Neill announced that tickets are now on sale, and that due to the size of the room, only a limited number will be sold. The cost will be $1.50 per head.
After dinner is served, the happy Hibernians will sit back and hear some dear old Irish ballads, sung by John Broderick and Jack Powell. Bill MacMillan will play the marimba and Bill Ensign will go along with his drums. Father Patrick Carroll, c.s.c., will speak on Irish culture.
Also on hand to celebrate, will be approximately twenty-five colleens from St. Mary’s, including Miss Genevieve Duffy, who will play the harp. Pat Sullivan will sing some appropriate Irish airs, accompanied by Don Krebs at the piano. The program will end with all the lads and lassies joining in the singing, led by Jack Powell. The entertainment has been organized by club-member Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., and Bob Mahoney, who heads the affair.
Chairman Mahoney said that membership in the club is still open, and that tickets for the banquet may be secured from him in 24 Lyons, or Dennie O’Neill, 110 Lyons. Brother O’Neill calls on all campus Irishmen to get a ticket, check their shillelaghs at the front door, and join the party, complete with leprechauns and shamrocks, to honor the day dear to all good wearers of the green.
—Jack Potvers
LOST AND FOUND
An ND ring was found on a campus parking lot. The owner can recover his property by contacting Mrs. Poth in the Building Maintenance office. Alumni Hall.
Some money was found on campus about three weeks ago. The owner may see F. Bolder in 401 Morrissey.
A wrist watch and a Notre Dame ring were found on the campus last week. Anyone missing these items may identify and pick them up in the Office of Student Welfare.
The Roemers of Notre Dame
riiz genua *
Notre Dame is a family affair with the	Irish clan next year. Pictured above,
Roemers of South Bend. Four Roemer	left to right, are Joe, who will graduate
boys are enrolled as students here; their father is an ND philosophy professor; and another son. Chuck, will probably join the
New 'Woman in White* Makes Hall Inspections
Relax, men of Notre Dame! The woman in white you’ve seen wandering around your halls is no secret agent. Hers is no plan to ferret out subversive student activities. According to her employer, Charles W. Taylor, superintendent of buildings, she is merely an innovation of the Department of Building Maintenance “to help better the student’s welfare.”
Taylor said the new position was established to help his department discover conditions in student rooms, including furniture and equipment. With thirteen residence halls under his supervision, he explained there was much need for a constant check on room and furniture conditions, as well as on cleanliness. This traveling hall inspector, therefore, is a check on Taylor’s hundred-odd maids as well.
Contrary to popular opinion, she is not on the lookout for hotplates, electric irons, or too many lights. Nor is she searching for dining hall equipment, such as cups, silverware and sugar containers that somehow may have managed to stray from their assigned places. Rather, she makes a periodic check of every room in every hall, noting in her
in June; Jim. a sophomore; Dr. William F. Roemer; Bill (alias Zip. the Bengal Battler); and Tom. an A J. freshman.
little book the conditions of the plumbing, lights, lockers, fixtures, desks, beds, etc., and any little item that may need repair. That’s her job and she turns her notes in to Taylor at the end of each day.
But if by chance she finds a room that bears the marks of deliberate destruction; or if she happens to discover an excess of six or seven chow-hall cups in a room, the inhabitant may be questioned. If furniture damage is too heavy, the student is liable to repair charges for said destruction. “This is sort of a reciprocal thing,” Taylor said-. “We are trying to keep the students’ living conditions good . . . they should treat their rooms as they would their own homes.”
As far as the effectiveness of the inspection goes, Taylor said it might be some time before there is any noticeable difference in the condition of the rooms; that a broken faucet or a busted bed spring might not be fixed immediately after inspection. He did say, however, that any malfunctions and breakage turned up would be repaired, and that this new program “is definitely a step in the right direction.”—Vic Dorr
March 11, 1949
11
Student Council Drafts New Constitution
(Continued from Page 9) any) recommended by this group will be made known to the student body before the time for final ratification. The conference will be headed by Campbell, assisted by the other members of the constitutional committee, Kevin Harrigan, Bill Kirschner, Lou Burns, and John Walker.
January Grads and Senior Ball
Other Student Council business Tuesday night was centered around the question of whether or not next January’s graduates should be allowed to attend the traditional Senior Ball in May. Senior Class President Pat Costello brought the topic before the Council for action. It was decided that next year’s January graduates (of which there are some 400) should rightfully attend the spring ball, but they could not call their farewell dance next winter another Senior Ball.
Costello also pointed out that the Of-
COUNCIL PRES. KEVIN HARRIGAN The Council Gets a New Constitution
—Photo by Harlan
fice of Student Welfare had directed the four officers of the Senior Class to sign guarantees that they would personally underwrite all losses of the Senior Ball. He objected to this and asked the Council to back the dance. The Council thereby took action which will set a precedent for all future class dances if it passes. It appointed a committee to investigate the possibilities for the Council’s underwriting any such losses, so that no future classes would have to bear the losses as a result of their dances. Under the provisions of the proposed action, all profits from any such dances would be absorbed by the Council into a sort of “cushion” fund, to fore
stall any losses by the Council. The committee will report at the next meeting and the proposal will be voted upon.
As for the ratification of the new constitution, it will be conducted in much the same way as hall elections for Council representatives. All students may vote through the medium of ballots passed out in the residence halls. At a designated time, the ballots will be collected by the hall representatives of the Council.
The original draft of the new constitution will appear in next week’s Scholastic. In this way, all students may read and understand the document before voting for its ratification.
Vic Dorr
One-Act Plays
(Continued from Page 9)
semester’s Milky Way, including Pat Mc-Ateer, Lou Garippo and Jim Bymer.
Much of the art work, scenery and set pieces for the plays will not be rented as in recent years but will be painted and prepared by students in the Department of Fine Arts. “The Key of Heaven,” a special painting for use in the Monsignor’s Hour is being done by Eugene Rossi. In this play the costumes are especially authentic and colorful, filling the requisite for the pomp and pageantry of Vatican ceremony. They range from the bright cardinals’ garb, through the monsignors’ robes, including monks, and right down to the traditional Swiss Guards.
New Cyclorama for Stage
In addition to the attraction of the drama, the play-goers will be in for another big surprise. After twenty-five years the shoddy lavender backdrop of Washington Hall has been removed and replaced with a brand new black velour cyclorama curtain. Costing some $500, it was installed last week, and will be first used with these coming productions.
A motivate lighting effect will be utilized in each of the three scenes, Mr. Eisen explained, and will be handled by Jim Beymer, along with other technical work and special effects. He said this motivated lighting is “interpretative rather than flat” and serves to bring out the best in the actors and scenery. In these productions, Eisen said the lighting effects would have three distinct time problems to produce — an exterior midnight scene in The Rising of the Moon; an interior effect at 1 a.m. for Dust of the Road and an afternoon in the Vatican Art Gallery for the Monsignor’s Hour.
The plays will be presented March 14 and 15 at 8 p.m. No tickets are required for student admission.
Maritain. Famed Thomist. Here for Lecture Mar. 23
Jacques Maritain will give a talk in Washington Hall on the subject of “Human Rights” Wednesday, March 23. This will mark the second appearance of Maritain, one of the most famous living Thomist philosophers, on the campus of Notre Dame. He will come to the University under the auspices of the Mediaeval Institute, through the invitation of Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of the Institute.
Father Phelan called Maritain “the world’s greatest living philosopher,” and cited such men as Etienne Gilson and T. S. Eliot to back him up in this opinion. Mr. Maritain is French by birth and his first visit to America was at Father Phelan’s request. At that time, Maritain was a professor at the Catholic Institute of Paris and responded to Father Phelan’s request to teach several courses at the Pontifical Institute school in Toronto, Canada. It was during this visit to North America that Mr. Maritain first appeared at Notre Dame. Later, he returned to France and became French Ambassador to the Vatican. He is now teaching at Princeton University.
Father Phelan expressed the hope that this visit might be one of many campus trips for the famous philosopher. The lecture will begin at 4:30 p.m. on March 23, and is open to the public.
Grad Music Majors Announce Concert Series for Semester
Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the University of Notre Dame Music Department, announces'a series of concerts to be presented by the graduating music majors. This series of public recitals are to be presented at Washington Hall, beginning on the evening of March 17, and continuing through the semester until May. These public recitals will take the place of a thesis, usually required of graduating music majors.
The first of these concerts will take place on the evening of March 17, with a piano recital by William Gibbons. Gibbons is a scholarship graduate who entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1946. He was originally from Youngstown, Ohio, but now makes his home in Rochester, New York. Gibbons is also an accomplished violinist, and will also take part in that recital to be held at a later date. He hopes to conduct upon his graduation from the University. His program will consist of Bach’s Italian Concerto in F, Schubert’s A-flat major, Impromptu, Chopin’s G major, Nocturne, and Liszt’s Polonaise.
The Scholastic
The Real J. Paul Sheedy
Hair-Tonic Promoter Is Slightly Bald N. D. Grad
The Scholastic has been, during its eighty-two illustrious years, widely famed for its studied conservatism. The news that it has considered “fit to print” has always been presented with an exceptional sort of journalistic perfection; its pictures tell their story in an artistically simple way. Then J. Paul Sheedy arrived on the scene. This magazine hasn’t been the same since.
J. Paul Sheedy, in case you don’t read the ads, is the creature who flunked the finger-nail test and, having been shocked into facing life by this disaster, transferred his affections to Wildroot Cream-Oil (non-alcoholic, contains “Lanolin”). Wildroot Cream-Oil, Inc., Buffalo 7, New York, has been so elated over having brought Mr. Sheedy into the fold that they have been running his picture in their ads ever since the reformation.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
IF PEOPLE are whiskering about you, better check up on your hair. Before J.P. switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic, he was wide open for all kinds of catty remarks about his ratty appearance. Not so today! Now that he’s using Wildroot Cream-Oil regularly, annoying dryness and loose, ugly dandruff are gone. His hair stays put all day. He can pass the Wildroot Finger-Nail Test without batting an eye.
J.P.’s experience leads us to suggest that you try non-alcoholic Wildroot Cream-Oil containing Lanolin, too. Get yourself a bottle or tube today at your drug or toilet goods counter. And, have your barber give you professional applications. You’ll agree that for well-groomed hair Wildroot Cream-Oil is purr-feet!
of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
DESPITE MONTHLY METAMORPHOSIS SHEEDY TURNS OUT TO BE MAN
So it happens that Mr. Sheedy has appeared on the pages of this magazine in the various guises of turtle, zebra, monkey, and polar bear to name a few. And it came as a great surprise to Scholastic editors and readers when one day last year they read that this Sheedy creature was really a man, human-type, after all. What’s more he was a Notre Dame man, human-type — class of 1937.
This inspired Photo Editor John Walker (alias Roger O’Keefe) to sit down and compose a little epistle and send it to Mr. Sheedy asking him to send Scholastic a picture of himself as he really is, that all the world might view the man behind the turtle, zebra, monkey, etc.
Walker’s letter fairly sparkled with witticisms and only lack of space for-
WILDROOT'S J. PAUL SHEEDY Note Retreating Hairline
bids us printing more. But here’s the way the thing started:
“Dear Mr. Sheedy:
“We have been following your weekly metamorphosis through the animal kingdom with considerable interest and your even more regular flunking of the fingernail test . . .”
The picture and J. Paul’s answer came forthwith. The picture revealed that hair-tonic salesman Sheedy is rapidly losing his own hair.
And here’s the answer. The letterhead on it was that of Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn, Inc., of Buffalo, who advertise Wildroot to the masses and for whom Mr. Sheedy labors.
After a pleasant introduction, Mr. S. goes into a brief description of his life, including the following excerpts:
“Dean McCarthy had schooled me well in Foreign Commerce, so I spent my first six or eight months iron-working in a shipyard. ... I soon found myself in the sales department of Certain-teed products helping people decide what color the roof of their new house should be and whether the plaster should have hair in it or wood fibre. . . I soon became one of their favorite drivers (Standard Brands — Mr. Sheedy had been stranded in Buffalo when Certain-teed Products moved to Cleveland) . . . Men of ND aren’t long at driving trucks so I was next supervising men and then calling on hotel, restaurant and institutional trade. . . . All of a sudden there were reports of war and I became one of J. Edgar Hoover’s G-Men. ... I resigned from the bureau after the war and started with Barton, Batten, Durstine and Osborn. ... I now pose for pictures in Wildroot’s animal series. . . .”
Thus the saga of J. Paul Sheedy.
March 11, 1949
13
Art and the Kormendis
Kunkle
Mrs. Eugene Kormendi. wife of the artist-in-residence at Notre Dame, is shown
Kormendi is executing in a former storage room above her husband's studios, are
at work on one of the two 75-foot Way of the Cross murals she has been commissioned to paint for a new church at Our Lady of the Lake Seminary, Wawasee, Ind. The fully-colored murals, which Mrs.
Fall Pre-Regis+ra+ion Set to Begin April 4
The annual pre-registration procedure for the coming fall semester will begin April 4 and continue through April 11, according to an announcement from the Office of Student Accounts. E. J. Murray, director of student accounts, said all students will be notified by letter of their individual registration times, and that they should comply with them.
As in the past, a flat sum of $50 is required of each student pre-registering for the first semester of 1949-50. Murray said that amount is necessary to establish the good faith of the student in pre-registration, and to insure against his dropping out of school without notice during the summer. The money will be refunded if a student does return to Notre Dame, but it must be credited to his account in the office before he can register for his classes.
According to Murray, students may select their halls, and, if possible, the rooms they want for next Fall at the same time they pre-register. He said
scheduled for completion within three months. Other examples of her work are now housed in East Chicago, Ind., and Indianapolis churches, and in the Boy's Town, Neb., chapel.
there would be a bulletin forthcoming before April 4 listing the halls available for the different classes.
Off-campus students are reminded that the registration is for classes as well as rooms. Much confusion has been caused by the misunderstanding of this in the past, Murray said. And all students must register between April 4 and 11. A fee of $10 will be charged for tardy registrants.
Indiana U. Orchestra to Perform in ND Drill Hall
Indiana University’s Symphony Orchestra, seventy strong, will present a concert Mar. 24 at 8 p.m. in the Drill Hall. Josephine Antoine will appear as their featured soprano soloist.
• The orchestra will be under the baton of Ernst Hoffman, former conductor of the Breslau Opera and Philharmonic Orchestra in Germany.
Next on the ND musical calendar is the annual concert of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra, scheduled April 1 in the Drill Hall. Artur Rubenstein, the world famous pianist, will be guest artist on the program.
Lou Burns Receives Letter from Pope Pius
A letter of commendation and appreciation from His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, has been received by Senior Lou Burns, national chairman of the Student Relief Campaign.
In the letter, dated January 16, 1949, the Holy Father acknowledged receipt of supplies made available by the Catholic college students’ drive “for distribution amongst the needy students of the countries affected by the war.”
Pope Pius called the movement “a generous gesture (which) has been a source of comfort and consolation to Our paternal heart.
“We realize that your campaign for the relief of your fellow-students is prompted by an admirable spirit of fraternal charity and that your thoughtfulness in placing the fruits of the campaign at Our disposal for distribution is motivated by your loyal filial devotion to the Vicar of Christ.
“The material aid which your efforts and sacrifices have made available will be of valuable assistance to the students who benefit thereby; but more valuable still will be the encouragement which they will derive from the knowledge that in their difficulties and privations they can count on the moral support and sympathetic understanding of the Catholic College Students of America.
“We assure you, beloved children, of Our cordial appreciation of your magnanimous gesture, and We pray that Our Divine Lord may requite your praiseworthy charity with abundant graces and favors.
“With this prayer We lovingly impart to you, beloved children, to your parents and teachers and to all those who collaborate with you in this noble crusade, Our paternal Apostolic Benediction.”
Chanted Mass Tours Campus Chapels for Lenten Season
The Liturgy Club has arranged to have a “traveling Mass” on campus during Lent, to be sung by the congregation in simple Gregorian Chant. This campus Mass will travel from hall to hall to bring more students in contact with it, but all are invited to follow it around to as many halls as they desire.
The Gregorian Chant is the easiest type of singing and no previous training of any kind is necessary for those who would like to join in. The Mass started on Thursday, March 3, in Walsh Hall and worked around the east side of the campus last week. This week it will concentrate on the west side of the campus.
14
The Scholastic
Caf Session
Conversations Over Coffee Range From Favorite Girls to Hylomorpnic Commies
By BO CONNOR
Cartoons by CHUCK LENZ
Around the campus some students are engaged in figuring out cube roots; others are absorbed in working out the difference between a species and a genera; and still others are contemplating the affinity Mary Haworth has for Beno-bound couples. A bridge game is going on over on the third floor of Howard, and students in every corner of the campus have their radios tuned to WND for Requestfully yours. Suddenly, anytime after 8:15, these activities are abruptly dropped as someone shoves a head through the dooi- and yells, “caf call!”
There is a hasty throwing on of coats and groups of three and four trek to the cafeteria to join the long lines waiting for cokes, mugs of coffee, and hamburgers. What causes the quick switch? It’s not likely that so many of them are hungry, or that they expect to get research material out of the stacks of magazines behind the counter. It’s probable that this is just the best place to relax and break the routine of an evening in the room. A psychology prof would doubtless say, “It stems from something deep in the nature of man; a desire for leisure attained through conversation.”
The old Greek philosophers used to get together for just such sessions. The veterans around here lean back on rainy days and remember nostalgically the hour-long chats they used to have with their buddies on philosophy and literature when they spent their evenings in the PX’s of Fort Benning and Sheppard Field. Students at Yale and Maine indulge in these leisurely confabs, too, but occasionally they take time out to lift their glasses and sing the Whiffenpoof and Stein Songs.
Anything at All
Here at Notre Dame these gatherings don’t follow any particular pattern, but there are a few things that most talk and get vehement about. Sometimes the discourses take an idealistic twist and become almost philosophic, but generally the talk is commonplace and loud with a touch of ND sophistication thrown in.
Take the table of “Arts and Letters— if you please” men over- by the cigarette counter. Someone mentions the outside history reading, and after a few moans another says, “Did you hear about the guys who took the Civil War course this semester? They figured it for an easy elective, and interesting, too, but when they got in there that first day, they got
the word. The history department thought it would be a good idea if they read six outside books this time — one every three weeks. The people over at the Drill Hall thought they’d have to lengthen the time for class changes another week.”
On down the line a table of freshmen are now casually accepting the fact that they not only recognize all the football players, but actually know a couple of them. By now they think of the summer vacation as being just a matter of weeks away; after Easter, it will be a matter of days. Maybe the talk turns to sports: relative merits of eight or nine big league baseball clubs are affirmed as positively as Notre Dame’s right to the national football title is generally professed in the fall.
It Started in '27
Football championships have probably been a topic of conversation in just such groups for more than twenty years. The caf was opened in 1927 and. they’ve been serving cokes and malts at night ever since, except for a couple of years during the war. They say in the old days, though, that you could get a meal even up to closing time. Still, the bulk of the trade came from students who felt, even then, that coffee was enough for a mid-evening break.
Maybe in another twenty years, when the tables get marked up and the paint begins to peel off the Indians in the murals around the room, the future students will think of these gatherings as some sort of a Notre Dame tradition. It’s not likely, though, because by then, it says somewhere, the Student Union building will be accessible.
But for the present there is no such talk of traditions—they only come with time. There is, though, a certain amount of griping found in all groups, and the more extensive sessions creep in a couple of times a month.'Conditions on and off the campus get their share: the run of
March 11, 1949
15
poor movies that invade the theatres downtown simultaneously; the chipped beef for lunch; or paying two cents for the cream in a “cup of joe.” These beefs are always with us, and are discussed with a sense of recognition that they are as inevitable as a final exam.
A Peculiar Sort of a Gripe
A fellow in one bunch, though, has a singular complaint. He and his friend were both sophomores last year, and then his buddy transferred schools this year. He moans, “I’m still a junior and he tells me he graduates in June. Besides that, he’s only been taking 14 hours these last two semesters. He told me, too, that they have him down for intermediate tennis this spring; said his backhand needed a little polishing up.”
Women up here, while they don’t take the verbal scourgings they sometimes suffer at home (absence makes the heart grow fonder), demand and generally get their share of attention whether they
live in South Bend, at St. Mary’s, or in Buffalo. The merits of each are considered extensively, and even though nothing like a science results, there are certain requirements that most abide by in passing judgment. The physical requisites are plastered on some of the rooms around the campus.
You never hear the more particular qualities of the “favorite girl” discussed in these groups, however. But back in the corner where the English majors are affirming the benefits (among themselves) of a liberal education, you’ll find an occasional pair deeply wrapped up in affairs of the heart. Herer where there is less chance for embarrassment, the shades of convention are pulled aside and “she” gets a respectable audience.
Maybe Even Philosophy
You’ll hear plenty of scholarly dissertations going on at some of these tables, too. The talk may slide into philosophy,
and many of the concepts Father Brennan wearied of ever instilling in his students years ago, will come out in original language. A young man-jn gray flannels with a blue blazer housing a red polka dot tie (bow) demands, “Okay, wise guy, how would you apply the hylomorphic theory to a Communist?” The reply, “Huh, huh, we get that tomorrow.”
The really serious thoughts don’t get much attention here. Too many faces around the table are new, so the talk stays casual. Conditions of the world, plans after graduation, and what life means to the students as Catholics are saved for less public hours.
After the drinks and the remains are rapidly carried away by the energetic ladies, the chatter slackens. Cigarette butts are dropped, chairs shoved back, a push shot with a wadded napkin hits the side of a cup at a neighboring table— and bounces to the floor—and so back to the books and card games and WND. . . .
Wranglers, Forensic Group, Draft Four New Members
The Wranglers, noted forensic organization at Notre Dame, admitted four new men to their ranks recently, according to Bill Pfaff, newly elected president of the club. These new members are John T. Evans, James F. McHugh, Michael T. Meaney and William B. Rich. They were welcomed formally at the last meeting, Feb. 24.
According to a custom of long standing, the Wranglers meet every Wednesday evening throughout the school year to discuss and offer constructive criticism on a paper given by one of its members. Unrestricted to any particular field of knowledge, the choice of subjects is always wide and varied.
The yearly activities of the Wranglers are highlighted by several banquets, occurring at the beginning and end of each semester, at which time a talk is given by the club moderator.
Gurian Judges Russ On Shuffled Poli+boro
The unexplained switch of Andrei Vishinsky to replace Vyacheslav Molotov as Soviet Foreign Minister was diagnosed this week by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of political science, as an indication of Russia’s decline in power and prestige.
According to Dr. Gurian, internationally renowned expert on Russian affairs, the sudden change is part of the desperate struggle of a nation trying to avoid total disaster. Recent public announcements of communist groups in countries all over the world proclaiming that they would support Russia in time of war was termed another sign that “the U.S.S.R. is losing the cold war.”
“The ECA is working well, as Norwegian and Danish readiness to join the Atlantic pact shows,” he explained. “Soviet prestige is at a new low.”
Dr. Gurian dismissed the probability of war with Russia in the near future, declaring that “continuation of firmness (in our dealings with the U.S.S.R.) may compel the Soviet leaders to retreat.” Still, he would not exclude all possibility of such a conflict, warning that “we must be prepared for all possibilities,” including a potential Soviet move against Finland or northern Norway under cover of an imposed “friendship treaty.”
Comparing the new and old foreign ministers, Dr. Gurian observed: “Vishinsky is surely rather a more evil man than Molotov. He is a' most cynical opportunist, but he would be ready to take any orders.”
Russia’s only chance for victory in the cold war, the ND professor believes, is a tremendous depression in this country. But whether there is to be such a catastrophe or not depends entirely upon the United States, he added. The key to victory and peace is in our hands.
Mardi Gras Receipts Put Sophomore Class in Black
Officers of the Sophomore Class announced this week that the Mardi Gras Ball receipts lifted them out of the financial hole they had been in since the Sophomore Cotillion. Co-chairman of the Ball, Phil Finnegan,' stated “We are glad to say the dance was a success and that the sophomores are back in the black once more.”
The Cotillion left the second year men with a deficit of approximately $350. A Mardi Gras sale of 383 tickets enabled them to just cover the deficit, with a slight fraction left over.
The Scholastic
16
The Bulletin Board
Next Week
Triple-Decker Dramatics
Three one-act plays, produced by the University Theatre and directed by Professor F. J. Hanley, will be presented
Monday and Tuesday at 8:15 p.m. in Washington Hall. No ticket will be required for the triple-feature, slated to include The Rising of the Moon, by Lady Gregory; Dust of the Road, by Kenneth Sawyer Goodman; and Monsignor's Hour, by Emmet Lavery.
Bowl Game Films
Chuckin’ Charley O’Rourke and the boys from B.C. will show what they could do when they were “Leahy’s Lads” in Thursday afternoon’s sport film feature at the Engineering Auditorium. Boston College’s victory over Tennessee in the Sugar Bowl will be screened at 2:30 and 3:30.
Forum on Franco
“Franco Spain—The Failure of Liberalism” is the topic to be considered at a history forum Monday night in Room 101 of the Law Building. Professor Ferdinand A. Hermens, of the Department of Political Science, will lead the discussion on a paper by Professor James A. Llorens, a specialist in Spanish history. John J. Broderick, Assistant Dean of the College of Law, will preside as chairman. The public is invited.
Beethoven Program
Charles A. Biondo and Daniel H. Pedtke, of the Department of Music will
Vic Vet says
HEY. MAC* DON’T RISK LOSING YOUR MONEY BY SENDING CASH 10 PAY YOUR GL INSURANCE PREMIUMS...INSTEAD,SEND A CHECK OR MONEY ORDER t IN THE SPECIAL YELLOW
conclude their lecture-recital series Wednesday night at 8 in Washington Hall. With Mr. Pedtke at the piano and Mr. Biondo doubling as violinist and lecturer, the program will feature Beethoven’s Sonata No. 10 in G Major.
Marx Brothers Return
Groucho, Chico, and Harpo (the loud mouth) Marx will serve up a re-release helping of Duck Soup, the latest item on the Department of Journalism’s film classic program, Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Other
“oldies” on the agenda include The Informer, March 24, and The Thirty-Nine Steps, March 31. Admission is by ticket only.
Hall Retreats
Cavanaugh and Zahm Halls will be the scene of a Lenten Retreat tomorrow and Sunday. The schedule consists of Mass, sermons by the Rev. Joseph Mendez, c.s.c., rosary devotions at the Grotto, a Holy Hour and a two-hour marriage forum conducted by the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. Sorin and Walsh are next on the list for the week-end retreats.
Cavanaugh Concerts
The program of classical records to be presented next week in the lunch hour concerts at the Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room will be: Monday—Rachmaninoff’s Piano Concerto No. 2 and Addinsell’s Warsaw Concerto; Tuesday — Tschaikowsky’s Piano Concerto No. 1 in B-Flat Minor, and selections from Rossini’s Barbiere di Siviglis and Donizetti’s
Lucia de Lamarmor; Wednesday—The Heart of La Boheme, by Puccini, and the Schwanda Polka and Fugue, by Weinberg; Thursday—Beethoven’s Emperor Concerto No. 5, and Gaite Parisi-enne, by Offenbach. All concerts begin at 12:30 p.m.
Giese to Speak
Vincent Giese, graduate student in political science and managing editor of Concord, will speak at 7:30 Tuesday night at the Catholic Information Center in the Aquinas Library and Book Store. He is one of the speakers in a series of free weekly lectures at the Aquinas Center, to which Catholics and non-Catholics are invited.
This Week
Lecture on Steel
Dr. George A. Roberts, chief metallurgist of the Vanadium-Alloys Steel

Company of Latrobe, Pa., addressed a technical session of the ND American Society for Metals chapter Wednesday * in the Engineering Auditorium. His topic was “A ‘New Look’ in Tool Steel.”
Schock Addresses K. of C.
Mayor George Schock of South Bend was the guest speaker at last night’s meeting of the ND chapter of the Knights of Columbus. The subject of Mayor Schock’s talk, which was followed by a question period, was the municipal government of South Bend.
ND Employees Hear Lectures
Members of the faculty and employees of the University attended a talk on collegiate public relations Monday afternoon in Washington Hall. The speaker was Harold K. Schellenger, director of public relations at the Byer and Bowman Advertising agency, of Columbus, Ohio.
Opportunity
Fellowships
Eight to ten fellowships of $1200, plus tuition (plus G.I. Bill privileges), will be awarded to students entering the Wayne University training course for future executives of the National Tu
berculosis Association. Students with undergraduate degrees in sociology are preferred for the program, which will get under way in September. Full details can be secured by writing: School of Public Affairs and Social Work, Wayne University, Detroit 1, Michigan.
Summer Jobs
Sixty American college students will join work-camps in 11 countries of Europe this summer as part.of the vacation program planned by the American Friends Service Committee. Other projects include seven-week International Service Seminars and ten-day In- • stitutes of International Affairs in various parts of the country, as well as interneships in industry and volunteer jobs in mental and correctional institutions. Full details may be obtained from the American, Friends Service Committee, 19 S. Wells St., Chicago 6, Illinois.	:
March 11, 1949
The Rock Pool
223,000 Gallons of Drinking Water
By JIM KINGSLEY
Photos by BRUCE HARLAN
Sam Phibian crouched on the apron of the pool, threw out his arms, and sprang into a racing dive. Broadsiding loudly into the coolish aqua, he glided to the surface and broke into a strong, rhythmic crawl.
Emerging, he smiled arrogantly at the slow, gagging breast strokers who were grimly traversing the pool’s 42-foot width. Clumsy landlubbers!
Want to know something? Once, when he was taking a shower, Sam got so panicky he swallowed a bar* of soap. Three weeks ago he nearly drowned in a mud puddle. But all this, of course, was before he was thrown into a swimming class at the Rock.
Factory System
Our hypothetical man-become-fish is one of the legions of beginners who are scooped up as raw material every year by the Rockne Memorial swimming mill. He is but one of thousands who has been melted down, processed, and chrome-plated in aquatic skills by an efficient duo of production experts.
Administrator of the system is balding, well-conditioned Gil Burdick—the man with the “photographic eye.”
At the other end of the production function is Steve Horvath, Building engineer. He’s the young hermit who dwells down under the natatorium, operating the huge filtration plant that keeps pool water “fit to drink.”
Two days after the Rockne Memorial Fieldhouse threw open its doors, in 1939, Mr. Burdick resigned his position as City Recreation Director of South Bend and moved into the big glass office by the pool. When Gil agreed to teach young men how to swim, he cut out for himself a bigger chunk of work than anyone suspected.
Take yourself back to war years, when V-12’s smothered the campus. Every one of them had to pass a swimming test. Imagine a mob of 140 beginners, cringing and hydrophobic, milling on the deck of the pool. All you
have to do is get them to swim a couple lengths.
Gil did better than that for the sailors. Working eight hours a day with limited assistance, he soon had them swimming a half-mile, using four or five strokes. Each of some 3,000 novices, he estimates, swam ten miles in water wings before he was permitted to solo.
Therein lies part of the secret of Gil’s technique. We find there are two schools of swimming instructors: the water-wing faction, supposedly outmoded, and the modern, progressive nonwater-wingers. Gil sides with the old-timers. The man in wings, he argues (and can prove handily), will concentrate on his strokes because he is not afraid of sinking.
One of the men who worked with him during the V-12 era has another answer. “Gil has a photographic eye,” he explains. “He can walk alongside while you’re swimming, analyze your every muscle action, and tell you exactly what you’re doing wrong — while you’re doing it.”
Neither is he any slouch when it comes to developing speed swimmers. There were witnesses aplenty to this incident: one of Gil’s aides during the war was Wally Ris, the American fireball who took last year’s Olympic 100-meter freestyle championship. Wally once challenged Leo Zuckowsky, a Burdick-coached swimmer now in Graduate school, to a 50-yard sprint in the Rockne pool. Wally, wearing swimming fins, confidently gave the underdog a three-second head start.
Champion Ris, as you’ve probably guessed, never caught up with Gil’s speedster.
Red Cross Work, Too
Few realize that Gil does more than teach swimmers, supervise the pool, and handle swimming meets. A little-known fact is that he also serves, in a volunteer capacity, with the American Red Cross. As Water Safety Chairman for St. Joseph County, he sees to it that
18
The Scholastic
two or three classes in Senior Lifesaving and a respectable number of Water Safety Instructors are trained each year in the Eockne pool.
Estimate the value of this instruction in terms of its fruition — the saving of countless human lives. Then you’ll have some idea of the import of Gil’s responsibilities.
The Underside
Without the Ford Plant, even Ford (it is generally conceded) would be hard put to produce vehicles. Likewise, the most skillful swimming instructor in the world couldn’t teach dog-paddle to a mermaid, much less to beginners en masse, without the proper facilities — . water, basin for same, and such.
Granted. But it isn’t that simple. Swimming pool operation, we discover, is a demanding and highly developed science. Put in the hands of an amateur, it would likely have you worrying less about the smell of chlorine and more about worse botherations — typhoid, impetigo, conjunctivitis, and sinusitis, to mention the most imminent possibilities.
This is where talented Steve Horvath enters the picture.
Steve is the young man you seldom see, unless you blunder into the wrong doorway, slip down a flight of stairs, and crawl dazedly through a long, dark corridor. Then you will see him.
This being unlikely, we should explain that Steve is keeper of the subterranean filtration plant directly beneath the pool. It is he who, with the help of a formidable array of great tanks and pipes, replaces the pool’s 223,200-gallon capacity with completely purified water every eight hours.
BURDICK MAKES LIKE BATMAN — Floundering Frosh Flail Furiously
It was Steve who had a hand in the building of the Bock. It was he again who, when cement for the pool was being poured, had to pump out water day and night between cat-naps. (The basin is at a lower level than its source, St. Joseph’s Lake.)
In 1940 a young Science student — suspicious, no doubt, of Steve’s integrity — made some 305 chemical tests of the pool water and incorporated them into his B.S. thesis, “Bacteriological Investigations of the Rockne Memorial Swimming Pool.” After a laborious discussion of Coli-aerogenes bacteria, he finally admitted that the water is “relatively pure.”
“Better than that,” comments Steve.
“It’s actually more pure than drinking water — come on downstairs and I’ll show you why.”
As you descend the steps and crouch your way down the dark corridor, you might whistle at the glistening apparatus and spotless floor, which mirror the subdued light almost to a glare. The clean stillness of the place gives it a catacomb aspect.
Steve must be a mind reader. “It’s funny,” he muses; “people just see the water. They don’t care how it got there — don’t even know this place exists. But it’s like home to me.”
Emerging into the light, Steve halts abruptly and points. From the gallery of pipes overhead, a large one crooks
BOSS BURDICK (center) —Water Wings on the Way Out?	MEMORIAL FILTER — Trap for Coli-Aerogenes
down to the floor, to enter what looks like a truncated fire plug. “The water drains down through here,” he explains. “That thing is called a hair catcher. It catches hair.”
He takes a few steps, indicates a small tub. “Soda-ash and alum in there. They control the pH, or alkaline content of the water. Then there’s copper sulphate, to kill the algae.”
“This”— he touches a glass-covered chamber, foggy with green vapor—“is the gas chlorinator. It keeps the right chlorine residual of .5 ppm— .5 parts per million of water. I test the water
four times a day for chlorine and pH control, and twice a week we send a bacteria test to the State Board of Health.”
The character who wrote the thesis, you reflect, could have saved a lot of test tubes by spending a week down here.
Then you'stop reflecting, because you have reached the heart of the entire treatment plant—four monstrous tanks, each over ten feet high and about fifteen around, cluttered with knobs, spigots, and gauges, loom before you. “—twenty tons of gravel and sand,” Steve is reciting, “five in each tank. The water filters down through seven different
courses. When the gravel needs cleaning, it shows on this gauge — and I just backwash the whole works.”
Before you can close your mouth, Steve strides quickly to the last tank. “It comes out here,” he announces triumphantly. “This heater keeps the water between 83° and 85°. It flows into the pool, through twelve inlets, at 464 gallons a minute. Then — well, I guess that’s about all. Come around again sometime . . .”
But that isn’t all, you consider, strolling down the corridor and up the stairs. It’s only the beginning. That’s just tohere Gil Burdick takes over.
CAREERS at GENERAL ELECTRIC

General Electric is not one business, but an organization of many businesses, offering opportunities in virtually all the professions. Here three G-E men brief the careerpossibilities for the marketing specialist, the accountant, and the manufacturing trainee.
FUTURES IN MARKETING
C. H. Lang (Michigan), Vice Pres; responsible for Apparatus Sales: “The need for increased sales efforts to maintain the current high level of business is opening broad opportunities in all phases of the marketing of industrial products—selling, application and service engineering, market analysis, and advertising and sales promotion.”
CAREER IN FINANCE
H. A. MacKinnon, Assistant Comptroller: “Part of my job is the direction of our Business Training Course and travelling auditors staff. Since 1919, these two have been providing direct channels through which young men have progressed into all types of accounting and financial management positions with General Electric.”
MANUFACTURING TRAINEE
Dick Saunders (Rochester): “As a member of the G-E Manufacturing Leadership Program, I’m gaining first-hand knowledge of all the phases of manufacturing from machine tools to labor relations. The Program provides that each of us serve ‘personal apprenticeships’ to seasoned managers in a number of different fields of manufacturing.”
For further Hftrmtin ebsat a WSINfSS CAREER with General flettrit, write Business Training Course, Sehenettady, N. T.—a tareer in TECHNfCAE flHDS, write Tethnital Personnel Division, Seheaettady, H. T. GENERAL ® ELECTRIC
.-20
The Scholastic
Scholastic* Sports
Illinois Tech Relays Test ND Trackmen
How Now, Sir Francis?
Spartans May Romp Over Mid-West Field
Seven Shades Haunt '49 Irish Grid Plans
By RALPH WRIGHT
Four 1948 regulars—Leon Hart, Jim Martin, Ralph McGehee and Emil Sitko —will amble through the gateway onto Cartier Field sometime next Thursday when Coach Frank Leahy entertains at his annual spring football coming-out party. But while the boys pose in their pretty uniforms and the newspapermen worry about photographs, the head coach will be worrying about those other seven positions.
Not all of the seven spots are question marks though. Baltimore’s Bob Williams took over the vital T-quarterback job in the second half of the Southern California melee last fall, and he’ll have it through 1949 barring the unforeseen. A good passer, the best punter and quite intelligent, the amiable Mr. Williams appears capable of filling Frank Tripucka’s vacancy. Other oldtime T-men include Jerry Begley, Tom Carter and Bill Whiteside.
Gay, Swistowicz Move Up
Nor is there much doubt about Bill Gay and Mike Swistowicz at left halfback and fullback. The ex-Tilden Tech duo excelled on offense and defense last season. Leahy can use hurdling Leo Me- -
Killip or Ernie Zalejski in back of Gay. The hobbled South Bender may go to fullback if that famous knee holds up (which seems doubtful). Frank Spaniel, who ran nice enough to average 7.3 yards per carry last fall, can help Swistowicz as can blond Dick Cotter, another letterman.
You can lose a fine center like Bill Walsh and not worry too much if a fellow like Jerry Groom is around. Leahy has Groom plus Walt Grothaus and John Jeffers so the pivot post is exceptionally well fortified.
But you can’t lose All-Americans Bill Fischer and Marty Wendell without shedding a few tears. Frank Johnson, a first string offensive guard late last season, is still here with Bob Lally, Jim Dailer and placekicker Steve Oracko. Now Leahy says he will move chunky Fred Wallner from fullback to guard. All that means is that Fred will probably back up the line as he did so well in ’48. Gossip from the Huddle has ib that eager Bill Flynn may be switched from end because of the excess of good flankers; the 205-pound Gary lad will fit in nicely anywhere.
(Continued on Page 24)	■
By JIM HOWARD
A battered Notre Dame track team will tangle with the top Big Nine and midwest cinder squads tomorrow in the Illinois Tech Relays in Chicago. The team title may go to the all-powerful Michigan State Spartans if they choose to enter a full team, but otherwise it will be an open clash between Illinois, Ohio, Wisconsin and Notre Dame.
Coach “Doc” Handy of the Irish may not choose to seek the team honors due to the fact that his squad is riddled with injuries. He has indicated that he may concentrate on certain individual championships, if the group is not up to full strength for the occasion. Vai Muscato, ace sophomore middle distance runner, is definitely out of competition for some time with a torn muscle. Other injuries were sustained by Jim Bollas, quartermiler; Bill Kupfer, dash man; Lou Lepry and Lou Tracy, distance runners.
Notre Dame men favored to do well in the Chicago affair tomorrow are Bill Fleming, hurdler; Bob Smith, sprinter; Jim Miller, pole vaulter; Ray Sobota and Pat Kenny, middle distance runners; and Bill Leonard, the captain and versatile performer in all distances from the quarter to the mile.
Fleming Leading Scorer '
Fleming is one of the best timber toppers in the country, and is conceded an edge over any man the Big Nine can produce. He is also a crack high jumper, and the leading Notre Dame scorer this year. The South Bend dash flash, Bob Smith, is the only ND runner who took a first place in the Michigan State Relays and the C.C.C. meet, and is rated one of the ace sprinters in the midwest. His exact role in the contest tomorrow is indefinite, but he will probably perform in the dashes and form the nucleus of some relay combinations.
Miller is one of the solid performers on the team and with his 13’9” leap last Saturday in the Central Collegiate contest established a new all-time Notre Dame indoor mark for the pole vault. The old record was 13 feet, 8% inches by Gibbs in 1938. Sobota will again be
March 11, 1949
21
featured as a strong member of several relay combinations, and will serve in the middle distance runs as well.
Kenny Hopes for Rebound Win
Pat Kenny after dropping his first half-mile this year, will strive to hit the victory road again, but as usual will be cast in the most difficult field of the meet. Captain Leonard will probably run the 880 and fill out several relay foursomes. In the shot put, John Helwig will attempt to pick up the habit of increasing his previous best performance again. Last Saturday was the first occasion this season that the Los Angeles weight man did not surpass his previous best throw.
PAT KENNY
Handy's Half-Miler
Last year, Notre Dame was third in the crowded field, behind Michigan and Illinois. Mentor Handy has said that the following men will also compete if the team tries for the team crown: Jim Murphy and Jim Kelly in the two-mile; Jim Kittell and Tony DaDamio in the mile; Gerry Johnson in the half; Paul Schwetschenau and Steve Provost in the 440; Leo McKillip and Bob McDavid in the hurdles; Ray Espenan in the broad jump; Bob Wagner in the pole vault; Dick Godson in the high jump; and Joe Helwig in the shot put.
Next Friday and Saturday, the Irish cinder kickers will battle in the Cleveland K. of C., and the Chicago Relays, respectively.
PHOTO CREDIT
The picture of Ed Macauley which appeared in last week's SCHOLASTIC was reprinted from "Sport" magazine. We trust they will not have us thrown in jaiL
' 22
N.D. Bat and Glovers Begin Outdoor Drills
Like a kid stepping gingerly into the cold ocean, Notre Dame’s baseball team put its best foot forward last Saturday, and ventured onto Cartier field for the first time this year. The mid-fifty temperatures gave the Klinesmen their earliest outdoor batting session in years. They’ll need the extra Cartier field workouts, for they also have one of the earliest openers in years — April 8 and 9 against Indiana at Bloomington.
Kozlik, Petrzelka Co-Captains
There was no outdoor infield practice Saturday. During the indooi- workouts, however, Coach Kline has had two infields practicing. The first outfit from third base around the horn consisted of Gene Lavery, Pete Koblosh, Benny Kozlik, and Ray Petrzelka. Dick Maher and soph Tom Boland shared the catching burden. Petrzelka and Kozlik, incidentally, are captains of this year’s Irish squad, having been elected last fall by the returning monogram men.
The second infield had Tom Martin and Bob Machado working around third, Emil Garafalo at short, Joe Judge, hustling Brooklyn senior, at second, and Don Grieve holding down first in the absence of basketeer Dick Giedlin. Jim Pressley and Charlie Wolfe took care of the catching duties. Both infields
RAY PETRZELKA Kline's . . .
have looked sharp; but then, there never was much question about the fielding ability of this Irish club. Hitting was and is their big problem.
This year’s baseball schedule is trickling in from outside sources. Besides the games against Indiana, the Irish also go against Michigan (April 19 in Ann
Swordsmen Invade Detroit After Whipping NU, 16-11
Well on their way to an undefeated season, Notre Dame’s fencers invade Detroit tomorrow trying to make Detroit university victim No. 7 on the 1949 schedule.
The Meltonmen are expected to run into little trouble in the Motor City. They will lay their 11-match winning streak on the line and a victory would be the 16th in their last 17 engagements.
Two weeks ago the Irish humbled Northwestern, 16-11, in the final home match of the year. After Notre Dame jumped off to an 8-1 lead in the foil bouts, the issue was never in doubt. Lou Burns took three foil bouts, and Bob Schlosser did likewise with the sabre.
Arbor, and May 18, here), Michigan State (May 4 in East Lansing), and Northwestern (May 11 here, and 25 away). Some 25 more games, against such clubs as Ohio State, Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin, Purdue, and Western Michigan, are also scattered between April and June. So far, however, the athletic board has not approved the complete program.
Bubblings from Other Schools: Northwestern has a monogram man returning to every position . . . nice club to break into. ... By the time ND opens its season, Southern California will have played 24 games, practically all of them against professional opposition. Two of last year’s Trojan stars signed Yankee contracts as soon as the season was over. . . . The Michigan State baseball team heads south for a week, beginning . March 23, playing schools in Kentucky, Georgia, Tennessee, North and South Carolina — just a short road trip. — Ray Fitzgerald.
BENNY KOZLIK . . . Captains ..
The Scholastic
N. D. Keglers Subdue Stubborn Loyola Men
The pinboys worked extra hard at the Bowl-Mor last weekend when Notre Dame’s Kampus Keglers came to life and trounced league - leading Loyola while the Met Club rolled a sizzling 1020 game for a new record in the intramural loop.
The whole Irish varsity was in the groove in the 3-2 upset win over Loyola, but most of the plaudits went to chunky Tom Simon. Tom, who just returned to campus this semester, racked up a 925 total for the five games.
ND won the first, third and fifth games. Like all other teams in the intercollegiate play, the Irish were especially bothered by Gene Zylstra, the league’s top bowler. Gene’s high Saturday afternoon was a cool 223. Despite their consoling triumph, ND remains in the cellar of the Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling Conference.
Other members of the Notre Dame Kampus Kegler team, all of whom averaged over 180 Saturday, are Bill Gorman, Charlie Derrico, Paul Pukish, Bob Bairley, Jim Jennewein and Ray Zasada.
Met Club Shines
In the Notre Dame Bowling League, the Met Club’s brilliant performance was paced by Tom Giordano’s 224, the third highest single game of the season. However, the New Yorkers actually dropped a notch in the standings and are now fifth in the rugged battle for honors in the Gold League. The Chemists moved into first, only one point up on the Italian Club and Off-Campus students.
Buffalo held to its slender margin in the Blue section, but Metallurgy dropped down to fourth, and Rochester and New England took over the No. 2 and 3 spots.
Simon and J. Shannon, both comparative newcomers in the league, now boast the top averages, but Bill Gorman, the Meadeville lawyer, is close behind.
Crusaders Next on Sited
The rejuvenated Kampus Keglers will try their luck on the Bowl-Mor alleys again tomorrow afternoon, this time against Valparaiso in another five-game match. At Valpo, ND lost 5-0, but anything can happen.
Kegler prexy Ernie Huffman announced that the visiting Crusaders will also bring along an all-star aggregation of four teams to compete with the celebrities of our own school league.
The gold-shirted Keglers take to the slides at 3:00 p.m., and there’s plenty of watching room at the Bowl-Mor.
—Ralph Wright
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box
by Harry Monahan
Carpenter and the C.C.C.
(See letter from the Director of the Marquette University News Bureau in “Letter” column).
The Central Collegiate Conference has not only grown too big for some of its facilities, but only vaguely resembles a conference. The present organization is very loose and does not provide an intra-conference program of competition extensive enough to be considered a conference. Its big annual meets are invitational affairs with the possibility that a Big Nine school could win the C.C.C. title, although not a member of the C.C.C.—a peculiar situation to say the least.
In all fairness we should call the outdoor meet the Marquette Invitational rather than by its present conference title. The Notre Dame fieldhouse cannot handle a meet that draws 15 teams and some 260 entrants. The idea of approaching Butler or Chicago (neither presently in the C.C.C.) for a new home is excellent, but might be more easily accomplished without the “conference” aspect.
Why not an informal circuit to sponsor a Midwestern Invitational schedule without the pretense of a conference arrangement? Let the schools with the facilities sponsor the events as their own invitational affairs. We can see the possibilities of the present C.C.C. program being expanded in size and quality, something that does not appear possible under- the present league arrangement.
We do not consider the fact that Rockne was one of the founders as valid grounds for it to continue without adequate facilities for the contestants and the spectators. Tradition can only be carried so far—Coach Leahy discarded the “Notre Dame shift” without cataclysmic results.
Musings at Halftime
Well, at least the Williams trophy has found a better resting place than that dusty file cabinet. But, Coach Leahy, we still think it deserves a place in the Rockne Memorial. ’ It was three of your best teams who won it for you; they
deserve the courtesy. .. . Johnny Helwig will not report to Coach Leahy on the 17th when the rest of the football team starts spring practice. The promising shot putter will stay with the Handymen as Doc will groom the Californian for a try at national honors. He will probably break any remaining Notre Dame records in the shot put as easily as he has smashed several of them already. . . . Could USC’s present cat-and-mouse attitude about football relations with Notre Dame be caused by contract with Northwestern? Both the Wildcats and the Irish would invade the Los Angeles stronghold in 1952 if the Notre Dame contract is renewed. The schedule would also call for two trips to this area by the Trojans in 1953. . . . Hey, Mac, get out the large towels. Coach Leahy will need them next week, especially so if scholastic difficulties make the inroads they threaten to among the Frosh gridders and some of the regulars from last year.
Commercial
The best buy on campus right now is the “season” ticket to the Bengal Bouts. The local pugilists put on a good show every night of the five-night tourney. Don’t wait until the finals, you’ll miss some thrilling Pier 6 brawls as well as some skilled boxing. The charitable cause behind the bouts is the best. The Bengal missionaries of the Congregation of Holy Cross convert the coke and ice cream profits and the gate receipts into needed corporal works of mercy among the destitute Indians. The Notre Dame chapter of the Knights of Columbus and the Notre Dame student body have the opportunity to be of great service—and have a good time doing it.
More Rumors
Wonder if Johnny Wooden would take a job closer to home? The South Bend coach is- doing a good job holding his UCLA cage squad in the lead of the southern division of the Pacific Coast conference. Coaching at the Westwood outpost never has been a secure proposition.
March 11, 1949
23
ND Navy Unit Riflers Win National Title
Once again a Notre Dame team has become national champions. Firing 934 out of a possible 1000 points, the rifle squad of the Notre Dame N.R.O.T.C. unit emerged victorious in a field of entries from 52 colleges and universities participating in the Naval Reserve program throughout the country. The event was the annual William Randolph Hearst Naval R.O.T.C. Rifle Championship.
Additional laurels were taken by team captain Donal J. Murphy, who won honors for the highest individual score in the history of the match. Murphy’s new
DONAL J. MURPHY Another National Champion
—Photo by Kunkle
record of 194 out of a possible 200 was eight points better than the former mark.
The Middie sharp-shooters’ 934 points also set a new team record as they outdistanced by twenty points their nearest competitor, the University of Washington. The team’s victory shows a considerable advancement from their rank of forty-first in the previous match.
Members of the squad include Murphy, the team captain, James W. Hartman, Frank G. Brickson, Edward J. Walsh and Frank O. Beumel. Captain James M. Daly, U.S.M.C., attached to the Naval Reserve program on campus acted as team coach.
This time there was no dispute about the superiority of a Notre Dame team over a squad from Michigan. The Wolverine entry finished a resounding eighteenth. Northwestern and Brown also fired high scores, finishing third and fourth, respectively.
Irish Grid Plans
(Continued from Page 21)
Ralph McGehee still has one tackle spot sewed up, and, if it’s true what they . say about Bob Toneff, the monster freshman will be in there somewhere. Vets Gus Cifelli, Jim Mahoney, Ed Hudak and Al “Touchdown” Zmijewski are still on the premises, too.
At the ends and helping Hart and Martin, who need little help, are the best sub ends in the country, Bill Wightkin, Doug Waybright, Ray Espenan and Phil Cantwell.
All-American Emil Sitko can get assistance from another short redhead, Larry Coutre. The Scooter has yet to show the possibilities forecast by his splendid performances last spring. Hero of the Northwestern game, steady Jack Landry, should be ready for an even better season at either halfback position.
Besides Toneff, the freshmen that attract most attention will be the guards and the quarterbacks. It's very likely that the No. 2 man under the center may be one of these four—John Mazur, Jack George, Tom O’Connell or Tony Rados. Outstanding frosh guards are Frank Johnston and Paul Burns. Other promising yearlings are ends Jim Mutschel-ler, Chet Ostrowski and Bob Kapish, tackle Frank Fox, center Byron Boji and that flock of fleet-footed, talented backfielders including Del Gander, John Petitbon, Dave Flood, Bill Barrett and Sam Abbott.
Len Kroll, the little towhead from Boystown, returned to campus this semester, but probably won’t play till fall. Len suffered a head injury last fall and had to leave school. Dick Kuh, who dropped out last autumn, came back and expects to battle it out for his monogram at guard.
It will take a lot of football to run that unbeaten string from 28 to 38, but as Mr. Leahy says, we’ll worry about them one at a time. The first worry is Indiana on September 24.
Barnhorst, O'Halloran on Marquette All-Foe Five
Showing respect for the fire-ball antics of Jim O’Halloran and the rebound artistry of Leo Barnhorst, the Marquette eagers spotted these two Irishmen on their all-opponent team. O’Halloran received 11 ballots out of a possible 13 and Barnhorst received nine.
Others on the Marquette all-opponent five include: Jack Karras of Loyola (Chicago), 12 votes; Bob Long of Bowling Green, 10 votes; Dick Schnittker, of Ohio State, 6 votes.
Kentucky Wins Two Berths On ND All-Opponent Five
While everyone else picked All-American cage squads on the basis of an amazing use of statistics and guesswork, the Notre Dame basketball team made its selection after having played, won and lost to the best in the country. Kentucky’s Alex Groza and Butler’s Ralph “Buckshot” O’Brien were the only unanimous choices for the Irish all-opponent five.
Kentucky also secured another* berth on the squad when the Irish voted Wallace “Wah Wah” Jones into one of the forward berths. Lanky Ed Macauley, Ed Hickey’s busybody at St. Louis University, just missed being another unanimous selection. To team with O’Brien, Notre Dame eagers picked Don McKinnon of Canisius.
KEGLER SCHEDULE FOR MARCH 13
Gold League
Inter-American vs. Pittsburgh; Detroit vs. Philadelphia; Texas vs. Rockford; Prop & Wing vs. Architects; Italian vs. Columbus; Chemist vs. Fox River-Valley; Off-Campus vs. Aero; Cleveland vs. A.S.M.E.; Met Club vs. Syrian-Lebanese.
Blue League
Buffalo vs. Toledo; K. of C. vs. Kansas City; Generation vs. Youngstown; Vetville vs. Metallurgy; Indianapolis vs. Central New York; Utica vs. Chern. Engr.; Rochester vs. Minnesota; New England vs. New Jersey; Kentucky vs. St. Louis.
Blue League	IFon	Lost	Points
Buffalo ---------------- 24	6	32
Rochester .....-........ 22	8	30
New England ------------ 22	8	28
Metallurgy —........— 21	9	28
Central New York ------- 20	10	26
New Jersey ------------- 17	13	24
Vetville ...........— 17	13	23
Kansas City -------------- 16	14	23
Toledo ___________________ 15	15	21
St. Louis ---------------- 15	15	21
K. of C___________________ 13	17	18
A. I. Ch.E.  13	17	16
Minnesota  11	19	14
Generation ------------- 11	19	14
Youngstown ------------- 11	19	14
Utica ____________________ 9	21	12
Indianapolis _____________ 7	23	9
Kentucky ----------------- 6	24	8
Gold League	Won	Lost	Points
Chemist ________________ 21	9	29
Italian ________________ 21	9	28
Off-Campus _____________ 21	9	28
Detroit ________________ 21	9	27
Met  20	10	27
Philadelphia ----------- 18	12	26
Pittsburgh ------------- 18	12	25
Texas  16	14	22
Rockford  16	14	22
Aero  15	15	19
A. S. M. E. ------------ 14	16	19
Syrian-Leb  14	16	18
Inter-American --------- 13	17	18
Fox River Valley_______ 11	19	14
Cleveland ______________ 11	19	14
Architects --------------- 9	21	11
Columbus ----------------- 8	22	10
Prop & Wing -------------- 3	27	3
24
The Scholastic
Macauley Goes Wild; Irish Fall to St. Louis
Notre Dame’s basketball team tried to match St. Louis U.’s famed barrelroll attack with fight, and it didn’t work. The Irish played their hearts out, but they fell before the fast-breaking Billi-kins, 68-59, in the final game of the season at the Fieldhouse Monday night.
Notre Dame played right along with the Bills for more than a quarter before Ed Macauley suddenly went berserk. The poker-faced, gum-chewing beanpole quit passing and started shooting. And he washt missing. By halftime, the score
BASKETBALL REVIEW
Next week the SCHOLASTIC will print a complete review of the 1948-49 Notre Dame basketball campaign, complete with statistics and highlights of the games, as well as biographies of the leading members of the team.
was 37-25 with the capacity crowd dazzled by the fancy passing and deadly one-handed push shots by Macauley and just about everybody else on the visiting quintet.
St. Louis was still hot when the second half started, but ND really started to fight with fifteen minutes to go. Led by Captain Paul Gordon, who played the finest offensive game of his four years on the varsity, the Irish cut the margin to 56-50. But a couple of one-handers from the circle and a tip-in by Macauley made the margin a little too big to overcome.
St. Louis looked even better in the first half than they did in their brilliant show here last year. Macauley dominated the backboards, blocked al] kinds of shots and passed beautifully.
Before the game, Leo Barnhorst was given the loudest, longest ovation ever accorded a local eager. And the Irish missed Barney when he went out on fouls early in the second half. Playing his 72nd consecutive contest, the big Indianapolis senior tallied eight markers to bring his season total to 271.
Paul Gordon’s final effort was certainly one of his greatest; he bagged eight field goals and six free tosses for 22 points. Another senior, Jimmy O’Halloran, flashed his speed for the last time here and managed to collect 16 points and the runner-up spot in individual scoring. John Foley, Frank Kaufmann, Dick Kluck, John Brennan, and Jack Loftus are the others who have performed their last for Notre Dame.
March 11, 1949
Fighting Trio Makes Fourth Bid for Bengal Title
By JIM BUTZ
Perseverance of all types is typified in three battlers now in their fourth year of Bengal Bout fighting. Bob Wagner of Chicago in the 155-pound class, Buss Van Keuren of Rockford, HL, in the 137-pound division, and heavyweight Bill Roemer of South Bend are the boys.
Roemer’s story is familiar. He won the 165-pound crown in 1944 in his first try at the Bengals. He came back from Marine service in 1947 to battle his way to the light-heavy title, scoring knockouts in all his fights. He repeated the procedure last year, again belting all of his foes into the land of nod. He stands a good chance of adding a fourth championship this year when he goes after the heavyweight toga.
Bob Wagner’s background is just the opposite. Bob does not have the lightning punch that Roemer has. Learning to box has been a painful thing for him.
In 1946, his first year, Bob lost on a knockout in the semi-finals. After two nine-counts, Wagner was decked for the full toll. He hit his head on the floor, and he was out for five minutes in the ring.
In 1947 Wagner came right back. But the story was the same — he lost. Although not suffering as severe a knockout as before, Bob was again stymied in his bid for a Bengal Bout title.
A year ago Bob showed up for Bengal
BOUTE DECISIONS WAGNER—One More Chance for a Crown
workouts again, and Trainer Dominie Napolitano hesitated before letting him fight. He didn’t want Bob to suffer any permanent injuries. Finally, however,, he permitted Bob to fight. Once more, he lost. But this time he fought a good scrap and left the ring under his own power. And this year he’ll be shooting for that elusive championship again.
The tale of Van Keuren is one of both success and failure. For three straight years, Russ has pounded his way through the 137-pound candidates to the final night. And for three straight years he has ended up in second place.
In 1946 Tom Balenti decisioned Van Keuren in a close battle. The next year Mike Conley — he of the ripping left — ruined Russ’ title hopes. And last season Jack Griffin, a left-hander, upset the favored Van Keuren.
But he’ll be back again for his fourth try at a title again this year. And he’ll be a favorite to win.
So, the stories of three men vary. But they all are similar in that they learned a valuable asset from the Bengal Bouts.
Roemer can become the first Notre Dame man in history to win four titles. Wagner, because of his courage and hard work, has proved that there are no limits to a man who will sacrifice. Van Keuren has shown that disappointment can serve as a stimulus to success.
25
Frosh Offer Hall Trophy In Olympic Competition
In April the Class of ’52 will set a new precedent in Notre Dame activities. The event will be the first annual Freshmen Olympics, to be held in Cartier field, April 10 and 11.
The Olympic meet will be composed of two classes of events, those of skill and those of novelty. All the usual track and field specialties will be on the agenda, plus a host of merrymaking novelties.
All freshmen are eligible for the meet. Contestants will enter by halls and the hall compiling the most points will win the Olympic trophy. This trophy must be won three years by one hall in order to be retained.
Points will be awarded for first and second-place winners. The maximum events a contestant may enter is four.
Tomorrow evening in all freshmen halls prefects will sign contestants entering the Olympics.
The Olympics was part of the freshman campaign plank and Gene Hull, freshman president has put it in the hands of Frank Price who originated the idea. As chairman, Frank has his pet well on the road to success. Committees are formed, the program is completed and the spectators are awaited.
—Rudy Unger
Dark-Horse Interhall Cagers Score Victories
Featuring the unexpected, interhall basketball has set a torrid pace in the early games of this year’s tourney. Going into the quarterfinals, dark horse squads are found holding strong positions while the tourney favorites were falling.
The Chemical Engineers, who played the initial game of the tourney, took Cincinnati, 20-17; won on a forfeit from Zahm’s lightweights; squeezed by the K. of C.’s, 31-29, in a thriller Monday night. The K. of C. had previously eliminated Howard’s lightweights, 33-24.
Metropolitan, another dark horse, breezed by Morrissey’s lightweights, 53-20; went on to defeat Kentucky, 29-21 and its next slated opponent was a strong Farley team which toppled Central New York, a la Beard-Groza style, 70-13.
Showing the most sensational play is an unheralded Zahm squad which edged heavily favored Air R.O.T.C., 39-37, and then proceeded to vanquish Lyons, one of the tourney favorites, 35-23. Zahm will take on a powerful squad from Breen-Phillips in the quarterfinals. The B.-P. boys whipped Saint Edwards 29-13, and then took Morrissey Gold in stride, 36-27.
Dillon showed power in crushing the Generation Club by the fantastic score
of 94-1. Another pre-tourney favorite,. Badin, was eliminated by West Virginia, 42-37, while Cavanaugh, a strong squad last year, got the nod on a 29-19 decision over New Jersey.
Officials have announced that an alltournament team will be chosen.
Other scores:
Lyons, 38; Dillon, 21
Alumni, 39; New England, 21
Walsh, 42; Farley Lights, 18
Detroit, 28; Howard, 19
Morrissey Blue, 36; Buffalo, 18
—Rudy Unger
Fifty-Nine Freshmen Get Football Numerals
Freshman numerals have been awarded to 59 first-year men for work with the frosh football squad. These same gridders will be among the some 100 candidates who will report to Coach Frank Leahy next week for spring practice.
Among the freshmen receiving numerals is the son of former Notre Dame coach and member of the famed Four Horsemen backfield combination, Elmer Layden. Elmer, Jr., will be working for a halfback berth on the Notre Dame varsity. Also awarded a numeral was the first Negro ever to report for football at Notre Dame, Aaron Dyson of South
BENGALS COMMITTEE FINISHES FIGHT PLANS Seated: promoter Christy Walsh, Jr» standing, left tO nght: Jim Slattery, Bob Hennault, Harry Goheen, Ted O'Malley and Joe Concannon.
Bend.
The complete list of winners is as follows:
Samuel Abbott. Chicago, Ill.; Frank Amato, Kingston. N. Y.; Richard Balka. South Bend, Ind.: ^red Banicke. Chicago. Ill.; William Barrett. River Forest, Ill.; James Bartlett. Cincinnati. O.; Robert Benson. Omaha. Nebr.: Floyd Blair. Jordan. N. Y-; Frank Bleyer. Carterville, Ill.; Byron Boii, Chicago, Ill.; Frederic Bransfield, Chicago,' Ill.; Paul Burns, Athens. Pa.; John Bush, Davenport, Iowa; Jean Butz, Lancaster. Pa.: Thomas Caito. South Euclid. O-; John Calkins. Chicago. Ill.; Joseph Caprara, Turtle Creek, Pa.; and Patrick Conway, Byron, Minn.
John Daut, Hempstead, N. Y.; Charles DePrekel. Saginaw, Mich.; Patrick Doherty, Chicago. Ill.; Robert Dolmetsch, Chicago. Ill.; Aaron Dyson. South Bend, Ind.; Thomas Fannon. Alexandria, Va.; Dave Flood, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Francis Fox, Milwaukee, Wis.; Del Gander, Chicago, Ill.; Joseph Gar-gan. Lowell. Mass.; Albert Gebert, Wichita, Kans.; John George, Washington, D. C.; Louis Gleason, Andover, Mass.; James Hamel. Chicago, Ill.; James Hamby, Carutherville, Mo.; Daniel Hipskind, Fort Wayne, Ind.; William Hovey, Lake Placid, N. Y.; Donald HumI, Cicero, Ill.; and Frank Johnston, Chicago, Ill.
Robert Kapish, Barberton. O.; Martin Kiousis, Lakewood. O-; Ernest Knapik, Shamokin. Pa.; Dave Koch, Wayzata, Minn.; Ted Krzus. Chicago, Ill.; Elmer Layden, Jr., Kenilworth, III.; Terrence Logan, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; Don Mahrt, Custer. S. D.; John Mazur, Plymouth, Pa.; Dan Modak, Campbell, O-: James Mutshceller. Beaver Falls. Pa.; Thomas O’Connell, Chicago, Ill.; Chester Ostrowski, Chicago, Ill.; Art Perry, Davenport, Iowa; Edmund Pert, Beverly, Mass.; John Petitbon. New Orleans. La.; Anthony1 Rados, Steelton. Pa.; Joseph Riley. Norton, W. Va.; Robert Toneff, Barberton, O.; Richard Weiler, Chicago Heights, Ill.; Anthony Zambroski, Erie, Pa.; and John Zancha, Chicago, DI.
26
The Scholastic
I
Dash Record Toppled By Smith, CCC Meet
The Notre Dame trackmen came home from the Central Collegiate meet in East Lansing last week with a respectable 33 points, a meet record, and a new Notre Dame indoor mark, but were still mighty disappointed. Despite the loss of seven men through injuries, the Irish cindermen had pre-meet hopes of at least scaring Michigan State’s high-flying Spartans— generally acknowledged the nation’s best track team. But Notre Dame slipped all the way to third place, a scant one-half point behind Michigan Normal, but far behind the Spartan’s 60 points.
Bob Smith set a new C.C.C. meet record in the 300-yard dash in 31.4, to give the Irish their only victory of the night. Ray Sobota ran one of his finest races to capture third in the same event. Earlier, however, Smith received his first defeat of the season when Michigan Normal’s Garcon Campbell set what is believed to be an American indoor mark in winning the 75-yard dash.
Jim Miller broke the Irish indoor mark when he soared 13 feet 9 inches in the pole vault—seven inches over his best previous attempt—to take second place. John Helwig was some three feet short of his best distance in taking second place in the shot put.
Bill Fleming was high point man for the team with second place wins in the high jump and high hurdles. Fleming was so close to Spartan Horace Smith who won the hurdles event in record breaking time that the judges might have picked Bill as winner if he had not shaved that morning.
Steve Provost could only get fourth in the 440 despite a well-run race. Bringing in points with fifth place wins were Captain Bill Leonard in the mile and Pat Kenny in the 880. The mile relay team completed the scoring with a third place.—Ted Prahinski
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Mar. 12—FENCING at Detroit.
TRACK, Illinois Tech Relays at Chicago.
17—FOOTBALL, spring practice opens.
18—TRACK, K. of C. Relays at Cleveland.
19—TRACK, Daily News Relays at Chicago.
FENCING at Wisconsin.
Names Make News
Rev. JOSEPH E. HALEY, C.S.C., was the principal speaker at the Catholic Youth Forum last Sunday. His lecture was <m “Cooperation Among Parish Organizations.” The forum is a public discussion period relating to religious matters. It is sponsored by the Triple-S club of St. Joseph’s church in South Bend as a regular Sunday night observance of the Lenten season.
In a talk on “Delinquents: Community Made” before the St. Joseph County Republican Women’s association last Tuesday, Prof. HUGH P. O’BRIEN, head of the course in correctional administration at Notre Dame, discussed methods of prevention and control of juvenile delinquency. Mr. O’Brien is the chairman of the St. Joseph county committee on juvenile delinquency.
A series of Wednesday night lectures, beginning Ash Wednesday, will be delivered by Rev. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, professor of religion at Notre Dame, in Christ the King church of South Bend. The series will deal with religion and life, the moral and spiritual aspects of temporary problems in the home, family, and marriage. Father O’Brien said he would indicate how “Christ’s all-embracing law of love can be applied in the practical circumstances of our daily life.”
JOHN FRAMPTON, former guard at Notre Dame who graduated last January, has been named head coach of Catholic High School. Pueblo, Colo. Frampton’s home is in Pomona, Calif.
Between halves of the ND-St. Louis game this week, BILL FISCHER, captain of last year’s squad received the Outland trophy, voted him by the Football Writers’ Association of America as outstanding lineman of the 1948 season. The presentation was made by coach JOE McARDLE. At the same time, LEON HART, co-captain elect of the 1949 Irish, received the wrist watch awarded him for having been named an end on Tom Harmon’s All-America team for 1948.
It was announced recently that EUGENE L. O’BRIEN, Class of ’35 and vice-president of the local O’Brien Paint Corp., will transfer in April to the eastern division of the corporation in Baltimore, Md., where he will campaign for increased business on the Atlantic sea
board from Maine to Florida. O’Brien is a director of the National Bank & Trust company, a member of the mayor’s board of review, a director of the YMCA and of the St. Joseph Valley council of the Boy Scouts of America.
A sculpture by DONALD H. BIR-REN, graduate student at Notre Dame, was awarded the first prize in sculpture at the Northern Indiana Art salon which
BIRREN'S SUMMA LOGICA Another Winner
ended last week in Hammond, Ind. Bir-ren’s prize winning sculpture, entitled “Summa Logica,” is a carving of two wrestlers in action. It was carved from plaster of paris.
Lt. Col. JAMES C. O’CONNOR, class of ’29, was recently appointed executive officer of the 1100th Air Base Group at Bolling Field, Washington, D. C., according to Col. C. D. Grubbs, commandant.
Col. O’Connor served 37 months with the Ninth Air Force during the war and five months with the .occupation forces in Germany after the cessation of hostilities. He is the holder of the Bronze Star with oak leaf cluster and received nine battle campaign stars for service in Egypt, Tripoli, Sicily, England, France, and Germany. Before entering the Air Force in 1942, the colonel was associated with the commercial department of the New York Telephone Company.
March 11, 1949
27
Two things every college main should know!
This is a draftee. JFonders if he’ll enjoy private life. Thinks
Manual of Arms is a Mexican novel. Hates to give up school ties— ’Manhattan," of course.
• This is a "Manhattan" Necktie. Right dress for civilians_brings co-eds
to attention. Full complement of broad bold stripes, and gay figures.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Copr. 1949, The Manhattan Shirt Co.
Band Swings South During Tour at Easter
Billed as’ “America’s Finest Catholic College Band,” the Notre Dame Concert Band is completing bookings for this year’s Easter trip. The schedule already calls for sixteen concerts in nine cities, in as many states. Not to be outdone by their fellow-travelers in the Glee Club, the band is also making its first appearance in Florida this year.
The first concert after leaving South Bend will be in Muncie, Indiana, Palm Sunday evening. The next two weeks will find them in Louisville, Ky.; Atlanta, Ga.; Birmingham, Ala.; Pensacola, Fla.; Shreveport, La.; Little Rock, Ark.; Memphis, Tenn., and Olney, Ill., before they return to the campus on April 24. When the schedule is completed, the coming tour will probably be the most extensive ever taken by the band.
The fifty-five members of the concert band who make the trip will be accompanied by bandleader H. Lee Hope and a chaplain, and will make the trip in two busses.
'49 Lae fa re Medalist
Will Be Announced Saon
This year’s recipient of the Laetare Medal, presented annually by the University to the outstanding Catholic layman of the year, will be announced on Laetare Sunday, March 27.
The 1949 winner will join an honor roll of Catholic laity that ranks high in the history of the Church and the United States, dating as far back as the historian, John G. Shea, who received the first award in 1883. The list of 51 men and 14 women who have been given the honor includes writers, soldiers, statesmen and physicians.
Last year’s winner was Frank C. Walker, former Postmaster General of the United States. Other laymen among the recent medalists were G. Howland Shaw, a diplomat who has been one of the most active leaders in the National Conference of Christians and Jews; Carlton J. H. Hayes, one-time ambassador to Spain and outstanding historian; and William G. Bruce, founder of the Bruce Publishing Company.

Many Students Non-Catholic
Although Notre Dame is a Catholic school, approximately ten per cent of the student body are non-Catholic. In fact, among its graduates are Protestant ministers and a Jewish rabbi.
28
The Scholastic
Radio
By BO CONNOR
Free enterprise is roaring along at high speed in the recording industries. RCA is coming out shortly with a new, long-playing record (up to five and one-third minutes playing time) and a special turntable for it. They are battling Columbia who have had their longer-playing (45 minutes for two sides) discs out for about 90 days.
The RCA record is small, wafer-thin, pliable, and printed in seven colors for the convenience of collectors who want to store their records according to musical types (classical is ruby red, green for Western, cerise for folk songs, and so on). The popular records sell for 60 cents and the classical for 95 cents. The disc revolves at 45 rpm (standard is 78) and has a spindle hole approximately one and one-half inches in diameter. With a couple of simple attachments these records can be played on regular phonographs, but they are made specifically to work on RCA’s new turntable. You can buy this playei* with the amplifier attached, or get the set that plugs into your radio.
The Columbia record looks like the standard discs, but it runs at 33 1/3 rpm’s. RCA claims to have introduced this kind of record in 1933, but dropped it after a few years because the public didn’t take to it. Some of the new Columbia phonographs are made to play both the standard and their new speed records.
Each has its advantages in tone quality and listening time but neither automatically outdates the regular records that people have been buying for years. There are about 16 million turntables in use that revolve at 78, so both outfits plan to continue supplying the public with standard records for a long time.
As a matter of fact, neither of the innovations have enough inducements to warrant the public’s chucking away their old sets for the new. Maybe this war will blow up in RCA and Columbia’s faces. Remember what Kiekofer said: while free enterprise depends upon the interplay of competitive forces, it’s also controlled by the buyer, who is free to choose his markets. Some of the recording companies who are staying neutral in this revamping spree may be the ones to profit the most by it.
Congratulations to Frank Crosiar on his colorful account of the NYU game in the Garden, and his weekly coverage in the state high school tournament games.
March 11, 1949
What makes it worth having?
BY ITSELF, a Bell telephone is useless. What makes it so valuable to you is that it brings the world within easy speaking distance when connected to the Bell System network.
This network has billions of parts. All had to be designed and manufactured to work together for good telephone service
To assure a dependable source of good equipment that will work together with all other parts of the nation-wide telephone network.Western Electric long ago was nade the manufacturing unit of the Bell System.
• As members ot the Bell System, Western Electric people can work most closely with Bell research people who design equipment and Bell 1 elephone company people who ipen»ie Result. You get the most dependable, most . 'uo.ibfe telephone service on earth,
Western Electric k UNIT OF THE BEU (X) SYSTEM SINCE I8B2
29
Books
Ye Saintly Days of Yore
Student Social Responsibility, Fides, Montreal and South Bend, 1949. $1.00.
Last summer a group of Young Christian Student members met in the outskirts of Cleveland, at a CYO summer camp, to plan that militant organization’s program for the coming year. Prefaced by anything but mundane speeches, which were presented at the meeting, this pamphlet presents the program in complete and concise detail.
The summaries of the talks and discussions are what will probably interest the non-member readers the most. They are packed with the insight, maturity and urgency of reform that is inherent to the YCS. The reader realizes the need for specific study when he reads that “one Catholic College girl said she thought it impossible for a man to save his soul in a factory.” Or, when others would not consider dating factory workers for they thought themselves in a “different class.”
The discussions covered a wide variety of topics from students and the economic problem, to the student’s attitude towards money. The only thing that dampens the spirit of this forceful pamphlet’s publication is the fact that it will be read by so few in this era when tripe is the keynote and the term, “serious writing,” is repugnant to the milieu.—Ken TJioren
The Best of Times by Ludwig Bemel-mans, Simon and Schuster, New York, 1948, $3.95.
Since the late war’s demise a welter of books concerning the ever-closer continent of Europe has been flooding the nation’s book stalls. They have ranged
You're wrong. This isn't the 1896 parole class of Sing Sing. It's the 1896 law department's gridiron giants. These boys flying-wedged their way to many a victory over Carroll and Brownson Halls (now taken over by bureaucrats and IBM machines). We don't know who the bewhiskered gentleman in the back row is, but we're sure he promised his lads a "representative season."
from ponderous documentary reports to silly travesties on the manners and morals of the continent’s denizens. Through that maze there now appears this gem that sparkles like the azure blue of the Mediterranean.
Bemelmans has outdone himself with his latest entry. It is a series of sketches, both prose and artistic, depicting his return trip to his native con
tinent. With sadness, with satiric wit and with his inimitable rococo drawings, the author takes the reader on a slightly less than grand tour from New York to Paris, to the Alps, to Vienna and to Italy.
The 160 sketches, done both in color and black ink, are equal to Bemelman’s prose. They possess a certain naive but also paradoxically sophisticated charm that enchants the reader. They are executed with delicious good humor and are a constant delight to the mind as well as the eye.
Here then is a volume for the discerning reader. It will make a fine gift, especially for those who have seen that strangely wonderful continent across the sea.—Ken Thoren
Speaking of Books
It might be thought indicative of the searching state of the modern mind that Thomas Merton’s Seven Storey Mountain is making a big comeback on the book trail and that Lloyd Douglas’ The Big Fisherman is leading the pack week after week. Along with the extensive comment evoked by Father Keller’s You Can Change the World it would seem that thinking in this country is, for the moment at least, returning to the source.
The Scholastic
The Burning of the Hill Street Car
Playful Students Shock a Couple of Tribune Reporters
Reprinted from the Feb. 12, 1915, SCHOLASTIC
’Twas 34 years ago that a grim, tight-lipped little band of Notre Dame students set fire to the old Hill Street car. This is the stirring saga of that immortal deed as related by two mythical South Bend Tribune reporters. . . . There were giants in those days.. . .
Time: Monday noon
Place: Any out-of-the-way place
Characters:’ First South Bend Tribune Reporter
Second South Bend Tribune Reporter
First Reporter:
Hast heard the bloody deed that has been done?
Not since the Leader stopped the midday sun
Hast any such occurrence come to light — The ND Students burned a car last night!
Second Reporter:
Impossible! You do not mean to say
That students drove the motorman away
And lighted a real match, applying it
To the straw seats where folks are wont to sit?
First Reporter:
E’en so, my brother. Thus the story runs:
Students with fourteen centimeter guns
And knives and hatchets, lawnmowers and picks
And pockets fairly bulging out with bricks
Boarded the Hill Street Car. It was their plan To turn machine guns on the motorman!
Second Reporter:
And did they this outrageous, bloody deed?
First Reporter:
Yea, this they did accomplish with all speed
And with real firebrands that bum and light, The Hill Street Car these villains did ignite.
And marvellous! Most wonderful to tell!
This palace car did burn even as hell.
And more mysterious happening by far —
When ceased the flames there was no Hill Street Car!
Second Reporter:
Am I entranced, or would’st thou have me hear That this great palace car did disappear?
First Reporter:
Yea, disappeared even as do thy meals.
Nothing remained by midnight but the wheels.
Second Reporter:
Witches and very devils then must be, These students who could plan and willingly Destroy one of the beauties of the age.
Was there no reason given for their rage?
First Reporter:
None, brother, save that on last Thursday eve After the Hill Street Car the Bend did leave Six thugs with blackjacks in their clothes concealed Boarded the car* and by their talk revealed
The fact that they’d permit no one to smoke — But all the students took them for a joke.
Second Reporter:
And did they strike?
First Reporter:
Nay, brother, they were wise
For on that car men nearly of their size Were riding. Each thug closed up like a clam Fearing for his two hundred pouds of ham.
Second Reporter:
Then there remains no reason for the rage?
First Reporter:
Not any, brother. Every thug a sage, Did leave that car and quickly board the next Which held a few young boys, and on pretext Of stamping out all smoking, every thug Pulled out a billy and began to slug.
’Twas all meant in a very friendly way — To fracture skulls for thugs is simply play: But students never seem to see a point, They get peeved if their bones are out of joint, Instead of being tickled at the joke They fill with wrath until they nearly choke.
Second Reporter:
Dost tell me students are so badly bred As not to laugh when someone cracks their head Just for a joke?
First Reporter:
’Tis even so, my friend, They were not raised as we were in South Bend.
Second Reporter:
And this mild pastime of these gentle thugs Turned college students into fire bugs?
First Reporter:
Yea, this and nothing more led them so far As to lose reason and destroy a car.
And not a common car, but one that cost
March 11, 1949
31
Thousands of dollars. Now that it is lost
I’ll hie me to the office and will write
A tragic story of the ghastly sight.
I’ll call it vandalism, anarchy, Or any other word that comes to me.
I’ll shout my news all day about the street
And though my brains are reinforced concrete
People must listen to me I’ll yell so loud.
I’ll print a picture of the street car’s shroud
And make the horror of the thing so plain
That few folks will discover I’m insane.
Second Reporter:
Go with all haste and write as thou hast said,
What matter though your words will not be read.
This is the only way that we can bring The people here to realize the thing.
(He writes a stupid editorial which is published in the evening papers. An hour elapses and two students are seen entering the office.)
First Student:
There is that maniac, should we not say
Something severe to him this very day?
Second Student:
Nothing severe to him should e’er be said,
God punished him by giving him his head.
CURTAIN
Audio-Visual Teaching Aids Employed in ND Law Class
Two pioneers of audio-visual education in law courses have succeeded in adapting new technique of instruction to the usually “heavy” courses in negotiable instruments.
Professor Edward F. Barret, of the College of Law, and Bernard J. Feeney, of the graduate Department of Education, projected enlarged, photostatic copies of banking instruments on a screen before the class. A class discussion and a lecture by Professor Barret completed the program.
This experiment, Barret and Feeney believe, marks the beginning of more extensive use of motion pictures, slides and recordings in presenting concrete images of abstract law problems to students.
We Wowed ’Em in Cork
Baffled Irish Magazine Deplores 'Scholastic1
Scores of college newspapers and magazines are received each week by the Scholastic, but one of the most interesting ever to brighten these environs turned up in last month’s mail. It was the Quarryman, an annual magazine published by the undergraduates of The University College, Cork, Eire.
One of the more interesting features in the red-bound mag is a review of a Scholastic fall issue. Our Irish counterpart alternately takes us apart and puts us back together again. Brendan Fitzgerald, the reviewer, says with Gaelic candor, “. . . I quite humbly profess myself baffled when I bring myself to summarize my impressions of Notre Dame’s Scholastic. I would be unduly smug if
I were to fire wild harpoons at the appalling lack of cohesion in the issue, contrariwise, I would be a cynic if I were to laud the many unnecessary attempts to reach a high intellectual level that I find scattered ad lib in the journal. The fact of the matter is that I am completely at sea when I endeavour to assess the mental capabilities of an American undergraduate.
“In many places in Scholastic I find the sense and ideas absolutely indecipherable—for instance what does this banner headline convey to you?—“15 ’47 Irish Gridders Defy Roger; Treat Oppo
nents Rough in Most Pro Games”—your guess is as good as mine.
“But,” said Critic Fitzgerald, “I like the layout, the sequence, the intelligible quips, and the vague cartoons. The sports features are tastefully and tactfully presented; the film survey is racy and biting. It is pleasing, too, to observe the delicate treatment afforded to matters of religion — there is a nice and a not-so-nice way of chronicling religious affairs — we vote Scholastic nice.”
He continues further on to say, “Most of the articles I read . . . were of the “Root, Root, Diddem, Dottom, Kottom, Campus” type—to me they represented the meanderings of minds exposed to the hinges of goose literature; what a pity our American colleagues cannot get over their basic intellectual inferiority complex.” OUCH!! [Editor.]
In glancing through the Cork mag we discover that we are not alone in our sundry problems. One of theii* editorials rings a familiar bell with the announcement that a building, that might be compared with our far-distant Student Union, has been erected on their undoubtedly emerald-green campus, but a much needed gymnasium has yet to receive a cornerstone. We need both, so the genuine Irish lads have nothing on us in this respect.
Another editorial bewails the state of their student council; another problem that is found on these shores. Their advertising is much more prosaic than our eye-catchers and in place of Max Adler and Gilberts they have ?. Cash and Co., Ltd. Instead of the Strat they have Mackesys Bar. No u-drive-it companies are advertised but Richard Cronin & Sons, Funeral Directors do say that Rolls Royces are on hire. One very familiar note was a full page ad for the new Studebaker, emphasizing the smallness of this gigantic world.
One “intellectual feature” that captured our reading was the academic column entitled “Can you answer these?” Among the brain-busting questions were such queries as: Does A. Toole always live up to his good name? Is Sheila still keen? Did Joe Morley learn much Materia Medica from the red-headed M.P.S.I.? and, Is P. Horgan (III. Med.) Arthur O’Connor’s true successor?
—Ken Thoren
32
The Scholastic
NOW You Can Join the BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB

AND RECEIVE FULL MEMBERSHIP PRIVILEGES PLUS OUR PERSONAL ATTENTION
Reserve your copy now WINSTON CHURCHILL’S WAR MEMOIRS
Volume I: The Gathering Storm
The thrilling, inside story of the world between World War I and II, told by a great leader and superlative writer.
And Now!
Volume II:
Their Finest Hour
The Battle of France, Dunkirk, the Battle of Britain — in all of their agony and glory.
RUO0NERS
SOUTH BEND, /ND/AN A.
Schellinger Tells Audience To "Keep Students in Mind"
In an address before the assembled' faculty and administration of the University last week, Mr. Harold Schelling-er, public relations expert from Columbus, Ohio, told his audience that there-should be complete unanimity between, faculty and students. “Keep in mind, gentlemen,” he said, “when you deaf with today’s student, that he will be tomorrow’s benefactor.”
Schellinger, who was past head of Ohio State university’s department of public relations, spoke to the Washington Hall crowd on “Public Relations,”-and emphasized that the best way to achieve good public relations was by the observance of the Golden Rule by all members of the University. He said that the faculty, administration and students should work as a family and that their common end should be for the greater good of the institution.
In closing, he stated that, to a university, the public is primarily prospective students, students, their parents, and prospective benefactors.
Illinois U. Named Site
Of Annual NSA Meeting
The University of Illinois has been selected by the staff of the U. S. National Student Association (NSA) as the site of the second annual Student Congress, to be held next August. Final negotiations are now underway between NSA’s staff and the University of Illinois.
The ND Student Council voted several weeks ago to rejoin the organization, but as yet delegates have not been named to the convention. More than 450 student leaders from colleges and universities are expected to attend the Congress this year to evaluate the progress and policies of NSA for the preceding year and establish its program and policies for the following year.
The term of this year’s Congress has been increased from five to nine days in order to eliminate the long sessions, which have in previous years run into the wee hours of the morning, and to insure adequate time for discussion and full orientation.
Scholarship Donated
The Notre Dame Foundation has announced a gift of $1,500 as a scholarship fund for the Congregation of Holy Cross. The fund was presented by Miss Clementine Feldman, Detroit, Mich., in memory of Mary Feldman. It is to be used by Moreau Seminary for the education of a priest. The donor is an aunt of Theodore Feldman, ’33, Detroit attorney.
March 11, 1949
33
For the One and Only
Flowers by Williams
ORCHIDS and GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
Williams, The Florist 219 West Washington "Just West of the Oliver”
BROWSER’S Column
by Max A. Browser
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
Dr. Ralph A. Berman DENTIST
Mon. 9-12; Thurs. 9-12, 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
408 Platt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
xxCTXxxxxrtxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
CAMPNG MTHE
WILDERNESS
In Superior Wilderness Quetico Lake Region
Complete outfitting service S3.5O a day with Grumman aluminum canoes. Food, vonr choice—extra.
Basswood Lake Lodge on Minn. - Canadian Border. Main Lo and 20 log cabins. Modem bath room facilities. American Plan rates S8.00 and u*.
mm ELY. . MINNESOTA
xmixixnxxxxmxnxxmm
Campus Clubs Again
This is a second-hand treatment of a moderately popular subject; but, in the light of more recent events, it bears reviewing. We are about to look at the present situation in campus club circles.
The situation — to be blunt — is terrible. And in a way it is natural. It is the natural outgrowth of the attitude of too many club presidents ... an outlook narrow in scope, sometimes selfish in composition and always sadly immature for the situation it is supposed to fit.
We have ranted before in these columns about the need for bigger and better club action . . . for a union of, clubs undei- a central committee . . . for an expansion of membership. We have looked on with grave sorrow as these suggestions have been trampled in the dust of oblivion by the heel of indifference.
And, with even more dismay, we have had to stand by and see what already was falling apart at all seams. The sad spectacle of the Rebel Club officers being forced to suspend club operations for the remainder of the fall semester because of a lack of interest by the members still rankles deep.
Rochester Sets Example
Club officers and members could take pointed suggestion by the latest move of their sister organization — the Rochester Club. The Rochester Club has been, in its recent history, a one hundred per cent American, meek, humble, quiet, do-little, typical Notre Dame Club. Its membership wasn’t high or drastically low. It needed just a little punch to get it going. It got it. It got it from its prexy Charles O’Brien, of the Rochester O’Briens, a young man of much initiative and daring. Mr. O’Brien did a very simple, very sensible thing. He threw a club dinner at a buck a head, with the club chipping in a half dollar. The thing of it was that the dinner (held at a local restaurant) was a big success and there were 35 members there, which number even Mr. O’Brien must admit is an all-time high. We don’t think we’d be rash in predicting that the club’s next meeting will be well attended. And if Mr. O’Brien continues his progressive
action, he will take this smart start and build it into something big.
Now the moral of our little story is: The first step is to build the club up in the eyes of the members. Give them an affair they’d really like to come to — not some half-organized beer brawl. Once you’ve got them interested; once they associate the club with “a good deal,” you have a start. From here there are high places to go. At the present time the whole campus club structure is falling apart because the individual clubs are falling apart. Some more men like Mr. O’Brien are needed to run more dinners.
Here and There
If we may have the attention of the Alumni Association and the Director of Studies for a few lines we’d like to pass along a few suggestions submitted to us by students.
To the Director of Studies: If possible, can there be an early publication date for the exam schedule? People who live far away need time to make railroad or other travel arrangements. (Reservations to California, for instance, have to be made months ahead). This move would greatly facilitate matters for many students.
And to the Alumni Association, a suggestion in the same vein. As soon as final arrangements for graduation are made, why not let seniors know how many tickets they are to get for graduation? They have hotel reservations to plan for and parents and friends’ trips to school to prepare. Thank you.
A Comment or Two
There are big things shaping up inside and out of the student council which may result in a better way of living here. . . . Student Relief, although showing high profit, was slowed down this year, as predicted here. ... If you want a study in contrasts—take a look at some baseball schedules for other major Universities around these parts and the soon-to-be-released line-up for Mr. Kline’s charges. . . . The South beckons but the ND Board of Athletics holds aloof. . . .
The Scholastic
34

white
White’s the one shirt that’s right everywhere, and these Van Heusen white shirts are right every way! Silky-smooth lustrous broadcloths tailored with Van Heusen magic sewmanship to give action room where you need it. Your choice of campus-acclaimed collars—each one boasting Van Heusen Comfort Contour collar styling—low-setting. smarter, neater too! Lab-tested fabrics—a new shirt free if your Van Heusen ever shrinks out of size! Priced right, at §2.95 to §4.95.


perfection
0 Van Hensen*
the world’s smartest
shirts
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Smeeton Polls Sales Heads; Finds Experience Common
According to findings in a recent survey conducted by Professor Brooks Smeeton of the Department of Marketing, the average American sales executive is between 40 and -50 years old, has been in selling about 15 years, has had at least some college education, and now earns more than §10,000 annually. These findings, reported, in a booklet. “Portrait of a Modern Sales Executive,” published by the National Federation of Sales Executives, were the result of Professor Smeeton’s survey of the ten thousand members of the Federation.
His research disclosed further that 27 per cent of the executives participating were either owner or partner, president of vice-president of their companies, and that fifty-nine percent more were district, branch, or sales managers. A few were promotion, merchandising or publicity directors.
Seventy-two per cent of those polled by Smeetcn were between 35 and 55 years old, and almost fifty per cent between 40 and 50. He found that in all phases of sales work fifty-five per cent of the executives have had more than 15 years’ experience, and most of them averaged at least five years’ experience in selling before they got into sales management.
Adler’s
Look to
^lbTrvs
for VAN HEUSEN
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
Kan Heusen
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
March 11, 1949
35
ArWBELD
MAKE YOURS THE MILDER CIGARETTE
Copyright 1949, Liggett & Myeu Tobacco Co.
PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS SMOKE CHESTERFIELD
M. H. GRIFFIN, bailey, n. c. says . . ."I've been smoking Chesterfields ever since I ve been smoking. They buy the best cigarette tobacco grown . . . it's MILD sweet tobacco."
EveijWy likes Chesterfield • Because it’s MILDER its MY cigarette”
"A LETTER TO THREE WIVES
