|^e]|)ame||^
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURVS-VIVE- QUASI- CRAS-MOR1TVRVS
Vol. LVI.	October 21, 1922	No. 4
THE BOOSTERS’ CLUB.
HENRY BARNHART.
arallel to the growth of Notre Dame University has been the progress and increasing expansion of student activity and organization. Some years
ago student celebrations were carried out on a small scale. At that time the faculty,
or some few members of the student body, were sufficient to function, as a committee to effect the necessary plans. Not so to-day; the school has grown by enormous strides, and there is so much to be done in realizing the successful accomplishment of an event such as Homecoming, for example, that it is impossible for a few to do it efficiently and to the general satisfaction of all concerned.
For some time the Students’ Activities Committee has felt strongly the absolute need for a group of men to work with it in conducting activity and student celebrations on a large scale. This is the reason for organizing a cooperative body known as the Boosters’ Club. This organization will be a permanent one without constitution or bylaws. Membership will be restricted to fifty students appointed annually by the S. A. C., which will supervise and direct the destinies of the Boosters.
This varied amalgam of Notre Dame men seeks to represent every shade and color of student opinion. The greatest shortcoming of the club lies in the fact that it does not include more than a very small percentage of the live wires and earnest, conscientious workers in the student body who have always expressed their willingness to serve in the interests of student activity. However, the attainment of a fair degree of efficiency in achieving the end for which the club exists demands limitation of numbers. The S. A. C. invites all of those interested in the
work which the Boosters are doing to make themselves known in order that their names may be placed on the roster when an opportunity for so doing presents itself.
Homecoming has been chosen as a .fitting time for the inception of this organization. The Boosters, who have assimilated the Faculty Committee on Homecoming and the Alumni Association in South Bend for the
occasion, will leave nothing undone to make the affair a complete success and one which, the old grads will designate as the “greatest ever.” Homecoming will be in every sense what the word connotes. Plans are being formed for a huge pep meeting and snake dance in South Bend,—for a medley of entertainment blending the talent of former years with the existing ability in a happy medium,—for banquets and dances and other features which cannot yet be disclosed. The success of the celebration depends upon the whole hearted cooperation of every member of the student body whether he be an active member of the Boosters’ Club or not. Let us all unite as the gracious host to welcome the alumni and other guests. Let us become self constituted boosters to make the celebration one long to be remembered. If this is done our visitors will catch the “booster fever.”
In the success or failure of the Homecoming plans lies the success or failure of the7 Boosters’ Club. Still, we are certain, that the Boosters are here to say. They actively manifest that spirit of healthy cooperation which exists in the student body to “boost” student enterprise. The greatest traitor to _ -his school and to his fellow students is the one who inflames prejudice and works upon emotion to stifle what good has been or will be accomplished, instead of using common sense and sober judgment to advance campus attempts in every sphere of activity.	r
104
Moure dame Scholastic
WHAT IS POETRY?
M. J. L.
’Literature in general is made up of the written thoughts and feelings of intelligent men and women arranged in a way calculated to give pleasure to the reader. The division of all that is written into poetry and prose is, according to Sherman, “a delusion and a snare.” This statement he supports by the fact that much of the poetry, even of the classical period, is prosaic to the last letter, whilst much of the prose that we know is true poetry in its thought and content. Neither is all the prose we read to be called literature. Prose deserving that title must be stamped with style, character, and care. In addition to these marks poetry must have its own inherent beauty, charm, and music. As to its beauty Carlyle tells us that it is born of the inmost spririt of man, united to all love of virtue, to all belief in God. On the practical side poetry can never afford to stand. It cannot be used for the nice expression of scientific formulae, 'it must for ever soar away above the essential, beautifying the thousand commonplaces that escape the notice of a prosaic world.
The poet is the creator of ethereal things and his name is in keeping with his power. The woi;d poet is derived from the Greek verb HOIEW, signifying I do or make. The poet is an impassioned being whose only warehouse is his soul and whose only trafficway is the road that leads to another soul. Coleridge affirms that it is the poet’s task to seek an entrance into the hearts and minds of others, by the aid of his spiritual power— ■“an effulgence of heavenly glory.” This is the goal of all his efforts. Wordsworth, realizing that perhaps he had been so fortunate as to have reached that goal said:
So Tortli and brighter fares my stream, Who drink it shall not thirst again.
; No darkness stains its equal gleam, And ages drop in it like rain.
“Poetry,” says Madame de Stael, “is the gift of revealing by speech the internal feelings of the heart.” Therefore, to grasp the beauty of poetry there must be within us some of the feeling that characterizes the
poet himself. There can be little appreciation of the poet’s art till we. attune our spirit to all that constitutes the beauty of the poet’s own world. To understand its message we must not belong to the ranks of those who look upon poetry as so much ingenious nonsense. Those who scoff at the beauty of poetry scoff unwittingly at the fine expression of the noblest emotions of man’s heart. Ruskin himself has assured us that love, admiration, veneration, and joy are the germs of poetical feeling. If at any time the poet himself be the cause of perverting our appreciation of his art, it is simply because he has delivered his message -to us with more art than inspiration.
As to the essential characteristics of poetry there is much divergence of opinion. Some contend that verse and rhyme are the only essentials; others give precedence to the expression of poetical feelings. With the consideration of each class of poetry comes additional guessing of new essentials. Browning anticipating our inquiry puts the question to himself and answers it.
“What does it mean, poet?	.
Well, your brains beat into rhythm.”
From this point of view, poetry is reached by the medium of rhythm just as flying is 'accomplished by wings. “Poetry,” says another, “is the recurrence of sounds without which it were not poetry.” Still this is to leave poetry far short of that something which speaks -with its lowly sweet voice from the depths of the poet’s song. Happily for us Dr. Johnson comes to the rescue and says that poetry is the life of man expressed in measures, numbers, and harmony. This addition of harmony which finds its true place in music brings with it the idea of that solace and pleasant tunefulness, which is a most desirable feature of poetry. Aristotle called poetry “metrical composition.” In doing so he showed the influence of 'Greek poetry which was the basis of metre. But the definition of Stevenson which makes poetry “the presentation of the beautiful to the imagination,” gives much more satisfaction and affords a truer realization of the essence of poetry.
No matter how we may differ as to the essential notes of poetry it can be safely averred that there can be no true poetry


Noure dame Scholastic
105
without metre. We can very easily see that being the enthusiastic and passionate writer of beautiful things the poet must necessarily express himself in a beautiful way. Beauty of expression, both in poetry and prose, depends largely on the “measureful content” of the language employed. As the beauty of a building and the symmetry of its form depend upon the combination of its parts and their suitableness for the purpose intended, so the poet who wishes to produce a masterpiece must judiciously choose the instruments of his art most fit for his purpose. Whatever be the standard of his work metre must be for him the speed of his brain fibre, the measure of his enthusiasm, the depth of his sympathy, and the height of his vivacity. In metre he laughs and he sighs, and without it he is without a voice.
The consideration of the essential notes of poetry is very much more complicated because the Epic, the Lyric, and the Drama are so different in their character and construction. The Epic is the poet’s song of the high deeds' of life. In the Epic great public deeds like those of the Iliad and the Odyssey are magnified and a grand national event is rendered a perpetual memory. Lyric poetry on the other hand deals with less tangible subjects. Its true feature is to wander into the ethereal regions; to forget the turmoil of the world; to listen alone to celestial harmonies. It was out of consideration of Shelley’s Lyrics that Thompson wrote of him:
“He plays truant from the earth, slips through the wicket of fancy into heaven’s meadow and goes gathering stars.”
Lost in song the lyric poet tries to ease his soul of its melodies, writing in mental distress till he has made them the possession of all lovers of beautiful things. His song is good for all time; his lesson is never old.
Dramatic poetry differs from that of the Lyric or the Epic but it sometimes combines both in its construction. It utilizes the story of the epic and rounds out its parts with the softness of the lyric. Energy and force are employed in the drama and the Gothic spirit endeavors to point the way to
Red Miller fans may bet on
better things through the words of the interpreters on the stage. As to what more-than the “presentation of the beautiful to " the imagination” all the forms of poetry can. -have in common will always be a matter for controversy.
It may not be a matter of little interest to< give a brief consideration to the form of literature that merits to be called poetic-’ prose. Of course there is prose that merits-to be so named. The modern Pastel is the nearest approach to poetry in a prose dressing. At best however, poetic prose has the awkwardness of the ostrich which sometimes runs and sometimes flies, never fully doing either. Prose cannot use metre though it may use poetic setting and poetic thought. As prose it cannot rid itself of the ends of prose, and therefore ‘drags along, with a halting tone and an undecided character. There are many books on our shelves that might be termed poetic prose. The* “Christmas Carol,” Synge’s “Deirdre,” and according to Hazzlit “Robinson Crusoe” are among those more generally known and read. However, it is usual to bring the poet to the height of Parnassus and from that permit him to descend to the undulating plains of. prose if he will, but in doing so he will have to pass through the last boundary of * metre, which is the dividing line between the two. So it would seem that prose will always be prose and nothing more than prose. It will forever be reserved for the poet to say with truth of himself and in the person of himself of his class:
“I was taught in paradise to ease my breast of melodies.”
FRIENDSHIP GARDEN.
C. S. CROSS.
Celia sent me aster seed, And Margery, marigold.
They grew rare and plentiful,—-
More than my arms could hold..
Fiona sent forget-me-nots, (Fiona fair and tall,)
But just a few bloomed and grew, So my heart could hold them all, / :
Don Miller.—Faculty Ruling.
106
Norre c)ame ^cholasnic
YOU NEVER CAN TELL.
CHARLES. 0. MOLZ.
“Here, Spooks,” said Stubbs, the city editor, “is an unsigned note saying- that Margery Moneygood is going to be married. Get busy on it. Go out to the house and interview the family. Get the whole dope.”
Spooks was the cub reporter on the Post. He listened gravely to his chief’s words, then tossed a sheet of typewritten copy on the desk.
“It’s ten o’clock now. You’ve got plenty of time, but make it snappy. We’ve got to have the stoiy by one o’clock for the ‘Home’.”
“Forever thine,” responded Spooks.
“None of your smartness. Just write it in your hat that if you don’t bring back a story that Margie Moneygood is going to be married, you’ll be fired without pay.”
The reporter said nothing. He lit a cig-aret, adjusted his cap, and disappeared between the swinging doors of the local room.
“Damnation hell,” said the city editor as the doors swung together, “another story probably shot. I wish the devil one of the other men would shake alone.” Then the telephone on his desk rang and he belched forth a healthy curse that echoed through the empty room.
Spooks, whose real name was Bobby Anderson, was not an exception among cub reporters. He was as green as the lamp shades •over the copy readers’ desks. His stubbornness was only equaled by that of the halfwit copy boy to whom he might have been related. Six weeks chasing obituaries and £
market news had not educated him. Still, there was a strain of common sense in his make-up. He had wisdom enough, for instance, to recognize the importance of Stubbs’ words. He hated the old. boy like Stubbs hated the Times. He had more than once hoped that Stubbs would stumble over one of the cuspidors in the office and break his neck, but he never did. Stubbs’ words remained the law always and now he climbed aboard a Tremont Hills street car determined to get his story.
The name of Moneygood in Pillman was synonymous with f. f.—meaning first families—and gold. Old man Moneygood salted away a cold million or two every year at the Pillman brass works and Blueridge Manor, the Moneygood home, was the show place of the city. The marriage story, Spooks considered, as he rode along in the street car, ought to be worth first page right. Not bad for him, if he could get it. He was out to do his darndest (he used.a stronger adjective). The threat of Stubbs still rang in his ears—“fired without pay.” “No, by Jupiter, he wouldn't be fired.” Stubbs had threatened before, only four days ago to be exact, and when he had fallen down on the job had run him out of the local room with a pair of shears. He might reasonably believe that the treatment would be more severe this time.
Spooks knew, nevertheless, that he was working under a disadvantage. He knew nothing of the person to whom Margie Moneygood was supposed to be engaged. He exhausted his pack of cigarettes riding along on the platform of the street car. Here was a mess; hardly a tangible hunch to work on.
“What street?” asked the conductor.
But Spooks was only swearing at himself and at the world.
As he mounted the steps of the Moneygood mansion, he summoned all the initiative and courage that he had at his command. He needed all that his ancestors had bestowed upon him. He gave the bell a vigorous push to prove his own mood to himself.
“The boy that breaks into this family isn’t doing so bad,” he mused as lie waited for a response to his ring. “He deserves a gold-tipped monkey-wrench.” And just then the door opened.
“Is Mrs. Money good at home?” he asked.
“No, she isn’t,” replied the young woman rather dubiously, straightening her coiffure., \ “Nineteen and darned pretty for a maid,” thought Spooks, but he shifted his weight and said, “I’m from the Post. I wanted to talk to one of the members of the family personally.” “You’re a darned sweet kid,” he would have added, but didn’t.
We have a “Boosters’ Committee”—Join on November 4th.
Noire dame Scholastic
“Oh, yes, I see?’
The girl waited, fingering one of the rings on her hand. .
“Well, you might come in,” she said, after Spooks had spent a moment of embarrassment.
The trim, pretty figure in pink preceded him into a reception room off the hall.
“And now what was it?”
The girl tried to assume importance in showing him a seat.
“But I must see one of the members of the family.”
The other laughed.
“You do. It’s like this. There’s no one at home except me. Dad and mother are in New York.”
Spooks brushed a speck of dust from his hat.
“This is odd, isn’t it?” he blurted out. “I came to learn about your approaching marriage.” Then he added, “You’re Miss Margery Moneygood, aren’t you ?”
The other occupant of the room turned pale, then flushed and burst out laughing.
“Who tried to tell you that I was going to be married?”
“It isn’t so, then?”
“It’s funny—no, it isn’t true.”
Spooks looked out the window a moment.
“I don’t know whether to believe you or not. I don’t think I do.”
. “I wish what you say were true. Maybe it would be exciting or romantic or something. Don’t you think so? But you reporters think everything is exciting because you run up against lots of things. But romance has never stuck its head around this place yet.”
“You’re surely engaged, though,” interposed Spooks. “We can announce that, can’t we?”
The girl laughed again.
“Wrong twice, straight. I’m not even engaged,—I know it’s awful.”
Spooks, in his seriousness, began to see something of the humor of her attitude.
“I’m afraid you won’t have an article for your paper at all. You could say that
107
mother and dad are in New York, if you wanted to. They wouldn’t care, and it would, give you an item.”/
“Jumping cats,” exclaimed Spooks, surprised at the modesty of his expletive, ‘TH get fired.”
“Really?” Then, after a pause, “I’m sorry, but it just isn’t so.”
The Post’s cub reporter took out his handkerchief and patted his brow. “Old StubbsTl rave at this.” He didn’t want to believe that > there was no story and yet from her manner he felt that she was telling him the truth.
“When I do get married, I’ll promise the news to you first. Won’t that do?”
Spooks shook his head without looking. He studied the pattern on the rug for a moment. Then, rising rather firmly, he threw his hat into the chair.
“You don’t mind if I call up the office. I may as well break the news to Stubbs now as not.”	..
She certainly would not mind at all, she told him.
She led him to the phone in the library.
“I’ll close the door,” he explained rather officiously. “Stubbs will storm and swear and I wouldn’t want you to hear.”
“Well--------” But he had already closed the door.
When he came out of the library ten minutes later, he stared rather hard at the girl. He started to smile, but his smile was lost in • a cold pallor that spread over his face. .
“I hope I won’t embarrass you, if I wait -here a few minutes. I’ve got to get downtown at once and so I’ve called a taxicab. It ought to be here in a few minutes.”
She was pleasant again. She invited hint to make himself comfortable.
“I hope you’re not nervous because I couldn’t give you the article,” she said as she noticed him gripping the chair. -.
“No, it’s not that so much. But the old boy got on his high horse. It may mean the gate for me.”	.
The bell rang.	:
Spooks jumped up. “Never mind. That, may be the taxi. Don’t move. I’ll answer it S and see.”	.
Watch the Judge pass the Indiana bar.
108
Norre dame Scholastic
There were voices in the hall, then footsteps.
The Post's cub reporter flashed a pistol half viciously when he re-entered the room. “There is going to be a wedding. This fellow has the license; the other one ties the knot. Now, Miss Margie Moneygood, here’s where the excitement and the romance begin.” Then he slipped the gun into the hand of ope of the other men.
The girl started to scream.
“None of that------. This has to be done ■quickly. I’ve got to make the Home edition.” ' The pink figure in the chair jumped to her feet, and laughed. “You think I’m not game? Say---------She ran to Spooks and kissed him on one cheek and then on the . other. “This will serve dad right for not taking me to New York.”
“Hell’s bonfires,” greeted Stubbs, when Spooks breezed into the city room. “Shake a leg! You’re not working on the Jewish Gazette. Did you get the story? You stayed out there long enough to have married her yourself.”
“I did,” responded Spooks overturning a paste-pot.
“Quit horsing and write the story. When is the wedding to take place?”
“It’s over—took place this morning.”
“Go to the devil,” responded the city editor, aiming a paper weight at Spooks.
But Spooks, like a good reporter, bought out the paper months later with Moneygood dollars, and just to show his good nature, pensioned" Stubbs for life.
-	SIC TE, DIVA, POTENS.
Horace, Book I., Ode III.
Traternal stars of Helen fair, and Cyprian goddess, list my prayer;
And may the warder of the wind all others but lapyx bind,	.
To guide upon tremendous seas, safe to the Greek-land boundaries,
Thee, 6 Vergil’s craft divine, cargoed with half this soul of mine!
Dauntless the oaken-hearted he who first put vessel to sea,—
Naught there was his breast to quail, nor Africs storm nor Northern gale,
Nor Notus’ wrath on liquid leas, lord of the moods of Hardian seas,
Nor e’en the doleful Hyades.
Dry-eyed he views the monstered deep where am-
- bushed Death lies couched in sleep;
Does he not scorn an awful grave who daunts Epirean rock and wave?
In vain a careful god has planned to part by oceans land from land,
If ships the heavenly will profane by bridging o’er the trackless main.	"
Ever the race of man, in pride, -will try the heights where gods abide.
Prometheus once, in bold desire, smuggled to earth forbidden fire.
This crime of stolen fire gave birth to hosts of evils on the earth,
And Death, once tardy in his pace, came swifter on the human race. ’
It was not given to man to fly, yet Daedalus essayed the sky;
And Hercules, though quick in breath, broke down the barrier of death.
There is no task of earth oi’ air too arduous for man to dare.
Where gods would tremble man will smile and aim at heaven in his guile;
Nor does he suffer, in his pride, Jove to lay his bolts aside.	—f. Summerville.
AUTUMN.
F. B. S.
The wind and rain hold a Pow-wow over the dying leaves.
• The naked trees shut up their eyes In shame.
A cat sits at a window And pouts.

Castner is an aviation expert. . . see him!
Ho~re c)ame Scholascic	10^
Favorite N. D. sport last week—out driving.
***
GOOD HUNTING.
Mike f And Ike Because Their voices are So Hoarse.
No! It was not,
From the	,
Football Game.
You see.
They went up to
Benton Harbor-
Last week
And Started
To Play BEAVER.
INFLAMATION BEERO.
Sir: My girl and I are studying to become actors. Last night we were rehearsing a touching-scene and asked her. father to help us to put the finishing touch on it; He touched me for five. What should I do?
Anser: If that five is like the one you passed off on me, go down and make faces at him through the bars.
* *
Dear Grimy:
I was reacting a book by Leacock, and in one story a philanthropist says, “I send American missionaries to China, Chinese missionaries to India, and Indian missionaries to China.’’ Is this true?
Anser: Practically, except that he left out Zion City, New Brunswick, and Hollywood.
' ***
Holy Smoke, dear—
Do you know of an obscure book of love poems which I can quote as originals; it must be something simple and appropriate as she lives in South Bend?
Anser: No. See Frank Wallace.
Dear Editor:	?
I want like everything to get in touch	:
with som yung man that 1 can writ to and him to . -A me. What shud I do?	---‘A
Answer: If you ever get a man don’t write to him. . • P You’ll lose him.	.	< A
“What do you call a man that runs a street car?” • i “If you mean the HILL ST. car, you’ll have to	, "
wait for your anser until sometime when we’re alone. Remind me of it.”
*** ■
A BEAUT.	. P
Stew: How come Jones got married? I thought	. -v
he was a hardened woman hater.	'
Pid: Why he went to a ball last week and his eye was caught with the beauty of the’place and—.	'	. - *
Stew: Yes, yes; but go on with the tale.
Pid: Well, she caught him.	’ P ;
My tybwriter hads	■ . . ■
A cold id ids ’ed—	.	p'?
A very bad cold,	.P -
So blease don’d scold,	. ,
The stuff that id wrides,	L ?
For as I se’d	*	- . x
Id’s godda bad co’d	\-Pppp
Id ids ’ed.	'Ppp
***	..AAp
Smith’s wife was always in alarm,	: PppPP
That her husband would come to some harm. ; Ppp His job was sure dazing:	. -	. 'pp
’Twas simply hair raising,	: P : P.P
For Smith ran a big rabbit farm.	. ... ppp?
GUESS WHAT.	. ' Ap-pW
Hazel: Why did it take you so long to come in .	A-PP
from the dance last night?	-•	-ppp
Catherine: Why Bertie said that there was some- / ;.pPP thing 'wrong with the clutch, but—er—I—er—	AAppt
thought it was all right.	- 5 ■
***	■	. - PpiiSi'-
Soph: ' With what kind of form does one enter a ballroom?'	\	■
Senior: The best you can date up for the eve- ■, _.A;ppp|| ning.	KOLARS.	•	. .	ApP|?
• -	.‘Atf-AKl
- ’	■»	r *	‘-t
110
Norre Same Scholastic
Igns mtss
H. W. Flannery
C. O. DeBarry
VOL.
LVI.
A. L. Eipp
J. A. Benning
Of first interest to the students of the Col-
Nttre Bam Srhalnstit
Wart> of eitltors
Leo R. Ward, C. S. C, Vincent Engels Frank Wallace Harry A. McGuire John P. Mullen Louis V. Bruggner
R. M. MurCH, C. S. C. Gerard Hagan Charles Molz Francis T. Kolars J. S. Brennan Ray Cunningham
Aloysius P. Thiemann F. Summerville, C. S. C.
Aiutrtifiinj
James V. Egan
saisu ^nust temper xhctnrus Bint C&nast ©ran Hlanturas
lege of Commerce is the announcement that the subject for debate of the Indiana Inter-• collegiate Debating
COMMERCE AND THIS YEAR’S DEBATE
League this year is to be the following: “Resolved: That the
of war debts. Hence the men of the College of Commerce, with any degree of interest in the subject and the least aptitude for debating, should make it their aim to try out for places on the bebating teams.
BRUGGNER.
war debts due the United States from her allies in the Great War should be cancelled.”
Scarcely any topic could be more-timely or of greater interest than that of cancellation of war debts. Especially is this true of the commercial world, to which the question is of an importance that cannot be overestimated. Approximately ten billion dollars has been borrowed from the United States by her Allies since the beginning of the World War. On this sum Europe must pay interest alone five hundred million a year to the United States. Hence the importance of the question to every American, but especially to the world of commerce and, here at the University, to the students in the College of Commerce, is manifest. International banking and the inflation of currency are not the least of the topics involved.
This, then, is an opportunity for the commerce students not met with very often. Last year’s subject for debate, on the government control of coal mines, was primarily an economic question and did not concern the commerce men as vitally as does the question
Not so very long ago, the founders of this republic defined for the world what they held to be the inalienable rights of man.
They formulated a document turn on the which .still proclaims these hose! rights. -They are not privileges. They are rights; and one of these is the right to the free exercise of religion without interference from either law or lawlessness. Another is the right of every accused man to a fair and equitable trial.
Today there is a reincarnated society, long thought dead whose past and present records shows little, but violations of those principles. They mask their identity. Their spineless bodies are met with only at night when, with numbers lending safety, they ride bravely down upon some defenseless man or woman, for they attack women, to strip, flog, or tar and feather.—and for what reason? Merely perhaps, because he or she is a Negro, a Catholic or a Jew.
The time of unpunished persecution is past. The time when Catholics had to seek
w Noure §ame Scholastic	-	ill
> the protection of the Catacombs is a memory. The period of passive indifference is [	gone forever. Today is a time for red-
; •	blooded, two-fisted opposition to a foe that
!	fights only as he runs. A foe that considers
,	no manner of attack too foul. Against this
undefinable filth, w’e will fight with the only t weapon Catholics have ever employed, law ? and order, and God-granted rights.
j	We ask from the Federal Government
j retributive justice, not only in the punish-•	ment of crimes already committed, but also
•	in the suppression of the lawless order
known as the Ku Klux Klan. We ask it not only as Catholics, but as loyal citizens of the United States, fellows,—if you will,—to the ' Jew, and the Negro. We demand suppression of this lawless aggressor. We demand ' these things as loyal citizens, who ask nothing more than a protection of their constitutional right.	C. ward.
“Resolved: That the manufacture and the sale of the one-hand gun, except for police and military purposes, be prohibited by federal law.” This is the gist of DESTROYERS, a recommendation issuing from our police in national conference. It is not easy to make out a counter case. Why should you or I carry concealed firearms? To do so is already against the law. Shall we, then, carry them unconcealed? Nobody is likely to do that; and the insignificantly few who have any good reason for carrying them, may, under the proposed law, be regarded as enjoying police or military exemption,.- Why, then, have such articles been upon the general market .at all? To defend our homes? But we are free to line the walls of our houses with shotguns and rifles. Frankly, it is difficult to defend the negative of the proposition. The enactment of the affirmative would make for the prevention of that insensate trifling which so often results in tragedy; it-would tend’to check the murderer and the “hold-up” man; and it might do something toward reducing the number of suicides. . These would be unquestionable achievements, worthy of the effort of American men and women. L. ward.
Emerson tells us: a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds. The truth of this, many individuals do not appreciate.
They believe steadfast the foolish and adherence to an idea, the wise. whether right or wrong-, is a sign of strong conviction. Instead, it oftens only manifests the weakness of either an institution’s policy or an individual’s mind.
Every man, not a seer, is often mistaken in impression, opinion and conviction. The wise man discovers his error and admits it. The fool sees his too, but attempts to con-’ ceal it. The difference between the foolish and the wise is apparent.
Individuals fall into these two classes. There is but one matter that demands consistency at all times—the matter of principles that underlie moral conduct. To these absolute adherence must always be given. In matters not clearly related to those principles, our only guide can be our philosophy . of life, which we acquire through experience and study of human nature. c. ward.
One of the desiderata which the ; Scholastic has always tried to secure and to maintain is creditable college werse. For the last few years the old aim invoking the has seemed to be too high, muse. to be beyond the college man’s reach. But it should not be so. Verse—fancy, imagination, music—should run and does run in the youth’s heart and mind. Now, no teacher of required English in the University ever refuses to accept good readable verse in lieu of" assigned prose writing. And verse-making, so the authors tells us, is the royal road'to ease, and beauty, and pleasantness in style formation. Fernald says of the poet, “he I lives in an atmosphere of .word-study.” Tyros, therefore, who want to blazon their names and concoctions in these columns,, to free themselves from stiffness and-harshness in their general theme work, to add to the distinctiveness of their prose, and to. upheld worthy precedents, will do well to. record in verse their “best and happiest moments.”
L. WARD.
112
Nocre dame Scholastic
CORRESPONDENCE.
“THE LIFERS.”	’
To the Editor of the Scholastic:
We should be much pleased if you would print this call to the “Lifers” to hold their first annual reunion at Notre Dame, Saturday, November 4th, 1922, on the occasion of the Homecoming game with Indiana.
With the graduation of the class of 1922, there passed from rhe University the last of the “Lifers”; as sometime previous the authorities had begun the abolition of the preparatory department. Thus this unique club, perhaps without a parallel in collegiate circles anywhere, ended its campus existence. But its members feel, that while it is no longer represented at Notre Dame save by its old sponsors among the priests and members of the faculty, it is still an organization with particularly intimate ties among its members, and between them and their Alma Mater. Indeed, with loving enthusiasm, they think themselves among the special favorites of their Alma Mater, because they were so long her children.
The “Lifers” organized about five years ago, being students who had spent five years or more at Notre Dame. The nucleus was a group of Carroll-ites who had entered the preparatory department about 1911, and who had continued up the ladder with singular homogeniety; and the idea was sponsored by such friends as Fathers Cornelius Hagerty, Ernest Davis, Thomas and Joseph Burke, Brother Alban, and Mr. Earl Dickens. Many other friends will excuse it if for lack of space their names are omitted. Its previous visible manifestations were the Philopatrians, who under Brother Cyprian, impressed themselves upon the dramatic life of the University; and the Eucharistic League, (satirized as the “Anarchistic League” in the old “Safety Valve,” by Father Pat Carroll, whose room adjoined its meeting place,) but to which, its naw scattered members proudly point, the present widespread and beautiful practice of daily communion among the students dates back.
The “Lifers” feel that they were singularly favored in having been able to spend more than the usual period under the beneficient care of “Our Lady of the Lakes,” and they know, as another friend of theirs, Father John Cavanaugh, president during nearly all of this period, was wont to say, that having been so fortunate, Notre Dame expected of them greater things, and looked to them to keep the memory of their Alma Mater greener and fresher than the less favored might.
Homecoming will naturally mean more to the “Lifer” who took this name because Notre Dame was home to him so much longer than usual in college experience. A reunion will mean more to the “Lifers” than to the casual group of returning old “grads,” as they not only went to school together, but grew up in one happy family, in a way no
longer possible at Notre Dame. It is something to be able to recall, as the writer can, playing on the same team with the hero of the 1920 Indiana game, when Norm Barry was a Carrollite in short pants; or on the same quintet with Chick Bader, when he was practicing under “Spike” in Carroll’s “Spit Hall,” long before he won his varsity monogram; or the riotous picnic to St. Joe Farm, that nearly ended in jail, led by two Carrollites who years later became President and Vice-President of the Senior class together; or.glorious days at the military camp at Bankson Lake, replete with dynamiting and the familial- call—“Put the hawss in the bawnn!”—but better let the reminiscences wait on the reunion.
The first president of the “Lifers” joins with the last, in urging all “Lifers” to attend the Homecoming game this year, and make the occasion the first annual reunion of their organization.
Sincerely,
George D. Haller, ’19. Arnold McGrath, 22.
Editor’s note: Messrs. Haller and McGrath are, quite unintentionally, mistaken in supposing that the “Lifers” are extinct at Notre Dame. They will be glad to know that some very live representatives are to be found among present day college men.
NON-ESSENTIAL PERSONS.
Editor the Scholastic.
Dear Sir:—
If the Chicago Tribune should ever run short of material for its “non-essential citizens” cartoons it could get two original and quite interesting ideas at Notre Dame.
The first cartoon portraiture of non-essentials would be a glimpse of Cartier field about ten minutes before the end of a football game. Tlie picture would show scores of non-essential persons hurrying this way and that in order to get out of the stands. One could see them obstructing the view and abstracting the interest of others from the most desperately fought part of a football game, the fourth. quarter. Could such behavior be vindicated as sportsmanlike?
A 'more serious example of non-essential persons that we have at Notre Dame could be seen in Washington Hall in the midst of almost any didacto entertaining performance. Last Saturday Washington Hall witnessed a wholesale evacuation of students while the performance was going on.. Those to whom an esthetic sense dictates that they should leave immediately ought to have at least some consideration for appearances, and enough control over their artistic temperament to act like gentlemen until there is an intermission or the closing of a performance.
If respect is not maintained it might be enforced. How about it?	dankowski.
You can* t cheer the Rockmen by radio.
dame Scholastic
^fie Notre
“ALL SET” FOR THE DEBATES.
“Resolved: That the war debts due the United States from her Allies in the Great War should be cancelled.” This is the subject for debate of the Indiana Intercollegiate Debating League this year, according to an announcement of Rev. William A. Bolger Tuesday.
The number of competing colleges has been augmented this year to fifteen, necessitating the organization of five triangles Besides Notre Dame, the competing schools are: Wabash, University of Indiana, Butler, Earlham, Franklin, Purdue, Depauw, Indiana State Normal, Manchester, Goshen, Indiana Central College, Valparaiso, Huntington and Upland. In the first series of debates, scheduled for Friday, March 2, Notre Dame will be matched against Wabash and against Indiana university, two of the most formidable) foes in. the state. In the second series, taking place on Friday, March 16, Purdue and Earlham, strong contenders for the title, will be met. It is as yet undecided which one of the two teams representing Notre Dame will remain at home.
A meeting of all candidates for places on the debating teams will be called within the next week or two, Father Bolger intimated. The librarian has already gathered material from available sources, most of which, because of the timeliness of the subject, are magazine and newspaper references.
According to Father Bolger, some very able competition will be the lot of the Notre Dame teams this year, our four opponents being among the most successful in recent debates. All but two of the Notre Dame debaters of last year are eligible for competition again this year. Engels, Gallagher, F. Cavanaugh, Nolan and Drummey are the veteran debaters, and these, with the addition of new material, should prove to be the making of a team of the highest order.
BRUGGNER.
East Chicago
will be down to see Thomas-.
113
S. A. C. NEWS. ■
Last Wednesday, the S. A. C. issued a bulletin announcing that a calendar would be kept by the secretary of the Students’ Activities Committee for the purpose of arranging dates of meetings of classes, state clubs, societies, etc. Under the new order, it will be necessary to file with the secretary of the S. A. C. (233 Corby Hall) the date on which a meeting is to be held. The new arrangement will increase the attendance at meetings and it will prevent the disorder and confusion that has been caused by conflicting gatherings. Presidents and secretaries of organizations, please make special note of this announcement.	-
The officers of the street car company have very graciously and quickly acceded to our request for lights at the car line. There are no screens protecting these lights; students are expected to see that the lights are not broken.
***
Last week in an article we asked for student cooperation, for plans we would announce later. Here is one of the plans that must have full student cooperation. Beginning Monday, October 30th, and ending Homecoming day, November 4th, will be “HELLO WEEK.” Every student is to wear* a tag bearing his name and no one is to pass anyone else without greeting him by name. The tag has been attractively designed by Ray Cunningham, of the Boosters’ Club. The Boosters’ Club will conduct “Hello Week” and they will announce details, etc. later. We merely wish to give this brief hint now with the request for your whole-hearted interest and support.
On the afternoon of the Georgia Tech game, an electric gridgraph will be seen in operation at the gymnasium. As the reports come in, each play will be illustrated by electric lamps. To defray the expense connected with this system of letting you see the team in Georgia, an admission fee of fifteen cents will be charged.	J. C.
X
See. them.	.
3
114
® e Norre Same Scholastic
IN THE HOUSE OF BOOKS.
During the past three weeks the University Library has been the scene of intense activity. The necessity of securing extra stack space 'has caused the rearrangement of nearly one hundred thousand volumes. Twenty thousand volumes of the Magazine Duplicate Collection have been entirely removed to procure greater storage space, and in the near future another stack level will be'' added to those already in use. The work is under the personal direction of Father Foik.
The necessity of cataloguing the eight thousand volumes received at the library last year and the desire of perfecting the service given to the student body has caused a notable change in the personnel of the library staff. In the reference department Mr. Paul R. Byrne has succeeded Miss M. Gertrude Blanchard. Mr. Byrne was graduated in 1913 from the Albany Library School, and during the past nine years has had considerable and varied experience in library work. After graduation he was in charge of the government document section of the New York State Library, and then assistant reference librarian at Ohio State University. When the war broke out he resigned his position as organizer of the Financial Library of the National Bank of Commerce, of New York City to join the army. After the war he organized government camp libraries in the Eighth Corps Area, comprising the states of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado and Oklahoma. He was then assigned to the same work in the army camps of the Philippine Islands. When this work was completed, Mr. Byrne made an extended tour of China and Japan with the view of studying commercial relations. Consequently he comes to Notre Dame well equipped for service, especially to the students of the College of Commerce. To'acquaint students with the use of the Library, Mr. Byrne, by a special agreement with the President of the ■University, will meet all Freshmen classes once a month during the year in a series of nine lectures” on “The Scope and Methods of Library Work.”	,
Another valuable addition to the library staff is that of a head-cataloguer, Miss Anna Kosek. Miss Kosek is a graduate of the Department of Library Science of Wisconsin University, and was recently connected with the Lincoln Library of Springfield, Illinois. At present she is revising the catalogue and • will handle all additions to the present collection of books.
In the circulating department two new desk assistants, Miss Mary Jones and Mrs. Rosemary Carroll, have supplanted student assistants and have coniderably improved the service.
During the past three weeks two very important-gifts have been received and added to the Department of Industrial Relations of the Library. The gifts include a complete file of “The Carpenter,” a long file of “The American Federationist,” “Reports and Proceedings of the American Federation of Labor,” “Reports and Proceedings of the Carpenters’ Union,” all by Mr. Frank Duffy, secretary-general of the Carpenters’ and Joiners’ Union with headquarters at Indianapolis, and “Reports and Proceedings of the Glassblowers’ Association,” by Mr. Voll, National President of that organization. This material is very valuable to the student of industrial problems.
Two other valuable contributions have also been received. Dr. Lewis J. Brown, an authority on Gregorian Chant and organist at St. Patrick’s church, Chicago, Illinois, has presented to the library a complete set of Grove’s “Dictionary of Music.” . Sister Maiy Maura, of the Sisters of Charity, Academy of the Assumption, Wellesley Hills, Mass., has presented a very interesting volume, “The History of Pageantry.” Sister Mary Maura is a specialist in Chaucerian English, and was a member of the English faculty during summer school.
R. M. MURCH.
More than four hundred student applications for permission to carry, extra work were received this semester by the- faculty committee in charge, and less than one-fifth ■ of the requests that were filed were refused, says the Indiana, Daily.
Homecoming signals:—eleven, four, two bucksi
. 1

I
® e Now &ame Schdastfc
BOOK REVIEWS.
|	If Mrs. Lucille Borden’s new novel, “The Gates
I	of Olivet,” had nothing more to recommend	it than
j	a technique remarkably skilful for a first	attempt
.	many readers might be found for it. But	the au,	thor has tried one of the most difficult of	possible
=	themes—the conflict between divine and human love
l	•
in the soul of a girl. Damaris, in going from David to the contemplative life that had already fascinated her during convent-days in California, enters the mystical world through the doors of a strange experience. This involves her with a host of lovable, recognizable French men and women, all of whom *	meet and settle things under the shadow of the
;	Lourdes grotto. There is, perhaps, no other novel
; by an American Catholic author to compare with ! this one for intimate analysis of the spiritual life;
for similar books one must turn to French literature ;	—to Huysmans, Leon Bloy (though the realism of
;	both is strictly avoided) and Colette Yver. Mrs.
f	Borden’s book is not of even excellence and there
i are passages to which a judicious editoi’ might well have applied the scalpel. But all in all it is a novel which lovers of idealistic fiction will advise their friends to read. The Macmillan Company, publishers. Price, $2.00.
A book of verse interesting to Notre Dame men for more reasons than one is “Poems,” by Margaret Kelly McPhelim and her children, Kate Mc-Phelim Cleary and Edward Joseph McPhelim. The . mother had inherited the Celtic gift of song and , cheered pioneer days in Chicago for her orphaned - children by making sunny verses, many of which are still fresh and invigorating. All the McPhelims became journalists, and Edward Joseph rose to the position of literary and dramatic editor for the Tribzine. As a boy he had attended a Canadian college conducted by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and so many of his verses were published in the Notre Dame Scholastic. His sister, perhaps the most genuine poet of the three, was a sturdy and industrious pioneer whose verses are a memorable reflection of life on the Nebraska prairies as that life appealed to a woman of talent and sensibility. All told, the poems gathered and published by Kate McPhelim Cleary’s children are a memorable testimony to the vitality, genius and affability of a splendid Irish family. The book may be obtained from any of the large Chicago bookstones. Price, S1.00.
***
*	For those who seek a readable, fascinating and
yet historically exact narrative of a saint’s life, we
115
know of nothing better than Minna Caroline Smith’s recently published “Saint Jeanne D’Arc.” This story of the maid whose strangely active mystical career still appeals to the imagination of mankind as possibly the most striking example of a modern miracle has the advantage of reading like a novel. The author is closer to her heroine than Mark Twain managed to come, and she will probably come nearer the reader as well. Sometimes, of course, a note of fantasy appears which seems much like a sweet but hopelessly out of place clarinet note which some individualistic player has introduced into a Beethoven sonata. But this life is a beautiful book, told with spirit and reverence in good prose. It has also the advantage of splendid presentation and appealing illustrations. The Macmillan Company, publishers. Price, $2.25.
•
Mr. Guy Morrison Walker, of New York, rises to the defense of wealth in “The Things That Are Caesar’s,” of which a fourth abridged edition has recently been offered to the public by A. L. Fowle, publisher, New York. Those who wish to know how to defend wealth may invest fifty cents. The author’s position is illustrated by the following paragraph: “With all the great minds that the world has produced the race struggled along in physical darkness while fear and superstition peopled the night with demons and ghosts, until a Rockefeller made artificial light possible to the poorest being on earth, by the economical production and cheap distribution of petroleum, which in its turn is now being superseded by electric lights which are being constantly improved until now it is almost a scientific fact that they rival the light of day.” This sentence is offered to Freshmen, not as a literary, model, but that they may realize how civilization has advanced at a ten-second pace since the advent of John D.	.
***
Macmillan reprints include that excellent study of spiritual Ireland which Father Lockington has entitled “The Soul of Ireland.” It is worth more than a dozen volumes of Sinn Fein politics, and two dozen Hibernian pamphlets.
“St. Michael’s Calendar,” for 1923, comes to us from the Mission Press, Techny, Illinois. It is a good readable, elevating annual with much information about the missionary activities of the Society of the Divine Word—one of our most deserving apostolic communities—and beguiling articles of mainy kinds. Price, 25 cents.
The old boys will be here—how about you, old boy?
116	Novre dame ^cholascic
CAMPUS COMMENT.
Wednesday, October 11, witnessed the formation of the Louisiana-Mississippi Club. The attendance of athletic events in a body will be a unique feature of the organization. The Boll Weevils eletced the following officers: C. E. de la Vergne, of New Orleans, president: Robert Hunter, of Shreveport, Louisiana, secretary-treasurer.
Tom Moore in Officer 666 attracted the -theatre-going populace of the University to Washington Hall on the evening of October '12. Apparently the operator, due to the fact that Friday, the Thirteenth was at hand, unwittingly substituted a Minim feature for the comedy or Pathe news serial. It is rumored that several of the Freshmen became ill from lunching on Eskimo Pies and Oh Henries. This was evidently meant as a warning.	.
During the last week the Hoosier Club held its first meeting and elected Wm. Fitzgerald president, Thomas F. Hartnett secretary, and Robert M. Worth custodian of -the shekels. It is rumored that in the course of the year tjie club will put on something novel to supplement the usual smokers and other cut and dried affairs which generally constitute the annual program of the aver-‘ age sectional club.
It is rumored that many of the winsome and much rushed co-eds from Northwestern University are coming to witness the Homecoming game. It is to be regretted that their respective Pickerdikes cannot be given a chance to display their way with the women on the football field inasmuch as their prowess for tackling around the neck has been tooted far and wide.
Inaugurating a new function of state and sectional clubs, the Minnesota Club of Notre Dame recently founded a department of publicity. It is the intention of the department -to report to Minnesota papers any news, ath
letic, social or scholastic, which could, in any way, increase the prestige of Notre Dame in the Gopher State. If any Notre Dame man from Minnesota comes into the public life of the University, his home paper is notified of the fact. In this way it is hoped that the alumni and friends of the University will be able to see what is taking place here. This new work is to be pushed with all the vigor and enthusiasm that is characteristic of a Notre Dame organization. The officers of the club for this year are: Herbert Valker, president; Ardo Reichert, vice-president; Mark Nolan, secretary and treasurer; Thomas Hodgson, publicity director. The club will have a big smoker in the near future as well as a banquet later in the year.
Virtually the entire membership of the Indianapolis Club spent the week-end in their native city, motoring to the Purdue game and giving a theatre party for their lady friends the same evening in Indianapolis.
THIEMANN.
FAMILIAR FOLKS.
The Fort Wayne Club met September 23 and elected Jerome Arnold, President; Frank Doriot, Vice President; Robert Gordon, Treasurer; and Maurice Boland, Secretary. ’
Recent visitors to the campus include Capt. “Eddie” Anderson, of last year’s valiant team, who is now coaching Columbia College, Dubuque, Iowa.
On October 5, Messrs. James Connerton and Leo L. Ward, of the class of 1920, made their temporary profession in the Congregation of Holy Cross. Congratulations!
John Fitzgerald of Irvington, who was quite a comedian around St. Joe Hall in 1916 and 1917, has one more year at law in Fordham and is working in the editorial department of a New York trade publication.
»	* * *
The Wisconsin Club will be one of the most
Seats in the stands—queer, but true.
'Sfie h'oure dame Scholastic
active organizations on the Campus, if the plans of “Vince” Engels, its President, 1 materialize. Preliminary arrangements for
' a pre-Christmas banquet were made at the meeting held Thursday evening in the Law
. Building. Father Irving was unanimously | elected honorary Vice-President, and Father | Burke, Chaplain. Plans were made for the । consumption of some home-grown tobacco ■ at the next meeting.
***
« From the wilds of Portland comes the good : news that “Chuck” Foley, ’22, and F. ; Franciscovitch, ’21, have successfully passed the Oregon bar examinations. “Chuck” will probably add his piece of fragile lumber to the ornaments of the Columbia river metrop-
< olis. It offers, we understand, a number of attractions.
***
:	Mr. Frank Duffy, General Secretary of
: the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and , Joiners, and a member of the executive • council of the American Federation of Labor has recently added a full file of the Federa-tionist, and other valuable proceedings, to the University Library. This collection will form the nucleus for a section dealing with Industrial relations. Other Universities * have been eager to get just such collections, and hence the University has reason to feel grateful to Mr. Duffy.
’ Iii the most recent volume of “The Annals • of the American Academy of Political and . • Social Science” there is an article by Mr.
John A. Voll, President, Glass Bottle Blowers Association, on labor’s view of the church in regard to Industrial relations. Mr. Voll is the father of Mr. Bernard Voll, valedictorian
•	1917, and now residing in the city of South
Bend. The University Library expects to receive shortly from Mr. Voll a collection of material on Industrial Relations similiar to that of Mr. Duffy, with regard to the oldest unions in America. •	.•
From Lexington, Kentucky, conies the news of the marriage of Dr. Emelius
117
Morancy McKee to Miss Nellie Maye Rose. “Dr. McKee,” Father Cavanaugh tells us, “is not only a member of one of the best old families of Kentucky, but also a Notre Dame graduate—one of three brothers educated here.” Our thoughts are all rice and old shoes.	'
Dr. Lippincott (LL. D.,’22), director of the Industrial Relations department at the Studebaker plant, spoke before the Chamber of Commerce in Washington Hall last Wednesday on “The Old and New Relations in Industrial Welfare.”
A Boosters’ club of 50 members selected from the student body has been appointed by the Student Activity Committee of Notre Dame to act as an auxiliary to that body throughout the year. The committee will care for detail work and is already functioning in preparation for the homecoming celebration which will be staged Nov. 3 and 4 here in connection with the Indiana football game.
Notre Dame’s graduate wielders of the mighty pen, once more come into their own. Myron Parrot of “16-17,” Jerome Miller of “16,” and Andrew Moynihan of “21” and twelve years preceding, have established a weekly in their home town to be known as the Fort Wayne Saturday Night. The paper will be modelled along the lines of the Detroit Saturday Night, and aims to furnish Fort Wayne citizens with journalese that is different. The publication has been under way for some time, and will carry features by some of the country’s most famous writers, including Booth Tarkington, George Ade, Irvin Cobb, P. G. Wodehouse, Samuel Gompers, Lee Foster Hartman, B. C. Forbes, J. A. Waldron, Damon Runyan and many others. Myron Parrot, one time editor of the Scholastic, is editor-in-chief of the new paper. Jerry Miller will be managing editor, and Andrew Moynihan literary editor. Memories of the boys’ journalistic successes on the campus, augur well for their new-born journal.	beennan.
Kiss the babies goodbye and do a little yelling of your own.
118
'She Noure $ame Scholastic
CIPHERING A BIG TEN ELEVEN.
Notre Dame’s splendid victory over Purdue at Lafayette last Saturday was immeasurably saddened by the injury to Tom Lieb,
TOM LIEB.
whose leg was broken in the first quarter. How much the smashing tackle will be missed in a line not overly strong, only the testimony of future games will show.
Twenty to nothing summarizes the story of a great game, a game made spectacular by the grim fighting spirit of both teams, and the brilliant running of Jimmie Crowley,
star of last year’s freshman team. Time after time Crowley circled the Purdue ends for long gains, and his passing was fast and. ; accurate. His runs were thrilling, made ; around Purdue men, through Purdue men, and over Purdue men. He contributed the* second score of the day by a 12-yard dash-through the line.
Castner played a fine game, making consistent gains, and steadily out-punting Purdue. His kicking will be one big source of strength in future games, though as yet he has succeeded in making none of his long drop kicks, two more of which he attempted, in Saturday’s game.
Don Miller and Layden played versatile ( football, always fighting, and almost always making gains. Miller also nipped a couple of nice passes, and Verger a pulled one down for a long gain. Bergman made one very pretty run of 19 yards, while Thomas played well. Stuhldraher, another of the peppy c Sophomores, performed in flashy fashion at quarterback.
The line stood up under some mighty hard battering from the Boilermakers, who outweighed our forwards six pounds to the man. They tried especially to crack the middle of , our line, but Flynn, Regan and Brown, fighting for every inch, held them to small and costly gains. The line again experienced some difficulties on the offense, but its defensive success is shown by the fact that Purdue made only three first downs.	«
Our first score came in the second period, when Layden shot a long pass to Castner. Crowley made the second, and the third marker was put up in the last quarter by Mayl, who caught a 15 yard pass from Stuhldreher, after the latter had eluded some • ambitious pursuers by a pretty dash off toward the side lines.
"We are coming, Indiana, a good three thousand strong99—

Noure dame Scholastic
119
The loss of Lieb is a hard blow at the line, for he was looked upon as its main bulwark. His leg is broken just above the ankle, and the injury is so serious as to make it practically certain that the flying tackle will not be in another game this year. Rip Miller and John Flynn are two likely candidates for his job. Descli, Degree, McNulty and Maher have almsot recovered from their injuries, and will probably be ready to answer Rockne’s call for Georgia Tech game a week from today.
Nearly 1,000 N. D. supporters were at Lafayette last Saturday, cheering the team to victory. There was a peppy parade from the railroad station, where a large Purdue delegation and band met them, out to Stuart field. Thousands of people turned out to see the procession, and to view Notre Dame banners flinging out such captions as “Greetings, Phelan,” “Lafayette We’re Here,” and “Notre Dame Beat Purdue.” Between halves the Notre Dame alumni presented a large floral horseshoe to Jimmy Phelan, former N. D. quarterback, now coach at Purdue.
During the last week Rockne has put the men through the most careful grilling of the season, weeding out minor faults and deeply impressing certain essentials upon them. The DePauw game today is expected to be a strenuous work-out in preparation for the Georgia Tech game next Saturday, though it is not likely that the first string men will be in for long.
end on a fake punt and made seven yards through light end. Thomas hit center for first down on Purdue’s 29 yard line. Castner made four yards at
DON MILLER.
PLAY BY PLAY.
Swank, of Purdue, kicked off, Castner receiving the ball on his five yard line and returning to 40 yard line where he was tackled out of bounds? Castner punted for 55 yards to Bahr who returned 12 yards. First down Purdue. Cotton stopped Wellman for a one yard loss, Tyke gained four yards around left end before being tackled by Regan. Eversman gained two -yards and then punted 35 yards to Thomas who made a fair catch.
First down, Notre Dame. On 46 yard line. Don Miller made four yards off tackle and repeated for 11 yards, going out of bounds on Purdue 40~yard line. Bergman made two yards at right guard and followed up for two more at right end. The ball was returned and Notre Dame penalized five yards. On the third down, 12 to gain, Castner ran right
center, Don Miller made two yards at left end. Bergman lost four yards at right end. On fourth down on Purdue’s 28-yard line and nine yards to go, Castner standing on 38 yard line missed a drop lack.
First down on Purdue 20 yard line, Purdue’s ball. Eversman broke through right guard for 18 yards and was tackled by Thomas. Wellman made six yards at left tackle but was stopped at right end by Lieb. Eversman was stopped by Castner for a one yard gain. Eversman punted 40 yards to Thomas.
First down Notre Dame on 20 yard line. Bergman ran right end for 19 yards out of bounds. He was replaced by Layden, who lost three yards at left end. Castner punted 42 yards out of bounds.
First down Purdue on 21 yard line. Tackle, was stopped by Cotton, no gain.
Is the Notre Dame alumnus’ bloody marching song.
/
120	Noure Same Scholastic
Wellman was thrown for a six yard loss by Lieb. Eversman punted 38 yards to Thomas, who was downed on his 41 yard line. Tom Lieb was laid out and the game held up. Rockne went on the field and Lieb was carried to side lines, Rip Miller going in for Lieb. Eversman punted 32 yards to Thomas.
First down Notre Dame on Purdue 32 yard line. Layden ran right end for 14 yards. First down on Purdue 18 yard line. Don Miller made three yards at left end.
End of the first quarter, score: 0 to 0.
The second quarter opened on Purdue’s 15 yard line. Notre Dame’s ball. Layden failed to gain at right end. On a delayed pass Castner made four yards at center but failed to gain at left end.
Layden ran right end for seven yards but fumbled, Purdue recovered ball on 19 yard line. Brown stopped Wellman for two yard loss. Purdue was penalized 15 yards for holding. The ball was on Purdue’s four yard line. Eversman punted out of bounds.
First down, Notre Dame’s ball on Purdue’s 47 yard line. Castner made two yards at center. Layden passed to Don Miller, who was hit by Bahr and knocked out. The pass would have been successful. Miller returned to the game but was dizzy.
Eversman hit center for two and punted 40 yards to Stuhldreher who returned to Notre Dame’s 34 yard line.
Castner hit center for eight yards. On a fluke play Stuhldreher hit center for two yards. Collins went in for Carberry. Layden hit left for three yards. Layden hit left guard for one-yard. Don Miller made a brilliant run of 12 yards. Miller gained a yard. On a crisscross play Layden ran out of bounds. Castner hit center for three yards on fourth down seven to go on Purdue’s 12 yard line. Layden passed to Castner for a touchdown. On the try for the point the kick was blocked by Wellman. Score: Notre Dame, 6; Purdue, 0.
The ball was placed in center field. Murphy in for Vergera at end. Castner kicks off to Wellman who returns 16 yards. First down 10 to go on Purdue’s 27 yard line. Wellman passed to Eversman but Purdue lost one yard on the play. On the next play Tyke lost five yards. Prout went in for Eversman. Wellman passed to Layden who intercepted a nice catch.
Notre Dame’s first down on Purdue’s 45 yard line. Layden made two yards, Stuhldreher failed to gain. Miller made two yards at left end. Fourth down eight to go. End of the first half. Score: Notre Dame, 6; Purdue, 0.
It was announced that Lieb, who was injured early in the game, sustained a fracture of the right leg.	.
In the third period Notre Dame substituted Crowley for Layden. Carberry for Collins; Purdue kicked off to Crowley on the Notre Dame 10 yard
line and he carried it to the 25 yard line. He then carried the Purdue left end for 37 yards, going to the Purdue 36 yard line. Dye went in for Pye-saw, of Purdue, and Hawkins for Morgan.
Crowley again made 12 yards and added six more. He made four more and the ball was on the Purdue 10 yard line. Notre Dame recovered a fumble on the Purdue five yard line and was penalized five yards. D. Miller lost three yards and Crowley made six yards. Purdue held on their own three yard line and Eversman punted to Stuhldreher on the Purdue 45 yard line, he carried it to the 25 yard line. Hawkins was hurt and Morgan was substituted by Purdue.
Crowley made seven yards through center and Stuhldreher made it first down on the Purdue 12 yard line. On the next play Crowley went off tackle for 12 yards, making Notre Dame’s second score. Castner kicked the field- goal. Notre Dame, 13; Purdue, 0.	_
Castner kicked off to Wellman, who carried the ball to the Purdue 33 yard line. Eversman made two yards through center and then shot a pass for 20 yards to Prout on the Irish 45 yard line. Another pass was incomplete, Notre Dame was pen’ alized five yards and it was first down for Purdue on the Notre Dame 40 yard line. Walsh went in for Regan. Wellman hit center for five yards. Eversman tried a place kick. It was blocked and Crowley recovered on the Notre Dame 40 yard line. Miller made five yards off tackle and a pass from Crowley to Miller for 20 yards put the ball on the Purdue 35 yard line. Miller lost a yard and Cast-ner tried a drop kick from the 45 yard line. The ball went to Purdue on its own 22 yard line and the quarter ended. Notre Dame, 13; Purdue, 0.
Purdue failed to gain at the opening of the final quarter, and- Eversman punted to the 50 yard line. Crowley on the second play circled the Purdue left end for 27 yards. Layden was substituted for Crowley and Cerney foi' Castner, and Jerry Miller for D. Miller. Worth replaced Prout foi* Purdue. '
Stuhldreher threw a pass for 15 yards to Mayl behind the Purdue goal, who had been substituted for Vergera.' Layden kicked the field goal. Notre Dame, 20; Purdue, 0.
Layden to Worth who carried the ball 20 yards to the Purdue 30 yard line. Wellman made seven yards and Worth made two yards. Landis was substituted for Bahr. A pass, Wellman to Preshaw put the ball on the Notre Dame 35 yard line. Another pass was intercepted by Notre Dame on their own 25 yard line. Cerney kicked to Holwerda, who was down on the Purdue 40 yard line. Holwerda had been substituted for Eversman. Purdue failed on three attempted passes, and Worth punted to the Notre Dame 30 yard line. Notre Dame carried the ball to the Purdue'43 yard line and the game ended. Notre Dame, 20; Purdue, 0.
Watch Crowley demonstrate “ On, Wisconsin”	<
.	ji
Noure dame Scholastic
121
4
f
A

I
Summary: Purdue.
Morgan, Hawkins__
W. Claypool
1 Fleischman
IL Claypool
Swank
tSewart
Preshaw, Dye
Bahr
Eversman
Tykle, Prout
Wellman
Notre Dame.
_______Carberry, Collins, Mayl Left end.
_________________Cotton, Stange
Left tackle.
Left guard.
Center.
Brown
Regan, Walsh
Flinn
Right guard.
---------Lieb, R. Miller, J. Flynn Right tackle.
________Vergera, Murphy, Oberst Right end.
____Thomas, Stulildreher, Logan Quarterback.
______Bergman, Layden, Crowley Left halfback.
________D. Miller, Kane, J. Miller Right halfback.
_________________Castner, Cerney Fullback.
Touchdowns: Castner, Crowley, Mayl. Goals from touchdowns: Castner, Layden. Officials: Referee, Eckersall, Chicago; umpire, Graham, Michigan; head linesman, Jardinier, Illinois.
INTER-HALL SCRAPS.
On Friday, the 13th, Father Hagerty’s Walsh footballers instilled in the heavier Badin eleven a healthy respect for their fighting ability, to a 70 to 0 tune. In the first quarter the super-confident Badin team outplayed, but never outfought, the Walsh men. And gradually the Walsh spirit proved stronger than the morale of the Badinites, until in the fourth quarter Whalen went over for the score, and De Gurse kicked goal.
Badin made a strong come-back with a series of short passes late in the final quarter, but was held for downs on the Walsh five yard line, and the game ended. Lando, Scalero and Dorchel played an especially fine' game in the Walsh line, while Whalen and De Gurse starred in the backfield. Mouch played well for Badin.
The Inter-Hall games, which are just getting well under way, promise some close, exciting football. Already Carroll has cleaned
Sorin 7 to 0, and Corby has downed Brownson by the same score.
Walsh-Badin lineup:	-
Walsh.
Dorchel _
Left end.
Lando
Franz, Scalero
Stanhope __
Birmingham
Ward
Buell
Whalen
Badin.
__Wrape
_ Roux
Left tackle.
____Sommers, Newman, Mason Left guard.
_____________McQuern, Meany
Center.
Right guard.
Left tackle.
MacNab
Haecker
Devereaux
Right end.
_____________H. Casey, Bailey
Quarterback.
De Gurse (Capt.)____________________Mouch (Capt.)
Left halfback. ‘
Murray
Gorman
Right halfback.
Joss, Cunningham ______________
Fullback.
_ Allnoch
For the first time such an arrangement has been made without an educational treaty between the two countries involved, a South American university has entered into- an agreement for a mutual recognition of credits with a university from another country. The University of Buenos Aires and the college of commerce of the University of Notre Dame are the schools which have made the agreement.
Following the conclusion of the contract with Notre Dame, the faculty of economic sciences of the University of Buenos Aires instructed Dr. Alejandro Bunge, a member of its faculty, who is now lecturing before American universities, to suggest similar agreements with other schools in this country. The practical value of the understanding will be to permit students from each school to enter the other without repeating work and to allow Notre Dame men to enter the University of Buenos Aires without payment of the revalidation fees which have amounted in some cases to $500.
H. A. M.
Cotton doesn’t hail from Elgin for nothing. . . Watch!

122
the Notre Same Scholastic
<
WALK-OVER
Black or Brown -
FAIL OXFORDS
Phoenix Hose in Silk or Silk and Wool
n? Jo. Michigan Jr.
i The I = Flavor =
1 Lasts i
=    c-w —
MARCHING TO GEORGIA.
The high spot on the Notre Dame football schedule will be reached and one of the important intersectional clashes of the sea- ' son will be fought at Atlanta, Oct. 28, when Coach Rockne takes a squad of 35 men to battle Georgia Tech. The southerners have won every game on their home field for three years. Notre Dame lost but one con- , test in the three preceding years and has a clean slate this season.
The squad of Fighting Irish that goes south next week, however, will be an experimental team. Paul Castner, who divided a halfback job on last year’s eleven, is the only ' man from that team who will start against Georgia Tech. Capt. Carberry at end, Cotton at tackle, Thomas at quarterback, Brown at guard and Degree at guard were second-stringers last year. Regan at center was a » third team man last year. All other regulars on this year’s team are sophomores.
In addition to the dearth'of seasoned material, injuries have struck at vulnerable spots. Gus Desch, a third-stringer of last season, whose speed was counted upon this year, was injured in the first game and may not be in shape'for Tech. Ed Degree, who had been holding a regular place at right guard, was injured in the second game and is being nursed to be in shape for the * Georgia Tech contest. Maher, who stepped into Desch’s shoes at right half, broke a hand in the second game and will not show ’ against Georgia Tech.
The real hurt of the season, however, was t sustained at Purdue where Tom Lieb broke a leg. The big he-man was the only seasoned man on the right side of the line and his loss for the season is the most severe the team could have experienced with the possible exception of Paul Castner. •	*
Despite all these difficulties, the Irish are going south to win. The team that faces Georgia Tech will be outweighed and inex- ” perienced. But it will be a fighting team— a team fighting to live.	wallace. «
Noure dame^cholascic
123
FORE!
Now it is intercollegiate golf. At the University of Buffalo the game has been made a varsity sport, and according to The Bee, a tournament will be staged in Buffalo where a number of the other university teams, including Cornell, Niagara, Toronto, Alfred, Canisius, Syracuse, Rochester and St. Bonaventure Universities will meet to fight it out on the green.
V -I* ¥
The new “ try for a point” method of kicking goal after a touchdown will probably not be used in the Rocky Mountain Conference this year, avers the Daily Kansan, because many of the coaches in that vicinity have concluded that the rule is not improving the game.
FLUNK OR SWIM.
Every first and second year co-ed at Washington University, St. Louis, has been compelled to take. swimming instructions as part of the regular course-or suffer the consequences of not being promoted at the close of the semester. Good gracious! Does this mean that they will all have to get their bathing suits wet?
y
Robert Mulliken, a last year’s graduate in chemistry from the University of Chicago, has built an apparatus which, it is hoped, will ultimately enable scientists to isolate completely the six component atoms of which mercury is believed to be a mixture, and thus permit a study of atomic structure which has heretofore thwarted scientists. With the new device. 2,000 pounds of mercury can be cared for every twenty-nine hours, whereas before only 300 grams a day were possible.
* * *
Here is an intricate problem for aspiring N. D. economists to solve. It is one which has completely baffled both ed and co-ed students at Franklin College. Some time ago, in keeping with the change of style, skirts went up and so did the price of them. Today, with the innovation of new styles, the skirts are coming down but not the price of them. Men, what is to be done?
¥ ¥ -
The Oregon Emerald now publishes a Sunday edition besides the regular daily newspaper .and by so doing becomes the only college paper of its kind in the country. In this Sunday supplement all of the Saturday sport results which are ordinarily held over until the following week can be given timely reports; the new down town shows can be amply covered, thus increasing the advertising value; and the new books which fall within the institution’s horizon can be reviewed. Besides this, op-
New Styles
New Fabrics New Values
You will find in Society Brand styles an extraordinary combination of fabric and tailoring. They are new values and they mean something to the fellow who buys his clothes carefully. Drop in whenever you can and let us show you some of the “double service” fabrics.
ADLER BROTHERS
Store for Men and Boys
107-109 S. Michigan	108 W. Washington
124	Moure dame Scholastic
5	•
I portunity will be presented for talented writers to submit interesting feature articles. In short, the style of the metropolitan newspaper is to be closely followed.
* * *
ALL PASSED ANYWAY.
After a thoroughly grilling physical examination,, the Freshmen at Mississippi University were all pronounced physically fit by the institution’s doctor. There is nothing so extraordinary about that though. Our physician, Dr. Sockem, reports that all the Freshmen he examined were perfect—goofs.
—FOR—
Prosecuting Attorney
Vote for a gentleman and a scholar who stands on his own merits and will enforce the law. He knows South Bend, and He is strong for Notre Dame. His name is Ed Doran— you will find it on the Democratic ticket. -
Do your bit for DORAN ---------o--------
Paid for by the Ed. Doran Committee.
GLUTTONS FOR PUNISMENT.
The M. A. C., has made wrestling a varsity sport and the coach there has called for wrestlers to try for the team which is scheduled to meet such schools as Ames, Indiana and Michigan.
Professor of geology, H. W. Hoots, Kansas University, has discovered in Western Texas what will probably be the largest potash field in the world. This area which borders New Mexico along the southern and eastern boundary is approximately 125 miles square and at present contains the largest salt beds anywhere on either hemisphere, and the conditions which are favorable to the formation of salt are also favorable to the formation of potash. If the judgment of the geologists who are now studying the situation is correct, it is extremely possible that this discovery will make the United States economically free from Germany and Alsace for the supply of potash.
*
CAN’T BLAME ’EM.
Regardless of the fact that most girls are now letting their hair grow longer and doing it up again in hail* nets, twenty-eight per cent of the co-eds 'at DePauw University still have bobbed hair and intend to keep their locks shorn. We see no reason for this antithical action of the co-eds, unless they view their end from an economical standpoint. A new hair net after every date is rather expensive.
Here is an anecdote of adventure which suggests a prodigous plot with numerous possibilities. After having been smuggled on board a Pacific liner at Manila by four Indiana University students who were working their way across, Eugene Uebelhardt, nineteen year old Filipino, with but five dollars in his pocket and an ardent desire burning within him to obtain an education, managed to escape the vigilant eye of the stow-away searchers throughout the entire voyage and landed safely at Seattle. With the aid of the same four students he journeyed on from here across the country to Bloomington, Ind., where he matriculated at the state universify and obtained a position with a local business concern during his free hours to help pay tuition and other expenses. When he receives his degree he is going to associate himself with a banker in Manila.
Noure dame Scholastic
133

No. 126
The First National Bank
South Bend, Indiana (Oliver Hotel Building)	,
Capital, $600,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 190,000
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR., Vice-Pres.
C. L. ZIGEER, Cashier.
C. J. WHITMER, Ass't. Cashier.
J. W. BUZLEY, Ass‘u. Cashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES for rent AT REASONABLE PRICES.
“THE OLIVER”
Indiana’s Finest Hotel
4
Fireproof SOUTH BEND ROOMS
Dining Room Open All Night
We Issue FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Rates and Letters of Credit Payable Throughout the World.
TRY OUR TRAVELERS’ CHEQUES.
Stirling-Midland Coal Co.
GLENDORA
THE WONDER COAL OF THE WEST
Fourth Vein, Indiana Clinton and Linton Districts
Jewel-Du Quoin Perry County, Illinois


■
SPFLD.
ILL.
LIMA OHIO
2 12 S. Michigan, Blackstone Bldg.
OFFICE PHONE
Main 689
RES. PHONE Main 1162 and 1847
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS
Dentistry.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS Extracting, and Surgery of the Mouth and Jaws.
J. M. S. BUILDING
SOUTH BEND, IND.
FISCHER BUILDING CHICAGO
DR. F. W. VAUGHN
DENTIST and ORTHODONTIST
617 J. M. S. Building,
South Bend, Ind.'
134
None ^ame ^cholascic
The Dead Hand of Foligno. 18 pp. io cts.
Josephine Marie. By Mary T. Waggaman. 400 pp. $1.00.
-A Woman of the Bentivoglios By Gabriel Francis Powers. So pp. 75 cts.
An Awakening and What Followed. By James Kent Stone, S. T. D., LL. D. 321pp. $1.50.
Con of Misty Mountain. By Mary T. Waggaman 310 pp. Si.00..
The Divinity of Our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. By J. Godfrey Raupert, K. S. G. 39 PP- 15 cts.
How I Became a Catholic. By Olga Maria Davin. 47 pp. 15 cts.
The Secret Bequest. By Christian Reid. 333 pp. Si-75-
Killykinick. By Mary T. Waggaman. 316 pp. $1.00.
Round About Home. By the Rev. P. J. Carroll, C. S. C. 234 pp. $1.50.
The Silence of Sebastian. By Anna T. Sadlier.
405 pp- $i-75-
The Light of the Vision. By Christian Reid.
324 pp. Si.75-
■Schoolgirls Abroad. By S. Marr. 167 pp. $100.
Billy Boy. By Mary T. Waggaman. 229 pp.
Si.00.
Christian Science and Catholic Teaching. By the
Rev. James Goggin. 48 pp. 15 cts.
White Eagle. By Mary T. Waggaman. 210 pp. $1.00.
Joseph Haydn: The Story of His Life. By Franz von Seeburg. 302 pp. $1.75.
The House of Mourning. By the Very Rev. R.
O’Kennedy. 28 pp. 10 cts.
The Secret of Pocomoke. By Mary T. Wagga-• man. 270 pp. $1.00.
Phileas Fox, Attorney. By Anna T. Sadlier.
349 pp. $1.75.
Tommy Travers. By Mary T. Waggaman. 315 pp. $1.00.
The Question of Anglican Ordinations. By Cardinal Gasquet. O. S. B. 52 pp. 25 cts.
The Lepers of Molokai. By Charles Warren
Stoddard. 138 pp. Si.oo.	■
“Chronicles of the “Little Sisters.” By Mary E.
Mannix. 378 pp. $1.75.
The Cure of Ars. By Kathleen O’Meara. Gilt top. i2mo. 199 pp. $1.25.
The Coin of Sacrifice. By Christian Reid.
Stiff cover. 60 pp. 25 cts. ,
Religious Education and Its Failures. By the
Rt. Rev. James Bellord, D. D. 80 pp. 25 cts.
Vera’s Charge. By Christian Reid. i2mo. 390 pp. $1.75.
Some Lies and Errors of History. By the Rev.
Dr. Parsons. i2mo. 336 pp. $1.75.
Peasants in Exile. By Henryk Sienkiewicz. Elegantly bound. 17-2 pp. $1.00.
A Case of Demoniacal Possession. 32 pp. 10 cts.
The Journey Home. By Rev. Raymond Lawrence. 107 pp. 25 cts.
Dangers of the Day. By the Rt. Rev. John
S. Vaughan. 239 pp. $1.50.	3
A Life’s Labyrinth. By Mary E. Mannix. I2mo.
394 PP- $i-75-	.
Essentials and Nonessentials of the Catholic Religion. Rev. H. G. Hughes, in pp. $1.25.
A Child of Mary. By Christian Reid. i2mo. Buckram. 352 pp. $1.75.
Philip’s Restitution. By Christian Reid. 313 pp. $1-75-	_
Father Jim. By J. G. R. 27 pp. io-cts.
The Isle of Apple Blossoms. By John Talbot
Smith. 38 pp. 10 cts.
The Disappearance of John Longworthy. By
Maurice Francis Egan. 295 pp. $1.75.
“Apples Ripe and Rosy, Sir.” By Mary Catherine Crowley. i6mo. 256 pp. $1.00.
What the Church has Done for Science. By the
Rev. Dr. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C. 63 pp. 25 cts.
The Success of Patrick Desmond. By Maurice
Francis Egan. i2mo. 418 pp. $1.75.
A Troubled Heart and How It was Comforted at Last. By Charles Warren Stoddard. i6mo. Cloth. 192 pp. $1.00.
Duties and Responsibilities of American Catholics.
Hon. Charles J. Bonaparte. 32 pp. 15 cts.
The Tales Tim Told Us. By Mary E. Mannix.
158 pp. $1.00.	'
A City of Confusion. By the Rev. Henry G.
Ganss. 63 pp. 25 cts.
Mixed Marriages; Their Origin and Results. By the Rt. Rev. Mgr. A. A. Lambing, LL. D. 63 PP- 25 cts.
The Wonder-Worker of Padua. By- Charles Warren Stoddard. i6mo. 193 pp. $1.00.
Behold Thy Mother; or, Motives of Devotion to the Blessed Virgin. By the Rev. P. Roh, S. J. 26 pp. 15 cts.
Holy Mass; A Morning Paradise. By the Very Rev. R. O’Kennedy. 107 pp. Paper, 15 cts. Cloth, 50 cts.
Bound Volumes of the Ave Maria. Over 800 pp.
Blue Cloth, gilt ornamentations, sprinkled edges, $2.75; gilt edges, $3.00; half morocco, $3-25-	'
Masses for the Dead and Motives for Having Them Celebrated. By the Rt. Rev. Mgr. A. A. Lambing, LL. D. 126 pp. 30 cts.
The Passion Play at Brixleg. By Charles Warren
Stoddard. 23 pp. 10 cts.
' Any of the above publications will be sent free of postage on receipt of price. Lisk of *plays for male characters, and of dramas for young folk, furnished on application. Address:
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, U. S. A.