— Cbc
Dotre Dame Scholastic
DlSCe QVASI SCmP6l2-VICTV12VS- • VIVG ^VASI-CRAS-IMORITVRVS?
Vol. XEVIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, Juns 5, 1915.	No. 34.
Ode.*
BY SPEER STRAHAN.
y^/HAT laurel garlands bring we to this day, While scarce upon their way
Have passed those feet that paved the east with light?
Nor idle boast nor daring is this rite Whereby we see the Mother lay Some token in her breast
Of one new-ranked among the nation’s blest. ft
Her son, who chose the roadstead of the sea In his young bravery,
Vowing, in memory of his nation’s scars, To keep undimmed her blazonry of stars Whate’er the cost might be! We could not consecrate
To him this shrine except that cost were great.
And yet the patriot youth for whom this day Weaves coronals of bay,
Is but our Mother’s latest son to give
His life for country and forever live:
In him, we reverent homage pay To all her brave sons dead
Who learned of her the love for which they bled.
When civil conflict called them forth to die, And in the southern sky
Glowed red the campfires of the nation’s pride, Each battleground received their crimson tide;
And whispered in each dying sigh • Was one undying word,—
Her name, the winds of every battle heard.
In this* our rite all these must claim a part,— Who toiled with bitter smart,
Bleeding and starving for the land’s fair name; -
This altar raise, and kindle her a flame
Of love of country from each heart, And guard its throbbing glow
Through wilding summer and through yinter’s snow.
* Read at the unveiling of the Shillington Marker.
And in the whiteness of the young day born,
When in each breaking morn,
Dawn seeks her golden watch towers builded high.
And sees our banner flashing to the sky,—
The day’s processional to adorn,— Outspread shall meet our view, In those fair skies, morn’s red and white and blue. ,
And when the long day draws to solemn close, Where on the sunset snows,
Stands throned that wondrous City of the Blest, Gated with pearl and walled with amethyst;
These silent stones shall catch soft glows -
Of where ’mid blinding light
Our colors shall be furled in perfect white.
--------------------
The Navy and Indiana.*
^^^^HE navy has been richly recruited from |l Indiana. You have given it a secretary, many officers of renown and hundreds of bright lads to point its guns and man its ships. Your distinguished citizen, Hon. Richard W. Thompson, of Terre Haute, was secretary'- of the navy from 1877 to iSSr.
Indiana furnished much to the navy on the Mississippi and Ohio rivers during the time of the civil war, many of the tin-clads having been constructed at New Albany. The Wabash is one of the principal assets of Indiana, and its fertile valleys are the greatest hay producing area of the country. On the lower Mississippi river in time of flood, the “Father of Waters” runs thick with drift and debris, which is natural and to be expected, but if a haystack floats by the observer is sure to remark,^ “the Wabash is rising.”
I am told that on your streams'out here in the middle west, you used to have very original methods of navigation; and that the steamboats are of such small draft that they can run if there, is any water at all. As the cornstalks.
* Speech delivered by H.:s Excellency Josephus. Daniels, Secretary of the United States Navy, at the unveiling of the Shillington 'Marker.
554	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
grow, conveniently along the bank, there is always on every boat a cornstalk for a sounding pole, and instead of using a lead to find the depth of the water, the sounding man takes a stalk and sticks it into the water to see how deep it is, and as the joint is approximately a foot lie will call out the depth “one joint, two joints and a half.” No soundings are called out greater than two joints and a half or 30 inches, because that is very deep water.
Many of the ships of the navy during its history have been named for towns and streams in your great state. Charles V. Gridley, Dewey’s flag captain at Manila Bay, was a native of your state, and other names which - . have become famous in the navy are those of John Lee Davis, who commaded the Sassacus at the bombardment of Fort Fisher, the most terrific bombardment in the history of the world up to very modern times; George Brown, who fought with gallantry at the battle of Mobile bay, and when peace came, performed a fine feat of seamanship in taking the ram, Stonewall, to Japan; James O’Kane, who served with Farragut and was present at the passage of Forts Jackson and St. Philip, and was sounded at the capture of New Orleans; Gwin, who lost his life in ’62 refusing to go into the pilot’s • house, saying “a captain’s place is on the quarter deck;” Leroy Fitch, who commanded vessels on the Tennessee, Ohio and Cumberland rivers; Prichett, who while in command of the Tyler, prevented the capture of Helena, Arkansas, by Gen. Price in command of 15,000 men; Bushrod B. Taylor, who rendered valuable service on the James river in protecting McClellan’s army from capture; Roger Prentiss killed, at Mobile Bay after gallant conduct; J. H. Day ton, who took his ship, the Detroit, in so close to the batteries at San Juan that the admiral signalled him to come out; H. N-Manney, who was the first officer to take a battleship through the dangerous and treacherous waters of Hell Gate; A, R. Couden, the . ordinance, expert; C. G. Bowman, the .navi-., gator and astronomer;—not to mention such other distinguished names as those of Howison, : Gillet, French, Bicknell, McCrea, Mackintosh, .-Bowyer, Usher, McClain, A. N. Wood, Hollis, Moore, Marsh, Blish, - Menefee,. Niblack, Me-Nutt, -Pettit, Hoggatt. This was a. long and ? distinguished list, and when one reads it,-having . : in mind the great galaxy of literary lights.which your statehas produced, such as Reiley, Thomp

son, Major, Lew Wallace, Booth larkingtori. Nicholson, George Ade, Abe Martin and many others, the conviction is borne in upon one that Indiana is mighty both with the pen and the sword.
But no officer’s sword hung by the side of the one we are honoring to-day. John Henry Shillington was an enlisted man in the navy, just on the threshold of manhood, a former student of your splendid school of learning. He came of a fine family and was a good boy. The call of the sea has always found a listening ear in your good state, ~the state where Shillington received his education, and Indiana in the last decade has sent more than 15,000 boys into the navy. Of the 51,500 now in the navy, over 1500 are from Indiana. The students do well to crystallize the honor in which the}’- hold the memory of Shillington into this simple and fitting memorial. It is comparatively rarely that we find a monument erected to a youth. “Your young man shall see visions,” the prophet said; but it is after these visions have, in later life, been f translated into .achievement that monuments 1 are erected to men.	’
Youth is the time of dreams. The vision	|
is always tinted with the coleur de rose. It is	‘
right and natural that it should be so. The dreamer is too often decried in this practical age, but it remains a fact that dreams are the most important things in life. A man’s life ; consisteth not in the things which he possesses. . Houses and lands and stocks and • bonds are commonplace things. It may be that they are ' the result of .dreams, but if they satisfy or surfeit	'
and prevent a man from progress or further achievement, they are the assassins of dreams, . the murderers of ideals, the wreckers of lives.	:
You can estimate a man by the dreams which	'
he dreams. They reflect the desire of the heart. They are prophecies of that which you expect . to get from life—those things which you are ? praying from God and asking from. man. i Joseph dreamed of the stars and the sheaves of wheat, representing the members of his own family, which made obeisance to the star and sheaf which represented himself, and when he was premier of Egypt, in the time of the famine, his father and brethren came to beg bread of him, and his dream came true. Jacob dreamed of a ladder which touched the heavens, and though he went on for many years in his'self-centered . life, and the dream seemed to have faded .
I
3	—	.
I ■	• THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
!	. away like the mist under summer sun, never;	theless there was enough of the glow of it,
' enough of the remembrance of it, left in his L	mind and heart to lead him forward to a period
:	in his life when his name was changed from
Jacob the Supplanter to Israel a Prince with ■	God/. It is recorded in Holy Writ that “The
Tord appeared unto Solomon in a dream in the night and said ‘Ask. what I shall give thee,’ and Solomon said, ‘an understanding heart to judge Thy people.” And -he goes down in .	the history of all literature, sacred and profane,
as the world’s wisest man. -
’	The dream of this young man came true.
;	It was a noble dream. He craved service to
j	his country under the flag. He went quietly
:	and patiently about the performance of his
-	daily duties. Pie was through. He was content.
■	A high hope aniniated .his soul. His death
!	was another proof that the uniform of the
:	American sailor is the blue badge of courage.
He was comrade to the orderly who saluted
-	Captain Sigsbee in the dark .and said: “The
,	ship has been blown up and is sinking, sir.”
;	With the spirit of service to country was blended
I	in him the spirit of sacrifice. We do honor here
!	to-day not only to a youth of high ideals, but
i - we do honor to sacrifice. Lincoln wrote to the <	mother who gave five sons to the Union: “I
J.	pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage
]	the anguish of your	bereavement and leave
।	in it only the cherished	memory of lost and loved
1	and the solemn pride	that must be yours to
|	have laid so costly a	sacrifice upon the altar
j	of freedom.” May not this message be para-
i	phrased for Shillington’s Alma Mater to-day
1	in the gift. she has laid upon the altar of
patriotism ?
“Who are you?” That is the question addressed to every ennobling quality that inspires reverence. “What have you done?” - is the challenge to the deed in memory of which monuments are erected. “Give the counter. sign,” is the demand to the unselfish act which makes this old world glow with the sunshine of service.	.
'	“I am Sacrifice,” is the reply.	■
“What is Sacrifice?” is the world’s challenge. “I am the mother who gives her life that the child may bless the world,” says Sacrifice. “I am the father who puts away life’s comforts that my sori may have knowledge.- I am the teacher so bent upon leading the- pupil into the light of learnirig that I forget myself.
I am the man of God who gladly loses my life HL in the Hawaiian leper colony and finds it again
. in the lives I influence for good. I am the maiden / who dons the nurses’ white cap, knowing that /'./-■. it means a shortened life of wear and tear upon ’ the heart. I am the engineer who holds to the ■. . throttle and perishes in saving the lives entrusted ; “ to mg. I am the alienist who battles with the =	=.
power of Darkness to help the groping insane. / patient to find himself again. I am the explorer ’ who dies in the snow after finding the pole.
I am the soldier who falls by the flag. I am . the sailor on the Maine, who finished with . cheerful heart his daily routine, lay down to . / sleep in his swinging hammock and later in the' night passed to a glorious death with a J < ’ battleship for a coffin. When old Doctor -William Maclure, the beloved doctor of the Scotch glens, secured the physician to the . J queen to come to Drumtochty under great . difficulties and to operate on one of his poor patients, the world-distinguished doctor said to the obscure practitioner: ‘I am proud . to have met you, Maclure. You are an honor to our profession.’” When the soul of John . j Henry Shillington joined the immortals, we : ,/ may well think the welcome he got from Lord • Nelson, and hear the commendation of Far- ’ ragut—“You are an honor to the American •	-.
navy, my lad.” Such a. death is glorious. , ■ The noted dramatist, Charles Frohman, met it in the same spirit on the Lusitania when . he said to a bystander: “Why fear death? It . / is the most delightful adventure of life.”	: .
It is right that we should celebrate Memorial.	.
day and recall the deeds and decorate the graves.. - ; of the brave men who have sacrificed their , lives in the defense of their flag. It .-is fitting ' ? that this Memorial day should be hallowed by ; the honor paid to the heroes whose tragic / death touches every American home. Memorial ~	/
day is bom of national appreciation, of self- 1. sacrificing valor. It is the yielding up of life; ./ the sacrifice of the heart’s ■ blood for home, for children, for country, that calls for the highest gratitude of a people. “Greater love-/ / hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life.”	/ ////*
Our histories record the deed, our poets sing of it, and we celebrate it on Memorial day. T .. y. ■ The deed begins to shine as a star in our /I / galaxy of glory. It is woven into the texture, of bur patriotism. Walt Whitman caught the when he said, in writing of the death of Lincoln: ,. ///
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“The grand deaths of the race—the dramatic deaths of every nationality—are its most important inheritance value—in some respects beyond its literature and art—(as the hero is beyond his finest portrait and the battle itself beyond its choicest song an epic.)”
If this be true of the death of one man here and there, how much more true of the trenches of slain upon a battlefield, and in particular of the 267 heroes of the Maine, who found graves in the harbor waters on that fateful night of February 15, 189S. “No foe had ever challenged them,” as one has well said. “The world can never know how brave they were. They never knew defeat; they never shall. While at their posts of duty, sleep lured them into the abyss, then death unlocked their slumbering eyes but for an instant to behold its dreadful carnival; most of them just when life was full of hope and all its tides were at their highest, grandest flow.”
We speak to-day of the heroes of the Maine • as if they were dead, but ought we not rather to feel that they live always by their sacrifices stimulating us to patriotic achievement? There is a beautiful lesson in Maurice Maeterlinck’s ' “The Blue Bird,” which one loves to ponder and out of which comfort and happiness to sweeten life may be obtained. You will recall the incident when in their search for happiness the fairy children go to visit their grandmother in the Land of Memories. She is glad to see them, and when she tells them she has not seen them since All Saint’s day, they ask, “How can people be seen when they are dead?” and are told:
“How can they be dead, when they live in your memory? Men do not know this secret, because they know so little; whereas you are about to see that the dead who are remembered live as happily as though they were not dead.” .
There is no death; the stars go down To rise upon some fairer shore;
And bright in heaven’s jeweled crown They shine for evermore. . .
And ever near us, though unseen, The dear immortal spirits tread;
For all the boundless universe Is life—there are no dead.
There is no death! What seems so.is transition; ' This life of mortal breath ,
Is but a suburb of the life Elysian, ’ ; Whose portal we call Death.
The Tenth Chance.
BV ROBERT H. SWINTZ.
It was late in the fall of 1913. Paris was rampant with a blaze of lights, a crash of music, a breathless rush of taxi-cabs and limousines and a maze Of color. In the cheaper cafes a melee of waiters fought to serve their glasses and icy bottles;' gaudily dressed dancers ran madly around the gilded halls, while half drunk Hungarian orchestras banged out Tres Moutarde.
There were places in the city, however, to which this frivolity did not extend. Places where the lights were low" and quiet and soft-hued, and where the music was sweet, and soothing and contained that quality that rests the nerves of a man and satisfies him after a tedious day in the throb of the business world.
In a place such as this sat two gentlemen, tucked away at a little white table behind gorgeous, half concealing portieres. Two half filled glasses sparkled on the table before them, and each gentleman lield loosely between his lips a cigarette of the very finest Turkish tobacco. Surely, they were- not the usual Parisian dandies. It is true they were clad in evening clothes, which, unmistakably, had been made by the most fashionable tailor in Paris; their linen was immaculate and their moustaches perfectly curled, but they lacked that boldness of dress which would class them with the elite, and rather placed them with the gentlefolk of France.
One was light and was, without a doubt, a German; the other was dark and a native of France. The latter removed the cigarette from his lips and rolled it back and forth, slowly, between his fingers and thumb, while he gazed steadfastly at it. At length he spoke.
“Splendid tobacco,” he remarked, changing his gaze from the cigarette to the clean-cut face across the table.
“Splendid,” returned the other.
■ Suddenly the Frenchman placed both arms on the table and leaned forward.
“There is nd need for us to parley this way, my- friend,” lie said earnestly, “chance has placed us at the same table, but I know that you are Henry Kauffman; every well-informed person in. Paris knows that. I wish to present myself as Jules :Cdulagne, a prospective buyer
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of a quantity of your good hats.” “Thanks,” said Kauffman dryly.
“I have been interested in your establishment for some little time,” continued the Frenchman, “it may be well for me to say that I am extremely pleased with your method of production, and as I am quite particular what quality of hats I buy, I wish to leave an order - with you for—”
Kauffman interrupted: “I left my business in my office at five o’clock. I shall be very glad to talk to you there at any time tomorrow. I came here for recreation. Allow me to refill your glass?”
“Thank you, no. ’’The Frenchman stood up and tossed his cigarette to the tray. “I must leave; I have another engagement. May I make an appointment with you, then, for ten o’clock tomorrow morning?”
Kauffman nodded, “I shall be in my office.”
“Thank you, good night,” the Frenchman - bowed and departed. Kauffman stood by the portieres admiring his graceful carriage as he walked to the arched doorway at the other end of the large dining-room. Here something happened. A young lady, plainly an American, entered hastily, followed by a gentleman in the uniform of the French army. She stopped directly in front of Kauffman’s prospective buyer, and grasping him by the lapels of his coat, looked appealingly into his face as she spoke to him. The German could not hear her words, but he saw that she talked rapidly and earnestly. Suddenly she stepped back, and drawing herself up haughtily, snapped her fingers in the Frenchman’s face, and then wheeled about and pointed to the doorway. The Frenchman bowed and went out, and with him went the gentleman in uniform.
Kauffman sat down again at the little table and lit another cigarette. The girl was not a stranger to him. Three years before he had saved her life at Palm Beach when she had tried to ride the ocean in a canoe. The whole scene flashed through his mind, and again came the picture of the night when they had watched^ together the surf, silver in the light of the moon, lapping along the cool, smooth sand. He remembered the little sigh and the tremble in her voice when she had said that she owed him her life and was going to pay him. He thought again of how he had told her she was foolish, and should forget him. He recalled how he had said that he did not love her and would
557
have saved the dish washer at the hotel just as gladly.
Then she had followed him across the United States on his four months’ tour and had constantly reminded him that she was going to repay him for her life. She became a nuisance and annoyed him greatly. On returning to Furope, he had come directly to Paris and resumed his business. She evidently had not followed him across the water because he had nei ther seen nor heard of her for over two years, and had quite forgotten her. • Suddenly looking up, he saw the girl standing by the portiere. She looked changed. Her body had taken on stronger lines and her face was a little more serious than it used to be, although it had lost none of its beauty. Kauffman noticed this, but-the fact that she was here to annoy him again was most prominent in his mind, and he laid his cigarette on the tray and arose.
“Well?” he said, not knowing what else to do.
“Henry,” cried the girl, advancing to the table.
“I see you still remember my name,” remarked Kauffman. The girl stood close to him.
“What did Poinier say to you?” She was excited.
“I fail to see just what you are driving at,” the German told her.
She made an impatient gesture with her hands. “Poinier, Poinier, the man that was just here to see vou. What did he sav?” _	-J
Kauffman looked searchingly at the girl's agitated face.	•-	-
“Sit down, Margaret,” he said motioning to the chair on the opposite side of the table, “you are nervous.”	*
“Nervous,” she fairly screamed, “I have a right to be nervous. Your life is in danger.”
The German’s eyes narrowed at this, but otherwise he gave no sign of even hearing what she had said. “May I smoke a cigarette?” he asked, taking one from his silver case. Margaret drew herself together and her features changed from a troubled look of excitement to one of deep concern. She placed both elbows on the table and extended her clasped hands toward Kauffman. •	"
“You may take this matter lightly if you. wish, Henry,” she said, “but, nevertheless, what F say is true. Your life is in danger.”
“And am I,to believe this seemingly absurd statement from you just because you make it?
558	•	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
What reason have you for informing me of this rather startling fact?”
“The main reason,” said Margaret, a little smile softening the tension of her face, “is because I love you.”
Kauffman stood up and looked out over the dining-room.
“Do I have to be bothered with that sort of talk for another four months?” he said.
“You’ll not be bothered with anything for more than four days unless you believe what I told you, and act accordingly,” said the girl at the table. Then she arose and coming over to Kauffman, stood directly in front of him and
clasped her .hands behind her. She appealingly into his clear blue eyes.
■‘I know you despise me,” she said, I love you, and owe you my life. •
looked
‘ ‘ but— Please, .'
please, Henry, let me have the joy of saving }*ours. Leave France; go- back to Germanj^ at once.”	*
“You mentioned Poinier when you first saw. me, to-night/’ said Kauffman as though unconscious of what the girl had just said. “What did you mean?”
“The man you were talking to here, before I came, was Frangois Poinier, French ambassador To Germany. He, evidently, did not inform yoh of that fact.” ■
“He told me he was Jules Coulagne, a hat merchant,” Kauffman stated.	.
“He lied.” Margaret’s tone was low and convincing. “He- has found out, Henry, that
, your most impdrtant business in France is not . manufacturing hats. I had dinner to-night at Pierre’s with that vulgar army officer and later danced in the gold room. But it was stifling . with cigarette smoke and alcohol, so we went onto the, promenade to get some fresh air, and finally .seated ourselves by some tall palms.
. I. think the captain .was proposing to me, but I did not hear him; I was listeningtoa.conver-.? sation on the. other side of the palms. Your \ name being mentioned is .what, attracted my attention.” .	.	..
. “.Let’s, sit. down,” interrupted? Kauffman, “this is interesting at least.” •	'	?
Margaret stood; up, her eyes brimming with tears. .‘‘You can trust'me, Henry; God knows ‘ Poinier was talking to-a woman you cam trust me. Tell me what to do. Let me who, evidently, had been acting as his detective, do. something for.you now that you need help.. She told him more about you than I know myself, • - Let me prove that I. love you. You must leave; andtfl’yeGbeen“dllowing.,	for .three France,-Henry;' you. must go at once.? They’ll ‘
yearsi”/?^	?; •“/ \ kill you if you stay here. Start to-night. ..What
f WhenThey were again atkthetable, Margaret continued.
“Later, yes. She was tall and dark and • rather extremely dressed. The most striking thing about her, however, was that she walked with a cane.”	-
“My—private secretary,” gasped Kauffman. “I thought I could trust her.”	.
He stood up and walked' to the portieres where he stopped, .thoughtfully twirling his moustache. Finally he turned, and, coming back to the table, placed both hands upon it, palms down, and looked straight into Margaret’s face.	■
“If making hats is not my most important business in France, what is?” he asked in a stead}*, cold tone.
“According to what the woman told Poinier, you are chief of a very efficient German spy system in Paris,” Margaret answered him.
“What proof did she give for knowing this?” continued Kauffman.
“She had a- letter which you.had written to some German army official that seemed to satisfy Poinier,” the girl told him. „
. Kauffman heaved a mighty sigh. “And I thought I could trust her,” he moaned, slowly shaking.his head, “I thought she loved me.”
“Henry,” cried Margaret, springing to her feet. -	.
“Yes, Margaret,” said Kauffman, dryly, “I may as well tell you all about it now that you know this much. Minyon, the lady with the cane, is my wife. She came to me as my office girl about two years ago, and after she had been there a short time, I. fell in love with her, and married her.”	“	■
Margaret sank into her chair but kept her -eyes fixed on Kauffman’s face as he continued.
“She knew nothing of ‘my most important business’ until a.little more than a week ago/ when I gave her a very important letter to deliver to General.Bleyer in. Berlin. It was impossible for ‘me to take it personally, so I trusted her.” He straightened up and sighed deeply once- more. “ I never did have much faitjjTn a woman, and now I have absolutely none.” G	;
^idfyou see the woman?’’ .he again broke in. shall I do te help.you?
.	- . THE NOTRE DA.
- Kauffman remained silent. He stood with his head bowed and his arms folded on his chest. Suddenly Margaret gave a little.startled cry, and Kauffman, looking up, saw an elderly, white-haired gentleman standing between the - portieres.
“Bleyer,” gasped Kauffman, bracing himself with the table.
“Yes,” said the other, quietly, “and it appears J	that Herr Kauffman finds it more necessary
•	to remain in a secluded alcove until after
>	midnight, causing a very pretty young lady to
cry, than attending to his duty.”	■
It was evident that Kauffman was stunned by the unexpected arrival of Bleyer, but he ;	soon regained possession of himself and turned
■	to the girl who sat with her head in her arms
i	on the table, and placed his hand on her
!	shoulder.	.
>	“You must go now,” he said quietly, if
not tenderly. Margaret ’ started at once to leave, without saving a word, but when Gen-I	era! Bleyer stepped aside to let her pass, he
. spoke to her.	.
;	“I trust, young lady,” he said, with almost
‘	a sneer on his face, “that you feel satisfied,
now that you have caused Herr Kauffman to ;	forfeit his life.”
. Margaret' shrank from him, grasping the i	portieres for support, an expression of terror
coming into her face. “What do you mean?” she whispered.	.
I • Bleyer raised his eyebrows and shrugged his shoulders. “Simply that I have come to arrest this gentleman for neglecting his duty, which, according to German army regulations, is just cause for death.”
“Can nothing be done to save his life?” asked Margaret hardly audibly.
“I doubt it,” replied the general, a little ’ impatiently, “the facts are too evident. Nine chances out of ten, he will be shot as soon.as I get him back to Germany.’
Margaret looked over at Kauffman, who . had sat down again. His hands were thrust _ deep into his trouser’s pockets, his head was .	bowed and his eyes closed. Then she returned
her' gaze to Bleyer, who was looking directly ,	at her, his mouth curled into a cynical smile.
.	She stood erect and faced him squarely. .
.	. “General Bleyer,” she said slowly, “I am
\	going to do all in my power tcT bring about
T	the tenth chance. I have good reasons to
;? believe that Henry Kauffman^ will not be
WE SCHOLASTIC	559 -;
shot as soon as you get him back to Germany ..; in event that you should do so.”	.
Margaret turned and ran across the now empty dining-room and out through.the arched . doorway. General Bleyer stepped over. and. ; , tapped Kauffman on the shoulder.	\	/
“ I will have to go home with you to-night,” .. . . he said: “we will leave France the first thing	'.
in the morning.”	\
Kauffman raised his head, his. eyes filled with tears, “Don’t blame the girl,” he said, “she had nothing to do with your not receiving my letter.	.	.
On leaving the two gentlemen, Margaret-' went immediately to her elegant apartments . in one of the most fashionable hotels in Paris. -Even though it was one o’clock in the morning, she called Francois Poiriier on the telephone. When, after much delay and insisting on her . . :; part, the girl was permitted to speak to;;him, she talked rapidly.	.
“If Monsieur Poinier wishes to buy a quari-titv of hats from Herr Kauffman, he must see . ’ that gentleman before daybreak, as he is leaving . Paris' early this morning. What? Monsieur -does not know where Herr Kauffman lives? Very well, let him . meet me at 1’hotel Bonaparte at once and I will direct him in person. ’	..
Thank you; I will be ready.”	.
Margaret was waiting in the parlor when Poinier arrived. “You,” he exclaimed when he	'
recognized the girl that had-rebuked him in	<
the dining-room a few hours before.	.	' .
“We must hurry,” was all she said, arid led-the way out to the limousine waiting at the .' . . curb. She told the chauffeur where to go and . stepped inside, followed by Poinier. Much to -	.
her surprise, she. found Captain Toinette, the . * < gentleman she had had dinner with that evening, half reclining in the big, comfortable seat, amus- . ing himself by inhaling cigarette smoke. He; . greeted her familiarly and rebuked her for leav- . . ing him so abruptly, when she had met Poinier?
' “I can’t see what you wanted to hurry over . to that dining-room all of a sudden for,” he told her.	.	-	,
“What do you know about this man, Kauff- ' ? man?” asked Poinier, when they were started f. < on their way.	_	:	. . ?
“Only what his wife told you by-the palms, . -on the promenade, at Pierre’s, this evening,” : Margaret told him. .	■. .7
“ Then you listened to what we were saying? ’? asked Poinier, rather sternly. .
560	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Yes,” Margaret answered, simply.
“Well, I declare,” broke in the captain, “was that you, Frangois, on the other side of the palms? I heard someone talking but paid very little attention to it;, I was so overjoyed at Margaret’s consenting to marry me.”
“What!” screamed Margaret.
1 “Oh, yes, allow me to congratulate you, Miss Marks,” exclaimed Poinier, “I think you will find the captain a very agreeable husband.”
Margaret was dumfounded. She settled back in the soft upholstery of the seat and thought rapidly. Evidently, she had unconsciously consented to marry this French army officer while she had been listening to Poinier and the woman with the cane. She, of course would never marry him, but would not make him aware of that fact until she had finished using him.
“Oh, I might have found worse,” she said, laughing lightly. “What do you intend doing with Henry Kauffman, when you get him to-night?”
“I think,” said Poinier, “that I shall take him at once to the prison for safe keeping.”
The car slowed down and stopped before a big black-looking mansion, situated some distance from the street, and Poinier, accompanied by Capt. Toinette, walked briskly up the drive to the front door. A half-dressed butler answered their continued ringing, and,, after much argument, he was finally persuaded, at the point of a revolver, to call his master. Poinier and the captain were shown into a good-sized library, and had been waiting about twenty minutes when Kauffman and General Bleyer -entered the room. Both gentlemen were completely dressed in street clothes.
“Ah, Monsieur Coulagne, I did not expect to see you again until at least ten o’clock in the morning,” said Kauffman, graciously bowing.	.
“I ask your pardon,” smiled Poinier, “but I ain leaving Paris in a few hours, and being desirous of leaving an order for a quantity of your hats, I took the liberty to call at this ungodly hour to see some of your samples.
“I am extremely sorry,” admitted Kauffman, “but I have no samples here at the house.”
“Would it be your pleasure, then, to allow me to drive you down to your office, where you . would have access to some?” asked Poinier, rubbing his hands.	.
General Bleyer stepped forward.
“Herr Kauffman is under my care, just at present,” he stated, “however, if he is disposed to grant your request, it will be necessary for me to accompany him.”
“Very good,” said Poinier, “I have no objections, whatever.”
While Kauffman and the general had gone for their coats, Poinier and Capt. Toinette held a hasty conversation in low tones, but were apparently interested in the books in the library when the Germans returned. The four men walked down the long drive chatting together until they reached the limousine. Kauffman and Poinier entered first; Capt. Toinette came next, but instead of stepping into the car, he wheeled and thrust a revolver against the stomach of Gen. Bleyer.
“You will please back up against that tree' and remain there until we are out of sight,” he told that gentleman, and then held the revolver leveled at him until the car was well under way. Suddenly, Poinier uttered an exclamation of surprise. Margaret was gone!
When the machine passed out of sight around the next corner, General Bleyer turned cursing, and ran up the drive to the house. As he passed the library he looked in and saw Margaret sitting in an easy-chair reading. He walked over to her.	-
“What are you doing here?” he demanded. ’
Margaret closed the book and placed it on the table. “Waiting- for Mrs. Kauffman,” she said, as though it were the most common thing in the world to be waiting for a lady at two o’clock in the morning,” will you not join me?,”
“I will,” said the general, emphatically, as he seated himself before the big grate where a low fire was burning. The two sat in silence for some time until, finally, the tap of Mrs. Kahffman’s cane was heard on the stair. As soon as she entered the room, Gen. Bleyer sprang to his feet, an expression of amazement flashing over his face. .	,
“Countess Von Harburg,” he cried.
The lady with the cane stood motionless, staring at the general, her mouth open as though ready to speak. Her lips formed the name Bleyer, and then she sank into a chair. Slowly, the general .walked over to her, and looking down at her said:
“We hunted you for twenty years and, at last,, gave you up.for dead. I wish to compli-
’ ’ .	> V ’	’ .	*'	-	*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ment you on your craftiness, but now that it has been my good fortune to find you alive in Paris accidentally, I arrest you in the name of the German government and under the authority of Kaiser Wilhelm for being a traitor to your country, and exposing certain matters of state to France.”
The countess stood up, her black eyes snapping out her hatred for Gen. Bleyer.
‘‘You killed my husband because he would -not come to France and act as a spy.
I loved Count Von Harburg and vowed to
make you pay for his death. I’ve done it; all France knows that there is an organized German system here for locating French army supplies and forts, and estimating the strength of their forces. I waited until I could hit hard,
and now I’ve done it. I married Henry Kauff
man who, I knew, was the man you had sent
in my count’s place to take charge of the system here, and then watched my chance to get facts that would convict him in court. My oppor-
tunity came a few days ago, when Henry gave me a letter to deliver to you in Berlin. It
was written in his own handwriting and signed o	o
by him. Of course, I have handed the letter
to the French authorities.”
General Bleyer was raving.
‘‘Kauffman should not have trusted you. He knew perfectly well that the first rule of the system is to deliver all correspondence in person, and trust nothing to any one else— not even to the mails.”.
Margaret came over to him, her face serious and pleading.
‘‘General,” she said, ‘‘if Henry Kauffman delivers that letter to you in .person in Berlin, will he be shot for neglecting his duty?”
General Bleyer looked steadily at the girl for some time, and then a little smile twitched about his mouth.
“No,” he answered; “if Henry Kauffman delivers that letter to me in Berlin, himself, he may have his life and anything else he wants.”
“Thank you, thank you, General,” cried Margaret, bursting into tears, and throwing her cloak about her shoulders, she ran from the house.	. *
That afternoon Capt. Toinette sat in the .parlor of 1’Hotel Bonaparte awaiting Miss Marks. Presently she entered.
“Oh, Captain, I am so glad you’ve come. I was afraid you had deserted your little girl.”
“I was afraid my little girl had deserted me, last night,” said the captain; “where did you disappear to?”	x
“Is Kauffman put away safely?” Margaret asked, ignoring his question.
“ Oh, yes,” returned Capt. Toinette, “his trial will be held in a few days. There is abso- . lutely no chance for him, now that Poinier holds that letter he wrote to the German general.”	'
Margaret sat down on the divan very close to the captain, and took one of his hands in both of h.ers.	’	.	’	-
“You may think me silly,” she smiled up < at him, “but I am just crazy to see that letter. I’ve never seen anything really important, and I’d1 love to see a real, for "sure, important document.”
“But, my dear, it’s sealed shut,” said Capt. Toinette. “Poinier did that just as soon as • he had read it.”	■
Margaret pouted. “Oh, I’m so sorry,” she said, and then brightening; “I don’t care about the inside. Just let me see the seal. Think of it, a real seal, made by an official of France. How wonderful.”
Her arms crept up around Capt. Toinette’s neck and she kissed him on the cheek. “Please, Jene, bring it to me to-night before we go to Pierre’s. If you love me, you’ll surely do just that much for me.”
Capt. Toinette shrugged doubtfully. “I hardly believe that Poinier will permit the packet out of his office, but I’ll- see what I can do for you. I do love you, and want to do all I can for you, but that is rather a serious matter to play with.”
Margaret continued to caress him and implore him to grant her request, until when he left he had promised to have the letter for her to see that night. Capt. Toinette was hardly out of sight when Margaret left the hotel and went directly to the office of Frangois Poinier. On being admitted to his private room,-she advanced to his desk, where he was working, and sat down upon it.
“Does Monsieur remember what I told him in the dining-room last night?” she asked. -
“Some sort of threat about informing my ' wife of the friend I had at dinner, I believe,” laughed Poinier. “I still am a little ’ angry. . with you for that snapping of fingers in my . face.”	’	■. .
Margaret leaned forward until her eyes .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
562
were on a level with Poinier’s.
“Unless you enter Pierre’s before nine o’clock to-night, accompanied b}r Henry Kauffman, your wife will know the whole story of ‘ j our friend’ and yourself before morning. I will not tell her, but a certain young gentleman we both know will. Thank you for your time. Good'bye.” And Margaret hurried from the office leaving j Poinier । dumfounded and - angry.	.
‘ The girl next made her way to Pierre’s where she had a heated argument with the manager, who would not agree with her until several pieces of gold clattered on the table before him. A few hours later, she sat at the same table with Capt. Toinette.
“Well,” she said leaning across the table and smiling, “may I please satisfy my curiosity, Jene?”	.
Captain • Toinette looked cautiously around the room, and then laid the letter in front of Margaret.
“I did not dare ask Poinier for it,” he said, “so I stole it for you. I hope it makes you happy.”
The girl clasped his hand. “It does, Jene, it makes me very, very happy.” She gave a startled little cry. “There’s Poinier now.”
“Hide the letter,” gasped Capt. Toinette, ■ and he was too frightened to notice the little satisfied smile that played around the girl’s lips as she tucked the letter into her waist hurriedly, just as Poinier and Kauffman came ■ up to the table and sat down. They had no sooner done so, however, than two -men at the next table,who had been arguing for some time, came to blows, tipping over their chairs and
• a hat rack. Waiters came running from every direction, and in a second a crowd had formed and pushed in on the combatants. Poinier was thrown from his chair and Caph Toinette was shoved tight against the table. Kauffman was dazed bjr the suddeness of the confusion, but Margaret ’ seized his hand and struggled to the outer edge of the mob. .
Quick,” she cried, “follow me.” And running, across the cafe, she literally dragged the bewildered Kauffman through a side door
, and into a taxi. “Here,” she panted, taking a new derby and light overcoat from the seat
. / and thrusting them at; the -German, “put; these on. .We’re going back to' Berlin.”
. . - The next afternoon Henry Kauffman entered
■' the headquarters of General Bleyer. .	•
“Kauffman,” cried the general, springing to his feet, “the girl—”	~
“Yes,” interrupted -Kauffman, drawing the letter from his inside pocket and-holding it extended before him at arm’s length, “the. girl has sent me to deliver this letter in person.”
“And for that,” said General Bleyer, taking the letter and grasping the outstretched hand, “for that, T grant you your life, according to my agreement with Margaret. And furthermore, I wish to inform you that your wife who, before she married you was Countess Von Harburg, the woman that attempted to assassinate the Kaiser and escaped unhurt excepting for a bullet in the foot, was executed this morning for being a traitor to her country.
Kauffman tightened his grip on the general’s hand.
“.You must expect me to be shocked and extremely grieved at this news. I am surprised but feel no sorrow whatsoever. This frees me from a woman I hated and gives me the liberty to marry a girl I love. To thank you for my life and the girl is not enough. I will repay you better on that day, when I shall guide the German army into the very heart of France, without losing a man.”
“And that day is near at hand,” said Gen. -Bleyer, “but there is one thing more; besides your life, I promised Margaret you could have anything else you wanted. Now—what else do vou want?”
Kauffman walked -to the door and placed his hand on the knob; then he turned, a warm, happy smile lighting his face.
“I would rather answer that question to Margaret,” he said, and went out.
My Mule.
He is fair on the field and is strong, But is riot to be tickled or beat, For a very slight clip of the whip
May enrage and unloosen his feet.
Thus a warning is given to you, So be 'wise .and away from him keep, For his shoes are as strong as a ship, Which embarks on the rollicking deep.
And if e’er they connect with your “slats,”
. Then a broken-down frame would ensue;
. The. result would be slow and so sad—
. With the mourners all weeping for you. T. H.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5^3
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Unveiling’ of the Shillington Memorial.
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Tenn at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana
XLVIII.	JUNE 3, 1915. NO. 34
Board of Editors.
	ARTHUR	HAYES, ’15
C L O V I	S SMITH, ’15	EUGENE MCBRIDE, ’15
T I M 0 T	H Y GALVIN, ’16	GEORGE SCHUSTER ’15
SPEER	STRAHAN ’17	MARK DUNCAN, ’15
LOUIS	KEIFER, ’16	ANDREW MCDONOUGH, ’17
JOHN	RILEY, ’17	EMMETT G. LENIHAN, ’l6
DELMAR	EDMONDSON, ’17	RAYMOND HUMPHREYS, ’l6 «
—It would appear from all accounts received here that.this year’s camp at Bankson Lake, Michigan, was a singular success. Many of the campers left the University The Camp at laden with every new in-Bankson Lake, vention for fishing, hunting and other outdoor sports, but so thoroughly were they taken up with the regular camp exercises, and especially with the sham battles, that they forgot about all other things and gave their whole time to this new and intensely interesting form of amusement. The work of digging trenches of various kinds, of placing scouts to locate the enemy, of planning numerous methods of attack, etc., took up most of their day, and on their return to the University' they' were full of new ideas on all these subjects and ready to talk about them by the hour. Surely, the instructors who can make work of this nature so interesting that the fatigue of it is not felt by7 the pupils, deserve the greatest credit, and Captain Stogsdall and Sergeant Campbell may well feel proud of their success. It is not an easy thing to work w’ith young boys, and only those* who thoroughly understand them and their vagaries can hope, for the greatest results. The fact that boys who have been backward and inactive in other lines, have been taught to think for themselves
during this week at camp is sufficient evidence . excellence in marksmanship and drill during that good results have been obtained, and it the year. Secretary7 Daniels presented the is to be hoped that this outing will be made medals, prefacing the award with a brief but j an annual event.	cogent address, in which he emphasized the
An observance especially appropriate to Memorial Day’ and fittingly’ climactic in a year replete with memorable occasions, was the unveiling last Saturday by’ His Excellency Josephus Daniels, Secretary of the Navy, of the marker erected in memory of John Henry Shillington, former student of the University’ and sailor on the battleship .Maine. Notre Dame’s splendid heritage of heroism has made Memorial Day7 an occasion of particular local moment for scores of years past. Her contribution to the ranks of the Union Army’ in .the Civil War, furnishes a story of patriotic sacrifice that no institution in the United States can hope to excel. This year observance of Memorial Day was fraught with even more marked significance than usual, because Secretary of the Navy, Josephus Daniels, was present at the unveiling of a memorial erected in honor of a former student of the University, who died in service of his country on the ill-fated battleship, “Maine.”
The ceremonies which marked the occasion were characterized by the same simple beauty7 that makes the Shillington Memorial of red Wisconsin granite such a notable addition to the University’s many’ handsome monuments. The Cadet Regiment, headed by’ the University ’ Band, acted as escort of honor to the distinguished visitor, and marched in column of platoons, from the Grand Trunk Railway Station to the Oliver Hotel, where the companies presented arms as His Excellency Secretaiy Daniels, -accompanied by Father Cavanaugh, Father Morrissey, and. Captain Stogsdall entered the hotel. Then the cadets boarded a train of seven interurban cars which speedily7 conveyed them back to school. Again the Battalions were. formed, and long lines of uniformed men snapped to a precise, “Present” as Secretary* Daniels and the reception committee, as well as many-other prominent visitors, debarked from their machines at the entrance to the Administra-tion Building. The escort of the colors by7, Notre Dame’s crack company, was followed by7 the presentation of medals to cadets who • had earned tokens of special approbation by
564
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
imperative necessity of a trained citizenry, and lauded the nature of the work that is being done at Notre Danie along lines prescribed by such eminent authorities as Secretary of War Garrison, and General Leonard Wood. Gold, silver and bronze medals were presented to several members of the regiment, to a number of members of the Notre Dame Rifle Club, and to three minims for excellent work in the Minim Battalion. Secretary Daniels seemed particularly interested in the diminutive khaki clad figures, and laughed heartily at Father Cavanaugh’s apt allusion to them as "second men” rather than “minute men.”	*
After he had shaken hands with each of the younger lads, Secretary Daniels returned to the Administration Building before- which the Regiment passed in review for the last time during the present school year. Every member of the military organization from the Commandant to the tiniest minim, was anxious that this last appearance should be the best review of the year. And their hopes were fully realized. Never was there greater precision in marching, snappier step or manual of arms, better alignment or more enthusiastic co-operaxion of all units of Notre Dame’s military organization. After parade the companies were drawn up in a hollow square about the Shillington Marker which was draped in a big American Flag.
As the band played the “Star Spangled Banner” the national emblem was lifted, and the handsome red granite memorial, presented to the University through courtesy of the Marathon Granite Co., of Wausau, Wis., with its great ten-inch shell supported on a bronze base, was revealed. All . stood with bared heads until the last strain of the national anthem had died away, when the cadets marched for the last time into Washington Hall, where the dedication ceremonies were most appropriately concluded with an address by His Excellency, the Secretary of the Navy.
After a selection by the University Band, John Felix Hynes, Law ’15, read Lincoln’s immortal Gettysburg Address. His interpreta* ion of that American classic, far excelled the stereotyped rendition, and merited the ■ compliment that Secretary Daniel’s paid to it in his own address. ’
Following the singing of “Columbia” by the ; assemblage, William Speer Strahan, Classical, ’17, read his Commemoration Ode. Mr. .Strahan
chose a most felicitous theme, and rendered it in a manner that struck a responsive chord in the hundreds of hearts attuned to patriotic emotions.
The address by Secretary Daniels, so eagerly awaited by the large audience, was preceded by Father Cavanaugh’s characteristically skillful introduction. Father Cavanaugh alluded very briefly to the obtaining conditions of international apprehension growing out of the war in Europe, to the delicate duties of President Wilson and his cabinet, of which the speaker of the day was a member, and finally to the great sacrifice of time and convenience that Secretary Daniels had made in fulfilling at such a critical time, a promise he had given some months ago.
Coming with a reputation as a speaker that acknowledged few peers among contemporary orators in national life, ILis Excellency Josephus Daniels held the closest attention of his auditors for an address of an hour’s duration. He paid high tribute to the hero of the “Maine” disaster, to whose memory the marker had been reared, declaring that Shillington’s concept of duty to country was one that all the men at school, might well adopt as a pattern for study and emulation. His remarks are reprinted in full elsewhere in this issue.	'
The moral drawn from the memory of Shillington and the heroes of the Civil War, in whose honor Decoration Day was instituted, declared Secretary Daniels, was a love of duty and a fidelity to the exactions of upward progress that knew no faltering or hesitancy. Shillington, he eloquently characterized as a “dreamer- of dreams,” adding that all the achievements in life are but dreams, realized. He drew a cogent distinction . between the dreamer whose phantasies picture selfglorification achieved, and the dreamer who dreams of tasks to be done, and makes his imagination paint only that which his will purposes to accomplish. Secretary Daniels’ splendid address was quite in keeping with the solemn dignity and quiet patriotism of the day, and he was repeatedly interrupted by great and protracted applause.
After the Dedication ceremonies had been concluded, he was escorted to dinner in the Brownson refectory, which was decorated with flags; banners, stacked arms and other symbols significant of the men and deeds commemorated.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
’ Many distinguished guests from South Bend,. Chicago and cities further removed, assembled around the Faculty Table, their numbers necessitating the use of several tables ordinarily allotted to students.
At two o’clock Secretary Daniels and party departed for St. Mary’s Academy. The Regiment again drew up in a long line extending from Washington Hall to the church, presented arms as the automobiles swept around the road in front of the church and directed their course westward. '
Threatening weather was the only circumstance that might have contributed to any marring of the day. The ceremonials were never more carefully or capably conducted, nor did the participants ever acquit themselves with greater credit to their own members and to the school. The decorations of the' campus, of Washington Hall, and of the Brownson refectory were superb. The work of the regiment and most particularly of the band, could hardly have been surpassed. .
- The Dedication of the Marker to John Henry Shillington, was an auspicious and gratifying success.
T On the return of Secretary Daniels to Washington, he gave the following interesting account of his visit to Notre Dame:
Washington, June, 2.—Secretary of the Navy, Josephus Daniels commented in the most enthusiastic vein on his recent trip to Notre Dame and South Bend. In an interview for the South Bend Tribune he said:
"I had a most delightful time and enjoyed every minute of it. The exercises in honor of John Henry Shillington, unveiling a memorial for this hero who went down with the Maine, were very beautiful and simple, befitting his life and death.	'
“The training of the young men at Notre Dame in military instruction gave evidence of the highest order of capability, and the very efficient man who has charge of that instruction has just cause for pride in the results achieved. The evolutions all showed a high order of skill and the effect of good training. I was very much impressed by the marching .of the young boys. They marched like little men.
*	CADETS EINE TYPE.
“The 1000 young men at Notre Dame who were present at the Memorial exercises were a fine type of Americans. I also had a delightful visit at St. Mary’s school, founded by Sister Angela, a cousin of James G. Blaine. The annual ceremony at St. Mary’s of decorating the graves of the Sisters who went to the Civil War as nurses, is a verjr beautiful one and exceedingly impressive.
“It was my first visit to South Bend and I am glad I went. I knew, as all the world does, of its gigantic
5^5
industries and its leading captains of industry who have established there some of the most important business enterprises in the world. These gigantic factories cover acres, acres and acres, and would of themselves make a great town. Many of the industries are flourishing and are giving evidence that South Bend is going forward in every way. •
“I went to South Bend,” said he, “at the invitation of Father Cavanaugh. I met him at Kansas City over a year ago and I promised then to go to South Bend whenever he invited me, and I am glad to accept an invitation to visit the noble institution of which he is the head and .inspiration. He is one of the most eloquent speakers in America and va raconteur whom it is a delight to meet. I found the spirit of Notre Dame is patriotism, illustrated in a hundred different ways.”
-------------— -
University of Notre Dim?. '
Military Department.
■	May 31, 1915.
To THE EDITOR OF THE SCHOLASTIC,
Sir:—I submit herewith a brief report of the operations at the Camp for Carroll Hall Cadets at Bankson Lake, Michigan.	.
We left Notre Dame on the morning of May 22d and proceeded by rail to Lawton, where we arrived at about noon. Marching from Lawton, we stopped on the roadside for about thirty minutes for luncheon, which was the best we have yet partaken of on such occasions, and arriving at Bankson Lake in fine order and condition proceeded to the erection of camp. At a quarter to four everything was complete and in order.
A short company drill at 5:50, then supper. On Sunday after inspection of Camp, all cadets were formed in dress uniforms and marched to-the chapel for Mass.	-
A ball game in the afternoon with Lawton resulted in a victory’ for the Bankson Lakes— the score being 9 to 3..	.
Our program of instruction began Monday morning, the daily routine being as follows: Reveille—1st call—6:45 followed by plunge in lake; March, 7:05; Assembly, 7:10; MilitaryCalisthenics, 7:10 to 7:30; Breakfast 7:30 to 7:55; Policing camp followed by inspection of same at S .2 5; Lecture—Military Topics— 8:30; Company close order drill, 9:15 to 10:00; Extended order, scouting, patrolling, field work and rifle practice, -io:oo to 12; Dinner, 12 m.; Recreation, 12:30 to 5 p. m.; Retreat roll-call, followed by Mess Call, 5:30; Call to quarters, 9:30. Night prayer, 9:45; Taps, 10:00 p. m.
566	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Prizes were offered for the best tents of each company as follows:—Best, S3.00; 2d best, S2.00; third best, $1.00.
In G company, the tent occupied by Cadets Bader, McGurk and McNamara, took 1st prize; that occupied by Cadets Reading, Wilson and Wislimeyer, and that occupied by Cadets Parle, Fennessy and Hoops, tied for second.
In the Possums, Cadets Morrison, Glahe and Bernoudy took first; Cadets Sullivan, Mars and Hurst took second, and Cadets Bailey and Connor took third.
A prize of $3.00 was offered the cadet who should make the best rifle score, and S2.00 to the one making the second best and Si.00 to one making third best. First prize was won by Cadet Mullalley, score 25; 25 possible.’ Second prize by Cadet Bader with 24 out of 25.- .Third prize by Cadet Benitez with 23 out of 25. Fifty cadets averaged 21 out of a posssible 25. After Monday, weather conditions were unfortunate—much rain and unseasonably cold. Some inconvenience no doubt, but no whining or complaining. .	'
• The competitive drill was held on Thursday morning. Practically every cadet of the two companies entered voluntarily, and the drill was very good. Cadet J. Sullivan won the gold medal; Cadet H. Temple, the silver medal and Cadet O. Wood the bronze medal.
Sergeant Campbell’s prizes for the best ’ drilled Possums were won bj^ Cadets Glahe, McGrath and Morrison respectively.
Following the competitive drill all hands gave their attention to the Combat Exercise for which extensive plans had been made.
The trenches, constructed under the direct supervision of Sergeant Campbell, were up-to-the-minute and showed the different types of standing, kneeling and prone, as well as pits, well concealed and having below surface connections with main trenches for use of individual cadets. The standing trenches were equipped with a homemade but very serviceable periscope. These trenches offered a wide field of fire, allowed no dead spaces and afforded . mutual support.
The “Possum” army showed a zeal and intelligence in preliminary scouting and manning of their trenches that left nothing to be desired.. .	..
. To “G” company was given, a hopeless . task, because they were forbidden to. approach . . over ploughed ground or cultivated fields. ■
£
The flanking detachment under McNichols J was tactically well placed and did effective work. The main portion of the company was | well placed under cover at the side of the road and did excellent work until they left cover g • * - £ and advanced to attack. Here they were	t
enfiladed and at the same time caught in flank	|
by the main trench.	£
I wish to commend the skill with which Company G conducted the very important 5 preliminary scouting. I should especially commend the taking of an enemy scout, making	|
use of his uniform to gain access to’the Possum	f
lines and obtaining definite information. A B surprising capacity for efficient field work was generally shown.
Fathers Burke and Quinlan were present g with us—always kindly and helpful, watchful of the moral welfare, did not overlook the phys- B ical needs of cadets., more than one of whom	B
had occasion- to be thankful for a blanket at	I
£ the saving moment.	.
And no one could overlook our Commissary ' % General—Brother Hugh—always alert and e'ffi- | cient—he reallv gave us food.	£
Even a casual observer could not fail to	i
note the general effect of life in camp—the	।
development of individual initiative and resource-	|
fulness. The Carroll Hall boy is becoming an • | adept in the art of taking care of himself, and	|
it would	seem as though the spring camp	had	|
come	to	stay.	|
Respectfully submitted,	|
R. R., Stogsdall.	'	|
Capt., U. S. A.,	Rtd.	I
-—.	I
Personals.	1
—Mr. F. Powers, Notre Dame’s most famous E athlete of the ’90’s, visited the University E during the week and called upon many of his g old friends. Fred is in charge of the weight men g£ at Harvard University and has been a successful g coach. He was out to see the Varsity track R team in action and seemed especially interested g in Bachman.	. B
—At the ordinations held in Rome, Italy, Ig last Saturday, Michael V. Halter (Litt. B., ’n), Ig was elevated to the holy priesthood. We fear | that his new dignity,-however, will not protect against his old familiar sobriquet of “Doc.”	|
Any fellow .as well liked as Doc Halter was,’	|
must be content to have , a nickname even if g he became a bishop. Congratulations, Doc!	p
r	/ . - -
►	• .
I	-	'	-	.	' ? \
il	' -
■	• THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	567
i	-	\J - i ■
■	Corpus Christi.
,	* 1'he feast of Corpus Christi was observed
•	in the time-honored way, last Thursday morn,	ing. After solemn high Mass the traditional -
procession, around the Campus took place.
;	Altars were erected on the steps of Walsh Hall,
।	Science Hall, and the Main Building, and
Benediction given at each one. The prize Walsh Company in uniform lent a military air to the ceremonies, and a firing squad took the place of the usual bell at the Benediction. Thirty priests in vestments, sisters and brothers of the community and the entire student body made up the procession. The Band rendered sacred music during the ceremonies. After the open air part of the program had been completed, the procession wended its way toward the church where the fourth and last Benediction was given. The sun failed to appbar and the morning was somewhat cloudy but the bright vestments and uniforms and gay banners, in contrast with the green of the Campus lent a bright and beautiful touch to the solemn ceremonies. We are sure that nowhere else in the entire country, is there ever given an opportunity to witness so beautiful and inspiring an affair as this old tradition of Notre Dame.
■ Examinations.
*	June 12.
Classes taught at 1:15,2105 and 2150 will be examined on June 12 at 1:15, 4:15 and 2:45 respectively.
June 15-
Classes taught at 8:15 and 10:45 a. m. will be . examined at 8:15 and 10:15 respectively. Classes taught at 9:05 and 11:10 a. m. will be examined at 1:15 atid 2:45 p. m., respectively.
Senior Examinations will be held on June 7, 8, 9, 10.
Preparatory Examinations will begin Tuesday at 1:15 p. m. and finish Thursday at noon.
Local Notes.
—Barnum and Bailey’s Circus will be in.. South Bend next Thursday and we’ll have. a. chance to be real boys again. Get your appetite for red pop and peanuts sharpened up, and be . on hand.
—The minim team went to Plymouth Satuf- .. day, May 29 at the invitation of the mayor, . to meet an aggregation from that place. Neither side had scored when the game was called on account of rain.	’	'
—Brother Alphonsus requests that the following books belonging to the Apostolic Library be returned to him:
Dr. Bryson, Strategy of Great Railroads, The Mountain Divide, Merrilie Dawes, the Daughter of a Magnate, Whispering Smith, all by Spearman.. Explanations of the Holy Mass, by Cochem. South Sea Idylls, by Stoddard. . Thoughts and Theories of Life and Education, by Spalding. Valiant and True, by Spellman. Christmas on the Lonesome, by Van Dyke. Uncle Remus, by Harris. Prisoners of Hope, by Johnson. Yourself and the Neighbors, by McManus. Mother, by Norris.
—The Dome for 1915 is one of the most artistic works in its line that we have ever seen. Not only are its pictures superior to those of other years but its whole make-up, from the beautiful grey leather cover to the . advertising section in the end, bespeak taste, both in matter and arrangement. The hall pictures are larger than ever before, each hall covering two pages, and the features of each student are brought out clearly in these pictures. The scenes of Notre Dame could not possibly be surpassed, and the color work on the first four or five pages is little less than wonderful. In our opinion it is by far the best Dome that has yet been brought out by any class. To know its worth, however, one must see it and feast on its pages. It is a work we think that will measure up to any College Annual in this country.	•
. Athletic Notes.
—The Dome is out!!!!
—The members of the Walsh Hall company received their medals Wednesday for having taken first place in the competitive drill.
—Secretary of the Navy Daniels complimented Bro. Matthias very highly on the table decorations used at the dinner last Saturday.
' NOTRE DAME MEN FIRST IN - STATE - EVENT. '	' f ? A
In one of the hardest fought track meets ever . . T A ,.
witnessed on Stuart Field, Notre Dame triumphed.. ’ over Purdue by the small margin of 2 1-2 points..
The result of the meet was in doubt up to the last . T/mT. event, which was the broad jump, and in this the
Catholics ran away from the field. Purdue led through-'. WYAA out the meet by a margin sometimes as large as 11 points, but the Boiler Makers’ inability to-produce
568
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
point winners in the two jumps lost for them. The results were: Notre Dame, 52 5-6; Purdue, 50 1—3; De Pauw, 22 1—3; Indiana, 13; Wabash, 4 1—2. The meet was held in a driving rain which lasted the entire afternoon, making the track extremely sloppy and heavy. Notwithstanding this, state records were broken in the mile, discus throw and two-mile run.
From the Grand Rapids Press we copy the following, which may be of interest to present-day students:
Notre Dame alumni and students are proud of the great number of baseball players who have made good in league company after playing with Notre Dame
Ike Meyers, the sensation of De Pauw, fairly plowed
University teams. Following is a list of former Notre
who are now playin:
the larger
in
through the mud, taking nearly old mark in the mile which was
five seconds off the made by Verner of
Dame players leagues:
Purdue in 1904. Meyer’s time was 4:24 3—5. He	Player	Position	Club	League
led Campbell, the Purdue star, by three feet until	F. Williams	Outfielder	Chicago	National
the final stretch, when he sprinted ahead, coming	Murray	Outfielder	New York	National
in-with a lead of twenty yards. Bachman of Notre	Cutshaw	Shortstop	Brooklyn	National
Dame smashed the discus record by almost eight	Bescher	Outfielder	St. Louis	National
feet when he threw the sphere 129 feet and 2 inches.	Dubuc	Pitcher	Detroit	American
The old mark was made by Sage of Purdue in 1905.	Birmingham	Outfielder	Cleveland	American
Miller, the auburn-haired Purdue two-miler, clipped	Shafer	Utility	New York	National
seven seconds off the old mark established by Reed	Reulbach	Pitcher	Newark	Federal
of Wabash, when he ran the distance in 10:09 1—5.	Lathrop	Pitcher	Kansas City	Am. Assn.
After winning the discus, Bachman tried at the	(Formerly with White Sox; sold to Kansas City.)			
Conference record, but the sphere was top slippery	Kelly	Pitcher	Atlanta	Southern
and he failed.		(Owned	by Pittsburgh N. L.)	
SUMMARY."	'	Shaughnessy	Outfielder	Ottawa	Canadian
100-yard dash—Hardy, Notre Dame, first; Welsh,	Gray	Catcher	Wichita	W estern
Notre Dame, second; Erehart, Indiana, third; Allen,	McCarthy	Utility	Louisville	Am. Assn.
Indiana, fourth. Time, :io 2—5.	'F. Scanlan	Pitcher	Louisville	Am. Assn.
120-yard high hurdles—Whitcomb, Purdue, first;	B. Daniels	1st base •	Louisville	Am. Assn.
Bancker, Purdue, second; Shienberg, Purdue, third;	Among the	famous big	league players	of the past,
Kirkland, Notre Dame, fourth, Time, 16 1-5.
Half mile run—Meyers, De Panw, first; Purdue, second; McDonough, Notre Dame,
East, third;
Gavitt, Wabash, fourth. Time, 2:01 4-5.
Mile run—Meyers, De Pauw, first; F. Campbell, Purdue, second; Waage, Notre Dame, third; Large, Purdue, fourth. Time, 4:24 3-5.
Quarter mile run—East, Purdue, first; Voelkers, Notre Dame, second; Henehan, Notre Dame, third; A7. Campbell, Purdue, fourth. Time, :54 3~5.
Shot put—Bachman, Notre Dame, first; Prins, Purdue, second; Bausman, Purdue, third; Crowe, Purdue, fourth. Distance, 47 feet 9 inches.
Discus throw—Bachman, Notre Dame, first; Prins, Purdue, second; Norris, De Pauw, third; Keefe, Notre Dame, fourth. Distance, 129 feet 2 inches.
220-yard dash—Hardy, Notre Dame, first; Welsh, Notre 'Dame, second; Allen, Indiana, third; Sweet, Wabash, fourth. Time, :22 2-5.
Two-mile run—Miller, ’ Purdue, first; Klippet, Purdue, second; Burns, Notre Dame, third;' Gray, Indiana, fourth. Time, 10:09 1—5. .	.
Pole vault—Wicks, Indiana, and Cook, De Pauw, tied for first; Webb, Purdue, third; Stahl, Purdue, Stone, of De Pauw and Yeager of Notre Dame, tied for fourth. Height, 11 feet. .
220-yard low hurdles—Bancker,. Purdue, first; Whitcomb, Purdue, second; Smiley, Indiana, third; House, De Pauw, fourth. Time, ‘.25 3—5.
High jump—Mills, Notre Dame, first; Delap, De Pauw, and Wolzott, Wabash, tied for second; Acre, Indiana, fourth. Height" 5 feet 7 1—2 inches.
Broad jump—Miller, Notre. Dame,, first; Martin, Notre Dame, a.nd. Woodruff, De Pauw,.tied for second; Bachman, Notre Dame, fourth. Distance, 21 ft, 5 in.
who have either retired or passed to the great beyond, who attended Notre Dame and played with the University’s baseball teams, are the following:
Adrian (Pop) Anson, for many years captain and first baseman of Chicago National; Powers, catcher for the Philadelphia American League team; Gibson, pitcher'for the Boston Americans; Sockalexis, outfielder for Cleveland Americans; O’Neill, catcher for the Cincinnati Nationals; McGill, pitcher Cincinnati
Nationals
Cincinnati
.One of years ago
and Chicago Americans; Inks, pitcher Nationals.
TWO TO NOTRE DAME’S TEN.
the leading eastern papers . three or four made much of the fact that Holy Cross
College had two players at that time in the large leagues and that Columbia University of New York had the same number. At that time, Notre Dame had ten players in either the National or the American League, not counting those who were in minor leagues.
The great number of Notre Dame players, who achieve league fame is no doubt largely due to the splendid playing field at the college on which it is possible for 180 players to contest at one time. Then in addition there is a'minim department where they take students as young as five years old, who ofttimes are 1'eft there to finish their studies. In addition to the big outdoor playing field, dozens can play during the winter months in the huge cage prepared for the purpose, baseball practice indoors on a dirt diamond starting each season shortly after the holidays.
• Notre Dame , turns out as many or more players for the major and leading minor leagues as all the rest of the .country’s leading colleges combined. Many other Notre Dame baseball stars who might also . have starred in league play have chosen other pursuits.