Gilbert’s Congratulates the 1947 Graduates
In This Store For Men
You Are Always A Guest
Before You Are
i i
A Customer
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
2
' 2nd Juggler Issue to Appear Friday
_ The May issue of Juggler, scheduled to appear on Friday of next week, offers eight pages of rather remarkable photo-.
* graphs besides the usual features. Thomas H. Doherty, junior Arts and Letters student from Boston, Massachusetts, has «• been using his camera to advantage for . some weeks now about the campus, and this second number of Notre Dame’s new literary magazine reproduces the most * striking results of his efforts.
Brendan O’Grady discusses the degradation of young Benjamin Franklin’s rules for the attainment of health, ’ wealth, and wisdom and evaluates the current American concept of success in his essay, “Franklin and Babbitt: For! mula for Success.” And James J. John, ‘ History major from Browerville, Minnesota, analyses “Love In Christian Mar-*■ riage” carefully and with frequent reference to Catholic theologians.
Some fresh and excellent writing ♦ talent has been discovered. Proof of this ! is explicit in “The Trees In The Pool,” a bright, brief piece of fiction by. William A G. Halpin, and in James Cunningham’s war-inspired “Return to Antipathy.” There are two stories by Kelly Cook, a frequent contributor to Scrip in past years. Arthur’ S. Harvey offers a particularly intense one-act play called r “Fable for Tea.”
This month’s Book Reviews will be of special interest. Robert Penn Warren’s * 1947 Pulitzer prize-winning novel All The King’s Men is critically treated by William Madden. Two Notre Dame professors have recently published books: The Iron Pastoral, a collection of poetry by John Frederick Nims; The Reclama-I tion of Independence, by Willis D. Nut* ting, (published by two young Notre Dame graduates, Harry Berliner and Joseph Lanigan, Nevada City, Cali. fornia). Editor J. H. Johnston evaluates the work of Professor Nims, and Julian l Pleasants gives full credit to Mr. Nut-b ting’s courageous social criticism. Finally, Robert Meagher looks into Leon l Bloy’s startling and important work, Pilgrim of the Absolute, which Pantheon Books made available not long ago.
US W. (Mta
CO-HOPS HOLD DANCE ' TOMORROW
Winding up their successful series of dances during the past school year, the Co-Hop organization will hold a dance at the Indiana Club tomorrow night with the music of Bud Simpson and his orchestra.
KVT	SOUTH BEND'S UNIQUE SHOP
Bl ft tWAl HAWAIIAN
DISTINCTIVE GIFTS—'EXCLUSIVE JEWELS?
YOU GET EXTRA LIVELINESS from the new center in the Spalding and Wright & Ditson tennis halls. Tests prove they have uniform high honnce — at the top of USLTA rebound standards. Let ’em liven up your game!
S8?
Wright & Ditson takes honors as the only tennis ball used in the National Championships for 60 years... and in every Davis Cup match played in the U. S. Official ball of most bigtime tournaments is either Spalding or Wright & Ditson —both made by Spalding.Tlay your best with one of the Twins of Championship Tennis.
Both Mode by Spalding
Sonneborn’s
121 W. Colfax Ave.
Exclusive Spalding Dealers
OLIVER HOTEL »
Soda Fountain Service L

FOUNTAIN SPECIALS
Delicious Malted Milks (Choco-
SANDWICH SELECTION
late, Vanilla or Strawberry) .... .25
Cooling Ice Cream Sodas (Chocolate, Vanilla or Strawberry).....25
Chocolate Sundae _______________  .20
Strawberry Sundae _______________ .20
Vanilla Sundae __________________ .20
Butterscotch Sundae _____________ .20
Orange Sherbet ................   .15
Plain Ice Cream .............    .15
(Served with Cake Tidbits)
COLD DRINKS
Fresh Limeade ______________ .20
Fresh Lemonade Fresh Orangeade Coca Cola_____ Root Beer ____ 7-Up _________
_ .20 __________ .20 .05; Large .10 .05; Large .10 _ .10
BEVERAGES
Fresh Made Coffee ...............10
Iced Tea _____________________ .10
Grade "A" Milk___________________10
Tea, Pot ___________________   .15
Buttermilk _______________     .10
Hot Chocolate with Marshmallow __________________ 15
(Please Order by Number) No. I—Deluxe Hamburger on Bun with French Fried Potatoes and Cole Slaw_____________ .50
No. 2—Jumbo Hamburger on Bun with
Sliced Pickle ___________________ .25
No. 3—Bacon, Lettuce and Tomato
with Mayonnaise ________________  .50
No. A—Egg Salad ______________________   .25
No. 5—Chicken Salad ________________     .60
No. 6—Liver Sausage __________________   .25
No. 7—American or Swiss Cheese _______   .30
No. 8—Sardine on Toast ________________  .45
(Above Sandwiches served with Potato Chips and Garnish)
SALADS AND SPECIAL PLATES
Creamed Potato Salad with quartered Tomato and Egg Slices ____________________________ .40
Red Ripe Tomato, stuffed with Chicken Salad, Finger Sandwiches and Mayonnaise .........  .75
Oliver Fresh Fruit Plate with Sherbet Center, Rye Krisp _________________________________ .75
Garden Variety Salad Bowl, Tossed Vegetables garnished with Egg Slices, quartered Tomato, Julienne of Cheese, Clear Vitamin Dressing_ .45
Golden Brown Cream Waffle served with Syrup and Butter __________________________________30
With Sausage or Bacon ____________________50
DESSERTS
Homemade Cake ____________________________ .20
Homemade Pies ___.-._____________________ .15
Fruit Jello with Whipped Cream __________ .15
AIR CONDITIONED FOR YOUR COMFORT
An Albert Pick Hotel
4
Steedent P^utU.....
Bill
Lyman
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1918
Feb. 9: Saturday the Glee Club gave a concert at a near by girls school. As the food served afterward turned out to be a very poor experiment of the local Domestic Science class, two second bassmen will be out of the line-up when our singers go on the road next week . . . Mar. 2: As a result of the large number of students leaving to enter the service, the Sorin Hall Subway will be vacated, probably for the last time in Notre Dame history . . . Mar. 9: It is hoped that our new football coach, Knute K. Rockne, can in some measure fill the shoes of the immortal Coach Harper who resigned his post here last week . . . Mar. 16: Tomorrow “Self-Denial Week” will begin on the campus . . . May 10: The Notre Dame Chamber of Commerce says that the inclement spring this year was a freak in a long history of ideal spring weather at Notre Dame . . . Nov. 23: For the second time in twenty-two years of interrupted football rivalry between the two schools, Michigan Agricultural beat the Irish. The score of Saturday’s game was 13 to 7. It was the only defeat of the season for Notre Dame.
PRINTS OF THE PRESENT
At the Senior Ball
My date, she looked so elegant In the gorgeous gown she wore But danced much like an elephant With marbles on the floor.
And me, I’m not a Fred Astaire— I’ve scuffed a lot of leather.
So honey grab another chair— We’ll sit it out together.
—Sack-In Sammy, Lyons
Overheard in Psychology Class
Now, Mr. Sullivan, let’s not use our > knowledge of psychology to call each
other idiots.—Sherry
Third Team Too, Maybe
The alumni say that the game to decide who will be the 1947 National Champions will be played in the Notre Dame Stadium on May 17. Suggested theme for Frank Leahy: this year even the second team will be “representative.”—Don Lee
Casual Mud
The golf course was soggy one day, Still this fellow decided to play.
He stepped off the tee
And sank up to his knee
In the ooze that once was fairway.
—Tom of Zahm
In the N. D. Dictionary
Library Card—Literary Comedian.
—The Book Worm
A Senior's Prayer
Please, God, don’t let me down this week— Don’t let the rain drops pour!
For all the Seniors I now speak:
"No rain, we Thee implore.”
Please God, do anything hut let The monsoons come this week. I’d hate to see my girl get wet— Besides, my rubbers leak.
—Attentive Abie
oign of the Times
Senior Ball bids in ten easy payments.
—Herb Schmitz
Dat Outsiid Reedin'
Do Iv been led to unerstan Dat AB students ar treeted gran My opinyun has chained a-bit. ■ Cuz doze A Bees mus reely grit Fer histry class day reed dere book But in adish day’s gottalook At grate big volyums widout picshur
Da irony of all dis heer
Is, wut to me, aint very cleer Day haz to reed dese grate big books Witch, Im told, dat weeks it tooks An on da contints tests day taks But no xtra kredits duz day maks An da books aint interestin eethur
—Remunisent
Foreign Words and Phrases
“No, thank you, I’ve eaten enough.” (Phrase long out of use by modern girl.)
“No test today, boys!” (Free translation: “That’s O.K. suckers, wait until next week!”)
“Everything’s on the house.” (Long
obsolete; origin unknown.)
Save Moneyl
RIDE HOME ON A SWIFT, COMFORTABLE
AMERICAN BUSLINES* LUXURY LINER
Campus Agent
105 Law Bldg.
Ault Camera Shop, Inc.
Opposite the Coarthouse
122 So. Menn St Phone 3-5041
FOR BETTER PR I NJ S
9^ tie
flEVOllH
Tfo REW CORTACT PRIHTIHG PAPER
Pennits walking in any room ihmng the day, or at night under electric light. Produces prints of fine tonal quality, rich Nadu, belter contrasts. Processes the same as any other paper.
PLENTY OF BOLL FILM IN FIVE POPULAR SIZES
Ault Photo Service also in Cafeteria
JUST RECEIVED
7
COLLEGE GALALE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
Shipment of THE FAMOUS
Also in stock:
FINE RADIOS $19.95 and up
at the
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
I WONDER — Eddie Howard MOM — Dick Haymes
APRIL SHOWERS —Al lolson TIME Ar TER TIME — Jim Dorsey SUGAR BLUES —Clyde McCoy
Copp's Music Shop
122-124 E. Wayne St.
Excellence in glasses is a matter of precision every step of the way — from examination to the final adjustment of the RX to your eyes.
234 S. Midi. St. Ph. 2-4405
Waltz Me Around Again. Willie . . .
The flurry of dances since Easter (one a week) draws to a close tonight with the presentation by the Class of ’47 of the annual Senior Ball . . . fine dances, most of them . . . but sometimes the floor was so crowded you couldn’t tell who your partner was . . . but then again, that may have been an advantage.
Getting back to the dance, the site tonight is the Palais; Frankie Masters provides the music; the rest is up to the seniors and their drags . . . Play, Maestro!
Snow Joke. Chum . . .
The controversial Snow and More Snotv which drew much comment during the past couple of weeks were joined this week by a new item, Still More Snow. Mid-May and Indiana featured an inch of snowfall. Hearing of this, Senator Mugwump P. McGillicuddy introduced a bill in Congress to give the Hoosier State back to the Indians. Big Chief Wakarusa, when asked for comment, replied, “Keepum. Indian no wantum. Let Notre Dame suffer.”
Lapels or No Lapels . . .
Many men on campus have rebelled at the newest thing in men’s fashion, coats without lapels. Okay, chum, cut your own throat, but don’t say we didn’t warn you.
Skirt Seeks Swabbie . . .
A chick from Gloucester, Va., wrote to a Brooklyn draft board the following plea:
“I have been trying to find the home address of R-------T-------who was stationed on the SS. Pigeon at Yorktown, Va., during the spring of ’46. My reason: I’m in love with him.’’
Any swabbies with the initials E. T. and a guilty conscience can write to the Office of Selective Service Records, N.Y.
On Foreign Fields . . .
With the signing of the contract between Notre Dame and Indiana U. for a football series to begin in ’48, ND men will no longer be forced to listen to the childish chatter of downtowners who insist that the boys from Bloomington can dispose of Purdue and the Irish both in a single afternoon.
We tip our collective chapeaux to Bo McMillan, the Hoosier from Texas, who shows none of the fear indicated by other Big Nine coaches who refuse to schedule the Blue and Gold.
Short Shorts . . .
The Ohio State Lantern reports that it takes from 24 to 25 persons to care for ■> an average patient at the University Hospital . . . and at Northwestern, the minus grading system is on the way out, due to the protests of students. The 11 Daily Northwestern also blasts stylists for lengthening the skirts of women and deemphasizing curves. Brother, move «, over . . . Southern Cal has again come up with something new in the way of dances, a “Bad Taste in Fashion” dance. The couple at the dance displaying the • ' worst taste in clothes will be awarded a prize . . . Tap Day is scheduled at Missouii U. Evidently the men are tir- . ing of that bottled stuff ... At Eeed College in Portland, a student was booked on suspicion for sitting on a campus bench at night, reading poetry. Students * protested that reading Shelley by moonlight is not a sign of insanity; students massed on a street corner reading poetry + aloud by moonlight the following night. , Sometimes we have our doubts.
Farewell . . .
With this issue, we bring to a dose -the work of the past year. At times, we’ll have to admit we were almost driven to desperation trying to write copy the ( night of the deadline, but we always had “Upper Slobovia On The Dixie” to fall back on. Thank you, girls.
But at this stage of the game, we wish ■= to thank our friendly censors, the editors, and affable faculty adviser, Eev. C. J. Laskowski, who have helped us inestimably by wielding the blue pencil as little as possible. There is nothing that irks a writer more than to find that his best copy has been censored. It has -been a year of friendly association and our only sorrow is that it cannot continue in the future. Good luck, to one and ; all in any new venture.
And now that the year is ended and . most freshmen will be sophomores, sophomores will be juniors, juniors will be seniors, and seniors will have to start working for a living, it’s also time for us to put away our typewriter till next fall.
To the seniors, you lucky men, we x want to extend our best wishes for success in your chosen fields.
As for the underclassmen, you peasants . . . see you next September. Have r fun!
6
tion of the statue atop the Dome. To Our Lady, who has brought us all through a hectic year.
. ------- - ... ------...	. By John A. O'Connor
Notre Dame men are thundering down the homestretch now, in various stages of psychoneurosis and mental exhaustion. It’s been a rough year, crammed with bookwork, library excavations, departmental tests, night sessions, term papers and now finals. Most observers agree that it has been the roughest, toughest academic year since pre-Pearl Harbor days.
But other things have helped to offset the grind. Frank Leahy and his staff came through with a National Championship. Our basketeers achieved top-ten recognition and thrilled the home crowds with, dazzling performances.
In the field of entertainment South Bend’s theatre owners gave us more kiddie cartoon shows, more horror films, and more hilariously stupid Class B movies than ever hit a college town before.
And no one can complain about the weather. It was typical northern Indiana, just what we asked for when we came here: consistently unpredictable.
The proms came off regardless of editorial attempts to ban strict formals. Culture came to town in the form of concerts, solo artists, and noted speakers. Campus organizations came through the year skillfully, avoiding major clashes with issues with which they had promised to tangle.
It was a year of happiness and misery, of victories and defeats, of glorious achievements and of blundering errors. Another schoolyear has ended.
ception by the students, Father- McAvoy came through on schedule with his quizzes on that delightful reading material. Some sort of lesser trophy should be awarded to Mr. Abel, of the History Department, for that pip of a question about the 7 GOP Senators who voted against Johnson. That one even floored the erudite profs. Tsk!
Hank Keel. The President of the Vets Club and Associate Editor of the Scholastic finished the semester like he started it. Full of fire, a natural born leader, a zealous worker. But if you lift up his hat you’ll see multiple lacerations and bumps where he’s been banging his head against the Dome.
Joe Flood. Not all are blessed with success in a chosen field. A rip-snorting high-school football star from Rochester, tank chested Joe injured his knee and was lost forever to Notre Dame grid
BAND CANDIDATES TO MEET
All musicians who intend taking advantage of the many opportunities which the reorganized Band is offering next year are asked to report to Mr. H. Lee Hope in his office, the basement of the Music Hall, between 4:15 and 6:00 P. M. Monday, May 19. Besides at least one trip a year, each member is entitled to the various awards given by the Band. More information may be obtained from Mr. Hope * Monday afternoon. There is a future for you in Music!
WANT TO EARN $9000 A TEAK?
Would you like to be your own boss . . . with professional standing in your community? Then you’ll be interested in the opportunities offered by a career in life insurance selling for The Mutual Life. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
If you can qualify, we offer a 3-year on-the-job training course, with a guaranteed income for the first two years to help you become established. After that, the Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan provides an opportunity for earnings limited only by your own efforts ... plus a liberal retirement income at 65. Send for Aptitude Test Today! Address Room 1104
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
Because no one has come to the fore to sound their praise, we take this parting opportunity to bestow on certain campus characters what little glory comes with the printed headpat. The following men have distinguished themselves in one way or another:
Tom Golden. He never misses a “hello.” If you don’t answer him he’ll follow you to your room, pull the covers back from your snoozing form, and plant a mallet in your skull. If he knows you, you’d better answer “H’lo.”
Father McAvoy. For tricky History departmentals this man can’t be beat. Despite rumors that the whole idea was going to be chucked because of poor re-
wars. But he has another God-given talent, which cannot so easily be side-tracked by a loco cartilege. He has a beautiful golden tenor voice, and in a world too full of mundane worries and woe it’s a breath of Heaven itself to hear Joe sing “Danny Boy” or “Because.” Next year he should sing for the whole student body. We’ll put an N.D. man in Grand Opera yet!
Father Craddick and Father Murray. They’re on the job with daily confessions and communions, and many a Sundaymorning Mass-goer is thankful to find them in the little box.
And lastly a grateful bow in the direc-
Onceover and a clean_ shave!
cwuMwao n TIE MMUN FIIEMMS CIMNLMY firn Sm Sfat Wt
9

\hted the most wanted pen for graduation
66
rarker
PLAN TO WRITE YOUR WAY TO SUCCESS
WITH THE WORLD'S MOST WANTED PEN
Parker “51" Pens are available in the following colors: Black, Blue Cedar, Dove Gray, Cordovan Brown. 512.50; 515.00. Pencils: S5.00: 57.50. Vacumatic Pens, 58.75. Pencils, 54.00.
Seniors at 20 great universities, coast to coast, have made Parker their first choice—more wanted than the next three makes combined! Here is a pen of rare beauty and precision—perfectly balanced—eager to write. Writing is actually fun with a “51”. Its tubular point starts instantly. Each stroke is smooth and silent. This, too, is the pen that writes dry with.wet ink!
So whether you’re graduating this year or later, get a “51” now. Let it help you write your way to success. For graduation, your birthday, or whatever the next gift occasion may be—ask for the world’s most-wanted pen . . . Parker “51”. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin and Toronto, Canada.
Copr. 1M7 by The Parker Peo C»
3
Seniors, like subsistence checks, come and go. For four years the incomprehensible has been expounded to the ignorant by the inconsistent. What are the results? In the interests of research, we collared one Frank MacCauley, asked him to give a toenail recap of his college career. Although interesting, the results were of meaningless import; Mac-Cauley is a Brooklynite. His kernels of knowledge follow:
Freshman Year
1. The only loophole in the Student Manual is the one used to hang yourself.
Sophomore Year
> 1. The draft board’s “red tape” was ' stronger than my father’s pull.
Junior Year
1.	A “snap course” is one in which the professor doesn’t take roll, doesn’t give homework, doesn’t flunk anyone, doesn’t exist.
2.	All women are untrustworthy.
Senior Year
1.	Hamlet was not Shakespeare’s son.
2.	Esquire has gone down in quality.
Cleveland Calling
Fifteen minutes before game time in Cleveland’s huge municipal stadium, a bugle blasts a burly toooot toot, a bass drum booms and onto the playing field rushes Bill Veeck’s war-whoopers, sometimes referred to as Petrillo’s outlaws. Off the field, and without the war paint, this combo is known as Tony Granata’s Melo-Masters. They will be swinging it at the Cleveland Club’s annual summer dance to be held sometime in August. Bill Eggers, dance chairman, announces that the sheebang will be held at Tudor Arms, an imposing pile of masonry on Cleveland’s East Side.
Thus, with an air of formality, the Cleveland Club wishes to announce to all of its absentee members (i.e.: those who never attend their meetings) that they should keep their eyes glued to the bulletin boards for the prices, date, and dress. There’s a meeting coming up the 21st, fellas.
Four's a Crowd
An idea of just how low interest has been this year in campus politics can be obtained from the report about the Toledo Club elections. Only four members showed up for the meeting—three of the four were running for president.
52-20 or Bust
Now that summer is just around that proverbial corner, most of the clubs have been offering various types of summer employment to their members. Work, to most students, is a word placed in the same category with yellow jaundice, mumps and leprosy. At the last meeting of the Indianapolis Club, Richard J. Wilson, a Zahmite, turned the tables on the club president by submitting his own list of preferred jobs. His choices:
1.	Sorority house chaperon.
2.	Companion at baseball games.
3.	Baby tender: must be 21 or over, blond.
4.	Daily calendar ripper.
Poll Hoarse
With the polling about as heavy as a Phalanx bettor’s wallet, the Rural Life Club elected Bob Brzezinski, president; Dick Herberg, vice president; and Jim White, secretary, at their last meeting. . . . At the Cleveland Club’s last meeting
Notre Dame Victory March
The musical units were made for us in Switzerland before the war and we have just recently been able to secure fine blue and gold cases for them. Most are powder boxes, but there are cigarette boxes, fine leather jewel cases and candy boxes as well. Prices start at $8.25. All the musical units are 22 note, not to be compared with those used in many cheap powder boxes. Only 150 all together and when these are gone it may be several years before we can secure another importation.
HARRY E. BERG
Registered Jeweler - American Gem Society 109 W. Jefferson Blvd.
MUSICAL POWDER BOXES
in the Rock, Bill Braun was elected president; Chuck Roult, vice president; Frank Novak, secretary; and Bob Lally, treasurer.
Last Thursday night, the Syrian-Lebanese Club elected their new officers for the ’47-’48 school year. Dick Abowd of Fostoria, Ohio, replaced Dave Skory, Indianapolis, in the president s slot; Faris Mansour- of Fayetteville, N. C., took over the secretarial post vacated by Paul Abraham of Cleveland; Ted Mansour, Flint, Mich., was elected the new secretary to replace Joe Sagarus of Bellaire, Ohio; and Fred George of Jackson, Ohio, replaced Dick Deeb of St. Petersburg, -Fla., as treasurer.
Amen. Brother!
It’s curtains for this semester. But before we put this ugly un-oiled Underwood into cosmoline for the summer, we want to thank all of the scribes who tossed the information our way so regularly each week. So, in the words of the anti-Russians, “we’re going to quit Stalin!”
Texas Club to Picnic
At the regular meeting of the TEXAS Club on May 1, plans were made for a picnic which is to be held on Sunday, May 18th. There will be food, music, games and girls.
9
UK UOTRf DUIIK SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Five Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
John Defant, Editor ASSOCIATE EDITORS H. Smith Keel Frank Keenan
ANNIVERSARY SECTION EDITOR Ted Weber, Jr.
REWRITE
Bob Stock Ed Snyder Joe Doyle
NEWS STAFF
Jim Clepiens, Editor
Shaun McDermott, Associate. Editor
Bill Bradley Pete Reiner Vern Kelley George McCarthy
John Noonan Steve Valetich
Joe Herrington Lou Horning John Sullivan Tom Murray Phil Shea
John Waters
SPORTS STAFF Joe Cheney, Editor Pete Brovm, Associate Editor
Dave Warner Jim Howard Buzz Wright
Bob Leander John Krueger Bill Slavik
FEATURE STAFF .
Joe Wilcox, Editor Charles Carrol Carter Gerald Heberlein Bill Leavey John A. O’Connor Jerry dwell Bob Vierhile Nicodemus
PHOTO STAFF
John Brogan, Editor Joe Haller John Koewler Gene Reynolds Gene Lorence Bob Gawne
COVER
Herb Daker
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
_______________________Faculty Advisor
Bob Kopf ______________Business Manager
Tom Gargan Circulation Manager
M. E. Varga__________________ Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC Is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office. Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Ute	.
80th Anniversary
An octogenarian is usually permitted —sometimes even encouraged—to reminisce and be slightly self-congratulatory in the process. Availing itself of these prerogatives the Scholastic today celebrates its 80th birthday with a look back at itself and the University during those years. For it was in 1867— September 7 to be exact—that the Scholastic Year was bori0
In the ensuing 80 years the magazine has watched the University grow and has grown itself. Born a staid, sedate and conservatively made-up publication the Scholastic has kept pace with changing styles until today, in its 80th year, it has come to feature color covers and occasionally interiors, relies heavily on photographs and is at times anything but conservative in dress.
In that 80 year span the SCHOLASTIC has, we believe, maintained and followed the objective laid down by founding Father Gillespie—to record accurately and completely the campus year. Today, as perhaps often in the past, the magazine feels the scorn of occasional critics. Discounting the portion of those criticisms that must be attributed to nothing but good, healthy campus griping, there remain the objections of those who seriously believe the magazine fails as a student publication. To these we must point out that the magazine in its weekly format was nevei’ intended to be a “news” magazine in the strictest sense of the term; that neither is the Scholastic intended to be any sort of campus scandal sheet.
Rather the magazine has continued on the task outlined in the first issue, chronicling life at Notre Dame and doing this while balancing responsibilities to the school, its students, and the school’s friends for whom the magazine serves as a connecting link.
LAST SCHOLASTIC ISSUE
This is it — the last issue of the SCHOLASTIC uatil next fall. The Juggler will put in its final appearance next Friday to wind up the publication year.
Monday night at 6:30 in the faculty dining hall the staffs of the DOME, JUGGLER and SCHOLASTIC will be feted with the annual publications banquet.
STUDENT COUNCIL ELECTION CALLED OFF
Due to an apparent lack of interest among the students and the failure of slates to be turned in, the election for officers of the Student Council will not be opened to the student body as previously announced.
That has always been the Scholastic’s aim.
It is the magazine’s aim this year as it passes its eightieth birthday and begins to eye the century mark.
Ted Weber, jr.
Anniversary Section Editor
Credit Lines
Another Scholastic year has ended.
During the past year the Scholastic has criticized and been criticized. Probably never before in its 80-year span has the Scholastic yelled and been yelled at so much. In the belief that criticism is good, that its lash is a beneficial goad, we trod on toes deliberately. But in leveling our guns the columns were left open to counter-attacks; blasts at the Scholastic always received top billing in the Letters column. Mistakes have been made; those we regret. The over-scrupulous read into some stories that which was not there and never intended to be; that is to be expected.
But all in all it was a good year. The Scholastic suffered a plentitude of frustrations and disappointments, achieved a modicum of success. Responsible for the success achieved is the staff, for a publication can be only as good as its writers. Made up of students from practically all the colleges and departments—even a few journalism majors stepped down from the Olympian heights they apparently inhabit to join the working press— the staff deserves a thank you from the student body for much hard work that received little recognition.
To the Brothers at the Ave Maria Press goes our sincere appreciation for their labors in printing the Scholastic week after week. For the technical skills of Brothers Alcuin and Sabinus and the men of the composing room and press rooms which helped make the Scholastic a better magazine, and for the aid of the binding and mailing departments, we say thank you.
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 26, 1918.
VOL. 88, NO. 25
MAY 16, 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Gen. Kenney and Msgr. Newton to Speak
To Address Grads Commencement Sun.
General George C. Kenney, Commanding General of the Strategic Air Command and Chief of the Pacific Air Command during World War II, will deliver the principal address at the 102nd commencement exercises on June 1 when 638 undergraduates and 48 graduate students receive their degrees.
The graduating class is comprised of 240 in the College of Commerce, 162 in the College of Arts and Letters, 137 in the College of ‘ Engineering, 70 in the College of Science, and 29 in the College of Law.
General Kenney, a native of Brookline, Massachusetts, played a vital role in the Allied victory over Japan in World War II. Inventor of the destructive parachute bomb and numerous other bomb improvisations, he also introduced skipbombing, lob-bombing, and the special bomb fuse which enabled the U. S. Air Forces to vii-tually destroy the Japanese Navy.
In the prewar expansion period in 1939, Kenney, a major, became Chief of Production at Wright Field, Ohio. A year later he went to France as Assistant Military Attache and was promoted to Lieutenant Colonel. Returning to Wright Field, he became Technical Executive and later Commander of the Experimental Depot and Engineering School.
Promoted to Major General, Kenney assumed command of the Fourth Air Force in 1942 and in July of the same year arrived in the Southwest Pacific to become Commanding General of the Allied Air Forces in that theatre at a time when the Japs were in complete control of the air. From that time he developed the allied air fleet that spearheaded the victory over Japan.
The Baccalaureate address on Commencement Sunday will be delivered by the Rt. Rev. William L. Newton, noted (Continued on Page 34)
Gen. George C. Kenney
Rt. Rev. William L. Newton
400 SENIORS AND DATES TO DANCE TO FRANKIE MASTER'S BAND TONIGHT
It will be a big night in a Rio setting, without the rain, for over 400 couples who will dance to the masterful strains of Frankie Masters and his orchestra at the Palais Royale tonight at Notre Dame’s number one social event of the year, the Senior Ball. The Ball will be broadcast over station WSBT from 11:30 p. m. until midnight.
The doors to a night of gaiety and enchantment will swing open at 10:00 p. m. and the Latin-American atmosphere will prevail in all its splendor until 2:00 a. m. Late permissions end at 3:00 a. m. In addition, car privileges have been granted for the weekend by the Prefect of Discipline providing license numbers are registered with him.
Co-queens for tonight’s first post-war extravaganza are Miss Rosemarie Lub- . bers and Miss Patricia Crowe, both of South Bend, respective guests of Rudy Anderson and Elmer Matthews, Cochairmen for tonight’s affair. Other hon
ored guests include Miss Elizabeth Briggs of Watertown, N. Y., who will be escorted by Ticket Chairman Jack Galloway; Miss Sally Thorson of Chatfield, Minn., who will be the date of Willoughby Marshall, Decorations Chairman; Miss Theresa Voll of South Bend, who will be the guest of Arrangements Chairman Herb Daiker; Mrs. Dorothy Waddington of Chicago Heights, Ill., the wife of Publicity Chairman Bill Waddington; Miss Mary Irene Kiley of Chicago, HL, who will be escorted by Donnelly McDonald, Saturday night chairman; and Miss Barbara Donahue of South Bend, the guest of Jerry Mahon, Saturday night Arrangements Chairman.
Patrons for the Senior Ball include Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence H. Baldinger, dean of the Science school; Mr. and Mrs. Clarence E. Manion, dean of the Law school; Mr. and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, dean of the Commerce school;
(Continued on Page 31)
11
^he Seminary

Nearly 125 years ago a parish priest named James Du-jarie, in the little village of Ruille, France, undertook to bring some order out of the chaos of the irreligious years following the French Revolution. For a long time he had seen the imperative need for a society of teaching brothers and so in 1820 he founded the Brothers of St. Joseph. Handicapped by ill health, he resolved in 1835, to place his Society under the direction of his friend, Basil Anthony Moreau, who had for some years been teaching at the little seminary of Tesse.
Father Moreau recognized that there was a pressing • need for a company of priests for missionary work, especially
in the small neglected parishes of France. In 1836 he formed	i
a small group of missionary priests and called them the	(
Society of Auxiliary Priests. Immediately he was faced with , the problem of uniting and stabilizing his two Societies. Their
novitiate was situated in the little suburb of Holy Cross, near J
Le Mans, and the priests and brothers were called “The Re
ligious of Holy Cross” by the villagers.
Just about the time the community spread into Algeria, Father Moreau in response to the plea of the Bishop of Vincennes, sent Father Sorin and six Brothers to America in 1840. In 1847 a group was sent to administer to the French immigrants in Canada. In 1852 priests and brothers were sent to the vast pagan delta of the Ganges, in Bengal, India. It became necessary now to refuse requests for workers at Jerusalem, Natchez, and Buenos Aires.
Coincidentally with this rapid spread of the community, Father Sorin was penetrating the northern frontier of Indiana with the purpose of establishing a college. Soon after he founded his long dreamed of College of Notre Dame du Lac, he realized the necessity for American priests to continue the work of Catholic education and so established Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame. Since that time the University has become a household word in America. But contrary to opinion, Holy Cross Seminary is not a part of the University. It is a separate and distinct institution in which young men are trained for the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross of which Notre Dame is but a unit. Father Sorin felt that candidates should be received in their younger years so that they could grow up and develop in the atmosphere of Holy Cross and thus become deeply imbued with the spirit, the traditions, the intellectual and spiritual discipline of the Congregation. For this reason he founded the institution which in time became known familiarly as the “Little Seminary.”
Top: At 5:20 in the morning that bell can sound like the crack of the Day of Doom. The seminarian still in bed pretends he's dead.
Second: Christmas midnight Mass. The seminarians chant churchly Gregorian. The chapel is noted for its medieval-like stained glass.
Third: The seminarians stow away dinner like farmhands. The Sisters show them special favors in the form of extra desserts.
Bottom: If their mothers could only see them now! At least once during his four years at Holy Cross, the seminarian is detailed to the dishes. Otherwise, he feels he isn't initiated.
and
installed an untrustworthy spring board which makes
Third: In. .wintertime the. seminarians race down
seen yo wid
seminarian!"
Mary's lake, on the land-
In these pleasant surroundings the seminarian may apply himself to his studies in peaceful quiet in preparation for his. life as a teacher. Here he may also meditate on the dignity of his calling and become filled with the eventful history that preceded him at Notre Dame.
But the seminary isn’t all meditation and study. The seminarian, like any average high-schooler, is no blue nose, needs to stretch his muscles and bum up super-charged exuberance. At Holy Cross he gets plenty of opportunity in play and manual work.
ri
"Dat was no gen man — dat was a Yak, Yak.
Second: The older seminarians such as these war vets sleep and study in 4-bed dormitories. The seminary priests volunteer to help them over hurdles in Greek and Latin.
Top: The Seminary library open at all hours caters mainly to humanistic appetites. The seminarian is encouraged to use the University Library as much as possible. Heading of novels, however, is supervised.
the miniature Alps that overhang St. Three-point landings are easily evident scape.
Bottom: “Who was dat gen'man Ah las' night?"

Holy Cross Seminary, a conglomeration of buildings faced in front with a trim Gothic dormitory, is situated on a wooded knoll overlooking a beautiful springfed lake about a hundred yards across and perhaps a quarter of a mile long. Standing on the broad lawn which sweeps down to the edge of the lake, the seminarian may look across and see the golden dome of Notre Dame’s administration building and the graceful spire of Sacred Heart Church. Of » May evening he may hear Notre Dame students sing hymns unabashedly at the Grotto.

In the summer* time, whenever the Indiana weather lapses from character and becomes fair, the seminarians, who run the gamut from a fresh fourteen to the world-wise thirty of a war veteran, engage in various sports such as softball and baseball. Competition is spirited between teams which are given ferocious names such as “The Lions” or “The Tigers.” Engaging in these sports under the supervision of the seminary priests not only gives the seminarians much needed exercise but trains them in the spirit of fair play.
Baseball isn’t a sport meant only for the seminarians. A couple of Sundays ago, some of the suppler priests at Holy Cross and the seminarians played their annual baseball game. Although the rains came at the end of the fourth inning with the seminarians leading 2 to 0, the priests threatened a daring come-back on Ascension Thursday. Most talented among the pitchers’ breed is Father Grimm, C.S.C., the superior, who recently held the sems scoreless for four innings.
During the hot summer months, the seminarians pile into the lake at the edge of their property. Some of the handier seminarians have constructed their own pier and diving tower


many a Hedging Weismuller feels he’s a bird in the high, open blue before he pancakes on the surface of the lake.
Holy Cross practices a very fundamental kind of democracy. To forestall distinctions among seminarians, they are forbidden to carry money. Each one has an account which may be drawn upon with permission. When money is spent, as for instance, on holiday walks when the candy stores along the Dixie are invaded, the same amount is allowed to each.
Meals at Holy Cross along with a hearty consumption of food become vociferous gab-fests save for the few minutes of silence when a spiritual book is read. Nowhere does one become so completely con.-cious of an uninhibited freedom of speech as here when between mouthfuls of the Sisters' good food, the seminarians argue as to who struck out whom or whether the Latin prof has a right to assign such marathon papers. All the credit for the meals goes to three hardworking. self-effacing nuns of the Congregation of Notre Dame of Cleveland. Sisters Zacharia, Edna, and their cheery Mother Superior. Sister Hedwig. After some prodding, the Sisters admitted that the favorite all-time meal is breaded pork chops, and that the No. 1 favorite at breakfast is the crusty Notre Dame bun, whose secret recipe generations of Brother bakers have guarded with their lives.
The seminarian’s life of hard play and study naturally is crowned by his life of prayer. When an ancient handbell clangs at -5:20 in the morning, the seminarian has to roll out of bed and muster what he hopes is a sincere, “Deo Gratias.” Shortly after he goes to chapel for a twenty-minute period of meditation in which he simply thinks about the greatness of God and tells Him of his personal problems. That he isn’t always successful at this is witnessed to by the prefects who wisely become temporarily blind when a seminarian, crushed under heavy thought, falls asleep.
In a house known far and wide for its cheerful, hospitable personnel, the best known personality is able, humorous Brother Peter who at SO has spent more than 60 years in , service of the Congregation and since has grown to a Community Encyclopedia of the past. Religious, faithful to his	*
duties, an expert in the art of story telling, he is the first	•
to report for morning prayer, and the last to leave the chapel at night. Besides being the bookkeeper for Holy Cross, he . also helps with the accounts of some South Bend parishes. Beloved for his hearty laughter, founder of schools in India and the United States, he loves to tell how once in a hurricane a huge church steeple pinned him face down on a gram- -mar out of which he had just been giving a whopping assignment.
One of Brother Peter's best friends, and his understudy, is quiet humble Brother Athanasius, whose job it is to attend to the chickens when the seminarians are at class and to keep the cemetery in trim. A simple but expressive example of Brother Athanasius’ thoughtfulness for others was best related by one of the seminarians recently: “Brother Athanasius built a small runway the other day for the baby chicks so that they could easily get in and out of their house. And then he became more thoughtful. He built sides on the run- ' way so that the chicks wouldn't fall off.’'
A lot has been written and said about the fabulous spirit of Notre Dame; but little mention is made of the people who • create it. Until 1920 few outsiders ever wondered about the spirit of Notre Dame or where it originated. It became the self-appointed duty of Knute Rockne who started so many traditions at Notre Dame to investigate the origin of this miracle. Pointing at the Seminary one day, he said, "There is where the spirit of Notre Dame was born.” And he should have known for he had so much of that spirit himself. •
Cardinal Tisserant Tells of Papal Efforts to Merge Cultures in Speech Here
Eugene Cardinal Tisserant, secretary of the Congregation of Oriental Rites in the Catholic Church, was given an ovation by students and faculty of the University of Notre Dame following his address on the influence of the Vatican in promoting cultural relations between eastern and western Europe. He spoke in the engineering auditorium.
Cardinal Tisserant discussed how the popes continued for several centuries— 10-54 to 1453—to keep their attention fixed on the eastern part of the Roman empire even after dissent had developed in the Byzantine clergy, and how the popes helped to bring about a merging of Greek culture with Latin culture, which gave birth to the renaissance.
Left to right: Rt. Rev. Msgr. Thomas McMahon, Very Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., provincial, and Cardinal Tisserant
Badin Hall Celebrates 50+h Anniversry
Badin Hall, which fancies itself as the Tammany Hall of Notre Dame, has more proverbial firsts to its credit than the state of Texas. Next week it chalks up another: its Golden Jubilee as a campus residence hall.
The occasion will be celebrated by the present inmates of Badin next Monday night, May 19th, down in the Bronzewood Room of the La Salle Hotel, in what promoter Bill Stockman promises will be “four hours of bedlam.” Bill fur-
“If the relations of the papacy with Byzantine emperors and churchmen, through official envoys and missionaries, did not prevent the fall of the capital of the eastern Roman empire, yet they had effects which were projected behind simple political history,” the cardinal said. ‘‘Those relations were the most efficient channel for the transmission to us of a number of the components of the ancient civilization.”
The world-famous scholar was introduced by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who paid high tribute to the cardinal's scholarship, and to his patriotism in World War I during which he was decorated for bravery while serving as a French soldier.
ther stipulates that it will be “a lallapa-loosa for lallapaloosa’s sake.” Steaks, speeches, syrupy songs, and sundry skits will be the order of the day.
Prior to the banquet, on Monday morning, the Boggers will trek into their hall chapel where they will receive Holy Communion en masse in honor of the past glories of their box-shaped habitat.
At the head of the gaudy entertainment placard Monday night will be Joe Miller, MC and a diligent reader of Joe Miller’s (no relation) Joke Book. Joe will bring out such notables as Jim Donahue, the owner of a golden Irish voice which trilled its debut last week;
MUSIC DEPARTMENT TO GIVE LECTURE RECITAL
the third in a series of lecture recitals presented by the University Music department will be given next Monday evening. May 19th, at 8:15 in Washington Hall by Ralph Thorson, oboist. He will be assisted by Roy O'Neil, tenor. Mr. William Monk, C.S.C., violinist, and Fr. John Gallagher, C.S.C., pianist.
Msgr. Sheen to Speak Here Next Thursday
Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, noted radio orator and arch-foe of Communism, will wind up the 1947 Aquinas Lecture Series, Thursday at 8:15 in the Navy Drill Hall with an address titled "Communism in Action.”
The lecture will be open to all Aquinas Lecture Series season ticket holders and the student body of the University. Students must present their athletic books to gain admittance.
Msgr. Sheen recently completed a series of lectures on Communism over the ‘ Catholic Hour," the national radio program on which he rose to fame as an orator. A leading authority in the field of Christian apologetics, the monsignor has long been a student of the ethical side of economics and political science. In attacking Communism, which he considers a menace to church and state, he has advocated a constructive, educational counter-movement rather than mere criticism.
The monsignor, a professor of philosophy at the Catholic University of America. is also a noted author. Called the "American Chesterton” because of the vigor and lucidity of his books, Msgr. Sheen’s best known works include "God and Intelligence,” "Religion Without God.” “Old Errors and New Labels.” “The Philosophy of Science,” and “The Mystical Body of Christ.”
Msgr. Sheen is not new to the Notre Dame speaking platform, since he has preached at University baccalaureate ceremonies in the past and has been a frequent fixture on the lecture series.
then there’s Bob Cashin who sets a new endurance record singing "Stardust,” taking longer to sing it than Hoagy Carmichael took to write it; and finally there’s Wild Bill Braun who makes a mouth organ sound like an auto muffler.
Of course, there will be dignitaries galore. Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., University president, heads the list. Rev. B. J. Furstoss, the present rector of Badin Hall, Rev. Ted Hesburg, and Brother Meinrad will speak.
15
Grimaldi, Patterson, Diamond, Mastrangelo Win Dome Awards
Frank Grimaldi, Charles J. Patterson, John Mastrangelo, and Arthur M. Diamond have been chosen for the 1947 Dome Awards, it was announced this week by John P. Walker, editor of the yearbook.
The awards are annually given to the four graduating seniors, who, in the estimation of the awards committee, have given noteworthy service to the University and student body from the viewpoint of their extracurricular activities and academic records. Keys, symbolic of the award, will be presented to the four men at the annual Publications Banquet Monday night.
The following students served on the awards committee: William Pelling, president of the student council; Leonard Bodkin, vice-president of the council; Patrick O’Meara, national president of the NFCCS; John Defant, editor of the Scholastic; James Ferstel, photo editor of the Dome; and John P. Walker, editor of the Dome.
Grimaldi, who will receive a B.S. degree in architecture this June, hails from Pittsburg, Kans. During his four-year stay at the University he was editor of the Scholastic, deputy grand knight of the Knights of Columbus, regional president of the NFCCS, secretary of the Wranglers, and a member of the Economic Round Table, Blue Circle, and Architects’ Club.
Patterson, ■whose home is Gretna, Nebr., will receive an A.B. degree magna cum laude. He served as president of the Wranglers, assistant editor of the Juggler, was a student manager, a member
of the Scholastic and Dome staffs, and belonged to the Radio Club and student council.
Mastrangelo, an All-American guard on the 1946 Fighting Irish, names Vandergrift, Pa., as his home town. President of the senior class and a member of the Monogram Club, he will receive a B.S. degree at graduation.
Diamond, who will receive an LL.B, degree magna cum laude, is a home town boy. He was editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, president of the Villagers Club, and a member of the Scholastic Staff, Radio Club, and Student Council.—Ed Snyder.
May Allow Campus Honor Fraternities
Hold your hats boys, it looks like tradition may look the other way very shortly and allow scholastic honor fraternities to move onto the Notre Dame campus. Does this mean frat parties, contortionist handshakes, and everybody sporting Greek jewelry? No, the movement sponsored by the campus Catholic Actionists would mean the establishment of appropriate chapters of recognized honor societies.
These honor fraternities, popular in colleges elsewhere, give, by their admittance to membership, recognition of superior scholastic work in their respective fields. For instance, if you’re a 90 average man in Law you might be considered for membership in the Phi Delta
Phi. And you could wear the fraternity key. And when you’re out in the business world talking over torts with the fledg- . ling barristers from Harvard and Stanford, you can point to your key and say, “See, I’m wearing one too!”
Surveys of wise opinion have come up with both pros and cons on this question. Those for it claim honor fraternities rec- I ognize unusual merit in special fields, -I are part of established academic tradition, and are an incentive for superior ! work. So far at ND there is no parallel of the athletic monogram in academic work.
Opponents claim the whole idea of honor fraternities is undemocratic, and after all the whole thing hinges on the prof’s judgment and grades. But then so do pink slips!
So though there is no guarantee, it is just possible that by next fall some sort * of official approval may be forthcoming, if the Catholic Action boys push the issue. If it does come, typesetters had bet- 4 ter polish up their Greek.—John A. O’Connor.
Kervick, Gallaugher Enter Architectural Contest
Two applicants from Notre Dame, Francis W. Kervick and Patrick Gallaugher, have entered the nation-wide architectural contest to secure a design for the $30,000,000 memorial to Thomas Jefferson and the pioneers of the western expansion of the United States.
Eighty acres along the Mississippi River, in St. Louis, have been made available for the memorial. Sponsoring the contest is the Jefferson National Ex- t pansion Memorial Association, and prize money totals $125,000. The contest is open to architects, construction engineers, and architectural students.
16
THE SCHpi^W
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE OAfcfDEVOTED TO-fHE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Vol. I.	Iff ot#a	University, Sept. 7, 1867. Tffo. 1.
SAWUVA'TOEY!
We greet the Triends of Notre Dame and St.
Mary’s.	*
It may be well to explain to them the object of The Scholastic Year:
It has been undertaken in order to give to parents frequent accounts of the institutions in which they have placed their children; institutions in which the parents’ hearts must be, so long as their children remain, and of which all who have visited it retain, we hope, a pleasing remembrance.
We wish to convey to parents, in a less formal way than by the Monthly Bulletin of Classes and Conduct, -which is sent to the parents of each student, all the news that may concern their children.
We shall give an account of all the arrivals at the College and Academy, both of students and friends; of the general and relative progress of the classes; of those students who distinguish themselves in class, in study, and athletic sports,— and many other interesting items, which, though not of importance in the great world, are of great moment in the “Student-World,” and will be extremely interesting to parents. They (the parents) will see la vie intime—“the Family Circle”— of the College, and can form a good idea of the life their children lead.
As the year goes on we shall also give, either entire, if short, or in part, if long, the best compositions from the classes. In order to make The Scholastic Year a healthy and long lived paper we have connected it with the Ave Maria, a well-established periodical. We have engrafted the tender bud on a strong and vigorous tree. But The Scholastic Year will be adjoined only to the edition of the Ave Maria intended for parents.
However, as the Ave Maria is a strictly Catholicpaper, if any of the parents object to receive it, we beg them on the reception of this first number of The Scholastic Year, which is sent to all, to inform us of their unwillingness. Much as we are interested in the cause for which the Ave Ma
ria is published—much as we wish to increase its circulation—we do not wish to force it on any one by tacking it to this publication. We beg to be told immediately, if any one has an objection to receiving the Ave Maria with The Scholastic Year, and we shall send, if desired, The Scholastic Year without the Ave Maria.
The Scholastic Year, either with, or without the Ave Maria, is $2.50 for ten months—postage prepaid and included in the §2.50.
On the other hand we do not wish it to be thought that we are making the Ave Maria a special medium for advertising the College and Academy. We have carefully avoided mentioning, in the pages of the Ave Maria, every thing pertaining particularly to the College and of no interest to the vast majority of the readers of that paper It is true that on the cover of the Ave Maria, among the other advertisements, may be found the advertisements of Notre Dame and oaint Mary’s, but no fault can be justly found with that; for we advertise all institutions that request us- to do so.
We are thus explicit, because always in the inception of an undertaking, there are many speculations concerning motives.
Our motive in publishing the Ave Maria, is found in the Prospectus of that paper—and any thing that vrould interfere with the object of that paper is severely left alone.
Our motive in publishing The Scholastic Year has been stated above.
Our motive in adjoining it to the Ave Maria, has also been stated, viz: that a connection with that Paper may ensure a long and vigorous life to The Scholastic Year.
80tk
Y1
1867—THE SCHOLASTIC’S YEARS-1947
Published Weekly at Notre Dame, Devoted to the Interests of the Students
Vol. 1. Sept. 1867
Notre Dame, Ind.
May, 1947, Vol. 88
^irtijbap!
Sometime back in the forgotten fog of the early fifties, the ugly head of student journalism was raised for the first time at Notre Dame. The entrepreneur was one John Collins, who decided that the literary output of his contemporaries was worth recording. .He embodied what was then considered deathless prose in a journal called the Notre Danie Literary Gazette. The deathless prose proved singularly mortal; it passed away after its first issue, “summarily destroyed” by a prefect, because of a “misunderstanding.” History records no more of the Literary Gazette, but its father, an intrepid spirit—enterprising students in the fifties had to be intrepid spirits—was aroused to greater heights by the foul deed.
The child of Collins’ second effort proved more robust. It was a hand-written sheet which Collins called “Progress,” and which he laboriously wrote by hand, one copy a week. In a few weeks, students were clamoring for it, and before long it had received the blessings of the administration and was being read aloud in the study halls.
“Progress” lapsed in 1863, when its guiding spirit, the Rev. N. H. Gillespie, went to France. While he was gone, abortive attempts were made to produce other publications: the names of the Weekly Bee and Olympic Progress came and went. When Father Gillespie returned to Notre Dame in 1866, he found that a printing plant had been established and that the Ave Maria had begun publication. In the next year, 1867, he founded the Scholastic Year, and thus was begun the eighty year saga of the Scholastic.
The first issue was printed on Sept. 7, 1867. Its purpose: “To give parents frequent accounts of the institution in w’hich they have placed their children.” Included were various letters from doting parents, expressing the wish that
their spirited offspring be governed with firm and judicious discipline, but, judging from the previous record of the University, they could not but be assured that such would be the case. Theirs was none but the firmest confidence. Despite Notre Dame’s proud boast of 105 years as a University, it really was more of a prep school almost until the turn of the century. When this fact is rememberd, the extraordinary exhortations to students to “mini their parents” which appeared in the early issues can be understood.
The Scholastic Year was not averse to calling names in pointing out student defections. One hapless youth had come nigh destruction via a railroad train while fishing on an Iowa trestle bridge during the summer. The Scholastic Year seized upon the unfortunate occurence and used it to point a moral: Don’t disobey your fathers. Said the Scholastic Year: “All his old associates regret the accident, and may they all take a lesson, therefrom; viz. to go no place without permission.” The horrible example, (one Marcus Foote) still limping on crutches, wrote to the Scholalstic Year and told the editors that he was deeply hurt; that he had been in no wise guilty of filial infidelity, but that, nevertheless, he hoped that other young men would profit from his experience and beware of railway bridges thereafter.
What was worse still, the Scholastic Year, in its first few years of life, was nothing more than a snitch. It printed the dates of arrival of the students so that “parents could see whether their sons had loitered on their way.” This practice so outraged the sensibilities of the students that they kept up a steady stream of protests, but the listings persisted.
Letters to the editors in the early days were surprisingly free. Those who had been denounced, denounced in turn; those who had been castigated, castigated back again.
The Rev. Augustus Lemonnier, former president of the University, after whom the Lemonnier Library was named, soon took charge of the magazine and appointed boards of
What Irish football teams at the turn of the century lacked in equipment they more'than made up in brawn
Pictorial evidence that in 1915 a person could be in two places - y at the same time. Woe to delinquent Irishmen!
18
three editors to take charge each week. The broth was spoiled when the many cooks refused to work together, and would not use material prepared by the editors of the previous week. This practice on the part of the prima donna editors caused great consternation among the reading public, and Father Lemonnier again took charge and retained an auxiliary board of editors. This practice prevailed until 1918.
Until 1892, when the St. Mary’s Chimes was founded, the Scholastic Year, which soon, in 1869, became the Scholastic, printed columns of “Correspondence” and honor lists from St. Mary’s. The dates of arrival of the “Young ladies, who charm the young gentlemen with their playing of the piano,” were also duly noted. The last “Correspondence” from St. Mary’s appeared Nov. 26,1892.
The Scholastic was a weekly and a bi-weekly off and on until 1872, when it became a weekly for good, with the exception of a short time in the early ’twenties when it was supplanted as a news magazine by a daily paper which languished and died in 1925. Since that, it has retained its present format.
Most of the Scholastic’s eighty years have been spent as a literary or semi-literary magazine. For decade after decade, it published long orations given in Washington Hall, the complete text of various dramas given by campus societies, and poetry composed by students and^gjpfessors.
In 1931, however, Scrip, lineal ancestc-' of the present Juggler, was founded, and the Scholastic has since been strictly a news and feature magazine.
After the first twenty-seven volumes, the Scholastic dropped its advertising and got along without it until it changed its style in 1925, when it resumed weekly publication and began to carry more news. It now carries about 33% ads each week, a low average compared with Time’s approximate 65%.
The Scholastic’s attempts at humor have from time to time been questionable. Its first joke went something like this:
“Why is a piece of India rubber, wjth sand in it, like a race horse covered with ink?”
“Because it’s an inky eraser.” (Inky racer).
This sort of humor raged uncontrolled for years, until in 1919 the first Juggler, a smart, first-class humor magazine was founded. While the Juggler lasted only until 1934, dying of the depression, it jolted the Scholastic into a better type of humor. While it still printed the two line joke, it had begun, in 1925, its first column of any consequence, “The Week,” which, at 22, is Scholastic’s oldest, and gradually grew away from the pun as its sole laugh-getter.
For years the Scholastic editorial offices and files were
located in the old Ave Maria building back of the Administration building. During the war an incendiary, who had started numerous fires all over the campus, did the old office in. Lost in the fire were many valuable morgue cuts, which cannot be replaced. The editorial offices are now in the basement of Cavanaugh Hall, located in a room which was rejected by the maids as too small for a broom closet.
Several times the Scholastic has tried to write its own history. The last time, in 1931, it began an imposing series of articles by publishing the first one, but a diligent search of the Scholastic thereafter revealed no further autobiography. Whether it grew over-modest, or bored, will never be known. A previous history, also, had promised to continue, but it, too, had died on the vine. Only once, apparently, in the late nineties, did it finish the job.
In 1898 and 1899, the Scholastic experimented with a daily paper. It came out daily during the examinations, but after those two years it never tried the idea again. Although short lived, the Scholastic’s daily was the first of its kind in the country. Since then an attempt to publish a daily has been made several times, but all have failed.
The Scholastic has never been entirely a student publication. It has always published articles by professors, and has always been under the control of a faculty moderator. There have always been taboos. St. Mary’s baiting, a favorite sport with the Scholastic columnists is currently taboo, as is, for some reason, beer. Editors who have chafed at the bit of restriction and attempted to sow a few wild oats have been pulled up by the halter. At that, the Scholastic today enjoys a greater degree of freedom than it used to. There were times when it resembled a judiciously edited Sundayschool paper.
From time to time the Scholastic has been harassed by clandestine sheets, probably run off on mimeograph machines in the steam tunnels. Last one to make its appearance was the Green Banner, which appeared twice during the school year of 1942-43, blew its top both times, and perished. During the war, the Navy ran something called the Irish Pennant and tried to run the Scholastic at the same time.
Whether or not the Scholastic will last another eighty years is problematical. In its present state it is neither fish nor flesh: it is not a newspaper, nor is it strictly a magazine. It would still print a scoop if it had one. Last year it was rated second to only one other magazine in its field by the Collegiate Press Association. Whether it will still be extant in 2047 nobody knows. The present editors have enough to worry about already.—Joe Wilcox
Powers, Schooke and Coombe, three brawny lads of vintage 1893, ready for a little lab work
Maypole at St. Mary's.
Any relation between that
and contemporary S. M. C. is purely-----
19
Former Scholastic Editors
By JOHN DENNISTON
(John Denniston, farmer administration editor of the Scholastic, is student assistant on the Notre Dame A lumnus.—Ed ito r)
There was a time when The Scholastic Year did not have an undergraduate at the helm. A speedy check through Volume One, started eighty years ago this September, indicates that the Rev. Henry Neal Gillespie, C.S.C., who received his A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1849, was the first editor. He struggled until the end of the first semester that term before organizing the student weekly into a corps of editors. At the outset, in an editorial, the problem was presented quite clearly when they wrote:
‘With the first number of The Scholastic for the first six months of 1868, a new direction will be inaugurated for our little paper.
“The Committee appointed some time ago to relieve the Editor from much of his care and responsibility, have determined to give the paper almost entirely in charge of the students,—of course under the control of one of the members of the Faculty.
“Some twenty-four students have been chosen to form the Editorial Corps. Three every week will have charge of the number, write the editorials, and see that contributions be furnished to make the paper interesting. The general news of classes will of course be still given by the Reverend Director of Studies; apart from this and the official reports from Schools and Academies, the Editors will have the control of the paper.
“As at least five pages of the eight that at present make up The Scholastic, will be filled exclusively by the students, there is no necessity for us to recommend the paper to them. Messrs. W. T. Johnson, J. Fitzharris and George Dixon will edit the first number.”
This scheme of control with its board of editors lasted until 1923 •when the students and the administration attempted to successively convert the Scholastic, now minus the “year” from its title, into a daily and then into a literary. Failing in this endeavor, at the outset of 1924 the Scholastic reverted to its weekly function as a conservative news organ for campus and administrative affairs. At this time, too, they substituted the old board of editors and inaugurated the practice of naming an editor-in-chief and his associated editors. This set-up has continued with varying success down to the present day editorship.
Scholastic has not always been like it is today. Of necessity, it has been forced to make a transition with the changing times. It has done this in a slow but forceful manner. One glance back into the eighty-seven volumes will show this. The editors and editorial groups have had to shift; keep pace.
One often wonders what has become of these early pace setters and leaders of the Scholastic. A rough check through alumni files indicate a reasonable and representative crosssection of what these old editors and associates are now doing.
At home, closely associated with Notre Dame, we find the great majority.
Mr. James E. Armstrong, originator of The Week, and national secretary of the Alumni Association, and Mr. Wil
20
liam R. Dooley, assistant alumni secretary and managing editor of the Alumnus, helped guide the Scholastic through < the mid-twenties. Among the clergy who were builders of the magazine were the Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., head of the department of English; the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., professor of philosophy; and the Rev. William Robinson, C.S.C.
Present day students will also recall John S. Brennan, professor of English; Joseph C. Ryan, associate professor of English; Walter M. Langford, professor of Spanish and varsity tennis coach; Thomas J. Stritch, head of the department of Journalism and his assistant, James Withey; Robert F. Ervin, associate professor of Biology; and Bernard * Feeney, an instructor in the Law School here at Notre Dame, all served with the Scholastic. In the publicity department, John V. Hinkel, director of the department of public information, and his assistants Raymond J. Donovan and Charles Callahan, are former Scholastic men. The late Col. Robert Riordan, registrar of the University was an editor back in ’24.
Former editors still closely connected with Notre Dame are T. H. Beacom, present treasurer of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University and a vice-president of the First National Bank of Chicago, and the noted author from the 1 All-American town, Bellaire, O., Frank Wallace, a vice-president of the National Alumni Association.
J. W. Scallan, vice-president of the Pullman-Standard Car Manufacturing Company, was the first editor-in-chief of Scholastic under the 1924 arrangement. In the sales and advertising fields there is Frank McGinnis, who is sales promotion director of the Ford Motor Car Company. John A. Mullen and Franklyn Doan, both head prominent advertising agencies. Other executives who assisted with editorship of the Scholastic include Dennis O’Neill, account executive with D’Arcy Advertising Agency, Cleveland, 0., Neil Hurley, president of the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company, Chicago, and James S. Kearns, former columnist on Chicago dailies who now heads his own publicity firm in Chicago.
Other clergy who helped put out the news weekly in days gone by are: Rev. A. B. Hope, C.S.C., author of “Notre Dame, One Hundred Years,” and the Rev. Thomas J. Tobin, chancellor of the diocese of Portland, Ore., and the Rev. Paul Hallinan, an outstanding World War II chaplain.
Harry W. Flannery, the Columbia Broadcasting chief of the west coast, and Louis V. Bruggner, owner of the News Center in South Bend, worked together on the 1923 Scholastic. George N. Shuster, president of Hunter College, New York, was faculty adviser at that time.
A creditable number of the former editors have invaded the field of journalism. These include: Charles Molz, a member of the editorial department of the Detroit News; Cliff B. Ward, editor of the Fort Wayne News-Sentinel; Thomas Coman, labor news writer for David Lawrence in Washington, D. C.; Joe Brieg, editor of the Catholic Universe Bulletin, Cleveland; George Haithcock, editor of the “N.C.C.S. News”; Hal Williams of the news department of the Baltimore Sun; and Bill Fay of the sports staff of the Chicago Tribune. Closely associated with this field is Emil Telfel, head of the Journalism department at Loyola University, New Orleans, La. The pre-World War II master of the College Parade, John A. Lynch, recently had his war story, “The Burden,” published as an Atlantic first.
TRACK TEAM STILL HOPING—TRIES FOR FIRST OUTDOOR WIN TOMORROW
Notre Dame trackmen will meet North western and Purdue in a triangular contest tomorrow at Purdue, which offers promise of the first Irish outdoor victory of the year. The Boilermakers have been drubbed by N.D. spikesters twice this season, and should prove no great obstacle on their home field. Offering more competition, but not a sufficient amount to stop the locals will be the Northwestern Wildcats. The team from Evanston has been quite inactive this spring, and not too much is known of their power.
On succeeding Saturdays, the Irish will play hosts to the Indiana State meet, travel to Peoria for another triangular meet, this one with Bradley Tech and Marquette, and wind up the year by participating in the Central Collegi-ates at Marquette.
In the Indiana State contest, the local cindermen will have ample opportunity to clear their record for the season by taking the coveted title. However, the Hoosiers of Bloomington will be a formidable obstacle in view of their 77 to 52 victory over the Irish in last Saturday’s meet.	.
Marquette, and Bradley Tech should fall before the depth and versatility of Notre Dame. The Hilltoppers have been beaten once this sason by N.D., and Bradley Tech although strong in some events does not have the overall strength to score consistently throughout the conests. The great depth of the locals is expected to score. There is also the possibility that some strong performers may capture individual Central Collegiate titles, but Notre Dame will not have ample strength to win the team title.
Tomorrow, N.D. is counting on strong performances from Ray Sobota, Ernie McCullough, and Steve Provost in the 440. In the last week’s contest both McCullough and Sobota traveled the distance under 50 seconds. In the dashes, Dave Murphy and Bob Smith are expected to score. This is Murphy’s last season of competition. He has carried a heavy load.
Luke Higgins gave the best performance of the year last week at Bloomington, tossing the shot for a record distance of 50 feet 9 inches. Graduation will take both Higgins and Sullivan too. Other N.D. entries in the field events are John Johnson, Jack Zilly, and Bob Charters. Zilly is another of the strong arms who will be lost via the degree route. Jack Hunter will carry the local hopes in the broad jump, and Ray Struble, and Jim Miller in the pole vault. Lou Tracy
will do the jumping in a vertical plane at Lafayette.
Bill Leonard, John Lyons, and Tom Maguire will run the mile, and all have an excellent chance of scoring. Cornie Styers and Jim Murphy will run the tortuous two-mile, and due to the relatively poor showings of the Purdue and Wildcat runners this year should be to the tape first. Notre Dame’s record breaking mile relay squad is favored to repeat its performances of the past weeks.
John Smith, captain of the tracksters will have the biggest battle of the afternoon, trying to hold off Bill Porter, N. U.’s terrific hurdler. Porter who has forced the sensational Harrison Dilliard on several occasions this season is also the chief hope of Northwestern in the dashes. He has snapped the tape in :9.9 in the century this year. Larry Keenan and Gerry Johnson are expected to score in the 880 this week. Last week, after leading all the way, Keenan was forced out of the money at the finish.—Jim Howard.
Baseball Team Plays Ohio State Saturday
Jake Kline’s baseball hands are out to prove that the football and basketball athletes are not the only ones at Notre Dame who can show impressive records for their labor. The Irish nine is moving in for a spray of that spotlight.
Currently the ssquad is on a three day swing through the golden plains of Ohio. Last night they were up against Toledo University under the lights at Swayne Field. Today and tomorrow in Columbus the boys will see what keeps the Ohio State Buckeyes so near the top of the Big Nine race. Returning to Cartier sod for the last three games of the season the Irish will wind it up against Purdue, Michigan State, and Western Michigan, the latter to be staged as part of the commencement program.
Going into last Tuesday’s game against Michigan, the ancient rival and nemesis, Notre Dame had chalked up a record of eleven wins, three losses. The squad is well peppered with batting and pitching stars. Tied for the batting leadership are “Wicks” Sheehan and “Yogi” Koz-lik of the leather lungs with .428 apiece. “Huck” Klein, with one day of perfect record, is up to .416 and once again back in with the “400” club. Gene Lavery, ousted at second by Kozlik, is batting .325 thus emphasizing his right to be in there again with the regulars. Though he looks far above average in all departments of the game “Jumbo” Mayo with
.285 is far off his terrific pace of last year, but there are still a good supply of base hits in the bat of the Youngstown larruper which should stand him in good stead when the final tallies are in. The workhorse of the pitching corps this season is drawling, husky Walt Mahannah, the Memphis Cannonball. Mahannah has a four won, none lost record, but actually he has appeared in seven games this season in which he has allowed only twenty-six hits while whiffing twentyeight batters.
Mahannah Wins Another
After being rained out at Northwestern May 6, the Notre Dame baseball team found blue skies and two victories at Bloomington last Friday and Saturday.
The first game was another brilliant triumph for Walt Mahannah who blanked Indiana, 7-0, on three hits. Jack Campbell went the route Saturday, winning 10-2. Irish hitters fattened their averages with 28 hits for the two days. Klein, Koslik, Lavery, and Petrzelka were the big guns on the attack. Lavery, back in the lineup after a lay-off due to an injury, made his debut at shortstop in this series. His success at the plate seems to indicate a liking for this new position.
In the Friday contest, Notre Dame did all its scoring in the third and seventh innings. Indiana used three pitchers in an attempt to quell the Irish barrage.
Third baseman Bob Klein drove in the first two markers with the first of his four singles. Mayo who had singled scored the third run on a Sheehan ground out.
Lavery started the four-run rally in the seventh with a one bagger. He stole second and perched there while Klein was drawing a pass. Mayo doubled Lavery home and sent Klein to third. A long fly by Creevey permitted Klein to come in after the catch. Sheehan then came through with one of his three-base specials that enabled Mayo to tally. A snap throw to third trying to catch Sheehan off base went wild and Big Tom jogged across the plate with run No. 7.
Notre Dame opened the Saturday game with a display of power in the early innings that netted six runs. Second baseman Kozlik, the leadoff man, hammered out a single in the opening frame. Lavery then tripled to bring in Kozlik. Five more tallies were chalked up in the second and fourth. The seventh and eighth produced the final four markers. Indiana did its scoring in the sixth and ninth.
It was Campbell’s second win of the season and No. 11 for the Irish.
—John Krueger
21
Tennis Team Blazing: Wins Seven Straight
One of the least-known athletic activities on the campus has been turned into the hottest spring sport this season. It’s none other than Professor Walter Langford’s tennis team, which last Saturday swept its seventh, straight match from a hapless Kentucky crew, 9-0.
Professor Langford took over the tennis tutoring duties in 1940 and since then his teams have won 49 of 58 matches, while going undefeated in 1942 and 1944. In 1944, his squad tied for the national championship.
Yet his competitors might say, “Who wouldn’t have a good team with stellar attractions like the Evert brothers, Jerry and Jim, Bill Tully, Charles Samson, Phil Lyons, Dick Hartman, Jim Griffin, Ed Caparo, Joe Brown, and freshman Bob David?”
Notre Dame will play host to its first Central Collegiate Conference Tennis Championships since 1930 on May 29, 30, 31, when squads from Michigan State, Western Michigan, Marquette, Bradley, North Central, Northern Illinois State Teachers, DePauw, Cincinnati, Wayne, Detroit, Lawrence and Northwestern clash on courts in the shadow of the dome.
1947 Tennis Team Members
Joseph Brown: Junior from Rochester, N. Y. Earned monograms in 1945, 1946. Earned monograms in football and tennis at Anniston (Alabama) High School. Plans to become lawyer. Served in the A.A.F. for six months.
Edward Caparo: Senior from South Bend, Ind. Previous tennis monograms at Notre Dame in 1943 and 1946. Won two tennis letters at Central High School of South Bend. Served in Navy for 40 months; did navigation work in Pacific.
Robert David: Freshman from Chicago. Only one in first ten on team who is not previous monogram winner in tennis here. Earned seven letters in Senn High School, Chicago, captaining both
TENNIS SCHEDULE
Date Team	Where
April 24—Western Michigan_________________________Home
26—Michigan State___________________________Home
28—Wisconsin ________________________________Away
30—Purdue ___________________________________Home
May 3—Michigan ___________________________________Away
5—Navy Away
10—Kentucky Home
17—Northwestern _____________________________Home
21—DePauw ___________________________________Away
29,30,31—Central Collegiate Conference Tournament —Home
ND's undefeated Tennis Team — First row. left to right: Jerry Evert, Joe Brown, Captain Jim Evert, and Ed Caparo: second row: Coach Walter Langford, Bill Tully. Bob David. Charles Samson, and Manager Jack Camerer.
tennis and basketball teams. In Navy for 14 months.
Gerald Evert: Junior from Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Monogram winner at Notre Dame in 1944, playing number two singles and number one doubles on undefeated teams. Reached semifinals in national collegiate doubles in 1944. Captained Senn High School (Chicago) tennis team two years. Served in Navy for two years.
James Evert: Junior from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., older brother of Gerald. Captain of 1947 tennis team; a monogram winner in 1943. Won four letters in tennis at Senn High (Chicago) captaining the team one year. Won National Junior Indoor Singles, 1940; National Junior Outdoor Doubles, 1941, with Bob Smidle, River Forest, Ill.; Virginia State and Middle Atlantic tournaments 1945; Iowa State tournament, 1943. Playing number one this season at Notre Dame,
N.D.	Opp.
8	1
6	3
9	0
9	0
7	2
9	0
9	0
as he did as sophomore. In Navy for 29 months.
James Griffin: Senior from Evanston, Ill. Monogram winner in 1944, 1945. Rated fine doubles player. Gained seven letters when attending Evanston Township High School. Was in the Navy forj&Vmonths, first in the V-12, later in N.KChlKG.-; finally served in Pacific.
Richard Hartman: Senior from Fort Wayne, Ind. Monogram winner in 1943, 1946. In Army for nearly three years; received bronze star in Italy; received battle field commission. Captained Central Catholic of Fort Wayne tennis team. Was president of his sophomore class.
Philip Lyons: Junior from Clovis, N. Mex. Won letter at Clovis High School. Won monogram at Notre Dame in tennis>, 1946. Served in Army Air Corps for one year.
Charles Samson: Senior from South Bend, Ind. Monogram winner at Notre Dame in 1944, 1945, captaining team
both seasons. Runnerup to Segura for national collegiate title in 1944. Paired with Gerry Evert to reach national doubles collegiate semi-finals. These points were enough to tie Notre Dame for national title.
William Tully: Senior from Bronxville, N- Y. Previous tennis monograms in 1944, 1945, 1946. Also received track awards in same years. Captained tennis team in 1946. Playing in number three position in 1944, Tully did not lose a set. Won seven letters in high school, four in basketball, three in tennis.
22
pwm the- &o<x.
By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
Father Murphy, “Christy” Walsh, chairman of the All-American Board, and Paul Lillis, 1941 football captain, spoke at the breakfast.
Debate Team Wins
Tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 the Old Timers will don padded uniforms and attempt to hold Coach Frank Leahy’s injured disciples to as low a score as they possibly can. According to the latest reports, the Old Timers have nobody on the injured list . . . and very few on theii’ playing list. It looks as if the Irish coach will have to lend some of his lesser lights (the ones that Ed McKeever said he would like to have at San Francisco next fall) to the Old Timers.
The Varsity will probably line up like this: Martin and Hart at end, Fallon and McGehee at tackles, Fischer and Sig-naigo at guard, Strohmeyer at center. Johnny Lu jack will be at quarterback. Sitko and Livingstone may start at halfback with Panelli at fullback. There will be plenty of substitutions made throughout the afternoon. In the backfield, Terry Brennan, Pete Ashbaugh; Bill Gompers, Jim Brennan, Mike Swistowicz, Ray lan-nuccillo, Floyd Simmons, Cornie Clatt, Frank Tripucka, Roger Brown, Bill Heywood, Dick Leous, Gerry Begley, Red Coutre, Lancaster Smith, Coy McGee, Ed Kenefick, and many more will have a chance to see action in the Notre Dame Stadium.
Linemen who will get a chacco d'de Ted Budynkiewicz, Frank Korkiowski, Bill Michaels, Al Lesko, Zeke O’Connor, Bill Wightkin, Jim Flanagan, George Tobin, Espenan, Hudak, Schuster, Kirchner, Bucky O'Connor, Frank Gaul, Art S'tatuto, Bill Vangen, McNichols, Yanos-schik, plus many, many more. George Sullivan, Captain George Connor, and Ziggy Czarobski missed spring practice and will probably view the game from the bench.
Some of the Old Timers who plan on coming here for the game include Bob McBride, Tom Potter, Herb Coleman, Bob Walsh, Johnny Agnone, Steve Juz-wik, Elmer Angsman, Lou Rymkus, Emil Slovak, Jim Mello, Terlip, Glab, Perko, Rovai, Mastrangelo, and Scott. Jack Zilly and Luke Higgins will be away with the track team and will be unable to play. Paul Limont and Bob Skogland are heading for a wedding in Chicago. . . . (Somebody else’s!!!)
The scholarship fund of the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame club will be the recipient of the net receipts from the game tomorrow. The club is composed of Notre Dame alumni in the South Bend vicinity and annually awards a scholar
ship to Notre Dame to a graduate of a high school in St. Joseph county who, in the opinion of the judges, is the outstanding applicant and who is most deserving. Notre Dame students and their wives will be admitted free.
First Communion Breakfast Sponsored by Rebel Club
In the same smooth manner that the first Mardi Gras dance at Notre Dame was staged in February, the Rebels held theii- first Communion breakfast last Sunday to commemorate Mother’s Day.
After Mass in Dillon Hall chapel, with Rev. William D. Borders of New Orleans, celebrating, the Rebels were shuffled off in chartered buses to the Oliver Hotel for breakfast. Speeches were drawled off in order by club officers Joe Signaigo, Jerry White, Dick Aherne, Paul Scalise, and by head-speaker Rev. Joseph A. Barry, C.S.C.
Communion Breakfast Held by Monogram Club Sunday
The Monogram Club observed Mother’s Day with a Communion breakfast last Sunday. Mass was celebrated by Father John Murphy, vice president of the University, at 8:00 a. m. in the Alumni Hall chapel.
About sixty monogram men and several coaches received Holy Communion and after Mass had breakfast in the faculty dining room.
Seniors and their dates will be dancing to Frankie Masters' music tonight. Seated at left is Phyllis Myles; the quartette — Marty, Kay, Pat, and Jo.
National Discussion
The debate team of the University of Notre Dame, after finishing in a tie for third place with Army in the National Debate Tourney at West Point (story on Page 28), won the National Discussion Championship at the seventh annual National Discussion Conference of the Tau Kappa Alpha concluded yesterday at Western Michigan College, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Frank Finn, Notre Dame debater from Dennison, Tex., won the individual discussion championship at the meet with a total score of 424 points, the highest in the history of the tournament.
Samuel Hazo, of Pittsburgh, Pa., and James Beymer, of Pittsburgh, Pa., both were awarded a superior rating in the conference and Hazo was elected by the Congress as Majority Leader.
• • • 1 >
Central-iilini Elect Officers, Plan Banqueti June Dance
The Central Illinois Club met Wednesday afternoon in the Law Auditorium and held its election for the forthcoming school year. Those men coming out on the long end of the ballot count were: Jim Cassidy, president; John Jacobs, vice-president; Bill Turner, treasurer; and Dennis Machasi, secretary.
Final plans were made for the summer semi-formal dance which will be held ip Peoria June 14. Tickets are now on sale and can be purchased from club members.
1947 Football Unveiling Tomorrow
When whistle-time sends the booming kickoff spinning down field in the Varsity-Old Timers game tomorrow, the eager grandstands will get an eyeful of Frank Leahy’s new 1947 football machine. And the new model looks good.
Spectators will see for the first time some rare new talent, and some polished hold-overs from last fall. Daily practice sessions behind Cartier’s green fence are rounding the cleated Irish into greyhound shape. Winter fat rolls off and sturdy muscle is layered on. Nicotined heads are cleared and the eye becomes keen and discerning. Lungs heave like bellows and legs pump like racehorses at the gate. The months of hibernation are past, and a trim crew of gridiron warriors is making ready to take the field.
While the nation’s fans, and the Notre Dame student body, are counting heavily on the recasting of a championship eleven along the same lines as the one that scourged all opposition last fall, the coaching staff is going ahead with the job of moulding green material into first-
class prospects. Never one to put all his eggs in one helmet, Coach Leahy and his high command are working incessantly in an effort to build up a dependable reserve list, out of which any position can be filled to satisfaction. A squint at any practice session brings this out.
Over on the far side of the field, end coach Johnny Druze has his lads lunging at each other with stiff-necked, steel-springed leaps. They’re crashing elbows, shoulder and neck into the opposing tackle in earth-shivering blocks. Out of this forest of timber-tall flankmen will come the lads who will see most of the action come September’s crisp Saturdays.
We’ll overlook the much publicized Martin, Hart and Kosikowski for now, and check the not-so-well-known material. Don Begley, brother of quarterback Gerry, Phil Cantwell from sunny southern California, and James Reis, Macomb, Illinois, all look promising and behave like magnets on the receiving end of red-hot passes. Ray Espenan and Jim Flanagan are two more gum-fingered receiv
ers. Two boys to keep your eye on are Doug Waybright, a tow-headed scrapper back from the service, and Bill Wightkin, who has been getting plenty of attention from the general staff of late. Zeke O’Connor has been switched over to tackle and Johnny Helwig to full, but brother Joe Helwig is still battling in there at the picket post, as is Leon Tra-ney and Al Lesko. The old-timer’s game should bring out the possibilities of some of these lesser luminaries, including Bill Michaels, a ferocious defensive player and tricky pass snatcher. Gene Paskiet, Jim Lamere, and Bob Hathaway round out the roster of ends, any of whom may develop into top-notch varsity material.
Moose Krause keeps his heavies puffing. The tackle slot looks fairly comfortable when one dreams of Connor and Sullivan back, and Czarobski too. But pass up these gents for a while and have a look-see at who’s pushing them. There’s big Gus Cifelli, temporarily slowed by a knee injury, and Jack Fallon a consistently aggressive player; there’s Harp Dougherty and Bill Russell, and Ted Budynkiewicz too. But that ain’t
The Scholastic
IS TO BE CONGRATULATED ON ITS CONTINUED SUCCESS AND PARKER-WINTERROWD DEEMS IT A
PRIVILEGE TO HAVE PARTICIPATED IN THE '46-'47 PUBLISHING SCHEDULE
®arker-6Wi n terrowd, Inc.
CLOTHIER— TAILOR 115^4 N. Main Street (upstairs)	'	South Bend, Indiana
24
all. Ed Hudak drops his barber shears J long enough to throw a jolting shoulder block now and then. Bill Kirchner is a newcomer; six-foot-six, never played ball before in his life, but he has to learn now or get trampled, and this red-headed 230-pounder doesn’t look like the type I that enjoys being stepped on. An old knee injury keeps recurring on Jack Nusskern, but he’s out taking laps anyway and once the knee heals this domechested Pennsylvanian ought to show up like a veritable Gibraltar. Front line I injuries may give Ralph McGeehee his F chance to demonstrate the old Chicago 1 thump; he’s due. The same goes for Al
Zmijewski, Jim Mahoney and Ken Schuster.
| Those fellows whacking against the
dummy over there are usually the guards. They really get a workout. If all the guard candidates would offer their daily practice chores for the Poor Souls, Purgatory would probably be vacated in a week. Coach McArdle believes in turning out tough customers. He doesn’t believe there’s any shortcut to success; the road lies through Perspiration Pass and Charley-horse Valley. That’s why ND’s guards were so terrific last year.
But for now Coach McArdle has the titanic job of replacing severe losses with comparatively garden-green material. True Bill Fischer is back, and Marty Wendell has been switched over, and Joe Signaigo is recovering from his back injury, but besides these three the situa
tion looks like it will take some time. Bucky O’Connor may see first-string action in the May 17th game; likewise George Tobin, if his condition will permit. Outstanding among the newcomers is Frank Gaul, who resembles the notorious little concrete house on the hill. Joe Fallon is another sturdy looking neophyte. Jack O’Connor, switched from half, is catching on, but doesn’t pack much meat for this rugged position. Gerry Ramsberger, converted from fullback, has been under wraps all spring, so his success at the new position cannot even be surmised. However from past observation it can be noted that he is a fighter. Joe Yonto is another mixer laid up with injuries. Completing the guard roster we have Lally and Hairing-
GENERAL ELECTRIC
TOMORROW’S APPLIANCES
The Story of
JIM YOUNG
LAFAYETTE *37
THE General Electric refrigerators, ranges, and other appliances that homemakers will buy in 1950 are already under development. Jim Young, ten years out of Lafayette College’s mechanical engineering course, supervises the engineering.
Jim, graduating magna cum laude, chose General Electric’s job offer over others because, as he says, “G.E. offered more different fields of engineering, had a better program than any other company, and could provide better experience.”
The varied experience that Jim sought came to him fast. While on “Test” with G.E., he worked in four different plants and at six different assignments. Following “Test” he enrolled in the G-E Creative Engineering Program and drew five assignments in laboratories and design departments.
His first “real work,” he says, was in helping to develop large-size rocket launchers, both airborne and land types. His success with this assignment made possible his steady progress to the top of his department’s Advance Engineering Section.
Next to school* and the U.S. Government, General Electric employs more college engineering graduates than any other organization.
Jim became interested in mechanical problems early. In his teens he found a hobby in rebuilding old autos.
Today Jim supervises the engineering of G-E household appliances that will go on the market two to five years from now.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
25

...
^5
when you smoke
PHILIP MORRIS

^3 __________
CLEAN, FRESH, PURE I
America’s FINEST Cigarette!
There’s an important difference in Philip Morris manufacture that lets the FULL FLAVOR of the world’s finest tobaccos come through for your complete enjoyment—clean, fresh, pure!
That’s why the flavor’s ALL yours when you smoke Philip Morris! That’s why Philip Morris taste better —smoke better—all day long!
No wonder that with millions of smokers everywhere, Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
MF MO
ALWAYS BETTER—BETTER ALL WAYS
26
i ton, both inexperienced, but withstanding McArdle’s fire.
At center Coach Wally Ziemba lines them up something like this: Stroh-meyer, Bill Walsh, Bill Vangen, Art Statuto, and Walt Grothaus, not neces-■ sarily in that order. Grothaus is just back from the service and is showing a lot of the old moxie. Pat Lyden and John Jeffers are two new prospects, both big, • but inexperienced. Which same can be J said of all the rest of the pivot-position • roster: Don Carter, Joe McGill, and Phil : Yanoschik. There’s a lot of moulding to be done here.
Coach Crimmins and Earley have backs galore, but again they are largely high-school reps as yet untested in major competition.' Bill Heywood is progressing at quarterback. He flips a neat pass, and is a terror on defense. Roger Brown is another up-and-coming signil-caller, as is Dick Leous, but in all cases these lads lack the experience that has already put Lujack and Tripucka out ahead of the pack. Tom Carter and Rudy Schaffen are untested, but will come along with time. Gerry Begley is one boy to watch. The New York lad is a pass sharpshooter and rapidly mastering the signals. Rome wasn’t built in a day, and Gerry has a couple of years yet'.
Forget about the All-Americans for a while and feast your eyes on two jackrabbit halfbacks who should make a big stir in the pond if they ever get behind some decent blocking. These two lads are Lancaster Smith and Larry Coutre. Smith is a fake artist, very shifty, and never lets a tackler have more than a passing chance at a leg. Coutre is a low-to-the-ground runner, wields a stiff-arm like it was a mattox, and keeps driving after he is hit. Keep your eye on these two.
Likewise Ed Kenefick, Jimmy Brennan, Cliff Wilke, Dick Cotter, and Jim Sullivan. Tom Saggau looks especially shifty among the newcomers, as does Don Mortell. Other candidates of promise include John McMahon, Lyle Pearson, and Don Romano (this guy is little but a rough hombre). Like Coy McGee, they may have to wait a long time, but every man looks forward to his big break, and it may come in tomorrow’s scrimmage or in the Northwestern game next fall.
Several new faces in the fullback race make that a tough battle. Skipping over Panelli, Simmons, and Clatt we spy Chick lannucillo, the tank that rolls like a man; Ted Sajdak, a high-stepping newcomer, Len LeCluyse, all knees and elbows when he runs, and several more like Paul Boulus, Ray Kenney, John
O’Neil, Johnny Helwig, and Tom McCarty. Any of these latter may come through, but once again, the inexperienced must wait till the master calls. Then they’d better know their onions, for many are called but few are chosen to make the trips.—John .4. O’Connor.
FOREIGN JOBS
Vital, interesting positions with top American firms in foreign countries are available to college trained men and women. These positions present an opportunity for an excellent future in many fields, technical and otherwise, with high remunerations. The "Foreign Research Register," a classified directory of over 300 outstanding American companies employing college graduates in foreign positions, is novr available. Containing full information as to how and where to make contacts, it points the way to thousands of ooportunities. Send for it now. One Dollar, in currency or money order.
RESEARCH ASSOCIATES
P. O. Box 9383. Phila., 39. Pa.
Friendly moment... have a Coke
27
Specializing in the examination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
ND, Army Tie for Third in Na+'l Debate Test
Notre Dame and Army, perennial contenders for the national intercollegiate football championship, almost met at West Point on May 4 to decide the intercollegiate debating championship of the United States.
The occasion was the National Intercollegiate Debate Tournament at the Un’.ted States Military Academy. Each competing against the best 29 debate teams from an original field of teams from more than 500 colleges and universities, Notre Dame and Army finished in a tie for third.
To the intense disappoinment of a large audience of West Point cadets and
EVERY NIGHT IS NOTRE DAME NIGHT at
CLEMENTS GRILL 514 East LaSalle
faculty members, both Notre Dame and Army were eliminated in the semifinals just when it looked as if they might reach the finals. Notre Dame was defeated by Southern California, and Army by Southeastern State College of Oklahoma, which later defeated Southern California for the championship.
Notre Dame gained some consolation, however, in the fact that as a result of their excellent showing in the national debate tournament, the Notre Dame debaters now rank as the leading debate team in the Midwest and also rank as the top debate team representing Catholic universities in the nation.
Representing Notre Dame in the national tournament, debating the subject of “Management and Labor,” were Frank Finn, of Denison, Tex., and Timothy Kelly of Bay City, Mich. They were coached Dy Proiessor Leonard Sommer of the Department of Speech at Notre Dame.
During the elimination rounds of the West Point tourney the Irish defeated Gonzaga University, Penn State, Louisiana and Utah. In the first match of the final round, the Notre Dame debaters defeated Wake Forest and in the quarter-finals won over the U. S. Naval Academy.
STEAKS —CHOPS
Spaghetti Dinner with meat sauce
65c
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells beyond Chicago. Ask us stopovers, travel time to United States. Call C. W.
tickets over any line about fares, routing, any section of the Veach, Ticket Office,
301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
Southshore
St. Joseph's CYO to Hold Pre-Exam Hop Tonight
The St. Joseph’s Catholic Youth Organization Little Theater group, having just completed its first season, will sponsor a “Pre-Exam Hop” Friday, May 16, from 8 p.m. until 11 p.m. in the St. Joseph’s school gymnasium, Hill Street at Colfax Avenue.
The theme, dance chairman announces, is “obvious”; with fearsome examinations looming large the dance will serve as a welcome respite prior to wholehearted entrance into the exam spirit.
Tickets will be on sale at the door only, and Joe Casasanta, chairman of the dance committee, has issued an invitation to all Notre Dame students.who will not be proccupied with the Senior Ball that night to come, with or without dates, to the informal affair. Music will be furnished by Bette Murphy, “her trumpet, and her orchestra,” to steal a little Harry James advertising thunder.
Besides Casasanta, a Notre Dame student, other members of the committee are the Misses Rosemary Hardig and Mary Lois Coquillard, and Beve J. Liebig, also a Notre Dame student from South Bend.
28
Explosives—an essential
industrial tool
rrousTRiAL explosives are as much of a yardstick of industrial progress as sulfuric acid. They are involved in the fabrication of nearly all the products used by man. This year the United States will use over 500 million pounds of industrial explosives.
The technical problems that confront the explosives industry are many and varied. A measure of this is the fact that the Du Pont Company manufactures about two hundred dynamite formulations, each intended to do a different job, from the slow heaving ac
tion of blasting coal to the rapid, violent shattering necessary for a hard ore. Ranging between these two extremes are a large number of intermediate grades, including explosives especially formulated for agricultural work, seismic prospecting for oil, submarine blasting—right down to the tiny charge used in an explosive rivet.
Studies in Laboratory and Field One of the first industrial laboratories for chemical research in the United
States, the Eastern laboratory of the Du Pont Explosives Department has nearly two hundred chemists, engineers, physicists and assistants. There, methods have been developed for measuring the power of explosives, the degree to which they shatter or pulverize various materials, their water resistance, their safety characteristics when exposed to shock or flame, the composition of the gases they produce, etc. As a result of studies of the influence of various factors on dynamite performance, it has become possible to formulate an explosive to meet practically any blasting condition.
In keeping with these improvements, the application of explosives has reached a new level of efficiency. Technical service men, usually mining engineers or
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Mondays, 7 P. M. CDST, on NBC
’ U > >
Frank A. Loving, Chemical Engineer, Texas A & M *41, prepares to fire an
A. L. St. Peter, Princeton *37, supervisor Hasting operation Susquehanna River Project, lowers a 5!4 inch“NHraniofi” Primer into one of 600 drill
explosive charge into a chamber of methane or dusty air to test safety under conditions found in coal mines.
civil engineers, aid consumers in the selection and use of explosives. They also work closely with research men in solving unusual problems encountered in the field.
Research—Path to Progress
A few of the results gained through research are: (1) lowering of dynamite freezing points by nitrating ethylene glycol along with glycerol to diminish
the hazards of thawing frozen dynamites. (2) Production of less hazardous dynamites by substituting ammonium nitrate partially for nitroglycerine, in spite of the greater hygroscopicity and lesser explosive power of the former. This resulted in dynamites less hazardous to manufacture and use. (3) Introduction of "Nitramon,” a blasting agent containing a high percentage of ammonium nitrate as its major ingredient. It is equal in strength to the most powerful dynamites commonly employed and yet is by far the safest blasting agent available. (4) Development of explosives with a minimum of noxious gases for use in confined areas. (5) Numerous improvements in the composition, manufacture and design of the blasting caps which set off the main charge.
MIMO
holes preparatory to blasting a pipe lino ditch.
Aside irom these developments in explosives and blasting supplies, there have been many accomplishments in chemistry and engineering associated with such projects as the oxidation of ammonia to nitric acid; manufacture, granulation and drying of ammonium nitrate; substitutes for nitroglycerine and ethylene glycol dinitrate, concentration of nitric and sulfuric acids, and a host of other subjects.
Questions College Men ask about working with DuPont
WHAT All THE OPPORTUNITIES
FOR RESEARCH MIN?
Unusual advantages in facilities and funds are available to men qualified for fundamental or applied research. Investigation in the fields of organic, inorganic and physical chemistry, biology, parisitology, plant pathology and engineering suggest the -wide range of activities. Write for booklet, "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,’’ 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
«6.u_s.p*tOft
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Don Miller Speaks at Law Club Dinner
Combatting of juvenile crime was discussed by Donald C. Miller, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, who delivered the main address at Notre Dame’s annual Hoynes Law Club banquet last Thursday, May 8, in the Indiana Club.
Mr. Miller, a 1926 graduate of the Notre Dame College of Law, outlined activities designed to avert juvenile crime befoie it is committed, and also discussed new federal criminal laws. He was introduced by Thomas Konop, dean emeritus of the law school, and who was its dean when Mr. Miller was a student there. Al J. Spahn, of South Bend, was toastmaster for the banquet.
Leonard D. Boykin, of South Bend, was elected president of the club for next year.
Dinner was followed by dancing to the music of John Merryman and his orchestra, and the affair was attended by members of the Law Club and their guests, including Seniors and members of the Law School faculty.
Donald Hummer, of Defiance, Ohio, was General Chairman of committees, and committee co-chairmen were Robert Fitzpatrick and Frank Brinkman, arrangements; Richard Keoughan and Pat Hickey, tickets; Joe Dillon and John Cosgrove, programs. Tickets representatives were Leonard Boykin and Lee Johnson.	John Waters
Music Assn. Sets Special Dues Rate for Students
The South Bend Civic Music Association is now conducting a membership drive, and special dues rates are available to students. For three dollars ND men can get in on next season’s performances, which will bring noted artists to South Bend.
The student rate of three dollars covers all performances under the Civic Music Association’s auspices. This past year six concert performances, including such outstanding artists as Joseph Szi-geti, and James Melton, were offered.
In the past the parade of symphony orchestras and solo artists has included the following: Cleveland Symphony, Minneapolis Symphony, Don Cossack ' Chorus, Vienna Boys Choir, Helen Trau-bel, Jan Peerce, Ezio Pinza, Gladys Swarthout, Jose Iturbi, Arthur Rubinstein, and many more.
Applications for season tickets are available on campus at the office of Mr. Dugas of the French department, or at the Association’s headquarters, 234 N. Michigan St., South Bend.
30
Look To
-GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
for
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
TIES
Comes May along with baseball games, trade meets and regattas.
Comes also die perfect summer de, the Arrow Henley in a wide range of superb stripes.
Come in and get a couple while they last! $1.
MAX ADLER CO.
' ON THE CORNER . . . MICHIGAN ft WASHINGTON
—MWIV T!ES=
ONE OF ARROWS STYLE SCOUTS, DISGUISED AS A HADDOCK . . .
almost dropped his telescope when he saw the riot of well-bred stripes at the Henley regatta in England.
He caught the next plane back and soon had some brand new patterns based on these cool, summery English stripes; patterns which were promptly put into a superb line of Arrow ties.
For the perfect summer tie of wrinkle-resistant woolrayon fabric, buy an Arrow Henley today! Just $1.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Ifs Adler's for
ARROWS
COWBl...WOMAN I MtMIWi
SENIOR BALL
(Continued from Page 11)
Mr. and Mrs. Karl E. Schoenherr, dean of the Engineering school; Capt. and Mrs. A. L. Danis, head of Naval Science; and Mr. and Mrs. Frank Leahy, director of athletics. '
PATRICIA CROWE
After a long Saturday morning sleep, Ball-goers and their dates are invited to a preview of the 1947 version of the Fighting Irish as they display their football wares in the Varsity-Old Timers football game in the Stadium at 2:00 p. m. Saturday night is another featured spot on the weekend program with a Candlelight Dance at the South Bend Progress Club from 8:00 p. m. until midnight with late permissions until 1:00.
ROSEMARIE LUBBERS
31
When you graduate, you will have one of the finest opportunities to learn to fly ever offered young men in peacetime.
The Army Air Forces’ Aviation Cadet Training Program gives you that chance. It cannot he duplicated anywhere at any price. Leader in new things for aviation — in jet and rocket propulsion, far-ranging heavy aircraft, improved navigation facilities, and many other of the latest developments in a fast-moving field — the AAF can help you begin a brilliant future.
The Air Forces have reopened Aviation Cadet training to qualified civilians 18 to 26^ years of age. Men selected for training as pilots under the terms of the program must be single and have had at least two years of college education, or the equivalent, in an accredited institution. Upon successful completion of the course, graduates will be commissioned Second Lieutenants, Army of the United States, and assigned to flying duty with the Army Air Forces.
AIR POWER
IS PEACE POWER
Reactivation of the Aviation Cadet program is typical of the AAF’s continuing effort to provide selected young men every opportunity to earn advancement. Cadets who win their wings as today’s pilots will be the same kind of men who, in wartime, built and manned the world’s mightiest air arm. They will be the leaders in aviation’s new era.
Make your plans now to get in at the start! By applying immediately after graduation, you can take your qualifying examinations and enter the July 1st class, or — if you want a summer vacation — you can take your examinations now and be ready to enter the class beginning October 15th.
Further information is available at AAF Bases, U. S. Army Recruiting Stations, local Civil Air Patrol headquarters, or by writing to the Commanding General, Army Air Forces, Washington 25, D. C.
U. S. ARMY RECRUITING SERVICE
32
By JACK FRAIER and BILL PFAFF
We, in our youth and innocence, had thought that that iniquitous child of perdition and collectivism and/or that liberal beneficent wall between tyranny and the working man (depending whether- you read NAM of AFL ads) the closed shop, was a comparatively recent invention. Not so long ago we decided to skip through our history ( we try at least to keep the chapter title straight) and were tripped up by rhe remark that in 1833 to 37 there were around two hundred strikes in the United States, in which among other things workers “demanded what came later to be called the ‘closed shop’.” This fascinating bit of information would provide several professors we know with enough material for a week’s lectures.
We’ve seen several recent copies of the YCS Leader, a magazine formerly a house organ for the C-A cells, now expanding to attract a general Catholic college student audience. It takes an intelligent progressive attitude on matters
of current interest—that is to say it doesn't howl every time someone speaks unkindly of some Catholic. It looks like a worthwhile publication and we pass it on with recommendations.
The Reader’s Digest (that Great American, Arabic, Finnish, Portuguese, Spanish, French, Dutch, German (occupied), Japanese (ibid.), etc., etc. Institution) has an article discussing the “Soviet Spies, The Story of Russian Espionage in North America.” This really looked like an exciting, well documented, perhaps profound analysis of the Anglo-Russian situation at the present time, with particular attention to Russian activities in the U. S. On the other-hand it might be a good loud story. We read the fine (really fine) print at the bottom of the page, “This story appeared originally as a serial in ‘True Detective’.” Maybe so, maybe so. •
Duncan Hines (a man with a good job if there ever was one) said in a re
cent edition of another American Institution, (although not such an eager
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend. Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M. D.
•
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
•
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
New. ALL New
LINDA DARNELL
starring in “FOREVER AMBER"	''J
forthcoming 20th Century-Fox Production	>
727
Tests certified by a jury of 14 distinguished doctors
New Bleed! New Taste 1 New Freskaess!
Made by the revolutionary new “903” moisturizing process. Beneficial moisture penetrates every to-
bacco leaf—gives you a smoother, milder, better smoke! Get new Raleigh “903” Cigarettes today.


RALEIGH 90S
S3
one) the Saturday Evening Post, “When I go in the front door (of a restaurant), I look around to see if there is a ‘Keep Out’ sign over the door leading to the kitchen. If there is I keep out of the dining room as well as the kitchen.”
DOUBLE BREASTED SUMMER TUX AND ACCESSORIES
Worn only once. Size 38-39: neck 15, sleeve 32, Van Heusen pleated shirt: blue-black pleated slacks; white English linen.840
See R. L. WESTON
401 Sherman Avc., South Bend, Ind.
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—M. Mittennayer OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Closed Wednesday afternoons
WatteM-1 French Dry Cleaners
Main Office 2207 Smith Street
SPECIAL BRANCH OFFICE FOR CONVENIENCE OF NOTRE DAME STUDENTS at
822 SOUTH BEND AVENUE facing Notre Dame Avenue Pockets, zippers and all repairs reasonably done.
Your Transportation One Way, Boys!
Open Friday evenings, 7:30 to 9:30
Qocd Place io- jbitte
— and traditionally a good place to meet the gang for delicious Italian and American Food.
Phone 3-0678 tor Reservations
When reading this, what should pop into our minds but a phrase “Notice NO ONE Allowed In The Kitchen” that seemed terribly familiar.
Commencement Speakers
(Continued from Page 11)
biblical scholar and Pastor of St. Mary’s Church, Elyria, Ohio.
Monsignor Newton, who was named Domestic Prelate in 1940, received his Bachelor of Arts degree at St. Ignatius College in Cleveland, his Master’s at Dayton University, and Doctorate at the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome. He formerly taught theology at St. Mary’s Seminary in Cleveland and at Catholic University in Washington, D. C.
Before assuming his present pastoral duties, Monsignor Newton was the organizer and first president of the Catholic Biblical Association and Secretary of the Editorial Board for the Revision of the New Testament. He has an international reputation as an authority on the scriptures.
ND Musclemen Toss Weights in First Meet
Notre Dame’s weight - tossers will match muscles next Thursday afternoon in the University’s first lifting meet, to be’held in Father Lange’s barbell gym just back of the Main Building.
Cramming for finals is not the only pressurized effort being put out these days. In the squat little gray-brick building that houses ND’s muscle-making equipment, last-hour preparations are now under way. Contestants who have faithfully followed exercise patterns throughout the semester are now approaching the culmination of their stress and strain. The meet, open to all, offers beautiful hand-carved oak plaques to the winners of the various weight classes.
As the entrants approach the wire certain names loom as standing out in their divers divisions. The heavyweight class has narrowed down to a duel between defending school strongman Frank Harty and Jack Nusskern. This latter lad has been devoting most of his past six weeks to spring football and will therefore enter the contest a slight underdog. However, both Harty and Nusskern have trick knees, which can prove quite annoying in both the snatch and clean-and-jerk lifts.
One wonders at the limits this class would reach were performers Bill Russell and Joe Flood included among the entrants.
Paul Pukish, who never lifted anything heavier than his hat up until a few months ago, is the man to watch in the light-heavy class. A feud between Pukish and Chuck Baumann has resulted in Pukish outdoing himself with each practice session. The meet lifts may see Pukish, or Baumann, or some outsider, establish a school record.
Meanwhile Al Furman is silently and methodically piling up his workout total to where it looks as though he has the middleweight class all sewed up. Pound for pound Al is the best weight man at Notre Dame right now, and until a better man comes along he’ll probably retain that honor.
In the lower divisions it’s a toss-up. Largely newcomers to the sport, the lighter weight men are for the most part evenly matched. One man, however, has shown such diligence at workouts, and such improvement since beginning, that he deserves close watching. That is Gonzalo Burbano, bantamweight.
The meet begins at two in the after- „ noon.
34
a 10 ^pot
for a Crazy Shot
Franchised Pepsi-Cola Bottlers from coast to coast.
HERE’S WHAT YOU DO—Send us a crazy shot featuring PepsiCola. We’ll select what we think are the three or four best “shots” every month. If yours is one of these, you get ten bucks. If it isn’t, you get a super-deluxe rejection slip for your files.
AND—if you just sort of happen to send in a Pepsi-bottlecap with your “shot,” you get twenty bucks instead of ten, if we think your “shot” is one of the best.
Address: College Dept.,Pepsi-Cola Company,Long Island City,N.Y.
LIBRARY, NOTRE DAME, in.
Copyright 19^', boom Tobacco Co