Discs quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi- eras moriturus. '
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER .16, 1882.
Vol. XVI.
No. 15.
To Father Ryan.
‘•And souls are always more to him than songs:” But songs are of his sainted life a part.
His nature ’tis to sing, and cheer vast throngs •
Of weary souls with high, angelic art, ■
To lead them thro’ the dim and silent vale
That lies ’tween stern and dreadfid Calvary
And Thabor’s shining top, where sorrow’s wail Becomes a grand and heavenly harmony.
lie stood on Calvary, and his soul was sad: He walked the dim and awful vale of tears.
Foot-weary and soul-worn, and yet he had
Nor thought, nor wish to shorten those long years
Thro’ which he had to walk the narrow way: Save soul-sighs for the rest that is to come
To those in gloom of night and sun of day Ne’er falt’ring on the way that leads them home.
And glimpses of bright Thabor has he caught. And then his soul forgot her woeful moan, And songs he sang ’yond ken of mortal thought.
Known only to himself and God alone.
And then his Calvary became bright Thabor, And Thabor changed to wrathful Calvary;
And then he sighed for rest from ceaseless labor, For rest in deep, Christ-bound eternity.
And all his songs are love of wounded souls, And balm they are to all, sometimes a chime With but one saddened strain, and then deep tolls Of awful depth and slow and solemn time.
An organ’s solemn and last Dies Ira:, Deep-rolling in the temple of the mind— A summons for the worn and the long-weary, The awful funeral march of all mankind.
John A. McHugh.
Strolls in a Great City.
THE UNDERTAKER.*'
The quiet observer in a large city has abundant food for thought. Let him stroll down one of the leading; thoroughfares and carefully chronicle what comes under his observation; he will discover the truth of the seeming paradox: “Truth is stranger than fiction.” Take London, for in
* The natural order of things is here reversed. The usual course is. “From the cradle to the grave,” but it is our intention to go backward, “From the grave to the cradle.
J stance; here is an undertaker’s ’ store; let us J drop in. On shelves around the store are all the j garnishments of death; his business is a gloomy 1 one, indeed. ' Let us enter into conversation with j the proprietor; he is polite and loquacious, and if f the conversation turns upon business—i. c., the undertaking business—as it invariably will, there
• is no risk of stagnation for lack of “ subjects.” He ! will describe, in glowing terms, how he “laid out” j Lord so-and-so, or Judge what-do-vou-call-him, and will enter into every even the minutest detail of that great undertaking. The shroud, the headdress, the shoes, the stockings, the gloves, the coffin, the casket, the horses, the carriages, are all carefully, and apparently truthfully, described. He will describe the mourning-dresses of all the relatives of the deceased, to the thirty-second degree, in a style superior to either Dickens or Thackeray. He will tell you how he assisted my lady so-and-so into her carriage, and how pale and haggardlooking she appeared; he will specify the length of her train to the twelfth of an inch, nor will the quality and style of the crape veil pass without notice.
Having listened to this garrulous gentleman O	2	o
half an hour or so, let us cross to the opposite side of the street. Here is also another undertaker’s; let us step in. He is quite as courteous as his neighbor; he is, however, high up the social scale; his place of business is “Under Royal Patronage”; he saunters around quite at his ease, and wears a pair of unimpeachable kids, one of which he removes only when he shakes hands with a lady. His business is in a thriving condition; he only “ undertakes ” the “ upper ten ”; ordinary people never approach his place of business; he keeps none but the best material, is a thorough judge of its value, and knows as-well as any man in London how to make out a bill, and “ foot ” it, too. The other. undertaker is humility itself as contrasted with him. His bearing is aristocratic, princely; he never “ undertakes ” a mean job, but leaves employment of this kind to his neighbor over the street, who does all the petty undertaking of the immediate neighborhood..
While we conversed with undertaker No. 1, we imagined he had not an equal, in his line of business, within the limits of the “Modern Babylon”; yet in that we were disappointed, for undertaker No. 2 is far his superior, both mentally and socially. He deals in no mean ware; his goods are the choicest;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
noble blood must have flowed in the veins of every one he is called upon to undertake; no plebeians for him; he is the lord—the prince of undertakers. Every line of business has its prince, its millionaire, its litterateur: and undertaking has these, just like any other business. No. i makes his money among the middling class and the poor (not the very poor, of course) ; “ Speedy sales and small profits ” is his motto, while “ One good haul is as good as fifty small ones,” is that of No. 2; prepaid engagements arc the invariable rule with No. 1, while No. 2 furnishes his long bill of items, and receives payment by bank-order; in times of epidemics No. 1 does a roaring trade, while No. 2’s business dwindles down to zero. The poor remain in the city, while the wealthy fly during such a visitation: and, consequently, the trade of No. 1 rises, while that of No. 2 goes down.
’Tis strange with what indifference undertakers speak on death,—it has no terrors for them. Like the grave-digger in Hamlet, they may say: “Alas! poor Yorick”; and that is all. Most people are appalled at the sight of a corpse; not so the undertaker, it is his trade and he becomes habituated to the sight of death. The house of death is always the house of mourning; but the undertaker passes in and out, discharges the (to him) onerous and responsible duties of his office, and never so much as drops a tear. He may have sympathy, but it is never manifested. He is glib in his talk, courteous in his manners, and has a “How-do-you-do”? for everybody; in a word, he is the man in the house of mourning. But, notwithstanding his courteousness and civility, few, unless those who are tired of their existence, desire a professional visit from his undertakership. He is not despised; no, no, on the contrary he is respected; but no one, strange to say, wants him professionally.
We are acquainted with some other trades-people, to whom we shall introduce our readers soon again.
-	J. McC.
' • •
.	Flying- Machines.
IV.
. Now arises the all-important and conplex problem: “What is the most efficient motor that can be constructed?” This, again, is a subject that never received much attention until lately. Nature affords abundant power by the union of certain elements; but lightness and convenience are usually wanting. When we are able to put any amount of power into a small space, just as we can carry a fortune in bank notes, then we shall be able to pursue the fish-hawk as well as the fierce eagle. There are some substances which-contain an enormous amount of-energy, and are extremely light. One pound of hydrogen, for example, when burning, yields 62,032 Jieat\units==47,888,400 foot-pounds. Thus divided; by 1,980,000, a horse’s work in foot-pounds for an hour$ gives-24.6 horsepower for an hour. If solidified, which, by the
way, was effected a few years ago, you might carry about in our pocket the force of 150 horses working for an hour. A piece of coal scarcely fit to throw at a dog, contains 10 or 12 horsepower. So also petroleum, wood, etc., have a wonderful store. of energy. Many of the explosives would make, powerful motors, and are convenient to carry. A gas jet can now take the place of a .boiler and furnace. For convenience and efficiency, the .explosive engine may far excel the steam engine.
. There is another motor (not the Keel}’ motor) which, it is predicted, will become very effective, called the “dynamo.” Mr. Gaston Tissandier estimates that an electro motor weighing 500 pounds, with 1,700 pounds of secondary batteries, would yield 6 horse-power. He says also that such a machine would move a balloon large enough to carry several passengers, at the rate of 16 miles an hour. The chief advantages of the electro’ motor are (1) no danger of fire, since it discharges no products in the shape of smoke, steam, etc.; (2) a constant power. But it has a fault which renders it useless for. flight, and a fault apparently irremediable, viz., its enormous weight. We have only 6 horse-power for 2,200 pounds weight, which equals 33/ cwt. ^er horsepower— a. helpless burden. This does not, however, indicate that electricity cannot be employed as an efficient motive power; for, if it were not for the weight of the accumulators, the dynamo might still be employed. If we ever discover a method of transforming heat directly and economically into electricity, we may employ the energy of hydrogen, coal, etc., to move the dynamo.
It might also be employed indirectly by decomposing water. A gallon of water contains one pound of hydrogen and seven of oxygen, and it could be decomposed in a small receiver, making the whole weight less than 50 pounds, and containing an energy of more than 25 horse-power. But, probably, the application of this power would be so difficult as to render it useless, so we pass to safer ground.	'
A little steam engine of one horse-power has been constructed with the small weight of 13 pounds. Even this little giant has been surpassed in lightness and efficiency. Mr. Ahrbecker has constructed two compound engines the one weighing 63 pounds and of 10 hors,e-powcr; the other weighing 105 'pounds and of 26 horse-power. Steam is supplied to both by a boiler weighing-142 pounds. The total-weight is 310 pounds, the equivalence.30 horse-power equalling 105^ pounds per horseTpower. -	_ . t L
; Is-this .power sufficient ? . /Y if we can. apply it. We certainly cannot apply it as birds do, with any known method,'for they have several little muscles out along the wing.which help to give it the proper form' and inclination. This may be done when, in addition to the electric current and and copper nerve, ;we have a good approach to artificial inuscle. ..	/,'/./• - -	:	:
- There are. three forms of propellers: (1) the aeroplane, which’/moves to and fro horizontally;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
fj!
II
,!
J
*
V
'J ■ t
I;.
(2) the orthoptron, which reciprocates in a vertical line; (3) the helicoptron or screw. The screw is admirably adapted to the rotary engine. It is also easy to guide, because it always moves in the direction to which it slopes, and-it does not require a change of inclination at every movement, as do the other two. But it has faults that are not to be found in the others, viz., its loss of power and its inability to hover. The aeroplane is well adapted to hovering; but when going at high speed the planes must go still faster to meet' any resistance whatever; and, since the work spent equals the effort to the space traversed, there is a great waste of power. In the orthoptron, finally, the planes need not move rapidly when the machine is going at a great velocity, and it is well suited for hovering. The orthoptron is the form usually employed by nature, and it is by far- the more effectual of the three.
A mean between the aeroplane and orthoptron, or a plane revolving and directed by an eccentric, would have the good qualities of both forms. It would move forward at a small angle, thus meeting great upward pressure with but little resistance; then downward with a maximum resistance; then backward, if desirable, with a great resistance, and upward' with a minimum resistance. Each plane could be made so that, with a little pressure, it would present a concave surface, thus making it nearly twice as effective. By means of a movable eccentric, all planes could be thrown into a sailing position and again made to revolve instantly. With this arrangement the wings need to work only at intervals, and can be made to hover easily. The latter" quality is indispensable for sustaining flight, and is noticeable in all good fliers, such as the carrier-pigeon. When moving at full speed, it strikes the air at intervals of several rods, and the stroke is made in the one eighth part of a second. Hence, when it beats twice per minute, three fourths of the time is occupied in hovering. If the power exerted in these widely different strokes were estimated, it might show that flying, j as a means of transportation, is not so expensive, I • after all.
work of Watt in one or two years. The constrac-
We. have now seen that (1) the resistance of [ tion of an electric generator and lamp is by no the air is such as to enable the power of a horse to
support several score pounds; (2) that a machine may be constructed with the small weight of 10}^ .pounds per horse-power; (3) that this power can be readily and successfully applied. As an experimental demonstration, I quote the following: “A flying machine invented in Duluth, Minn., was exhibited there a few days ago, and gives a fair prornise of being a complete success.’ The machine is a system of fans, and the power is obtained from ■ a small engine of great strength, adapted’to work at high speed and at enormous pressure. A small boy was carried up 140 feet, and remained up 15 minutes, when he was pulled down by a rope attached to the car.” We have also seen that what is most desirable, a high speed, has excellent advantages. It would not be good, however, to travel at the extravagant velocity of several miles a minute, as fanciful people would have it; even 100 miles ah
hour would show pressing business; from 50 to 60 miles an hour is the average speed of good
11 birds, and the same is practical for man.
’ When, in the near future, every house shall be • supplied with an electric tap, so that a man may s lie in bed; and, with a turn, light and warm the । room, set the kitchen machinery, etc., agoing, and, ! without moving, see and converse with his friends .miles away, then an easier and much shorter means of conveyance will be an absolute necessity. We shall then see crowds of people swarming above ! the streets and sailing off in every direction; flyring 1 contests shall come into vogue everywhere; com-I panics shall be organized for rescuing people from ' shipwreck and from files: quiet houses shall be annoyed by the constant noise of wings, and engines, and busy" people; we shall then find time to “ go around the world,” and there will be no more mysteries about the north pole dr the interior of Africa; neither shall we be disgusted yvith.long descriptions of strange countries and peoples, their appearances, manners and customs; zealous missionaries, naturalists, and other good men, and poets, mayr arrive at any" desirable spot on the.globe.-But I will not proceed further; if to speak on a scientific subject is tiring, an attempt at poetry would be overwhelming.
Let me remark, in concluding, that although the prospects are good, there is still a vast amount of work to be done. A great deal, it is true, has been written on the theory of flight; many delicate experiments have been made in the analysis of the movements of birds, and a few profitable attempts at flying have been made, but we have still to answer those three important questions: -“What will the air support? what is the most efficient motor? and what is the most favorable form ? ”
On the other hand, we may encourage ourselves with the fact that experiments and inventors of . the present day can do more practical work in. a year than the people of. other centuries could accomplish in a whole lifetime. With the present means, a few men could perform all the mechanical
means an easy task; yet see how many have already come before the public. When men of so much ability, energy and capital shall come into competition in the manufacture of artificial eagles, dragon-flies, carrier-pigeons, etc., we shall see the periods of speculation, invention, adoption and -refinement passed through in one decade.
Albert F. Zahm, ’83
Cardinal Newman, while still a young man . at Oxford, had the most, painstaking literary habits. He never passed a day without writing a Latin sentence, either a translation or an original composition, before .he had done his morning’s work. He wrote and laid aside a complete history of every serious question in; which he was con- . cerned/and did the same, indeed, with every book he read and subject he inquired into.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scientific Notes.
—The deepest mine in the world, according to Prof. H. Hoefer, is the Przibram silver mine in Bohemia. The lowest depth, 3,300 feet below the surface.
—M. Duprez at the Munich Electrical Exhibition worked a plow by means of electricity, the current being' transmitted over a distance of about forty miles.
—In Russia people use the thermometer of Leslie, an Englishman; in Germany, that of Reaumur, a Frenchman; in France, that of Celsius, a a Swede; and in England and America that of Fahrenheit, a German.	.
—The rate of vibration of the rattlesnake’s tail has been determined by Dr. Ott to be sixty a second. The method of experiment was to attach a pen to the snake’s rattles, the record being received on a revolving drum.
—Dr. Quesneville stated before the Societe d’Hygiene that he had preserved water potable for more than three years by adding to it half a grain of salicylic acid for each quart. It is recommended for use in expeditions in warm climates.
— A church in Bavaria, accommodating 1,000 people, has been almost entirely built of papier-mach^, which can be' supplied at a cost little above that of plaster. It can be made to imitate the finest marble, as it takes a polish superior to slate.
—MM. Frezon, Dumont, and Francon have succeeded in solidifying petroleum, in which state it burns like tallow. The solidification is, according to Cosmos, effected by adding to distilled petroleum 25 per cent, of the purified juice or plants belonging to the family of the Euphorbiacecc.
—A classic institution has been restored. The Baths of Agamemnon, or Lidja, in the Bay of Smyrna, were of repute ages ago. They were still frequented of late years by casual visitors, who had to camp out. They are now regularly occupied, and a Frank quarter and a native quarter have already been built.
—A curious experiment has been made with wine at the entrepot, in Paris A current of electricity was passed through a small cask of sour wine, and at the end of a few days the wine was found to be. greatly improved in quality, and to have acquired that flavor which has hitherto been supposed to come of age. It is said that the discovery of this new maturing process is owing to the accident of a thunder-storm having- greatlv improved a cask’ of bad wine in the cellars of a vintner, at Carcassonne.
—Mr. Wake, engineer of the River Wear Commissioners, and Mr. Irish, manager of the Northern District Telephone Company, have made some interesting experiments in the use of the telephone by divers. The length of the cable connecting the receiver in the diver’s helmet with the transmitter above water was 600 yards. It: was found that the diver could converse with eaSe’ and ask for
tools in any position in which his work might require him to place himself.
—Prof. Tommassi has written a letter to the Italian newspaper Piccolo, describing a case of hydrophobia in which the powerful drug pilicar-pina was used without effect. The Professor says: “The prodigious effects of this remedy soon showed themselves—profuse sweats and enormous salivation; and vet the malady continued its fatal course, as usual. I was one of those who had hoped in the good effects of pilicarpina in cases of hydrophobia, and now this hope has vanished, and it is necessary that the fact should be known.”
—The Nilometer used for the purpose of measuring- the height of the Nile, is situated on the Island of Roda, opposite old Cairo. It consists of a square well or chamber, in the centre of which is a graduated pillar divided into seventeen cubits, each about 21 7—16 inches long. Owing to the elevation of the bed of the Nile, the relative proportion of the rise of water has been altered, and it now passes.about one cubit and two-thirds above the highest part of the column. The state of the stream is proclaimed in the streets of Cairo during the inundation every day by several criers, to each of whom a particular district is alotted. From twenty-four feet to twenty-six feet may be taken as the ordinary maximum of the rise at Cairo.
—The submarine vessel at Bucharest, it is claimed, will accomplish what no other submarine craft has ever been found equal to. The plan contemplates a vessel capable of moving under water for twelve hours without any renewal of air. Steam is the motor, employed, and the speed reckoned upon is greater than that attained by sailing vessels. Practically, the management consists in simply sinking the vessel by opening certain valves; but its return to the surface involves more complex operations. An electric light, which is to be supplied, will, it is ascertained, render objects fairly distinguishable. . For renewal of air it is not necessary that the vessel rise to. the surface—the means resorted to for this purpose being an apparatus that can be sent up, and which, by working a pump, forces air into suitable receivers.
—In making stained glass windows, the coloring matter—red, green, flesh color, or whatever it may be—is first stirred with the glass in its molten state. When it is rolled into sheets and cools it comes out the brilliant hue desired. Next, imagine an old-fashioned patchwork quilt, where the little blocks or leaves are cut out by means of paper patterns and sewed together to make the complete figure. There you have-the idea of the stained glass windows. Artists who are adepts make a large design of the painting wanted. Different small parts of it are transferred from this, and paste-board patterns made from these, like the patchwork quilt; the glass is cut into the shape desired, with a diamond; then the pieces are joined together into the perfect whole; the edges are united by means of solder and lead, where the patchwork bits would be sewed with, a needle. Thus, mak-
KB3KI
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
229
ing a stained glass window is about as much mechanical as artistic. Rare and fine work, such as 1 the human face and parts of the human figure, are painted upon the glass, requiring the touch of an artist.
—It is said of the late Prof. Draper that he made the largest telescope in the United States—an equatorial telescope of twenty-eight inches aperture,— whose construction has been described by President Barnard as “probably the most difficult and costly experiment in celestial chemistry ever made.” The laboratory connected with his residence in New York was one of the best equipped in the world, being furnished with the most costly apparatus, much of which was of his own invention and construction. With his telescope Prof. Draper took a photograph of the moon, fifty inches in diameter, the largest ever made; his views and those of Mr. Rutherford, also of New York, being accorded the palm of absolute superiority among all lunar photographs. He was the first to obtain photographs of the fixed lines in the spectra of stars, and photographed the spectra of nearly a hundred of these bodies. His beautiful diffraction spectrum, obtained in 1872, has been reproduced in Europe as unexcelled. He succeeded in obtaining, by photography, the spectrum of the nebula in Orion, a performance regarded by many eminent scientists as leading the wav to the ultimate solution of the great problem of the genesis of worlds. His discovery of oxygen in the sun is to be ranked with this, and though Prof. Higgins’s photograph of the spectrum of the comet of Tune, 1881, was two days earlier than Prof. Draper’s, the accident of time did not diminish the credit due to the American observer for the delicacy and certaintv of his operations. His services as superintendent of the photographic department of the commission, appointed by Congress, in 1874, observe the transit of Venus, were recognized by the striking at the Philadelphia mint of a special gold medal in his honor.
Colleg-e Gossip.
—A Freshman has two boils and Greek. He wants to know what other afflictions await him. — Vidette-Re'porter.
—And Benjaminc F. Butler, Governor of Massachusetts, is to become a Doctor of Laws of Harvard University. Harvard .winces.—Harvard Herald.
—J. A. Wintermute, of last year’s short-hand class, is doing a prosperous law business in Muscatine. He says: “Isec clearly enough now how-great is the advantage of stenography to the lawyer.”— Vidette-Re^orter.
—“It was pitched without,” said a clergyman in church, and'a young baseball player, who had been quietly slumbering, awoke with a.start and yelled “Foul!” The “first bass” came down from the choir and “ put him out.”—Blackburnian.
-—The number of students at the University of
Vienna during the past term was 4,823. This is the largest attendance know-n there for two centuries, and places Vienna at the head of all the universities of Germany.—The Occident.
—It is said that the expression Alma Mater, now so commonly used of universities and colleges, had its origin in the University of Bonn from the beautiful statue of Alma Mater.(the Blessed Mother of Christ) erected over the principal portal of the building.
—’82 has already achieved a reputation both in the political and the literary world. As to the latter, we have reference to an article by Miss Florence Kelly in the International Review, entiled “ Changes in the Legal Status of the Child.”—Cornell Sun.
—Dr. Thomas Dwight, who succeeds Dr. Oliver o 3
Wendell Holmes in the Medical School of Harvard University, is a convert to Catholicity, and belongs to a prominent Catholic family of Boston. ; Prior to his present appointment he was President ; of the Catholic Union.
j	—The trustees of Dickinson College, at Carlisle,
I Pa., are anxious to secure an endowment fund for ! the college of $100,000. They have recently re-I ceived towards this $30,000 in 7 per cent, bonds, J given them by Mr. Thomas Beaver, of Danville, Pa., an uncle of Gen. Beaver, the late Republican candidate for Governor.
—In the football match between Yale and Haiward, played at Harvard, on the 25th ult., Yale Avas victorious bv a score of 1 goal and three touch-downs to o for Harvard. It is said that this Avas the roughest and ' hardest. game ever played betAveen college teams, and that Yale frequently broke the rules.
—After a long contest, the Avill of Barbara Scott, an eccentric and miserly AA-omah in Montreal, has been pronounced valid. She AA’illed a large property to public objects, giving $40,000 to McGill University for the foundation of a School of Engineering, and leaving the remainder to hospitals, churches and public benefit institutions.-—Harvard Herald.
—The Northwestern University folks are enterprising. The first lecture course of.’ the Senior Class not having been as successful as some would Avish, the editors of the Northwestern say.: “We should recommend one or tAvo single lectures by the ablest men whom it is possible to obtain. If the class could secure such a man 'as James G. Blaine, for instance, and eA-en pay him $400 or $500, Ave have no doubt that the Methodist Church Avould be packed with one thousand or, more persons, and that number at.seventy-five cents or one dollar a head Avould net the class a very neat little sum.”	' -
—Two new buildings are being .erected, for Cornell University; one, which is expected to be the finest chemical and physical laboratory possessed by any college in the United States, is nearly completed; the other is to be used as a.drill hall and gymnasium. An addition to the chapel.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
which shall contain the sarcophagus of Mrs. Fiske and of other benefactors of the University, and a new and better equipped building for the departments of architecture and civil engineering, are contemplated. A fine library building will soon be constructed, and Cascadilla Place is to be entirely remodelled.
—The Catholic University of Ireland will henceforward be conducted as the Catholic University College of Dublin, in connection with the new Royal University, whose Fellows will, in several instances, be Tutors of the College. The general collection for the institution in Stephen’s Green will no longer be made year by year throughout Ireland. This is a very reasonable change. We have always thought it anomalous that congregations of poor people all over the island should be asked to contribute towards the higher education of a few youths in Dublin. This ■ has gone on for twenty-eight years, but will now cease.—London Weekly Register.
—Seniors in Amherst recite in catechism on Monday mornings.—Harvard Herald.
The “ Queen of Sciences ”—Theology—seems to be at a low ebb when only one recitation a week is given to it. We—some of us, at least, among the Catholic students have a recitation daily in’ Catechism, and it is said to hardly suffice for a proper knowledge of the important branch of which Catechism treats. Catechism is the foundationstone of the science of Theology, of which every Christian should have sufficient knowledge to enable him to discriminate the true from the false, between what is right and what is wrong.
—A little-while since, four bold, bad Sophomores, in a certain college in Maine, went into the room of a Freshman, whom they judged to be verdant. After the Sophomores had got- into the room the ■ Freshman asked what they wished. “Oh, we’ve come to put you through,” was the reply. The Freshman told them the}- had better not attempt anything, but they scornfully refused to listen to advice from a member of a lower class, and made a rush for the youth whom they took to be green. With a blow he laid one of the bold Sophs upon his back. In the melee that followed, the liffht *	7	o
was overturned and extinguished, when the Freshman grasped a chair and the Sophomores were obliged to beat a hasty and disastrous retreat. The next morning the Freshman was called before the President of the college, who inquired the cause of the disturbance in his room the preceding evening. The Freshman narrated the circumstances of the case very minutely, and the President listened with the greatest attention. ' When the Freshman had finished, the President said: “ And you cleaned them out?” “Yes,” was the answer. “I congratulate you upon your success!” said the President, as he took the boy’s hand and gave it a hearty shake.—Lewiston Journal.
Labor makes known the true worth of a. man as fire brings the perfume out of incense. _	.
Exchanges.
—The Queen's College Journal has become
I	O -7
plethoric of late,—24 pages of reading matter.
! But no exchange notes, and without exchange i notes the Journal is below its former status as ; a college paper.
: —The Hamilton College Monthly is-one of the
I best of our. Southern exchanges. It bears evidence of solid work and a desire to improve. The ar-
• rangement of the matter and the printing of the | paper, are in first-class style.
—The Swarthmore Phoenix is a tastefully-arranged and well-edited paper. Like Notre Dame three years ago, Swarthmore was last year burnt to the ground, but has been rebuilt. Its college paper is fully up to the average of college papers.
—The boys of the Punchard Free School, Andover, Mass., publish a well-edited little monthly, The Punchard Ensign, which is not a whit behind many of the college papers, aiid superior in merit to some of them. To its credit we say it, the Ensign is not stuffed with chaff. We wish we could sav the same for some of the papers i issuing from colleges, so called.
I	—We have received Uncle Hod's Stories for
j Boys and Girls. The volume contains a scries of 1 beautiful and interesting stories for the young; i many of which appeared, at times, in the Young | Catholic, and were an attractive feature of that j journal. The publishers merit great praise for the ■ style in which the book is gotten up. The type is i large and clear; the illustrations—thirty-four in i number—are beautiful, and the binding is rich and ! ornamental. Altogether, it makes a valuable and pleasing holiday-gift. It is published by the Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay st., New York.
—The Racine College Mercury has donned a neat, cream-tinted cover. Judging from the tenor of an editorial in the November numbei, the edi’ tors are hard pushed, and can find nothing to write about. They are about to have recourse to calisthenics, however, to try to stimulate the brain a little. It is said of the learned Adam Clarke that he had a pile of sand in his cellar, which he shovelled from one side to the other, to stimulate mental action. Is there any sand in the neighborhood of Racine? If not, an editorial mile-run, just before writing-time, might do the business, and shut off the “ devil’s ” cry for “ copy.”
—A correspondent of Sawyer’s Universal Penman calls the present system of business-writing “a chaotic mass,” and wants a “system” evolved, if that be possible, with simplicity of form as the basis. Has this correspondent been asleep in some mountain glen or cavern for the. last fifty years? If Spencerian penmanship, or some one of its many modifications, does not present a “system,” and a very good one, we are wide of the mark. The method in vogue compels no one to form capital letters with detached strokes, necessitating a lifting of the pen, as in the letter “ A ” of
THE -NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
231
• instance, which can be made in a continuous movement—evidently what “Amateur” desires.
—The Harvard Daily Herald and the Cornell Daily Sun are regular and most welcome visitors —none more so. Those jvho have-not seen these-enterprising college dailies may suppose that a college dailv could have nothing of general interest, —that is, for those outside the institution at which it is published; but that is not the case, and especially with the Harvard Herald. For a daily it publishes a great deal of general college news, as our College Gossip department sometimes testifies. If you would know the value of a paper, clip what is of interest, and see how the paper looks. The Cornell Sun has improved vastly since last year. But what has become of our old friend the Era^. we haven’t seen it lately.
— The Academy Journal is the title of a spicy little paper issued monthly by the cadets of St. John’s Academy, Alexandria, Va. The Journal has entered upon its 14th year. It is very small for its age, but lively, and shows talent. They seem to have some bright boys at St.John’s Academy, but they have also some very thick-headed fellows, like our friend John. We are told that “ Cadet W. wishes to know on what day of the month Christmas comes.” We wonder if he knows on what day of the month the Fourth of July will be, next year? The exchange editor of the Journal compliments the Shattuck Gazette as being the representative of a fine school, that, he is glad to see, “ retains the title of ‘ school,’ which it honors, instead of aspiring to be a one-horse college.” o
—A Fkee Gift.—The Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway have in press an Almanac and - Hand-Book of Useful Information, containing a vast amount of matter which it is handy to have available, and which all classes of people want some time during the year. The book contains descriptions of the Western States and Territories, a list of U. S. Land Offices, where lands are available at low rates, how obtained, etc., etc., as well as interest tables, business law, rates of postage and political facts and figures. In fact, it is multuni in Jarvo, and all the much is of everyday use. The same road also, publishes a Christmas book for children, which contains several fine illustrations, and is original matter, and a very fine piece of sheet music, arranged for piano and a quartet of voices. . Either, or both of these books and the music will be sent post free, if requested, by postal or letter; The earlier your name is sent to E. St. John, General Ticket arid'Passenger Agent, Chicago, the quicker you'will g'et the books.
—We heartily endorse the following sentiments from an editorial in the Geneva College Cabinet, and commend them to the serious consideration of exchange editors who delight only in picking out , flaws in the writing of others:
“ The next thing, in point of excellence, after the attempting to live actuated by the best motives, is the trying, in all cases, to grasp the true motive which actuates others and
pointing out the worthy part of actions, no matter to whom they belong. . . . No man should be ashamed to acknowledge the truth when it presents itself palpably to I him. Nothing is lost by acknowledging merit, no matter I where found. Every one should be credited with as much 1 excellence as his works evince a conception of right and I truth. It gives a man a magnanimity of character that j nothing else can bestow, to point out; the merits in the J works of other men. It is said that*'Addison’s writings I did more to establish the popular idea ,of. merit in Milton’s ; works than anything else, but by the.same efforts Addfeon
confirmed his own merits.	•
'	“ Be thou the first, true meritjp defend.
<	His praise is lost who stays ’til' all commend.”
J So long as our new Presbyterian acquaintances stick to such principles they will do themselves honor. It is regretful that so feAv'’ are actuated bv such motives, in their actions,atleast. Some there be who express the sentiment in words, but contradict it in work, plainlyjshowing that theirs ; was only a tongue and lip moralizing, and had no foundation in the centre of alEtrue.and manly senti-I ment, the heart. In the latter -remark there is no 1 reference made to the actions'of ’the editors of the J College Cabinet. Our acquaintance with them I has been too brief to pass judgment, and so far as we could see there has Been not a shadow of reason to judge them adversely to the sentiments expressed above. . y
—The Normal Nezes—from the Michigan State Normal School, Ypsilanti^seems to improve with age. As'it is still voting—in its second year— of course there is room -for further improvement. An article on “ The Purpose of Common Schools,” in the November number, is excellent throughout. The writer’s object is, evidently, to call attention to abuses that have crept in: but before doing so he disarms the critics, ,dr hobbyists, each of whom would have the common school do as he wishes— one being in favor of industrial pursuits, another of commerce, another of music, another of languages, another of agriculture, and so on. The writer thinks the teachers of common schools attempt too much, and that unsatisfactory results are the consequence.
•Tt becomes very important, then, that the poorer classes have the right training, for their.short school life is the onlv place where they will receive instruction; and as they are led to think and investigate in school, so will they think and investigate in life. The desire for ornament impels teachers to fill a common school course of study full of Ologies; and the direct tendency is that from lack' of time, conveniences, and knowledge, the whole course will be spoiled. If many things can be taught, teach them: but don’t try to teach five hard studies when the pupils’ minds are not fitted for one single subject. How many think "more strongly or do differently in their dailv lives'after .they have ‘passed’ philosophy, than before? Does chemistry put them into closer communion ’ with the great heart of nature? On the contrary, because whole fields of study are skimmed over, the student loses desire for investigation; and so far from doing other things better from having studied these subjects, he is de-terred by their very thought.”
Another writer is in favor of degrees for Normal Graduates. Unlike the former, this one presents his suggestions in indifferent English, but the suggestions. themselves seem practical. Why should not the coin be stamped according to its value?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame. December 16, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S/jo per Annum. Postpaid-.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume bv applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list arc printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Donahoe’s Magazine begins its fifth year in January next. It is well edited by Mr. Patrick Donahoe, the founder of the Boston Pilot. We recommend it to all our readers'. The subscription price is $2 a year. Address Patrick Donahoe, 21 Boylston Street, Boston Mass.
—Prof. Zahm, the electrician of Notre Dame Universitv, is contributing a series of interesting articles to the columns of the Scholastic. They are highly scientific, yet written in a popular strain which places them within the reach of all.—South Bend Register.
Our friend the Register is in error. The articles are from the pen of Albert F. Zahm, a student of the University and a younger brother of the Rev. Professor.
—The Leaionnier LiBRARY.of the Universitv now presents one—and not the least—among the many attractions which Notre Dame possesses. In years past, the want of. suitable room for the general library was greatly felt. The small amount of space that could be utilized, not only
gave to the library proper a crowded and ill-arranged appearance, but, owing to the rapidly-in creasing number of volumes, necessitated the form
i ation of smaller libraries. As might have been expected, these latter had their inconveniences and disadvantages which need not here be recounted.
We have already stated in the columns of the Scholastic that, during and since the vacation, the College authorities have taken all possible means to remedy every existing defect; and especially were these efforts directed towards the perfection of the Library. And now we are happy to announce that the College not only possesses a Library worthy to be called such, but also that fitting rooms have been provided for the literary store which it contains.
Of these, the main room is a large Gothic apartment, 130 feet in length by 50 in width, with a vaulted ceiling, having an average height of 30 feet. The walls are of a delicate sea-green color, relieved b}; large oil-paintings of St. Thomas Aquinas, Dante and Chaucer. Preparations arc also being made for life-size portraits of Dr. Brownson and Cardinal Newman—two great benefactors of the Library. These paintings are the gift of Signor Gregori, in memory of his friend, Father Lc-monnier. In due course of time, other paintings will adorn the walls. Leading from the library proper arc four smaller apartments, one for the storage of pamphlets, another for a working-room and two private offices.
The book-cases are all of oiled ash and walnut, and surmounted by terra-cotta busts of ancient and modern celebrities. Ornamental glass cabinets arc now being made for the preservation of coins, medals, autographs and literary curiosities. The floor is lined with tables, reading-desks, etc., for the accommodation of students and other readers. The ornamentation and workmanship displayed throughout are superb: for which credit must be given to Bros. Frederick and Liborius, and Professors Gregori and Ackermann. Altogether, the Library is now something creditable to the Institution, and may be pointed out with pride to the visitor. This is, in a great.measure, due to Prof. Edwards, the Director, to whose untiring zeal and activity the happy and perfect completion of the work must be attributed.
St. Mary’s Academy, Salt Lake, Utah.
Those who, devote their lives to the welfare and happiness of others seldom have their reward in this woild; but when, in addition to such lifelong devotion, there is added a self-abnegation which shuns all publicity, and seeks to be unknown save through its works, and then only impersonally, the chance of appreciation and reward is infinitely lessened. But there are those who note not the world nor its applause, and Salt Lake City has a. community of bright and faithful women of this character, who earn the gratitude of thousands, and whose efforts in behalf of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
233
young more especially should bring them a covering of blessings sufficient to protect them from all ills. We refer now to those who conduct that popular and growing- institution of learning, St. Marv’s Academv. Their lives arc lives of toil in behalf of those committed to their fostering care and ex-
emplary instruction. The years of their daj-s arc ■ struction is especially strong in mathematics and passed in study and severe work. In order to fit
themselves properly and conscientiously for their trust, they have delved deep into the stores of culture, and exhausted research in the several branches they teach. As a consequence, the instructors of this school are thorough mistresses of their calling, deep scholars, full learned in what they teach, from the highest branches of mathematics to the elementary principles in which the primary classes are drilleel. Study is their life-long business, not onlv in the ordinarv educational work, but also in the languages, in music, painting and drawing. The teachers of the French and German classes are
natives of France and Germany respectively, and .	<0	______o --
the accent the pupils hear in those tongues is ac- that the darn shall not be known from the origi-
curate and pure. There are fifteen teachers in all in the school.
The building devoted to the school is on one of the loveliest spots in the city. The grounds arc adorned with the choicest shrubs and trees, whose arrangement and growth have been the personal care and labor of the Sisters. There are ample walks for exercise, and play-grounds for diversion. There is plenty of room, and yet more will be needed for the extensive and "wonderful institution this growing school is bound to become. Accordingly, those in charge lose no opportunity of adding to their grounds, and they have recently acquired a fine lot of land lying to the west of their old boundaries. The building is a fine, large, airy thrcc-storv brick, whose halls and rooms are commodious, and are thronged with girls whose hearts are as light as their tripping feet. More than two hundred of them are here; ninety-five boarders and one hundred and ten day pupils. They study all the branches, and arc divided into nine English classes, numbering from twelve to twenty-five each; the music classes number from no to 120; drawing and painting, 38 to 40; and in the latter are many ladies of the city who attend foi instruction, practice and guidance in these graceful accomplishments. Altogether, the school is stronger, better and more thronged than ever before.
Great attention is given to music and vocal culture. The whole school is thoroughly practised in singing, and there is thorough special vocal training beside, for the special classes. It is a great work to train so many to sing together, but it is done. We saw a fine example of it the other dav, and also of the good work done by the music pupils. The facilities for music study arc excellent; there are ten pianos in constant use, and more would be needed but that many of the students have instruments at home, on which they practise. There is a splendid harp, altogether- the finest in
the West, and a class of four who use it. are six or seven guitars, and an organ.
There
The course of instruction in the scholastic branches is most thorough. A complete knowledge of the ground gone over is required before promotion can be had, and a perfect knowledge of the studies is insisted upon. Practical knowledge of business affairs is inculcated, and the in-
grammar. Book-keeping, the discounting of notes, and business work, practical accounts, as of housekeeping, the measurement of walls for papering or plastering, of floors for carpeting, etc., are part of the system of instruction. There is a Latin class, and to the writing of compositions and letters two hours a week of faithful work are given. In short, nothing is omitted to ensure perfection in a thorough English and practical course of study.
There is, besides, one afternoon a week devoted to plain sewing, and ornamental and fancy work, which includes with the boarders’ drill in neatness
and order in their beds and appurtenances, keeping their wardrobes in order, mending and darning so
i' nal knitting.
, There is a flourishing society among the pupils called the Augusta Literary Society, for whose use there is a cabinet of choice books, selected with a view to the broadest culture; and there is, besides, a general library. And right here we mav as well say that while Catholic parents can un-। doubtedly have their children trained here-in the strictest requirements of the faith, no pressure whatever of a sectarian character is brought to bear -; upon the general pupils, in whose cases onlv the i ordinarv moral culture and pioprieties everywhere • recognized are imparted.
; A fine cabinet of beautiful and rich specimens । adorns the west hall, and in the same is the her i ginning of a collection of philosophical appa-I ratus. Additions to the latter have been written' I for to Philadelphia. They will include globes, scales, mathematical instruments, heliometer, etc.
j A complete school such as this.needs everything in | the educational line, and it will all be provided in j time.
■ To the south of the main school is St. Joseph’s I school for boys, in which are eighty pupils, thirty ; of whom are boarders, from the Territories and ! from the States. They receive instruction in the ; English branches, music, French, German, the el-i cments of drawing and vocal culture. This school ; is entirely separate from the Academe.
i It was intended to begin this year the erection ' of an addition to the main Academv. but now it will I	• *
I not be begun till next year, when it will be pushed | to speedy completion. It is to be an L, to the ■ north, 60x70 feet, in the same style as the main i building. The halls of the present Academy will be continued through the new, and the main hall have a length of 200 feet. One floor of the new building will be devoted to music, one will be a
• large studv-hall. and one will be devoted to dining
1 halls and play-rooms. The Academy is a grand.
• growing institution and the public will rejoice j with The Tribune in its prosperity and expansion, j —Salt Lake Tribune.
234
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—-Jos. Krost, of ’78, is a successful physician in Chicago.
—R. E. Keenan, of ’81, is railroading, at Grafton, D. T.	:
—J. F. Concannon (Com’l), of ’82, is in busi- • ness with F. A. Van Dyke, Wabash Av., Chicago. I
.—Vxr. J. Murphy (Law), ’79, is the proprietor i of the Grand Forks Plain, dealer, at Grand Forks, j D. T.	.	'
—:Mr. James French, C. S. C., of ’76, is now the efficient Prefect of Discipline at St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati.
—M. J. Carroll, of ’82, is doing a thriving business as partner in the firm of Matterson & Carroll, Real Estate. Loan and Insurance Agents, Nashville, Minnesota.	.
—Mr. Martin Regan, C. S. C., of ’78, is. engaged in teaching the young idea at St. To-seph’s College, Cincinnati, and is a prominent and efficient member of the Faculty of that institution/
—Mr. J. Irman, C. S. C., our Professor of German, was called home to Chicago on Tuesday by the sudden death of his worthy father. He has the sympathy of all at Notre Dame in his sad bereavement.
—Married—Wednesday, Dec. 13th, at Bloomington, Ill., Bernard J. Clagget, ?So, and Nettie McCurdy.
The Scholastic tenders its congratulations to its old friend, B. J., and his happy bride. May their voyage through life be happy and prosperous, and ad multos annos 1
—M. H. Keeley, ’72, is a prominent lawyer at Faribault, Minn., and has lately distinguished -himself by his success in several very important cases. Referring tb one of these, the Faribault Republican says: “ The acquittal of the defendant created considerable surprise. . . . The case for the defence was ably summed up by M. H. Keeley, Esq., who occupied four hours in the deliver}' of his plea.” Mr. Keeley’s many friends at Notre Dame are pleased to hear of his success.
Local Items.	'
—Skating!
—M-------was bounced. .
—“It is a sublime coat!” .	,
—The Scholastic Animal is out.
—“Beau	, hold on! Too much.snow!”
-—He talks of getting a pair of wooden shoes.
L—Tbe Juniors’ reading-room “takes the-bun.” — Competitions next week in the Commercial
Course. .	?	..A ?
.—“He cut off liis moustache and could not be -
identified.”	:	: A’ .
. —The Library, will be thrown open to the public. on;next Monday- 5 A yM AF,- y-F'F ..
—There -is/aj.vefy 'lively' contest- in one of the
Grammar Classes. (Prep.)	.....
—The latest phase of aestheticism—the deglutition of hash to the strains of Patience.
—B. Frederick has the thanks of the Seniors for fine painting done in their reading-room.
—There will be a grand chess tournament in the Juniors’ parlor, during the coming week. ’
—The skating visits are likelv to be few and far between. (Shall we put the quotation marks?)
—After the holidays, a new course of lectures on literary and historical subjects will be inaugurated.
—Anyone having a Scholastic Annual of 1876, will be rewarded by sending it to the Scholastic office.
—Father Zahm has a lecture in course of preparation on the “Past, Present and Future of Colorado.”
—A prize has been offered in the 1st Grammar Class for the best biographical sketch of a local celebrity.
—The Christmas holidays begin on Thursday, 21 st inst. Classes will be resumed on Tuesday, January 2d.	.
—The Catholic students received Holy Communionin a body on the Festival of the Immaculate Conception.
—The prize offered for the best sale of tickets for the Junior sociable was won by D. Taylor and L. Gibert, ex aquo.
—A valuable work of art hits been taken from the Vandyke room. It is hoped that it will be returned in a short time.
-—In the contest between the members of the History Class, the best score was made by Master Amedeus Coghlin.
—The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Master Ryan Devereux for a valuable donation to the Cabinet of Mineralogy.
—Rev. A. B. Oechteiing, of Mishawaka, and Prof. T. E. Howard, of South Bend, were welcome visitors during the past week.
—To-morrow, the 3d Sunday in Advent, Missa Parvulorum will be sung. Vespers of the Expectation of the B.,V. M., page 113.
—There arc three poets among the Minims, B.
' Lindsey, of Denver, Col.; C. Harris, Lewiston, Ill.: and R. V. Papin, St. Louis, Mo.
—The Professor of Physics has the thanks of the Euglossians. for furnishing the electric light on.the occasion of their entertainment. .	-
—Don’t faiLto., secure a copy of the Scholastic Annual- tor 1883,'for sale Students’ Office. You couldjiot invest 25 cents Jo better advantage.'
—Gregorys new mural painting .was unveiled on Wednesday. . It is a work in every way worthy of the artist., A critiquewill .be presented in dur next. /	A.
-L-Gregdri will soon commence work upon his : new- mural' painting, in the “ Columbus ” series, the subject^ of which'AvilM	Planting of the
' Cross.’’ ’ A-y ;AJA-y--:'	' -A<	•
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
235-
—Several classes in the Preparatory Course weie visited by the Director of Studies during the past week. It is intended to have all visited be-r	fore the holidays.	’
jj	—There are indications that work will begin
U	on the western wing early in the spring'. Large
quantities of brick are being hauled to the side of
,1	the Juniors’ study-hall.
]	—The- happy Minims have utilized the cement
i'	walk in front of their new house as a skating rink,
j	Their bright, cheerful faces, and merry laughter
|	make one long to be a ■prince.
;	-r-The gentlemanly agent of the Cincinnati.
!	AV abash & Michigan Railway, visited the College
I	last Wednesday. He oilers unusuallv liberal rates
i	to all students travelling bv his line.
j	—The aesthetic taste of the Seniors is shown hi
’	the ornamentation .of their reading-room. It must
1	be''<aid, however, that the graining and the lace
I	curtains do not match verv well: but—this is a
i	'
j	free country.
•	—On dit that a grand vocal and instrumental
concert, under the auspices of the new vocal class, i	will be given on next Tuesdav evening'. From
•	the notes of preparation already heard, we may
5	safely.predict a rich treat for all who attend.
‘	—Eveiy reader of the astrological predictions
*	contained in last year’s Scholastic Annual cannot
I	have failed to observe how accurately they were
>	verified. The Annual's Astrologer is the only cor-
rect and competent one in the United States.
<	—Prof. Edwards is indebted to Mr. Armijo, of
!	the Senior department, for a valuable contribu-
, tion to the Cabinet of Curiosities—a large blanket of Indian manufacture. The peculiarity of the article is that it is so closely woven as to be abso-,	lately water-proof.
—The Cabinet of Curiosities has lately become possessed of a large collection of Japanese curios— fans, lanterns, mats, umbrellas, boxes and .figures of various designs—to which is added a magnifi-1	cent satin screen, exquisitely embroidered in gold,
silver and various-colored silks.
—The Crescent Club “sociable,” for the bene-•	fit of the Junior reading-room, was a decided suc-
,	cess. B. Lawrence and Prof. Edwards have the
i	thanks of all concerned for the fine arrangements
!	made for the reception of the guests as well as for
the enjoyable, time which was had. -
—The members of the Junior Archconfraternity had a reunion. on the evening of their patronal
4	festival, Dec. Sth. All their confreres of the de-
/	partment, who had received number 1 for con-
duct, were kindly invited.' A pleasant couple of hours were passed, with music, refreshments and social converse. .	.	.
J;	—Skating onthe lower lake was enjoyed to some
extent during the fore part of the week, but later snows -interfered with the sport. Great hopes are ■	entertained for the. condition of the upper lake,
- ' which-as yet is not. frozen, over. N. B.—Since .
' this item was in type, the great “ freeze ” came, and, alas! the snow, tod! ;	.	/
—Our friend John thinks it was “too thin ” of' . v ' the Scholastic to let the. world know-his. fears ..	; 5-
about walking and bowing, since “ Mew Arts,” -	. 7.
was played. But as he practises every day, he	: =
says “you can bet on him ” to stand on the stage . .	.
the next time “New Arts ” is produced, and beat .'	-
Prof; Wright in bowing..	-
—B. Thomas is about to change his. present . abode for more commodious quarters in the.Gyrh- - ", nasium. In this latter place, the confectionery	/
store will be connected, with both the Seniors’ and , Juniors’ apartments, and, no doubt, a rushing retail	,
business will be done. It is rumored that some of	’ .
the g°°d boys of the Juniorswill be permitted to	,
assist in the removal of the pies, etc. . - , ’	'
—The eighth regular meeting.*of the Sorin -Literary and Dramatic Association was held-Nov.', the 27th. The question,“Is the Occupation of a ' . ' Merchant Preferable to that of a Doctor?” was de- <’ bated in an earnest and interesting manner. On the affirmative side were Masters Costigan, Winsor . and McGrath, and on the negative Masters Papin, - . Thomas and Otis. The question was decided in favor of the affirmative. Master H. Schmitz read a composition on “The Indians”; C. Metz,	’'
on “Winter,” and R. Morrison, on- “Texas.”	.
—The .Scholastic is enthusiastic over the Vanderpoel light run by a Noteman rotary engine by which the Campus is lighted. Itsavs: “By this means the students epn enjoy their recrea- . tions after supper as well as if they had the light of the noonday sun.” The next thing in order is . . the Faure accumulator, and Edison lamp, by which	1
Father ,Zahm intends soon to dispense with gas / and kerosene. It seems to us that the learned gen-.	'
tiemen at Notre Dame are making scientific ad- J ... = . vancement pretty rapidly .for people who are sup7 j • ' • posed to live mainly in. the mists of the middle .	-, j
ages.— Ypsilanti Sentinel.	~	,	1	.
—The 13th regular meeting of the St. Ceci-	. .
lia Philomathean Association was held Dec. id. y Rev. President Walsh was present, and ; after	■
complimenting the members^ op their gentlemanly- A\ deportment and progress in their studies, he dis- ' A tributed to each one the parts to be taken in the	~
next exhibition. At the 14th regular meeting, held '	-
Dec. 6th, A. Browne, J. Fendrich, W. Schott, C. -Porter and M. Foote read essays. A fair critf- ... , cism of the previous meeting-was given by EE .	" \
Ackhoff. The public readers for the coming week - y ' , ' are, W. Schott, H. Foote, J. Kahmann, H. Sells, . • A. Browne, H. Bush, and J. Fendrich. ..	A J, Al	' r>
,—-Thc Sth and 9th regular meetings. of the St. "A A ' A Stanislaus Philopatrian Association were.held re-	-
spectively Nov. 20th’ and Dec. 1st. Comppsi- : tions were read by Masters J. Devereux and	*
F. Kengel. Declamations , were delivered? by F.	..
Rvan, E. Wile, W. Henry, and F. Fishel. The	1
exercises of a Moot Court then opened;. Master .. A. A-' W. Ewing was'indicted. ; The legal advisersrfor	A. ;
the prosecution were L. Gibert,yJ.: Devereux, and	’ :	, •
F. Kengel. The Attorneys for . the., defendant	\. A
were Masters F. Farrelly, S, Warren. and.F.Ryan. A.. . ’ . The. foreman of the Jury was>W. EI. Elanavin.: 'lA^A
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
F. Fishel acted as Clerk of the Court, and F. Schillo was Sheriff. The verdict of “Not guilty ” .was returned by the Jury. The trial was both amusing and interesting, and consumed the time of several special meetings.
■ —The regular weekly Sociable given by the Crescent Club on last Wednesday evening, was one of the most enjoyable of the session. The famous Elbel Bros.’ Orchestra of South Bend, was engaged for the occasion. But as a little preliminary preface previous to the prologue (“”), they favored the Juniors with some choice mor-ceaux, whilst they (the Juniors, not the orchestra) partook of their evening repast. The Juniors gratefully appreciate the compliment paid them.
The “ sociable ” was eminently enjoyable, and attended bv a number of invited guests. One of the features of the musical part was the rendition of an overture composed of German melodies— the works of Franz Abt, Klieken, Gumbert and Mendelssohn. Everything, under the direction of Prof. Edwards, passed oil very happily and all were greatly pleased.
—Last week Father General presented a large bronze medal of Pius IX, to be given to the one who played his part best in “New Arts.” As Father General himself, President Walsh, and Father Shortis, of St. Mary’s, as well as the Scholastic, gave the highest praise to all the actors, it was found too difficult a question to determine who did best; it was therefore decided to have the prize drawn for by those who took the principal parts in the play. The fortunate winner, Master Rene Vion Papin, of St. Louis, as well as the members of the Sorin Association, return sincere thanks to their kind patron for the deep interest he takes in their welfare. Father General has also presented a handsome rosary, in a silver case, to be given to the most polite boy in the Minim department. The voting for this premium will take place before Christmas.
—The 25th Annual Christmas Exercises of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, of the University of Notre Dame, will take place Monday, Dec. 18, 1882, atqp. m. The following is the
PROGRAMME:
PART I.
Music..................................  N.	D. U. C. B.
“ The Sound of Harps” ( Verdi)___J. Courtney, W. Schott
H. Foote, J. Devine, F. Johnson, G. Schaeffer
Oration of the Day..........................A. Browne
Prologue......................................M. Foote
Music (LutsfieP)...........................  Orchestra
’	PART 11.
- “IF I WERE A KING,”
A Drama in Four Acts, Composed for the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association by a Member of the Faculty.
Dramatis Persona:.
Genaro, Shepherd King......................G/Schaefier
Ferdinand, King of Naples...................A; Browne
Alberto, Son of the King...................J. Fendrich
Melchiore, First Courtier................    .	Foote
Cecato,: Chief Shepherd..............-..... D. G. Taylor
Valerio, Shepherd-King’s Brother....Jos. .Courtney
Ruisco, Cousin of the King, and Conspirator... .H. Dunn Don Gonsalvo, Spanish Ambassador,
and Conspirator,...............Jas.	S. Courtney
Bozza, Major Domo of King’s Palace............M. Dolan
Banquo, Overseer of Shepherds..............W. Jeannot
Stephano, Chief of Brigands...................C. Ackhoff
Silvio, J	(F. Johnson
Philippo, j	| H. Foote
Baptista, J	Shepherds, .	■( W. Schott
Marco, I	j E. Dillon
Tomazo, j	I II. Hess
Alonzo, General of the King’s Armies	ty Kahman Orazzio, J	'	f * H. Bush
Marino, j	W. Mugg
Verdi, :	F. Brice •
Beppo, 1	; J. Hagenbarth
Lino, J-Courtiers, Chamberlains. Pages, J (.Smith Lupo. }	j	J. McDonald
Guido, j	|	E. Gerlach
Cerano, |	|	W. Bacon
Dorio, J	( C. Porter
Leandro (Royal Usher).....................G.	De Haven
Lucio....................'..................R.	Reach
Pedro.................................M.	O’Connor
Urso..............................................H. Sells
Marzo....................................... J.	Halligan
Giovanni, Hermit.............................P.	Warren
Hugoni. )	t> i -	1'
-	Roval Guards.
Crescio, )	-	•
Soldiers, Attendants, etc..........
Grand Chorus—il Ou fcut-on efre micnx
Worcester
A. Schillo
\ W. /
......................Orpheonic	Club
Grand Tableau.
Epilogue.................................D. Taylor
Closing Remarks..........................
March for Retiring...................N. D. U. C. B.
Note—During the play, the University Orchestra will discourse appropriate music. Masters Schaeffer and Johnson will sing solos.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]	;
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Armijo, Ashford, Anderson, Brady, Bolton, Becerra, Blackman, E. Burke, V. Burlce, Comerford, Cavanagh, 'Coll, T. Carroll, G. Clarke, A. Coghlin, W. Coghlin, Conway. Campbell, Clements, Craig, Cole, Delgado, Jas. Delaney, Eaton, Ewing, E. Fenlon, Fleming, Farrell, Gall, Grever, Golonski, Grange, Godfroy, Gooley, Heffernan, Harris, Johnston, Kleiber, Kane J Kimmell, Koehler, Kuhn, Kavanaugh, Larkin, Molloy, W. J. McCarthy, W. H. McCarthy, McEniry, McErlaine, Marlett, C. Murdock, S. Murdock, McIntyre, Magoffin, Morse, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, McManus, Moms, Nelson, Noble, O’Dea, O’Reilly, Orchard, O’Neill, Otis, O’Brien, Pour, Parrott, Pillars,* Peery, Peters, Ratterman, Rodgers, T. Ryan, Steele, Schofield, Saviers,* Spencer, C. Smith, G. Smith, Tinley, Terrazas, Twohig, Walsh, Whalen, Witwer, Warner, Yrisairi, Zahra, Zaehnle.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackhoff, Browne, Berthelet, Bacon, Braunsdorf, Bush, Coover, Caveroc, Cain, Dolan, Dorenberg, Dillon, De Haven. Dunn, Duffin, Eisenhauer, M. Foote, Fehr, Ferguson, Fendrich, Fishel, Goldsmith, Grothaus, Hagerty, W. Henry, Hibbeler, Hess, Halligan, Hagenbarth, Hannavin, Jeannot, Kahman, J. Kelly, Kerndt, M. Kelly, Livingston, Lund, McCawley, Metz, Mug, McGordon, Morton, McDonald, J. P. O’Donnell, D- O’Connor, Peery, Pick, Porter, Robb, Rhodus, Ruppe, Reach, Schott, Smith, Schillo, Sells, Sanford, Talbot, Taggart, Terrazas, Taylor, Warren, Worcester, Wile, Wilkinson, Ynsarri, Zeigder.
.	_ MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackermann, Adams, Beall, Bannantine, Burlingame, Bunker, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Chirhart, Chaves, Cummings, Coad, Cain, Colwell; Devereux, Dirksmeyer,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Si
W. Dyer, J. Dyer, W. Devine, A. Devine, Harris, Hynes, Hopkins, Huestis, Johnson, Keeffe, Kellner, J. A. Kelly, Kraus, Luther, Landemvich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Lare, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McNaughton, Morrison, Masi, McPhee, McGuire, Metz, Moss, McGor-don, Nester, F. Otis, A. Otis, Pick, Papin, W. Prindi-ville, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Rebori, Roberts, Rea, Roper. Studebaker,’ Stange, Spencer, Schmitz, Smith, Sommer. F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Schmauss, Shicker, Stewart, T. Thomas, Unger. Welch, W. Walsh, E. Walsh, Whitney, Warner, Winsor, Wright, Wallace, L. Young. C. Young.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their • classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. Sturla, Freese, Drover, Rattermann, Koehler, J. McNamara, Campbell. Marlett, Wheatly, Saviers, O’Reilly, Grever, Rhodius, S. Murdock, Coll, H. Whitman, Hausberg, J. Heffernan, Jas. Courtney, Kerndt, Farrelly, Schillo, Grothaus, Wilkinson, Pick, P. Warren, Doren-burg, Holbrook, Fishel, Schaeffer, Lund, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, P. Yrisarri, Berthelet, Coover, H. Metz, Rho-dus, Zaehnle, W. Henry, Caveroc, Kain, Sells, F. Ryan, J. McCartney, Reach, Veale, E. Yrisarri, Kane, Fenton, Cole, A. Terrazas, Shannon, M. Kelly. Hagerty, W. Wright, T. Lally, J. Kleiber. '
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—Mr. Kipper; Grammar— Messrs. Hagerty, Kerndt, Coover, Peery, W. Henry, C. Carroll, Veale, Freese. Grange, Warren, T. McNamara, Witwer, J. Fogerty, Caveroc, Dean, Whalen, Kahman, Hess, Gerlach; Geography—Messrs. W. Henry, Coover, D. O’Connor, Farrelly, J. Kelly, Holbrook, Rhodus White; Arithmetic—Messrs. W. Ryan, Gooley, Godfroy, Stover, Wallace, W. Henry, Wilkinson, McGordon, W. Hetz, Simms, Hagenbarth, E. Bailey, Pick, Schillo, B. McCartney, O’Dea, Kleiber, J. McNamara, Bowers; Penmanship -----; Latin—Messrs. O’Reilly, A. Browne, Hausberg, Fleming; Greek-----; Algebra—Messrs. Mug, Chelini, Witwer, E. Yrisarri, Reach; Geometry—Messrs. Mug, Saviers, McManus: Phonography—Messrs. Heffernan, Whitman.
minim department.
Arithmetic—Masters G. Costigan, Moss, Johnson, W. Welch, Nester, Hopkins, F. Otis, Kraus, W. Prindiville, Harris, A. Kelly, W. Walsh, Stange, Chaves, Metz, Schicker, Schmauss, Pick, Thomas, B. Lindsey, Schmitz; Grammar—Masters Hopkins, J. J. McGrath, G. Costigan, Cummings, W. Devine, Johnson, Morrison, Papin, E. Walsh, Harris, Moss, McGordon; German—-Masters Metz, F. Stamm, Dirksmeyer, Stange, Schmitz, Rebori, Beall, Unger, Landenwich, Hanns.	.
For the Dome.
Alexis Coquillard, South Bend, Ind......".....$500.00
Hon. J. S. Stanfield, South Bend, Ind......... 200.00
Prof. J. F. Edwards. L. L. B.................-.	100.00
St. Mary’s Academy, Salt Lake City, Utah....... 20.00 St. Mary’s School, Park City, Utah............. 10.00
A Child of Mary...........................1.... 10.00
St. Joseph’s Academy, South Bend, Ind........... 9.00
St. Joseph’s School, Marshall, Texas............ 5.00
il. Rohrback, Philadelphia, Pa.................. 5.00
Children of St. Mary’s School, Silver Reef, Utah..	5.00
Joseph Kahmann..................................'	5.00
Saint TFlary’s Acabemy.
One Mile IKest of Notre Dame University.
—The Feast of the. Translation of the Holy House of Nazareth to Loretto, in Italy, is a day of pilgrimage and great Indulgences at St. Mary’s, where the facsimile chapel is enriched with the same spiritual favors as are attached to the original. Bishop Gilmour writes from Italy that he has visited and said Mass in the Santa Casa, at Loretto, and affirms that the chapel at St. Mary’s is exactly like that in which dwelt the Holy
—On the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, the patronal festival of St. Mary’s, Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. Father General, assisted by Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier as deacon and subdeacon. After the Gospel, the Very Rev. celebrant delivered an eloquent sermon, appropriate to the festival. After he had ceased speaking, Father Faber’s beautiful hymn—“ O Purest of Creatures!was sung. Such hymns belong to the people, and are links which bind together age to age, manifesting and consolidating the unity of the Faith in the Church of God.
A Touching- Incident.
{Translated, from the " Feuillc d'OrT) Johnnie was six years old, his socks full of holes, his clothes torn, and, more than that—he was cold and hungry—when the thought struck him to write a letter to the Blessed Virgin. Not knowing how to write, he ran Just round the comer, where an old soldier performed the office of a public scribe for persons not accustomed to hold the’ pen. He found him smoking and warming himself, as usual.
“Good day, sir! I would like to have a letter written.” -	'
“It will cost ten cents, my boy,” said,the man. .
“Excuse me!” answered Johnnie, opening the door to go away, when the old grumbler called out: “ Are you a soldier’s son ? ”
“ No,” replied the child, “ I am mamma’s son.” “Well, have you ten cents?”	’
“ Oh, no! I have no cents! ”	'
“Nor your mother neither? well, let us see— your letter, I suppose, is to get some soup.”
“Exactly!”
“ Come on, then; ten lines, and a half sheet of paper, is not much to give.” He arranged his pa- ■ per, and, dipping his pen in the ink-stand, wrote, in a flourishing hand, “Paris, Jan. 17, 1857;” and on a lower line—“ To Mr.-------‘What’s his name, little one?’”
“ Who, sir? ”
“ Why, the gentleman, of course! ”	.
“ What gentleman, sir?”
__	O	-	*	-
“The one about the soup; don’t you hear?” The child understood this time, and said: “It is not a gentleman.”
“ A lady, then ? ”—angrily.
“ Yes—no—that is, I mean—”	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOEASTJC.
“ You younsr ro°;ue! do you know to whom you want to write? ”
“ Oh, yes! ”
“ Hurry, then!”
Poor little Johnnie grew red and said: “It is to the Blessed Virgin I want to send a letter.” ;
The old trooper did not smile now. “You rogue!” said he, “are you making fun of an old man? if so, I shall put you out-doors! ” but, noticing the child’s modest countenance, he muttered to himself: “Ten thousand cannons! but there is much misery in Paris!” and, looking at the child with his eves half shut, he said, in a low tone: “What is vour name, sonny?”
“7011111110.”
“Johnnie what? ”
“Just Johnnie.”	.
“What do you want to say to the Blessed Virgin ?”
“ I want to tell her that mamma has been asleep since yesterday, and beg her to come and wake her, for 1 can’t.”	•
The old soldier heaved a sigh: “ But what about the soup?”
“ That was before she went to sleep—she gave me the last piece of bread.”	.
“ And what did she eat then ? ”
“ Oh, for two days before, she kept saying: ‘ I am not hungry.’ ”
“ How did you try to wake her? ”
“I kissed and hugged her, and kept on.talking, but she never answered.” *
“ Did you notice anything else? ”
“ Oh, yes! she is cold! Our house is very cold! ”
The old soldier shuddered with emotion, and, taking the child on his knee, said, gently: “ Little one, your letter is written, sent and answered; take me to your.niother.”
“Yes; but what makes you cry?”
“ I am not crying,” he said, stooping over to embrace the child to hide his tears; “but you will cry soon, poor little one!” Johnnie’s mother was dead—died of hunger and misery; she could not be brought back to life by the benefactor-of her child; no doubt she smiled on them from heaven. Johnnie, though young, soon made himself a name. As to the old soldier, he lived a good, Christian life, beloved by his adopted son, and often said to his friends: “ I do not know the carrier of such letters, but they always reach their address in heaven! ”
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
" SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Par Excellence—Misses Adderly, Adams, Barlow, Beal, Black, Bathrick, Babcock, Clarke, M. ‘ Campbell, Call, Crawford, Cox, Chirhart, Comerford, Dillon, Donnelly, Dunn, Daily, Donahue, Donnersberger, Drover, Dolan, L.- English, B. English, Eldridge, Fox, Feehan, Gove, Gavin, Hoag, M. Heneberry, L.- Heneberry, Heckard, Hunt, Harrigan, M. Hawkins, L. Hawkins, Harris, John-Ramsey, Rulison, Rettig, Sullivan, E. Slattery, T. Slattery, son, Keenan, Knott, B. King, J. King, Kirkham, Laffer, Lancaster, Legnard, Madole, Munger, McCoy, McCauley, McCarten, Mooney, Maginn, Murphy,- C. McKenna,. W. McKenna, Owens, O’Connell, J. O’Neill, O’Brien, Quinlan,
A. Ryan, IM. H. Ryan, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Richardson, Sawyer, Stackerl, Schull, Schmauss, Spotwood, Todd, Taylor, Van Patten, Wiley, Walsh, Wallace, Wood. zd Tablet—Misses Anderson, C. Campbell, Clifford, J. Duffield, Danforth, Dickson,Durphy, Fendrich, Fenlon, Foster, Hunter, Hagan, Hinz, Kolb, Leydon, Mohl, O’Connor, Pick, Pampell,, Pease, M. A. Ryan. Shickey, Semmes, Unger, Wright, Williams. ’
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	’
Par Excellence—Misses Best, Coogan, Chaves, M. Ducev. Dignan, Dillon, Donnelly, Grist, Gale, Halsey, B. Hanev. T. Haney, Hetz, Hibben, E. Johnston, Luna, Nevius, Otis, Richmond, Spangler, Shephard, Snowhook, Spencer, Van Horn. 2d Tablet—Misses Brown, K. Ducey, Ewing, Morgan, Moshier, McGrath, Malbceuf, Robinson, Rodgers, Schmidt, Wallace.	-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Burtis, Chapin, Maggie Ducev, English, Lindsey, McGrath, McKennon, Otis. Schmauss, Wallace, Westfall.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Advanced Course—Miss Laura Fendrich.
ist Class—Misses M. Campbell, Sullivan, Wiley.
2d Division—Misses Beal and J. Reilly.
2D Class—Misses C. Donnelly, T. Gove.
2D Div.—Misses V. Barlow, M. English, Hunt. M. A. Ryan, L. Wallace.
3d Class—Misses Fenlon, Fox, Keenan, Kirkham, A. Leydon, Unger.
2d Div.—Misses Bathrick, A. Dillon, Durphv, Shickev. Shephard, Van Patten, Wood.
4T11 Class—Misses Lancaster, Mohl, Morgan, Walsh.
2D Div.—Misses Adderly, Crawford, M. Dillon, L. English, Feehan, Gavin, Pick, Rulison, Spears, E. Slattery,' Schmauss, Todd.
5T11 Class—Misses F. Castanedo, Dolan, C. Ducey, C. Fehr, Grist, M. Heneberry, H. Hicks, Laffer, Murphy, Newton, Ramsey, V. Reilly, M. H. Ryan, Van Horn.
2D Div.—Misses Babcock, Clarke, Chirhart, J. Duffield, A. Duffield, Fisk, M. Hawkins, Hibben, B. King, Munger, Malboeuf, O’Neill, B. Snowhook, Spangler, Taylor, Williams, E. Wallace.
6th Class—Misses Call, Coogan, Chaves, Drover, Dunn, Donahue, B. English, Johnston, G. King, Kolb, Knott, Morrison, McCauley, Myers, Moshier, Nevius, J. Owens, O’Connor, C. Pease, Rettig, M. Richardson, T. Slattery, Stackerl.
2D Div.—Misses Adams, Alexander, M. Coyne, Comerford, Donnersberger, Danforth, Dickson, Gallagher, Gale, Hagan, L. Heneberry, Heckard, Hetz, B. Haney, Keifer, K. McKenna, E. O’Connell, Otero, Richmond, Rodgers. Schmidt.
7th Class—Misses Browne, Barry, Bowman, Donnelly, Eldridge, Harris, Harrigan, Hughes, B. Halsey, Johnson, Legnard, Madole, McGinn, Mooney, Mary Otis, O’Brien, Quinlin, C. Sawyer, A. Sawyer, Schull, Spotwood.
8th Class—Miss D. Best.	.
9TH Class—Misses M. Ducey, A. English, J. English, Prescott, Spencer.	'
ioth Class—Misses Burtis, Campau, Mattie Otis, L. Robinson, Sullivan, Schmauss, Westfall.
HARP.
4TH Class, 2D Div.—Miss M. Dillon.
GUITAR.
6th Class—Misses C. Ducey and O’Connor.
ORGAN.
Miss J. Schull.	'	'	<•
,	e -VIOLIN..^ ,	,	.	.
Misses Anderson arid M. Hawkins. -	'	.
HARMONY.	•
Misses Campbell, Sullivan and Wiley,
- VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Misses J. Reilly-and Wallace.
3d Class—Misses Hintz, King, Fenlon, Unger, Fendrich. ~	„
4TH Class—Misses Beal, Ramsey, M. A. Ryan, C. Ducey, Keeenan;	.	.	'
5TH Class—Misses V. Barlow, M. Hawkins, Crawford, Dolan, W. McKenna.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE SUN.
The Minim Department.
NEW YORK. ISeS.
More people have read The Sun during the year just ; now passing than ever before since it was first printed. [ No other newspaper published on this side of the earth has > been bought and read in anv year bv so many. men and women.	‘
We are credibly informed that people buy, read, and like The Sun for the following reasons, among others:
Because its news columns present, in attractive fonn and with the greatest possible accuracy, whatever has interest for humankind; the events, the deeds, and misdeeds, the wisdom, the philosophy, the notable folly, the solid sense, the improving nonsense—all the news of the busiest world at present revolving in space.
Because people have learned that in its remarks con- J cerning persons and affairs The Sun makes a practice of 1 telling them the exact truth to the best of its ability three hundred and sixty-five days in the year, before election as well as after, about the whales as well as about the small fish, in the face of dissent as plainly and fearlessly as when supported by general approval. The Sun has absolutely no purposes to serve, save the information of its readers and the furtherance of the common good.
Because it is everybody’s newspaper. No man is so humble that The Sun is indifferent to his welfare and his rights. No man is so rich that it can allow injustice to be done him. No man, no association of men, is poxverful enough to be exempt from the strict application of its principles of right and wrong.	.
Because in politics it has fought for a dozen years without intermission and sometimes almost alone among newspapers, the fight that has resulted in the recent overwhelming'popular verdict against Robesonism and for honest government. No matter what party is in power, The Sun stands and will continue to stand like a rock for
the interests of the people against the ambition of bosses, the encroachments of monopolists and the dishonest scheines.of public robbers.	w
All this is what we arc told almost daily by our friends. One man holds that The Sun is the best religious newspaper ever published, because its Christianity is undiluted with cant. Another holds that it is the best Republican newspaper printed, because it has already whipped half of the rascals out of that party, and is proceeding against the other half with undiminished vigor. A third believes it to be the best magazine of general literature in existence, because its readers miss nothing worthy of notice that is current in the world of thought. So every friend of The Sun discovers one of its many sides that appeals with particular force to his individual liking.
If you already know The Sun, you will observe that in 1SS3 it is a little better than ever before. If you do not already know The Sun, you will find it to be a mirror of all human activity, a storehouse of the choicest products of common sense and imagination, a mainstay for the cause of honest government, a sentinel, for genuine Jeffersonian Democracy, a scourge for wickedness of every species, and an uncommonh' good investment for the coming year. .
Terms to Mail Subscribers.
The several editions of The Sun are sent by mail postpaid, as follows:	’
DAILY—55 cents a month, $6,50 a .vear:	Sunday edition, $7,70.	.	"
SUNDAY—Eight pages, $ (,20 ;l year.
WEEKLY—$ | a year. Eight pages of the best matter of the daily issues': an Agricultural Department of unequalled merit, market reports, and. literary, scientific, and domestic intelligence make The Weekly Sun the newspaper for the farmer’s household. To clubs of ten with $10, an extra copy free.
Address	I. W. ENGLAND, Publisher,
.v.	The Sun, N. Y. City.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age. ‘
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the. Sisters, who take a-tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department. -
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C.S.C.,
’ Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
GE. F. HE YIUS,
DENTIST.
Office—ioi Michigan, cor. of Washington St., O J	o	7
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA.
In order to prevent irregular dentition and premature decay of Children’s Teeth, frequent examinations are indispensable. The Doctor will make no charge to Parents who desire to know the condition of their children’s teeth.
NOW READY.
The Scholastic Annual
For 1883.
EIGHTH YEAR.
'	CONTENTS:
Astrological Predictions; Astronomical Calculations; A Little Bird (Poetry),—J7. E. Af.; Abstinence Days; Abandoned at Sea (Poetry).—E.R.; An Undesired Prefix (Poetry),—Justin Thyme; Bryant Vindicated.—A. J. Sface, -i. Af.; Calendars; Church Days and Cycles of Time; Convalescent (Poetry),—7'. E. Hozvard, A. AE; Denis Florence MacCarthy,—I. K Green; Eclipses; The Electric Lighting,—Electron; Fasting Days: Guido of Arezzo,—H. IK. C.; Holydays of Obligation; Introduc-' tion; Now Beginneth the Hot Spell (Poetry),—Carry Aleout; Professorial Verbiage,—S./ Parting with Rome (Poetry),—Rev. C. C. Pise, D.D.; Rates of Postage; The-cel (Poetry),—Eleanor C. Donnelly; To St. Cecilia (Poetry), Af. A. Sface; The Voyage of Life,—Hon. S. S. Hayes; The Genuine Jean Valjean,—T. FEE; With a Forget-Me-Not (Poetry),—E. Af.: Winged Words.
Price. cents. Postage Free.
Address,	‘
JOSEPH A. LYONS,
Notre Dame. Ind.
240
THE'NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DdME, IND.
The University aftbrds every facility tor acquiring a thorough knowledge of
•	CLASSICS,	" LAW, "
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
"	THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
-	Rev. T. E.	C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
L. S' & M. 8 Railway.
Q
U4
MUNN. 4&C3

actassolicitorsfor

h
“»**■■■■■■■■< patents, caveats, trade-marks, copyrights, etc.,for the United States, and to obtain patents in Canada, England, France, Germany, and all other countries.
Thirty-six years’ practice. No charge for examination of models or drawings. Advice by mail free.
Patents obtained through us are noticed in the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, which has
the largest circulation, and is the most influential newspaper of its kind published in the world. The a d vantages of such a notice every patentee understands.
This large and splendidly illustrated newspaper is published WEEKLY at$3.20ayear. andis admitted to be the best paper devoted to science, mechanics, inventions, engineering works, and other departments of industrial progress, published in any country. Single copies by mail, 10 cents. Sold by all newsdealers. ’	.
Address, Munn & Co., publishers of Scientific American. 251 Broadway, New York. ■
Handbook about patents mailed free.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2 32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toled", 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.33 p.m. ; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main L>ne, arrives at, Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m ; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 pm., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m ; Cleveland, 7.05 am.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
1238 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a m.
635 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7 25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m.,Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
’448 a.m Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7.40 a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte,8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.17 p m, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 215 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m ; Chicago, 5 00 p.m.
4 26 p.m. Special Ch cago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.	.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup’t.,.Cleveland JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l Manager, Cleveland.