THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Skrin is the best ink for all fountain pens
w. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY
FORT MADISON. IOWA
*Keg. U.S. Pat. Off.
Identify the aristocrat of pens by this white dot
It’s the “wise bird” that uses only the best pen
Pride of ownership is not the only thing that has made the Lifetime* the outstanding student’s pen. Real economy has been another factor. When the student buys this unfailing writing instrument, made of enduring Radite of lustrous green, his expense ends with its first cost.
There are no charges for repairs, no matter what
happens. It is unreservedly guaranteed. Spot
it by the dot—at better dealers everywhere.
Price, in ^reen or black, $8.75. Student’s special, $7.50. Pencil, $4.25
Blue Label Leads—fifteen cents
SHEAFFER’S
VZ PENS’ PEN Cl LS • SKRIP
IJW, OF NOTRF
UIM II3> I THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	3
It’s worth more to you to get style -—but it doesn’t cost more
J7 V E R Y T H 1 N G in this store that men wear “has style” and quality. Why not? It makes your clothes look better, more costly—but it doesn’t cost a cent extra. We are particular about every detail—from the V in a sweater neck to the fractional width of a hat brim. These are the little things that make style—and you can depend on us for them.
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
The Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Stylish Clothes for College Men
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOBILE’S
House of Sweets
Known to be one of Notre Dame’s Eating Places
NOTRE DAME ORCHESTRA Every Evening from 5:30 io 7:00
Give us a trial. : 108 South Michigan Street
SOLD EXCLUSIVELY AT
GILBERT’S
Y. M. C. A.
WELCOMES BACK N. D. MEN
A Wonderful Place io Spend a Healthful, Enjoyable Afternoon
SPECIAL MEMBERSHIP TO N. D. STUDENTS
SWIMMING CAFETERIA SHOWERS
MAIN AND WAYNE STREETS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FELTMAN & CURME
WELCOME THE MEN OF NOTRE DAME
BLACKSTONE
CANDY KITCHEN
SPECIAL LUNCHES
FOR N. D. MEN
NEWEST COLLEGIATE MODELS AT
$5.00 = $6.00
The Store Where Satisfaction is Guaranteed
134 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
v •	.....-	.. .............
THE BEST SODAS AND SUNDAES IN TOWN
BLACKSTONE THEATRE BUILDING v — " - ■	---
IDEAL LAUNDRY
. . . This is Our J J Year of Service To Notre Dame Students
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE chances are, everything else being equal, that the neatly typewritten report or thesis will be marked higher than hand-written work. The profs, like every one else, appreciate clearly legible work, and unconsciously it creates a better impression.
■The Remington Portable is always ready to help you get the best marks you can. It is the simplest, fastest, and easiest to operate of all portables. Weighs but pounds, net, and the carrying case is only 4 inches high, so that the machine can be put away in a drawer when not in use. All these features plus the four-row standard keyboard.
The Recognized Leader in Sales and Popularity
Remington Portable
Remington Typewriter Co.
Chicago, Illinois
ARTHUR C. HOHMANN
317 Corby Hall Notre Dame Representative
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE S C HO L A	STIC STAFF
J. A. Breig, -	- D. M. Meinert, -	- Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
F. J. Pendergast - News Editor Jack Mullen - - Literary Editor Franklin B. Doan, - Sports Editor	W. H. Layne - - - — The Week Charles Reitz ----- Music Walter Layne - - - Dramatics
NEWS	
J. P. McNamara William Craig Robert Ward	John DeRoulet	Joseph Brannon James Vaughn James Roy	John V. Hinkel
ADVERTISING	BUSINESS
H. McDevitt - - Local Adv. Mgr. H. J. Noon - Local Circulation Mgr. J. P. Hilger Foreign Advertising Mgr.	L. Faiver	A. Wisda R. Zillak	H. O’Bryan H. Kelley
a
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
a 3 a
a
I
i
g
g a
a a §
INDEX
E
, Frontispiece
PAGE
... 8
I !
The Week
9
i
E
g 5 g
3 □
I
I
Campus Opinion ______
Baccalaureate Address
Rev. W. H. Turner, D.D.
Editorial
Hobnails
In the Land of the Dakotahs:
Cyrano of Chicago
H. K., ’26_________
14
15
19
20
21
Return
Encounter
Sport News
Frank Connolly, ’29 _
Dennis J. O’Neill, ’26
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October S, 1917, authorized June 25, 1913.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of AU Notre Dame Men
1
a
5 § a a
a a g
g
a | s
I a
1
a
3
i
8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
§ 0 s
As surely as the grass grows in front of Morrissey Hall this has been one of the most active weeks of the school year, so far. Lineups that will never grace the first pages of newspapers have aided in the registration of students. Other unmentionable things have registered themselves. The man from Kansas now reads the Chicago Tribune over his coffee and we feel that he will soon realize that Kansas isn’t such a bad place after all. Several freshmen have been reported as doing a great deal of reading, but on investigation we find that the matter was time tables and the time in view is Christmas. Don’t give up, fellows, there is a rumor afoot that several enjoyable week-end parties are to be held before very long in the vicinity of Cartier field.
Most important among the physical changes of the university appears to be the fact that the gold coast has moved westward with the young men. There was a day when Walsh Hall was the very best; but the big three on the west quadrangle now form a bigger and better gold coast although from surface appearances we could hardly term this precious metal green gold. If Walt Whitman had been a resident of Morrissey Hall we are afraid he would never have been able to produce his great masterpiece.
Over on the east wing of the campus Rockne and his assistants are busy preparing the Irish gridders for their annual world tour. Some great boosters for these United States originated the saying about see America first; and Rock has added to it, as is his custom, see America first—at least once a year. As long as Rock has been a figure on Cartier field there has been no scarcity of humour. This year Mills has been added to the staff of coaches and like a lot of other things humour has been two fold.
From the early looks of things and the fact that the two captains, Heardon and Edwards, are on the job it begins to appear as
though the inevitable fate of our opponents will be to see red. The traveling university that will circle the globe this year may go farther than our football men but we feel sure that they will not do more.
Les Grady corralled his Scribblers last Monday evening with the result that it has been definitely proven that architects- are not the only ones who can draw up plans.
The Student Activities Council with Jim Quinn as master of ceremonies inaugurated the season Sunday in the library. Dan Cunningham was appointed Blue Circle chairman which just about insures an active year for that group. Such matters as the student trip were discussed. We really feel that the Army trip would satisfy us, Jim.
The Dome men are hard at work after a summer of planning. The book that comes out next spring will be volume twenty-one and the editors hope is that the book’s maturity will be reached in all ways with this issue. When the call goes out for seniors to have their pictures taken this will be a good fact to remember.
The freshmen have met under the guidance of the S. A. C. and have been instructed as to the ways and means by which a Notre Dame man conducts himself. The rectors have exploited the general rules of discipline and inaugurated the new eleven o’clock lights system. The singing Irish are out to beat the band and the band is out in greater numbers than ever before. The state men have evidently seen enough of one another during the summer to last a while for we-have noticed few of the w. k. signs of their. meetings. The baseball team pursues the-horsehide over by the gym.
Taken all in all the campus is truly active. As Father Carroll would have it, there are a few squeaks and grinds but the momentum will be gained and in another week things will be in full swing.	—w. H. Lu
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
10
NEW EDITION OF LOCAL NOVEL
The 1926-27 book market opened on the campus last week with something more than text books (new or second hand) selling heavily. A new edition of Prof. Charles Phillip’s novel “The Doctor’s Wooing,” appeared making its bow to newcomers under the direction of Gerry McGinley, ’26, who is registered for post graduate work and putting in his spare time filling orders for the book. The publishers report a flattering success with the Phillips novel, which first came out last June. Critics all over the country have praised it, the latest of them to pay tribute to it bring the poet Edwin Markham (famous as author of “The Man With the Hoe”), who in years past has lectured in Washington Hall. Markham, writing in the September “International Book Review” (Literary Digest), calls “The Doctor’s Wooing” “a fresh lead” in fiction, which “carries an exciting rush of incident—a clean, quickly moving story, with a fine appraisement of human values.” Father Cavanaugh, writing in the Catholic World, calls it “a strong, sincere, sane novel from a powerful pen.” The Kansas City Star of September 4 describes the story as “well written in a nervous poetic style of faultless English” and says that “in Rhoda the author has created a character as fresh in the fictional world as Bret Harte’s M’Liss.”
EMPLOYMENT OFFICE OPENED
An office for the employing of all skilled and unskilled laborers, masons, plumbers, carpenters, and the like has been opened below Washington Hall by Father Devers, C. S. C. supervisor of building and maintenance for the university. He will be assisted by Mr. James McCaffreey, one of the oldest employes of the school. Mr. McCaffrey has spent practically his entire life in the service of Notre Dame and it is believed that he will be very capable in the nw position offered him. Mr. McCaffrey was formerly head of the masonry department arid is very well acquainted with the mechanical side of the college.	-
PROFESSOR PROVOST HONORED
Prof. A. J. Provost, head of the Department of Romance Languages, who spent the summer abroad, at the Universit yof Dijon, France, has just received notice of his election to the position of officer in the French Academ of Public Instruction and Beaux Arts. The decoration which goes with this new honor, the silver palm and laurel, is to be formally conferred on Prof. Provost by the French Consul General at Chicago at at an early date. Prof. Provost has also been awarded the Certificate of “Degre Su-perieur” by the University of Dijon.
During his sojourn in France, Prof. Provost made a study of conditions relating to the Franco-American Debt, question, and is planning some public lectures to be given on that subject during the coming winter.
WRANGLERS CLUB MEETS
The Wranglers Club, an honorary society for the promotion of oratory and debating, held its first meeting at a banquet at the Morningside Apartments last Friday evening. William J. Coyne is president of the club with John A. Daily as secretary. At present the club is composed of those who have gained varsity rank on the debating team, to-wit, Joseph P. McNamara, Arnold Williams, William H. Krieg, John Griffin, William Coyne, Jack Dailey, Arthur Gold-burg, Pierce O’Connor, James C. Roy, and William Craig.
Arthur Stenius, a junior, was admitted to membership at the meeting. Mr. Stenius is a man of exceptional oratorical ability and was awarded both the freshman and sophomore oratorical honors for his class.
It is the plan of the Wranglers to encourage inter-hall competition in the debating field this year. A committee on interhall debates was appointed to be composed of Joseph P. McNamara, Arnold Williams and William Craig. A silver loving cup for the winning hall has been donated by Victor Lemmer, A. B., ‘26, a former member. All those interested in the inter-hall contests may confer with any member of the Wranglers.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE
JUGGLER OUT SOON
The Freshman Number of the Juggler is scheduled to appear October 15. The magazine is being managed by the same executive staff of last year, with the exception John E. Harwood replacing Wilbur McElroy, lost by graduation, as art editor. Lester C. Grady is editor-in-chief; Donald J. Wilkins, business manager; and George Doherty, circulation manager.
Contributions are asked for the initial issue and should be submitted to the editor room 303 of Sorin Hall, before October 1.
NEW PROFESSORS LISTED
Realizing the need of smaller classes, to afford the student more individual attention, the Director of Studies has obtained the services of some fifteen lay instructors for the ensuing school year. Some of these men are experienced, some are recently out of College, and the others are teaching part time and taking a Post Graduate course. They are:
Drs. Howard and O’Grady, having Master of Arts degrees from Catholic University, are in the Philosophy department.
Mr. McCullough, M. A. Catholic U. instructor of History.
Mr. Huth, formerly principal of the high school at Rising Sun, Ohio, instructor in History.
Mr. Payton, Notre Dame ’24, has discontinued his practice of Law in Cleveland to teach Marketing.
Mr. Lavery, Notre Dame ’25, studied Law at Yale last year. He will teach Speech and continue with his Law.
Messrs Moore and Withey, graduates of the Class of 1926 are instructing in the English department.
Messrs. Griffin and Vignos, Class 1926, are in the economics , department.
Messrs Dillon and Foohey, of the 1926 class are Laboratory instructors in the Science school.
Mr. Spenser, M. S. Notre Dame ’26, is instructingjn the Chemistry Laboratory.
11
SCRIBBLERS PLAN ACTION
Plans for a poetry contest to be opened in the near future and for the publication of a book of Notre Dame verse, short stories, essays and plays were the principle subjects for discussion at the first meeting of The Scribblers held in the Scribbler’s Room in the Library Monday evening.
Next Monday evening at 6:30 p. m. The Scribblers will assemble at the Morningside Apartments for the first dinner of the year. Well-known speakers will be present at this banquet to address the club, and further plans for the activities of this year will be discussed. All Scribblers, both graduate and undergraduate, are urged to be present at this affair.
The alarm clock tradition, a feature of Scribbler assemblies in the past, will be observed this year. The traditional and justly famed alarm clock has been the pivot around which discussions raged in the past, and the old ben is expected to be given no rest this year.
A year of unprecedented activity is looked forward to this year by the members of the club, and The Scribblers are determined to accomplish things in keeping with their past record as one of the most active clubs on the campus.
CROWE’S BROTHER HERE
Francis Crowe, younger brother of Clem Crowe, captain of the Notre Dame football team of last year, has enrolled in school and is making a strong bid for a quarterback position in the yearling outfit. Crowe hails from Jefferson high of Lafayette, where he made a fine record in athletics. A twin, brother, James, has enrolled at Butler, where he will try out for a position on the freshman line.
WE SYMPATHIZE
The sympathy of the student body is extended to Martin B. Daly, ’27, on the death, of his father, a distinguished citizen of; Cleveland and one of the upbuilders of the-Standard Oil Company.—R.I.P.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
12
DISPLAY RARE BOOKS AT LIBRARY
Having’ been engaged for the past week in a futile search for those “second hand books in good condition—price reasonable” (price being not quite so reasonable as Seniors would have us believe) we’ve become somewhat of a connoisseur of rare old volumes. So it is that the collection of valuable books that Mr. Byrne has placed on display in the Library proved very interesting.
Perhaps the most unique of the assortment is a Bible that once belonged to Christopher Columbus. Printed in 1503 it was presented to the Discoverer after his return from his last voyage to the New World. Disregarding the original ownership and the age of the volume, the binding alone is worthy of note, being made of human skin. We’d like to believe that it was once a red skin but its present yellowness welcomes some doubt on the subject. But then we might console ourselves with the thought that red fades so quickly. Or maybe the donor of this particular skin didn’t know about the use of henna. Be that as it may, it will be noticed upon close observation that the skin is punctured in a great many places. One might almost say perforated. A theory has been advanced which implies that this was caused by the original owner’s rate of speed being slightly slower than that of Spanish buckshot in motion. However if the truth were really known probably this Sir Walter Raliegh lost his coat of tan because he left his umbrella and rubbers home on a rainy day. (Double pneumonia).
Another interesting book in the display is a treatise on government used by Robert Emmet while he was a student in Trinity College, Dublin. Evidently the study of politcs was just as dry in his day as in ours, because Bob whiled away his class periods by drawing pictures on the fly leaves of his text. The sketches aren’t bad as friend Robert probably drew for College Humor, which! at that time was in its infancy.
Then there is the “Rosin” bible which was printed in 1610. It is so called because the word “rosin” was substituted for “balm” m this edition. Whoever the typesetter was, it seems that he didn’t know his oil.
Among the other interesting volumes of the exhibit are to be found a book of verse by Newman with a rare autograph letter of the Cardinal inserted, a work of Thomas More’s which was presented to Daniel O’Connell by the author, a wellthumbed copy of Shakespeare with the signature of General Thomas Francis Meagher on it, and a bible written in long hand by Father Deseil-ler, who was an early missionary to the Pottawattamie Indians. All in all, it is a collection worth making a special trip to rhe library to see.
WILL LECTURE ON MEXICO
The Open Forum of Chicago, an institition devoted to the discussion of public affairs, has announced a lecture on “The Mexican Problem” to be given by Professor Charles Phillips, of the N. D. English Department, in the near future. Since his visit to Mexico last year, Prof. Phillips has received more requests for lectures and articles on the question than he could supply. In the November issue of “Current History,” published by the New York Times, he will publish a defense of the Catholic position in Mexico, in answer to an article; championing the Mexican government.
REGISTRATION PERIOD EXTENDED
Because of the increased number of applicants for admission to the University, the authorities were obliged to extend the period of registration over several days. Although the completion of Lyons and Morrissey Halls have enabled the University to take care of many more students on the campus, 839 of the present enrollment were forced to seek accommodations in the cities of South Bend and Mishawaka. At the present time 2451 students have registered and enrolled for classes, of which number approximately 800 are freshmen. While this dpes not equal the enrollment of last year new students are continuing to apply for registration.
Campus Clubs—Appoint a press agent and give the Scholastic reports on meetings.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
• MERCHANTS PROTECTED
Because of certain abuses which have arisen in using the name of Notre Dame for commercial purposes, the Board of Publication has given notice that the solicitation of advertising of any kind is forbidden to all students wth the exception of those who have been specifically appointed to represent the official University publications.
This action aims to protect the merchants of South Bend and safeguard and to perpetuate the goodwill and friendship which for so long has existed between them and the university.
ARMSTRONG EDITS ALUMNUS
For the first time of the new scholastic year the Notre Dame Alumnus has made its bow to the campus.
Several interesting articles appear in this issue. “The Notre Dame of To-day,” “Changes in the Order”, and “Educational Relations with Alumni” are of exceptional merit. Reams about what the old graduates are doing, changes on the campus and N. D. news are followed by pages of announcements of births, marriages, deaths and more births.	.
The Athletic section is exceptionally well - the outlook for the 1926 football season. “Rock” and the' new coaches are lauded, and the outstanding members of the team receive mention.
After this come several more pages of news about the members of the Alumni Association, letters and still more announcements of births and marriages.
The September Alumnus is a fine publication. A magazine of this type should help to preserve old friendships and keep ever fresh the old traditions. The Notre Dame Alumnus does this. J. D. R.
Appoint one of your members to write up your contests and to keep the student body, through the Scholastic, informed of your activities. Help yourself and the Scholastic.
ADDRESS BY JUDGE WOOTEN
Judge Dudley G. Wooten, A. M., LL. D., was introduced as Commencement Speaker by Father Walsh after degrees had been conferred upon the Class of 1926.
Judge Wooten traced the development of history from the time of Christ down to the present day pointing out the milestones of progress that have been made. He also called attention to retrogressions made by the human race.	.
He declared that events move in cycles and cited 500 years as a cycle. In the first one, proud Rome ruled the world with the best system of government ever devised by man. The next cycle witnessed the barbarian hordes from the north and the downfall of the Roman empire. The third cycle he declared to be the golden cycle when all the great advancement was made both in science and the fine arts.
“Everything we have to-day,” he said, “is the result of discoveries made during that third cycle, inventions which have been amplified and extended.
He deplored the materialistic tendencies of the present day saying that the world needs restoration rather than reconstruction.
“The metropolitan press of the present days is one of the greatest factors in the country for evil,” he said, “printing licentious stories under the guise of news.”
“There never was a time in the history of these United States when there were more laws and less law.”
He warned the graduates that they must hold to ideals inculcated at Notre Dame, saying that those things they had been warned against -would soon be learned by them first hand. As a final admonition he told them that when days were dark and the world seemed against them to recall their teaching of their Alma Mater, particularly the daily bulletins published by Rev. John F. O’Hara, prefect of religion.
HALL TEAMS!
Mail a report of your games to the Scholastic.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOTICE
Hall names and room numbers must be given on incoming telegrams to insure quick delivery. Much trouble and delay has been experienced by the telegraph operators in locating students when this information has been omitted.
GLEE CLUB, BAND ORGANIZE
Thursday, September 16th, the Notre Dame Band took its first step towards organization for the coming season. Approximately one hundred candidates responded to the call issued a few days previously. Mr. Casasanta, the director, is looking forward to even a better year than was enjoyed by the organization last season.
Tryouts for the Glee Club were held1 during the past week. Further eliminations ■will take place next week and the final personnel will be published soon. Last year the Glee Club had the most successful year in its history and this year we hope to see it repeat.
CAMPUS TELEGRAPH STATION
The Western Union Telegraph Company has opened a branch office on the campus for the reception and delivery of telegrams, money transfers, cables, and errand service. The station, in the Off Campus Students’ Office, is open, from 8 till 12 a. m., and from 1 till 9 p. m. Two Notre Dame students, Joseph Fitzgerald and Donald Butler, are in charge. The establishment of this office on the campus means the passing of the old days when it was safer and much speedier to mail a letter to Notre Dame than to send a telegram. In the future quick and efficient service is assured to residents of the university. ___________________
The new officials come into office with the opening of school are so busy with the perplexing details of their positions. We have not been able to learn from them how they like their jobs. In our next issue we hope to tell you who they are and what they are doing.
Campus Opinion
Question : Hoiv has Notre Dame measured up to your preconceived ideas?
Where Asked: Main Bidlding.
Valentine Burke, (Carroll).
“Notre Dame has come up to and surpassed all my expectations in the regard of studies, athletics and society. The way I as a freshman have been treated by the faculty and also the upperclassmen, has helped me to form this opinion.”
Vernon Sleck, (Brownson).
“I never expected to find the democratic atmosphere that prevails on the campus. I thought it would be more ritzy, but it’s okay. I didn’t think the discipline would be so strict though.”
Louis Heitger, (Brownson).
“I was disappointed at first, chiefly due I guess to the sight of the bathhouse showers. I like Notre Dame fine now, though because of the friendliness of the fellows.”
Robert Soper, (Brownson).
“Notre Dame has surpassed in every way my idea as to what it would be like. I never imagined so many good fellows could be found in a college, also the religious feeling that is so evident in the school surprised me.”
Dennis O’Keefe, (Carroll).
“I was very disappointed when I first saw the dormitory. I expected to see a hall that had rooms in it so you’d have room-mates. But aside of that Notre Dame has lived up to everything that I expected.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	15
Catholic Education
Baccalaureate Address Delivered by Rt. Rev. Wm. H. Turner, D. D., Bishop of Buffalo, at the Eighty-second Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame, June 13th, 1926.

“•t^LESSED is the man who hath not px walked in the Counsel of the ungodly nor stood in the way of sinners. . . . And he shall be like a tree which is planted near the running waters which shall bring
forth its fruit in due season. . . . and all whatsoever he shall do shall prosper”. Psalm I, Verses 1-3.
This is the first note struck by the Royal Psalmist in the series of sacred songs which the Christian Church regards as inspired. In a figure which all can understand the inspired poet describes the wholesome influences which make for healthy, vigorous and successful life. Among these influences is undoubtedly- religion. Among tliem also is education. And it is of these two as combined in Catholic education ’ that I wish to address you this morning.
Let me first of all present side by side education without religion and education as we find it in our Catholic schools, colleges and universities.
RT. REV. WM. H. TURNER, D.D.
The one lays stress on the acquisition of ideas, the other on the clarification of ideas. The one aims at a knowledge of facts the other is equally concerned about the valuation of facts. The one limits its search to facts ascertainable by the senses and the intellect, the other brings into its curriculum
facts which are beyond the power of the human mind to ascertain and are shown to us by Faith alone. The one is perhaps a preparation for life, the other is a preparation for complete life, for life here and
hereafter. The one puts us in possession of power, power to achieve, power to succeed, power to conquer, power to acquire, power to enjoy : the other does all this, and in addition it emphasizes the restraint placed on all acquired power by the consideration of duty, duty to God, duty to self, duty to one’s Country and to one’s neighbors. The one is creedless; the other lays stress on creed. The one banishes all fear, as being educationally unjustifiable; the' other lays, as on the cornerstone of all moral education, filial fear of God, and upon this it builds the structure of obedience to God, obedience to parents, obedience to civil authority and to the laws of the Church. Purely
secular discards or discredits religious rites and ceremonies as intellectually cheap, or bordering on the unfair in then* appeal to the senses and the sentiments. Catholic education values such rites and ceremonies as intellectually and morally uplifting, as an essential part of the external worship of
16	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
God. The greatest defect in secular education is that it has no theory of life; in secular education all is empiricism, all is experiment, even our moral sense of good and evil. With us the theory of life is fixed, definite, and yet flexible in the best sense. I may go farther and say, that we not only hold a theory of life, but we inculcate a “rule of life”. Not indeed the same rule of life for all, not for all young men and young women such a rule as your religious teachers themselves have adopted, and so edify-ingly practice, but some rule of life such as “Mass every Sunday,” “Confession and Holy Communion once a week, or once a month” as the case may be. And such a rule is nor merely negative, it is not a system of “dont’s,” but a positive construction rule that guides us in all the vicissitudes of life. We are not destroyers of what is human and beautiful in life, in art, in literature in robust physical and spiritual activity. We strive to control all these. We believe that it is wasteful to destroy, but that it is gainful to control, and this, we think, is manly and courageous also, because it implies a trust in human nature. We have not banished all science on the ground that science is sometimes irreverent and subversive cf Christian belief. It seems indeed, as if, under the sinister magic of the word evolution, and I may say that those who use the word most vociferously have the least understanding of its meaning,—our extreme Protestant contemporaries were prepared to condemn all biology, all paleontology, all ancient history, all pre-historic investigation. Not sg the Catholic Church. Let us give ourselves credit for the courage that others do not seem to possess. We do not banish paintings and statues from our churches for fear of idolatry, because we know that we can keep even the ignorant from falling into that excess. We do not, like other churches, condemn even the mildest form of alcoholic beverage as sinful on the ground that the abuse of that product of fermentation has admittedly inflicted serious evils on humanity. We do not condemn all play-going and all dancing as ungodly, although we are today the strongest and the most efficient
force in opposition to what is unbecoming and sinful in the theatre, the dance-hall and in all social customs and amusements. We know that in the Sacrament of Penance we have the greatest spiritual check on all ex-' cess which is sinful, and do not need to go to the extreme, of puritanical wholesale condemnation.
.Similarly when we deal with science, with literature, with philosophy and with all the other subjects on our programme of studies, we are not afraid of science, though we are afraid of the cheap popularize!’, of the immature dogmatist in science; we are afraid of his influence on the popular mind and especially on the growing mind of the pupil or student. Our fear is not for the Church, which is divinely defended and has withstood every onslaught. Our fear is for the Church’s children, for the little ones of the household of the faith, who are defenseless unless we defend them. Therefor we do not fear the big men in the field of biology, physics, chemistry, astronomy or sociology. Because the big men are reverent and, as a rule, they mind their own business. But, for the sake of those whose faith is easily disturbed, we fear the small men, the small men in the pulpit, the small men in the University chair, the small men at the teacher’s desk, who wield an unearned authority, not because of their ability but because of the receptivity of youngminds and the susceptibility of young souls committed to their care beyond our ability to shield and protect them.
And as we do not fear science, so on the other hand we do not glorify it beyond its-• actual value. For science in last analysis, is to be valued solely as a contribution to the happiness, the well-being, the uplift of humanity. In other words, it is to be judged a blesing or a curse according to how it is applied, according to the way in which it functions. And, with all the splendid progress of science in our day we must regretfully admit that this progress is not an unmixed blessing. A most familiar instance is science applied to locomotion. This application of science has, it is true, contributed to human comfort and to material
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
prosperity. But who does not realize that it has on the other hand made the commission of crime easier and the detection of the criminal much more difficult? More than that, modern means of travel have been directly the occasion of sin as well as crime, to a degree, that ought to give fathers and mothers of families occasion for sad and serious reflection. But we do not on that account condemn science or its applications; we have learned to distinguish the use and the abuse of these things as of all other things that are liable to abuse. For the religious conscience is a clear conscience, it is an educated conscience; and this is one of the most notable and important results of religious education.
It has been said of us that we are less concerned than we ought to be about the difficulties of reconciling our position' with the results of modern thought, that we are somewhat highhanded in our disposal of the conflict between science and religion. If this accusation is justified, it is justified for two reasons. First, we stand on security that faith alone can furnish, a -feeling of security that gives courage and a kind of stoic calm. And, second, we are not disturbed, because we realize that the world is not really dominated today by scientific thinking, but by popular, slipshod and mostly superficial thinking. We - are not affrighted at the catch word “freedom of thought/’ for as we see it, the world of our day is not so much characterized by freedom to think as it is by the inability to think at all, that it, to think clearly and accurately. Freedom to think? There is plenty of it, even among ourselves. But when we hear of freedom from faith, freedom from the restrictions of a powerfully .organized Church, freedom from the Inquisition and the ban of Pope or Council or Bishop, we are inclined to ask which is more desirable, freedom to think or the ability to think: which is worse, restraint of thought, or slackness of thought, superficial, sensational, utterly inaccurate thought? Which is the higher control, that of the Church, or that of the newspaper paragraph, the popular magazine, the cheap high school
professional, quasi-pontifical dictator in the realm of thought?
And I carry this arraignment of science as applied to popular thinking one step farther. I say that it has resulted not merely in confusion of thought, almost in the inability to think, but also in a disturbance that reaches beyond mere thinking into the conduct of life and the standards cf living. A stone cast into a pool clear as crystal at its surface, but muddy and slimy in its depths of human passion, has raised a roil of murk and filth, of bestiality and blood lust, and that stone cast into the depths of the pool of life is modern science. You know and I know that science must reach down into the fundamental problems of our physical and mental life. But I know, and you will know,—you hardly, realize it yet—that in your University when science does so reach down, there is, perhaps, a temporary distrubance of the soul that there are temporary ripples on the surface of your thoughts, that these ripples spread, and1 gradually readjust the soul to the same placid level. There is no noise-some stirring of the depths, which we know to be there, or, if there is, Your University, in its spiritual direction of your temptations and your difficulties, knows well how to restore a calm placid sin-face to the sea of your soul. Need I say that in this figure I have in mind biology, misapplied to birthcontrol and psychology misapplied to psycho-analysis?
Just a moment ago I said that we are accused of a certain disdain towards scientific thinking. I tried to answer by saying that our disdain towards science, as it is applied, may be justified. I return to the charge, and I say now that if we are lacking in concern about science, we may counter by replying that we are very much concerned about the needs of life, and this is vastly more important than science. And so I take, before concluding, a line of thought that is preeminently practical and, I believe, characteristically American. Our system of “Religion in Education” ivorks. We believe that every tenet of our Faith is justifiable by reason, so far as reason can
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
reach. We believe that our institutions and practices are traceable to primitive Christian ordinance and custom, to the mandate of Christ delivered to the Apostles and by their successors developed and adopted under the infallible Guidance of a Supreme Pontiff who is divinely guaranteed against error in Faith and Morals. But even if we were wrong in our Theology, even if we were proved false to historical tradition, even if logic and psychology and physics and biology and all the other sciences could show our position to be wrong are we not right in practice? Are we not right in the beneficial influence we exert on the young and growing mind? Are we not right, from the American point of view, in our influence on the group, in our training for citizenship and parenthood, in our restraint of those influences that threaten the nation and the family?
My dear young men. I cannot tell you how much attention you have paid or will pay to my words. You are, naturally looking forward rather than backward. Then let me, for a moment, look forward with you. The world will, inevitably, engulf you in its cares, its responsibilities, its loves and its hates. That cannot be avoided; indeed it is not desirable that it should be avoided. For you have been trained to take each your part in the drama of life and you are expected to take what part choice or fate may assign to you, to take it and to act it manfully, couageously, with the flag of noble purpose flying high, with generous resolves in your hearts inspiring your efforts, your hopes and your dreams of success. The world which will, as I said engulf you, need not, and must not, absorb you completely. High above the confusion of conflict, in the clash of competition and of fair and honest rivalry, there is one acquisition of yours that you must not throw
into the arena, there is one acquired advantage that you must never sacrifice, one precious quality which the world must not take away from you;it is not to be an object of barter, it is not to be sold, to be bargained for, to be wasted, and that is your Education at this Catholic seat of learning, the ideals, the convictions, the habits of personal piety, the rule of public religious observance that you have acquired here. These you owe to Notre Dame; these are the core of your loyalty to your University, these will be your profession before the world of that loyalty; these, and the continued preservation of them will be the surest test of your gratitude to the teachers who have given you so much, the enduring pledge of your fealty to your fellow alumni, the surest sign of your lasting sentiment of reverence for this sacred place.
The time will inevitably come for each of you when many of life’s illusions will have failed and the tides of life will seem to be falling. I change the medium of thought to one which is nearer to my own habits and pursuits, and say that, for your life is an open book on which you may write your own record. Some day it will appear to you as 'a book bound and clasped. Your achievements, your aspirations, realized or frustrated, will be written in that book of your retrospective memory beyond possibility of recall. Disappointment or satisfaction may be yours as you think of the record written therein, a record you can no longer amend or delete. My hope and my prayer is that, as you think, in the mellowing years of your career, you may take consolation in the thought that the record you have written and can no longer cancel or change will be worthy of your Alma Mater, of your Country, of your Church, and your idea of your duty to God.
5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	19
EDITORIAL
K
I g
TOGETHER WE RISE
Today the Notre Dame Scholastic enters upon its fifty-ninth year of publication. No one realizes better than we do the shortcomings of this, the first issue. But it is our best—this week. Next week we hope to have improved, and to continue improving throughout the year.
We do not want to make excuses—at least not this soon. But we do want to talk to you about this publication. The Scholastic is not the organ of a few men; it is intended to be the mouthpiece of every Notre Dame man. It is intended to constitute a timely chronicle of life at Notre Dame and an enduring record of the achievments of Notre Dame men. It is intended to be a constant exposition of the beautiful spirit and loyalty of the sons of ’Our Lady; it is meant to record not only your athletic and physical victories, but your spiritual conquests as well. We hope to make the Scholastic a concrete crystallization of the hopes and fears, the joys and sorrows, the victories and defeats that taken wholly are the life and the glory of Notre Dame.
That this is a large, an impossible aim for us unaided to accomplish we recogpize. But we believe that it is not impossible, nor even unusually difficult—if you will help. That is what we want to talk to you about. We do not want you to look upon the Scholastic as the outlet for the work of a few literary fiends. Neither do we want you to conceive of this magazine as a publicity bureau for certain cliques. We do want you to see in the Scholastic your means of telling your friends what you or your club or your team or your room-mate have accomplished. We do want you to use the Scholastic as a means of telling other Notre Dame men what particular bits of beauty and love and heroism you have found here.
Every Notre Dame man can tell the Scholastic something worthwhile; something
that will bring it a bit closer to its ideal. What if you’re not a fluent writer? What if you can’t turn a pretty phrase with facility? What the Scholastic wants is ideas, not mere words. Who reads the encyclopedias for thoughts? It isn’t how it’s written so much as what is written. Many a man who can’t spell even passably well dictates to stenographers who are walking dictionaries. He dictates because he has ideas, and because he has ideas he is more valuable than a hundred stenographers. Let the Scholastic have your idea or your information and we won’t ask you for flowery phrases. Do these things, and the SCHOLASTIC inevitably will become what we all want it to be—a truly representative mirror of Notre Dame life.
We hope, then, with truth to interpret you, with loyalty to represent you, and with , some degree of success to mirror you for the men of the future. We promise that toward the fulfillment of those aims we will bend our every effort, and we ask of you only forbearance toward our errors and aid toward our improvement. The result will be what we—and you—make it. With you, in a lesser degree than with lis, rests a portion of responsibility for the success of the Scholastic. Without your co-operation we must fail of fulfillment; with your aid there is no success the Scholastic cannot attain.
—J. A. B.
HISTORICAL—BUT TIMELY
Holding to its function as historian and favoring those who were unable to attend Commencement exercises last June, the Scholastic prints this week “Encounter,” the class poem of 1926, by Dennis J. O’Neill, and the baccalaureate address delivered by Right Rev. William H. Turner, D. D., Bishop of Buffalo, last June.
-20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PROTEST
My sad heart pleads—I ought not be alone.
I need some dear one's sympathy, Soft hands to press, soft lips to kiss, Not emptiness alone like this With all my love confined in me.
J was not born to brood unloved at night With beating blood alive io love and light
My young heart sighs; you cannot guess How ^carm it burns zvithin my breast Or how it yearns to manifest The love it yields to friendliness.
You never care that life is long—alone.
—DORIAN GRAY.
HOBNAILS TO A BREATHLESS PUBLIC, GREETINGS!
When our friend, ye Literary Ed, assigned to us Ilie vast honor of conducting a colyum in the Scholastic, we shied a bit. He was however, enthusiastic and encouraging. There are hundreds of young men at Notre Dame who are anxious to become contributors to such a colyum, it seems, and it seems further that thousands will anxiously await its weekly appearance. Ye Literary Ed was probably exaggerating, but we took the job.
To speak more, seriously, however, (as the prof always remarks after he cracks his annual joke) the Scholastic needs some such thing as Hobnails will try to be. Campus poets need encouragement —they will find it here. Campus humorists, essayists, and critics—we want all of these, but especially we want poets. They are not easy to find. Some of them, poor creatures, seem ashamed of their rare gift. The reason for this is to us a mystery. Men are usually proud of their ability in fields reserved for a • gifted few. Did you ever meet a football star who was ashamed of the fact? Neither did we. Why, then, are poets?
Come then, ye poets and ye campus litterateurs. Contributions will be gratefully received. Address them to Hobnails, Morrissey Hall, or slip them under the door of room 334 in that hall. Sign your own name or someone else’s, we care not. We care only that you send them in.
By the way, my friend Ye Literary Ed wants us to make a plea for contributions to what he calls the literary section. Short stories, essays, criticisms of any sort will be welcome. Send them to the Scholastic, or slide them under the above mentioned door.
WRITTEN MOSTLY IN WONDER
You had always lived in the little cot in the valley, where the sun is never too bright and the wind never blows too strongly.
But I took you up on the hills. And the sun dazzled your eyes, and the wind brought tears to them. . . and blew your hair about your face. . . gloriously!
All day we sang and ran and played, till you were tired and quite happy. Then you thanked me and said you had had “the most wonderful time of your life”. . . and went down again to your cot in the valley, where the sun is never too bright or the wind too strong.
And you would “remember that day always.”
But you married the butcher’s boy, who had never been beyond the creek that passes the town, and couldn’t sing. . . even on a hilltop!
—THE FAILURE.
THE FRESHMAN
He is cl mamifactzirer^ son Sent out here for knoivledge, It seems the little son-of-a-gun Has different plans for college.
—EDWARD B. CARROLL.
OBSERVATION OF THE PHILOSOPHER
The inhabitants of the city of Pekin,
Said the Philosopher,
Stooping to pick a blade of grass,
Have learned a great lesson, The lesson of the value of money.
■They have found,
-He continued, chewing leisurely,
That money is the greatest thing in life, That it is more valuable than peace or happiness. No one in the great city has told me this secret, But I have watched the lives of the people.
—LI CHAN.
FEAR
Night fell, and darkness closed upon the road: We hurried past a dark, deserted farm;
An owl shrieked; the stars were dim and cold— I felt a tender hand zipon my arm.
—KOFI.
Our first appearance is over. We’re rough, but we hope that, like other hobnails, we will grow smooth with time.
—CYRANO OF CHICAGO.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
“In The Land Of The Dakotahs”
MEMORIES OF PRAIRIE DAYS
H. K., ’26
THE prairie is a lonely place with great grass-grown hills and fallow meadows. Some find no beauty in its treeless lands; the mountains have more grandeur, the forests more wonders, they say, but for me the prairies have a melancholy beauty like that of the “loud-resounding sea.” Among these grassy hills I still can see the two-room sodded shack that was my home.
Here in the autumn evenings I used to watch the smoke, miles distant, that was our only sign of neighbors. It rose like a tower of ebony, never wavering in the still cool air. I sat on the great flat stone that formed the threshold and waited for Dad to come in from the fields, or with Fan I would run up the lonely road to meet him .when I heard the distant rumble of the old lumber wagon.
Poor'Fan! She was my only companion; a big wolfhound to whom I told all my secrets. I remember once when Mother predicted that rare pleasure, a visitor, I rushed out to my friend with “Shake hands, Fan, Auntie comes to-day.” Fan’s fate was a sad one; during a bad prairie fire that had leaped our brake, she ran panic-stricken into the burning barn and sought shelter in the hay-mow. I wept over her ashes.
The Dakota autumns are never long. While the grassy hills are just turning yellow and the prairie is still “sweet with wild things that pass, that pass away,” the first blizzard comes. With it, the winter evenings bring their pleasures.
As I came in at dusk from play or school I loved to see the yellow lamplight shiningout the windows; the snowflakes glowing for a moment in the brightness as they dropped out of sight. Inside I would watch the reflection of the light in the windows; the fairies, Mother said, were getting their tea. There is something in the soft light of a lamp that suits the prairie; electricity is too garish, it snaps on and off too quickly; the lamp is soft, slow and homely.
Sometimes, I would throw myself on the old rug near the great stove to listen to Mother read or merely to bask in the grateful warmth. Then when it grew late, Mother would let down the bed that hung hinged on the wall, Dad would lead the Rosary, and then to bed, to dream of the time when the birds would return, the bottom fill with water, and life in the hills begin again.
RETURN
Above the little ways of wilful men, Beyond their schemes, Sweet lady of my dreams, I kneel at your feet again.
Dark were the roads I trod, the dawns slow, Since from your smile With wayward feet awhile
I wandered, where thorns and stubble grow.
Now to begin again beneath the Dome, Tired but still true And Iqving you .
I come, to hear your welcome home.
—FRANK CONNOLLY’,29.
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Encounter
(Class Poem, 1926.) BY DENNIS J. O’NEILL.
Now comes the morning in an azure gown, Like Her who came long years ago To Juda town,—
Searing the silver blossoms of the night, Melting the golden votive moon with light, Striking to flame the living hour, Crushing the past, a fadeless flower.
Dimmed now the stars we followed,
But their memory sweet, After this golden morning, Shall guide our feet.
—o—
So welcome, golden morning,
May our day be long and bright, That we who thrust our lances up May watch them gleam at night.
For the stars that men have followed
Are silver lances cast
By strong young warriors standing In the mornings of the past.
There are no stars to follow
For those who wield no spears, Until the evening comes in grey And after many years.
But who would go a-wandering
After alien stars,
When all the days are quiet And after all the wars?
Who would don the grey mail
When silver is so bright,
Or who would trade his lonely lance
• For the breastplate of the night?
Who would take the hand of age
To creep dim paths along,
When the morning comes with a rushing sound And the lance arm’s strong? .
Praise to those crusaders
Who cleared this jousting field,
Our Lady’s knights who found the strength Of Her protecting shield.
Who knew no armour but Her grace, No weapon but a prayer, They hurled lance-like to Heaven And lodged it shining there.
Praise to those who followed, Guided by the light Of earlier starry lances
Shining through the night.
For the stars that men have followed
Are silver lances cast
By strong young warriors standing In the mornings of the past.
Far in some distant morning past Whose was the hand that hurled The lance Columbus followed
To find another world?
For if that hand had wavered
In its God-like zest
Then a star in heaven would
Have led a fruitless quest.
'What brave warrior standing On what Himalayan field Tried his primal morning lance Against the sun’s bright shield,
And left an eastern star to lead ' Marco Polo on
Across enchanted gardens to The feet of Kublai Khan?
What archangel seared the night With his triumphant sword, That led the wise men of the East, And what was his reward?
To see his weapon shining
In the Moorish breast of night, For none but the king’s best lancers Have this kingly right.
So when the evening comes at last In cold and ghostly grey, May one bright star in heaven shine, A token of our day.
For this is immortality, This is life in death, That I have left a star- behind Frosted with my breath.
So guide us, Lady of the joust, May the day be long and bright, That we who thrust our lances up May watch them gleam at night.
—o—
And now comes the morning in an azure gown,. Like Her who came long years ago
To Juda town,—
Searing the silver blossoms of the night, Melting the golden votive moon with light,. Striking to flame the living hour, Crushing the past, a fadeless flower.
Dimmed now the stars we followed
But their memory long
After this golden morning
Shall guide our lance arm strong.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
SPORT NEWS
Rock’s Irish Hit The Trail Again
Gridiron fans the nation over who realize that the pulse of America’s spectacular autumn game is measured by the heart of Notre Dame football are keenly awaiting the first Saturday
KNUTE K. ROCKNE
afternoon in October.
For on that afternoon, now only one short week in the distance, the Fightin’ Irish will again rise to the defense of historic Cartier field.
Football publics are fickle things. Their destinies shift from one sand to
another and back again but the football public that glues its eyes to Notre Dame is too wise to shift without reason. That’s why it watches developments closely. This year it watches with a sense of confidence and a wane smile of pessimism.
Even Knute K. Rockne, the squat, taciturn fellow whose ringing voice carries in it the destiny of Notre Dame football, smiles a bit wanely when one asks him about prospects. Rockne, the lord of the Yankee grid is not extravagant but he is hopeful. His smiles convey that message. As for words of any kind—well, he is nervously reticent.
The public and “Rock” have their spells of pessimism but the bright side of the thing is flashed by some hundred and twenty-five husky youths, Notre Dame men, whose tireless energies are being burned intensely in the hope of upholding the gridiron fame of Our Lady’s school. Night in and night out, for two weeks now, the lithe-limbed sons of Notre Dame have been panting and sweating and driving, bent upon do
ing the task at hand in a complete manner. Broiling sun and tedious hours have no ef- . feet on the matter. It’s honors they’re after and they aren’t lingering much.
NUMBER 13 TELLS ’EM
Inspired by their wide-famed master, they are taking on the aspect of a real grid squad. Rockne, the same bow-legged, bald-headed genius who administered a bitter capsule to ten elevens in 1924 and came out of the rush with a championship eleven, knows what his men can do and is going at his labor with unending zest. His shrill, penetrating voice is hulling orders; his broad shoulders, covered' with the gruesome “13,” are showing how it’s done and the shrewd brain that finds no peer in modern football is building ideas with which to astound the gridiron haunts again.
To say that the task is a huge one is to waste words. Everyone who has followed football even erratically needs only to glance at the schedule for a moment to realize the real task that confronts “Rock” and his Notre Dame bearcats.
Ten games, not one of which can be termed as a “set-up,” face the stalwart Irishmen and to dispose of each of them in faultless fashion will be a true Herculean job. On ten successive Saturdays the Blue and Gold will be called upon to meet ten worthy foes, any one of which might turn the tides of defeat back upon her. Still the caliber of the opposition, the tiresome effects wrought by long trips, and the tedium of the training grind, do not unnerve Rock’s men in the least.
Following Beloit on the Irish schedule is Minnesota, rough-hewn grid warriors of the northwest, who will undoubtedly be among the leaders of the nation’s football. Last year the Irish roundly trimmed the North-
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Welcome N.D.
We’re glad you men are back. The town seems different when you’re away
We’re here at your service as never before. Call on us to cash your checks, etc. And don’t fail to get in on our “Guess-the-Score” Contest. $25.00 Free.
THE HOUSE OF KUPPENHEIMER COLLEGE CLOTHES
erners, 19 to 7, after a disastrous rout at the hands of the Army. This fall, Minnesota’s strength combined with the earliness of the contest will make it one of the most difficult teams that the Irish will face.
Penn State, whose steady eleven of 1925, held the Blue and Gold to a scoreless tie at State College, Pennsylvania, comes west this year and will engage Notre Dame at Cartier Field on October 16. A week after Rock’s proteges invade Evanston, Illinois, for a conflict with “Moon” Baker and his Purple wildcats. To finish the difficult October stand the golden tornado of Georgia Tech will attempt to sweep the Irish in its reckless path. ’Twill be a tough October, indeed.
CADET SLAUGHTER LOOMS
November could not be termed as a cream puff eating month, however. On the sixth of that month Indiana, Notre Danie’s third Western Conference opponent, will be here. A week later Rockne will assemble more than thirty of his cronies and hurry east for a short stay at the Polo Grounds. The reason is obvious. It’s the Army. The same fiery cadets that romped rough shod over the Irish last fall perhaps will be due for some cleat marks themselves for it’s a leadpipe cinch that they’ll be facing an eleven that plans upon revenge in a lasting manner.
Follow then Drake University’s Missouri Valley Champions, who will come to Cartier Field on November 20. Another week and the Irish go east again, this time to engage Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh.
So ambitious have the Irish become that even cruel December holds something in store for them. The first week of that chilly period will find the Irish journeying to Los Angeles where on December they will clash with the University of Southern California, touted as the best on the coast. Many sport experts have already agreed that if Notre Dame and California win all their games previous to the December 6 clash, that contest will absolutely decide the national championship.
It’s a tough- grind that’s marked out for these Notre Dame gridders but when one
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
goes through, the list of prospects he takes heart. Veterans, some of them with as many as two years of experience, and ambitious greenhorns, whose ability to make the grade has already become a feature of practice sessions, are back in numbers.
Practically the same team that rode over Northwestern last year, winning out in the last half -with two 90 yard drives that set the gridiron world agog, is again in harness. Only Rex Enright, the galloping fullback, • will be missing. When one considers his ability, he can see that Enright’s boots will be hard to fill but many likely looking aspirants are already striving for the job.
VETERANS DON SPANGLES AGAIN
Voedisch and Wallace at the ends, Boland and McManmon at the tackles, Mayer and “Clipper” Smith at the guards and “Bud” Boeringer at the center position, compose the same line that tore the Purple frontal wall to shreds. “Red” Edwards yelled signals that day while Tom Heardon stiffarmed and “Christy” Flannigan sidestepped, so you can see for yourself that it was a neat little party. The same boys are getting anxious for .social’ stunts of this variety again.
Joe Maxwell, Byrne, Keefe, Rucklehaus and others are back at ends, all with experience. Poliskey and Hogan have had experience at the tackles, “JEied” Smith, Fredericks, Stang, will add strength to the central portions of the line.
Veteran backfield men are numerous. Parisien, Charley Reilly and McKinley have worked at quarterback. Likewise O’Boyle, Bahman, Roach, Chevigney and many others will handle backfield jobs, experienced by a year’s work. Elmer Wynne is one of the outstanding candidates for the heavy plunging job.	-
It’s a tough schedule that must be solved but it’s a determined lot that’s going about the job with zip. “Rock” and his men, the nervy combination that has fought many an uphill battle to make Notre Dame’s football tradition what it is, will do the job without ado.
N EW 'handy pack' WRIGLEYS k PK J
CHEWING SWEET^B
A treat everybody enjoys. It’s good for young and old.
Christmas Cards
For discriminating people who would avoid busy stores; soiled, handled, and ordinary cards, Clover Studios publish an unique assortment of 12 steel engraved and hand-colored Christmas greeting cards beautiful and different; with fancy lined envelopes. Values, $1.20 up. Complete assortment $1.00 Postpaid—money back guarantee. Agents wanted. Wonderful seller.
Clover Studios Gen. P. O. Box 582	New York
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CARL D. LOVE, Mgr. H. CLIZBE KING
The Little Dutch Cleaners
WENDLAND LEADS HIS
HARRIERS IN DRILLS
Stout-lunged Irish, harriers, bent upon humbling even last year’s highly successful
season, reported to Cross Country Coach
Suits Cleaned.............$ .50
Suits Cleaned and Pressed . . 1.50
Topcoats Pressed............50
Topcoats Pressed and Cleaned 1.50
Courtesv and Satisfaction
Hotel LaSalle	Tel. 5687
— ■- -.......—
John Wendland,
NULTY
erans are again
Thursday afternoon, prepared for one of the toughest grinds ever assigned to Notre Dame long distance runners.
Satisfied that they can-again win all their dual meets, as they did in 1925, and that a high rating in the Western Conference cross country championships will be attained, candidates for the squad were very optimistic on the work in front of them.
Many of last year’s vet-in line for cross country
duty. Captain Joe Nulty, who is serving' his second year as pilot, is ready to lead
his squad to a half dozen important meets.
Look!
WE TAKE this opportunity to invite “YOU” to visit the New Sporting Goods Store at 113 North Main Street.
We have saved a key chain for you. Come in and get it.
Recreation Equipment Co.
113 North Main St. Lincoln 2257
IT PAYS TO PLAY
“Scrap” Young, varsity two-miler, who was the most consistent vanner on the 1926 squad, has donned the harness and is ready for the campaign. Young’s worth as a harrier was proved last fall when he romped to wins in the Northwestern and Indiana meets.
Frank Masterson and Dick Phelan, sturdy runners, are also back from last fall’s squad. A wealth of good material from last year’s 1929 squad also exists. Bob Brennan, Charley Colton, Charley DeGroot, Joe Abbott, Charley Schleichert, and Pete Morgan reported to Coach Wendland for varsity duty.
Wendland’s splendid work last fall, his first season as cross country coach, leads campus critics to prophesy great things for the long distance running sport at Notre Dame. Wendland himself is well known in Notre Dame track circles, his work as a two-miler on the 1923 and 1924 varsity squads having stamped him as a capable
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
athlete. He now runs for the Illinois Athletic Club.
Training jogs will be run for a couple of weeks after which intensive drills will be in order. A schedule will be announced at an early date.
CINDER ARTISTS REPORT
FOR FALL WORKOUTS
Imbued with a desire to place Notre Dame’s name on high pedestal in track realms, more than a hundred trackmen heeded Coach Knute K. Rockne’s siren for
fall practice, Thursday, September 16.
With the outlook for a record season more promising than it has been for the past two years, sprinters, jumpers, weight men and hurdlers, are manifesting a keen spirit in the fall workouts.
Captain Joe Della Maria, mercury-footed dash man, who was only a stride behind Roland Locke, when that speedy Nebraskan first tied
WENDLAND
the hundred mark at the Drake Games last
spring, will direct a large part of the fall training work. Coach Rockne is burning up his tireless energies in the development of another championship grid team, and Assistant Coach John Wendland will devote
much of his time to cross country, with the result that Della Maria’s work is well mapped out.
Rockne has made it known that he desires to raise Notre Dame track to a place where it will bow to no one, and the experience here has been that “Rock” doesn’t store his dreams in aircastles. The hundred candidates for the squad are anxious to lend their efforts to the new track program.
Present plans call for a handicap meet late •in 'October. At that time Freshman and Varsity candidates will vie with each other in a full program of track and fiield events, which is expected to uncover new performers in the various meets. Winter track will be gotten under way on the indoor oval
To Make Your
College Room Pleasant
While you are fixing up your room at college come to Wyman’s for help and suggestions. In our third floor Rug and Drapery departments you will find good-looking rugs, bright, cheerful cretonnes for your windows, lamps and such necessities to make your room livable—at very moderate prices.
(You can have your curtains made here at nominal cost if you buy materials here.)
Come and See Us
GEORGE WYMAN & COMPANY
Men of Notre Dame!
We dry-clean and press your Suit, Topcoat, or Overcoat for . . $1.00
Work Guaranteed Expert A Iterations
DAVE’S TOG SHOP
OPEN EVENINGS 115 SOUTH MAIN OPP. COURT HOUSE
--
28
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
O. A. CLARK LUNCH ROOMS
$5 50 COMMUTATION $5 oo
TICKETS
are good at any of the downtown locations
O. A. CLARK LUNCH ROOMS
122 AV. -WASHINGTON AVENUE 104-106 N. MICHIGAN STREET 222 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 337 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 119-121 W. JEFFERSON BLVD
107 E. WASHINGTON AVENUE
321 WEST SOUTH STREET
BERMAN'S
FOR SPORT GOODS AND RADIO
Outdoor and Indoor Sports
RADIO STORE, 108 NORTH MICHIGAN SPORT GOODS STORE, 126 N. MICHIGAN
Si
DR. J. BURKE
228 SOUTH MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
shortly hfter Thanksgiving and the spring program will start after Easter, assuring those who are fighting for positions a continuous round of training and competition.
HARRINGTON GONE
Only two outstanding track athletes will be missing from the role this year. Former Captain Paul Harrington, holder of the world’s intercollegiate indoor record, and the most consistent pole vaulter in American college circles last year, has received his parchment and can no longer represent the school. He is now competing for the Boston Athletic Association, where his ability to scale higher than thirteen feet is much appreciated. Jimmy Stack, steel-hearted quarter miler for two years, has entered Northwestern Medical School. Stack’s nervy running in relay of last spring’s Notre Dame-Illinois-Ohio Wesleyan triangular meet, was one of the bright sports of the athletic year.
But able veterans of the past two years do remain to form the nucleus for the squad. Captain Della Maria should rank among the country’s best sprinters next spring. Charley Judge, whose defeating of Gillette, Montana mile and two mile star, in the National Intercollegiates last June, bulged- the eyes of not a few scribes and fans, has another year of competition. Morrissey, Charley Reilly, Sullivan and McGauley remain in the dashes as do Masterson, Nulty, McKinney, Ryan, Lahey, and McDonald in the middle distances. Judge, Young, Phelan and Knop are distance veterans. In the weight events, Boland, Mayer, Norton, Repetti, and Lavelle are again on deck while Barron, Griffin, Lloyd and Stace have reported again for hurdle duty.
A number of promising candidates from last year’s interhall and freshman ranks will supplement those who have already felt the sting of varsity competition. Elder, Rourke, Noon, O’Brien and Bill Judge are slated to battle for dash positions. Elder, the flying Kentuckian, whose running of the 60 indoors was nothing short of phenomenal, is expected to be a real asset to the squad. Abbott, Kelly and Quigley showed well as frosh middle distance men while Morgan, Brennan, and DeGroot will compete for mile
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Shoes for Men

Fall and Winter Styles $7.50 up I
TWO GOOD PLACES TO EAT—AT HOME AND AT
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
AGAIN WELCOME BACK, MEN OF NOTRE DAME
THE HOME OF QUALITY. WE DO OUR OWN BAKING.
SAY IT WITH FLOWERS OF QUALITY
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
Flowers Telegraphed Everywhere
319 WEST WASHINGTON
TELEPHONE MAIN 769
30
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE OLIVER HOTEL BARBER SHOP : : :
Where Noire Dame men have
always received special attention
IN THE OLIVER HOTEL
The Reliance Pharmacy
Prescription
SPECIALISTS
230 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
<	:	----x
LINCOLN 2228	S. J. KARRAS, Mgr.
Washington Shoe Repair Co.
and The Boston Hatters
Expert Shoe Repairing
116 WEST WASHINGTON AVENUE
- -- - ....................- —
PHONE MAIN 0254
Dr. J. M. Singler Dr. E. A. Probst
Dentists
261 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
honors. In the hurdles McDonald, Tobin, Mulfeur and Doan will attempt to reach the varsity grade while McDonald, Moynihan, Viada and Kizer are • after weight proficiency.
Freshman track men were also asked to report with the varsity candidates and both squads will be sent through six weeks of labor.
DIAMOND STARS REPORT
Notre Dame baseball fans, who left the campus before the last game was played, will be glad to learn that Richard (Red) Smith, prominent football, baseball and hockey celebrity on the campus, was elected to lead the 1927 nine.
Smith’s baseball ability was one of the features of last year’s colorful schedule and his worth was shown by his team mates’ selection. The new captain is a catcher and as such has shown worth much above the average. His fielding last year was very consistent, his hitting approached the .450 mark and his base running was very valuable to the team.
First call for fall baseball practice was sounded by Coach George Keogan last Friday and a number of promising Freshmen in addition to many 1926 regulars and utility men answered. For the next five weeks, Keogan’s men will put in intensive drills daily.
Coach Keogan must bear the brunt of fall baseball practice. Captain Smith, who is a regular guard on the Irish grid squad, will be unable to take active interest in ball work but last year’s regulars will keep the work moving.
Many consistent performers 'will be numbered in the diamond ranks again this year. With “Young Ed” Walsh, sensational college strikeout artist, and Elmer Besten, the curve ball celebrity, hurling them at Smith’s glove, opposing batsmen will havce a tough assignment on their hands.
Numbered among the infield veterans are Quinn, Sullivan, McCleary and Moore. O’Boyle, Parisien, Polisky and McGee, all with experience in the outfield, will be on hand again for garden patrol.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
31
LOOK!
College Inn Restaurant
(Formerly Varsity Shop)
Miller-Mueller
Oliver Hotel Shop
103 North Main Street
TRY US OUT, FELLOWS
NEW MANAGEMENT NEW CHEFS
Mr. Arthur H. Bishop of Scheyer Inc. will exhibit the changes in style for the coming season ini our store Seirtember 27th and 28th.
$5.50 Meal Tickets, $5.00
DOWN THE ROAD FROM SOPHOMORE HALL
Mr. Bishop will be able to take a limited number of orders for made to measure Scheyer-tailored suits, topcoats and overcoats.
I
i ----o----	j
.	I
Imported and Domestic j Mens Wear	i
U. S. ARMY STORE
HEADQUARTERS k	TC T’T'TT’T’TC GOOD-LOOKING
FOR. CAMPUS OUTFITS ROUGH WEAR TOGS
Pure Wool	jMfJ NAVY SWEATERS $2.95	Blue - Gray - Brown CORDUROY PANTS Wide Bottoms, $3.85	Latest Patterns in DRESS SHIRTS $1.50
Double-Soled FIELD SHOES Rough Wear Specials, $3.85 Cricket Pull-over SWEATERS All Sizes, $1.95	Genuine Horsehide Leather Boinch JACKETS $15 Value, $9.95	Knit Bottom LUMBERJACK COATS Pure Wool, $5.85
	Navy Blue V-NECK SWEATERS All Wool, $5.85	GYMNASIUM Shirts, 50c Trunks, 50c Shoes, $1.00
If you need any of them, ask any of our campus representatives. Any of these j men are at your service: Frank Saele, J. H. Gilbert, Jack Ward,	* ’
Frank Hoefning, Bill Krieg, M. Viesie.	!
330 SOUTH TT Q A DMV CTADC 330 SOUTH ' MICHIGAN (J. O. AK1V1I □lUKlL MICHIGAN

When peg-tops were in flower
PRINCE ALBERT has been the campus favorite since the days of long-haired fullbacks, high button shoes, turtle-neck sweaters, and hand-painted dormitory cushions. This same wonderful tobacco is even more popular in these days of plus-fours.
And no wonder. Throw back the hinged lid of the familiar red tin and release that rare aroma of real tobacco! Tuck a load into your pipe and pull that fragrant P. A. smoke up the stem! That’s Prince Albert, Fellows! Nothing like it anywhere.
When problems press and your spirits slip over into the minus column, just get out your jimmy-pipe and load up with this really friendly tobacco. P. A. is so kind to your tongue and throat and general disposition. Buy a tidy red tin today*
Fringe albert
—no other tobacco is like it!
P. A. if sold everywhere in tidy red tint, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.
© 1926, R. J. ReynoWs Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.