

Can't figure out what to write? 
. ­

Please send_ years of Scholastic to: Name:___________ Address:__________ 
City:._____State:_Zip:___ 
Please make checks payable to : 
Scholastic Magazine LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x _ years = $_ 
more 120 years, 

Notre excuse write 
Dame's not to home. 



SCHOLASTIC 
When Push Comes To Shove Notre Dame faculty, angered by its lack of decision-making input, is once again weighing its options--Is it "looking for the union label?" 
By Richard Foley/ Page 6 
Features 
New Kid on the Block 
Conservative Dialogue magazine comes to campus. 
By Karen Kenney/ Page 9 

Notre Dame Globetrotters 
Glee Club travels the world representing the university. 
By Kristine DeGange/ Page 12 


Sports 
Team in Transition 
Notre Dame volleyball finds life difficult following its NCAA tournament season of a year ago. 

By Rick Farley/ Page 17 
Sportsweek/ compiled by Kevin T. Kerns/ Page 19 


Departments 
On Other Campuses/ compiled by Chris Fillio/ Page 3

~i~i~Ii!~~~¥,I;~;;~~~~1:.;;•2~ 
t---------------------------------------i
Editorial/ Page 22 
$~~rts Asst.: Bria V"' WNe\liS: Deii~

i; ~oJ)y:<Tr~c.j T; 

i?:i]t!•·•.·:ti~:.::~~:s~t~nc 

$alnfMary'.s:Rob 
, '.Photo: Manokuaa>·• 
.•c''.}£~~:&~~~fii!lOC~[Ji!~ 
··•·•·Ad D.eslgn:~11?,!gi1ser ;
•,·>":cCL 

Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at S1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials 
become the property of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1989 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole orin part without permission is prohibited. 

October 12, 1989 

Scholastic is looking for someone to fill the position of 


Circulation Manager 
(This is a paid position.) 
For more information, call Mike or Andy at 239-7569. 
Scholastic 





On Other Campuses 
BURNING DOWN THE HOUSE 
Or at ieast the stadium, in the case ofthe Fightin Illini, the self-proclaimed teamfor the '90s 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
Hours after the Fighting Illini burned up the field in their 41-2 romp against visiting Utah State University, the fire was still burning. Unfortunately, the reality was a forty­yard patch of charred astroturf, the dirty work ofsome early morning vandals. A story in The Daily Illini reported that the blaze began probably around 6 a.m. Sunday, the morning after the UI-USU game, and was lit with matches and lighter fluid. A university employee notified the fire department, which extinguished the fire within fifteen minutes. The Monsanto Company has been called in to inspect damage to the $1.5 million turf, with hopes of restoring the field before the scheduled October 7 home game against the Ohio State Buckeyes. 
.• i" • ... .. 
.

"I ' .. • 
Pete Rose University? Not quite. However, students in the Casino Training Program at Mohave Community College (Ariz.) are encour­aged to practice their skills at blackjack, dice, roulette and poker. While you may not have class with Jimmy the Greek, the National On-Campus Report stated that the courses are taught by experienced professionals in the casino gaming industry and help students prepare for entry-level positions. In addition, last July the University of Nevada-Reno opened the first gaming institute, and will eventually award undergraduate minors in gambling. 
People always complain about high tuitions, but no one ever does anything about them, right? Wrong, said Wesleyan senior Roger Kingsepp, of Brooklyn, N.Y. And he's proving that he means business by filing a suit in U.S. District Court against Brown Univer­sity and eleven other schools. In a front-page story in The Brown Daily flerald, charges ofcollusion and price fixing have been brought against schools of the Ivy League, Wesleyan and Stanford Universi­ties and Amherst and Williams colleges. For about thirty-five years, schools in the Northeast have been meeting to share information on applicants in order to compare financial aid packages. The suit contends that such actions violate the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. Recently, Barnard College was added to the list. 
Sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll? While the latter two are not an immediate issue at Nassau Community College in New York, the first one has caused a few problems. The county board held up the school's budget for several days because of the college's question­able content in it's human sexuality course. A story by the National On-Campus Report stated that students in the class view a film that explicitly portrays sexual intercourse. In addition, faculty in past years have made assignments that included chatting with prostitutes and taking bubble baths. 
"The '80s belong to the Illini," or so went the self-proclaimed slogan at the University of Illinois. However, sports writer for The Daily Illini, Jeff Ponczak, feels that this is a misnomer. The truth is, the Fighting Illini have more NCAA investigations to think about this year than they have had national championships in the past decade (only 1988, in Men's Gymnastics.) Ponczak opened the debate with an article listing several more apropos slogans for the nineties. Excerpts include "The '90s belong to the Illini-and we really mean it this time," "The '90s belong to ... Naah, let's forget about it and get drunk," "The '90s might be ours, they might not-don't worry about it," "Bo sucks (This has nohing to do with the Illini, but somebody has to make it their slogan)," "Illinois--we have running water," "If the '90s don't belong to us, fine-at least they won't belong to North­western," "Maybe we did only win one national championship in the '80s, but at least that's one more title than the Cubs have won in 80 years." While Ponczak admitted that he could continue for a while, he instead instituted the Choose a Slogan for the '90s contest. Send your entries to him care ofThe Daily Illini. How about "Fightin' and cheatin' our way through the '90s!" 


Week in Distortion/ Roger Hipp 



Ivy Envy at 
.D.? 
Some contend that Notre Dame should raise its standards, but do we really want a bad football team? 
Recently the Administration, having declared the 'Program to Eliminate All Forms of Fun on Campus and Pretty Much Everywhere Else We Can Squelch It' a resounding success, embarked on an ambitious new project, the 'Program to Make Notre Dame Competitive with the Ivy League.' Why, you might ask, would Notre Dame want to become competitive with the Ivies, especially when weseem tohaveanadequate supply of ivy on campus as it is? To answer this question, you must first try to think like an Administration officer, with a title like Vice Associate Provost Emeritus for Finan­cial Affairs. Last year, about eight thousand high school seniors applied for about two thousand freshman slots at Notre Dame. From an administrative point of view, this three-to-one rejection ratio is clearly too low. To be competitive with the Ivy League schools, Notre Dame must be able to tum down a ratio closer to five out of every six applications. Then the Administration people can sit back and reflect upon what a very selective university they administer, and likewise how much they can raise tuition. And why do we need to raise tuition, when Notre Dame is already pulling in money comparable to what Japan collects in income taxes? Ag~n, you must think like an admin­istrator, who has already completed years and years of college and who will never have to pay tuition again. Currently, tuition here is only ridiculously high, and the Administra­tion would prefer preposterously high tui­tion like that ofthe Ivy League. For exampie, in order to finance your Domer education, it is still not essential, though highly recom­one or two small mints. The Administration and the Board of Trustees hope to make this kind of financial background a future quali­fication for admission, like it is at most of the Ivy institutions. 


However, I do not think that Notre Dame will ever be really competitive with the I vies. For one thing, the surest indicator of an Ivy school is a rotten football team. I have a friend at Yale named Joe Yale Blow. (Many Ivy students change their middle name so they can mention their college at every chance, as in "Hi, I'm Fred Fart and did I mention that I go to Princeton? That's right, Princeton! In fact, you can call me Fred Princeton Fart!) Anyway, my friend Joe, who had never played football outside of his back yard, decided last year to try out for Yale football, just for the hell of it. Joe made the second team. Now ifl were Pete Rose, I'd be willing to bet that only a few members of the are playing competitive football for the first time. 
The fact that we at Notre Dame take our football more seriously than, say, chess or ; Pictionary, is only one of several reasons that our school will never be truly competitive with the colleges and universities of the Ivy League. For example, the I vies are generally situated within spitting distance of the Atlan­tic Ocean, which can't even be seen from anywhere on our campus. No, not even the top floor of the library.. Honest, I checked. In addition, we have relatively few students with names like Q. Philbun Fadbottom at our university, whereas roughly two thirds of ivy students have Roman numerals following their names. So much for being competitive. 
Fortunately, our noncompetitive status does entail some advantages. All of our campus facilitiys were constructed after the American Revolution. Prospective employ­ers do not automatically assume that we are overqualified for menial summer work. Though changes are being considered, the Notre Dame admissions form does not yet require recommendations from kindergarten · teachers. The competition between students here is relaxed enough that hardly any of us routinely destroy our roommates' notes. And most important! y, when a Domer says "bowl game," he or she is not referring to food fights involving breakfast cereal. 
But all in all,Notre Damejustmightbeable to equal the Ivies in enough respects to 'jus­tify' annual tuition hikes beyond the outra­geously typical nine percent. In fact, I'm seriously considering changing my name to Notre Dame Hipp. Right after I rob another 
bank. ¦ 


Music/ Dave Holsinger 

Orange Crush 
R.E.M. 's triumphant return to the stage 
The biggest rock act to hit Notre Dame in God-knows-how-long left those who saw the Septem bcr 29th 
R.E.M. show with a close-up look at what success can do to a band. 
But for starters, NRBQ (New Rhythm and Blues Quartet) opened up in satisfactory fashion. Even though nobody seemed to know of them, their straightforward R&B based rock 'n' roll was easy to get into. I just want to know how four guys who look like they just left some comer tavern in Anytown, U.S.A., ended up opening for R.E.M. All the same, they warmed up the amps like any good opening act should, as well as leaving us with a vague idea of who they are. 
What is there to say about R.E.M. that hasn't already beeri said a thousand times by every rock critic in the country? Plenty. Seeing R.E.M_. live provides a completely fresh look into what makes this band tick. Little details that you just can't get from lis­tening to an album are there staring you in the face during a live performance. 
First, R.E.M. delivered a tremendous per­formance, despite an obnoxious and even belligerent crowd which somehow managed to irritate a band which must be accustomed to arena-sized crowds by now. Even after singer Michael Stipe thanked the members of the crowd who had managed to stay on the floor, a few overzealous and infantile girls still rushed the stage to the complete aggrava­tion of Peter Buck and Michael Stipe. Girls, 
R.E.M. is not Bon Jovi. I'd expect someone who listens to R.E.M. to know the difference. 
Ofcourse, all of the stage-rushing and giddy screaming just goes along with the sudden popularity which the band seems to abhor. 
R.E.M. obviously realizes that they're going to have to deal· with success· somehow, and making light of having to play to big crowds seems to be a good way to do it. From the beginning, the group made a point of show­ing the futility of audience participation by projecting all of the usual group-to-audience platitudes onto the huge screen behind the stage. 
The band even condescended to the arena­crowd mentality in its selection of the open­ing number, "Stand", an obvious crowd pleaser and easy way to get the crowd riled up with almost zero effort. With crowds like this, can you blame them? The stadium crowds that the success of Document and Green have brought them are a far cry from the devoted throngs who used to be the band's only followers. 
It was interesting to see that the band did stick to some oftheir older tunes even in spite of their rash of recent hits. "Perfect Circle", "So. Central Rain", and "Time after Time" were pleasant surprises, as was the instru­mental "Rotary Ten" from Dead Letter Of­fice. "Feeling Gravity's Pull" was absolutely mind boggling. Everything they played sounded good, and the group obviously en­joys playing cuts off Green. Michael Stipe 's assertion that "Get Up" is his favorite song was an unanticipated declaration that the songs on Green are a high point in the band's career. 
The focal point for the audience through­out the show was singer and lyricist Michael Stipe. From his frenetic bobbling around the stage during songs like "Get Up" and "It's the End of the World as We Know It," to his impressionistic rendering of "You are the Everything," Stipe showed a wide range of emotion. His fiery performance imparted a bit of his artistic psyche to everyone around, probably even to those girls who tried to grab his skinny bod. Guitarist Peter Buck played a mellow but interesting musical foil to Stipe's energetic performance, and bassist Mike Mills with drummer Bill Berry are the foundation to the melodies of Buck and Stipe. Ex-dB Peter Holsapple also added Significantly to the live performance, con­tributing keyboards, guitar, and an occa­sional bass to the overall sound of R.E.M. 
As R.E.M. grows into a more noticeable musical and lyrical force in rock 'n' roll, they are obviously trying to make their political views more readily accessible. "Orange Crush" began with the "Be all that you can be" jingle from the U.S. Army's television ads, a biting lash into the military's senseless destruction of life and land via the chemical defoliant Agent Orange. The bitter irony of Stipe' s two dedications to the Exxon corpora-_ tion let us know just how much he cares for the environment. The lyrical gist ofGreen is, as indicated by the title, towards awareness of the world's environmental problems, but it . ii 
·;i
also makes a cry for people to become in­
:fl
volved in world affairs. Songs like "Get Up" 
ii
and ''These Days" have a revolutionary spirit ,·1 that Michael Stipe tries to instill into the crowd. By bringing along representatives from Greenpeace and other environmental groups, R.E.M. is obviously hoping that some of the feelings they arouse in their audiences will be put to good use. I 
i 

Everything that one would normally expect from R.E.M. was in the show: the environ­mental awareness, the eccentricity,the lyrics that even a psychoanalyst would have a tough time understanding, and above all, the music that has drawn so much attention to R.E.M. since the band's humble beginnings on col­lege radio. All that we have come to know and love of the band for was there at the· JACC, bigger than life. Maybe someone out there can tell me why there were plastic dinosaurs on top of Peter Buck's amps? and why did he have a black Van Halen sticker on his black Rickenbacker? Why did Michael Stipe decide to use an ordinary desk chair as a percussion instrument? and what exactly was in that Thermos that he was drinking from during "Rotary Ten"? 
It's just too bad that some of the local high school girls had to rush the stage and make it plainly obvious that this band doesn't like popularity. They were high school girls, right? I mean nobody from NOTRE DAME would act like that, would they? I didn't think so. Well, a message to those girls: you obviously don't have a clue about what 
R.E.M. is here for. Success has brought the group bigger audiences and bigger gate re­ceipts, but it seems that many of the new fans don't understand that two top-forty hits do not make a group a top-forty band. Hope­fully, R.E.M. can find a way to make success manageable, as it has been done before. Those of us who have followed R.E.M. since before Green are hoping that they can. .II 

News 



hen Pu 
h Com 
to 
hov 


Notre Dame faculty, angered by its lack ofdecision-making input, is once· again weighing its options--Is it "looking for the union label?" 
BY RICHARD FOLEY 

Recently, the Faculty Senate Ad-Hoc Committee on Governance issued a preliminary report outlining the possibility of faculty unionization. Accord­ing to the report, the committee, which formed in May 1989, met during the summer "to begin formulating procedures, gathering information, and considering options." Al­though the committee has much work left to do, including polling the faculty and collect­ing and reviewing data, the option ofunioni­zation is being seriously considered at this point. Why is this? The preliminary report calls for a change of the faculty's current role in the decision­making process at Notre Dame. The input of the faculty is not being used in a significant way by the administration. A sense of frus­tration prevails, especially in the faculty senate. The senate was formed when the Faculty Manual was rewritten in 1966. According to the Report of the University Committee on the Faculty Manual (November 1, 1966), the Senate was created to give the "Faculty as a whole the means for independent means of deliberation and action." It would be "the voice of the Faculty", sending serious pro­posals and ideas to the administration. 
I 

Professor James Robinson, who chaired the University Committee on the Faculty Manual and is a current member of the Ad-Hoc Committee, said, "we had great hopes that [the senate] would be one of the effective governing bodies" when it was created. The senate was designed to cooperate with the administration and·, Robinson said, to "fur­nish the expertise of the university" through faculty involvement. 
The administration, however, does not let the senate function as more than an advisory body. Robinson was a Senator and began to feel some frustration as the administration disregarded the recommendations ofthe Sen­ate. He said that it is, "unpredictable how the university will use or not use the detailed reports that it receives." The process is clearly "hit or miss." 
Robinson feels that the faculty, being di­rectly involved in the daily activities of the university, has valid ideas concerning its op­eration that need to beconsidered. Theability ofthe faculty to have real input in decisions at Notre Dame lags far behind that of their col­leagues at other universities. The school pos­sesses a "quality faculty" that the administra­tion could make better use of. 
Another problem, Robinson said, is the "discontent with the way '!lany things are done secretly." Important decisions and ap­pointments are made and no reason is given. According to Robinson, this may stem from a basic mistrust of the faculty on the part of the administration. 

These conditions have existed for many years, and unionization was attempted at Notre Dame in 1977. The Notre Dame Chapterofthe American Association ofUni­versity Professors (AAUP) released a pam­phlet stating the case for unionization. In "The Case for Collective Bargaining at the University of Notre Dame" (February 7, 1977), the faculty was assured that collective bargaining· would not, "bring an adversarial atmosphere to the relationship of faculty and administrators." 

Rather, "if a university has a good faculty, collective bargaining will work to allow their creative power to function, not to allow a disruptive power to find expression." Robin­son, the former chapter president of the now­defunct Notre Dame AAUP, spoke of the "card campaign" that was organized to allow the faculty to vote on the issue of union repre­sentation. 
The chapter had to collect signed cards from 30% of the faculty that designated the AAUP chapter as their union agent. This would allow an election to pennit the chapter to represent the faculty in collective bargaining. Although the requirement of 30% was exceeded, the election never took place. The vote would have been too close and the faculty may have become divided. 
Professor Tom Swartz also holds the view that the faculty cannot effectively relate their 

. Mari Okuda 

Professor Tom Swartz discusses possible unionization. 

ideas to the administration. He sites a "lack of mature involve­ment of the faculty in the gov­ernance" of the university. Some of the faculty are frus­trated, said Swartz, "and when they get frustrated, and if they have no other recourse, then they consider the possibility-the ex­treme possibility, I think-of unionization.'' 
Swartz sees a "paternalistic nature of[the university] and the lack ofparticipation offaculty in the determination ofeven things that affect us.'' He gives an ex­ample that concerns the faculty retirement fund. Currently, money is paid into the fund, which is then matched by the university. Upon retirement, an annuity is purchased and the re­tiree gets regular payments from the fund. 
The university is now in a position to offer different op­tions than the one currently in use. The money could be paid in a lump sum, for example. This 



News 
option is attractive to some faculty. This is­sue, however, will probably be decided by the administration with little or no faculty in­put. Swartz said that, "if they wouldn't give you that kind ofcontrol over your private life then that probably indi­cates that they have some reluctance to give you control over the academic life" of the university. 
Swartz said that the members ofthe faculty, "believe that they know where the academy is going and wh.ere we should be going also." If there was, Swartz feels, a "conscious ef­fort to involve faculty 

in that ongoing life ... in a real way, rather thanjustinan artificial way, then there would be no concern or interest in unionization.'' 
The _Ad-Hoc Committee Preliminary Re­portsupports this statement. Thereport gives four options: to continue using the ineffec­tive structures of faculty-administration interaction; to abandon efforts to participate in the decision-making process; to unionize; or to work with the administration to create real forms ofparticipatory government. The report states that, "Members of the Ad-Hoc Committee generally prefer the fourth choice, but do not preclude pursuit ofany of the others." 
According to Robinson, the senate does not desire power, it simply wants an "effective voice.'' He supported the union movement in 1977 because it was a way to improve coop­eration between the faculty and the admini­stration. This is the goal of the present exploration into the unionization issue. 
The senate believes that the faculty is able to provide intelligent ideas to the administra­tion, and the administration should fairly evaluate the senate recommendations. Robinson said that the university, "could not have become as good as itis, as good as it's getting, without the faculty.'' 
Professor James Robinson, member of Ad-Hoc committee 

"The Craft of Writing" 
Some practical apllications and job entry advice 
12: 15 Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Refreshments Served 
"How to Radicalize the U.S. Media!" 

4:30 Theodore's, 2nd Floor LaFortune · 




Features 



New 
id on the Block 
Conservative Dialogue magazine comes to campus 
A 
BY KAREN KENNEY 
new publication has sprung up on 
campus, joining more established 
media such as the Observer, Scho­lastic, Common Sense, Humanitas and the Juggler. What exactly is Dialogue? Well, a look in the dictionary would uncover some­thing like this: 
Dialogue n. 1. a conversation between two or more people. 2. A literary work written in the form ofconversation. 3. An exchange of ideas or opinions. 

legiate journalism; a forum ofactive partici­pation and debate." 
No, they're not making it up, not the definition anyway. What they are making up is a new campus magazine entitled Dia­logue at Notre Dame. The premier issue of which was available to students the last week of September in various locations around campus. This new magazine was the idea of a small group of Notre Dame stu­dents, because "there are a lot of issues on campus we think that don '.t get covered like they should; not just campus issues, but also national issues," said Schlapp. As the magazine itself says, Dialogue at Notre Dame, has been created to provide "in depth coverage of the issues fundamental to Notre Dame." 
The magazine staff, which currently consists of almost twenty members, is headed by senior Matthew A. Schlapp, edi­tor in chief, and Thomas S. Ehrhardt, associ­ate editor. Schlappsaid thatheandEhrhardt founded the magazine because "through a lot of activities we've been involved in, we realized that there were some problems with the administration and how they deal with students that really absolutely disgusted us, nothing less." The first issue of the maga­zine, however, did not touch on student­administration campus issues. 
Dialogue is to be an editorially conser­vative magazine which, in its own words, will look to "critically examine academic, 

athletic, extracurricular, and University pol­icy." BothEhrhardt and Schlapp stressed the importance of the investigative reporting which they said will go into the articles ofthe magazine. "If we do a story say, on univer­sity policy, we're not going to be happy ·talking to one person, we're going to try and dig a little bit deeper, and find out a little bit more ... and we may find out something," Ehrhardt said. As far as the points of view of these articles, Schlapp said that other publi­cations "don't.stress students enough, we want to be a student advocate. Also, why 






Features 

does everyone always go to the same old hi­in depth coverage of the issues, Dialogue at the articles in the newspaper are factual, erarchy? ... Why don't we ask an interested Notre Dame wants to go one step further and about places people might have been, for ex­student? We want to be an undergraduate try to reach agreements on controversial is­ample, and require investigative reporting, magazine, we're aimed at undergraduates." sues through dialogue, discussion and de­the "rest are pretty much opinion" based ar­
bates. The staff of Dialogue sees no com­ticles. When questioned about her feelings 
Although Dialogue at Notre Dame is parison to Common Sense, a politically con­towards Dialogue at Notre Dame, Emery referred to as a conservative magazine, cerned monthly newspaper on campus. said she feels like they (Common Sense) "are Ehrhardt said "many times, the only way you Schlapp and Ehrhardt both mentioned re­not in direct competition with each other." 
can ever incur that this magazine is conser­peatedly the purpose ofDialogue to be "talk­She said Common Sense has some good 
vative is by reading the editorial," which is ing over issues, not shouting", as Schlapp faculty contributors this year and they will found inside. the back cover of 
also be using more undergradu­the magazine. "We're really not ate writers, since they are in the a conservative journal," said process of changing their for­Schlapp. Dialogue at Notre mat this year. Although she Dame is going to provide "dis­doesn't feel Common Sense is cussions on both sides of the in "head to head competition" issues. Our feature stories can be with Dialogue, "I welcome wrillen by a person ofany politi­some kind of sounding board cal persuasion as long as it's a for us to compare ourselves to," good article, as long as it's some­said Emery. thing we feel should be ad­dressed." Ehrhardt mentioned Besides the political view­that if an article was well-writ-points of the magazine, how­ten, then it will never be edited, ever, Dialogue also plans to whether they agree with the cover campus activities and opinion of the article or not. highlight student creative work 
as well. Dialogue intends to be 

A point brought up repeat-printing student-written po­edly by Schlapp was that, etry,fiction and artwork in each "We're student advocacy ... we issue. Schlapp and Ehrhardt want discourse ... and we're both saw a need for students to certainly not afraid to offend," have somewhere they can pub-said Schlapp. "Like ordon't like lish well-written creative work. our politics, I have no problem The Juggler and Humanitas are with anybody who disagrees the only publications currently with me politically. I think that's on campus which provide this what makes it fun. We're not kind of opportunity, and since going to present our feelings in a both are only prin~d once a se­way that will just completely ag-mester this makes the competi­gravate everybody who dis-tion for publication rather stiff. 
agrees with us. Hopefully we The first Issue of Dialogue came out this month. JoeVhacoo Schlapp added. that including tend to be a little more thoughtful." He also said, and as the title ofthe magazine suggests. · creative work was also a way ofgetting other pointed out the fact that there are other pub-"We feel you get nowhere if you follow the students who are not necessarily interested in lications on campus which are considered Common Sense rule which is to stand up and the conservative political issues to want to conservative. "The Observer is called con-holler and holler and holler and holler. That pick up the magazine and read it as well. 
servative, called Republican, but I can re-getsawfullyboring,sowe'regoingtotryand Dialogue. is not a university-fundedmember reading the editorial they had when open things up a bit," said Schlapp. 
publication. ''That's not to say they rejected Bush and Hiler were running ... they're con­Lanier Emery, co-editor in chief of us either, we never asked," said Ehrhardt.

servative, but there doesn't seem to be any· Common Sense, said the newspaper Com­Since Dialogue at Notre l)ame is, in its ownthought behind these conservative views," mon Sense "tends to be left wing, however words, "an independent organization· receiv­said Schlapp. "So, we'd like to have more that's not our editorial policy across the ing no funding from the university," the costs thoughts and less ideology." 
board. We try to expose undergraduates to of the premier publication of the magazine 
Besides looking to provide more 
varied political views, besides the prevailing were covered almost entirely by the staff, ac­thought behind the issues, and stressing more ones." She also said that although some of cording to Ehrhardt. Ehrhardt estimated that ·l 
10 · 
Scholastic 

• 

Features 

iL cosL approximaLcly $1.00 per copy Lo pro­duce Lhc magazine, and 5,000 copies of Lhc firsL issue were prinLed. "It cost between $4,500 and $5,000," said Ehrhardt." I would say it COSL about $4,500." Although the magazine is entirely funded by contributions and subsc;~ipLions at this point, Ehrhardt and Schlapp pfan for it to cvcntually_bc funded Loi.ally by advertisements, perhaps as soon as Lhc end of Lhc year. According to Schlapp, Lhc enLire staff is at Lhis point unsalaricd and will remain so. They plan to use any funds Lhcy receive, over Lhc cost of publication, to bring guest speakers to Lhc univcrsiLy. 
The magazine is sponsored by the Wil­liam E. Miller Society which is "a society of sLudcnts, alumni, and faculty dedicated to in­LcllccLual debate on the Notre Dame cam­pus." "The William E. Miller Society was also started by us just because we don't want to just have Dialogue, we'd like Lo have a so­cicLy Lhat prompts discussion and debate," said Schlapp. Schlapp said that they already have one scheduled speaker. "Congressman Robert Doman from California, who's a very prominent pro-life congressman has already agreed to come, free of charge, just because he thinks it is a great idea," Schlapp said. 

The society is named after William E. Millcr,a former graduate ofthe University of Notre Dame. Miller was the 1964 republican candidate for vice president who died in 1983. "He was a great guy, a really great guy, a devout Catholic ... he docsn 't get a lot of notoriety, Lhat's what's great about him, that's why we picked him," said Schlapp. "He's not like one ofthose Notre Dame grads you ever hear about. He's a real quiet guy. 
. He ran for vice president and lost and went back and retired and raised his kids. He had a really close family life and was a devoted Notre Dame guy. He's a quiet guy, he's an interesting guy, he's a funny guy ... he had some off color about him, and that's kind of what we want." 
The magazine and the society bolh arc seek­ing student input and in­vol vcment. Schlapp says afLcr Lhe publication of Lhcir premier issue Lhey have received a good deal of "posiLive input." They are "look­ing for leLLcrs of dis-· course, and student opin­ion." Schlapp com­mented Lhat "Lhcre's a real question here of when you have Lhis inde­pendent university with the free expression of ideas ... Lhcrc's a ques­tion of when do you step in and say, yeah, but the church says this and we love Lhc church and we agree with what the church is teaching so we say this is inherently true. Ifwe're a free uni­versity does that mean nothing's right, nothing's wrong, it'sjust kind of out Lherc. Or is it okay to make judge­
mcnt?" said Schlapp. 
In light of Lheir first issue, the editorial staff for Dialogue at Notre Dame certainly is, as Schlapp stated, "not afraid Lo offend." 

.,i 

Both Sch Japp and Ehrhardt say they have re­ceived numerous comments concerning their editorial. The ediLorial, entitled "Burning Hits Home," concerned the July 29 burning ofan American flag by a memberofthe Notre Dame community and some of her friends in front ofacrowd ofoveronc hundred in a Mil­waukee club. "We're not going to be afraid to tackle anything," said Schlapp. ''We didn't write that ediLorial to prompt dis­course, we wrote it because we believed it, but we accept it. Ifpeople disagree, let them write us a letter. We'll print it in its entirety, as long as it's not a book." 
"We think that ifpeople discuss an issue opcnl y, okay, even ifthey do iton a siagc that is cntitlcil Republican or entitled conserva­tive, it doesn't matter," said Schlapp. "Ifit's free rules, and people have free expression, you know, for their debate, we Lhink Lhat ... Lhe strongest argument wins. And so we Lhink that Dialogue helps us get to Lhe truth, helps us get to the best policy choices and not only will Lhe magazine do that, but our guests who come to campus also." 
Having survived the hardships ofgetting Lhcir first issue Lo students, even after campus security accidentally threw away at least 1,000 copies of their premier issue at LaFor­tuncStudentCenter, you can be sure that next monlh you will be seeing and hearing more -Dialogue al Notre Dame. ¦ 
11 

• ' • ~ ··~~ , _j • -~-..::c..i~~-~~--~------,-·=-. ,• 

Features 




otre Dallle Globetrotters 
Glee Club travels the world representing the university 
and then continue to warm up their voices done something not only to enrich your life,
BY KRISTINE DEGAN GE 

with scales and other exercises. Their reper­but also someone else's." Deviny said.Celebrating their seventy-fifth anni­toire consists of everything from fight songs This month the Glee Club has scheduled 
versary next year, the Notre Dame to love songs but practice is not entirely three events. Before each home football 
Glee Club is preparing not only for serious. Jokes are made about individual's game, the club sings "Notre Dame in Re­the busy schedule of 1989-1990, but also for singing. Stam also berates the singers for view," a program of fight songs and other the special commemorative events to come. their posture. Aside from the frivolous part Notre Dame classics perfonned to foster The club was founded in 1915 and over the of rehearsal, however, the Glee Club dili­school spirit. This will take place at 11:30 years over two thousand men from around gently rehearses, urged on by the enthusiasm a.m. in the JACC before the Southern Cali­the world have joined. This year, twenty 
fornia game. (The time of the concert before "rookies" were initiated, bringing the num­
the Pitt game will be announced.) ber of active members to sixty-three in the 
On October 23-26, the men will go on a United States and another four overseas. 
Mini Fall Tour to Minnesota, Wisconsin, and ''We're just a group of guys that really 
Illinois perfonning at various events and love to sing," said Tim Kenny,president of 
representing the university. In November, the Glee Club. "We do more than sing, 
they will perfonn their Fall Concert at Wash­though; we area closely knit group that really 
ington Hall and continue their "Notre Dame has a good time." 
in Review" programs before the Navy and 

Carl L. Stam is in his eighth year of 
Southern Methodist games. conducting the Glee Club. He i_s also the In December, the NDGC will be span­director of the Notre Dame Chorale and the ning the Midwest. Twenty or thirty men from Notre Dame Orchestra. Stam teaches classes the club will travel to perfonn at the Notre in conducting and in choral literature along Dame _Club of Chicago Mass and Brunch. with offering a course included in the fresh­ofStam, who is completely immersed in each Later in the month, twenty men will depart to man writing program. He has received practice. To make a point, he gestures boldly, New York, a trip that will raise several mil­numerous accolades both on the national and sings examples of the desired sound _and lion dollars for abused children and battered local levels. demands perfection in enunciation. women. 
"Mr. Stam really encourages a team "Practices are difficult, but the perfonn­"The New York trip is really exciting. I effort," Kenny said. "He teaches us a lot of ances make all the long hours worthwhile," can't wait," Deviny said. "We're being new things and helps us to blend _our music. said Pat Deviny, head of publicity for the flown out to the city to sing on a Sunday night He is a good guy." Glee Club. . and then we'_re staying at the Waldorf-Asto­
. "Carl Stam is great," said Josh Hender­All the hard work will hopefully pay off ria. Ieslikeaonceinalifetimechance. We'll son, a "rookie" club member. "He has so during the year~long performance;schedule be participating in an event with so many much energy and is so enthusiastic about the which entails everything from chrujty proj­famous people. These are people. that we music. It is really a fun thing to sing for him." ects to full-scale events in New Yor~ City. might not get to rub elbows with otherwise." 
Every day, the group practices in the "After you've worked so hard to perfect Closer to home, the club will be caroling Crowley Hall of Music from 4:45 to 6:00 something and then you hear the applause on the evenings of December 11 and 12, 
p.m. They begin each rehearsal with a prayer after the performances, you realize you've visiting the women's donns at Notre Dame 

.,, 



Features 

and Saint Mary's. They will hold their an­nual Christmas concert on December 14 at Stepan Center. "We usually draw a pretty good size crowd for our Christmas concert," said Kenny. "We can expect two to three thousand in attendance." 
Later in the year, the NDGC will tour for a weeken~ftn Monroe, Michigan and Cleve­land, Ohio. They are planning a spring tour in the West, perfonning in San Francisco, Santa Barbara, Los Angeles, San Diego, and Las Vegas. Perhaps the highlight of their entire schedule, however, will be a three­week European tour. Every three years, the Glee Club travels ove~seas perfonning in cities such as Cork, Dublin, Enniskillen, Belfast, London, Amsterdam, Liege, Paris, Angers, Munich, Innsbruck, Venice and Rome. This year, thetourbeginsMay21 and runs until June 11. The group is also trying to start a tour to promote Notre Dame in Austra­lia. This, however, is still in the planning stages. 
"These big tours are tiring, but they are something everyone really looks forward to," Kenny said. "Not only do we get to meet many different kinds of people, we get to see other schools and cities. We really have fun." 
Aside from all their major tours, the Notre Dame Glee Club contributes locally. They sing at pizza restaurants in town on various evenings, they sponsor service proj­ects, blood drives, they rake leaves, and they sing for the nuns at SMC. They also hold a fund raiser for the United Way. 
The Glee Club is . 

more than a singing 
group. They are a 
very visible represen­
tative of the univer­
sity and they work 
closely with student 
affairs, the music 
department and the 
alumni. 
"We are almost 

like a corporation, we 
do so many different 
things. Because we 
do so many social and 
charity events, the 
administration has al­
lowed us to call our­
selves 'the only fra­temity on campus"' Kenny said. 
"I love the group," said Josh Henderson. "It's kind of like a fraternity. We're really a close-knit group. We have dinner together, we go out together and we're all friends." 
Joining the Glee Club is no simple mat­ter. Each year, "rookies" are recruited and put through a careful screening process en­tailing auditions and interviews to detennine their qualifications. Auditions are serious and involve the actual singing of various parts. The interview process, however, sheds light on the real character ofthe candidate, as he is forced to respond to questions like: "If you had to choose to be one kind of fruit which kind would it be and why?" or asked to fill in maps of the United States and answer questions about them. 
"We are a really friendly group. The members are a bunch of good guys," Kenny said. "It's important that our members are outgoing and friendly because we represent the university so widely. The interview is just for fun, but it lets us see how they react to spontaneous situations and it also gives us an idea about how creative they are." 
Kenny feels that this year's individual talent level is not outstanding, but that as a group, the club works hard and blends well. "We only have two music majors all to­gether," Kenny said. "There are several fantastic individual singers, but on the whole, we have average individual talent We do work and sing well together, though." 
This harmony is apparent in the honors that the Glee Club has received throughout the years. Last year, they were elected to sing at the American Choral Directors' Associa­tion National Convention. This distin­guished them as one of the premier male groups in the country. The men have also sung with the South Bend Symphony, the Springfield (Illinois) Symphony and the Jackson (Mississippi) Symphony. In 1988, they perfonned at the ACDA Central Divi­sion Convention in Louisville, Kentucky, and at the National Seminar of the Intercolle­giate Men's Choruses. 

In addition to touring and perfonning at Notre Dame, the NDGC also sings on~several recordings. They have a compact disc:called "Shake Down the Thunder," a collection of many, varied works including the Alina Mater, the Victory March and several love songs. "From the Heart" is a serious record­ing showcasing "Ave Maria," one of the club's traditional favorites. Along with "A­Caroling," the Glee Club is working on a new Christmas CD, which should come out some time next year. All therecordingsaredoneon campus at either Sacred Heart Church, An­nenberg Auditorium or the Blue Room. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club provides a rich tradition in music and represents Notre Dame widely throughout the world. Through their music, they are able to conjure images of colored leaves and crisp fall football Sat­urdays. With their wide appeal, they provide entertainment for alumni and students alike. 11 
, 

BY JIM KUSER 

B 
eing a varsity athlete al Notre Dame is never an easy task. There arc many pressures to be endured, especially when the team you play for is oftci:i the one team opponen-ts love to beat. Such difficulties are only magnified when the varsity team is young and inexpe­rienced. 
However, in only its second year of varsity status, the Notre Dame women's varsi Ly golf team has overcome such diffi­culties and shown capability competing with the very best collegiate women's teams in the country. 
Coached by the ever optimistic Tom Hanlon, the sky seems to be thelimitforthis young team. Four juniors, two sophomores and two freshmen comprise a squad that, similar to Digger Phelps' baskeball team of a year ago, must compensate for an absence ofseniors on the roster. 
The competion among the women is close as they all vie for that coveted number one position. With differences between the golfer's skills and scores being ever so slight, the team's lineup could be com­pletely revamped on any given day. In fact, less than one stroke seperates the team's top three players, a figure that bodes very well for this team's future. 
As is the case on any team there are a few standouts. Junior captain Roberta Bryer, for one, has displayed mature leader­ship of the team. "Roberta has done ex­tremely well keeping her seniority on our team," says Hanlon of Bryer. "She is a very hard worker and she instills motivation in her teammates. I cannot say enough about her work ethic and her ability to lead. Roberta is a fine influence on our team." 
Bryer's leadership clearly emerged when she shot Notre Dame's lowest indi­vidual score in leading the team to a tenth­place finish in a field of 20 teams at the Illinois State Invitational September 16-17. Her opening round score of 81 kept her among the tournament leaders as she fin­ished with a two-day total of 169. 
Freshmen Kathy Phares and Cappy Mack have emerged as rising stars. Both women turned down scholarships at other schools to play for Hanlon at Notre Dame. Phares, an Illinois native, turned down a partial scholarship from the University of Illinois while Mack, from Oregon, declined a full scholarship at Pepperdine College in California. 
Their decisions to attend Notre Dame left Hanlon both sur­prised and elated. Hanlon actively re­cruited Phares and Mack as they stood as the top two names on his recruiting lisL But since Notre Dame does not offer scholarships for 
women's golf, he never imagined they both would land in South Bend. 

The spotlight hit Phares early as she captured the medalist ti tie at the Lady Grey­hound Invitational two weeks ago in Indian­apolis, firing a tournament-record round of 
73. The rest of the women fared exception­ally well as the team went on to win the tournament with a total of 327, a figure breaking the tournament record for a com­bined team score. 
Following the victory, Hanlon had nothing but praise for the freshman sensa­tion. "Kathy is very consistent," he said. "She has a good short game. I am encour­aged by her play so far and am hopeful that she will continue to play as well as she can. I think Kathy has the potential to be quite a leader for our team, a leader by example." Phares followed the Lady Greyhound per­fonnance with the team's lowest three­round score (247) at the Michigan State University Spartan Fall Invitational a few weeks later. 
Although she has perfonned well so far, Phares' competitive nature shines through when evaluating her own perfonn­ance. "I feel that I have been playing some­what inconsistently," says Phares. When 

Lining up a 'gimme.' 
speaking of the team, though, she changes her tune. "We play well together and have great potential," she says. "We will get better and better as we gain experience." 
Mack's success might be partially at­tributed to genetics. The game of golf runs in her blood as she comes from a family loaded with successful golfers. Mack's two older sisters played on the collegiate level, one for the University of Southern Califor­nia and the other for the University of Ari­zona. The older of the two sisters now coaches the women's golf team at the Uni­'I versity of Oregon. 
Although the West Coast schools pur­sued her, Mack decided on Notre Dame and has quickly established herself as a main­stay on the team. "I cannot express how happy I was when I heard that she chose to come to Notre Dame," says Hanlon. "She is a wonderful golfer and an even more won­derful person. She's an asset to the team because she's a real competitor and hard worker." 
"I don't think that I've been playing to the best of my ability," says Mack in downplaying her own perfonnance. "When I first came to Notre Dame, I was concen­trating on getting myself accustomed to 
15




Sports 

college life and the de­m an ding academics. Now I've settled down and this is reflected in my golfing. My game is starting to come around more and more, and the other players are also turning it on. We have great depth. All we need to do is work on putting it all together. No one person stands out on our team. We have high quality players and Coach Hanlon brings that quality out." 
The lack of overall experience does not bother Hanlon a bit. He remains confident that his team will only con­tinue to improve and senses the development 
of a true chemistry among his players. He knows that the pas­sageof time will bring increased respect to his team. 
"We en joy playing together and compet­ing together," says Hanlon. "We all seem to get along real well. Because of this, we have improved in evey tournament that we've 



played in since last year." The statisics back up Hanlon's asser­
tions. On top of setting a tournament record 
at the Lady Greyhound Invitational, the team 
improved its overall stroke count at the 
Michigan State University Invitational by 36 
compared to last year's total. Although this team seems much improved over the 1988 edition, Hanlon shuns compla­cency in evaluating his team. "We are far more capable than what we have shown so far in these tourna­ments," he says. "It is going to be critical for us to have four of our top six players tum in their best efforts every time we compete. This is the only way we can give the Big Ten teams a real run for their money. "We are a good team, but not a great team .. Just give us time and we will be fine." Hanlon is no stranger to suc­cess on the links. A member of Notre Dame's remarkable 1944 national championship men's team, he has obviously learned how to overcome the odds in order to win. Notre Dame has not won 
Chuck Ray 
a national championship in golf since that year. The excitement of winning a champi­onship still inspires Hanlon and fuels his desire to bring anotherto.Notre Dame, this time for the ladies. 
Although Hanlon is dedicated to win­ning, his desire to attain such lofty goals does not supercede the more important fac­tor. "Our main concern at the University of Notre Dame is to get an education," says Hanlon. •:This is why we are here. Ifa kid can participate in varsity athletics along the way, the more power to him. I hold the young ladies on our team in the highest regard. They are true delights to teach and watch. 
"No coach ever gets the results that he wants. Just ask Lou Holtz, he will tell you. Golf is a challenging game. It is individual­istic and highly intense because ofthis. The pressure can be sustained if the team works as a tightly knit unit. We are this kind ofunit. We are making progress and trying to be the best that we can be." 
If Hanlon's past experiences are any indication of what he can do, his team will soon be among the elite of collegiate women's golf. 


16 
Sports 



am 
II



1n Transition 
Notre Dame volleyball finds life difficult following its NCM tournament season of a year ago 
side former Irish standouts Mary Kay Waller, Zanette Bennett and Maureen Shea has helped Cunningham herself emerge as one of Eastern Michigan the following night. The Notre Dame's elite. One look at the Irish BY RICK FARLEY Irish had to overcome a two game deficit to career statistical list shows Cunningham win the second match in five games. among the leaders in several catergories prior 
Expectations ran high following These two wins are a start, but the road to the start of this season, including hitting Notre Dame's outstanding 1988 back to the higher ranks could be a bumpy percentage (.220), kills (641), total attempts volleyball season. The talented one. The team's major problem has been its (1771) and digs (667). 
squad attained its first-ever NCAA tourna­inability to take what it learned on the prac­Senior setter Taryn Collins and junior ment bid and finished the season ranked 15th tice floor and apply it in match competition. outside hitter Tracey Shelton help Cunning­nationally with an overall record of 19-12. It "We have had mental lapses at times," ham in a leadership role. Collins, the only came as a surprise to everyone, then, when says senior captain Kathy Cunningham. other senior on the.team, returns after sitting the 1989 edition got off to a slow start by "We've given away points in bunches at out the 1988 season. She provides the Irish losing nine of its first 12 matches. crucial points in matches." with valuable court experience amassed 
However, this young squad is once again With five starters and two reserves miss­while becoming Notre Dame's all-time assist making noise, having won both its matches ing from last year's team, the tough job of leader with 1,835 in only two seasons of this past weekend. On Friday night Notre leading this year's squad out of its early­varsity competition. She currently paces the Dame downed Northern Illinois in three season rut falls on the shoulders ofCunning­team with an assist average of better than ten straight games and proceeded to mount a ham. per match. thrilling come-from-behind victory against The experience of having played along-Shelton, noted by Head Coach Art Lam-
October 12, 1989 · 

an all-state · volleyball choice, while Turner led her prep team to the California 2A state champi­onship for three consecutive years while being named the CIF player of the year her junior and senior years. 
Fiebelkorn, for one, has made the adjustment to the collegiate level rather well and recognizes her new role. "I'm no longer the star," she says. "I'm just part of the team, trying to do my job to the best of my ability." Both Fiebelkorn and Turner have made their presence felt 
early in the season as both are among the team leaders in kills, total attempts and digs. 
Along with put­ting together a solid recruiting class, Lam­bert has once again stockpiled the sched­ule with a number of perennial Division I season wears on. With consecutive victories this past weekend, Notre Dame is making great strides to return to the level of promi­nence of seasons past. 
"I think we can take this and build on it," said Lambert in Sunday's edition oftheSouth Bend Tribune following Saturday's victory. "This is probably the best comeback we've had. I can'teve:rrecall us being down two and winning in five. I'm pleased we maintained our composure." 
With momentum from victories like the two last weekend, Notre Dame hopes to rec­tify their problems and start playing with consistency as they try taking advantage of 



bert as the surprise player on the team to date, eases the loss of Waller and Bennett by han­dling the task of outside hitting. Shelton stands as the team's top defensive player. 
Although these three players's services will be invaluable, the freshman crop ofplay­ers may have the greatest impact. This year's freshman class ranks as Lambert's best in the six years he's been at Notre Dame. Marilyn Cragin, Jessica Fiebelkorn, Jeanette Jacot, Cynthia May and Alicia Turner represent the talented quintet. 
"They are physically more capable than my first recruiting class (which included Waller and Bennett),"Lambertsays proudly. He compares their level of play now to the level his first recruiting. class had only reached during their sophomore year. 
Three out of these five players have seen significant playing time, with Fiebelkorn and Turner each earning spots in the starting lineup. Both players boast an impressive list of credentials entering collegiate play. Fiebelkorn was named Metro Volleyball Player of the Year in Minnesota and was also 
powers to aid in the team's reemergence as a national 
force. In fact, seven of Notre Dame's opponents this fall were ranked in· the preseason NCAA top-20 poll. Consequently, the squad's record prior to last weekend's sweep (3-9) does not fairly reflect this ly.ilffi 's ability. 
For one, many of those early season losses have been in gruel-· ing matches that have gone the maximum five games. Thus, the young Irish have been tested early and often, accumulating valuable game experience along 

the way. As they learn from their experiences against high-caliber teams, the Irish should provide a stronger challenge to any foe they will encounter for the remainder of the season in hopes of returning to the NCAA tournament for a second consecutive 
year. 

Although the team came out of the blocks slowly, Lambert remains optimistic about his team's chances of gaining momentum as the 

...While Alicia Turner digs. 
the immediate schedule. The team's next three matches will be at home, including their toughest test to date with defending national champion Texas this Saturday. There would be no better cure for Notre Dame's ills than a strong performance against the Lady Long­horns. As Cunningham puts it, "It would be great to defeat the defending champs at home." 


18 
Sports 

COMPILED BY KEVIN T. KERNS
sport 
eek 
The volleyball team (see story, page 17) posted a 2-1 mark last week, dropping a tough match to Ohio State and returning home to defeat Northern Illinois and Eastern Michigan. Junior TRACEY SHELTON and senior TARYN COLLINS led a spirited comeback Saturday versus Eastern Michigan as the Irish overcame a 2-0 deficit. Shelton led all hitters with 27 kills while Collins notched a team high 61 assists and 21 digs. 
The Irish will be home Friday and Saturday, Oct. 13-14, as they entertain Illinois State and defending national champion Texas. Pennsyl­vania will be in town on Oct. 16 as Notre Dame 
The men's soccer team dropped back to the .500 mark last week, battling Cal State-Los An­is five shy of the mark of 60 set by John Milligan from 1978-81. ThereliableLyonshas started all' 
J'he women's soccer team posted two vic­tories last week to extend its winning streak to five games. The Irish won a thriller 2-1 in double overtime against St. Joseph's College, marking their second victory over the Pumas this season. JOY SISOLAK scored her first goal of the season in the overtime period to give the Irish the win. 
Notre Dame defeated Miami (Ohio) 3~0 as the Irish posted their first shutout of the season. SUSIE ZILVITIS scored twice to lead the way; 
The Irish wrap up their 13-game homes­tand with three games this week. They host Alma College Oct. 13, St. Mary's College on Oct. 16, and wind up against Chicago on the 

geles to a scoreless tie and losing to Santa Clara •i--------­
4-0. The Irish (5-5-2) play host to the Akron Zips on Friday, Oct. 13, kicking off a four game homestand. The Zips are ranked third in the Great Lakes Region, and an Irish victory would vault them into the top ten. 
Senior goalkeeper DANNY LYONS is clos­ing in on the career game appearance record. He 
The Irish competed in the Glen Oaks falls Classic in Glen Oaks, Ml, finishing second in a four-team field. They finished the 18-hole tour­nament with a score of302. Senior captain PAT MOHAN posted a 72 while copping medalist honors. 
After competing in the Midwestern Colle­giate Conference Championship in Middleton, OH this Monday and Tuesday, the Irish linksters close out the fall slate in Columbus, OH on Oct. 
13-15 with the 16th Annual Buckeye Classic. 
The women's golf team (see story, page 
14) took a week off from competition as they prepared for the Franklin College Invitational in Franklin, IN on Oct. 12. The field of nine includes Indianapolis, Miami of Ohio, Bradley, and Tennessee Tech. This tournament marks the first time the Irish have competed in the one-annual Notre Dame Invitational. They were edged by Central Michigan's 75 points, two points better than Notre Dame's 77. Senior· MIKE O'CONNOR paced the Irish in 24:36.0, finishing eighth overall. Freshman J.T. BURKE, running in only his third collegiate race, finished in the top ten for the third con­secutive week. 

The Irish will be out of action this week before hosting Southern California on Sat., Oct. 
21. 
LUCY NUSRALA led the Irish to a sixth­place finish in the 34th running of the Notre Dame Invitational last Friday. Ohio University bested the ten-team field. 
The Irish have a week's rest before taking on MCC foe Marquette in a dual meet on Sat., 
Oct. 21. 

LECTURES 

12:00 p.m. Brown bag lunch, "The Inter­national Legal Status of Indigenous Peoples." Sharon O'Brien. Room 101 Law School. 
2:00 p.m. "American Technology Can Be Competitive; Bringing Universities into the Total Quality Management Movement." Major James F. Guzzi, U.S. Air Force Systems Command. Engi­neering Auditorium. 
4:00 p.m. "From Baker to Brady: Can the New Plan Work?" Robert Devlin, CEPAL, United Nations, Chile. Room 131 Decio. 
8:00 p.m. Civil Disobedience in China: The Student Occupation of Tiananmen Square." Professor Su Shazhi, scholar in residence, Bradley Institute for Democ­racy and Public Values, Marquette Uni­versity; and Mr. Li Lu, student partici­pant. Memorial Library Auditorium. 
FILMS 

7:30p.m. "OrfeoedEuridice." Opera video. Annenberg Auditorium. 
SPECIAL 
9:30-11:00 p.m. Irish Accent Comedy Improv. Theodore's. 

12:00-1:15 p.m. Follow-up Discus­sion of Oct. 11. Parenting Education Class, Sorin Room LaFortune. 
THEATER 

8:00 p.m. "Tartuffe." Washington Hall. ND/SMC Theater. 
SPORTS 

3:00 p.m. Soccer. SMC vs. Siena Heights College. 

SPECIAL 

9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. "Doing Business with the Japanese." Management Training Center. 
9:30 a.m. Academic Senate Meeting. Recital Hall. Northside 158. 
10:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. Zeto and the Heat-Ons. Theodore's. 
SPORTS 

5:00 p.m. Women's Soccer. ND vs. Alma. 
7:30 p.m.Volleyball. ND vs. Illinois State. 
2:00 p.m. Women's Soccer. IUSB vs. Central Michigan. Potawatomi Park, South Bend. 
FILMS 
8:00 p.m. Movie Fright Night (4 films). Cushing Auditorium. 
7:00 p.m., 9:30 p.m. "New York Stories." Annenberg. 
THEATER 
8:15 p.m. "The Taming of the Shrew." Northside Main Auditorium. 
8:IQ p.m. "Tartuffe." Washington . Hall. ND/SMC Theater. 
CLASS NEWS 
Alumni Senior Club open for lunch. 

SPECIAL 
10:30 a.m. Storytelling for children, K-4th grades. Snite Museum of Art. Call 239-5466. 
Windy City Shuttleto and from Chi­cago. Details available at LaFortune Information desk. 
10:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. XYZ Affair. Theodore's. 


20 


THEATER 
8:10 p.m. "Tartuffe." Washington Hall. ND/SMC Theater. 
FILMS 
8:00 p.m."Moulin Rouge." IUSB Film Series. Northside 113. 
THEATER 
3:10 p.m. "Tartuffe." Washington Hall. ND/SMC Theater. 
SPORTS 

9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Tae Kwan Do . toummament JACC Fieldhouse. 
12:00 p.m. Men's and Women's Swimming. MCC Dual Meet Satur­day. ND, Butler, Xavier, St. Louis, Evansville, Loyola. Rolfs' Aquatic Center. 
1:00 p.m. Soccer. SMC vs. Calvin College. 
6:00 p.m. Football. ND vs. Air Force at Colorado Springs. 
7:30 p.m. Volleyball. ND vs. Uni­versity of Texas. 
FILMS 

8:00 p.m., 10;15 p.m. "Rebel With­out a Cause." Cushing Auditorium. 
SPECIAL 
12:00 p.m. Miss Indiana Hemisphere Beauty Pageant. J ACC Monogram Room. 
1:30-6:30 p.m. Day of Renewal. Holy Family Church. Potluck supper to fol­low 
2:00 p.m. Snite Museum ofArt, Guided Tour. 
CLASS NEWS 
Alumni-Senior Club closed. 

Editorial 


i 
1 22 
! 
I. 
I: 
I
f 
A Step Too Far 
T 
he idea of doing something wrong has led people to destruction since Eve first ate 
that shiny, red apple in.the garden. At one time or another, temptations have led all 
ofus down similar paths. This is the reasoning many protesters gave as they picketed outside the doors of the Snite Museum two weeks ago during the showing of The Last Temptation of Christ 
Since the founding of the country the Bill of Rights has guaranteed people of the United States freedom of press and freedom of religion. We feel the picketers were calling for a violation of both. 
The movie industry today releases flick after flick containing graphic violence loosely based on historical fact. Sylvester Stallone has made his personal fortune in wasting North Vietnamese annually in new Rambo pictures. Friday The 13th and Halloween are just a couple among a sea of "Let's see if we can find a new way to mutilate a human" movies. Thus, we think if violence was an issue these picketers missed the point 
More likely they were there for religious reasons. But who in their life hasn't walked through an airport and unwillingly been asked to join the Hare Krishnas or force fed a pamphlet on "Jews for Jesus?" Or, how about the Satanic Verses by Rushdie? The entire Islamic world was in an uproar over this publication. In the United States there were pitifully few who felt it their civic or religious duty to protect this religion. It is true that Rushdie denied the connections to Islam, just like Scorsese denied that Temptation was supposed to be a factual account For what it's worth he does deserve some credit for publishing this in the opening moments of the movie. 
The real problem with the picketers, however, lies elsewhere. They have interfered with the university and the movie goers rights to freedom and privacy. The university owns the land on which the movie was shown. Let's face it the students don't. We pay "rent" at best. We would support the university if they banned the protests. 
The picketers have also infringed upon personal privacy and freedom. One of the main philosophical rights is the right to not be interfered with. The picketers did not respect that right By blocking the entrance to the Snite and by making remarks of a demeaning and critical color, they have not only insulted the intelligence and faith of the movie goers, but also interfered with there freedom ofchoice. Moreover, Scorsese's right to free speech has been shot down. 
The simple fact is those who saw the movie chose to do so by their own free will. There was nothing forced upon them. They did, in fact, pay to see the film, not just randomly stumble across it For these reasons, we feel there was no legitimate right for the protesters to act as they did in front of the museum. 
We would hope our readers would not go to such movies, nor reads books like Verses just because of the hype surrounding them. We all must learn to resist a little temptation 
-Scholastic 
Scholastic 
----' 

Final Word 
·To Drink Or ot To Drink? 
That is not the question, as Jar as the group BACCHUS is concerned 
BY ANDREA BELEFONTE AND BRIAN MAGGIO 

E
·very time in the past that I have heard the phrase "Alcohol Awareness Week", I inevitably thought, "Of course I'm aware of alco­hol; I get plastered every weekend." As a matter of fact, almost everyone I've known, being as 'aware' as they were, thought" Alcohol Awareness Week" was a big joke. Once again, we believed it to be just another ploy by the University to get us to stop drinking. 
It wasn't until I got into alcohol-related trouble that I realized what Alcohol Awareness Week was truly about. 
In my sophomore year, a friend and I got busted for a little incident in our dorm. As an alternative to hall service, we chose to attend a discussion with the head of the Alcohol and Drug Education Office. In fact, the entire group was there as an alternative to hall service. Al­though some of the guys were skeptical about the discussion, a few of us were actually curious because we ourselves had been witness to alcohol problems among friends or relatives. 
The discussion was actually pretty in­teresting and informative. In fact, even the most unlikely people (like the biggest partiers) raised some valid concerns about alcohol use on campus; After the meeting, the rector asked a couple of us if we were interested in talking to elemen­tary school kids about alcohol. I thought it would be fun so I volunteered. It was through this program that I learned about BACCHUS. 
Aside from sponsoring these outreach programs, BACCHUS puts most of its ef­forts into projects on campus throughout the year. Before I went to my first BAC­CHUS meeting, I had always thought that it was an anti-drinking group. But when I found out that the president at the time was 

someone I knew, and also someorie I knew drank, I knew this wasn't true. If they were against drinking, they would have never let me in the front door. Instead, I found out that the main goal of BAC­CHUS was to find alternatives for those nights when you don't feel like getting hammered, as well as to promote more re­sponsible drinking, i.e. not "drinking 'till you puke" or driving while intoxicated. 
With this ideology in mind, BACCHUS is holding a number of events this year as well as discussion groups with freshmen, community outreach programs, and, o course, Alcohol Awareness Week. This year, Alcohol Awareness Week consists of events like a 'Happy Hour' on the Fieldhouse Mall, a mock trial, a discussion session with the Coordinator of Alcohol and Drug Education, an 'Iris_h Accent' performance tonight (Thursday, October 
12) and a band performance followed by all-night movies on Friday, October 13. 
Friday is also designated as Dry Friday in memory of all the college-aged men and women which have been involved in alco­hol-related deaths. This includes not only the people behind the wheel of a car but also their victims and those who have been victims ofalcohol overdose. Although we realize that there are a number of dances on Friday, please keep the drinking under control and show some concern for your friends. 
Ifyou have any ideas or concerns, feel free to contact us. We're always looking for new ideas and people. We mean this; if I can become co-president, anybody can JOm. And remember, to paraphrase Shakespeare: "Strong.drink enhances the desire but hurts the performance." ¦ 
Hunchback By Greg Delate 
Dear EcA;f~rl . ,/ ~ 1-t ra.s c"1tte lo n,~ atfentiaf\ -ff.er/ 71\t Sfa:len-f uoarJ .shtJwee,/ +he f,/r,, 'Willie l{hniC\ and -Ike Choc(jlafe Fc,~'J ~ How Coq le/ the Univer~d_; o.P !Jo-fre [1't'f allow sue~' an eP-frdrcferj r IAll'Ald nd fk 30«1 petJp/e of HeKSAej {b._ /ind s,d q 

ricAiculoa5 po7,;.a.!J,-i of' ff.e. indus&'J w/i;ch SASfcu115 f/ievn o-P.Pen.st<Jt? TAe fi!Vrt is an iNtA/f fo fAe. enfire 1 / ~&1' appal/eel avid nopa_tie la.st -/-ivne the Un,tJer.stf~ tempied fo .:5holAJ eo~tro uersia / and offeMtue 11'1ll ute5 

THURSDAY NITE -CUP NITE DJ --John Biscaino 9:00-2:00 A.M. 
FRIDAY LUNCH -Noon-2:00 Last One Til Novbember 17th Pizzas, Subs, Croissants, etc., etc., etc ... FRIDAY, Thristy 13th 9:00-2:00 A.M. 
LIVE! ... Calcutta Rain SATURDAY 14th -CLOSED (Sorry) WEDNESDAY NITES -. $1 ' Border Pass 

,A'1 TO l.001::. AS 
IMPATl&l1 Ao.l17 PtC2.TI.IP.Bco A<; Po ~~1e,1..e ul 1Tuol./1" ACTu61,L':f SA'1 IH (:, £1,.l'ft\,\1.JG. 
~ W"INE., 
AR.C:>UE., 1-\0~, PE.StE.12., %LL, Cit':,, W\-\lMPE:.12.., 
S vt.i,.:.. 

MA~ A 
1-\IOEouS 
'FAC£.. 

e 
"TI\E. tu:6E.T, l<IC.I:. 111'1 ~ 0>.101'.R. "l¾I:. 8'.0, SHOO llo.a.lA\f 1'12UIT 
FWES 1=120,.., ""rl-~l: "TR.AS1-1 CA o.l, s,..)EAQ.,ol(:, T.I.E. l.lll<Ol.E. "Tt"-1.€.. 
u}P,\T Tll... t_ 1\-(E. ~ l(:,ITT l S 0\1~, TKE.,J 00 ul i:ttc.~ 
TV. 
\....lSlt,J TO MuSIC o,-i H~MPHO>JES l.ll.1.1\...E.~tt,.l(:, 
1ouQ.. "~wol!.~. 
BCuNG GAAOE!i vP 
A p.>Ot(,1-1 i,'1 AL't\/lW.'I 
TJ'l.,,U-.t(. ltrJ \.UOIUI-· 
Go DOW.J'TO 
'THS ,-,..Au.. t1,.,1'Q I-ILVJG o..rr. At.TAS Bo~O 
AS PoSS,Bl.£. 
\JA6llU.'1~ :lOUR-~ l=-0 Q.. TuE. R,E:,;-c­01= '10IJ2... l.t'FE. 


Katrina and the Waues 
Thursday 




STUDENT UNION BOARD 







