
- -
r	---	•	Ai -	-	-
Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vieturns; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL i, 1882.
No. 29.
Lines on the Presentation , of a Silver Pitcher to Prof. J. A. Lyons, by the Juniors.
The eve of St. Joseph awakens
Sweet thoughts of enjoyment and cheer;
All Nature prepares jubikvion	'
To welcome the Spring of the year;
The birds, when we rise in the morning, Salute with their songs the glad day;
The herbage that springs in the meadow Drives signs of the winter away:
The maple distils her sweet syrup, .
The frogs in loud chorus declare That the sun shall surmount the equator, With warmth to replenish the air;
The Church, in her sympathy, viewing The gladness of earth, sea and sky, Saluting her patrop, St. Joseph,	.
Proclaims resurrection is nigh!.
We, therefore, have gathered around you, Professor, to greet you to-night—
On this Feast of St. Joseph to greet you With feelings of heartfelt delight.
Long time have you labored to teach us— To inculcate virtue and truth;
Your words are the words of true wisdom Prepared for instruction of youth.
How oft have we listened delighted, Admiring integrity’s realm,	.
When you uttered the name of “John Maynard,” Who dying was true to the helm;
How oft have we shunned the temptation, When pleasure’s full cup would tjecoy, By the thought of your accents of warning Familiar in “ Young Man Ahoy! ”
And since when you teach elocution That art in expression so rich— In training the voice j'ou are careful To give due regard to the pitch;
If pitch is so needful, then truly (We hope the expression is richer,) In asking you, afortiori, To give due regard to a pitcher.
Accept it, Professor, not joking, For earnest affections entwine
Around the slight gift that we bring you, And hopes with affections combine:
May joy ever wait on your footsteps;
May care never ruffle your brow;
Maj- happiness ever enfold you;	.
May youths, ever loving as now, Assemble to seek your instructions,
And profit still better than we
For we feel that,—though not truer-hearted,— More diligent others may be,
May God in His goodness protect you, .
Completing the sum of your joys, ■ And ever, we beg you, remember
Your faithful Cecilian boys.
The Mound Builders.
’ BY ROBERT M. ANDERSON, ’83
Though styled the New World, America has a civilization almost as old as Egypt or Asia. In the unbroken solitudes of Central America are cities rivalling Thebes or Babylon. Overgrown with dense forest are the ruins of once magnificent palaces, gorgeous temples and gigantic pyramids. The walls are rich with carvings and the ground is strewn with broken statuary. Further north, in the great valley of the Mississippi, covered by forests at least 800 years old, are to be found earthworks as varied as they are numerous. These extend over the greater part of the Ohio and Mississippi valleys, including the Gulf States. They are found, more or less numerous, from Minnesota" to Louisiana, and from Florida to Texas. Ohio alone contains from 11 to 12,000.
Some are vast embankments of earth or. stone, crowning, steep and inaccessible hills. Others, built on the level plains of the valleys, are great enclosures of earth in the forms of geometrical figures, connected by avenues, and having in or near them mounds of different sizes and shapes. The mounds are the most numerous remains, and are frequently found alone on the hill-tops and in the valleys. Some are little hillocks; others cover acres, and are from 70 to 90 feet high.
Of the nation that built these wonderful works, we have no history ; even its name is unknown. On account of the number of mounds that they have left, we call them the Mound Builders. Whence or when they came is a maze of conjee-
440
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ture. Their origin as a race extends far back into antiquity. Their rude though often imposing works have the impress of native genius and development and are their only witnesses. To them we must go, armed with spade and mattock, if we wish to learn of their architects.	.
The principal works are classes of the earth graphically divided into three regions, leading many to believe that they were built by separate and distinct races at different times. .But they so gradually Blend into each other that it is hard to tell where the One ends and the other begins.
The State of Wisconsin is covered with gigantic bass-reliefs of men and beasts. One of this class in Ohio is a large serpent, with a bodjr 1,000 feet long, ending in a triple coil, and having between its wide-spread jaws an egg-shaped figure. The Southern States abound with truncated pyramids, that are often terraced and have graded ways leading to their summits. One of these in Illinois covers eight acres, is ninety feet high, has a flat top of five acres, and contains 20,000,000 cubic feet of earth. They may have been the sites of temples, or the elevated places where the solemn rites of their superstitious builders were performed. They are the connecting links between the Mississippi valley and Central America. The last division is principally in Ohio, where are found* all classes in the greatest profusion. The Mound Builders seem to have chosen the fertile valley of the Scioto as the seat of their'empire and densest population. Along the northern part of the State, and extending into Western New York, crowning high hills, overlooking the vallevs, was a system of strong fortifications that often covered many hundred acres, and surrounded by several miles of embankments when not near springs or streams. Each’ had within it several large reservoirs, capable of holding an almost inexhaustible supply of water. The gateways were perfect mazes. The walls on the sides most easy of access- were frequently 15 or 20 feet high, and had deep ditches on their outer sides. Together with these were a series of lookout or signal mounds, extending down the valley. By lighting watch fires it would take but a few moments to send a signal from the north to the inhabitants in the south. These seem to have been the outposts of the Mound Builders’ empire, as they are not found South or West.
The mounds in the. valleys belong to two classes and are the most interesting remains. One kind contains human bones, with various articles of pottery, such as water jugs, cups, bowls, and vases that are often filled with a black mould, as if they
had contained some kind of food. These are burial mounds, and were erected only over the chieftains, priests,, and perhaps over the ashes of ' distinguished families. But one skeleton, wrapped in bark or matting, and often within a rude vault of wood or stone, is found in each mound. The larger mounds, like the great mound in Western Virginia, contain many more, and are the burialplaces of kings, who, like the ones in Scythia of old, were interred together^ with their nearest kin and earthly riches. The greater part of the people were buried in, large cemeteries, the remains of which are frequently found. Cremation and urn burial were also practised to a limited extent.
The other class of mounds are near the enclosures. In them, and on the original surface of the ground, are dish-shaped altars of burnt clay. Among the ashes that cover them are the offerings, such as implements and ornaments of bone, copper, and mica, pipes and' carvings in stone, and ornamental pottery, all much injured by the heat. Above these, the mounds are raised in successive layers of sand and clay. They are called the Sacrificial Mounds, and are always found in what may be called the sacred enclosures, or rather system of enclosures. These are sometimes very large, having as many as fifteen miles of embankments, and covering four square miles; it is impossible to gain a complete idea of what they were, as wood must have been used a great deal in their construction; they are, then, only the ruined foundations that have survived after the long lapse of ages.
The sacred enclosures were built in regular figtires, circles, squares, and polygons, and have the ditch along the inner side of the walls. They arc - connected together directly, or by parallel lines of earth; a small mound is on the inside of each of the gateways. Considering that to-day, with all our mechanical aids, it would take many thousand men many months to erect works like those at Newark, Ohio, we can gain some idea of what a dense population at one time thronged our valleys. The modern Indians had no traditions of any such race. They were a simple, laborious people, given to the practice of agriculture, and acquainted with many of the ennobling aits. Maize was their principal food. They were great smokers. The use of tobacco formed a part of their religious duties. Axes, and other household implements of hard stone, finely-carved pipes, spears, arrow-heads, hoes of various flint-like substances, and the tasteful ornaments of slate, attest their skill in working in stone. They mined the native copper on the shores of Lake Superior, and beat it, while cold,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
into many useful and ornamental forms. The pottery from the mounds is of a fine workmanship, and often of an elegant design. They wove a cloth from the twisted fibres of bark. Sea shulls, mica from North Carolina, and. obsidian from Mexico, found in Ohio mounds, show that they had a commerce. From the great perfection of their circles and squares, we conclude that they had a standard of measurement and a mode of determining angles. They had a written language.
The features depicted on the pipes, and the few authentic crania, show them to have been an intellectual race.* Their features were more regular than those of the Indian. The nose was straight; the mouth,'small; the lips, thin; the chin and upper lip short; contrasting greatly with the coarse features of the latter. So few authentic crania have been discovered that it is impossible to form an opinion of the race from them. Those that • we have are well developed in the frontal regions.
Their form of government was undoubtedly despotic, or a great centralized power, the greater part of the people not being free men. Their religion was the blackest paganismthey worshipped the elements, especially fire, together with sun and moon, which were symbolized by the oft-recurring circles and crescents. ' Nothing was too costly to be burned on their altars; minerals and rare objects brought from a distance, and, as the charred bones tell us, even human victims, on state occasions. In a mound near Chillicothe, Ohio, two hundred finely-carved pipes .were found. How imposing, could we obliterate tire countless ages and see the vast processions wending their ways 'through the long avenues, from the sacred squares to the high altars in the mystic circles! -
About fifteen hundred years ago, these wonderful people, after a long and valiant defence, were driven by some hostile hordes, from the north to the sierras and plains of Mexico and Central America. There, like a concentrated flame, their civ-, ilization shone forth with redoubled splendor. “ The history of their fjll, if their strange monuments could speak, would tell perhaps of heroic defence of homes and altars, and of daring achievements in siege and assault.”
The difference between a cat and a comma, is that the one has the claws at the end of the paws, while the other has the pause at the end of the clause.
Never call a man a liar. It isn’t polite. Tell him he is of~an exceedingly imaginative disposition.
Ole Bull.
The Boston Musical. Record of Feb. the nth gives an interesting sketch of Ole Bull, the great violinist, with an excellent half-length portrait. Mr. Bifll’s parents were poor; some people thought, while he was yet young, there was something in him, but most of his acquaintances averred that Ole would amount to nothing. He left home and .went to Genoa; here the poor music student, for days at a time, had not tasted food. A great concert was given, at which Mad. Malibran and M. de Beriot were to lend assistance, but at the last hour De Beriot took umbrage and would not play. The. house was filled to overflowing, the Grand Duke of Tuscany in his box; all was confusion, when a lady present—the wife of Cossime, the composer—related that she had heard extraor-dinarv strains from a violin issuing from a garret as she passed. A messenger was sent, and Ole Bull, half starved with hunger, his violin under his arm, presented himself at the opera house. The hall was brilliantly illuminated, and he perceived the ladies scrutinizing his diffident and shabby appearance.’ One made some derisive remarks, which cut the poor artist to the heart. He had taken no notes with him, and was consequently obliged to play without accompaniment. But what should he play? “I will,” said he, “ give fantasies which at this moment cross my mind.” And he played improvisator}’ remembrances of his own life—soulful melodies. It was as if every thought, every feeling, passed through the instrument and revealed his soul to the audience. The most astounding applause resounded through the house. The musician was called forth again and again. Thev desired new improvisations. He addressed the lady whose mocking smile first greeted his appearance, and asked her for a theme. She gave one from “ N or-ma.” He then asked two other ladies, who chose one from “Othello” and one from “Moses.” “Now,” thought he, “if I take all three, unite them, and form one piece, I shall then flatter each of the ladies, and perhaps the composition will produce an effect.” He did so. Powerful as the rod of the magician the bow glided across tire strings, while cold drops of perspiration trickled down the musician’s forehead. His blood was fevered; fire shot from his eyes; he felt himself almost swooning; yet a few more bold strokes.— they were his last bodily powers. Flowers and wreaths from the . charmed multitude . fluttered about him, while, exhausted by mental conflict and hunger, he was nearlv. fainting. He went to his
442
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lodgings accompanied by music. Before the house sounded the serenade for the hero of the evening, who, meanwhile, crept up tlie dark and narrow staircase, higher and higher,-into his pool' garret, where he clutched the water-jug to refresh himself. When all was silent, the landlord came to him, brought him food and drink, and gave him a better room. The next day a concert was arranged for him. An invitation from the Grand Duke of Tuscany followed, and the hitherto half starved musician was now famous.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—A poem that won the prize of $10, offered by one of our exchanges, makes “reveries ” “ rhyme with-whatever is.”
—The death is announced of Father Charles Cahier, S. J., the well-known author of several books on antiquarian subjects.
—P. S. Gilmore of New York, has received a bronze medal from the French Government in recognition of his musical services at the Paris Exposition in 1878.
—The total number of periodicals and newspapers published throughout the world is estimated at 57,274, with an aggregate circulation of 116,000,000.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Marty, of Dakota, is editing a work in the Indian language, designed for the religious instruction of the red men, of whom there are several thousand in his diocese.
—One of the best portraits of Longfellow is that painted by Mr. G. P. A. Healy, in 1862. This picture was hung in the window of the “ Old Corner Book-store,” Boston, after the poet’s death.
—A book entitled “Avec Pitie” has just been published at Lausanne. It is the work of M. Scholl, a distinguished Swiss writer, and is by far the most weighty indictment against vivisection yet printed.
—Messrs. Appleton & Co., have published a third edition of George Wilkes’ “ Shakespeare,” etc. Mr. Wilkes represents Shakespeare as profoundly Catholic and with a perfect contempt for Protestantism.
—The three greatest generals the world has ever produced—Alexander, Caesar, Napoleon—were all men of letters. Alexander was the friend of Aristotle, and an annotator of Homer. Caesar’s Commentaries, as every one knows, are classic books. Napoleon would have been a man eminent in literature had he not been an emperor.
—On the occasion of the celebration of the 50th anniversary of Belgian independence, a committee was formed to prepare a dictionary of Belgian authors and a catalogue of their works, from 1830 to 1880. The work will include writers abroad and at home. 'The dictionary will supply biographical sketches of every Belgian author, chro
nological lists of their writings and a full account of all their productions. The first two parts, of 96 pp. each, are already announced.
—Programmes have already been issued for the fifth May festival of the Cincinnati Musical Association, of which Theodore Thomas is the director. Distinguished artists have been engaged, and the most elaborate preparations made to render the festival the most attractive and creditable ever held in the United States. It will take place, of course, in the great Cincinnati Music Hall, the finest in the United States. This magnificent edifice, with its spacious aisles and corridors, and large means of entrance and exit, is unequalled for the purpose; in fact, it was especially designed and built for these festivals. It has a capacity of over 7,000, and a stage accommodating 1,500 performers.
—The parodists are turning their attention exclusively, it would seem, to Tennyson’s latest poem, “ Charge of the Heavy Brigade.” Here is a specimen of their work:
Gosh, how they went for ’em that Heavy Brigade
Split ’em and twisted ’em like doughnuts; vou bet your ’• life!
They may have been scared, but they were not afraid! There was no funny business about the Heavy Brigade!
Speaking of the Heavy Brigade reminds methey charged their foes!
They had to go up tlie hill because they were at the bottom! Very well. That’s all right enough so far as it goes!
Had they been on the top of the hill, they’d never have got ’em
This being conceded, we proceed. The heavy Brigade Went slam up the hill, from the foot to the crater!
They walked up, then and there, and not one of them strayed
From his duty or hinted he’d like to take the elevator! That sort of persimmon, don’t come down for poles! Well, when they got to tlie top of the hill there was a fuss! The Russians didn’t want any and hunted their holes! Every lost mother’s son got right out of the muss!
“That’s business, you bet!” muttered Maurice Kinkade! The gentlemanly and efficient sutler of the Heavy Brigade.
Books and Periodicals.
On the Study of Words. By Richard Chene-vix Trench, D. D., Archbishop of Dublin: Humboldt Library, No. 30. J. Fitzgerald & Co., New York.
A pamphlet edition of a work valuable in its day, and not ill-written; but the science of philology having made such rapid strides in the present century, a slight lapse of time finds the Archbishop’s work already superseded.' Moreover, he lets his sectarianism stick out sometimes in a manner that is most amusing, for not only is any form of sectarianism out of place in a scientific work, but the especial form to which the learned author adheres is peculiarly unphilosophic in the principles it alleges for rejecting one tenet and admitting another. All that he remarks anent the word “ transubstantiation ” a Unitarian might quote, substituting the words “ Trinity ” and “ Incarnation,” neither to be found in the Sacred Scriptures, and neither designating a thing to be found in them so. plainly set forth as. what is signified by the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC..
[	word “ transubstantiation.” His very, title of
‘“Archbishop” is assailable by his Presbyterian .friends on similar grounds. He should remember ■the proverb about those who- live in glass houses.
. 'Passing over this defect, however, there is much (that is both entertaining and instinctive in the xwork, which represents a considerable amount of ■laborious research. The evidences of decay and re-■trogression to be found in the vocabularies of savage .tribes,—their fertility in epithets pertaining to the (domain of cruelty,—their dearth of those belonging to the opposite quarter of the social compass, .are particularly interesting to the thinking mind. The pamphlet comes in the usual neat style and-typography found in the publications of J. Fitzgerald & Co.	-
,	—In the North American Review for April,
(Gov. Eli H. Murray, of Utah, treats of the existing crisis in the political fortunes of that Territory. According to the present method’ of local government there, the minority of the population, the (Gentiles, though they possess the greater part of ithe wealth of the Territory, exclusive of farm -property, and though they constitute by far the most enlightened and enterprising portion of the (community, are practically without a voice in legislation. K The author proposes a drastic yet entirely practicable remedy for these and all the (Other evils prevalent in Utah. An article entitled •“ Why they come,” by Edward Self, is devoted .to the consideration of many important questions (connected with European immigration to this (Country. Dr. Henry A. Martin, replying to a re-•cent article by Henry Bergh, defends the practice •of vaccination. E. L. Godkin has an article on ‘“The Civil Service Reform Controversy”; Sen-.-ator Riddleberger, on “ Bourbonism in Virginia ”; .-and General Albert Ordway, on “A National Militia. ” Finally there is a paper of extraordinary interest on the exploration of the ruined ■cities of Central America.
—The March number of Brainard's Musical World is full of interesting reading-matter and ■choice new music, Musical Stories, Sketches, Bi--•ographies, instructive Editorials, Correspondence from the leading cities, and all the musical news of the day. An interesting account of the late
’	“ Opera Festival ” in Cincinnati, will also be found
in this number, together with some beautiful new *	music.
' College Gossip. .
—Bells for recitation at Amherstare rung by electricity.
—Ex-Gov. Morgan, of New York, has given Williams College $80,000 to build a new dormitory.
—The presidency of Rutgers College has been accepted by Prof. Gates, of the Albany Boys’ Academy.
—By. the will of the late General Coale, a lawyer of Liberty, Md., Georgetown College is made $10,000 better off.	'
—A man in Knox County, Maine, who wanted to vote against a projected high school, wrote on f his ballot “Know.” “What do he know?”	YxJ
—The College Transcript (Ohio) this month devotes over half of its space .to a poem. The VYS? poem is printed very neatly. [Italics ours. Ed. : . ' Sg S.]—Harvard Herald.	.	.	f g
—Two students of the American College, -Rome—Messrs. Hanna and Pace—have been se- . 5^ lectcd to prepare for examination before the Holy Y l Father, in the philosophy of St. Thomas.	-
—It would seem from a communication in -The ’ Varsity that some of the Toronto men are. rather lazy, or something else, and that they “ aint- . ‘N a-goin ” to have the “ Antigone,” after all..	I •
—A mania for Greek and Latin plays seems to pervade . -r American universities. The University of Toronta i? to t..i' produce the’Antigone this winter, and Ann Arbor and jr Syracuse are talking of Greek plays, and Yale is to produce a Latin play soon.—Ex.	.	' - ■
—The Queen, accompanied by Princess Bea- -trice, visited the College of the Jesuit .Fathers, ■ : Beaumont, Old Windsor, in order to receive from . ■? the students a congratulatory address upon her -providential escape from assassination.	;
—Of the living male graduates of the College ~ [Monmouth] over 45 per cent, are in the ministry, I a little less than 17 per cent, in the law, about 7 per cent, in medicine, and the remaining 31 per -cent, variously engaged.— College Courier.	U
—A. W. Conalle, of Albion College, recently ’had -his nose and jaw broken in being initiated into a college secret society. Of such a sort are the superior influences of Western College life.—Harvard Herald.	’	’
But these influences have been taken from the 7 '* Eastern colleges, have they not?	-
—The local editors of The Earlhamite^ in this State, says in his March number: “Several mem-	I
bers of. the Faculty have had their haircut. An	/.
indication of an early Spring.” There he reckoned without his host. The Scholastic astrol- - ' oger could have told him it was a sure sign of a ■ cold snap—as the event proved.	. .	• . .
—A young ladv who graduated from a high 1 school last summer is now teaching up in New . Hampshire. A bashful young gentleman visited . j the school the other day, and was asked by the . , teacher to say a few words to the pupils. This «	. =
was his speech: “Scholars, I hope you will al- y ways love your school and your teacher as much . as I do.” Tableau—giggling boys and girls and -a blushing schoolma’am. •	/ -
—President Eliot, of Harvard, in a recent /. speech at Chicago, said: “Harvard is to-day less - < of a Massachusetts University, more of a Middle State and Western State University, than ever before, - That not only Harvard, but several . other strong Universities, East and West, North .	- ;
and South, should have a truly national representation is an object which every true patriot must . earnestly desire, for in the common character of large bodies of students^drawn from the whole	-y.;
country, will be’found a strong bond of national	y-
tmity.”—Oberlin Review..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Bunt
i	T	*
Notre Dame, April 1, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects corfhected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, *1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—The authorities of the College request us to announce that there is no vacation at Easter. We are now in the heart of the second session—a time when it is expected that the best and most serious work of the year will be done. No student can well afford to lose class even for a few days, and we would advise all who are anxious to preserve a good record to lay aside thoughts of home till June. It is a very easy matter to fall behind in studies at this time, and, as a natural consequence, to become discouraged and work carelessly till the end of the session.
—The death of the poet Longfellow, which oc-, curred last week, just after our little paper had been printed, is mourned by the whole civilized world.	Few men have been more admired or“
more beloved, and few authors have left a more honorable record. In the whole range of Longfellow’s writings there is nothing that, dying, he could wish not to have penned. The world is better that he lived. His name was venerated wherever his works are known, and to those who had the privilege of a personal acquaintance with him, he will ever be a pleasant memory.
Longfellow was a great poet as well as a true one, and his high rank in the world of letters is everywhere conceded. There is no doubt that his fame will be enduring; only when the language in'
which he wrote has ceased to exist, will the author of “Evangeline” be forgotten. Few poets have touched so often and so delicately the tender chord of human sympathy. Critics may differ in their estimates of Longfellow, but the people have long since placed him among their celebrities, and will keep him there.
The beautiful character of Longfellow was clearly mirrored in whatever he wrote. He was known to all his readers. It has been the conviction of all of them that only one of noble heart and lofty mind could write as he did, and those to whom, his inner life is now for the first time revealed will find their ideal realized.
In morals blameless as in manners meek, He never had a thought he might not speak.
Well may-the world mourn, the death of Longfellow, for there is none to sing such songs as he sang.
—Two of the most-agreeable entertainments of the year were given on the evenings of Saturday and Sunday last. The services of Prof. W. C. Lyman, the well-known Chicago elocutionist, had been secured, and on both occasions excellent programmes were executed. Prof. Lyman needed no introduction to the students of ’So—’8i, and those who had not the pleasure of hearing him last year, found their high anticipations more than realized.
The programme of the first evening comprised a lecture on voice culture,—every point being illustrated in the genial professor’s happiest stvle,—and several selections, tragic, sentimental, pathetic and humorous. If there is any truth in the maxiih, “ laugh and grow fat,” the roars of laughter with which the humorous pieces, especially the “ Beggar and the Kang,” were greeted, and which fairly made the Rotunda shake, must have tended to develop an immense amount of adipose tissue.
The Sunday evening entertainment was even more successful than that of Saturday. There were several fine instrumental selections by the University Quartette, a lecture on “ Action in Oratory,” with the usual side-splitting illustrations by Prof. Lyman, and a number of personations of different styles, the humorous predominating. Mrs. Lyman, who .is favorably known to the Chicago public as a talented reader, and^a clever young pupil who accompanied the professor on his visit to Notre Dame, by special request favored the audience with a few selections, which were highly appreciated and heartily applauded. On Monday morning the Minim department and the Euglossians
3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
445
were visited, and it is superfluous to say that both were left in excellent humor.
Prof. Lyman is always a welcome visitor at Notre Dame, and we hope to hear him again before Commencement.
—Manitou,” the correspondent of the Nashville Daily American, a short extract from whose letter from South Bend we quoted last week, has written a second one from Chicago, in which he again touches upon South Bend, the art-work in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, our late esteemed Army-Chaplain President, Very Rev. W. Corby, Prof. Gregori, etc. “ Manitou ” is a gentleman of evident culture, and has been, we believe, a great traveller. He begins his second letter as follows:]
“ Chicago, Feb. 6.—In my haste to forward the letter from South Bend, I neglected to allude to some pleasant things I saw. there, and which should be published to encourage Southern towns to go and do likewise.
“ Noticeable in that little town of South Bend are the splendid school houses; just above the hotel is the High '	School, a capacious building with ample grounds and planted
A	on the most valuable lands of the city. In each of the
wards handsome brick buildings make the pursuit of knowledge exceedingly pleasant to the young ideas. The almost total absence from the streets of uniformed coppers, attest the truth of the claim that educational institutions are the I ■ most effective police arrangements a city can adopt.
“ Another commendable feature is the cleanliness of the place. The streets are broad and very level, and. the inexhaustible supply of gravel keeps them in good repair and they are always in a wonderfully clean condition. Every citizen appears to be proud of the good and clean walk in front of his property. The houses are all well covered with cheerful-looking paint, the fences are in good order, and the grounds are well kept. Why should any town in Tennessee be less carefully cared for?
“ Having seen the manufactories, visited the waterworks, and gazed at the clear, swift-flowing river from either of the two superb iron bridges that span it, you ‘	should drive out to the palatial residence of Mr. J. M
Studebaker, recently completed at a cost of §8o,doo. It stands upon an eminence, just within the corporate limits, overlooking the city beyond the river, and the handsome college and church buildings of the Society of the Holy Cross. It was our good fortune to be the guest of Mr. Studebaker one evening during our visit. He is one of the original founders of the great wagon company, and withal a good Democrat (the other three brothers are Republicans), and has pursued the wise plan of making the declining years of his life luxuriant as well as happy.
“ During the war, I remember to have heard of a Catholic priest being chaplain of a New York regiment, who was particularly zealous in attendance on some prisoners j	of ours, captured at the battle of tire Wilderness. An old
J	friend was peculiarly touched by the kindness of this priest,
and related to me several instances of his Christian attention. Since I left South Bend I have learned that this *	priest is now the President of Notre Dame College, of which
I said something in my last letter. This fact adds new interest to this already popular school. The President’s name is the Rev. Wm. Corby. Perhaps other’Confeder- . ates who read this will recall his name.
“ Since my last letter, I have had conversation ’with -a gentleman acquainted with the great artist, Gregori, who painted the frescoes of the Church, and who informs me that he is one of the most skilful known to that paradise of art, Italy. I read him my*description, as sent you, and he said, ‘Ah! but you forgot the beautiful Sanctuary Lamp, and the altar which attracted so much attention at the-Centennial.’ True, I failed to write of them, but not to notice and admire them. Hours could be profitably spent in describing the Stations of the Cross, the windows, lamp, altar and decorations, and were I not fearful of -boring my readers, might attempt a correction of the defects of my last effort.
“ The 1 sanctuary lamp ’ resembles a magnificent bou-. quet, the base being a bud bursting into bloom, from which ascend a number of lilies, out of which rises the lamp into, a mass of arabesque filigree, encircled by a band of blue enamel. The body of the lamp is an antique urn filled with flowers, and in the centre is the crystal chalice, surrounded by a crown, which is surmounted by an aureole of twelve gold and blue stars. Here the served light burns, above the three dragons, with heads of silver, eyes of rose topazes, and with blue and gold plumage. Their bodies are made up of malachite, cornelian and garnet, and around their necks are chains of golden leaves. Altogether this lamp is a truly magnificent work of art.”
Exchanges.
—G. A. Mackenzie, M. A., continues his interesting notes of travel in the Lent-term number of Rouge et Noir (Trinity College, Toronto). This time it is a visit to Melbourne; and the city, the people, their characteristics, etc., are depicted in a clear and pleasing style.
— The Punchard Ensign, a paper of some merit, published by the Literary and Scientific Society of the Punchard Free School, Andover, Mass., wishes very much to get some Southern ■ . papers on its exchange list. Francis B. Holt’s poem at the Punchard reunion, and published in the Ensign, is a creditable production.
—The American Art Journal of March the 11 th gives an intersesting sketch, with portrait, of ’ the late Theodore Kullak, of Berlin. Mr. K. was a Pole by birth, received a good education and the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. As an instructor on the piano he was unrivalled. At the time of his g lamented death he was director of the Neue Aka-demie der Tonkunst, which had 1,200 pupils in attendance. Among the other articles in the Art Journal is an interesting one by Silas G. Pratt, entitled “Is the Patronage of Music Compatible with Republican Government?” the drift of which would be better understood under the heading “Music as a Moral Educator under a Republican Form of Government.” An instance of this has just been witnessed among us. At a time when the low variety shows had almost crushed oqt the
446
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
standard drama, a single comic opera, “ Pinafore,” came to the rescue, charmed the populace, and withdrew it from those dens of iniquity. This citation may seem to be setting too low a musical standard, but it matters not: “Pinafore” did a work that moralists had long attempted in vain. What so-called classic music can do is not questioned. It can do much, but in a different sphere —for the present at least. If, also, music and art journals in general were more widely patronized they would undoubtedly have a wholesome in fluence.
—The editor of the Notre Dame Scholastic, in his reply to our last article, virtually acknowledges himself defeated, and wants to crawl out of a discussion which he himself invited. We are willing to leave the decision with our co-temppraries, for any fair-minded person must decide that the Scholastic has found the fight too hot, and is beating an inglorious retreat.
The amount of space we have devoted to the editor of The Videttc-Reporter on different occasions was proof enough that we were not shy of entering into a discussion with him. We prolonged it till there was no motive for continuing. If our pugnacious contemporary was not worsted, then we have yet to learn the nature of a defeat. Let the exchange editor of The Vidette turn to the back files of other college papers and he will find that at least one fair-minded coitfr'cre has already passed judgment in our favor. The Vidette man reminds us of the whipped but stubborn youngster that cried out at every lash, “ The more you beat me the more I won’t cry?’ We didn’t look for any other acknowledgment of defeat than the one that has been given. Again we have to state that the Scholastic is not edited by a member of the college Facuity, that it does not in any way represent that body, and, furthermore, that no such idea is or ever has been entertained by us. The Scholastic is a college paper, and doesn’t claim or aim to be anything different. It is not edited by a “ Catholic priest by the name of Mooney,” The Vidette-Reporter to the contrary, notwithstanding. To the charge of bigotry which our Iowa friend brings against us, here is a sufficient reply, a quotation from a recent issue ’ of the Blackburnian, the organ of Blackburn University, an institution for educating young men for the Protestant ihinistiy:
The Notre Dame Scholastic is a late addition to our ex’s.' It is a spirited and enterprising sheet The organ of a Catholic school, we are pleased to note its breadth. An unique and perhaps desirable characteristic is its Roll of Honor. Continue to come.
—The Brunonian, commenting upon an address of the Rev. Mr. Harris, at Manning Hall, in which some striking characteristics of college life at the present day were spoken of, and notably an almost total absence of enthusiasm among the students, says:
“ Indeed it is considered quite unfashionable in some institutions to show any enthusiasm for anything outside the athletic arena. To show devoted interest in the great problems of the day is to show manifest signs of weakness. Students are hardly ever seen in earnest conversation about the truths of science, the principles of life, and intentions of coming years. In times past these great questions of government, of science, of personal obligations and. purposes, were all-absorbing topics among students. This
may be seen in early college journalism. There came a change, and the pendulum of college journalism swung to the opposite extreme, and light articles, frantic poetry and trivial subjects were the order of the day.. Looking over files of papers from leading colleges, such as Harvard, Princeton and Yale, we found that at least one-half of the editorial matter was devoted to the all-absorbing topics of American life, baseball nines, football elevens, boating and lawn tennis, and the remainder distributed between operas, glee clubs, balls and other trivial matters, with here and there an oasis of literary merit. All seemed sweetly oblivious to great questions which should excite the warmest interest in every scholar. These were as nothing in comparison with the interests at stake in a game of football. Such journalism is one-sided and cramped, causing an endless iteration of threadbare themes. But we believe that the pendulum has turned, and is again approaching its true position between total flippancy and total gravity. Nothing is better at times than a hearty laugh, a lively song and a keen interest in sports, but there are other times when men need the elevating influence of hearty and generous enthusiasms.”
The truth of these remarks must be apparent to anybody who has not become infatuated with the “light lit.” and “stale joke craze.” We do not think it advisable to return to' the dead-weight articles of say the Tale Courant of twenty years ago—articles which possessed but little interest and scarcely a redeeming feature in piquancy of style, wit, or anecdote. We enjoy a joke, a pun, or a spicy repartee as -well as anybody, but we can see no advantage in a column or two of doggerel verses of questionable morality, interspersed with almanac jokes nearly as bad, half a century old, but worked over and dressed up for college purposes in apparel so flimsy that the ancient threadbare coat underneath is discernible.
1
I
I
Personal.
—Michael .Welch, of ’69, is head clerk of the principal hotel in Fort Wayne.
—Henry L. Rose, ’81, is a welcome visitor to the college this week. We are sorry to have missed his call. ‘
—Rev. Thomas L. Vagnier, C. S. C., formerly Professor of higher mathematics here, is now pastor of Leo, Allen Co., Ind. His health, we fire glad to say, is better than for many years. .
—We learn fjom The Chronicle that Rufus H. McCarty, M. D., (Classical, ’72, and a graduate of the Medical Department of the University of Michigan.) is now a physician at Washington,
—-Joseph (Charles L. L.) Allen, of ’70, is with Messrs. Taaffe, Emerson & Co., Law and Real Estate Office, St. Louis. We are glad to hear that he is doing well. Mr. Allen was lately received into the Church.
—W. P. Breen, of ’76, (Withers & Breen), has an extensive law practice in Fort Wayne. We see by the Daily Nezus of that city that he has lately been appointed administrator of the estate of the late John Whitman.
-—Col. Otis, who is so well and favorably known to the students of last year, is stationed at
'	'	'	- * ’ -' J
'	. ' V-'
" ': -e
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	447 H
Foi't Abraham, Lincoln, Dakota. He writes us that he longs for the day when he can return to Notre Dame, and sends kind remembrances to all his many friends here. 'We assure Col. Otis that all are as anxious to have him return as he is himself.
—Among the brief biographies of prominent men appearing in the Milivaukce Sunday Tele-grafh-, we were pleased to find the following notice of Hon. James AV. Murphy, of ’68:
“ Instances are not wanting close at home, among our contemporaries, in which pluck, energy, thrift and ambition have been crowned with success. A young man in Wisconsin may be cited as an example. The Hon. James -W. Murphy was born in Herkimer county, N. Y., in 1852, and came with his parents to Wisconsin, in 1854, and settled at Briggsville, Marquette county. He was educated at Notre Dame University-, Ind. The year that he came to the lawful age of 21, he was elected town clerk. He was chairman of the county board of supervisors in 1878, 1879, 1880 and 1881, his present term expiring in May next. He was elected a member of the State Assembly in 187S, serving at the session of 1879, when he was the youngest member of that body, being but twenty-six years of age. He would have been nominated by the Democrats as their candidate for Secretary of State in that year, but the complications at the State, conventions caused by the nomination of Alexander Mitchell for Governor, who had peremptorily refused to accept it, caused him to apprehend an unpleasant and more than usually unsuccesful canvass, and he declined to enter for the race. He has succeeded his father in general business at Briggsville, and has been reasonably successful in amassing the goods of this world. He is full of business energy, is a pleasant, genial and popular gentleman, and is intelligent and cultured in his tastes. Mr. Murphy’s father has been a man of mark in the State, having been a leading Democratic politician from early times, and represented his district in the Assembly in 1869 and 1874.”
Local Items.
—How do you like the new type?
—There wilf be something worth seeing this o	o
evening fit Phelan Hall.
—Rev. President Walsh has appointed Mr. Elmer Otis drill-master of the Sorin Cadets. '
—How lustily some young men blow their own horns! Alas! self-praises are not harmonious.
—Mr. J. P. O’Neil lectured last week on Temperance before the South Bend Benevolent Association.	„	.
—There is plenty’of good talent outside the Choral Union to organize a glee club. Let us have one.	•
—The Class Honors and List of Excellence was unavoidably crowded out this week. They will appear in our next issue.
—Prof. Gregori is at work on a design for a new heading, which will give a miniature view of the three main buildings.
—H. Steis, Ed. Smith, C. A. Smith, and W. Smith were omitted from the Senior Roll of Honor last week by mistake.
—Our esteemed contemporary the South Bend Register will soon move into its new quarters in Colfax building, corner of Michigan and Market streets.
—The Mignon Club desires us to express publicly their appreciation of the many favors shown them by the prefects of the Junior and Senior departments."
—Plans have been made for a new Minim department capable of accommodating one hundred boys. The buildings, it is said, are to be erected immediately.
—To-morrow, Palm Sunday, High Mass, preceded by the usual benediction and distribution of palms, and procession, will be at 9.30 o’clock. The Office of Tenebrce on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, will be at 7.15 p. m._ The office will be found in the Holy Week books.
—Some of the Juniors don’t like the idea of having their notes read separately: it’s a distinction they beg to decline. J. M. K. was sorry he went out. ' The others felt like leaving just at the same time. There was something unusually moving in the sound of Father Toohey’s voice that evening.
—The 1 Sth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Thursday, March 23d. At this meeting Messrs. Minnis and Kuntsman were elected members, and an interesting-debate took place on the subject, “ Should the Spoils System be Abolished ? ” Affirmative, J. B. Zettler and W. Smith; Negative,, J. Farrell, and W. Johnson.
—We learn that the Scientific Association is about to give an entertainment, probably soon after Easter. It will consist of short lectures delivered by members of the Association, and brilliant and practical experiments. Many .new physical apparati have been purchased for the occasion. Those who miss this entertainment, will not only-miss a treat, but also lose much valuable information.
—A regular meeting of the Notre Dame Scientific Association was held Wednesday evening, March 22d. Mr. A. Zahm demonstrated why a baseball can be curved horizontally; Mr. R. Anderson read an able essay on the Mound Builders, and another of much interest on “ Bees and their Habits” was read by Mr. McCarthy; Mr. Otis also furnished an interesting paper on Glass. The essayists were asked many questions by the members, and gave satisfactory answers.
—The 1 Sth regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on March 19th. Declamations were delivered as follows: Master W. T. Berthelet, “Bingen on the Rhine”; J. J. McGrath, “The Convict Ship”; F. P. Nester, “The Union,”; W. Miller, “All Forward.” The President gave as a subject for debate at the next meeting the question “ Is America a greater country than England”? He also complimented the members on the success which attended their recent performance of the “ Minims of Notre Dame,” after which the meeting adjourned.
—The 2 2d, 23d, and 24th regular meetings of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association were held Feb. 28, March 5, and March 18th. Exercises in vocal music,, readings and compositions,
448
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
declamations, and debates were comprised in the programme of exercises. Those who took part were Masters L. Gibert, A. Richmond, D. Smith, G. Tourtillotte, F. Fishel, H. Foote, G. Buchanan, B. Baca, E. Baily, M. Graham, F. Lund, E. Howard, W. Hanavin, E. Murphy, W. Muhlke, F. Ryan, H. Snee, J. Wilbur, P. Yrisarri, J. Powell, E. Wile, H. Metz, G. Danielson, J. Livingston, E. Drendle, J. Devine, G. Deschamp. .Master E. G. Gerlach was unanimously elected a member of the Association.
—A meeting of the Philodemic Society was held on Thursday evening, Prof. A. J. Stace presiding. An excellent criticism of the previous meeting was read by Mr. J. Larkin. The gentlemen who participated in the debate “ Resolved: “That the Presidency should be restricted to one Term,” acquitted themselves very creditably. The arguments presented by both sides of the question were forcible, and showed much knowledge of Constitutional Law. After carefully weighing’ the arguments, the President decided in favor of the affirmative side. He then gave a very interesting and able lecture on the “Association of Ideas.” The Philodemics will give a Lit-erarv and Musical Entertainment, on the evening of Easter Monday, April 10th. A carefully selected programme is being made out, and a rich intellectual treat may be expected.
—The 25th, 26th, 27th and 28th regular meetings of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association were held on February 28th, March 4th, nth, and 2 2d. The exercises of these meetings consisted of a Moot Court (which is still in session), essays, declamations, and readings. .The following young gentlemen took part: A. Coghlin, C. Rose, J. Heffernan, N. Ewing, W. Mahon, A. Browne, C. Echlin, C. Porter, G. Castanedo, F. Johnson, W. H. Johnston, C. Murdock, W. Start, G. Rho-dius, Ed Fishel, J. Grever, J. Guthrie, C. Kolars, H. Sells, W. Coghlin, and H. Porter. The public readers appointed were as follows: A. Coghlin, G. Rhodius, G. Castanedo, Geo. Schaefer, M. Dolan, J. Fendrick, C. Murdock, H. Browne, M. Foote, T. Hurley, D. G. Taylor, W. Coghlin, J. Kelly, C. Rose, and J. Ruppe.
—Prof. Walter C. Lyman, assisted by Mrs. Lyman and little Carrie Dodd, gave an elocutionary entertainment at Notre Dame, last Sunday evening, under the auspices of the Euglossian Association of the University. The professor is a very fine elocutionist, and the programme included selections of a varied character from the best authors, interspersed with music by the Orchestra, and upon the piano by Prof. Paul. The applause that greeted each recitation or personation was a sure guarantee of the success of the entertainment. Mrs. W. C. .Lyman received repeated encores. Little Carrie Dodd, the' favorite, was enthusiastically encored for her admirable rendition of « Claudius and Cynthia,” and responded with a humorous personation. Mrs. W. C. Lyman and little Carrie received bouquets for their excellent renditions, The music given by the - String quartette
was exquisite. Prof. Paul was heartily applauded for his grand performance on the piano. The entertainment was a success, and enjoyed by everybody.—South-Bend Tribune.	'
—The Annunciation was especially a gala day for the Columbians, because on that feast, March 25, 1873, their Club was organized by the late Rev. Augustus Lemonnier, of happy memory. A reunion of the Club was held in Washington Hall, at which Mr. J. M. Falvey, Vice-President of the Association, read .a well-written paper, detailing the history of the Club since its foundation. Mr. James Marlett paid an eloquent tribute to the memory of Father Lemonnier, and Mr. M. Burns, of Washington, spoke in appreciative terms of its first President, Prof. Lyons. A letter was then read from Mr. E. G. Taggart, one of last year’s best members, and speeches were made by Messrs. Kindel, Farrel and Steis. The literary programme was varied by Prof. Paul, who, with the assistai .ce of the Mignon Club Orchestra, gave expression to several choice morceaux from the modern composers. Lady-Day, 1882, will long be remembered by the Columbians who participated in the “ feast of reason and flow of soul ” which characterized this annual reunion.
Boll of lHonor.
(The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.) '
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Armijo, Berry, Bailey, Barron, Blackman, Bryant, Browne, Bell, Bolton, Becerra, Burns, Cooper, Cullin, Corry, Clements, Carroll, Christian, Conway, G. Clarke, Cleary, Commerford, J. and J. P. Delaney, Donegan, Drury, Donahue, Eager, Ewing, Eaton, Fitzgerald. E. Fenlon, T. Fenlon, Flannery, Farrell, Fleming, Flynn, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, Fishburne, Gray, *Golonski, Grever, Johnson, Kinsella, Kuhn, Kerndt, Kavanagh, Livingston, Larkin, McErlain, Minnis, Murphy, Marlett, Monaghan, Meyer, McCarthy, McGinnis, McDermott, McIntyre, McDevitt, Morse, E: and W. McGorrisk, McEniry, Maloney, Mason, Nash, Noble, Noonan, O’Reilly, O’Neill, O’Connor, O’Rourke, Orrick, Otis, Peery, Pierson, Pillars, Ryan, Rettig, Raschc, Ruger, Reed, Saviers, W. Schofield, Solon, W. Smith, E. Smith, C. Smith, Steis, Thompson, Tracy, Treon, Van Duzen, Wheatly, White, Yrisarri, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Archer, Brown, Bacon, Barron, Buchanan, Baca, Campau, Colyar, J. and J. S. Courtney, Coghlin, Cavanaugh Deschamp, Dolan, Devoto, Droste, Echlin, Ewing, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, Freyermuth, Fendrick, French, Flynn, Florman, M. and H. Foote, Friedman, Gibert, Gilbert, Grever, Gerlach, Gall, Gallagher, Hoffman, Hess, Hibbeler, Howard, Hanavin, Halligan, Jeannot, Johnston, Johnson, Jones, Kahman, Kengel, Kitz, Livingston, Lund, McGordon, Metz, Muhlke, J. and T. McGrath, McPhil-lips, -McCarthy, Orchard, Osborn, O’Donnell, Orsinger, Powell, C. Porter, Peery, Quill, Ryan, Rosenheim, C. Rose, Ruppe, V. and L. Rivaud, Richmond, Smith, Snee, Schaefer, Tappan, Taggart, Williams, Wilbur, Warren, Wile, Yrisarri, Zaehnle.	,
MINIM DEPARTAIENT. .
Masters Ackerman, Adams, Berthelet, Campau, Chir-•hart, Cummings, Curran, Devitt, J. Devereux, W. Devine, A, Devine, Davison, Frain, Fehr, Graham, Gibson, Hopkins, Johnson, McCawley, McGordon, Miller, C. Metz, J. and E. McGrath, Nash, Norfolk, Otis, Piatt, Powell, Papin, Price, Rose,-Stange, Thomas, Tong, Welch, Whitney, Winsor, R. Gibson, D. A. OConnor.	“
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
One Mile J Pest of Notre Dame University.
—Miss A. O’Connor, ’77, was among the visitors last week.
—The instruction after Mass on Monday, in the Chapel of Loretto, was on the approaching Feast of the Annunciation. .	„	'•
—By inadvertence, the initials “A. O’C.” were signed to the composition, “ Immortalized Rivers,” published in last week’s Scholastic. The correct initials are “ A. W.”
—A very choice votive offering was presented last week to the Chapel of Loretto; a holy-water font of rare workmanship, in Mexican marble, ornamented with onyx, and valued at over one hundred dollars. It is from Vera Cruz, Mexico, a gift from Mr. Raphael V. Becerra to Rev. Father Zahm. The Rev. donor will please accept grateful acknowledgments, o	o
—On Saturday, the Feast of the Annunciation, the following young ladies were received into the Society of Children of Mary: Misses L. English, B. English, C. Fenlon, M. Mulvey, M. Feehan, S. McKenna, Margaret Price, M. Green, C. Mulligan, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, and S. Hanbury. Aspirants : Misses A. Cavenor, M. Adderly. The ceremony was conducted by Very Rev. Father General, and he gave one of his excellent instructions. All took place in the Chapel of Loretto, a facsimile of the very building in which the Incarnation actually transpired nearly nineteen hundred years ago. The inscription over the door of the original is, “ The Most Venerable Sanctuary in the World.”
—St. Mary’s Chimes, Vol. VI, No. Ill, March 19th, 1882. Edited by Misses Lillie Lancaster, Sarah McKenna, and Elizabeth Shickey, of the Second Senior Class, and Misses Sophie Papin and Anna Waters, of the Third Senior Class. Contents: I, Editorial; II, Art Notes; III, The Cord of St. Joseph; IV, Untimely Snow; V, Gone, but not Forgotten; VI, The Cherished Names of Old; VII, Convalescent; VIII, Somebody’s FeastDay; IX, A Beautiful Ceremony; X, Benediction, After the Monthly Adoration; XI, Conversation and its Perfection; XII, Decomposition of Light; XIII, The Picture of St. Joseph; XIV, Culinary; XV, The Disturber of the Peace; XVI, L’Esprit de Corps; XVII, Question and Answer; XVIII, Pernasian; XIX, Great Excitement; XX, Have we a Stuart among us?; XXI, Academy Wrights; XXH, Put up for Sale; XXIII, Friendship; XXIV, Conservatory of Music; XXV, A Rare Gift.	“	U
—On Latare Sunday, Feast of St. Joseph, Very Rev. Father General was the recipient of a surplice of exquisite and unique character. The rich embroidery of linen floss on very fine Mechlin net, was executed by the hand .of a beloved invalid of the Convent Infirmary, and was pre
sented by herself and her twin sister, both of whom are so dear to all who have known St. Mary’s for the past twelve years. It was worn by the recipient at Vespers. The work was begun nearly two years ago, and was intended as an honor to the Feast of St. Andrew, complimentary to Very Rev. Father on the .anniversary of his-first Mass at Notre Dame; but as an invalid cannot command her hours, it was not completed till the-eve of the 19th inst. The pattern is entirely original.. The theme isSt. Andrew’s Cross.” Forty-two of these crosses, forty-three Greek crosses, and the Latin cross which surmounts the “ I. H. S,”‘ the central figure of the pattern, may be called' the charming strophes of the poem, wrought so1 delicately, so skillfully upon this lovely sacred! vestment. As fitting its use, like the garment of our Lord, it affears seamless. Very Rev. Father was very grateful for the gift, and said,—“ It is not for me: it should be sent to the Holy Father.”	'
(Selections from “Rosa Mystica” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly MS. papers edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
L’Esprit de- Corps.
The sense of mutual responsibility or fraternity which exists in every institution seems to be expressed by no other term better than the French -Esprit de Cerfs? As, every member of the body is under the immediate protection of all, and as one nerve pervades the whole, so a common in- • terest—so to speak—seems to extend through every -organization, whether natural, social, political, or religious.	-
The thrill of patriotism which swells and throbs , in the heart of the soldier, spurring him on to victory; the strong instinct of justice and honor in the-breast of the jurisconsult and the statesman, impelling them to guard the integrity of the commonwealth, and, above all, the bond of affectionate sympathy which renders the family circle so precious;, are familiar examples of this spirit.
It may be called pride, but it- is certainly a very commendable kind of pride, and one which the' world could not well afford to do without.
■ It seems to be instilled into the nature of every human being, and even among animals something like it is often displayed. Birds are banded together in flocks; sheep know their proper fold,, and on the wild plains of the West, herds of buffalowander about. If danger presents itself, quickly the alarm is given. They congregate and gallop away together, the strongest placing themselves as-guards at the head and rear.
45d	THE NOTRE bAME SCHOLASTIC.
Indians, supposed to be the most exclusive and selfish of mankind, gather themselves into tribes, each.tribe having its peculiar government, traditions and "religion. While bitter enmities exist between the different tribes, who can say that each chief doe not look upon his'own with as great satisfaction and complacency as the President of the United States regards the republic of which he is the first officer.	.
It is this spirit of love of country which has resisted invasion, quelled insurrection, and established our union. It rises above petty interests, and embraces the broader, fuller conception of national power and glory, which gives real grandeur, true prosperity.
Imagine society devoid of this principle. No churches with towers rising heavenward would appear. ' Each man would build his own altar, and worship in his own way. No homes surrounded with every comfort that love can devise could exist. Instead, we would see, perhaps, bark huts scattered promiscuously over the country, where-ever their single occupant saw fit to build. Language would hardly be used by such a race, and, if employed at all, we would find it in a crude state. How soon would the best principles, and the noblest impulses of the human heart be crushed by selfishness.	E. C.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Cavenor, Claffey, Galen, Hanbury, Walsh, Clarke, Feehan, C. Bland, E. Call, M. Campbell, R. Fishburne, L. Lancaster, A. Nash, H. Nash, Ave Price, Rasche, Simms, H. Van Patten, L. Van Patten, J. Barlow, Etta Call, M. Fishburne, A. McGordon, N. Mc-Gordon, J. Owens, Margaret Price, C. Rosing, V. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, E. Thompson, A. Chirhart, Sawyer, Wallace, Fenlon, Fleming, Behler, L. English, K. Mulligan, M. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, Adderly, Clifford, Wagner, B. English, Northrop, Ives, Eldridge, M. Watson. 2d Tablet—Misses A. Dillon, Beal, E. Chris-chellis, Donnelly, J. Heneberry, Shickey, Wall, Black, M. Casey, Coryell, Mary Price, Rulison,- Todd, Thomann, Wiliams, Newton, Gavin, Green, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, J. Pampell, De Hart.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Ginz, C. Lancaster, Ramsey, S. Semmes, Chirhart, Coogan, L .Hennebery, J. O’Neill, Robertson, C. Richmond, Mary Otis, Best 2d Tablet— Misses J. Spangler, Considine, M. Dillon, Fehr, Hibbins, Condron, Sullivan, Chaves, Schmidt.
. MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Burtis, M. Barry, J. English, J. McGrath, E. Rigney, Haney, A. English, N. Brown.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED. FOR THE MONTH OF MARCH.
Special course—Miss Galen.
Graduating class—Miss Fendrick.
ist class—Miss M. Campbell.
2D div.—Misses Hackett and Wiley.
2D class—Misses Beal, J. Reilly.
2D div.—Misses Bland, Coryell, Donnelly, J. Hennebery, Maude Price. Classed—Miss Wallace.
3D class—Misses Barlow, Chrischellis, M. English, M. Ryan.
2D div.—Misses Maude Casey, Claffey, L. Fox, Fenlon, Keenan, Leydon, A. McGordon, Ave Price.
4TH class—Misses C. Campbell, A. Dillon, Garrity, Rosing, Shickey, H. Van Patten.
2D div.—Misses Behler, Casey, M. Ducey, L. English, M. Fishburne, Feehan, Fleming, Ginz, A. Gavan, Lancaster, -Morgan, N. McGordon, Margaret Price, A. Rulison, Simms, Todd, L. Van Patten, Vander Heyden, Wagner.
5th class—Misses Adderly, E. Call, Dillon, Ducey, L. Lancaster, McKenna, A. Nash, Reutlinger, Ramsey, M. A. Ryan, Rasche, Thompson, Robertson, Waters.
2D div.—Misses M. Chirhart, M. Clarke, A. Clarke, F. Castanedo, K. Fehr, H. Hicks, B. Legnard, M. Newton, G. Northcote, E. Papin, V. Reilly, L. Williams.
6th class—Misses Black, E. Call, Coogan, B. English, Fisk, Hibbins, Mulvey, McCoy, B. Hackett, H. Nash, G. O’Neill, J. Owens, Thomann, Spangler, Smith, Watson, Wall.
2D div.—Misses M. Wilkins, M. Chaves, Davenport, L. Hennebery, J. Krick, Mattes, Mosher, R. Fishburne, Martin, Otero, Pease, M. Richardson, C. Richmond, A. Richmond, E. Wright
7th class—Misses Coyne, Condron, Eager, Eldridge, Green, Harrigan, K. Mulligan, Otis, Rodgers, Schmidt, Wright, Watson, K. Sawyer.	■
8th class—Misses Browne, M. Barry, Alice Sawyer. Classed—Miss De Hart.
9TH class—Misses Best, Ives, and Welch.
ioth class—Misses S. Campau, Agnes English, J. English.
HARP.
ist class—Miss Galen.
4TH class—Miss Garrity.
5th class—Misses L. Coryell, Dillon. N. Keenan, M. Price.
6th class—Misses E. Hicks and Otero.
ORGAN.
Miss Claffey.
GUITAR.
Miss Chrischellis.	.	‘
HARMONY—PRIVATE.
ist class—Miss Fendrick.
2D class—Miss Hackett.	'
GENERAL THOROUGH-BASE CLASS.
Misses Ryan, J. Reilly, Claffey, M. Campbell, E. Chrischellis, Fox, Dillon, Donnelly, Fenlon, Barlow, Coryell, M. English, H. Van Patten, Keenan, Beal, Price, L. Van Patten, L. Wallace.
GFNERAL THEORETICAL CLASSES.	-
Misses L. Lancaster, Behler, C. Lancaster, L. English, Adderly, M. Clarke, N. McGordon, K. Ducey, Reutlinger, Simms, Newton, McKenna, Northcote, A. Nash, Feehan, A.Waters, E. Shickey, Ginz, Fishburne, Maud Price, Mulvey, A. Price, Dillon, E. Call, Hennebery, Rasche, E. McCoy, M. Ryan, M. and A. Richardson, Smith, Chirhart, Owens, Etta Call, B. English, Spangler, Leydon, Rulison, Wagner, Legnard, O’Neill, Wilkins, Harrigan, Fishburne, K .Fehr, Bard, A. Wright, Richmond, K. Mulligan, Rodgers, K. Sawyer, Krick, Schmidt, Ives, Best, Green, Mosher, Eldridge.	.
Bad habits take root with fearful rapidity even in the richest natures. They grow and ripen and bear their fruit like southern vines and weeds, almost in a single day and night. Crush them, pluck them out pitilessly from their very first appearance, and do not weary of the labor of rooting them out again and again.—Bernard O'Reilly.