Disee quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 25, 18S4.
No. 42.
A Successful Life.
Alumni Oration
Delivered at the 40th Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame,
By Professor William Hoynes, A. M., ’69.
The desire to make life a success appears to be common to men of all climes and natural to mankind in all ages. From the dawn of recorded time to the present it has been exhibited in the progress of events. The notable achievements that mark the lives of men and the history of nations bear witness to its scope in time. The remarkable labors wrought on land and sea in the progress of industrial development testify to the world-wide range of its exhibition. Such facts supply ample evidence that it is the vital principle of persevering labor and the great stimulus to hard work. In view of its almost unlimited application and exhibition the question “ How shall it be put into -practice and directed ? ” intimately concerns the welfare, progress and stability of society.
WHAT IS SUCCESS?
The wish to make life a success is salutary and commendable. That is a proposition to which all. agree. But all do not agree as to what consti-tutes success. And that is the real question to be solved. It is therefore pertinent to ask, “ What is success? Does it consist in the accumulation of wealth? Is it to be measured by skill in moneygetting?” Men may not, in a theoretical sense, regard the possession of riches as constituting true success; but, in a practical light, the majority, it is to be feared, think otherwise and look upon amassed wealth as furnishing the most conclusive evidence of a successful life. Viewed from a theoretical standpoint, it is generally admitted that this is a lamentable perversion of the idea of true success. And now let me endeavor to prove that it should be so viewed even from a practical standpoint. To be genuine, success must include as an essential element a warm, strong and constant purpose to be manful in act, charitable in thought, and g-enerous in deed. Success of this kind enhances o the common good, keeps dormant the fierce and malignant spirit of popular envy and distrust, and serves to promote the security and welfare of soci
ety. The purpose to be useful is the element in the struggle for success that keeps a man in friendly and sympathetic relations with his fellow-men. When a person forfeits claim to their confidence he is generally contemned or treated with open contumely. His reverses excite no regret. Nobody pities him. If his selfishness made him refuse in his prosperity to be useful to others, in his misfortunes others are not inclined to be useful to him.
POWER AND ABUSES OF WEALTH.
The rule stated holds good not only as to abuses in the practical exercise of the desire to achieve success, but also in respect to the use of power of every kind. The higher a selfish and unscrupulous man raises himself above his fellow-men, whether by the debasing influence of mammon or the tricks of political legerdemain, the more he is shunned and despised by them. There is a growing feeling among men that no person has a right to acquire dangerous power under the laws of a popular government. And many of them believe that vast accumulations of capital give such power. Mammon is always king- in the realm of venality. Sophocles makes Creon say:
oboa yap avOptb-o’Ctv- olov ap-yupos
■/.a/.w v6p.'.G[z
“There is nothing in use by man which for power of harm can equal money.”
And the statement is as true now as it was 2300 years ago, when originally written. Money is sometimes used, not in this country particularly, but in all countries, to corrupt the very sources of legislation. It is at times employed to swerve electors from an honest discharge of their political duties, to cripple the independence and direct the work of legislative bodies, to usurp the functions-of the judge, and to tamper with and corrupt jurors-in the very temple of justice. All this is manifestly antagonistic to the common welfare and’ subversive of good government. Wealth is wholly indebted to the law for protection, and to the law it owes the duty of absolute subjection and obedience. By invading the domain and usurping: the functions of the law, it removes the only sure restraint upon popular license, and challenges an> injured and enraged people to do their worst. Thus it invites the conflicts and calamities that from time to time disturb communities and render insecure all kinds of property. The avarice and selfishness which inspire interference with the
658	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
law almost necessarily provoke distrust, indignation, opposition. Besides, a tendency to overreach frequently defeats itself. Methods of indirection may recoil with violence upon the schemes they are intended to promote. When the source of the law is corrupted or its operation suspended, the populace becomes aroused, a fierce and implacable power springs up, the demon mob rages, and capital flees in terror from the dreaded violence. Misdirected wealth may thus conjure up a power that it cannot control. It may meet destruction in its own sorceries. And these are but few of the effects of the desire to be successful without at the same time being useful to the community and the State. In attempting to grasp too much, all may be lost. How much more prudent to make success subordinate to utility! Noah Webster, the renowned lexicographer, held firmly to this view, and was enabled at the close of his long and eminently successful life to say:
“My life has been one of uniform enjoyment because filled up at every stage with active labors for some useful end.”
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OF DIFFERENT AGES.
Every distinctively marked age has characteristics of its own. Its customs, habits of living, tendencies of thought, preferences in industrial pursuits, and inclination to the arts of peace or the turbulence of war, are all indicated by evidence sufficient!}’ definite to admit readily of identification in time by the observing student of history. Our own age is marked by achievements that distinguish it as the most active, aggressive and practical that the world has ever seen. Within the past 100 years things have undergone vast changes. The most casual observer can readily see that our century has but very little that corresponds to what was notable in industry and human affairs in the preceding ages.
In feudal times the grade of power of a king, prince, duke, or other leader, was. .determined by the number of followers subject to him. His influence was measured by the number of soldiers he could lead into battle. Money was comparatively scarce, and everywhere it was secondary to the power and influence of rank. From the $1,800,000,000 in circulation in the time of the Roman Empire the volume of currency had become contracted to about $200,000,000. A warlike spirit prevailed. The customs were peculiar to the time and in harmony with the conditions then existing. But the invention of gunpowder gradually wrought a change in the methods of conducting warfare. The small man became as serviceable in the field as the large one. In course of time, the armored knight, with his sword or lance, ceased to be a match for the plebeian foot-soldier and his rude fire-arms. He fell back into the shadows of obscurity, and with him disappeared forever the joust, and the tournament, and the old-time system of warfare. .
In the succeeding transition from feudal life, to a more modern state of things, the dwellers of the towns acquired as much power as they could seize.
In doing so they were greatly favored by the attendant chaos and disorganization in social and political conditions.— When peace returned and matters became adjusted to the new order of things it was found that labor and commerce were rapidly adding to the volume of currency, and that the banker, the money-lender and the man of business had acquired a power that entitled them to the recognition of rank, if it did not actually compel such recognition. . The bill of exchange and the promissory note largely increased the volume of currency, and in business became a substitute for money, while money became “the sinews of war!” The' king, prince, duke, and the like, found themselves unable to command the services of soldiers if without money to pay them. In a large measure their power had passed to bankers and money-lenders, and in practical affairs capitalists rose to a rank hardly second to that of rulers. And there they now stand. Money is more abundant than ever it was, and the strife to secure it seems to have correspondingly increased. All see that it gives an influence which even rank does not confer, and no one can fail to notice that it is sought even more _ eagerly than rank. In fact, with it rank can easily be. secured. If the desire to acquire wealth were not so eager, persistent and insatiable, it would evidently not posses's such power for harm. It would not be capable of exercising so sinister an influence upon affairs that intimately concern the welfare of society. It would not enable vulgar pretenders to reach the highest stations of honor and power. It would not be so potent an agent in countenancing the shoddy glitter, gaudy tinsel and artificial manners that have grown sb common since began the social reign of bonanza kings, stock-jobbers, Wall-street autocrats, and the like.
DESPICABLE FEATURES OF AVARICE.
This last reference suggests another view of the subject under consideration, and it is that the accumulation of vast means gives but very scant return for the unremitting labor, close attention and stinting parsimony, not to .say unscrupulous practices, frequently deemed necessary to acquire it. To the calm observer the passion to accumulate millions upon millions, never -resting, but ever pushing on through strife and hazard, seems to point to the misdirected zeal of the despised miser and to sug-gest-his as a twin passion. Both have more than they need to enable them to live in independence and comfort; but yet, actuated in common by the insatiable spirit of avarice, they learn to cultivate a disposition most odious in its grovelling and mercenary tendencies, and the finer feelings of their nature become blunted. By cultivating a selfishness which withers the generous impulses of the heart they deliberately choose to trudge along in the gloom and solitude of: a life destitute of utility to the public.. They choose to siand apart from the sympathetic and reciprocally helpful relations that conduce to the welfare of society and signalize the
• popular conception of public duty. •
It; is unquestionably proper and commendable for a man to acquire .	..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	659
A SUFFICIENT COMPETENCE
to maintain himself and family in independence and comfort. It is, in fact, a duty to provide against future want. It is laudable to guard against the encroachments of poverty. It does a man honor to overcome and rise above it. In the language of Dr. Johnson:
“ Let it be your first care not to be in any man’s debt. Resolve not to be poor. Whatever you have, spend less. Poverty is a great enemy to human happiness. It certainly destroys independence, and it makes some virtues impracticable and others extremely difficult.”
Let a man have ample means for all reasonable uses. Let him acquire a competence, but, according to Burns’ philosophy,
“ Not for to hide in a hedge,
Nor wait on train attendant, But for the glorious privilege Of being independent.”
Let him be able thoroughly to educate his children. Let him give them all the advantages the best institutions of learning offer, for nothing tends with greater certainty to make life useful and successful. He runs no risk of incurring disappointment by excessive zeal in this direction. Children properly trained and well-instructed do him more credit than unbounded riches. An intelligent, upright, industrious and promising son more truly fills the hearts and lives of his parents with satisfaction and happiness than could the actual possession of all the opulence that avarice might covet. And no wealth can compensate for the shame and misery parents feel when their children grow up in indolence, ignorance and vice—triple furies that mercilessly haunt idle, degraded and useless lives. The parent who becomes a virtual slave in toiling to acquire riches in order that his children may live in affluence and idleness makes a lamentable mistake. A proper sense of responsiblity and need of work is essential to the development of our best powers and the establishment of a firm character. Work is the great exerciser of impure thoughts, degrading preferences and criminal inclinations. From it they all flee. Foul and unwholesome as the water of a stagnant pool, the indolent life readily generates the fell brood of customary vices; but pure as the gushing spring of the mountain, beautiful as the rippling brook of the meadow, true and constant as the channel of a mighty river, a life of usefulness is a blessing to mankind, a source of lofty aims and noble virtues, an honor to all identified with it. What father would not rather have his son lead such a life, though comparatively poor in worldly possessions, than behold him rich as Croesus, though indolent, illiterate, selfish, degraded ?
“ For ’tis the mind that makes the body rich;
' And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds, So honor peereth in the meanest habit.”
UNCERTAINTIES IN THE WAY OF SUCCESS.
Besides, what uncertainty attaches to wealth! Croesus himself affords a pertinent example. But it is unnecessary to go to the remote past for examples. We have multitudes of them in our own
day. Fourteen years ago there was no man in Germany more prominent in business circles than: Strousberg, the railroad king. He owned railroads, factories, foundries, palaces, mines, blocks of buildings, vast landed estates, etc. His wealth was safely estimated at 60,000,000 marks. He was the companion of princes, nobles and ministers of finance. All eagerly sought his advice in monetary matters, and he was viewed as hardly less than a magician or sorcerer in affairs of business. But depression in trade set in after the Franco-German war. Conditions underwent a chancre. Kings Strousberg could not understand the new order of things, or accommodate himself and his methods to it. His great fortune ebbed away and totally disappeared. He became a beggar. The other day he died in Berlin. No friends were present. No expressions of sympathy were heard. He died a pauper, and soon afterward his remains were taken, away and buried in a pauper’s grave. But such instances are so numerous that it will not do to particularize. And it is unnecessary in this connection to refer to the recent disasters in Wall street. It would be superfluous to name the men whose millions upon millions were swept away in a few hours. Obedient to the promptings of an insatiable avarice, they could not be contented with •the ample fortunes they had. With a selfish disregard for the rights of others, they sought to acquire additional millions. And their avarice overreached itself. In trying to grasp too much, they lost all.
The wrecks of financial disaster are to be found in every city and town. Month by month they increase in number. There are but very few enterprises or business houses in any part of the country that were thought of or had a definite prospect of existence 100 years ago. The houses then prominent and the names then gsreat in the marts of trade have altogether disappeared. They have been swept into destruction by the recurring storms of financial disaster and have sunk into oblivion. All things seem ordained to grow up, flourish for a time, and then decay. And the great commercial enterprises of the world appear to be no exception to the rule. Most of those now notable have sprung up within the past fifty years. Who may foretell their fate for fifty years to come? And who may describe the feelings of a person prominent in business and wealth when he begins to miss his hold, to slip backward, to lose his riches? Who can understand the grief and misery of a person who stumbles and falls to the foot of the precipice -—back to the humblest plane of life? It were far better for him, and far more conducive to his happiness, if he had never risen above the - humble plane of obscurity and daily toil. Poverty, hardship, neglect and daily fellowship with the poor ' and the wretched, are never more difficult to endure than when they succeed comparative affluence. Then the contrast is greatest and fills life with the pain of disappointment and the inexorable miseries of multiplied privations. Poor victim! He sees the force of truth in the lines—
66o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“ Could I forget What I have been, I might the better bear What I am destined to. I am not the first That has been wretched; but to think how much I have been happier! ”
To be reduced to want; to see the whole current of his life changed; to behold his family sharing his reverses; to feel that he has no alternative but to engage in some menial work for which he is not qualified; to hear the harsh grating of formal expressions of condolence on the part of former friends; to know that every act of his and every indication of the increased frugality of his family is made a subject of comment among his neighbors; to think that his life is a failure, and that all his acquaintances so view it, and that he has fallen to an inferior plane of manhood in the estimation even of his own household, are all subjects of keen disappointment, bitter mortification and intense misery. Far happier is he who has never fallen from affluence to indigence, but who is progressing steadily and steadfastly, even though slowly, from indigence to comfort and independence. As Holmes says:
“ I find the great thing in this world is not so much where one stands, but in what direction he is moving.”
1	o
Every step forward puts him farther ahead than ever he was before. He takes no risks. He is content to proceed slowly and by legitimate means. He maintains an equable temper, is always the same, seeks to avoid giving pain to anyone, lives a life of usefulness, and makes his acts square with the requirements of duty. In short, he conducts himself as a man of honor and steadfast character, and he is viewed as such bv all that know him, no matter how poor he may be. The life of a man who so lives is full of contentment and happiness. To it comfort and independence cannot be denied. It is sure to be crowned with success. In fact, from the very beginning it is a success. Well docs he who aims so to live know that
“ What men most covet,—wealth, distinction, power, Are baubles nothing worth; they only serve
To rouse us up, as children at the school .
Are roused up to exertion; our reward
Is in the race we run, not in the prize.	'
Those few to whom is given what they ne’er earned, Having by favor or inheritance
The dangerous gifts placed in their hands, Know not, nor ever can, the generous pride That glows in him who on himself relies, Entering the lists of life. He speeds beyond Them all, and foremost in the race succeeds.
His joy is not that he has got his crown,	_
But that the power to win the crown is his.”
Men could far better endure the privations incident to unpropitious fortune were it not for the CONTRASTS BETWEEN WEALTH AND INDIGENCE so obtrusively- presented. And the person who by avarice, indirection and unscrupulous ways amasses vast means and delights in improving opportunities to show how much richer he is than others, cannot reasonably expect to be sincerely honored or respected. The accumulation in his hands of what would, if equally distributed, make thousands comfortable, suggests even of itself contrasts that ir
ritate many. And the spirit of our laws and political institutions is opposed to marked distinctions between citizens, whether in respect to their standing before courts of justice or in their social reations to ward one another. In the Federal constitution itself the fathers of the Republic were careful to embody a provision prohibitory of the use or acceptance of titles of rank and heraldic distinctions of all kinds. And who will argue that the spirit of that provision is not inferentially prohibitory of the contrasts which superabundant accumulations of wealth are so likely to create? The laws are by no means friendly to the acquisition of dangerous powers by any man or class of men, and the intermeddling in public affairs of those who control vast accumulations of capital is viewed with extreme jealousy by all who bestow particular attention upon the old-time landmarks of the Government. While human nature is weak there will be a tendency to obliterate or cover up the visible contrasts or distinctions between wealth and poverty, for the poor who share feelings of common pride dislike to have evidences of their unfortunate condition emphasized by their dress, social rank or general style of living. Hence they are peculiarly pained by inability to exhibit indications of sufficient means in possession to overcome such contrasts. And this very weakness leads to an extravagance which they are poorly prepared to indulge—an extravagance which often becomes a cause of vice and crime. It will hardly be denied that in these particulars the contrasts which excessive wealth is likely to produce are detrimental both to society and the State. But it is not pleasant to treat this subject, and .with those few words it is dismissed.
It may be stated, as a rule, that in every walk of life
PERSEVERING LABOR IS ESSENTIAL
to success. The most brilliant genius is practically useless without hard work. Buffon says, “ Genius is only a protracted patience.” And Dr. Dewey declares that “Genius will study; it is that in the mind which does study; that is the- very nature of it.” Sydney Smith adds his voice to this testimony and says: “ There is but one method of attaining-to excellence, and that is by hard labor. . . . There arc many modes of being frivolous and not a few of being useful; there is but one mode of being intellectually great.” There can be no doubt that well-directed efforts strengthen both mind and body. The more a person does, the more he becomes able to do. If he has a duty to discharge or a special task to perform he can easily do twice as much as when he works without an object. Voluntary and unnecessary labors are never so fertile in results as those directed under a sense of obligation to a specific aim. Everybody may for himself notice how much more he can accomplish when his work proceeds under the consciousness of a duty to be performed than when it is due to the caprice of the hour or a mere voluntary impulse. Coleridge truthfully says:
“ Work -without hope draws nectar in a sieve, And hope without an object cannot live.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
661
There is no person who has not observed how readily skill and precision are acquired by persevering work in the trades, the arts, the professions, and all kinds of labor. This is as true in reference to the mind as it is to the hands, eyes, and physical capacities. In short, the mind, like the body, is weakened by sloth and strengthened by activity. The idea is thus expressed in one of the many works that deal with the great subject of mental philosophy:
“ Our minds, when left to sloth and inactivity, lose their vigor; but when they are kept in exercise, and after performing what was before them, are taxed with new requisitions, it is not easy to assign limits to their ability.”
In view of such testimony, who can desire to live a life of sloth and inactivity? Who can even desire to be placed in a position that must encourage him to dwell in so dwarfing an atmosphere? All nature protests against it. The stagnant pool which sends forth its noisome exhalations to corrupt and poison the surrounding atmosphere protests against it. The foul and motionless air of places out of the reach of the purifying winds and ever-varying atmospheric currents is an admonition that sloth and inactivity mean death. Seasons change, rivers run to the sea, currents sweep through the ocean, the soil puts forth its vigor in perennial vegetation and life-sustaining • harvests, and the elements unceasingly exercise their reciprocal powers as a necessary condition to the existence of life upon the earth. All things teach that activity is health and life, and that inaction is decay and death. The one is purity and vigor; the other is disintregation and corruption. Do not then murmur at conditions that render it necessary to work, to be active, to be vigilant. Do not repine or- grow disheartened at the prospect of having to learn
THE LESSONS OF ADVERSITY.
They are practical and salutary. They will develop and bring out whatever latent genius or talents you may have. They have been long and painfully studied by many whose names rank among the greatest in history. The word “ adversity ” is inscribed in lustrous characters upon the noblest records of human action. .
“ The gods in bounty work up storms about us
That give mankind occasion to exert
Their hidden strength, and throw out into practice ■ Virtues that shun the day, and lie concealed .
In the smooth seasons and calms of life.”
Confining attention to the great names of our own country; very few can be mentioned that were not either directly or indirectly associated at one time or another with the practical experiences and severe lessons of adversity. The lives of such men and the whole history of the country prove it. I might instance Franklin, Fulton, Morse, Marshall, Jackson, Clay, Greeley, Lincoln, Wilson, Weed, Bishop Hughes, Brownson, Carpenter, Johnson, Garfield, and innumerable others, as affording conclusive evidence of the accuracy of this statement. But it would take too long to re-, fer to them in detail. Before dismissing the sub
ject, however, let me give you an extract from an address delivered to the people of Great Falls, N. H., by the late Henry Wilson, who long and ably served his country in the United States Senate and as Vice-President of the Nation.
“I was born here in your county. I was born in • poverty. Want sat by my cradle. I know what it is to ask a mother for bread when she had none to give. I left my home at ten years of age and served an apprenticeship of eleven years, receiving a month’s schooling each year, and at the end of eleven years’ hard work I received as compensation a yoke of oxen and six sheep, which brought me $84. A dollar would cover every penny I spent from the time I was born until I was 21 years of age. I know what it it is to travel weary miles and ask my fellow-men to give me leave to toil. I remember that in September, 1833, I walked into your village from my native town, and went through your mills seeking employment. If anybody had offered me $8 or $9 a month, I should have accepted gladly. I went down to Salem Falls, I went to Dover, I went to Newmarket, and tried to get work, without success; and I returned home weary, but not discouraged, and put my pack on my back and walked to the town where I now live, and learned a mechanic’s trade. The first month I worked after I was 21 years of age, I went into the woods, drove team, cut mill-logs, and chopped wood; and though I rose in the morning before daylight, and worked hard until after dark at night, I received the magnificent sum of $2. And when I got the money, those two dollars looked to me as large as the moon looks to-night.”
And in describing his own experiences in early life Thurlow Weed says:
“ I remember how happy I was in being able to borrow the book of a Mr. Keyes, after a two-mile tramp through the snow, shoeless, my feet swaddled in the remnants of a rag-carpet.”
Young men, in entering upon the discharge of the stern duties of life borrow courage from such examples. No matter against how many privations you must contend. With courage and fortitude go forward. Endeavor to be successful in the better sense of the word. As Bacon say's,
“ Seek not proud riches, but such as you may get justly, use soberly, distribute cheerfully, and leave contentedly.”
Remember that unless a man is upright, humane and charitable toward his fellow-men, and useful, industrious and devoted to duty in his relations to society, an impartial world will not be inclined to pronounce his
LIFE SUCCESSFUL. '	'
Do not be influenced by the popular fallacy that you may waste your earlier years in the pursuit of foolish pleasures, or in “ seeing all sides of life,” as some express it. Do not seek to shelter yourselves from reproof for extravagance, and profligacy, and mis-spent years, behind the subterfuge of « follies of youth.” Foily is not necessarily referable to any age, and it requires a strong effort of the imagination to suppose that one who habitually exhibits it in youth will grow out of it when older. In this connection let me call your attention to one of the noblest passages in Ruskin’s writings:
“ In general, I have no patience with people who talk about ‘ the thoughtlessness of youth ’ indulgently; I would infinitely rather hear of thoughtless old age and the indulgence due to that. ... A youth thoughtless, when all the happiness of his home forever depends on the . chances or the passions of an hour! A youth thoughtless, when the career of all his days depends on the oppor
66z	THE HOTitE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tunity of a moment! A youth thoughtless, when his every action is a foundation-stone of future conduct, and every imagination a fountain of life or death! ”
«The follies of youth ” too often become the foundation of a whole lifetime of folly. Do not offer so flimsy an excuse in justification of profligacy and wrong-doing. Habit has justly been called “second nature.” It grows and becomes stronger with each repeated act of indulgence. If you find the effort to overcome it difficult at first, be sure that subsequent efforts in the same direction will be attended with increased difficulty. Be sure, therefore, that if you shelter bad habits behind the poor subterfuge styled “ follies of youth,” thejr may grow upon you, work ruin to your best prospects, and hopelessly wreck your lives.
Choose your vocation or profession with great care. Having made a selection, stick to it. Be tiue to your judgment in the matter. Do not turn capriciously from one occupation to another in case you feel inclined to be dissatisfied with your choice. Do not become dissatisfied with it. Go forward with an invincible purpose to succeed. Propose to yourself an object. Have a definite aim. And push on to attain it with all the vigor, judgment and ability you possess. No matter what your business, devote your best energies to it. Be sure that in the general and active competition now prevailing every line of business has its full complement of energetic, experienced and intelligent representatives. And be sure also that you would make a mistake and court failure by entering into competition with them in any calling with which you are unacquainted. Attend to the calling you undeistand, devote your undivided attention to it, and be certain that in it your chances of success are much better than in a vocation involving obligations and duties with which you are comparatively unfamiliar. Furthermore, do not endeavor to become suddenly rich. Be assured that slow and steady progress will afford you truer satisfaction, and involve far less hazard to the business in which you are engaged. To give an inflated or magnified importance to one’s wealth or business standing is always injudicious. It is a mere bubble, and the first chill of adversity breaks it. Besides, it renders necessary, “ in order to maintain appearances,” acts of display and extravagance that too severely tax small profits’ and limited means, and consequently invite failure. Be honorable, straightforward, temperate, careful as to whom you choose foi’ companions, averse to all kinds of games of chance, and convinced that nothing truly serviceable to you can be acquired without honest work.	.
Try to go through life with a heart: large enough to feel sympathy with the distressed of all quarters of the globe, a sense of philanthropy broad enough to include all mankind, a steadfast purpose not to be betrayed into wrong-doing under any circumstances, a love of work and industry that makes indolence impossible, a hand open to. every .worthy object that appeals to our common humanity, an honest interest in the welfare of the State and the good of society, and an earnest de
sire to promote true religion as a means of surrounding the sacredness of your homes and family ties with strongest safeguards, and ultimately insuring the crowning glory of a successful life in the realization of that complete tranquility and perfect felicity promised to those who faithfully observe God’s holy laws and commandments.
Farewell.
As blend the days into a year, As blend the years into an age, So ages fade and leave no mark,— No record on the blotted page Presented to the eyes of men, Called History;—which reaches o’er The past as might a man stretch out His arm and reach the farthest shore
Of widest sea! And ages past
Are oft forgot. The days glide on And in oblivion soon are lost;—
Gone as the flakes of snow are gone
That fall upon the ocean’s breast And add their little to the sea, Unnoticed there to blend themselves With measureless immensity.
Another year has softly fled
And mingled with the dreamy past: Another year of pleasant toil
Is ended; and we meet at last To say farewell. When looking back Upon each swiftly-passing year, It seems as but a calm, sweet day
Since leaving scenes our hearts hold dear— Our parents and our childhood’s friends;—
It seems as but a short, dim day Since, leaving idle sports behind, Our childish joys, our thoughtless play, We entered on the busy months '
Of study:—and those months have fled Unnoticed;—only marked by fruits
They may have born us. If instead Of satisfaction pain be ours, The remedy is lost:—We know, When sowing, by our choice of seed, The plant that must by nature grow.
.	This longed-for day of happiness •
. , Is all now left us of the year; ~ To-day are-sundered pleasant ties Of friendship: yet howe’er so dear The bonds association weaves, They vanish by comparison
.. With love that’s tried from cradle-days.
. And now our parting-day is come, Our happiness but shows our hearts .	? The place of dearest ties above
-	. Less’ dear. Weleave these friendships’ haunts
To dwell among the haunts of love.
.	:	.	W. H. Johnston.
One of the heaviest things in this world is the fl test of truth.” There is so much that won’t bear it.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
663
kJ
Classical Education.*
“ Qui studet optatam cursu contingere metam Malta tulit fecitque puer sudavit et alsit	'
Abstinuerc Venere etvino.”
Horace—De Arte Poetica.
A youth had striven many years to win a prize in the Olympian games. Through ten long years of toil and sacrifice, he had labored’with this one end in view. It had given color to his life; shape and purpose to his dreams by day and night. For him there were no sweets of choral song, no nard from Sicily, no sparkling wine, no smiles from dark-eyed dancing girls; no banquets and no theatre. No sacrifice for him could be too hard, no toil too constant, no effort too continuous or too great. And now, four golden autumns flashing one into another, brought the day when his long-blossomed hope .might ripen into golden fruit of victory. He stands by his splendid chariot in the valley of Olympia. Before him the gray mountain-top of Cronins loses itself in the calm azure of the sky. Beneath it streams the rippling Alpheus shadowed by lofty Sycamores, and fed by two bright streams that formed on either side the limits of the hippodrome. Away in the sacred wood of Altis rose the great masterpiece of Phydias-—the Olympian Jove. And here about him round the hippodrome were gathered the multitudes of Greece. O glorious land, beloved of gods and men! thy hosts were god-like in that elder day! From all thy many states thy children came; by their pure love of manly strength and matchless beauty here united. And when amid the silenced crowds the judges entered by the stadium’s secret gates, when, after five long days the trials of strength and genius ended; he who labored most, had conquered in the foot and chariot race, had been proclaimed the victor, and had won—a simple laurel wreath entwined about his head.
What, then, if one had asked the cui bono of a later day ? had told him he could pluck a laurel from the nearest mountain side; that the bay he thought immortal was withering on his brow? Thus, too, it happens, to one who has given up the spring-time of his life to conning dusty tomes of Latin and of Greek; who has only striven after the beautiful and the good; when he is told that his school-labor has been wasted, he feels only anger and disgust at the arguments brought against the time-honored advantages of Classical Education. It is the old, old contest between ideas and realities; in its best form we call it now, the contest between Literature and Science.
Let us not be extremists; let us discuss a practical question in a practical way. In the first place, should a boy be educated? What does “ education ” mean ? We think we can safely say that it means development. It is notour purpose to ignore the necessity that every complete sys-. tern has, to look to the triple development of body, mind, and soul. We think, however, it goes
* Prize-Essay for the English Medal.
without saying that in treating our question it is only necessary to consider what system will best develop the faculties of the mind, and best satisfy the noblest aspirations of the soul. Let us consider the necessity of education, the end it should aim to accomplish; then, what advantages the Classical System gives towards attaining that end; finally, the objections against that system, as embodied in the arguments in favor of the “Practical,” “English,” “ Modern,” and “ Scientific ” systems of the present day.
What is the need of education? Why has it engrossed attention from every State in everytime? Why not leave the children grow up in a state of nature? From the lips of Socrates, reported by Plato, comes an answer:
“ Calias, I said, if your two sons were colts or calves, we should have had to choose a master for them and hire a person who would make them excel in such qualities as belong to their nature, and he would have been a groom or a farmer. But now, since your sons are men, what master , do you intend to choose for them ? Who is there skilled in the qualities that become a man and a citizen? I suppose ■ you must have considered this, since you have sonsP
The nature of man cannot of itself attain its best development. Socrates only said what the world knew before him; what the world has said after him. Man cannot stand alone. Complete self-reliance in intellectual development is equalled only by entire subjectivity in religious matters.
How do we distinguish between educated and uneducated men? There are, it seems to us, many differences at once apparent. Be the distinction great or small, no difficulty stands in the way of its recognition. For men of true culture bear a stamp that needs no proving; as the old monk in one of Lord Tennyson’s “ Idylls ” says:	=
“ O brother, I have- seen this yew-tree smoke Spring after spring for a half a hundred years, For never have I known the world without, Nor ever strayed beyond the pale; but thee, When first thou earnest—such a courtesy	'
Spake through the limbs and in the voice—I knew For one of those who eat in ikrthur’s hall:	>
For good ye are and bad, and like to coin— Some true, some light, but every one of you Stamped with the image of the king.”	'
A smile, a word, a reference given and as quickly caught, first shows' the tillage -of the soul. This freemasonry between all men of culture, most excites the admiration of the vulgar. .No man needs to be long at a loss to know whether this man or that has enjoyed a true education. No men are so anxious to secure for their children the advantages of a University, as they who themselves have never enjoyed them. They may overestimate the advantages; but they must at least clearly see that the advantages exist.	.
But let not the reader think that we are breaking ground- for any arguments based on the popular idea of education. We merely ask it to be conceded that some intellectual and moral training is necessary. With regard to the end to be reached by the ideal system, the great majority of people are wofully mistaken. We should therefore in this connection consider the true end of education.
664	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The true education teaches man the one duty, Fvlbte asau-w—Know thyself! For this includes everything. It studies the constitution of man. It declares the existence of the non-material. It searches for the nature of mind and matter, and the correlation existing between them. It teaches to man his real position; his greatness and his littleness. Its poles-star is the beautiful; its foundation, the tripled unity of the good, the beautiful and the true. If it seeks for knowledge, it is but to acquire a means. It would bring
“ The drooping flowei" of knowledge changed to fruit Of wisdom.
To be truly wise, to know oneself, and therefore to be mindful of past and future years; to be prepared to grapple with the problems of a sordid life and yet remain in full accord with the flowers and the sunshine; to keep the one great end in view and ne’er confuse it with the petty struggles of the every-day; to keep a large vision, a broad judgment and a kindly heart; to know the worth of any century’s brag and yet to be a part and parcel of an age;—this is to be truly cultured; this is to be trained b}' the ideal education.	'
Can we hope to gain so much by the Classical system of education? Let us see. It, too, starts with the assumption that
“Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers.”
Its aim is not to impart a certain amount of more or less useful information. It does not try to make a man learned, but studious. It fights, shy of fourteen-weekologies. It decries the superficial. Its end is wisdom; its method, symbolism; its pole-star, the beautiful; its foundation the tripled unity of the good, the beautiful and the true. It is philosophy expressed- in the world’s best literature.
No nation of the past or present can compare with ancient Greece. No language is so perfect, so flexible, so delicate as the Greek. No philosophy has been so subtile, and, considering its utter nakedness, so true. No civilization has been so noble, no race so god-like as that which flourished among the many-fountained hills.of the Achaean land! Therefore it is that the student yields his soul to the memory of Greece. Thus, mere utility is made subservient to higher ends. The mind broadens, the heart lightens, the whole self-nature attunes itself with the rhythm of the world. It gives to youth fearlessness and high purpose; after-experience will make the man sufficiently commonplace.
In the study of the Latin is found a part of the mere intellectual drill to be acquired bj- the study of the Greek. It moreover gives, us in different phrase the best gleanings from the older literature. But its great advantage is found in the fact that it is the mother-tongue of Europe. It forms the allin-all of the Latin languages—French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese—of continental Europe. With German, it composes our own English tongue; and • there is no need for saying that its knowledge is indispensable for the correct understanding of our patiye speech. Nay, more, a correct understand
ing of our etymology tends to make the language simpler and purer. The men who know Latin, love the Saxon best. They best know the true genius of our language. They, too, best understand the force of our Latin words, are sensitive to their popular misuse, try hardest to render them into words that have milk for the people. Moreover, it is in Latin—or, to a less successful degree, in French—that all philosophy must be written. Anyone who has had the least opportunity for observing, must have noticed the sheer impossibility of embodying philosophy in an English text-book. Yet we must have philosophy. The Classical system, true to its purpose, instils into all its disciples the Love of Wisdom—the desire to search into philosophy. No system can dare to ignore it. All men think they possess it. In a time like our own, of tearing down and building up, it is the sine qzta non of a man’s education. Religious sects are decaying, scientific sects are forming; we need something to hold to. In the universal doubt, there must be some methods to work with, some principles to rely on. Many men have good instincts, some a kind of natural philosophy; but the majority of us need a year or two on the benches before we are ready to consider, to encounter, to overcome the thinkers of the world.
There is no room for a resume. In a broad way, we admire the Classical System because it realizes that it can at best only begin a work that time alone can end; because it does not mistake a means for the end; because it inquires into the nature of things—the whole universe and its Sovereign Maker—and seeks to establish the correlation between them. To speak exactly, we believe in the study of Grecian literature because it is the most ennobling ever written. It is theyhwy et principium of all following after. We believe in the study of Latin, because its knowledge is essential to the understanding of English and the study of philosophy. Again, we believe, as did the best Roman, mediaeval and modern educators, —that no training is so well fitted to train the mind for all future exercises as the study of languages. So, too, among languages we must distinguish in favor of the German or the Greek. But in addition to other pleas for the latter must be said our crowning argument; the knowledge of Greek (and Latin) mythology is necessary to appreciate the best authors of English literature. It had been our intention to consider some objections against our system, in order to draw from them some ar-gumentstyor it. Suffice it to indicate that the other systems rest upon unstable assumptions. They seek to build, yet lay no foundations. They assume that education means boundless cramming of information.	7
One man would. have his son only, learn what he will need for- his. trade of profession. The absurdity here is manifest. Strictly speaking, a man needs—requires essentially—hardly any theoretical knowledge for any trade or profession. Some men there 'are who have acquired colossal fortunes by mere native cunning, unaided by even an elementary knowledge of practical arithmetic. So, too,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
665
there are men who earn at least local reputations at medicine or law, and yet have no general nor even technical knowledge. But on the other hand—for any trade or profession—all knowledge is needful. So intimate, for example, are the relations between theology, medicine and law, that the best lawyer should be familiar with canon law and anatomy. The practical system may, therefore, be satisfied with either nothing or demand everything; and when “ everything ” is granted, the only end proposed for attainment, is—money.
The English system starts with aims narrower, but still somewhat similar to our own. It is based on the pleasantly modest assumption that the English language and literature is the best that the world has produced. Also that philosophy can be studied through the medium of our Saxon tongue. Besides these two trifling mistakes the O	O
system forgets that neither our language can be thoroughly known nor our literature appreciated except through the knowledge of Latin and Greek.
Other systems have for their corner-stone -the idea of modernness or utility. They would substitute the study of French and German for Latin and Greek. The substitution is by no means a bad one; but arguments already adduced go to show that these tongues should supplement, not supersede, the languages of our schools. With regard to the scientific system it is sufficient to say that the sciences should not and cannot be properly studied except by a mind trained by the languages and philosophy. For ourselves we cannot enthuse over the march of modern science. We have developed steam and begun to study electricity. Practically this is all. The botanist who tears the beautiful floweret to pieces, who supersedes its common country name by his own pedantic title, as such ranks far below the man who sees the flower growing by the way-side, enhales its sweetness, and, with a kinder heart, goes by. With regard to the pernicious influence of scientists, there is no need to speak. They have theorized on nothing, built theory on theory, guessed and hoped where they claimed to surely know. Impatient of restraint, they have inveighed against all .the better faiths of men. Their virulence against the Classical System is only equalled by their hatred of the Church; for both place in a measure reliance on the same calm philosophy. The greatest objection, however, to the scientific system then, is found in the fact that it sacrifices the individual to the multitude.
The nineteenth century shows, as Herbert Spencer says, that governments will soon bring us back to “bread and the circus” for the people. The system produces some great results—an engine or telegraph—but the thousands of young men who cannot nor will not follow scientific investigations through a life, find themselves barren of resources; find their minds in need of ballast; join every ism that mistaken science may suggest.
“ And the individual withers, and the world is more and more.”
In conclusion, then, we will say, that this essay, literally written in a night (and that too, with a
determination to ignore all that had been inflicted in this line upon a long-suffering public), but expresses the views of its author. Classical education needs no apologist. By their fruits, said the Master, ye shall knozu them. There is to-day no more striking fact than a list of the great English-speaking men of the world. We will venture to say there are few who have not received a classical education. The great Professor Huxley has lately determined that whatever fame his son may chance to acquire in science, he must rear his structure on the solid foundation of a Classical Education.	T. E. Steele, ’84.
The Brownson Celebration.	-
The following letter, received too late for insertion in our last number, contains such a merited and fitting tribute to the memory of the great Dr. Brownson, that we feel justified in laying it before our readers. It goes without the saving that too much cannot be done to perpetuate the memory of .the great philosopher, and thus keep before the minds of the youthful learners of the present day a noble standard of imitation in the particular walks of student life:	'
Chicago June, 16, 1S84.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.,Pres't Notre Dame University.
Rev. and Dear Father:—Absence from the city will explain, and I hope offer a sufficient apology for my delay in acknowledging your courteous invitation to the ceremony of unveiling the memorial portrait of Dr. Brownson in the Music Hall at Notre Dame It would have been for me an honor and privilege to assist at this interesting ceremony. Nowhere, could the portrait of the great publicist and philosopher find a more fitting home and place than in the halls of learning of a Catholic University: and I rejoice that Notre Dame has the honor of being the first institution to pay this fitting homage to the mighty Doctor. The present generation do not perhaps sufficiently realize and appreciate the wealth of Dr. Brownson’s supreme ability nor the extent of his services to the cause of Catholic truth and Catholic literature. In and during a critical period of our history his pen was constantly engaged, and the resources of his wonderful intellect steadily employed in championing Catholic principles, which, as he has shown, form the surest guaranty for the security and perpetuity of free institutions in America,—and would most certainly promote the welfare and happiness of the American people. Justly, therefore, may you hold him out as an illustrious example to the Catholic youth, as one who, when he came to know the truth had the grace and strength to adopt it, cherish it loyally, and fight for it valiantly all through the rest of his life—to the end. If he was not “crowned with earthly honors and wealth,” he achieved for himself and for his memory a greater and more enduring glory;— he fought unselfishly in the cause of truth for the vindication of Catholic principles. Honor to his memory I peace to his soul!	.
Thanking you for the compliment paid me by your hos- r pitable and polite invitation, and with best wishes for the : continued prosperity of Notre Dame, I remain,
.	Yours very truly, •
-	W. J. Onahan. .
If there were no enemy, there could be no conflict; were there no trouble, there could be nd faith;’ were there no trial, there could be no love; were there no fear, there could be no hope. Hope, faith,.. and love are weapons that imply foes and encounters, and, relying on my weapons, I will glory" in my suffering. Cardinal Newman.
666	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
m w SGMR
Notre Dame, June 25, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate tor the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the. University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.^o per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
’	T. Ewing
J. A. McIntyre, ’84. Elmer A. Otis, ’84. James Solon, ’84.
Steele, ’84.
W. H. Bailey, ’84.
C. A. Tinley, ’84.
W.H. Johnston,’ 85.
C. F. Porter, ’85.
way through life! May it be theirs to realize the fondest anticipations of themselves and friends in the career now opened out before them!
To them and to all the students who to-day depart to begin their work in life the Scholastic extends its best wishes for happiness and success.
—We are authorized to announce that the ceremony of the dedication of the New Notre Dame and the crowning of the statue of Our Lady is postponed to a suitable date next year. As intimated in our last number, this action, deeply regretted by everyone, is due to the inability of an electric company to meet their engagements. Many are aware that one of the most cherished ideas of the venerable Founder of Notre Dame is the crown of electric stars to encircle the head of the statue of Our Ladv. Arrangements had been perfected with a company to supply the lamps, but, as stated, they find it impossible to do it within the specified time. No doubt, an early day in the coming year will be appointed for the ceremony— the writer would venture to suggest the 31st of May, on account of associations connected therewith. After all, the disappointment will not be so greatly felt when it is realized that in the meantime many needed improvements can be made and the New Notre Dame ready in every particular to receive its blessing and consecration.
—In last week’s account of the St. Cecilia reunion and banquet we forgot to mention a time-honored custom of the Society at these reunions—-namely, the drawing of the ring. At the close of the banquet all the members of the Society for the current year have a cake placed before them in which is a gold ring. When cut and passed around, the lucky member taking the piece with the ring becomes king for that day, and proclaims a conge for his subjects. The fortunate man this year was George Schaefer.
—’Sq’s Commencement Day opens very auspiciously. A goodly array of bright, cheerful, kind faces are assembled to greet those who this morning- bid adieu to student life in . its best and homeliest form, and go forth from the halls of their Alma Mater to begin, that struggle in life for which they have sought to fit themselves while here. May the bright aspect Which now pervades all before and around them ever light their path-
Commencement Week.
The University examinations closed eaily on Monday afternoon, and about five o’clock the students were assembled in the Rotunda and heard the averages read to them by the Rev. President Walsh, in the presence of the Faculty and many visitors. Lack of space prevents us from giving the results of the examinations in this number, but they will appear in our next, together with the prizes, degrees, etc., conferred on this (Wednesday) morning. On the whole, the examinations proved very satisfactory and, as the general averages will indicate, an earnest, manly spirit has pervaded all departments of the University throughout the year.
On Monday evening, at half-past seven o’clock, the proceedings peculiar to Commencement time were opened by the
EUGLOSSIAN ASSOCIATION.
A numerous and bright array of visitors, far exceeding in numbers any of the large audiences which usually meet on the first night of Notre Dame’s Commencements, greeted the youthful competitors in the “Oratorical Contest.” The programme is given in full in our local columns.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

The exercises were opened by the University Orchestra with Hermann’s beautiful overture, “ Chevalier Breton.” They played with good taste and feeling, and were heartily applauded. Mr. Delano C. Saviers then appeared upon the stage and delivered a declamation entitled “Reo'u-lus.” In his rendition he gave evidence of good elocutionary training, and, despite the annoyance incident to “late arrivals” enchained the attention of the audience from beginning to end. He was followed by Mr. J. Conway, who took as the subject of his recitation, “ Benedict Arnold,” in which, with great force and energy and good movement and gesture, he depicted the last moments of the traitor. The vocal solo by Mr. W. Ramsay, which came next, was well sung, and received with great favor by the audience. Mr. Elmer A. Otis presented an ably-written and well-delivered Oration on “ The Drama.” Mr. Daniel G. Taylor declaimed, with good effect, the “ Spanish Duel.”
Next came a Duo for violin and piano, by Prof. Paul and Mr. W. Schott. It formed a very pleasing interlude and elicited rounds of merited applause. Mr. Otis B. Spencer’s declamation “ Mark Antony,” was a good specimen of oratorical skill. A humerous impersonation entitled “ First Impressions of Music ” was given by Mr. W. E. Ramsay, and afforded him an opportunity of displaying to advantage his elocutionary abilities.
Mr. James Solon was greeted with great applause by his fellow-students as he stepped upon the stage and began a fine discourse on “ The Power and Influence of the Orator.” As we hope to present the production in a future number, we shall refrain from even a synopsis at the present time. Master Thomas Cleary next sang an Aria from “ Martha,” and with pleasing effect. After him came the University Quintette who rendered, in exquisite style, one of Haydn’s beautiful symphonies.
The entertainment concluded with the presentation of the fourth act of Shakspeare’s “ Merchant of Venice.” The Dramatis Persona will be found in the programme as printed in our local columns. Each one sustained his part in a creditable and really excellent manner.
On the conclusion of the entertainment, the Rt. Rev. Bishop De Oca, accompanied by Very Rev. Father General Sorin, Rev. President Walsh, and others of the clergy and distinguished guests ascended the stage and conducted the o
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS IN THE MINIM DEPARTMENT.
The youthful students were beautifully grouped upon the stage and received their awards with all the grace and dignity of the most accomplished courtiers. The list of premiums will be found in another page. Owing to the lateness of the hour there were no closing remarks, but all retired well pleased.
• Tuesday.	.
In this number we can give but a mere outline of o
the proceedings on yesterday. The day was be
gun with the celebration of Solemn High Mass at eight o’clock. Rev. President Walsh was celebrant, assistedby Rev, D. J. Spillard and N. Stoffel, as deacon and subdeacon. Prof. Paul’s choir executed a Cecilian Mass in good style.
At 11 o’clock
THE REGATTjV took place and proved a very close and exciting contest. The flag of victory was carried away by the “ Whites,” under the leadership of Elmer A. Otis.
At twelve o’clock,
THE MEETING OF THE ALUMNI was held and the following officers elected for the ensuing year: President, Rev. John R. Dinnen, ’66; ist Vice-President, William Hoynes, ’69; 2d Vice-President, Florian Devoto, ’74; Secretary, Rev. N.J. Stoffel, ’76; Treasurer, Jos. A. Lyons, ’62; Orator, John M. Gibbons, ’6^; Poet, Rev. A. M. Kirsch, ’76; Alternate, Geo. M. Sugg, ’81; Historian, Jas. F. Edwards, ’69.
At two o’clock the Alumni banquet was held, a report of which we must defer to our next number.
During the afternoon, prizes for athletic sports were distributed in the Senior and Junior departments. In the Junior department, medals were carried off by P. Yrisarri and J. Nester. In the Senior department, fifteen (15) medals were given for the best general players and the champion nine; the latter was taken by the “Universities.” For general playing, medals were bestowed as follows:-F. Wheatly (a special medal for captain), V. Burke, H. Steis, H. Porter, C. Carroll, B. Snouffer, S. Dickerson, E. J. Hotaling-, W. Coghlin, J. Guthrie, J. Shea, W. Mahon, L. Mathers.
In the evening, the exercises were conducted in Washington Hall as 'per programme. The Cantata, “ William Tell,” was presented by the Orpheonic Choral Society, under the direction of Bro. Anselm, ably assisted by a grand orchestra of twenty-five instruments, under the leadership of Prof. Paul. The morceait was very well rendered and favorably received by the audience. The following is a synopsis of the
Programme.
I—Concert Overture................Ch. Bach
1	II—Introductory Serenade
III—Morning Greeting.................Chorus
IV—“ Tell’s Patriotic Pledge,” Solo by Geo. Schaefer V—Hunting Chorus	"	-
VI—“ Forest Reverie,” Solo by William Divine VII—The Voice of Duty—Duo, by T. Cleary, and
J. A. McIntyre.
VIII—Recitative....................W. Ramsay
IX—Prayer.......................  Sextelle
X—Bucolic Ode to Liberty.........Orchestra
XI—Tyroliene....................... Chorus
XII—War Song—Solo, by T. J. Cleary.
XIII—The Dawn- of Freedom—Grand Finale.
The. Alumni Oration was delivered by Prof. Hoynes, and was a masterly production. Weare glad to present it to our readers this week.
We regret that the pressure on our columns this week prevents us from giving more than this meagre account, but it shall be our endeavor to supply for the deficiency in our next. .
668
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Exchanges—V ale.
The Editor, makes iiis Bow, and Retires from all Notoriety. The Last of the Exchanges.
“Forever, and forever Farewell, Cassius'”
—S Jiakespeare.
“ A lidless watcher of the public weal.”
—Tennyson.
“And they said Farewell, forever!
Said Farewell, O Hiawatha!
And the forests dark and lonely
Moved through all their depths of darkness, Sighed Farewell, 0 Hiawatha!
And the waves upon the margin, Rising rippling on the pebbles, Sobbed, Farewell, O Hiawatha! And the heron, the Shuk-shuk-gah, From her haunts among the fen-lands Screamed Farewell, O Hiawatha!”
.	—Longfellow.
The year is ended. The time has come to say good-bye. Some people at this crisis would say “farewell” (for example, Mr. Longfellow); but we prefer to say good-bye. Yes, indeed, the “ merciless” Ex-ed. has had his last whack at the Exchanges. Well, he enjoyed them! And what a variegated lot they were, and how awfully blue he must feel now that examinations are loner ago happily past, and the thermometer stands at 173° in the shade, to give up writing his weekly grind about their merits and drawbacks 1 “Finbacks,” they say at Vassar; “ Pinchbacks,” in New Orleans. We say drawbacks. For example, there were the papers from Amherst and Yale—they drew back entirely too much—they never came at all. Then the Vassar Miss Celaney. Oh, the ingratitude of that girl! We spent fully seventy-three cents in an attempt to make her comfortable at the late Convention. We have praised her, ridiculed her, patronized her, abused her, and all in vain; she won’t wake up to the fact that the Notre Dame Scholastic, Exchange-editor and all, comes once a week to her sanctum. “’Twas ever thus! ”
“ One writes that other friends remain.”	•
So they do,—that’s a fact! . For example, we have continually with us the good old reliable ■ bald-headed jokes that accompany the Cornell Era and the University Lantern, from Columbus, Ohio. So, too, the Hamilton College Monthly with its quota of charming essays and poems—generally about thirty-five in number— has never failed to reach us. Nor do we ever miss the genial St. Mary's Sentinel and the College Message from Cape Girardeau. The Harvard Crimson and Cornell Sun—our high-toned daily exchanges—are not always with us. Neither is the Indiana Student, the Virginia University Magazine, the Harvard Lampoon or the New York Quarterly. Most of our friends, however, have been very regular. We are sorry we have no space here to mention them. We can only say that we-have for them all the warmest good feeling, that we wish them all good luck in the days to come, and that we are anxious to know some of
them better—for. example, him of the Lndex-Yes, Brother Index, thou giant among the pigmies, thou tattooed one of editors, we hope to see you again,—at your Convention of ’85!
And now, let us give the public a rest! Brothers, sisters, one and all, our best wishes and —farewell!	-	T. E. S.
Personal.
—F. S. Weber (Com’l), 82, is engaged in business at Amboy, Ill.
—R. C. Simms (Com’l), ’80, has a position in a railroad office at Lewiston, Ill.
—P. J. Dougherty, of ’79, is a distinguished attorney at Nassau City, Iowa.
—Isaac Treon (Com’l), of ’82, is studying pharmacy in a college in Philadelphia.
—E. Washburn (Com’l), ’75, is now in business at Wessington, Dakota Territory.
—-Jas. H. Ward, of ’73, is carrying on a good real estate business in Chicago, III.
—Mark Falvey (Com’l), ’82, is in the grocery business'with his father at Winamac, Ind.
—H. Matthews (Com’l), ’73, is an energetic clerk at Jansen & McClurg’s, Chicago, Ill.
—George Gross, of ’79, has a very extensive practice in the legal profession at Reading, Pa.
—Jas. H. Burns (Com’l), ’81, is engaged in the clothing business with his father, at Columbus, Ohio.	•
—A. T. Moran, ’81, is connected with the National Spice Mills, Detroit, Mich., and is prospering.
—Frank Hastings, ’76, is book-keeper for one of the largest wholesale houses of Leavenworth, Kansas.
—George A.On (Com’l), ’79, is an active clerk in J. E. Campbell & Co’s wholesale grocery store, at Steubenville, Ohio.
—S. Wise (Com’l), ’73, has an excellent position as a salesman in one of the large flour mills of his native city, Alton, Ill.
—John Millet (Com’l),’82, has a good situation in a prominent business firm at St. Paul, Minn. He enjoys excellent health and is doing well.
—Rt. Rev. Jos. Dwenger, Bishop of Ft. AVay ne, and Rt. Rev. J. Rademacher, Bishop of Nashville, are present at the Commencement Exercises.
—John M. Gearin, ’70, is the popular and efficient District Attorney of Portland, Oregon. At a recent election, though his ticket (Democratic) was defeated, yet he was elected by a large majority.
—The Right Rev. Montes de Oca y Obrigon, Bishop of Lienares, Mexico, arrived at the College last Saturday afternoon. On Sunday morning the Bishop administered the Sacrament of Confirmation to 40 young students. He delivers the Commencement Oration at the exercises this morning and, we are happy to say, we shall present it to our readers in our next number.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Wc are glad to see that the “ old boys ” have turned out in almost “full force” this Commencement. They shall have, as they deserve, a more specific mention in our next number.
—Mr. T. M. O’Leary, a former student of St. Francis’ Seminary, received the Holy Order of Deaconship at St. Meinrad’s Seminary, Spencer Co., Ind., on the festival of Corpus Christi. He belongs to the Diocese of Fort Wayne —Catholic Citizen.	'
Mr. O’Leary was a student at Notre Dame in ’70. His many friends here rejoice at the success attending him in his career.
—Mr. John R. Lambin, of ’70, and Miss Julia Donohue, both of Chicago, Ill., were united in marriage on Wednesday last, in the Church of the Sacred Heart, Notre Dame, Ind., by Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C. Prof. Joseph A. Lyons acted as groomsman to his former pupil, while many friends of college days were in attendance. The happy couple have the best wishes of their numerous friends at Notre Dame for a long and happy life.
—“ Antigone ” F. M. Quinn writes from his home in Danville, Ill., that he has just received the Scholastic giving a full account of the death of Aristophanes, and is very sorry that he was not here to assist in pouring the libations. “Antigone” fondly hopes that the grizly Charon will conduct the departed hero safety and with due solemnity across the styx, and that his spirit may never again “haunt” the classic shades of Notre Dame. So mote it be. N. B.—Since the above was written our Hellenic confrere has come to Commencement and will accompany us on our last visit to the remains, and (with an onion in^his pocket) shed a parting tear over the grave.
—From the Catholic Review we take the following in regard to Mr. P. Banigan, father of Mr. John Banigan, of the Senior department of our University:
“ The name of Mr. Patrick Banigan of Providence, R. I., ought to be held in special honor wherever Catholic charity inspires good deeds or quickens men’s blood by their recital. Still a young man, with a growing family and years of life before him, with ample opportunity of enjoying all the pleasures that money can bring, he builds a magnificent home for the aged cared for by the Little Sisters of the Poor, and hands it over to them, complete from foundation to Cross, without a cent of debt upon it. In hard cash it was a gift of $150,000. In spirit and good example it is worth more than millions. As an investment it will be that which will give Mr. Banigan the surest return.”
Local Items.
— Vale!	’
—The day itself is a hot day I
—Everyone has a Class Annual.
—The usher looked very distingue.
—'Rah ! 'Rah ! 'Rah ! Nostra Domina I
—Tinley surpassed himself in “ Louis XI.”
—The weather is all that could be desired(?).
—The next Scholastic will be issued next week.
—A number of students will remain here during vacation.
—Last Sunday, about 60 students received Confirmation.
—The St. Cecilians received their diplomas yes- ■ terday morning.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean diplomas were the finest issued.	’
—The examiners seem to be well satisfied with the examinations.
—The St. Cecilian room was elaborately adorned for the Alumni Meeting.
O	-	_
—An unusually large number of “old boys” attended Commencement.
—A large number of Alumni were here at their annual meeting yesterday.
—In the Junior Baseball Association the “ Mutuals ” won the championship.
—Neat and tasty programmes were gotten out for Commencement Exercises.
—Charlie says the story was pretty good, but he couldn’t just see what they were driving at.
—The Euglossian, Philomathean, Philopatrian, Sorin, and Temperance Societies wore’ beautiful badges, o	■	-
—A well-executed bust of the late Bishop Foley, of Chicago, adorns one of the upper corridors of the College.	.
—The Baseball championship was won by the “ University ” nine, who enjoy the happy possession of the medals awarded.
—“ Where is the Seniors’ Campus?” “Don’t know. I’m a stranger here. But I can show you the Juniors’ Campus. See that sign over there?” “Shoot it!” ‘
—Many beautiful copies of well-known paintings of illustrious Italian mcestros have been placed in the corridors. The collection is due to the zeal and enterprise of Prof. Edwards.	-
—The number of visitors this year exceeds that of former years. A special and a pleasing feature of the attendance is the great number- of “ old boys ” that come back to their Alma Mater.
—“ The Patent Combination Back-Stop and Campus Sign Board ’’shines forth in all its'pristine beauty (?) on this the morning of Commencement Day. Has no one the moral courage to elevate a gun thereat?
—Brother Albert has on his easel, nearly finished, an excellent crayon portrait of the Rev. Father . Shortish C. S. C., formerly Vice-President of the College, and for some years past chaplain and Professor at St. Mary’s Academy. It is the only portrait of the Rev. gentleman that we have seen!
Horrors of the Examination.
Examiner:—“ Can you mention any instances of apparently instinctive motion in plants?” -
Botany Student:—“The pistil of the lily . passes from stamen to stamen, gathering the ripe pollen, and making the complete revolution of the flower.”	•
Examiner, {with diabolical grin)—Ah’ then?
670
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
my dear young friend, may we not consider the pistil oi the lily as a revolver	.
( The Board here gives way, and the examiner is precipitated into the abyss.)
—The following were omitted by mistake from the list of Premiums: M. O’Kane, 1st Premium in German; J. Grunsfeld, Premium in German; W. Stange, R. Papin, 1st Premium in French.
—The fourth of the series of baseball eames for the championship was played during the afternoon of the 22d inst. The following is the score:
UNIVERSITY.
V. Burke, c.
F. Wheatly, p.
F. Devoto, 2d.
B. Snoufer, 3d.
C. Carroll, s. s.
S. Dickerson, 1. f.
H. Porter, 1st.
E. Hotaling, c. f.
W. Coghlin, r. f.
Total...........
A. B.	R.	o.1	STAR OF THE EAST.	A. B.	R.	0
5	2	0	P. Warren, c.	5	1	4
5	2		F. Gallagher. 2d.	5	2	
5	2	3J	I. Guthrie, p.	5	I	3
5	I	4	W. Hetz, 1. f.	5	0	3
5	2	3	L. Celia, 1st.	5	I	3
5	0	3,	F. Combe, r. f.	5	I	4
5	3	I	C. Kolars, s. s.	5	I	3
5	2	3.	F. McKinnery, c. f.	5	I	3
5		31	W. Bailey, 3d.	4	2	2
45	18	24I	Total. 			44	IO	27
Score by innings:— 123456789 Star of the East :— 20010034 0=10 University:— 40503132 *=iS
—The last picnic of the season was given under the auspices of the Junior T. A. U., last Wednesday. At an early hour the Juniors were escorted by the “ Beethoven Orchestra ” to Johnson’s Grove, where, after arriving, they dispersed to seek cooling breezes and—sharp appetites. Ye handworker sought a quiet place where he could take a review for examination and count upon his premiums, etc. Johnnie Nester brought a copy of the Chicago Times and “ baseball- guide ” and, with the aid of a shingle, figured out the victorious “ nine ” for ’84. “ Fendy ” found a glassy pool where he could practise on a graceful position for his new “ cutaway,” and the other boys occupied themselves in struggling with the hay fever, or in “ observing the beauties of nature.” The dinner, which consisted of the best picnic cheer, was the great event of the day. “ Under the forest’s shade,” the Total Abstainers stowed away, in quick succession, sandwiches, pie, cake, lemonade, strawberries, ice-cream, etc., with a real old Notre Dame appetite. The afternoon thus passed away in unalloyed enjoyment for all. The boys were agreeably surprised by Bros. Leander, Alexander, and Father Kirsch, who walked in to the sound of drum from the Orchestra. They were surprised shortly after,—but not so agreeably this time, for towards evening the clouds came up and it gave every indication of a storm. After partaking of an elegant lunch, the boys started for the College where they arrived just in time to escape the shower. However j our “friends across the fence? who determined not to leave their grounds before they finished the icecream, were compelled to get a ducking. - The boys extend their most sincere thanks , to Fathers Walsh and Regan, who got up the picnic, and to Bros. Leander, Albert, Lawrence/and Julian, for aiding everyone to have, in the. general opinion, such a “ daisy time?	~ D.
Commencement Exercises.
PROGRAMME:
Monday.
Overture—“ Chevalier Breton ”..........Hermann
N. D. U. Orchestra.
Speech—“Regulus”...................D. C. Saviers
Speech—“ Arnold ”....................J. J. Conway
Solo—“Larboard Watch ”.............W.	E. Ramsay
Oration—“The Drama”.................  E.	A. Otis
Speech—“ Spanish Duel”...............D. G. Taylor
Polonaise (piano and violin)............Chapin
Prof. Paul and W. Schott.
Oration—“ Death of Ciesar ”.......O. B. Spencer
“First Impressions of Music ”......W.	E. Ramsay
Oration—“The Power and Influence of the Orator”
J. Solon.
Song—“Martha di Flotow”..............T. J. Cleary
Quintette—“ 12th Symphony of J. Haydn ”
N. D. U. Orchestra.
“MERCHANT OF VENICE.”
Shylock...................................D. C.	Saviers
Duke of Venice....................... E.	A. Otis
Antonio, Merchant of Venice.......W. E. Ramsay
Portia............................J. J. Conway
Bassanio..................................O. B.	Spencer
Gratiano..................................J. T.	Carroll
Nerissa............................H.	J. Fitzgerald
Tuesday.
8.00 a. m...............................Alumni Mass
8.30 “	.........................Alumni Meeting
10.30 “ “ ...................................Regatta
1.00 p. m........................... Alumni	Banquet
2.00 “ “ .:.............................Field Sports
4.45 “ “ Distribution of Premiums in the Junior and
Senior Departments.
7.30 “ “ Overture—........N. D. University Orchestra
Oration of the Alumni.......Prof. W. H. Hoynes, A. M. Cantata—“ William Tell ”....Urpheonics
Prologue to “Louis XI”................T. Ewing Steele
Music...............................N.	D. U. Orchestra
“ LOUIS XI.”
(Arranged in Three Acts for the Thespian si) Louis XI, (King of France).................C.	A. Tinley
The Dauphin, (Prince Charles)................H.	Foote
Duke de Nemours............................O.	Spencer
Francois de Paule......................  ..E.	A. Otis
Philip le Comines (Historian)................J-	Solon
Armand de Comines, (Philip’s Son).....W. E. Ramsay Marcel, (an attendant)................W.	E. Bailey
Oliver de Dain, (Prime Minister)...........D.	C. Saviers
Jacques Coitier, (Physician)............W.	H. Johnston
Tristan L’Ermite, (executioner)..............H.	Steis
Count de Dreux............................S. Dickerson
Montjoie.....................................H.	Porter
Pierrot, (attendant)......................A. A. Browne
Richard, (attendant)......................C. C. Kolars
Didier....................................W. Orchard
Officers of Royal Guard—F. Rudge, T. Callahan, T. Me-
— — o ---------o--	•
After the 1st Act, the Orchestra played Fatinitza. .(Suppe) After 3d Act, “Dichter und Bauer”............(Suppe)
Entr’ Acte 3d, “Pavaire Favorite”............(Siippe)
Tableaux. '
Closing Remarks....................................
Closing March........................ N. D. U. C. Band
. ? . Wednesday.	.
Overture............. ?.....		N. D. U. Orchestra Valedictory1.........;.............Neal H. Ewing
Oration of the Day, Rt. Rev. Ignacio Montes de Oca y. Obregon, D. D., Bishop of Linarez, Mexico.
Music. ..; .....................  N.	D. U. Orchestra
Awarding of Honors, Conferring of Degrees, etc.
.	. Closing Remarks. .
Grand Closing March ...............N. D.U C. Band
Rah! Rah! Rah!—Nostra Domina! :
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ■	Cyi
Premiums.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. ’
Anchondo, J.—Premium in Spanish.
Ancheta, J. A.—ist Premium in 2d Algebra; 1st Premium in ist Geometry; Premium in Phonography; 1st Premium in Rhetoric; ist Premium in Botany; Premium in Elocution.
Aguilera, R.—ist Accessit in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium for Piano.	■
Bannigan, J.—ist Accessit in English Logic; Premium in Elocution.	'
Baca, F.—2d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; ist’Accessit in ist Grammar.
Bowers, W.—3d Premium in Penmanship.
Barron, W.—ist Accessit in Trigonometry; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Becerra, T.—Accessit in Spanish.
Bailey, W.—Accessit in ist Latin; Accessit in ist Greek; 1st Accessit in Botany; 3d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Brown, A.—Premium in Elocution ; 2d Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine.
Burke, V.—2d Accessit in Trigonometry; 3d Accessit in 7th Latin; ist Accessit in Rhetoric.
Burke, F. E.—2d Accessit in Botany; Premium in Anatomy.
Combe, F. E.—ist Accessit in 3d Algebra; 2d Accessit in 6th Latin; 2d Accessit in ist Grammar.
Carroll, J. T.—Premium in Elocution.
Carroll, C. E.—3d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Book-keeping.
Coll, A.—2d Accessit in English Logic; 2d Premium for Piano; Premium in Elocution.
Carbajol, P.—Premium for Flute.
Cass, T. F.—Accessit in Elocution. *
Cartier, W.—2d Premium in 2d Algebra; Premium in 3d French.
Cusack. Joseph.—Premium in U. S. History; ist Accessit in 2d French; 5th Accessit in Penmanship.
Celia, A.—ist Accessit in 2d Algebra; 3d Premium in Phonography.
Conway, Jas.—ist Accessit in 5th Latin.
Coghlin, W.—2d Accessit in Literature; Accessit in Elocution.
Cussen, B.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Accessit in Penmanship.
Callaghan, T.—ist Premium in 5th Latin; ist Premium in Physiology; ist Premium in English Logic; Premium in Elocution.
Creel, Jno.—Premium’in 3d Arithmetic; Premium in Drawing; 2d Accessit in Penmanship; Premium for Spanish.	.
Delgado, F.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium for Guitar; Premium in Telegraphy.
De Groot, John.—ist Accessit in 4th German; ist Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine. .
De Wolf, Geo.—3d Accessitin ist Arithmetic; ist Accessit in ist Geography; Premium in ist History; 3d Accessit in ist Orthography; 6th Premium in ist Book-keeping; ’2d Premium in ist Grammar. •	.
De Haven, Geo.—isi Accessit in ist Orthography ; 2d Premium in Phonography.
Dickerson, S.—Premium in 2d Latin; Premium in 3d Latin; 2d Premium in Criticism; Premium for Flute.
Dennis, A. J.—4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Premium in Phonography.	.
Danielson, F.—2d Accessit for Reading.	.
Ewing, N.—Accessit in Moral Philosophy; Premium in ist Latin; ist Premium in Greek; 2d Premium for Piano.
Feltz, L.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; Accessit in Phonography; Premium in 2d German.
Fogarty, W.—ist Accessit in ist Geography; Premium ex tequo in ist U. S. History; 2d Accessit for Reading; ist Accessit in ist Orthography; Accessit in Elocution; 4th Premium in Penmanship. .	. ’
Farrell, J. E.—3d Premium in Criticism; 2d Accessit in Ancient History; Accessit in Elocution.
Fenlon, T. P.—2d Accessit in 4th Latin; 2d Accessit in -2d French.
Fitzgerald, H.—Premium in Drawing; Premium in Elocution.
Fox, J. W.—ist Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in ist U. S. History; ist Accessit, ex tequo, for Reading.
Grothaus, J. F.—2d Accessit in ist Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Book-keeping; ist Accessit in ist Grammar; 2d Accessit in ist German; Accessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in Penmanship.
Gonsor, D.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist Orthograph' ; ist Accessit, ex ceqiio, for Reading; Premium in Telegraphy.	..
Gandrup, W.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 5th Acces-sit in Penmanship.	’
Goulding, P. J.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Gonzales, A.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Premium in Spanish.	-	,
Guthrie, J no.—Accessit in Elocution; Premium in Physics.
Gutierrez, T. O.—2d Accessit in Phonography; 3d Ac- . cessit in ist Grammar; 3d Accessit in 4th German; 3d Ac-cessit in Penmanship.
Gray, W.—ist Accessit in ist Greek.	- - .
Gibert, L.—Accessit in Elocution; ist Premium in Pen- - -manship.	.
Gallagher, Jno.—2d Premium for Reading-
Galarneau, P.—ist Premium for Reading; Accessit in
Vocal Music; Accessit in Elocution.	‘
Howard, P.—4th Accessit in 2d Book-keeping; A.ccessit. in Elocution.	*	.
Hausberg, C.—2d Premium in 7th Latin; Accessit in German.	,
Hamlyn, Jno.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Orthography;
3d Premium in 2d Book-keeping.	;
Johnston, W.—Premium ex ceqtto in Mechanics; 2d Accessit in General Geometry; 2d Premium in Botany; Premium for Public Reading; Premium for Physics. . .
Jones, A.—Accessit in Elocution.	.
Kavanaugh, L.—ist Accessit in Physiology; Accessit in Vocal Music; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Kauffmann, C.—Accessit in Elocution.	.
Kolars, C. C.—Premium in General Geometry; ist Ac-cessit in 4th Latin; Premium in Geology; Premium in Chemistry; Premium in Zoology.	,
Kleiber, Jno.—2d Premium in 6th Latin; 2d Accessit in 6th Greek; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; Premium in Elocution.	.	-
Lechuga, J.—Accessit in Telegraphy.
Lister, H. E.—2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; ist Accessit in 3d Grammar.-	. . y
Lasley, W.—Accessit in Elocution.	• .
Lucas, F. S.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Accessit* in 3d Algebra; Premium in 7th Latin; ist Premium in ist Grammar; Accessit in Elocution.	-	■
Murdock, S.—ist Accessit in Literature.	.
Murphy. J. M.—ist Premium in Vocal Music. -	:	‘
McCarthy, W. H.—ist Accessit in Surveying; 2d Premium in Literature; 2d Accessit in 3d French; istAccessit in Modern History; Accessit for Piano. . J ’ 5
McErlaine, G.—ist Premium in Phonography; Premium for Violin; Accessit in Elocution. ,	. . J-
McCabe, J. J.—4th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 3d Acces-sit in ist Orthography.	: J '
McKinnery, T.—Accessit in 2d Latin; ist Accessit in 3d Latin; ist Accessit in Criticism; Premium for Public Reading.
Mathers, L.—Premium in Astronomy; ist Accessit in 6th Greek; ist Accessit in Botany.
Marquez, R.—3d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; Premium in
Drawing. *	;	•
Murdock, C. M.—2d Accessitin Trigonometry; Premium in .Surveying; ist Premium in Literature; Premium in Drawing; 3d Accessit in Modern History.	..
McMurray, A.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.	.
McIntyre, Jno.—Premium ex cequo in Mechanics; ist Accessit in Logic; ist Premium in ist Christian Doctrine. .
McNamara, Jno.—Premium in ist History; 2d Premium in English Composition; Accessit in Elocution.
McLaughlin, P.—ist Accessit in 2d Grammar; Premium
67
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
for Reading; ist Premium in 2d Book-keeping; Accessit in Telegraphy.
Madden, J- F.—2d Premium in Rhetoric.
Mueller, A—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Mahon, W. P.—Accessit in Vocal Music; Accessit in Elocution.
Neeson, Jno—5th Premium in Penmanship.
O’Brien, Geo.—1st Premium in ist Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography: 2d Premium in 1st Book-keeping: 1st Premium in Phonography; ist Premium in English Composition.
Ott, E.—4th Premium in ist Arithmetic ; ist Premium in ist Orthography ; ist Premium in Book-keepinef ; irt Premium in English Composition; ist Premium in 1st Ger man; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine ; ist Accessit in Penmanship.
O’Dea, AI.—2d Accessit in 4th Algebra ; 3d Accessit in Rhetoric; ist Premium in English Logic; Accessit in Elocution.
O’Rourke, T. F.—2d Premium in ist Orthography ist Accessit in ist Grammar.
Orchard, W.—2d Accessit in English Composition; Premium for Guitar; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; Accessit. in Elocution.
Otis, E.—ist Accessit in Mechanics; Premium in Logic; Premium in 3d Greek; 2d Premium for Piano; Premium for Public Reading.
O’Kane, G. F.—5th Accessit in 2d Book keeping; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; 3d Accessit in Penmanship.
O’Connell, W.—2d Accessit in ist Book-keeping; ist Accessit in 4th Algebra; ist Accessit in ist Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
O’Donnell, J. V.—3d Premium in 2d Book-keeping; ist Premium in ist French.
Paschel, C.—2d Accessit in 2d Book-keeping ; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doc-bane; Acccessit in Elocution; 4th Accessit in Penmanship.
Paschel, H.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; ist Accessit in ist United States History; 6th Premium in 2d Book keeping; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; 4th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Elocution; 4th Accessit in Penmanship.
Pour, L.—2d -Xccessit in 2d Geometry; 2d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Porter, H.—ist Accessit in General Geometry; Premium in German; Premium in Drawing; 2d Premium for Piano; Premium in Chemistry.
Rudge, J. E.— Accessit in Elocution.
Rogers, J. M.—3d Accessit in 2d Algebra; 3d Premium in Rhetoric; 3d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Elocution.
Reach, J. D.—ist Premium in,7th Latin; Accessit in Elocution.
Riley, J.—ist Premium in ist Orthography.
Ramsar, W. E.—2d Accessit in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist Grammar; ist Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Solon, J.—2d Accessit in Logic; Premium for Public Reading; 3d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Shea, J.—2d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 6th Premium in ist Book-keeping.
Steis, H.—ist Accessit in ist Algebra; ist Accessit in ist German; Premium in Elocution; Premium for Public Reading.
Slattery, W.—5th Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in'2d Book-keeping; ist Premium in 4th Algebra; Accessit in Phonography; 2d Premium in ist Grammar; ist Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Scholfield, B.—Accessit in Elocution.
Sykes, M.—ist Accessit in Phonography; Premium for Vio'lin.
Spencer, O-—3d Accessit in ist Literature; 2d Premium in Modem History.
Steele, T. E.—Premium in Moral Philosphy.
Saviers, D.—Premium in Drawing.
Smith, E.—ist Accessit in English Composition; Accessit in Elocution.
Smith, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium in Trigonometry; Premium in 2d French; 4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Smith, G. H.—Accessit in 2d Latin ; 2d Accessit in 3d
Latin: 2d Accessit in Criticism; 3d Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine.
Shields, J. F.—Accessit for Reading; 2d Accessit in Sth Latin : Accessit in Elocution.
Tinley, C. A.—Accessit in Geology; 2d Accessit in Zoology; 2d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Uranga, J.—Premium in Telegraphy.
Violette, Jno—3d Accessit in 2d Book-keeping.
Warner, C.—3d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; Accessit for Reading; 3d Accessit in 2d Book-keeping ; Premium in Phonography.
Wilson, J.—6th Premium in ist Book-keeping; 3d Premium in Phonography; 3d Premium in Rhetoric.
Wagoner, J.—4th Accessit in 4th Orthography; ist Accessit in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium in 5th Latin; ist Premium in 6th Greek.
Warren, P.—ist Accessit in ist Grammar.
Wheatly, F.—/Xccessit in Elocution.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Adler, A.—Premium for Flute; 5th Accessit in Penmanship.
Arnold, B.—ist Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in Vocal Music.
Anchondo, L.—3d Premium in 3d Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Catechism.
Armijo, D.—ist Accessit in Penmanship.
Barrons, S.—4th Premium in 3d Grammar.
Berthelet, W.—4th Premium in 2d Book-keeping; 2d Accessit in Physiology; Accessit in German.
Barela, P.—3d Premium in 2d Catechism.
Brown, F.—2d Premium in ist U. S. History.
Baur, J.—ist Accessit in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Accessit in 3d German.
Barclay, D.—2d Premium in ist Reading and Orthography; ist Accessit in 2d Grammar; ist Accessit in 2d German ; 3d Accessit in Penmanship.
Benner, E.—3d'Accessit in 4th Grammar.
Breenc, J.—ist Accessit in istReading and Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Geography; 3d /Xccessit in ist U. S. History; Accessit in Elocution.
Barnard, H.—ist Accessit in 4th Grammar; ist Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Cohen, H.—3d Premium in ist Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; ist Accessit in 2d Book-keeping; 2d Accessit in ist German.
Cartier, G.—3d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 4th Accessit in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Cartier, D.—3d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; ist Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Courtney, J.—2d Accessit in ist Algebra; ist Accessit in 6th Latin; Accessit for Public Reading.
Crawford, J.—3d Accessit in 2d Book-keeping; 3d Accessit in 3d German; Accessit in Elocution.
Curtis, F.—3d Premium in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in Penmanship.
Chaves, J.—3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in Vocal Music.
Cavaroc, C.—2d Premium in ist Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in ist Catechism; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Accessit in ist French.
Combe, F.—ist Accessit in 2d Geography.
Crilly, G.—4th Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Cleary, T.—ist Accessit in ist Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in ist German.
Clarke, M.—Accessit in Phonography; 4th Premium in Penmanship.
Costigan, G.—2d PremiunTin ist Grammar; ist Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Algebra; Accessit for Piano; Accessit in Elocution.
Cassily, F.—Accessit in Elocution; 6th Accessit in Pen-mansh’p.
Dwenger, J.—ist Accessit in ist Reading and Orthography; ist Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 7th Premium for Penmanship.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6^
Devereux, R.—3d Accessit in Physiology; Premium in Elocution.
Dexter, F.—6th Premium in 1st Book keeping; 1st Premium in 3d Algebra; 1st Accessit in 1st Geometry; Premium in German; 1st Accessit in Ancient History; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; Premium in Elocution; 1st Premium for Public Reading.
Deaderick, F.—1st Accessit in 5th German.
Devine. J.—ad Accessit in 4th German; 3d Premium in 2d Catechism; Accessit in Elocution.
Ewing. E.—3d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Premium in ad Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in Sth Latin.
Eisenhauer, A.—Premium for Cornet.
Fitzgerald. J.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Acccs-sit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d Book-keeping; Accessit in Elocution.
Fehr, F.—Accessit in Drawing.
Fendrich, J.—1st Premium in Trigonometry; 1st Premium in 1st Algebra ; Premium in Elocution; 1st Premium in Penmanship.
Fierro, M.— 1st Accesssit in Penmanship.
Foote, H.—Premium in Linear Drawing ; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; Premium for Violin; Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium for Public Reading.
Finckh, A.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Garrity, J.—3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution.
Gerlach, E.—1st Premium in 3d Algebra; Accessit in Vocal Mucic; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Gimbei, E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Grunsfeld, J.—ad Premium in 4th Grammar; ad Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; ad Premium in 4th German.
Hemisbaugh, W.—2d Accessit in 4th Grammar.
Hagenbarth, F.—1st Premium in 2d Algebra; 1st Premium in 2d Geometry; 1st Premium in 6th Latin; 1st Premium in English Composition; Premium in German; Premium in Ancient History; Premium in Elocution; 3d Premium for Public Reading.
Howard, E. A.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Accessit in 2d Book-keeping; Premium for Cornet.
Howard, J. E.—Accessit in Vocal Mu'ic.
Halligan, J.—2d Accessit in 6th Latin; 2d Premium in Phonography; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Huestis, J.—1st Accessit in 3d Reading and Orthography.
Henry. W.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium in 6th Greek; Accessit in Elocution.
Harris, C.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d German; Accessit in Elocution.	_
Houck, G.—1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography; ist Premium in 1st United States History; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; Accessit in Elocution.	.
Holman, S.—ist Premium in 5th German; Accessit in Elocution.	.
Hagerty, J.—ist Premium in ist Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Accessit in istBookkeeping; ist Premium in Penmanship.
Hblbrook, E.—ist Premium ist Reading and Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Accessit in ist Geography; 3d Premium ist Arithmetic; ist Accessit in ist U. S. History; 2d Premium in ist Book-keeping.
Johnson, P.—2d Accessit in ist Reading and Orthography.
Kelly, M.—ist Accessit in 2d Catechism. .
Lewis, G.—6th Premium in 2d Book-keeping; 4th Accessit in Penmanship.
Lewis, R.—4th Accessit in ist Reading and Orthography; ist Premium in 3d'Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Geog.
Loescher, M.—4th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Leoni, M.—ist Premium in 4th Grammar; 2d Accessit in 5th German; 2d Premium in 2d Catechism.
Luther, M.—3d Premium in ist Reading and Orthography; 3d Premium in ist United States History.
Lane, F.—ist Accessit in ist United States History.
Mulkern, M.—2d Premium in ist Geography; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist U. S. History; 4th Premium in ist Book-keeping; 2d Premium in ist Algebra; Accessit in Elocution; Accessit for Public Reading-
Monschein, J.—ist Accessit in ist Grammar; 5th Premium in 2d Book-keeping; 2d Accessit in 2d German; 2d
Accessit in Modern History; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; Premium in Elocution; 3d Premium for Public Reading.
Mullane, P.—2d Premium in ist Reading and Orthography; ist Accessit in ist Book-keeping; Premium in Telegraphy.
Muhler, E.—ist Accessit in 2d Book-keeping; Accessit in Phonography.
Mcnig, G.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Catechism; Accessit in Elocution.
Mason, C.—Accessit in Elocution.
Moye, A.— Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Murphy, W.—3d Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d German; ist Accessit in ist Catechism.
Mug, W.—ist Premium in Literature; ist Premium in Modern History; Premium for Guitar; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Accessit in Zoology.
Major, F.—2d Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Martinez, G —7th Accessit in Penmanship.
McDonnell, J.^—ist Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist U. S. History : 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium in 2d Geometry; Premium in Elocution; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in ist Geography.
McGordon, J.—3d Accessit in ist Reading and Orthography; 5th Accessit in 2d Grammar.
McGordon, C.—ist Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
^TcGill, T.—6th Accessit in Penmanship.
Nester, J.—ist Premium in 2d Catechism; Accessit in Elocution; 5th Premium in Penmanship.
O’Brien, S. —2d Accessit in ist Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in ist Grammar; 3d Accessit in ist Bookkeeping; 2d Premium in Phonography; ist Premium in ist Catechism; 5th Premium in Penmanship.
Plischke, A.—3d Premium in Vocal Music.
Porter, C.—2d Premium for Piano; Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium for Public Reading.
Porter, E.—3d Premium in 3d Algebra; ist Accessit in English Composition; ist Premium in ist Catechism.
Pohl, E.—ist Accessit in Penmanship.
Perly, K.—4th Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Quill, D.—ist Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography;
3d Premium in 2d Catechism.	*
Rogers, F.—3d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in ist Geography; 2d Accessit in ist U. S. History; ist Premium in 4th German; 3d Premium in ist Catechism.
Regan, C.—2d Accessit, 2d Division in 2d Arithmetic; Accessit in Elocution.
Reynolds, C.—3d Accessit in ist Grammar; 3d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium for Piano.
Rhodus, T.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar. Accessit for Piano.	’
Ruppe, P.—ist Premium in 2d Catechism.
Ruffing, C.—Accessit for Piano.
Shea, T.—6th Accessit in Penmanship.
Sedbery, H.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4th .Algebra; ist Accessit in 7th Latin.
Scheuennan, L.—3d Accessit in ist Reading and Orthography; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Book-keeping; Accessit in Elocution.
Scheuerman, M.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Accessit in.ist Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 3d German.	•
Servis, P.—2d Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Schmauss, E.—3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Vocal Music. -
Schott, W.—ist Premium for Piano; ist Premium for Public Reading; ist Accessit in ist French.
Schaefer, G.—4th Premium in Phonography; ist Premium for Piano; ist Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium for Public Reading.
Stubbs, C.—Accessit in Elocution.
Shields, J.—2d Accessit in Sth Latin.
Talbot, J.—ist Accessit in ist Reading and Orthography.
Tarrant, G.—3d Premium in 2d Catechism; Accessit in Elocution.
Trepanier, E.—3d /Accessitin 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship.	.
Tewksberry, D.—ist Accessit, 2d Division in 2d Arithmetic.
674
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Unmga, M.—2d Accessit in 3d Reading and Orthography; Premium in Arithmetic; Accessit in Vocal Music.
Warner, IL—id Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Geography; 3d Accessit in 2d Penman.-hip.
Warner, A.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; Accessit in Elocution.
Wagner, W.—2d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Wagoner, P.—2d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Wabrauschek, W.—3d Accessit in ist Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Book-keeping; ist Accessit in 3d German; ist Accessit in ist Catechism; 2d Accessit in Penmanship.
Weiler, J.—ist Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 4th Accessit in 3d German; Accessit in French.
Williamson, T.—2d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Wilkes, G.—ist Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Amoretti, E.—ist Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Addington, J.—ist Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 5th Reading; 6th Premium in 3d Orthography.	_	.
Addington, H.—2d Premium in 8th Reading; 2d Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 6th Orthography.
Ackerman, H.—9th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Adams, E.—4th Premium in 6th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Arrache, A.—7th Premium in Sth Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Arrache, S.—6th Premium in Sth Reading; 7th Premium in 6th Orthography.
Bunker, I.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d United States History; 2d Accessit in 2d Geography.
Brown, C.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Accessit in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Butterfield, W.—3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 5th Reading; 7th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Boos, J.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 4th Reading.
Benner, F.—3d Premium in Sth Reading; 3d Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 6th Orthography.
Coad, J.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Accessit in ist Orthography; 7th Premium in 2d Geography; 6th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Coad, M.—4th Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in Sth Reading; 4th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Crawford, M.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 2d Geography.
Cole, W.—ist Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 3d Reading.
Curtis, C.—ist Accessit in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 5tli Premium in 3d Penmanship.
' Costigan, E.—ist Premium in 5th Reading; 2d. Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Geography; 5th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Comins, P.—ist Accessit in 3d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 6th Reading; 4th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Crotty, F.—ist Premium in 6th Reading; 3d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; ist Accessit in German; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Cummings, M.—Sth Premium in ist Arithmetic; 6th Premium in ist Reading; 7th Premium in German; 2d Accessit in ist Orthography.	.	.
Calvin, W.—4th Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Delaplane, C.—3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 7th Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Accessit in ist Penmanship; 6th Premium in ist Geography; 2d Accessit in ist Geography.	”
Devine, W.—7th Premium in ist Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Orthography; Sth Premium in 2d Geography; ist Premium in Vocal Music; 5th Premium for piano.
Devereux, J.—7th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Orthography; Sth Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine.
Devereux, A.—2d Premium in 6th Reading; 3d Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Dirksmeyer. H.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in German; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Accessit in Orthography.
Dunford, F.—5th Premium in 6th Reading; 7th Premium in 7th Arithmetic.
Doss, J.—6th Premium in 4th Reading; 7th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Doss, E.—9th Premium in 6th Reading; Sth Premium in 6th Orthographv.
Doss, S.—9th Premium in Sth Reading; 9th Premium in Sth Orthography.
Ernest, J.—2d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 6th Reading; 2d Accessit in German.
Fulwiler, W.—3d Premium in 3d Reading; 9th Premium in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 2d Orthography.	-
Fitzgerald, J.—ist Premium in 3d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 5th Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Geography; 4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Garrity, F.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Penmanship; 3d Premium in Vocal Music.
Grunsfeld, J.—3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; ist Accessit in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 6th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Grimes, W.—4th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 6th Reading; Sth Premium in 3d Geography.
Grimes, A.—4th Premium in 7th Reading; ist Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 6th Orthography.
Gibson, P.—6th Premium in 6th Reading; 7th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Henry, W.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Accessit in 2d Orthography; 7th Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Harris, C.—2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 5th Reading; 7th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Inderrieden, C.—4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Inderrieden, R.—3d Premium in Sth Reading; 3d Premium in Sth Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 6th Orthography.
Johns, C.—2d Premium in 7th Reading; 2d Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 7th Orthography.
Jones, C.—6th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 6th Reading.
Kelly, J.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 2d Geography.	,
Kelly, E.—2d Premium in 5th Reading; ist Accessit in 5th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; ist Premium in 3d Geography.
Kraus, J.—5th Premium in ist Grammar, 9th Premium in ist Reading; 4th Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in ist Orthography.
Lindsey, B.—ist Premium in ist Reading; 5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in ist Orthography; ist Accessit in ist Penmanship; ist Premium in Elocution.
Lindsey, C.—4th Premium in ist Orthography; Sth Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Accessit in German; 3d Accessit in ist Penmanship..
La Tourette, G.—ist Premium in 2d Reading; ist Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in Penmanship; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Landenwich, G.—ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4th Reading; 3d Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Loya, A.—2d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Lewis, J.—3d Premium in 2d Penmanship; ist Accessit in 4th Reading;.3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
. Morrison, R.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Pre-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	Oft
mium in ist Grammar; 7th Premium in 1st Reading; 6th Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Premium in German. I	Mullen, E.—5th Premium ih 2d Orthography; 4th Pre-
mium in 1st Penmanship; 9th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 6th Accessit in 2d Reading.
Mullen, A.—2d Premium in 6th Reading; 7th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
McGrath, E.—1 st Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 7th Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
McGrath, J.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Orthography; Sth Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine; 6th Premium in Vocal Music.
McPhee, W.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; 1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic: 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Premium for Piano.
McVeigh, J.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Accessit in German; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Meehan, A.—7th Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; 9th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 1st Penmanship.
McGuire, W.—6th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
McGuire, T.—4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 7th Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
McCourt, W.—6th Premium in 3d Reading; 7th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography.
McCourt,'M.—3d Premium in4th Christian Doctrine;2d Premium in 7th Reading; 1st Premium in Sth Arithmetic.
Murphy, F.—5th Premium in 6th Reading; 4th Premium in 6th Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship.
McGill, W.—1st Premium in Sth Reading; 3d Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Morgan, H.—2d Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 5th Orthography; 2d Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Manzanares, F.—6th Premium in Sth Reading; 7th Premium in 6th Orthography.
! Noonan, F.—4th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 5th Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography;
' 4th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Nester, A.—2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 7th Reading; 2d Premium in Sth Arithmetic.
Nester, F.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Pre-; mium in Christian Doctrine; Sth Premium in 1st Orthography.
O’Kane, M.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Pre-:	mium in 1 st Reading; 6th Premium in 1st Penmanship;
2d Premium for Piano; 5th Premium in Vocal Music; it Premium in German.
4	O’Kane, B.—1 st Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Pre-
>	; mium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 5th Reading;
5th Premium in 3d Geography.
Otis, F.—6th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 6th Premium 1! in 1st Reading; 1 st Premium in 1st Grammar; 9th Pre-4 mium in 1st Penmanship; 3d Premium for Piano.
O’Connor, J.—1 st Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine;
, 1st Premium in 4th Penmanship; 1 st Accessit in 5th Orthography.
>	’ Papin, R.—2d Premium in 1 st Reading; Sth Premium ; in xst Orthography; 2d Premium in Elocution; 2d Pre-I mium in Vocal Music.
I Papin, V.—6th Premium in Sth Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Orthography; Sth Premium in 4th Christian Doc-; trine.
; Prin/Jiville, D.—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine;
■	i 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 2d Geog-i; raphy; 4th Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Padden, J.—5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 6th Ac-cessit in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 3d Reading.
4 Perkins, H.—3d Premium in Sth Reading; 2d Premium in Sth Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 6th Orthography.
Quinlin, C.—3d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 3d • Premium in 7th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Orthog-raphy.
Quiggle, W.—3d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 6th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Quill, D.—1 st Premium in Sth Reading; 3d Premium in 6th Orthography; 5th Premium in Sth Arithmetic.
Rebori, V.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Reading; Sth Premium in 1st Geography; 6th Premium in 1st Penmanship; Accessit in German.
Schmitz, H.—7th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 9th Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Accessit in xst Grammar; 7th Premium in 1st Orthography.
Stange, W.—9th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 9th Premium in 1st Orthography; 5th Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium for Piano.
Studebaker, J.—4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Accessit in 1st Geography; Sth Premium in Penmanship.
Sumner, A.—4th Premium in 5th Reading; 3d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship;
Spencer, C.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 1st Orthography; Sth Premium in 1st Grammar. 5th Premium in German.
Shbneman, S.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 7th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in 3d Reading.
Sokup, J.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; 3d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; 7th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Scherrer, L.—1st Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in German; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Scherrer, C.—1st Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 6th Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Scherrer, E.—2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Salmon, F.—2d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 6th Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
. Smith, C.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; Sth Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Thomas, E.—5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Sth Premium in 1st Penmanship; 5th Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in Vocal Music.
Uranga, J.—5th Premium in 4th Reading; 7th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
West, C.—5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Premium in 1st Penmanship; 6th Premium in 1st Orthography; 9th Premium in 1st Geography; 6th Premium in German. ‘
Welch, W.—1st Premium in xst Arithmetic; 2d Premium in xst Grammar; 4th Premium in xst Orthography; 6th Premium in xst Geography; Premium in xst Penman-' ship.
Welch, A.—4th Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 7th Reading; 4th Premium in Sth Arithmetic.
Wright, J.—xst Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in xst Penmanship; 9th Premium in 2d Orthography; xst Accessit in xst Christian Doctrine.
Weston, F.—3d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Accessit in 4th Arithmetic. ’
Young, C.—7th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 6th Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
’ A Type Setter’s Need.—Minks : «I don’t see why it is that if men originally had tails they didn’t stay on.”
Finks : “ According to Darwin, the tails dropped off when there was no further use for them.”
Minks : “ No further use for them I Good gracious! Did Darwin think that?”
Finks: “Certainly.”
Minks: “Well, I guess he never saw a bald-headed printer setting type in fly time.”—Philadel-'phia Call.
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Send to
South Bend Floral Company
FOR
ELEGANT BASKETS AND BOUQUETS.
First-Class Work Only. =^8
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed. Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal
Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.
All orders supplied on short notice.
Our Cut-Flower Department is constantly full of the choicest
ELEGANT ROSEBUDS.
Magnificent Designs for all occasions, of all o	o	y
Descriptions..
JAS. HUEY, Prop.
C. M. TREANOR, Mgr., 118 to 126 South Lafavette St..
■ South Bend, Indiana.
BUCKEIWORF,
FLORIST.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALWAYS ON HAND.
ALSO, •
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST.,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
’ EUGENE F. ARNOLD (Class of’78).	W. H. LAND VOIGT.
ARNOLD & LANDVOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law,
458 Louisiana Avenue, N. W., WASHINGTON, D. C.
Price, -	-	- gilt, §1.25; plain, §1.00'.
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
L S. & M. S. Railwav.
On and after Sunday, May n, 1SS4, trains will leaveSouth Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.20 a.m.; Cleveland, 1.55 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.35 p.m.	-.
10.54 a.m., Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.05 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.42 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.30 a.m.
S.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.15 a.m.; Cleveland, 6.35 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.45 p.m,
11.53 a.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line ; arrives at Toledo, 5.10 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.40 p.m.; Buffalo 3.30 a.m.
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.00-p.m.; Cleveland, 1.10 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.40 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m_
Chicago, 5.40 a.m. •
4.28 a.m., Pacific Express.- Arrives at Laporte/5.25 a.m.
Chicago, S.00 a.m.	•
7.11 a.m, Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m;
Chicago, 10.10 a.m.
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.; Chicago, 4.30 p.m.
4.15 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte.
5.07 p.m.; Chicago, 7.40p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago 1 P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland. - ’ I
JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland |
Michigan Central Railway.	j
Time Table—Dec. 9, 1S83.	'
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIV.
GOING NORTH.	GOING SOUTH.
Lv. So. Bend, 9.10 a.m., 6.05 p,m. I Lv. Niles, 7.00 a.m., 4.10 p.m.
“ N. Dame, 9.iS “	6.15	“	]	"	N. Dame, 7.34 “	4.44	«
Ar. Niles, 9.55 “	6.55	“	|	Ar.	So. Bend, 7.40 •' • 4.50 “
O. W. RUGGLES, E. C. BROWNE, H. B.-LEDYARD,
G. P. & T. A. Chicago. Gen. Sup., Detroit. Gen. Mgr., Detroit.
G. L. ELLIOTT, Agent, South Bend, Ind.	j