« » * v.
S--	-*«-«<* z
Wifi
Bi
hush pumss
Campus Favorites, a^d on!






If you're not already a Hush Puppies with it. man! You’re missing a lot!
'	O


ran. get z O
Thcv’rc
perfect for classroom wear . . . rugged enough for touch-football . . . comfortable enough that you can wear them all day long. The soft plush pigskin leather has tanned-in protection against water and dirt. Stay new-looking with an occasional brushing. Slip-on and tie styles in popular greyed tones.

Sx Sib.C •
<?
^GILBERT'S

JULY
AUGUSTA
NO CARRYING CHARGE
UNIVERSITY MEN AGREE
The Campus Shop charge account is truly unique and easy! Choose the items you need, wear and enjoy them now . . . pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August of 1964. You pay no service or carrying charge at the Campus Shop. You can select from America’s finest university styled men’s wear . . . top brands and the very latest fashions. Your account is already open . . . stop in soon.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY
SHOPS
^GILBERTS
OnCan$® W Shulman
{By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and “Barefoot Boy With Cheek.”)
HOW SMALL CAN YOU GET?
Today let us address ourselves to a question that has long rocked and roiled the academic world: Is a student better off at a small college than at a large college?
To answer this question it is necessary first to define terms. What, exactly, do we mean by a small college? Well sir, some say that in order to be called truly small, a college should have an enrollment of not more than four students.
I surely have no quarrel with this statement: a four-student college must unequivocally be called small. Indeed, I would even call it inlime if I knew what intime meant. But I submit there is such a thing as being too small. Take, for instance, a recent unfortunate event at Crimscott A and AI.
Crimscott A and AI, situated in a pleasant valley nestled between Philadelphia and Salt Lake City, was founded by A. and AI. Crimscott, two brothers who left Ireland in 1625 to escape the potato 1 amine of 1841. As a result of their foresight, the Crimscott brothers never went without potatoes for one single day of their lives— and mighty grateful they were! One night, full of gratitude after a wholesome
meal of French fries, cottage fries, hash browns, and au gratin, they decided to show their appreciation to this bountiful land of potatoes by endowing a college. But their generosity contained one stipulation: the enrollment of the college must never exceed four students. They felt that only by keeping the school this small could each student be assured of the personalized attention, the camaraderie, the esprit, that is all too often lacking in larger institutions of higher learning.
Well sir, things went along swimmingly until one Saturday a few years ago. On this day Crimscott had a football game scheduled against Alinnesota, its traditional rival. Football, as you can well imagine, was something of a problem at Crimscott, what with only four undergraduates in the entire college. It was easy enough to muster a backfield but tn find
a good line—or even a bad line-- baffled some of the most resourceful coaching minds in the nation.
Well sir, on the morning of the big game against Alinnesota, its traditional rival, a capricious fate dealt Crimscott a cruel blow—in fact, four cruel blows. Sigafoos, the quarterback, woke up that morning with an impacted incisor. Wrichards, the slotback, flunked his taxidermy exam and was declared ineligible. Beerbohm-Tree, the wingback-tailback, got his necktie caught in his espresso machine. Yuld, the fullback, was stolen by gypsies.
Consequently, none of the Crimscott team showed up at the football game, and Alinnesota, its traditional rival, was able to score almost at will. Crimscott

was so cross after this humiliating defeat that- they immediately broke off football relations with Alinnesota, its traditional rival. This later became known as the Sacco-Vanzetti Case.
So you can see how only four students might be too meagre an enrollment. The number that I personally favor is twenty. Why? you ask. Because, I reply, when you have twenty students and one of them opens a pack of Marlboro Cigarettes, there are enough to go around for everybody, and no one has to be deprived of Marlboro’s flavor, of Marlboro’s filter, of Alarlboro’s staunch and steadfast companionship, and as a result you have a student body that is brimming with sweet content and amity and harmony and concord and togetherness and soft pack and Flip-Top box.
That’s why.	© 1963 Max Shulman
SCHOLASTIC
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame
Founded 1867
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Vol. 105 November 8, 1963 No. .
Tom Hoobler
. . . editor-in-chief Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor Brian Barnes
. . . business manager Mel Noel
. . . news editor Terry Wolkerstorfer
. . . sports editor James Devlin
. . . features editor Larry Sicking
. . . layout and art editor Jack Pope, Joe Wilson
. . . copy Tom Keane
. . . circulation John Souza
. . . advertising Brian Beck, Pat Ford
. . . photography David Barrett, Jim Callero, Jim Clare, Brian Jorgensen, Frank McConnell, Bill Smith, Alike Walusis
. . . contributors Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor John Anton, Al Basso, Pat Bauer, Tom Bettag, Jim Billiter, Jeff Blackwell, Jim Boland, Bill Cragg, Al Dudash, Bob Edler, Geary EUet, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Alike Hoyt, Jim Komasinski, Rex Lardner, Rick McQuaid, Carl Magel, Bill O’Grady, Bruce Palka, John Phillips, Jack Quine, Jack Rowe, Gary Sabatte, Frank Smith, John Twohey, Rick Weirich, John Whelan
. . . staff
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC _ is printed at the Ave Mana Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
There are twenty fine cigarettes in every pack of Marlboros, and there are millions of packs of Marlboros in every one of the fifty states of the Union. We, the makers of Marlboro and the sponsors of this column, hope you will try our wares soon.
OFFICE OPEN:
Sunday, 1:30-5:30,7:30-12:00; Mor. day, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-12:00; Tuesday 7:30-9:30; Wednesday, 1:30-5:30 Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Friday, 1:30 5:30; Saturday, not open.
4
The Scholasti
EDITORIALS
Dave Ellis’s
Typewriter
T\ave Ellis has a brand-new IBM Selectric typewriter. It cost the students of Notre Dame three hundred and forty-five dollars (including accessories). This typewriter seems appropriately symbolic of the attitude Ellis’s administration has taken toward spending in a year which began with the student government more than ten thousand dollars in debt: that is, we only have a year, so let’s have fun.
Frankly, we couldn’t care less about Ellis’s typewriter if there weren’t so many other luxuries in the student government budget, and if so many more important expenses weren’t being cut back to allow the luxury spending. To reduce the situation to Ellis’s own terms, the sugar and ice cream in the budget have displaced the meat and potatoes.
We are publishing a letter this week concerning the budget allotment for the Joint Engineering Council. The authors of the letter point out in detail the injustices done (not to mention the fact noted here last week, that the best authority on his expenditure was prevented by a member of Ellis’s cabinet from speaking to the Senate on the expenditure) . This is by no means the only refusal of funds to an organization connected with campus academic life. Money for lectures, symposia, poetry readings, etc., that various commissioners deemed necessary was refused by the Ellis-headed finance committee.
Many Blue Circle activities were cut back. The Leadership Training, Help Week, and Honor System requests were all shaved. (Pep rally and honor system requests were cut entirely.) The Science Advisory Board ended up with $202, compared with a $577 allotment last year. The Y.C.S. requested budget was cut by more than half, including the total amount of requests for their library and their Freshman Foreign Student Project.
The above examples are only an indication of the extent to which the academic and service arms of student government have been crippled by the political expenditures in the budget. The “Student Government Administrative Expenses” includes such cryptic items as “Office Depreciation — $700” and “Office Piano—???.” We can only wonder what the finance committee would have done with a Blue Circle request for “Piano—???.” It is pertinent to mention, furthermore, that none of the “Student Government
November 8, 1963
Administrative Expenses” were cut by the finance committee.
The last item on the budget, appropriately, is the Voice. This is Ellis’s pet project, a visionary scheme that is supported by the money taken from the legitimate and worthwhile requests of other student government branches. Ellis defends the Voice by pointing out that the students “supported” it in the answers to his questionnaire passed out a few weeks ago. Considering the wording of the questions asked, it is doubtful if the students (those that filled out the questionnaires — hardly a third of the student body) would have voted down even Dave Ellis’s shiny new typewriter. A more significant question to ask would have been: In view of the fact that the student government is now more than $10,000 in debt, and that the Voice will operate at a loss of nearly $5,000 additional, necessitating cuts in the budgets of the Blue Circle, Academic Commission, International Commission, AB Advisory Board, Commerce Activities Council, Joint Engineering Council, Science Advsory Board, Y.C.S., and other projects, do you think the service the Voice renders to the student body is sufficient to warrant its continued existence?
The Senate, then, has passed a deficit budget, which, even if followed, will result in the Senate’s exceeding its budget by more than $5,000. The fact that this was a planned deficit has implications for all administration-financed groups on campus. If the Senate can plan a deficit, doesn’t it follow that the Scholastic^ say, or WSND or the Dome can likewise exceed their budgets?
The precedent the Senate sets for its own subgroups is hardly a responsible one. Is there any reason why the Blue Circle or the Joint Engineering Council cannot conclude that they can plan a deficit for the budget that student government has allotted them? If this happens, then student government will continue to spiral even deeper into debt. Finally, there will be no point in assigning budgets at all.
As we see it, the students are helpless against the Ellis machine controlling the Senate. The only course is for the school administration to step into the situation and compel the Senate to readjust its budget within the amount of money the administration has allotted for student government. This is unfortunate, but necessary in the light of the Senate’s unwillingness to control either itself or Ellis. Since the administration has seen fit to place the student government fee on the school’s tuition bills (giving it the force of authority), it must accept the responsibility of protecting the students from the student government.
A good place to start cutting the budget is in Dave Ellis’s luxury spending. Since he has seen fit to hold back funds from groups that perform valuable services for all the students, we think he ought to be made to tighten his own ample belt. Dave’s typewriter, his newspaper, his piano, et al., are small recompense to the students for the money they pay for student government.
5
It’s a’snap’with
—ARROW-
“For want of a horse, the battle was lost”... so said the poet, but never let it be said that for want of a collar button your date was lost. The new Decton oxford Tabber Snap by ARROW gives you the trim, good looks of a traditional tab collar without the fuss and fumble of a collar button. Tapered to trim body lines and labeled “Sanforized-Plus” to ensure perfect fit washing after washing.
Keep that date in an ARROW Decton (65% Dacron*, 35% cotton) oxford with Tabber Snap collar.
In long sleeves $6.95
★DuPont T.M. for its polyester fiber _
make a date to see our complete selection of ARROW styles for busmess or college wear
GILBERT'S
McDonald studio
Complete Portrait Service
SENIORS graduate school and job PLACEMENT PICTURES FOP APPLICATIONS 12 for $7.50 Choose from six proofs • 116 W. Colfax Ave. CE 2-2003
Highlander Motor Lodge & Tony's Restaurant
112 Bypass ELKHART, INDIANA
— 42 Rooms — ★
Phone: JAckson 3-4780
COVER
Art Editor Larry Sicking, The Scholastic’s answer to Bill Elder presents us with his impression of the happy village of his pub erty, Gullen, which serves her as the setting for the current Um versity play “The Visit.”
6
The Scholastl:
Letters • • •
ENGINEERING
Editor:
We are writing this letter to inform the student body of a recent action by the Student Senate which we consider not in the best interest of the student body. We are referring to the Senate’s refusal to allocate sufficient funds to the Joint Engineering Council for the Engineering Open House. The background for this happening is as follows: Each year the Joint Engineering Council submits a budget to the Senate to cover its activities during the year, the most expensive of which is the Open House. Due to careful expensewatching last year, the Open House did not spend all of the funds allocated to it and left this extra money in the bank. In submitting this year’s budget, it was reduced in light of the reduced expenses encountered last year and then further reduced by the amount of money left over from last year. Thus all dealings were open and aboveboard. Still the budget submitted by the Joint Engineering Council was cut by 50%.
It is also interesting to consider not only that the Joint Engineering Council’s budget this year of $525 is less than it has been in the past, about $900, but also that Student Government is expecting to spend $17,000 this year excluding debt reduction while in past years about $10,000 has been spent. Thus in a year of increased expenditures less is being allotted to the Joint Engineering Council.
The only reason given for this action is that the Open House does not serve the entire student body. Yet last year’s Open House was attended by over six thousand persons and we think did much to clarify in the mind of the nonengineering student exactly what an engineer is and does. This is something we feel is important when one considers the highly technical world in which we are living. Yet in the very same Senate meeting $600 was appropriated for a Student Government banquet, a function that in the past was paid for by the persons attending. How does this serve the entire student body?
The question we ask is: For whom is Student Government working, the Students or the Government?
David S. McCaffrey Charles L. Hemler
“PLANTS” AT MASS?
Editor:
I just returned from today’s eleven o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
Present were alumni, visitors, students, and their dates, filling the place to a standing room only capacity. Up in the clouds of the choir were the mighty voices of the most proficient singers on the campus, the Glee Club. At the other end of the church were two priests and two servers. One of the former and the two latter were celebrating the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass. The other priest, for all the response coming forth, could have better directed the Glee Club from a much closer position. I immediately insert that it is to his credit that he did not stalk out in frustration at the impossible task that was his to perform. A congregation will have absolutely no inclination to utter a few scattered responses when the rest of the Mass is being performed on high by so august a body as the Glee Club. Perhaps this is because they are in ecstasy, or deeply plunged into soulsearching meditation by the concert. Or maybe it is the same inertia that has gripped them for all their ecclesiastical lives.
It seems that there are a few elements of the campus at odds, or at least not coordinated in this respect. For all the other Sunday Masses, as well as many of the daily ones, students and priests have been exerting monumental efforts to instruct and firmly establish in the attendants a proper sense of the real meaning of participation in the Mass, which is not a private devotion, but public (implying “united aloud”) worship. On the other hand, when there are going to be a number of off-campus attendants at a given Mass, these efforts are quietly, but almost violently laid aside. Instead, we sit passively in our pews, and listen. I shall refrain, out of consideration for those more musically educated than myself, from calling what we hear a polyphonic cacaphony, since this is but a personal value judgment. The circumstances surrounding these occasions lead one to think the performance is being done for the glory, or benefit, of the Glee Club, the University of Notre Dame and God, in that order.
Are we ashamed of our participation as active members of the congregation? If we insist on impressing the guests, why can we not do it by acting as leaders to show the way a Mass should really be attended and participated in? To those who maintain that they benefit more from the Glee Club’s singing, I maintain that this consists merely in a sort of mental levitation for a few seconds past the exit.
Contrast this with the results possible at a fully participative Mass. By
being an active part of the Sacrifice, the people achieve a fuller understanding of the mystery therein. Secondly, the community spirit engendered by worship together results in an awareness of the human beings around us. This is the grace to be a better Christian, for Christianity for the layman is vzorked out only in terms of those around us and their needs.
To these ends, I challenge the Glee Club to cease hindering and begin helping the cause of a responsible, aware, Christian community. They could well do this by attending Mass scattered throughout the congregation, to lend their trained voices to the sung or spoken participation in a gesture of leadership commensurate with their musical excellence.
Bill Staudenheimer 422 Walsh
ANIMAL FARM Editor:
This letter is concerned with the escapades of the green goat. Last Friday, one of the cheer leaders in our hall came up with the idea of renting a goat for the Navy game and dying it green. He figured that it would be a good spoof on the Navy ram. So he went through the hall and collected the necessary $5 to acquire the services of a rather harmless female goat. On Saturday morning, a couple of us went to a nearby farm to pick up the animal. All Sat-turday morning we dyed it with green vegetable dye and planned to give it to the Leprechaun to run out onto the field before the game.
So that afternoon we headed over to the stadium a little early pulling behind us one very stubborn green goat. At the gate we met the Leprechaun and proceeded to enter the ramp leading to the field. At this juncture a couple of the stadium guards told us that they had orders not to let the goat into the stadium. As a matter of fact, it seems that the security police had been looking all around campus during the morning and the preceding night for this presumably vicious animal.
A well-dressed young man, who was perhaps a student manager, seeing our plight, offered the goat safe conduct through the players’ locker room to the entrance of the field.
At the field entrance we ran into some more of the stadium personnel and several of South Bend’s Finest. They called out urgently to the Boss of the Stadium Guards who greeted us with the longest string of cuss words that had ever violated my tender ears. He chased us out of (Continued on page 26)
November 8, 1963
7
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
SALUTE: BOB BUCK
When a new microwave transmission system was needed to connect Detroit, Flint, and Lansing. Bob Buck (B.S.E.E., 1960) designed it
Bob has established quite an engineering reputation in Michigan Bell's Microwave Group during his two years there. And to see that his talent was further developed, the company selected Bob to attend the Bell System Regional Communications School in Chicago.
Bob joined Michigan Bell back in 1959. And after introductory training, he established a mobile radio maintenance system and helped improve Detroit’s Maritime Radio system—contributions that led to his latest step up!
Bob Buck, like many young engineers, is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.
AJ BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
The Scholastic
I I
LOBUND AWARDED GRANT
A grant of $616,000 to Notre Dame’s Lobund laboratory amounts to a national endorsement of its work as the leading germfree lab in the United States. The grant, awarded by the National Science Foundation, is to subsidize the construction of laboratory facilities; the laboratory is eligible for this support under its designation as a “unique installation.”
Operated in connection with the biology department, the Lobund lab has pioneered in the development of germfree animals for biological, medical, and agricultural research. Currently it is engaged in research study on cancer, nutrition, cardiac diseases, and radiation biology. The laboratory has attracted visiting research scientists from many countries, including India, Japan, Israel, and England.
The grant will be used to construct a new building south of the computer center, according to Dr. Morris Pollard, the laboratory’s director. It will provide expanded research facilities for the staff, visiting scientists and graduate students. The Lobund building on the north of the campus has just recently been expanded, and will be capable of maintaining the animals necessary to experiments; the new facility will be devoted to experimental laboratories. Final plans for the building have not been drawn up, but tentative plans call for an area of 40,000 square feet, of which the grant will cover 20,000. Construction is scheduled to begin prior to 1965.
BUCKLEY “SPEAKS”
William Buckley, Jr., publisher of the ultra-conservative National Review, attracted a standing-room-only audience at last week’s meeting of the Political Discussion Group of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame. Posters advertising the event promised a question-and-answer period after a speech on “Why Goldwater?” The Buckley talk turned out to be a “concert,” however, consisting of a shortplaying recording of Mr. Buckley’s views of the results of the 1960 presidential preference primary in West Virginia. The Discussion Group’s project for the year is to discuss the possible candidacy of Senator Barry Goldwater in 1964.
TRUSTEES MEET
Notre Dame’s Board of Lay Trustees held its fall meeting last Friday in Rockne Memorial after a luncheon at the Morris Inn. Mr. J. Peter Grace of New York City was re-elected president of the Board for a two-year term at the highly confidential meeting.
The Board acts as an advisor to the administrators of the University in matters concerning endowment funds. Numbered among the members of the Board are some of the biggest names in finance and industry in the country. Half of the Board are alumni of Notre Dame; their classes range from 1912 to 1951. It is separated into two groups: the finance committee and the development committee; the latter is concerned mainly with Notre
Dame’s growing list of new facilities. Each committee has several meetings a year, and there are joint sessions in the spring and fall.
Mr. J. Peter Grace, president of the Board, graduated from Yale in 1936. He is president of the W. R. Grace and Company and director of the Grace Lines. Other prominent members of the Board are Mr. Bernard Voll, vice-president; Mr. James F. Keenan, Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy, Mr. Alfred Stepan, Jr., Dr. George N. Shuster, Mr. Joseph LaFortune, and Mr. Timothy Galvin.
NEVER ON SUNDAYS?
The Huddle, which was supposed to be open Sundays beginning November 3, will actually start Sunday operation November 10. Hours will be from 2 p.m. until 9 p.m. for the three remaining Sundays in November. Because of Thanksgiving vacation, the Huddle will be closed December 1, but it will be open again December 8. Popularity of the new arrangement during this trial period will determine whether the Huddle will be open on Sundays after Christmas vacation.
With an eye to Sunday operation the staff has been augmented with four high-school girls who will work then and possibly one or two days a week. This apparently doesn’t denote any change in the hiring practices of the Huddle; it was felt that most of the regular personnel who have families would prefer not to work on Sunday.
CIRCLE OFFERS GRAD INFO
Prominent among the Blue Circle Honor Society’s innovations this year is a graduate school information bureau. It will serve to fill what the Circle feels to be a definite need on the campus of Notre Dame. Tom O’Brien heads the Circle committee which is following up on the ideas and work of Tom Schlereth who graduated last June.
Until now it has been left mainly up to student initiative to obtain information concerning fellowships and graduate schools. O’Brien feels that too often the student doesn’t know where to begin to get these facts on his own; this is the main goal of the committee, to inform the students where and when to apply, what courses he should take, and who he can see on this campus for information. The committee is publishing its information booklet which it hopes to have available by March 15. It will be distributed to the students at a nominal cost.
If possible, a special bureau of counseling will be set up where stu-
November 8, 1963
9
dents could talk with men qualified to answer all questions concerning graduate studies and fellowships. At present, this work is handled by many different men, making it difficult for the student to easily obtain the help he needs.
WEEKEND: PARADE, DECORATIONS
The 1963 Homecoming Weekend featured Notre Dame’s first Homecoming Parade. Seven floats were entered by the sophomore and junior classes, Saint Mary’s, the Met Club, the Dixie Club, the Westchester Club, and the New Jersey Club. The Caledonia Bagpipe Band of Mishawaka lent the parade a Gaelic air. Three floats originally planned were cancelled: the Chicago Club’s for technical reasons, that of the senior class because its plan was too expensive to be carried out within the forty-dollar maximum, and the freshman float because of a conflict between the parade committee and the Freshman Office.
The parade, lasting twenty-five minutes, started at the ROTC Building and proceeded along the lake road coming up between Sorin and Walsh, circling around Father Sorin’s statue, back to the Fieldhouse, and south to the rear of O’Shaughnessy Hall, where it disbanded. The crowd viewing the parade was large and enthusiastic despite the morning’s cold rain.
The first prize of forty dollars went to the sophomore float, which depicted the Irish Leprechaun whipping a chain of Navy galley slaves. Saint Mary’s won the twenty-dollar second prize for its float of a ship in a bottle over the legend “Bottle Navy.” The third prize of ten dollars went to the junior float, “Irish Spirit Conquers Navy,” showing a bottle of “Irish” on a bed of flowers. Prize money was used to defray expenses of the floats.
Parade Chairman, Dick D’Amico, praised the response of the student body and the generosity both of neighboring farmers who donated the wagons on which the floats were
mounted and of the Studebaker Corporation, which lent Larks to pull them. He said he hoped the parade would be continued in future years and perhaps be expanded with more floats and bands and routed through downtown South Bend.
First place in the hall decorations went to Pangborn’s “U.S.S. Staubach” which foundered when fired upon by the “Irish Guns” revealing a vanquished Roger Staubach waving a white flag. Keenan and Farley tied for second place. Keenan displayed a mosaic head of Coach Devore imposed on a giant 75 and shamrock. It was thirty feet high and constructed of 4,256 pieces of colored cardboard. Farley’s display showed Staubach walking the plank of an Irish ship. The ship towed a rowboat containing a stand-in for the Navy Goat imprisoned in a cage. Morrissey’s four-story leprechaun came in third.
DEBATE SEASON BEGINS
Resolved: That the Federal Government should guarantee an opportunity for higher education to all qualified high-school graduates. This topic will provide the Notre Dame Debate Council with material at schools such as Tulane, Redlands (in Los Angeles), St. John’s, Pittsburgh, Northwestern, South Carolina, Wake Forest, Bradley, and Chicago this season.
So far this year, the Council has sent a team to a novice tourney — a tournament for debaters who have never debated on the college level — held at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee. The team of Howard Dooley, Sam McClelland, Jim Cavnar, and Paul Freddolino came off with a first place tie. Out of over fifty schools competing — more than two hundred speakers — Dooley captured a trophy as top negative speaker, and Cavnar matched his teammate by taking the trophy for first place in the affirmative section. Last week Larry Petroshius and John Roos travelled
to Brandeis University in Waltham, Massachusetts, to a thirty-four-school tourney and walked off with fifth place. The past weekend, in a tourney ending after press deadline, Jim Magagna, Al Dudash, Mike Zika, and Ed Barkmeyer competed in a tournament at Wayne State University in Detroit.
AUTHOR ADDRESSES CLASS
Edwin O’Connor, author of The Oracle, The Last Hurrah, and The Edge of Sadness, was on campus last week as part of a brief holiday, and appeared as a special guest in Mr. Frank O’Malley’s Modern Catholic Writers class. Mr. O’Malley is a former teacher of O’Connor’s (The Edge of Sadness was dedicated to him), and has had O’Connor as a guest in his classes in past years; it has become an annual event. This year Mr. O’Connor spoke about his new book, I Was Dancing, to be published in April. This novel, based on a play of the same name (which has not yet been produced, but is now being prepared for production) describes an aged vaudeville performer who has been living since his retirement with his son and daughter-in-law. It deals with the efforts of the son to get the father out of the house since he is causing a rift in the family.
SENIORS GO TO MSU
Approximately 165 seniors will leave on the senior bus trip to Michigan State on Friday, November 15, at 5:30 p.m. Alcoholic distractions from the weariness of the busses and the long trip will be available. The affair is important enough that the administration has given all off-campus seniors with cars permission to drive to East Lansing. As many upperclassmen may recall, this privilege has been denied in the past.
In addition to the prospect of big name entertainment Friday night, the seniors have been invited to numerous fraternity and sorority parties. As an
10
The Scholastic
added bonus, they will receive a comprehensive list of local bistros.
Besides the game at 1:30, there will be a pregame rally at 10:00 a.m. at the Swinging Door Saloon, which serves draught beer amidst a genuine Western atmosphere. After the game, seniors will toast an Irish victory with a celebration at the East Lansing K. of C. hall. Notre Dame’s “Nightlighters” will supply the music and the M.S.U. Inter-Sorority Council has guaranteed that no N.D. man will be left dateless. The busses leave for home Sunday at 2:30 p.m., from the Jack Tar Hotel, trip headquarters for the weekend.
All room and dance reservations have been made and confirmed. However, there is hope for those who still wish to go. The Detroit Club will sponsor another trip leaving from the Stepan Center, Nov. 16 at 8:00 a.m. and returning at 8:00 the same night; the cost is eleven dollars. For those who wish to spend the night in East Lansing, a note from home granting permission and fifty cents more will arrange for this. Students must find their own accommodations, however. This group will leave the campus with the first group, but will not leave East Lansing until 5:00 Sunday afternoon.
CHRISTYS PRESENT NEW LOOK
An overflow crowd attended the New Christy Minstrel concert in the Stepan Center. Despite a half-hour delay before the performance Saturday night, the audience responded well to the group.
The New Christy Minstrels brought “something new” — an element missing from previous concerts. The new something came in the forms of a tambourine, a contagious enthusiasm, and two girls without long hair and blank expressions.
The Minstrels are unusual in several ways. Most obvious is the size of the group. With seven men and two girls, they are perhaps the largest of the folk groups, yet they never lose
November 8, 1963
Christys: They packed the house.
their individuality, seem overly large, or appear like a choir. Another innovation is that the entire concert included no songs of social reform or protest. Perhaps the reported fact that all Christy songs are at least one hundred years old helps to explain the cheerful optimism which distinguishes their material from that of other contemporary groups. Most of their songs were rousing ones, and even the ballads were not depressing, as many tend to be. Although the audience had reason to be unresponsive — spirits were generally low; many were standing, unable to see, or just generally uncomfortable; and others were impatient because of the delay — the enthusiasm of the Minstrels caught hold; the audience contributed clapping and singing which often drowned out performers on stage.
The evening was not completely devoid of education, either. The audience learned, for example, that John Henry, the steeldriver, was born in Honolulu, that “glee” is a hook used for catching jumbucks, and that an “ignominious” is a furry little thing found in Australia.
Concert songs included “Green, Green,” “Saturday Night,” and “Denver.” “Waltzing Matilda,” with its introduction to Australian terms, was also popular, as was the “Bits and Pieces” segment of the concert. The last song of the evening was a rousing version of “Michael,” with everyone singing along.
Although everyone may not agree that the Minstrels were the best group that has appeared on campus, few people left the concert doubting that this is one of the best current folk groups.
SENIORS RECEIVE GRANTS
Six Notre Dame seniors majoring in chemical engineering have received National Science Foundation grants to participate in research programs currently underway in their department. They are William Blake, Frank
lin Lakes, N.J.; John Clark, Glenside, Pa.; Charles Hemler, Jr., Hanover, Pa.; Edward Maciula, Waco, Texas; David McCaffrey, Bloomfield, Hl.; and Joseph Wig, Milwaukee, Wis.
This is the largest number of participants in the four years that the department has taken part in the NSF program. NSF provides funds to support and encourage participation of undergraduates in research.
CINEMA SPEAKERS SELECTED
Two noted guest critics will be featured speakers along with Notre Dame faculty members at discussion meetings to be held in conjunction with Cinema ’64 presentations. The classes, sponsored by the Student Government Academic Commission and Cinema ’64, will be taught by Notre Dame Professors Costello, Snie-gowski, Meagher, Stritch and Fischer.
The purpose of the classes is to acquaint St. Mary’s and Notre Dame students with the movies being presented by Cinema ’64. Discussion type meetings will be held on Mondays following the presentations; the first meeting will be taught by Professor Edward Fischer of the Communication Arts Department at 7:00 p.m., November 18.
OFFER TEACHING EXAMS
College seniors planning to teach school may take the National Teacher Examinations on February 15, 1964. Registration for the tests opens November 1, 1963 and closes January 17, 1964. At the full-day session, future teachers may take the Common Examination, testing their general educational background and one or two of the 13 Optional Examinations, measuring mastery of the subject they expect to teach. It is suggested that prospective teachers should contact the school system in which they seek employment, or their own college advisors for specific advice on taking the examinations.
11

ministrators are trying to improve the system and still retain the personal touch.”
on other campuses
• Use of hallucination-producing drugs has spread to Yale University, causing many undergraduates to seek psychiatric treatment, according to the Yale Daily News. Several students have suffered borderline psychoses from the drugs mescaline and psilocybin.
Last spring, Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychology Richard Alpert of Harvard was dismissed for administering mescaline and psilocybin to undergraduates. The use of mescaline, however, had not previously been reported at Yale.
Hallucinogens were not given at Yale by a faculty member or by anyone connected with the administration. Some students, who purchased the drugs in Mexico, took them on their own initiative in an informal experiment.
• David B. Truman, dean of Columbia College, announced last week that visiting hours for women in the dorms after the next two home football games would be cancelled because of an earlier attempted panty-raid.
Addressing almost 600 male stu
dents, Dean Truman said, “We are determined that ’it is a part of our obligation to see that you learn, if possible, the maturity of self-control in an explosive situation such as we experienced.”
He said that the Sunday demonstration, and particularly the throwing of cans and bottles from dormitory windows, indicated that the level of maturity required for extension of dormitory visiting hours had not been reached by Columbia College students. He emphasized that he agreed with President Grayson Kirk that visiting privileges should be linked with the avoidance of riots.
• Michigan State Officials are taking steps to improve what is considered one of the most unpleasant aspects of attending the university — registration. Early registration was attempted with freshmen and graduate students last summer, and this term the program will be extended to seniors. Students will pick their most convenient hours for registering.
The State News says that improvements will probably come slowly but that “what really counts is that ad-
• Roger W. Heyns, Vice-President for Academic Affairs at the University of Michigan, has appointed a commission to study and make recommendations on studies in religion for the curriculum of the university.
It is the duty of the commission “To consider the responsibility of the University for offering courses depicting the history, art, and philosophy of religious movement; for courses portraying contemporary religious thought and theology, and for courses considering the interaction of religious values with current developments in the areas of social, biological, and physical science; and for courses including a treatment of ethics in vocational practice. . . .”
• Harvard University registrars were surprised this past week by the number of people pre-registered for History 134a—the Intellectual History of Europe in the 18th and 19th centuries. The course was rescheduled for a larger lecture hall when the crowd of 417 Harvard men signed up for it, making the course, according to Registrar Argent Kennedy, the fifth largest in the university. Last spring, however, the course did not attain a spot on the “top ten” in popularity. Incidentally, in a Time magazine article last May on “snap” courses at American universities, History 134a at Harvard was one of the notable “cinch” courses mentioned.
feiffer
DOES WD2 FARTM, 1H6 RADICAL MIDDLE, HAVE AIH VIEWS W EXTREMIST CANDIDATES RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT?
1HE RADICAL MIPPLE ONW MPOfiK ^{CK. middle CANDIDATES- HOWEVER SINCE LIBERAL PR&IDW& INVARI-ABLM MOVE TO THE RIGHT AND CONSERVATIVE PRESIDENTS INVARIABLE move to the left, the RADICAL HIPPIE WILL SUIWT WHOMEVER ' [MS.
TAKE NO fWM SAM, IN THE CURRENT FI6HT roe THE REPUBLICAN, NOMINATION?
WHILE IT IS TRUE THAT GOVERNOR rockefeller was a PREMATURE RADICAL MIPPLER WE SEE 5I6N5 OF SENATOR GOLDWATERS
BECOMING A LATENT RADICAL MIPPLER-
THUS IN
VIEW THERE IS no imfortant DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THEM.
WOOLONT HOU CALL THAT A
SURPRISING STATEMENT IN VIEW OF THEIR STATE? POLICE DIFFERENCES?
THE RADICAL MIDDLE BELIEVES WALL
R)WER, ONCE OB-TAINEP, COLLAPSES TOWARD THE MIDDLE. IT LITTLE MATTERS WHAT ANWE
SAMS HE STANDS FOR.-
0DT IF ALL WHO IM BWER COLLAPSE TO THE SAME
THE ISAP/CAL MIDDLE STRONG SAVORS FREE ELECTIONS W SO LONG AS THERE CONTINUE
ARENT W	ON THE CONTRARM. W£
BEING	APLOCATE JUST SUCH
ULJDULM	A COLLAPSE TOWARD THE
CMUICAL ■	MIDDLE. 0Uf> now-
I	"THAT GOVERNMENT (5
WHAT5 THE POINT OF ELECTING ANYONf?
TO BE NO REAL PIFFEI?SUCES BETWEEN THE PARTIES. THE4/ serve as an interkung , TRIBAL AND MAKE MARVELOUS PROPAGANDA VALUE.
THEN W WE HAVE MET HAVE NO THE CANDIDATES PREFERENCE AND THEM ARE
12
The Scholastic
Notre Dame recently received a grant for studies of delinquency among American juveniles. Frank Smith here explains the new approaches the study group will use to investigate both the sources of delinquency and the failure of present social institutions to correct the problem.	,
'E'or years teen-age gangs have roamed New York City. They fight for “pieces of sod,” parks, playgrounds, anything. On two successive Sundays in 1959, control of a park was the issue for which four teenagers gave their lives in a gang battle. Where does this kind of brutality breed? The battle took place several blocks from Times Square, a symbol of the prosperity, culture and high degree of civilization that our country apparently enjoys.
In Washington, D.C., we find Chief Judge Matthew F. McGuire explaining the youth situation in these words: “You can’t go out in the street without being hit on the head. You can’t ride a bus. This thing is really serious and has got to stop. We are either going to have a community of law and order or we are going to have chaos. What kind of a city are we living in?”
The above is but just a glimpse of the problem juvenile delinquency presents to our society today. By a recent survey, 43% of the crimes of murder, forcible rape, robbery, ag
gravated assault, burglary, larceny and automobile theft were committed by people under 18 years of age. To look more closely at some of the figures: 59% of all automobile thefts, 47% of all burglaries and 48% of all larcenies are perpetrated by teenagers seventeen and younger.
With these considerations in mind, the Lavanburg Foundation has granted $120,000 for a Cross-Cultural Study of Youth to be conducted under the auspices of Notre Dame. The study will be conducted in selected neighborhoods in New York City, Chicago and Washington, D.C. Dr. George Shuster, assistant to the president of Notre Dame, has ..been named chairman of thJ advisory committee for the study and as such is the overseer of the entire project. The director of the program is Dr. Bernard Lander, associate professor of sociology at Hunter College in New York City and a noted authority on the subject of juvenile delinquency.	.
Although there has been a large number of projects of this sort in the past, the Notre Dame research will
differ from most of these by its method. In the past, most programs of this kind have confined their study to the delinquent; from a study of his life and environment they tried to pinpoint the reasons for his delinquency. The Notre Dame study will investi-(Continued on page 32)
November 8, 1963
13
Italy’s cinematic new wave has, in the last few years, produced a remarkable number of excellent and precedent-setting motion pictures. With the possible exception of Mi- ' chelangelo Antonioni, however, no ’ one has had the audacity, the nerve, or the genius to do in the medium of • the film what Federico Fellini has ' done in his 8%. Fellini’s new work	i
(the title is derived from his having	j
directed seven features, two featur- { ettes, and collaborated on the direction of one other film) is almost beyond definition since it is at once both autobiographical and fictional, egocentric and made to be seen by others, symbolic and at times pure exuberance. The ambiguity of these conflicting aspects makes it impossible completely to define or explain every event in the film in a positive systematic way beyond the vague statement that this is something like what it is to be Federico Fellini, an artist tormented (or inspired) by his past, the present, and a possible future. 8% is a summary of Fellini’s life, his philosophy, his hopes, and his fears (and some more elements, many apparently unrelated to what had gone before) ; it is confused because, as Fellini’s alter-ego Guido says, he is confused, entangled and snared by his doubts and the contradictions of his environment.	'
These difficulties repeatedly flare	i
into being as Guido passes through	!
an artistic crisis and meets his pro-	|
ducer, his actors, his mistress, his	|
wife, and dozens of others who look	j
to him as a source of direction for	j
their own chaotic lives. Each of these	:
characters is swiftly etched into the	,
mind of the audience with the few sure strokes that have become one of Fellini’s trade-marks; an understanding of these isolated people, or at j least their relations to each other is ; vital for some kind of interpretation of this film. Each one is significant in his or her own way, but among the most important are the Cardinal and । the mother without a name.	|
The Cardinal, in Guido’s projected I
14
The Scholastic
Robert Haller . . .	MOVIES
film, is to be an oracle of a truth Guido’s protagonist can no longer accept. Guido himself, it seems, cannot accept the churchman’s declaration that man is not on earth to be happy, nor is he willing to search the pages of Origenes, or abandon that which is beyond the City of God. Thus the Cardinal has no solution, but here Fellini becomes the accomplice of his antagonist by hinting that the Cardinal’s faith may have the solution (ambiguities and apparent contradictions of this type repeatedly appear in the film). In the second flashback to Guido’s childhood the young student meets Saraghina, is caught by his instructors, and made to do penance for his “diabolical” act. After
leaving the confessional young Guido stops before a statue of the Virgin Mary which bears an uncanny resemblance to a woman who appears three times in the picture. Her first appearance (before the flashback) is in the lobby of the hotel with her daughter, and her serenity and poise attract Guido’s attention, making a sharp contrast with the aging Cardinal who only minutes before was seen in the elevator with a monsignor who was reading his missal backwards and a man who distinctly looks like Max von Sydow as he appeared
in Bergman’s Magician (Sydow just happens to be playing Christ in George Steven’s Greatest Story Ever Told).
There are more ambiguities, however, in the implication of the scene and character noted above: the first is that after we see the madonna, the camera sinks down and then sweeps across the preserved body of some person (a relic?); the second is that the role Sydow played in The Magician (one of the two Bergman films Fellini has seen, and, incidentally, liked) was that of a disillusioned charlatan. A careful examination of the film will reveal that these associations are not unwarranted, and in fact are demanded by the lighting, conversation, camera angle, and other factors. The mystery woman reappears (serene as always) when Guido descends into the steam chambers, and is also in the harem fantasy where she refuses to divulge her name, says she is glad to be present, and like Luisa, Guido’s wife, takes no part in the revolt. Perhaps she has some kind of answer to Guido’s problems, but it is also possible that Guido is beyond help if, as he told Claudia, “no woman can change a man.” Fellini-Guido is facing a problem which he cannot answer, all he can do is describe it as best he can. Guido’s parents, speaking from beyond the grave, can’t help him, nor can his intellectual collaborators, nor can he lose himself in fantasy with Claudia, or in reality with Carla. “Is,” as one of his tormentors at the press conference shouts, “Is your problem one of communication or is that just a pretext?” 8% gives no answer because its director has found none.
There is more, much more in this remarkable film. The last minute characteristically has multiple levels of symbolism photographed with a stunning virtuosity and scored with music that harks back to Nights of Cabiria, La Dolce Vita, and Boccaccio ’70. Fellini (behind the camera) is directing Guido who is directing the cast of the film in their parade around the ring.
They step to the beat of the little band which is led by a boy (very similar to young Guido of the flashbacks) who is implicitly moving Guido and his director, Fellini, through their memories.
An almost endless series of questions could be raised about the film. What is the meaning and relation of the three baths in the film, all filmed in such a similar manner? What is the relation between Gloria (the extremely pale girl in black) and the Negro girl in the harem (wrapped in white)? Is Claudia the reincarnation of the girl on the beach at the end of La Dolce Vita?
In the midst of all these questioning uncertainties, however, one thing is clear: Fellini’s notorious concern with sex and the flamboyant aspects of religion is not that of a director seeking sensation, but rather the sincere search of a disillusioned artist in the twentieth century. The old solutions have failed (or perhaps they never worked). Men have lost, or will lose contact with women, both have become estranged from their God, and some kind of contact must be reestablished; sex and/or religion may lead to some kind of solution.
Like all of Fellini’s films, 8 fa has no decisive conclusion, but somewhere there is hope. La Strada ends with Anthony Quinn lying defeated on the beach wracked by Gelsomina’s selfless death, Cabiria dances away with some revelers after avoiding suicide, Marcello deserts innocence for la dolce vita, and in 8% Guido is not defeated. The dance of “ring around the rocket pad” is not a plea for international coexistence as it may have been interpreted in Moscow; it is far more likely that Guido and his troupe are reaffirming the basic vitality and necessity of life even as they circle the symbol of Guido’s failure. The rocket gantry mockup has not led to the escape of anyone but it has not defeated them either. Darkness falls on the Earth, the dancers drift into the shadows, the arc lights dim out . . . but the band plays on.
November 8, 1963
The Scholastic
C C P eople just don’t do things like that.” This last line from Henrik Ibsen’s Hedda Gabler gives perhaps the most succinct epitaph to the Saint Mary’s College production.
The play is filled with all the subtleties and closely woven intricacies of the Scandinavian master; and, as such, deserves much more than a broad, single-level interpretation. Fraught with sly nuances of character, the story does not readily lend itself to the stilted stentorian rhetoric of these players. The lightly woven web of satire becomes a coarse net of irony. Ibsen’s penchant for the casual remark, his neatness at understating an understatement are both so lost that it seems conceivable that they were never considered.
The largest bone of contention, and the one in which all other objections have their root is the initial interpretation. There is rarely, if ever, a selection of drama open to only one, or for that matter any number of interpretations. However, there are very definite underlying themes and overtures which it seems disastrous to neglect. While Hedda Gabler is ad
mittedly not a “realist” piece, would it not have been better to conform with Ibsen’s image of the house in which the action takes place? Would it not have been better to have a room heavy with the drapes and ornate ornamentation of 19th-Century Norway, than the wide-open set we are presented with? Do not the huge amounts of bright blooming flowers detract from the need of fresh air to dispel the odors of lavender and musty prime minister’s widow? Do not the presence of transparent walls, high and ceilingless, create an atmosphere other than one suffering from lack of sun, air, and chintz covers? Granted, some very interesting effects were produced with the imaginative lighting.
Filtering at one point, grandly diffusing at another the sometimes bright, sometimes muted light passing through the flat created a pleasant effect. But is this valid when done so at the expense of a much more elemental principle of the play?
The disparity between the tone set by the script and that set by the scenery is equalled only by the
dichotomy between the dialogue and the characters. Hedda, the beautiful, gracious Hedda Gabler, has, in Robin Keyworth, become a vicious woman. The strength of the character has been admirably portrayed. The dominance of this female over all others is artfully presented. But one feels the pang of loss in this character. Amidst the haughty praise and valiant pride the lack of charm and seductive persuasion is woefully apparent. Is this the Hedda Gabler who had the hearts of all her male admirers? Is there left no trace of femininity? Hedda is a worldly wise siren that must be tempered with an innocence and naivete. Here, as in all the roles, the most important trait of character has been developed to the point where it stifles completely the other elements of personality. The occasional lapses into sentiment and other emotion are viewed as slips or flaws in character rather than valid facets of personality. Little, if any, individuality has been preserved: the character has unfortunately degenerated to a type.
(Continued on page 30)
November 8, 1963
17
“Little visitor”
Decorations and floats greeted the visitor to Notre Dame last weekend, adding color to an otherwise dreary day. Morrissey Hall’s prize-winning Leprechaun and Fischer’s Dragon added to the livening of the campus already produced by beautiful belles (e.g., Queen Mary Beth Finan) and wild green goats. However, some-little-visitors suffered when dependable South Bend iveather gave them the cold shoulder.
ELECTION LINEUP, ’64
by Michael Messmer
* 1/ -T" he most positive assertion that gqe could make concerning the Republican candidate’s prospects in the 1964 presidential election would be that historical precedent is definitely against him. In the course of American history fourteen of the twenty presidents who have chosen to run for a second term have been re-elected. Since the turn of the twentieth century an incumbent up for re-election has been denied only twice — in 1912, when Teddy Roosevelt’s Bull Moose Party split the Republican forces and spelled defeat for William Howard Taft, and in 1932, when Herbert Hoover ran against the Depression.
This historical sidelight should not, and indeed cannot, be interpreted as a prediction of defeat for the Republican Party in next year’s presidential election, but it does serve to emphasize the fact that the incumbent, especially in the modern era, has certain advantages which give him an automatic lead in the election race and which are not open to criticism from the opposition forces. He has that somewhat intangible quality which seems to mean so much to the average American voter — experience. If he has had even a moderately successful first administration, he can emphasize the fact
that he has proved himself capable of withstanding the rigors of his office — he has demonstrated his ability whereas his opponent has not. Finally, he is in a unique position for communicating with the public.
Basic issues and political principles notwithstanding, it is factors such as these which tend to weigh heavily, consciously or unconsciously, in the mind of John Q. Public as he prepares to cast his vote. If this is so, it seems pertinent, then, to look briefly at John Kennedy and his administration in order to see just how wide his “automatic lead” is. No one will deny that JFK is more experienced than any of the possible Republican candidates. Neither can it be said that his administration has been a complete failure, for there have been a number of successes — the Berlin stand, the Peace Corps, the space program, and the handling of strikes, to name a few.
However, neither of these advantages, experience and moderate success, are perhaps as important in themselves as the use Kennedy has made and will continue to make of the tools of the mass media for communicating with the public and of the consequent public image he has developed. A prime example of this is the use of the television medium, es
pecially for the White House news conferences. These constitute an opportunity for communication with the public open only to the President and Kennedy has dominated and controlled them throughout the course of his administration.
Finally, any attempt to assess the Republican candidate’s chances in 1964 must consider the fact that the present Chief Executive is a man who generates extraordinary personal appeal, who speaks and writes well and with humor, and who has the ability to appear relaxed and confident in emergencies. A statement in Time for December 22, 1961, summarizes well the influence this wholly subjective factor will have on next year’s election: “For, rightly or wrongly, elections in the United States often turn as much on an assessment of the candidate—his personality, character, behavior — as upon the causes he espouses.”
Turning now to the Republican Party and its possible candidates, the situation appears far from hopeless. There is a wealth of apparently very well-qualified men from which to choose — Goldwater, Rockefeller, Scranton, Romney, Morton, Hatfield, Rhodes, to name the ones most often mentioned. Governor James Rhodes of Ohio, Governor
20
The Scholastic
Mark Hatfield of Oregon, and Senator Thruston Morton of Kentucky would appear to be better vice-presidential than presidential candidates, along with such men as Senator Thomas Kuchel of California.
Governor William Scranton of Pennsylvania and Governor George Romney of Michigan are most often mentioned as compromise candidates in the case of a stalemate between Goldwater and Rockefeller forces. Scranton is handicapped by the fact that his term as governor runs to
and at the present moment Senator Goldwater looks like the only Republican candidate who would have a real chance to defeat John Kennedy in ’64. The influence of Rockefeller’s remarriage is bound to lessen considerably in the months before the Republican National Convention assembles in San Francisco, but it is still true, as James Reston has said in the New York Times., that “The President of the United States is not a symbol of the norm in American life but of the ideal.” Rockefeller’s
1966; he cannot afford to have his election as governor appear as merely a step to higher office. He has, however, stated that he would be amenable to a “draft” if one should come his way. Romney, whose term as governor ends in 1964, is then the most likely candidate other than the senator from Arizona and the governor of New York. However, Romney’s political philosophy in some ways works against him; it can best be characterized by calling it anti-Big; he is opposed to Big Labor, Big Business, and Big Government. As such, his political beliefs would seem to be of a tenor to make more enemies than a presidential candidate can afford to make.
There remain Senator Goldwater and Governor Rockefeller, and it is about these two men, the former the leader of the conservative, Old Republican faction and the latter the spokesman for the liberal, New Republican wing, that party opinion has coalesced since the political demise of Richard Nixon. Until his remarriage this spring, Governor Rockefeller appeared to be the front runner in the race for the nomination, but since that time, in a classic example of the influence a man’s private life may have on his public image, the trend has been reversed
November 8, 1963
divorce and remarriage can only hinder him in his quest for an office which makes its holder a kind of symbol of the nation and its moral figurehead.
More basic to the Republican prospects in 1964 is the split in the party between the conservative and liberal wings. This split has arisen because of the tendency for differences within the Republican Party to become ideological and rigid, as opposed to the Democrats, who seem to be able to compromise their differences (the Kennedy-Johnson ticket is a good example). Conservatism is an expression of what is called classical Republicanism, the course of which has always been fiscally conservative, nativist, suspicious of the city-dwelling masses, nationalist in foreign affairs, and in favor of only a minimum of government interference with private activity.
The rise of the liberal wing within the party has paralleled the rise of the United States as an industrial state and the progress under Democratic administrations toward a kind of welfare state. The Liberal Republicans are international and urban in their appeal, seeking to provide a businessman’s climate and still win the workingman’s vote. What the Liberal Republican says, in effect, is
21
ELECTION LINEUP, ’64 that he can run a modified welfare state better than the Democrats and that he agrees with the dominant Democrat philosophy that the national government should be supreme and that the states are merely relics of the past; he just doesn’t voice these opinions as loudly as the opposition party does.
In general these are the positions of which Goldwater and Rockefeller are the spokesmen. Their criticisms of the Kennedy administration naturally enough follow these lines. While there is much to criticize in what the President has and hasn’t done — Medicare, the Alliance for Progress, his handling of the tax cut, civil rights, Cuba, foreign aid, Skybolt, farm problems, federal spending, the stalemate in Congress — it seems safe to assume, at least as a basis of comparison, that between now and election time the most words will be written and breath expended on the Big Issues: the domestic economy, foreign policy, and civil rights.
Rockefeller’s criticism of the Kennedy administration has centered largely on its economic policies and its failure to act in the field of civil rights. Goldwater’s, on the other hand, has centered on administration’s “softness” in its military and political stance against communism. Rockefeller seems to grasp the problems of the domestic economy better than his rival, perhaps because he has some definite positive ideas on what should be done to bolster it, whereas Goldwater’s ideas are for the most part negative. For example, while Goldwater would have federal farm support withdrawn over a gradual period, Rockefeller proposes a new system of supports to stabilize prices and an attempt to help the low-income farmer, who is completely ignored under the present system.
The attitudes of the two candidates are reversed on the matter of foreign policy. While Rockefeller has spoken mainly in terms of national “prestige” and hasn’t differed substantially with the Kennedy policies, merely advocating a strengthening of them, Goldwater has assumed a strong stand on foreign affairs which is in direct disagreement with the adminis-
continued
tration’s handling of them. He advocates withdrawal of recognition of Russia, expulsion of the communists from Cuba — in short, policies which appeal to the many Americans who fear the communist menace. It is his criticism of foreign policy, it should be noted, that first propelled Senator Goldwater into his position of national prominence and it still remains his strongest talking point.
In civil rights, Goldwater has made nothing but friends and Rockefeller nothing but enemies. The Governor advocates a comprehensive civil-rights bill (another quasi-Kennedy proposal) and consequently has incurred the wrath of the segregationist South. Goldwater, despite a two-pronged attitude on civil rights — he is against segregation but for states’ rights (which is the reason why there is segregation in the first place), has endeared himself to the states’ rightist South to such a degree that recent Gallup polls have shown him far out in front of everyone in popularity in that section. In fact, it is the very favorable prospect that Goldwater could carry all or a large majority of the Southern electoral votes that has contributed to the tremendous swing to his side of the Republican Party and precipitated various predictions that a SouthMidwest-Rocky Mountain coalition could win the Senator 280 electoral votes and the election next year. Rockefeller and the liberals are not yet ready to write off the Negro, the big cities, and the great industrial areas of the North, primarily because this is where most of their appeal lies.
It becomes apparent from consideration of these basic issues that, because of Rockefeller’s difficulties in establishing a political position that differs from Kennedy’s and is still sufficiently broad and appealing to attract the voters and because of Goldwater’s great popularity in the South, the senator from Arizona is the prime Republican candidate. However, there is one reservation — Goldwater must run on a platform which is his own, not an amalgamation of conservative, liberal, and middle-of-the-road policies; the pros
pects that a conservative platform will be written appear slim, if it is recalled that Governor Rockefeller was adamant in 1960 in having several of his ideas written into the Nixon platform. If Goldwater is to run successfully, he must present to the voting public a platform which embodies the choice between conservatism and New Frontierism he has repeatedly promised them. (Whether his policies would or could remain strictly conservative if he were elected is another question.)
The chance that such a stand-off between the liberal and conservative elements would occur becomes even more likely when Republican spokesmen are making statements like the following one in U.S. News and World Report: “A lot of what Barry says is right, but can’t be done. We’d all like to go to heaven right away, but we can’t.” Suppose, then, that the Republicans are forced to look for a compromise candidate; who might he be? Anyone from the RockefellerScranton wing can be pretty well ruled out simply because he couldn’t garner the Southern vote which appears so necessary to Republican victory. Romney would spring to mind as the most likely choice, but there are the difficulties mentioned above and he is very strong on civil rights; j however, he has recently been moving more toward the Goldwater posi- ; tion. The party might be forced to turn to what the Times called the = Eisenhower formula for getting the • Republicans back in the White House I in ’64: adopt the features most popu- i lar in the other party’s program,	*
argue that you can administer it	i
more efficiently, and get a handsome, " nonpolitical Horatio Alger-type with j personality, a middle-of-the-road program, and a home base in a big state. J Finally, there is always a chance that a last minute unknown will grab the spotlight as Wendell Willkie did in 1940.
None of these solutions provides the Republican Party with a workable alternative to a Goldwater ticket. The Senator’s immense popularity in the South and among the younger members of the Republican (Continued on page 33)
22
The Scholastic
Needed: One Miracle Worker
IN early September, the football coach of a prominent eastern university made this prognostication about Notre Dame’s chances in 1963: “Coach Hugh Devore definitely has his work cut out for him. If this team goes 5-5, it will be a tremendous accomplishment. ’ ’
Now, with only the four games of November remaining, a 5-5 record will be more than a “tremendous accomplishment” for the Irish and Devore, it will be a near-miracle.
Last Saturday, Notre Dame was badly outplayed by a superior Navy team. Though Roger Staubach convinced the capacity crowd that he is probably the nation’s outstanding quarterback, Notre Dame’s defense held him to his lowest total offense of the season.
It was not Staubach who broke Notre Dame’s back, but fullback Pat Donnelly, who ran for 127 yards (a nine-plus yards per carry average) and scored a crucial touchdown for the Middies.
The Navy defensive rush — and good play by the secondary — limited the Irish to only three pass completions, all in the first half. In the second half, Notre Dame gained only 33 yards rushing, the Midshipmen 159.
For the game, Notre Dame’s quarterbacks completed just three of 19 passes, while Staubach hit on 9 of 15. The Irish also lost 73 yards on penalties, almost twice as many as Navy (which had averaged over 120 penal
ty-yards per game). On two consecutive plays, Notre Dame was red-flagged for personal fouls.
Bill Wolski (see cut), who was Notre Dame’s only outstanding offensive back (with 64 yards in 15 carries), said after the game: “Penalties and mental errors hurt us most. No matter what we tried, we couldn’t jell, offensively or defensively. That’s not to take anything away from Staubach or Donnelly. They were great.”
Frank Budka, depressed and pessimistic, added: “In that second half, nothing went right for us. They hurt us with those two quick touchdowns, and after they had scored their third, we just couldn’t get our offense going.”
There were, however, a few bright spots for the Irish. Captain Bob Lehmann played his finest game of the season, making 20 tackles, and is now tied with Bill Pfeiffer for the team lead in tackles with 61. He was, with Jim Carroll, the co-winner of the Rockne Trophy. Tom Kostelnik came into his own as a linebacker, tackling well and breaking up a Navy pass; and John Atamian, Carroll’s guard replacement who started his first game, played extremely well, causing a Navy fumble with a devastating tackle.
All in all, however, the future looms dark for Notre Dame football in 1963. In Pittsburgh, tomorrow’s opponent, Notre Dame faces a team ranked second in the East, and Navy’s only
reed challenger for the Lambert Trophy.
Panther Coach John Michelosen feels that this is one of the best, if not the best, Pitt teams he has coached. In backs Paul Martha, Rick Leeson, and Fred Mazurek the Panthers have an offensive backfield very similar to that of Army during World War H. Leeson and Martha approximate the style — and ability — of Army’s Mr. Inside and Mr. Outside, Doc Blanchard and Glenn Davis. Mazurek, like Arnold Tucker, West Point's .AllAmerican signal-caller of 1945, can run well, but will throw anytime, anywhere.
And Pittsburgh, under ChancellorCoach Edward H. Litchfield, has academic excellence of its own. Quarterback Mazurek, for example, is a premed student, as are starting halfbacks Martha and Eric Crabtree; fullback Leeson is in pre-dentistry, and Captain Al Grigaliunas is an industrial engineering major. The Pitt roster also has more than a smattering of math, chemistry, and physics majors, electrical engineers, and pre-law students.
It was exactly a year ago that Notre Dame played its finest game of the 1962 season, to beat Pittsburgh, 43-22. If the Irish are to begin a comeback, if the miracle is to happen, it must begin tomorrow afternoon.
—Rex Lardner
November 8, 1963
23
The Interceptor
Pass interception is the consummation of the defensive halfback's skill and science, but Tommy MacDonald accomplishes it regularly.
by John Whelan
ttnpHE receiver knows where he’s
* going and I don’t.” This is the way Tommy MacDonald describes the essential problem of the pass de-. fender.
The receiver has the initiative, and with it a natural advantage; the defender, on the other hand, must react to the receiver’s moves quickly enough so that his advantage does not become insurmountable.
In effect, MacDonald must concede his opponent two steps on every pass play. To merely break up a pass he must somehow regain those two steps, but to intercept a pass, he must more than recover those two steps, must actually change roles from defender to aggressor. Pass interception is thus the supreme feat of the defensive halfback, and though college teams are passing more than ever, interceptions remain rare.
Yet MacDonald accomplishes this feat with surprising regularity: he intercepted nine passes last year and three in the first half of the current season. By season’s end he will almost certainly have broken Johnny Lattner’s Notre Dame record for most interceptions in a career — thirteen — with which he is currently tied.
MacDonald’s objective when defending against the pass is simple to state but difficult to accomplish: he must regain those two precious steps. He does this by employing every trick, every shortcut, every insight that nearly three years of experience have given him.
“It’s like chess in a way,” he explains. “You must learn to anticipate the move of the receiver before he makes it.” What he left unsaid is that while the possible courses of action are almost as numerous as in chess, the defender does not have three hours in which to ponder them and reach a decision.
The first decision MacDonald must make when the opposing team breaks their huddle is whether the play is likely to be a pass or run: “Various clues help me decide if a pass is coming. Obviously, the situation is a good indication — if it’s third down and ten, chances are excellent that a pass is forthcoming.
“There are other clues, too. I watch the guards. In many cases, if the play is to be a run, the guard who will pull to lead it will line up a little farther off the line of scrimmage. And if the play is a pass, the guards will straighten up almost immediately to block for the passer. The ends often tip off the play as well. Most ends only run their patterns hard when the quarterback is going to throw.
Bedsole, for example, really dogs it unless a pass is coming.”
This is all information MacDonald must digest in split seconds. Then, assuming that the play will be a pass, he must decide where it is likely to be thrown. He bases this estimate on several bits of information. “During the week I try to become familiar with our opponents’ pass patterns. This gives me a general idea where the pass is likely to go and who the primary receiver is likely to be. The quarterback often glances at the area into which he will throw almost immediately after he gets the snap, and the receivers also tend to look at their destination before they cut.”
Critical in MacDonald’s attempt to defense passes is his ability to gauge when the ball is about to be thrown; he must know when the receiver has made his final fake, and he may be easily misled. For this reason, the line’s rush is all important. If the passer has ample time, the receiver’s chances of getting free are greatly increased because he can run extra, free-lance patterns. Receivers who have been knocked down at the line of scrimmage are also likely to be in the open if they have had time to get up.
Though all this helps him to anticipate the receiver’s moves, and thus narrow or eliminate his advantage, MacDonald’s actual problem of guarding the receiver still remains. He has two tenets regarding the solutions: “play the angles” and “play the ball.”
By playing the angles he means positioning himself so that he can reach the ball’s line of flight before the receiver, and yet so that he will be in position for a sure tackle if the receiver does make the catch. For example, if the quarterback must throw the ball crossfield, MacDonald will play slightly behind (downfield from) the receiver and laterally between him and the passer.
“Once the ball is in the air,” he says, “I concentrate on it and forget all about the receiver. The ball is the important thing, and if I’ve played the angle properly, I don’t have to worry about the man anyway. If the pass is short or low, I can try for the interception, but if the ball is thrown high and away, the best I can do is to go through the man to the ball and hope that I can jar it loose when we collide.”
The interception is the consummation of the pass defender’s skill and science, and though he makes it sound easy, Tommy MacDonald embodies the intuition of a chess master and the reactions of a cat — a rare combination for a rare feat.
21
The Scholastic
SCOREBOARD
Cross-Country: Notre Dame remained unbeaten as its first five runners finished in another hand-in-hand tie for first place in the State Meet at Indianapolis.
The five — Frank Carver, Bill Welch, Bill Clark, Mike Coffey, and Ed Dean — were all clocked at 20:04.
This afternoon, the Irish meet the Chicago Track Club in a dual meet at Chicago; their prospects of another win in their quest for a national championship are excellent.
Soccer: Sophomore Mariano Gonzalez stretched his scoring streak to five games as he scored twice in Notre Dame’s 6-1 rout of Marquette.
Tomorrow morning, the Irish meet Hartwick College of Oneida, N.Y. Hartwick has a 9-1 record against such teams as Colgate, RPI, and NYU; has scored 54 goals to 9 for their opponents; and has drawn 13,-000 fans for their six home games — despite an enrollment of only 1,100.
The stature of soccer there is best indicated by the fact that the team will arrive in South Bend by chartered airliner.
A win tomorrow would give Notre Dame an 8-1 record, and probably a bid to the NCAA tournament.
Interhall: In Sunday’s action, Stanford walloped Farley, 23-0, to take a decisive lead in the Eastern Division with a 3-0-1 record. Morrissey, the Western Division leader with a 3-0 record, was idle after belting Badin, 42-0, on the preceding weekend.
In other games, Zahm blanked Cavanaugh, 13-0; Dillon shut out Alumni-Walsh, 20-0; Badin edged Off-Campus 13-8 for its first win; Keenan and Breen-Phillips fought to a scoreless deadlock; and Sorin picked up its second win, beating Howard-St. Ed’s, 14-0.
SCHEDULE
Cross-Country
November 8, Notre Dame versus Chicago Track Club at Chicago.
Soccer
November 9, Hartwick College at Notre Dame, 10:00 a.m., south of the tennis courts.
Interhall
Sunday, November 10:
Stanford vs. Zahm, 1:00 p.m. Howard-St. Ed’s vs. Morrissey,
1:00 p.m.
Breen-Phillips vs. Farley, 2:15 p.m. Alumni-Walsh vs. Badin, 2:15 p.m. Keenan vs. Cavanaugh, 3:30 p.m. Dillon vs. Sorin, 3:30 p.m.
Voice in the Crowd
Au. the world’s a stage,” wrote Shakespeare in As You Like It, •**-“and all the men and women merely players; they have their exits and their entrances, and one man in his time plays many parts. ...” Unfortunately, many of the dramas enacted on this vast stage are vehicles of sadness.
Such a play is the tragedy in which Notre Dame students, players, and coaches have been unwitting and unwilling actors during the past three and one-half football seasons, in which they have acted on a stage that spans the continent and in which they have been manipulated by an inscrutable, omniscient director.
It has been a tragedy for the student-fans precisely because they do love football and Notre Dame; they have been described by Sports Illustrated, quite rightly, as “. . . the loudest, loyalest student body in the land.” Football culture has made Notre Dame more than another good school, has made it a place of distinct character, of unique spirit and tradition. The spirit and tradition, however, are based on winning football, and are difficult to sustain in the face of disappointment after disappointment.
It has been even more a tragedy for Red Mack and Myron Pottios, for Angelo Dabiero and Nick Buoniconti, for Daryle Lamonica and Mike Lind and Ed Hoerster, for Don Hogan, Bob Lehmann, Charlie O’Hara, Jim Kelly, Bill Pfeiffer, and Tommy MacDonald. These are players of great ability and desire, some of whom — Mack, Pottios, Lind, Hogan — have suffered injuries and the helplessness of watching from the sidelines; others of whom have suffered the even greater frustration, bitterness, and disappointment of seeing their efforts go for naught, often without apparent reason.
Perhaps the greatest tragedy, though, is that of a man named Hugh Devore, a man of sincerity and warmth, of wisdom and compassion, a man I love and respect almost as much as my own father. Hugh Devore is a man who said, after the Purdue game, “Maybe when we set the pattern of winning, I won’t have to shout at them so much, be so hostile. It’s not in my nature — you don’t know how hard it is to be so tough with these boys.” He is a man who loves Notre Dame, who has selflessly struggled to restore the winning tradition, and who grieves more than anyone each time Notre Dame loses.
For all involved, this has been a season of particular pathos: of disappointment but hope after the Wisconsin and Purdue games, of confidence and optimism after the Southern California and UCLA games, of despair and shattered dreams after the Stanford and Navy games. It is a season which will yet test the resilience of the human spirit, because it is destined to be a season of emotions, not of logic.
The hard truth is that the Notre Dame team is not as good as most had thought early in the season, for reasons neither very clear nor, at this point, very important. Rationally, it is difficult to see how Notre Dame will win another game. But the team has not given up hope, and this is very important. Hope is an incredible thing: people have lived and died by hope in completely illogical causes, and though they face a brutal schedule, the Irish will probably surprise Pittsburgh, or Michigan State, or Iowa, or Syracuse.
It is tempting, indeed, for the student to give up hope and become indifferent, for by closing his heart, he can easily avoid being hurt. It is difficult to deliberately subject oneself to disappointment after disappointment when there is a more pleasant alternative, but this is the price of true loyalty.
For four years, the seniors have carried on a rather one-sided love affair with Notre Dame football, a love affair which has brought more pain than satisfaction. Yet it is something worthwhile, a habit hard to break. Though he has reference to a slightly more personal romance, Frank Sinatra describes this affair eloquently and succinctly in song: “Unrequited love’s a bore, and I’ve got it pretty bad; But for someone you adore, it’s a pleasure to be sad.”
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
November 8, 1963
25
TYLER JR.’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
PENN STATE AT OHIO STATE: Scoring points is not the Buckeyes’ forte, but their methodical mauling of previous foes gives notice of trouble and frustration for the Nittany Lions in The Game of the Week.
TEXAS AT BAYLOR: Texas is undefeated but unexciting, while Baylor, guided by quarterback Don Trull, is both exciting and explosive. The Bears, with a flare for offense, will trim the Longhorns in The Upset of the Week.
MICHIGAN AT ILLINOIS: Michigan’s Big Ten play has been too erratic, and the Wolverines will be unable to cope with the consistency and poise of the lllini. Mama Elliott can console her other son this year.
MARYLAND AT NAVY: Quarterback Dick Shiner and his Terrapin teammates have planned all season for an upset. Scrambling Roger Staubach is a smart hare, however, and the tortoise won’t win this one.
PRINCETON AT HARVARD: Unbeaten Princeton has been an Ivy League surprise, but Harvard should trim the Tigers with overall strength and depth.
ARKANSAS AT RICE: Arkansas just loves a good feud with a Texas team, and only four league losses in as many years attest this fact. Consequently, this traditional interstate scrap will see the rootin’ Porkers rout the hootin’ Owls.
OTHER GAMES:
Nebraska over Kansas
Michigan State over Purdue Wisconsin over Northwestern Southern California over Stanford SMU over Texas A & M
Last week: 6-6, 50%.
To date: 47-24-1, 66%.
‘Letters’
(Continued from page 7)
the stadium and the Leprechaun went to Herb Jones, the stadium manager, to see if we could possibly get our poor little goat onto the field. Now some South Bend police captain thought it would be good strategy to arrest the goat. He was outsmarted however, when the goat resisted arrest by (figuratively) planting his four hooves in the ground. The officer decided not to pinch the goat after all.
At this point the Leprechaun returned and told us that Jones had said that if the goat got onto the field, the cheerleaders would be bounced from school. This was, I believe, a wise move considering the vicious nature of the goat and the vulnerability of our cheerleaders to his terrible teeth.
The moral of this long-winded story is this — don’t bother to show a little school spirit because it will promptly be snuffed by some “official” who is trying to make himself look like he has some authority.
Frank Smith 262 Alumni
because to do so would have meant that my date and I would have had to stand throughout the performance.
The efforts of the Social Commission to show a profit on one of their activities are laudable. Publicity from all sides helped insure that the attendance for this fine group would be high, but the Commission did not provide facilities for those who wished to attend. Selling more tickets than there was space available is not excusable; it is an obvious injustice to those who purchased tickets before the night of the concert. By the way, who gets white tickets?
Thank God there was a decent movie in South Bend.
One Who Left, Disgusted
Tiie white tickets are handed out at the discretion of the Social Commissioner.
You have two alternatives from which to choose so that this will not be repeated in the future: fix a box lunch and get to the concert at 6:00; get to know someone (the easiest and possibly the cheapest in the long run). —ED.
Many an important letter arrives two days late, forcing us to miss an opportunity which would have profited us if we had it on time.
Why should our post office treat us any different concerning mail delivery than a comparable post office off campus? We pay the same postage and would like the same service.
Name Withheld
PROTEST
Editor:
The New Christy Minstrels presented what was perhaps the best concert that has been the students’ pleasure to enjoy in some years. This, at least, is the report expressed by my friends. I regret to say that I was not able to enjoy the performance. I was unable to hear the group not because I did not purchase a ticket; I did several weeks ago. The reason I did not hear the concert was
SLOW MAIL Editor:
The entire atmosphere of the beautiful campus of Notre Dame is a hectic one from Monday until classes end on Saturday. Everyone is moving fast to get his job done quickly and well.
Why then, do I ask, does mail delivery on campus take so long? Comparable towns, of the same population as Notre Dame, get mail service oft times two to three days faster, even when the mail travels the same distance. Letters postmarked one a day for three days in succession often are delivered to us all at once — a week from the mailing of the first.
FACULTY MEETINGS Editor:
The points that you made in your editorial concerning student-faculty j relations were well taken. You struck at the root of one aspect of the whole problem of student-faculty relations; that is, the unfortunate lack of opportunities for the students to meet with the faculty in their homes. In an attempt to ascertain just how much support the faculty would give to a program of home discussions with students, the Student Government Academic Commission sent out a . questionnaire to every member of the faculty at Notre Dame. The results were most heartening. The vast majority’ of responses from the faculty indicated that they would be	more	I
than happy to participate in such ac- j tivities.	j
The Academic Commission	feels	]
that the students should not only be	<
given the opportunity to meet with their own professors in the professors’ homes but they should also have a chance to engage in informal discussions with professors that they may never have in class. In this way it is hoped that the barriers between departments and even the colleges will be broken down. It would, ideally, promote a greater understanding among the many diverse factions in our University community.
26
The Scholastic
*
I
With this in mind, the Academic Commission plans to initiate in a few weeks a program of visits to professors’ homes. We plan to give the students the opportunity to meet with faculty members from every department in the University. In order to lend direction to these meetings, they will be oriented around the discussion of some particular topic. While the home visit will have to be restricted to ten or fifteen students and one or two professors, we plan on offering enough of them to enable every interested student to participate in the program.
Towards this end of better studentfaculty relations, the Academic Commission is also sponsoring the Student-Faculty Lecture Series. This is a series of twelve lectures to be given by outstanding members of the faculty here at Notre Dame. Following each lecture the floor will be opened to discussion between the students and the particular faculty member. It is hoped, once again, that this type of activity will tend to destroy the isolation that exists among the departments and the colleges.
Those interested in the home visits should drop a postcard listing their major and year to Richard Zito, 310 Pangborn. Any preferences as to meeting with a member of a particular department should also be indicated.
John T. Harty
Academic Commissioner
CORRECTION?
Editor:
Congratulations to the Scholastic for the recent exclusive coverage of a story concerning the South Bend-Mishawaka C.Y.A. Your coverage of the story (about the admission of Notre Dame students to our dances) was so exclusive, in fact, that most of us involved were ignorant of the problem until after you published it, although your information was four weeks old. Unfortunately, what could have been an intelligent approach to a real problem, that of student-town relations, appeared to be little more than a vague off-hand report on a popular campus rumor. Rumors, however, are not news; and off-hand comments in an official magazine can be harmful.
The print has dried; by ignoring the article, the club hopes to weather the storm of embarrassment and inconvenience suffered. I feel it my duty, however, to supply the Scholastic and its readers exactly what your writer was apparently too busy to wait for, the facts:
November 8, 1963
1)	The mythical controversy amongst forces in the local diocese has yet to be heard officially by the Club. An opinion expressed, publicly or privately, contrary to existing policies, does not alone constitute a controversy.
2)	Any action concerning general club policies is taken by this club, acting under the guidance of our moderator who will certainly be guided by the wishes of the Bishop of the diocese. No such action has been taken, and no such action will be taken without due notice to all the members, including Student members; therefore:
3)	The student policies of the Club remain unchanged. As I had stated, we do allow students to the dances (as long as they act like the Catholic gentlemen they’re supposed to be) but we will not cater to their wishes concerning the club or the dances, just
as we do not cater to local who take little interest in beyond the dances.
4)	I invite the writer to
members the club
consider
writing the originally suggested article. It has been my opinion that the C.Y.A. with its relaxed social atmosphere in which N.D. men can meet the young ladies and gentlemen of the area, has done more to cement friendly relations between the campus and the town than any volumes of interviews, controversies, or reports ever printed. My hope is that our members, now away at school, have been able to find similar opportunities for campus-town interrelations.
Michael A. Pauwels, pres. Notre Dame ’66
The information for the 'Scholastic’s’ article was gathered in an in-tervieiv with Fr. Zimmerman, the diocesan chaplain for the G.Y.A. and C.Y.O. Perhaps if Mr. Pauwels had more contact with his club’s chaplain (who represents the bishop in dealing with C.Y.A.), he would know the facts a little better himself.
What appears to have happened is that Mr. Pauwels and the other officers of the club have chosen to ignore the bishop’s expressed wishes and would like to see the matter blow over so that they can do exactly as they want: in the ivords of one officer of the club who spoke to the editor of the Scholastic, “We want the Notre Dame students at our dances because they bring in a lot of money; the members by themselves aren’t interested enough to support the club.” —ED
Senate

Since the full Senate did not meet this past week, this week’s column will consider the progress of Sunday’s meeting of the Senate Policy Committee. During this two-hour meeting, four proposed policies were discussed, but only one was brought to a vote.
The first proposal involves a change in the procedure for calling a Senate meeting. Presently, the meetings are held at the discretion and only on the initiative of the Student Body President. Under the revised system, meetings could also be called by petition of any Senator.
Signatures of two-thirds of the voting members would require a meeting considering only specified topics on the date requested on the petition. Such a revision is designed to prevent dormancy in Student Government by allowing either executives or legislators to call Senate meetings. The policy, as revised during committee consideration, was unanimously approved for introduction on the Senate floor.
The transportation policy was reintroduced and again set aside for further discussion. Changes made in the policy since last reported (Scholastic, Oct. 18) include removal of any stated exceptions for particular organizations. Under consideration Sunday was the section dealing with priorities to geographical clubs and other special-interest organizations in sponsoring trips. No decision was reached, seemingly for two reasons: to avoid infringing the rights of any group, and to remove, as far as possible, discretionary power from individual members of Student Government.
A Freshman Class Council policy and an Academic Commission policy were also introduced, but were found unacceptable and will be revised and resubmitted.
During the proceedings, Chairman Tom O’Brien cautioned the members to avoid generalized policy statements, at best open to varying interpretation and at worst wholly meaningless. This warning, together with the efforts to delineate clearly Student Government jurisdiction, reflects recognition by the committee of the long-range importance of their decision. The delineation and codification of Senate policy is among the most ambitious undertakings of the current Student Government leadership, and will bear heavily on present and future Senate effectiveness.
—Jack Rowe
i
5
1
5

L‘
5
I
27



Six years ago one of the largest (but least known) campus organizations had a membership of roughly one hundred students. The same organization now has a membership of four students. This refers to campus membership — for the world membership is four million — but the organization remains little known. Little known but influential. Dietrich von Hildebrand, the noted Catholic theologian, in his most recent book points out that this organization “renewed ... the face of the earth... in the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Centuries” and “will be able to change again the face of the earth.”
What is this organization? It is
A Nearly Extinct Species
called the Layman’s Order (or Third Order) of St. Francis. What is its origin? Lay men and women in the thirteenth century asked St. Francis to found a religious order for lay people who wished to seek perfection in a special way. Thus was established in 1209 a religious order for laymen, most of whom are married. Among the numerous Third Order brothers of the past are: St. Louis IX, Dante, Columbus, Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, St. Thomas More, Franz Liszt, Luigi Galvani, and Popes Pius XI and John XX11L to name a few. Cardinal Cushing (a member) has written: “The Third Order of St. Francis has always appealed to me
as the answer to the problem of how good people can be close to God while living in the circumstances of the world.”
But the Third Order is in many ways a strange organization. Members are actually Franciscans. They say a daily office which may take many different forms, but which is most frequently 12 Our Father’s, Hail Mary’s and Glory Be’s. Members wear a habit, which is a small scapular and cord. They may be buried if they wish in the full habit. Tertiaries (as members are called) first become postulants, then novices, and finally are professed. None of the rules of the Third Order are binding under pain of sin.
One reason for the fact that the Third Order is a little-known group is that it has no specific end in the ordinary sense. In contrasting the Third Order to other religious groups, Dr. Hildebrand writes, “Moreover, all these pious associations are dedicated to a specific concrete end, for instance, to help the missions, to fight obscene literature, or whatever religious aim it might be,” whereas Third Order members have as their aim “full transformation in Christ.”
But this poses a problem of serious import. Why should a good Catholic, in a situation (like Notre Dame)
WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOPS1 A I
GIGANTIC RECORD dALt
ALL 45 RPM HITS
69
CENTS
Any L.P. Album From Our Huge Stock On Sale For
When You Buy One At Regular Manufacturer’s Suggested List Price in Same Price Range
DIAMOND NEEDLES
Regular Price $9.98
At the Unheard of Price of $3.88
EVERY LP IN STORE ON THIS SALE
HARMONICAS—PICKS—STRAPS ) RECORD STANDS — GUITARS ( 12" RECORD CASES — STRINGS ? PHONOGRAPHS — BONGOS’
DISCOUNT PRICES
EVERY LP IN STORE ON THIS SALE
Come in, browse around—all first quality merchandise. Thousands of L.P. Albums to choose from . . . all for ONE PENNY when you buy one at regular Mfg. suggested list price in same price range. WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOPS—214 S. Michigan—CE 3-4585 WEEKDAY STORE HOURS: MON., THURS., FRI. — 9:30 to 8:30; TUES., WED., SAT. —9:30 to 5:30
28
The Scholastic
where there are numerous aids to greater spiritual perfection available, join the Third Order? First, in my opinion, because membership involves you in a grand tradition, in a grand community (the Franciscan Order), and in a grand manner of spiritual life. There is a great difference between a nonmember and a member, for instance, saying the twelve Our Father’s, Hail Mary’s and Glory Be’s. For the nonmember, it is private prayer of great value; for the tertiary, however, there is a new dimension added. It now becomes public prayer said in union with the full Franciscan community. It is no longer an “I” prayer, it is a “We” prayer — and the member thus prays in what Romano Guardini calls the “ ‘grand manner’ of the spiritual life.” Members also attach themselves to Franciscan spirituality, the way of the spiritual life, embodied in the life of St. Francis.
Chesterton has perhaps described this best when he wrote a book on St. Francis aimed as he said at asking “why the poet who praised his lord the sun, often hid himself in a dark cavern, of why the saint who was so
gentle with his Brother the Wolf was so harsh to his Brother the Ass (as he nicknamed his own body), of why the troubadour who said that love set his heart on fire separated himself from women, of why the singer who rejoiced in the strength and gaiety of the fire deliberately rolled himself in the snow, of why the very song which cries with all the passion of a pagan, ‘Praised be God for our Sister, Mother Earth, which brings forth varied fruits and grass and glowing flowers,’ ends almost with the words ‘Praised be God for our Sister, the death of the body.’ ”
The Third Order is primarily for laymen, not for people who wish to become priests or nuns. As Hildebrand points out, “ . . . the following of Christ in the world is not intended as a simple copy of the life of the monks, or friars, but as a genuine life in the world, though not in the spirit of the world.”
To sum up, the Third Order is an organization for laymen who wish to seek perfection as members of a religious order and in the Franciscan tradition. At Notre Dame, the community meets once every two weeks,
frequently in conjunction with the “brothers” from St. Mary’s. I wish to conclude with a partly personal note. As a faculty member who has only recently joined the staff, and as one whose undergraduate days-were spent at Notre Dame, I was surprised upon my return to find the Notre Dame Third Order group diminished in size to the point at which it is approaching extinction. It is my belief that the reason for this is that the Third Order is so little known. Provoked by this belief and by Dietrich von Hildebrand’s excellent little book on the Third Order (Not as the World Gives, Chicago, 1963), I have been led to write this short essay as an invitation to students to find out more about or to join the Third Order Community on the campus. If you should wish to find out more, contact either Paul Ferris, 104 Alumni, or John Burtis, 135 Breen-Phillips.
Michael John Crowe
BERMUDA
COLLEGE WEEK
MARCH 22 APRIL 11
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE
ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Don’t meet your Waterloo at the typewriter—perfectly typed papers begin with Corrasable! You can rub out typing errors with just an ordinary pencil eraser. It’s that simple to erase without a trace on Corrasable. Saves time, temper, and money!
Your choice of Corrasablt light, medium, heavy weights a Onion Skin in handy IOC sheet packets and 500-sheet boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASS.
in


^Everyday packed with action' ...new friends...fun!
------------&-------------
SEN.-Get acquainted dance. I (Wear Bermudas!) 31ON.— College Day at the beach. Talbot Brothers Calypso. College Queen Contest, barbecue lunch. TI’ES.—Jazz session. Limbo contest, buffet lunch. WEB.
J — Ci uise to St. Geoige. Steel I "N Band entertainment. Gombey ( dancers, refreshments. TMl'RS. —On your own: swim, shop, sightsee, sports. FRI.—College Week Recue— entertainment. Tennis finals. ----------------&------------ All these...and lots more complimentary activities!
See your
Campus Organizer now! > The Bermuda Trade Development Board 620 Fifth Avenue. New York. N.Y 10020
WANTED: PART-TIME SALES
Students to sell Blankets and Stadium Robes IN YOUR SCHOOL COLORS. For more information write to: FRANKLIN TEXTILE CORPORATION, 312 Fifth Avenue, New York 1, New York. Attn.: Mr. M. Elbaum.
November 8, 1963
29
“I wish all men would smoke
Write for TRIAL PACKAGE

‘Hedda Gabler’

SUTLIFF TOBACCO CO.
600 Perdue Ave., Dept. N.C. Richmond 24, Va.
•s> ■
DELIVERY
FOR DELIVERIES AT THE CIRCLE AND BEHIND FARLEY
fit' JUST ARRIVED!
Delivered on demand — . PIZZA, HOAGGIES, \ PRESSURE COOKED CHICKEN
PIZZA MOBILES
FRANKIE'S
1003 N. Notre Dame Avenue CE 3-1115
New (Radio Controlled) units To Deliver your PIZZA within Minutes and SIZZLING HOT TOO!
"/^FASTEST & HOTTEST DELIVERY IN TOWN
NEXT ISSUE
The return of JAMES DEVLIN and other monsters to flog a good thing to death, i.e., another review of 8’/a.
(Continued from page 11)
George Tesman, the lucky husband of Hedda, suffers from much the same calamity as does his spouse. As portrayed by Tom Murphy, Tesman has no latitude of character whatsoever. Never once does he budge from under the cloak of a foppish scholar. There is no doubt that Ibsen intended the satire in this man, but without any modulation? George remains constantly rooted to his spot even in the level and pitch of his voice. Anger, sorrow, and disappointment are all registered in the same voice changes. This constriction of the character cuts off any relation he might have to life. Restricting the breadth and range of the role must inevitably restrict the depth. The result is patent: a shallow character.
Eilert Loevborg is the biggest disappointment of the play. Ibsen intended him to be. There is nothing about this character suggesting that he is the man to set Hedda straight. Perhaps the most human of all the parts, Eilert’s is probably the least effective in this production because of his offhand manner of expression. He departs from the well stated, roundly sounded method of the others, but in a way that appears most impotent. Unable to be a type, Eilert is the one character that suffers so greatly when subjected to this tortuous binding. Unable to find a place in this world of the stereotyped person, Loevborg becomes a pitiable whiner. Struck down by his former sweetheart, convinced he has lost his masterpiece, he leaves, presumably to commit suicide. He dies, however, of an accidental wound in the stomach while in the bedroom of an immoral woman. The disillusionment of the character is complete. He does not have vine leaves in his hair. But for Ibsen, if not for Murphy, he once did.
The most refreshing of the roles is that of Judge Brack. In the ample hands of William Cook, the judge has come to supple life. Bringing his character cleverly through the range of emotion, Mr. Cook has managed to maintain the dominant element of his personality, enhancing and filling out his temperament with the diversity of a human being. Playing the role to the hilt without overplaying it is a difficult balance for any actor to strike. Mr. Cook balances well.
By far the best scenes in the play are those in which Hedda Gabler and Judge Brack take part. The strongest characters, those with the most range, these two set and hold well
30
The Scholastic
the pace of the action. The action, getting off to a slow start, builds ' well, reaching its peak in the third act, which is the best of the four. Too much of the action depends, however, on the rapid interchange of dialogue. Very often a repartee is “set up” between two of the characters, the one feeding lines, as it were, to the other. Very often the characters stride up to one another, speak their piece and turn, awaiting the reply — passing the baton to their partner. The blocking is often disturbing. Too obviously, the one holding the baton mounts one of the several slight levels of the set to assume his commanding post. Our staid Norwegians too often kneel on chairs or sofas during moments of extreme emotion. Too frequently does the change in lighting indicate a change of the baton.
It would seem that the particular merit of Ibsen’s drama is the subtle juxtaposition of mismatched elements. Much of the genius lies in the pliant interweaving of dissonant chords. The whole of this, however, is missed in the overplaying of the personality and the underplaying of the key points of the dialogue. Clues and hints dropped early in the play, to have meaning only later on, are smothered with the locomotion of the action simply because there is no longer any way to understate them than by not drawing the audience’s attention to them.
Mrs. Elvsted, Auntie Ju-Ju and Bertha, played by Joan Mikulka, Elyse Nowak and Pamela Gallagher, respectively, Eire adequately done. Miss Nowak has the dubious distinction of being the only actress who elicits any real sympathy from the audience; and this comes early in the play when she is offended by Hedda’s vicious remarks about her bonnet. Miss Gallagher, as Bertha, the maid, is to be complimented for giving the most faithful interpretation to her role. There is still something unbelievable about her as an old family retainer, though. Mrs. Elvsted (Joan Mikulka) aptly portrays the wee bit of a lass who cowers before Hedda, adores Eilert, and with alarming facility switches her affections to George Tesman.
The costumes were excellently done by Portia Prebys, in a very grand style. The makeup, ably handled by Kathie Smith, showed very well under Carolyn O’Donnell’s lighting effects. The play was directed by Bruce Sweet, assisted by Student Director Marilyn Petroff. The settings and lighting were designed by the technical director, William Wollack.
November 8, 1963
I i
BELL SYSTEM
INTERVIEWS
NOVEMBER 18 & 19,1963
The following Bell System Companies will be represented:
•	Indiana Bell Telephone Company
•	AT&T — Long Lines cn
•	Western Electric Company
•	Sandia Corporation
•	Bell Telephone Laboratories
•	All Operating Telephone Companies
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA CHESAPEAKE & POTOMAC TELEPHONE CO. CINCINNATI & SUBURBAN BELL TELEPHONE CO. ILLINOIS BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY MICHIGAN BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY MOUNTAIN STATES TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO. NEW ENGLAND TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO. NEW JERSEY BELL TELEPHONE CO. NEW YORK TELEPHONE COMPANY NORTHWESTERN BELL TELEPHONE CO. OHIO BELL TELEPHONE CO. PACIFIC TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO. PACIFIC NORTHWEST BELL TELEPHONE CO. SOUTHERN BELL TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO. SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND TELEPHONE CO. SOUTHWESTERN BELL TELEPHONE CO. WISCONSIN TELEPHONE COMPANY
Please contact your Placement Office for an interview appointment
All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin.
‘Delinquency’
(Continued from page 13)
gate both the delinquent and the well-balanced young citizen who come from the same area. By a comparison of the two groups, research will attempt to discover the reason why these boys turn out to be murderers and thieves while their neighbor, who has essentially the same environment, becomes a useful and well-adjusted citizen. If the study can discover the influences which turn a boy from a life of crime in these areas, it will contribute a giant step forward in the search for a way to prevent the high rate of delinquency.
The study ■will also be concerned with the effectiveness of social institutions in these crime-ridden areas. It now appears that although these
areas are quite saturated with churches, schools and relief agencies, their influence seems to count very little in the lives of the inhabitants. If this is so, the research will attempt to discover why these institutions are so ineffective and how they can improve their techniques so as to act as effective transmission agencies of the moral values of the larger society outside their own deteriorated area.
The committee will use two means to accomplish its aims. These devices will be used in a restricted social area such as a city block. First, the study will include an interview of every resident of the slum area. These interviews will be handled by leaders indigenous to the community under study and will hopefully provide the researchers with the sociological information necessary to make some
conclusions about the delinquency problem. Secondly, the program will include resident observers who will try to discern some of the factors in their neighborhoods contributing to a high juvenile crime rate.
The project is already underway with preliminary interviewing being conducted in New York, an area selected in Washington and search for an area in Chicago. There is hope that the youth study may eventually be extended to other cities, according to Dr. Shuster, who expressed great optimism concerning the study: “To date notable additional sums have been made available for the support of the research. In addition, government agencies, at the federal and local level, have expressed substantial interest, and the cooperation of Hunter College, Howard University and Loyola University is assured.”
Sikorsky Aircraft
ENGINEERING REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS TO GIVE SENIORS AND GRADUATES COMPLETE DETAILS ON
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
WITH THE PIONEER AND LEADING MANUFACTURER of VTOL AIRCRAFT
See your College Placement Office now for an appointment.
Tuesday, November 12
32
The Scholastic
‘Election ’64’
(Continued from, page 22) Party seems, at least for the present, to mark him as the GOP’s only real hope. Barry Goldwater running on Barry Goldwater’s platform would today have a very definite chance to unseat John F. Kennedy. Goldwater and a middle-of-the-road platform would be the second choice. After these, there seems to be little real hope that a Republican could win. What will happen in the Republican Party between now and convention time is on the whole pure conjecture, but Goldwater’s popularity hasn’t crested yet and there seems no reason to believe that it will diminish. What definitely will happen is that the Kennedy political machine will begin to roll into action; this, plus the fact that the President has a full year to improve his present record, make it imperative that the Republicans solve their difficulties as quickly as possible and unite behind one candidate in an effort to attain that party unity which they have so often lacked. This is the direction that Senator Goldwater is headed in at the present moment and, if the Republicans are to have a chance in 1964, they will do well to follow his lead.
Welcome all
NOTRE DAME MEN
YOUR HEADQUARTERS for KEEPSAKE Diamond Rings FROM $50.00 to $1,000.00
CREDIT AND LAYAWAY AVAILABLE
m o IM o RIIMGS
For Style
Quality and Value
True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond engagement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of design, reflecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond ... a perfect gem of flawless clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut.
Authorized Keepsake Jewelers may be listed in the Yellow Pages. Visit one in your area and choose from many beautiful styles, each with the name “Keepsake” in the ring and on the tag.
121 W. Washington CE 4-1311
HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING
Please send two new booklets, “How to Plan Your Engagement and Wedding” and “Choosing Your Diamond Rings,” both for only 25#. Also send special offer of beautiful 44 page Bride's Book.
Name.
Address-------------------------------—--------------------------
City_______________________________-Co____________State-------
KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, SYRACUSE 2, NEW YORK, 13202
November 8, 1963
33
Tom Hoobler, . •
The Tost Word
'The sadness of last week’s game A was only made worse by groups of students who persisted in booing one of our own players. That Notre Dame students are unsportsmanlike enough to boo at all is a shame; that they boo a Notre Dame player is a disgrace.
At the pep rallies, students scream their support for the team. Traditionally at Notre Dame, the students are loyal all the way — win or lose, good performance or not. Certainly the player booed was doing the best he could, which was more than could be said for those in the stands.
And while we think of it, the players’ conduct isn’t always the best. It would be nice, if we lose again this year, if our players could control themselves enough to refrain from slugging or kicking anybody on the opposing team. At a school where gentlemanliness — even for the football team — is taken seriously, a player would be thrown off the team for such conduct.
Restrictions continue to pile up at the library. Student-faculty relations aren’t helped much by the regulations governing student visits at faculty offices. The situation is as if the administration had gathered all the faculty in one place (very like a dungeon, at that) so that they would be kept separated from the students, who must now devise new tricks to get around the phalanx of guards and secretaries at the entrance to the Labyrinth in the basement of the library. Would it be too much to ask if the students could just come and go as they please, and stop into any teacher’s office that they chose? Very few of the students, we’re sure, have intentions that would warrant such precautions for the teachers’ safety.
“If you’re good enough to be copied, you’re good enough.” Although we don’t have time to look through all the college publications we exchange with, we’ve found several instances of Scholastic material being lifted, sometimes even with credit.
The Holy Cross Crusader quoted liberally from our editorial on Who’s Who (they’re having a similar battle), and reprinted in full the letter from Robert Piechuta concerning undergraduate use of the front steps of the Main Building. (Scholastic, Oct. 11, ’63)
The Xavier University News lifted (without credit), virtually all of our “On Other Campuses” feature from the October 11 issue. We sympathize with the editor, who had to use the material for his personal column.
The other day we heard an advertisement over WSND for a publication which is promoting itself as having “the cheapest advertising of any campus publication.” They may be confusing quality with price, for the Scholastic’s ad rates for campus clubs ($1.10 for campus clubs and organizations) are 40 cents cheaper per column-inch than the ones quoted for the other publication.
At the Masses in Sacred Heart Church last Sunday, the Alma Mater was played at the end of Mass. It was supposed to be sung too, but apparently so few students knew the words that the singing could not be heard. Since attempts will be made to sing the Alma Mater again this year (and, supposedly, on every major weekend at Sacred Heart), we reprint it here for those who need it:
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong, and true. Proudly in the heavens, Gleams the gold and blue, Glory’s mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame.
The Leprechaun scheduled publication for last weekend, missed the deadline, has now rescheduled for this weekend. We’ll believe it when we see it.
Chimes, the St. Mary’s literary magazine, did make its first appearance of the year this week. We got just a brief glimpse of it (fortunately, then, we can’t comment on its literary quality), but were impressed by the bold and beautiful appearance it presented. We hope our own group of esthetic wonders can do as well {Juggler out December 1).
The Mardi Gras ticket sales are going badly (you know what kind of tickets we mean; our business manager, who is a friend of Karl King, the chairman of Mardi Gras “ticket” sales, asked us to mention this, without realizing that if we promote raffles in the Scholastic, our mailing privileges can be taken away by the U.S. Government). Anyway, Mardi Gras this year is immediately after semester break, which is rushing upon us so quickly that Karl King is afraid nobody will sell Mardi Gras tickets. If you have nothing against Karl King, you might make him happy by selling your tickets at Thanksgiving and Christmas. Personally, we don’t like Karl; he attacks the Scholastic on WSND. He’s the kind of guy who’d . take your ticket out of the raffle if he didn’t like you.
34
The Scholastic
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP
SINCE 1911
PICTURE FRAMING
ART SUPPLIES
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS •
117 NORTH MAIN ST. South Bend, Indiana 233-2409
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
PELTZ MUSIC HOUSE features all types of musical instruments
GUITARS —$15.95 and up
also TENOR GUITARS, UKULELES BANJOS, MELODICAS
423 So. Michigan Street AT 9-4430
-	-MM-	=
A quiet Sunday afternoon on campus for the Notre Dame man and his girl—this is the perfect time for the traditional look in casual clothes from Michaels and Mann. Dan O'Brien has shown the taste of the “traditional man” with a 100% alpaca cardigan sweater and slacks by Redwood and Ross—a Michaels and Mann specialty. Miriam Ansen admires the style of her traditional man’s casual wear—the new six-button sweater with bell sleeves, the beltless, plain-front slacks tailored of Galey & Lord’s Square-ply Dacron* polyester and cotton. • When you stop by at Michaels and Mann, you will see why the traditional look is popular on campus. Courteous attention from Jack and Dave and the Notre Dame student employees, clothes with the style, and prices tailored to a college man's budget make a big hit with all Notre Dame men. If you have not yet bought your winter coat, you know that you had better hurry. Meet the other men of the traditional look at Michaels and Mann, one block south of the downtown bus stop.
^DuPont T.M.
Your I.D. immediately opens a 6-month charge account
Michaels & Mann
___ r I n C. ------=
118 S. MICHIGAN STREET	NEXT DOOR TO OFFICE ENGINEERS
.— MM -.........
SHOES BY JARMAN
STANDING ON OUR OWN THREE FEET
Research, Manufacturing and Operations form the solid base upon which GT&E has built its strength. Today, GT&E is the largest of the many Independent telephone companies that supply a substantial share of America s ever-growing communications needs. By conducting our own research, manufacturing our own communications products and operating our own telephone system, GT&E contributes to the communications progress of the whole nation.
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
730 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK 10017 V-
GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: General Telephone Operating Companies in 32 states ■ General Telephone & Electronics Laboratories ■ General Telephone & Electronics International ■ Genera! Telephone Directory Co ■ Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electric ■ Sylvania Electric Products