

’.X
SJ

$
'•SfS-
18^
?U^
£>?:

Bs^

^s%ts
^=5

AX
“51? k	ArLj?*


•>>:

:5
.e-


Sgg


*2**r^?*	.?’*»^^?



-*<
££&4'V,S^*^^
^M^3£5%S«2S

«-•
:ti
'a;*’*
•->* 77*	-^‘f^if
•j <. v-Zi2*-■ j-^r*_1t t« <
• - •*<	ir’*X-J>?‘»-tf;

k®;

S<; xS~
■gi


>>





*?SS£5*t^^
is

7V^*J>'^xc “V--v®
i®b8
ffi^SW^WWs


'4^feSWS
aE®
^SSSSSSa
mi
■^Si
J’S"
I
s


>3.
t,-X^*~?-'
*A2.'C
w:
w

? '^' -1. ^r«?^. •’A-
^•'r#

£-?


Ks?





fesillw

5ws®?ww®i

$•$

$
■^?v
;!
1
s$




&?£?•?£?:■?«

‘«s
£
•St'r
W<X
’ iiv.at^-.-^ -v>'.
•Ti-^
’^S&'
®eg

M7
4jp:
-s^Y-^.-a^"-^ » * / 3^7- -r if'^*\. -• 4£.-^-'/>.CrA‘^-%; v
ISit
’:-?*v-y*^..>».tr
;t
s^ssSSss-^ss-i

• • '•	fi*-~^*r-»-‘■•'■ Ci—'•» -*
'fc
&
§
’<
£;#£
IliiRwBiS
M||>ga
||li||


L -S



^he itre ^ame Scholastic

Vol. 87, No. 13
JUNE 21, 1946
james f. McCarthy Editor-in-Chief
Commencement Issue
FOREWORD
In time of peace, a college graduating class lives together for four full and varied years. A class builds a life peculiarly and individually its own, contributed to and shared by each member, so that each member belongs to the common remembrance of the days of years. In time of peace, four college years are an unhurried time of study, work and peace—and almost ideal existence for young men, who know not sickness and death but comradeship of the time.
But our class has not lived in this time of peace, and it has lost much of the integrity it once possessed. Of the original class, many are fallen and gone forever; and those returning become an overlapping of war-time programs and portions of other classes. Many of us who will soon approach the commencement platform are products of eight accelerated college semesters, others of us come from the Pacific, the beaches of Normandy, the Italian mountains, and the skies of the world.	'
It is the purpose, therefore, of this graduation issue of the SCHOLASTIC to present first, a brief glimpse of the Notre Dame which class members find upon their return, and secondly, to present a record of this heterogeneous class over the course of the last three semesters.



Notre Dame our. Motlfef}
Pro u d ly?i'h“
<^--Golden.is thy fame;?- - ?r U.J: - ■■ , '	- .
ij^hd our hearts forever,,;
/ > Praise?thee, Notre Dame.;?
><Gl£a^	\ And'.dur hearts,. forever}
Glpry|s?m aptl.^	th ee f N of re :D am e
His Eminence, Samuel Cardinal Stritch.
D.D., Archbishop of Chicago. Preacher of Baccalaureate Sermon, LL.D. honoris causa, University of Notre Dame, 1946.
DEDICATION
To those Notre Dame men who have served in World War II and now have returned’or who shall return to complete their education at the school they love so dearly, we, the Class of 1946, respectfully dedicate this commencement issue of the SCHOLASTIC.
To those who see more than surfaces it is evident that the arms of Christ are not limited; they extend beyond time and space to comprehend the world and heaven—these arms reached out to each Noire Dame man in the farthest fox-hole and brought him back.

To The Graduates of 1946 «...
At the last student convocation, three months ago, I described for you the world scene, as I understand it, and also tried to explain to you what is happening on the home front. As you recall, the picture was not a pleasant one. There is no denying that you are going out into
a bleak world
Still, the very fact that the world is somewhat awry gives you
an opportunity that would not otherwise be yours. In other words, the world awaits you with a vigorous challenge, and, thanks to the education
you received at Notre Dame, you can meet it fearlessly and with confidence
of ultimate victory. As Notre Dame men, you have hope based on faith —
faith in the hereafter — and, as long as you keep your faith and hope, nothing in this world can really defeat you.
Hake these sterling virtues the buoyant principles of your lives.
and you will always be worthy sons of Alma Mater. And I know that you will be worthy sons. You have the attitude towards life that is expected from young men who are part of Our Lady’s school. I can pay you no higher compliment than to say that Notre Dame expects much of you.
Congratulations, and may the Blessed Mother be ever with you,
.	c J-C
( Rev/) J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
President
! City by Ute JlakeA, . . .
For those who are satisfied with three dimensions, this is the City by the Lakes. To those who feel the fourth dimension it is the City of the Blessed Sacrament. It is a city of today and of yesterday for it counts as its population the more than thirty-five thousand students who were here.
Sorin Hall
In the locally-made brick and the expansive porch of old Sorin—here lies the best spirit of Notre Dame. Small, friendly, and unclinical, its silent walls rise to high ceilings. A familiar countenance to all living generations of Notre Dame men, it remains with Corby Hall, the Golden Dome, and Sacred Heart Church the spiritual center of the University. Here on the old Quad- . rangle, outlooking pine and magnolia, stands the home of many Americans, those here and those gone, men such as Rockne was. Today on early Spring evenings monogram-men and English-majors can be seen talking and smoking. . . . Sorin is the only hall with its own front-yard.
Built in 1889 as a radical departure from the then current dormitory system, Sorin has housed the veterans of three wars. Traditionally a senior residence-hall and never completely abandoned to any other purpose, it had at one time its own recreation room, and prior to World War II its denizens owned coveted Caf-books. In 1897 two wings were added, completing the building as it now stands. Yet it steadily has been kept up-to-date, and it is by far the most scrubbed and polished of any hall on the campus. It was in Sorin that Bishop O'Hara, then Prefect of Religion at the University, inaugurated all-day confessions, and it was for this hall that he received first permission for the continual presence of the Host. Now, with a new and liturgical altar, recently donated, this tradition and, indeed, the tradition of Notre Dame, herself, continues.
This is where men are proud to live.	.
Friendly old Sorin—where generations of Notre Dame men have been proud to live .. . where men can sit on porch swings and dream of home . . . and also know that the ancient hall has seen generations pass like a pageant into success . . .
An Old Hall In A New Era
Box-like Badin was built in the days of old Notre Dame, yet the temper of the place is as fresh as the bright new paint on the walls. Before the two wings were added, the building meant home for generations of apprentices and was called "St. Joseph's School of Industrial Arts." In 1915 the hall was changed to its present use and enlarged two years later. The University then took over the building and renamed it in honor of Father Badin, zealous missionary who deeded to Father Sorin an extensive acreage on the Indiana frontier that made a great University possible. ■
. When Notre Dame rose to athletic prominence, Badin's fortunes rose also. Most of the school's gridiron greats lived there at one time or another, and seldom did its other residents fail to capture at least one sports title. In 1942, Badin entered thirteen men in the Bengals, eight of whom reached the finals.
Recently, the hall has become a stronghold for war veterans. Several times last semester they sang high Mass at morning chapel. Badin's latest triumph was an all-Badin banquet at a downtown hotel.
Yes, the same softball games are played on the bog as always. Spring evenings mean long talks on the wide porch. And in-an old hall which has readjusted itself to meet the needs of a new era, one finds campus camaraderie at its best.
Watchin? securely over Badin Bo?—a qua?mire in Sprin?—a desert in Summer— but always a tradition.
Old St. Edward's
Rolling drums, marching feet, and long columns of blue and khaki clad men—these were the war years at Notre Dame when college life fell into the rapid cadence of wartime America. On the surface, lightning-light wartime change was invading a family life which had been moulded over the course of a century. But a large, four story brick building, located a little to the north of the Music hall and east of the Main building, stood as one of the few remaining vestiges of the Notre Dame which generations of graduates call "Alma Mater."
Built in 1882, St. Ed's was used originally to house the Minims, a group of young boys generally under fourteen years of age. In those days the hall had more than a hundred pupils with a staff of thirteen Sisters and three Brothers of Holy Cross who looked after the Minims in recreation hours and watched over their dormitories. In 1929 it was announced that the St. Edward's school for boys would be discontinued; so under the architectural direction of Professor Vincent F. Fagan the hall was remodeled to accommodate two hundred University residents in time for the beginning of the 1929-30 school year.
With Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C. as rector, the hall gained a reputation as the "House of Athletes." Indeed, no other hall possessed a finer record in athletics during the war years. Yet at the proper time, the "House of Athletes" took on an academic air evident to any nocturnal stroller passing one of its large (ground floor windows.
But it has not been in athletic or academic realms alone that St. Edward's hall has contributed significantly to the pattern of campus life during the past few years. The hall was at its best of an early morning when, from one portion of the campus came strains of the Victory March as Naval trainees marched to morning chow, while from an old structure a little to the north of the ■ Music hall and east of the Main building, solemn chantings of high Mass floated out of a large window to join the other melody somewhere in the heavens above.
From a Window Overlooking the Quad
The eighth wonder of Notre Dame in 1909 was newly built Walsh hall. Constructed to alleviate a severe housing shortage, Walsh was a great innovation. It cost the unheard of sum of $100,000 which today would make a small’down-payment on one of the hall's larger closets. Among the new creature comforts of Walsh were bathtubs and washbowls in every room, three room suites, an elevator and bay windows. While later halls have surpassed many of its marvels, Walsh still has the closet department cornered.
Although originally a Freshman hall, Walsh soon passed to the Seniors who surrendered it in turn to the Juniors in the mid-'•thirties, and a Junior hall it remained until the late war.
From the time of its construction, until the early twenties, Walsh was the "Gold Coast," only to be supplanted by Morrisey, Howard and Lyons, which in turn yielded the title to Dillon and Alumni. But Gold Coast or no, it remained and still is one of the most popular halls on campus. Stories of the escapades of local characters who inhabited Walsh are legend, easier to repeat than to verify. Nevertheless, many of the gentlemen from Walsh have found themselves returning in the wee small hours, after an unauthorized departure via the fire escapes, only to find the rector confronting them with an unanswerable challenge.
Today, in these stringent times, the glories of Walsh are slightly dimmed' by expediency, but there are still the tall tales of the past.
Beneath the Arch
In the spring of 1942 when the gold and blue of Navy blended with the blue and gold of Notre Dame, the colors were first raised in the Morrissey-Howard-Lyons Hall quadrangle. The sophomores and juniors migrated from the flood, took refuge in Dillon, Alumni and Cavanaugh Halls. The tide tumbled along the gold coast and the declining civilian population moved to Sorin and Breen-Phillips. With the end of the war, the tide of blue jackets receded along the coast and collected in a pool near the edge of the campus ... the Morrissey-Howard-Lyons Hall group.
In the autumn, the Navy will have deserted the University; an era is ended. Ships will be reconstructed to residence halls, decks renamed corridors, ports become windows and compartments recaptioned as simply "rooms."
Morrissey and Lyon's are the two most beautifully located residence halls on campus. They stretch along St. Mary's Lake, that winds away from the wooos at that point, and lies cool and resplendent during the summer months but is capped with a thick, milk-white head of ice in midwinter. Morrissey Hall is further blessed with the only prominent foyer on campus.
The Lyon's Hall arch is not only a trademark of the building but a landmark for the campus. As one looks from Alumni or Dillon along the diverging pathways that focus from here, he views beyond the darkgreen plains of grass the solitude of the woods and the tennisLeburt, and the sparkle of the lake just beyond.
Notre Dame is glad to welcome Morrissey-Howard-Lyon's Halls with their quadrangle and arch back into its spiritual and traditional fold so that once again the campus is united and one.
St. Mary's Lake is nature's glittering backdrop for the medieval styling of Lyons Arch.
On the Gold Coast
"I'm living on the gold coast this year" has long been heard on the campus of Our Lady, as local main cogs return from summer vacation. Yes, this laurel has been handed about often in the past few years, but not always to the halls that wear it today.
Back in the days before Notre Dame men marched away to World War I, the Gold Coast was on the Main Quadrangle. Then Sorin and Walsh housed the local bigwigs, the Vanderbilts and Rockefellers of Notre Dame. In the twenties the Sorin-Walsh combine lost its title to the western triumvirate of Howard, Morrissey, and Lyons. Again in the early thirties another section took up the title and carried it with honor. That was the Zahm-Cavanaugh duo. The Gold Coast moved to its present site on the Mall in the middle thirties. This time it was Alumni and Dillon who took over the title as "Notre Dame's Fifth Avenue."
Alumni and Dillon are not without distinction, having their own war record in that they housed the Naval V-12 and ROTC units during World War IL In November of 1945, NAVAL RESERVATION signs disappeared from their lawns, as two more halls returned to civilian life with an honorable discharge.
Despite the fact that Alumni and Dillon are back in civilian life, their beautiful Gothic walls still house men of distinction— even though they don't admit to Father Kehoe that they drink Calvert's. Athletes such as Klier and Mastrangelo, politicians O'Grady and Czarobski, promoters Galloway and Kowalski, not ' to mention fashion plates like Tenge call the Gold Coast their home.
Perhaps a senior or two will stop momentarily on his trek to the circle, drop his luggage and glance to the right where the vine-covered Gothic walls of Alumni meet massive Dillon, largest residence hall on campus, and possibly he will wonder where the next Gold Coast is going to be. Will the new duo of Farley and Breen-Phillips wrest the title from Dillon and Alumni? Our guess is that for a time anyway the latter two will remain unchallenged as the home of the campus elite.
AIm*? About 1970
Along about 1970, when a member of the class of ’46, thin of hair and comfortably rotund, will be well into his forties, Roscoe Jr. will approach the ‘Old Man’ on the subject of going off to college—to Notre Dame. And that will set the middle-aged gentleman’s mind wandering in retrospect to the old days back in ’46 when he was handed his sheepskin and put the cherished years of college life behind him. And the old man will say, “Roscoe my boy, you’ll have a good many more advantages there than I had in my day. A lot more facilities, equipment and buildings. Yessir. Why, I remember basketball games in the old gym, classes in the old Chern building and Saturday night movies in Washington Hall. ...” And the old man’s voice will trail off as he reminisces about the old days—back in ’46. And judging by the long range building plans of the University today, this imaginary conversation may not be so fanciful as one might suppose.
Throughout this school year from time to time there has appeared in the Scholastic architectural sketches giving readers some inkling of the elaborate building program in which the University will be engaged in future years. As time goes by and this program gradually shapes into reality the campus will assume a new beauty along with the increase in facilities and equipment. An attractive and enlightening brochure prepared recently by the University administration for the friends and supporters of Notre Dame throughout the country reveals graphically the scope of this §8,000,000 undertaking.
The brochure, entitled Your Stake in the Future, points out that “although the planned buildings are numerous and varied, each one wi 11 fill a distinct and urgent need in the work of the University.” Rockne once said at the completion of a football season which saw the Irish named the national champions, that he certainly didn’t intend to rest on his laurels but would continue to progress, to move forward, for unless that is done, he said, what then occurs can be only retrogression. That same spirit of progress, that same realization of the necessity of future planning that Rockne felt has not been weakened or diminished at Notre Dame since his death. The immense and ambitiously conceived building program of the University is a plan thoroughly in keeping with that spirit.
Among the most notable of the structures proposed is the Union Building. Here all the activities
of campus clubs, publications and organizations will be united and many facilities will be available to parents, alumni and friends. The estimated construction cost of this building is §750,000. In addition, a half-million dollar Administration Building is planned and a new Library as well, which will greatly expand the current facilities. The present library will then be used solely to house the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery.	'
A new Chemistry Building is contemplated to increase undergraduate instruction and also to further advance research activities, in keeping with the tradition established at Notre Dame by the late Father Nieuwland, C.S.C., the University’s distinguished research chemist. A modern Field House, with a much greater seating capacity than the present structure and other additional equipment, is deemed a necessary addition to -the University plant. The pressing need for a larger, more up to date auditorium has been incorporated in the plans for a Fine Arts Building to cost in the vicinity of $850,000.
A University inadequacy of long standing will be eliminated in the construction of an Arts and Letters Building designed to contain classrooms, seminar and conference rooms. Farley Hall, now rising just north of Breen-Phillips Hall on the cam-nus, is but the first of four proposed residence halls. Two of these will be built as twin undergraduate halls and a third structure is planned which will house graduate students exclusively as an essential part of the plan to increase the facilities of the Graduate School.
Last mentioned, but by no means least important, is the Adoration Chapel planned, as stated in the brochure, “to fill a long felt need” and which will be dedicated to the memory of those men who gave their lives in World War II for God, Country and Notre Dame.
Actually then, this brief introduction to the $8,000,000 building program of the University should make the imaginary conversation at the opening a bit more plausible. Maybe along about 1970 you will tell Roscoe Jr. that the old Alma Mater certainly changed since the old days—back in ’46. And if all this proposed construction sounds so fascinating that you just can’t bear to think of leaving the campus after you’ve been handed your sheepskin, why not get a job in the dining hall and watch the place grow before your eyes 1
Proposed graduate residence hall as part of an enlarged graduate school.
Proposed new Union Building, the facilities of which have been long needed in connection with the University's social life.
Proposed Fine-Arts Building with spacious auditorium capable of seating the entire student body . . . with a mothering instinct for fledgling actors to come.

Ml Fi
Farley Hall — newest addition to campus residences, will be ready, according to rumor, for Santa Caus in December.
texture despite
It is good to see Notre Dame grow . . . it links us to the visions of Sorin and the long line of builders after him who hewed stone and brick out of dreams and sacrifice. Today we are witnessing Notre Dame expanding into an intellectual empire . . . a necessitating impulse that forces blueprints to become articulate in form and
the odds of shortages.
New Chemistry Building that will someday house the expanding department of Chemistry.
For Notre Dame the period of transition is a significant moment between a glorious past and a potent future. Though the glorious may, at times, prefer to rest on laurels, Notre Dame does not propose to remain static. Its educational program is progressive, contributing all it can to the present but planning simultaneously for more expansive horizons in the future. An important part of the plan of Tomorrow are the buildings pictured on these two pages.
Proposed Gymnasium that will dwarf present structure.	-
Proposed Library Building . . . where Aristotle, St. Thomas Aquinas and Steinbeck will find an earthly elysium with space to spare.
the
proposed as a dead of World
The Memorial Chapel — sacred remembrance to the WarIL
2 D si 1.
Introducing the June Graduates of 1946
OlaAA	.
The election of Bill Carey from Boston, Mass., as president of the Senior class, came as a climax to a college career which has seen Bill President of the Wranglers, President of the Boston club and Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Council. Along with these activities, Bill, who graduates Cum-Laude in English, has served as Sports Editor of the SCHOLASTIC, Treasurer of the Vets. Club and as a member of the Varsity Debate team. Bill is also a winner of the Mitchell Memorial Award for Playwriting.
Mike Frawley, vice-president, is a big, smiling Californian. Los Angeles born and bred, Mike played freshman football in 1941 and did some quarterbacking for the 1942 eleven. The Alumni strong boy is also an active member of the California Club and the Vets. Club.
A Cum-Laude graduate of the Commerce School, John
Quinn is class secretary. Called Adam by his intimates, John is one of the finest golfers in the senior class and can be found out hacking around an eighteen in his spare time. A son of Springfield, Missouri, Adam will go into the wholesale coffee business there. A wit and home-spun philosopher, Quinn and his roommate Bernie Finucane are far famed for their singing of old Ozark ballads.
Holding the purse strings for the class has been Ed Haller. Another Commerce graduate, Buck will make accounting his profession. Ed will receive a B.S. in Accounting to take home to Evansville, Indiana. Haller played interhall football before the war and was active in the Commerce Forum from 1939 through 1941. In addition to membership in the Vets, club and the Evansville Club, Ed is an enthusiastic golfer.
The College of Arts and Letters, historically the oldest of the colleges constituting the undergraduate school, maintains now, as always, one of the largest enrollments in the University.
This college stands four-square on the premise that education is a preparation for life and not for a few material contingencies. And so the students review the great thoughts of the past as made forcefully articulate in Aristotle and Augustine and the great saint horn Aquino. And they discover a paradox — much of what is new thought today is passe before it is said but that which is old remains new.

Elmer J. (Bud) Angsman
Chicago, Illinois A.B. Journalism Football: Monogram Club ; Handball Finalist: Chicago Club
Charles Harrison Bartlett, Jr.
Cuba City, Wisconsin
A.B. Political Science, Magna Cum Laude Student Council President Economic Roundtable
Robert J. (Bud) Batchelor
Chicago, Illinois A.B. English Football ’45 ; Veterans Club
Peter I. (Pete) Berezney
Jersey City, New Jersey A.B. Economics
Football ’43, '44, '45
Glenn R. Boarman, C.S.C.
Johnson City, Tennessee
A.B. Philosophy Breen Medal for Oratory Moreau Seminary Choir
Brother Paul of the Cross Bozek, C.S.C.
. Salem, Massachusetts A.B, English
William J. (Bill) Carey
Boston, Massachusetts
A.B. English, Cum Laude Student Council; Wranglers, Pres. Senior Class Pres.; Vets. Club
John J. (Jumbo) Cauley
New Hartford, New York A.B. Social Sciences Student Council; Interhall Sports
George R. Colby, C.S.C.
Arlington, Massachusetts A.B. Philosophy, Magna Cum Laude
Clement E. (Clem) Constantine
Bangor, Maine
A.B. Sociology, Cum Laude Little Three Club; Interhall Athletics
John T. Corr, C.S.C.
Roslindale. Massachusetts A.B. Philosophy. Cum Laude
Daniel C. Coughlin, C.S.C.
Albert A. Croce, C.S.C.
Boston, Massachusetts
A.B. Philosophy
Brockton, Massachusetts
A.B. Philosophy
Donald Eugene Degnan
Astoria, New York A.B. Economics
Brother Lawrence J. Dugan, C.S.C.
Kingston. Pennsylvania
A.B. English
Brother Walter Foken, C.S.C.
Cincinnati. Ohio A.B. History
Michael J. (Mike) Ganey
Chicago, Illinois A.B. History Chicago Club ; Interhall Sports ; Football ’4:>, '44, '45
John M. Hebert, C.S.C.
Weymouth, Massachusetts A.B. Philosophy. Cum Lautle
William F. Gartland. C.S.C.
Boston, Massachusetts A.B. Philosophy, Cum Laude
Ralph W. Hayman, Jr.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania A.B. Economics
Student Council Pres. : Vets. Club Philadelphia Club Pres. ; K. of C.
Vincent A. Jacobs, C.S.C.
Saline, Michigan A.B. Philosophy
Joseph P. Keena, C.S.C.
Long Island City, New York A.B. Philosophy
Robert Francis Martin
Jamaica Estates, New York A.B. Economics
John H. (Jack) McCabe
Yonkers, New York A.B. Political Science Metropolitan Club ; Vets Club ; Freshman Track; Interhail Sports
Brother Eduardo Michalik, C.S.C.
De Lancey, Pennsylvania A.B. Sociology
James F. (Mac) McCarthy
Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania A.B. Journalism, Cum Laude Student Council; Press Club : Editor—Senior SCHOLASTIC
Arthur J. (Curley) Mosher
Long Beach. California A.B. English Vets. Club : Monogram Club : SCHOLASTIC: Varsity Golf
Frederick A. Parker, C.S.C.
Quincy. Massachusetts A.B. Philosophy
Daniel J. O'Neil. C.S.C.
East Boston, Massachusetts
A.B. Philosophy, Cum Laude
Joseph F. Pawlicki, C.S.C.
Manistee. Michigan A.B. Philosophy
Brother Hobart Pieper. C.S.C.
Summit, New Jersey A.B. History
Brother Peter Damian Prickett, C.S.C.
Oshkosh. Wisconsin A.B. Latin
Joseph M. Quinn, C.S.C.
Pittsfield, Massachusetts A.B. Philosophy
Edward L. Scott, C.S.C.
Portland, Oregon A.B. Philosophy
Thomas A. Sheehy, C.S.C.
Lawrence, Massachusetts A.B. Philosophy
Theodore Frederick Smith
Alexandria, Indiana A.B. English
John H. (Jack) Specht
Chicago, Illinois
A.B. Economics, Cum Laude Speakers Bureau, Pres. ’42; SCHOLASTIC, Graduation Issue
William H. (Bill) Stelte
Springfield, Illinois A.B. Economics Central Illinois Club; Dome Staff Photographer, '42
Adrien Joseph Ste. Marie, C.S.C.
Portland, Oregon A.B. Philosophy
James Carroll Stevenson
South Bend, Indiana A.B. Economics, Cum Laude Villagers Club
Richard Teall, C.S.C.
Decatur, Illinois A.B. Philosophy
John J. (Duke) Tenge, Jr.
St. Louis, Missouri A.B. Journalism St. Louis Club Pres.; Glee Club; Vets. Club; Senior Ball Committee
Brother Martinian Wilson, C.S.C.
Natchez, Mississippi A.B. Philosophy
The College of Science, second oldest school in the University, was established in 1865 . . . and sheltered such illustrious men of research as Nieuwland and Wenninger.
Cecil Ray (Ceace) Burket
Osceola, Indiana Bachelor of Science
James Piestly Cloud
Orleans. Indiana Bachelor of Science
James Joseph Coleman
West field. New Jersey Bachelor of Science
Richard Marshall (Dick) Cronin
River Forest, Illinois Bachelor of Science Biology Club: Interhall Sports
Robert Francis Dressel
Chicago, Illinois Bachelor of Science
Robert James (Skeets) Finnegan
Carbondale. Pennsylvania B.S. Physical Education Varsity Manager; Monogram Club
Robert Emmet Mack
Morris. Illinois B.S. Biology Chemistry Club; Band Biology Club
Edmond Anthony Massullo
Youngstown, Ohio Bachelor of Science
Edward Thomas Mieskowski
Chicago, Illinois Bachelor of Science Student Council; Polish Club Varsity Football: K. of C.
Walter Vincent Morava
Chestnut Ridge, Pennsylvania Bachelor of Science
Senior SCHOLASTIC; Aesculcpians
John Thomas Olive
Leavenworth, Kansas Bachelor of Science
Bruno Peter Opela
Chicago, Illinois Bachelor of Science Varsity Football; Vets. Club; Chicago Club: Polish Club; Biology Club
Brother Albert Pinter, C.S.C.
Cleveland, Ohio Bachelor of Science
Frank A. (Rooge) Ruggiero
Orange, New Jersey B.S. Physical Education Varsity Football Interhall Sports
Frank John Schirack
Canton, Ohio Bachelor of Science
Joseph Douglas Schmitt
South Bend, Indiana Bachelor of Science Glee Club; Flying Club Company Officer; Radio Club
Edward Thomas (Bush) Stelmaszek
Chicago, Illinois
B.S. Physical Education
Varsity Football Interhall Sports
Francis Stanley Szymanski
Detroit, Michigan Bachelor of Science
Varsity Football Detroit Club
Donald Leo Toker
Cleveland, Ohio B.S. Biology, Cum Laude Student Council; Vets. Club Regimental Commander; Cleveland Club
Francis P. (Frank) Wyrens
Hebron. North Dakota B.S. Biology Biology Club; Medicine Club
LA^Mt
The College of Engineering—established as a distinct unit of the University in 1897 . . . once was the home of Notre Dame s first atom smasher.
James Eugene (Prisoner of Love) Blocher
Greenville, Ohio
B.S. Aeronautical Engineering Aero Club
Robert George (Brownie) Brown
Sioux City, Iowa
B.S. Electrical Engineering Student Council; A.I.E.E. Cheerleader: Interhall Sports
William Vincent (Lefty) Dwyer
Syracuse. New York
B.S. Chemical Engineering A.I.Ch.E. Achievement Award
James Hart (Dipper) Evans
St. Louis, Missouri
B.S. Chemical Engineering A.I.Ch.E.: Radio Club
K. of C.; St. Louis Club
William Joseph (Bill) Fahrner
Detroit. Michigan
B.S. Mechanical Engineering Cum Laude
A.S.Ch.E.: Detroit Club
John C. Heywaert
South Bend, Indiana B.S. Aeronautical Engineering Cum Laude
Aero Club
Norman Carl Joehlin
Toledo, Ohio
B.S. Electrical Engineering
A.I.E.E.
Eldon Eugene (Don) Kordes
Parkville, Missouri
B.S. Aero. Engn., Cum Laude Glee Club; A.I.A.S.
Navy Pistol Team
Brother Barry Lambour, C.S.C.
Altoona, Pennsylvania
B.S. Electrical Engineering
Paul Anthony Lo Presti
Shaker Heights, Ohio
B.S. Aeronautical Engineering
A.I.A.S.; Aero Club
Oscar Lupi-Delgado
Caracas, Venezuela B. of Architecture
Lloyd Howard Adrian Marengo
Minneapolis, Minnesota B.S. Metallurgy, Cum Laude A.S.M.
Edmund V. (Ed) Marshall
Batavia, New York
B.S. Aeronautical Engineering, Cum Laude Aero Club ; C.A.; Band Naval Ball Committee
Cecil Glen Martin
Massillon, Ohio B.S..Electrical Engineering A.I.E.E.
Arthur Nissen, Jr.
Bellwood, Illinois .
B.S. Electrical Engineering A.I.E.E.
David Allen Norton
Seattle, Washington B.S. Mechanical Engineering
John Joseph O'Neill
Marshall, Oklahoma B.S. Mechanical Engineering A.S.M.A. Chairman; Vets. Club Economic Bound Table
John Andrew (Spook) Prawdzik
Grand Rapids, Michigan B.S. Chemical Engineering A.I.Ch.E.; Glee Club Knights of Columbus
Robert Putnam (Bob) Purcell
Floral Park, New York
B.S. Civil Engineering
A.S.C.E.: Varsity Track Knights of Columbus
Bernard James (Barney) Slater
Sharon, Pennsylvania B. of Architecture Student Council; Glee Club Radio Club; Speiring Prize in Architecture
Charles Clarence (Chuck) Troha
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania B.S. Aeronautical Engineering A.I.A.S.; LANDFALL—Editor Camera Club
Richard Edward (Dick) White
South Bend, Indiana B.S. Electrical Engineering Magna Cum Laude.
Student Council; A.I.E.E.; Villagers Club
College of Law—oldest Catholic law school in the United States. The returning spirit of Colonel Hoynes might not find its Gothic splendor familiar but would feel at home in its vigorous espousal of the truth.
Druie Edward (Drew Boy) Cavender
Harrisburg, Illinois
Bachelor of Laws Cum Laude President, Law Club Notre Dame Lawyer Staff
Joseph Loughran Brady
Joliet, Illinois Bachelor of Laws Law Club Treasurer: Student Council; Joliet Club: K. of C.
Herman Deane Caldwell
South Bend, Indiana Bachelor of Laws
Edwin John Donahue
Niles, Michigan Bachelor of Laws Law Club
Roger D. (Rog) Gustafson
Crookston. Minnesota Bachelor of Law-
Law Club
Notre Dame Lawyer Staff
Richard George (Dick) Miller	John Francis (Mike Jacobs) Power	Robert E. (Bob) Sullivan
Youngstown, Ohio
Bachelor of Laws
Secretary of Law Club; Commerce Forum Notre Dame Lawyer Staff
Chicago, Illinois
Bachelor of Laws, Magna Cum Laude Student Council President; K. of C. Editor. N. D. Lawyer: Promoter Bengal Bouts
Cleveland, Ohio
Bachelor of Laws, Cum Laude Grand Knight, K. of C. Pres. Law Club; Student Council
The College of Commerce, youngest college in the undergraduate school, this year sends forth the largest number of graduates. Teaches how to make money not for money's sake.
Jeremiah Earl Brown
William Charles (Bill) Carbine
Englewood, New Jersey
B.S. Business Administration
Rutland. Vermont
B.S. Accounting, Cum Laude Commerce Forum President: K. of C.
Senior Ball Co-Chairman
Charles J. (Chuck) Clause
Buffalo. New York
B.S. Business Administration Buffalo Club Pres. : SCHOLASTIC Senior Ball Committee
James Henry (Nooner) Clemens
Cannelton, Indiana
B.S. Accounting Commerce Forum ; Vets. Club Senior Ball, Committee
Christopher (Waldo) Cochrane
Toledo. Ohio
B.S. Business Administration Commerce Forum; K. of C.
Toledo Club: Vets. Club
Victor A. (Vic) De Simon
William G. (Bill) Dunne
Edward Belt Eckenrode, Jr.
Harrisburg. Pennsylvania B.S. Business Administration Commerce Forum; Philadelphia Club
Rochester, New York B.S. Accounting Commerce Forum ; Rochester Club
University Band
Chicago, Illinois
B.S. Business Administration
Interhall Sports
James Aloysius (Jim) Egan
Chicago. Illinois B.S. Business Administration
Harry Stephen Erd, Jr.
Port Huron, Michigan
B.S. Business Administration
Clinton Dewitt Finnucane
Kansas City, Missouri B.S. Business Administration
Edward Francis (Butch) Fisher
Detroit, Michigan
B.S. Business Administration Detroit Club
George Michael (Mike) Frawley
Los Angeles, California
B.S. Accounting
Vets. Club: California Club
Vice Pres., Senior Class
Frederick R. Funk
La Crosse, Wisconsin
B.S. Accounting. Cum Laude
Commerce Forum; Vets. Club Economic Round Table
Evansville, Indiana
B.S. Accounting Senior Class Treasurer Commerce Forum ; Vets. Club
Raymond Joseph Hoffman
Fort Wayne, Indiana B.S. Business Administration
Joseph Robert (Bob) Horenn
South Bend, Indiana
B.S. Business Administration Commerce Forum ; Villagers Club Radio Club
James J. (Jim) Jodon
South Bend. Indiana B.S. Accounting, Cum Laude Secretary to Commerce Dean Villagers Club
Lee Anthony (Crystal) Klier
Washington, Indiana B.S. Business Administration
Varsity Basketball
Francis Joseph David Kowalski
Fairfield. Connecticut
B.S. Foreign Commerce Knights of Columbus
Vets. Club; Propeller Club
Paul Anthony Marietta
Clinton. Indiana B.S. Business Administration Senior Ball Committee; Vets. Club
John Patrick (Mac) McGuire
New York, New York B.S. Business Administration
Glee Club: Vets. Club
Metropolitan Club
John Joseph (Jack) McInerney
Chicago, Illinois B.S. Finance Debating; Interhall Sports
John Joseph McMahon
Westerly, Rhode Island B.S. Business Administration Commerce Forum; Vets. Club
James Francis (Molly) Molidor
Libertyville, Illinois B.S. Accounting Associate Manager Football Interhall Sports
Joseph Albert (Joe) Neufeld
Green Bay, Wisconsin B.S. Accounting, Cum Laude Commerce Forum
Fox River Valley Club
William Edward (Bill) O'Neil
Snoqualmie Falls, Washington Monogram Club; K. of C. Commerce Forum; Varsity Track
Joseph P. Patrucco
John Andrew (Andy) Quinn
Springfield, Missouri
B.S. Bus. Adm., Cum Laude Senior Class Secretary Interhall Sports
Meriden. Connecticut
B.S. Accounting. Magna Cum Laude SCHOLASTIC: Spanish Club Freshman Sports
Peter Paul (Pete) Richiski
Stamford, Connecticut B.S. Accounting Interhall Sports
Edward James (Eddie) Rogers
Rockford, Illinois
B.S. Accounting, Cum Laude Commerce Forum; Monogram Club Senior Manager, Basketball
Kenneth Arthur Rohyans
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania B.S. Business Administration
Walter F. (Mox) Rogers
Kermit Anthony (Frenchie) Rousseve
Joseph Philip (Joe) Rud
Oak Park, Illinois B.S. Business Administration Interhall Sports; Chicago Club Spanish Club
New Orleans, Louisiana B.S. Business Administration Boxing ’42: Interhall Athletics Assistant Instructor, Bengals
Chicago, Illinois
B.S. Accounting, Magna Cum Laude Economic Round Table. Pres.
Wranglers; Debating
Ernest F. (Brack) Sedlmayr
Danville, Illinois B.S. Business Administration Senior Ball Committee Vets. Club; K. of C.
John F. (Slats) Slater
Rochester, New York B.S. Business Administration Spanish Club; Rochester Club Interhall Sports
William Edward Slowey
Albion, Michigan
B.S. Accounting, Cum Laude Commerce Forum; Vets. Club Interhall Sports
Neil C. Snyder, Jr.
South Bend. Indiana B.S. Business Administration Villagers Club
■ Joaquin (Jake) Sole
San Turce, Puerto Rico B.S. Bus. Adm., Cum Laude Knights of Columbus; Glee Club
William Frederick Tobin
South Bend, Ind.
B.S. Business Administration
Henry J. Sullivan
Havana, Cuba B.S. Bus. Adm., Cum Laude Commerce Forum; Vets. Club Senior Ball Com.; Met. Club
William H. (Sul) Sullivan
Waban, Massachusetts
B.S. Foreign Commerce, Cum Laude Commerce Forum: Boston Club Propellor Club
Donald J. Trottier
Escanaba, Michigan B.S. Business Administration Senior Ball Committee Interhall Sports; Vets. Club
John S. (Johnny) Vaughan
Wellesley, Massachusetts
B.S. Business Administration Student Council; Commerce Forum SCHOLASTIC; Senior Ball Committee
James J. (Jim) Walsh
Streator, Illinois B.S. Accounting Band; Cavaliers
Samuel Arthur (Sam) Wing, Jr.
Dallas, Texas
B.S. Business Administration Magna Cum Laude Knights of Columbus
Joseph Vincent (Joe) Zimmermann
Lake Charles, Louisiana B.S. Business Administration Cum Laude Knights of Columbus
For nearly five years Notre Dame shouldered her wartime burden, as she saw her sons, by the thousands, leave a campus to which many of them shall never return. These were the days of acceleration which swirled along in an ever-increasing tempo towards the climax—victory in Europe, then victory in Japan.
This month the University of Our Lady completes her last semester on a wartime basis. As some might say, “We are reconverting. We are getting back on a pre-war basis.” But here it has not really been a re-conversion to pre-war days. Rather, Notre Dame is continuing her forward progress which was not hampered or decelerated by the war. So, standing on the threshold of a new era, perhaps we should take one last, lingering, glance at a singular mode of life on the Notre Dame campus since the end of the war, to enumerate the functions which have occurred in this transitional period and view in retrospect the past few semesters as phases of wartime college life rapidly disappearing.
V-E plus one day
The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, celebrated the solemn High Mass in thanksgiving for the great victory. Because of the squeezed wartime schedule, only the 8 and 9 o’clock classes were dismissed. Said Father O’Donnell, “We have a sacred obligation to our heroes,
living and dead: an obligation to make very sure that their hard-won victory is made complete, and that our cherished American institutions are protected from enemies from within as well as without. We must be worthy of our American heritage of democracy. . . .”
V-E plus one month
Publicists for campus activities begin plugging them as being “of pre-war calibre.” . . . Senior Ball disregards all restrictions which hampered other balls since 1942 and goes all out with a formal, dinner, dance, and high-cost bids. . . . Seventh War Loan sells $47,500 in bonds on campus. Town meetings pack the Law Auditorium as speakers switch to postwar problems for topics. Bob Hope roars into town, broadcasts his weekly show from Washington Hall, with only Navy midshipmen permitted near the place. Somebody got Frances Langford’s autograph. Bing Crosby joins Hope for a bond rally show from the 10-yard line in the Stadium with 50,000 cheering the performance. Graduation exercises are still in the “commencement” status, and 183 degrees are granted.
Summer Semester, 1945
Even the Scholastic falls victim of publication slashes on campus and joins the Dome and Scrip temporarily as publication is suspended for the
Long columns of marching men, exemplifying the use to which University facilities have been put the past few years, will not greet returning students next fall; but the Navy will long be remembered for its colorful contribution.to Notre Dame's wartime history.	>-
semester. After a couple of premature celebrations, the real V-J pandemonium hit the campus. Again, a Solemn High Mass in thanksgiving for the hard victory. This time there is a two-day holiday. The midshipman school graduates its lO,OOOth naval officer, and then closes. Jake Kline’s baseball team wins 9, loses nine. Dr. John M. Cooney, devoted member of the faculty since 1901 and head of the Journalism Department for the past 32 years, suffers a fatal heart attack. Summer band concerts are held in the late-after-noon shadow of the dome, on the quadrangle.
Football fever hit the campus as the Indian summer slipped by and chilly autumn days arrived. A big row over the suspension of Frank Szymanski, football captain for the
A Dartmouth crowd jumps to its feet as one man, as Phil Colella goes stratospheric to catch one of Dancewicz's “bullets."
Irish campus goes all out against Illini with giant demonstrations.
Guarding the Illinois Graveyard.
In Memoriam.
The best Indian is a dead one.
’45 season, stirs up an “unofficial pep rally” with the band touring the quadrangle and a lot of noise and speech-making being made on the Sorin Hall porch. Having Szymanski on the team seemed as important as beating Army that year, but he remained ineligible (and Army beat us, too).
When the fighting Illini rolled onto the campus for the opening game of the season, they found the residence halls decorated with “Beat Illinois” exhibitions fully three stories high. In the game that tested the sinews of Hughie Devore’s youthful squad to the utmost, Phil Colella carried the ball on the first play from scrimmage 76 yards to a touchdown, and the Illini went home with a 7-0 defeat. Clash-more Mike died an untimely death about two weeks before the opening kickoff, was quickly replaced by Mike II. The team moved up to the top of the national rankings (right behind Army) on the merits of five more outstanding victories in succession: Georgia Tech (40-7), Dartmouth (34-0), Pittsburgh (39-9) and Iowa (56-0).
V-E plus five months
While students were home for a between-semes-ters vacation, the team tangled with Navy. Outfighting and outplaying the middies all the way, the Fighting Irish were one foot from victory when the game ended, after Colella had wrestled on the double-stripe with Scott of Navy in the most publi
cized play of the year. Then Army crashed into the Irish, 48-0. After giving Tulane and Northwestern a good beating, the team lost to Great Lakes in the season finale. Leahy returns.
The civilian enrollment for the first postwar semester doubled, and nearly 600 veterans enroll. Bishop O’Hara and Msgr. Sheen visit the campus for the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the founding of the Board of Lay Trustees. The Vets organize a campus club under the guidance of Father Hesburgh and become the most prominent group on campus, sponsoring dances, discussion groups, Communion breakfasts, smokers.
V-E plus six months
Violence hits the N.D. dining halls. Meals are still being served in military tin trays. Father O’Donnell addresses entire student body, explains a lot of things, announces an extension of the Christmas holidays, and for the first time in a long time Notre Darners spend more than a week away from the campus for the Yuletide. The holiday traffic jam is anything-but sweet.
New Year’s eve, 1946, the first in five years that hasn’t launched us into another year of war.
V-E plus eight months
The basketball team got off to a successful but ragged start against service eagers, ran up a vic-
tory string of thirteen—by winning close ones as a habit — including the pulsepounding 43-42 victory over DePaul in the fieldhouse when Billy Hassett dropped . in a bucket from way out with less than 15 seconds remaining in the game. Then Northwestern knocked off the Irish, 5655, with 200 N.D. men cheering madly in the Chicago Stadium. The campus prayed for the soul of Bob Nelson as his body
Leo Klier gets one of his famous hooks on the ball.
succumbed to the disease of cancer. St. Mary’s jostled through a winter carnival that proved a terrific success. A $400,000 dormitory twin for Breen-Phillips is conceived to help ease the campus room shortage as the enrollment applications multiply and all residence halls double up. The sophomores present the first “like prewar” affair of 1946 as tuxes and tails come out of the mothballs for the formal cotillion, a recognized success. Only 54 of a class of 83 are on hand to receive their degrees at semester’s end.
V-E plus a year: This semester
More men are enrolled this semester than in any other. Of the 3,337 studying here, more than half were in the armed services during World War II. The Scholastic, becoming more popular on campus than at any time in the past, scores success after success with its complete news coverage and appealing picture stories; starting the semester off with a great big pat on the back for the basketball team of
'45-’46 season. Spring football practice opens under Coach Leahy, and 100 stalwarts pound the Cartier turf. The Bengal Bouts build up steam and let loose in a terrific blast of success under the sponsorship of the Knights of Columbus, who move into the campus spotlight with their vaudeville, spring formal and other activities. An organization hiding behind the mysterious five letter title—NFCCS-— gets a lot of publicity, sends a delegation of students to Michigan for a congress. Father O’Donnell moves into the national spotlight with a series of talks on the Catholic Hour coast-to-coast broadcast on Sunday afternoons. The biggest social success in years —the Junior Prom of 1946. Admiral Chester Nimitz spends a day at Notre Dame, receives an honorary doctorate. “The Mikado,” a smash hit.
So much for the newsy items of Notre Dame for the past year. The seniors have lived during a unique period in the University’s history, and they leave at a time when her future never appeared ■more bright.
Coach Leahy gives last minute instructions to the Varsity before their contest with the Old-Timers in the annual Spring classic.
Jammed in with the crowd at the Bengal Bouts, these seniors watch classmates throw leather around for the benefit of the Indian Missions.
Co-chairmen of the Senior Ball, Bill Carbine and Fritz Funk with their dates. Miss Kathleen C. Moore of Richmond, Virginia, and Miss Mary Ann Carroll of Bay City, Michigan.
Seniors and their guests at a candlelight dinner which preceded the ball. Candlelight was also on the Scholastic cover to remember the night by.
camera except Rolando Duarte and he was . .
of the
■M*' -
Informality was the order of the day as seniors and their fair guests continued their week-end festivities with an al fresco picnic at the American Legion Lodge in Mishawaka. In the above picture, the dead soldiers on the table died gladly for the smiles of the
ladies. Below, all were aware well, figure it out yourselves.
A Word of Thanks
As the last copies of the Graduation number of the SCHOLASTIC roll off the press and weeks of hurried preparation see the magazine at last a reality, it is indeed appropriate that a most grateful thank you be given to those many individuals whose valuable work has provided the class of '46 with some small token of the days they now leave behind them.
Acknowledgment is first made to Bagby's Studios for the class portraits and to Christy Walsh for the informal shots appearing in the issue. Credit for much of the writing goes to Frank Grimaldi, Gerald Hogue, Warren Leary, Charles Patterson, Kelley Cook, Paul Carr and Bill Thompson, as well as to John Power, Ralph Hayman, Walter Maro-va and Frank Wyrens for work cn the class legends. To M. E. Varga who worked with John Specht, Arthur Mosher and Chris Cochrane in securing advertising, as well as to Professor Hanley and the art department, grateful thanks is also given.
On the technical side, credit for a job well done goes to the Indiana Engraving Co. and the Ave Maria Press. And most grateful thanks is given to Professor Brennan, Father Laskowski, and the editors of the SCHOLASTIC whose splendid cooperation is responsible in great meas ure for the appearance of this magazine.
To all the aforementioned and to any others who gave an encouraging hand along the way, once again a most grateful thank you.
james f. McCarthy
Editor-in-Chief
The SCHOLASTIC wishes to acknowledge and thank the merchants whose advertising has appeared regularly in our magazine and who have become a valued part of the Notre Dame publication.
The SCHOLASTIC'S “going away" gift to the graduates, extra copies of the Commencement Issue, can be picked up at the Publications Office. 118 Main Building.
Hickey-Freeman	Society Brand	Dobbs
Congratulations
Notre Dame Graduates
of 1946
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP
Athletic Goods Jobbers
121 W. Colfax Ave. Phone 3-3702	South Bend, Ind.
HELEN and the Girls
wish the Class of '46 Good Luck and Godspeed
The HUDDLE
Indiana's Oldest Department
Store...
Ofetoortifs
Wishes to congratulate the 1946 Graduating Class of Notre Dame
We Salute THE GRADUATING CLASS OF 1946
126 N. Michigan St.
Sorry...
to see the
"LAST BUS" leaving
Notre Dame with the
CLASS OF
1946
Johnny and 'George's7
Swim Trunks
JANTZEN . . . B V D . . . McGREGOR
OMSK... MMMR ( MflMMM
555ZSSSSSS5S555SJ32
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
for your patronage
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our ywn laboratory.
GOOD Reading is GOOD Entertainment
The South Bend Book Shop 130 N. Michigan St.
and best wishes to
you in the years to
SOUTH BEND LATHES
come.
Brother Meinrad, c.s.c
and
Brother Conan, c.s.c

THE BOOKSTORE
ON CAMPUS
South Bend Lathes combine three distinguishing features which have won for them the acclaim of discriminating machine tool users everywhere:
» Accuracy that permits working to close tolerances and machining work with such smoothness that often one or more finishing operations can be eliminated.
» Versatility to perform easily, quickly, and economically a wide variety of preci
sion operations that otherwise would require installation of additional equipment. » Dependability achieved through careful design and rugged construction assures day-in, day-out, trouble-free performance at low cost long after the installation has repaid its original cost.
Write today for Catalog 1OO-D which illustrates and describes the entire line of South Bend Precision Lathes.
SOUTH BEND LATHE WORKS
EAST MADISON STREET • SOUTH BEND 22, INDIANA LATHE BUILDERS SINCE 1906
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street, Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
"South Bend's Leading Barber Shop"
▼
100-102 S. Main St ' South Bend
For appointment phone. 3-0678
SOLLin CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
Incorporated
General Contractors SOUTH BEND 24	-	- INDIANA
The Staff of the
Philadelphia
extends sincere CONGRATULATIONS to the
GRADUATING SENIORS OF
1 946
Luncheons Dinners
116 N. Michigan St.
To the CLASS OF '46 —
Go out and help to build a better world as ... .
NOTRE DAME MEN
Parker - Winterrowd. Inc.
115!4 North Main Street
South Bend’s Old Established Tailors
NEW BOOKS
For YOUR Enjoyment
The latest of the famous Fanny Budd series.
$3.00
FAMOUS PHOTOGRAPHY
FAMOUS ADDRESS
4
A new-major work by the author of "Days of Our
Years."
$3.75
Ernie Pyle's last and greatest book.
$2.50
127 W. Washington Street "In the J. M. S. Building"
Out Congratulations .
To the Editor and his Staff on having planned and produced this graduation issue of the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
We thank the University for having given us the privilege of producing the Senior's portraits in this issue.
CAGEY I IICFG CCMr ANY
Portrait and Commercial Photography
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Notre Dame Tradition. *.
SPAGHETTI at
C. DONALD REX
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-S661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
SO3 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3.1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
INDIANA ENGRAVING CO.
CONGRATULATES THE CLASS OF 1946
ENGRAVERS	COMMERCIAL
ELECTROTYPERS	ARTISTS
PHONE 35351 ... 118 ST. JAMES CT., SOUTH BEND 3, INDIANA
Copyright 1946. Liccht 8c Mras Tobacco Co.
■in