Sing a song of sixpence, pockets full ‘of dough. Here's the way you’ll get it from Pepsi-Cola Co. Make us laugh ... if you can. We'll pay you SI, S2, S3 ... as much as SI5 for stuff we accept — and print. Think of it. You can retire. (As early as 9 P. M. if you like.) You don’t have to mention Pepsi-Cola but that always
makes us smile. So send in your jokes and gags to Easy Money Dept., Box B. PepsiCola Co., Long Island City, N. Y.
The very next day you may receive a de-luxe radio-phonograph combination and a nine-room prefabricated house. It won’t be from us. We'll just send you money if we feel like it. Easy Money, too.
Little Moron Corner
Mohair Moron, the upholsterer’s son, was found huddled up and shivering in his refrigerator one day. He explained by saying, "I was th-thirsty for a P-pepsi-C-cola and was t-told it should be d-drunk when cold. Now I can drink it. I’m c-c-cold!”
You don’t have to be a moron to write these . . . but it helps. $2 for each accepted we'll pay you, and not a penny more.
EXTRA ADDER ATTRACTION
At the end of the year we’re going to review all the stuff we buy, and the item we think was best of all is going to get an extra
$100.00

—HE-SHE GAGS—
If you're a "he” or a "she” (as we suspect) writing HE-SHE jokes should be a cinch for you. H you’re not a "he"’ or a "she” don't bother. Anyway, if you’re crazy enough to give us gags like these, we might be crazy enough to pay you a few bucks for them.
He: Give me a kiss and I’ll buy you a Pepsi-Cola ... or something.
She: Correction. Either you’ll buy me a Pepsi ... or nothing!	‘ ”
# *
He: When a man leans forward eagerly, lips parted, thirsting for loveliness, don’t you know what to do?
She: Sure, give him a Pepsi-Cola.
*
He ghost: I’m thirsty. Let’s go haunt the Pepsi-Cola plant.
She ghost: That’s the spirit!
* * *
GET FUNNY... WIN MONEY... WRITE A TITLE
$3.00 (three bucks) we pay for stuff like this, if printed. We are not ashamed of ourselves, either!
CUTE SAYINGS of KIDDIES (age 16 to 19 plus)
.. ,,
This is easier than taking candy away from a baby. And less squawking. Maybe you don't want to be rich, but just force yourself. You’ll like it. And, if we like the title you write for this cartoon we’ll force ourself to give you §5. Or if you send us your own cartoon idea we’ll up it to §10. For a cartoon that you draw yourself, we’ll float a loan and send you §15 if we print it. Could you expect any more? Yes, you could expect.
A famous sage has said that people are funnier than anybody. H that were true, all you'd have to do would be listen to what the kiddies are saying, write it down, send it in, and we’d buy it. If that were true. It might l>e, for all we know. We haven’t the slightest idea what we’ll ac
cept. Chances are it would be things like these unless we get some sense.
"My George, who will just be 17 on next Guy Fawkes Day, had his appendix removed last month. When the doctor asked him what kind of stitching he’d like to
have, George said, ’suture self, doctor’.” "Elmer Treestump says his girl Sagebrush, only 22X, brings a bottle of Pepsi-Cola along on every date for protection. She tells everybody, 'that’s my Pop!’ ”
$1 each for acceptable sluff like this.
2
LETTERS
COMES THE DAWN
Dear Editor:
We would like to register an agitated protest against the book criticism (we know no better term to use, although we realize that one is inadequate) you printed in this week’s magazine. Mr. George Murphy and Mr. Tom Gorman discussed Herman Wouk’s Aurora Dawn. If this sort of thing is going to continue we will be forced to do the closest thing to canceling our subscription that a Notre Dame man can do—kick the magazine back out into the hall each Friday ^afternoon.
This article treated us to a display of Mr. Murphy and Mr. Gorman’s ability to be wordy, trite, patronizing, cute, illogical and seemingly quite unable to make up their collective mind whether they like the book or not. They tossed Wouk back and forth, claiming at one moment that they were “ploughing through the digressions and almost suffocating in the airless, humid jungle of ‘precious’ style and rank verbiage,” and immediately afterwards declaring that “Attrora Dawn is funny and good.” What strange fruit blossoms from “rank verbiage” . . . !
We sincerely hope that in future editions Mr. Gorman and Mr. Murphy will criticize books and leave the purple prose to someone who can handle it.
Bill Pfaff, Jack Fraier, .	335 Cavanaugh.
*	V
SEE HERE. MR. CAHILL
Dear Editor:
We students who are married are very grateful to the University for the privilege of buying for our wives season tickets to the home games at the reasonable cost of $7.80. It is important that you understand this. At the risk of appearing ungrateful, I will in this letter mildly criticize the method of distribution of the aforementioned tickets. May I remark in passing that the Scholastic missed this newsworthy item. If they, the editors, will leave their chairs long enough to read the Vet Gazette, they will find that the item was' well covered. (Gentle chiding).
To make a long story short, about 800 men spent on the average of three hours v waiting in line at the stadium for Jackets.
ft. $
. " I make no special plea for married ' students. The treatment that Notre
Dame has accorded us is an example for other schools to strive toward. What I do indict is the method of distribution adopted by the ticket office . . .
Mental aberrations occur in the best of men. Mr. Cahill’s friends assure me that he is one of the best. I believe them. I know that the sale to those out- • side the University was handled magnificently through the mails. Perhaps it slipped Mr. Cahill’s mind that we could be served in the same way. There are other methods available. The use of more than two men might work . . J
Edward Dixon,
Box 444, N. D.
WHAT'S YOUR CHOICE
FOR FALL?
1. CORDUROY — Soft as a rabbit’s ear. So nice you’ll wear it to bed. An Arrow exclusive. $7.50
From these three ARROW sports shirts for college men
2. GABANAIRE —This washable rugged spun rayon wonder shirt comes in 5 fast colors. $5.95
3. FLANNEL — Arrow’s "Redpath Flannels” 100% pure wool. Solid colors, solid shirt. $7.95
All Arrow sports shirts for fall have the smooth fitting Arrow collar and expert Arrow tailoring throughout. PS—You’ll always get a good deal at your Arrow dealer’s.	•
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES w	--------------------------------
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
THE FOOD SITUATION
Dear Editor:
Today there are criticisms and just plain gripes circulating among the students about the meals we are receiving in the Dining Hall. Now, I know that insinuations and sarcasms have been . hurled before so I will explain that this letter is not in either of those categories. What I will try to do is to point out an argument, from the students’ angle, that is in the nature of constructive criticism.
POINT I. The meals in the Dining hall show a definite lack of planning. We know from week to week what the meals
(Continued to Page 26)
3
J
MORRIS offers the smoker an extra
PHILIP
ftMST
MAVElHUSdU
UTMkUSMBn

PHILIP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!
—wnwruiu
benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.
s W MORRIS

TRY A PACK ... TODAY
4
TOP OF THE WEEK
Fifty-five more shopping days ’til Xmas.
HOUND-DAWG HOWLS & HOOKAHS
The Student Council, like a hound-\ dawg looking for an old bone, was on the prowl again this week. Each year I ‘^about this time there comes a new Coun-^cil president and a new probe. The most recent sleuthing was directed in all directions — student spirit, high prices, recreation, etc. On Monday night a clean - shaven, nattily - dressed council member slid under the door with the South Bend Trib.
“Nice room you got here,” he mumbled as he checked the springs on my bed. “Who’s your rector? Yeah! Well, yuh can’t have all of the luck. He’s not so tough. I used to tell him what to do on his day off!” When our friend got around to the business-at-hand, we learned that the Student Council was sounding out opinion on the 7 cent cup of coffee. Coffee, like a woman’s skirt, must come down. What’s the Council’s motto again: “We do the difficult immediately; the impossible takes a little ■ longer?”
Buckets of borsch and beans to the Council member who suggested the after-‘ game football rally. Discontinued since 1942, this hoopla was one of the high spots of the football season at N. D. Should the idea get the OK brand from the administration, students will get a chance to wave their glory flags long after Leahy’s tears have flooded them from the stadium. The Met club will sponsor the rally. Each student will be asked to contribute a dime at the door of Washington Hall to purchase a trophy for the player-of-the-week, to be selected by the students in attendance. Cheers, music and bushwah will be supplied by the Met clubbers. Here’s hoping the proposal doesn’t get lost in a University ash can.
Late flash—It didn’t!
K FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“• • • Now that we have meatless I .®/uesdays and poultryless Thursdays, the
meals will be 100 per cent better the rest of the week.”
NAMES MAKE NEWS AND NUISANCES
Bob Lanz, sophomore class president, says the cotillion' recreation committee has contacted Tex Beneke. Said Tex Beneke: “The sophomores of Notre Dame have offered to pay enough to cover expenses. That’ll be O.K. with me but I’d rather like to bring my band along, too.” . . . Bill Griffith, “Red” Ely, and Jim Clifford (all Morrissey) were seen along the Niles highway giving out with their best pepsodent smiles. Results: no hits, no runs, sore cheeks. . . . Fletch Daniels (Alumni) is overwhelmingly popular; he was “no’d” twenty times last Saturday night. . . . Gus Cif-feli, Irish lineman, has been made Gil
“Excuse it, please—but I’ll come flying anytime anybody offers me Dentyne Chewing Gum! That clean-tasting,.long-lasting flavor is out of this world, and Dentyne sure helps keep teeth white.”	__
Dentyne Gum—Made Only by Adams V*
bert’s campus representative. Gus will model “T” shirts, styled by HickeyFreeman, in front of Walgreen’s every Saturday night. . . . Jim Slattery (St. Ed’s) has but one ambition in life: to be campused at St. Mary’s . . . Overheard in the cafe: “My life is an open book—Forever Amber.” . . . Add definitions: New York — just a big “Hie” town. Nitrogen—not found in Ireland because it is never found in a free state.
CAMPUS COMMERCIALIZATION
You can always tell when the football team is playing at home. Brother Conan brings out his flashiest trinkets. The Book Store looks like Gimbel’s basement with a hangover. One of the Joes from Dillon gave a home-town belle one of those little Notre Dame bracelets last week-end. Yu know the kind—the kind that “Bernie” Ell sells when he’s short on ready. Well, this guy told this pretty that the hunk of nothing was solid 14 kt. Sunday afternoon, just before he packed her off on the NYC, she looked slightly peeved. The operator said: “Honey, your leaving makes all my thoughts turn to love.” She said: “Yes, and my bracelet slowly turns to green.” • BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Twenty-five more cribbing days ’til Xams (midsemester, that is).
5
Campus Clubs
By BOB CASURELLA
ROU1NG HOUND UP
Representatives from sixteen clubs met last week to discuss plans for the new campus-wide, inter-club bowling league. A constitutional committee appointed at this meeting is now hard at work. When the rules-and-regulations have been put in black and white, they null be sent to all of the clubs for ratification. Tentative plans call for two ten-team divisions; each team consisting of seven bowlers, five regulars and two alternates.
At the meeting held last week Ray Russek, Quint Marlow, Ernie Huffman and Fred Tansey were herded into a corner and given the not too desirable job of formulating plans. So far the boys report that the league should be ready to go about November 30; that date being the most desirable since the football season will be in the record stage by then.
Any campus clubs still outside of the fold, and still desiring membership, should send a representative to the final meeting to be held in Room 104 of the Law building on October 28. Interested clubs should send a roster of ten players with their delegates. Further information may be had at aforementioned confab.
SOMEWHERE IN THE PILE
Biggest meeting since Mayor Hague rode into City Hall, Jersey City—that’s what Al Zmijewski dubbed the last brawl of the New Jersey Club. Another knock-down drag-out affair is on tap for the evening of October 29, Room 104 of the Law building. Plans will be made for the annual Christmas dance at this affair. Twenty minutes before the regular meeting (7:30 p. m.) there will be a confab of all Jersey athletes—basketball players, bowlers, poker artists, etc. Jerseyites, your presence is requested.
EAST SIDE, WEST SIDE
At the last meeting of the Erie Canal boys—Utica, Ithaca, Attica, New York —chief barge poler, a title long esteemed in the East, was given to Ted Dwyer.
6
Other new officials of the club include: Ed Martin, vice president; Mike Ryan, secretary, and Bob McAuliffe, treasurer. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, club moderator, said a few words at the meeting. Plans were formulated for a club smoker to be held Wednesday, October 29, at the local American Legion. New members are welcome to attend.
BUGAS NAMED PRESIDENT
At the last meeting of the Rocky Mountain Club, Ted “Mountain Climber” Bugas was elected to the presidency of the most up-in-the-aii* club on the campus. Jack Sweeney of Santa Fe, New Mexico, was given the No. 2 slot, the vice presidency; while Frank Ster-mitz and John Lindberg were elected as secretary and treasurer respectively. The meeting was held after a dinner party in St. Augustine’s Church rec hall. For a buck and a half a throw the boys were treated to a fancy meal of fried chicken and accessories. Father Simoni tsch made arrangements for the affair. Any clubs looking for a choice spot to throw a shindig should see the good padre—Father Simonitsch when not in the Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room can be found on second floor Sorin.
O.K.
The boys from the land of the plain sweeping wind, and members of the Oklahoma Club also, held a meeting last week. New officers were elected. Bob Mannix was handed the president’s chair. Bob Layden vice president; Jim Conway will hold down two posts as secretary-treasurer. Plans were made for a mixer and a dinner party before the Sophomore Cotillion.
A re-organizational meeting of the West Virginia Club was held last Wednesday. All West Virginians interested in joining the club should contact Jack Williams, 247 Sorin, or John Snider, 115 Cavanaugh.
AMERICANA
Mr. Langford, Head of the Modern
hy floe Wilcos
I’m not certain whether or not it is safe to argue with one’s higher echelon. Nevertheless, Mr. John A. (To The Wall) O’Connor had better find a nice wall for himself. Last week, amid all manner of panegyric to the gentlemen from the “Point,” he publicly yearned for an early resumption of the series between Notre Dame and Army. At the risk of being cast into exterior darkness, I dissent. The memory of having nearly had my neck broken trying to see a few plays of last year’s monumental battle still rankles within me. Had this sort of thing been an isolated instance in the j relations between the two schools, I ' could see some point in agitating for£ further games. There is also no indication that Army would favor South Bend with itself this November were this game not the swan song of the series. If the games were to be continued on a home and home basis, meaning home and home—not Chicago and New York City—I would be only too happy to see N. D. whip the Blaik menage every year. As things were, however, and as they undoubtedly would be in the future, 1999 would be at least a century too soon to resume the series.
AM I ANATHEMA NOW?
If that last paragraph didn’t lessen my popularity to absolute zero, this one will. I like Meatless Tuesday. I like fish. I like perch, sole, and salmon steaks. I wish only that the powers of the Dining Hall would find something else for Tuesday or Friday night instead of that glorified wallpaper paste, which seems to be passing itself off on a suspecting public as macaroni. Nevertheless, Meatless Tuesday is better than meat six days a week and Joe Stalin in Paris. What’s more, we ought to be de-
(Continued on Page 25)
Language Department, gave a very interesting talk on the social life of Mexico, at the last meeting of the InterAmerican Affairs Club. A movie was shown in conjunction with the lecture.
The Rockford Club elected new officers. Bill Grady is the new president. Bill Lichtenberger is the vice-president, Jim O’Connor and Russ Van Keuren secretary and treasurer, respectively. j
Milwaukeeans Bill Roberts, Jim Ott, 7 Frank Hushet, and Dick Hall are o< ganizing a Milwaukee Club.	।
^The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
iiHttiimimiHiiiiiiimiiiaimiimiiiiiitiitmiiiiitHiitiiiiiMiiHimiiiiiiiiiiiimimaiHHittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaii
THE STAFF
FRANCIS J. KEENAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN A. O'CONNOR Associate	Editor
EDWARD J. SNYDER  Associate	Editor
JOSEPH WILCOX Feature	Editor
PETER BROWN  Sports	Editor
SHAUN McDERMOTT  News	Editor
ROBERT STOCK  Associate News	Editor
y	JAMES FERSTEL _______________________ Photographic	Editor
MCDONALD BIRREN Art	Editor
E. A. CORDESMAN  Art	Editor
WILLIAM GORMAN ________________________________ Librarian
ROBERT KOPF ______________Circulation
JOHN CLARK  Circulation M. E. VARGA Advertising Manager
JOHN S. BRENNAN ________________________ Faculty Moderator
taaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaataaaaaaaaiiaaaaaaaBaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaiiaaaaaaiaaaaaaBiaiiainaaaaaaaiii
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Meet the Editor
Twenty-year-old Peter Joseph Christopher Brown from Chicago’s West Side runs the sports section of the Scholastic. It’s a big job, when you consider the interest in athletics around Notre Dame.
Pete is a journalism junior, and has two brothers at ND. Big brother Bill is a senior in journalism (it runs in the family) and little brother Boger backs up Lu jack and Tripucka at quarter out on Cartier’s greensward.
Pete goes for touch football himself, but last week it was his undoing. He took a pass behind an enemy defender and headed out for the distant goal. - He never got there: a gopher
hole intervened, and Pete	pete grown
\ hurtled to the ground with a
)^badly wrenched knee. It was the fifth time this type of "^injury has caught up with the sports editor.
He says it won’t keep him from covering the Iowa game.
CALENDAR
Oct. 24 HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL — Central High vs. Mishawaka, at School Field, at 8 p. m. Saturday (Oct. 25) Riley High vs. Michigan City, same time, same place.
JOHN ADAMS HIGH AUDITORIUM, Ballet. Alicia Markova and Anton Dolin twirl and flit to the music of Tschaikovsky’s “Nutcracker” and selections from Chopin.
Oct. 25 NOTRE DAME vs. IOWA. The lads from the Hawkeye state are always tough. Watch DiMarco and Tunnell in the visitor’s backfield. The improved Irish should pull away by three tallies.
LAW AUDITORIUM, Etienne Gilson, renowned member of the French Academy, lectures at 9 a. m. on “Being and Existence.” If you have any doubts about your existing, better see this fellow.
DRILL HALL, Victory Dance. Better enjoy your date here than buck those Saturday night crowds downtown. Cheaper too. But the cement floor is a little rough on the soles.
JOHN ADAMS HIGH AUDITORIUM, Fred Waring and his Pennsylvanians giving performances at 7 and 9:30 p. m. Sounds good.
Oct. 26 STATE, Cheyenne. An un-genuine western, with Dennis Morgan, who started out as a second-rate tenor and hasn’t climbed any higher on the Hollywood ladder. Companion feature, Perfect Marriage, with Loretta Young and David Niven.
GRANADA, Tarzan and the Huntress. It might be well to make a sociological study of the type of movie-goer who patronizes these ape-man pictures. You can detect a jungle odor.
Oct. 27 ARMY TICKET DISTRIBUTION begins. Athletic books located in section 28 pick ’em up today, 9 to 12, 1:30 to 5, at Gate 14 of the Stadium.
Oct. 28 ARMY TICKETS for students holding section 29 athletic books.	,
RIVER PARK, My Favorite Brunette. Bob Hope’s year-old release is back in town. Hope fans will get a chuckle.
WASHINGTON HALL—Juilliard String Quartet, 8 p. m. Three violins and a cello blend in a program of classical, chamber music.
Oct. 29 ARMY TICKETS for section 30.
JOE LOUIS dances through an exhibition bout at nearby Michigan City. If he connects you’ll heai-the thud everywhere around here except in the Dining Hall telephone booths where you can’t hear anything but the shrieking wood-saws somebody so considerately located only a few feet away.
SENIOR CLASS ELECTIONS. Better be a better turnout at the polls than at the Junior race.
Oct. 30 COLFAX, Mother Wore Tights. Here’s Grable again, now a little on the spongy side, in another ‘ of those tributes to the valiant people of show business.	.
STATE, Frankenstein and Dracula. These two grisly cadavers have been exhumed once more as stock spook-show tradition. Dracula is ridiculously funny, and the heroine’s styles smack of the new look. Frankenstein by this time is so tottering he couldn’t scare anybody.
7
^hom Ute	^be^Jz
Ethics Is Fine, of Course.
Speaking before 200 advertising women in Detroit last week, Joseph W. Frazer, president of the Kaiser-Frazer Corporation, told the women that ethics was a secondary consideration in advertising. “The first requirement of advertising is not ethics,” quoth he, “but to sell the product. Ethics is fine, of course. But the’prime job is to get the customer into the store or the automobile showroom.” He went on to extol the virtues of spot radio ads. “Make ’em as corny as you can,” said Mr. Frazer.
Yes, Mr. Frazer, ethics is just fine. Perfectly fine. But don’t let it get in the way. If you can’t get a customer into your automobile showroom by telling the truth, tell a lie. If a radio ad in good taste will not sell a product, then write one that is in bad taste instead, and sell. Catch the suckers with the corn. Never let a secondary consideration like ethics interfere with the sales.
Then, Mr. Frazer, when our form of government is endangered by another ideology which denies free enterprise to business, scream to high heaven that free enterprise was ordained by God from all eternity as the ideal economic system; how virtuous we are; how you have never abused the economic system. Say that you have always looked out for the public good. Say that, Mr. Frazer, if you can square it with what you told the advertising women in Detroit.
One more thing. Making speeches like that is a fine way to sell your automobiles. Everyone is sure to believe you.
Question — 280 Over 4500?
- The student body has no cause to whine about the quality of this year’s football team. The team right now is far better than the spirit behind it warrants. Cheering at last Satur-
day’s Nebraska game proved that.
The Nebraska cheering section, liberally estimated about one-eighth the size of Notre Dame’s, made far noise. The St: Mary’s girls (and the enrollment of college is around 500) produced more vocal volume 4,500 of their hecklers.
to be more their than
Cheerleading this year is far better than last. No longer do the yellmen exhort vocal outbursts during plays or while critical scores are being announced. It would be nice to have a group of acrobatic lads leading the yells, but nobody can
Concerning Responsibility, Etc.
In its Volume 89, Number 1 lead editorial Scholastic propounded its “raison d’etre.” As its primary function Scholastic saw itself “as both a medium and an instrument in the development of genuine student leadership, responsibility and initiative.” Perhaps Volume 89, Number 4 is a bit too early to notice any positive results in this program, but never did Scholastic anticipate such a gross display of disinterest as was reported in that issue.
Obviously this refers to the extremely disappointing results of the Junior Class elections. When a handful of 230-odd voters in a class approximating 1200 take the trouble to cast their ballots something is unquestionably wrong. But where does the difficulty lay? Why only 230 voters? Did Scholastic fall down in its job of publicizing the elections? Was it a result of the fact that only two tickets were entered in the campaign; and that the campaign fell somewhat^? short of being stimulating? Or can the entire affair be^' summed up by and attributed to that little word “apathy”? As more than one junior queried, “What’s the use of voting? Just what can class officers accomplish that can’t be effected in some other way?” And let no one for a moment underestimate the extent to which this attitude has grown.
Scholastic at this time does not intend to delve into the complexities of this attitude; although it will do so in the near future. Rather, it offers the problem to those most immediately concerned: Administration, Student Council, and STUDENT BODY. Whatever answer is forthcoming must be compositely the work of all three, and satisfactory to all three, and, ultimately, in the tradition of preparing Notre Dame men for the grave responsibilities ahead and for the leadership expected of such men.
For its part Scholastic is devoting considerable space to the approaching Senior Class elections, as per the sample ballot shown below, the lead story on the opposite page, and the pictures of the presidential candidates, with an apology thrown in for the lack of pictures of the entire slate of candidates. With all this Scholastic entreats the hundreds of eligible seniors to get out and vote come next Wednesday, and j prove to sceptics such as we that a rousing, interestingly^® conducted campaign can produce the results that Notre Dame’’ * elections of old brought forth. For it was not always thus. *
call the present leaders unspirited.
The blame falls upon the student body. If they do not know the cheers they should demand to be given a written list. It is sad to discover that a university with one of the finest football teams in the land and an equally representative band has the poorest, most apathetic and lethargic cheering section in the country.
When West Point sends its contingent to the Army game, without a doubt those 280 mechanical voices will out-blast our 4,500. It will be a shame indeed to admit that a handful of cadets can cheer better than the entire Notre Dame student body. It looks as if the men in grey will have the last laugh for even though their team is beaten, they will know at least that they backed them with full spirit. That’s more than our Notre Dame team can say in victory!
OFFICIAL SENIOR CLASS BALLOT
INDEPENDENT CANDIDATES
Pres. □ Gerard Hekker
STRAIGHT TICKET for party listed below
Pres. □Joseph W. O'Reilly V. Pres. □ Thomas J. McCaffrey Sec'y. □ Francis Larry Ryan Treas. □ George H. Bums
Treas. □Victor M. Gutschenritter
STRAIGHT TICKET for party listed below
STRAIGHT TICKET for party listed below
□ James Kinn	□ George Sullivan
□ Joe DiSpigno	□ Richard Kasberg
□ Donald Poepsel	□ John Defant
□ Donald Clark	□ Thomas Brogan
The voters must have a 4 on their I. D. card.
The arrangement of the ticket was determined impartially. The election chairman drew the tickets from a hat.
There must be a minimum of 300 ballots turned in to insure legality of election.
Voting time: 11:30 a. m. to 5:00 p. m. in the basement of the Dining Hall.
8
’The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 5
OCTOBER 24, 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Senior Campaign Swings Into High Gear
By LAWRENCE S. CONNOR
Nominations for senior class offices were announced last week and active campaigning is underway for the elections, Oct. 29. In an effort to insure ^officers for the senior class, a great deal of interest is expected to manifest itself before election day. Martin Rock, Student Council election chairman, is hopeful that the senior elections will fare better than the miserable turnout accorded the junior candidates.
Three complete tickets'and two independents constitute a large selective body for the voters. George Sullivan, of East Walpole, Mass., heads one of the parties. Sullivan was president of both the Monogram Club and the Boston Club last year and holds those positions again this year. He was also co-chairman of last year’s highly successful Junior Prom. Running on this ticket for vice-president is Richard Kasberg of Indianapolis, Ind.; secretary, John Def ant of Weirton, W. Va.; treasurer, Thomas Brogan of Chicago, Ill. The platform for this party looks to the future. Sullivan announced, “We (Bhope to make this year the best of the four. By promoting the best in social activities, along with an embodiment of good will, we want to insure the senior (Continued on Page 21)
FIFTY TELECAST RECEIVERS TO BE SET UP ON CAMPUS FOR COMING HOME GAMES
By BOB STOCK
In an effort to satisfy at least some of the Notre Dame fans who will be unable to purchase tickets for the three remaining football games and the Army game in particular, the University will install approximately fifty television receivers sets on the campus, Herb Jones, Business Manager of Athletics, announced this week.
Receivers will be placed in the Navy Drill Hall, the Field House, Washington Hall, the students’ infirmary, the sisters’ convent, Moreau Seminary, Bertrand Hall, St. Mary’s, and several other locations around Notre Dame. The telecasts, first to be seen at N. D., will start tomorrow with the Iowa game.
Admission will be by invitation only, since the television screens, most of which are the standard eight by ten size, are too small to accommodate any more than a limited number. Invitations will be sent to faculty members and their families, University employees,
regular customers from South Bend who were not able to buy season tickets, and St. Mary’s students who won’t have any of the 250 Army tickets alloted SMC.
The receivers will be lent to the University for the games by RCA Victor, the Crosley Corporation, and several other television set manufacturers. WKKB will send out the game over a special transmitter. Aiding in the installation will be the Notre Dame Radio Club.
Originally the University had planned to set up the receivers in South Bend theaters, but the Federal Communications Commission vetoed the proposition, pointing to a rule forbidding the installation of a competing station’s receivers in another station’s territory. Since two corporations in South Bend have submitted applications for television outlets here, WKKB’s receivers are technically banned. An exception was made for the campus stations.
SENIOR PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES SULLIVAN, HEKKER, O'REILLY, KINN
The No. 1 Campaign Question: Will a quorum of seniors vote?
9
Ray McKinley, Eddie Sauter Arrangements Feature Sophomore Cotillion on Nov. 21
By JOE HERRINGTON
For the first time in many years, a Notre Dame class dance will feature a “name” band. Orchestra Committee chairman Verne Kelley announced this week that the Cotillion heads have signed Ray McKinley to play the Sophomore dance on November 21, at the Palais Royale.
One hundred and twenty rooms have been reserved in the Hoffman, Oliver, and La Salle hotels for the convenience of the Cotillion cavorters. Reservations (which are required for three days) are priced at $11.25 and $15.00. They may be obtained in the basement of the dining hall during lunch and dinner hours daily until October 27. The committee in charge of rooms is headed by Tom Klug and Jack Courtney, 315 Zahm.
ray McKinley
On the up-beat — Down Beat's best
Football tickets for the Tulane game may be obtained in the same place but at the noon meal only. One ticket may be purchased through the committee, and it must be used by your date. The price is $3.60.
Although bids for the Cotillion will not go on sale until a later date, the price has been revealed as $4.90. Tickets for the Victory Dance will be sold at the same time as the bids.
Michael Levin, well-known Down Beat Magazine writer and record reviewer for Look, has written that McKinley’s band is the best in the country from a musical viewpoint. Organizing as a single unit, other leading writers have
jumped aboard the Ray McKinley express and have put the spotlight squarely on the likeable drummer-vocalist.
Much of McKinley’s brilliance stems from the arrangements of Eddie Sauter, admittedly one of the more progressive arrangers in music. Sauter’s works have been attracting more and more attention and his recent “Borderline which the band recorded for Majestic, was a storm center of argument among the trade for weeks. Not since the early Boyd Raeburn records has a band caused so much controversy in populai, jazz, and classical circles.
The outstanding feature of these Sauter arrangements, and of the entire McKinley library is that all the tunes are made for dancing. This is one of the few bands that combines great music with true tempos.
Grad Students Plan Broad Activity List
A broad schedule of activities is being designed to assist graduate students to lay the groundwork for the wide scope of general knowledge required of them in later life, Francis E. (Gene) Moore, newly-elected executive council secretary of the Graduate Students’ Association, said in an interview.
Among activities tentatively planned are lectures by association members on their chosen field of work, discussions of current problems at general meetings and numerous social gatherings throughout the school year.
Mr. Moore, working for a Master of Science in Chemical Engineering, was elected to the senior executive post at a business and social gathering of the association earlier this month. Paul F. Hopper was elected Science representative and Vincent P. Hogan became Humanities representative.
The social end of the meeting was highlighted by a selection of Irish airs by Pat Sullivan, tenor.
The meeting voted to encourage contributions to the Scholastic rather than plan to organize a distinct graduate publication.
Mr. Moore, noting that the graduate student had little opportunity to mingle socially with fellow graduate students in other fields of study and to attain an understanding of their problems and an appreciation of their activities, said it was hoped a partial remedy might be offered through the association.
Glee Club Adds 35 Members to Roster
Preceding their appearance at the Nebraska pep rally last Friday night, the Notre Dame Glee Club held a smoker and mixer at the American Legion Post 50 on Thursday night. The purpose of the gathering was to get acquainted with the new members of the group.
Some 35 new members were taken into the club at the recent tryouts, swelling the total number for this year to 135. With the current crop of new and excellent voices, and the large number of those who returned from last year’s club, Mr. Pedtke is very optimistic about the capabilities of this year’s organization.
The singing of the Glee Club at the
pep rally was the first appearance of the club for this year. Plans are now being formulated for another appearance at ai future pep rally, a campus concert before Christmas and also a concert in town.
Arrangements are also being made now for the first tour of the club which will take place at mid-semestei* vacation. At that time the plans will call for a trip South with possible concerts in Memphis and Nashville, Tennessee.
The Glee Club is under the direction of Mr. Daniel Pedtke, while last Friday night the group was conducted by its president, Ralph Thorson.
’Concord,’ YCS Monthly, Hits Stands This Week
Controversial articles on legal education and college athletics feature the issue of Concord, the new collegiate monthly published by the Young Christian Students, which appears on the J stands this week. Bill Ball, editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, and delegate to the®^ National Conference of Legal Students in New York last summer, writes on i “Legal Education Undei- Fire.”	|
Other Notre Dame contributors to Concord are James Cunningham, whose short story, “Who Are Made to Stumble,” looks at a typical student convention. Joe Wilcox, Scholastic Feature -Editor, who examines college Quarterlies, j and Claude Julien, French resistance leader and YCS leadei- who is at present studying here.
Bob Reynolds, Notre Dame junior, is editor of Concord.
“It is our hope,” he said, “that through the Graduate Students’ Association, we may be able to lay the groundwork for the broad scope of knowledge that is necessary in order for each one of us to do our small part in promoting the true Christian attitudes of tolerance and co^ operation in all walks of life.” "
—John Langlois
10
eString Quartet Gives Concert Wednesday
On next Tuesday evening, October 28, at 8 p. m., the Juilliard String Quartet of New York will present a concert of chamber music in Washington Hall. The quartet was founded under the sponsorship of the Juilliard Musical Foundation and is undertaking an extensive concert tour this season in an attempt to fulfill two functions; first, to transmit the art of chamber-music playing to members of future quartets through teaching; and, secondly, to foster the performance of fine music—both old and new—through public performances.
The quartet is composed of four young artists all of whom have distinguished ^themselves as solo performers. They ™are: Robert Mann, a graduate of the Juilliard School and a winner of the Naumburg award (1941); Robert Koff, a graduate of Oberlin College and a participant in many chamber music and conceit tours; Raphael Hillyer, a graduate of Dartmouth College, the Curtis Institute, Harvard University, and a former member of the Boston Symphony Orchestra; and Arthur Winograd, a graduate of the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston, the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia, and a former member of the NBC Symphony Orchestra.
These young musicians have already distinguished themselves at the Juilliard School of Music and have become an integral part of the musical life' of the school. The quartet will make its formal New York debut at Town Hall in January, though its members have already appeared in New York under the auspices of such organizations as the League of Composers, The Composers Forum, and other distinguished organizations. Though the quartet has been in existence for only a relatively short while, it has already attracted much favorable attention from critics and musi-sians alike.
CALENDAR HELP SOUGHT
A calendar of weekly events at Notre Dame will be prepared for the remainder of the year, the Department of Public Information announced this week.
Representatives of all organizations and academic departments are urged to mail or bring written notices of their activities to the Department of Public Information, Room 140 Main Building, by 4 p. m. each Thursday for inclusion in the calendar.
Savoyards, St. Mary's Girls Open Rehearsals For "Pirates of Penzance;" Set December I
Rehearsals are already in progress, and about December 1 the Notre Dame Savoyards will present in Washington Hall a sumptuously staged and beautifully sung production of The Pirates of Penzance by W. S. Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan, under the direction of Mr. Cecil Birder, head of the Department of Speech. Rehearsals for the feminine contingent are also going forward at St. Mary’s, and the personnel of the complete cast, together with dates of the five scheduled performances, will be announced in an early issue of the Scholastic.
Many of the student actors and actresses to be seen are already well known from past productions. Ralph Thorsen, who has already to his credit notable performances in The Mikado and lolanthe will this fall take the more broadly comic role of the British Major General Stanley, surrounded and accompanied wherever he goes, by his two dozen daughters, recruited from the fair ones from across the Dixie. Roy O’Neill, last year’s Strephon, will be the Pirate King. Other old favorites to be seen are John Comerford, Bill Mills, John Curran, Guy Perenich, Harry Reich, Robert Ruetz, Richard Blaumeiser, Lawrence Metcalf, John Laughlin, and these are supplemented by several fine new voices not before heard on', the Washington Hall stage. Elaine Bruck, who was a last year’s favorite in the title role of lolanthe, and Frances Hanson, and Felicia Schroeder, have been signed for the new production, as have several other comediennes from Notre Dame’s sister institution.
The Pirates marks the eighth in a series of Savoy operas seen at Notre Dame in recent years, a record perhaps unique in American colleges. The complete list: The Gondoliers (1940); Pinafore (1941) ; Trial by Jury (1942); Ruddigore (1943); Patience (1944); The Mikado (1945); and lolanthe (1946). Notre Dame students and faculty have thus had an unparalleled opportunity to hear and compare some of the greater productions of this immortal series, recently described by a popular faculty member as “the Shakespeare of the comic opera.”
The 'charming (and sometimes even great) music and the immortal wit of the Savoy operas make them particularly admirable dramatic material to be appreciated in intellectual circles, such as colleges and universities. Notre
Dame’s record in this is much like that of Oxford and Cambridge, where one or other of the operas is presented every year. To appreciate Gilbert and Sullivan demands and stimulates intelligence, a sense of humor and knowledge of the traditions of the English-speaking stage, together with an appreciation of what W. L. Dunham, an English critic and authority on Mozart, declares to be some of the most joyous music written in the last hundred years. Brooks Atkinson, the well known New York critic, recently wrote: “They (the Savoy operas) demand and produce a cultivated spirit in the community that welcomes them.”
Nor has their success been merely an academic victory. The original Pirates ran a year and a half in London, while a second company completed a two-year ran when it was presented simultaneously in New York. Since 1900 the D’Oyly Carte Opera Company has played the comic operas continuously in London, save for an occasional break when gala performances would be given in the various European capitals and in New York. Beyond this, New York alone has seen four separate and highly successful revivals of The Pirates since 1927, each of which ran nearly a year, and this year the D’Oyly Carte Company will open in New York with The Pirates for another engagement of that, and other favorites, on December 29.
If any apology were to be made for the Savoy operas (though none is necessary) it might be easily remarked how the Gilbert and Sullivan operas emphasize the fact that intellectual wit is possible, and can be appreciated in our day. The air of vigorous and masculine purity in which the Savoy operas are fashioned and played makes them particularly enjoyed and appreciated at such a school as Notre Dame.
A writer in the Oxford History of Music (Vol. VII), discussing the singular literary and musical phenomenon of how the Gilbert and Sullivan shews took England by storm in the Eighteen-eighties, and the fact that their popularity has not yet subsided even now seventy years later, attributes something of their success to the fact that “for the first time English opera was talking sense, and that the sense was disguised as hilarious nonsense made the attraction all the more piquant. Through (Continued on Page 22)
n
THE EIJKMM3 CEESTICN
From Kokomo, Indiana, to Ketchastill, Kentucky, the great American public is being called on to answer ponderous, pretentious, preposterous questions. From all sides, from all quarters John Q. Public is being whipped, lashed, flayed with the biting whip of the questioner’s tongue. Questions, questions, and more questions. Will the UN survive its present attack of indigestion? Will Eisenhower be the next president of the United States? Will Mr. Ford be able to obtain beans enough to round out the meatless Tuesday menu? Will Dick Tracy trap the Mole? Will Happy Easter ever get a shave? Will Frank Leahy find out what’s wrong with his grid machine? Will anybody sell a pair of Army tickets? Will he be caught? That’s what we mean — questions, questions, questions. What is the burning question?
Go-Go-Go
Last week the Scholastic’s Statistical Survey Section came up with an answer. Like an old wornout yo-yo, the brain of a Scholastic editor whirled, whizzed, wheezed. “Go,” he yelled, “go find out what Notre Dame men think about the burning question; find out what cigarettes, cigars, corncobs and calabashes ND men are chewing on, smoking up, cussing out.”
Thus, a question was born: Do Notre Dame men smoke? Rhetorically, one might think that all campusites were on fire, being burned by one huge hot-foot. This, however, is not the case. Nope, we must assume that all N.D. men are merely exhaling large billows of carbon, nicotine and bad breath. But, if Notre Dame men are smoking, there rnust be some substance that these fu-migators have in common to smoke. Here we stick our neck out and assume that this substance is tobacco (opium being a drug on the market these days). To conduct such a survey we first must go deeper into this nose-twitching subject. We must look into the background of the tobacco industry.
Tobacco was neither discovered nor invented, it just grew. Where did it
12
By BOB CASURELLA and BOB.VIERHILE
Student Survey Discovers ND Men Smoke, Smoke, Smoke All Varieties of Fags, Cheroots, and Briars
grow? In the Chester Fields, of course. The first person to realize the importance of this green weed was one Lucius Latakia, a Turkish sultan. Latakia, tired of entertaining his sixty-six wives, decided to collect something else. Tobacco leaves, he noted, when dried made excellent tea. So, for centuries, tobacco was served throughout the Near East as a beverage. Its success was paralyzing. In 1632, two English sharpies, Sir Walter Raleigh and Prince Albert, commercialized on the discovery by putting the product in cans. The new product could be smoked, taken internally, or used to kill flies. When burned, tobacco produced a pungent odor; when smoked, it produced consumption and rotting teeth.
A Booming Business
In 1703 King Albert subsidized the industry. Business boomed. Men were made famous over night. Robert Burns became a byword in the trade by capitalizing on the fact that tobacco burns. Philip Schuyler, Judge Wright, and “Speed” Riggs became men of distinction. In Spain great families rose ti prominence: El Verso, San Felice, El Producto, and El Puzzo. In the Land of Opportunity the upsurge of tobaccoism was almost as remarkable as the increased use of the toupee. R. G. Dunn and Daniel Webster lined their pockets with old gold. The word “tobacco” was on everyone’s lips—so was the nicotine stain.
Armed with this information and a supply of benzedrine, the Scholastic Statistical Survey Section set out to learn the smoking habits of Notre Dame men. The first victim was Paul Merrick,
a pre-med student from California. As Paul stumbled out of a germ-free, bac-teria-less, biology lab, we asked: <rWhat brand do you prefer, Doctor?”
“Blonde,” he giggled.	. ।
This was not exactly in keeping with the objectives of the survey, but it proved something: pre-med students have good judgment.
Skipping over to the Heat and Power Laboratory, we stopped to look into an old boiler that had been left over from a previous explosion. In it was a man —no, a student. His name was Richard Wilson, Indianapolis, Indiana. “Do you have a ‘T’ zone?” we quizzed.
“Certainly not, I ain’t even got enough room to study,” he replied stroking his hair with a slide rule.
Lucky Strikes on top
There were other answers to the burning question which carried more weight. Helen Conners, present prop of the Huddle, came out from behind the cigarette counter to inform us that Lucky Strikes were still on top of the campu
fag hit-parade. Chesterfields, it seems, have failed to do a perfect job of teaching the ABC’s and are running a paltry second. The Camel Caravan must have stopped for water, punned Helen, for it is a poor third in sales appeal. “The big tobacco companies,” states Helen, “keep a close check on campus cigarette sales as it gives them a general idea of national preference changes.”
Cigarettes are not the only growth-stunters that make their way into the mouths of Notre Dame men. Campus wheels favor the cigar over other tobacco products. A huge Blackstone in the mouth of a big BTO adds a touch of dignity that would never come from a raucous Raleigh. The sale of cigars in both the Huddle and the cafeteria reaches its peak shortly after the government subsistence checks slide under veterans’ doors. Around the first of th%
month, the boys go for the two-for-quar-^H ter brands. Around the end of the month, the boys switch to King Edwards j

(6c) or Bull Durham (roll-your-own). W Cigars, too, are used to impress campus undergraduates. Law students are the heaviest buyers of rolled rope. Most students decked out in a coat, tie and La Palina are usually mistaken for University trustees.
Then, there’s the pipe smoker. This fellow is a cross between a back-porch philosopher and a wolf ensconced in the scent of Eau de Gutter. There is something worldly about the character with the Bavarian smokestack in his jaws. He puffs on his homely hunk of imported briar as if it were a honey-coated stick of licorice. You never* know whether he is trying to imitate Bing Crosby or hiding- the fact that he hasn’t been able to take a shower for a week. Notre Dame men never smoke common, ■ down-to-earth blends of tobacco. Nope, these Irish pine mongers must always burn some brand that has the killing-effect of a canister of mustard gas. When one of these connoisseurs walks up to the tobacco counter, he usually buys every known brand of crimp cut, broad leaf, floor-scraped tobacco; then he will mope back to his room and mix the concoction as if he had discovered the secret formula of Chanel No. 5. If his friends don’t drcp to one knee after one whiff of his blend, he considers himself a miserable failure, a bungling-blender.
In every society there are those social outcasts known to the pedestrian world as tobacco chewers—or “the spit and run boys.” There are few on the campus, no doubt due to the scarcity of
f ■	tobaguu Lint, in Hit vat&iuua
A question was bom: Do Notre Dame men smoke?
spittoons. We can get along without them.
After this tour around the campus, the Scholastic Statistical Survey Section drew the following conclusions:
1.	The Big Three—Luckies, Chesterfields, and Camels—are smoked by 75% of the student body. Raleighs can not even be given away. Twenty Grands are worth about a half-penny.
2.	Pipe smokers are fickle.
3.	Cigai- smokers are price conscious.
4.	Tobacco chewers — let them be anathema.
Lucky Strike green went to war; Notre Dame gold went off the Dome. We’re going to borrow Tex Williams’ adieu and say that “surveys can go to the sewer, we’ve just gotta have another cigarette!”
ENGLISH DEPARTMENTALS
The Department of English general examination in the essentials of English Composition (SMART'S HANDBOOK OF EFFECTIVE WRITING) will be given Tuesday, October 28, from 7 p. m. to 9 p. m. in classrooms on the second and third floors of the Main Building. Your English II instructor will give you the numbers of the designated classrooms. All first semester freshmen are required to take this examination.
Rev. Leo L. Ward, c.s.c.
Head, Dept, of English
MAN
About the Campus
A lot of people have been asking “Whatever happened to the Forgotten Irishman?”
The answer is he wasn’t Irish at all, and he has not been forgotten, at least as far as that zany role at half-time is concerned.
RALPH THORSON
Pink-cheeked Norseman with oboe
Portrayer of the elfish part was Ralph Edward Thorson, of Norwegian extraction, from Chatfield, Minn. He’s a biology major, a war-time flyer with the Eighth Air Force, and figures to graduate in June. Like most vets he doesn’t know what will follow. But the pinkcheeked Norseman says he’s ready for it.
By shedding the madcap job of cavorting with Clashmore Mike between halves, Ralph has by no means stripped himself of activities. He’s the president of the Glee Club, vice-president of the Student Council, and plays in the Notre Dame band-
Besides this he’s a prefect over in Lyons sub. Says he likes it too. No enemies so far, nice view, and plenty of heat from those overhead pipes in the winter-time.
Thorson’s interests include reading Russian literature, boning up on the lives of the great composers, listening to moody classical music, and smoking pipes.
He plays an oboe in the band. An oboe is an elongated clarinet with sinus trouble.
Oh yes, he’s also one of the Savoyards, who will present “The Pirates of Penzance” in December. His role as the Lord Chancellor in “lolanthe” brought the house down. He also sang the part of the Dean of the wacky faculty in last year’s student musical, “Meet the Missus.”
13
N. D. Friends of Schlitz Association Awaits Grand Opening of Revitalized Sunny Italy
By HARRY MONAHAN
The Irish Steak and Ravioli Gourmets and Friends of Schlitz Association is eagerly awaiting the opening of its remodeled clubrooms at Rosie’s Mecca of Notre Dame’s elite. The national shortage of building materials struck at the heart of the Notre Dame social circle by setting back the original re-opening date from September 1 to October 15; but even that was too optimistic and the present scheduled date is a nebulous “five or six weeks.”
No longer will it be necessary to secure a Chicago Motor Club map to plot a course through the tables, hallways and St. Mary’s girls as of yore. For the new Rosie’s will be one big room, which should prove more efficient for all concerned. Desperate diners will not need signal flares to attract the waitresses or carry emergency rations in the event of being cut off from the outside world by stumbling into some unknown niche.
For the sophisticate and ex-Air Corps personnel acclimated to high altitudes Rosie’s ■will feature a new balcony dining room. While it won’t rival the “Top of the Mark,” it will add a touch of savoir-faire to the local bistro.
The new Rosie’s will be able to accommodate 150 fugitives from the local
AS LAST WEEK'S BALLY GAINED MOMENTUM
A Scholastic photographer caught this scene at Badin Bog last Friday night as the band and student body prepared to march to the FioMbnnao,
gastronomical enterprise. A larger kitchen, featuring a roller skating chorus of cooks to cover its 70-foot length, will be completely re-equipped in stainless steel. An air conditioning unit will try its best to compensate for the vagaries of Midwestern climate.
Members of the I.S. & R.G. & F.S.A. who lose their appetites unless a brass rail is firmly pressed against the instep of their right foot will be disappointed to hear that there will not be a bar in the remodeled arrangement.
Despite pressure from California lobbyists to hire searchlights, a Spanish “combo” and Leo Carrillo’s horse to supply the gay festivities of the grand opening, Rosie’s prefer to have a sneak preview rather than one with all the Goldwyn trappings.
“We don’t want our kids to get caught in a stampede. So we’ll sneak open in about five or six weeks and let them get acquainted with our customers a little more gradually. All of that gang the first night would be too much of a shock. When we get operating smoothly we’ll announce a grand opening,” is James Bamber’s opening plan.
Cavanaugh Concerts
MONDAY—27th
Romeo and Juliet Overture ....
.............. Tschaikovsky
Symphony No. 1 in C Minor.....
...............     Brahms
TUESDAY—28th
..Symphony No. 5 ...Szostakowicz Passacaglia and Fugue in C Mi-
nor ........ Bach-Stokowski
WEDNESDAY—29th
Symphony No. 4 in A Major.....
...............  Mendelssohn Death and Transfiguration.-Strauss
FRIDAY—31st
Sonata No. 29 in B Flat Major....
...............   Beethoven
Iphigenie En Szdide Overture and
Adaigio ............. Gluck
All students and faculty invited to the Cavanaugh Reading Room Noon Hour Concerts, 12:30 to 1:30, Oct. 27-31.
Release Information On Dependents( Etc.
Veterans acquiring dependents after entering training under the G-I Bill as single men should notify Veterans Administration immediately so that an adjustment may be made in their subsistence allowance payments. The VA increases payments as of the date it is notified and not retroactively to the date of the veteran’s actually acquiring a dependent.
Veterans who fail to repay subsistence allowance overpayments while in education or training under the G-l Bill and who later apply for unemployment or self-employment allowances will have the amount they owe the Government deducted from the latter benefit checks, Veterans Administration has announced.
Explaining that Federal statutes prohibit payment of Government funds to persons indebted to the United States, VA said instructions will be issued to state unemployment compensation agencies for the recovery of such overpayments from readjustment allowance claimants.
Veterans who have made arrangements with VA to repay their indebted- j ness are considered in good standing and I are in no way affected by the new system, since it will be used only in cases j where “there is no apparent means of J recovery from sources other than read- । justment allowances,” VA said.	1
14
SCHOLASTIC SPCCTJ
De Marco, Tunnell Will Lead High-Scoring Cross Country Team Hawkeyes In Test of Irish Aerial Defense In Triangular Meet
BOB LEANDER
' By
Iowa’s Hawkeyes, who trounced Notre Dame three times in their first three tries—1921, ’39, ’40—but haven’t done so well since, will put in another appearance tomorrow to try again. Dr. Eddie Anderson, Notre Dame ’22, will field a team which for three and a half quarters last _ Saturday kept telegraph wires crackling ♦with ominous forebodings. Going into the final eight and one-half minutes of their clash with the Buckeyes down in Columbus, the lowans were rolling along enjoying the Ohio hospitality to the extent of 13-0. Fans both at Ohio State and over in the local Stadium were given cause to hesitate and wonder what this formidable Hawkeye eleven would do against Notre Dame this week. They were looking better than anyone' else the Leahy limited had sidetracked to date; perhaps they would be the first opponent to put the Irish seriously through their paces.
But the Buckeye scrap went a full 60 minutes, not 51%, and the Ohio grid-ders rallied for two touchdowns and the necessary extra point to knot the score at 13—all. The Hawkeyes, it seems, couldn’t distinguish a pass from a crossbuck in the closing minutes of their £ fracas and appeared ready for seeing-eye dogs. Whether Dr. Anderson was able to diagnose the malady and effect a cure in the course of a week’s time won’t be known until tomorrow when the visitors either grope or gambol to and fro on the near-by gridiron.
The lowans can claim only two victories against two defeats, but the statistics are rather impressive. North Dakota State succumbed 59-0 on opening day, and the Hoosiers from Indiana were humbled by a 27-14 count. The losses were to top-drawer outfits, UCLA and Illinois. Aside from final scores the Hawkeyes could boast of the Big Nine’s number one passer, receiver and scorer. Al DeMarco, 160-pound sophomore quarter-back from Mason City, is the passer. His percentage ranks him over Purdue’s Bob DeMoss and Perry Moss of the Illini. The other accolades are currently the personal property of dusky Em-len Tunnell, their stellar left half. This
could be the team to derail Notre Dame. The Shoener twins are reputedly fine ends, and fine ends—as Purdue almost proved earlier this season—can be the T’s undoing.
Locally, most of the homefolk who were treated to a fancy 31-0 scrimmage with Nebraska wended their way down Notre Dame Avenue alternately picking Coy McGee—who did everything but push-ups during the game—and Mike Swistowicz — who repeatedly crushed through Bucky O’Connor’s beautifully paved openings—on their All-American teams. Not a few mentioned Frank Tripucka who calmed the fears of those who had heard Notre Dame had only one quarterback. Tripucka handled the second and third teams with the same finesse employed by Johnny Lu jack in leading the first-stringers, and he should, on the strength of that alone, see con-
(Continued on Page 18)
HEADED FOR TROUBLE
Bill Michaels (45), Frank Spaniel (28), and Don Carter (51) converge upon Nebraska's Bill Mueller in the fourth quarter of last Saturday's home opener
Headed by Jack Dianetti, the distance terror of the Midwest, Michigan State and Iowa will meet Notre Dame in a triangular harrier contest tomorrow at 11:00 on the Irish course.
The Spartans edged N. D. last year in a dual meet at East Lansing, 27-28, and the fabulous Dianetti set a new meet and course record in the process. Gibbard and Mack two other Michigan State men who are top long distance runners, are expected to give the Irish harriers tough competition. Iowa’s only strong contender is Oxley, although McClanahan has turned in brilliant performances spasmodically.
Coach Elvin B. (Doc) Handy will rely on Jim Murphy and Cornie Styers, the two top performers in the two clashes to date. The remainder of the Irish runners are Jim Kittell, Bill Leonard, Jim Kelly, Bob Mitchell, and Lou Tracy.
Notre Dame won its second consecutive meet last Saturday with a triumph over a strong Wisconsin squad 23—34, on the N. D. three-mile run. Don Gehr-man, Badger ace won the event in 15:14,
15
but the Irish took five of the first seven places to win decisively. Murphy and Styers were second and third followed by Kittell, Leonard, and Kelly in fifth, sixth, and seventh positions respectively. Bob Mitchell won ninth to push the Badgers back into the higher scoring brackets.
Next Saturday, the Notre Dame harriers will compete in the Loyola invitational run in Chicago.—Jim Howard
Pre-Game Forecasts Strongly Favor N. D.
Iowa should have even more trouble beating Notre Dame next week than the Chicago Rockets have beating anyone, any week; at least the local prophets that roam freely around the campus so think.
Disregarding the ominous fact that Iowa claims one of the Big Nine’s best passers and leading ground gainers, student predictions range from the optimistic to the fantastic in favor of the Irish.
Ed Schillinger, Chicago, Ill., Off Campus—ND 40, Iowa 7.
“If Illinois can beat them by three touchdowns, we can beat them by five.”
Bob Mac Lemale, Rochester, N. Y., Off Campus—ND 42, Iowa 2.
“Cool weather will make for a free scoring game. If Bob Livingstone plays the score should go even higher.”
Ken Enright, Chicago, Ill., Alumni Hall—ND 63, Iowa 0.
“With an ill wind it may be only 62.”
Bob Hunter, Gerard, Ohio, Morrissey Hall—ND 33, Iowa 0.
“Why should they score? Nebraska didn’t.”
Ben Sheeran, Staten Island, N. Y., Morrissey Hall—ND 32, Iowa 6.
“They should wear down Iowa just as they did Nebraska.”
Bob Kane, St. Paul, Minn., Cavanaugh Hall—ND 39, Iowa 7.
“I’ll give ’em an extra point.”
Don Bosenbach, Detroit, Mich., Walsh Hall—ND 39, Iowa 6.
“They’ll never convert.”
PHOTO CREDITS
Cover shot by Jim Ferstel. Picture of Paule Croset by Gene Reynolds. Senior class officer candidates Reilly and Kinn as well as picture of Thorson by Paul Jackson. All others by Feistel.
FALL FLUTTER
Notre Dame's Cavaliers will play at the “Fall Flutter" of St. James Parish next Tuesday night in the parish hall, 117 N. Lafayette. Dancing will be from eight to eleven p. m.
Walsh, Farley, Cavanaugh, Zahm, Lyons, Badin Win Interhall Football Openers
By TOM ADAMS and JOE ARCHIBALD
The official christening of the interhall football season took place on October 21 at four p. m. A crowd of approximately six hundred fans displayed great enthusiasm as they watched the two games played, and fine gatherings have continued at all the games.
Walsh, 6; Morrissey, 0
The opening day contest between Walsh and Morrissey halls provided the spectators with some indication of the nip-and-tuck encounters that will probably follow throughout the season. With rugged line play on both sides, not much progress was made in the first half. Walsh took to the air late in the fourth quarter. A twenty-yard pass from Callanan to Pat Shannon put the ball on the Morrissey twenty. It was the next play that held great sorrow for Coach “Red” Dacey and his team. Shannon again caught a pass from Callanan, but only after the ball had slipped through the hands of two players of Morrissey. Result: the only touchdown of the game.
Farley Upsets St. Edward's, 19-6
A highly touted St. Edward’s eleven suffered defeat at the hands of Farley, in what may be classified as an upset. The larger St. Ed’s boys drew blood first when a run by Jack Crain gave them their only tally. The Farley Hall lads were not to be outdone, however. Early in the second quarter, a thirty-yard pass from Vancker to Tom Moorman in the end zone evened things up. The kick was blocked. Joe Moschella, Farley’s captain, kicked off. The ball landed in the end zone, whereupon Lou Reich downed the ball, giving the Farleyites another score. The kick was good. The half ended ■with the score: Farley 13, St. Ed’s 6. Late in the third quarter Tom Moorman, who seemed to be everywhere at the right time, intercepted a pass and raced sixty yards for another touchdown.
Cavanaugh, 34; Breen-Phillips, 0
With a combination of Presley, Powers, Higgins, and a line that averages about 175 pounds, it was all Cavanaugh in their encounter with Breen-Phillips. They started right out in the first quarter, when Presley drove from B.-P.’s one-yard line into the end zone. Again, in the first quarter, a pass from Powers to Higgins brought the score to 12-0. Presley’s kick made it 13. A nine-yard pass from Powers to Presley placed the ball on the Breen-Phillips’ one-yard line,
early in the second quarter. Bruno plunged for another TD, and Presley’s kick split the uprights. Again Presley broke into the scoring column, on a twenty-five yard run, in the third quarter. His try for the extra point was perfect. Then, in the fourth quarter, a flat pass from Powers to Don “Speedy” Wolfe, gave Cavanaugh their final score. Presley brought his point total up to 11, when he ran the ball across.
Zahm, 7; Off-Campus, 0
Zahm Hall started their season in the proper fashion by eking out a 7-0 victory over the Off-Campus students. A^i blocked punt gave Zahm possession of the ball on their opponents’ nine-yard line, but a stubborn Off-Campus line refused to let them score. Off-Campus took over on their own one-yard line. It was a few plays later that Zahm received another break when they recovered a fumble on the eleven. Two running plays put the ball on the two-yard line. Bidwill then put the ball over on a quarterback sneak. Ray Lloyd’s kick was good. The game was very even from then on, livened with good end sweeps by Tom Courtney and Bob Culligan of Zahm, and Jack Rockne and Denny Carroll of the Off-Campus eleven.
In other games Lyons defeated Alumni 12-0 and Badin edged Dillon, 6-0. Tom Muscatello scored both Lyons markers, while Chuck Culligan accounted for the Badin tally.
Coach Engaged for Fall Track Program
Winner of three monograms and a member of the undefeated track team of 1938, Bob Lawrence has been named coach of fall track. Bob will have complete charge of the fall conditioning program for the cinder squad, and will assist Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy with indoor and outdoor track.
Coach Lawrence, who ran under the reign of Bill Nicholson, was a hurdler and a member of mile-relay team. He is working for his master’s degree in education, and hopes to combine coaching with business on completion of the course. At one time he held the national interscholastic high,hurdle championship of 14.5 seconds.
Bob, who is married and has one child, a daughter, spent 38 months in the Navy as a chief and later a lieu-z-J tenant in athletic and recreational work.--His home is in Wichita, Kansas.
16
• Few Candidates Show For Cage Practice
The first official basketball practice got under way last Tuesday afternoon in the fieldhouse, but the anticipated large turnout was not there. Most of the candidates were busy securing the approval of the team physician. But, there was on hand a group of experienced courtmen who have been working out under Assistant Coach Tom Brennan for the last three weeks. Brennan, v.ho was a Notre Dame basketball star back in 1942-43 season, will direct practice until Head Coach Ed Krause can take the wheel after Dec. 6.
Monogram men lost from last year’s team, which won twenty and lost four to rank within the first ten of the na-@ tional standings, are: Franny Curran, John Kelly, Carl Loyd, who transferred to Olivet College in Michigan, and George Ratterman. This still leaves a strong nucleus in Leo Barnhorst, John Brennan, the team’s leading scorer last season with 289 points, John Foley, Paul Gordon, Jimmy O’Halloran, and Kevin O’Shea, the Frisco Flyei whose bad knees have caused much concern in these parts.
Boys who are likely to break into that lineup before the first jump ball early in December might very well be the Sobek brothers, Andy and Joe, Dick Kluck, Don Gatens, Wayne Curran, Ralph Hinger, “Heinie” Kaufmann, Buster Hiller, Johnny Goonen, the Lafayette speed merchant, and Jim Fritsch.
Head basketball manager this season is Jack Jacobs of Bloomington, Ill., who replaces George Kennard of Ann Arbor, Mich.
The schedule still awaits the approval of the faculty board in control of athletics.
Lyons Tops Morrissey, 8-4, For Interhall Pennant
Lyons Hall captured the interhall fall baseball tournament last week by defeating Morrissey Hall, 8-4, in a five inning contest that was called because of darkness.
Dick Lamere and Dick Smullen shared pitching duties for the victorious Lyon-ites with Jess Fitzpatrick working behind the plate, while Jim Smith, John Harm, and Jim Silk formed the Morrissey battery.
Morrissey advanced to the finals by shutting out Alumni Hall, 5-0, behind ■ the stellar pitching of southpaw Jim Smith.
} £ Benny Kozlik, erstwhile varsity second baseman, hit a home run in the fourth inning for Lyons.—Tom Adams.
Okaite^
By JOE CHENEY
Let’s consider the plight of the University of Pittsburgh's student body. Last week reports whizzed through the countryside concerning the pathetic Panthers who are playing a suicidal schedule this season.
The Pittsburgh cheering section hasn't uncapped any bottles of gargle yet this year to remedy their hoarse throats, mostly because they haven’t had anything to cheer about.
“Let’s get some play-for-pay boys or jump out of the big league,” shouted the student representatives.
Well, Pitt, that’s OK, but let's look over problems which you will have to face if you take this course. A fellow from Hangover, Kentucky where some of the biggest linemen in the country are developed claims that all the brawny juveniles down there have joined the PFPPU-------Play For Pay PLUS Union.
Since Pittsburgh is situated in Western Pennsylvania, I have a hunch that the students at Pitt have heard of unions and “Jawn L.” Your head-coach, Milligan, and his assistants will have to join a union, too.
Your director of studies will lose sleep and hair trying to figure out who is eligible for admission. A student before entering Pitt will have to have his union dues paid in full. His high school credits won’t be necessary as long as he carries his union card on his person at all times. (It will be like a N. D. student wearing his empty wallet so his I. D. card will be at his arm's reach if and when the plain-clothes constable taps him on the shoulder).
If Coach Milligan holds practice longer than agreed upon in the players’ contract, your alumni will have to dig down again for time-and-a-half pay. And what if some terrific freshman shows promise but doesn’t belong to the PFPP Union? He’ll be massacred if he takes a starting berth away from a union man. Will he be considered a scab or do you plan on running an open-shop?
Of course, there will be strikes. Don’t ask what the unioneers will strike for but in this country it’s getting so that a union doesn’t always have to have a reason. Maybe the Taft-Hartley law will receive its first big test when the Panthers pull their first strike.
Before you take the leap, Pittsburgh, take a peek at the southern colleges who, let us say, take marvelous care of their players. They always seem to have great sophomore sensations but the ma
jority of them fade into oblivion during their junior and senior years. It seems that these fellows find so much loose change and green wampum in their pockets that they feel secure enough to get married. The added responsibilities shorten their college careers and that’s putting it mildly!
Rumor has it that rival coaches south of the Mason-Dixon send beautiful co-eds out instead of scouts with their mission being to lure the big boys into matrimonial bliss. All coaches agree that this method of keeping the stars on the bench is more effective than the Freshman Rule. The latter only holds promising players out of varsity competition a year.
So, Pittsburgh, since your institution is already co-ed, you’ll either have to put the “For men only” sign up or guard your big, brawny linemen and high-stepping backs against the evils of campus flirtations.
THINGS WE DON'T LIKE DEPT.
Would-be movie starlets who come’to a Notre Dame football game for only one reason: to use the name of Notre Dame to further their own Hollywood ambitions. In last week’s affair, the “inside” press agentry was all too obvious — and odious!
PREDICTION	.
Notre Dame 40; Iowa 0.
N D Man to Represent Canada in Olympics
Notre Dame is almost certain to have one representative in the 1948 Olympic games in Wembley, England. Ernie McCullough, captain of this year’s track team has been notified by the secretary of the Canadian Olympic Association that several members of the Dominion squad will be chosen on the basis of past performances.
Since McCullough won the Canadian National 440 title a year ago, and has one of the best collegiate records of any Dominion runner, he is assured of a position on the team. Ernie is from Calgary, Alberta and is a senior majoring in philosophy. This season will be his third year of track competition for the Irish.
In 1940, he won the 100 and 220 dashes, low hurdles, and took second in the broad jump and 440 in the Alberta Provincial high school championships. In addition to being one of the most versatile track men, he played football and was a crack hockey player.
He is an accomplished violinist and an honor student. Ernie served in the Royal Canadian Navy during the War. One of his major ambitions is to break the Canadian 440 record of 48.6 seconds.
—Jim Howard
17
SPLINTERS
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
The Army team that will invade South Bend for the first time in history two weeks hence is unbeaten and unscored upon this season. The Cadets now have a record of 32 straight games without defeat, a string which should reach 34 before Notre Dame attempts to break it on November 8.
Admittedly, West Point has not faced a very rugged schedule to date this season, but the fact that Villanova, Colorado, Illinois and Virginia Tech have all proved unable to punch over a score on the Cadets gives proof to Coach Frank Leahy that the Army line is as good this year as it was in 1946 (and their 1946 line kept Notre
Dame away from the end zone all day).
A look at the Iowa game statistics from last year shows that Notre Dame gained 256 yards by rushing and 136 via Mr. Lujack in rolling to an impressive 41-6 win. Such a performance tomorrow would further serve to quiet the wolves who are anxious to replace the Irish as national champions with Mr. Crisler’s “pour it on” boys.
Lujack stood out in last season’s tilt with the Hawkeyes. He completed seven of eleven passes for 136 yards and one touchdown. Johnny also gave an indication of his running ability when he snatched up a fumbled hand-off and darted 47 yards down the sidelines to score.
Frank Tripucka had the best day of his Notre Dame football career against Nebraska last week. He hit the target on eight of his 11 tosses, netted 97 yards and one score for the Irish, and averaged 47 yards per boot on his punting chores. In addition, Trip handled the ball flawlessly and gave every indication that his field generalship leaves very little to be desired. His play-calling prior to Notre Dame’s second score, when he sent Swistowicz over Nebraska’s left tackle three times before faking the same play and tossing to Terry Brennan for a net gain of 22 yards, was a masterpiece of quarterbacking.
And while passing out the bouquets, let’s toss one to Mike Swistowicz, one of the unsung heroes of the Irish backfield. Due to the injuries of Emil Sitko and Bill Gompers prior to the Nebraska game, Mike was switched to right half, and with only a few days of practice in that position, he turned in a first-rate job. The Chicago lad ran nine times for 39 yards, scored his first touchdown in Notre Dame livery and took a 36-yard pass from Lujack.
After three games last season Notre Dame had scored 16 touchdowns and 12 conversions for a 108-point total as against 12 points scored upon them. This year’s first three contests have produced 14 touchdowns, only six conversions, and one field goal for 93 points with 13 markers racked up on the other side of the ledger. Not much difference, huh???
RALLY TONIGHT
In preparation for the second home game of the season tomorrow against Iowa there will be a rally tonight in the Fieldhouse at 7:30 p. m. The principal speaker will be Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c.
Hawkeyes Test Irish
(Continued from Page 15)
released from the Infirmary on Monday, will have to sit by and watch Swistowicz and Floyd Simmons carry his part of the load. A great defensive line-backer, Panelli will be a notable loss. Against the Cornhuskers last week he entered the game in company with George Stroh-meyer when the Nebraskans were on the _ Notre Dame 20 and pressing hard. On -J the next two plays Nebraska lost 17 yards. Cookie Lavagetto couldn’t have done better.
Word from Bandage Boulevard is that Bill Gompers will be ready for call, but Frank Kosikowski, sidelined by a hemorrhage on his hip, will have to wait at least another week. Gasper Urban suffered a charley horse early in the week and may be limited to brief activity; otherwise the squad was hale and hardy at mid-week. Moreover, all the scorers in last year’s 41-6 fiasco at Iowa City are again in the line-up, with the exception of Panelli. Sitko, chalking twice, Gompers, Lujack and Terry Brennan combined their talents with Fred Early’s toe for the Irish total in ’46. However, the lowans have improved and with a spirited aerial attack and a few breaks they could give the Irish a rollicking run for the goal line.
18
•Etienne Gilson, Outstanding Philosopher, Gives Opening Lectures For Mediaeval Institute
By WILLIAM HALPIN
The first series of public lectures mace possible through the William P. Grace II Trust and presented by The Mediaeval Institute of Notre Dame was scheduled for yesterday and today by Professor Etienne Gilson of the French Academy, College de France and the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, Toronto. Professor Gilson, one of the outstanding scholars of our time, has as his topic “Being and Existence” in three lectures before faculty members and students in Room 101 of the Law Building.
Through the generosity of the Grace Fund, administered by Mr. Thomas E. ^Murray and Mr. Gerard Carrol, of New York, the Institute will be enabled to bring to Notre Dame some of the finest mediaeval scholars in the world. On November 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12, Professor Stephan Kuttner of the Catholic University of America will lecture on “Legal-Canonical Science and the Mediaeval Mind.” Professor Kuttner will return to the University on January 12 for five lectures on “Problems on the Substance of Mediaeval Law.” In early December, Professor Anton C. Pegis, President of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, Toronto, will deliver five lectures on “Problems in the History of Mediaeval Philosophy.”
The Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, Ph.D., F.R.S.C., director of the Mediaeval Institute, announced that a similar series of lectures will be given during the second semester of the academic year 1947-<>48. However, owing to the fact that arrangements for the speakers have yet to be completed, announcement of the subjects and those who are to present them will be made at a later date.
Professor Gilson, the first guest lecturer, is a member of the Academic Francaise, holder of honorary degrees from many universities and a Chevalier de la Legion Honneur. He is recognized throughout the world as one of the greatest authorities on mediaeval culture and philosophy. As a professor at. the College de France, a non-student institution subsidized by the French, government to foster advanced learning, Professor Gilson has been an active figure in his country’s academic and political affairs. He was a representative of his government at the San Francisco Conference, a member of the committee that drafted the UNESCO Charter and the author of the preamble to the charter.
•During World War I, Professor Gilson was a prisoner of war in Germany for more than three years.
Prominent in American educational circles, Professor Gilson has been a professor at Harvard University where he delivered the William James lectures and was the keynote speaker of the Philosophy Forum during the Harvard Tricentennial. He also delivered the Powell lectures at Indiana University, the result of which was a published work, “God and Philosophy.” For a time he was Co-Director of the Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto with Father Phelan. When it became a Pontifical Institute he was named Director of Studies. He visited Notre Dame in 1931 at which time he discussed with authorities here, the possibilities of founding a Mediaeval Institute and he has been in constant touch with the Institute, in the capacity of an advisor, since its inauguration.
Professor Gilson is the authoi- of many books, the most recent of which is a History of Mediaeval Philosophy. In the past year he has been interested with the Existentialist movement in France. His lectures here on “Being and Existence” were the results of studies of that movement.
WJVA to Hit South Bend Airwaves Late Next Month
Commencing in the latter part of November, residents of the South Bend-Mishawaka area will be serviced by a new radio station, WJVA, which has an assigned frequency of 1585 kilocycles, and will operate under 250 watts on a daytime basis. Headquarters for the station are located at 214 W. Wayne st., and studios, tower and transmitter are under construction on Hickory road, north of Route 20, between South Bend and Mishawaka. •
The station plans to use the best equipment available, and has already received, a transmitter from the Collins Radio Corporation, and mikes from R.C.A. Victor.
WJVA’s staff includes: Carroll Reynolds, station manager; B. W. Redifer, general manager; H. Parker Smith, commercial manager; and Dale Roberts, head of the sales staff. All of these men have had experience in their respective radio fields. Mr. Reynolds has been affiliated with WIBC and WIRE in Indianapolis, Mr. Smith was associated with Nashville and Louisville stations, while Mr. Roberts was head announcer with WSBM in New Orleans.
—Walt Clements
First Met Club Award Presented to McGee
Venerable Washington Hall looked like the Mecca of Swoondom last Saturday afternoon when the swiveling star Coy McGee was crowned Player-of-the-Week by the Metropolitan Club. He gained an overwhelming majority of the 386 votes that were cast, with Mike Swistowicz coming in second.
The musty beams in the ancient hall are probably still vibrating from the rousing cacophony that was produced in McGee’s honor. The pride of Texas made a short speech, thanking the fans and the Club for the award and the twenty-five dollar bond that went with it.
Sinatra would have bitten his manicured nails to the quick if he had witnessed the mob scene that followed the program. The visiting females went loco in their attempts to gain the winner’s autograph. Although the attack left the shifty halfback a bit nonplussed he escaped without personal damage after signing dozens of the girls’ programs.
Frosh Dan Finn was in charge of the program which included music by Phil Foote’s sextet and comedy by Master of Ceremonies Tom Mulvey. The program was held after each home game before the war and was revived this year by the New York club. The committee has announced that next week’s presentation will be way above par with the Foote ensemble again supplying the music, a vocalist, Tom “Red” Foley assisting on the comedy and several extra attractions. It will start as soon as the band reaches Washington Hall, after the game, with the price of admission set at ten cents.
—Ken Tharen.
N D Foundation Holds Organizational Meets
In the past two weeks the Notre Dame Foundation has been busy sending representatives to various meetings held throughout the country. Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., departed from the University to attend one such gathering on Oct. 11 with the state governor and the city chairman in Harrisburg, Pa. From there Father Sweeney traveled to Washington, D. C., and Baltimore, Maryland on the 12 and 13 to talk with the governor and city chairman in those localities.
Mr. Harry G. Hogan, chairman of the board of directors of the Foundation, joined Father Sweeney in Newark; New Jersey, Oct. 13, and met with governor Ray Geiger and city chairman, J. M. Byrne. The next day the two scooted to New York to see state governor E. A. Berkery, city chairman Frank C. Walker, and officers of the alumni club.
19
NOTRE DAME NAMES MAKE NEWS*
New Additions
Of decided interest is the announcement of the engagement of Miss MARGUERITE VARGA, of Pittsburgh, Pa„ and South Bend, Publications Office secretary, and advertising manager of the Scholastic, to GUS CIFELLI, Philadelphia, Pa., towering tackle on the football team. The wedding will take place some time in May . . .
Silver-haired JOHN McALLISTER, staunch, outspoken guardian of Notre Dame’s athletic equipment has purchased a new house on Napoleon Boulevard, just six blocks distant from the campus . . .
FRANK RUDDEN, from New York City and St. Ed’s Hall became engaged during the summer to Miss Georgette Heinicke, a registered nurse from Brooklyn . . .
New Labors
Playwright NOEL DIGBY, of “Meet the Missus” fame has another success in the making. He is now producing and directing his newest play, “The Far Off Hills,” which is to be presented in St. Joseph’s Parish Hall on November 16, 17, and 18. Noel is a senior in the school of Journalism at Notre Dame and will be remembered for the part he and his collaborator, Ed Cashman, played in making their musical comedy, “Meet the Missus” such a delightful success on the campus last winter . . .
THE PRESIDENT AND GOV. SIGLER Graft-chaser
PANOS KOTSIKOS Book-seeker
Mr. FRANCIS J. HANLEY, Assistant Professor of Art at Notre Dame, will speak at the first dramatic workshop of the newly-organized Catholic Theatre Guild of the St. Joseph Valley at 8 p. m. next Tuesday, October 28, at St. Patrick’s School Hall, 308 South Scott Street. His subject will be “The Challenge of a Catholic Community Theatre.” Professor Hanley, who has had a wide experience in the theatre, also will give readings from a contemporary play at this workshop meeting. The Guild has extended a special invitation to the faculty members and the students of Notre Dame to attend . . .
Last year a Notre Dame student, HARRY YEAGER, of Howard Hall, began to correspond with Panos Kotsikos, of Athens, Greece, after having seen his letter in an issue of the Scholastic. The letters continued between Panos and Harry during the summer, and quite a friendship developed. Among other things, Panos wrote in his latest letter to Harry that he and his friends in Greece have a great need for clothes and books—especially books on such subjects as zoology, ichthyology, botany, and geology. Any student having these volumes might leave them with Harry Yeager in Howard Hall, along with other articles that may be of use to less privileged men such as Panos . . .
New Faces
As the personal guest of the Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, c.s.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, at the Nebraska game last Saturday was colorful, graft-chasing, Republican Governor Kim Sigler of Michigan. Before his election in 1946, Governor Sigler was special prosecutor for the grand jury investigating idiosyncracies in the Michigan legislature. Among other idiosyncracies, Gov. Sigler proved enough to send a large number of the legislators to less comfortable chambers. An alumnus of the University of Nebraska, Gov-"® ernor Sigler took his law degree at the Detroit college of law. As a successful attorney, Sigler astonished prosaic Hastings, Michigan, with morning coats and canary yellow sport jackets . . . Another celebrity at the game was Vai Peterson, the chief executive of the state of Nebraska . . .
The gentleman on whose shoulders fell the enviable duty of escorting Miss Paule Croset, RKO starlet to the Nebraska game this past Saturday, was ROBERT UHL, a freshman in the Law School and a familiar figure on the Notre Dame campus. Blonde Miss Croset attracted no little attention at the game as she was interviewed over the radio and autographed programs amid vociferous shouts of “Who’s that blonde?” Miss Croset is currently starring opposite Douglas Fairbanks in the RKO production, The Exile ...
Cheer-provoker
20
$ Senior Class Elections
(Continued from Page 9) class an enjoyable year, that will be relished in the years to come.”
James Kinn, of Fostoria, Ohio, was a candidate for last year’s junior class presidency. He is supported on this ticket by Joseph DiSpigno of Brooklyn, N. Y., for vice-president; Donald Poepsel of Ft. Madison, Iowa, for secretary; and Donald Clark of Chicago for treasurer. Kinn’s party platform is a four-point one. They propose an inexpensive but complete Senior Prom. If elected, they will attempt to arrange for the showing of out-of-town football game movies in Washington Hall. The third policy concerns a possible senior semi-formal dance at Christmas time. Lastly, they promise careful and prompt attention to all suggestions pertaining to senior activities.
The “4 for All” ticket is headed by Joseph O’Reilly of Mamaroneck, New York. Joe was vice-president of the Vet’s Club, and with Joe Dillon organized the Illinois student trip, and one of the Vet’s Club smokers. He is also a member of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, and an active member of the Metropolitan Club. Thomas McCaffrey, of Vallejo, Calif., is the candidate for the vice-presidency on this ticket; Larry Ryan is billed for secretary and comes from Bayfield, Wisconsin; George Burns, of Watertown, New York, is the treasurer candidate. The "4 for All” ticket is quoted as saying* “The 4 for All ticket is not loaded with promises but rather feels that Al Smith spoke for them with his Let’s Look at the Record. However, they do promulgate one important feature and that affirmation states that no senior graduating in ^January will be forgotten and a huge ’’’farewell party will be held. As for those in June, we can only state that in this year of superlatives, Notre Dame under “4-for-All” leadership will have the best senior ball in her history.”
Gerard Hekker, of Wood-Ridge, N. J., is one of the two independent candidates. He is running for president, and has a long record of service in school activities behind him. He is chairman of the Stay Committee of the Blue Circle, secretary of last year’s Server’s Club, and a member of the Glee Club and the Y.C.S. He advocates a regular monthly meeting of the senior class, so that the students will have some direction in their activities. He hopes to see a closer set of bonds between each set of class officers to insure a campus-wide school spirit. In the matter of class elections, Hekker would like to see them worked out in May instead of in September. If elected, he promises the dance chairman will be chosen immediately, and will not be a class officer.
Victor Gutschenritter, of Niles, Mich., is an independent treasurer candidate.
THIS WEEK WITH THE STUDENT COUNCIL
1.	Senior elections were discussed; they are to be held on Oct. 29. Only those students with a 4 listed on their I.D. cards will be permitted to vote. It was decided that a minimum of 300 votes would be necessary to validate the election. There will be 900 ballots available. Position of candidates on the ballots was determined by impartial drawings.
2.	John Murphy read a report on the N.S.A. convention at Madison, Wisconsin. It was noted that eight schools in Indiana, one of the N.S.A. regions, were already members. Four delegates are to be chosen from Notre Dame to attend the regional meeting at Terre Haute, Ind., this Sunday, Oct. 26. The dues for Notre Dame in the Association will be §177.00.
3.	Arrangements for showing the away football games were discussed. They are to be shown in the Engineering Auditorium on Thursdays at 12:30 and 6:30.
4.	It was brought up and decided that the weekend for hall decorating would be Nov. 8, the Army game weekend.
5.	The next meeting will be held on Oct. 27, at Washington Hall, starting at 6:30 P.M.	—W. Bradley.
Add to Your Income
• Part or Full Time
• No Cash Investment
• No Samples to Buy or Carry
If you like to talk to people our selling-plan is tailored made for you. Everyone is a prospective buyer for our products. You get a very high commission on all sales and you get it immediately plus a profit sharing bonus. (No expenses to pay out either.)
When you become a member of our sales team you become a one-person-department-store. You will receive a beautifully illustrated Sales-Kit which will include your entire line. You’ll have accessory clothing for men, women, and children. Also pillow cases, curtains, tablecloths, etc. The variety and size of your line is an extra guarantee for sales.
Write today on how to increase your income and become a One-man-department-store. On Quality Tested merchandise. . . . priced for easy quick selling.
COOPERATIVE MERCHANDISERS, Dept. E
110 West 34 Street, New York 1. N. Y.
CoC0eqeMe»h here’s YOUR kind "“NKainel
IN THE NOVEMBER ISSUE 25c AT YOUR BOOKSTORE i THE GREAT TOE . . . Ohio State's Lou Groza.
SHOULD WE HAVE UNIVERSAL MILITARY TRAINING?
IS YOUR DATING TECHNIQUE ORIGINAL?
. BULL SESSIONS AT OREGON STATE COLLEGE
ONE MAN AIR FORCE . . . Glen Dobbs of Tulsa U.
THE YOUNG MAN'S MAGAZINE
Tailor-made .for college men —that's VARSITY! Every issue packs a wallop with a star-studded lineup of spectacular sports, thrilling fiction, sparkling humor, luscious pinups, straight-from-the shoulder steers on careers, dating, problem* and everything else of importance in the young man's world.
VARSITY is the only magazine of it* kind—• it speaks YOUR language, know* YOUR interest* — It's the magazine YOU have been waiting for!
I PHOTOS IN COLOR • PIN-UPS • f GAGS • CARTOONS • DATE CLINIC
^yRODUCTORj
Offf R
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY

<
CAMPUS REPS WANTED Be the VARSITY branch representative on your campus! It's easy—it's fun —it pays off! Write today for details. 
VARSITY, 260 Fourth Ave., New York 10, N.Y.
□ Count me in on your introductory offer to VARSITY! Here's $1.00 for 5 issue*.
NAME._________________________________________
ADDRESS......M«W.W«........M....».....»..W».»—MMMM.
CITY..................ZONE...STATE.------
□ Yes, I'd like to be your representative!
I I
21
Music ’ Books » Rddjo
Where were you at eight o’clock on the Sunday night of October 30, 1938? Were you listening to the Columbia Broadcasting System?
If you were, you needn’t read this column any further. You know, of course, what happened. But if you weren’t, if you were out with your girl or at the movies, you missed one of the most startling broadcasts in the history of the American radio. You missed the astonishing presentation of events which followed after an announcer said: “The Columbia Broadcasting System and its affiiliated stations present Orson Welles and the Mercury Theater On The Air in the War of the Worlds by H. G. Wells.”
With this simple introduction, Mr. Welles and his cast began a broadcast that the CBS engineers and vice-presidents criticized, beforehand, as boring, too vague and uninteresting. Mr. Welles, himself, was rather dubious about the program’s merits, but the script was ready, and the program had been rehearsed. So, Orson Welles took over the CBS studio in New York, and began the broadcast. He didn’t realize what effect it had on the listeners until he stepped out for a cigarette, and saw his name flash across the N. Y. Times electric news board in Times Square.
The program was the most realistic and suspenseful ever presented on the air. It started with a weather report
of a slight atmospheric disturbance of undetermined origin • over Nova Scotia. Music from the Park Plaza followed. This was interrupted to bring the listeners a special announcement from Princeton University. There, from the observatory, Professor Pierson, played by Mr. Welles, commented on the strange disks he had seen in the sky. He believed that there was nothing to worry about, that it was possibly a new planet emerging. He did not think that it had anything to do with the planet Mars.
Station identification followed seventeen minutes later, but by that time Mr. Welles and his cast had staged an ultra-dramatic destruction of the United States by the Martians. They staged a mock battle between U. S. forces and the Martians, and climaxed the first half of the broadcast ■with the fall of New York.
For the second half of the program, Mr. Welles divided his time between a monologue, and a dialogue with a stranger. They were, according to the script, the only two mortals on the face of the earth. They both were starving to death, and met only by chance. The stranger asked Pierson to conquer the world with him, claiming that all the defenses were down, and that they would be kings. Pierson refused, and kept a diary of his escapades.
Toward the end of the program, Professor Pierson was back in his study at
Princeton, and had it recorded that the Martians had been destroyed by bacteria*' and that the world was safe again. But the satirical note was yet to come. Mr. Welles stepped out of character to say “the War of the Worlds has no further significance than as the holiday offering it was intended to be . . . The Mercury Theater’s own radio version of dressing up and saying boo I .. . And if your doorbell rings and nobody’s there, that was no Martian . . . It’s Hallowe’en!”
The reactions to this broadcast were amazing. People called all types of officials to discover if it were true. For weeks after the broadcast, newspapers carried accounts of husbands who disappeared on the night of the broadcast, and hadn’t returned yet. They also carried stories of drunks who swore never to touch the stuff again. But a story that never made the newspapers seems the most peculiar of all. An undertaker** in South Boston is reported to have ordered thirty-two graves dug for prospective clients.—Jack Hummel.
"Pirates of Penzance"
(Continued from Page 11) them England”—and America in turn —“learned that music exists for laughter as well as for tears, and that the English language sung can produce the most beautiful of songs.”
In the course of the great Gilbert and Sullivan revivals of the Nineteen-twen-%es G. K. Chesterton wrote, “It now begins to appear that the achievement of the Victorian Age that will be most treasured by the future, will be, not the poetry of Tennyson or Browning, or the novels of Thackeray or Dickens, but those never-failing fountains of delight, the comic operas of Gilbert and Sulli-^. van.”
Orders are Now being accepted for The Scholastic’s
FOOTBALL ISSUE
which will be off the press December 12th
This issue carries a resume of ALL Notre Dame Games . . Pictures of the Players and Coaches . . Game Shots . . Biographies
FOOTBALL ISSUE
Mail 50 cents (no stamps please) to
-	-	118 Main Building, Notre Dame, Indiana
22
The Ohio State Lantern proudly announces its receipt, for the ninth consecutive time, of an All-American award from the Associated Collegiate Press. This award makes the Lantern, a daily publication, one of the ten best college daily newspapers in the United States according to judging standards of the ACP.
From the East Texan via the SMU Campus we find that East Texas State Teachers College will celebrate its first post-war western week. Cowboy boots, blue jeans, plaid shirts, bandanna handkerchiefs and wide brim hats are in order for the occasion.
$ The green-beanie situation up at Northwestern seems to be in a sad state of affairs. A report in the Daily Northwestern reveals that only one anonymous freshman could be found “showing his colors.”
John Carroll University has acquired a new seismological observatory this year. It has been assigned two research yrojects by the Jesuit Seismological Association which has other such observatories in the United States. The Rev. Henry F. Birkenhauer, S.J., is the director of the observatory, assisted by Dr. Edward J. Walter.
FINANCE MAJORS, ATTENTION
Up Northwestern way several ambitious undergrads have devised a new scheme to beat the high cost of living— chain letters. The authors of the letters <TU two copies for $2 each, putting their names at the top. Each buyer in turn makes two copies of the sheet and resells them for $2 apiece, to guarantee against loss. Next he crosses the top name off the list, sends that person one dollar and adds his own name to the top. This vicious circle continues ad infinitum.
The Purdue Exponent reports that after the recent Purdue-N. D. game a group of students believed to be celebrating the outcome of the game removed the “shingle” belonging to a local doctor. If you happen to see a shingle announcing “Dr. A. V. Kienly, Optometrist” floating around the campus, act as if you’d never read this report.
OLD FAMILIAR FACES . . .
In a recent Daily Trojan (University of Southern California) appears this . suggestion for a new cheer, intended es-
DADADE
pecially for use when a Southern Cal man is injured:
For he’s a man, Who’s a man? He’s a USC man, McCardle, McCardle, McCardle!
Sound familiar?
An innovation at Louisiana State University is a bank maintained on the campus for the convenience of the stu
You’re the man most
Van Hensen shirts
They put you way out in front for style and comfort. You’ll like the smart sewmanship, the low-set collar models, the action-tailoring, figure-fit. Sanforized fabrics, laboratory-tested 1500 times a month. Get your money’s worth—always say Van Heusen Shirts. $3.25, $3.95, $4.50. Phillips Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
dents. They are limited to one transaction per day which is limited to a maximum withdrawal of $25 except in case of an emergency. No charge is made for this service.	■
PUFF, PUFF, PUFF THAT CIGARETTE
The Ohio State Lantern has come up with a choice bit of advice for college women. On its list of don’ts, Andre Corelli, director of the Neil House Modeling School places such trademarks as smoking on the streets, noisy gum chewing, and loud talking in public places. The American college girl would be virtually unknown should this be taken seriously, however. •
23
The Three Suns — reading down: Morty Dunn Artie Dunn Al Nevins
Mong people ore Sticking CMBS than uer before!
J
w 0
0
'0
latest disk by The Three Suns for RCA Victor




BACK in ’25 everybody was humming ’bout that “Sleepy Time Gal.” Now “Gal” is back in a new and wonderful record.
And here’s another favorite with a great record: cool, mild, flavorful Camel cigarettes. More men and more women are smoking Camels than ever before.
Why? The answer is in your “T-Zone” (T for Taste i:nd T for Throat).
Try Camels. Discover for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience”!
K. J. KeynohU Tnbnern Cn,. Wlnslnn-Snhnn N. C.
tfMQ

Mn
I LEARNED By

i BLEND CIGARETTES
EXPERIENCE THAT
CAMELS SUIT ME BEST/

$ Scorner's Seat
(Continued from Page 6)
cent enough, out of Christian justice and charity, forgetting political ideologies altogether, to forego a piece of meat or two or a slice of bread so that some poor European kid who never had a decent meal in his life can sink his teeth—if he has any—into a big hunk of bread. If we haven’t the Christianity to do that, we don’t amount to much as a nation. It is a little difficult, though, to follow the thinking of the food planners. The results so far of Meatless Tuesday and Poultryless, Eggless Thursday show a mad rush for the poultry and eggs on Tuesday and a like dash for more meat than ever on Thursday. Precisely what this will accomplish is rather dim at this date.	’
FINESSE DEPT.
Chicago’s latest murder, a clumsy thing which was accomplished very brutally by stabbing, tends to confirm the suspicion that the old time murderer, with his little niceties and refinements, is a thing of the romantic past. Gone are the economical butcher who ground up his wife and sold her for hamburger, the wit who shipped a body to Oregon in a trunk and then sent the police the check, and the whimsical wife who played with a toy file on the steering mechanism of hubby’s car. Murder, Mr. DeQuincey, is no longer one of the fine arts.
WOMEN OF DISTINCTION
We hear from the catalpa worms over on the trees in St. Mary’s front yard jihat 28 of la creme de la creme of the ‘St. Mary’s senior class have been chosen to escort the Cadets from Bastille-on-the-Hudson come the Army game weekend. The Blue Circle knows, but won’t tell, who these damsels are. Are they afraid of some N. D. Lochinvars whisking one away from the cape and sash boys? Now that horsemanship has been abandoned by the Generals, the Cadets might have rather a difficult time bringing the kidnaper to justice.
McCarthy hears a refutation
My remarks anent Westbrook Pegler have raised the hackle on the neck of one J. B. McCarthy. To date, I have not received word of a theological revision which makes “Thou shalt not cast aspersions on Westbrook Pegler” a new commandment. While I disagree with ' what Mr. Pegler says, and have no inten-^on of fighting even to the first scratch for his right to say it, I admire the man for his journalistic ability. The libel
suits he avoids more out of tolerance —and editors’ cautious scissors — than truth.	•
If I have given Correspondent McCarthy pain by a smugness impervious to criticism, I really do not know what I shall do. Perhaps I sh’all supplement a smugness which is not impervious to criticism. Mere college student McCarthy should replace the panes in his glass house.
Mr. Pegler is an embittered reactionary who has been cleaving the general ear with horrid speech because the clock did not stop when Grandfather Laissez-faire died a few decades ago. Once upon a time, he was a very good baseball
writer. He should have stayed in the press box.
FOR THE LAST TIME
If this column is split into seventeen pieces, I shall turn it over to the WCTU for free advertising.
FENCING TEAM
All applicants for the varsity fencing team are requested to report Monday, October 27, in the Fencing Room under the north basketball stands in the Fieldhouse for the opening of practice. Herb Melton, fencing coach, announced this week.

25
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 3)
will be on particular1 days. This is not too important a factor. The most serious criticism of this point lies in the fact that the meals show that either no dietician has planned them or if one has, he or she as the case may be, has not planned them correctly. By far the majority of meals lean too heavily on the starchy side. On this point I would like to bring out the lack of sufficient quan
tities of citrus fruits and the scarcity of leafy greens in the diet.
POINT II. The meals in the Dining Hall are not the best that can be had for the money that the individual student pays. For if a general average per meal is figured—each' meal should cost approximately 65 cents. Of course this is subject to modification at certain meals. But this average compels almost all the students to revolt against such meals as:
1.	Baked beans and sausage.
2.	Stew and potatoes.
3.	What is commonly called “chipped beef in cream sauce.”
Obviously many students could compile a still greater- list but that is not my idea. Anyone who sits down to figure it out knows that if you were paying the retail price you at times would be getting more than your money’s worth. However, we know that quantities sold to feed such a great number of students are sold on a wholesale basis, probably with a discount.
COKE REFRESHES BOWLING TEAMS AND SPECTATORS
empty bottles promptly
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND.
Point HI. The majority of meals show poor culinary ability. Either we do not get the best cuts of meat and therefore the chefs do a marvelous job with what they have; or we do get the best cuts of meat and they are cooked to the degree that there is no flavor left. The excuse that cooking for so manj^U necessitates cooking far in advance of the meal and reheating, is not entirely valid. This is true only to a certain extent. The students who were in service came in contact with this problem and saw fine meals served them despite this.
Substantiating all these points, which are not criticisms entirely my own are the criticisms of men with whom I have talked and criticisms that I have overheard from men I don’t even know. Generally they are all the same. We know that the world faces a food shortage and we are willing to do our part by making sacrifices. But we do expect that in general the meals which we do have could be more nourishing, tastier and have more variety.
We can use all the foregoing points to answer these questions:
1.	Why do so many students skip s<^a many meals for which they have already' paid?
2.	Why are the students constantly criticizing the poor meals?
3.	Why have there been occasional cases of stomach trouble from poor diet?
4.	How are other institutions able to produce tastier, better planned meals, than the dining hall when they have a greater overhead?
5.	Why is there a greater percentage of waste at some meals than at others?
6.	Why is it that students who were here in ’40, ’41, ’42, praise the meals of those years and are disgusted at some or most of the meals they have had since they have been back?
It is up to the Student Council, our representatives, to stand on their feet and try and find a solution to this probj«>. lem. It is not the task of the individual ' student. If need be it is also the respon-
26
sibility of both the student council and the officials of the University. I do not stand alone in this matter.
Eugene G. Lamb, 209 Sorin Hall.
HIT AND ERROR DEPT.
Dear Editor:
In the Scholastic issue of Friday, October 10, your “Man About the Campus” column erred in stating that Thomas J. McCaffrey is a “councilman in the Knights of Columbus.” We have no such office in our Order.
Trusting that you will take the necessary steps to correct this erroneous impression, we remain,
Paul A. Corey,
Financial Secretary.
The Scholastic stands corrected.—Editor.
WILCOX'S MILENNIUM
Dear Editor:
Subject: The Scomer’s Seat, Oct. 10 issue. Topic: “Comes the Milennium,” by J. Wilcox.
“It is seldom that I agree with Westbrook Pegler. But occasionally he writes something that I wish I’d written,” said J. Wilcox. A smugness so impervious to criticism as exemplified here by this mere college student is not amusing.
J. Wilcox hasn’t observed that Pegler makes direct statements and accusations, which makes it imperative that he have definite proof backing his articles or he would find himself in court with a libel suit on his hands every day. And don’t make the stupid claim that Pegler has too much money behind him for anyone to beat him on a libel charge. As proof of this contention, I invite you to examine the case of J. O’Donnell v. The Philadelphia Record, which wound up in the Supreme Court the other day.
H. L. Mencken said that all men are lucky if they think 15 minutes out of a day. This is quite an exaggeration as far as J. Wilcox is concerned.
Do I hear a rebuttal?
J. B. McCarthy, Student, South Bend.
College Parade
SPORTS HIGHLIGHTS
Athletically inclined students of Mundelein College have already embarked on a rigorous schedule of tournaments. The table tennis tourney is on now, to be followed soon by the shuffleboard finals.
Whew!
An Editorial brief in the SMU Campus tells us of a current vicious circle—grain to Europe, spirits made,, spirits bought in U. S. A., no money for bread, grain to Europe.
w About 50 years before you were born—back in 1877—1 started making telephone equipment for the nation.
"As the manufacturing and supply member of the Bell Telephone team, I’ve always had a lot to do with making your service the world’s best—at the lowest possible cost.
"The close teamwork made possible by my being a part of the Bell System was never more important than today— in helping to meet record demands for telephone service.
"My name is Western Electric.”
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM SINCE 1982
THE U?:IVER3ITY LIBRARY	A
-LEMKONIER LIBRARY— m-RE DAME, LOCAL
Q>pptg/ii lfM7, Liggett & Mms Tomcco Co.