Volume 73
March 8, 1940
Number 18
“IN THIS corner, the Billy Conn a	light- heavyweight
Bengal Guest	champion of the world,
Billy Conn.” That will be the chant of the announcer one week from tonight when Billy Conn steps into the Fieldhouse ring as honorary referee of the Ninth Annual Bengal Bouts.... but before the grand finale come three rousing evenings of preliminary fighting —Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.
(See page 5) ♦
A STARTING field be-Prelims Begin yond the 100 mark will Monday Night slug down to 16 survivors who will battle for University boxing championships in eight divisions next Friday night. Conn —now convalescing from the skin infection which cancelled his Miami bout with Gus Lesnevich — will referee the lightheavyweight championship bout.
(See page 5) ♦
LT. GENERAL Hugh Drum Awarded A. Drum of the United Laetare Medal States Army is the
1940 recipient of the Laetare Medal, bestowed annually since 1883 by the University upon an outstanding member of the Catholic laity.
(See page 6) ♦
CONFRONTED with Big Schedule	the stiffest schedule in
for Klinemen	modern Notre Dame
baseball history, Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline’s squad has been working intensely in the Fieldhouse each afternoon. The Irish face two-game series with eight Big 10 opponents.
(See page U)
Title threat — Bill McGrath, 1939 Bengal finalist at 155 pounds, talks preliminary round strategy with Coach Dominic Napolitano.
WOULD A SANE ^PERSON RISK A
MIJRDERXWIE?
MEMOS WHIP
A.	S>wSfcV'' -s' V ?'	'	'V'f. V '	. s' '	~	. V %	'v. £	X M , V
► Three people with tangled lives—a young lawyer in love with a business girl, and she in | love with an airplane designer who is unhap- | pily married to another. Perfectly sane peo* S pie. Yet somebody was attempting to set | things right by violence... murderous vio- I lence... Here’s thefast-moving.start of a new I murder mystery in seven parts.	I
TAPPING CANADA’S LANDLOCKED TREASURES. What would you do if you had a gold mine in northern Manitoba 132 miles from the nearest railroad, trapped by bogs in summer and blizzards in winter? And needed 1500 tons of machinery before you could mine your gold? Here’s the story of how tractors have defeated Canada’s wildest country, foot by foot. Read Here Come the Cats, by morton l bennet.
STRIKE IN THE HOSPITAL. “Swell,” sad Nurse Sally when Hard-Boiled Harvey told her-the hospital internes were walking out in protest over rotten politics in the management. “But what will happen to our two thousand patients?” —A dramatic short story of a hospital revolt, by hannah lees.
F.W.W00LW0RTH’S0PINI0N0F“TITLED” FORTUNE HUNTERS. When Frank Woolworth loosed his blast against “the cheap European titled people after the American girl and her money” (see this week's Post, page 25), he didn’t dream he’d have a granddaughter named Barbara Hutton... New chapters in Dime Store.
“HE LOSTHIS PIGBUTSAVEDHISBACON" “Captain, take this boy to General Jackson and have him shot.” But the General had his own way of shooting the lad Praxiteles Swan brought him. Here’s the story of the gory day nine hundred Texas bayonets clashed with Hooker’s Corps—a plunging, screaming collision. A new short story by JOHN W. THOMASON, Jr.
WHAT EUROPE WANTS FROM U.S. NEXT In the last war, for over two years, we hampered the Allies* blockade of Germany. This time, we’re helping from the start. Will that be enough to help them win? Why are they now maneuvering to get something more from us? Demaree Bess shows what England and France covet that we have. A news dispatch from London, Our Not-So-Secret Weapon, by demaree bess.
AND... in the same issue: A short story by Dorothy Thomas; articles by Wendell L.Willkie on F.D.R.’s Supreme Court, and Shake!, by Carl Dreher, about what California engineers are doing to fight the earthquake menace. Also serials, editorials, cartoons, Post Scripts—all in your copy of this week’s Post.
S'30’. •* tvS!
Steals/Tfa p  
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
College Parade
but the underclassmen are brash. Those deseated claim inability to study in any other chair but their particular favorite.
❖
We Stand Accused . . .
accused by a damsel who would and did take exception to our judgment. But abashed we are not. Previous to Christmas we were confident of one reader — a frosh who mailed a contribution. Then on the home-going train there was also the student, who, careless of his socio-literary position, was seen reading the stuff on page three. Now we are sure of Woodsy Miss Gallagher. We do thank our editor who leaped to our rescue in his whimsical manner. We’d do the same thing for him, if he had a reader.
Street Scene
It seems that one sunny spring morning a gentleman was leading a dragon down Park Avenue. Everything was going well and both seemed to be enjoying themselves. But suddenly the dragon started getting frisky, tugging at the leash, bumping into people, and running in circles, and making a general nuisance of himself. The gentleman did nothing for a while, then, losing patience, yanked the dragon near to him and said, “Look here, young fellow, if you’re not careful I’ll take a Bromo and get rid of you.—Urchin
Sign in the Pitt Library:
ONLY LOW TALK PERMITTED HERE.
choice of “damn’d” in place of “curs’d.” Rather than fight it out with table utensils, the combatants called for a volume of Shakespeare. The version favored Tunney, but abridged versions supported his opponent. . All of which adds up to —don’t lunch with Tunney unless you’re the Information, Please type.
❖
Worth Waiting For
Dottie in Distress: “Oh, sir, catch that man. He wanted to kiss me.”
Pensive Pedestrian: “That’s all right. There’ll be another one along in a minute.”—Purple Cow
❖
Stacks of Fun
Time magazine took President Ayedel-lotte’s resignation as a signal to do a piece on the goings-on on Swarthmore campus. In the Phoenix, we read that the best spot for the smooth operators is the Library—better known as the Libe. As is quite common on co-ed campi, the book house is planting ground for romance and all such. One girl summed it up thus, “I sit up, and sigh, and then somebody says, ‘what’s the matter?’ and then we start in.” It sounds so very simple that even some of us might catch on with the proper or fascinating incentive. The seats are analogous to those on the Stock Exchange. Seniority rules,
It’s on the House
Plebe: “Hello, Jane! Would you like to have dinner with me tonight?”
Jane: “I’d love to, dear.”
Plebe: “Well, tell your mother, I’ll be over early.”
—The Log.
♦
Smoke Peace Pipe for Pipe Dream
There is the Gonzaga lad who woke up too soon and in the wrong place. When he had shoved off into' the clouds of somnulance, his mind became entangled with some very unworldly ideas. Hitler gave Poland back to the Poles. The Jews were welcomed back to Germany. France gave Alsace-Lorraine back to the Germans just to be good fellows. Roosevelt nominated Al Smith for the presidency. Of course, the Dodgers won the World Series, and the glamour girls made an exodus from Hollywood. To top it off, King George VI proclaimed March 17 as a holiday throughout the Empire. And then the cold, sudden dawn—and classes.
❖
Weather Report
Yesterday: Fine.
Today: Fine.
Tomorrow: I’d better take those books back to the library.
—Oregon State Barometer
Rhyme Time
The gum-chewing girl
And the cud-chewing cow Are somewhat alike. Yet different somehow. Oh, yes. I see it now.
It’s the thoughtful look On the face of the cow.
—Covered Wagon
❖
Tunney Got a Draw
No blood was shed. No cauliflower cultivated, but Shakespeare student Gene Tunney did not escape with a clean victory in his literary encounter with an Ohio State professor. These old friends and former schoolmates were having a friendly luncheon discussion when Tunney quoted Macbeth (Act 5, Scene 8), the “lay on MacDuff” passage. However the prof questioned Gene’s
BENGAL BOUTS ARE THE BOUTS FOR YOU
(No apologies to L. O. Gates)
Preliminaries.......................lOe
(Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday)
Championships .
(Friday)
25c
Reserved Seats.................50c
NOTRE DAME FIELDHOUSE
8.00 P. M.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week By Frank Wemhoff
CAMPUS OPINION
Apologies to Winchell
Orchids to a fighting Irishman named Billy Conn.
I’m Learning
That in a recent special bulletin on the publications of the faculty the A.B. school had 18 pages of listings on articles and books... .The College of Commerce had two.... That Prof. Engels leads in number of articles published with 99 registered.... That Prof. Her-mens wrote Wirtschaft and Gesellschaft in Amerika.... That Prof. Campbell
wrote The Catalyctic Hydration of Alkylacetylenes. ... That a professor of philosophy is training for the Indianapolis Speedway Classic and started things off by drawing a three dollar fine.... That the library clock is having trouble keeping up with the times.... That a sociology major has’ traced the material for The Grapes of Wrath to a 500-page survey on migratory employment published in 1938 through the U. S. Dept, of Labor .... That sociology is the only major that does not have a representative course of study in either the freshmen or sophomore years.... That the little brown vestment maker who lives behind Corby was the first Filipino to enter the United States.
<•
The Wireless
The Parryscope grovels on.... broadrasping and Coreyupting the ether.... the Radio Club’s other venture, the Jamboree, is considering an offer to buy up their old scripts for fermentation.______ only two programs left for much-needed airings.... Ray Kelly’s unguarded remark: “The girls at St. Mary’s like my Periscope better than Eddie Corey’s”.... which is like saying “make mine swiss instead of pimento”.... Incidentally, someone shoved this little travesty under our door along with a copy of an apology sent to Bonnie Baker.
Ode to Eddie Corny
Down at Rosie’s or in at Hills’
Look at the silence his chatter distills
But in a beauty parlor He’d be so prized.
With the Weekenders
On the Milwaukee bus.... Two students earritating the group.... One was arguing that a certain Fisher was the best athlete to ever wear the colors of dear old Wawatoosa High.... and that Fisher had always been his No. 1 hero .... the other Bockened gent yelled that Fisher was putrid, and he won the argument because he was — Wawatoosa’s Fisher.... Jim Casper’s careful promoting. ... Bob Sanford, midget yell man, conspicuous by his silence.... one of our stage-struck hopefuls signed out for midnight No. 55 and a new record...
Our vocal lads sang “The Song of the Flea” at St. Hedwige parish over the week-end and literally brought down the house as slabs of plaster fell on 40 pair's of borrowed tails.... Then the lights went out and the music fell from the piano to complete the sabotage.... A new improvement of the club was to send the members to the back of the hall to applaud the solos.... Moral of the concert.... Don’t get plastered in your tails....
Add picturesque reportage
From Scrip.... “There is something equestrian about boarding a plane.”.... “He still drank scotch and soda, while they were lost in the heady whirl of an absinthe frappe.”....
Scallions
To the'pilferer of the statue of Father Sorin from the reception corridor of Sorin Hall.... a term campus will be imposed on the statue when and if it is returned—. To St. Patrick and the Religious Bulletin for the lovely free day.
Question of the Week: Should the United States lend money to Finland for use in the war against Russia or should we maintain a “hands off" policy?
Carroll — James Duggan: “If we are going to have an isolation policy, I think we should stay out of everything. If we were to loan money to Finland, we might just as well send troops over to help them out. Our policy has been to stay out of any and all foreign trouble, but if we lend money to Finland this policy would no longer exist. Finland, it is true, is the only country to pay its World War debt, but that is no excuse for us to lend them the money again. The last time we loaned money abroad for war purposes, we were dragged into the affair. This time, let us maintain a ‘hands off’ policy.”
Brownson — Robert Pelton: “I think that we should continue our isolation policy as much as possible, and this cannot be accomplished by lending money to Finland or any other foreign country. By lending money to Finland, we’re leaving ourselves wide open to lending money to other European countries. If we lend money to Finland, other countries will have a right to expect us to lend to them. If we do this, it is not unlikely that we will be drawn into the European war.”
Lyons — Dodge Angelakos: “No, the United States should not lend money to Finland. If they give money to Finland, they would have a right to give money to England and France for use in their war against Germany. England and France have as good a case against Germany as Finland has against Russia. They are fighting to rid the world of Nazism, and Finland is trying their best to do away with Communism. The United States should keep their money at home and spend it for internal improvements, instead of giving it to Finland for their war.”
Zahm — Eugene Hilkert: “Keep the United States’ money at home! It is all right if individuals want to take it upon themselves to lend their own private money to a country at war, but when the government starts to give out money, they give out everyone’s money. Giving money to Finland is just like taking an active part in the war ourselves. If the United States wants to remain neutral in the foreign situation, she had better keep her money on this side of the ocean.”—Ray Donovan
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
X 188
Volume 73
March 8, 1940.
No. 18.
Conn, Light Heavy Champ, Is Bengal Honorary Referee
Billy Here For Finals ;
Prelims Begin Monday
“In this corner, the light-heavyweight champion of the world, Billy Conn.” That will be the chant of the announcer
Promoter DaPra
one week from tonight when Billy Conn steps into the ring as honorary referee of the Ninth Annual Be n g a 1 Bouts. . . . but before the grand finale come three rousing e v e -nings of preliminary fighting - Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.
A starting field of beyond the 100 mark will slug down to 16 survivors who will battle for University boxing championships in eight divisions next Friday night. Conn—now convalescing in Pittsburgh from the skin infection which cancelled his Miami bout with Gus Lesnevich—will referee the light-heavyweight championship bout.
The Fieldhouse gates will open at 7:30 preliminary nights, and at 7 o’clock Friday evening. The traditional ten cent admission price will prevail for preliminary fighting, with final night tickets selling for 25 cents, general admission, and 50 cents for reserved seats.
There will be no pre-sale of preliminary tickets, but general admission and reserved seat tickets for Friday’s championship bouts are now on sale through Scholastic staff members. .
Off-campus sales in South Bend, Mishawaka and Elkhart begin Monday. In order to avoid a last minute box office rush—and avoid the danger of an ex
pected sell-out—students are urged to purchase final night tickets over this week-end, before the general public sale begins.
Georgie Nate, able and experienced fight referee, will be the third man in the ring throughout the preliminaries, and next Friday evening, when eight University boxing champions will be crowned, Louis Da Pra, Bengal promoter, announced today. Nate will be assisted by the veteran George Van der Hayden.
Francis W. Lloyd, University comptroller, and Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, will act as honorary judges. At ringside, scoring by established A.A.U. fight standards, will be two sets of judges: Bill Sheehan, Eugene Young, Bernie Witucki; Earl Murphy, Hi Fer-men, William Lubber. Seconding the fighters will be John Nate and Speed Campbell. Professor Stephen Bocskey is tournament clerk. At the timer’s table will be the veteran Ernest Schleut-er, with Earl -Teppe counting for the knockdowns. The strident voices of William P. Mahoney, Don Gilliland, and Rocco Montegna will keep the fans informed. George Cooper, A.A.U. inspec
‘Scooped’ On Our Own Bengal Bouts!
(And very pleasantly, too)
Like John Alden, we asked Havey Boyle, sports editor of the Pittsburgh Post Gazette and boxing commissioner of Pennsylvania, to ask Billy Conn to act as honorary referee for the Bengal Bouts. Mr. Boyle did, and—good newspaper man that he is—also scooped us by breaking the news in his weekly “Memo to Miss Prebbins” column, of Monday last:
“You might drop a line to Bill Fay, our summer time colleague now finishing up at Notre Dame, that the Irish can count on having Billy Conn as their guest on the campus on March 15. The champion will be getting ready for Gus Lesnevich, whom he meets April 5 in Detroit, but whether he is training here or near Detroit, he can make the hop to South Bend. Fact is the local Irish boy was pleased with the invitation to visit the rarefied atmosphere of a university campus. He knew so little about a campus in his school days he always thought it was something sailors used when they got lost at sea.”
tor for Northern Indiana, will supervise the bouts in his official capacity.
Inside the ropes Notre Dame boxers will square away not only for a University crown in one of the eight divisions, but also for one of nearly 80 awards to be given. To the 16 winners and runner-ups go the coveted Bengal heavy and light sweaters, emblematic of Irish fistic supremacy; to each of the 1940 Bengaleers the Bengal bronze medallion; to the one boxer exhibiting the finest conduct throughout training, preliminaries, and the finals the William Sheehan sportsmanship trophy; and to the hall scoring the greatest number of points the new Reco award for 1940, donated by William Lubber, South Bend sports enthusiast.
Outside the blue and gold of the Studebaker A.A. ring thousands of students, patrons, and townspeople will be regaled with 24 rounds of championship fighting, interspersed with music supplied by Karl Hunn’s organization, and several vaudeville skits by student entertainment. Nightly visitors to the Bengal preliminaries will view nearly 50 rounds of expert fighting for only ten cents per night.
Through cooperation with the University dining halls semi-finalists and finalists will dine at the Bengal training table in the West Hall from Wednesday morning until the evening of the fights, it was announced today. This marks the first establishment of a Bengal training table.
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
General Drum Named
1940 Laetare Medallist
Lieutenant General Hugh A. Dram, of the United States Army, is the 1940 recipient of the Laetare Medal, bestowed annually since 1883 by the University upon an outstanding member of the Catholic laity. The announcement was made Sunday by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., University president.
Selection of General-Drum marks the third time in the 58 years history of the award that an outstanding military figure has been chosen for the honor, regarded as the highest a Catholic layman can receive in the United States. General John Newton was awarded the medal in 1886, and General William S. Rosecrans was named ten years later.
In announcing the name of the medalist, traditionally made known on the fourth Sunday of Lent, Father O’Donnell said:
“The Laetare Medal for the year 1940 is awarded to Lieutenant General Hujjh Aloysius Drum, commander of the Second Corps Area, at Governors’ Island, New York.
General Drum has had a distinguished career as soldier, having been decorated for gallantry in both the Spanish-American and the World Wars. Moreover, his genius in war is equalled only by his brilliant leadership in peace. The University of Notre Dame welcomes him to the honor roll of Catholic men and women who have added glory to the Church in the United States.”
General Dram lias been in active service since receiving his first commission as a second lieutenant in 1898. Since that time he has seen service successively in the Spanish-American War, in the • Philippine Islands, on the Mexican border and in the World War.
General Dram inherited the military tradition having been bom at Fort Brady, Michigan, September 19, 1879, the son of Captain John Dram and Margaret (Desmond) Dram. He was educated at Boston College and in United States Army schools.
During the Mexican troubles preceding the declaration of the World War, General Drum was chief of staff to General Funston and subsequently served as chief of staff under General Pershing in France. Since that time he has seen service successively as Chief of the Army School of the Line, Commander of coast and air defenses of the Second Corps Area, Assistant Chief of Staff of the Army, Inspector General of the United States Army, Commander of the Hawaiian department, Commander of the 6th Corps Area and 2nd Army. In 1939 he was made Lieutenant General and placed in command of the 2nd Corps Area.
General Dram’s military decorations seem to coincide with each step in his long career. He was awarded the Silver Star for “gallantry in action” in the Philippines, and since that time has merited the following recognitions: the D. S. M., commander of Legion of Honor and Croix de Guerre with two palms (France) and commander Order of the Crown (Belgium and Italy).
In Catholic and civic circles the name of the General has long been associated
Medalist—General Drum
with the highest standards of religious and civic endeavor. In each of his peace-time appointments General Drum has been identified with broad programs for civic betterment and the simplicity of his religious attitude has endeared him to the rank and file of his military associates. Chaplains, who served with him during his years of active duty, called attention of the Laetare Medal committee to the fact that General Drum at all times insisted upon attending Mass and other religious services with the enlisted personnel.
Given by Notre Dame as a recognition of merit and as an incentive to greater achievement, the Laetare Medal award originated in the ancient papal custom of bestowing the Golden Rose on a member of the Italian Catholic nobility on Laetare Sunday. Its modern counterpart was inaugurated at Notre Dame in 1883 when the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., University founder, bestowed the first medal on the late John Gilmary Shea, eminent Catholic historian.
Last year’s recipient was Miss Josephine Brownson, of Detroit Michigan. Medalists of previous years include prominent statesmen, artists, writers,
financiers, soldiers, scientists, architects, philosophers, jurists, orators and economists. Among recent recipients are Dr. Irvin Abell, ex-President of the American Medical Association; Dr. Jeremiah D. M. Ford, chairman of the Romance Languages Department of Harvard University; Mr. Richard Reid, editor of the Catholic News of New York City; Dr. Albert Zahm, occupant of the Guggenheim chair of aeronautics in the Congressional Library; John McCormack, singer; the Hon. Alfred E. Smith; Margaret Anglin, actress; and Elizabeth Nourse, artist.
Villagers Give Banquet
For Basketball Squad
The Notre Dame Villagers’ Club will sponsor its annual banquet in honor of the 1939-40 basketball squad of George Keogan on Monday night in the Rotary room of the Oliver Hotel. Wilfred Smith of the Chicago Tribune sports department will speak as toastmaster. Among the other speakers are: Jack Ledden, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune; the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of Notre Dame University; Coach Adolph Rupp of the University of Kentucky; Coach Paul D. Hinkle of Butler University; Elmer Layden, athletic director of Notre Dame; Arthur C. Lonborg of Northwestern; Roundy Coughlin from the Wisconsin State Journal, Madison, Wis., and Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune.
The captain of the 1940-41 team and the Monogram winners will be announced at the banquet. A basketball, autographed by Coach George Keogan and the team, will be presented as door prize. It is now on display at Reco’s sporting goods store.
Mathews, 20th Century
Sherlock, Speaks Monday
Dr. J. H. Mathews, chairman of the Chemistry Department and director of the course in Chemistry at the University of Wisconsin, will lecture in Washington Hall Monday evening at 8 o’clock. He will speak on, “The Use of Scientific Methods in the Identification of the Criminal.”
Professor Mathews, who might be termed the twentieth century Sherlock Holmes, is one of the few scientists in this country to take up crime detection from a scientific point of view. Because of this he has been instrumental in solving a number of murder mysteries that the police have failed to “break,” the so-called perfect crime.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
Hull Next President, White Tells Wranglers
“I am not speaking for the Demo
cratic party or for the Farm Labor par
ty. I am not speaking for Roosevelt, or for McNutt, or for Thomas. What I am speaking for is a logical conclusion, approximating truth. This, briefly, is: Hull for President.”
On this purely objective ground, to supplement a political syllogism in the philosophical vein, Brentwood, Md.,
before the Wranglers, Wednesday evening. And the Wranglers, harboring diverse political ties, were convinced thereafter that perhaps the Secretary of State may make the White House his humble abode in 1941.
Jack White
e Jack White of
Mr. Hull, the speaker remarked, is not too liberal, not too conservative, is quiet about most issues, is big in the eyes of the people, and is experienced in the ways and means of government. The two other biggies, Garner and Wheeler, do not fulfill these qualifications so well as Hull.
the victor in the reciprocal trade act renewal fight, this act being the issue in the election. Thus, regardless of the results in the student polls conducted by The Scholastic, Mr. Hull will take over the fireside chats come next January.
Absurdities Slated For
Latter Part Of April
The Monogram Absurdities, annual presentation of the Notre Dame Monogram Club to the world of the theater,' is now in the formative stage, according to Club President Steve Coughlin. No definite opening date has yet been chosen, but indications are that the production will be staged in Washington Hall the latter part of April.
“Don’t be Absurd,” written by Messrs. Tom Marker, Walt Hagen and Bob Tiernan, is the original play on which this year’s “Absurdities” will be based. The female lead of the play goes to petite, red-headed Bob Saggau, while Jerry Flynn, late of “Brother Orchid” fame will have the male lead.
Not content with merely having an original play, the Monogram men have had the good fortune of discovering a second George Gershwin in Chet Sullivan, captain of this year’s baseball team. Chet has branched out from his academic and baseball pursuits, and is now the composer of five songs to be heard in the show. Karl Hunn and his band will furnish the music for the group of masculine thespians.
The famed “beef trust” will again perform its intricate dances, and such twinkle-toed individuals as “Moose” Piepul, Tad Harvey, Tom Gallagher, Joe DeFranco, Benny Sheridan, Jim Brutz, and other football players will test the construction of the Washington Hall stage. Steve Coughlin, in charge of the “Absurdities” this year, promises a good show for everyone “sometime in the latter part of April.”—John Casey
Glee Club To Broadcast
St. Patrick’s Program
The Glee Club, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, will represent Notre Dame m paying honor to Ireland’s illustrious saint in a special St. Patrick’s Day program over a coast-to-eoast hookup of the Mutual Broadcasting System, March 17th.
Aired from 5:00 to 5:30 p.m., the program will feature the singing and playing of the traditionally famous Irish folksongs and tunes. Along with the more famous Celtic tunes, “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling,” “Mother Machree,” and the “Irish Washerwoman,” there will be special arrangements of lesser-known but not less-popular songs, such as “Kerry Dances,” “Believe Me,” and “Minstrel Boy.”
Also featured on the same program will be the WGN Concert Orchestra, under the direction of Henry Webber, and the talented American tenor, Everett Marshall—Tom Powers
Hull will enter the Chicago convention
Absurdities—Across this stage clump the World’s Ugliest Legs
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Student Forum
SHALL WE TELL MORE
By William L. Piedmont, Jr.
In a December issue of The Scholas
tic we attempted to describe some of the
extra-curricular activities of the depart
Father Ward
ment of journalism. We have been asked to “tell more” about the department — when was it founded, what has been its accomplishments, who are its graduates?—This is a big order, but Notre Dame journalists
seem to like big or
ders. One of the
questions asked in class in 1912 was: “Prof., tohat is the best way to run a newspaper?” and one of the theses proposed by a member of this class was: “Advertising; Past, Present and Future.” Although we relish such an as
signment, we shall, nevertheless, attempt to curb our enthusiasm somewhat and
make this as objective as possible.
Beckman, Downey, Finch, Hari—that is the way the roll of students started when first classes opened in the autumn of 1912. Beckman, cheerful, constant, capable Ed, is a credit to New York journalism. Downey, who did not know how to quit, is president of the school board in South Bend and a business success in his own right. Finch, once a real estate promoter in Detroit, of late years, not heard from. And Hari, city editor of the New York Herald Tribune, Paris, France.
This first class met on the second floor of old Science Hall—in Father Kirsch’s and Dr. Powers’ anatomy room, with its red chalk, its boxes of bones, and its closet of skeletons. Be it understood, however, that the department has no such skeletons in its closet today!
Several hundred men have passed through the department of journalism and into a variety of careers. Alumni records show many interesting things regarding former students. Mr. James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni, and himself, an N. D. journalist points out that such national figures as Paul Mallon and Francis Wallace were once students of “Prof’ Cooney in Journalism 7 and 5.
That the Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., head of the department of English, (English majors please note) majored in journalism at Notre Dame. As did
Joseph S. Petritz, ’32; Robert H. McAuliffe, ’18, and John H. Sheehan, ’37.
That Dan Hilgartner of the Chicago Tribune was once the department’s star reporter, covering many weddings in the neighboring Log Chapel.
That Harry Mehre, one of the South’s ablest football coaches, was cum laude in journalism in 1922.
That Bill Dooley, placement bureau director; Bob Riordan, registrar, and Jim Armstrong, alumni secretary, all former journalists, lunch daily in Dr. Cooney’s office and talk over the “good old days” of the department.
Dr. Cooney, head of the department, suggests that the abilities and accomplishments of his present class be not overlooked. This class has submitted and has had published no less than 50 “letters to the editors” of several daily newspapers. Permission has been asked of one member of the class, Joseph Smalley, for the right to publish one of his “letters” in a book of collections of the best “letters to editors.” His letter entitled “Dictatorships All Alike” was published in the Chicago Tribune. The book which will contain his letter is We, The People.
The Notre Dame Press Club, sponsored by the department of journalism, usually confines its activities to two undertakings each year. One is the annual Press Club dinner, always brilliant and successful, and the other, the selection and completion of a project, always educational and worthwhile. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, has invited Malcolm Bingay, editorial director of the Detroit Free Press, as speaker at the 1940 annual dinner, near at hand. Incidentally, the limited capacity of the Faculty dining hall restricts sharply the number attending, and those really eager to attend should make reservations early.
The Press Club project for the current year is an endeavor, now under way, to ascertain the whereabouts, occupational position, etc., of all living students of journalism at Notre Dame, graduates or non-graduates, major or elective students. Results, it is thought, will prove enlightening and stimulating to the department, of some use to the Alumni Association, and probably helpful to the University placement bureau.
The department of journalism received no valentines during February. As wel
come as valentines, however, is such February news as: recent graduates, Carl Zimmerer and Norman Johnson, of the South Bend Tribune, have been taken on by the Courier-Journal down Louisville way. Gratifying too, was a recent headline in Editor and Publisher, “Public Relations is Nothing More Than Good Morals and Good Manners.” John F. McMahon, of the journalism class of ’28, spoke these words to members of the Sales Executives Club in New York last month. Such an expression, I believe, typifies a Notre Dame training in journalism, and it is fairly certain that both the department and the University would consider its educating process complete if all its students would assimilate, declare and practice such ideals.
Second Confraternity
Will Feature Contest
St. Mary’s College will be the site of the Regional Convention of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, on the week-end of April 19-21. 'This is the second consecutive year in which St. Mary’s has been honored by the presence of the various Confraternity delegations, who, this year, will come from the several college and parish centers in Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois, and Indiana.
Sometime prior to the convention, the Confraternity centers at St. Mary’s and Notre Dame will hold a contest in the nature of a quiz, open to all students of both institutions. The subject matter of the questions will concern the history, purpose, and functions of The Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. Winners of this contest will receive such valuable prizes as tickets to the Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame Senior Balls and the Knights of Columbus formal dance. The preliminary contests, as well as the final, are to be held in the St. Mary’s Auditorium.
In conjunction with the contest, students of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame will stage a series of radio skits intended to aid the competitors in obtaining information about the Confraternity. Those who listen to these programs will be better prepared to cope with the contest questions, than those who rely on the Confraternity Manual. The radio program is to emanate from the campus, studios in the Engineering Building through the facilities of WSBT.
Students are needed to take part in the various activities of the conference. Prospective script writers, radio actors, reporters, and contestants are asked to register with the Rev. John Lynch, C.S.C., in the Cavanaugh Hall prefect of religion office, as soon as possible.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
Roosevelt Sweeps Poll;
Students Okay 3rd Term
Franklin D. Roosevelt with a total of 441 votes is Notre Danie’s overwhelming choice for president in 1941. A final cascade of votes from the juniors in Howard and Dillon halls enabled Roosevelt to retain his substantial lead over all his opponents. From a total of 201 votes cast, 146 went to the Democrats, 83 of these to Roosevelt. Vice-president, John N. Garner again held second place with 22 votes, and Social Security Administrator Paul V. McNutt and Postmaster General James Farley tied for third with 13 votes.
The Republicans lost ground, garnering only 55 votes. Racket - smashing Thomas E. Dewey, district attorney of New York City, kept top ranking in the GOP with a total of 238 votes, although he lost ground in this week’s poll to Arthur E. Vandenburg, senator from Michigan, with only 13 votes to Vandenburg’s 29. Robert Taft, senator from Ohio, was a poor third with only five votes.
A synopsis of votes follows:
DEMOCRATS	1st
Roosevelt ......... 83
Garner ............ 22
McNutt ............ 13
Farley ...........  13
Hull ..............  9
Smith ................. Kennedy ............... 1
Jackson ..............
Murphy ...............
Barkley ..............
LaGuardia ............
Wheeler ..............
REPUBLICANS
Dewey ...........  13
Vandenberg ------- 29
Taft -------------- 5
Hoover ------------ 3
Dickenson ----------- 1
Lodge --------------- 2
2nd	3rd	Total
11	12	106
22	18	62
25	14	52
28	27	68
21	19	49
2	3	5
4	6	11
2		2
	• •	
..	3	3
..	3	3
2	..	2
2	--	2
26	18	57
12	12	53
14	15	34
3	3	»
1	__	2
1	1	4
Final Summary of all Polls
Total number of votes cast for the
first three candidates in both parties was 1,677. The Democrats aggregated 1,046 of these votes or 62%. Roosevelt polled 106 votes more than John N. Garner, his nearest Democratic opponent, and almost two and a half times as many votes as Tom Dewey, Republican candidate. Dewey collected only 22 votes more than Vandenberg, his nearest GOP opponent. Although Roosevelt has remained silent regarding a third term candidacy, the above figures indicate that he can have another four years in the White House, if he so chooses.
Total returns from Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, and Senior halls follow:
DEMOCRATS
REPUBLICANS
Roosevelt -------441
Garner ----------335
McNutt ..........270
Dewey __________238
Vandenberg -----216
Taft ___________177
—Robert LeMense and John Powers
Mighty Mize with the great big eyes Waits on the stoop for the sun to rise;
In his hand, a bid for the Ball— Bait for a lass at St. Mary’s Hall.
A modern troubadour, he exchanges the lyre
For baubles of love sent via the wire.
He pitches the ball, as well as the bull And with Coach Jake, needs a continuous pull.
But worry not when the count is at two and at three
For there’s Mize on the bench in complete safety.
Tottering Walsh houses his powerful frame
And nightly quakes ’neath his “pushup” game.
It’s true most any afternoon at five
Mize reels from the gym more dead than alive.
But the blame for this trouble is solely
• Fate’s
For bulging muscles he just waits and waits and waits.
He laps rich gravy where he may But to meat is allergic, so they say.
His major is in Business Ad
And come June, he’s a B.S. grad.
And now that all is said and done
Amongst the “regulars” Mize is one.
Bartholomew To Conduct
Tour To Washington
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, acting head of the Notre Dame Department of Political Science, again will conduct and personally escort a group of Catholic college students on a six-day Easter tour of Washington, D. C. Dr. Bartholomew’s “all-expense” caravan will leave Notre Dame by train the afternoon of Friday, March 22, and will return to the campus the morning of Wednesday, March 27, in time for 8 o’clock classes.
The biennial tour normally was limited to Notre Dame students, but St. Mary’s College students have been welcomed this year, and non-college persons may submit applications also for reservations.
The trip east will be made through a portion of Dixie; Congress and the Supreme Court will be seen in action, and the historic scenery of early America pictured in full dress.—Edward G. Huff
Saturday Evening Post
Debates Greek Houses
The position of Greek-letter organizations in college life is debated vigorously in the March 2 issue of the Saturday Evening Post, by Mrs. Margaret Jack-son a Pi Beta Phi who dislikes “barbs,” and Mr. Fred H. Turner, a college dean, who argues for the “Greeks.”
Mrs. Jackson, a former secretary to a college dean, concerns herself fictionally with some of the less attractive aspects of the college sorority. Mr. Turner, dean of men at the University of Illinois, on other pages of the same issue of the Post, labors on a canvas of a different theme which depicts the fraternities and sororities as filling a real need in the social lives of our college students.
Bishop O’Hara Visits
Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., supervising bishop of the Army and Navy diocese, and former president of the University, stopped here Tuesday enroute to Chicago where he attended the installation ceremonies of the Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, D.D., as archbishop of Chicago on Thursday.
Bishop O’Hara will leave the Midwest for Fort Benning, Ga., where he will confirm soldiers attached to that post on Sunday morning.
On Tuesday, March 12, he will take part in the conferring of the pallium on Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, D.D., archbishop of New York, and on Sunday, March 17, he is scheduled to confirm sailors attached to the Pacific fleet in San Diego, Calif.
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disputants Kelly, Carty, Murray—They discussed the Student Union
Round Table Discusses
Student Union On Radio
For the first five days of the month of July, 1939, the American Youth Congress held forth at the Manhattan Center in New York City — and a few days later were labeled Communists. On Dec. 1, 1939, Germany invaded Poland; and Danzig “returned to the Reich” — “peace” proposals occupied the nation’s headlines for the next few months. And so, week after week, the histories of the future are being shaped. But long before facts are gathered and textbooks are written and published, contemporary opinion has expressed itself. One of the most potent factors -in the dissemination of opinion is the radio — and the radio round table.
The Notre Dame Academy of Politics is carrying on this current trend of expression and every Tuesday afternoon at four o’clock members from the Academy — usually three or four — gather about the “mike” and discuss the problems of the day. Though the name would indicate it, the round table discussions are not limited to politics. These discussions branch into any conceivable controversial topic — recently, traffic congestion and Sunday drivers were taken over the coals.
The system is simple and requires only a few men who are willing to air their convictions — backed by facts. Once seated around a table and on the air the debaters are on their own and the battle of words is initiated; arguments, conjectures, and theories are shuttled back and forth, and objections are dealt with. Take for instance a recent round table which had as its subject “The American Students Union.” The participants were
Harry Murray, Ray Kelly, and Tom 'Carty. The discussion opened, general terms and certain important phases were agreed upon. Then private opinion was initiated. Some of the ideas ran in this manner: “the Student Union is the trojan horse of the Communist Internationale;” “the Student Union is trying to get into the Y.M.C.A. and other such organizations in order to get their good names. They do not want to be known as Communists, but rather under other names, although leaders are out and out Communists.” And so the battle wages.
Letters were read which brought eyewitness accounts of Union proceedings and methods; and the opinions of authoritative figures were quoted. In this round table the only thing lacking was a bit of fire, a bit of opposition; no one would stand up for the Student Union. But this is not always the case. Frequently one participant is directly opposed to his colleagues and then the real clash and excitement begin.
As Russia invades Finland, while Franklin Roosevelt ponders a third term, .while Cordell Hull fights for his convictions, three or four men gather around a microphone and tell the world all about it.—Don Heltzel
Dies Committee Aide
To Speak Here Monday
John C. Metcalfe, noted “personal aide” to Congressman Martin Dies, will appear in Washington Hall Monday afternoon at 4 o’clock to deliver an address on “Uncovering Un-Americanism.”
Mr. Metcalfe gained national fame as a newspaper reporter and Congressional investigator in exposing Nazi, Fascist,
and Communist activities in the United States.
It was his editorial achievement that raised the hue and cry throughout the land for a Federal Government investigation of subversive movements. He subsequently served as the special agent in charge of Nazi and Fascist investigations for the Dies Committee on Un-American Activities, and became its outstanding witness.
It is significant that although in past months Mr. Metcalfe has not yet been “officially” attached to the Dies Committee, he has assisted in the preparation, and presentation of all Nazi and Fascist evidence since the inception of the Congressional Committee’s work. In addition to devoting his time as the “personal aide” to Congressman Dies, Mr. Metcalfe has been engaged in national lecture tour.
Congressman Dies, in a public address at Washington, D. C., declared: “Mr. Metcalfe knows more about the Nazi and Fascist problem in the United States than any other person in the nation.”
His investigations have not only been lauded on the floor of the House of Representatives in the Congress of the United States, but newspapers and publications throughout America have been virtually unanimous in the verdict that his work has been of high merit.
In recognition of his achievements, the National Headliners Club, composed of newspapermen throughout the country, in 1938, awarded to him a silver plaque “for the finest piece of news reporting” in the United States.
Academy Honors Memory
Of Late Dean Wenninger
Members of the Academy of Science gathered in the auditorium of the Biology Building on last Monday evening, to honor the memory of the late dean of the College of Science, the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C. It was the 175th meeting of the Academy.
To an audience composed not only of Academy members, but of the heads of the various departments of the College of Science as well, the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the Uollege of Arts and Letters, and long a friend of Father Wenninger, gave an appreciation of the late Dean’s life and work. William Clark, vice-president of the Academy, delivered a eulogy of Father Wenninger.
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president, represented the University at the meeting.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
.Busy Varsity Debaters
To Meet Michigan Next
Notre Dame’s affirmative debate team, composed of Daniel Sullivan and Milton Williams, will meet a negative team from Michigan State College at East Lansing, Mich., on Wednesday evening.
Seven of the twelve debates were won by the Notre Dame teams at the Iowa University Invitational Debating Tournament, held at Iowa City on Feb. 29, March 1, and 2. The affirmative vote of Sullivan and Williams ranked in the upper 25 percent of all teams at the tournament by winning four of
Thomas Grady William Meier
six debates. Schools defeated were Beloit, Denver, Creighton, and DePauw; while Iowa and Purdue defeated the Notre Dame affirmative team. The negative team of Albert Funk and William Meier won decisions over Cincinnati, Florida, and Kansas, and lost to Texas, Wichita, and Carleton. Both Funk and Meier were awarded ratings of “Excellent” as speakers.
At the Manchester* Debating Tournament, held Feb. 23 and 24 at North Manchester, Ind., the Notre Dame debaters won 20 of 22 contests. The negative “A” team and both affirmative and negative “B” teams had a perfect record in their debates, while the affirmative “A” team won four of six contests.
The negative “A” team, composed of Albert Funk with William Meier and' Thomas Grady as alternate speakers, won decisions over Wayne, Principia, Lake Forest, Capital, New York University, and Grand Rapids. The affirmative “A” team of Daniel Sullivan and Milton Williams, won decisions from Eastern Illinois Normal, Denison, Houghton, Wheaton; and was defeated by Goshen, and Indiana.
The affirmative “B” team of John O’Loughlin and Bernard Lienhard won five debates, defeating teams from Goshen, Toledo, Lake Forest, Purdue, and Findlay. The negative “B” team of
Jack Burke with William Meier and Thomas Grady alternating won all five of its debates, defeating Manchester, Cincinnati, Wabash, Indiana, and Toledo.—John Casey
Bookmen
Alfred Callan, senior philosophy major, presented an outline of contemporary ideas in Christian Humanism at the Bookmen meeting held Monday evening in the Seminar Room of the Law Building. Callan discussed the four outstanding world humanists of today — Jacques Maritain, Christopher Dawson, T. S. Eliot, and Eric Gill. Christian Humanism recognizes certain fundamental errors in the contemporary structure of the Economic, Social, and Religious Orders; the Humanists contend that these errors must be corrected and that there must be a return to sound philosophical values and moral stability. Nowhere in the literary world of today is there found such clear- expression of the problems in industrial civilization as in the writings of these four personalities.
Robert Stenger discussed trends in Modern Drama at the same meeting.
Four new members were elected to the Bookmen. The new members are: Milton Williams, a junior, Robert Coleman and Emmet Griffin, sophomores, and William Keenan, a freshman.
‘Labor Problem Acute’
Dean Tells Engineers
Mr. Hugh Dean, of the Chevrolet Division of the General Motors Corporation in Detroit, recently discussed Labor Relations with the senior class in the Engineering school. Stressing the importance of proper Labor Relations, he brought out emphatically the fact that, “a real labor problem exists in our country today.” It is a problem that places upon management and industry certain responsibilities that they must assume. It also places upon the employee his responsibility toward his superiors. “Initiative and enterprise are the most important factors in the advancement and promotion of an individual,” he said.
Mr. Dean stressed the fact that function of management could not be shared with labor. The problem of unemployment today is as acute as it was in March, 1938, and he said that “theorizing on minimum wages and maximum hours does not relieve that situation.” He also brought out that profit motive is an incentive to good business management, because plant rehabilitation and equipment. replacement cannot be accomplished without a sound fiscal policy.
Student Philosophers
Convene Here April 10
Notre Dame will be host to an Intercollegiate Philosophical Conference in Washington Hall on April 10 and 11. The Universities of Indiana and Illinois will be the other participants. “Finality” has been tentatively set as the topic. The second day of the conference will be devoted to the annual Disputation sponsored by the Schoolmen, and the topic this year will be “Man’s Free Will.”
This is believed to be the first intercollegiate conference of student representatives dealing with a philosophical subject. Each university will be represented by four students. Each group will present a paper- on their position and defend it in an informal discussion. All those interested may attend the conference.
February Santa Mana
Honors Bishop O’Hara
The February issue of the Santa Maria, quarterly publication of the Knights of Columbus, rolled off the presses last week, with the issue dedicated to the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D. Besides an article about Bishop O’Hara the paper contained an article entitled “Columbus and the Spirit of Toleration,” by Professor Frank T. Flynn; and “Youth in Columbianism,” an editorial by Thomas Carty. The remainder of the eight-page publication dealt with activities of the local council of the Knights of Columbus, with one future event taking prominent notice: on April 24, the Notre Dame council will celebrate its Thirtieth Anniversary of Columbian activities with a major initiation and banquet.
ana vino on
Norb Schickel
Annual Engineers’ Ball Scheduled For April 5 The annual ball of the Notre Dame Engineers’ Club will be held at the Indi-le evening of Friday, April 5, Norbert Schickel, president of the club, announced this week. Karl Hunn’s orchestra will provide the music. William Kerwin is general chairman of the ball, and is being assisted by the following committee chairmen: Tickets, Robert Chamber
lain; publicity, Robert Shoemaker; music, Jack DeMoss; decorations, John Wilson; program, John McHugh; patrons, Jerry Hickey; reception, Edward Pratt.
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
William Kelieher, Art Editor
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC Is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff. 6:30 P.M.; General Staff. 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
Swingin’ The Smut
IN THE sometimes dreary routine of culling the college pulps for interesting news bits and humor with a not too great vintage, there is the possibility of uncovering an item or a paragraph that makes the reader stop to realize that here a point has been made.
Such was the story as we read the latest issue of the Annapolis Log. Its column, “Chords and Discords,” is one of our favorites because it discusses modem music with a particularly solid viewpoint. But to clinch our admiration, the latest column was headed by a paragraph entitled, “Pseudo - sophisticated Smut.”
The phrase had such a punch that we immediately suspected origination from our Religious Bulletin, but in all fairness we must give full credit to the Middies. The meaning of the phrase is almost instantly self-explanatory to the college man who likes his music. It has reference to the lyrics of the so-called “novelty” songs that have seemingly gained national popularity.
Perhaps the term “popularity” is misused. We hope so. At least, attention has been drawn to the recordings of songs with a double-entendre. Such records are played on the campus, and the vulgar insinuations are doubtlessly appreciated.
Such a trend is to be condemned for a two-fold reason. The first and most important charge is against the pornographic and obscene content, as such. Any song that alludes cunningly to veiled meaning is certainly crying out for eradication. Catholics recognize such melodic filth as an infraction of their moral code.
There is also the secondary charge that our standards of modem music, already challenged, will be further blamed if this tendency becomes a permanent attribute. Most swung music enthusiasts are now of the opinion that their conception of popular rhythms has been accorded a rightful recognition, but further progress of an appreciation for the sophisticated cute-tunes will besmirch any acknowledgments.
Up to this point swing music has been free from taints of smutty vocals, and the jitter-bug has been the target for most criticism. The jitter-bug is merely acting out the feelings engendered by some hot licks of his favorite band. His antics may appear to be questionable, but he does them in public with all the freedom of an athletic team on the field of contact.
Therefore, far more dangerous is the lyric-listener who ears up to his radio or recording machine to race into mental fugues encouraged by the implications of “pseudo-sophisticated smut.”
—John B. Willmann
Below The Belt
WHEN taken with a hamburger and a few grains of salt, rumor is an innocuous by-product of our nine o’clock Cafe Society. We never do fly to the Southern Cal game as the guests of the walk-a-mile cigarette company. Unlike the Caesars, Father O’Donnell did not release all prisoners from campus custody upon his elevation to the Presidency. Freshman Hall sags and sags, but withstands each new7 threat of organized razing . . . and yet the contemplation of nebulous events — the Seniors are talking Hal Kemp for the Ball — makes pleasant conversation over coffee and a cigarette.
There is something vicious, however, in the current rumor that the St. Vincent de Paul society over-charges by 5% on all bus and airline transportation tickets sold through its local office. The rumor has gained momentum despite the fact that even a cursory comparison of Vincentian ticket prices quoted by the transportation companies reveal no discrepancy. The prices match to the penny. Whatever legitimate commission the Vincentians receive is a fixed percentage which in no way affects the cost of tickets.
A student pays the Vincentians precisely the same price he wrould otherwise push through the ticket window of a downtown station. And with his ticket he buys whatever inner satisfaction is his from helping a worthy charitable organization — for it is from ticket sales, and old clothes drives, and occasional contributions that the Vincentians secure funds to carry on their downtown casework.
For seven years now the St. Vincent de Paul society has been a constantly expanding campus organization. In that time Charity has walked from the campus into every part of St. Joseph county — from Healthwin to Dogtown. In no campus activity do participators receive a less tangible reward for services rendered. No bands play . . . nor should voices be raised in careless, and inaccurate, criticism.—William C. Fay
“The individual most in demand is one who can get along successfully with other persons, control his emotions, and the like. Mere skill and knowledge no longer suffice. Employers insist that social facility is now an indispensable factor in occupational success.” University of Wisconsin’s Prof. A. H. Edgerton, vocational guidance expert, urges college students to become versatile and adaptable.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
MODERN BENGAL
BY JOHN DINGES
After the hands of the winners of the final bouts have been raised in victory, the gloves hung away ’til next year, the finalists’ souvenir trunks packed away and the Ninth Annual Bengal Bouts are but a memory there will be a certain little band of people who will gratefully remember the fighters, promoters, and spectators of these bouts.
These people are the 500 Catholic missionaries in the American Holy Cross field of Bengal, India. Of this number there are 25 priests and about 15 brothers who are Notre Dame men. There are also about 10 native priests. Nuns, too, are carrying the word of God in Bengal. Four sisterhoods are represented, one of which was founded by Sister Rose Bernard, C.S.C., of nearby St. Mary’s. In addition there are Holy .Cross nuns from St. Mary’s; the Associates of Mary Queen of Apostles, all native sister; Sisters of Mary Immaculate, from France, and England; and the Catholic Medical Missionaries, founded by Dr. Anna Dengel and the Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., now teaching at the University. This latter mentioned community is the first of its kind in the Catholic Church, its personnel being composed of sisters trained in the medical and nursing profession.
Holy Cross in India is divided into two dioceses: Chittagong for the Canadian members, and the Dacca diocese for American workers. The Most Rev. Dr. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., a professor at Notre Dame in 1907, is bishop of the Dacca diocese. While he was teaching here he made deep friendships for Bengal among the students, so much so that the modern movement in the Congregation dates largely from that time.
Bengal itself is in the northeastern part of India. The scene of labor, the Dacca diocese, is in eastern Bengal in the delta region of two of the greatest rivers in the world, the Ganges and Brahmaputra, which flood the land every year from June to September to such an extent that houses in this district are built on artificial mounds.
Besides the 8,000 Bengali Catholics the missionaries within the last 20 years have made some 12,000 converts from the Garo tribes, who have left their native Assam Hills and now cultivate the rich soil of the Bengal plains. In addition to the Garos, there is at present a
strong movement among the hill-tribes and “untouchables” to the Church in the Bengal missions.
The East Indians look favorably upon the Catholic missionaries not only by reason of the educational, social, and economic advantages which are offered but also are strongly attracted by the spiritual character of Catholicism itself.
Institutions operated by Holy Cross in Bengal include two large high-schools in charge of brothers; one at Dacca, 500 students, and one at Bandurah, 900 students; two catechetical schools for native catechists and a preparatory seminary for native priests. The Catholic Medical Missionaries are in charge of the Mitford Municipal Hospital at Dacca and of two child welfare and maternity centers in the same city from which they work among the women and children. At Toomiliah, 25 miles north of Dacca, the Holy Cross Sisters are starting a native hospital in which the new order founded by them will assist in the the work. All the native sisters will receive technical training from the Catholic Medical Missionaries.
Holy Cross first went to India in 1853 and remained till shortly after the American Civil Wai* when the missionaries were called back and their posts taken over by the Benedictines. They returned to their labors abroad again in 1888 and worked in a field of 20,000,000 people. This was subdivided in 1928 into two dioceses and the American Holy Cross members now give their attention to the 12,000,000 souls in the Dacca diocese.
Missionary work in Bengal is carried on from “centers” which may consist of a boys’ boarding house; a tin-roofed church, priests’ house and catechists' houses; the ever-present dispensary; a school and maybe a convent. Such a center may care for 30 or so native villages. There are 15 such Holy Cross centers in Bengal.
Life for the Bengal missionary presents a continuous series of problems and triumphs, trials and joys; everything from predatory tigers to capricious schoolboys. The annual four months of flood season give him ample opportunity to exercise his nautical skill. When the rains and flood stages have gone, aside from railroads, a good pair of feet are the most reliable means of transportation, for the roads in many
places are impassable even to a bicycle, let alone automobiles, and certain muddy periods defy even the best efforts of horses. In the summer, heat presents a problem to which the tin roofs of some of the missionary buildings present a dubious solution. At times even the convenience of the gasoline mantle lamps is dispensed with since while their superior light is welcome the added heat it not. In spite of the discomfort of the dampness the rainy season is welcomed for the coolness it brings. During this period it may rain hard for half and hour and then be clear the rest of the day, or it may rain steadily for three days but it is almost certain to rain some each day. But the work goes on; through flood and heat this labor for souls does not cease. One of the missionaries, Father Raymond Massart has just come back to recuperate but is anxious to return to some fresh labor afield which he has just begun.
Where do the profits of the Bengal Bouts go? As an example we may take the work of a missionary in the dry season when he usually makes a one-week trip per month and four or five one-day trips, working out of his particular center. The cost of this travel, per priest including his catechist-cook combination is about §33.00 per month. These trips include the cost of travel, by rail if possible; lodging, although there are no hotels even in Dacca, a good sized city; and coolie porters or guides. The catechists are lay persons who devote their full time to working for the misionaries. In the hill section support for them and their families is about §6.00 per month excluding travel and medicine. Catechists, too, travel as far as a §5.00 travel allowance permits; he takes about §2.00 worth of medicine with him including quinine and iodine. In short the expenses amount to a minimum of §50.00 per month for a priest including keep and travel; §10.00 per month for a traveling catechist, and §6.00 a month for resident catechists.
And that is where the money from the Bengal Bouts will go. Where is a more truly worthy cause than to aid these workers, many of them Notre Dame men who have watched similar bouts in past years and who are now laboring afar and beginning to await the heat of an Indian summer in far-off Bengal?
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Signs of Spring—Basebailers Hold First Workouts
Sixteen Big Ten Games
Feature Diamond Schedule
“Toughest 22 Games We Have Ever Faced”—Kline.
Confronted with the stiffest schedule in modern Notre Dame basehall history, Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline’s squad has been working intensely in the fieldhouse each afternoon, preparing for the season inaugural, April 6, against Northwestern.
“There’s no doubt that this schedule of 22 games is the toughest we’ve faced since I’ve been here,” Coach Kline commented. “We will meet Big Ten teams in 16 games, and I know of no other school which has ever been faced with such a task.”
In addition to the 16 Big Ten games — two-game series with Northwestern, Iowa, Chicago, Purdue, Michigan, Indiana, Ohio State, Wisconsin, — the Irish will tackle Western State of Kalamazoo, Mich., and Michigan State, two of the strongest clubs outside the Western Conference.
Highlighting the schedule, however, is a trip east which calls for games on May 10 against the Navy at Annapolis, and on May 11 with the Army at West Point.
The April 6th opening is the earliest first game in recent history, and much of the preliminary work has been under
way in the fieldhouse. As soon as
weather permits, the basebailers will move to Cartier field.
Forced to his home by illness, Coach Kline missed drills Tuesday, but said that plans are under way for a possible exhibition game here against a major league team. The Irish mentor believes one of the traveling clubs appearing in Chicago may stop off here for a game.
Biggest difficulties for the 1940 team appear behind the plate and at second base. Coach Kline looks for Jack Joyce, an outfielder of a year ago who has had considerable catching experience during summer vacation, to give Tom Brennan a run for the first string job. However, Bernie Crimmins, Al Vandervoort, and Mike Kelly loom as other outstanding stars for backstop duty.
Since battery work has taken the majority of emphasis indoors, Coach Kline looks for Bernie Nowicki and John Campbell to give lettermen Norvall Hunthausen and Rex Ellis competition for hurling berths. Campbell is a transfer student from St. Ambrose college of Iowa.
Hubert Crane returns as a monogram winner at second base, but Coach Kline is looking for more material in that position. George Sobek, basketball forward, was the best of the frosh infielders last year and may break into the lineup. Ray Pinelli, monogram winner, returns as shortstop. '
Ken Oberbruner, Roy Pinelli, and
Frank Behe return as monogram men for the outfield. Charles Farrell, first base, .and Captain Chet Sullivan, third base, appear as fixtures for those posts.
—Bill Scanlan
Bengal Preliminaries
Begin Monday Night
Jabs, hooks, feints, and crosses will fill the air on Monday night in the Notre Dame gym as the Bengaleers slug it out for the honor of fighting in the finals of the Bengal Bouts next Friday. Before the three nights of prelims are completed, nearly 100 boxers, trained to top condition, will step into the ring.
During the past week, Mr. Napolitano, head instructor, has been checking on weights, condition, and pairings. He and his capable assistant, Bill Padon, have worked tirelessly with each contestant and are now ready to send their charges into the ring.
Training sessions have proved one important point to all onlookers — there will be few champions repeating this year. Number one reason for this belief is the fact that there has been a lack of old faces in the boxing room each afternoon, and there have been many new faces. Reason number two is the ability of the newcomers.
Bill Dilhofer, Bob Duffey, Walt Johnson, Jim Ford, Harry John, and Sammy Dolce are champions who have forfeited their titles. Jerry Ryan and Rod Maguire are the only boxers •who have returned to defend their laurels.
To pick the outstanding men in each class is pure guess work, but predictions are on the lips of every Bengal fan on the campus. The names of Greene, Ryan, Maguire, and Malloy are mysteries to some, but by Friday night everyone will know these boys can fight.
To begin with the little fellows and work up to the heavyweight division, the picture shows many potential champions in each weight. In some instances there are fighters who appear to stand high above their respective opponents.
Standout among the smaller fighters is Cavanaugh’s Paul Malloy, a clever, fast boxer. His outstanding opponent will be sophomore Gene O’Brien, Morrissey hall speedster. O’Brien lacks the finesse of Malloy, but has a dangerous punch that may explode at any time.
A good prospect to capture the vacated 127-pound title is Bob Steele, a Car-rollite. Bob has worked hard from the beginning of the training grind, and his development has been exceptionally promising. Martin Rock, a wiry and tough, though inexperienced boy from
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
Howard hall, may make plenty of trouble for Steele.
At 135, the class dominated by Sammy Dolce for the past three years, two fighters stand out. Lyons Hall will send Jack Boyce into the ring; Jimmy McNulty will represent the St. Ed’s A.C. These two boys are tall and rangy for their weight, and should go through to the finals. What they will do against each other is strictly a toss-up.
Returning to defend his 145-pound title is Rod Maguire, the boy who was unanimously considered the best fighter in the tournament last year. Rod is expected by many to retain his title in this, his sophomore year. But there are two prospects who may give Maguire plenty of trouble. First is much talked about George Greene, Howard Hall representative. Greene is working hard, and if he can keep his head when his opponents are losing theirs, George has a fine chance of breaking through to win. The other promising candidate for Maguire’s title is Mario Massulo, a jumping-jack slugger from Brownson.
Finalist last year, Bill McGrath, of Morrissey, looks like a good bet for the 155-lb championship this time. He hits quick and often, has balanced footwork and plenty of boxing skill. To harass McGrath, Joe D’Ambrosio, brother of famous Lou Ambers, has entered the bouts. Joe went to the semi-finals in the South Bend Golden Gloves tournament, and was beaten by the ultimate champion, Johnny Gulyanics.
In the 165-lb. division the most likely looking fighters are Harry McLaughlin, who gave the fans some exciting moments last year, Tom Foley, of Morrissey, and a freshman standout, John Battale. There is a question as to whether Bob Ronstadt will fight at 155 or 165, but he can go places at either weight.
Jerry Ryan has things much his own way at 175-pounds as far as experience and knowledge of fighting are concerned. His fellow junior, Bill Hoyne, has been coming along fast, and has the mighty sock to knock anyone in that class for a loop.
Heavyweight stars are Lou Rymkus and Bob Dowd. Lou lives in Brownson; Bob is a Dillonite. Both are big, surprisingly fast, and possess dynamite fists. Carl Wiedlocher may take them both over.
These boys and many others have their hearts set on winning a sweater in the Bengal tournament. They are going to put on some real battles to win. Ability is not lacking in any weight division. It’s going to be a great show.
—John Patterson
Introducing ey
Pete Sheehan
Dave Reidy, the sensation of last year’s Central Collegiate Conference Meet, will defend his titles in both the high and low hurdles tomorrow after
noon at Jenison Fieldhouse, E. Lansing.
Although Dave has won his collegiate fame as a hurdler, he was considered one of the finest left halfbacks that ever performed on a New Jersey gridiron. A regular for three years, Dave topped the
state in ’35 when he accounted for 86 of West High’s points and led the Newark team into a tie for the state championship.
The all-State selectors also honored him in his final year by naming him on the first team along with Harry Stevenson. Dave and Harry met as rivals on three different occasions back in Jersey but the Newark boy holds a two-to - one advantage over his East Orange rival.
Dave also spent three years on the track team and was chosen as captain in 1936. The West High track-sters were undisputed state champions during Captain Reidy’s reign when Dave took first place in both the high hurdles and the broad jump. His time in the hurdles was 15.5; 22 feet represents his best effort in the latter event.
When he first entered Notre Dame he intended to participate in football, basketball and track. This hope was fulfilled during his freshman year but during
the summer months he decided to drop basketball and football in favor of track.
Reidy scored several points as a sophomore and easily earned a Monogram. Last year he was, along with Greg Rice, the star of the indoor season. In the C.C.C. meet he tied two records, won every one of the nine heats in which he was entered and captured individual scoring honors. His time of 7.5 seconds tied the field house record for the high hurdles and a 7.2 second finish equalled the Notre Dame low hurdle mark.
When Dave left for the Penn Relays last spring he was suffering from a slight cold which reduced his effectiveness. Upon his return to the campus he was immediately confined to the Infirm
ary when it was discovered that he was threatened with pneumonia. Thus he was out of action until the close of the outdoor season.
The effects of last year’s illness have
not yet completely disappeared but Dave expects to retain his top form when warm weather arrives. Two records on the cinder paths would very nicely match his indoor achievements.
Three summers ago Reidy played soft-
ball in the Newark League. Like Babe Ruth, he was originally a pitcher but was shifted to the outfield because of his tremendous power at the plate. Incidentally, his team was runher-up for the state softball title.
He is very quiet, studious and, in his spare time, entertains his neighbors in Alumni Hall with his collection of the latest recordings.
Statistics: Full name—David Leo Reidy. Born Jan. 6, 1918, at Long Island, New York. Moved to Newark when he was six years old. Height, 5 feet 11% inches; weight, 173 pounds. He is a Senior in Commerce with a particular liking for accounting.
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Splinters From The Pressbox
Frank Aubrey
Just one more game, and another basketball season will be laid to rest. We’ve been around to throw flowers at the demise of the past three of these campaigns. They were sad occasions all — for some real ball players quit the Irish hardwood for good. But the gang that played here left quite a few records which we can hold on to as souvenirs.
Going back over the stretch of 45-odd games we’ve seen on the home court, the most memorable incidents in any senior’s mind are probably the optimistic cry of ‘oppuls 1 oppuls!’ and the Casasan-tian extravaganza ‘Tiger Rag.’ But between trombone smears and sailing apples we glimpsed more than a few guys who could do things with a basketball. There was the duo of Johnny Moir and Paul Nowak, for instance. In the 1936-37 season Johnny poured 290 points through the hoop. Unbelievable? No sir, we saw him do it. The shot the crowd liked most was when John used to sprint for the hoop and Brown or Wukovits would whip in a pass about 8 feet high. Moir would then snag it, and in one motion, while in the air, ram it through the cords. The response was generally something that sounded like a ‘woooowwww!’
Oh yes, then there was the theatrical ability of Big Paul, a born showman, with a pair of hands big enough to palm a watermelon. Paul would fake, then feint, then whirl with the ball till he had an enemy guard just about ready to sit down and cry, then Paul would relent. But not until the crowd had its 40 cents worth, — or its dollars worth — depending on where you were sitting. When the ’36-’37 season wore to a close with Notre Dame bagging 20 wins out of 23 games, the sporting gentlemen picked Moir and Nowak on the All-American team.
We saw some other boys, too, who didn’t stand around with their hands in their pockets. Remember Jewell Young of Purdue? He had been averaging 16 points a night in Big Ten games until one evening he stopped off in South Bend. Wukovits, Jordan, and Brown were the Irish guards — if an explana- . tion is needed. Then there was that speedster from Illinois, a boy who later was signed by the Cleveland Indians to play the infield, Lou Bourdeau. A year later we watched Johnny Kundla of Minnesota, another crackshot — but, of course, we saw him on his night off. All
of these fellows were not their own likable selves when they played here. Terrible treatment! — we roughed them, stole the ball from them, faked them, and out-speeded them.
Two out-of-towners who demonstrated their stock of goods so well that the local populace was ‘sold,’ were Lanky Pick Dehner, of Illinois, and Bill De-neen, of Marquette. Dehner played the bucket and the center pivot for his points and it seemed a fail* way to make a living, for he made it look mighty easy. Deneen chose the night when we, as juniors, were showing the weaker sex how virile the N.D. team was. Just our luck! After ten wins in a row, Deneen led Marquette to a 47 to 22 victory. Technically, though we didn’t think of him technically at the time, Deneen utilized a fast break, a change of pace, and a sweet eye for the basket to bamboozle Keogan’s men.
Probably the greatest honor to settle on our collective shoulders was the award of the Associated Press to Paul Nowak, placing him on their ALL-TIME, all-American team. In this company Paul was bumping elbows with men like Chuck Hyatt, formerly of Pittsburgh, Hank Luisetti of Stanford, Don White of Purdue, and lots of others with similar haloes. Probably the gentlemen-bearing-gifts were in mind of games like that Wisconsin one when they decided to use Nowak on their mythical quintet. Well, sir, if you don’t remember* that one — Wisconsin was leading 31-27 with 1% minutes to play. Came into the game wee Mike Crowe (you could scarcely see him with the crowd all standing.) Mike no sooner found the ball in his hand than he tossed it through the hoop. Then he drew a foul, and bounced his try off the board so Brown could grab it. With Big Paul the center of play, shuffling the passes in and out, finally Sadowski got a set up and the score was tied. Everybody had one eye on the clock and one eye on the game, for the hand on the clock had less than one revolution left . . . that is, everybody but Paul. Somewhere out by the spot Keogan was standing, Paul arched one. When it came down, we had won 33 to 31. . . .
Then that same year, when Joe Pet-ritz came to add up his accounts, there was Moir with 230 more points to his credit, giving him a total of 780 in three seasons of havoc.
“Just Had Good Day,”
Says Rice Of Record
One of the few fleeting moments you’ll ever see Greg Rice inactive is when he is resting between races, such as between events at the Indiana A.A.U. championships in the University fieldhouse last Saturday night. Even then Greg thinks and talks ‘track.’
“I just had an ‘on’ day. Nick and I worked out a plan and it came through. I ran a better last half mile than we expected and I guess that’s why the | record fell. It was one of those days .. when everything went perfect.”	t
That’s how Rice described his record smashing three-mile run at New York’s Madison Square Garden on February 24. His time of 13:55.9 smashed Willie Ritola’s 15-year-old record.
Greg lay stretched out on a long bench in the Notre Dame dressing room, talking with Will Reardon, frosh mile star. Then he looked up: “Fellows here at school need more exercise. And runners must develop a working diet. That is an important item in successful running.”
The former Irish runner, now working South Bend and running under the colors of the South Bend Athletic Club, departed today foi* New York where he races again tomorrow night. After that he plans to run in the Butler Relays and at the Chicago Relays.
Greg isn’t sure which race he’d prefer to run. “I’d run the 60-yard dash if I could do it well enough,” he stated.
He was pleased when told that his Michigan-Notre Dame meet record for the mile wasn’t broken though first reports were contrary. “I wouldn’t mind it being broken convincingly, but not by just a tenth of a second.” His record stands at 4:19.1.
Glancing at his watch—“I won this Pi at the Illinois Relays.” He got up and jogged off to the track ready to match strides with Dick Tupta and others in the half-mile.—Bill Scanlan
Track Team To Defend
Central Crown Today
A much improved Notre Dame track squad, but one still noticeably weak in reserve power, moved into the 14th annual Central Collegiate Conference track meet at East Lansing today with high hopes to square accounts with the past and bring home Notre Dame’s 11th Conference title.
Included in the contesting schools who annually vie for conference honors are: Marquette, Michigan State, Michigan Normal, Wayne University, and Notre
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
Dame. In a meet which for years has been considered Notre Dame “property,” the Irish this year find themselves just one- of the contesting teams, and Marquette’s powerful squad the favorite to cop the majority of honors. Having beaten. Notre Dame and Michigan State, the husky Hilltoppers hold a decided advantage over their ambitious rivals.
Yet with the improvement the Irish have shown in past performances, especially in last Saturday’s meet against Michigan, Notre Dame has that “outside chance” of winning. The Irish relay team of Schiewe, Lawrence, Roy, and Halpin should follow past performances and win. Cliff Brosey appears as a first place winner in the shot-put and will be shooting for a longer heave than his 49 feet 10 % inches of last week.
—Tom Powers
HOUHD & HORII TWEEDS
Rockne Memorial News
The champions of the lightweight and heavyweight divisions of interhall basketball will be determined next Thursday night at the Memorial. Roundrobin tournaments began this week, and the remaining tilts up to the finals will be held the early part of next week.
Participating in the round-robin affairs are the teams that finished first, second, third, and fourth during the regular schedule. There were some ties for positions and these were played off earlier this week.
An all-star team is being, chosen during the nights of the playoff, and will be announced soon.
Handball and Squash
Finals in the doubles handball tournament will not be played until Monday. Reason for the delay is that three of the quartet who have reached the last round have been ill. Waiting to play are the teams of Tom Monahan, singles champion, Bernard Masterson, Gerald Saxton, and Jim Brown.
Forty-three players are competing in the novice handball tournament which is expected to be completed this week. The same is true for the novice squash tourney which originally was drawn up for 16 contestants.
Because of popular demand another singles handball meet will be held after Easter. The previous meet was held before Christmas, and a number of the boys,’ out of condition then, have developed their games. They asked for another tournament, and Memorial officials yielded.
Eight teams are entered in the priests’
Sporting men turn to Hound & Hom when the conversation turns to tweed. They’ll tell you they wear Hound & Hom Tweed because it gives them the colorful, rugged appearance they demand for sports events, and, at the same time, provides them with a definite change of pace in their business dress. Take a tip from the men who know and be better dressed this Spring in Hound & Hom . . the one tweed that is soft to the touch and mighty, mighty comfortable.
PARKER-WINTERROWD
I l5i/2 -1171/2 NORTH MAIN (Upstairs)
Consult our Campus Representatives
Geo. L. Haithcock, Main Bldg. Harry Stephenson, 109 Sorin “Tad” Harvey, 11 Morrissey	Jack DeMoss, 309 Sorin

18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
handball tourney. The duos are playing at their own convenience.
Swimming
Approximately 55 boys received their senior life saving certificates last week. During the week of May 6th these swimmers and others who likewise have this award will take an examination for an instructor’s certificate. A Red Cross representative will be here.
Announcement is also made of the interhall swimming meet to be held after Easter. All natators were cautioned to begin getting-into shape.
—John E. Lewis
Irish Golfers Face
Nine-Match Schedule
Headed by Captain Walt Hagen, Jr., and Sammy Neild, junior, who set a William J. Burke-Notre Dame course record of 68, two under par, last summer, the Notre Dame golf squad will start practice, March 27, weather permitting.
Director of Athletics Elmer F. Layden has announced a 9-match schedule for the Irish. In addition to Hagen and Neild, the Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., coach, will have returning monogram men in Bill Schaller and Phil Donohue. George Costello, Bob Smith, George Schreiber, Bob Bertsch, Bob Centlivre, Milo Wolf, and William Wilson loom as the outstanding candidates.
The schedule opens April 18 with Purdue here and ends with the National Collegiate at Manchester, Vermont.
The schedule follows:
Purdue at Notre Dame_____________________April 18
Michigan at Ann Arbor____________________April 22
Illinois at Urbana-----------------------April 27
Marquette at Notre Dame....................May	2
Northwestern at Notre Dame_______________-May 3
Minnesota at Notre Dame__________________.May 11
Michigan State at East Lansing...........May 13
Wayne U. at Detroit.---------------------May 17
Detroit U. at Detroit____________________.May 18
State tournament at Earlham.....May 25 or June 1 National Collegiate A.A.
at Manchester, Vermont______________June 24
Seniors End Careers In
Detroit Cage Battle
Seeking a record equal to the 1938-39 standard of 15 victories in 21 starts, Coach George Keogan’s basketball team will close a successful season at Detroit University Saturday night.
The Titans are headed by Bob Cali-han, All-American center, who recently broke his own individual scoring record of 267 points set last year. He is playing his last contest for Detroit and should be harder than ever to stop. The host team will be without the services of Captain Piana who was lost several weeks ago because of illness. Pegan and O’Brien are reliable ball players who can provide trouble for Notre Dame’s scoring plans.
Coach Brazil’s team has a record of 14 victories and seven defeats against some of the toughest opposition in the
Midwest. They will not be favored over the Irish, however, as they have lost twice to Toledo, victim of Notre Dame 38-30. In 15 consecutive games Notre Dame has defeated Detroit, without the latter having one victory on their slate in the 28 year old series.
Capt. Mark Ertel, Rex Ellis, Gene Klier, Don Smith and Ken Oberbruner will close their Notre Dame basketball careers tomorrow night. Their work has been responsible for much of this season’s success. If Detroit is beaten, the Irish will boast a win percentage of .770 which is in keeping with the precedent of Keogan coached teams. All five seniors will be intent on holding that record intact, and judging from past performances, they should do it.—Chuck Farrell
Coach Layden’s Hopes
Come With The Wind
Coach Elmer Layden has been hopping puddles these days from his office to the Engineering Building and back. “Those whirling cups, in the weather observation station interest me ■— the faster they whirl, the happier I’ll be; the only thing that can dent that lake on Brownson Field is a good steady wind — so let it blow.”
Perhaps four years in Indiana should have made Mr. Layden skeptical of sunshine in February, but two weeks ago his eagerness to start football practice
You’re always on top with
<>
MANSFIELD SHOES
How to make sure your footwear is always up to snuff. Buy expensive shoes and be afraid of scuffing them? No. Buy cheap shoes and be disappointed in the service they give? No. BUY MANSFIELDS— the shoes with a known reputation for style and ruggedness; full value you get for that welcome “medium price”.
$5.50
SELBY SHOES
130 W. Washington Street
i


The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
got the better of his judgment and he issued a preliminary announcement.
Before Mac could get the equipment ready the sun was blurred by a steady snowfall and Brownson Field was buried in drifts. With the last week-end rains washing away the snow, it’s now the problem of Alphonse and Pat, fortified by a drying wind, to get the field in playable shape.
“We must get out before Easter, because we’ll have only four weeks after we get back — the final scrimmage is scheduled for April 27.” Coach Layden isn’t counting on all of the time after Easter “because it rains around here, quite a bit, you know.”
Using the system of the past, Coach Layden will split the entire squad into as many “elevens” as there are players. Freshmen will play with the varsity. “They’ll swing right into the shift from where they left off last fall after their week’s instruction. The only distinction will be the green jerseys — we’ll be watching them.”
With scrimmages arranged in a kind of round robin play, the top team will be decided and feted accordingly.
—John Quinn
Tennis Prospects Better
Than Last Year—Langford
A sure sign that Spring is on the way manifested itself in an interview with tennis coach, Professor Walter L. Langford, which brought to light many interesting facts on the net squad’s chances for the coming 1940 campaign. Said Coach Langford: “Our outlook is pretty fair. I won’t say brilliant, for I don’t want to appear too optimistic. On the other hand, I don’t
MANY FORMER SMOKERS OF EXPENSIVE PIPES NOW PREFER
UOHfJUft
ie exte-
FINEST HUAK
CERBIRE FILTERS FOR MEMCB PIPES MCXEB ONLY M TIMS IES * BUCK BOX
nor, keeps nicotine, juices, flakes out of mouth. No breaking in. No tongue bite. Breaks up hot smoke, hence mild, healthy
MEDICO
<^NLY filter combining 66 baffle
interior
MEDICO FILTERED SMOKING, ■■•money^

want to be a pessimist either, so I’ll just say that we’ll be a little stronger than last year.”
The team will be built around Captain Bill Fay, Jack Joyce, John Walsh, Harold Bowler, John Wolf, all of whom won monograms last year, Norman Heckler, and Dan Canale, the last mentioned being a brilliant sophomore prospect, who is highly regarded by Coach Langford, since he won the University championship, last year, as a freshman.
While the schedule is incomplete at this time, it is apparent that it will be one of the most strenuous ever undertaken by a Notre Dame net team.
Opening on April 18 against Wabash, they will meet such opponents as Kentucky, Western State Teachers, Northwestern, Chicago, Indiana, DePaul, Michigan, and will wind up the season on May 23, 24, and 25, at the Indiana State Tournament, to be held at Purdue.
About the state tourney, Coach Langford had this to say: “On only one occasion have the Notre Dame players failed to win either the singles or doubles title, and it is expected that this year’s team will be strong enough to carry off its full share of honors.”
Relative to the squad, the coach made this fact plain: “While the boys already mentioned will probably form the backbone of the team, I am interested in seeing as many candidates as possible report for practice, for I have places on the squad for several others, and I am anxious for all those interested in tennis, to show their ability.”
According to Coach Langford, practice will start indoors this week, and will move outside as soon as weather permits, “probably after Easter vacation.”
—Jim Clemens


Make Your Spring VACATION LAST LONGER
Fly Home and Back by FLAGSHIP
American Airlines Flagships serve 57 major U. S. cities directly. Excellent connections out of South Bend to points East, Southwest and West. 10% saving on round trip fares. Meals aloft are complimentary. Stewardess on every ship. See American Airlines representative Jack Reddy, St. Vincent’s Society, for full details.
AMERICAN AIR LINES
(INC. )
ROUTE OF THE FLAGSHIPS
Going Home?
Bus or Plane?
Let. us fill your travel needs
at
Standard Rates
' •
VINCENTIAN
TRAVEL BUREAU
At Your Service:
Throughout the Year: 23 Lyons Hall, Monday through Friday, 2:15-5 p. m.
In addition: March I I to 20, Dining Hall Basement, 12:30-1.
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Every High School and College Library should have a copy of
"LESSONS IN LIBERTY"
A Study of God in Government
By Clarence Manion
A new book presenting the WHY of American government —acclaimed by educators, writers and civic-minded Americans as a most ludd explanation of our democratic system of government and the principles underlying and supporting it.
$1.50
(Special 25% discount to schools)
•
Schools and colleges from every state in the Union have written for copies of this timely work and their enthusiasm affirms its value. Use it as a textbook in class — or for reference work — or for your library shelves.
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind.
THE BOOK SHOP
Notre Dame Headquarters for Books Stationery
Pens Pencils Greetins Cards
• 130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
HISTORY AND THE CATHOLIC TRADITION
By Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.
I
Two great enemies of the study of history in the modern university are the time serving spirit and materialistic liberalism. Both reject the existence of a spiritual world and seek to forget that spiritual continuity of present day man with the man of other days, which constitutes history. The first of these enemies of history, represented in the commercially successful but intellectually barren business man, tries to ignore that which he failed to acquire and which consequently does not magnify his industrial accomplishments. The other enemy, materialistic liberalism, repeats unconsciously the principles of Jean Jacques Rousseau or the American variant, the Pragmatist, that the past is but a picture of things to be forgotten or to be remembered only as a useful inspiration to a, hedonistic today. The fact that these two forces greatly influence educated Catholics in the United States today would seem to imply a serious charge against Catholic education. But the charge loses all its blackness if the critic carefully examines the great financial burden of both teacher and pupil in Catholic schools and colleges, and the superb propaganda machine which they have had to oppose. Awed by endowed presses and the financial backing of other institutions, the superficial critic fails to realize that the very persistence of Catholic teaching ideals under such difficulties is a victory of no small moment. Our Catholic and non-Catholic friends now hope that these same Catholic forces will eliminate this parasitic materialism from Catholic leadership.
Until very recently most young men entering the portals of Catholic colleges have had barely sufficient means to sustain themselves during the four years interim in a struggle with poverty and hardship. Few of them have come from families accustomed to college education. Under these circumstances, their meager accomplishments and their apparent defeat before the serving spirit can be considered, at its worst, a moral victory. Generally there have been neither opportunity nor means for these young men to think of higher education other than as an instrument of financial gain. The study of the past as a liberal training has been laid aside. Even the faculties of Catholic colleges, trained in
classical ideals and fortified with the rich theological learning of the Church, have had to bend their energies to these utilitarian ends, hoping that succeeding generations would be able to attain the traditional ideals of Catholic education. And always some students and teachers
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Howell's Cafe
Famous for
SEA FOODS STEAKS, CHOPS, SPAGHETTI
All kinds of
SANDWICHES
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SUCCESSOR TO ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
struggled on despite their meager accomplishments.
Today the progress of Catholic colleges seems to indicate that at last the time approaches when Catholic youth can aspire once more to Catholic education, and defeat the rising enemy of Catholic culture which we call materialistic liberalism. The increased participation in Catholic philosophy, Catholic mastery of the scientific knowledge, and the production of Catholic poetry indicate that the Catholic sense of spiritual values has not only survived but is growing. Renewed interest in history must result. Contrary to many English historians, Catholics have most to gain from a knowledge of the past. Catholicism has always upheld tradition, divine and human, finding in the rational wisdom of the ancients and the inspired wisdom of Christian thinkers, earnest proofs of the spiritual dignity of man and his continued consciousness of a superhuman destiny. Catholic culture, today as always, invites the student to examine ancient Greece and Rome, Mediaeval Europe, and modern developments. No longer can the ordinary youth read the classic Greek of Aristotle and Plato, or the histories of Herodotus and Thucydides. Few can realize the beauty of Cicero’s periods or enjoy Livy’s histories. Even Aquinas and Dante are studies in small mirrors. Thus, for the modern Catholic student, history assumes the task of setting forth the great traditions of mankind, the highest achievements of fallen nations, and the lives of the great saints and heroes who have lightened the darkness of this vale of human labor and suffering.
This Catholicity of history has shown itself best in the prominent scholars who have entered the Church in recent years while examining this great tradition. Professor Carleton Hayes, Professor Herbert F. Bell, Father Robert H. Lord, and the late Professor Thomas Parker Moon, among others, have found the Catholic tradition while working among unbelievers. They have shown the Catholic student, who has inherited his Catholic faith, the great possibilities and the real obligation to know and to make known the great Catholic tradition of history. Most of the Catholic colleges, under the inspiration of present Catholic revival, have begun activities in the field of cultural history. It is fitting that the students of Notre Dame should become staunch upholders of the Catholic tradition in history.
(To be continued)
Knox College has a special course that deals with the history of the Middle West.
Washington Hall Has
Magic And Mummy
Opera and symphony filled Washington Hall last week to hear Guglielmo Gherardi, Wagnerian tenor of the Boston Opera Company, sing as guest artist with South Bend’s Little Symphony.
Mr. Gherardi, suffering from an unexpected throat irritation, was forced to abandon his intended program in favor of the lighter arias. Higgin’s “My Lovely Celia,” “It Is Night,” by the composer, Black, and Victor Herbert’s “One Alone” were a few of his selections.
* * *
Everything from an Egyptian mummy case to a collection of rare handcuffs accompanied the illusionist, Lockman, when he made his appearance here last
Learn AVIATION at an AVIATION School U. S. Civil Aeronautical Authoritys approved methods used.
COMPLETE FLIGHT AND GROUND SCHOOL COURSES FOR ALL LICENSES.
See your Hall representative or Don Marietta, 232 Alumni Hall.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Phone 3-2455	(Incorporated)	Bendix Field
THE HUDDLE
Headquarters for Coca-Cola, Pipe Tobacco and Candy
Ah Ace Urik OLIN DUTRA
A Sweeter Smoke because a Mir
FOR PERFECT ENJOYMENT—THE ONLY
ade Machine Pre-Smokes every DR GRABOW Pipe with Fine Tobacco (Edgeworth)
50
smis
Dr.GRAB0W
NO BIEMIN6 IN-NO BiTt NO BIHEB TASTE
tNLCMMNTS pstanocuMa n. iiNuum * cnkam
Monday evening. Card and rope tricks “with the kind assistance of a few gentlemen of the audience,” amused and amazed our local prestidigitation fans.
Mr. Lockman, who recently appeared on the Hobby Lobby program with his bag of tricks, devoted half of his program in demonstrating the art of manacled escape. Various handcuffs, thumbcuffs, and strait-jackets yielded to the slippery magician.
* * *
Mr. George Samuel Kendall, noted traveler, lecturer and Egyptologist, lectured on “The Wonders of the Ancient World.” With the aid of projected photographs, Mr. Kendall offered a representation of archaelogoy’s crowning efforts of the past 100 years. The content of this presentation required 200,-
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
000 miles of travel and research with camera in hand.
The startling discovery and opening of King Tut Aunk Amen’s tomb occupied the major portion of Mr. Kendall’s informative discourse. The splendor of the burial chamber, with its gold coffin and triple shrines of gold and blue more than met the expectations of Dr. Howard Carter and Lord Carnavon, discoverers of the tomb.
The late Dr. Carter,who presented his secrets to Mr. Kendall, expressed that realization when he reported: “When I entered the ante-chamber and beheld the most marvellous sight in modern history, I wept.”—Ed Butler
Skate for health ... it's good exercise ...
PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
(Melody Gardens Ballroom)
TWO SKATING FLOORS — ONE FOR BEGINNERS Every night except Monday — Matinee Sunday, 1:30-4:30 p. m. Students always 25c “A Good Way to Make Money for Your Club‘
Bathing Was Compulsory
In The Good Old Days
Modem day students at Notre Dame would be very much surprised at some of the rules and regulations of 1869-70 (and, incidentally, greatly relieved to know that they are now obsolete.) A disaster tantamount to a major calamity might result today if students were made to observe severe discipline in regard to the use of tobacco, frequent bathing and the limiting of spending money.
The Rev. Daniel J. Spillard, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, was faced with the difficult task of enforcing a strict set of regulations. One of the most peculiar regulations compelled all students to bathe frequently in the winter. Rooms were provided, especially fitted up with hot and cold water during the cold months. In warm weather students were required to bathe twice a week in St. Joseph Lake.
The use of tobacco was strictly forbidden unless special permission was given by the parents. Students were not allowed to keep money in their possession. Whatever pocket-money parents chose to give their sons had to be placed in the hands of the treasurer who gave it out “as prudence may suggest or occasion require.” Money was usually given out by the treasurer at 9 o’clock on Wednesdays.
It was not easy for the boys in those old times to crowd downtown, for permission to leave the ground had to be obtained personally from the, president or vice-president of the University. This permission was granted only for a very good reason and on rare occasions.
Even the apparel of the students was regulated to some extent by the University, which required that each boy be provided with the following clothes before entrance:
6 shirts, 6 pocket handkerchiefs, 6 pairs of stocking, 6 towels, 1 hat and 1 cap, 3 pairs of boots or shoes, 2 suits
Dn n k

Millions of times a day, people the world over enjoy a happy minute with ice-cold Coca-Cola. They like its clean taste and the after-sense of refreshment that follows. Thus the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola is America’s favorite moment.
Delicious and Refreshing
THE PAUSE THAT R E
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola CO. by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer. Avenue
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
of clothes for the winter, 2 suits of clothes for the summer, 1 shawl or overcoat, combs, brushes, etc. for toilet.
Also each student had to provide his own eating utensils which included 6 napkins, 1 table-knife, 1 fork, 1 teaspoon. These articles were required.
Students who failed to comply with the regulations of the University or who had been guilty of any misconduct were sent to a detention room during the recreation periods. There they were made to prepare their class lessons, and were thus excluded from all the college exercises until they reformed or displayed a willingness to cooperate with the University.—Vince Geisler
“Full Confession” Is
Saturday’s Movie Fare
After many pleading requests by the Hollywood movie “biggies,” Catholic Church authorities gave their permission to use the seal of confession as a movie theme. The result of this grant is “Full Confession,” Saturday’s bill of fare at the Washington Hall Rialto.
Joseph Calleia leaves his usual gangster type to portray the quiet Italian priest who finds himself bound to the seal of confession in the face of seeing an innocent man die for a crime he did not commit.
Victor McLagen again interprets the mental anguish of the “Informer” as he stalks the streets, constantly meeting the one man who knows his secret. The mental conflict and final reparation supplies the theme of “Full Confession.”
Cleveland Club Plans
Final Activities Early
The last two meetings of the Cleveland Club have been devoted to organizing club activities for the rest of the year. The main discussion at the last
36
years of experience at your command.
years of reliable, competent service.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
Optometrists and Opticians
314 South Michigan St. South Bend, fnd.
meeting held on Wednesday centered around activities during the Easter vacation. Vic Grisanti has invited the club to a private dance on Wednesday, March 20. The Cleveland alumni will hold its annual Easter dance on Monday, March 25.
Other activities scheduled by the club are: a Communion Breakfast for April 7, a one-day bowling tourney soon after Easter, a roller-skating party on April 15, and the annual spring picnic on May 18. The organization of a softball team may be attempted later. Train rates for the Easter vacation were also discussed.—Robert LeMense
Local Knights Attend
Gary Council Banquet
On February 25th about 15 knights, led by Grand Knight Tim King, attended a banquet given by the St. Thomas Council in Gary, Ind. Mr. William Mallon, District Deputy of Indiana, was in charge of the program and Mr. James Galvin, ’16, former president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association was the principal speaker. The following candidates were initiated in the third degree: Jim McGoldrick, Joe Mulqueen, John Regan, Lawrence Kehoe, and Francis Miltner.
Last Sunday a Communion breakfast was held, and the Rev. Norbert C. Hoff
Exclusive Headquarters LEE WATER BLOC HATS
Rvsc s Katz
.1 M M£N AND I ^.YZUNG M£H MAIN AI COLFAX
Be Well Dressed for
EASTER
(Featuring Wilson Bros. Haberdashery)
3teclc anG^ker
I I I Jefferson St.
spoke on the need of Catholic intellectual integrity.
At a recent meeting it was decided that the annual formal dance will be held Friday, April 19th.
NEW'
NEr SHIRT-’
NEr scff’
OLD HAT-I-TUDEf
Spoils the Whole Effect
Yes — it’s your hat that makes the first and biggest impression, so when you’re, adding to your Fall wardrobe ...
LOOK AT A SMART, NEW LEE Water-Bloc* HAT
THE TELESCOPE
Looks smart because it has a natural crease. Worn snapped ’way back. Encircled by a dub stripe band...	"
THE FRANK H. LEE CO.
358 Fifth Ave^ New York
U. S. Pat. Off.
24
The Notre Dame Scholastic
MUSIC NOTES
“Bach, Beethoven, and Brahms: Two wrote symphonies
The other wrote psalms.”
Two did write symphonies, and their names begin with B. But the analogy goes further. Both were considered reactionary by their first critics. Beethoven departed from the forms of Haydn and Mozart; Brahms departed from the forms of Beethoven. Beethoven established the symphony as positively as he did the sonata, and once firmly planted in a style, he never departed from it. Within the strict confines of this form he developed some of the most wonderful music ever penned by mortal hand. Throughout his music, over and over again, the same tricks of composition, the same harmonic, melodic, and rhythmic figures are found. For this reason the music of Beethoven has been called cold and rigid. But Beethoven could never be accused of being a slave to form. He was the master of form and developed it to a greater perfection than any other composer before or since.
Brahms departed from the limitations of a rigid form. He took unheard-of liberties with the old established norms and rules. Even the classic movements are often changed. His method of expression is without restriction. Many prefer his symphonies to those of Beethoven. “They are richer, warmer, and more satisfying.”
But Beethoven is, I think, still master. His melodies cannot be approached by
NOTRE DAME NIGHT Thursday, March 28 _ •
GLEN GRAY and his CASA LOMA ORCHESTRA
. •
Rank Dailey's Meadowbrook Route 23, Cedar Grove, New Jersey
Brahms, nor can his sheer emotional strength. The music of Beethoven transcends time and space. It moves on inevitably, indomitably. Nowhere in the world of music is there a composition which reaches the emotional heights of Beethoven’s “Ninth.” I heard a chorus of four hundred trained voices sing the fourth movement, the “Ode to Joy,” with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. The magnificent waves of sound climbed progressively upward, sweeping the whole world before them, until the final end is reached in a supreme surge of power and joy.
Beethoven has no limits!
—William Mooney
Follow the arrow to
WYMAN’S NEW MEN’S SHOP
Notre Dame men are especially invited to visit Wyman’s new, modem, accessible Men’s Shop. Everything in it is new, and in selecting the merchandise we have kept in mind the smart styles you like, in —
Shirts, Ties, Socks, Underwear, Sportswear
GEORGE WYMAN and CO.
On Michigan at Washington, where St. Mary’s bus stops
1940 Preregistration
Begins Monday Morning
Preregistration for the first semester of 1940-41 begins Monday, the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, announced Thursday. Each student will be notified by mail the precise time he is to report to the dean of his college for preregistration in courses.
It is requested that any graduate or prospective graduate who intends to return to Notre Dame for further studies in the next schoolyear report that intention at once to Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., secretary of the Committee on Graduate Studies. •
On Wyman’s Remodeled Main Floor, in the south aisle, with an entrance of its own (next to the bank) directly into the Men’s Shop.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
The SMART HEADS will use “THIS TOP DRESSING” by
STETSON
In South Bend — “Head Right” for SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
ON YOUR CAMPUS
...you’re bound to see the Stetson “Campus’’ It rates an “A” with stylewise students. Its lines are clean-cut ...its colors, flattering. Flattering, too, is that felt binding...a new touch.
((/iifii;i//i a
STETSON HAT
FIVE DOLLARS AND UP
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
Gruenenfelder Design
Wins Beaux Arts Prize
The Beaux Arts Institute of Design in New York City, recently awarded Marc Gruenenfelder, of Notre Dame, honorable mention in the Class A group for his design of an outdoor picnic room. Mr. Gruenenfelder’s design was also given first prize of fifty dollars offered by House Beautiful. His sketch will be published in a near issue of that periodical. Marc Gruenenfelder is a senior in the department of architecture.
Another mention was given to John McHugh in Class B for his sketch entitled “A Costume and Mask.” Bernard Eilers was awarded half mention for his outdoor picnic room design in the Class A group. John Carney received mention in the Class C group for his design of a Golf Caddy-house. William Ford received half mention for a design on the same subject. All are students in the department of architecture of Notre Dame.
Bengal Prelims — Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday at Eight O’clock — the Biggest Ten Cent Show on Earth. Yes, We Said TEN CENTS!
Stetson Headquarters
presents the
Stetson Playboy
*5
A light comfortable felt—its the perfect partner for your spring suits. In clear, flattering colors.
MAX ADLER
Michigan at Washington
26
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
No one escapes birthdays. They bob up at every important turning in life. On grave markers they achieve eloquence. How few ever think of the day of their re-birth, the day they were “bom again not of corruptible seed, but incorruptible, by the word of God.” (1 Peter 1:23) Yet the common elements used in baptism — water for cleansing, oil for strengthening, salt for savoring— are hourly reminders that “according to his mercy he saved us by the laver of regeneration, and the renovation of the Holy Ghost.” (Titus 3:5)
On our baptismal day we began to walk in newness of life. We became participators in the Royalty and the Priesthood of Christ. “He who is joined to the Lord is one in spirit.” (1 Corinthians 6:17) The Church tries to remedy our forgetfulness of our heritage by reviewing in Lent the ancient discipline of the sacraments. The blight of transgression withers this newness of life. Penance restores its vigor. The Eucharist, its source, is also its daily nourishment. Grace it is called because it is God’s free gift.
So the total view of Lent is a building up, not just repair. It is a setting of the soul more firmly in the way of newness of life. “As therefore you have received Jesus Christ the Lord, walk ye in him, rooted and built up in him, and confirmed in the faith... abounding in him in thanksgiving.” (Collossians 2:6,7)
Mass Calendar: March 10-16
Sunday, 10—Of the Passion. 2d prayer, the Forty Holy Martyrs. Preface of the Cross.
Monday, 11—Ferial. 2d prayer, the Church, 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday, 12—St. Gregory 1, Pope, Doctor. 2d prayer, Ferial, 3d, the Pope. (Anniversary of Coronation, Pius xii)
Wednesday, 13—Ferial. 2d and 3d prayers as on Monday.
Thursday, 14—Ferial. 2d and 3d prayers as on Monday.
Friday, 15—The Seven Sorrows of the Blessed Virgin. 2d prayer, Ferial, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. ' Sequence: Stabat Mater.
Saturday, 16—Of the Saturday. 2d & . 3d prayers as on Monday.
SHIRTS and PAJAMAS
Fellows, get acquainted with the clean-cute flattery of Manhattan Shirts $ and Pajamas. They’re suavely streamlined, quietly handsome—and fit with a well-tailored ease. Trek in and see the new 1940 Manhattans.
They’re exclusively in South Bend, at
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
WMKt'S
COLLEGldASSIC

For making important impressions on the campus, in the classroom and in town, Manhattan designed the Duke ... a white broadcloth beauty long on wear and short on cost.
Young in line.. .with swinging style that’s out in fashion’s front...sized right, sewed right ...the Duke slips on with elegance and ease, draping with honest flattery to make the most ofyou and your ensemble.
... at your favorite store
SHIRT
If any Manhattan Shirt ever shrinks below the indicated size we will give you a new shirt. Tested and approved by the American Institute of Laundering.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
27
Right OR Wrong?
A 2-minute test for telephone users
1. It’s impossible for you to telephone to people in two different cities at the same time.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
2. Police Radio Telephone made by WestemElectric is an outgrowth of research atBellT elephoneLaboratories.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
3. About 75% of the Bell System’s 85 million miles of telephone wire is contained in cable.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
4. Lowest telephone rates to most out-of-town points are available every night after 7 P. M. and all day Sunday.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
T-Shirts And Tails
Vie In Carroll Spree
The Administration Building, slowly recovering from the shock of its first fire in 60 years, was ready for unprecedented events following a splurge by Brownson and Carroll students last week.
The unusual spectacle was the result of Brother Patrick’s lengthy suggestion Monday that the frosh stage a general “cleanup” in living quarters and attire. So the 180 Brownsonites dressed up, and one by one ambled into the study hall at night prayer — much to the astonishment of said Brother Patrick.
Across the hall, the same Tuesday evening, Brother Justin, C.S.C., asked Carrollmen to follow the example of their frosh neighbors and join in the general cleanup — and casually remarked that Gene Yeager would make a good subject for change.
Shortly after services in Sacred Heart Church Wednesday, Brother Justin took over his “throne” in Carroll study hall still chuckling over the Tuesday happening in Brownson — but then he found his hall empty. Soon 100 Carrollites strolled in, outfitted in the neatest white T-Shirts available, followed by the honorable King of T-Shirts Mr. Yeager •— outfitted in full dress suit, tails and polished shoes — acquired by a general borrowing campaign in the hall. The T-Shirt brigade paraded a bit, and Yeager held sway in the study hall till nearly 10 p.m., still studying in tails.
—Bill Scanlan
College of Arts Offers
New Criminology Major
A new choice of major subject, open to present sophomores in the College of Arts, has just been announced by the Department of Sociology. Starting next fall a major in Criminology will be provided in this department, in addition to the present major in General Sociology. The purpose of this new major is to prepare college men for positions in the probation, parole, and prison administration field, for which special training is now being demanded by most of the states as well as the Federal probation and prison services.
While those who enroll in this new pre-professional sequence of courses will receive the A.B. degree at the end of the fourth year, the new courses will be integrated with the graduate courses to be given in social work in such a way as to give the student who decides to continue for a fifth year a preparation for the field of Correctional Administration which, it is believed, will be superior to that now offered anywhere else in the United States. It is expected that sev-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
STOP AT
“The Campus"
for
Sandwiches - Refreshments
124 N. Michigan Street
(Look, for the Gold and Blue front)
TAKE THE ANCHORS OFF TOUR ANKLES
Put on a pair of these new Walk-Over Moccasins and you'll like the feeling and appearance of this new Walk-Over style.
120 So. Michigan
eral scholarships will be available for the fifth year of training.
The undergraduate program in the new Criminology major will include four courses in practical psychology, social psychology, psychiatry, and criminal law procedure, the latter being taught in the College of Law. The Department of Sociology will continue the present General Sociology major for those seeking a general cultural background or preparing for the study of law, and the courses for all will remain the same during the first semester of the junior year.
In establishing the new Criminology, major the sociology and social work faculties have been guided by valuable experience gained a few years ago when Notre Dame and Harvard pioneered in establishing training courses in Probation Work. Graduates of the former program, many of whom now hold important positions in the correctional field, have urged the University to establish this new program.
Additional information concerning the Criminology major, as well as the General Sociology major, will be given by Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the Department of Sociology, and by Mr. Frank T. Flynn, in charge of social work training, at a short meeting to be held Monday night at 6:45 in the North Basement of the University Library.
YOUR RELIGION
We lay down lawns, green carpets of grass with colored patterns of flowers and borders of saving shrubbery. A road may skirt the edges and a narrow path be permitted here and there, as concession to utility. But the lawn itself is an expression of our craving for the beautiful. And that hunger being ever persistent, we tend our work with care. We water it, weed it, cut it, trim it, and the labors of the longest summer are considered amply repaid if we have been able to preserve the graceful contours of its green sward and the restful vision of its leafy vistas.
Now, though a thing of beauty has no enemies, still, like a prophet in his own country, it is often not properly appreciated. Where some are moved with admiration and thus sensitive lest it be marred or disfigured, others are resentful of its presence and impatient with the barriers set up to protect it from harm. A “Please” sign on the turf irks them like a tight fitting garment, — a trespass of art upon ease, or an unreasonable demand of law upon laziness.
Fet there is human respect and respectability to be considered. It won’t
do to be known either as lacking in taste or as loving license. Moreover, vandalism is not nice. It wounds feelings and violates justice. So darkness is made an ally. . What is not seen will not be reprehended. Dead verdure will tell no tales, nor scattered petals, nor the bruised reed. These things, though they cannot be mended, they can be replaced. Trespass, then, in the dark. But so much time and so many steps are saved! And none will ever know. Perhaps.
Comes the snow, and binds up the bruises with whitest bands. Comes the snow, and covers over the trampled ugliness. Comes the snow and conceals the ravages of furtive folly. Symbolic of innocence, suggestive of peace, and meek before the sun, comes the snow. Its brother is the water, upon which nothing writ remains. Its sisters is the morning mist, too fleeting even to be grasped. But upon the pages of the snow, as upon the ledger of the recording Angel, he who places the mark of his transgression stands revealed as the signet upon the wax. His trespass, their number and their kind, are written large and clear, so that all the world may read. Darkness shall no longer cover them, and only the mercy of the sun shall wipe them out. Beauty has had her revenge.
Arrow Headquarters
presents
Arrow Bruce
*2.50
New, long pointed slot collar. The rough woven fabric is ideal for wear with rough tweeds. Green, tan or blue.
Arrow Ties to match, fl
Arrow Shirts, $2
MAX ADLER Michigan at Washington
The Notre Dame Scholastic
29
4
The soul is like a lawn that God has built in man, and adorned with the flowers of intelligence and freedom, and hedged round with the shrubbery of the body. God, too, loves beauty, and so He made the soul in His own image, the image of the All-Beautiful. It is really His masterpiece among all the creatures of earth, His favorite work in the vast gallery of His creation. To preserve its lustre He has set the ten “Please” signs of His commandments. To keep it fresh and vigorous and growing, He waters it with the seven streams of His Sacraments. To defend it against transgressors, He has placed at its gates the guardian of conscience. How secure,
J
'1
■
j

are easy to tie,
Arrow ties are cut so they tie into perfect knots . . . and their special lining resists wrinkles!
and hard to beat!
You’ll have to go a long way to find better fabrics or patterns in a $1 tie! Arrow Ties lead the way in style!
Go see your Arrow dealer today and take your pick of spring Arrow ties—you’ll be crazy about ’em! $1. others at $1.50.
ARROW CRAVATS
then, should be this perfect work of His hands-
But there are vandals even in the world of spirit and thieves in the kingdom of God. And alas! there are those against whom even the King himself gave the warning: “Neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest perhaps they trample them under their feet, and turning upon you they tear you.” The more precious the pearl, the greater the danger of thieves, the more fragile the frame, the greater the liability of its being injured. Here, too, thieves work in the night; trespass is made under cover of darkness. Sin, more than any other, fears detection, feigns respecta
bility, cultivates secrecy, denies its identity. And so the intruders in this spiritual garden often pass unnoticed, pass, indeed, under the mask of friends. But each stealthy visit leaves its mark, the little dust, the ugly scratch, the dark stain upon the afir surface of the soul.
Comes the snow of Divine Grace, gently, quietly, generously, flooding the mysterious depths with a tell-tale illumination, revealing in its intensity the most hidden defects and secret scars. Comes the heavenly snow, but it does not cover over the wounds in the tapestry of the mind nor hide the bruises in the broken reeds of resolution, — waiting for some new spring to restore life and order again. It does not hide, it heals, and not merely heals, but reintegrates, revivifies, recreates, makes whole and sound again. It is always winter in the spiritual garden of the soul, for the snow of God’s grace is always falling, a continuous storm. And yet, too, it is always spring, for this snow is always effacing the ugly wounds of transgression, always scattering the pearls of holiness, always lighting up the way of the transgressor to His Father’s House. Gently falls the snow, and ravished beauty is forever renewed.
—Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
The nicest necks in this neck o’ the woods
The best looking necks hereabouts are the ones decorated with Arrow ties. Arrow ties have patterns all men like, they tie into perfect knots__they are made to resist wrinkling! Come in and get some now.
$1 and $1 JO
I
1
30
The Notre Dame Scholastic
DISC - CUSSION
Undaunted by a disconcerting 83 in Music Appreciation, I still like to express my views, so here goes for this week. Glenn Miller has recorded his much requested “Tuxedo Junction” and has done it very, very well. However, I prefer his one chorus version of “Danny Boy,” on the other side. Unmarred by a vocal, this record features Miller’s triumphant saxes and Milleresque ar-
Just Between YOU and ME
I'D RATHER TRAVEL VIA SOUTH SHORE
The desire for travel variety is natural. But where else can you find South Shore's hourly service, speedy schedules, relaxed comfort, complete safety, reasonable fees?
C. W. VEACH City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
ranging. You have to like it.
For less restrained swing, Gene Krupa offers “The Rhumba Jumps” and “I’ve Got No Strings.” The first is tricky, hot, and loud — and good. The second is trickier, just as good, but less loud. Irene Daye sings both sides nicely, although Gene’s accompaniment is a bit too loud for my money. Drum breaks on “Rhumba” are phenomenal so there seems to be something for everyone in this pair.
Benny Goodman is fairly smooth on “Opus Local 802” and “Stealin’ Apples.” Both sides are excellent but I particularly enjoy piano work on the “Apples.” He features lais sax-clarinet section on “802” but, of course, on both sides, plenty of Goodman clarinet solos can be heard. It’s not a jam-session, fortunately, but rather some listenable, danceable, organized swing.
“Temptation” has been done for the 7,891st time, now by Al Donahue. He swings it in the Artie Shaw manner and does a good job. Its mate here is “Pinch Me,” for which I see no justification. But if you must have it, Donahue’s version is as painless as any. It might be enjoyable if he could do something constructive about Miss Paula Kelly; for instance, build an octette
ovei’ her.

There’s spring in the lines of these UPTOWN Shoes.
Youthful! Comfortable! Just right for casual wear.
As advertised in “Esquire
$5.50
WIDENER’S
123 W. Washington
For St. Patrick’s Day, there is a real treat in store for those of you who like Irish music, or should I say, Americanized Irish music? Anyway, Phil Regan, who has to be Irish, supported by Harry Sosnick, whose mother may have been Irish, and his orchestra, nationality unknown, has made “My Wild Irish Rose,” “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling,” “A Little Bit of Heaven,” and “Little Town In the Old County Down,” among others.	—Bi/Z Geddes
RADIO
Those interested in raising the standards of American radio entertainment are growing more apprehensive each week of the influence of the new radio lottery shows. The outstanding example is probably the Pot O’ Gold program (Tues. 7:30 CST-NBC). Various methods of determining the winners are used but in every case the fundamental idea is the same: the listener can get something for nothing. In the case of. Pot O’ Gold, conducted by bandleader Horace Heidt, various numbers are drawn which determine the city, the page in that city’s phone book, and the location on the page of the person to be awarded
a sum ranging from $500 to $2,000.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
31
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-8989 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA

RES. 3-4080
OFFICE 4-5661
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J.M.S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND
QHinniiiiiinnimmuimmiiuitiitiuKuiniiuiuiluitiiiil.nilllQ
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend Phone 3-1254
!	SOUTH BEND	?
1 X-RAY LABORATORY |
1	825 SHERLAND BUILDING 1
| L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON. !
|	M.D.	M.D.	|
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BENO ................-I1-	==a«A
That person is phoned by the conductor while the show is on the air so the listening audience won’t miss a thing.
Other shows have quiz periods on which the first person calling the station with the correct answer to a problem receives a sum of money. All are variants of the same theme: listen and get something for nothing! We do not intend to deal with the moral or legal aspects of these shows. There are far too many people prone to criticize freely and correct the ethics and laws of our country for us to add our small voice to the uproar. We would like only to consider the effect of such shows on the standards of radio entertainment.
We are all familiar with the type of movie shown on bank night at our favorite movie house. Just to let the customer feel that he has come to a theater some deadly, stupid “quickie” is resurrected from the morgue and shown. However, the only impression one can get is that the drawing is the all important event of the evening and everything else is secondary.
The same psychology that permits mediocre movies to be shown when the customer comes in hope of winning some money, permits the radio producer to put on second-rate shows and yet attract a following by offering cash baits. If the sponsor can get wide-spread audience attention by passing out twenty dollai- bills, he is foolish and unbusinesslike to pay for a good (consequently, expensive) show or talented (and high salaried) artists. Nothing can be gained by striving for excellence in performance when the audience is attracted only by the prospect of something free.
Not only are the shows from the station giving the prizes injured by this practice, but all shows from other stations in competition are hurt. As one radio executive expressed his station’s position in the face of such competition: “You can’t fight Santa Claus.” This is an unfortunate position into which the stations are being drawn; for unless it is checked while still in its infancy, the practice will grow till it is as big a headache as free gifts and prizes are to movie houses. Heaven help the whole radio industry when pieces of china are mailed to every woman phoning the station within a half hour after the program is over!
The Log
4:00—Tues.: Academy of Politics 7:15—Tues.: Music of the Masters 7:45—Wed.: Faculty Talk 4:00—Thurs.: Periscope 7:30—Thurs.: Sportscast
9:00—Fri.: Let Freedom Ring
7:30—Sat.: Little Jamboree
—Ray Kelly
GENTLEMEN HARD TO FIT!
•
Edward Berndt of the designing staff of
Society Brand Clothes
will be at our store all day <
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday March 11,12 and 13
SEE WHAT'S NEW
for
Spring and Summer 1940 Men's Apparel
GILBERTS
&&&££#
ASK FOR CHESTERFIELD
Call for all the good things you want in a cigarette... Chesterfield has them.
COOLNESS...Chesterfields are Cooler MILDNESS...Chesterfields are Definitely Milder TASTE... Chesterfields Taste Better
Vivian BOSWELL, operator at the busy switchboard of Chicago’s Stevens Hotel, largest in the world, takes time out to enjoy a Chesterfield.
Chesterfield is America's Busiest Cigarette because it's Cooler-Smoking, Better-Tasting and Definitely Milder.
'0^^
COOLER-SMOKING BETTER-TASTING CIGARETTE
In size, in shape, in the way they burn, everything about Chesterfield makes it the cigarette that satisfies. You
Copyright 1940.
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
a can't buy a better cigarette.
es terfield